United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
38th plenary meeting
Friday, 20 October 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 170
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Council of Europe
Draft resolution (A/55/L.8)
The  President:
I  give 
the
representative  of  Italy  to  introduce  draft  resolution
A/55/L.8.
floor 
the 
to 
take 
to  also 
Mr.  Vento  (Italy):  As  Permanent  Representative
of  the  State  that  is  the  current  Chairman  of  the
Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, I am
honoured  to  introduce  a  draft  resolution  on  this  new
item  in  the  agenda  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  Allow  me 
this
opportunity  to  welcome  the  Secretary  General  of  the
Council  of  Europe,  Mr.  Walter  Schwimmer,  and  the
delegation from the Council(cid:146)s Parliamentary Assembly
that  is  here  to  follow 
the  work  of  the  General
Assembly.
This 
in
accordance  with  Recommendation  1411  of  21  June
1999  of  the  Council(cid:146)s  Parliamentary  Assembly,  which
stressed  the  need  to  enhance  cooperation  between  the
two  organizations,  in  view  of  the  contribution  that  the
Council of Europe has made to the United Nations over
the past 50 years, particularly in promoting the rule of
law and the protection of human rights and democratic
values.
the  agenda 
item  was 
inserted 
in 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council of Europe started in 1951, just two years after
the  Council  was  founded,  with  the  signing  of  an
agreement  that  was  updated  20  years  later,  in  1971,
through  the  Arrangement  on  Cooperation  between  the
secretariat  of  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United
Nations.
Another  milestone  was the  adoption  at  the  forty-
fourth session of the General Assembly of a resolution
granting observer status to the Council of Europe.
The  draft  resolution  that  I  am  presenting  today
cites  more  recent  examples  of  this  cooperation,  as
follows.
At the twenty-third special session of the General
Assembly,  entitled  (cid:147)Women  2000(cid:148),  the  Council  of
Europe  contributed  to  the  fight  against  trafficking  in
women and to the promotion of gender mainstreaming,
while  at  the  twenty-fourth  special  session,  on  the
implementation  of  the  outcome  of  the  World  Summit
for  Social  Development,  the  Council  embraced  the
strategy for social cohesion, focusing on the protection
of  social  rights,  access  to  housing,  employment  and
social protection and family and children policies.
The Council has supported United Nations efforts
to  restore  peace  in  Kosovo  by  establishing  close
working  relations  with  the  United  Nations  Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  and  focusing  on
legislative  reforms  in  line  with  texts  such  as  the
European Convention on Human Rights.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-70024 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.38
On 11 to 13 October 2000, the Council organized
a  successful  pan-European  Conference  on  racism  and
intolerance  to  prepare  for  the  2001  United  Nations
World Conference in South Africa.
Other  tasks  lie  ahead:  the  Council  of  Europe
intends  to  contribute  actively  to  the  special  session  of
the United Nations General Assembly for the follow-up
to  the  World  Summit  for  Children,  scheduled  for
September 2001.
In his recent visit to the Parliamentary  Assembly
in Strasbourg, the President of the Italian Republic, Mr.
Carlo  Azeglio  Ciampi,  recalled  the  high  ethical  and
political  beliefs  that  inspired  the  founding  of  the
Council  of  Europe.  It  embodied  the  faith  of  European
citizens in  a  system  of  shared  values,  enshrined  in  the
European Convention on Human Rights, whose fiftieth
anniversary  will  be  celebrated  in  Rome  on  3  and  4
November  with a  Ministerial  Conference.  Some of the
pillars of this ambitious legal system are the European
Social  Charter, 
the
Prevention  of  Torture  and  the  Framework  Convention
the  Protection  of  National  Minorities.  These
for 
instruments, 
together  with  other  conventions  and
recommendations, 
the
principles of freedom and justice in Europe. Moreover,
the  original  vision  of  the  Council  of  Europe  helped
pave  the  way  for  the  integration  of  the  European
Union.
the  European  Convention  for 
consolidate 
helped 
have 
The borders of European civilization are not pre-
established or strictly linked to geography. Rather, they
depend  on  the  power  of  these  values  to  be  understood
and shared throughout the world. The Council currently
consists  of  41  States,  representing  more  than  800
million  people,  but  others  will  soon  join,  giving  the
organization a pan-European dimension. The Holy See,
the  United  States  of  America,  Canada,  Japan  and
Mexico are observer members. Within the organization,
consideration has begun on the possibility of granting a
special  (cid:147)cooperative(cid:148)  status  to  countries  interested  in
participating  in  its  work,  particularly  in  the  field  of
democratization and modernization of the judiciary.
As  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  pointed  out
during  his  recent  visit  to  the  Council  of  Europe  in
Strasbourg,  amid  the  great  transformation  known  as
globalization  the  world  is  still  fighting  intolerance,
racism,  xenophobia  and  desegregation  (cid:151)  the  very
dangers  targeted  by  the  founders  of  the  Council  of
Europe.
2
This 
is  why  we  are  convinced 
that  closer
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  can  bear  great
results. This is why we would like to consider the idea
of creating a liaison office for the Council in New York
on a reciprocal basis.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  recalling  that  the  Council
of Europe, as the sole pan-European organization, is in
a  position  to  make  a  substantial  contribution  to  the
United  Nations  in  meeting  its  rising  challenges.  To
grapple  with 
effectively  will
necessitate a synergistic coordination of our efforts and
resources.
challenges 
these 
For  example, 
the  Venice  Commission, 
the
Council(cid:146)s  authoritative  advisory  body  on  legal  and
institutional  matters,  which  celebrated 
tenth
anniversary last June, has begun to elaborate a package
of standard legal elements and constitutional proposals
towards  finding  a  solution  to  the  ethnic  conflicts  of
member States.
its 
Moreover, the interaction between culture and the
environment is one of the main themes of a Ministerial
Conference taking place in Florence even as we speak.
On  this  occasion,  an  important  new  legal  instrument,
the  Landscape  Convention,  has  been  opened  for
signature.  The  Convention  contains  highly  innovative
content  and  proposes  to  raise  public  awareness  of
quality-of-life issues.
entailing 
stability  (cid:151) 
However,  the  most  important  concept  inspiring
the  actions  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  which  I  am
convinced  that  the  United  Nations  also  fully  shares,
concerns  democratic 
the
interdependence  of  human  rights,  democracy,  good
governance  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as  conflict
prevention, peace-building and stability.  For 
more
than  five  decades,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  been
developing  significant  expertise  in  these  issues.  It  is
thus  now  able  to  make  an  increasingly  substantial
contribution  to  the  prevention  of  conflict  and,  when
unfortunately  necessary,  to    long-term  post-conflict
peace and institution-building. The Council of Europe(cid:146)s
capabilities  in  conflict  prevention lie in a  combination
of  standard-setting,  cooperation  (cid:151)  both  collectively
between  all  member  countries  and  bilaterally  (cid:151)  and
monitoring, at the legal and political levels.
At  this  historic  juncture,  it  would  be  timely  for
the  General  Assembly  to  ask  the  Secretary-General  to
explore  ways  and  means  of  enhancing  an  already
advanced  cooperation  in  order  to  meet  the  challenges,
old and new, of the third millennium.
Since  both  the  Council  and  the  United  Nations
place human dignity at the centre of their missions and
mandates,  stronger  working  links  between  them  can
only aid in the achievement of their noble cause.
Mr. BossiŁre  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
the  honour  to  speak on behalf  of  the  European  Union.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe associated
with  the  European  Union:  Bulgaria,  Czech  Republic,
Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia  and  Slovenia  and  the  associated  countries:
Cyprus,  Malta  and  Turkey  associate  themselves  with
this statement.
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  has  existed  for  a  long  time.  It  has
developed  constantly  over  the  years  especially  since
the  agreement  concluded  in  1951  between  the  two
institutions. In 1989, the observer status granted to the
Council of Europe at the United Nations has enabled it
to play  an  active role  in  areas  of  activity  they  have  in
common.  This  relates,  first  and  foremost, 
the
protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights,  but  also  to
the tireless quest for peace and international security.
to 
Experience  has  shown  that  these  two  areas  of
activity are interdependent and that they reinforce each
other.  Security  cannot  be  achieved  without  democracy
and  respect  for  human  rights.  This  approach  has  been
called,  in  the  context  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  the
quest for democratic stability.
to 
submitted 
in  relations  between 
Today,  we  have  reached  a  new  stage.  The  draft
the  General  Assembly
resolution 
constitutes  a  first 
two
organizations. It should, in the long run, strengthen the
two  major areas of  cooperation:  defending  democracy,
based  on  the  pre-eminence  of  the  rule  of  law  and
respect  for  human  rights,  but  also,  strengthening  the
contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to  regional
security.
the 
The  defence  of  democracy  based  on  the  rule  of
law  and  respect  for  human  rights  is  the  first  area  of
cooperation.
The  Council  of  Europe,  thanks  especially  to  the
European  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  Human
Rights 
done
exemplary  work  in  the  area  of  human  rights.  In
particular,  it  should  be  recalled  that,  with  the  creation
and  Fundamental  Freedoms, 
has 
A/55/PV.38
the  European  Court  of  Human  Rights, 
of 
the
Convention  established  machinery,  unique  in  Europe,
for jurisdictional control of the respect  for  all of these
basic rights by States parties.
to  which 
On  3  and  4  November,  a  European  Ministerial
Conference, 
the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  is  invited,  will  take
place  in  Rome  in  order  to  commemorate  the  fiftieth
anniversary of the Convention.
the  Office  of 
illustration  we  could  refer 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  quite  rightly
emphasizes  the  many  challenges  facing  the  United
Nations  and  which  the  Council  of  Europe  also  must
face.  By  way  of 
to
the  United  Nations  High
cooperation  between 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and 
the  United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and also that
which 
International  Law
Commission of  the  United Nations  and  the  Council  of
Europe,  as  well  as  the  Council(cid:146)s  contribution  to  the
preparatory  process  for  recent  special  sessions  in  two
areas of  major importance for  human  rights and  social
progress,  namely,  Beijing  Plus  Five  and  Copenhagen
Plus Five.
between 
exists 
the 
The European Union cannot fail to encourage the
Council of Europe to maintain its active role, the one it
has  thus  far  played,  and  invite  it  to  continue  to  work
towards  the  realization  of  the  commitments  entered
into  during  those  two  Summits  and  the  follow-up
special sessions.
also  welcomes 
The  European  Union 
the
contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to  the  World
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance,  which  will  be
held  in  2001.  In  this  connection,  it  welcomes  the
excellent  progress  made  and  the  results  from  the  pan-
European  Conference  held  in  Strasbourg  last  week,  in
preparation for the 2001 World Conference.
Through  these  actions,  the  Council  of  Europe  is
confirming  its  determination  to  play  a  key  role  in  the
implementation  in  Europe  of  the  principles  of  the
United Nations Charter.
The  contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to
regional  security  is  the  second  area  where  the  United
Nations could establish prospects for action.
The  participation  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in
regional  security  should,  first  and  foremost,  be  judged
its  active
by 
facts.  We  can 
thus  applaud 
the 
3
A/55/PV.38
contribution to the implementation of Security Council
resolution 1244 (1999) through its cooperation with the
United  Nations  Interim  Administration  Mission  in
Kosovo (UNMIK) and the establishment of an observer
mission  of  the  Council  of  Europe  for  the  elections  in
Kosovo  on  28  October.  Similarly  we  should  cite
Sits  handling  of  tasks  entrusted  to  it  by  the  General
Framework  Agreement  for  Peace 
in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina for the protection of human rights and the
reform of the judicial system.
A 
third  creditable  contribution 
regional
security is the assistance that the Council of Europe has
provided 
the  Stability  Pact  for  South-Eastern
Europe.
to 
to 
These  actions  are  also  part  of  the  preventive
diplomacy  that the  United  Nations  tries  to  develop.  In
the long run cooperation in this sphere could also foster
and speed-up the difficult but necessary transition from
an  approach  that  is  too  often  reactive  in  nature  to
actions 
that  are  based  more  on  prevention.  The
European  Union  is  also  in  favour  of  developing
relations  between  the  United  Nations  Office  of  the
High  Commissioner 
the
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  of  the  Council  of
Europe.
In 
three
suggestions aimed at further strengthening cooperation
between the Council of Europe and the United Nations.
There  should  be  an  increase  in  the  exchange  of
information.  The  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of
Europe  have  a  mutual  interest  in  a  greater  and  more
frequent exchange of their reports and documents.
for  Human  Rights  and 
conclusion, 
allow  me 
to  make 
Bilateral relations between the two bodies should
be  strengthened  at  the  highest  level.  In  a  symbolic
manner,  the  holding  of  annual  meetings  between  the
Secretary-General  of 
the
Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of  Europe  would
confirm  the  determination  of  both  sides 
to  have
increased cooperation between the two organizations.
the  United  Nations  and 
its  annual  consideration  of 
From now on it will be for the General Assembly,
as  part  of 
the  draft
resolution  on  this  item,  to  follow  up  this  task  of
reflection  and  ingenuity  in  order  that  the  contribution
of  the  Council  of  Europe  to  the  promotion  of  human
rights  and  regional  security  may  usefully  support  the
work of the United Nations throughout the world.
Mr.  (cid:138)imonović  (Croatia):  My  delegation  very
much  welcomes  the  initiative  to  give  the  issue  of
cooperation  between 
the
Council  of  Europe  its  rightful  place  as  a  specific  item
on the agenda of the General  Assembly. We especially
appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  Italian  Government  in
realizing this.
the  United  Nations  and 
to 
regional  organizations 
is 
their  ultimate 
In striving towards our vision of a United Nations
for the twenty-first century, strengthening relationships
and increasing cooperation between the United Nations
intrinsic 
and 
the
achievement  of 
common  goals.
Organizations such as the Council of Europe (cid:151)  which
have an important role to play in promoting democracy,
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  (cid:151)  can,  without
imposing 
values,
comprehensively furnish the United Nations with long-
term  pan-European  experiences,  thus  contributing  to,
and  further  enhancing,  the  United  Nations  in  its  work
to resolve some of the most pressing global challenges
before us.
views 
their 
any 
of 
and 
The  Council  of  Europe  remains  the  leading
regional organization in the field of the promotion and
protection of human rights, in both standard-setting and
in  the  implementation  dimension.  It  should  be  noted
that  the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights  was
adopted in 1950 as the first legally binding instrument
devoted  to  the  protection  of  a  wide  range  of  civil  and
political 
the
Convention  was  clearly  inspired  by  the  provisions  of
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  thereby
acknowledging  even  then  an  important  link  between
the United Nations and the Council of Europe system.
rights.  As  cited 
its  preamble, 
in 
the 
The  expertise  of 
two  bodies  should  be
enhanced. The establishment by the Council of Europe
of a think tank  to  deal  with  issues  of  common interest
to the United Nations and the Council, from which the
United  Nations  could  draw  on  technical  skills  and
know-how,  could  also  contribute  to  further  enhancing
working relations between the two organizations.
Here at the United Nations the Council of Europe
enjoys  observer  status,  with  links  between  the  two
organizations  well  established.  However,  this  is  the
first  time  that  the  General  Assembly  has  discussed
cooperation between the two, and it is our hope that it
will result in the establishment of stronger cooperation
and specific joint programmes.
4
with 
Nations 
cooperation 
including 
the 
regional  organizations, 
fourth  meeting  on 
During  recent  years,  cooperation  has  slowly
begun  to  increase  within  the  framework  of  enhanced
United 
regional
organizations.  The  practice  of  convening  meetings
between the  United  Nations Secretary-General  and the
the
heads  of 
forthcoming 
theme  of
cooperation  for  peace-building,  is  welcome.  However,
we  feel  that  they  should  be  more  frequent  and  be
followed-up by meetings between the heads of specific
programmes 
respective
organizations.  The  practice  of  the  tripartite  high-level
meetings between the United Nations, the Organization
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and
the  Council  of  Europe  is  a  prime  example  of  where
cooperation  and  coordination  of  activities  in  areas  of
common concern is already functioning.
officials 
and 
the 
of 
of 
In  discussing  current  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  we  should
mention  the  close  cooperation  established  under  the
framework 
Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK),  where,
upon the invitation of  the  United  Nations,  the  Council
of Europe seconded its experts, who are working in the
area  of  judicial  reform,  local  and  regional  democracy,
property rights and on a population census.
the  United  Nations 
excellent 
I  turn  to  Croatia(cid:146)s  own  experience.  During  the
the  peaceful  reintegration  of  Eastern
process  of 
Slavonia,  which  was  at  the  time  governed  by  the
United Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern
Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sirmium (UNTAES), in
the  context  of  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operation,  the  Croatian  Government  witnessed  the
establishment  of 
cooperation  between
UNTAES  and  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  field  of
developing  education  curriculums  for  minorities.  Such
cooperation  and,  more  important,  its  results  were
highly praised by the international community at large.
to  our  neighbour  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina,  the  Republic  of  Croatia  welcomes  the
readiness of the Council of Europe to continue to fulfil
the role assigned to it in that country under the Dayton
Peace  Agreement.  The  Republic  of  Croatia  believes
that  membership  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  in  the
Council  of  Europe  would  have  a  very  positive  impact
on  further  democratic  development  and  the  protection
of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
regard 
With 
A/55/PV.38
The  cooperation  between  the  two  organizations
could  be  enhanced  in  a  number  of  ways,  including  a
better  flow  of  information  and  the  availability  of
relevant  documents  at  meetings  convened  by  both
organizations.  With  its  expertise  in  the  field  of  the
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and  legal
reforms, including the very important area of local and
regional  democracy,  which  has  no  counterpart  in  the
activities of the United Nations system, the Council of
Europe  could  significantly  contribute  to  the  activities
of the United Nations.
One  of  the  key  issues  in  rethinking  the  role  of
regional  organizations  in  the  changing  world  remains
the  timely  division  of  activities  between  the  United
Nations as the universal Organization, on the one hand,
and relevant regional organizations, on the other.  With
this aim in mind, a streamlining of activities is needed
in  order  to  make  better  use  of  available  resources  and
avoid  unnecessary  duplication  of  activities.  With
regard to relations between the  Council  of  Europe  and
the  United  Nations,  such  duplication  may  occur  with
to  human  rights  monitoring  mechanisms.
respect 
Despite 
rights  monitoring  mechanisms
remaining  a  main  goal  of  both  organizations,  without
due  comparison  of  achieved  results  duplication  of
monitoring may simply result in significantly divergent
reports on the same human rights situation.
human 
the 
subject  of  human 
just  mentioned.  More  specifically, 
As  a  member  of  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United Nations, Croatia has actively contributed to the
work of both organizations. In recent years Croatia has
rights  monitoring
been 
mechanisms  operated  by  both, 
thereby  having
experienced  in  practice  some  of  the  predicaments  I
have 
in  1992
monitoring  by  the  Special  Rapporteur  of  the  United
Nations  Commission 
on  Human  Rights  was
established,  and  subsequent  to  the  membership  of  the
Republic of Croatia in the Council of Europe, in 1996,
Council  of  Europe  monitoring  was  established,
covering 
democratic
developments.  Recently,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly
decided  to  end  the  monitoring  procedure,  welcoming
Croatia(cid:146)s  significant  progress  towards  honouring  its
commitments and  obligations  as  a  member  State  since
its  accession  in  1996,  and  in  particular  since  the
parliamentary  and  presidential  elections  held  earlier
this year.
human 
rights 
both 
and 
In the light of the circumstances, the Republic of
the
these  achievements  and 
Croatia  expects 
that 
5
A/55/PV.38
the  report  of 
continuing progress on its part should act as a pertinent
benchmark to be adequately and appropriately reflected
in 
the
Commission  on  Human  Rights  on  the  situation  of
human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic
of  Croatia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia
(Serbia and Montenegro).
the  Special  Rapporteur  of 
that 
that 
Croatia 
fully  supports 
the  strengthening  of
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United  Nations,  being  aware 
regional
organization,  with 
its  specific  characteristics,  can
significantly  contribute  to  the  work  of  the  United
Nations.  The  Council  of  Europe(cid:146)s  expertise  in  the
development  of  human  rights  standards,  in  particular
through the case law of the European Court of Human
Rights, should undoubtedly be reflected in the work of
the  relevant  United  Nations  bodies.  The  same  is  true
with  respect  to  the  achievements  of  the  Council  of
Europe  in  standard-setting  in  the  field  of  local  and
regional  democracy,  something  which  has  yet  to  be
achieved within the United Nations system.
Last but not least, the parliamentary dimension of
the  work  of  the  Council  of  Europe  should  not  be
neglected,  and  could  possibly  provide  guidance  for
future developments within the universal family of the
United Nations.
Mr.  Tello  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Within
the  framework  of  diversifying 
its  foreign  policy,
Mexico  has  strengthened  and  deepened  its  bilateral,
inter-regional  and  multilateral  relations  with  Europe
and  with  European  institutions  in  the  political  and
economic  spheres  and  in  terms  of  cooperation.  In
December  1999,  Mexico  became  an  observer  at  the
Council of Europe; this has led to fruitful dialogue with
the  Council(cid:146)s  41  member  States  and 
to  active
participation  in  all  areas  of  common  interest.  My
country  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the
Council  of  Europe,  which  was  reflected 
in  my
to  establish  a  permanent
Government(cid:146)s  decision 
in  Strasbourg 
representation  office 
the
Council(cid:146)s deliberations and decisions.
to  follow 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council of Europe has contributed to the success of the
Organization(cid:146)s  missions  and  programmes  in  Europe.
Thanks  to  its  genuinely  pan-European  nature,  the
Council  has  been  a  significant  factor  in  the  quest  for
peace  and  security  and  in  promoting  the  values,
purposes  and  principles  of  the  San  Francisco  Charter
6
on the European continent. My delegation is convinced
that  strengthening  that  cooperation  will  yield  real
benefits  for  both  organizations,  and  we  hope  that  the
Assembly  will  adopt  draft  resolution  A/55/L.8,  of
which  Mexico  is  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor,  without  a
vote.
Mr. Bergqvist (Sweden): Let me stress first of all
that  I  entirely  associate  myself  with  the  message
delivered by the presidency of the European Union.
and 
peaceful 
the  organization  was  set  up 
The Council of Europe was created half a century
ago  as  a  peace  project.  After  two  devastating  world
to  promote
wars, 
reconciliation 
among
democratic States. After the fall of the Berlin wall, the
Council  of  Europe  was  faced  with  new  important
challenges.  As  we  know,  its  membership  has  nearly
doubled  over  the  past  decade;  today,  more  than  one
fifth of the States Members of the United Nations are also
active members of the Council of Europe.
cooperation 
The  inclusion  of the  new  democracies  of  Central
and Eastern Europe was considered to be a major factor
in promoting peace  and  preventing  conflict  in  Europe.
Security  is  built  on  common  values.  The  founders  of
the  Council  of  Europe  wanted  to  share  a  peaceful
future based on common values: democracy, the rule of
law  and  respect  for  human  rights  and  human  dignity.
Indeed,  with  great  relief,  we  have  seen  examples  of
yesterday(cid:146)s  enemies  becoming 
in
building a better tomorrow.
today(cid:146)s  partners 
The reasons why the Council of Europe places so
much  emphasis  on  democracy  and  human  rights  are
clear  enough.  Lack  of  democratic  processes  and  non-
observance of human rights often lead to alienation and
violent  conflict.  Instead,  security  should  be  based  on
institution-building,  participation  and  dialogue.  There
can  be  no  sustainable  solutions  to  violent  conflicts
without democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
The Council of Europe is now also developing its
activities in the field. I shall give just a few examples.
In  the  framework  of  the  Stability  Pact  for  South-
Eastern Europe, the  Council  of  Europe  leads  activities
on  issues  such  as  creating  ombudsman  institutions,
promoting 
reconciliation,  and  gender
issues.  In  Chechnya,  the  Council  of  Europe  provides
three experts to the office of  the  Ombudsman to assist
him  in  his  work  to  investigate  human  rights  abuses.
The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture
and  Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment
inter-ethnic 
pays  visits 
institutions 
individual member States, and reports on its findings.
to  prisons  and  other 
in
When  developing  activities  in 
the  field,  we
should place particular emphasis on cooperation among
international  organizations.  That 
is  why  Sweden
welcomes  the  draft  resolution  (A/55/L.8)  before  the
Assembly  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and the Council of Europe. Such  cooperation  could be
enhanced  through  extensive  use  of  regular  contacts,
for
including  meetings;  a  continuous 
transparency; 
dialogue; 
practical
cooperation, 
the  appointment  of 
liaison
officers  and  points  of  contact,  cross-representation  at
appropriate  meetings  and  other  contacts  intended  to
increase understanding of each organization(cid:146)s tools and
methods.
framework 
and 
increased 
including 
and 
Civilian 
crisis  management 
Stronger  bonds  are  good  both  for  the  United
Nations  and  for  the  Council  of  Europe,  and  not  only
because  we  can  achieve  less  duplication  and  a  more
efficient  use  of  resources.  We  can  also  strengthen  the
support  for  our  common  values  and  achieve  better
protection for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
conflict
prevention  are  areas  now  under  rapid  development  in
various 
international  organizations.  That  makes
cooperation  essential.  It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  the
Brahimi  report  puts  emphasis  on  the  need  to  make
peacekeepers  and  peace-builders  inseparable  partners.
As  stated 
report,  peace-building
missions  should  include  international  judicial  experts,
penal experts and human rights specialists in sufficient
numbers  to  strengthen  rule  of  law  institutions.  The
report  also  notes  that  long-term  preventive  strategies
must  work 
to  protect
minority  rights  and  to  institute  political  arrangements
in which all groups are represented. These are areas in
which  the  Council  of  Europe  possesses  a  special
expertise  and  in  which  cooperation  should  be  of  great
value  to  both  organizations,  and  indeed  of  great  value
to our peoples. Let us therefore work together in order
to prevent future violent conflict.
to  promote  human  rights, 
the  Brahimi 
in 
Mrs.  Fritsche
(Liechtenstein): 
It  gives  me
particular pleasure to address  this item  on our agenda,
since  the  Council  of  Europe  is  the  oldest  political
organization  in  Europe  and  one  whose  high  standards
and principles concerning the rule of law, human rights
and democratic institutions are exemplary.
A/55/PV.38
In the view of my delegation, a strengthening and
further  enhancement  of  the  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  is  long
overdue.  Although  the  relationship  between  the  two
organizations  dates  back  to  1951,  when  a  cooperation
agreement was concluded, the aim then  was  much less
ambitious  than  it  is  today.  Fundamental  changes  and
developments  have  taken  place  since  that  time.  The
membership of the United Nations has increased and its
similar
original  mandates  have 
and 
the
developments  have  occurred  with  respect 
to 
including 
membership  of  other  organizations, 
the
Council of Europe.
expanded, 
There are a number of areas in which the Council
of Europe can reinforce the purposes and principles of
the  United  Nations  and  in  which  Member  States  can
profit  from  the  Council  of  Europe(cid:146)s  experience,  in
particular  in  the  fields  of  post-conflict  peace-building,
confidence-building  measures,  human  rights,  social
development,  the  fight  against  racism,  and  crime
prevention.
The Council of Europe has played, and continues
to  play,  an  important  role  in  promoting  a  stable  and
democratic  south-eastern  Europe.  The  cooperation
between the Council of Europe and the United Nations
Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)
in  the  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution
1244 (1999) is a good example  of  concrete interaction
in  operational  activities,  in  this  particular  case  in  the
areas  of  the  judiciary,  the  protection  of  minorities,
property  rights,  registration  and  local  democracy,  as
well  as  the  observation  of  the  electoral  process  in
Kosovo.  In  the  same  region,  namely  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina,  the  Council  of  Europe  is  engaged  in  the
field  of  judicial  reform  and  that  of  the  protection  and
promotion  of  human  rights,  and  it  is  making  a  major
contribution  to  the  Stability  Pact  for  South-Eastern
Europe.
are 
The  Council  of  Europe  has  been,  and  will
continue  to  be,  actively  involved  in  past  and  future
United  Nations  conferences  and  special  sessions  and
latest
their  respective  preparatory  processes.  The 
examples 
on 
the
implementation  of  the  outcome  of  the  World  Summit
for Social Development and Beijing + 5. The European
preparatory  process  for  the  World  Conference  against
Racism  and  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and
Related  Intolerance,  which  will 
take  place  next
summer, is being conducted by the Council of Europe,
sessions 
special 
the 
7
A/55/PV.38
and  we  note  with  satisfaction  the  results  of  the  Pan-
European  Conference  which  was  held  in  Strasbourg
last week.
In this respect, we wish to pay tribute to the work
of  the  European  Commission  against  Racism  and
Intolerance  (ECRI),  which  was  established  in  1993
following  the  first  summit  meeting  of  heads  of  State
and Government of Council of Europe  member  States.
The Commission is composed of public figures chosen
for their high moral authority and recognized expertise
in  dealing  with  questions  of  racism  and  intolerance.
They  include  judges,  parliamentarians,  journalists  and
psychologists.  Along  with 
of
international  and  national  legislation,  the  Commission
has  studied  policies  and  practices  and  has  addressed
specific  issues  as  well.  The  success  of  the  European
Commission  against  Racism  and  Intolerance  (ECRI)
can be attributed to its  activities on raising  awareness,
disseminating  information  and  cooperating  with  non-
governmental organizations.
examination 
its 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the
presence  of  the  Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of
Europe,  Mr.  Walter  Schwimmer,  as  well  as  that  of
members of the Political Affairs Committee and of the
Sub-Committee  on  Relations  with  Non-Member
Countries  of 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly.  Their
presence underlines the  commitment of  the  Council of
Europe  to  build  a  closer  relationship  with  the  United
Nations.
The  draft  resolution  before  us  contains  all  the
necessary elements  which form  the  basis  for increased
cooperation 
organizations.
Liechtenstein  will  actively  support  all  endeavours
leading to the realization of this aim.
between 
two 
the 
Mr. Filippi Balestra (San Marino): The Republic
of  San  Marino  welcomes  the  inclusion  of  the  item
entitled  (cid:147)Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the Council of Europe(cid:148) on the agenda of the fifty-fifth
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  extremely
thankful to the delegation of Italy, which promoted and
sponsored this remarkable initiative.
San  Marino  co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  on
(cid:147)Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe(cid:148)  because  it  is  convinced  that
cooperation among States and regional organizations is
an integral part of the concept of peace. It is now clear
that  the  efforts  made  by  the  Secretary-General,  the
to
General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council 
8
maintain  peace,  to  ensure  respect  of  human  rights  and
the  rule  of  law  and  to  apply  the  values  of  democracy
are  ineffective  without  the  cooperation  and  support  of
the 
other  entities  acting 
international  arena,
primarily regional organizations.
in 
The  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe
are 
two  complementary  organizations  and  should
therefore  be  linked  by  an  intensive  cooperation  with  a
view  to  reaching  their  common  goals,  while  avoiding,
whenever  possible,  duplication  and  overlap  in  those
areas  in  which  both  organizations  have  their  own
respective and specific roles to play.
Forty-one  member  States,  from  every  European
region,  now  form  the  Council  of  Europe.  For  this
reason,  and  because  of  its  particular 
institutional
structure, the Council is a unique forum for discussion
on issues of regional and global interest. The effective
action  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  field  of  human
rights, for instance, is evident from the activities of the
European Court for Human Rights. This judicial organ
has, in fact, led many States to reconsider practices that
could  have  adverse  effects  on  the  full  enjoyment  of
human rights by their own citizens.
and 
education.  My 
We  have  witnessed  some  examples  of 
the
cooperation  between  these  two  organizations  and  the
important results that it has brought about, especially in
the  fields  of  human  rights,  humanitarian  activities,
assistance  to  refugees,  legal  and  social  issues  and
culture 
deeply
appreciated  the  contribution  made  by  the  Council  of
Europe  through  its  participation  in  many  activities  of
the United Nations, inter alia, the special session of the
General Assembly on women, (cid:147)Women 2000(cid:148), and the
special  session  on  the  implementation  of  the  outcome
of  the  World  Summit  for  Social  Development,  as  well
as  its  constant  presence  at  the  regular  meetings  of  the
Third Committee of the General Assembly.
delegation 
I would like in particular to stress the role played
by  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  crisis  in  Kosovo  in
supporting  United  Nations  efforts  in  the  search  for  a
peaceful  settlement  and  its  eagerness  to  offer  its
cooperation,  in  its  fields  of  competence,  to  political
and institutional reconstruction. We are also grateful to
the  Council  of  Europe  for  the  coordination  of  the
European 
Racial
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  related  Intolerance  to
which the United Nations was invited.
Conference 
Racism, 
on 
By resolution 44/6, the General Assembly granted
observer status to the Council of Europe. We therefore
strongly  support  a  more  effective  presence  in  New
York  and  the  more  active  involvement  of  the  Council
of Europe in the work of the General Assembly.
The  Council  of  Europe  is  now  in  a  position  to
increase  its  already  substantial  contribution  to  the
United  Nations.  It  may  contribute  effectively 
to
increasing democratic  stability  and  building  pluralistic
democracies, as  well as in many  other  fields  where  its
expertise  is  well  recognized.  It  may  also  be  an
important  vehicle  to  spread  the  principles  of  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  Europe  and  in  other
regions  of 
the
Secretary-General  will  continue  to  explore,  in  close
consultation  with  the  Council  of  Europe,  different
possibilities 
the  cooperation
between the two organizations.
the  world.  We  very  much  hope 
to 
further  enhance 
to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  allowing 
Mr.  Boisson  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am
grateful 
the
representative  of  a  European  State  Member  of  the
United Nations that is not yet a member of the Council
of  Europe  (cid:151)  although  we  are  fervently  aspiring  to
become  one  (cid:151)  to  speak  on  the  agenda  item  on
cooperation between the  United  Nations and  that  lofty
and respected European institution.
The  Council  of  Europe  has given the continent  a
soul. Its ethical and normative work, which is rich and
eclectic  in  nature,  has  greatly  contributed  to  making
that  institution  a  moral  reference  point,  not  only  for
Europe, but without doubt at the global level.
Its  continent-specific  mission  can  in  no  way  be
regarded as an obstacle to cooperation between the two
organizations.  The  common  values  and  principles  that
inspire  them  and  that  are  to  be  found  inscribed  in
golden  letters  at  the  very  heart  of  the  Charter  of  the
United Nations, as well as in the Statute of the Council
of Europe, the European Convention on Human Rights
and  the  European  Social  Charter,  are  universal  in
nature.  They  can  be  promoted  without  difficulty
through  actions  designed  and  implemented  in  concert.
Whether  we  are  speaking  about  the  promotion  of
human  rights  and  civic  freedoms,  the  strengthening  of
representative  democracy  or 
the  protection  of
minorities,  the  concerns  of  the  two  organizations
converge.  That  is  an  essential  bond  that  is  very
favourable to joint undertakings.
A/55/PV.38
That great and very worthy institution (cid:151) with its
headquarters in Strasbourg, at the very heart of a region
long  battered  and  bruised  (cid:151)  is  unquestionably  a
symbolic  example  of  the  precious  contribution  that
regional  cooperation  can  make  in  the  world  if  it  is
based on respect for shared principles and values.
Cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and
the United Nations, as well as its specialized agencies,
stems  from  the  same  moral  reference  point  and  from
identical  ethical  commitments.  For  example,  we  note
with  satisfaction,  from  document  A/55/191,  that  the
Council  of  Europe  has  concluded  agreements  with  a
number of agencies of the United Nations system, such
as  the  United  Nations  Children(cid:146)s  Fund,  the  World
Health  Organization 
the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,
whose  activities  are  greatly  appreciated  by 
the
Principality of Monaco,  which regularly  contributes to
them.  The  many  conventions  and  legal  instruments,
which  are  essentially  profoundly  ethical  in  nature,
developed  within  the  Council  of  Europe  are  also,  we
are  pleased  to  say,  a  specific  and  useful  manifestation
of this commitment.
and 
This  issue  provides  the  delegation  of  Monaco
with  the  opportunity  to  express  the  admiration  of  my
country for the work that has been done for  more than
half a century in the Council of Europe which, after the
end of the Second World War, greatly helped to restore
dignity, strength and traditional values to the European
continent.  These  values  are  shared  by  the  people  of
Monaco.  They  have  been  their  values  for  centuries,
since  the  first  lord  of  Monaco  (cid:151)  whose  dynasty
extended  back  to  8  January  1297  (cid:151)  set  up  in  1331  a
general assembly of inhabitants, called at the time (cid:147)the
University(cid:148),  which  had  jurisdiction  over  all  public
affairs.
This  community  of  inhabitants,  which  brought
together  all  the  heads  of  family,  without  exception,
rapidly became a parliament, presided over by the lord
or  his  representative,  the  podesta.  For  centuries  this
parliament,  working  in  complete  freedom,  dealt  with
all the problems of daily life that the population might
encounter. 
jurisdiction  was  extremely  broad,
covering the police, road maintenance, the organization
of schools and poor relief. The people of Monaco were
not  subject  to  any  levies  on  their  property  or  on  their
use of communal ovens or mills, after the pattern of the
freedoms  practised  in  the  Republic  of  Genoa,  whence
most of the people of Monaco originated.
Its 
9
A/55/PV.38
the 
for 
More 
recently, 
after 
in  1910, 
first
constitutional  phase  (cid:151)  that  of  the  Charter  of  Rights
and  Freedoms,  granted  in  1848  (cid:151)  universal  suffrage,
with  the  right  to  vote  extended 
to  women,  was
established for the elections to the Communal Council.
On 5 January 1911, the Principality of Monaco set up a
modern-style  constitution 
two
democratic assemblies: the Communal Council and the
National  Council.  These  were  kept  under 
the
constitution  that  was  adopted  on  17  December  1962
and which is now in force. That basic text, which, in its
third  chapter  (cid:151)  not  in  the  preamble  (cid:151)  provides  for
fundamental  freedoms  and  rights,  thus  attests  to  the
political  will  to  give  such  rights  an  effective  and
legally binding scope.
that  provided 
to 
Thirty-two  articles  are  devoted 
this  and
guarantee,  inter  alia,  political  rights,  the  equality  of
citizens  before  the  law,  the  security  of  the  individual,
the  non-retroactive  application  of  criminal  law,  the
abolition  of  capital  punishment,  the  inviolability  of
domicile  and  property,  respect  for  private  and  family
life, freedom of worship and freedom of expression. It
also  grants 
freedom  of
employment and provides State assistance for the poor,
the  unemployed, the  sick,  invalids  and  the  elderly  and
provides  maternity  benefits  and  free  primary  and
secondary education, as well as allowing union activity
and  recognizing  the  right  of  assembly  and  association
and the right to petition public authorities.
the  people  of  Monaco 
Whether we are dealing  with individual civil and
political  rights  or  collective  economic,  social  and
cultural rights,  or obligations of the  State  with  respect
to  ends  or  means,  all  these  constitutional  provisions
give  nationals  of  my  country, as  well as  foreigners,  as
prescribed  by  Article  32  of  the  Constitution,  the
effective enjoyment, with judicial safeguards, of all the
public  freedoms  recognized  and  articulated  in  the
constitutions of modern democracies.
by 
The  guarantee  of 
the 
further
respected
strengthened 
fundamental  constitutional  principle  of  the  separation
of  administrative,  legislative  and  judicial  powers  and
the functions stemming therefrom.
these 
rights 
scrupulously 
is 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  is  a  State  in  which
the  rule  of  law  prevails.  The  powers  of  the  various
authorities,  as  well  as  the  acts  of  individuals,  are
limited,  only  by  the  law,  which  finds its  formal  points
of  reference 
the
the  Constitution,  along  with 
in 
10
remedies it has prescribed for use in  the  courts,  which
enable  private  persons  to  secure  the  repeal  of  public
acts that are contrary to the law, and also reparation for
damage suffered.
This  brief  “pro  domo”  account  is  intended  to
remind  you  that  the  Monegasque  nation  for  almost
seven  centuries  now  has  enjoyed  a  liberal,  democratic
and enlightened system of government, attentive to the
interests  and  needs  of  the  people  and  the  various
generations that have succeeded one another over time
in this modest territory.
Democracy, first of all direct, then representative,
which  has  been  a  feature  of  Monaco(cid:146)s  entire  history,
has enabled the Monegasque people to share in debate;
it has given them a taste for ideas, for dialogue and for
respect for what is in the general interest, which can be
seen  today,  very  vibrant  and  alive  in  Monegasque
society.  It  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  reasons  for  the
harmonious  human  relations  that  prevail  among  the
various  communities  in  my  country,  as  well  as  for  its
balanced economic and social development.
the  Ambassador 
The  delegation  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco
rightly  appreciates  the  draft  resolution  that  has  just
been  introduced  so  brilliantly  by  His  Excellency  Mr.
Sergio  Vento, 
and  Permanent
Representative  of  a country which itself is a  historical
cradle of our democracies, Italy. We wish to thank him
very  sincerely  for  this  initiative  and  to  assure  him  of
the  full  support  that  we  will  give  this  draft.  Today  we
wish  to  become  a  co-sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution,
which  correctly  draws  attention  to  the  importance  and
quality of  the  cooperation  that  has  been  ongoing  for  a
number  of  years  now  between  the  Council  of  Europe
and  United  Nations  institutions  as  a  whole.  It  also
highlights 
that
cooperation.
to  continue  and  expand 
the  need 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  is  perfectly  ready  to
contribute  further  to  this  activity,  both  within  the
United Nations framework and in that of the Council of
Europe.  The  concerted  activities  carried  out  in  the
parliamentary  area  and  in  the  economic  and  social
spheres,  in  education  and  research,  as  well  as  culture
and communications, are given careful attention by the
Monegasque authorities.
The constant struggle to protect human rights and
freedoms, 
law,
assistance  to  refugees  and  to  victims  of  torture,  abuse
and discrimination is a struggle that we share.
the  application  of  humanitarian 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  has 
actively
participated,  as  has  the  Council  of  Europe,  with  its
commitment to these issues, in these special sessions of
the  General  Assembly  devoted  to  women  in  the  year
2000 and to social development. It is also preparing to
participate very energetically, with a view to achieving
real  concrete  results,  in  the  World  Conference  against
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and
Related  Intolerance,  which  will  take  place  in  August
and September of 2001 in South Africa, and to which I
am  certain  the  Council  of  Europe  will  make  a  major
contribution.
that 
long-term  peace-building 
Lastly,  we  should  note  the  major  role  in  conflict
prevention,  and 
is
increasingly  being  played  by  regional  organizations  in
parallel  with  the  United  Nations.  In  this  respect,  the
Council  of  Europe  can  offer  its  unique  experience  in
the  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law,  safeguards  for
social  peace  and 
international  security,  based  on
democratic rule and the protection of human rights. Its
activities  and  recommendations  in  this  area  are  of
incalculable  value.  We  should  never  hesitate  to  have
recourse to its expertise.
Our  very  ancient  liberal  democratic  tradition,
which  I  have  just  described,  has  pervaded  countless
generations  of  the  citizens  of  Monaco.  It  now  permits
them, alongside their Sovereign and their Government,
to  feel  total  concern  for  the  ills  and  misfortunes  of
peoples,  not  only  in  Europe  but  throughout  the  world,
affected  by  dictatorship,  lack  of  freedom,  violence  in
all its forms, poverty and under-development.
the  Secretary  General  of 
In  conclusion,  we  welcome  the  presence  of  Mr.
Walter  Schwimmer, 
the
Council of Europe, whose skill and dedication are very
widely respected, and I take pleasure in confirming that
the  Government  of  Monaco,  with the  greatest  possible
conviction, encourages further cooperation between the
two  institutions  and  the  unreserved  strengthening  of
that cooperation.
the  United  Nations  and 
Mr.  Bojer  (Denmark):  I  take  great  pleasure  in
taking  the  floor  on  today(cid:146)s  item  entitled  (cid:147)Cooperation
between 
the  Council  of
Europe(cid:148). I am especially pleased to be speaking here in
the presence of the Secretary General of the Council of
Europe and of members of parliaments involved in the
work  of  both  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of
Europe.  In  this  connection,  let  me  recall  that  at  the
Conference  of  Presiding  Officers  of  National
A/55/PV.38
the  Speaker  of 
Parliaments,  held  in  August  this  year  here  in  this
Assembly, 
the  Danish  Folketing
advocated  strengthening  the  parliamentary  dimension
in relation to the United Nations and other international
organizations.
Denmark  was  a  founding  member  of  the  United
Nations  in  1945.  And  in  1949,  only  four  years  later,
Denmark  joined  forces  with  eight  other  European
countries  to  establish  the  Council  of  Europe.  Since
then,  Denmark  has  considered  its  membership  of  both
organizations  to  be  not  only  a  privilege  but  indeed  an
obligation.
The  Council  of  Europe,  like  the  United  Nations,
came  into  being  as  a  result  of  those  forceful  words:
Never again. Never again should our States suffer from
the  scourge  of  war.  Never  again  should  the  peoples  of
the  world  see  their  human  rights  repressed,  violated
and obliterated.  Never  again  should  we  experience the
atrocities  of  the  Second  World  War.  This  is  the
obligation of our  membership, and it is the very thrust
of both organizations. There is, in fact, an inextricable
interrelationship  (cid:151)  sometimes  subtle,  but  always
inextricable  (cid:151)  between  respect  for  human  rights  and
preservation of peace.
On  their  own  merits,  and  within  their  respective
mandates,  both  organizations  have  important  roles  to
play  with 
to  peace  and  security.  Both
organizations  are  building  on  norms  of  good  conduct
and  strengthening  and  monitoring  commitments  to
conform to these norms.
respect 
In  the  early  years,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  its
member  States  looked  to  the  United  Nations  for
inspiration  and  advice.  The  European  Convention  on
Human  Rights,  the  main  convention  of  the  Council  of
Europe, 
the  Universal
Declaration of Human Rights.
inspired  by 
is  directly 
Today the United Nations can look to the Council
of  Europe  for  assistance  and  support  to  approach  the
challenges  it  faces.  The  Council  of  Europe  is  in  a
position to contribute substantially to the prevention of
conflicts  (cid:151)  one  of  the  major  challenges  facing  the
United  Nations  (cid:151) through its legal  framework  for  the
protection  of  human  rights  and  its  mechanism  for
monitoring the obligations and commitments stemming
from  membership  of  the  organization.  These,  in  fact,
are essential tools of preventive diplomacy of the kind
so  often  advocated  by  the  Secretary-General  when  he
11
A/55/PV.38
emphasises 
prevention in peace-building.
crucial 
the 
dimension 
of 
conflict
The  draft  resolution  duly  acknowledges  that  the
Council  of  Europe  is  promoting  the  prevention  of
conflict  and  long-term  post-conflict  peace-building
through  political  and  institutional  reform.  Indeed,  it
stresses that the standards and principles of the Council
of  Europe  contribute  to  the  solution  of  conflicts
throughout Europe.
in 
the  special  sessions  of 
We  have already  experienced  the  commitment  of
the  Council  of  Europe  to  cooperate  with  the  United
the  General
Nations 
Assembly  following  up  the  world  conferences 
in
Beijing and Copenhagen. And we are experiencing it in
the  preparations  for  the  World  Conference  against
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and
Related Intolerance. In Kosovo, the Council of Europe
will  provide  assistance  in  the  upcoming  elections.
These  are  just  a  few  examples.  Others  are  also
mentioned  in  the  draft  resolution,  and  more  will
materialize as cooperation broadens and deepens.
During the Millennium Summit the world(cid:146)s heads
of  State  and  Government  took  stock  of  the  challenges
that  face  the  United  Nations  at  the  beginning  of  the
new millennium. They resolved
respect 
rights.(cid:148) 
for  human 
(cid:147)To strengthen the capacity of all our countries to
implement 
the  principles  and  practices  of
democracy  and 
rights,
(resolution  55/2,
including  minority 
United Nations Millennium Declaration, para. 25)
The principles and practices of  democracy  and respect
for  human  rights, 
including  minority  rights,  are
indispensable  to  security  and  peace  in  the  twenty-first
century.  My  Government  is  confident  that  cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe
will contribute greatly to peace and security.
Mr. (cid:138)erk(cid:154)nys (Lithuania): Allow  me to take this
opportunity  to  welcome  the  Secretary  General  of  the
Council  of  Europe  and  the  members  of  the  delegation
from the Parliamentary Assembly.
Let  me  start  by  expressing  my  appreciation  for
there being an agenda item on cooperation between the
Council of Europe and the United Nations. It  provides
a  good  opportunity  to  discuss  possible  ways  for  these
two  organizations  to  cooperate  and  how  this  regional
institution might contribute to our work.
12
Despite  some  ongoing  cooperation,  the  Council
of  Europe  and  its  work  have  not  received  enough
the  United  Nations.  Putting
attention  within 
cooperation  between 
the
Council  of  Europe  on  the  agenda  of  the  General
Assembly  and  adopting  a  resolution  on  this  item  is  a
significant step in this direction.
the  United  Nations  and 
Lithuania  has  always  actively  supported  close
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United Nations. The Council is in a position to make a
significant  contribution  to  the  work  of  the  United
Nations,  in  particular  in  strengthening  of  democratic
security  and  in 
the  Council(cid:146)s
expertise  is  well  recognized:  the  rule  of  law,  human
rights and social and economic rights.
those  fields  where 
Mr.  Vohidov  (Uzbekistan),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
This year  we celebrate  the  fiftieth anniversary  of
the  opening  for  signature  of  the  European  Convention
on  Human  Rights.  Post-war  Western  European
Governments  set  out  a  list  of  basic  human  rights  and
freedoms,  with  the  aim  of  achieving  democracy  and
lasting stability on the continent. After 50 years we can
say  that  the  protection  and  promotion  of  individual
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  have  become
an indispensable part of Europe(cid:146)s identity.
Since  the  organization(cid:146)s  establishment,  its  shape
and  the  scope  of  its  work  have  undergone  major
changes.  The  arrival  of  Central  and  Eastern  European
countries  in  the  1990s  meant  that  the  institution
became  fully  pan-European.  Due  to  the  new  global
challenges, 
to  a  new
environment,  which  has  become  more  diverse  and
complex.  New  priorities  have  been  emerging.  These
include  migration,  social  exclusion,  minorities  and
corruption, as well as environmental protection, AIDS,
drugs and organized crime.
the  Council  had 
to  adapt 
The  fact  that  countries  from  other  continents
show  interest  in  the  work  of  the  Council  greatly
the  experience  and
encourages  us 
achievements  of 
this
opportunity to welcome Mexico as the newest observer
to the Council,  which  it  has been  since  the  end of  last
year.
the  organization.  We 
to  promote 
take 
Most  of  the  issues  and  challenges  dealt  with  at
the  regional  level  by  the  Council  of  Europe  are  the
same as those we face at the United Nations. Therefore,
we  see  ample  opportunities  for  constructive  and
mutually  beneficial  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and the Council of Europe.
the 
One  of 
the  officers  of 
the  main  areas 
experience 
and 
is  the  exchange  of
information 
two
between 
organizations  in  the  sphere  of  the  protection  and
promotion  of  human  rights  and  freedoms.  In  this
regard,  we  attach  great  importance  to  the  already
ongoing  cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe
and 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioners  for  both  Human  Rights  and  Refugees.
One example that might be singled out is the European
Conference  against  Racism,  which  also  dealt  with
intolerance,  organized  last  week  by  the  Council  in
preparation  for  the  United  Nations  World  Conference
against racism to be held next year in South Africa. We
also  welcome  the  contributions  of  the  Council  of
Europe 
the  United  Nations  special  sessions,
Beijing + 5 and Copenhagen + 5.
to 
The Council of Europe plays an important role in
implementing  in  the  European  countries  the  principles
enshrined in the universal human rights instruments. In
addition, we would welcome the Council(cid:146)s contributing
to the work of the United Nations by making available
the  Council(cid:146)s  expertise  in  strengthening  human  rights,
democracy and the rule of law. We would also welcome
the opening of a liaison office of the Council of Europe
in  New  York,  which  would  facilitate  the  sharing  of
information between the two organizations.
the 
Conflict-prevention  activities  are  another  area
where 
the  Council  of  Europe  could  contribute
substantially.  The  Council(cid:146)s  legal  framework  for  the
protection  of  human  rights  and  its  mechanism  for
monitoring 
of  member  States
demonstrate  its  expertise  in  this  field.  Moreover,  the
Council(cid:146)s  achievements 
field  of  building
democratic security, confidence-building  measures, the
protection  of  children, 
the  protection  of  national
minorities  and  the  fight  against  racism  might  be  very
beneficial to these efforts.
obligations 
in 
the 
In this regard, we commend the valuable ongoing
contribution of the Council of Europe to the continued
full  and  rigorous  implementation  of  Security  Council
resolution  1244  (1999).  The  Council  of  Europe  has
established  close  working  relations  with  the  United
Nations  Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo
(UNMIK) on a wide array of issues.
A/55/PV.38
In  2001  Lithuania  will  assume  the  presidency  of
the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe.
Among other priorities, emphasis will be placed on the
consolidation  of  the  Council(cid:146)s  efforts  to  foster  the
values  of  human  rights,  civil  society  and  democratic
stability  throughout  the  continent.  The  experience  of
successful  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
institutions  and  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  Balkans
demonstrates 
relations
between  the  two  organizations  would  also  be  of  great
value.
that  constructive  working 
that 
In  conclusion,  I  express  my  hope 
the
inclusion  of  this  item  on  the  agenda  of  the  General
Assembly and the adoption of a resolution will give us
an opportunity to exchange views about possible  ways
for these two organizations to  cooperate,  and  will  also
prepare  a  good  framework  for  establishing  a  target-
oriented constructive relationship.
the  fifty-fifth  session  of 
Mr. Kouliev (Azerbaijan) (spoke in Russian):  At
the outset, I wish to thank the Government of Italy for
having taken the initiative of including this item on the
the  General
agenda  of 
Assembly  and 
the  draft
resolution  on  this  item.  Its  adoption  will  undoubtedly
give  new  impetus  to  the  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the Council of Europe, the basis for
which was established in 1951.
for  having 
introduced 
I  am  also  pleased  to  welcome  among  us  the
Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Mr. Walter
Schwimmer,  and  the  delegation  of  the  Sub-Committee
on 
the
Parliamentary  Assembly,  whose  presence  here  today
testifies 
item  under
to 
consideration.
relations  with  non-member  countries  of 
importance  of 
the 
the 
The  Council  of  Europe,  established  in  1949,  was
the  first  pan-European  political  institution.  The  goals
and  tasks  of  the  organization  are  the  achievement  of
greater  unity  among 
through
cooperation  in  all  spheres,  except  for  military  issues,
on  the  basis  of  a  single  value  system  comprising
dedication  to  democracy, respect  for  human rights  and
the primacy of law. The implementation and promotion
of  such  values  are  the  concrete  mandate  and  raison
d(cid:146)Œtre of the Council of Europe.
its  member  States 
Azerbaijan(cid:146)s entry into the Council of Europe and
adherence 
and  other
international  legal  instruments  were  an  historical  and
strategic necessity. This aspiration was directly defined
to  European 
conventions 
13
A/55/PV.38
by the deliberate choice of our people, which considers
itself  to  be  an  inalienable  part  of  Europe,  to  establish
European values and standards in Azerbaijan.
Over  the  years  of  its  independence,  Azerbaijan
has  achieved  significant  progress  in  political,  social,
economic  and  cultural  development.  Our  country  has
significantly  strengthened  political  and  economic
stability.  A  constructive  dialogue  among  the  various
political forces, free activity of the mass media and the
gradual  introduction  of  market  reforms  have  become
open  realities  in  today(cid:146)s  Azerbaijan.  In  the  past  four
years,  from  the  moment  Azerbaijan  requested  full
membership  of 
the  Council  of  Europe,  we  have
achieved great progress in ensuring the primacy of law,
the  protection  of  human  rights  and  the  building  of  a
democratic society.
to 
in 
implement 
I  wish  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the  Republic
of  Azerbaijan  has  begun 
its  post-
application  commitments,  as  set  down  in  Opinion  No.
222  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of
Europe.  Azerbaijan  has  adhered  to  14  conventions  of
the  Council  of  Europe  and  in  February  1998  was  the
first  country 
to  abolish  capital
punishment.  The  next  important  step  on  the  road  to
democratic  reform  was 
the  abolishment  of  press
censorship in August 1998.
region 
the 
In recent years, in the context of judicial reform,
Azerbaijan  has  taken  a  number  of  steps  to  bring  our
judicial-legal system into conformity with international
standards,  including  the  requirements  of  the  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights,  its  Protocols  and  other
European  instruments.  Azerbaijan(cid:146)s  legal  system  has
also  established  a  tripartite  judicial  system  consisting
of  a  high  court,  an  appeals  court  and  a  constitutional
court,  which  in  turn  serves  to  strengthen  the  trust  of
citizens in the legal system.
is 
currently 
preparing 
Azerbaijan 
for
parliamentary elections scheduled for November 5. The
legal  basis  for  these  elections  is  laid  down  in  the
Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  and  in
recently adopted laws and normative acts in conformity
with international requirements. I would also stress the
special role played by the expert assistance supplied by
international  organizations,  including  the  Office  for
Democratic  Institutions  and  Human  Rights  of  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE) and the European Commission for Democracy
through Law, in the preparation of electoral legislation
14
and in the improved implementation of these laws. The
great  majority  of  these  recommendations  have  already
been  taken  into  account  by  the  Government  and
Azerbaijan 
this  successful
cooperation.
is  prepared 
to  pursue 
that 
to  affirm 
The  Government  of  Azerbaijan  is  taking  all  the
necessary  measures  to  hold  free  and  fair  elections.  I
wish  briefly 
the  Central  Election
Commission  has  taken  the  decision  to  allow  most
leading  political  parties,  including  the  opposition,  to
participate  in  the  forthcoming  parliamentary  elections
on  a  proportional  basis.  During  the  elections,  we  will
also  establish  the  conditions  necessary  to  inviting
numerous  observers.  It  is  well  known  that  Azerbaijan
already  hosts  a  long-term  Observation  Mission  of  the
OSCE and  we  are  inviting observers  from  the  Council
of Europe as well.
The  aforementioned  reforms  and  other  actions
that  we  have  undertaken  will  also  be 
further
implemented. This process has become irreversible. Of
course,  problems  and  difficulties  remain,  but  we  are
overcoming  them  with  the  very  important  help  of
experts, including those from the Council of Europe.
It is well known that Azerbaijan is experiencing a
difficult  moment  in  its  history.  The  sovereignty  and
territorial  integrity  of  our  country  are  being  cruelly
violated  by  a  neighbouring  State.  One  fifth  of  our
country(cid:146)s  territory  remains  under  the  occupation  of
Armenian forces,  while 1  million Azerbaijani  refugees
and  displaced  persons  continue  to  suffer.  The  ongoing
12-year  armed  conflict  between  Azerbaijan  and
Armenia  has  not  only  harmed  Azerbaijan,  but  is  also
preventing the establishment of stability throughout the
southern  Caucasus  and  delaying 
the  democratic
development of our States.
It is well known that, in 1993, the United Nations
Security  Council  adopted  four  resolutions  demanding
the unconditional withdrawal of occupation forces from
the territory  of  Azerbaijan. As  of 1992, the  OSCE  has
dealt  directly  with  the  settlement  of  the  conflict.
Unfortunately,  the  resolutions  and  decisions  adopted
have yet to be implemented.
In  spite  of  the  difficult  and  tense  situation,  the
leadership  of  Azerbaijan  is  observing  the  ceasefire
regime  and  doing  its  utmost  to  hasten  the  settlement
process. In its recent letters to the Secretary-General of
the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  President  of  the
Council(cid:146)s  Parliamentary  Assembly,  the  President  of
Azerbaijan again reaffirmed my country(cid:146)s commitment
to  settling  the  conflict  peacefully  on  the  basis  of  the
norms  and  principles  of 
in  the
framework of the OSCE Minsk Group.
international  law 
The strengthening and harmonization of relations
with  the  Council  of  Europe  will  be  significantly
promoted by joint action in the context of Azerbaijan(cid:146)s
cooperation  programme  with  that  organization.  I  wish
to stress that the positive influence of the speeding and
strengthening  of  reforms  in  Azerbaijan  and  of  the
enhancing  of  democratic  institutions  in  our  country  is
being  exerted 
the  close  cooperation  of
Azerbaijan  and  the  Council  of  Europe  within  the
framework  of  the  programme  of  Activities  for  the
Development 
and  Consolidation  of  Democratic
Stability.  We  are  prepared  to  discuss  with  the  Council
of Europe ways and means to improve the programmes
for cooperation.
through 
We regard entry into the Council of Europe not as
a  goal  in  itself,  but  as  the  beginning  of  a  long-term
partnership  within  the  framework  of  a  united  Europe,
designed  for  the  further  improvement  of  the  bases
established  in  recent  years  of  a  democratic  and  free
society in Azerbaijan.
The  Council  of  Europe,  the  sole  pan-European
organization,  can  make  a  substantial  contribution  to
solving the growing problems of the United Nations. It
can also make a substantial contribution in those areas
in  which  its  experience  is  recognized,  in  particular  in
helping to establish pluralistic democratic States based
on  the  primacy  of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights.
The  Council  of  Europe  can  thereby  promote  the
reaffirmation  (cid:151) 
the  European
continent  (cid:151)  of  the  ideals  set  forth  in  the  United
Nations Charter and their propagation elsewhere in the
world. That is why we support today(cid:146)s draft resolution
and hope that it will be adopted by consensus.
especially 
on 
by 
the 
statement  made 
Mr.  Moushoutas  (Cyprus):  We  fully  associate
ourselves  with 
the
representative  of  France  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union. We have asked to add our voice to the  subject,
(cid:147)Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe(cid:148),  because,  like  many  other  States,
we  are  members  of  both  organizations  and  well  aware
of the lofty principles and high ideals they both  serve.
What  is  more,  this  is  the  first  time  this  item  has  been
debated in the General Assembly. Of course, we would
like also to express our deep appreciation to the Italian
A/55/PV.38
delegation for taking the initiative for the inscription of
the  item  on  the  agenda,  its  allocation  to  a  plenary
meeting and its presentation here.
The  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe
share  many  common  goals,  and 
therefore  closer
cooperation  and  coordination  between  them  would
render both more vital players on crucial issues such as
human  rights  and  basic  freedoms.  The  fields  of
cooperation  between  the  two  are  too  numerous  to
repeat.  The  draft 
the
representative  of  Italy,  of  which  Cyprus  is  a  sponsor,
refers  to  the  most  striking  examples  of  cooperation,
such  as  issues  of  international  law,  development,
women(cid:146)s  rights,  racism  and 
intolerance,  Kosovo,
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  refugees  (cid:151)  the  list  goes
on.
introduced  by 
resolution 
There 
is  no  doubt 
in  our  minds 
that  both
organizations  will  be  benefited  by  this  cooperation,
especially  in  the  areas  of  common  endeavours,  with
mankind  the  ultimate  main  beneficiary.  We  therefore
wholeheartedly support this cooperation.
to  human 
contribution 
Cyprus,  over  the  years  of  its  membership  in  the
the  Council(cid:146)s
Council  of  Europe,  has  witnessed 
constructive 
and
international law. In the case of the problem of Cyprus,
the  role  of  the  Council  of  Europe  has  been  very
constructive. In this regard, we take the opportunity to
express  to  Mr.  Schwimmer,  the  Secretary  General  of
the  Council, 
distinguished  European
parliamentarians present today, our deep appreciation.
rights 
and 
the 
Mr.  Pfanzelter
(Austria):  Austria 
highly
welcomes  this  first  General  Assembly  discussion  on
(cid:147)Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe,(cid:148)  especially  in  the  presence  of  the
Secretary  General  of 
the  Council,  Mr.  Walter
Schwimmer, and the parliamentarians of the Council of
Europe.  The  Austrian  Government  and  people  have
been  deeply  committed  to  both  global  and  regional
organizations 
the  very  beginning  of  our
membership in 1955, 45 years ago.
since 
Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter refers
to  the  possibility  of  regional  organizations  sharing  the
burden of keeping peace. Consequently, there is ample
opportunity for a division of labour between the United
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  especially  in  the
field of conflict prevention and settlement. It is now up
to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  support  the  Secretary-
General,  Kofi  Annan,  and  Secretary  General  Walter
15
A/55/PV.38
Schwimmer  in  their  efforts  to  intensify  the  dialogue
and cooperation between the two organizations.
In  this  respect,  Austria  was  pleased  to  note  that
an  excellent  meeting  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the
United  Nations  took  place  in  Strasbourg  on  3  October
with  the  Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of  Europe
and representatives of the Council.
The Council of Europe is the central focus for the
protection  of  human  rights  and  democratic  rights  in
Europe,  and  is  committed,  as  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan has rightly pointed out,  to  creating  a  culture of
human  rights 
the  European  continent.
Considering  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council, 
that  fields  of  cooperation
abound:  human 
rights,  education,  monitoring  of
elections,  protection  of  children,  gender  equality,  the
fight against corruption (cid:151) to just name a few.
is  obvious 
throughout 
it 
is 
A  good 
recent  example 
the  European
Conference  against  Racism,  held  in  Strasbourg,  which
will  be  an  important  contribution  and  input  to  the
World  Conference  against  racism  to  be  held  in  South
Africa  next  year.  I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  the
role  of  the  Council  as  partner  of  the  United  Nations
Interim  Administration  Mission 
in  Kosovo.  The
Council  has  demonstrated  its  determination  to  be  an
active  member  in  the  efforts  of  the  international
community  to  assist  in  solving  a  major  humanitarian
conflict.
fully 
Austria 
therefore 
supports  a 
further
intensification  of  the  cooperation  between  the  two
organizations,  and  welcomes  the  idea  of  a  Council  of
Europe  presence  in  New  York  in  the  form  of  a  liaison
office.  This  would  permit  a  continuous  dialogue
between  our  organizations.  We  are  confident  that  our
meeting today, in which we will adopt the first General
Assembly resolution on this item, will be an important
step towards intensified cooperation in the future.
Mr. Atkinson (United Kingdom): The delegation
of France has already spoken on behalf of the European
Union. My delegation fully endorses that statement and
would like to make a few further points.
The  United  Kingdom  welcomes  the  forthcoming
adoption of the draft resolution; it usefully clarifies the
areas  in  which  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of
Europe  will  continue  to  cooperate,  and  we  should  use
this opportunity to focus on producing practical results.
16
nor 
accorded 
organization 
When  the  Council  of  Europe  commenced  its
annual visits to this General Assembly in 1997, through
its  sub-committee  on  relations  with  non-member
countries, we found to our horror that our organization
was  neither  recognized  by  the  United  Nations  as  a
regional 
regular
cooperation  debate  in  this  Assembly,  unlike  many  of
the  other  regional  organizations.  This  was  a  particular
surprise  to  us,  because,  as  we  have  been  reminded  in
this debate, the Council of Europe is the largest and the
oldest  of  Europe(cid:146)s  institutions,  born,  like  the  United
Nations itself, out of the ashes of the last world war. It
concerned  us  greatly,  because  of 
the  valuable
contributions  which  the  Council  of  Europe  has  made
and  continues  to  make  to  the  work  of  the  United
Nations.
a 
Thus  we  are  delighted  that  cooperation  between
the United Nations and the Council of Europe is being
debated in this  Assembly today for the very first time.
And  so  we  pay  tribute  to  the  Italian  presidency  of  the
Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe  for
enabling  it  to  take  place,  and  to  the  untiring  work  of
our Danish rapporteur, Hanne Severinsen.
The  Brahimi  report  (A/55/305)  has  launched  a
new debate on the prevention of conflict.  As I  hope is
no  longer  disputed,  the  best  prevention  of  conflict  is
the promotion of democracy, human rights and the rule
of law. There are few, if any, examples of a democracy
in  conflict  with  another  democracy,  and  it  is  here  that
we  believe  the  Council  of  Europe  can  make  a  major
contribution to the work of the United Nations.
Since  1989  (cid:151)  over  the  past  12  years  (cid:151)  the
number of member States of the Council of Europe has
increased from 23 to 41, and possibly it will be 45 next
year.  To  accede  to  the  Council  of  Europe  a  country
must  be  committed  to  achieving  our  standards  of
democracy,  to  be  subjected  to  the  detailed  scrutiny  of
its  commitments  and  to  accept  the  jurisdiction  of  our
European  Court  of  Human  Rights.  It  is  this  unique
experience  of  the  working  of  our  institutions  and
instruments  and  of  our  monitoring  procedures  which
contributes to the prevention of conflict in Europe and
which  we  believe  can  contribute  much  more  to  the
work of the United Nations.
four 
There  are 
the
contribution the  Council  of Europe  makes  to  the  work
of  the  United  Nations  to  which  I  wish  to  draw  the
attention of the Assembly.
specific  examples  of 
First,  the  important  work  of  our  North-South
Centre in Lisbon, which raises awareness in Europe to
the  problems  of  poverty  and  depravation  throughout
the world.
Secondly, 
the  solution  we  believe  we  have
produced to one of the final status issues to be resolved
in  the  Middle  East  peace  process  (cid:151)  that  of  the  three
and a quarter million displaced Palestine refugees, over
one  million  of  whom  live  in  the  59  camps  run  by  the
United  Nations  through  its  Relief  and  Works  Agency.
We believe that the Council of Europe(cid:146)s 1998 report on
this issue offers a practical solution to this problem.
for 
support 
in  Kosovo 
the  United  Nations 
Thirdly,  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention,  the
Council of Europe has delivered practical assistance to
and 
Interim
Administration  Mission 
in
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1244
(1999), most recently in providing a mission to observe
the  Kosovo  regional  elections.  It  has  also  cooperated
with the United Nations in Bosnia and Herzegovina  in
providing  human  rights  training  to  the  judiciary  and
police  and 
the  Stability  Pact
programme for South-Eastern Europe.
it  contributes 
(UNMIK) 
to 
Fourthly,  the  forthcoming  Council  of  Europe
contribution to  next  year(cid:146)s United  Nations  Year  of  the
Volunteer, which our Social, Health and Family Affairs
Committee is currently preparing.
to 
May  I, 
in  conclusion,  draw 
the  Assembly(cid:146)s
attention to the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of
the  Council  of  Europe 
is  composed  of  national
delegations  who  are  members  of  our  national
Parliaments  and  it  is  this  parliamentary  dimension  to
the  work  of  our  organization  which  we  believe  has
contributed 
the  relative  peace  and  expanding
democracy  and  human  rights  in  Europe  over  the  past
fifty  years.  This  parliamentary  dimension,  which  we
recommend, should now be introduced into the work of
the  United  Nations  as  has been  proposed  by  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU).  We  believe  that  practical
politicians  can  find  new  solutions  when  Governments
have  reached  deadlock.  And  that  is  the  clear  message
that I hope will result from this first historic debate on
cooperation between our two organizations today.
Mr. Abelian (Armenia): I should like to begin by
expressing our appreciation to the Italian delegation for
introducing 
resolution  on  Cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,
the  draft 
A/55/PV.38
contained in document  A/55/L.8,  which my  delegation
has joined in sponsoring.
May I also welcome the Secretary General of the
Council of Europe, Mr. Schwimmer, and the delegation
from the Council(cid:146)s Parliamentary Assembly.
Democracy,  human 
The  Council  of  Europe  was  founded  in  1949  as
the  first  political institution in  Europe. The  main  aims
of the organization are to achieve greater unity between
its  member  States  through  cooperation  in  all  fields,
except  military,  and  on  the  basis  of  shared  values  of
democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
respect 
the
individual,  security  and  stability  and  a  Europe  free
from conflict are not in themselves new ideas. Born in
Europe,  they  have  achieved  universal  relevance  and
recognition  beyond  the  borders  of  Europe  itself.  What
is  new,  however,  is  that  one  can  adopt  and  advocate
these 
institutional
arrangements.  It  is  in  that  sense  that  the  Council  of
Europe  is  both  a  means  to  an  end,  as  well  as  a
worthwhile objective in itself.
appropriate 
through 
rights, 
values 
for 
The end of the cold war era gave the countries of
Central  and  Eastern  Europe  an  historic  opportunity  to
return  to  European  values  and  ideals,  to  restore  to
democratic 
to
create the political dimension that would allow them to
engage  in  dialogue,  partnership  and  cooperation  with
all other existing democracies.
institutions  the  mechanisms  needed 
It should be noted that most of those countries did
not  miss  this  unique  opportunity  and  succeeded  in
restoring  democracy,  which  eventually  made  possible
their accession to the Council of Europe.
In  this  context,  we  welcome  the  activities  of  the
the  democratic
Council  aimed  at 
processes in countries in transition and at providing all
possible  opportunities  for  greater 
in
European structures and affairs.
the  support  of 
involvement 
Armenia  was  among  the  countries  that  did  not
miss  the  opportunity.  It  did  not  undertake  its  own
democratization  process  simply  in  order  to  join  the
Council.  It  does  recognize,  however,  that,  having
started  the  process  of  reform,  the  need  to  consolidate
its achievements, as well as the need to go further in a
firm  and  irrevocable  manner,  requires  that  it  seek  to
integrate itself into the institutional  framework  (cid:151) that
is,  the  Council.  The  Council  is  a  model  and  an
17
A/55/PV.38
inspiration as well as the guarantor of the legitimacy of
our own undertakings on the road to democratization.
in  preparing 
Over  the  past  few  years,  we  have  attempted  to
maintain  a  steady  course 
for  our
membership. In doing so, we have continued to look at
the  way  in  which  those  ahead  of  us  have  attempted  to
embody the values of the Council of Europe by making
those  values  significant  in  the  conduct  of  their  own
affairs.
In 1996, we applied to join the Council of Europe
and  earlier  this  year,  on  29  June,  at  the  Parliamentary
Assembly  of  the  Council,  Armenia(cid:146)s  full  membership
was  recommended  to  the  Committee  of  Ministers,
stating  that  Armenia  is  moving  towards  a  democratic
pluralist society in which human rights and the rule of
law are respected and, in  accordance  with  Article 4  of
the  Statute  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  is  able  and
willing 
to  pursue  democratic  reforms.  The  final
decision  is  to  be  taken  by  the  Council  of  Europe
Committee  of  Ministers 
its  upcoming
meetings.
in  one  of 
We  understand  that  there  is  a  common  view
among  members  of  the  Council  to  invite  Armenia  and
Azerbaijan  together  to  join  the  Council.  At  the  same
time,  there  are  some  concerns  and  reservations  on  the
part  of  several  members  with  regard  to  Azerbaijan(cid:146)s
accession  to  the  Council  following  its  parliamentary
elections.  Furthermore,  there  are  calls  by  member
States 
to  make  Azerbaijan(cid:146)s  accession  altogether
contingent upon its handling of elections.
Armenia(cid:146)s  support  for  the  joint  accession  of
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  notwithstanding,  we  are  not
likely  to  support  any  further  linkage  between  the  two
countries 
of  Azerbaijan(cid:146)s
parliamentary elections.
beyond 
date 
the 
and 
issue 
two 
each 
to  de-link 
the 
judge 
Given  our  past  disappointing  experience  in  this
connection,  we  have  serious  concerns  about  further
delays  in  Armenia(cid:146)s  full  membership.  We  would  urge
member  States 
countries(cid:146)
membership 
country(cid:146)s
qualification for membership on its own merits. We are
not  reluctant  to  admit  that  the  South  Caucasus  is  a
subregion  whose  democratic  restructuring  is  not  yet
fully  complete.  A  stable  and  democratic  South
Caucasus  is  a  work  in  progress.  As  in  all  work  in
progress its promise must not ignore the fragility of its
emerging  equilibrium.  We  recognize  and  welcome  the
constructive  role  that  the  Council  of  Europe  can,  and
18
must,  play  to  consolidate  this  equilibrium,  but  it  must
not,  perhaps  inadvertently,  by  uneven  or  inconsistent
application  of 
its  principles,  exacerbate  existing
imbalances.
the 
provides 
framework 
Cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and
the United Nations started in 1951 with the Agreement
between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  Secretariat  of
the  United  Nations,  which  was  updated  in  1971.  The
Council 
the
appropriate  mechanism  for  protecting,  promoting  and
implementing  human  rights  and  we  acknowledge  the
contribution of the Council of Europe to the protection
and the  strengthening  of democracy,  human  rights  and
fundamental  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law  on  the
European  continent,  including  its  activities  against
racism  and 
the  promotion  of  gender
equality,  social  development  and  a  common  cultural
heritage.
intolerance, 
and 
In  recent  years,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  been
involved  in  renewed  cooperation  with  the  United
Nations,  mainly  in  relation  to  crisis  situations  in
Europe. In 1993, the United Nations Office in Geneva,
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in
Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe established
the practice of holding tripartite high-level meetings to
exchange  information  and  to  promote  coordination  of
their activities in areas of common concern.
At the dawn of the  new  century  it  is  very  timely
for the General  Assembly to examine  ways and  means
of further developing the already advanced cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
In  accordance  with
resolution 44/6, of 17 October 1989, I now call on the
Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Mr. Walter
Schwimmer.
The  Acting  President: 
Mr.  Schwimmer  (Council  of  Europe):  It  is  a
great  honour  and  privilege  for  me  to  be  the  first
Secretary General of the Council  of  Europe  to  address
the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  Today(cid:146)s  debate
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  marks  a  breakthrough 
the
relations between our institutions. This is the occasion,
I am convinced, to discuss how the Council of Europe
can  even  better  contribute  concretely  and  specifically
to the work of the United Nations. In other words, how
can we increase our added value?
in 
to 
thanks  go 
My  sincere 
the  Parliamentary
Assembly  of 
the  Council  of  Europe  for  having
originally  proposed  this  debate,  and  to  Italy,  currently
chairing our  Committee of Ministers,  for  having  taken
up  the  suggestion  and  having  introduced  the  draft
resolution before the Assembly. Important impetus was
also  provided  by  the  permanent  representative  of
Finland in Strasbourg.
This  debate  has  already  given  an  impressive  and
convincing  description  of  what  the  Council  of  Europe
stands  for.  Our  Organization,  which  currently  consists
of 41  member States, first and  foremost represents the
Europe  of  shared  values.  The  organization  embodies
the  shared  commitment  of  800  million  Europeans  to
human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  Sharing
our  values  are  the  Council(cid:146)s  non-European  observer
States (cid:151) Canada, Japan, Mexico and the United States.
We  also  value  our  cooperation  with  the  Holy  See,
which enjoys a similar status.
Since  the  end  of  the  cold  war  the  Council  of
Europe has become a truly pan-European organization,
with 17 new members having been admitted in the past
decade.  Our  achievements  include,  notably,  over  170
multilateral  conventions,  several  of  which  are  also
open  to  non-member  States.  Next  month  we  shall
celebrate  in  Rome  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the
European  Convention  on  Human  Rights,  with  its
unique 
enables
individuals  to  obtain  binding  court  decisions  on  their
complaints against member States.
protection  mechanism,  which 
Our 
has 
increase 
in  membership 
been
accompanied  by  a  growing  emphasis  on  cooperation
and  assistance  programmes  to  strengthen  democratic
stability.  In  brief,  through  its  standard-setting  and
democracy-building activities, the Council of Europe is
making  a  major  contribution  to  long-term  conflict
prevention  in  Europe.  I  do  not  need  to  convince  the
Assembly  that  such  conflict  prevention  is  at  infinitely
lower 
If  other
organizations  are  sometimes  called  upon  to  act  as  fire
brigades,  the  Council  of  Europe  can  be  considered  as
the fire prevention system. In addition, in recent times
the  Council  of  Europe  has 
increasingly  become
involved  in  what  the  United  Nations  Brahimi  report
(A/55/305)  refers  to  as  peace-building,  notably  in
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Kosovo,  and  to  some
extent in Chechnya.
resolution. 
conflict 
than 
cost 
A/55/PV.38
In  which areas do the Council  of  Europe  and the
United  Nations  already  cooperate?  Let  me  give  but  a
few  examples.  Together  with  the  United  Nations,  we
are  actively  engaged  in  fighting  racism,  xenophobia
and intolerance. Last week, we organized the European
Conference 
in
preparation  for  next  year(cid:146)s  United  Nations  World
Conference  in  South  Africa.  Close  cooperation  exists
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
with 
Human  Rights,  who  was  present  for 
the  entire
Conference in Strasbourg last week, as well as with the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
intolerance 
against 
racism 
and 
The  Council  of  Europe  made  a  significant
contribution  to  the  special  sessions  of  the  General
Assembly this year on women and social development.
We  also 
the
forthcoming  special  session  on  the  follow-up  to  the
World Summit for Children.
to  actively  contribute 
intend 
to 
Our Congress of Local and Regional Authorities,
which  is  the  political  assembly  of  local  and  regional
politicians  from  our  member  countries,  is  assisting  in
the  preparation  for  this  General  Assembly  of  a  world
charter of local self-government.
the  concern  of 
the  United  Nations 
A  clear  expression  of  the  Council  of  Europe(cid:146)s
sharing 
for
democracy  and  human  rights  worldwide  is  its  North-
South  Centre  in  Lisbon,  which  seeks  to  raise  public
awareness  in  Europe  on  global  interdependence  issues
and to promote  human  rights,  pluralist  democracy  and
social cohesion in other parts of the world.
We  cooperate  on  the  ground  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina;  in  Kosovo  we  actively  contribute  to  the
work of the United Nations Interim Mission in Kosovo
(UNMIK), and, at UNMIK(cid:146)s request, we have assumed
responsibility  for  the  observation  of  the  electoral
process.
The President returned to the Chair.
As Secretary-General Kofi Annan (cid:151) who made a
very valuable visit to the Council of Europe two weeks
ago  (cid:151)  was  also  in  a  position  to  appreciate,  many
combined efforts are already under way. However, I am
convinced  that  those  efforts  could  be  intensified  even
more,  and  that  they  should  be  made  more  politically
evident.  Let  me  illustrate  this  by  referring  to  some  of
our most pressing concerns at the moment.
Recent  developments  in  the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia,  like  the  fall  of  the  Berlin  Wall,  herald  the
19
A/55/PV.38
beginning  of  a  new  era  in  European  politics.  The
Council of Europe has therefore warmly welcomed the
courageous  choice  by  the  Serbian  people  in  favour  of
democracy.  The  Committee 
the
Parliamentary Assembly and I have already invited the
new  President,  Mr.  Kostunica,  to  come  to  Strasbourg
for high-level  meetings at the beginning of  November.
I am very proud that he has accepted.
of  Ministers, 
A  Council  of  Europe  delegation  is  at  present  in
Belgrade 
to  discuss  future  relations  and  possible
assistance  programmes  with  the  new  leadership.  I  am
convinced,  however,  that  the  transition  in  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  will  be  completed  only  when
Mr.  Milosević,  the  Butcher  of  the  Balkans,  is  brought
to  justice.  As  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  told  the
General Assembly last year, the key to deterring crimes
against humanity lies in the battle against the impunity
of the perpetrators.
While there are thus high hopes and expectations
with regard to the Balkans, the fatally flawed elections
in Belarus last Sunday showed that democracy has not
yet won everywhere in Europe.
The situation in Chechnya, which is very serious,
remains  of  particular  concern.  The  Council  of  Europe
has  repeatedly  expressed  its  grave  concern  about
human  rights  violations  there.  A  recent  hearing  of  the
Russian State Duma, which I was able to attend, made
it  clear that  much remains  to  be  done.  The  Council  of
Europe(cid:146)s  most 
its
assistance in the setting up of the office of the Special
Representative  of  the  Russian  President  for  Human
Rights 
in  Chechnya,  Mr.  Vladimir  Kalamanov.
Although the office has made an encouraging start, the
test of its success will be the effective follow-up it can
give  to  the  already  over  4,000  complaints  brought  by
the people of the region.
tangible  contribution  has  been 
I  also  wish  once  more  to  express  my  concern
about the fate of the more than 18,000 persons reported
missing  since  the  conflict  began  and  the  hundreds  of
thousands  of  internally  displaced  persons  who  live
under  very  difficult  circumstances.  It  is  my  sincere
hope that the competent agencies of the United Nations
and  non-governmental  organizations  will  soon  be  able
to become fully operational in Chechnya.
Let  me  finally  mention  our  neighbouring  region,
the  Middle  East,  which  has  been  the  scene  of  such
horrific events in recent days. In particular, the Council
of  Europe(cid:146)s  Parliamentary  Assembly,  with  which  the
20
Israeli Knesset has enjoyed observer status since 1957,
has  been  very  active  in  efforts  to  promote  dialogue
between  the  parties.  It  was,  in  fact,  one  of  the  first
forums  to  bring  Israeli  legislators  and  Palestinian
representatives  together.  We  stand  ready  to  make  any
contribution that may be deemed useful to facilitate the
continuation  of  that  dialogue  following  this  week(cid:146)s
agreement at Sharm el-Sheikh.
I opened my statement by asking how the Council
of  Europe  could  contribute  even  better  to  the  work  of
the  United  Nations.  I  believe  that  recognition  of  the
Council of Europe as a regional organization within the
meaning of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter
would  be  an  important  step  forward.  First,  this  would
be a political acknowledgement of the contribution the
organization  makes  to  conflict  prevention  and  peace-
building in Europe. It would, furthermore, enhance the
Council  of  Europe(cid:146)s  role  as  a  model  for  other
continents in the fields of human rights, democracy and
the  rule  of  law.  Existing  cooperation  on  the  ground  in
areas  such  as  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Kosovo
would  obtain  a  clearer  political  mandate.  Finally,  it
would  add  increased  relevance  to  what  I  hope  will  be
an  annual  discussion  in  the  General  Assembly  about
our contribution to the work of the United Nations.
to 
this 
and 
important  debate, 
In  conclusion,  let  me  thank  all  delegations  that
contributed 
all
delegations that associated themselves  with the French
statement  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  Special
hanks 
the  delegations  of  our  applicant
countries (cid:151)  Armenia,  Azerbaijan  and  Monaco (cid:151)  for
their statements.
to  go 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the  debate  on  this  item.  We  shall  now  proceed  to  the
consideration of draft resolution A/55/L.8.
Before  the  Assembly  proceeds  to  take  action  on
the  draft  resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that,
since  its  introduction,  the  following  countries  have
become 
resolution  A/55/L.8:
Azerbaijan,  Canada,  Japan,  Monaco  and  the  United
States of America.
sponsors  of  draft 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to  adopt
draft resolution A/55/L.8?
Draft resolution A/55/L.8 was adopted (resolution
55/3).
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda
item 170?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 181
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision
taken  at  its  37th  plenary  meeting,  held  on  19  October
2000, the General Assembly will now consider agenda
item 181.
Mr.  BossiŁre  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
the  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the
European  Union.  The  Central  and  Eastern  European
countries  associated  with 
the  European  Union (cid:151)
Bulgaria, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,
Latvia,  Lithuania,  Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and
Slovenia (cid:151) and the associated countries Cyprus, Malta
and  Turkey,  as  well  as  the  European  Free  Trade
Association 
the  European
Economic  Area  Iceland,  align  themselves  with  this
statement.
country  member  of 
Let  me  begin  by  welcoming  the  fact  that  the
recent  signing  of  the  agreement  governing  relations
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  provides  an
opportunity  for  the  General  Assembly,  for  the  first
time, 
take  note 
the
considerable  progress 
the  elimination  of
chemical  weapons  that  has  been  made  since  the  1993
conclusion of the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use  of
Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction.
in  plenary  meeting  of 
towards 
to 
I  cannot  overemphasize  the  importance  that  the
European  Union  attaches  to  the  Convention.  The
Convention on the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons is
one of the international community(cid:146)s outstanding steps
forward 
the  sphere  of  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation: for  the  first  time,  a  treaty  has  created  an
international  organization  effectively  to  verify  the
elimination,  within  a  specific  timeframe,  of  an  entire
category of weapons of mass destruction.
in 
The  Convention(cid:146)s 
large  number  of  States
parties (cid:151)  140  to  date (cid:151)  and  the  many  ratifications
over the past year prove the international community(cid:146)s
A/55/PV.38
that 
instrument,  and  are
continued  support 
for 
particularly  encouraging 
for  disarmament.  Thus,
several  continents,  including  Europe,  are  already  fully
covered  by  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  on  the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons.  The  European
Union  takes  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  States  that
have not yet done so to sign and ratify the Convention
on  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  as  soon  as
possible,  and  reaffirms  its  support  for  efforts  to  attain
universal adherence.
Strengthening the authority of the Treaty requires
also  that  all  States  parties  fulfil  their  obligations.
Cooperation  between  States  parties  and  the  Technical
Secretariat  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons  has  enabled  that  organization  to
make  great  progress  in  implementing  the  Convention.
All  States  parties  have 
initial
declarations,  and  a  strict  and  effective  inspection
system has been successfully put in place to verify the
accuracy of those declarations. These accomplishments
have increased transparency and have made it possible
to  create  a  climate  of  greater  trust  with  respect  to  all
matters related to chemical weapons.
submitted 
their 
The  European  Union  wishes  also  to  recall  the
importance  it  attaches  to  the  destruction  by  chemical-
weapon  States  of  all  their  stockpiles  of  such  weapons
as soon as possible, and within the timeframe set out in
the  Convention.  The  European  Union  does  not
underestimate  the  difficulties  faced  by  some  States  in
allocating the resources necessary for the destruction of
their chemical weapons. It has therefore decided, in the
framework of its Joint Action of 17 December 1999, to
allocate 5.9 million euros to help in the construction of
a  chemical  weapons  destruction  plant  in  Russia.  The
European  Union  wishes  nonetheless  to  stress  that,  by
the  terms  of  the  Convention,  responsibility,  including
financial responsibility, for the destruction of chemical-
weapons 
lies 
the  States
possessing such stockpiles.
solely  with 
stockpiles 
It  seems  particularly  appropriate  for  the  General
Assembly to acknowledge and support the efforts made
by  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons  in  the  area  of  disarmament.  These  efforts
represent  the  best  assurance  we  have  that  the  twenty-
first century will be free from the scourge of chemical
weapons.  In  the  shorter  term,  we  hope  also  that  the
progress  that  has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  will  help  give
impetus  to  the  negotiations  currently  under  way  in
21
A/55/PV.38
Geneva  on  an  effective  protocol  for  strengthening  the
Biological  Weapons  Convention.  The  conclusion  of
these  negotiations  before  the  end  of  2001,  pursuant  to
the  decision  taken  in  1996  by  the  parties  to  the
negotiations,  will contribute usefully to  supplementing
and  strengthening  the  achievements  of  the  Chemical
Weapons  Convention  in  the  area  of  disarmament  and
non-proliferation.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of
Egypt on a point of order.
Mr.  Darwish  (Egypt):  My  delegation  has  asked
for the floor on a point of order to comment on certain
procedural  matters  pertaining  to  agenda  item  8  and  to
agenda 
is  entitled  (cid:147)Cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons(cid:148).
item  181,  which 
General  Assembly  document  A/55/495  was
distributed  on  18  October  2000,  and  a  decision  was
taken  by  the  Assembly,  during  the  morning  of  19
October,  to  waive  the  seven-day  rule.  That  does  not
give  delegations  ample  time  to  consult  with  their
capitals  on  such  matters,  taking  into  account  the  fact
that the seven-day rule is rarely waived and that this is
done  only  when  the  matters  under  consideration  are
urgent.
The 24-hour rule also was waived with respect to
the  decision  to  allow  the  Director-General  of  the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
(OPCW) to  speak  from  the rostrum. It is  worth  noting
also that the First Committee  was in  session  yesterday
morning  and 
that
Committee  could  not  attend  the  General  Assembly
plenary.
that,  accordingly,  experts  from 
It is the wish of my delegation that the practice I
have just described not constitute a precedent in future.
the
representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  on  a  point
of order.
The  President: 
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
Mr.  Mekdad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  The  delegation  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic
has  asked  to  speak  on  a  point  of  order  to  express  its
view  on  the  procedure  that  was  followed  in  dealing
with  item  181  on  (cid:147)Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical Weapons(cid:148).
22
In  this  respect,  my  delegation  wishes  to  clarify
the following.
First,  the  letter  contained  in  document  A/55/495
was  circulated  yesterday,  and  the  decision  was  also
made yesterday. That document reached my delegation
only  this  morning.  I  believe  that  the  waiver  of  the
seven-day  rule  for  reasons  of  urgency,  and  the  waiver
of  the  24-hour  rule  in  order  to  allow  the  Director-
General  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical Weapons (OPCW) to make a statement from
the  rostrum,  are  important  issues.  Sufficient  time
should  have  been  given  to  the  members  to  thoroughly
consider this matter and prepare their responses.
Secondly,  my  delegation  wonders  about 
the
reasons for the use of these waivers, in particular as the
situation  is  not  related  to  urgent  matters  that  affect
international  peace  and  security.  We  believe  that  it
would  have  been  instructive  and  useful  in  this  case  to
abide by the procedures and regulations of the General
Assembly.
Thirdly,  my  delegation  hopes  that  this  will  not
constitute  a  precedent  in  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly, in particular in relation to the OPCW and to
the statement by its Director-General from the rostrum
of the General Assembly.
The  President:  The  statements  made  by  the
representatives of Egypt and the Syrian Arab Republic
will be reflected in the record of this meeting.
Mr. Sanders (Netherlands): I should like to seize
this opportunity to express my great appreciation to the
Member  States  for  their  positive  response  to  the
request  by  my  Government  for  the  inclusion  in  the
agenda of an additional item 181, entitled (cid:147)Cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons(cid:148),  and 
for
allowing an oral debate to take place today.
My  country  has  a  special  relationship  with  the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
(OPCW). It is for this reason that I am taking the floor
after the representative of France, who spoke on behalf
of the  European  Union,  associated  countries  and  other
countries.
Of  course,  we  fully  associate  ourselves  with  the
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  France.  We
also  support  the  draft  resolution  on  the  subject  of
chemical  weapons  that  is  under  consideration  in  the
First  Committee.  The  Netherlands  is  proud  and  very
in 
the  short  history  of 
pleased  to  be  the  host  country  of  the  OPCW.  We  felt
that it was our duty as host country to propose that the
General Assembly be given the opportunity to react to
the  important  event  that  occurred  last  Tuesday,  17
October.  This  was  the  signing  of  the  Relationship
Agreement between the United Nations and the OPCW,
a  further  milestone 
the
implementation of the Convention on the Prohibition of
the  Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use  of
Chemical  Weapons  and  Their  Destruction.  It  may  be
recalled that the Convention entered into force only  in
1997  and  that  since  that  date  the  organization  and  its
State  parties  have  made  significant  progress  towards
the  abolition  of  a  whole  category  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  the  destruction  of  existing  stocks  and  the
elimination of facilities for the production of chemical
weapons.  Thus,  the  OPCW  contributes  to  eliminating
real  threats  to  international,  as  well  as  regional,  peace
and security.
to 
With  the  creation  of  an  effective  verification
regime, the Convention has set an important precedent
in  confidence-building  and  disarmament.  We  are
convinced  that  the  example  set  by  the  OPCW  will
continue 
inspire  States  currently  negotiating  a
similar  regime  to  eliminate  the  threat  of  biological
weapons. The Netherlands will do its part to help bring
these negotiations to a successful conclusion before the
end  of  2001.  To  give  the  new  organization  for  the
prohibition of biological weapons a head start, we shall
make  sure  that  it  benefits  fully  from  the  experience
gained  from  working  with  its  sister  organization,  the
OPCW.
to 
like 
Mr.  Snyder  (United  States  of  America):  My
delegation  would 
thank  Director-General
Bustani for joining us today. We would also like to take
this  opportunity  to  applaud  the  conclusion  of  the
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons 
the
beginning  of  a  closer  working  relationship  between
these two important organizations.
(OPCW).  This  Agreement  marks 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Relationship
Agreement also has practical benefits. One such benefit
is  the  further  facilitation  of  the  work  and  travel  of
OPCW inspectors. This will assist OPCW inspectors in
carrying out inspections expeditiously and efficiently.
Finally, we would like to express our appreciation
the  United  Nations
legal  offices  of  both 
the 
to 
A/55/PV.38
Secretariat  and  the  OPCW  Technical  Secretariat  for
their  hard  work  in  helping  to  bring  this  Agreement  to
completion.
Mr.  Nejad  Hosseinian  (Islamic  Republic  of
Iran):  After  a  long  period  of  painstaking  negotiation,
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  (cid:151)  a  unique
multilateral  disarmament  treaty  to  eliminate  an  entire
class  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  (cid:151)  entered  into
force  in  1997.  The  Chemical  Weapons  Convention,
with  140  States  parties  on  board,  now  enjoys  a  great
deal of international support, legitimacy and relevance.
The  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons  (OPCW),  a  newly  established  independent,
autonomous 
international  organization,  has  so  far
striven  to  achieve  the  objectives  and  purposes  of  the
Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development,
Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons
and  on  Their  Destruction  and  to  ensure  the  full
implementation of its provisions.
Since its establishment, OPCW has conducted its
activities,  as provided  for  under the  Convention,  in  an
efficient manner, verifying the compliance of the States
parties  with  their  obligations,  and,  as  an  international
forum, 
facilitating  consultations  and  cooperation
among  the  States  parties.  Since  its  ratification  of  the
Convention,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  in  the
context  of 
the
realization  of  the  Convention,  and  as  the  most  recent
victim  of  these  horrific  weapons,  has  spared  no  effort
to  support  the  Convention  and  the  implementation
activities of the OPCW.
long-standing  commitment 
its 
to 
The 
tireless  efforts  and  activities  of 
the
Director-General  of  the  OPCW,  Ambassador  Bustani,
and his staff in the course of the implementation of the
Convention  deserve  our  appreciation  and  support.  We
therefore express our satisfaction  with the inclusion of
the  item  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and the OPCW on the agenda of  the  fifty-fifth  session
of the General Assembly and welcome the presence of
Director-General Bustani of the OPCW here today.
between 
the 
Agreement 
The  signature  at  this  important  juncture  of  the
Relationship 
two
organizations, in accordance with the Convention, is, in
our  view,  a  major  step 
the
Islamic
implementation  of 
Republic  of 
in 
the
negotiations  on  this  Agreement.  Following  intensive
discussions within the OPCW and with the constructive
the  Convention.  The 
involved 
towards  facilitating 
Iran  was  actively 
23
A/55/PV.38
involvement  of  the  United  Nations  Secretariat,  the
differences  over  some  aspects  of  the  Agreement  were
ultimately  resolved  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  and
understanding. We are pleased that this Agreement has
now  been  signed  by  the  two  organizations  and  is  well
placed for implementation.
of 
of 
the 
the 
The 
through 
common 
objective 
consolidation 
two
organizations (cid:151)  to  achieve  effective  progress  towards
general  and  complete  disarmament (cid:151)  will  be  widely
promoted 
their
relationship.  In  this  regard,  securing  universality,  as
one of the basic pillars upon which the Convention was
founded,  is  a  necessity.  In  the  Middle  East  region  in
particular,  there  is  still  much  to  be  done  to  secure  the
universality  of  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention.
This  will  require  the  two  organizations  to  utilize  their
available  means  of  cooperation  to  guarantee  universal
adherence to the Convention.
like,  on  behalf  of 
Mr. Xu Xiaodi (China) (spoke in Chinese): At the
outset,  I  should 
the  Chinese
delegation,  to  welcome  the inclusion  on  the  agenda  of
the  current  session  the  item  regarding  the  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
Since  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  came
into effect more than three years ago, progress has been
steady  in  the  implementation  of  the  Convention.  The
efforts made by the Secretariat of the OPCW, under the
leadership  of  the  Director-General,  Mr.  Bustani,  have
created  an  auspicious  beginning  for  achieving  a
comprehensive ban on and the elimination of chemical
weapons. The  universality of  the  Convention  has  been
strengthened. There are  now  140  States parties  and 34
States  signatories  to  the  Convention.  The  majority  of
States  parties  have  submitted  their  declarations,  as
stipulated  in  the  Convention.  Countries  in  possession
of chemical weapons have destroyed large quantities of
such weapons under the supervision of the OPCW. The
OPCW  has  made  more  than  700  inspection  visits  to
more than 30  States parties. Other  work  has  also  been
properly undertaken.
We 
congratulate 
its
accomplishments.  We  are  eagerly  waiting  to  hear  the
statement  to  be  made  today  by  Mr.  Bustani,  the
Director-General of the OPCW.
OPCW 
the 
on 
The  OPCW,  an 
in
charge  of  the  prohibition  and  destruction  of  a  whole
category  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  has  been
international  organization 
24
role 
a  very 
important 
cooperation  will 
playing 
in  promoting
international  peace  and  security.  Cooperation  between
the United Nations and the OPCW is highly important.
That 
the
relationship  between 
the
OPCW,  thus  enabling  the  latter  to  play  an  even  more
significant  role  in  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security,  the  promotion  of  arms  control  and
disarmament.
effectively  promote 
the  United  Nations  and 
China  has  always  promoted  the  comprehensive
prohibition  and  destruction  of  all  weapons  of  mass
destruction, 
including  all  chemical  weapons.  The
Convention laid the foundation of international law for
the  achievement  of  this  goal.  As  one  of  the  original
States  parties,  China  has 
faithfully  and  strictly
implemented  its  obligations  under  the  Convention;  we
will  continue 
the
achievement  of  all  the  goals  and  principles  of  the
Convention.
to  make  our  best  efforts  for 
Even  though  great  progress  has  been  made  in
implementing  the  Convention,  it  must  be  noted  that
there  are  still  issues  in  its  implementation  that  cannot
be ignored. Some important countries in certain regions
have  not  ratified  the  Convention.  Certain  countries
have  expressed  their  reservations  on  the  Convention(cid:146)s
important  and  substantive  articles  by  adopting  their
own  national  legislation.  Many  issues  are  still  left
unresolved after the adoption of the Convention.
be 
cooperation 
comprehensive 
More  attention  must  continue  to  be  paid  to  the
destruction  and  verification  of  abandoned  chemical
weapons.  In  accordance  with  the  Convention,  there
should 
between
countries  in  the  chemicals  trade  and  in  exchanges  of
chemical  technologies.  We  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  appeal  to  those  countries  that  have  not
yet  signed  or  ratified  the  Convention  to  do  so  at  an
early date. We also hope that all of the Member States
will  completely  and 
their
obligations  under  the  Convention  in  order  to  achieve
fully its goals.
implement 
faithfully 
Mr. Westdal (Canada): Canada is pleased that we
all  have  a  chance  to  discuss  the  Chemical  Weapons
Convention (CWC) in this forum. This key, still young,
treaty has already contributed much to global security.
In  force  only  since  1997,  the  Convention  will
soon  have  gained  the  backing  of  140  States,  a  highly
significant  achievement.  Important  gaps,  nonetheless,
remain,  particularly  in  the  Middle  East,  in  Latin
America  and  in  Africa.  For  Canada(cid:146)s  part,  in  close
cooperation  with the Organization of  American  States,
we  have  worked  hard  in  Latin  America  and  the
Caribbean 
strongly
encourage all States to join.
to  promote  universality.  We 
The  Convention,  the  first  multilateral  agreement
to ban an entire category of weapons, includes detailed
provisions  for  verification.  These  involve  national
reporting  or  declarations  concerning 
the  use  of
chemicals  covered  by  the  Convention,  along  with  on-
site inspections by the Organization for the Prohibition
of  Chemical  Weapons.  Compliance  in  the  submission
of  declarations  is  now  excellent,  and  hundreds  of
inspections have taken place. The system works.
A  unique  feature  of  this  Convention  is  that
industry  is  directly  involved,  submitting  the  required
information  to  Governments,  obtaining  authorizations
for  imports  and  exports  and  receiving  inspections.
Industry  has  thus  become  an  essential  partner  in
fulfilling  the  international  community(cid:146)s  determination
that  chemicals  should  be  used  only  for  peaceful,  non-
prohibited  purposes.  We 
and  much
appreciate  this  practical  commitment  and  support  for
our goal.
recognize 
An important obligation of the Convention is  the
destruction  of  chemical  weapon  stockpiles  by  former
possessor  States.  We  welcome  the  progress  already
made,  and  we  urge  all  such  States  parties  to  meet  the
deadline  specified  in  the  Convention.  There  will  be
much  good  reason  to  rejoice  when  such  stockpiles (cid:151)
surely  abuses  of  human  genius  and  industry (cid:151)  are
things of the past.
Canada  is  very  supportive  of  the  work  of  the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
under  the  leadership  of  Director-General  Bustani.  At
the  same  time,  we  recognize  that  several  key  issues
affecting the organization itself, and the fully effective
implementation  of  the  Convention,  are  yet  to  be
resolved.  We 
the
achievement of consensus solutions.
remain  actively  committed 
to 
Finally,  today(cid:146)s  debate  is  particularly  timely,
given  the  signature  earlier  this  week  of  the  welcomed
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  OPCW  and  the
United  Nations.  We 
to  an  annual
opportunity to discuss this vital Convention. But, much
more,  we  look  forward  to  (cid:151)  and  will  work  hard  to
hasten (cid:151) the happy day of its universality.
look  forward 
A/55/PV.38
(Brazil) 
Ms.  Assump(cid:231)ao-Pereira
in
(spoke 
Spanish):  We  are  very  gratified  to  speak  in 
the
discussion  on  the  new  agenda  item,  (cid:147)Cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW)(cid:148),
introduced  on  the  initiative  of  the  delegation  of  the
Netherlands.
highlighted 
Two  days  ago,  the  Southern  Common  Market
countries  and  Bolivia  and  Chile  spoke  in  the  plenary
meeting  of  the  First  Committee  on  the  item  entitled
(cid:147)Implementation  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition
of  the  Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use
of  Chemical  Weapons  and  on  Their  Destruction(cid:148).  Our
countries 
in
implementing this key instrument for disarmament and
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
which  has  already  been  ratified  or  acceded  to  by  140
States.  We  welcome 
fraternal  countries  of
Mozambique,  Gabon  and  Jamaica  among  the  newest
members of the organization. This serves to bolster the
objective  of  giving 
the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
the desirable breadth and universality.
the  Convention 
progress  made 
and 
the 
the 
Brazil,  which  played  a  constructive  part  in  the
negotiations  on  the  Relationship  Agreement  between
OPCW and the United Nations, is very gratified by the
signing of the document on 17 October. In the context
of  the  objectives  of  peace,  security  and  development,
as  articulated 
this  universal
Organization,  the  Relationship  Agreement  between
the
OPCW  and 
culmination  of 
and
consolidating  the  non-proliferation  and  disarmament
regime  for  chemical  weapons,  developed  under  the
OPCW(cid:146)s responsibility.
represents 
establishing 
the  United  Nations 
the  Charter  of 
a  process  of 
in 
The Agreement sets out to coordinate efforts and
to  harmonize  the  activities  and  objectives  of  the  two
organizations. This strengthens them and expands their
ability  to  act  for  the  benefit  of  the  international
community.

Let us not forget that the OPCW is the product of
the  work  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament.  Now,
with  no  diminution  of 
its  autonomous,  distinct
character, it  is beginning  to operate  as  a branch of the
United  Nations  system.  Thus 
the  matter  of
international  peace  and  security  the  United  Nations
now  has  adequate  means  (cid:151)  recognized  as  impartial
and  efficient  (cid:151)  to  act  with  increasing  legitimacy  to
in 
25
A/55/PV.38
this 
important 
promote the disarmament and non-proliferation regime
sector  of  weapons  of  mass
in 
destruction (cid:151)  chemical  weapons.  With  regard 
to
cooperation  for  development,  the  cooperation  between
the  two  bodies  offers  promising  prospects  for  the
chemical  industry  and  for  the  use  of  scientific  and
technical knowledge for peaceful purposes.
On  his  recent  visit  to  the  Organization  for  the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons,  the  President  of
Brazil,  Fernando  Henrique  Cardoso,  highlighted  the
fact  that  at  the  first  OPCW  conference  Brazil  had
volunteered one of its most talented diplomats to serve
as  the  OPCW(cid:146)s  first  Director-General.  The  President
said that Brazil understood that the renewal of the term
of  office  of  Ambassador  JosØ  Maur(cid:237)cio  Bustani  as  the
head of the OPCW was also a sign of the recognition of
the  constructive  role  played  by  Brazil  in  addressing
international security issues.
the  world.  Therefore, 
The  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  and 
the
OPCW are examples of the high level of understanding
attained  by  the  international  community.  But  much
remains  to  be  done  if  we  are  to  achieve  by  2007  the
objective  of  destroying  all  existing  chemical  arsenals
throughout 
to
cooperation  in  the  area  of  science  and  technology,  we
advocate  using  the  machinery  of  the  Convention  to
promote  the  legitimacy  of  international  controls  over
sensitive  chemical  substances.  Failure  to  do  so  would
be  to  undermine  this  model  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation  instrument.  We  are  convinced  that  the
signing  of  the  relationship  agreement  between  the
OPCW and the United Nations  will enable  us to  make
headway in this direction.
in  addition 
Mr. Sood (India): India welcomes the conclusion
of  the  relationship  agreement  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW).  We  are  confident  that  it
will  further  facilitate  the  effective  implementation  of
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  (CWC),  which  has
now been in force for almost three and a half years.
The  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  is  a  unique
disarmament  agreement.  In  our  view,  it  is  unique
because  it  is  a  multilaterally  negotiated  disarmament
agreement,  the  first  of  its  kind,  that  is  comprehensive
in 
its  applicability,  non-
discriminatory 
in  character  and  backed  by  an
international  verification  system  that  is  the  first  of  its
kind in both detail and complexity.
its  scope,  universal 
in 
26
We are aware that the negotiation of the Chemical
Weapons  Convention  took  many  years,  and  that  the
negotiations  themselves  (cid:151)  which  lasted  for  nearly  10
years  (cid:151)  were  preceded  by  extensive  preparations.
India  participated  actively  in  the  negotiations  in  the
Conference  on  Disarmament  in  Geneva.  We  were
active  participants  in  the  Preparatory  Commission  and
were  among  the  original  signatories.  We  were  an
original State party and also had the privilege to serve
as  the  first  Chairman  of  the  Executive  Council  when
the Convention entered into force.
Of  the  nearly  700  inspections  that  have  been
carried out, more than 40 have been conducted in India
by  the  Technical  Secretariat  since  the  Convention(cid:146)s
entry  into  force.  They  have  been  conducted  in  a
professional  manner.  The  smooth  conduct  of  such
inspections (cid:151) both  those related to  chemical  weapons
and  those  related  to  industry  (cid:151)  is  essential  for
enhancing  confidence  in  the  verification regime of  the
Chemical Weapons Convention.
The  destruction  of  chemical  weapons  and  the
provision  of  chemical  weapons  destruction  facilities,
the  principal  objective  of 
the  Convention,  are
proceeding  well. 
industry
verification  has  been  moving  smoothly  now  that  most
of 
their
industry declarations. Universality has improved; there
are now 140 States parties to the Convention.
the  significant  countries  have  submitted 
Implementation 
of 
Yet 
there 
remain  other  areas  of  concern.
Achieving  a  greater  degree  of  universality  of  States
parties  is  one  area  with  which  all  States  parties  are
concerned.  To  us,  given  that  we  are  also  engaged  in
negotiations  on  a  protocol  relating  to  the  Biological
Weapons  Convention,  another  area  of  concern  is  the
somewhat  tardy  implementation  of  article  XI  of  the
Chemical  Weapons  Convention. 
is  absolutely
essential  that  such  treaties,  which  are  unique,  for  the
reasons  I  have  given,  be 
implemented  fully  and
completely,  in  order  to  ensure  that  they  can  serve  as
models; we have dealt with one category of weapons of
mass  destruction,  so  such  treaties  can  be  a  model  for
dealing effectively with all other categories of weapons
of mass destruction.
It 
Ms.  Martinic  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
begin  by  welcoming  the  presence  of  Ambassador
Bustani,  Director-General  of  the  Organization  for  the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
Argentina  attaches  particular  importance  to  the
elimination  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  In  the
context of this policy, we were an active participant in
the  negotiations  on  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition
of  the  Development,  Production,  Stockpiling  and  Use
of  Chemical  Weapons  and  on  Their  Destruction.  An
example  of  our  stance  was  the  Mendoza  Declaration,
adopted in 1991, by which Argentina, Brazil and Chile
committed  themselves,  before  the  conclusion  of  the
negotiations,  to  the  complete  prohibition  of  chemical
weapons.  Bolivia,  Paraguay,  Uruguay  and  Ecuador
have since associated themselves with that Declaration.
Therefore,  Argentina  salutes  the  work  of  the
OPCW  and  of 
its  Director-General,  Ambassador
Bustani.  We  welcome  the  signing  of  the  agreement
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OPCW.  We  have
no  doubt  that  we  are  moving  in  the  right  direction  to
rid the world of these horrendous weapons.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  37th  plenary
meeting  yesterday,  19  October  2000,  I  now  give  the
floor  to  the  Director-General  of  the  Organization  for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons,  Mr.  JosØ
Bustani.
Mr. Bustani (Organization for  the Prohibition of
Chemical  Weapons):  I  am  pleased  to  address  the
General Assembly on this special occasion, adding  my
voice  as  Director-General  of  the  Organization  for  the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW)  to  the
hundreds  of  others  that  are  shaping  the  global  agenda
at  the  dawn  of  a  new  millennium.  It  is  a  special
responsibility that requires me to speak from the heart.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  delegation  of  the
Netherlands,  the  host  country  of  the  OPCW,  for  its
timely 
this
additional  item  on  the  agenda  of  this  session  of  the
General Assembly.
inclusion  of 
to  request 
initiative 
the 
I  am  honoured,  Mr.  President,  to  speak  to  the
United  Nations  on  behalf  of  the  OPCW  in  your
presence,  given  Finland(cid:146)s  unwavering  support  for  the
work of the Organization. I would like, in particular, to
acknowledge  the  active  contribution  of  the  former
President of Finland, Mr. Martti Ahtisaari, to the quest
for 
the  Chemical  Weapons
Convention.
the  universality  of 
Numerous  challenges  mentioned  in  the  United
Nations  Millennium  Declaration  demand  not  simply
A/55/PV.38
attention, but united, prompt and decisive action on the
part of the leaders of all nations, be they large or small.
Addressing these  challenges  also  requires  wisdom  and
vision  on  the  part  of  those  whom  humankind  has
entrusted  with  the  international  coordination  of  such
efforts.  Only  the  dedicated  symbiosis  of  the  political
will  of  States  with  the  commitment  and  dedication  of
international institutions can bring about the successful
resolution of these burning problems.
The  unprecedented  gathering  of  world  leaders  in
New  York  last  month  demonstrated  that  the  age  of
confusion and doubt about the role and the functions of
multilateral  mechanisms  may  be  drawing  to  a  close.
The turn of the millennium regenerated hope for a new
era of togetherness in the international community. The
world(cid:146)s rapidly growing interdependence, the increased
transparency  of  national  boundaries,  the  information
revolution,  a  shared  perception  of  the  universality  of
environmental  concerns,  and  other 
factors,  have
combined  to  produce  the  reality  and  the  concept  of
globalization. While the benefits of  globalization  must
be  shared  more  equally,  globalization  itself  is  also
evidence  that  it  is  simply  no  longer  possible  for  some
matters to be dealt with by individual States or groups
of  States.  We  have  entered 
the  millennium  of
multilateral solutions.
One  area  in  which  the  world  has  to  speak  with
one  voice  is  international  security.  The  cold  war  drew
to  a  close  more  than  a  decade  ago.  Yet  it  would  be
unimaginable to proclaim that the threat to world peace
is  now  a  thing  of  the  past.  In  the  broad  spectrum  of
other  challenges,  such  as  global  epidemics,  regional
conflicts,  nationalist  hatred,  religious  violence  and
terrorism,  one  of  the  very  real  dangers  to  human
survival  still  emanates  from  the  existence  of  weapons
of mass destruction.
In  spite  of  a  number  of  well-known  setbacks,
humankind  can  still  be  proud  of  its  impressive  record
of  achievement  in  curbing  this  danger.  The  total
number of nuclear  weapons is at its lowest level in 20
years.  The  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty
(CTBT),  which 
the
proliferation  and  modernization  of  nuclear  weapons,
has  been  concluded.  Efforts  to  create  an  efficient
verification  regime  for 
the  Biological  and  Toxin
Weapons Convention are in their final stages, although
their end result is still uncertain.
limitations  on 
imposed 
real 
27
A/55/PV.38
confrontation, 
increased  awareness  of 
Nuclear  weapons  have  traditionally  dominated
the disarmament agenda. Moreover, the past decade has
seen  an 
the  dangers  of
biological warfare. Yet I would submit that, short of an
Armageddon  scenario,  the  threat  to  human  life  from
chemical weapons is still probably the greatest. This is
because,  in  a  world  which  is  no  longer  hostage  to
super-Power 
chemical  weapons,
compared  to  nuclear  and  biological  weapons,  remain
the most usable weapon of mass destruction and can be
produced with relative ease and at a relatively low cost.
Nevertheless, I am proud to state that, in the field
of  chemical  disarmament,  multilateral  efforts  have  (cid:151)
quietly  but  effectively  (cid:151)  already  made  a 
real
difference  and  are  continuing  to  do  so.  Now  that  the
OPCW  will  regularly  report  to  the  General  Assembly,
more will be known about our contribution to the cause
of  global disarmament and  about  the  positive  example
which the OPCW provides for other present and future
legal instruments and verification regimes.
just  at 
The  fact  that  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention
entered  into  force  on  29  April  1997  and  has  been
successfully implemented for three and a half years is a
remarkable  achievement.  Never  before  has  humankind
embarked on such an ambitious undertaking in the field
of  disarmament,  aiming  not 
reductions,
restrictions, confidence-building  and non-proliferation,
but at the elimination of an entire category of weapons
of  mass destruction. The  creation  of  the  OPCW  in  the
beautiful  city  of  The  Hague,  a  well-established  and
growing  international  centre  of  admirable  reputation,
and  of  National  Authorities  in  its  member  States  to
coordinate  and  monitor  the  implementation  of  the
Convention (cid:151) both nationally and internationally (cid:151) is
a  unique  multilateral  disarmament  experiment,  an
experiment which has so far been a complete success.
The  degree  of  global  trust  and  confidence  in  the
Chemical  Weapons  Convention  and  in  the  OPCW  is
best illustrated by the rapid and continuing increase in
its membership. The OPCW has grown from 87 States
parties  upon  entering  into  force  to  139  today.  On  1
November,  Yemen  will  become  the  140th  State  party,
following  recent  similar  actions  taken  by  Gabon,
Jamaica and Kiribati during the Millennium Assembly.
A  more  than  60-per-cent  increase  in  membership  in
three  and  a  half  years  is  without  precedent  in  the
history  of  verifiable  disarmament  instruments.  The
trust 
international
community has placed in us must and will be honoured.
confidence  which 
and 
the 
28
Historically speaking, three and a half years are a
short  period.  Yet  in  business  terms,  they  mark  the
threshold  at  which  a  sound  undertaking  must  begin  to
demonstrate  its  viability.  Patience  is  undeniably  a
virtue in international relations, yet patience should not
be  confused  with  inaction.  We  must  be  patient  in
waiting  for  results.  However,  we  must  be  impatient
when it comes to taking action.
The OPCW already has a lot to show for its three
and  a  half  years  because  of  its  forceful  and  impatient
resolve  to  achieve  what  it  was  established  to  achieve.
One half of the 61 chemical-weapons production plants
declared  to  the  organization  by  11  States  parties  have
been  either  destroyed  or  converted 
for  peaceful
purposes.  Seven  per  cent  of  the  world(cid:146)s  declared
stockpile  of  70,000  tonnes  of  chemical  agents  and  15
per cent of the 8.4 million chemical munitions covered
by  the  Convention  have  also  been  destroyed.  All
declared  chemical  weapons  have  been  inventoried  and
all  declared  chemical-weapons  production  facilities
have been inactivated.  All  are  subject  to  a  verification
regime  of  unprecedented  stringency.  A  total  of  850
inspections  have  taken place in 44  States  parties  since
April  1997, 
inspections  at  civilian
chemical  plants,  to  ensure  that  they  engage  only  in
non-chemical-weapons-related 
These
inspections  are  continuing  as  I  speak.  Following  the
submission of the United States industry declaration in
the  first  half  of  this  year,  the  United  States  chemical
industry 
industry
inspection  schedule  which  is  proceeding  extremely
well  and  has  met 
the  full  support  of  chemical
manufacturers  and  of 
the  United  States  National
Authority.  For  an  organization  with  a  little  more  than
500  staff  members  from  66  countries,  including  200
inspectors, and  which operates on an annual budget of
only $55 million, these are impressive results.
is  now  subject 
including  300 
activities. 
to  an 
intensive 
At the same time, it would be inappropriate to use
the rostrum of the General Assembly to talk only of the
OPCW(cid:146)s  successes.  It  is  also  my  responsibility  as  the
Director-General of the OPCW to inform the Assembly
of  significant challenges and  obstacles  to  the  effective
and timely implementation of its mandate.
The  immediate raison  d(cid:146)Œtre of the  OPCW  is  the
worldwide  elimination  of  existing 
stockpiles  of
chemical  weapons  and  the  prevention  of  their  re-
emergence  anywhere.  This  objective  will  be  realized
only when all chemical weapons currently in existence
have been verified as destroyed and when all countries
have joined the Chemical Weapons Convention.
the 
today 
comes 
to 
from 
The  biggest  challenge 
in  accordance  with 
its  gigantic  chemical  weapons 
the  Convention(cid:146)s
credibility 
difficulties
experienced  by  the  Russian  Federation  in  its  attempts
the  Convention(cid:146)s
to  destroy, 
timetables, 
legacy
inherited  from  the  former  Soviet  Union.  A  significant
delay in the destruction of the world(cid:146)s largest arsenal of
chemical weapons may call into question the credibility
of  the  Convention  and  could  undermine  the  entire
effort  to  rid  the  planet  of  these  horrific  weapons.
Russia has already requested and received the approval
of  the  OPCW  Conference  of  the  States  Parties  for  a
delay  in  the  destruction  of  1  per  cent  of  its  chemical
weapons, which was originally due to be completed by
29 April this year. Even though the Russian Federation
has  already  started  destroying  specialized  components
for  chemical  weapons, 
the  actual  destruction  of
chemical agents is scheduled to begin, at the earliest, in
the first half of next year. The first and so far only full-
scale  chemical-weapons  destruction  facility  in  Russia
will be commissioned even later, at the end of 2001.
is 
truly 
immense, 
the  part  of 
While  the  magnitude  of  the  problem  facing  the
Russian  Federation 
the  reality
highlights  the  need  for  further  urgent  and  carefully
coordinated  action  on 
the  Russian
Government.  International  assistance,  the  need  for
which  is  beyond  doubt,  will  be  provided  in  sufficient
quantity  only  in  the  context  of  an  updated  action  plan
yet to be drawn up by Russia itself. There is an urgent
need  for  Russia  to  make  fundamental  policy  decisions
about  how  it  intends  to  destroy  its  chemical  weapons
stockpile at minimum cost and with adequate measures
in place to protect its people and its environment. I was
heartened  to  learn  that  the  Russian  Government  just  a
few  days  ago  decided  where  to  locate  the  seat  of  its
National  Authority (cid:151) 
the
national  implementation  of  the  Convention.  I  am  sure
that  the  new  National  Authority (cid:151)  and  its  dedicated
Director-General,  Mr.  Zinoviy  Pak,  charged  with  this
responsibility  by  President  Putin  himself (cid:151)  will
immediately take the much needed steps to breathe new
life  into  the  Russian  chemical  weapons  destruction
programme.  I  wish  him  every  success  and  assure  him
of our full support.
the  body  charged  with 
I  also  welcome  the  steps  already  taken  by  a
number  of  countries  to  assist  Russia  to  destroy  its
chemical weapons. It is a fact, however, that the offers
A/55/PV.38
of  such  assistance  fall  far  short  of  the  need  for  them.
This highlights another element which has been absent
over  the  past  several  years,  namely,  a  mechanism  for
the efficient coordination of  international assistance to
the  Russian  Federation.  My  proposal  to  establish  a
steering committee, which would regularly  meet at the
OPCW  to  monitor  the  progress  of  destruction  and  to
identify  gaps  in  the  Russian  resources  which  can  only
be filled from the outside, has been accepted by Russia,
but  has  yet  to  be  endorsed  by  donor  countries.  I  am
convinced  that  such  a  working  steering  committee
would help to get things moving. It might also provide
the  international  oversight  which  would  allow  the
major  donor  (cid:151)  the  United  States  (cid:151)  to  persuade
Congress to restore its funding to assist the destruction
of chemical weapons in Russia.
However,  destroying  chemical  weapons  is  only
part  of  the  solution  to  the  problem  which  they  pose.
The  Convention  will  not  ultimately  prevail  until  all
States  have  formally  committed  themselves  to  it.  A
total  of  34  signatory  States  still  have  to  ratify  the
Convention,  while  an  additional  19  countries  have  yet
to accede to it. I keep asking myself the same question:
if 
for  delaying  accession  are  not
bureaucratic  in  nature,  what  are  they?  If  these  reasons
are  unrelated  to  chemical  weapons,  then  we  perhaps
need  to  take  a  fresh  look  at  the  whole  issue  of
accession.
reasons 
the 
Of  the  utmost  concern  is  the  situation  in  the
Middle  East,  where  Israel,  Egypt,  Syria,  Libya,
Lebanon, the United Arab Emirates and, of course, Iraq
still  remain  outside  the  CWC.  This  concern  is  further
reinforced  by  the  spiralling  cycle  of  violence  which
once  again  threatens  the  fragile  peace  process,  with
dangerous  ramifications  for  regional  stability  and
security  and  possibly  for  stability  and  security  outside
that region as well. After all, it was in the Middle East
that chemical weapons were most recently used against
both  combatants  and  civilians.  Heightened  tensions  in
the region  are  calling  into  question  the  strategy  which
calls  for  a  peace  settlement  before  other  elements
contributing 
to  such  a  settlement  can  even  be
discussed. What is  wrong  with taking  a  series  of  steps
which  would  help  to  generate  a  climate  of  confidence
amongst  the  key  players  in  that  region  and  which
would  demonstrate  the  genuine  willingness  of  all
parties  to  seek  such  a  comprehensive  settlement  in
parallel with peace negotiations?
29
A/55/PV.38
Perhaps the time has come for all of the countries
I  have  just  mentioned  to  review  the  approaches  which
they  have  been  pursuing  with  regard  to  the  Chemical
Weapons  Convention  and  to  the  regional  security
agenda  in  general.  Would  the  security  situation  in  the
Middle  East  improve  if  all  actors  were  confident  that
the sword of Damocles of the possible use of chemical
weapons  was  no  longer  hanging  over  their  heads?
Would  not  an  initiative  to  accede  to  the  Convention,
together  with other steps, create a political  momentum
in  which  movement  on  other  elements  of  the  security
equation would be forthcoming?
The  fact  that  Yemen,  Jordan  and  Sudan  have
already  elected  to  subscribe  to  precisely  this  view
indicates that such an approach is not unrealistic in the
Middle  East  environment.  Much  now  depends  on  the
next  steps  to  be  taken  by  other  key  players.  What  is
needed for the gradual establishment in this region of a
zone free of weapons of mass destruction, as proposed
by Egypt? Would not accession to the CWC be one of
these  steps,  and  a 
I
wholeheartedly  trust  the  wisdom  of  the  Egyptian
leadership on this issue.
fundamental  one  at 
that? 
By  virtue  of  signing  the  Convention,  Israel  has
already, under article I, entered into an obligation, inter
alia,  not  to  develop,  produce  or  stockpile  chemical
weapons. What, then, is preventing it from ratifying the
Convention  and  codifying  its  political  commitment  in
legal terms?
Equally, much depends on the active contribution
of  the  United  States  and  of  other  major  Powers  and
groups  of  States  which  have  made  the  pursuit  of  a
Middle  East  peace  settlement  one  of  the  cornerstones
of their foreign policy. I, for one, am ready to visit the
region  at  an  appropriate  time  to  explore  with  the
leadership the security issues I have mentioned.
I  also  express  the  hope  that  the  leaders  of  the
future  Palestinian  State  will  not  hesitate  to  set  the
record  straight  from  the  outset,  and  will  accede  to  not
merely  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention,  but  also
other  global  arms  control  and  disarmament  treaties.  A
public  statement  of  their  position  in  this  regard  would
contribute significantly to progress on this issue.
Another  region  of  concern  is  Africa,  where
Angola,  Somalia  and  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  remain
outside the Convention,  while Cape Verde, the Central
African  Republic,  Chad,  the  Comoros,  the  Congo,  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Guinea-
30
Bissau,  Liberia,  Madagascar,  Rwanda,  Sierra  Leone,
Uganda  and  Zambia  have  yet  to  ratify  the  treaty.
Africa(cid:146)s  problems  are  many.  However,  Mozambique(cid:146)s
decision  to  accede  to  the  Convention  earlier  this  year
proves that these very real problems are not necessarily
an impediment to acceding to the CWC. This is all the
more  true  because  the  Convention  does  not  confine
itself  to  the  issue  of  chemical  weapons,  but  is  also
about  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  chemistry  and
helping 
in
pharmaceuticals, pesticides, fertilizers etc.
expertise 
national 
to 
develop 
This  brings  me  to  a  fundamental  question.  What
incentive  would  a  small  country  have  to  accede  to  the
CWC  when  it  has  neither  chemical  weapons  nor  a
chemical  industry  to  speak  of?  The  answers  to  this
question  are  many.  While  a  country  may  not  have
chemical  weapons,  it  may,  in  particular  in  some
regions, be subject to an attack with chemical weapons
for  as  long  as  such  weapons  continue  to  exist.  The
Convention provides for assistance and protection to its
States  parties  in  the  event  of  such  attacks.  What  is
perhaps  even  more  important  is  that  it  also  calls,  in
article XI, paragraph 2 (c) for States parties to:
among 
themselves 
(cid:147)Not  maintain 
any
restrictions ...  which  would  restrict  or  impede
trade  and  the  development  and  promotion  of
scientific  and  technological  knowledge  in  the
field  of  chemistry  for  industrial,  agricultural,
research,  medical,  pharmaceutical,  or  other
peaceful purposes(cid:148).
In addition, the  Convention provides  for  an  expanding
regime of restrictions  in  trade in chemicals  applied  by
States  parties  towards  those  States  which  have  chosen
to  stay  out.  The  chemicals  affected  by  this  expanding
regime have an increasingly broad range of commercial
applications.
In the  three  and a  half  years  of  its  existence,  the
CWC  has  undoubtedly  proven  its  effectiveness  as  a
confidence-building  measure  and  has  provided  an
unprecedented  and  much  needed  forum  for  States
parties  to  address  any  concerns  they  may  have  about
the  compliance  of  other  States  parties.  To  this  end,  in
addition  to  the  verification  activities  of  the  OPCW
itself, a number of States parties have already made use
of  the  various  mechanisms  under  article  IX  of  the
Convention in relation to consultation, cooperation and
fact finding. As more States accede to the CWC, and as
their  chemical  producers  support  it,  the  arguments
legal  framework  become 
originally  advanced  for  the  continuing  maintenance  of
restrictions  on  chemicals  outside  a  credible,  reliable
international 
increasingly
redundant. Given this  fact, the  continuing  existence  of
export controls by some States parties against others is
hard  to  understand  and  very  difficult  to  justify.  I
therefore urge those that still retain such controls to re-
evaluate the need  for them  in  the  light of the  factors I
have  just  outlined,  with  a  view  to  removing  them  as
soon  as  possible.  Moreover,  restrictions  other  than
those agreed by the international community as a whole
could  undermine  the  very  legal  pillars  of  any  ongoing
and 
field  of
future  multilateral  effort 
disarmament and non-proliferation.
the 
in 
in 
two  pillars  are  assistance 
While the CWC is sometimes perceived only as a
disarmament and non-proliferation treaty, it has a third
and  fourth  pillar  of  equal  importance.  Without  them,
the  Convention  would  never  have  come  into  being.
These 
the  area  of
protection  against  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  chemical
weapons  and  international  cooperation.  The  OPCW  is
vigorously pursuing international cooperation  projects.
With  the  participation  of  the  Governments  of  the
Netherlands  and  the  United  Kingdom,  we  have  just
launched  an 
targets
scientists  and  engineers  from  developing  countries.  A
major  component  of  what  we  call 
the  (cid:147)OPCW
Associate  Programme(cid:148)  relates  to  the  development  of
the skills and experience required to operate effectively
in the context of the modern chemical industry.
innovative  programme  which 
The  programme  is  supported  by  a  number  of
chemical  companies  which  are  prepared  to  take  in
trainees and to involve them in their daily activities. In
addition,  intensive  training  in  aspects  of  chemical
manufacturing,  plant  safety,  and  the  operations  of
chemical companies is provided at a university facility
in  the  United  Kingdom.  As  the  programme  proves  its
success,  it  could  be  expanded (cid:151)  and  I  plan  to  do
that (cid:151)  to  a  regional  level  with  individual  projects  for
Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The  Convention  has  to  remain  flexible  if  it  is  to
respond  adequately  to  new  threats  and  challenges.  It
already  has  a  mechanism  for  responding  to  dangerous
scientific  and  technological  developments.  It  should
also have the capacity to provide effective instruments
to  cope  with  human  threats.  I  am  talking  here  of
chemical  terrorism.  This  is  a  global  threat,  and  any
effective  cure  must  also  be  global  in  nature.  Even
before  universality  is  achieved,  I  believe  that  the
A/55/PV.38
its 
institutional  and  political  framework 
Convention  could  be  made  much  more  effective  by
using 
to
establish  greatly  enhanced 
links  and  cooperation
between  national  anti-terrorism  agencies  and  disaster
relief  organizations.  These  are,  of  course,  suggestions
which  could  be  pursued  further  at  the  CWC  Review
Conference in 2002, hopefully with the participation of
those  countries  that  now  still  remain  outside  of  the
regime.
To  be 
the 
rapidly 
earlier 
that 
fully  efficient  and 
successful  any
international organization must be adequately funded. I
mentioned 
increasing
membership of the OPCW testifies to the international
community(cid:146)s  trust  and  confidence  that  it  has  done  a
good  job,  and  that  it  will  continue  to  do  so.  The
Organization  must  be  adequately  funded  if  it  is  to
deliver  on  the  increasing  demands  which  are  being
made  of  it (cid:151)  be  it  in  the  areas  of  disarmament  and
verification, or in the field of international cooperation
and  assistance.  Any  significant  widening  of  the  gap
between  the  financial  resources  and  the  Convention-
mandated 
could
eventually  damage  the  credibility  of  the  Organization
and  might  slow  down,  if  not  reverse,  its  momentum
towards universality.
responsibilities  of 
the  OPCW 
The  relationship  agreement  between  the  OPCW
and  the  United  Nations,  which  was  signed  just  a  few
days  ago,  opens  up  possibilities  for  broad-ranging
cooperation.  I  intend  to  maximize  these  opportunities
to  the  fullest  extent  possible.  Only  with  the  active
assistance  of  the  United  Nations  will  the  OPCW  be
able  to  implement  its  mandate  with  a  maximum  of
efficiency  and  transparency.  The  Chemical  Weapons
Convention  is  the  child  of  the  United  Nations.  The
United Nations is responsible (cid:151) in loco parentis —  for
ensuring the well-being and success of its offspring. On
behalf  of  the  OPCW,  I  would  also  like  to  express  my
gratitude  to  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  and  to
Mr.  Hans  Corell,  for  the  support,  flexibility  and
understanding  which  the  United  Nations  consistently
demonstrated during these negotiations.
The  OPCW  has  four  mandates (cid:151)  disarmament,
non-proliferation,  assistance  and  protection,  and
international  cooperation.  It  will  fulfil  all  of  these
mandates when it achieves universality. I hope that, as
chemical weapons are destroyed, States Parties  will be
prepared  gradually  to  place  on  the  promotion  of  the
peaceful  use  of  chemistry  at  least  the  same  emphasis
and resources as are required for the  maintenance of a
31
A/55/PV.38
reliable non-proliferation regime. From an organization
created  to  rid  the  world  of  chemical  weapons,  the
OPCW would ultimately evolve into an organization to
promote  the  use  of  chemistry  for  the  benefit  of  all
nations.  This  would  be  an  evolution  reflecting  the
world(cid:146)s  self-transformation,  from  confrontation  and
distrust  into  the  productive  pursuit  of  peace  and
prosperity for all humankind.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Director-General  of
the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons.
We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  of
this item for this meeting.
I  shall  now  call  on  those  representatives  who
wish to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  statements 
in
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the
second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their
seats.
Mr.  Darwish  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My
delegation listened to the statement by Mr. Bustani, the
Director-General of the OPCW, and the unilateral view
of Egypt included in the statement.
We  wish  to  clarify  certain  facts  regarding  those
paragraphs  of  Mr.  Bustani(cid:146)s  statement  that  dealt  with
the situation in the Middle East.
First, it is clear that Egypt has not acceded to the
Chemical  Weapons  Convention (cid:151)  although  we  have
adhered  to  its  provisions (cid:151)  because  of  Israel(cid:146)s  non-
adherence  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons 
the  continuous
demand  for  it  to  do  so,  the  last  time  being  during  the
Sixth Review Conference of the NPT.
(NPT),  despite 
Secondly,  Egypt 
is  ready 
to  accede 
to 
the
Convention when Israel accedes to the NPT.
Thirdly,  Egypt(cid:146)s  position,  which  is  crystal  clear,
has been referred to in many forums. Since Mr. Bustani
is aware of the facts, especially in the Middle East, he
should  have  reflected 
this  in  an  appropriate  and
balanced  manner  when  addressing  the  Assembly,  but
unfortunately  he  has  become  accustomed 
to  an
incomplete  view,  which  we saw  last at  the  fifty-fourth
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  when  Egypt  had  to
resort to the right of reply to set the record straight.
32
Fourthly, Egypt rejects chemical weapons as well
as  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  as  has  been
reflected  clearly  and  at  the  highest  level  in  President
Mubarak(cid:146)s  initiative  to  free  the  Middle  East  of  all
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  I  repeat,  all  weapons  of
mass  destruction.  Moreover,  this  has  also  been  clearly
reflected  in  the  relevant  resolutions  put  forward  by
Egypt in the First Committee.
In  conclusion,  we  wish  to  confirm  that  genuine
wisdom  requires  balanced  and  specific  treatment  of
weapons of mass destruction and it is important to note
that Mr. Bustani(cid:146)s statement has not shown that.
close 
among 
relationship 
Mr.  Hasan  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First,  there
is 
a 
disarmament
conventions,  especially  those  dealing  with  a  single
of  mass 
category 
destruction.
Disregarding 
indeed  a  reflection  of
selectivity  and  exacerbates  the  problems  instead  of
solving them.
like  weapons 
is 
this  fact 
We  would  have  liked  Mr.  Bustani(cid:146)s  statement  to
have referred to this fact.
Secondly,  the  international  community  has  given
priority  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  foremost
among  which  are  nuclear  weapons,  whose  elimination
is demanded in documents of  the  tenth  special  session
of  the  General  Assembly  devoted  to  disarmament.
These related to disarmament in the nuclear field.
All Arab States have acceded to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  while
Israel has not. There is a  veritable  sword of  Damocles
hanging  over 
the  States  of  the  region  and  over
members  of  the  international  community.  That  sword
takes  the  form  of  the  nuclear  weapons  possessed  by
Israel, namely, over 200 nuclear bombs and their means
of delivery,  and its policy  of expansion  at  the  expense
of Arab territory. That is the real danger.
agreements 
international 
It behoves the international community to seek to
implement 
and  United
Nations  resolutions  regarding  Israel(cid:146)s  accession  to  the
NPT,  as  well  as  Security  Council  resolution  487
(1981). The policy of double standards is indeed futile:
those who seek real peace in the region must deal with
existing  problems  and  realities  in  a  comprehensive
manner.
Mr.  Mekdad  (Syria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We
late  hour.
apologize  for  taking  the  floor  at 
However,  my  delegation  was  surprised  to  observe  that
this 
in  his 
the  Organization  for 
some  countries(cid:146)  decisions 
remarks  about  armaments  and 
the  Director-General  of 
the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  has  chosen  to  twist
facts  and  to  disregard  the  real  situation  in  the  Middle
East 
the
elimination  of  chemical  weapons.  We  do  not  know  on
what  principles  Mr.  Bustani bases  his  comments  when
he  attacks 
regarding
accession  to  the  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons.  Does  Mr.  Bustani  not  know  that
decisions of this nature are based on the current state of
affairs in various regions? Does he not know that Israel
is  armed  to  the  teeth  with  chemical  and  nuclear
weapons  and  the  most  advanced  aircraft  and  tanks?
Mr. Bustani is misled. Indeed, he has gone in the wrong
direction  in  his  statement.  The  stark  reality  before  the
General  Assembly  is  that  Israel  has  limited  itself  to
signing  the  Convention;  it  has  not  ratified  it  and  has
therefore not acceded to it.
is 
Addressing 
the  General  Assembly 
a
responsibility  that  must  be  assumed  sincerely  by
representatives  of  international  organizations.  We  do
not  believe  Mr.  Bustani  has  taken  that  approach.  His
statement  was  merely  a  simplistic  analysis  of  the
overall political situation in the Middle East and was in
no  way  a  reflection  of  the  actual  facts  nor  of  the
positions of the States parties to the Convention on the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons.  In  fact,  if  his
statement  illustrates  anything  it  is  that  Mr.  Bustani  is
completely ignorant of the situation in the Middle East.
He  has  adopted  a  selective  policy  in  making  his
statement.  According  to  Mr.  Bustani(cid:146)s  assertions,  34
countries  have  not  ratified  the  Convention,  while  19
States have yet to accede to it. This raises questions in
our  minds  and  indicates  that  the  Director-General  of
the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons should make additional efforts throughout the
world,  rather  than  focus  on  a  single  region.  It  is  true
that the situation in the Middle East is complex, but we
should  identify  the  source  of  the  problem  rather  than
address the situation in a suspicious way.
The  one  party  responsible  for  dragging 
the
Middle  East  into  a  spiral  of  violence  is  Israel.  Mr.
Bustani used silk gloves in describing the situation and
Israel(cid:146)s  position,  although  he  knows  quite  well  that
Israel has not genuinely adopted any practical, political
or legal measures with regard to the Convention on the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons.  His  statement  does
not  differ  from  Israel(cid:146)s  statements  or  the  positions  it
has  taken.  His  statement  reflects  a  complete  bias  in
A/55/PV.38
favour  of  Israel(cid:146)s  attitude.  It  does  not  behove  an
international  official 
international
community in such a way.
to  mislead 
the 
The  undeniable  truth  known  to  everyone  is  that
Israel alone is responsible for the escalation of the arms
race  in  the  Middle  East.  Israel  publicly  refuses  to
accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear Weapons. In  fact,  it  is the  only  country in the
region  that  has,  under  flimsy  pretexts,  not  acceded  to
the  NPT  (cid:151) 
important
conventions.
to  say  nothing  of  other 
threaten 
It is the Arabs who need reassurance and security.
Their  land  is  under  occupation,  and  Israeli  armed
forces 
them  with  nuclear  and  chemical
weapons  and  all  sorts  of  internationally  prohibited
arms (cid:151)  weapons that Israel has  used  against  Lebanon
and  Palestine,  among  other  places.  What 
the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
should  do  is  to  deal  with  the  issues  on  the  basis  of
facts,  and  not  on  the  basis  of  its  Director-General(cid:146)s
misguided  accusations levelled  at  the  wrong  parties  in
total  disregard  of  his  role.  That  role  is  to  prohibit  all
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East,
starting with nuclear weapons.
Mr.  Lancry  (Israel):  I  would  first  like  to  begin
my short statement by thanking the Director-General of
the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons  for  his  statement.  Israel  views  the  unique
Chemical  Weapons  Convention  (cid:151)  which  has  given
global security a significant objective, namely, the total
elimination  of  chemical  weapons  (cid:151)  as  a  very
important  Convention.  However,  I  am  surprised  that
some  of  the representatives here  have  chosen  to  try  to
deride  the  topic  under  discussion  and  to  deal  with
issues  that  are  not  at  all  part  of  the  debate  in  this
meeting.
Our  Foreign  Minister,  Mr.  Shimon  Peres,  stated
when Israel signed the Convention, in 1993, that  there
is  no  weapon  against  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
only  political  determination.  The  fact 
that  Israeli
citizens  are  obliged  to  be  equipped  with  chemical-
weapon-protection gear is itself  proof  of the degree of
threat  to  our  citizens,  in  particular  of  the  threat  from
countries  in  the  region  that  are  notorious  for  their  use
and possession of chemical weapons.
It is not a coincidence that the two countries that
have  questioned  the  procedures  for  convening  this
meeting  did  not  on  the  other  hand  even  question  the
33
A/55/PV.38
procedure  for  convening  the  tenth  emergency  special
session.  One  might  suspect 
those  objections
emanate  from  a  well-known  position  of  Syria  and
Egypt,  which  has  been  reflected  in  their  reluctance
even to sign the Chemical Weapons Convention as they
continue to possess those weapons.
that 
not acceded to the Chemical Weapons Convention. We
have  explained  this  in  the  General  Assembly  and  in
other  international  forums,  and  we  might  have  hoped
that  Mr.  Bustani  would  have  mentioned  the  true
reasons  for  those  States  not  having  acceded  to  the
Convention.
to 
the 
signature  ceremony, 
Israel  signed  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention
in  January  1993,  and  is  obligated  under  international
the  moral  principle  of  global  chemical
law 
disarmament.  At 
Israel
expressed  its  hope  that  other  countries  in  the  region
would follow suit; the reality, unfortunately, is in stark
contrast  to  that.  These  circumstances  certainly  pose
difficulties  in  terms  of  taking  the  decision  whether  to
ratify  the  Convention  or  not.  Israel  hopes  that  the
environment in the Middle East, in which hostility and
non-recognition are still prevalent, will change soon in
a manner that will enable Israel to take the decision to
ratify the Convention.
to 
is  now  a  party 
that  my  country 
listened  carefully 
Mr.  Amer  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  My  delegation 
the
statement  by  Mr.  Bustani,  Director-General  of  the
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons,
and  I  took  special  note  of  what  he  said  about  the
situation  in  the  Middle  East;  he  said  that  Libya  was
among  several  States  in  the  region  that  had  not  yet
acceded to the Chemical Weapons Convention. Let  me
stress 
to  most
international  disarmament  conventions,  including  the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
(NPT),  because  Libya  wishes 
in
international efforts to put an  end to the  production  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  My  country  has  made
clear  in  all  international  forums  the  reason  why  Libya
has yet to join the Chemical Weapons Convention: the
security  imbalance  in  the  Middle  East  resulting  from
the  fact  that  Israel  possesses  hundreds  of  nuclear
warheads  and  has  to  date  refused,  in  spite  of  constant
international appeals, to accede to the NPT or to place
its nuclear installations under the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards system.
to  participate 
Mr. Bustani addressed only part of the situation in
the  Middle  East  when  he  named  several  States  and
indicated that they were still outside the Convention on
the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. But he ought to
have  mentioned the reasons why those States have  not
yet  adhered  to  the  Convention.  He  is  well  acquainted
with  those  reasons,  because  those  States (cid:151)  including,
as I have said, Libya (cid:151) have explained why they have
34
Mr.  Mekdad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  I  wish  to  respond  to  the  statement  of  the
representative  of  Israel  a  moment  ago.  After  listening
to  his  statement,  everyone  can  see  clearly  that  Israel
does  indeed  possess  chemical  weapons  and  that  it
considers 
the  possession  and  stockpiling  of  such
weapons  to  be  a  means  of  providing  security  for  its
citizens.  If  every  State  in  the  world  followed  that
obviously unacceptable Israeli logic, there would be no
international  conventions  on 
the  prohibition  of
chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, because every
country would offer the excuse that it had to protect the
safety and security of its citizens.
This  proves  again  that  the  Arabs  are  the  Middle
Eastern  parties  that  actually  need  security  and  safety.
The Arabs do not possess nuclear weapons with which
to  defend  themselves;  nor  do  they  possess  other
categories  of  weapons  that  can  counter  the  challenges
laid  down  by  Israel  as  it  occupies  Arab  lands  and
suppresses Arab citizens in those occupied territories.
I was surprised to hear the Israeli representative(cid:146)s
fantastical  comparison  when  two  delegations  objected
to  the  procedures  used  to  consider  the  item  before  us,
and  to  the  content  of  the  statement  of  the  Director-
General  of  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons:  how  could  he  compare  this  to  the
emergency  special  session  on  the  massacres  inflicted
on 
the  Palestinian  people?  That  reflects  Israel(cid:146)s
aggressive  nature  and  its  defiance  of  the  international
community.  In  fact,  convening  an  emergency  special
session was the minimum we could do to put an end to
the massacres inflicted upon the Palestinian people.
community, 
Once  more,  we  come  back  to  one  constant  fact:
there  can  be  no  peace  in  the  Middle  East  without  a
commitment by Israel to the resolutions adopted by the
international 
Israel(cid:146)s
withdrawal  from  all  the  occupied  territories  to  the
borders  of  4  June  1967.  Israel  must  give  up  its  dream
of dominating the region by threatening to use or using
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The 
international
community  bears  primary  responsibility  to  pressure
Israel  to  take  genuine  action  to  achieve  a  just,  lasting
and  without 
and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  and  to
enable  us  all  to  work  towards  the  establishment  of  a
zone 
free  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
especially nuclear weapons and chemical weapons.
Mr.  Darwish  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
representative  of  Israel  criticized  Egypt(cid:146)s  observation
on  the  need  to  abide  by  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the
General Assembly. He linked that with the Assembly(cid:146)s
decision to resume the tenth emergency special session.
We  wonder  about  the  connection  between  the  two
issues. The resumption by the General Assembly of the
tenth  emergency  special  session  is  a  matter  that  has
been  decided  upon,  and  the  debate  on  this  vital  and
important issue will resume this afternoon.
Mr.  Itzchaki  (Israel):  I  am  sorry  that  I  have  to
speak  once  again  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  I
promise to be very brief.
A/55/PV.38
I 
listened 
to 
the  statement  made  by 
the
representative of  the  Syrian Arab  Republic  in  exercise
of the  right of  reply,  and I  fail  to  understand the  logic
behind  his  words.  The  fact  that  Israeli  citizens  are
obliged  to  be  equipped  with  safety  gear  to  protect
themselves  from  chemical  weapons  does  not  indicate
anything  whatsoever  about  Israel(cid:146)s  capabilities  of  any
kind. The fact is that Israeli citizens were, and still are,
under  the  threat  of  chemical  weapons,  inter  alia,  from
countries like his own.
The  second  point  I  wish  to  raise  is  that  I  would
ask  the  Syrian  representative,  and  even  recommend  to
him, that he not lecture us about massacres and that he
should  not  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Palestinians.  These
issues  are  rather  serious  and  are  under  consideration
between  us  and  the  Palestinians.  Nobody  gave  the
Syrian  representative  a  mandate 
the
Palestinians here, especially given his country(cid:146)s record
of  massacres  in  this  regard,  which  I  would  rather  not
mention in this forum.
to  represent 
The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.
35
