United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
16th plenary meeting
Friday, 15 September 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.16
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  first  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency The Honourable Sir John Kaputin, Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Papua New Guinea.
Sir  John  Kaputin  (Papua  New  Guinea):  On
behalf  of  the  people  and  Government  of  Papua  New
Guinea, I join previous speakers in congratulating you,
Sir,  on  your  election  to  your  prestigious  post.  Your
unanimous  election  as  President  of 
the  General
Assembly  at  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium  shows
the  high  esteem  in  which  the  international  community
holds  both  you  personally  and  your  country,  Finland.
We are confident that you will guide the historic fifty-
fifth session to a successful conclusion.
The skill with which your predecessor, Mr. Theo-
Ben  Gurirab  of  Namibia,  cooperated  to  develop  the
theme  of  the  recent  Millennium  Summit,  and  presided
over the drafting of the outcome document and ensured
the  smooth  management  of  the  Summit  earned  our
sincere appreciation for  a job  very  well done.  We  also
congratulate  him  on  his  very  positive  contribution  to
our collective deliberations during the previous year.
May I also take this opportunity, through you, Sir,
to  heartily  congratulate  the  heads  of  State  of  both
Finland 
their  magnanimous
stewardship  and  successful  conclusion  of  the  recent
unprecedented  large  assembly  of  approximately  150
and  Namibia 
on 
heads  of  State  and  Government  in  New  York,  which
paved  the  way  for  the  pursuit  of  our  common  vision
and security into the twenty-first century.
Beyond  the  millennium  celebrations,  this  is  a
time for reflection and looking ahead. The Millennium
Summit  took  place  on  the  eve  of  the  twenty-fifth
anniversary of Papua New Guinea’s independence. The
same anniversary also marks the first quarter century of
my  country’s  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is
therefore  an  apt  occasion  both  for  reflecting  on
experience and for looking ahead.
My  particular  focus  is  on  the  changing  character
of, need for and potential for international cooperation.
The  conjunction  of  the  millennium  with  Papua  New
Guinea’s silver anniversary invites us to take a number
of  different  time  perspectives:  the  short,  medium  and
long terms. For those of us who have been privileged to
play  an  active  part  in  public  life  during  this  period,  it
also provides the opportunity to compare the ambitions
we had 25 years ago with the challenges we face now.
As the Secretary-General recently reminded us in
the very title of the document (A/54/2000) he prepared
to  guide  and  stimulate  the  Millennium  Summit,  the
United  Nations  was  formed  in  the  name  and  with  the
objective  of  furthering  the  common  purposes  of  “We
the peoples of the United Nations”. In similar fashion,
the Constitution that came into effect when my country
became  independent  was  made  and  adopted  in  the
name of “We the people of Papua New Guinea”.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-64432 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.16
As someone  who  had the  honour  of participating
in  making  the  Papua  New  Guinea  Constitution,  I  am
very  mindful  of  the  national  goals  and  directive
principles we set for ourselves at independence. While
some have a distinctively national character — such as
preserving,  developing  and  building  on  Papua  New
Guinean  ways  —  others  resemble  challenges  that  the
United  Nations 
include  such
universal  challenges  as  promoting 
integral  human
development,  equity  and  participation,  and  sustainable
use  of  natural  resources  and  the  environment.  They
also 
of  maintaining,
strengthening  and  making  mutually  beneficial  use  of
national sovereignty and self-reliance.
today.  They 
challenge 
include 
faces 
the 
But  look  at  us  now.  What  have  we  achieved?
What remains to be done? The most striking feature of
contemporary  Papua  New  Guinea  is  the  way  in  which
we  have  had  to  trim  our  objectives.  Our  situation  is,
obviously,  not  unique,  but  it  certainly  warrants  the
most careful consideration.
When  the  present  Government,  led  by  the  Prime
Minister, The Honourable Sir Mekere Morauta, came to
office  in  the  middle of last  year,  we  set  ourselves  five
very carefully defined objectives: to restore integrity to
State institutions; to  stabilize  our  national  currency  —
the  kina  —  and  the  national  budget;  to  remove
obstacles to investment and growth; and to continue the
process of working for lasting peace in Bougainville by
peaceful means.
as 
and 
economic 
The  national  goals  and  directive  principles
continue  to  guide  our  long-term  ambitions  and  plans.
But  experience  and  the  realities  of  governance  in  the
age of globalization have required us to focus on much
more  specific,  short-  and  medium-term  objectives. We
cannot blame others — or even such largely impersonal
processes 
technological
globalization — for  every  aspect  of  our  current
situation.  Much  of  the  responsibility  lies  with  leaders
and 
fortunately  and
unfortunately,  it  is  part  of  the  human  condition  at  the
start of the twenty-first century that  we  are  not on our
own.  Despite 
in  origins,
processes  and  outcomes,  our  situation  is  not  unique.
Many  other  developing 
similar
challenges in the short and medium terms.
institutions  at  home.  Both 
important  differences 
countries 
face 
International  cooperation  is  an  important  key  to
collective  self-help,  both  between  countries  with
similar  weaknesses  and 
strengths,  and  between
2
countries  that  are  different  and  complementary  —
especially rich and poor.
As  regards  global  cooperation,  as  a  member  of
the  global  community  Papua  New  Guinea  is  able  to
draw on support from the World Bank, the International
Monetary  Fund,  the  Asian  Development  Bank,  our
development  cooperation  partners  in  Europe,  and  the
Asia-Pacific  countries  that  have  formed  themselves
into the Friends of Papua New Guinea.
cooperation,  Papua  New  Guinea 
While  my  delegation  has  come  to  New  York  to
discuss  global  issues  and  explore  the  potential  for
global 
also
participates  in  various  forms  of  regional,  interregional
and  bilateral 
cooperation.  Papua  New  Guinea
recognizes  the  value  of,  and  is  firmly  committed  to
further  strengthening,  global  cooperation 
through
bodies like the World Trade Organization (WTO).
My  Government  is  disappointed  that  the  next
(WTO)
round 
negotiations has been delayed, and calls for them to be
held at the earliest possible opportunity.
of  World  Trade  Organization 
As one of the countries where increasing areas of
land  are  already  becoming  unusable  or  actually
disappearing  as  a  result  of  rising  sea-levels  caused  by
climate  change,  we  believe  in  the  urgent  need  for  full
implementation of the Kyoto Protocol.
On  an  issue  where  the  very  survival  of  certain
members of the global community is clearly at stake —
and  where  global  security  depends  on  coordinated
global  action  —  there  must  be  no  backsliding,  no
compromises, and no special cases allowed because of
inability or unwillingness to honour global agreements
for whatever reason.
Papua  New  Guinea  is  pleased  to  welcome  our
close  island  neighbours  and  very  good  friends  from
Tuvalu to membership of the United Nations.
What  a  terrible  tragedy  it  would  be  if  the
international  community  were  to  fail  them  at  the  very
time  when  they,  together  with  other  small  island
States — including  countries  which  joined  the  United
Nations  last  year  —  are  assuming  the  responsibilities
which  go  with  becoming  full  participants  in  the
Organization’s affairs.
Certain  security  issues,  such  as  climate  change,
require  a  global  approach.  So  do  efforts  to  limit  the
proliferation  that  would  bring  about  the  complete
elimination of nuclear weapons.
Global  cooperation  is  the  only  means  by  which
the  international  community  can  realistically  hope  to
achieve  the  objective  which  the  Secretary-General  set
for 
that
globalization  becomes  a  positive  force  for  people,
instead of leaving them behind in squalor, especially in
developing countries.
the  Millennium  Summit  of 
ensuring 
However, as the Secretary-General also suggested
in his report (A/54/1) to the fifty-fourth  session  of the
General  Assembly,  different  regions  have  different
problems.  Even  similar  problems  in  different  settings
may require different approaches. Security policies that
work in one region may not work in others. The road to
success  can  require  complementary  national,  regional
and global efforts.
is  addressing 
Thus,  Papua  New  Guinea 
the
unwelcome spread of small arms and light weapons by
imposing  a  complete  ban  on  the  issuance  of  new  gun
licenses.  We  support efforts to  deal  with the  spread  of
illegally  obtained  or  held  arms  through  the  Pacific
Islands Forum.
We  look  to  the  forthcoming  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and
Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects  to  provide  a  global
framework  and  global  support  for  the  efforts  that
individual  States and  regional  organizations  are  taking
to  deal  with 
their  respective
jurisdictions.
the  problem  within 
When  it  comes  to  the  management  of  ocean
resources,  Papua  New  Guinea  sees  regional  and
interregional 
to
measures designed to ensure the sustainable harvesting
of fish in national waters.
complementary 
cooperation 
as 
We  therefore  welcome  the  agreement  recently
concluded under the auspices of the Multilateral High-
level  Conference  on  fisheries  with  the  purpose  of
ensuring  sustainable  fishing  for 
tuna  and  highly
migratory  species 
the
Western and Central Pacific.
their  ranges 
throughout 
in 
Papua  New  Guinea  would  also  like  to  see  both
broader and deeper cooperation between coastal States
in other aspects of oceans and ocean-bed management,
including deep-sea mining.
A/55/PV.16
In 
terms 
of 
regional 
such
cooperation  is  indispensable  to  dealing  successfully
with  many  important  global  and  national  issues.  But
regional  cooperation  can  itself  have  a  variety  of
different dimensions and employ different means.
cooperation, 
In  the  South  Pacific,  for  example,  two  of  our
closest  neighbours,  Fiji  and  Solomon  Islands,  are
experiencing internal difficulties that have given rise to
serious concern on the part of their friends.
We  do  not  condone  the  illegal  overthrow  of
democratic  and  constitutional  Governments  or  other
threats to the security of the Governments and citizens
of  other  States,  but,  regrettably,  and  despite  repeated
efforts  by  previous  Papua  New  Guinea  Governments
and other States, the main intra-regional body engaged
in promoting regional cooperation in the South Pacific,
the Pacific Islands Forum, does not have a  mechanism
for dealing promptly and effectively with challenges to
the security of States in the region.
therefore,  been  unable 
let  alone 
to  arrange
It  has, 
consultations, 
facilitate  a  coordinated
approach  to the situations which have arisen following
armed  challenges  to  the  Governments  of  Fiji  and
Solomon  Islands.  Some  of  our  neighbours  have
responded by looking for support outside the region.
With the recent  addition of  six  additional Pacific
members  to  the  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  (ACP)
group  of  States  party  to  the  Lome  Convention,  14
Pacific  island  States  now  have  access  to  a  very
practical mechanism for dealing with such situations.
is 
The  upshot 
that,  when  Ministers  and
Ambassadors  from Pacific ACP  member  States  met  in
Cotonou,  Benin,  in  June  for  the  signing  of  the  new
framework  agreement  between 
the
European  Union,  we  decided  to  set  up  a  ministerial
mission to report on the situations in Fiji and Solomon
Islands.
the  ACP  and 
In doing so, we were mindful of the need for, and
grateful for the support of, the European Union.
The  offer  made  by  the  French  Minister  for
Economic  Cooperation  at  the  regional  forum  of  the
Association  of  South-East  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  to
ensure  that  the  European  Commission  would  defer
making  a  final  decision  on  sanctions  until  the  Pacific
ACP  Ministerial  Mission  had  reported  was  especially
welcome because of the meaning and support it gave to
our effort at regional cooperation.
3
A/55/PV.16
The imposition of sanctions against a country can
be  a  very  blunt  instrument  indeed,  causing  innocent
and powerless people to suffer at the same time as the
powerful 
sometimes
disadvantaging  them  even  more.  Even  so-called  smart
sanctions  can  have  wide,  unintended  effects  while
leaving their objects largely unaffected.
influential, 
and 
and 
When  a  small  group  of  armed  men  try  to  take
over  a  Government,  imposing  sanctions  that  affect
innocent  men,  women  and  children  can  be  not  only
ineffective but even counter-productive.
Sanctions  might  leave  armed  youths  unaffected
and  in  a  position  where  they  are  even  unable  to
appreciate, 
the  wider
consequences of their actions.
indifferent 
are 
or 
to, 
The  underlying  causes  of  inter-group  tensions  in
Solomon  Islands  and  the  events  which  followed  the
attempted civilian armed coup in Fiji could be difficult
to identify, and are beyond influence by sanctions.
It is, therefore, vital that  serious difficulties  such
as  those  currently  affecting  Fiji  and  Solomon  Islands
be properly studied and carefully addressed.
Sometimes, 
the  people  best 
to
understand  such  situations  and  identify  underlying
causes  are  neighbours  with  similar  cultures  or  other
shared values.
equipped 
In  terms  of  the  ACP  Ministerial  Mission,  at  the
request of other Pacific ACP States, I have recently had
the  honour  of  leading  the  Pacific  ACP  Ministerial
Mission to Fiji and Solomon Islands.
My colleagues included the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs  from  Cook  Islands,  Mr.  Robert  Woonton,  and
Vanuatu,  the  Honourable  Serge  Vohor,  as  well  as  the
Minister  for  Education  from  Samoa,  the  Honourable
Fiame Naomi Mata’afa.
With  the  active  support  of  the  Governments  of
both  countries,  we  followed  a  crowded  itinerary  of
meetings  with  the  Prime  Ministers,  ministers  and
officials  in  Fiji  and  Solomon  Islands,  members  of  the
previous  Governments  of  both  countries  and  business
and trade union leaders, as well as a wide cross-section
of  other  elements  of  civil  society,  including  women’s
organizations.  We  were  also  able  to  interview  victims
in  towns  and  rural  areas,  and  to  examine  instances  of
destruction at first hand.
4
My colleagues and I are currently working on our
report.  We  expect  to  present  it  to  the  European
Commission,  the  ACP-EU  Joint  Assembly  and  other
ACP, EU and joint bodies in October.
The commitment made by the French Minister for
Economic  Cooperation,  whose  country  currently  holds
the presidency of the EU,  means that the region  — or,
at least, our report — has been given the opportunity to
influence  events.  The  process  on  which  we  have
embarked  is,  therefore,  more  meaningful  than  any
existing  alternative.  We,  the  Pacific  ACP  members,
offered  to  share  our  report  with  the  Pacific  Islands
Forum, and the support our initiative has received from
to  wider
the 
cooperation,  not  to  mention  our  unwillingness 
to
appearance  of
become 
competition between rival regional bodies or groups.
reflects  our 
commitment 
involved 
region 
even 
the 
in 
The  initiative  has  been  welcomed  and  praised,
both in the region and further afield. It sets an example
which is worthy of close study both for the precedents
it sets for cooperation among Pacific ACP States and as
a possible model for similar efforts in other regions.
With regard to the Bougainville situation, Fiji and
Solomon Islands are not the first States in our region to
experience serious internal difficulties, though we pray
not only that there will be real improvement very soon
but that they  will be the last  States to  experience  such
difficulties.
on 
Peace, 
After  more than  eight  years of  armed conflict  —
from  1989  to  1997  —  the  part  of  Papua  New  Guinea
known  as  Bougainville 
is  now  at  peace.  The
progressive  political  settlement  is  moving  ahead.  The
Lincoln  Agreement 
and
Development  on  Bougainville  commits  the  parties  to
peace-building  on  several 
from  weapons
disposal  and  the  re-establishment  of  civil  authority,
through  reconciliation  among  former  combatants  to
reconstruction of infrastructure, restoration of services,
economic  and  social recovery  and  early  resumption  of
the  kinds  of  development  which  are  part  of  the  return
of normalcy.
Security 
levels, 
The national Government  is committed  to  such a
multidimensional approach. It is the  way  by  which  we
hope  to  cooperate  in  building  for  a  lasting  peace  by
peaceful means. The priority which the Prime Minister
gave  the  Bougainville  peace  process  more  than  12
months  ago 
its
continuing significance can be seen in the initiative he
in  place.  Evidence  of 
remains 
has recently taken to meet key Bougainvillean demands
within  the  framework  of  the  Papua  New  Guinea
Constitution.
The  Government,  which  took  the  initiative  in
inviting  our  neighbours,  Australia,  Fiji,  New  Zealand
and  Vanuatu,  to  set  up  the  neutral,  regional  Peace
Monitoring  Group  (PMG),  values  the  contribution  its
unarmed  personnel  make 
to  promoting  mutual
confidence  on  the  ground.  The  PMG’s  success  can  be
judged  from  the  peaceful  way  in  which  it  is  now
beginning  to  disengage  by  substantially  reducing  its
size.  The  process  needs  greater  support  from  the
Bougainvillean parties so as to avoid the vacuum which
has  followed  the  departure  of  similar  peacekeeping
operations  elsewhere,  by  cooperating 
re-
establishment  of  policing,  courts  and  correctional
institutional  services,  as  well  as  by  strengthening  the
institutions  at  community  level  that  help  to  maintain
public  order,  dispense  justice  and  uphold  the  rule  of
law.
the 
in 
As  the  initiator  of  the  request  for  the  United
Nations  observer  mission  in  Bougainville,  and  as  its
host, Papua New Guinea appreciates the support which
the  Security  Council  and  other  organs  of  the  United
Nations provide for the Bougainville peace process. We
are determined to keep on working for lasting peace by
peaceful means within a flexible framework which will
allow  Bougainville  a  high  degree  of  autonomy
consistent  with  the  integrity,  security  and  sovereignty
of the nation.
With  regard  to  social  and  economic  issues,  as  a
developing  country  with  25  years  of  independence,
Papua New Guinea is experiencing very great difficulty
in  improving  national  performance  as  measured  by
human  development  indicators.  In  some  areas,  our
record 
is  actually  becoming  worse.  The  current
Government’s  five  main  objectives  are  intended  to
focus attention and effort  where they are  most needed.
Our  determination to pursue them  is  already  making  a
very  real  difference,  especially  as  far  as  economic
management  and  the  delivery  of  Government  services
are concerned.
including 
Structural 
adjustment, 
quite
fundamental  public  sector  reform,  is  one  of  the  key
means  of  bringing  about  often  long-overdue  change.
We  need  the  continuing  support  of  our  economic
partners  to  succeed,  including  access 
to  markets;
in  priority  areas,  such  as
increased 
investment 
A/55/PV.16
downstream  processing,  which  provides 
increased
opportunities  for  productive  employment;  and  aid  on
concessional terms. The recently concluded partnership
agreement between the ACP countries and the EU is an
example worthy of much wider emulation.
As 
a 
to 
that 
country 
developing 
is  firmly  committed 
cooperation  with  other  Pacific 
achieved
independence  only  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  Papua
New  Guinea 
the  proper
preparation for  orderly  decolonization. Impressed  with
the  progress  being  made  to  implement  the  Noumea
Accord,  we  continue  to  believe  very  strongly  that  the
rights  of  the  indigenous  Kanaks  of  New  Caledonia
must  be  respected.  Conscious  of  the  consequences  of
other  forms  of  decolonization,  we  welcome  the  re-
emergence of East Timor as an independent entity. We
look forward to receiving a delegation later this year to
discuss  how  we  might  develop  technical  and  other
forms of mutually beneficial South-South cooperation.
Meanwhile,  even  as  we  continue  to  deepen  and
island
broaden 
countries,  we  respect 
integrity  of  our  other
neighbours and continue to benefit from the exchanges
which  flow  from  our  status  as  a  special  observer  at
Association  of  South-East  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)
meetings. 
the  broader  arena  of  Asia-Pacific
cooperation,  we  value  our  membership  of  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC)  Forum  and
continue  to  work  towards  honouring  the  reciprocal
commitments  APEC  members  have  made  to  liberalize
markets.  APEC  includes  some  of  our  closest  bilateral
partners  and  friends.  Common  membership,  and  the
process of  developing  economic  ties  with  other  APEC
economies, do not detract from other aspects of Papua
New Guinea’s foreign relations. They do not affect the
commitments we have made to such good friends as the
People’s Republic of China. We will not allow them to
do so.
the 
In 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  say  that,  25  years
after  independence, Papua New  Guinea  has one  of  the
longest  unbroken 
records  of  constitutional  and
democratic  government  among  countries  that  have
become independent in the last 50 or so years. We have
experienced  difficulties,  and  had  some  near  misses.
The stresses and strains which have affected our system
of  Government  have  tested  our  strengths.  In  doing  so,
they  have  increased  our  understanding  of  countries
experiencing  serious  internal  difficulties  —  although
not  our  sympathy  for  those  who  deliberately  violate
democratic  principles  or  established  constitutional
5
A/55/PV.16
practices — while reinforcing our commitment to good
governance, both at home and abroad.
proceedings  of 
conclusion.
this  Assembly 
to  a 
successful
Apart  from  the  obvious  consequences  that  this
commitment  has  for  Papua  New  Guinea’s  response  to
countries  experiencing  serious 
internal  difficulties,
including  our  preference  for  a  positive,  forward-
looking  approach  and  not  negative  sanctions,  it  also
underlies our support for United Nations reform.
The 
from 
reform  must  extend 
improving
administrative  performance  to  making  the  Security
Council  more 
representative  of  United  Nations
Members  as  a  whole.  It  must,  in  fact,  extend  to  the
performance  of  United  Nations  Members  themselves,
especially  when  it  comes  to  paying  their  dues  in  a
timely way and in full.
The millennium marks an important turning point
in  the  calendar,  and,  because  of  my  country’s  silver
anniversary,  in  Papua  New  Guinea’s  history  too.  The
United  Nations  is  also  at  a  critical  turning  point,  with
the  Secretary-General  drawing  members’  attention
back  to  the  original basis and  focus  among  the  people
the Organization should serve.
The  recent  review  of  United  Nations  peace  and
security  activities  has  produced  an  excellent  report
which challenges  us  to  turn  another  corner  and  ensure
that 
the
Organization has assumed since the end of the cold war
help 
in  very  different
conditions.
to  keep  and  build  peace 
responsibilities  which 
increased 
the 
I  conclude  by  paying  tribute  to  the  vision  which
participants in the Millennium  Summit have expressed
on  our  behalf.  In  doing  so,  let  me  add  that  the  real
challenge  we  face  is,  emphatically,  not  to  make  more
speeches,  but  to  turn  their  wise  words  into  practical
forms  of  cooperation  which  help  us  achieve  common
purposes  without  sacrificing  the diversity  which  is  the
basis  of  our  need  and  ability  to  engage  in  global  self-
help.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Datuk  Seri  Syed  Hamid  Albar,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Malaysia.
Mr.  Syed  Hamid  (Malaysia):  I 
join  other
speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth
session. I  am  confident  that  with  your  vast  experience
and  diplomatic  skills  you  will  be  able  to  guide  the
6
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  delegation’s
gratitude  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,
for  the  effective  manner  in  which  he  guided  the  work
of the last session of the General Assembly.
Let me also take this opportunity to commend the
Secretary-General  for  his  great  dedication 
the
Organization  and  the  many  contributions  he  has  made
in the service of the international community.
to 
There  are  great  expectations  on  the  part  of  the
international  community  that  in  the  new  century  the
United  Nations  will  be  a  more  effective  Organization.
Indeed,  its  continued  relevance,  especially 
the
developing  countries,  which  comprise  the  majority  of
the  membership of the United Nations,  will, to a  large
degree, depend on their perception that it is attuned to
their  concerns  and  responsive  to  their  needs.  The
Organization must continue to serve the interests of all
its  Members,  big  or  small,  strong  or  weak.  It  must  be
more transparent and democratic in its decision-making
processes and work methods.
to 
In this context, the reform and restructuring of the
Organization  continues 
to  be  a  matter  of  great
importance.  Much  has  been  done  through  the  process
of reform effected by the Secretary-General, but reform
is  a  continuous  and  ongoing  process  and  should
continue to be vigorously pursued to ensure the United
Nations 
efficiency,
especially  in  facing  up  to  the  challenges  of  the  new
century.  As  modernization  of  the  Organization  entails
additional resources, the  critical issue  of  financing  the
United  Nations  must  also  be  seriously  addressed  and
resolved as soon as possible.
effectiveness 
increased 
and 
the 
aspects  of 
reform  process: 
More  intensified  efforts  should  be  made  to  bring
to  conclusion  the  deliberations  on  one  of  the  most
important 
the
restructuring  of  the  Security  Council.  Clearly,  the
necessary  compromises  must  be  made  if  the  ongoing
deliberations on the reform of the Council are to make
any progress at all. We look forward to your leadership,
Mr.  President,  in  unblocking  the  current  impasse  so
that this important organ of the  United  Nations  can  be
fully  revamped,  modernized  and  made  more  effective.
Malaysia continues to support expansion of the Council
in both categories of its membership. Any expansion in
the  permanent  category  should 
the
industrialized  and  the  developing  countries.  If  there  is
include  both 
no  agreement  on  expansion  of 
the  permanent
membership,  the  Council  should  be  enlarged  for  the
time being in the non-permanent category.
A  central  objective  of  reform  of  the  Security
Council  should  be  to  ensure  its  effectiveness  in  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.
Equally important is the need to enhance the Council's
unity  of  purpose  among  its  members,  especially  the
permanent  members,  so  as  to  avoid  the  situation  that
necessitated  the  taking  of  international  action  outside
the  Council by the  North  Atlantic Treaty  Organization
(NATO),  as  in  the  case  of  Kosovo,  when  the  Council
the  special
was  unable 
circumstances 
international
interventions  should  be  made  only  with  the  express
approval  of  the  Security  Council,  in  the  interest  of
preserving  the  role  and  authority  of  the  Council  as
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  as  well  as  of  ensuring  the
legality and legitimacy of all such actions.
to  act.  Notwithstanding 
future 
of  Kosovo, 
Another  aspect  of  the  work  of  the  Security
Council  that  should  be  thoroughly  reviewed  relates  to
the  imposition  of  sanctions  on  Member  States,  which
have  often  brought  untold  suffering  on  the  general
populace,  particularly  women  and  children.  Sanction
regimes of the  future  should  be  established  only  when
absolutely  necessary  and 
specifically
targeted,  time-bound,  subject  to  regular  review  and
lifted  when  no  longer  necessary.  The  interests  of  all
parties  to  the  conflict  should  be  addressed  in  order  to
achieve  a  just  and  lasting  peace.  We  have  seen  too
many  conflicts  that  seem  to  be  resolved  on  paper  but
continue to remain outstanding on the ground.
should  be 
We should strive in the new century to  make  our
world  a  safer  place.  We  should  strive  to  get  rid  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  particularly  nuclear
weapons,  but  also  chemical  and  biological  weapons.
We  must  intensify  global  efforts  to  reduce  existing
stocks  of  these  horrendous  weapons,  culminating  in
their  total  elimination.  The  major  Powers  and  others
that  possess  and  manufacture  these  weapons  bear  a
special  responsibility.  We  should  all  play  our  part  in
ensuring  that  there  is  no  let-up  in  the  global  efforts
towards nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament.
We 
limit 
should  also 
the  production  and
deployment  of  ultra-sophisticated,  high 
technology
conventional  weapons,  many  of  which  are  being  used
in  the  wars  of  developing  countries,  resulting  in  the
ironic  situation  of  third  world  countries  fighting  their
A/55/PV.16
wars with first world weapons, thanks to the aggressive
marketing  efforts  of  arms  vendors  of  the  developed
countries.  The  developing  countries  can  ill  afford  the
arms  race  that  this  will  trigger,  nor  the  huge  defence
expenditures to sustain the use of these weapons.
We must ensure that genocide, “ethnic cleansing”
and  other  crimes  against  humanity 
that  were
perpetrated,  for  instance,  in  Rwanda,  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  and  Kosovo,  are  never  allowed  to  be
committed  again  anywhere  else  in  the  world.  More
strenuous efforts should be made to apprehend indicted
war  criminals  so  as  to  send  a  stern  warning  to  others.
They  should  not  be  allowed  to  get  away  with  their
heinous crimes with impunity.
Undoubtedly,  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security  can  be  better  served  through  more
effective  use  of  preventive  diplomacy.  This  has  been
highlighted by the Secretary-General in his Millennium
Report 
seriously
considered.
(A/54/2000) 
should 
and 
be 
The  Organization  will  have  to  develop  a  more
effective  early-warning  capability  and  deal  with
emerging conflict situations through more effective use
of  the  mechanism  of  preventive  diplomacy.  A  more
proactive  approach  in  preventive  diplomacy  would
require  even  closer  coordination  and  collaboration
between 
the  Secretary-
General, who would have to put his good offices role to
even greater use.
the  Security  Council  and 
However,  that  should  not  become  an  excuse  to
impose  anything  on  Member  States  or  to  interfere  in
their internal affairs. There are  growing  tendencies  for
the  developed  countries,  in  the  name  of  civil  society,
democracy  and  human  rights,  to  set  standards  in
accordance  with  their  own  moulds  for  the  developing
countries to follow. We even ignore the fact that  many
of  the  problems  confronting  the  developing  countries
are the vestiges of the colonial  past.  We  want to leave
yesterday behind and move to today and the future, but
the  pace  appropriate 
the  particular  country
concerned should be followed.
to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  should
be  empowered  with  clear  and  well-defined  mandates,
adequate  resources  and  strong  international  support,
irrespective of  where they take  place. There  should be
no  perception  of  selectivity  in  their  launching.  In  this
regard,  it  is  especially  important  that  peacekeeping
operations  in  Africa  —  notably  in  Sierra  Leone,  the
7
A/55/PV.16
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Ethiopia  and
Eritrea  —  be  strongly  supported  by  the  international
community. At the same time, for peace to be viable it
is essential that peacekeeping  missions incorporate the
necessary  elements  of  disarmament,  demobilization
and reintegration of ex-combatants,  with the necessary
support of the international community.
My delegation commends the frank and forthright
report  (A/55/305)  of  the  Brahimi  Panel  on  United
Nations  Peace  Operations.  The  Panel’s 
bold
recommendations  deserve  the  detailed  and  careful
consideration  of  the  membership  of  the  Organization.
Thereafter,  we  must  demonstrate 
the  urgency,
seriousness  and  political  will  to  follow  up  on  those
laudable recommendations, lest the Panel’s report meet
the fate of many United Nations reports in the past for
lack of the necessary political will.
On  another  conflict  situation,  it  is  a  matter  of
great  concern  to  Malaysia  that  one  of  the  longest-
running  conflicts  of  this  century,  the  Arab-Israeli
conflict,  remains  unresolved.  Successive  opportunities
were not grasped due to the lack of seriousness on the
part  of  the  Israeli  Government  to  pursue  the  path  of
peace. We are disappointed that the Israeli Government
fails to live  up  to  the  expectations  of  the  international
community and lacks the boldness of vision, as well as
the  will  and  courage,  to  grasp  the  once-in-a-lifetime
window of opportunity to seal a lasting peace between
Israel and Palestine and Syria in the interest of regional
peace and security.
The  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  for  an
independent and sovereign homeland can no longer  be
denied. We look forward to welcoming in the very near
future  an  independent  State  of  Palestine  among  the
community  of  nations  here  at  the  United  Nations,  as
well as in other international organizations. Equally, we
look  forward  to  the  return  of  Syrian  Golan  without
further  delay.  Israel  must  bury  the  suspicion  and
distrust  of  the  past  and  look  to  the  future  in  an
environment 
that  will  create  opportunities  and
challenges in a peaceful and stable Middle East.
Since  the  East  Asian  financial  crisis  there  has
been 
increasing  recognition  of 
the
problem  of,  and  the  need  for  reform  of,  the  existing
global 
systems,  which
Malaysia  has  strongly  advocated.  It  is  my  hope  that
efforts in that direction  will continue to be pursued by
the Bretton Woods institutions, even if the worst for the
the  nature  of 
financial  and 
economic 
8
affected  Asian  economies  may  now  be  over  and  those
countries are now recovering. It is dismaying that some
quarters are suggesting that,  with the end of the crisis,
there  is  now  no  urgency  or  even  necessity  for  reform.
Given  the  universality  of  its  membership,  the  United
Nations 
important
reform  process,
contribution 
particularly  in  the  context  of 
increasing
dialogue  and  interaction  with  those  institutions.  It
would be the height of folly and irresponsibility to wait
for another round of speculative currency attacks to jolt
us into action.
is  well  placed 
to  promoting 
to  make  an 
its  own 
the 
Indeed, 
East  Asia’s  traumatic  experience  is  also  a  strong
reminder  of  the  negative  effects  of  globalization  on
developing countries. While globalization is  inevitable
and  is  becoming  a  permanent  feature  of  the  new
international  order  and  system,  it  is  far  from  being  a
the  United  Nations  Human
panacea. 
Development  Report  indicates  that  globalization  has
led 
the  marginalization  of  many  developing
countries,  resulting 
in
economic attainment between  nations. This conclusion
is  not  surprising,  given 
inequitable
international economic order and the differing access to
technology.
increasing  disparity 
the  existing 
to 
in  an 
With all its potential benefits, globalization in its
unfettered form is likely to do more harm than good to
the  small,  vulnerable  economies,  at  least  in  the  short
and medium terms, unless measures are put in place to
protect them. It  will  bring  about  not  free  trade,  but  an
unfair and  inequitable  exchange:  the inflow  of  capital,
goods and services from the developed North in return
for  the  outflow  of  hard-earned  foreign  exchange  from
the  poor  countries  of  the  South.  The  notion  of  a  level
playing 
the  central  creed  of
globalization,  would  perpetuate  the  present  inequities
in  favour  of  the  strong,  developed  economies  at  the
expense of the vulnerable economies of the developing
world.  It  would  only  ensure  the  continued  domination
of the weak by the strong.
field,  which 
is 
For  globalization  to  be  universally  embraced
without  reservation  there  must  be  in  place  certain
ground  rules  to  regulate  the  conduct  of  free  trade  in
goods  and  services  to  ensure  an  equitable  exchange
between  unequal  partners  predicated  on  a  win-win
proposition.  At 
the  principle  of
transparency  should  be  applied  across  the  board  to
include currency traders and market manipulators, who
are  now  somehow  exempted  from  such  a  requirement,
the  same 
time, 
as  well  as  from  payment  of  taxes.  Until  and  unless
these measures are instituted, globalization will be seen
by 
largely  predatory
ideology  of  the  rich  nations  for  the  exploitation  and
subjugation of poor ones.
the  developing  world  as  a 
That  impression  is  further  reinforced  by  the
intolerance  of  dissenting  of  some  of  its  promoters
views  in  their  zeal  to  prescribe  the  one-size-fits-all
approach 
towards  globalization.  The  developing
countries  should  be  allowed  to  pursue  globalization  at
their  own  pace  so  as  to  enable  them  to  develop  social
and  institutional  structures  to  fully  benefit  from  the
process  while  minimizing  its  negative  impact.  For
many countries, the price to be paid for globalization as
presently 
of
independence,  would  be  simply  too  great  for  them  to
bear.  This  is  not  the  time  for  us  to  re-examine  the
concept  of  the  nation  State  and  the  sovereignty  of
nations in order to accommodate the needs of the giant
multinational companies that operate across borders.
particularly 
interpreted, 
loss 
the 
In the meantime, in order to brace themselves for
the  full  impact  of  globalization,  developing  countries
must forge enhanced cooperation among themselves in
a  true  spirit  of  South-South  cooperation  and  on  the
basis  of  mutually  beneficial  “smart  partnerships”  with
the  involvement  of  the  private  sector.  This  would
facilitate  a  useful  exchange  of  ideas  and  experience
among  them  on  the  globalization  process.  Malaysia  is
pleased  to  share  those  ideas  and  experiences  with  its
partners  from  the  developing  countries,  and  has  done
so  in  the  past  several  years  in  the  context  of  the
Langkawi international dialogue. We are pleased to see
that  those  dialogues  have  been  emulated  by  Africa
through 
international  dialogue.
Indeed,  in  an  increasingly  complex  future  world  it  is
only  appropriate  for 
to
develop  such  synergies 
linkages
among  themselves  as  well  as  with  the  developed
countries.
the  developing  countries 
the  South  African 
through  strategic 
them, 
among 
To  assist  in  the  process  of  globalization,  it  is
incumbent upon the international community to ensure
that  the  developing  countries,  particularly  the  least
developed 
receive
development  assistance  to  enable  them  to  make  the
leap out of chronic poverty. Indeed, given the intrinsic
link  between  peace,  security  and  development,  the
Organization  must  continue  to  be  in  the  vanguard  of
global  developmental  efforts,  upon  which  so  much  of
the  world  depends.  It  is  imperative  for  the  United
continue 
to 
A/55/PV.16
Nations  to  carry  out  its  developmental  mission  with
even  greater  vigour  at  a  time  of  increasingly  scarce
resources and exploding populations. This is where the
continued  role  of  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme  (UNDP)  can  be  especially  critical,  with
additional  resources  and  more  effective  programmes,
particularly for vulnerable small island and landlocked
States and States in Africa, where in a number of cases
economic  performance  has  fallen  back  rather  than
progressed since independence.
Notable gains have been made in several  African
countries.  However,  Africa’s  ability  to  rise  out  of
chronic  poverty  can  be  attained  only  with  continued
international  assistance,  including  forgiveness  of  its
countries’  external  debt,  without  which  many  of  them
will  remain  trapped  in  the  vicious  circle  of  poverty,
violence  and  natural  or  man-made  disasters.  In  this
regard,  Malaysia  reiterates  its  strong  support  for,  and
looks  forward  to,  the  convening  of  an  international
conference  on  financing  for  development  in  the  year
2001  involving  all  major  stakeholders,  including  the
private  sector.  The  convening  of  such  a  forum  is
imperative, as there can be no development without the
necessary financing to support it.
Along  with  the  Millennium  Summit,  this  session
of  the  General  Assembly  will  be  remembered  for,
among  other  things,  paving  the  way  for  the  kind  of
United Nations that will eventually emerge to serve the
international  community,  at  least  in  the  early  decades
of  the  twenty-first  century.  While  the  shifting  patterns
of relationships among nations have  yet to find a final
form  and  the  future  is  far  from  clear,  there  is  no
denying 
increasingly  complex  and
interconnected  world  of  tomorrow,  the  United  Nations
is  likely  to  play  an  increasingly  critical  role.  To  that
end  the  Organization  must  continuously  place  itself  at
the  forefront  in  the  search  for  solutions  to  global
problems.
that 
the 
in 
The President: I give the floor to the Minister of
State  and  Foreign  Affairs  of  Portugal,  His  Excellency
Mr. Jaime Gama.
Mr.  Gama  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): It is with the
greatest  pleasure  that  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
assumption  of  the  presidency  of 
this  Millennium
Assembly. I pay tribute also to the outgoing President,
Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  and  reiterate  to  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, my praise for his vision and
9
A/55/PV.16
for the remarkable and courageous manner in which he
is carrying out his duties.
My  French  colleague  has  already  addressed  the
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  15  member  States  of  the
European  Union,  a  statement  with  which  my  country
fully associates itself.
I  will  now  touch  upon  questions  of  particular
importance to my country, Portugal.
As  the  Prime  Minister  stated  here  during  the
Millennium  Summit, the  United  Nations  finds  itself  at
a turning point which necessarily calls for the exercise
of  reflection  on  the  future  of  the  Organization.  In  this
era  of  increasing  globalization,  we  should  give  the
United  Nations  the  means  to  accomplish  the  missions
that we have entrusted it with, turning the Organization
into  the  foundation  of  a  more  stable,  united  and
cohesive international community.
The  international  community  faces  three  great
challenges at the turn of the millennium: to strengthen
our  action  on  behalf  of  peace,  to  contribute  to  the
eradication  of  extreme  poverty,  and 
to  guarantee
environmental  conditions  conducive  to  perpetuating
life on earth.
The  increasing  use  of  peacekeeping  operations
over  the  last  decade,  which  we  have  encouraged,
conclusively  demonstrates 
importance.  The
results that we have obtained on the five continents tell
us with certainty that we have chosen the right path. To
continue  this  effort  effectively,  the  United  Nations
must  have  at  its  disposal  the  necessary  resources,  be
they financial, technical, civilian, political or military.
their 
A  credible  peacekeeping  capacity  is  in  itself  a
deterrent  to  conflicts  and  therefore  an  integral  part  of
the  global  system  of  conflict  prevention,  of  which  the
United  Nations  should  be  an  essential  component.  In
this  regard,  Portugal  welcomed  with  satisfaction  the
Brahimi report on peace operations. We believe that its
list  of  recommendations  point  the  way  to  a  process  of
reform  that  will  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the  United
in  conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and
Nations 
peace-building.  We  should 
the
momentum  that  has  been  created  and  concentrate  on
obtaining concrete results within the next year or two.
take  advantage  of 
I  would  stress,  however,  that  crucial  questions
will always be of a political nature. We must muster the
necessary  courage 
the
responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  us  not
the  scope  of 
to  broaden 
10
deceive  ourselves.  As  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, stated, it is our function to intervene. Allow me
to  go  ever  further  and  to  say  that  it  is  our  duty  to  do
so — to intervene in time, effectively and on the basis
of international law.
Portugal is ready to do so, as it has shown in the
past.  We  have  participated  in  peacekeeping  operations
in  Mozambique,  Angola, the  Central  African  Republic
and  Guatemala,  and  today  we  are  participating  in
United  Nations  missions 
in  East  Timor,  Bosnia,
Kosovo and the Western Sahara, with  more than 1,000
peacekeepers.  Portugal  is  currently  the  11th-largest
the  United  Nations  peacekeeping
contributor 
operations,  and  first  among 
its  European  Union
partners.
to 
During 
the  Portuguese  presidency  of 
the  European  Union’s  capacities 
the
European  Union,  we  gave  decisive  impetus  to  the
creation  of 
to
intervene, which we see as being offered in the service
of  international  peace  and  cooperation.  In  the  year
2003,  the  Union  will  have  at  its  disposal  a  force  of
50,000  to  60,000  military  personnel,  to  which  5,000
police will be added, as well as a civilian structure for
crisis management.
This  aspect  of  Portugal’s  external  activities  will
continue to be favoured, and the importance  we  attach
to  them  is  equally  reflected  in  our  candidacy  for  the
presidency  of 
the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation in Europe for the year 2002.
the 
existence  of
tremendous    economic  asymmetries  is  a  factor  of
permanent  tension  and  conflict.  Indeed,  about  half  of
the world’s population lives on less than $2 a day.
a  globalized  world, 
In 
The  turn  of  the  millennium  is  an  opportunity  for
us to reaffirm our will to combat and eradicate poverty
on  a  global  scale.  It  may  be  a  utopian  vision  at  this
point,  but  with  our  combined  efforts  it  is  a  goal  that
may be within our reach.
in 
In  the  time  that  it  takes  to  deliver  each  of  these
statements 
the  General  Assembly,  around  300
children under the age of 1 will die. Is this acceptable?
Obviously  not.  Could  it  be,  then,  that  the  human  and
financial  resources  necessary  to  fight  this  tragedy  are
so  great  that  they  force  us  into  accepting  it?  The
answer  again  is  no.  Many  of  those  deaths  could  be
avoided  through  better  management  and  without  an
increase in resources. Health, like education, should be
a priority sector for development assistance.
It 
is  vital 
by  mechanisms 
to  combine  efforts,  policies  and
instruments.  Direct  development  assistance  must  be
complemented 
the
longstanding problems of the poorest countries through
reform  of  the  regulatory  institutions  of  the  global
financial and economic system and through agreements
that  allow  poor  countries  to  access  the  markets  of
developed countries without trade barriers.
resolve 
to 
I should like to stress in particular the importance
of  developing  cooperative  mechanisms  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,
namely a revitalized Economic and Social Council. Our
priority  should  be 
the  role  of  each
institution  and  to  avoid  any  duplication  of  effort  in  a
field  where  the  United  Nations  should  play  a  leading
role.
to  redefine 
It  is  equally  important  to  give  responsibility  to
the countries receiving aid by demanding that funds be
used  efficiently  or  requiring  good  governance.  In  this
regard I should like to emphasize that the fight against
corruption should be a priority of all our Governments.
The  Millennium  Declaration  states  clearly  that
the  principal  challenge 
that
globalization  becomes  a  positive  reality  for  the  entire
population  of  the  world,  and  not  a  new  factor  of
exclusion.
to  ensure 
today 
is 
Only  the  United  Nations  is  in  a  position  to
promote  the  partnership  for  change  that  Kofi  Annan
referred to in his report entitled “We the peoples”.
Poverty,  sadly,  is  also  closely  linked  to  infection
and  to  contagious  diseases  such  as  AIDS,  malaria  and
tuberculosis, which cause millions of deaths every year
and  which,  in  Africa,  are  laying  waste  to  an  entire
generation  and  posing  a 
future
development.  More  than  ever  before,  it  is  vital  to
mobilize  the  energies  of  civil  society,  institutions  and
the  international  community  at  large  to  fight  infection
and  contagious  diseases.  The  European  Union  and  the
United States recently  agreed,  at  Lisbon,  to  strengthen
their cooperation in the fight against those scourges.
tragic 
threat 
to 
Turning  to  the  environment,  we  must  always  be
mindful of the fact that economic growth and progress
must not be achieved at any cost, least of all at the cost
of  the  future.  The  United  Nations  must  continue  to
guide the way on environmental matters, as it has since
A/55/PV.16
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and
Development,  held  at  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  1992.  But  the
response  from  States  has  fallen  short  —  often  very
short  —  of  what  we  committed  ourselves  to  do  in
political  statements  and  even  in  international  treaties.
Let  us  not  delude  ourselves:  the  United  Nations  plays
an  instrumental  role  in  this  crucial,  strategic  area,  as
was reaffirmed in the Millennium Declaration, but it is
only  States  that  can  produce  results.  This  is  not  a  job
that can be subcontracted to the United Nations.
that 
can 
think 
Here, civil society should use all its influence, by
bringing  pressure  to  bear  on,  and  calling  to  account,
Governments 
deal  with
environmental  issues  by  opting  out,  as  though  they
were  simply  matters  of  sovereignty.  We  can  no  longer
think  in  that  way.  Global  warming  affects  us  all.  To
face this common problem, we need common action on
a global scale.
they 
For geographical, historical and political reasons,
Portugal  is  a  country  that  is  linked  to  the  oceans.  For
that reason,  we  recognize  their  importance  both  to  the
land ecosystem and to the renewal of energy resources
vital  to  the  sustenance  of  millions  of  people.  We
welcome  the  launching  of  an  informal  consultative
process  on  the  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  and  we
attach particular importance to the debate on scientific
research on marine matters.
endorsed 
a  declaration 
Let  me speak briefly about an initiative to  which
my  country  attaches  great  importance.  In  June,  at
Warsaw, a group of more than 100 countries, united by
shared  beliefs, 
entitled
“Towards  a  Community  of  Democracies”.  The
participants recognized that there  was no  single  model
to  determine  how  the  will  of  a  people  should  be
respected. The Community of Democracies will play a
role in uniting the efforts of all countries that believe a
representative democratic system to be the system that
best meets that objective.
I wish now to speak of some regional matters that
are  of  particular  importance  to  my  country.  Africa  is
one of the great priorities of Portuguese foreign policy.
The  first  Africa-Europe  Summit  was  held  during  the
Portuguese  presidency  of  the  European  Union,  and  on
the basis of a Portuguese proposal. The Summit opened
new  vistas  in  the  relationship  between  Europe  and
Africa which will surely  make possible a joint process
of  reflection  on  the  challenges  and  problems  that  the
11
A/55/PV.16
two continents face. The second Africa-Europe Summit
will be held at Lisbon in 2003.
West  Africa  is  at  present  one  of  our  main
concerns  on  the  continent.  In  that  connection  I  would
mention  the  situation  in  Casamance  in  Senegal;  the
recent  conflict  in  Guinea-Bissau,  from  which  the
country  is  only  now  beginning  to  recover;  the  serious
conflicts  in  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia;  the  problem  of
refugees  from  those  countries  and  their  consequences
for Guinea; and the instability along the  borders of all
those countries.
The  persistence  and  potential  spread  of  those
tensions and conflicts seriously threaten the security of
the entire  subregion of  West  Africa,  which could  have
grave 
humanitarian
consequences. 
the
international  community  to  give  greater  attention  to
this sensitive region of Africa while there is still time.
therefore  necessary 
political, 
It 
economic 
and 
for 
is 
to 
With respect to Angola, we deeply regret the fact
that  the  war  is  continuing,  which  we  believe  is  due  to
the  lack  of  implementation  of  the  Bicesse  and  Lusaka
peace  agreements,  and  to  UNITA’s  violation  of  the
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  In  our  view,
those instruments continue to be the reference point for
a  political  solution 
the  Angolan  conflict.  We
welcome  the  strengthening  of  the  sanctions  regime
against  UNITA  and  reiterate  our  pledge  to  cooperate
with  the  Security  Council’s  sanctions  Committee.  We
consider  that  the  presence  of  the  United  Nations  on
Angolan  territory  continues  to  be  of  fundamental
importance,  from  both  a  humanitarian  and  a  political
perspective.  Only  thus  can  the  United  Nations  quickly
step  in  to  support  any  political  solution  that  may
emerge.  I  welcome  the  intention  of  the  Angolan
Government  to  organize  elections  and  to  hold  them  in
2001.  Promotion  of 
tolerance  and
dialogue  and  of  democratic  principles  is  essential  to
guarantee a lasting peace.
the  values  of 
One  year  after  the  referendum  that  allowed  the
people  of  East  Timor  finally  to  exercise  their  right  to
self-determination,  the  United  Nations  faces  a  new
challenge:  administering  East  Timor  in  its  transitional
period  and  creating  the  necessary  foundations  for  a
new  independent  and  democratic  State  that  will  be  a
future  member of the  Association  of  South-East  Asian
Nations and of the Community of Portuguese-Speaking
Countries  —  and  that  we  hope  can  be  admitted  to
membership  of  the  United  Nations  by  2001.  Portugal
12
has  always  supported  East  Timor  and  will  continue  to
do  so.  Our  total  financial  assistance,  not  counting  our
participation  in  the  military  component  of  the  United
Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor, will
reach  an  estimated  $50 million  this  year,  and  will
remain at that level in 2001 and 2002. Much remains to
be  done,  but  the  able  leadership  of  Sergio  Vieira  de
Mello and the exceptional qualities of Xanana Gusmão
allow us to look to the future with optimism.
lost 
their 
lives, 
deserve 
The tragic events that took place in Atambua on 6
September, in  which three members of the  staff  of  the
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
Refugees 
unanimous
condemnation  by  the  international  community.  They
testify  to  the  impunity  with  which  the  militias  act  in
West  Timor.  Two  days  after  those  events,  further
militia  activity  took  place  along  the  border,  which  led
to  the  death  of  11  people,  this  time  of  Indonesian
nationality,  who  were 
non-
international
governmental 
organizations.  We  welcome  the  swift  response  of  the
Security Council in adopting its resolution 1319 (2000)
and  in  deciding  to  dispatch  an  evaluation  mission  to
West Timor.
assisting 
and 
organizations 
various 
and  military 
authorities  of 
The  new  democratic  Government  of  Indonesia
has, in general, shown a spirit of cooperation. It is now
time for it to honour its commitment to re-establish law
and order in West Timor, disarming and dismantling its
militias.  Their  continued  existence  destabilizes  the
transition process in East Timor and is an affront to the
civilian 
Indonesia,
disturbing  the  consolidation  of  the  democratic  regime
in  that  country.  For  our  part,  we  stand  ready  to  work
with  the  Indonesian  Government,  helping  it  to  resolve
this  problem.  It  was  in  that  spirit  that  the  Portuguese
Prime Minister proposed here last week a stability pact
for  East  Timor.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  will
participate in the quadripartite summit to be held soon
at  Jakarta,  which  will  bring 
together  high-level
representatives of Indonesia, East Timor, Australia and
Portugal.
Guaranteeing  peace,  fighting  poverty,  protecting
the  environment  and  leaving  a  better  world  for  future
generations:  that  is  our  duty  at  the  turn  of  the
millennium. Only through democracy can Governments
respond  to  those  aspirations  of  our  societies.  Only  a
reformed  and  ever  more  democratic  United  Nations
will be able to help us face this common challenge.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  External  Trade  of
Iceland, His Excellency Mr. Halldór Ásgrímsson.
Mr. Ásgrímsson  (Iceland): Allow  me,  Sir, at  the
outset  to  congratulate  you  heartily  on  your  election  to
the  Presidency  of  this  General  Assembly.  Finland  is  a
close friend and partner  within the  Nordic  community.
We  wish  you  success  with  this  challenging  task  and
pledge 
the  Icelandic
delegation.
the  full  support  of 
to  you 
provides 
The  Millennium  Declaration 
the
commitments  of  the  world  community  in  the  new
century.  To  prevent  conflicts,  maintain  international
peace and security and  make peace an achievable  goal
at  the  end  of  armed  conflicts,  we  need  to  continue
strengthening the  United  Nations  and  the  international
legal system as a  whole. Iceland has always  supported
verifiable  arms  control  and  arms  reduction  measures
and  will  continue  to  support  realistic  disarmament
proposals  aiming  at  maximum 
security  with  a
minimum  of  weapons.  It  is  appalling  to  note  the
enormous  sums  being  spent  on  weapons,  while  the
money could be used to significantly improve the lives
of millions.
Today,  when  there  is  an  obvious  need  to  assess
the  United  Nations  ability  to  conduct  peacekeeping
operations, it has proved extremely important to have a
Secretary-General  who  has  such  a  deep  knowledge  of
the matter through his own experience. I would like to
commend 
the
initiative  to  ask  a  panel  of  prominent  experts  in  the
field  to  assess  the  situation.  I  welcome  the  Brahimi
report. Its recommendations should be implemented as
soon as possible.
the  Secretary-General 
taking 
for 
to  participate 
Even though my country does not have a military,
it  has  been  able 
in  peacekeeping
operations. It has done so in  the  Balkans  by  providing
medical  staff,  policemen  and  experts  in  the  fields  of
law, the media and women’s rights. We have noted with
interest  the  recommendations  made  in  the  Brahimi
report  concerning  the  non-military  aspects  of  peace
operations.  We  will  be  studying  them  carefully  now
that  we are in the process  of looking  into  how  we  can
strengthen  our  contribution  to  peacekeeping  in  the
future.
The  report  states  that  expressions  of  general
support in the form of statements and resolutions must
A/55/PV.16
be followed up with tangible actions. We will be taking
these words of wisdom seriously in our policy-making.
In the preparations for the Millennium Assembly,
the  Secretary-General  encouraged  Member  States  to
engage  more  effectively  in  the  international  legal
framework  by  acceding 
legal
instruments.  One  to  which  Iceland  has  decided  to
accede  is  the  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  United
Nations and Associated Personnel.
to  a  number  of 
The 
Security  Council 
primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded
in 
the
international  arena  which  have  taken  place  since  its
establishment. In order to ensure its credibility in years
to come, the reform process has to be accelerated.
tremendous 
reflecting 
changes 
the 
has 
the 
in 
in 
The  rules  of  international  law  governing  the
relations between States are now  well established; this
also  applies 
the  fields  of  human  rights  and
humanitarian  law.  These  rules  set  out  the  rights  and
obligations of States and individuals. But ground rules
do  not  suffice  if  it  is  not  possible  to  enforce  them.
There 
and
compliance  with  these  rules,  such  as  the  General
Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and  peacekeeping
missions.  As  a  complement  to  these  mechanisms,  an
effective international court system should be available
to bring those  who breach these rules to justice, at the
same time serving to deter potential perpetrators.
are  mechanisms 
to  ensure 
respect 
in 
system 
the  adoption  of 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
recent  years  have  been 
With  this  in  mind,  I  believe  that  the  greatest
achievements  towards  strengthening  the  international
legal 
the
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunals
for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and for Rwanda
and 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  Iceland  has  ratified  the
Rome Statute and encourages all other States to do so.
I  welcome  the  proposal  to  include  cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe
in the agenda of this session of the General Assembly. I
had the honour of chairing the Council of Ministers of
the  Council  of  Europe  last  year.  I  am  therefore  well
aware  of  the  important  contribution  made  by  the
Council to peace  and  stability  in  Europe,  especially  in
the  field  of  human  rights.  The  United  Nations,  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE), 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization
(NATO), the Council of Europe and other organizations
13
A/55/PV.16
responded  to  the  serious  situation  in  the  Balkans  by
joining 
to  make
reconstruction achievable.
forces  and  working 
together 
In  Kosovo,  the  politically  motivated  and  inter-
ethnic  violence  must  be  stopped.  Rogue  elements
cannot  be  allowed  to  destroy  possibilities  created  by
the  international  community.  One  ethnic  group  must
not  be  allowed  to  win  at  the  expense  of  another.  The
Kosovars  have  been  provided  with 
a  unique
opportunity to build a just community in the region —
a  community  where  the  fundamental  freedoms  and
rights  of  every  individual  and  minority  group  are
respected.  Only  by  utilizing 
this  opportunity  are
Kosovars going to be able to build a stable foundation
for  lasting  peace  and  stability  for  future  generations.
The  same  can  be  said  about  similar  situations
elsewhere  in  the  Balkans,  such  as  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina.
The  international  community  has  taken  on  an
enormous task in building a whole  new  civic  structure
within Kosovo. The development of a legal system and
free  media  have  been  two  challenging  tasks.  The
elections to take place in  October  are  also  going  to  be
challenging.  Hopefully,  they  can  be  carried  out  in  an
orderly and peaceful manner.
It  is  very  important  to  include  women  in  the
political  process.  In  this  respect,  I  would  like  to
commend  the  United  Nations  Development  Fund  for
Women  (UNIFEM)  for  the  good  work  carried  out  in
Kosovo,  not  only  in  the  political  field  but  also  in
fighting  violence  against  women  and  in  promoting
women’s participation in economic activities.
The importance of human rights in securing long-
term  stability  and  security,  both  within  and  between
countries,  cannot  be  overestimated.  It  is  therefore
essential that no compromises be accepted in this field,
and our aims should remain high.
The  Security  Council  should  be  commended  for
discussing  the  grave  humanitarian  crisis  and  security
threat posed by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, particularly in
sub-Saharan Africa, and also for discussing the issue of
children  and  armed  conflict.  The  discussion  in  the
Council  has  served  to  concentrate  the  attention  of  the
international  community  on  these  issues  and  led  the
way  for  others  to  take  the  measures  required.  Both
issues affect children in a very serious manner. I expect
them  to  feature  prominently  on  the  agenda  of  next
year’s  special  session  to  follow  up  the  World  Summit
14
for  Children.  I  also  welcome  the  decision  to  hold  a
special  session  of 
the
enormous  problem  of  HIV/AIDS  and  international
efforts to combat it.
the  General  Assembly  on 
The rights of women were significantly enhanced
with the adoption last  year of the Optional Protocol to
the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination  against  Women.  Iceland  has  signed  the
Protocol and is preparing its ratification.
I  cannot  fail  to  condemn  the  terrible  plight  of
those  women  around  the  world  who  are  still  enduring
major  human  rights  abuses,  including  female  genital
mutilation and trafficking, as well as severe restrictions
on their freedom of movement and the right to work.
During 
the  Millennium  Summit, 
the  Prime
Minister  of  Iceland  signed  the  two  Optional  Protocols
to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.  Iceland
welcomes  their  adoption  and  hopes  that  they  will
further secure the human rights of children.
the  trend 
towards 
We have to put extra effort into  working towards
the  elimination  of  racial  discrimination.  It  is  worrying
to  note 
increasing  racism  and
xenophobia  in  certain  parts  of  the  world,  including
Europe.  This  needs  to  be  fought  at  all  levels.  The
World Conference to be held in South Africa next year
will  without  doubt  play  an  important  role.  Iceland
welcomes this Conference and feels that, in the light of
history, South Africa is a very appropriate venue for it.
As  reflected  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  “We  the  peoples”,  fighting  poverty  remains
one  of  the  main  challenges  to  the  United  Nations.
People living in poverty do not have the opportunity to
exercise  many  of 
rights  and
freedoms. They cannot benefit from the possibilities of
globalization.  We  need to reverse  the  current  trend,  as
decided at the Millennium Summit. But  more needs to
be  done.  Globalization  and  new  technologies  offer
many  opportunities  to  reduce  poverty  at  a  faster  rate
than in the past.
fundamental 
their 
We  have  been  strengthening  our  development
cooperation,  both  bilaterally  and  multilaterally.  At  the
bilateral  level,  we  have  concentrated  on  a  group  of
African  countries  with  a  focus  on  strengthening  their
fishing  industry  and  education  and  health  areas,  with
the  potential  to  positively  alter  the  lives  of  people  in
need. On the multilateral level, we will be contributing
to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries  Debt Initiative
through the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund.
Most of our decisions are based on compromises,
in which each and every one of us has to give a little in
order  to  reach  an  agreement.  It  is  very  important  to
keep this in mind, not only when we discuss substance,
but  also  when  the  time  comes  for  us  to  pay  our  dues,
both  to  the  regular  budget  and  to  the  peacekeeping
budget.  It  is  crucial  for  the  good  functioning  of  this
Organization  that  all  Members  pay  their  contributions
fully, on time and without any conditions.
In  recent  years,  the  oceans  of  the  world  have
received  increased  attention  in  the  General  Assembly.
We  welcome  this  development.  Iceland’s  economy  is
based  on  the  sustainable  harvest  of  living  marine
resources.  The  health  and  responsible  stewardship  of
the  oceans  are  therefore  of  critical  importance  to  us.
Last  year,  we  resolved  to  improve  United  Nations
coordination in the area of ocean affairs. Towards that
end,  we  established  an  Informal  Consultative  Process
to discuss the Secretary-General’s report on the oceans
and  the  law  of  the  sea.  I  was  pleased  with  the
implementation of this decision of the first Meeting of
this Process last spring.
However,  we  must  act  carefully  when  seeking  to
improve our coordination and cooperation in this area.
Ocean issues must be addressed at the appropriate level
and  be  consistent  with  the  rights  and  obligations  laid
down  in  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We
must  fully  respect  the  sovereign  right  of  States  over
their  natural  resources  and  the  competence  of  existing
international  organizations.  Above  all,  the  integrity  of
the Convention must be preserved. We must be mindful
that  the  Convention  provides  the  legal  framework
within which all activities in the oceans and seas  must
be carried out.
The United Nations  specialized  agencies  have an
important  role  to  play  in  promoting  the  conservation
and  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans.  A  key  area  in  this
respect  is  marine  scientific  research.  We  need  more
accurate and policy-oriented information on the state of
the  oceans.  Coordination  towards  that  end  would  be  a
worthy task for the new Informal Consultative Process
on Ocean Affairs.
At  the  onset  of  a  new  millennium,  it  is  more
pressing than ever before to ensure the access of people
in the developing countries, especially in rural areas, to
readily  available  and  sustainable  energy.  Today,  about
A/55/PV.16
this  situation 
one third of the world’s population does not have such
access,  and 
is  obviously  a  serious
obstacle  to  the  development  of  these  communities.  In
my  country,  we  have  been  able  to  bring  sustainable
energy to all households in the country. We are sharing
our  experience  and  knowledge  with  the  developing
countries 
the  United  Nations  University
Geothermal  Training  Programme,  which  is  located  in
Iceland and funded by my Government.
through 
The  1992  Earth  Summit 
in  Rio  created  a
momentum for building a secure future for humankind
and  life  on  Earth  under  the  banner  of  sustainable
development. Soon,  world leaders  will  meet again at a
global conference to take stock of the progress made in
meeting these challenges, laid down in Agenda 21 and
the other Rio agreements. It is indeed true that we have
not been able to live up to all the expectations raised in
Rio,  but  we  should  not  fail  to  acknowledge  the
progress that we have made.
The concept of sustainable development has truly
become  accepted  as  a  fundamental  guiding  strategy  in
environmental  and  socio-economic  affairs.  In  my  own
country,  which  is  dependent  on  fisheries,  we  believe
that  we  are  reaping  the  benefits  of  the  sustainable-use
regime  for  our  fish  stocks  in  the  form  of  a  healthy
ecosystem  and  a  robust  economy.  Regional  and
international  efforts  to  prevent  the  pollution  of  the
oceans  have  continued  to  gather  strength  and  we  can
expect further efforts, in particular to control pollution
from land-based sources.
It  is  my  belief  that,  in  charting  a  course  for  the
future,  we  should  be  looking  at  success  stories  and
learning  from  them,  rather  than  concentrating  on  the
obstacles  we  face.  Let  us  be  guided  by  the  doers,  but
not the doom-sayers.
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  Rashid  Abdullah  Al-Noaimi,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of the United Arab Emirates.
the  United  Arab  Emirates, 
Mr. Al-Noaimi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in
Arabic): I have the honour to convey to you, on behalf
of 
sincere
congratulations  and  regards  on  your  election  to  the
presidency  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  We  are  confident  that  your  experience  in
international  affairs  will  contribute  to  the  success  of
this  session’s  proceedings.  We  also 
thank  your
predecessor,  His  Excellency  the  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs  of  Namibia,  for  the  efficient  manner  in  which
our 
15
A/55/PV.16
he  directed  the  work  of  the  previous  session.  I  would
also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan for his prudent leadership and for
the efforts he exerts to strengthen the role of the United
Nations  in  maintaining  peace,  security  and  stability  in
the world.
The  convening  of  the  Millennium  Summit  a  few
days ago  in  this  world  forum  was  a  clear  embodiment
of the political  will of the leaders of the  world  to  deal
effectively  with  the  problems  and  challenges  that  face
the  international  community,  such  as  the  proliferation
of proscribed  weapons,  armed conflicts and  increasing
poverty  and  debt,  as  well  as  other  attendant
transnational  issues,  such  as  drugs,  organized  crime,
international 
pollution,
persistent violations of human rights and the disparities
resulting 
information
technology.
environmental 
globalization 
terrorism, 
from 
and 
to 
the 
importance  of  adhering 
The  consequences  of  these  prevailing  conditions
have,  more than ever  before, reinforced our  awareness
of 
the  principles
embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  of
consolidating  the  rule  of  international  law  through  the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
the
principle  of 
self-
the 
determination, as  well  as  of strengthening the  spirit of
cooperation and tolerance among the different cultures,
beliefs  and  legacies  of  the  various  civilizations,  for
achieving  the  desired  security,  stability  and  human
development.
respect 
right 
equality 
for 
to 
and 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  reiterates  its  welcome
of the  border treaties concluded between the  Kingdom
of  Saudi  Arabia  and  both  the  State  of  Kuwait  and  the
Republic  of  Yemen,  as  an  important  political  and
historic  event  that  will  promote  confidence-building
measures  and  good  neighbourly relations.  At the  same
time,  we  call  upon  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to
follow  the  example  of  those  fraternal  States  and  to
respond  to  our  peaceful  initiatives  that  call  for  either
entering  into  direct  and  serious  bilateral  negotiations
aimed  at  finding  a  peaceful  solution  for  ending  Iran’s
occupation  of  our  three  islands  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser
Tunb and Abu Musa, or agreeing to submit the dispute
to the International Court of Justice.
In this context, we would like to reaffirm that all
actions  and  measures  taken  unilaterally  by  the  Islamic
Republic  of  Iran  on 
its
continued  construction  of  military  and  civilian
islands  and 
those 
three 
16
they  represent  a  violation  of 
installations  on  them,  are  illegal  measures  considered
null  and  void,  and  do  not  establish  or  entail  any  legal
rights, regardless  of the  duration  of  the  occupation.  In
fact, 
territorial
sovereignty  of 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and
contravene the principles and purposes of the  Charters
of both the United Nations and the Organization of the
Islamic  Conference,  as  well  as  declared  Iranian
peaceful intentions in the region.
the 
More  than  a  year  has  elapsed  since  the  Gulf
Cooperation  Council  entrusted  a  tripartite  Ministerial
Committee,  composed  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Saudi
Arabia,  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  and  the  State  of  Qatar,
with  developing  a  mechanism  for  direct  negotiations
between  the  United  Arab  Emirates  and  the  Islamic
Republic of Iran. Iran  has  not  yet responded to  any of
the endeavours  of  that  Committee, thus  preventing  the
reinforcement of the foundations of peace and security
in the Arab Gulf region.
Despite  the  fact  that  almost  ten  years  have
elapsed since the end of the second Gulf War, the Arab
Gulf region is still experiencing the negative effects of
that  War.  Consequently,  it  is  imperative  that  political
and  diplomatic  efforts  continue  in  order  to  find  a
peaceful solution that  would lead to ending the human
suffering  of  the  Iraqi  people.  At  the  same  time,  we
invite the Iraqi Government to cooperate by completely
fulfilling  its  obligations,  particularly  those  relating  to
the release of Kuwaiti and other countries’ prisoners of
war  or  detainees  and  to  the  restitution  of  Kuwaiti
property,  in  implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the
Security  Council.  In  this  regard,  we  would  like  to
underline  the  importance  of  respecting  the  national
sovereignty, 
political
independence  of  both  Iraq  and  Kuwait,  as  well  as
refraining  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force,  in  order  to
ensure the entrenchment of security and stability in the
region.
territorial 
integrity 
and 
fair  solutions  based  on 
The Middle East peace process recently witnessed
important  developments  during  which  major  efforts
were exerted with the objective of arriving at equitable
and 
resolutions  of
international  legitimacy  and  the  principle  of  land  for
peace. Yet, despite all those efforts and all the flexible
and  constructive  proposals  put 
the
Palestinian  side  for  finding  a  comprehensive  and  just
solution  to  the  Palestine  issue  in  all  its  aspects,  the
Israeli  Government  persisted 
its  positions  of
procrastination,  delay  and  stalling,  and  in  failing  to
forward  by 
the 
in 
abide  by  the  agreements  it  had  concluded  with  the
Palestinian side.
and 
that 
efforts 
support 
Thus, in affirming our position of  solidarity  with
the  fraternal  Palestinian  people  and  their  leadership,
represented by the Palestinian Authority, we renew our
call  to  the  co-sponsors  of  the  peace  process  —  in
particular  the  United  States  of  America  —  and  the
other  active  States  to  continue  exerting  political  and
diplomatic 
promote
negotiations  between  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  sides,
with  the  aim  of  finding  a  just  and  comprehensive
settlement  of  the  Palestine  issue.  In  particular  this
settlement  should  resolve  the  issues  of  Al-Quds  Al-
Sharif  and  the  refugees,  on  the  basis  of  Security
Council  resolutions,  especially  resolutions  242  (1967)
and  338  (1973).  This  should  enable  the  Palestinian
people  to  exercise  their  legitimate  and  inalienable
rights to return to their homeland and to establish their
own  independent  State,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its
capital.
Also  in  this  context  we  reaffirm  our  unceasing
support of the position of sisterly Syria in its efforts to
regain its Golan territory up to the line of 4 June 1967.
We call on the international community to demand that
Israel  resume  negotiations  on  the  Syrian  track  on  the
basis  of  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  in  the
interest  of  attaining  peace,  stability  and  growth  for  all
the States and peoples of the region.
The  United  Arab  Emirates,  in  welcoming  once
again  fraternal  Lebanon’s  regaining  of  its  territory,
expresses support for Lebanon’s efforts to complete the
extension of its sovereignty over all of its national soil.
In  the  same  vein,  we  support  the  demands  of
sisterly  Libya that  the economic  sanctions imposed  on
it  be  lifted,  particularly  since  it  has  implemented
relevant Security Council resolutions.
We also express our satisfaction at the outcome of
the recent Somali reconciliation conference in Djibouti
and  invite  all  Somali  factions  to  reinforce  national
unity  for  the  sake  of  restoring  peace,  stability  and
sustainable development to Somalia and the rest of the
region of the Horn of Africa.
The  growing  number  of  problems  resulting  from
the continuation of wars, disputes and ethnic cleansing
in  some  parts  of  the  African  continent,  the  Balkans,
South Asia, Afghanistan and other places is a source of
constant  concern  for 
international  community.
the 
A/55/PV.16
Consequently, we support all regional and international
efforts  aimed  at  dealing  with  these  issues  by  peaceful
means,  and  we  emphasize 
lasting
resolution  of  these  issues  cannot  be  attained  until  the
parties  concerned  demonstrate  the  necessary  political
will to achieve national reconciliation and demonstrate
their  commitment 
implement  relevant  Security
Council resolutions.
just  and 
that 
to 
Despite  international  unanimity,  shown  in  the
Disarmament  Conference  and  other 
international
forums,  regarding  the  need  to  limit  the  spread  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear
weapons, progress in this field remains slow, which is a
matter of concern to us. We are particularly concerned
at  this  time  as  some  States  are  striving  to  outdo  each
other in stockpiling certain classes of these weapons, in
particular  nuclear  arms  and  ballistic  missiles,  as  a
means  of  settling  their  territorial  disputes.  Since  such
actions  escalate  conflicts  and  disrupt  the  strategic
security balance, at both the regional and  international
levels,  we  call  upon  the  States  concerned  to  review
their  policies  in  this  respect  and  to  promote  the
establishment of zones that are free of weapons of mass
destruction,  including  nuclear  weapons,  especially  in
the  Middle  East,  the  Arab  Gulf  and  the  Indian  Ocean.
We  also  urge  the  international  community  to  demand
once  again  that  the  Israeli  Government  accede  to  the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
and  agree 
to
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards.
its  nuclear 
facilities 
subject 
to 
thereby 
exacerbating  poverty 
Despite  the  multidimensional  changes  that  the
world  economy  is  witnessing  as  a  result  of  the
deregulation  of  markets,  globalization  and  modern
technology,  the  economic  and  social  gap  between  the
developed  and  developing  States  still  exists  and  is
growing  — 
and
unemployment,  environmental  degradation  and  debt
accumulation.  Thus,  the  convening  of  the  Millennium
Summit  and  the  Summit’s  Declaration  highlight  the
great  importance  our  countries  attach  to  these  issues.
This  makes 
to  work
assiduously  on  carrying  out  the  commitments  and
undertakings  contained  therein  regarding  the  creation
of  an  environment 
to  development,
elimination  of  poverty  and  free  access  for  the  exports
of  the  least  developed  countries  to  the  markets  of
industrialized countries. I confirm the determination of
the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  support  this  plan  and  to
incumbent  on  all  of  us 
favourable 
it 
17
A/55/PV.16
work  towards  narrowing  the  gap  between  the  rich  and
the poor.
peaceful  means  —  principles  that  have  constituted  the
cornerstone of the United Nations.
The United Arab Emirates continues its sustained
efforts in support of economic- and social-development
projects in many countries of the world, particularly in
Africa  and  Asia,  be  it  through  direct  participation  in
financing  such  projects  or  by  supporting  international
and regional efforts to attain those goals.
that  mechanisms 
Finally,  the  ever-increasing  burden  of  economic,
social  and  human  development,  which  is  the  first
safeguard  of  the  political  stability  that  we  desire,
demands 
and
international cooperation, foremost among which is the
United  Nations,  be  created.  Hence,  we  call  for
continued efforts to carry out the structural reform and
development  of  the  world  Organization,  in  particular
the Security Council and the General Assembly, so that
the Organization can keep pace with the rapid changes
in international relations.
regional 
for 
The  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  His  Excellency  Felipe
Pérez Roque.
in 
Mr.  Roque  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  are
living  at  a  decisive  moment 
the  history  of
humankind. More than half a century after the creation
of  the  United  Nations,  on  the  threshold  of  a  new
millennium that was supposed to herald an era of peace
among men, solidarity among nations and greater well-
being for the poorest people, we are confronted instead
by  the  most  serious  and  complex  economic,  social,
political  and  environmental  crisis  in  the  history  of  the
human race.
The 
stability 
expectations  of  peace, 
and
cooperation  that  the  end  of  the  cold  war  triggered
throughout  the  world  are  far  from  becoming  a  reality.
The  emergence  of  a  unipolar  world  in  which  a  single
super-Power  is  capable  of  militarily  controlling  the
international  scene,  far  from  meaning  greater  security
for  our  peoples,  has  ushered  in  a  new  stage  in  which
the  hegemonism  of  that  sole  super-Power  prevails  —
direct  or  covert  interventionism  under  the  guise  of
multilateral  actions,  insecurity  for  the  small  countries,
selfishness  as  a  behavioural  pattern  in  international
relations and the attempt to disregard the  principles of
equality  among  States,  national  sovereignty,  self-
determination,  non-intervention,  the  non-threat  or  the
use  of  force  and  the  settlement  of  disputes  through
18
We are also living in a world characterized by the
exploitation  and  the  horrendous  destitution  of  over  l.3
billion  human  beings,  who,  while  suffering  on  a  daily
basis and without giving up the hope of a better life for
their  children,  wonder  if  we  will  still  have  sufficient
reasons  to  reaffirm  faith  in  the  fundamental  rights  of
man and in the dignity and value of the human person,
as  proclaimed  more  than  five  decades  ago  by  the
founders of the United Nations.
the 
right 
of 
to 
threat 
impose 
so-called 
the  greatest 
The  attempts  at  imposing  by  force  and  under
humanitarian
pressure 
intervention  are  at  present 
to
international  peace  and  security.  We  all  know  that  the
small  group  of  developed  countries  —  led  by  the
United States and its allies with powerful forces — that
attempt 
the
discussions  and  decisions  of  our  Organization,  do  not
have  to  fear  the  consequences  of  recognizing  such  a
right in international relations. They are not, as we are,
the  Euro-Atlantic  rim,  defined  by  the  North  Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) as the probable  scene  for
their acts of aggression, and the new strategic doctrine
of this alliance is not aimed at them, but at us, the poor
countries.
this  perilous  concept 
in 
deadly  wars 
Actions  geared  at  fragmenting  countries  and
nations,  at  recolonizing  territories  and  re-establishing
zones of influence must cease. The recent precedent of
unleashing 
against 
defenceless
populations,  without  even  consulting 
the  Security
Council, is not only a flagrant violation of the Charter,
but  it  is  also  once  again  dragging  the  world  into
situations  like  those  that  once  took  over  40  million
lives in a single war.
How  many  other  wars  against  small,  poor
countries  must  be  waged  before  we  understand  the
need  to  respect  the  Charter  and  engage  in  a  deep
democratization process in international relations?
Is  it  possible  that  those  who  now  buttress  with
threatening language their attempts at interfering in the
domestic  affairs  of  other  countries  have  fallen  for  the
idea  that  the  serious  problems  of  underdevelopment,
the after-effects of colonialism, hunger, disease and the
consequences  of  the  constant  pillaging  of  the  third
world countries — the real cause of current conflicts —
can be resolved through use of smart bombs?
Is 
really  paradoxical 
developing 
new, 
that  Western
it  not 
Powers — while 
ever  more
sophisticated  killing  devices  —  intend  to  prevent poor
countries  from  using  conventional  light  weaponry  that
is  essential  to  nations  that,  like  Cuba,  live  under  the
permanent  threat  of  military  aggression?  Enough  of
this hypocrisy and Pharisaic behaviour. The world will
be  really  safer  if  total,  complete  disarmament  takes
place, 
including,  especially,  nuclear  disarmament.
There  has  to  come  a  day  when  light  weaponry  will  be
eliminated,  when  other  types  of  deadlier  and  more
dangerous  conventional  arms  — 
the  much  more
dangerous  and  deadlier  arms  owned  by  a  handful  of
developed countries — must also be disposed of — the
sooner  the  better.  Yes,  mines  must  be  eliminated,  but
the threats of aggression against poor countries must be
eliminated long before that.
Will  our  planet,  by  any  chance,  be  safer  if  the
United  States  finally  deploys  its  hallucinating,  costly
anti-missile  defence  system, 
that
country’s rulers deceive their own people by promising
them  protection  against  missiles  when  nobody  knows
really from where they could be launched?
through  which 
Why  does  not  the  United  Nations,  instead  of
tamely  following  the  hazardous  death  game  with  the
Western  Powers,  focus  its  attention  on  the  so-much
trumpeted  yet  unfulfilled  purpose  of  setting  aside  a
portion of the nearly US$ 800 billion, currently used on
military  expenses,  to  promote  development  and  try  to
save the victims of the silent  war that,  year  after  year,
through  disease  and  starvation,  kills  more  than  11
million third-world children under 5 years of age?
In any case, peace will not be possible if there is
no  development  for  the  over  one  hundred  third-world
countries that are presently observing, as  stone  guests,
the  irresponsible  squandering  of  the  wealthy,  selfish
consumer societies that insatiably eat up our children’s
future.  Setting  out  to  halve  in  15  years  the  number  of
poor  people  that  we  now  have  is  undoubtedly  a
remarkable  endeavour,  but  how  will  the  other  half
judge our  goal if  they  are  doomed  to  live  as  indigents
all their lives?
What has become of the right to development that
was once so solemnly proclaimed by this very General
Assembly?  Don't  you  think,  dear  colleagues,  that  the
time  has  come  for  us  to  calmly  and  firmly  set  out  to
rescue the issue of the right to development as a United
Nations priority? Isn't it precisely now — when nobody
A/55/PV.16
argues  anymore  about  the  resounding  failure  of  the
neo-liberal  policies  that  the  International  Monetary
Fund  and  the  World  Bank  imposed  on  third-world
countries  with  a  fundamentalist  stubbornness  to  the
benefit of transnational companies — that our peoples,
united in a great alliance for the most basic rights, must
seize 
that  a  more
outstanding, decisive role in these affairs be played by
the  United  Nations  Economic  and  Social  Council  and
this General Assembly?
the  opportunity 
to  demand 
Why  should  we  continue  to  allow  international
cooperation  to  virtually  disappear,  just  now  when  it  is
most  needed?  Are  we  entitled  to  continue  discussing,
year after year, without any concrete outcome, the right
to  development,  which  our  people  are  demanding,
while  we  watch,  scattered  and  disoriented,  as  the
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank
continue  to  strip  the  Organization  of  the  prerogatives
bestowed  upon  it  by  the  Charter?  Those  who  have
imposed such devastating decisions as those leading to
the unbridled privatization of the national resources of
indiscriminate
third  world 
liberalization  of 
thereby
facilitating the outflow of the scarce foreign currencies
from  poor  countries  that,  because  of  expediency  or
fear,  have  not  been able  to  fight  for  the rights  of  their
peoples — will be held to account by their children and
by history.
the  capital  account  — 
countries 
and 
the 
The  Millennium  Summit,  which  ended  with
positive  results,  demonstrated  once  again  that  the
devastating effects of imposing a neo-liberal model in a
globalized  world  are  hitting  third  world  countries
particularly hard. The socio-economic situation of such
countries  —  especially  those  in  Africa  —  is  virtually
untenable. Likewise, it  made it clear that unilateralism
and duress have no place in a world in which solidarity
and cooperation are the only possible means to achieve
salvation for all.
to  fight 
In  the  wake  of  the  Summit,  no  doubts  remain:
now  is  the  time  to  act,  to  adopt  concrete  measures  in
order 
the  poverty  and  underdevelopment
currently  afflicting  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the
world.  Cuba,  a  poor  country  that  nonetheless  has  a
large store of human capital, has already started to take
action. Deeds, not words, are what we need today.
Two  years  ago,  we  put in place  a  comprehensive
health-care  plan  under  which  almost  2,000  Cuban
health workers are rendering services, free of charge, in
19
A/55/PV.16
the  World  Health  Organization  and 
16  countries  of  Central  America,  the  Caribbean  and
sub-Saharan  Africa.  Now,  given  the  urgent  appeal  of
the  African  countries,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  the
offer  that  President  Fidel  Castro  made  to  the  United
Nations, 
the
developed  countries  during  the  Millennium  Summit  to
cooperate  with  Africa  in  the  fight  against  AIDS  and
other terrible diseases currently threatening to wipe out
an entire continent. Cuba is ready to supply up to 3,000
additional  Cuban  doctors  and  paramedics  for  such  an
undertaking  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  They  would  also
contribute to  the  training  of  African  health  workers  in
the  field.  But  it  is  essential  for  the  industrialized
countries to do their share and to supply the necessary
medicines  and  materials  for  the  programme.  Africa  is
waiting  for  us.  Cuba  stands  ready.  It  is  now  up  to  the
developed countries.
Democracy within countries is a goal that is being
sought.  That  is  certainly  commendable  if  the  diversity
of  cultures,  identities,  historical  experiences,  national
realities  and  political  models,  and  the  right  of  each
people  to  adopt,  with  complete  independence,  the
system  that  it  deems  most  appropriate,  are  properly
respected.  But 
in
international  relations  at  present?  Unfortunately  there
is not.
truly  any  democracy 
there 
is 
In  order  to  attain  it,  let  us  put  an  end  to
hegemonism,  foster  development,  replace  selfishness
with cooperation and, finally, respect the purposes and
principles of the San Francisco Charter. We must put an
end, right now, to the arrogance of the few if we do not
want the hopes for a world of justice and peace for all
to crumble.
In order to attain it, let us ensure that  the  United
Nations  truly  contributes  to  building  solidarity  among
nations  and  not  to  the  domination  of  a  few  over  the
overwhelming  majority.  Let  us  face  up  to  the  attempt
of some to put pressure on the United Nations through
the non-payment of agreed contributions.  Let  us  reject
the use of the United Nations to impose a new colonial
order.  Let  us  demand  that  the  Security  Council  act  as
the representative of all, not as the servant of one. Let
us  prevent  it  from  arrogating  to  itself  powers  that  it
does  not  have,  thereby  violating  the  United  Nations
Charter  and  operating  without  due  transparency  while
it decides upon matters of life or death.
Democratizing 
its
Security  Council  requires,  as  indispensable  measures,
the  United  Nations  and 
20
in 
increase 
the  abolition  of  the  vexing  and  anachronistic  veto
privilege;  an 
the  number  of  Council
members  in  proportion  to  the  fourfold  increase  in  the
number  of  States  Members  of  the  Organization;  the
application  of  the  principle  of  equitable  geographical
representation to the composition of that body, as  with
all  others;  and  the  fulfilment  of  its  obligation,  as
enshrined  in  the  Charter  but  ignored  in  practice,  of
reporting to the General Assembly.
Let us be realistic. Security Council reform is — I
will  not  mince  words  —  as  far  away  today  as  it  ever
was.  We  should  recognize  that  after  seven  years  of
fruitless efforts  we  have  managed  to  agree only that  it
is necessary to increase the number of  members of the
Council.  At  this  point,  therefore,  we  believe  that  we
should at least work to effect a proportional increase in
the total  number of  Council members,  both  permanent
and  non-permanent,  ensuring  adequate  representation
for  third  world  countries,  as  strongly  reiterated  by  the
Millennium  Summit.  How  could  the  Security  Council
be  expanded  without  the  inclusion  of  a  reasonable
number of permanent members from the third world?
Forty years ago, on behalf of Cuba, the leader of
a  triumphant  revolution  proclaimed  from  this  very
rostrum the dreams of hope and social justice for which
the  Cuban  people  had  struggled  for  almost  a  century.
Most  of  the  States  now  represented  in  this  Assembly
were colonies at that time. There was no talk then — as
there  is  today  —  about  saving  Africa,  while  it  was
being ruthlessly pillaged. The time had not  yet arrived
when  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Cubans  would  go  to
African  lands  to  struggle  for  the  real  rights  of  its
people, against apartheid, disease and illiteracy.
to 
social 
justice 
and 
committed 
its  example, 
its  morality  and 
That  was  the  moment  when  the  United  States
Government set out to overthrow the Cuban revolution,
which, 
true
independence  for  its  people,  threatened,  through  its
ethics, 
the  secular
domination  that  the  United  States  had  exercised  over
the  entire  western  hemisphere.  That  was  the  moment
when  the  economic,  trade  and  financial  blockade  was
implemented  against  Cuba  —  a  blockade  that,  in  the
course  of  a  harsh  40-year-old  economic  war,  has
engendered  such  shameful  pieces  of  legislation  as  the
Torricelli and Helms-Burton Acts. It has to do with the
blockade that this very  General  Assembly  has rejected
for  eight  consecutive  years  and  which  is  still  in  force
the 
despite  worldwide 
obvious
disapproval of the people of the United States.
rejection 
and 
to 
the 
insidious 
the  most 
subversion 
isolation 
from 
and 
its  main 
In  these  four  decades,  our  people  have  resisted
acts  ranging  from  political  pressures  and  attempts  at
lying
diplomatic 
campaigns, 
to
terrorism 
assassination  attempts  on 
leaders,  from
biological  warfare  to  the  most  ruthless  blockade  and
economic war and from the promotion of armed bands
to  military 
threat  of  nuclear
extermination. Today,  on  behalf  of that  same  generous
and  courageous  people,  we  can  once  again  say  to  our
third  world  brothers  and  to  all  those  who  anywhere  in
the world defend our right to life and development that
revolutionary  socialist  Cuba  will  never  cease 
to
struggle for everyone’s dreams.
invasion  and 
Address  by  Mr.  Salim  Abdikassim  Salad  Hassan,
President of the Somali Republic
into 
Mr. Salim Abdikassim Salad Hassan, President of
the  Somali  Republic,  was  escorted 
the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  His
Excellency Mr. Abdikassim Salad Hassan, President of
the  Somali  Republic,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the
President,  who  has  recently  participated  in  the  United
Nations Millennium Summit. I am pleased to note that
Somalia  is  participating  again  in  the  deliberations  of
the  General  Assembly  after  a 
long  absence.  As
members of  the  Assembly  are  well aware,  participants
at  the  Djibouti  peace  process  agreed  on  a  Transitional
National  Assembly  which 
then  elected  President
Abdikassim  Salad  Hassam  and  he  was  sworn  in  at  a
ceremony held in Djibouti on 25 August.
to  welcome 
On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the
honour 
the  United  Nations  His
Excellency  Abdikassim Salad Hassan, President of the
Somali  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the
Assembly.
to 
President  Salad Hassan:  It  is  a  singular  honour
and  privilege  for  me  to  be  here  today  to  address  this
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  On  this  auspicious
occasion,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  unanimous
election  to  this  eminent  position.  Taking  into  account
your  Excellency’s  wide  experience  in  international
affairs,  I  am  confident  that  you  will  successfully
contribute  to  the  work  and  deliberations  before  this
Assembly.
A/55/PV.16
Permit  me  also,  Mr.  President,  to  pay  special
tribute  to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Theo-
Ben  Gurirab,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Republic of Namibia, who conducted the affairs of the
Assembly in a most successful manner during his term
of office.
Our profound gratitude also goes to our able  and
dynamic  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  who  has  shown  exemplary  leadership  and
demonstrated  efficiency  in  managing  the  activities  of
our  Organization.  Indeed,  he  has  played  a  pivotal  role
in  the  enhancement  of  the  Organization’s  aims  and
objectives,  and 
in  furthering  peace,  stability  and
international cooperation the world over.
I  am  highly  honoured  to  address  this  Assembly
today in the presence of my colleague and brother, His
Excellency  Mr.  Ismail  Omar  Guelleh,  President  of  the
Republic of Djibouti. In this regard, I would like to pay
special  tribute  for  the  exceptional  role  played  by  His
Excellency, his Government and the people of Djibouti
in  our  recently  concluded  national  reconciliation
conference, held in Arta, a resort town near Djibouti.
to 
In 
contrast 
the  previous 
focused.  While 
12  Somali
reconciliation conferences, held in the past 10 years in
various capitals, the Arta reconciliation conference was
unique  and  more 
the  previous
reconciliation  conferences  were  based  on  attempts  to
reconcile the personal differences and rivalries between
power-seeking faction leaders, the  Arta conference, on
the  other  hand,  concentrated  essentially  on 
the
constructive  engagement  and  the  interaction  of  the
various  components  of  Somali  society,  such  as
traditional  clan  elders  and  sultans,  religious  leaders,
intellectuals,  politicians  and  representatives  of  the
various  sectors  of  Somali  civil  society.  More  than
2,000  delegates  from  inside  and  outside  the  country
attended  the  conference,  the  deliberations  of  which
continued for more than five months.
It  was  in  the  context  of  this  transparent  process
that a consensus was reached on the agenda and criteria
for  participation  in  the  conference,  based  on  the
balanced  and  equitable  representation  of  the  various
clans  in  the  country.  In  pursuance  of  this  innovative
approach,  the  conference  conducted  its  business.  This
led  to  the  general  agreement  on  the  adoption  of  a
Transitional  Charter.  The  Charter,  inter  alia,  provided
for the establishment of the basic constitutional organs
of the Third Republic of the Somali State: the National
21
A/55/PV.16
Assembly,  the  President,  the  Council  of  Ministers  and
an  independent  judiciary.  In  accordance  with  these
transitional  measures,  the  first  organ  the  conference
established  was  the  National  Assembly.  In  turn,  the
National  Assembly  elected  the  President  in  a  fair  and
free  manner 
the  presence  of  observers  and
representatives of the international community.
in 
of 
The 
outcome 
the  Arta 
reconciliation
conference  received  an  overwhelming  endorsement  of
the  Somali  people  within  the  country  and  in  the
diaspora.  Strong  messages  of  support  and  pledges
poured  into  Arta  from  all  regions  of  the  country  and
from Somali communities abroad.
In  contrast  to  anarchy  and  civil  war,  which
prevailed in Somalia for the past 10 years, the creation
of  the  National  Assembly  and  the  election  of  a
President  ushered  in  a  new  era  for  peace  and  stability
and  constituted  the  first  step  of  restoring  order  and
central  authority  to  the  country.  This  was  indeed
translated 
to
Mogadishu  and  Baidoa.  The  spontaneous  reaction  of
the hundreds of thousands of people who welcomed us
in both cities demonstrated vividly that they wanted to
leave  years of  civil  war behind  and open  a  new  era of
peace, tranquillity, good governance, restoration of the
rule of law and national unity.
into  reality  during  my  recent  visit 
In this connection, let me emphasize the fact that
the majority of the Somali people in the regions that we
were  not  able  to  visit,  including  the  regions  in  the
northwest and northeast of the country, uphold a shared
commitment  and  optimism  for  the  unity  and  future
progress of the country.
With  regard  to  the  warlords  and  individuals  who
still  remain  outside  the  reconciliation  process,  we
express  our  full  preparedness  to  engage  with  them  in
peaceful  dialogue,  and  we  call  upon  them  to  review
their positions, hear the voice of reason, and respect the
legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Somali  people  to  achieve
national  unity,  social  and  economic  development  and
durable peace throughout the country.
The  challenges  that  the  Somali  Republic  faces
today are  monumental.  My  Government  is prepared to
meet  those  challenges  with  a  realistic  approach.  We
understand  that  our  country  stands  today  in  the  midst
of  a  crisis  of  serious  proportions.  We  shall  exercise
care,  compassion  and  objectivity  to  manage  that  crisis
and overcome it in the end.
22
There  has  been  large-scale  destruction  of  the
physical infrastructure and resources in both urban and
rural  areas.  Generations  of  children  have  not  gone  to
school for almost two decades. A good number of high-
level  managerial staff and skilled technicians have left
the country. The role of the international community in
assisting  us 
rehabilitation  and
reconstruction is therefore of pivotal importance for us.
There  should  be  no  relaxation  by  the  international
provide
community 
humanitarian  and  developmental  assistance 
to 
the
Somali Republic.
in  peace-building, 
overall 
effort 
the 
in 
to 
We  will  engage  Somali  professionals  and
technical  experts  inside  and  outside  the  country  to  be
actively involved in all reconstruction programmes and
projects. We will also give indigenous and international
non-governmental  organizations  and  relevant  United
Nations agencies all the necessary assistance to be able
to  contribute  effectively  to  the  rehabilitation  and
reconstruction of the country.
force 
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  my  Government
will  place  particular  emphasis  in  the  immediate  future
on  the  following  priority  areas:  first,  restoration  of
peace, stability and national unity, and the formation of
them;
an  effective  security 
secondly,  disarmament  of 
their
encampment,  subsequent  rehabilitation  and  training  in
all the regions of the country; and, thirdly, maintenance
of  law  and  order  through  the  creation  of  effective  law
enforcement  agencies  and  professional  courts  of  law.
Within  the  framework  of  that  policy,  my  Government
will promote and consolidate peace, security and unity
in the country at large.
to  consolidate 
the  militias  and 
At 
the 
international 
regional  and 
level,  we  reaffirm  our
unqualified support for the principles and objectives of
the  United  Nations  and  pledge  to  cooperate  with
relevant 
subregional  organizations,
namely, the Organization of African Unity, the League
of  Arab  States, 
the  Islamic
Conference  and  the  Inter-Governmental  Authority  on
Development.  We  shall  also  maintain  and  strengthen
our relations  with the  European  Union.  We  would like
to open up new vistas of cooperation and economic ties
with other organizations, such as the Gulf Cooperation
Council  and  the  Association  of  South-East  Asian
Nations.
the  Organization  of 
My  Government  will  promote  strong  links  of
cooperation  with  the  countries  of  the  Horn  of  Africa
and  the  Red  Sea  based  on  the  principles  of  mutual
respect, 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  non-
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  States,  as
provided in the Charter of the United Nations. We will
promote  economic  partnership,  open  borders  and
common port services among the countries of the Horn
of Africa.
requests 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation 
the
Assembly  to  facilitate  the  adoption  of  a  resolution
under  the  title  “Assistance  to  the  Somali  Republic”
relating  to  the  following  areas  of  need:  first,  urgent
assistance  from  Member  States  for  the  rehabilitation
and reconstruction of Somalia; secondly, resumption of
sustained  economic  cooperation  with  the  international
community  in  general  and  with  Member  States  of  the
United  Nations  in  particular;  and,  thirdly,  a  call  on
relevant  United  Nations  agencies  and  organizations  to
redouble 
in  providing  financial  and
material assistance to the people of Somalia.
their  efforts 
Finally, I extend my profound appreciation to the
United Nations for the commendable role it has played
in  the  efforts  to  alleviate  the  plight  of  the  Somali
people  during  the  last  10  years.  We  also  wish  to
express  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  the  world
body  in  its  continued  search  for  a  solution  to  our
political  crisis  throughout  the  decade,  and  for  its
continued  humanitarian  support  and  assistance  to  the
Somali people. I  am  confident that the  United  Nations
will  continue  to  provide  support  for  the  realization  of
the aspirations  of the  Somali  people to  stability,  peace
and development.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank the  President  of  the  Somali
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Abdikassim  Salad  Hassan,  President  of  the
Somali  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the  General
Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  New
Zealand, His Excellency The Honourable Phil Goff.
Mr.  Goff  (New  Zealand):  I  begin  by  joining
others  who  have  congratulated  you,  Mr.  President,  on
your  election.  I  also  assure  you  of  the  New  Zealand
A/55/PV.16
delegation’s  full  cooperation  as  you  carry  out  your
important duties.
I  also  welcome  the  admission  last  week  of  our
neighbour  and  friend  Tuvalu  into  the  United  Nations.
The admission of four new Pacific nations in the space
of a year contributes to the truly universal character of
the Organization.
This general debate is taking place at the start of
a  new  century  and  a  new  millennium.  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  has  called  upon  the  Member
States  of  the  United  Nations  to  harness  the  symbolic
power  of  the  millennium  to  meet  the  real  and  urgent
needs  of  people  in  every  part  of  the  world.  This  is  an
appropriate  time  to  recommit  ourselves  to  the  beliefs,
the values and the principles that led to the birth of the
Organization 55 years ago.
Like  many  other  Members  of  the  Organization,
New  Zealand  is  a  small  country  that  tries  to  take  a
principled and independent view of the world. In 1945,
in San Francisco, we played an active part through the
Labour  Prime  Minister  of  the  day,  Peter  Fraser,  in
framing  the  Charter  in  which  heads  of  State  and
Government reaffirmed their faith here last week.
We  have  always  viewed  the  maintenance  of
international peace and  security,  and  the  practical  task
of  peacekeeping,  as  key  roles  of  the  United  Nations.
We  are  currently  making  our  largest-ever  contribution
to  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operation  in  East
Timor. This commitment underlines our full support for
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  building  a
stable, democratic and economically viable East Timor
in  partnership  with  its  people.  So  do  the  non-military
personnel  and  development  assistance  we  have
provided  to  help  the  East  Timorese  create  essential
services.
Just  over  a  year  ago,  the  East  Timorese  people
voted overwhelmingly for an independent future, and I
had  the  privilege  of  being  part  of  the  United  Nations
Mission in East Timor (UNAMET) group that oversaw
that  electoral  process.  We  recall  the  horrors  which
followed  as  pro-integration  militias  laid  waste  to  the
territory,  slaughtered 
forced
thousands of East Timorese into West Timor.
innocent  people  and 
Relative  calm  and  stability  has  been  restored  in
most  of  East  Timor,  and  we  remember  here  today  the
sacrifices  made  by  peacekeepers 
from  Australia,
Bangladesh, Nepal and  my own country  who in recent
23
A/55/PV.16
months  laid  down  their  lives  to  help  achieve  this.  But
the  militias  continue  to  hold  sway  in  the  border  areas
among  the  refugees  in  West  Timor.  Unless  brought
under control, these  militias  will destabilize both West
and East Timor.
The  murder  last  week  of  three  United  Nations
humanitarian  workers  in  Atambua  in  West  Timor
repelled  us  all.  New  Zealand  was  able  to  respond
quickly,  along  with  Australia,  to  the  United  Nations
call  for  help  in  evacuating  their  colleagues  and  non-
governmental  organization  personnel  from  Atambua.
We  committed  helicopters  with  security  and  medical
elements from our forces serving on the border with the
United  Nations  Transitional  Administration  in  East
Timor (UNTAET). This airborne evacuation, which had
the  cooperation  of  Indonesian  forces,  was  successful.
But  the  pain  and  the  outrage  we  feel  at  the  murder  of
three  United  Nations  humanitarian  workers  remains
undiminished.
The  Security  Council,  in  its  resolution  1319
(2000),  insisted  that  the  Government  of  Indonesia
disarm  and  disband  the  militia  immediately  to  ensure
safety  and  security  in  the  refugee  camps  and  for
humanitarian  workers,  and  to  prevent  cross-border
incursions into East Timor. It also called for those who
have  carried  out  attacks  on  international  personnel  to
be  brought  to  justice.  These  are  binding  obligations.
The  world  awaits  action  to  implement  them  without
further delay.
in  Bougainville, 
Besides  East  Timor,  New  Zealand  is  at  present
contributing 
to  12  other  peacekeeping  operations,
including in Kosovo, on the borders of Syria, Israel and
Lebanon,  in  the  Prevlaka  peninsula  and  in  Sierra
Leone.  New  Zealand  personnel  also  serve  with  the
Peace  Monitoring  Group 
the
Multinational  Force  Organization  (MFO)  in  Sinai  and
with  the  Stabilization  Force  (SFOR)  in  Bosnia.  Being
conscious of  the  many  challenges  faced  by  the  United
Nations  in  meeting  its  peacekeeping  responsibilities,
we  greatly  welcome  the  Brahimi  report.  We  trust  that
the  report’s  important  recommendations  will  receive
serious  and  expeditious  consideration  during 
this
Millennium  Assembly  session,  with  a  view  to  their
early implementation.
As the Brahimi report points out,  weak  mandates
and  poor  resourcing  underlie  most  of  those  operations
which  did  not  succeed  in  their  objectives.  We  are
concerned  too  at  the  tendency  to  rely  overly  on
24
“coalitions  of  the  willing”  to  carry  out  operations  that
should  be  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations.  The
failure  of  some  Member  States  to  pay  their  assessed
contributions  on  time,  in  full  and  without  conditions
imposes an impossible burden on the Organization and
on  troop  contributors.  We  agree  that  the  scale  of
assessments for peacekeeping needs revision to make it
more  equitable  and  transparent.  Any  revision  must  be
longstanding
established 
principle  of  apportioning  expenses  according 
to
Member States’ capacity to pay.
in  accordance  with 
the 
Heads  of  State  or  Government  agreed  at  the
Millennium Summit to intensify their efforts to achieve
a comprehensive reform of  the  Security  Council  in  all
its  aspects.  In  the  past  seven  years  of  debate  on  this
matter, it has been shown just how difficult an issue it
is,  especially  in  regard  to  how  the  Council  might  be
enlarged.  There  is  no  agreement  on  this  aspect  at  this
time.  And  yet  I  am  sure  that  most  Member  States
would  agree  that  the  Council  must  be  made  more
representative  of  today’s  membership  as  well  as  more
transparent 
its  working  methods  and  more
democratic  in  its  decision-making.  If  there  is  to  be
progress  towards  an  overall  package  deal  on  reform,
then compromises will have to be made.
in 
At  the  heart  of  any  reform,  in  New  Zealand’s
view,  must  be  the  curtailment  of  the  veto,  if  indeed  it
cannot  be  eliminated.  We  have  argued  this  case  since
1945,  and  we  believe  that  it  is  even  more  relevant
today. A device which 50 years ago might have had the
utility  of  preventing  the  permanent  members  from
using the Organization to make war on one another has
in recent times served to frustrate the will of the wider
membership. I believe there is very broad agreement in
the General Assembly on the need to deal with the veto
urgently,  so  that  the  Security  Council  can  be  more
effective in carrying out its important responsibilities.
I would not want to suggest that there has been no
progress at all  on  Council  reform. There  have, in  fact,
been  some  major  steps  forward  in  opening  up  the
Council’s  meetings  and  briefings  to  participation  by
non-members.  We  are  grateful  for  that.  I  would  also
like  to  reaffirm  New  Zealand’s  strong  support  for  the
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council
reform,  whose  deliberations  have  contributed  to  this
progress. In our view, the Working Group continues to
be  the  appropriate  forum  in  which  to  pursue  efforts
aimed at reforming the Council, because it is  essential
for  the  health  of  the  Organization  that  any  reform
package  enjoy  the  widest  support  and  buy-in.  Council
reform is too important a matter for back-room deals.
The  Millennium  Declaration  contains 
some
important  guidance  on  human  rights,  democracy  and
good  governance.  For  example,  all  countries  are
enjoined  to  strengthen  their  capacity  to  implement  the
principles  and  practices  of  democracy  and  respect  for
human rights, including minority rights. This could not
be  more  timely  for  my  own  region,  the  South  Pacific,
where over  the  past  year  we  have  seen  the  collapse  of
democracy  and  governance  in  some  countries  in  the
face of disputes over land and economic disparities and
as a result of ethnic tensions.
There  are  no  easy  solutions  to  some  of  the
problems  the  region  faces,  but  one  thing  is  clear,  and
that is that the answer to these problems is not to adopt
political  systems  that  discriminate  against  particular
ethnic groups, as some in Fiji this  year have sought to
do. To do so simply breeds a deeper sense of frustration
and exclusion,  which is a recipe  for  further instability.
Small States, especially small developing countries like
our neighbours in the Pacific, face particular challenges
from  globalization.  They  are  uniquely  vulnerable  to
external  impacts.  We  need  to  find  fresh  and  more
effective means to development.
It 
and  democratic 
is  essential 
inclusive 
to  help  countries  build 
for
themselves 
forms  of
government that in turn take account of cultural values.
Underpinning  this  must  be  robust  and  accountable
institutions,  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  independence
of the judiciary, an effective press, strong civil society
and,  above  all,  greater  public  education  to  foster  a
more  widespread  understanding  of  democratic  values
and processes.
to 
treaties  which  are  fundamental 
The  Millennium  Summit provided  heads of  State
or  Government  the  opportunity  to  take  action  on  a
range  of 
the
development  of  international  human  rights  law  and
international  humanitarian  law.  My  Prime  Minister
took  action  in  respect  of  six,  and  I  record  here  in
particular  New  Zealand’s  ratification  of  the  Optional
Protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All
Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women,  the  Rome
Statute of the International Criminal Court, and the two
Optional Protocols to the  Convention on the  Rights  of
the Child.
The  practices  of 
child
pornography and the appalling exploitation of children
child  prostitution, 
A/55/PV.16
to  fight  wars  are  a  disgrace  and  a  crime  against
humanity  which  must  be  expunged.  We  encourage
others also to sign and ratify these agreements. I should
also  add  that  we  greatly  welcome  the  recent  decision
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  establish  a
Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues.
At the Millennium Summit, world leaders agreed
to  strive  for  the  elimination  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction, particularly nuclear weapons. The outcome
of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in
May,  where  the  five  nuclear-weapon  States  gave  an
unequivocal  political  undertaking  to  accomplish  the
total elimination of their nuclear arsenals, demonstrates
a new determination to achieve a world free of nuclear
weapons.  This  is  a  matter  of  real  urgency.  We  must
promote  the  implementation  of  the  new  commitments.
New Zealand, with its new agenda partners, will submit
a  draft  resolution  during  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
New Zealand will also, in partnership with Brazil,
promote  a  southern  hemisphere 
free  of  nuclear
weapons.  In  addition,  we  will,  along  with  Australia,
Mexico  and  Japan,  urge  all  countries  that  have  yet  to
do  so  to  sign  and  ratify  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty.  We  will  also 
further
preparations for the United Nations  Conference on the
Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All
Its  Aspects  and  join  calls  for  adherence  to  the  Ottawa
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production  and  Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and
on Their Destruction.
support 
New  Zealand  urges  caution  regarding  decisions
on  missile  developments  that  could  impact  negatively
on  nuclear  disarmament,  lead  to  a  new  nuclear  arms
race  or  be  inconsistent  with  the  commitment  to  the
total  elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  This  is  no  time
for complacency. The United Nations disarmament and
arms-control  machinery  must 
in
negotiations and other  work on the new programme of
action agreed at the NPT Conference.
engage 
again 
Leaders  also  declared  their  resolve  to  minimize
the  adverse  effects  of  United  Nations  economic
sanctions  on  innocent  populations.  Sanctions  are  an
important  tool  at  the  Security  Council’s  disposal  to
encourage  compliance  with  its  resolutions,  but  they
must  be  appropriately  targeted  for  maximum  effect.
They should not impose  blanket  measures  which  harm
25
A/55/PV.16
innocent  populations  and  even  strengthen  the  grip  of
despotic  regimes.  We  support  efforts  within 
the
Organization  to  develop  proposals  for  smarter,  more
effective  sanctions  which  apply  pressure  where  it  we
will have maximum impact.
Mr.  Gomis  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in  French):
Allow me at the outset, Sir, to express my delegation’s
satisfaction at seeing  you preside over the  work of the
General  Assembly  at  this  fifty-fifth  session.  You  may
count on my delegation’s support.
to 
I  also  wish 
The  Millennium  Declaration  also  speaks  of  the
need  to  protect  our  common  environment.  My  Prime
Minister announced during the Summit our intention to
become  party  to  the  Kyoto  Protocol  to  the  United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by
mid-2002. 
recall  a  particular
achievement  over  the  past  year  in  the  holding  of  the
inaugural  session  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended
Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Ocean  Affairs  and
the law of the sea. This is a significant step forward in
providing an appropriate forum for discussion of cross-
cutting  oceans  issues.  The  success  of  this  process
should  be  judged  by  the  extent  to  which  there  is
enhanced global understanding of oceans issues and an
increased  willingness  to  cooperate  and  coordinate
cross-sectorally to address them.
Finally,  the  Millennium  Declaration  sets  some
key goals for development and poverty eradication and
urges  meeting  the  special  needs  of  Africa.  This  year,
New  Zealand  was  able  to  increase  its  core  funding  of
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  by  more
than a third and of the United Nations Children’s Fund
by  almost  a  half.  We  believe  that  the  United  Nations
has  a  key  role  to  play  in  the  coordination  of  official
development  assistance  delivery.  The  preparations  for
the event on financing for development are an excellent
demonstration of leadership  by  the  Organization  and  a
significant step  forward  in  furthering cooperation  with
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  The  crushing  and
seemingly never-ending debt burden, especially on  the
countries of Africa, must be urgently reduced. We must
also  address  more 
scourge  of
HIV/AIDS.
effectively 
the 
Leaders  at  last  week’s  Summit  provided  this
Millennium  Assembly  with  a  clear  direction  and  a
strong  mandate.  Our  countries  have  delegated  us  the
responsibility  to  realize  that  vision  of  a  better  world
and  we  must  ensure 
through  our  efforts  and
determination that we do not fail them.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Charles  Providence  Gomis,  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire.
26
I should also like to pay an unqualified tribute to
your  predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  for 
the
quality  of  the  work  accomplished  during  his  term  of
office, and to commend Secretary-General Kofi Annan,
a  great  African  of  whom  we  are  all  proud,  for  his
commitment to strengthening the universal role and the
credibility of our Organization.
The United Nations family is growing day by day,
for  which  we  all  rejoice.  That  is  why  my  delegation
welcomes the Republic of Tuvalu.
Before  addressing  the  situation  prevailing  in  my
country, I wish to share some of our concerns about the
international situation.
The  challenges  of  the  third  millennium  are  not
the
new.  They  have  been  broadly  outlined  by 
Secretary-General 
the
in  his  report,  entitled  “We 
peoples:  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-
first  century”.  For  the  delegation  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,
given 
international
community, the  issue is above  all  the  need  to  draw  up
new  solutions  in  adhering  to  carefully  established
priorities.
As 
the  Secretary-General 
difficulties 
stresses 
in  his
the 
facing 
the 
millennium report,
living 
in  developed
“the  1  billion  people 
countries earn 60 per cent of the world’s income,
while 
low-income
countries earn less than 20 per cent”. (A/54/2000,
para. 69)
the  3.5  billion  people 
in 
Furthermore,  the  technological  progress  that  has  been
achieved  in  computer  science  and  communications,
which  we  welcome,  has  unfortunately  also  created  a
digital  gap  that  has  further  marginalized  the  poor
countries.
Mr.  Vohidov  (Uzbekistan),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
If,  for  the  time  being,  we  acknowledge  the
advantages of globalization, it does seem to us that it is
not 
the  concerns  of
developing  countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa.  In
fact,  the  rate  of  Africa’s  participation  in  international
taking  sufficient  account  of 
trade is still below two per cent. In sub-Saharan Africa,
particularly, the degree of poverty is almost the same as
it  was  20  years  ago.  This  is  why  we  would  earnestly
appeal  for  Africa’s  integration  and  involvement  in
those  efforts  to  build  a  new  architecture  of  the  world
economy. Poverty and deprivation, which are the daily
lot  of  peoples  in  the  developing  countries,  are  further
exacerbated by the debt burden on their economies.
In the particular case of my country, I would like
to  emphasize  that,  even  under  the  current  difficult
circumstances,  my  Government  continues  to  allocate
52  per  cent  of  its  budgetary  earnings  to  paying  off  its
external  debt,  and,  quite  naturally,  this  is  to  the
detriment of the priority programmes relating to health,
education and food self-sufficiency. Adding to this, we
must not overlook inflation and speculation, which lead
to fluctuations in our commodity prices.
In  addition  to  our  main  preoccupation,  which  is
combating  poverty,  Côte  d’Ivoire  believes  that  to
resolve  conflicts,  preventive  diplomacy  must  be
strengthened  and  seen  as  a  complementary  dimension
to  peacekeeping  operations  in  the  field.  The  conflicts
that  beset  the  world  have  meant  that  peacekeeping
operations,  which  have  become  more  and  more
complex,  are  now  in  the  forefront  of  United  Nations
activities.  Preparing  for,  organizing,  setting  up  in  the
field 
requires
considerable  effort  and  considerable  means.  Those
conducted 
the  world,
particularly  in  Africa,  have  unfortunately  not  had  the
results  we had  hoped  for. The  experience of the  “Blue
Helmets” in Sierra Leone is illustrative of this.
in  recent  years 
throughout 
operations 
financing 
these 
and 
We hope that the excellent report of  Ambassador
Brahimi,  who  has  put  forward  new  guidelines  for
United Nations peacekeeping operations in the twenty-
first  century,  will  be  given  the  attention  by  States
Members  that  they  deserve,  so  that  acting  on  these
recommendations will endow our Organization with the
means  it  needs  to  play  the  role  which  it  should  in
preserving international peace and security.
into 
in  order 
We  very  much  welcome 
the  conclusions  of
Beijing  Plus  Five  and  the  commitments  which  have
been  entered 
the
advancement  of  women.  We  are  convinced  that  these
commitments will make it possible for  women to fully
exercise  all their  rights  and  to  finally  achieve  full  and
complete  equality.  Côte  d’Ivoire,  which  was  actively
involved 
important  meeting,
to  bring  about 
the  work  of 
in 
this 
A/55/PV.16
commits 
its  part, 
implementation of the targets set.
itself,  for 
to  working  for 
the
May  I,  at  this  juncture  in  my  statement,  refer  to
the  question  of  the  much-needed  structural  reform  of
the  United  Nations,  particularly  that  of  the  Security
Council.  In  these  new  circumstances,  Côte  d’Ivoire
would 
the  position  held  by 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),  which 
is
claiming  two  permanent  seats  and  two  new  non-
permanent seats in the Council.
like  to  reaffirm 
in 
living  conditions,  resulted 
To  return  to  matters  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  and  the
situation prevailing there, I would like to recall that on
24  December  1999,  my  country  underwent  its  first
experience of an institutional change taking place apart
from  the  balloting  boxes.  In  fact,  on  the  day  before
that, a military mutiny, on the part of soldiers who were
claiming  better 
the
toppling  of  the  existing  constitutional  order.  This
unexpected  speeding  up  of  events  in  my  country
aroused, and continues to arouse, major concern within
the international  community,  a concern  and  an  anxiety
which  points  to  the  interest  that  the  international
community attaches to my country. Up until now, Côte
d’Ivoire,  considered  as  a  haven  of  peace  and  an  oasis
of  stability,  and  recognized  as  a  driving  force  in  the
economy  of 
those
countries  that  constitute  the  West  African  Economic
and  Monetary  Union,  has  been  playing  an  important
and  irreplaceable  part  as  a  regulatory  force  in  West
Africa.  The  millions  of  our  brothers  who  have  come
from  countries  in  the  subregion,  and  who  live  in  my
country, are substantially responsible for generating the
money  circulating  in  their  countries  of  origin.  If  this
country, Côte d’Ivoire, were to implode, it would have
unforeseen  consequences  for  the  process  of  solidarity
and sharing.
the  subregion,  particularly  of 
the 
On  23  July, 
Ivorian  people  expressed
themselves  through  a  referendum  on  the  new  draft
constitution  and  electoral  code  placed  before  it  by  the
transitional  Government. It  should  be  recalled  that  the
military arm was involved neither in the drafting of the
new constitution nor in that of the  new  electoral code.
professional
The 
political 
organizations, 
the
country,  religious  organizations,  women’s  and  youth
associations and non-governmental organizations — in
other  words,  civil  society  —  were  those  who,  through
their  freely  appointed  representatives,  drafted  and
submitted  to  the  Government  these  new  fundamental
and 
regions  of 
the  administrative 
parties, 
social 
27
A/55/PV.16
texts  that  the  Government,  in  turn,  simply  placed
before the populace for its approval.
This consultation, the  transparency of  which  was
very  much  heralded  by  the  international  community,
was  characterized  by  a  massive 
the
electorate of 86.23 per cent. We believe that this result
should,  in  itself,  be  enough  to  put  an  end  to  the
discussions  and 
that  preceded  and
followed  the  referendum,  the  tone  of  which,  in  many
respects, was not to the liking of the people of the Côte
d’Ivoire and their friends.
speculations 
turn-out  of 
the  OAU  and 
the  European  Union, 
We  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the  United
Nations, 
the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS)  in  order  to  try  and  bring  about  common
ground among the political circles in Côte d’Ivoire and
to  support  the  transitional  process.  Therefore,  the
international  community  should  be  reassured  that  the
people  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  will,  on  22  October  of  this
year, express  their  wishes  through  fair  and  transparent
elections  for  candidates  whose  eligibility  has  been
established  by  the  Constitutional  Chamber  of  the
Supreme Court.
To  spend  time  today  still  talking  about  the
requirements  for  eligibility,  as  contained  in  the  texts
that  have  been  adopted,  would  be  an  attempt
tantamount  to  trying  to  perpetuate  a  discussion  whose
fate has already been definitely, once and for all, sealed
by the people of Côte d’Ivoire.
Trained  in  the  school  of  the  founding  father  of
modern  Côte  d’Ivoire,  President  Félix  Houphouët-
Boigny, the apostle of peace, and belonging as we do to
a  subregion  that  has  been  beset  by  conflicts,  some  of
which  have  taken  place  at  the  very  gates  of  Ivorian
territory,  the  people  of  Côte  of  d’Ivoire  are  only  too
well aware of the importance of peace. The people are
determined  to  preserve  peace  without  backsliding  or
compromise.
My country is not xenophobic, nor is it a place of
exclusion. Côte d’Ivoire is still the only country in the
world  where  foreigners  account  for  more  than  40  per
cent of the total population. The problems of all  kinds
that arise from this unparalleled immigration — social,
economic and even political — are real. The country is
addressing and coping with them as best it can. We do
not  wish  our  brothers  and  sisters,  who  are  living  on
very good terms with the Ivorian population, to leave.
28
of 
country 
integrationist 
In  this  respect,  we  are  very  proud  of  being  the
most 
the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  and  we  intend  to
remain so. That is why we believe that the desire of the
Ivorian people to offer one single political post, that of
President  of  the  Republic,  to  a  citizen  of  established
background should not serve as a pretext for spreading
malicious rumours about our country and its people.
support  of 
the 
to  help  us  successfully 
In  this  connection,  we  are  counting  on  the
international
understanding  and 
community 
through 
this
transition  and,  within  our  self-imposed  schedule,  to
achieve  the  state  of  constitutional  normality  that  our
people so earnestly desires.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Kamal  Kharrazi,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
tireless 
for  his 
Mr.  Kharrazi  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran)  (spoke
in  Persian;  interpretation  provided by  the delegation):
Allow  me  at the  outset to  congratulate  Mr.  Holkeri  on
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly
and  to  assure  him  of  the  full  cooperation  of  the
delegation  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  in  the
discharge of  his  important  responsibilities.  I  wish  also
to  register  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  his
predecessor,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab, 
the  Foreign
Minister  of  Namibia.  My  thanks  and  gratitude  also  go
to  our  Secretary-General 
and
constructive endeavours on behalf of the Organization.
The  world  is  currently  undergoing  the  most
radical changes  ever  experienced  by  mankind.  In  such
a  rapidly  changing  environment,  the  main  challenge
facing  the  United  Nations  is  to  keep  pace  with  events
and try to  play  a  leading  role  in  directing  their  course
in  a  way  more  compatible  with  the  interests  of  the
overwhelming  majority  of the  world’s  population.  The
recently  concluded  Millennium  Summit  provided  a
unique  opportunity  for  global  leaders  to  draw  up  a
collective agenda for addressing this historic challenge.
As the sole universal body, the United Nations is
uniquely positioned to be the instrument of democratic
global change. It can help to ensure that the process of
change  and  transformation  in  the  global  system  is
participatory and fair. The focus of our attention at the
global  level  over  the  past  55  years  has  been  on  the
international  peace,  security  and
preservation  of 
stability.  Despite 
tremendous  economic  and
technological  progress  that  has  been  achieved,  justice
the 
and  universal  participation  in  decision-making  and  in
the  benefits  of  peace  and  progress  have  attracted  less
global attention and fewer resources.
As 
and 
report, 
the  benefits 
the  Secretary-General  points  out 
in  his
millennium 
costs  of
globalization  have  not  been  evenly  distributed.  While
world  trade  has  increased  more  than  ten-fold  since
1950,  over  half  of  the  world  population  continues  to
live  on  less  than  $2  a  day  and  three  quarters  of  the
world  population  earn  less  than  20  per  cent  of  total
global income. The common destiny of humanity in the
age of globalization requires us to reject the illusion of
building islands of affluence, prosperity and stability in
a turbulent sea of  war, poverty,  disease,  ignorance and
insecurity.
is 
that 
task 
to  ensure 
Globalization is  an economic,  social  and  cultural
reality. It should not just be allowed to happen — it is a
reality  that  we  can  and  should  collectively  manage.
One  key 
the  benefits  of
globalization  are  more  evenly  distributed.  The
millennium  report  of  the  Secretary-General  sets  out  a
number of realistic and  quantifiable  targets.  Necessary
resources  need  to  be  committed  and  those  who  have
been  mostly  on  the  receiving  end  of  the  benefits  of
globalization have an added responsibility. The United
Nations  machinery  should  direct  and  coordinate
bilateral and multilateral efforts in this regard.
Globalization  has  also  further  complicated  the
global menaces of terrorism, organized crime and drug
trafficking,  necessitating  the  adoption  of  common  and
rule-based  strategies  to  fight  and  eradicate 
them.
Terrorism  afflicts  the  entire  international  community
and must thus be combated in its entirety, regardless of
who its victims or perpetrators may be. In a globalized
world, nothing can justify harbouring or providing safe
haven  to  terrorists  or  condoning  their  activities.  No
terrorism  unilaterally.  We  need
nation  can  fight 
universal,  non-discriminatory 
comprehensive
mechanisms  to  fight  terrorism  wherever  it  occurs  and
to  deprive  terrorists  of  their  means  of  recruitment,
operation and funding.
and 
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  regard  is
indispensable.  In 
this  context,  particular  attention
needs  to  be  focused  on  cooperation  in  the  field  of
transnational  organized  crime  and  drug  trafficking,
which,  in  addition  to  inflicting  their  own  banes  on
humanity,  increasingly  provide  income  to  terrorist
A/55/PV.16
organizations.  We  are  prepared  to  participate  actively
in any endeavour to combat this scourge.
to 
The  menace  of  drug  abuse  and 
trafficking
continues 
take  a  heavy  social,  economic  and
political toll. It particularly afflicts young people,  who
embody  the  future.  Combating  drug  trafficking  is  a
costly exercise and requires international political  will
and 
serious  burden-sharing.  The  provision  of
meaningful  financial  resources  and  modern  equipment
by target countries can enable transit countries, such as
ours, to combat the problem at a fraction of the cost.
traffickers.  We  appreciate 
The Islamic Republic of Iran has done more than
its fair share in preventing transit, seizing more than 70
per  cent  of  all  narcotics  confiscated  worldwide.  The
financial  burden  and,  more  importantly,  the  human
sacrifice  are  unsustainable.  More  than  2,900  Iranian
drug enforcement personnel have been  martyred in the
fight  against  drug 
the
cooperation and support extended to Iran by the United
Nations  International  Drug  Control  Programme  in  this
regard, although its limited resources cannot  cover the
programmes  it  wants  and  needs  to  implement.  It  is
important  to  stress  that,  in  the  absence  of  meaningful
bilateral  and  multilateral  assistance, 
Islamic
Republic of Iran will have to allocate most resources to
combating  domestic  consumption  and  will  not  be  able
to  sustain  its  fight  against  drug  trafficking  with  the
same vigour and energy.
the 
As  underlined  by  President  Khatami  here  last
week,  the  emergence  of  a  world  culture  is  another
reality.  But  such  a  culture  should  not  overlook  native
local  cultures  with  the  aim  of  imposing  itself  upon
them.  National  cultures  have  gradually  evolved  in  a
process ensuring coherence in spite of the plurality and
diversity  that  is  found  in  many  of  them.  This  process
creates a sense of belonging.
We  need 
the  same  harmony  and  sense  of
belonging  for  the  emerging  world  culture.  The  answer
is  participation  and  not  assimilation  and  imposition.
Last year, I proposed recognition of the right of nations
and  peoples  to  preserve  and  nourish  their  culture  and
cultural 
identity.  The  General  Assembly  adopted
resolution 54/160 in this regard. We continue to believe
that  in  the  process  of  globalization,  it  is  essential  to
recognize and respect cultural rights of individuals and
communities.
We should transform globalization, particularly in
the area of culture, into a democratic, participatory and
29
A/55/PV.16
natural  process  of  globality.  The  United  Nations  can
facilitate  this  process  by  promoting  dialogue  for  the
exchange of  knowledge,  experience and  understanding
in  diverse  areas  of  culture  and  civilization.  The
promotion  of  global  participation  in  the  process  will
prevent 
“cultural
homelessness” in major parts of the world.
alienation 
sense 
and 
of 
a 
in 
step 
international 
The  designation  of  the  year  2001  as  the  United
Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations  is  the
first 
this  direction.  The  unprecedented
worldwide reception of this proposal indicates first and
foremost  a  general  need  for  dialogue.  The  round  table
on  dialogue  among  civilizations,  which  was  held  here
in  New  York  on  the  eve  of  the  Millennium  Summit
with the participation of a significant number of heads
of State, Foreign Ministers and prominent scholars and
thinkers,  underlined  that  dialogue  should  become  the
new  paradigm  of 
relations.  This
constituted  a  proper  launching  of  the  United  Nations
Year  of  Dialogue.  It  must  be  augmented  by  serious
programmes and the commitment of all to  make  this  a
meaningful  reality  which  should  persist  in  human
experience  long  after  the  United  Nations  Year  of
Dialogue ends. In this context, the Organization of the
Islamic  Conference  (OIC),  which  is  currently  chaired
by  President  Khatami,  has  recently  adopted  a  draft
“global agenda on dialogue among civilizations”, to be
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session. We hope that in the course of the next several
months, consultations between various delegations will
lead to further enrichment and the adoption of this draft
at the next General Assembly.
The  United  Nations  can  naturally  play  a  leading
role  in  the  democratic  global  change  in  the  political
scene.  Crises in disparate parts  of  the  world  challenge
the relevance of the United Nations, requiring it not to
take the back seat.
the 
the 
failure  of 
The  situation  of  Palestine  represents  a  vivid
illustration  of 
international
community  to  provide  justice  to  millions  of  people
deprived  of  their  homeland  and  the  most  fundamental
human  rights  through  State  terrorism,  aggression  and
foreign occupation. Of over 7.5  million Palestinians, 4
million  live  in  diaspora,  and  many  of  the  rest  under
foreign  domination.  This  lies  at  the  heart  of  the
Palestinian  question.  Disregarding  the  joint  processes
of  expulsion  and  occupation  cannot 
the
restoration  of  peace  and  tranquillity  in  that  volatile
region.  In  fact,  Israel’s  persistent  disregard  for  the
lead 
to 
30
right 
tragic 
fratricide 
self-determination 
the  establishment  of 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  coupled  with  Zionist
policies  of  aggression,  State  terrorism  and  acquisition
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  continue  to  pose  the
greatest threat to regional peace, security and stability.
Palestine  belongs  to  all  Palestinians  irrespective  of
their creed. Peace can return to the region only through
an  end  to  the  occupation  of  all  Arab  and  Muslim
territories, including the Golan Heights, the restoration
of the rights of Palestinian people, including their right
to  return  to  their  homeland,  the  exercise  of  their
through
inalienable 
to 
democratic  means  and 
their
independent State with Al-Quds al-Sharif as its capital.
the 
in
The  persistence  of 
Afghanistan,  along  with 
the  dire  humanitarian
situation, violations of human rights, particularly those
of  women  and  girls,  the  production  and  trafficking  of
narcotics  and  the  harbouring  and  training  of  terrorists
have  created  a  human  catastrophe.  Peace  and  national
reconciliation can be attained only through abandoning
the illusion of a military solution and the domination of
one  ethnic  group.  The  United  Nations,  through  the
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  and
the  “six  plus  two”  Group,  continues  to  provide  the
most  suitable  mechanism  to  facilitate  intra-Afghan
dialogue  aimed  at  a  responsible,  broad-based,  multi-
ethnic  and 
representative  government.  The
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  played  an  active  role  in
this  process.  Also,  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the
OIC, President Khatami has undertaken an initiative to
bring  the  warring  factions  to  negotiations.  We  are
prepared to continue this exercise in close coordination
with the United Nations.
fully 
There are other humanitarian challenges emerging
globally,  requiring  the  United  Nations  to  respond.
Failure 
to  act  may  bring  about  arbitrary  and
selective — and,  naturally,  politically  motivated —
responses from States and non-universal organizations.
The  articulation  of  the  criteria  for  rule-based  reaction
and the allocation of necessary resources and capacity-
building  in  the  United  Nations  for  timely  response
constitute  two  major  tasks  ahead.  As  the  Secretary-
General has pointed out, prevention through diplomacy
and  economic  development  is  the  most  effective  and
least costly type of global engagement.
Good-governance  at 
level
requires  the  provision  of  rational  and  comprehensive
mechanisms 
for  all.  Nuclear
disarmament  is  the  most  fundamental  priority  in  this
to  ensure  security 
international 
the 
It 
is 
to 
imperative 
time-bound 
framework  and 
regard. 
initiate  multilateral
negotiations for the elimination of all nuclear weapons,
within  a 
through  a
comprehensive and universal convention. The proposal
of  the  Secretary-General  to  convene  an  international
conference  on  nuclear  weapons 
is  a  valuable
contribution;  such  a  conference  could  build  upon  our
collective  achievement  during 
the  Nuclear  Non-
(NPT)  Review  Conference.
Proliferation  Treaty 
Furthermore,  following 
the  NPT
Review  Conference, 
comprehensive
international pressure should come to bear on Israel to
accede  to  the  Treaty  and  to  put  its  installations  under
(IAEA)
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
safeguards.  This  would  pave 
the  way 
for 
the
establishment  of  a  zone  free  from  weapons  of  mass
destruction in the Middle East.
the  outcome  of 
serious 
and 
Finally,  in  reforming  global  governance,  the  role
and  efficiency  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  sole
democratic,  universal  and  transparent  organ  of  the
United Nations, must be augmented. It should focus its
deliberations  on  contemporary  challenges  rather  than
hold outdated debates, coupled with effective responses
to  the  reports  of  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations,
particularly the Security Council.
Efforts to work out a special political role for the
United  Nations  come  at  a  time  when  the  Organization
is  in  one  of  the  worst  periods  of  its  existence  from  a
A/55/PV.16
financial  perspective.  The  tasks  that  the  international
community expects the United Nations to fulfil require
more innovative ways of raising money for the smooth
functioning of the Organization.
tiny  percentage  of 
In this context, it may be instructive to remember
that 
if  only  a 
the  military
expenditures  of  the  Member  States  were  allocated  to
the specific activities of the United Nations, the goal of
creating  a  more  secure  global  environment  would  be
much more efficiently achieved.
the 
Summit, 
the  Millennium 
The  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly
follows 
Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  summit,  the  global  gathering  of
religious  leaders  and  the  United  Nations  Educational,
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  roundtable  on
dialogue  among  civilizations.  As  such,  it  represents  a
tremendous  and  historic  opportunity  to  take  advantage
of  the  political  will  expressed  in  those  unprecedented
gatherings,  to  operationalize  their  declarations  and
decisions,  and  to  move  the  United  Nations  forward  to
an era of stability, justice, peace and good governance,
through 
law.
Commensurate with such a historic opportunity, we are
all  accountable  before  our  own  people  and  the  people
of the world.
participation 
rule 
and 
the 
of 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the general debate for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
31
