United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-fifth session
31st plenary meeting
Thursday, 28 September 2000, 10 a.m.
New York

A/55/PV.31
Official Records
President:
Mr. Holkeri 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Finland)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 10 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work
of the Organization (A/55/1)
Mr.  Botnaru  (Republic  of  Moldova):  Allow  me
to  complement  you,  Mr.  President,  on  the  manner  in
which you have conducted the proceedings of the fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly and to  wish  you
every success.
I  also  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  a
stimulating  and  comprehensive  annual  report  on  the
work  of  the  Organization  (A/55/1).  We  also  commend
him  for  his  decision  to  introduce  the  report,  as  was
done  during the past  three  years,  in  a  plenary  meeting
at the outset of the general debate, allowing us to focus
better  in  the  ministerial  debate.  This  is  a  welcome
arrangement, which should continue in the future.
The  report  under  consideration  gives  up  a  broad
and analytical  perspective  on  what  the  United  Nations
does  and  what  it  expects  to  do.  It  also  provides  an
opportunity  to  review  whether  the  United  Nations  is
equipped  to  meet  present  and  future  challenges  by
delivering  approaches  and  recommendations  focused
on  areas  where  the  United  Nations  can  make  a  real
difference.
My 
the  Secretary-
General’s depiction of problems that currently confront
community.  Like  many  other
the 
delegations,  we  also  believe 
is
that  globalization 
international 
appreciates 
delegation 
the  challenges  addressed 
among  the  most  important  challenges  facing  us  all.
Nevertheless, 
first  and
foremost by the United Nations Charter, those of peace
and  security,  still  have  a  very  central  role  in  today’s
world.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  emphasis
in  his  report  on  the  issues  of  achieving  peace  and
security.  The  report  reminded  us 
last
September  numerous  internal  conflicts  have  continued
and  new  wars  have  broken  out.  We  have  seen  that  the
efforts of the international community, including those
of  the  United  Nations,  to  bring  peace  and  stability  to
those  areas  have  had  rather  mixed  success  and  some
show a distressing tendency to unravel.
that  since 
in 
involve  preventing  and 
the  area.  We  commend 
report  under  consideration,  seek 
As  a  country  affected  by  a  long-running  internal
conflict,  we  have  always  been  very  sensitive  to  issues
that 
resolving  conflicts.
Therefore, we are supportive of the Secretary-General’s
proposals and approaches, including those contained in
the 
to  prevent
conflicts,  stop  armed  conflicts  and  keep  and  build
sustainable  peace 
in
particular his initiative in convening the Brahimi panel
on  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and
welcome  his  commitment  to  implement,  together  with
the  Member  States,  the  panel’s  key  recommendations.
The  experience  of  recent  years  has  clearly  shown  that
the United Nations  capacity to  meet an  expanding and
an 
range  of  peacekeeping
demands needs significant improvement. Consequently,
the  Department  of  Peace-keeping  Operations  also
needs  to  be  strengthened.  We  agree  therefore  with  the
Secretary-General  that  additional  resources  must  be
increasingly  complex 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
00-66233 (E)
`````````
A/55/PV.31
envisioned  in  order  to  allow  the  United  Nations  to
carry  out its  mandate in the field  of  peacekeeping  and
peace-building.
With  regard  to  conflict  prevention,  Moldova
strongly  advocates  enhancing 
the  United  Nations
capacity  to  identify  and  respond  to  conflict  situations.
We  are  pleased  to  find  out  that  a  prevention  team  has
been  established  to  this  end  within  the  Department  of
Political Affairs. We hope very much that this new unit
will  pay  due  attention  to  all  potential  conflict  areas,
and that the specific situation in the Transdnestr region
of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  will  also  be  scrutinized
from the perspective of conflict prevention.
all 
to 
to 
are 
that 
in  Europe 
communities 
recently  by 
the  appeal  made 
We share the view that preventive strategies must
reach 
experiencing
emergencies.  The  unequal  attention  given  by 
the
international  system  to  certain  conflicts  or  conflict
situations remains  a  matter  of  great  concern.  We  draw
attention 
the
the  Organization  for  Security  and
chairperson  of 
Cooperation 
the  political
awareness  of  the  world  community  with  regard  to  a
number  of  unresolved  or  potential  conflicts  and  the
attendant security risks, which often remain outside the
spotlight  of  broader  public  attention  despite  their
highly  destabilizing  impact  on  the  region  and  beyond.
It  is  well  known  that  very  often  it  is  the  newly
independent  States  currently  undergoing  profound
economic  and  political  transformation  that  are  the
objects and victims of conflict situations.
increase 
The  ardent  desire  of  the  peoples  of  the  countries
concerned  is  that  these  conflicts  or  conflict  situations
be  terminated  and  their  root  causes  eliminated.  The
Secretary-General’s report identifies a number of needs
and  objectives  that,  in  a  sense,  provide  the  necessary
basis,  if  implemented,  for  gradual  elimination  of  the
root causes of the conflicts I have mentioned.
The  United  Nations  needs  to  be  refocused  and
increase its effectiveness so as to play a leading role in
shaping  this  globalizing  era.  Globalization  is  a  great
historic shift offering unparalleled opportunity for huge
advancements  in  human  development.  But,  as  the
Secretary-General 
risks.
Globalization  creates  losers  as  well  as  winners.  The
challenge,  in  our  view,  is  to  manage  these  objects
equitably and sustainably. The United Nations needs to
do  more 
the
in  providing 
leadership 
observed, 
to  drive 
there 
are 
2
development  agenda  and  pursue 
targets Member States have set.
the  development
We  welcome  therefore  the  broadening  of  the
dialogue  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions,  focused  on  strengthening  financial
arrangements  as  well  as  eradicating  poverty.  Moldova
also supports the Secretary-General’s efforts to engage
the  United  Nations  in  a  regular  dialogue  with  the
private  sector  and  civil  organizations  involved  in  the
development process.
My delegation agrees that the United Nations and
its  partners,  including  global  ones,  have  extraordinary
capacities  in  the  development  field  and  that  it  is
imperative to use them effectively in a synergetic way.
In  the  final  analysis,  we  consider  that  all  these
new  global  partnerships  will  enhance  the  capacity  of
the  Organization  to  assist  the  developing  countries,  as
well as countries with economies in transition, to share
in  the  benefits  of  globalization.  The  annual  report
before  the  General  Assembly  today  embraces  all  the
main areas in which the United Nations is mandated to
conduct  its  activities.  Today  we  have  focused  our
statement on only a few subjects that are, in our  view,
particularly relevant. However, all the subjects brought
to  our  attention  by  the  Secretary-General  are  of
importance, and it is  the intention  of  my  delegation  to
devote the same attention to each of them in the course
of this session.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would 
to
reiterate  its  full  support  for  the  Secretary-General’s
activities  and  for  reforming  the  United  Nations  and
making  it  more  efficient  and  relevant  to  the  new
millennium.
like 
of 
report 
Mr. Al-Humaimidi (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic): The
comprehensive 
the  Secretary-General
contained  in  document  A/55/1  covers  the  increasing
activities of the  United  Nations in a  world  undergoing
enormous  changes  —  a  fact  that  underscores  the
importance  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
need  to  enhance  the  Organization  and  promote  its
credibility  and  independence.  The  Secretary-General
has touched upon  many important topics, and it  would
be very difficult to comment on every one of them. We
will  therefore  express  our  position  on  issues  as  they
come  up  on  the  agenda.  However,  there  are  some
matters that we feel we must address now. I shall begin
with the topic of sanctions.
First  of  all,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s
conclusion  that  doubts  regarding  the  effectiveness  of
sanctions have increased in recent years, as well as his
concern  about  the  negative  effects  of  sanctions  on
civilian  populations  and  on  neighbouring  countries
whose 
sanctions  without
compensation.  The  Secretary-General  calls  upon  the
international  community  to  reflect  upon  the  current
system  of  sanctions  and  on  whether  it  is  in  keeping
with  the  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the
Charter, in particular with regard to the comprehensive
sanctions imposed on Iraq.
suffers 
trade 
from 
Those  sanctions  are  now  entering  their  eleventh
year  and  are  by  any  measure  a  form  of  collective
punishment imposed on the Iraqi people. They have led
to the death of approximately 1.5 million Iraqi citizens,
including 500,000 children under the age of five, as has
been  affirmed  by  the  report  of  the  United  Nations
Children’s Fund that was published on 12 August 1999.
Moreover,  the  sanctions  have  destroyed  the  social
fabric  of  the  country  and  are  killing  approximately
7,000  children  every  month.  On  the  basis  of  this  data,
there  is  absolutely  no  doubt  that  those  sanctions  are
blatantly  in  violation  of  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations  and  international  humanitarian  law.  This  has
been  confirmed  by  United  Nations  agencies  and
humanitarian and human rights organizations.
by 
the 
calls 
sanctions 
increasing 
imposed  on 
Iraq 
international  humanitarian 
Further  proof  of  the  negative  effects  of  the
sanctions against Iraq is provided by the working paper
adopted  at  Geneva  by  the  Subcommission  on  the
Promotion and Protection of Human Rights at its fifty-
second  session,  which  was  held  from  31  July  to
25 August  2000.  That  document  affirmed  that  the
are
comprehensive 
illegitimate  under 
law.
international
Despite 
community to end this genocide, the United Nations —
with  the  support  of  the  United  Kingdom  —  insists  on
perpetuating  those  sanctions  as  part  of  its  plan  to
destabilize 
tension,
impose  its  hegemony  over  the  region  and  rob  it  of  its
wealth.  The  United  States 
has
unequivocally  declared  its  intention  to  use  the  veto
against  any  attempt  to  lift  the  sanctions  imposed
against  Iraq.  Moreover,  its  Secretary  of  State  has  said
on  a  television  programme  that  the  death  of  half  a
million  Iraqi  children  is  an  acceptable  price  for  the
ongoing sanctions.
region,  create  permanent 
of  America 
the 
A/55/PV.31
Considering that the Member States of the United
Nations  have  conferred  upon  the  Security  Council  the
mandate  to  speak  on  their  behalf,  in  line  with  the
purposes  and  principles  of 
the  Organization  and
Article 24  of  the  Charter,  and  given  that  the  Council
has  gone  beyond  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
Charter  with  regard  to  the  sanctions  imposed  against
Iraq and is thereby providing cover for the application
of  genocidal  policies  against  an  entire  people,  the
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  should  express
their  opinion  as  to  the  Council’s  adherence  to  its
mandate. It should also be mentioned that Article 25 of
the  Charter  stipulates  that  the  Member  States  must
accept  the  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and
implement  them  in  accordance  with  the  Charter.  In
other  words, 
the  comprehensive  sanctions  against
Iraq —  which  are 
international
humanitarian  law  and  violate  the  concept  of  human
rights — do not represent a Council decision to  which
Member States should be committed.
illegitimate  under 
Mr.  Mungra  (Suriname),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
My  second  point  deals  with  the  achievement  of
peace  and  security.  The  Secretary-General  has  spoken
about, and provided examples of, the changes that have
taken place since the end of the cold war with regard to
threats  to  peace  and  security.  We  believe  that  it  is
appropriate  to  focus  on  a  new  type  of  threat,  namely,
that  of  a  single  State or  States  employing  armed  force
against sovereign States in contravention of the Charter
of  the  United  Nations.  That  was  the  case  in  the
aggression  against  Yugoslavia  and 
the  ongoing
aggression against Iraq.
Iraq  is  subjected  to  daily  raids  by  British  and
American  planes  in  the  “no  flight  zone”,  which  was
imposed  by  a  unilateral  decision  by  the  Governments
of Washington and London. Those planes take off from
bases  in  Saudi  Arabia,  Kuwait  and  Turkey.  Those
zones,  established  in  1991  and  1992,  are  in  no  way
legitimate and have no basis in the relevant resolutions
of the Security Council, a fact that has been confirmed
by  the  Secretary-General  and  by  numerous  countries,
including  three  permanent  members  of  the  Council.
The  United  Nations 
this
aggression  and  to  bring  those  responsible  for  it  to
account.
My 
humanitarian
intervention.  Iraq  joins  the  majority  of  the  Member
is  called  upon 
to  end 
refers 
point 
third 
to 
3
A/55/PV.31
independence, 
sovereignty,  political 
States  of  the  United  Nations  in  affirming  that  the
concept  of  humanitarian  intervention  runs  counter  to
international law, the Charter of the United Nations and
such basic  principles  of  the current  international  order
as 
regional
integrity and non-intervention in the  internal  affairs  of
States.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  has  declared  its
rejection  of  the  concept  of  humanitarian  intervention
and has affirmed that human rights should not be used
as a political tool to intervene in the internal affairs of
international  conventions  on
States.  The  Charter, 
human 
international
mechanisms  provide  the  framework  for  dealing  with
violations  of  human  rights.  Those  rights  should  be
promoted, 
as
humanitarian 
in  a  world  where  one
dominant Power prevails will not serve the interests of
international  security  but  will  in  fact  put  international
security  at  risk.  The  first  victims  of  that  undermined
security will be the countries of the third world.
imposing 
intervention 
and  other 
relevant 
rights 
but 
new 
ideas 
such 
Mr.  Nejad  Hosseinian  (Islamic  Republic  of
Iran):  I  would  like  to  join  previous  speakers  in
thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive
and farsighted report  on  the work of the  Organization.
This  report  offers  the  General  Assembly  a  broad
picture of our achievements over the course of the last
year  and  of  the  challenges  ahead.  Coupled  with  his
complementary statement to the General Assembly, the
present report is another successful effort on the part of
the  Secretary-General  and  his  colleagues  to  restore  to
the United Nations its rightful role in pursuit of global
peace and security.
the 
the  way 
reporting  period,  and 
The Secretary-General’s report shows clearly that
there  is  no  alternative  to  strengthening  the  United
Nations  as  the  central  mechanism  for  ensuring  peace
and  security  in  the  world.  The  developments  that
marked 
the
international community tried to cope  with them,  have
confirmed that there is no other universal tool to ensure
the joint management of international relations. In this
context,  the  endeavours  undertaken  by  the  United
Nations  in  the  past  year,  as  described  in  the  report,
along  with  the  successful  holding  of  the  Millennium
Summit, are promising.
report, 
has
highlighted,  among  other  things,  the  way  the  United
Nations handles armed conflicts, as well as the role the
Organization  can  play  in  helping  control  collectively
the process of globalization. These are among the most
the  Secretary-General 
In  his 
4
significant issues at the top of the international agenda
and,  at  the  same  time,  command  the  greatest  attention
and concern of the international community.
While  humanity  is  undergoing  the  most  radical
changes  ever  experienced  by  humankind,  and  when
significant  efforts  are  needed  to  direct  the  course  of
events  in  a  way  compatible  with  the  interests  of  the
majority  of  the  world  population,  it  is  distressing  that
local conflicts in some parts of the globe, especially in
Africa,  are  continuing  unabated.  In  view  of  these
ongoing  crises  and  conflicts  that  cause  enormous
humanitarian suffering, loss of life and have an adverse
impact  on  the  socio-economic  development  of  the
affected regions,  sustainable  peace and  security  for  all
countries  and  people  remain  central  objectives  of  the
they  were  when 
United  Nations, 
the
Organization was founded over half a century ago.
just  as 
that, 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  are
extremely  visible and  they  therefore come  under  close
scrutiny  by  world  public opinion. The  political  weight
of the United Nations is measured by the outside world
mainly  by  the  way  it  tackles  and  manages  conflict
situations  across  the  globe.  Therefore,  it  should  be
worrisome 
in  recent  years,  United  Nations
peacekeeping  activities  have  been  criticized  for  the
lack  of  uniform  standards  applied  equally 
to  all
regions, for the lack of adequate funding and resources,
for  mismanagement,  and  for  other  reasons.  In  this
context,  and  in  view  of  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations  still  on  the  agenda,  there  is  a  pressing  need,
and  a  precious  opportunity, 
to  articulate  a  more
effective  and  efficient  role  for  the  United  Nations  in
conflict  management  in  the  midst  of  fundamental
changes on the international scene.
Three  major 
studies  commissioned  by 
the
Secretary-General last year have demonstrated that due
attention  was  being  paid  to  the  issue  and  that  the
Secretariat  was  committed  to  addressing  seriously  the
crux  of  the  matter,  with  a  view  to  removing  the
deficiencies  and to  better  understanding  the  needs  and
the  potential  of  peacekeeping  operations.  In  the  first
two  studies,  on  the  circumstances  surrounding  the
crimes  against  humanity  in  Srebrenica  and  Rwanda,
efforts  have  been  made  to  shed  light  on  what  went
wrong,  including  within  the  Secretariat,  and  to  draw
lessons  that  could  help  the  smooth  running  of  current
and future peacekeeping operations.
the 
third 
resolve  conflicts, 
In view of the increasingly complex task faced by
peacekeeping operations as the United Nations seeks to
prevent  and 
study,
undertaken  by  a  panel  of  experts  established  at  the
initiative of the Secretary-General and led skilfully and
ably  by  Ambassador  Brahimi,  is  considered  to  be  an
important and useful step in the right direction. We are
confident  that  the  major  overview  conducted  by  the
Brahimi  Panel  and  the  recommendations  put  forward
by it will greatly contribute to ensuring  more effective
and  efficient  peacekeeping  operations  in  the  future.  In
the meantime, we believe that the Panel’s report needs
to  be  thoroughly  and  constructively  considered  and
debated by the Member States in the different bodies of
the  United  Nations.  While  some  of 
the  Panel’s
recommendations relate to matters that are fully within
the purview of the  Secretary  General, others  will  need
the approval of different bodies of the United Nations.
an
important  means  for  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  its
obligations  in  safeguarding  world  peace  and  security.
However,  given  the  extent  of  the  challenges  and
complexity of tasks and responsibilities, there is a need
for  more, better-equipped  and trained  troops,  adequate
resources,  the  appropriate  mandate,  preparedness  for  a
worst-case  scenario  and  coordinated  joint  action  by
Member States and the Secretariat. We believe that we
need  to  build  on  the  momentum  generated  following
the  release  of  the  Panel’s  report  and  to  continue  to
debate 
facing  peacekeeping
operations so as to find proper remedies for the current
deficiencies in this field.
Today,  peacekeeping  operations 
the  pressing 
remain 
issues 
In  the  context  of  conflict  resolution,  it  is  worth
recalling  that  religion  can  help  greatly  to  combat  the
hatred  and  persecution  that  continue  to  fuel  so  many
conflicts  within  and  without  national  borders.  Here,  I
would  like  to  echo  the  Secretary-General’s  remark  in
his  address to the  Millennium  World Peace  Summit  in
New  York,  when  he  invited  the  religious  leaders  to
look  within  and  consider  promoting  justice,  equality,
reconciliation and peace. We believe that the promotion
of  this  idea  can  mitigate  some  of  the  fundamental
problems lying at the origin of most conflicts.
Attention  paid  at  the  Millennium  Summit  to  the
issues  of  concern  to  the  world  community,  especially
the  developing  world,  such  as  globalization,  poverty
eradication, the increasing  digital divide,  and  so  forth,
should  be  considered  a  positive  development 
in
the
international  relations.  Pledges  undertaken  by 
A/55/PV.31
heads  of  State  and  Government 
the
developed  and developing worlds  are encouraging  and
should be followed up by our Organization.
from  both 
as 
can 
of 
of 
recent 
currency 
is  gaining 
Globalization 
interdependencies 
the
framework  within  which  a
prevailing  conceptual 
international
portion 
considerable 
developments 
be
and 
interpreted.  The  real  debate  is  not  about  whether
globalization  exists  and  will  continue  to  do  so,  but
about  how  its  costs  and  benefits  are  distributed.
Globalization  remains  potentially  a  powerful  dynamic
force  for  growth  and  development.  It  can  improve  the
overall 
countries’
economies by opening up market opportunities for their
exports,  by  promoting  the  transfer  of  technology  and
by  increasing  the  financial  resources  available  for
investment.
performance 
developing 
in 
the 
Maximizing the benefits of globalization requires
the international community to  address the imbalances
and  asymmetries 
international  economy,
including  the  new  economy  based  on  information
technology  and  characterized,  inter  alia,  by  the  digital
divide,  which  if  not  bridged,  will  result  in  a  widening
of  the  gap  between  the  poor  and  the  rich  and  will
render  many  potential  changes in the  social, economic
and environmental arenas impossible or meaningless. It
is evident that international cooperation is the only way
to harness the power of globalization to a vision of the
good  life  for  all.  Sustainability  has  little  meaning  in  a
world  marked  by  poverty  and  inequality.  It  is  more
than clear now that, although globalization is a reality,
it is at the same time subject to policy options.
The eradication of poverty still lies at the heart of
all  endeavours  for  development  in  the  developing
world  and  has  always  been  a  priority  of  international
cooperation 
remains,
however, that poverty has not declined in most regions
and  in  some  regions  is  increasing.  As  indicated  in  the
report of the Secretary-General,
for  development.  The 
fact 
less 
outcomes 
than  $2  a  day”. 
“half  of  the  world’s  population  still  must  try  to
(A/55/1,
survive  on 
para. 165)
The 
of  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  their  reviews,  particularly  the  World
Summit  for  Social  Development,  have  set  targets  for
the  international  community  to  halve  the  incidence  of
poverty by 2015. The translation of these commitments
the
into  effective  action  needs  coherence  and 
5
A/55/PV.31
civil 
bodies, 
regional 
coordinated  efforts  of  all  relevant  bodies  within  the
United  Nations  system,  including  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions, 
society
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations and  the
private sector. It has become clear that aid alone cannot
and  will  not  contribute  to  poverty  eradication;  rather,
the  active  participation  of  developing  countries  in  the
international  economy  and  their  integration  into  the
international  financial  and  trade  system  through  their
effective participation in international decision-making
in these fields and market access are also imperative to
the success of policies for poverty eradication and their
implementation.
The  United  Nations  system  has  played  a  major
role in  raising  the  concerns  of  developing  countries  at
international  forums,  designing  poverty  eradication
policies in developing countries and disseminating best
practices  within  the  developing  world.  Nevertheless,
there  is  a  need  to  create  a  vision  for  future  actions  of
the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  poverty  eradication
through its full participation in global economic policy-
making  and  by  strengthening  its  unique  role  as  a
universal  Organization  for  the  coordination  of  social
and  economic  policies  at  the  international  level,  in
cooperation  with  international  and  regional  financial
and trade bodies.
in 
We  have come  a long  way  since  we  met  in  1992
at  Rio,  where  we  managed  to  achieve  a  convoluted
compromise and a delicate balance  on  how  to proceed
to protect  the  environment  while  maintaining  the  pace
of growth and at the same time being responsive to the
legitimate  quest  of  developing  countries  for  sustained
economic  growth 
international
environment.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  looking
forward  to  the  10-year  review  and  appraisal  of  the
implementation  of  Agenda  21  and  its  preparatory
process  and  considers  the  event  to  be  another  chance
for all States to subject themselves to an assessment of
their 
the  practical
requirements of the principles agreed and commitments
made  at  Rio  with  a  view  to  removing  the  obstacles
impeding the full implementation of Agenda 21.
compliance  with 
level  of 
enabling 
an 
Of  prime  importance  to  developing  countries  is
the  pivotal  principle  of  common  but  differentiated
responsibilities,  which  will  remain  the  prevalent  spirit
inspiring  any  further  review  in  which  the  developing
world  will  participate.  Iran  will  continue  to  offer  its
best  affordable  contribution  to  the  advancement  of
sustainable  development  —  inter  alia,  through  the  10-
6
Ms.  Durrant
international  endeavour  aimed  at 
year  review  process  —  and  will  remain  committed  to
any 
the  dual
containment of environmental degradation and poverty.
(Jamaica):  Let  me  begin  by
thanking the Secretary-General for the preparation and
presentation  of  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the
Organization,  which  offers  a  very  informative  and
comprehensive  overview  of  the  various  aspects  of  the
work of the United Nations. We believe that this report
will  serve  as  a  useful  basis  for  our  deliberations
throughout 
the  General
Assembly.
the  fifty-fifth  session  of 
Since  most of the  issues raised  in  the  report  will
be  addressed  under  separate  agenda  items,  I  will
confine  my  remarks  to  two  areas  of  concern  to  my
delegation:  increasing  the  emphasis  of  the  United
Nations  system  on  the  prevention  of  armed  conflicts
and  the  safety  and  security  of  United  Nations  and
associated personnel.
the  promotion  of 
My delegation supports the clear link made in the
Secretary-General’s report between  international peace
and  stability  and 
sustainable
economic  and  social  development.  In  an  increasingly
globalized world, achieving sustainable peace demands
the  increased  attention  of  our  Organization.  While  the
forces  of  globalization  have  resulted  in  extraordinary
improvements in the lives of many, we have to face the
challenges  presented  by  this  phenomenon,  including
the  growing  digital  divide  between  the  North  and  the
South  and  increasing  levels  of  poverty  and  social
inequality,  compounded  by  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.
An  effective  and  timely  response  to  these  challenges
will  ultimately  constitute  a  yardstick  for  assessing  the
effectiveness of the United Nations.
The  Millennium  Summit  provided  a  unique  and
historic  occasion  to  articulate  a  common  vision  for  a
United  Nations  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Although
remarkable  progress  has  been  made,  there  can  be  no
question  that  much  remains  to  be  done  to  secure  the
universal values of liberty and tolerance and the culture
of  non-violence to  which  we  aspire.  In  the  face  of  the
threats  posed  by  weapons  of  mass
continued 
destruction  and 
terrorism,
international  crime  and  illicit  traffic  in  narcotics  and
small arms, our collective efforts to promote the ideals
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  must  be
maintained and strengthened.
the  new  scourges  of 
It is in this context that I turn to the problems of
peacekeeping,  peace-building  and  development.  It  is
clear  that  peace  operations  no  longer  involve  merely
separating  warring  parties  and  monitoring  ceasefire
agreements.  As  noted  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his
report,  they  are  a  far  more  extensive  and  complex
undertaking  involving  disarmament,  demobilization  of
combatants,  monitoring  of  human 
and
institutional  and  legal  reforms.  We  therefore  express
our 
for
establishing the Panel on Peace Operations, chaired by
Ambassador  Brahimi.  We  wish  to  thank  the  Panel  for
its insightful and practical recommendations.
the  Secretary-General 
appreciation 
rights, 
to 
for 
are 
peace 
support 
the  Organization, 
Jamaica  fully  concurs  that  stronger  political  and
financial 
rapid
deployment  standards  and  improved  technical  support
for 
The
recommendations by the Brahimi Panel deserve serious
and  careful  consideration,  and  we  hope  that  they  will
be  fully  addressed  during  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
operations 
essential. 
I wish to note the emphasis placed in the Brahimi
report on the issue of the prevention of armed conflicts,
as  my  delegation  believes  that  addressing  the  root
causes  of  conflict  merits  primary  attention  and
represents  the  most  effective  approach  to  achieving
sustainable peace and security.
that 
In this context, my delegation fully supported the
Secretary-General’s  call  last  year  for  us  to  move  to  a
“culture  of  prevention”,  as  we  believe 
the
prevention  of  conflicts  must  be  the  key  focus  in  the
maintenance  of  international  peace.  The  international
community  must  convert  the  fruits  of  the  dialogue  on
the  prevention  of  conflict  into  an  effective  course  of
action 
twenty-first  century.  A  careful
examination of the root causes of conflict suggests that
the  answers  will  not  be  easy  to  come  by.  Already
radical  initiatives,  such  as  the  move  in  the  Security
Council  to  boldly  challenge  the  sinister  relationships
between  armed  conflict  and  illicit  trade  in  diamonds
and  other  natural  resources,  point  to  a  new  and  more
systematic approach to the prevention of conflict.
the 
for 
During  Jamaica’s  presidency  of 
the  Security
Council in July 2000, an open debate on the prevention
of  armed  conflict  allowed  members  and  non-members
of  the  Council  to  again  discuss  and  identify  practical
initiatives  to  enhance  the  role  of  the  Council  in  the
prevention  of  conflicts.  The  presidential  statement
A/55/PV.31
issued following the debate underlined the need for an
in-depth  consideration  of  the  issue  and  provided  the
mandate  for  a  report  which  the  Secretary-General  will
present in May 2001.
The  other  issue  which  my  delegation  wishes  to
address at this time is the protection of United Nations
and  associated  personnel.  On  25  September,  members
of  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations  and  members  of
delegations  paused  for  the  annual  observance  of  Staff
Day.  Regrettably,  this  provided  a  sad  reminder  that
over  the  past  year  some  65  peacekeepers  and  civilian
staff  of  the  United  Nations  had  lost  their  lives  while
discharging their duties.
My  delegation  is  deeply  concerned  about  the
continued  attacks  on  humanitarian  workers,  and  we
recall  with  deep  regret  the  recent  brutal  killing  of
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  staff
in  East  Timor.  The  constant  dangers  faced  by  United
Nations  staff  in  the  field  highlight  the  urgency  with
which the safety and security of these persons must be
addressed.  It  is  a  matter  of  concern  that  parties  to
armed  conflict  continue  to  disregard  the  rules  of
international humanitarian law and to place the lives of
our  staff  in  danger.  Steps  must  be  taken  to  prosecute
and  bring  to  justice  those  responsible  for  violence
against United Nations and associated personnel.
The  international  community  must,  as  a  priority,
strengthen international humanitarian and human rights
standards.  The  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  United
Nations  and  Associated  Personnel  is  an  important
contribution  to  the  legal  regime  for  the  protection  of
humanitarian  workers.  With  this  in  mind,  Jamaica’s
Prime  Minister,  during 
the  Millennium  Summit,
presented  Jamaica’s  instrument  of  accession  to  this
important  Convention.  We  do  believe,  however,  that
the  scope  of  application  of  this  instrument  should  be
expanded to cover locally recruited and other personnel
not currently covered under the Convention.
The  targeting  of  humanitarian  and  peacekeeping
personnel is unacceptable, and we support the taking of
measures to improve staff safety and to provide further
training  to  all  personnel  engaged  in  humanitarian  and
peacekeeping  missions.  Every  Member  State  has  a
responsibility to contribute to this process. Without the
staff  of  the  United  Nations  prepared  to  serve  in
dangerous  situations,  the  work  of  the  Organization
would not be taken forward.
7
A/55/PV.31
for  his  outstanding 
In  conclusion,  we  commend 
the  Secretary-
General 
the
Organization and  thank  him for  the  thought-provoking
ideas  expressed 
in  his  report  entitled  “Common
destiny: a new resolve”.
leadership  of 
Mr. Mwakawago (United Republic of Tanzania):
Tanzania  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report on the work of the Organization. We applaud his
vision  of  the  Organization,  which  defines  its  primary
role  as  the  promotion  of  collective  action  to  meet  the
challenges  that  confront  our  shared  humanity.  The
recently concluded Millennium Summit is a vindication
of  this  vision.  The  Summit  deliberations  and  the
Declaration that was adopted were also a vindication of
the  critical  role  of  the  Organization  in  evolving,
defining  and  articulating  a  global  agenda.  The
Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat  have  had  a
significant  role  in  that  respect.  We  commend  them,
even  as  we  call  for  a  stronger  rededication  to  the
implementation  of 
for
ourselves.
the  agenda  we  have  set 
It is not our desire to comment on the report in its
entirety.  Others  have  done  so,  and  we  share  many  of
the  concerns  raised,  in  particular  those  regarding  the
determination  to  strengthen  worldwide  peacekeeping
operations.  Our  central  focus 
is  on  Africa.  The
promotion of durable peace has to go hand in hand with
the  pursuit  of 
sustained  economic  growth  and
sustainable  development.  For  Africa  this  is  a  critical
challenge.  We  bank  on  the  United  Nations  to  take  the
lead in helping Africa. While we know the challenge is
primarily  ours,  international  support  is  critical.  This
requires  forging  partnerships  with  the  other  Member
States and  the international community.  Ultimately,  an
Africa  that  is  at  peace  with  itself  and  self-reliant  will
make  significant  contributions  to  world  peace  and
development.
In paragraph 231 the report states:
“The  breadth  and  depth  of  United  Nations
involvement in Africa is extraordinary”.
The  involvement  is  a  demonstration  of  the  degree  of
commitment  to  African  development.  We  appreciate
that  Africa  has  its  own  share  of  responsibilities.  And
indeed a lot is being done in all spheres.
What Africa now needs is concrete commitments
for a new partnership. We are gratified that the Summit
and  the  Declaration  that  it  adopted  provided  a  new
8
high-level political commitment to the development of
Africa.  It  now  behoves  the  Organization  and  the
Secretary-General to draw the attention of world public
opinion  to  the  new  challenge  of  helping  Africa  equip
itself with the tools necessary to compete in the global
economy.
It 
to 
for 
is  also 
the  Organization 
further
demonstrate  its  commitment  to  peace  and  sustainable
development in Africa by giving momentum to dealing
with  the  issues  that  impede  Africa’s  competitiveness.
The  matters  to  be  dealt  with  include  poor  resource
flows,  access 
technology
transfer and fighting the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
to  markets,  debt  relief, 
On  market  access,  while  Africa  is  striving  to
increase the production of goods and services, it needs
free  and  unhindered  access  for  its  products  in  the
developed countries’ markets.
We  welcome  the  greater  international  awareness
of the need to address the debt problem. In this regard,
the enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor  Countries (HIPC)
Debt  Initiative  is  a  welcome  move,  but  more  needs  to
be  done  to  enable  more  countries  —  especially  least
developed countries — to qualify for HIPC funding. In
addition,  a  comprehensive  and durable  solution  to  this
problem has to be found.
time  when 
the  Organization 
The  Secretary-General 
raises  key  questions
concerning the complexity of preventing and resolving
conflicts.  At  a 
is
the  complexities  become  even  more
underfunded, 
some  of 
daunting.  But 
the  conflicts  are  only
complicated  by 
the  Organization’s  own  sense  of
limitations.  It 
the  even-handed
application of policies and decisions will go a long way
to  instilling  confidence  in  the  Organization.  Double
standards should be avoided at all cost.
is  our  view 
that 
We  are  keenly  conscious  of  the  need  to  protect
the  peacekeepers  who  are  deployed  in  the  field.  The
recent tragedies in Sierra Leone are a grim reminder of
the 
risks  and  dangers  confronting  peacekeeping
operations. Caution is therefore justifiable. Here I join
those  who have called  for  strict  adherence to the rules
governing deployment in situations  of  conflict.  But  no
two  situations  can  be  treated  equally.  Unlike  the
operation  in  Sierra  Leone,  all  the  parties  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  conflict  have  been
calling  for,  indeed  urging,  the  deployment  of  United
Nations forces in the Congo. While caution is justified,
as  regards  the  Congo  we  appeal  for  a  reassessment  of
the  decision  made.  Above  all,  the  people  of  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  must  be  reassured
that this Organization cares, that this Organization can
overcome  the  constraints  of  its  past  tragedies  in  that
territory in the interest of higher goals: peace, stability
and  development  for  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo and its people.
to  evaluate 
the  scope  of 
In  paragraph  153  the  Secretary-General  refers  to
an important undertaking: the reaffirmation of the 1951
Convention  Relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  as  the
universal  foundation  of  refugee  protection.  There
cannot  be  a  nobler  way  of  celebrating  its  fiftieth
anniversary.  We  hope  this  anniversary  will  also  be  an
occasion 
refugee
phenomenon.  The  incidence  of  resettlement  beyond
camps  of  refugees  who  have  not  taken  the  option  of
acquiring  citizenship  in  the  host  countries  cannot
continue  to  be  ignored.  For  example,  while  the  Office
of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
figure  for  refugees  in  Tanzania  is  close  to  half  a
million,  the  actual  number  residing  in  the  country  is
close to a million. We appeal for a holistic approach to
the  refugee  problem.  To  the  host  country  all  the
refugees,  whether  in  camps  or  with  the  people,  do
count.
the 
And  yet,  as  noted in paragraph  149,  we  continue
to be one of the countries suffering the spillover effect
of the instabilities in the Great Lakes region of Africa.
The hospitality of our people is not without bounds. At
times such hospitality has been rewarded by outrageous
charges  by  the  countries  of  origin.  Our  tolerance  in
some  cases  has  been 
the  extreme.  In
rededicating  ourselves  to  the  1951  Convention,  we
must also dedicate ourselves to  a  course  of  action that
will not only address the root causes, but also redouble
peacemaking  efforts  that  will  eventually  lead  to  the
return  of  refugees  to  their  countries  of  origin.  In  the
meantime,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  appeal  for  more
assistance to refugees as well as to host countries.
tested 
to 
A/55/PV.31
Mr. Chowdhury (Bangladesh): My delegation  is
happy  that  this  year,  as  in  the  past  three  years,  the
Secretary-General  was  given 
to
introduce his report on the work of the Organization at
the beginning of the general debate. This is a welcome
arrangement, which should continue in the future.
the  opportunity 
identified 
My  delegation  is  particularly  happy  that  this
year’s  report  has 
the
potential of challenging the international community in
the  coming  years.  My  delegation  had  asked 
the
Secretary-General to give attention to our suggestion to
that effect.
that  have 
issues 
report 
this  year 
The  Secretary-General’s 
is
readable and presents in a very user-friendly  manner a
broad picture of the  various mandated  activities  of  the
world  body.  The  focus  on  both  substantive  issues  and
issues  relating  to  institutional  reforms  is  appropriately
balanced.  This  draws  attention  to  the  fact  that  both
aspects  require  full  and  thorough  consideration  by  the
Member  States  in  order  for  the  United  Nations  to  be
effective and efficient.
Bangladesh  finds  it  particularly  useful  that  the
Secretary-General  offers  his  own  assessment  and
suggests  ways  in  which  the  international  community
can work together to better the lives of the people still
left  behind.  My  delegation  agrees  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  the  United  Nations  in  many  of  its  peace
missions  is  charged  with  nothing  less  than  helping
rebuild shattered societies almost from scratch.
is  an  effective 
that  peacekeeping 
Bangladesh  believes 
in  a
tool  for  conflict
broader  context 
prevention.  We  strongly  believe  that  peacekeeping
operations should be carried out only under transparent
political  direction,  a  precise  mandate  of  the  United
Nations  and  an  effective  command  and  control
structure. 
to
examining  the  recommendation  made  in  the  Brahimi
Panel’s Report (A/55/305).
this  context,  we 
forward 
look 
In 
In conclusion, we note that the Secretary-General
identifies  in  paragraph  273  the  establishment  of  the
rule of law in international affairs as a central priority.
For the credibility  and legitimacy  of  the  Organization,
reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  are
imperative.  The  majority  of  us  cannot  repeatedly  and
without  consequence  call  for  the  expansion  of  the
membership  of  the  Council  without  at  some  point
bringing  into  serious  question  the  credibility  of  the
Organization as a major advocate of the rule of law.
My  delegation  finds  it  most  appropriate  that  the
Secretary-General  argues  for  a  shift  from  a  culture  of
reaction to one of prevention. We also believe that this
will  be  highly  cost-effective  both  in  human  and  in
financial terms. We are encouraged to learn that within
the United Nations system a prevention team has been
set  up  by  the  Department of  Political  Affairs  to  watch
over the conflict situations that may require preventive
action.
9
A/55/PV.31
We  welcome  the  attention  that  the  Secretary-
General  has  given  to  natural  disasters,  as  well  as  to
violent conflicts, as events that pose serious challenges
to the United Nations. His emphasis on the  most basic
principles of multilateralism and humanitarian ethics is
absolutely relevant in this context.
The  development  mandate  of  the  United  Nations
has  special  significance  for  Bangladesh.  We  are
satisfied that due attention has been given to this aspect
in  the  chapter  entitled  “Cooperating  for  development”
in the report. My delegation is particularly happy to see
that 
the  Secretary-General  has
emphasized  the  elimination  of  poverty  worldwide  and
termed  it  the  most  important  development  goal  of  the
United Nations.
this  chapter 
in 
In  the  section  on  bridging  the  digital  divide,  the
Secretary-General’s  observation  on  narrowing  the  gap
between rich and poor is commendable. We support the
Secretary-General  and  encourage  him  to  take  steps  in
narrowing that digital divide.
Bangladesh  is pleased  that  considerable  attention
has  been  given  to  accountability  and  oversight  in  the
report.  We  encourage  the  continuation  of  this  in  the
future.  The  monitoring  of  the  reform  process  and  the
resulting  improvements  in  its  operations  require  the
close  attention  of  the  Member  States  and  should  be
reported upon regularly in a transparent manner.
Bangladesh  welcomes  the  emphasis  given  in  the
report on the  idea that peace,  development and  human
rights  are  interrelated.  The  international  community
has been alerted to the human rights imperatives of its
activities  and initiatives.  We  would like the  Secretary-
General to devote some space in future reports to cover
the activities relating to the promotion of the culture of
peace,  particularly  linking  it  to  the  ongoing  initiatives
in various parts of the  world involving civil society as
a whole.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  commend  the
Secretary-General  again  for  his  well-balanced  report.
We  believe  that  the  suggestions  and  ideas  of  Member
States, as articulated in this debate, will continue to be
reflected in future reports of the Secretary-General.
Mr.  Alimov  (Tajikistan)  (spoke  in  Russian):  At
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  thanks  to  the
Secretary-General for the comprehensive report he has
submitted  to  us  on  the  work  of  the  Organization
(A/55/1).  His  report  covers  a  broad  and  deep  range  of
10
problems  facing  the  United  Nations  over  the  last  few
years,  and 
the  Secretary-General  not  only  raises
questions,  he  also  offers  us  his  vision  of  cooperation
for  the  entire  international  community  in  order  to
improve the life of those who live on hope alone.
is 
following 
taking  place 
This  important  and  basic  document  provides  us
with  an  additional  and  useful  stimulus  to  ensure  the
effectiveness  of  the  work  of  this  session  of  the
Assembly,  which 
the
Millennium  Summit.  That  Summit  was  unprecedented
in  the  level  and  scope  of  representation.  It  was  a
milestone  because  of  its  political  significance.  That
gathering of  world leaders not only confirmed  that  the
United  Nations  will  continue  to  be  the  main  focus  for
managing  international  relations  in  the  twenty-first
century  but  also  undoubtedly  strengthened  the  role  of
the United Nations and elevated its role to new heights
in the world today.
Since  joining  the  Organization,  Tajikistan  has
given  priority  to  strengthening  the  stabilizing  role  of
the  United  Nations  and  has  supported  its  rational
reform  so  that  it  will  be  able  to  react  quickly  and
appropriately  to  what  is  happening  in  the  world.  We
have  supported  building  up 
the  United  Nations
potential  to  settle  crises  and  conflicts  as  they  emerge.
Together with all interested States, we will continue to
make our constructive contribution to strengthening the
potential of this Organization.
We agree with the Secretary-General that there is
no  issue  that  requires  greater  attention  and  more
resources than the attainment of peace and security for
all  countries  and  peoples.  The  varied,  complex  crises
that  have  faced  the  United  Nations  in  the  last  decade
require an in-depth analysis of the current mechanisms
available  to  the  United  Nations  and  reflection  on
appropriate  ways  and  means  of  enhancing 
the
effectiveness of future peacekeeping operations.
In  this  connection,  the  report  prepared  under  the
leadership  of  Ambassador  Lakhdar  Brahimi  provides,
on  the  basis  of  an  objective  analysis  of  peacekeeping
experience,  realistic  assessments  and  well-thought-out
recommendations,  which  we  agree  with  overall.  It  is
clear  that  peacekeeping  missions  will  for  a  long  time
continue to be one of the main areas of activity of this
Organization. In some parts of the world, the flames of
new  wars  have  broken  out.  New  conflicts  seem  to
emerge from the ashes of the old, and some have gone
on  for  decades  without  being  settled.  The  pain  and
suffering  of  peoples  demand  stronger  action  from  the
international community to help them.
Advocating 
further 
of 
strengthening 
the
peacekeeping  potential  of  the  United  Nations,  we
believe that peacekeeping must be based on full respect
for 
integrity  of
countries.  It  must  be  timely  and  appropriate  and
focused  on  organizing  collective  action  by 
the
community of nations.
  sovereignty  and 
territorial 
the 
We must not forget that only the Security Council
that  has  the  exclusive  right  to  authorize  on  behalf  of
the  world  community 
the
maintenance and restoration of international peace and
security.
the  use  of  force  for 
We  believe  that  international  law  must  prevail
whatever  the  circumstances  of  a  crisis.  The  settlement
of the conflict in Tajikistan by political and diplomatic
means, under United Nations auspices, provides a very
clear  example  of  the  Organization’s  great  potential  to
settle  crises.  In  our  view,  it  exemplifies  what  the
Secretary-General  has 
the  growing
importance of preventive diplomacy and about the need
to strengthen a culture of conflict prevention. We agree
with  the  report’s  view  that  the  very  nature  of  conflict
has  changed.  The  dirty  money  gained  through  illicit
trafficking in weapons and in drugs often fuels conflict.
Tajikistan  shares  the  Secretary-General’s  concerns  and
will  do  its  utmost  to  support  efforts  to  combat  illegal
drug cultivation, production, trade and abuse —  which
are linked also to terrorism.
about 
said 
In  that  context,  the  regional  plan  of  action
adopted in mid-September by the “six plus two” group,
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  International
Drug  Control  Programme,  is  of  great  importance.
Owing to its scope and trans-border character, the drug
threat from  Afghanistan  to  the  Central  Asian region is
so  serious  that  no  State  can  counter  it  alone.  We
believe  that  implementation  of  the  plan,  with  serious
ongoing  support  from  the  main  donors,  would  make  a
real contribution to enhancing the effectiveness of joint
international efforts to counter the growing drug threat.
The Secretary-General makes this point in his report.
In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  writes  also
about  various  aspects  of  globalization.  To  varying
degrees,  we  are  all  enjoying 
the  benefits  of
globalization  and  are  suffering  from  the  problems  it
creates.  We  agree  with  the  report  that  virtually  the
the
entire  developing  world 
is  concerned  about 
A/55/PV.31
Intergovernmental  Event  on  Financing 
consequences  of  globalization.  Tajikistan  believes  that
the  United  Nations  must  do  more  to  promote  ways  to
narrow  the  development  gulf  between  rich  and  poor
States.  We  shall  be  preparing  actively  for  the  High-
level 
for
Development  to  be  held  in  2001,  to  which  the  report
makes reference.  We  hope  that  we  will  be  able  during
the  preparatory  process  to  move  towards  resolving
problems related to the excessive debt burden weighing
on developing  countries,  many  of  which  have  recently
experienced conflicts and devastating natural disasters.
Tajikistan  welcomes  the  increasing  attention  to  this
matter  on  the  part  of  the  Secretary-General,  the  donor
community and the international financial institutions.
My  Government  believes  that  easing  the  debt
burden  will  release  internal  resources  for  use  in
education and health care, in dealing with the aftermath
of  conflict,  in  addressing  environmental  issues  and  in
reacting effectively to natural disasters.
We  welcome 
the  heightened  emphasis  on
environmental  issues.  A  great  deal  has  been  done  in
recent  years  on  those  issues,  as  detailed  in  the  report.
The  vast  scope  of  the  problems  touched  upon  in  the
report  made it  impossible  for  the  Secretary-General  to
deal  in  detail  with  one  issue  of  growing  importance:
fresh  water.  Water,  obviously,  is  life,  and  it  will
constitute  one  of  the  main  world-wide  challenges  for
the  twenty-first  century.  Today,  more  than  a  billion
people lack adequate access to safe drinking water; five
million  die  each  year  from  water-borne  diseases.  This
problem  arises  in  all  continents.  It  could  be  said  that
half  of  the  world’s  water  resources  have  already  been
exhausted. Unless a vast effort is made to deal with the
problem  of  water,  it  could  become  a  major  source  of
conflict.  By  2050,  it  will  be  impossible  to  meet  the
fresh-water  needs  of  more  than  half  of  the  world’s
population.  Only  by  working  together  will  we  be  able
to solve this problem. The timing of the second World
Water  Forum,  held  this  year  at  The  Hague,  was  no
accident. Drinking water must be made available to all
people  at  a  price  they  can  afford.  This  is  among  the
goals  of  the  United  Nations;  it  is  a  key  to  resolving
many issues.
We shall not now speak of all the matters touched
on  in  the  report,  but  will  state  our  views  during  the
debate on individual agenda items.
Let me conclude by reaffirming our entire support
for the work of the Secretary-General. Tajikistan firmly
11
A/55/PV.31
believes that the United Nations is absolutely essential.
It  has  great  strength  and  great  potential.  We  believe
that joint efforts by the Members of the United Nations
will further strengthen the Organization and will enable
it to realize that potential. The hopes and aspirations of
the world’s peoples are focused on the United Nations.
Mr.  Wibisono  (Indonesia):  I  should  like  at  the
outset  to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the
Secretary-General for his insightful report on the work
of  the  Organization  (A/55/1).  It  is  a  comprehensive
document  and provides  us  with  an  overall  view  of  the
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  dealing  with  the  myriad
issues  that  are  of  concern  and  interest  to  Member
States,  along  with  proposals  for  further  strengthening
the  Organization’s  functioning  and 
its
efficiency.
improving 
As  the  report  makes  clear,  security  continues  to
be  a  concern  of  the  international  community,  as  long-
standing  conflicts  persist  and  new  ones  erupt,  often
exacerbated  by  ethnic  and  religious  differences  and
fuelled  by  illicit  trafficking  in  arms.  These  are  major
challenges to international peace and security. There is
thus  a  clear  need  to  augment  global  and  regional
mechanisms for conflict prevention. In that regard,  we
are  gratified  to  note  the  steps  that  have  already  been
taken and those that are under consideration to prevent
armed conflicts in the future.
to  ensure  stable 
Peacekeeping and peacemaking have now become
more  complex  and  demanding.  This  led  to  a  major
review  by 
the  Panel  on  United  Nations  Peace
Operations  chaired  by  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi,  whose
recommendations  warrant  our  serious  consideration
with  a  view  to  further  strengthening  those  operations.
In view of the indispensable role of the Organization in
these activities, it has become imperative to search for
ways  and  means 
logistical  and
financial  support.  All  aspects  of  United  Nations
activities  have  faced  financial  constraints  in  recent
years,  but  none  have  faced  such  severe  constraints  as
the Organization’s peacekeeping missions. It is beyond
doubt that the current arrangements for financing these
activities are inadequate and unreliable. They place the
heaviest  burden  on 
that
troops,  which  discourages  participation.
contribute 
Indonesia  fully  recognizes  that  implementation  of  the
Panel’s recommendations will depend to a considerable
degree  on  the  availability  of  additional  resources  and
on the resolution of numerous other interrelated issues.
the  developing  countries 
12
Equally  important,  peacekeeping  operations  should  be
non-intrusive and non-interventionist in nature.
to 
continues 
intervention 
international 
This issue has again been raised in the Secretary-
General’s  report,  which  has  acknowledged  that  many
States  have  serious  and  legitimate  concerns  about
intervention for  whatever reasons. Hence, the  question
of 
be
controversial,  as  it  impinges  on  the  critical  issue  of
foreign  intervention  and  interference  in  the  internal
affairs  of  States.  The  recent  debates  have  underscored
how  far  we  are  from  reaching  a  consensus.  But  those
deliberations  have  marked  the  beginnings  of  a  healthy
dialogue  and  have  focused  our  attention  on  providing
the  best  care  in  times  of  humanitarian  emergencies.
From  Indonesia’s  viewpoint,  humanitarian  assistance
can  only  be  rendered  by  the  United  Nations  or  any
other  organization  following  a  request  by  the  State
concerned, or at a  minimum  with its express approval.
To  contemplate  otherwise  would  threaten  the  very
foundation  of  the  United  Nations,  which  has  always
upheld  the  sanctity  of  the  sovereign  State  as  essential
to international security and cooperation.
As  a  long-time  proponent of  a  regional  approach
to disarmament, my delegation is gratified to note that
the  validity  of  this  approach  is  acknowledged  in  the
report.  In  general,  we  believe  that  both  global  and
regional  approaches  to  disarmament  compliment  each
other and should be pursued simultaneously.
the  expectations  of 
if 
community 
As regards other disarmament issues identified in
the report, the real cause for stalemate is the untenable
approaches adopted by some countries in the post-cold-
war  era.  Obviously, 
the
international 
fulfilled,
negotiations must be pursued with the serious political
commitment  of  the  nuclear-weapon  States.  Questions
have  constantly  been  raised  as  to  the  commitment  of
those  States  to  fulfil  their  obligations.  The  challenge
today  and 
full
implementation of all the provisions of all the Treaties
by all of the States parties.
to  ensure 
future 
the 
in 
the 
is 
are 
to 
be 
The  question  of  illicit  traffic  in  small  arms
alluded  to  in  the  report  has  acquired  urgency  in  the
post-cold-war  era  as civilians  have  become  intentional
targets. The linkage of children to violence is poignant
and is due largely to the availability of such arms. They
have  placed  the  safety  of  societies  and  the  security  of
States  in  jeopardy.  Various  initiatives  have  already
been  taken  at  the  regional  and  subregional  levels  in
the 
forthcoming 
stemming  the  illegal  flow  of  small  arms.  The  success
of 
international  conference  will
depend  upon  resolving  a  multiplicity  of  interrelated
issues,  including  the  root  causes  of  conflicts,  State
control  over  security,  arms  supplies  and 
illicit
activities,  the  link  of  the  small  arms  traffic  with  drug
trafficking  and  terrorism,  the  reintegration  of  former
combatants  into  unified  armed  forces  and  confidence-
building measures.
the 
future 
support 
for 
that 
the 
imposed 
Indonesia  considers 
The report also  touches  upon  the  harmful  impact
of  sanctions  on  the  civilians  of  the  targeted  countries
and  neighbouring  States  whose  trade  and  commercial
relations are disrupted without compensation and to the
their  economy.  Sanctions  are  blunt
detriment  of 
instruments  and,  when 
indefinitely,  have
served no useful purpose in achieving their objectives.
They  should  be  subjected  to  periodic  review  and
terminated  when  their  objectives  are  attained.  Such  an
approach  would  ensure 
the
implementation  of  sanctions
imposition  and 
regimes. 
issue  of
humanitarian  assistance,  either  in  regard  to  natural
disasters or conflict situations, should be considered in
a  balanced  manner.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General’s  view  that  an  international  response  to  the
situation  of  internally  displaced  persons  should  be
designed in collaboration with the Government in each
affected  country.  Furthermore,  it  is  our  view  that  the
central  premise  of  the  policy  is  that  the  responsibility
for a humanitarian response lies first and foremost with
the  national  Government  and  that  such  assistance
should  be  based  on  the  request  of  the  Government
concerned, while fully respecting State sovereignty.
to  underline 
My  delegation  would 
the
important  progress  that  has  been  made  in  improving
coordination  within  the  United  Nations  system  in  its
response to humanitarian emergencies. The situation in
Mozambique  earlier 
this  year,  which  drew  an
immediate  response  from  the  General  Assembly  and
also  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  (ECOSOC),  is
one  example  of  the  success  that  can  be  achieved
through timely action.
Indonesia  has 
to
strengthening  its  national  human  rights  mechanisms
and  to  effectively  promoting  and  protecting  human
rights  at  all 
the  new
developments  in  the  work  and  the  mechanisms  of
human rights bodies, as indicated in the report. In that
regard,  we  consider  it  important  to  note  that  what  is
take  note  of 
always  been 
levels.  We 
committed 
like 
A/55/PV.31
required  foremost  is  to  make  optimal  use  of  existing
human  rights  bodies  by  reviewing  their  procedures
with  a  view  to  avoiding  unnecessary  overlapping  of
activities.
social  development. 
Regarding  social  issues,  Indonesia  agrees  with
the  Secretary-General  that  the  special  session  of  the
General  Assembly  reached  an  agreement  on  sensitive
social development issues and resulted in commitments
to 
In  particular,  we  were
encouraged by the attention that was given to emerging
issues,  such  as  the  impact  of  globalization  and  the
prospects  for  the  future.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation
would like to express  its  sincere  wish that  that  special
session does not end as an exercise in rhetoric, but will
help restore momentum for social development.
Finally,  on  the  issue  of  women,  Indonesia  also
welcomes  the  outcome  of  the  Special  Session  of  the
General  Assembly  for  the  Beijing  +  5  Review.  In
particular,  the  prominence  that  is  being  given  to  the
issue of  violence  against  women  has  strengthened  that
process.  We  would  note,  however,  that  given  the
significance  that  should  be  attached  to  the  five-year
reviews,  it  was  perhaps  too  ambitious  to  hold  two
special sessions in the same month and same year.
Mr. Powles (New Zealand): I would like through
you,  Mr.  Acting  President,  to  offer  my  delegation’s
congratulations  to  the  new  President  of  our  General
Assembly.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  him  and
his team, as  we enjoyed and appreciated  working  with
his respective predecessor.
I  would  also 
like  to  join  with 
those  other
delegations  that  have  expressed  their  appreciation  for
the  Secretary-General’s  excellent  report  contained  in
document  A/55/1.  This  report  contains  an  eloquent
account  of  how  the  United  Nations  has  confronted
major  challenges  over  the  past  year  in  pursuing  the
objectives of sustainable peace and security.
Indeed,  through  our  own  contributions  to  United
Nations  peace  operations,  and  especially  through  our
commitment  of  troops  and  civilian  experts  to  the
United  Nations  Transitional  Administration  in  East
Timor, we have some small understanding of the extent
and  complexity  of  the  activities  being  undertaken  by
the  United  Nations  today.  It  is  essential  that  all  of  us
join  with 
to
strengthen  the  Organization’s  capacities  in  this  area,
including  by  acting  upon  the  Brahimi  Panel’s  key
recommendations.
the  Secretary-General 
in  helping 
13
A/55/PV.31
The Secretary-General has noted that many of the
questions  surrounding  humanitarian  intervention  and
national  sovereignty,  which  he  first  posed  last  year,
remain unanswered. Our own impression is that there is
some polarization among the membership that needs to
be put aside if the Organization is to move forward. Yet
the  debate  raises  important  issues  that  warrant  careful
reflection,  and  we  believe  it  is  essential  to  work
towards a consensus on improved ways of dealing with
situations  in  which  universally  accepted  human  rights
are  being  violated  on  a  massive  scale.  At  the  same
time,  we  see  no 
inherent  contradiction  between
intervention  and  national  sovereignty  in  terms  of  the
United  Nations  Charter.  Article 2,  paragraph  7,  of  the
Charter makes clear that there are circumstances where
Member States do not have exclusive jurisdiction over
their  domestic  affairs,  in  particular  in  the  case  of
measures  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  In  other
words,  the  Charter  provides  that  measures  to  preserve
international  peace  and  security  can  override  State
sovereignty.  National  sovereignty  is  therefore  not  an
absolute.
If  there  is  new  ground  to  be  broken  in  order  to
improve  the  Organization’s  ability  to  respond  more
effectively,  it  probably  lies,  in  part  at  least,  in  the
domain of the  Security  Council,  which  has the  task  of
determining threats to the peace or breaches of it. The
main  impediment,  as  we  see 
the  Security
Council’s taking concerted action to try to end massive
human  rights  abuses,  including  in  the  recent  cases  of
Rwanda  and  Kosovo,  has  been  shown  to  lie  in  its
decision-making  processes.  I  refer,  of  course,  to  the
veto, by which the will of the wider membership of the
Organization  can  be  continually  frustrated.  As  we
know,  the  veto  is  omnipresent  in  negotiations  in  the
Council, even if it is less frequently deployed formally
these days.
it, 
to 
to 
the  contributing  countries 
The  Secretary-General  refers  in  his  report  to
developments  in  the  South  Pacific  region,  where  the
United Nations has become more involved recently. As
one  of 
the  Peace
Monitoring Group in Bougainville, Papua New Guinea,
I  want to pay tribute to the very fine  work being  done
by 
the  United  Nations  Political  Office,  which
comprises 
in  helping
further  the  peace  process.  The  Secretary-General  also
makes  the  point  that  sustainable  peace  and  prosperity
can only be  assured in  Fiji  if  the  aspirations  of  all  the
peoples  of  Fiji,  regardless  of  race,  are  taken  into
three  substantive  staff, 
just 
14
account  and all  its  citizens  can  play  a  meaningful  role
in  the  political  and  economic  life  of  the  country.
Finally,  he  calls  our  attention  to  Solomon  Islands,
where  Australia  and  New  Zealand,  working  with  the
Solomon  Islands  Government,  are  helping  to  lay  the
ground for peace talks among ethnic factions.
The  Secretary-General, 
Finally, before leaving  peace and  security issues,
may  I  express  our  strong  support  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  observation  that  future  sanctions  regimes
should be designed to  maximize pressure on the target
to  comply  with  United  Nations  resolutions,  while
minimizing their effects on the innocent.
in  his 
chapter  on
development,  deals  with  many  of  the  issues  that
received  the  greatest  priority  from  our  Heads  of  State
and  Government  during  the  Millennium  Summit.  He
refers, for instance, to the concerns of many countries,
especially 
regarding
globalization.  We  will  be  particularly  interested  to
learn  of  any  mechanism  the  Secretary-General  has  in
mind 
the  comprehensive
responsibility  accorded  him  by  heads  of  State  and
Government  under  paragraph  31  of  the  Millennium
Declaration.
the  developing  world, 
to  enable  him 
to  fulfil 
in 
as 
that 
report 
such 
Finally, my delegation is very pleased to see from
Secretary-General’s 
important
the 
administrative 
results-based-
reforms, 
budgeting,  are  being  taken  up  imminently  by  the
appropriate  Main  Committee.  We  hope  that  there  will
be  good  progress  during  this  session  on  some  of  the
unfinished  business  remaining  from  the  Secretary-
General’s  1997  management  reform  package.  We  note
with  satisfaction  that  encouraging  progress  has  indeed
been made, in particular in the complex area of human
resources  reform.  Sustaining  meritorious  performance
from staff and managing them capably are fundamental
to the Organization’s success. We believe this area has
rightly  been  given  top  priority  by  the  Secretary-
General.
Mr. Ahmad (Pakistan): On behalf of the Pakistan
delegation,  I  would  like  to  express our  appreciation  to
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  detailed  report
on  the  work  of  the  Organization.  We  fully  agree  with
the  Secretary-General  that  it  is  time  that  we  translate
into action the commitments made at the level of heads
of  State  and  Government  during 
the  Millennium
Summit. It is in that spirit that the Pakistan delegation
looks  forward  to  working  in  partnership  with  other
delegations  and 
implementing the decisions of the Summit.
the  Secretariat  with  a  view 
to
The 
themes 
two  main 
that  pervaded 
the
discussion  during  the  Millennium  Summit  were  peace
and security, and development and poverty eradication.
Those  themes  also  form  the  focus  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  In  our  view,  they  constitute  the  two
central  challenges  to  the  United  Nations  in  the  new
millennium.  Durable  peace  cannot  flourish  in  the
absence  of  sustainable  development.  Development  is
unsustainable  in  the  absence  of  peace.  Peace  requires
both  the  prevention  of  conflicts  and  the  resolution  of
existing disputes.
is  highly  cost-effective 
If  we  look  around  us,  we  can  see  that  new
conflicts have taken root in different parts of the world
while  many  outstanding  disputes  continue  to  fester.
The Secretary-General has called for a shift from what
he calls a culture of reaction to one of prevention, one
that 
in  both  human  and
financial  terms.  One  can  only  agree  with  such  an
approach.  However,  for  conflict  prevention  to  be
effective  and  credible,  it  must  be  applied  to  all
situations,  and 
root  causes  must  be  effectively
addressed.  Here,  too,  commitment  must  be  translated
into action.
is  charged  under 
The  Security  Council 
the
Charter  to  uphold  and  strengthen  international  peace
and security. In fulfilling that mandate, it must act in a
uniform  manner, 
the  relevant
provisions of the Charter and its decisions. There must
be  no  selectivity.  Nor  should the  Council  be  used  as  a
forum to vent narrow prejudices. Otherwise, it will run
the  risk  of  eroding  the  confidence  of  the  international
community in the United Nations.
in  accordance  with 
The Charter also empowers the Secretary-General
to  undertake  preventive  diplomacy  through  the  use  of
his good offices. We would encourage him to continue
to  use  this  authority,  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
peaceful  settlement  of  ongoing  disputes  and 
the
prevention of potential conflicts.
The  General  Assembly 
also  give
consideration  not  only 
the  development  and
strengthening  of  its  own  role  in  support  of  peace  and
security  but  also 
the
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  (ICJ)
as an impartial mechanism for the pacific settlement of
disputes.
reinforcement  of 
should 
the 
to 
to 
A/55/PV.31
For 
to  discharge 
the  United  Nations 
it  must  have  adequate 
its
responsibilities, 
resources
available  to  it  on  a  predictable  basis.  The  Secretary-
General has to be provided with the tools to effectively
implement  the  tasks  mandated  in  the  areas  of  peace-
making,  peacekeeping,  conflict  prevention  and  peace-
building. Here, I would like to express our appreciation
to Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi and members of the high-level
Panel  on  their  report  on  how  to  strengthen  the  United
Nations capacity in these  vital areas.  We look  forward
to  receiving  and  discussing  the  Secretary-General’s
implementation  plan  based  on  the  recommendations
contained in that report.
to 
the 
the  occasion 
the  “dilemma  of 
The  Secretary-General  has  invited  our  attention
intervention”,  while
again 
tragedies  of  Rwanda  and
reminding  us  of 
Srebrenica.  My  delegation  had 
to
comment  on  the  concept  of  humanitarian  intervention
in  detail  during  our  discussions  last  year,  as  well  as
during  the  discussions  on  the  subject  in  the  Security
Council. At the time, we had been calling for a careful
and detailed consideration of the concept. We had also
identified certain fundamental parameters within which
such  a  concept  could  have  been  studied.  I  will,
therefore,  not  repeat  them  now.  Nevertheless,  I  would
like  to  emphasize  our  willingness  to  enter  into  a
discussion on this important issue.
their 
The  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council
must strengthen the international regime established to
effectively prevent  crimes  against  humanity.  Countries
that  are  guilty  of  systematic  and  gross  violation  of
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law  and
that  bludgeon  a  people  into  submission  must  not  go
unpunished.  The  shameless  practice  of  State  terrorism
and brutal repression  against a  people to prevent  them
from  exercising 
self-
determination  must  be  brought  to  an  end  through
concerted  international  action.  The  perpetrators  of
these  crimes  must  be  made  to  respect  the  Charter
principles  and  Security  Council 
resolutions  and
punished for their refusal to do so. They do not deserve
a  place  in  the  comity  of  nations.  Article 6  of  the
Charter clearly provides for such cases. The display of
double  standards  in  this  regard  by  our  Organization
towards  identical  situations  around  the  world  would
only  serve  to  undermine  the  authority  of  the  United
Nations in the eyes of suppressed peoples.
inalienable 
right 
to 
Here, 
relentless
campaign  of  repression  against  the  people  in  Indian-
I  specifically 
refer 
the 
to 
15
A/55/PV.31
fulfil 
its  promise 
occupied  Jammu  and  Kashmir,  where  we  witness  the
true face of what is called the largest democracy in the
world  revealed  as  a  blatant  violator  of  rather  than  an
adherent to the immutable principles of democracy that
it  so  dearly  and  unabashedly  seeks  to  champion.  The
continued suppression of the right of self-determination
of the Kashmiri people cannot be obfuscated by India’s
hollow  professions  of  democracy.  The  United  Nations
must 
the  Kashmiri  people
consecrated  in  the  Security  Council  resolutions.  What
is  at  stake  is  the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the
United  Nations  system  of  dispute  resolution  and
conflict prevention. Also at stake is peace and security
in  South  Asia,  which today  is the  most  volatile region
in the  world. The root  cause  of  all  problems  afflicting
this  region,  with  serious  implications  for  global  peace
and  security,  is  the  unresolved  dispute  of  Jammu  and
Kashmir. Peace in this region is contingent upon a just
settlement  of  this  dispute,  which  concerns  the  destiny
of 10 million people. It is not a territorial dispute. It is
a dispute involving the fate of 10 million people.  Also
contingent  upon 
this
longstanding  dispute  is  the  socio-economic  well-being
of one quarter of humanity, which inhabits South Asia.
Development and poverty eradication are equally
daunting  challenges.  While  we  seek  to  strengthen  the
United  Nations  capacity  in  the  areas  of  peace-keeping
and  conflict  prevention,  we  must  also  strengthen
international  cooperation 
the  promotion  of
sustainable development and the elimination of poverty
world-wide.  As  I  mentioned  earlier,  sustainable  and
equitable  growth  are  essential  for  durable  peace  and
stability.
settlement  of 
early 
the 
to 
for 
It  is  generally  agreed  that  globalization  has  not
been without its negative consequences. It has widened
the  economic  divide  between  the  North  and  the  South
and  deepened  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor.
The  United  Nations,  as  the  most  representative  and
universal  body,  is  uniquely  placed  to  ensure  an  even
spread of the benefits of globalization to all nations and
peoples.
The  present  international  financial  and 
trade
architecture  has  failed  to  meet  the  challenges  of
development  and  poverty  eradication.  The  Bretton
Woods  institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization
(WTO)  must  reform  and  adapt  themselves  to  the  new
requirements of sustainable and global growth.
16
The  fact  that  the  number  of  people  worldwide
living  in  abject  poverty  has  increased  is  a  clear  signal
of  the  imbalances  and  bias  in  the  current  global
financial and trading system. The 1997 Asian financial
crisis served to underscore the continuing vulnerability
of countries seeking sustainable development in such a
global environment.
Official development assistance has progressively
declined.  On  the  other  hand,  the  agenda  of  United
Nations  specialized  agencies  is  being  revised  away
from the goals of sustainable development and poverty
eradication.  During  the  Millennium  Summit,  all  heads
of State and Government agreed to halve the proportion
of  people  living  on  $1  a  day  by  2015.  We  must  now
come  forward  with the  necessary  means and  resources
to achieve that goal. The forthcoming high-level event
on  financing  for  development  will  be  an  important
opportunity  for  Member  States,  along  with  other
relevant  actors  and  stakeholders,  to  chart  a  course  for
the  mobilization 
for
development,  trade,  development  assistance  and  debt
relief.
resources 
adequate 
of 
and 
Sustainable  development 
environmental
protection  are  not  mutually  exclusive.  Both  require
adequate  resources.  The  commitments  made  in  Rio  in
1992 
to
materialize. In their absence, the goal of environmental
protection will remain elusive.
towards  resource  mobilization  have  yet 
The  information  and  communication  revolution
has yielded many new opportunities. At the same time,
it  has  given  rise  to  the  digital  divide.  It  is  a  gap  that
needs to be bridged if the  vast  majority of  the  world’s
peoples  are 
these  new
technologies.
to  derive  benefits 
from 
to 
their 
efforts 
achieve 
The  developing  countries  continue  to  be  heavily
burdened  by  external  debt  —  a  burden  that  militates
against 
sustainable
development.  Some  innovative  measures  need  to  be
taken  to  provide  relief  to  indebted  countries.  During
the  Millennium  Summit, 
the  Chief  Executive  of
Pakistan  proposed  that  resources  presently  devoted  by
indebted  countries  to  debt  servicing  might  be  diverted
to  social-sector  development,  focusing  particularly  on
their  education,  health-care  and 
social  welfare
programmes.
The  challenge  of  economic  development  and
poverty  eradication  is  most  acute  in  Africa,  coupled
region.  The
with 
simmering 
conflicts 
that 
in 
international community needs to give special attention
to the economic and security situation obtaining in that
continent.  Similarly,  the  special  needs  of  small  island
developing  States  and  of  landlocked  countries  require
special attention and responses.
The  Secretary-General  has  called  for  a  Global
Compact  to  meet  the  challenges  of  development  and
environmental  protection  through  the  observance  of
“good practices” by the private sector based on shared
values among the broader international community. We
are fully conscious of and recognize the need to engage
the  private  sector  in  partnerships.  However,  for  the
Compact  to  succeed,  it  is  essential  that  it  enjoy  the
trust and confidence of Member States.
to 
the 
To  meet 
the  challenges  of 
twenty-first
century,  the  United  Nations  must  undergo  a  change  in
order 
the
Organization. This is particularly true in the case of the
Security  Council,  which  needs  to  be  made  more
democratic, representative, transparent and effective.
the  universal  character  of 
reflect 
An  effort  is  being  made  to  create  the  perception
that  the  majority  of  the  membership  favours  the
realization  by  a  few  States  of  their  great  power
ambitions.  In  reality,  it  is  the  reverse.  During  the
Millennium  Summit  and 
the  general  debate,  we
repeatedly  heard  calls  from  this  very  podium  for  the
democratization of the Security Council and not for the
creation  of  new  centres of power  and  privilege,  which
would  aggravate  the  existing  imbalances.  The  reform
process  will  not  be  complete  unless  the  working
methods  and  decision-making  of  the  Security  Council
are  brought  into  conformity  with  the  principle  of
sovereign equality.
We must rise to meet the tasks mandated to us by
our  heads  of  State  and  Government.  We  must
effectively  respond  to  the  challenges  that  confront  us.
It  is  only  through  a  reinvigorated  and  adequately
equipped  United  Nations 
to
collectively realize our shared objectives.
that  we  can  hope 
Mr.  Andjaba  (Namibia):  My  delegation  wishes
to express its gratitude to the Secretary-General for his
thoughtful  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,
which  we  are  considering  today.  The  report  covers  a
comprehensive range of issues. We are pleased with the
broad  coverage  and  careful  treatment  of  many  critical
issues in the report. On many of these issues, we share
the concerns of the Secretary-General and we make our
own  his  appeal  for  the  speedy  consideration  and
A/55/PV.31
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in
the Brahimi report on United Nations peace operations.
The  Namibian  delegation  is  pleased  that,  in
addition to the more traditional areas of United Nations
concern,  such  as  international  peace  and  security,
humanitarian  activities,  development  cooperation  and
human  rights,  the  report  addresses  other  important
issues,  including  the  bridging  of  the  digital  divide,
HIV/AIDS,  social  development,  the  advancement  of
women, poverty eradication and development finance.
In  this  intervention,  I  will  limit  myself  to  four
issues highlighted in the Secretary-General’s report that
are of particular importance to my delegation.
First,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that
the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  is  a  serious  development
issue. In  addition,  we believe that the  AIDS  pandemic
represents  a  real  threat  to  peace  and  security  on  the
African  continent,  as  was  agreed  during  a  recent
historic  Security  Council  debate  on  the  impact  of  this
dreaded disease on the security situation of the affected
African  countries.  Many 
statistics  are
available to describe the real situation on the ground.
startling 
forthcoming  special  session  of 
In view of the fact that next week we will debate
the  issue  of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  and  in  view  of
the 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  make  only  a  few  preliminary
comments.  Given  the  magnitude  of  the  pandemic,  I
think  it  is  only  proper  that  the  General  Assembly
address  and  urgently  adopt  concrete  action  to  tackle
this  scourge.  It  is  long  overdue  for  this  body  to  deal
with  the  matter  and  set  the  exact  dates  for  the  special
session. It is also important that the preparatory process
and the special session should be inclusive.
My  delegation  strongly  believes  that  adequate
funding  should  be  provided  to  both  the  preparatory
process  and  the  special  session  itself.  This  requires
strong  political  commitment  from  all  Member  States,
and  I  believe  that  commitment  may  have  to  be
demonstrated in the Fifth Committee soon.
Secondly,  development  and  poverty  eradication
are  issues  of  tremendous  importance  to  the  United
Nations  and  all  individual  countries.  My  delegation
appreciates  the  succinct  presentation  of  this  subject  in
the  context  of
the  Secretary-General’s 
globalization 
the
developing  countries.  Namibia  maintains  that  there  is
an  urgent  need  to  review  and  redesign  the  basic
and  other 
challenges 
facing 
report 
in 
17
A/55/PV.31
paradigm of globalization itself. We look forward to an
early opportunity to discuss this matter further.
like 
For  now,  we  would 
to 
stress 
that
development  and  poverty  eradication 
should  be
addressed  in  the  context  of  the  commitments  made  by
our  heads  of  State  or  Government  in  the  Millennium
Declaration.  In  addition, 
the  Namibian  delegation
would  want to  see  a closer  link  established  henceforth
between 
the  Millennium
Declaration  and  the  upcoming  High-level  Event  on
Financing for Development.
commitments  of 
the 
Namibia  will  participate  actively  in  preparations
for this important international event, which must fully
take into account the needs of all developing countries.
Furthermore,  this  event  will  be  an  occasion  to  take  a
fresh look at the recommendations and commitments of
all  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  of  the  past
decade.  Representatives  are  aware  that  many  worthy
recommendations  emanating  from  those  conferences
remain  unimplemented  for  want  of  resources.  All  of
these  considerations  must  provide  a  relevant  point  of
departure for the work of the Preparatory Committee of
the High-level Event on Financing for Development.
International  peace  and  security  remain  elusive,
especially on the African continent. In this respect, we
could not agree more with the Secretary-General on the
issues  and  problems  he  raises  on  this  subject  in  the
section  of  his  report  dealing  with  peacekeeping  and
peace-building. In this connection, my delegation joins
others that have spoken before it in calling for the early
consideration  of  the  Brahimi  report.  We  also  urge  the
speedy implementation of many core recommendations
contained in that report.
shares 
Namibia  also 
the  concerns  of 
the
Secretary-General  expressed  in  paragraphs  31  through
37  of  the  report  under  consideration.  However,  as  the
Foreign  Minister  of  Namibia,  Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,
stated before the Assembly during the general debate,
“Namibia remains unconvinced and will continue
to  oppose  any  form  of  unilateral  humanitarian
intervention outside the Charter”. (A/55/PV.24)
We  believe  that  the  provisions  of  the  Charter
provide  an  adequate  framework  to  deal  with  the  types
of problems contemplated in paragraph 37 of the report
under  consideration.  Furthermore,  we  note 
the
initiative  of  Canada  for 
the  establishment  of  an
independent commission on humanitarian intervention.
18
However, we maintain that the General Assembly itself
should  remain  seized  of  this  issue  until  a  satisfactory
outcome is reached.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of
representatives  to  paragraph  30  of  the  United  Nations
Millennium Declaration, in which the heads of State or
Government  reaffirmed  the  centrality  of  the  General
Assembly and called for it to play that role effectively.
In  that  context,  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Namibia made some practical proposals to assist in this
matter. We would be pleased to see any initiatives that
the  General  Assembly  may  want  to  take  in  respect  of
considering those proposals.
My  delegation  is  ready  to  participate  in  any
discussion  relating  to  this  and  other  matters  raised
earlier. We also stand ready to cooperate fully with the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  continue
supporting him in his endeavours.
is 
that 
the  Millennium  Summit 
Mr.  Stuart  (Australia):  One  of  the  worthwhile
results  of 
the
Declaration  has  given  us  an  agenda  to  work  on.  This
features  a  number  of  goals  for  tasks  that  ought  to  be
quite central to the way the United Nations develops as
an  Organization  in  this  new  century.  Some  of  these
goals  have  been  put  in  the  form  of  simply  stated
targets, including a common resolution that by the year
2015  we  shall  halve  the  proportion  of  the  world’s
people  whose  daily  income  is  less  than  one  dollar;
achieve  universal  primary-school  education;  and
reduce the rate of maternal mortality by three quarters.
My  delegation  accepts  the  inclusion  of  such
targets  as  a  readily  understood  way  of  encapsulating
what  we, 
to  be  core
the  United  Nations  of  promoting
challenges  for 
development,  poverty 
individual
welfare.  The  utility  of 
is  both  as
benchmarks  against  which  we  can  measure  the  results
of  the  collective  effort  of  United  Nations  Member
States  to  cooperate  in  these  areas,  and  as  a  succinct,
unequivocal message of our intentions and priorities.
the  Member  States,  agree 
and 
targets 
alleviation 
these 
The  elimination  of  poverty  is  an  aspect  of  the
United  Nations  work  which  features  in  Chapter  III  of
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the
Organization. Indeed, the Secretary-General presents it
as the  most  important  development  goal  of  the  United
Nations.  Based  on  the    estimate  in  the  report  of  the
number of people trying to survive on less than a dollar
a  day,  our  Millennium  Summit  target  will  require  a
change from 1.2 billion people living on or below that
level  to  600  million  people.  This 
is  a  daunting
figure — but we should not be deterred, as experience,
for example, in several East Asian countries has shown
that  strong  economic  growth  over  a  generation  can
have  a  major  impact  on  poverty  levels.  Nonetheless,
setting  such  a  target  does  beg  the  question,  just  what
should  the  United  Nations  do  to  help  realize  this
change?
The  Secretary-General’s  report  recognizes  the
importance  of  translating  commitments  into  effective
action.  My  delegation  certainly  agrees  with 
its
observations  that  “the  promotion  of  sustainable  and
equitable  growth”  is  the  most  important  means  for
making  progress  towards  the  poverty  target,  and  that
this  is  tied  to  open  markets  and  stable  legal  and
regulatory  institutions  to  facilitate  the  operation  of
such markets. Overall, however, the relevant section of
the  report  is  rather  thin  on  specific  suggestions  for
action.
Accordingly,  my  delegation  believes  that  one  of
the tasks we should set for ourselves in this session of
the  General  Assembly  is  to  identify  what  more  the
United  Nations  could  do  to  promote  the  levels  of
economic growth that could generate such a significant
fall in levels of poverty, including by considering how
to  encourage  the  removal  of  constraints  to  growth  in
developing countries.
the  need 
These  constraints  are  both  external  and  internal.
Externally,  we  should  address 
for  an
equitable,  rules-based,  non-discriminatory  system  for
international  trade  and  financing.  Increased  and  fairer
access  to  markets,  and  a  removal  of  the  distortions  to
international  trade  that  flow  from  continuing  trade
barriers  and  export  subsidies,  would  be  a  major
impetus  to  the  kind  of  growth  levels  needed 
to
approach  the  Summit  target.  Broad-based  multilateral
negotiations  have  proven  the  best  way  of  delivering  a
more 
trading
environment,  and  for  this  reason  Australia  has  been  a
strong advocate for the early launch of a new,  market-
access-focused round of multilateral trade negotiations.
Such  a  round  is  needed  not  only  to  further  trade
liberalization  but  also  to  ensure  that  there  is  no  going
back  on  existing  commitments.  In  particular,  it  is
important  that  negotiations  produce  the  conditions  in
which  developing  countries  benefit  more  equitably
from  increased  trade  and  overall  growth  of  the  world
economy. For this to happen, market openings must be
equitable,  open 
predictable 
and 
A/55/PV.31
available  in  areas  where  developing  countries  have
export  potential 
supply
competitively.  And  with  this  in  mind,  it  is  vital  that
agricultural trade be put on a more equitable footing.
capacity 
and 
the 
to 
to 
of 
the 
report 
annual 
According 
for  Cooperation 
the
Organization 
and  Development
(OECD)  on  agricultural  policies,  total  agricultural
support  in  OECD  countries  reached  $361  billion  in
1999. That is seven times as much as the development
assistance  OECD  countries  provided  to  developing
countries.  Farm  protection  has  returned  to  levels  not
seen  for  more  than  a  decade.  In  particular,  export
subsidies  for  agriculture  are  the  most  pernicious  and
trade-distorting  of  all  forms  of  support,  which  is
precisely  why 
they  have  not  been  permitted  for
industrial exports for 40 years.
is 
the 
One  of  the  most  significant  of 
the  internal
constraints  to  growth  which  we  suggest  the  Assembly
address 
that  national  policies  and
institutions have on development. This was recognized
during 
the  recently  concluded  General  Assembly
session  in  the  resolution  adopted  on  globalization,
which resolution underlined the importance of
impact 
“governance responsive to the needs of the people
based  on  efficient,  participatory,  transparent  and
policy-making
accountable 
(resolution
processes 
and 
54/231, para. 10)
administration”. 
service, 
public 
Respect for the role, and the rights, of individuals and
of  families  is  also  an  essential  concomitant  of  a
flourishing  market-based  economy.  We  believe  that
while the United Nations and its agencies have a role to
play  in  helping  to  strengthen  good  governance  as  an
element  of  sustainable  and  equitable  development,
there is also no substitute for action by Governments.
of 
in 
Another 
fostering 
economic
aspect 
development  mentioned 
the  Secretary-General’s
report  is  financing.  In  considering  how  to  implement
our  Summit  goals,  next  year’s  high-level  event  on
financing  for  development  is  an  important  element.
Australia  will  continue  to  contribute  actively  and
constructively to the preparatory work for this event.
The Secretary-General’s report describes some of
the  work  done  over  the  last  12  months  in  the  United
Nations system in considering the relationship between
globalization  and  the  eradication  of  poverty.  Some
worthwhile ideas have emerged from meetings between
19
A/55/PV.31
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions  and  from  discussions  within  the
Council.  For  the  most  part,  these  discussions  have
reflected  a  realistic  appreciation  of 
the  role  and
limitations of the United Nations and other multilateral
organizations.  Yet  we  still  hear 
the  occasional
argument  that  indicates that  the  United  Nations  can  in
some way roll back the tide of global change. It cannot.
Rather  its  role  should  be  to  help  its  Member  States
identify  and  address  both 
the  challenges  and
opportunities  of  globalization.  Simplistic  formulas
linking  these  changes  with  poverty  or  inequality  will
not take us far — and they may well be misleading, as
in  the  past  10  years  the  proportion  of  the  world’s
population living in extreme  poverty  has,  according to
one  reliable  measure,  in  fact  fallen  from  28  to  24  per
cent.
What  is  important  in  the  globalization  debate  in
this General  Assembly is to focus on action  where  the
United  Nations  can  make  a  difference.  The  Secretary-
General’s  report  notes  that  “steady  progress”  is  being
made  in  improving  the  coherence  and  effectiveness  of
the  United  Nations  operational  performance.  My
delegation  sees  this  as  a  much  more  fruitful  area  for
cooperation  than  pursuing  quixotic  and  unworkable
proposals  for  international  taxes.  In  particular,  while
encouraged  by  the  experience  to  date  of  the  United
Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework,  we
would  like  to  see  this  model  for  coordination  of
country  programmes  among  United  Nations  agencies
become a standard approach. We also strongly support
the  move  within 
the  United  Nations  funds  and
programmes  towards  results-based  budgeting.  This
increased focus on achieving and demonstrating results
will  not  only  attract  greater  funding,  but  will  also
ensure  that  those  funds  are  best  used  to  support  the
goals in the Summit Declaration.
in  pursuing 
the  agenda  set  out 
The  above  will,  I  hope,  give  delegations  a  good
sense  of  Australia’s  views  of  some  areas  warranting
attention 
the
Millennium  Summit.  Other  priorities  for  us  on  issues
relating  to  development  and  humanitarian  assistance
will  include  the  following.  One  of  these  priorities  is
seeing how we can step up international efforts to stop
and  ultimately  reverse  the  spread  of  the  HIV/AIDS
epidemic.  We  would  also 
to  boost  early
preparations  for  the  ten-year  follow-up  conference  to
United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment  and
Development, as we would like to see the groundwork
in 
like 
20
laid  for  a  worthy  follow-up to  the  Rio conference.  We
also  wish  for  consideration  of  oceans-related  issues  to
progress.  This  would  include  consolidating  the  very
successful  inaugural  meeting  of  the  United  Nations
Open-ended  Informal  consultative  Process  on  Oceans
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  addressing  some  pressing
issues  relating  to  fishing  practices  through  resolutions
of  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation 
is  also
interested  in  touching  on  water  security,  including  the
proposal, which Australia supports, for an international
year  of  freshwater,  and  practical  means  of  pursuing
such elements  of  the  Millennium  Summit  as  the target
of  halving  the  proportion  of  people  with  no  access  to
safe drinking water.
I  have  concentrated  much  of  my  attention  today
to issues of poverty alleviation, an issue that Australia
believes  is  very  much  a  core  issue  for  the  United
Nations system. To conclude, however, I would like to
offer  some  more  general  comments  on  how 
the
Millennium  Summit  might  inform  our  work  at  this
session.
to 
focus 
impetus 
the  work  of 
derives 
from 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  is,  as  usual,  a
useful  survey  of  United  Nations  activities.  And  as
usual  it  covers  a  very  wide  range  of  activities  carried
out  by  the  United  Nations  system.  The  Summit  has,
however,  given  us  an  exceptional  opportunity  to  give
the
more 
impetus  and 
Organization.  The 
the
extraordinary  attendance  at  the  Summit  of  the  great
majority  of  national  leaders.  The  focus  can  be  drawn
from  the  Summit  Declaration,  which  has  given  us  a
road  map  for  our  work  within  the  United  Nations  and
has given us guidance on priorities. This latter element
is 
fundamental.  The  United  Nations  cannot  do
everything.  Now  we  have  made  progress  on
establishing those areas where the United Nations does
have  an  indispensable  role,  it  is  up  to  delegations  to
make  sure  that  the  resources  and  efforts  of 
the
Organization are geared to achieving them.
Naturally  my  delegation’s  priorities  include  a
number  of  areas  I  have  not  mentioned.  Some  are
reflected  in  the  statements  made  by  the  Australian
Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister at the Summit
and  in  the  general  debate  respectively.  We  share  the
strong  interest  that  many  have  expressed  here  in
practical  reforms,  including  to  update  the  composition
of  the  Security  Council,  reconfigure  the  electoral
groups  and  increase  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping
capacity along the lines of the recommendations in the
Brahimi  report.  We  will  again  be  pursuing  vigorously
work  in  the  areas  of  disarmament,  and  a  number  of
aspects  covered 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  —  the  chapter  on  “The  international
legal order and human rights”.
in  chapter  IV  of 
My delegation looks forward to working with the
delegations of other Member States in an effort to give
practical  effect  to  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Summit
Declaration.  We  are  conscious that  we  are  not  starting
from  scratch.  There  is  a  considerable  foundation  of
achievements,  programmes  and  operations  on  which
we can build. We do not need to reinvent the wheel, but
we should be prepared to try doing things differently so
that  the  United  Nations  responds  to  contemporary
challenges as effectively as possible.
Ms.  Enkhtsetseg  (Mongolia):  At  the  outset,  I
would like to express my Government’s appreciation to
the  Secretary-General  for  his  annual  report  (A/55/1),
which covers broad aspects of the Organization’s work
carried  out  in  the  past  12  months.  The  report  contains
many  useful  ideas  and  proposals  aimed  at  further
promoting  the  Organization’s  work  in  specific  fields.
My delegation would like to assure the President of the
General  Assembly  that  Mongolia  will  cooperate  with
the  Secretary-General  and  fellow  Member  States  to
make  this  Organization  stronger  and  more  efficient  in
pursuit  of  the  noble  goals  and  principles  enshrined  in
its Charter.
reiterated 
the  Summit  not  only 
With  regard  to  enhancing  the  role  of  the  United
Nations,  my  delegation  would  like  to  underline  the
importance  of  the  recent  United  Nations  Millennium
Summit  and  its  outcome.  The  Millennium  Declaration
adopted  at 
the
commitment  of  the  international  community  to  the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter,
but  it  also  reaffirmed  its  readiness  to  reshape  the
activities  of  the  Organization  in  the  spirit  of  the
evolution  that  characterizes  today’s  world.  As  the
Secretary-General has rightly pointed out in his report,
it is now time, at this session of the General Assembly,
for us to roll up our sleeves and start putting into action
the bold pledges made during the Summit, pledges that
are challenging yet nevertheless achievable.
Since  consideration  of  this  agenda  item  should
not  be  a  second  general  debate,  I  would  limit  my
statement to the following points.
In the Millennium Declaration world leaders have
solemnly reaffirmed that
A/55/PV.31
“the United Nations is the indispensable common
house  of the entire  human  family,  through  which
we  will  seek  to  realize  our  universal  aspirations
for peace, cooperation and development”.
Implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration
implies  pursuing  further  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations, 
the  General
Assembly’s  important  role  as  envisaged in the  Charter
of the United Nations, reforming the Security Council,
enhancing the role of the Economic and Social Council
and  better  coordination  of  United  Nations  activities
with international financial institutions.
restoration 
including 
of 
Reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  a  continuing
process. It is  well under  way and is  yielding results in
some areas. However, the effort to reform the Security
Council  has  not  brought  us  closer  to  resolving  one  of
the  main  issues:  expansion  of  the  Council  to  reflect
present-day  realities  and  to  increase  its  effectiveness.
We  believe  that  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council
should be made in both categories, permanent and non-
permanent.  A  reasonable  increase  in  the  number  of
non-permanent  seats  should  reflect  the  representative
character of the Council and enable a growing number
of Member States, including small States, to contribute
to its work. The reform of the Council should also deal
with  the  right  of  veto,  which  should  be  considerably
curtailed.
As  is  seen  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  in
recent  years  the  demands  for  the  peacekeeping  and
peace-building roles of the Organization have increased
manifold.  The  lessons  of  Srebrenica,  Rwanda  and
Sierra  Leone  made  it  abundantly  clear  that  a  thorough
and  critical  review  is  needed  to  make  peacekeeping
operations  succeed  in  meeting  commitments  under  the
Charter.
the 
situation 
prevailing 
In  this  connection,  the  Mongolian  delegation
commends  the  work  of  the  Panel  on  United  Nations
Peace  Operations,  chaired  by  Ambassador  Brahimi.
The Panel’s report (A/55/305) presents a frank analysis
of 
forthright
recommendation for change. We share the view that the
report  deserves  serious  consideration  and  specific
action  even  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.
With  a  view  to  increasing  its  direct  contribution  to
peacekeeping  operations  of  the  United  Nations,  last
year Mongolia signed a memorandum of understanding
with  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations.
Today,  Mongolia  has 
to
trained  personnel  ready 
and 
a 
21
A/55/PV.31
participate  in  peacekeeping  operations.  Furthermore,  a
special  unit  of  Mongolia’s  armed  forces  has  recently
successfully  participated 
the  United  Nations-
supported  regional  peacekeeping  training  exercise  in
Central Asia.
in 
In 
this 
this 
role 
The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  should  be
judged  in  part  by  the  role  that  the  Organization  could
play in promoting developmental goals of its Members,
especially of the small, vulnerable and least developed,
and  in  overcoming  and  reducing  poverty.  In  today’s
globalizing  world 
is  acquiring  greater
importance. 
connection,  my  delegation
commends  the  positive  role  that  the  United  Nations
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD)  is
playing  in  articulating  the  problems  of  landlocked
developing  countries,  countries 
their
geographical 
location  cannot  compete  fairly  with
others  and  that  are  forced  to  spend  two  to  three  times
more  to  get  access  to  world  markets,  thus  losing
whatever  competitive  edge 
they  could  have  had
otherwise.
that  due 
to 
Implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  tenth
session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development could help this  group  of  countries tackle
some  of 
the  difficulties  mentioned  above.  My
delegation  hopes  that  the  upcoming  trilateral  and
ministerial  meetings  on  the  problems  of  landlocked
developing  countries  will  have  a  practical  impact  on
their
reducing 
development.  Likewise,  we 
great
importance  to  the  forthcoming  high-level  conference
on financing for development.
enormous  obstacles 
also 
facing 
attach 
the 
Turning  briefly  to  the  questions  of  security  and
disarmament,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express  its
support  for  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General  to
convene  a  major  international  conference  aimed  at
identifying  ways  of  eliminating  nuclear  dangers.  We
hope  that  this  timely  proposal  will  be  given  serious
consideration at this session of the General Assembly.
Mongolia 
that  pending 
also  believes 
the
conclusion  of  a  fissile  material  cut-off  treaty,  the
United Nations could establish a register for all stocks
of weapons-grade fissile material. This would also help
establish an important balance with the United Nations
Register of Conventional Arms.
All  States,  big  and  small  alike,  are  expected  to
the  goals
contribute 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. Guided
to  promoting  and  attaining 
22
the 
five 
States 
nuclear-weapon 
by  that  spirit,  Mongolia  is  trying  to  turn  its  vast
territory  into  a  nuclear-weapon-free  area.  To  this  end,
and in implementation of General Assembly resolution
53/77 D,  it  has  undertaken  a  series  of  consultations
with 
on
institutionalizing  this  status.  As  a  result  of  these
consultations,  it  is  expected  that  the  five  permanent
members  of  the  Security  Council  will  soon  make  a
joint statement providing nuclear security assurances to
Mongolia in connection with that status. This would be
a  concrete  step  in  institutionalizing  the  status.  We
believe  that  strengthening  other  aspects  of  Mongolia’s
external  security  would  make  the  status  more  credible
and  effective.  A 
transparent,  credible  and  stable
security regime relating to Mongolia’s status  would be
our  contribution 
international  efforts  of
promoting regional peace and security.
the 
to 
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  underline  once  again
Mongolia’s  resolve  to  contribute  actively  to  the  work
of  the  Organization  in  pursuit  of  its  noble  goals  and
objectives.
for 
thank 
the  Secretary-General 
Mr. Sun Joun-yung (Republic of Korea): I would
like 
to 
his
comprehensive and insightful report on the work of the
Organization (A/55/1). The Millennium Summit held in
this  very  Hall  only  three  weeks  ago  was  a  historic
event. It provided a rare opportunity for more than 170
world leaders to reach consensus on guiding principles
to address daunting challenges in the new century. Now
it 
the  summit
Declaration into action.
responsibility 
translate 
is  our 
to 
to 
reference 
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  delegation’s
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his continued
interest  in  developments  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  We
take  note  of  paragraph  58  of  the  report,  in  which  the
Secretary-General  made 
the  Korean
peninsula.  We  also  share  his  view  that  a  historic
opportunity  is  unfolding  on  the  Korean  peninsula  to
resolve decades-old conflicts between South Korea and
North  Korea  and  thus  to  contribute  to  peace  and
the  region  and  beyond.  I 
stability 
this
in 
opportunity 
to  express  my  Government’s  deep
appreciation  for  the  statement  issued  by  the  Co-
Chairpersons of the Millennium Summit welcoming the
inter-Korean summit and its follow-up measures (press
release GA/SM/194, 6 September 2000).
take 
We  have  recently  witnessed  a  resurgence  of
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations in the  face  of
the  globe, 
ever-increasing  challenges  around 
in
particular  in  East  Timor,  the  Balkans  and  Africa.  The
number of United Nations peacekeepers in the field has
tripled,  and  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations
seem  to  continue  to  be  on  the  rise.  The  complexity  of
recent 
peacekeeping
operations to expand their scope beyond the traditional
realm of peacekeeping. My delegation  shares the  view
of the Secretary-General that peacekeeping and  peace-
building have become inseparably linked.
situations 
requires 
crisis 
In 
report. 
implementing  many  of 
In that regard, we welcome the report (A/55/305)
of  the  Panel  on  United  Nations  Peace  Operations
chaired by Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, which we believe will
be an important basis for deliberations aimed at making
United Nations peacekeeping operations more effective
and  adequate  in  addressing  future  challenges.  While
reserving  detailed  comments  for  future  occasions,  I
would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  with  regard  to  the
Brahimi 
the
recommendations of the report, we should bear in mind
their  budgetary  implications,  among  other  things.  We
are of the view that the decision-making process of the
Security Council should be more transparent. Countries
contributing  with  troops  or  other  important  means
should be given the opportunity, in one way or another,
to  participate  in  the  decision-making  process  of  the
Council.  In  this  context,  briefings  by  the  Secretariat
should be  made available outside  the  Security  Council
to  contributing  Member  States,  not  only  on  matters
affecting 
their  own
personnel,  but  also  on  all  other  matters  related  to
peacekeeping  operations.  By  doing  that,  we  will  be
able to  make peacekeeping operations  more  successful
in the long run.
the  security  and  safety  of 
I  would  like  to  assure  the  Assembly  that  the
Republic of Korea,  which has joined the peacekeeping
force  in  East  Timor,  will  remain  firmly  committed  to
the  cause  and 
the  activities  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping operations in the future.
At the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium,  information
technology has facilitated the process of  globalization.
We  all  know  that  globalization  presents  tremendous
potential for economic growth and poverty eradication.
We  should  not  underestimate  its  positive  impact  in
terms of integrating the peoples of the world. However,
more  attention  needs  to  be  paid  to  mounting  concerns
over  undesirable  consequences  of  globalization,  in
particular in developing countries.
A/55/PV.31
to 
the 
join 
it  plans 
to  expand 
technologies,  so 
The  United  Nations  certainly  continues  to  take
in  building  a  “digital  bridge”  enabling
lead 
the 
countries 
information-
developing 
revolution.  My  Government  attaches
technology 
particular  importance  to  education  in  information  and
it  has  provided
communication 
information-technology
developing  countries  with 
training  programmes; 
those
programmes  in  the  future.  We  believe  that  the  United
Nations  should  do  more 
to  provide  developing
countries  with  training  of  that  nature.  More  concerted
action 
the  national,  regional  and
the  digital  divide.
international 
Furthermore, 
that  genuine
partnership with major development stakeholders, such
as  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the  private
sector, 
that  context,  my
delegation  supports 
the
initiative  of 
Secretary-General  on  a  global  compact,  proposed  last
year, and recent developments in that regard.
levels 
it  has  become  clear 
increasingly  vital.  In 
the  creative 
is  required  at 
to  bridge 
is 
to  review  and  appraise 
Let me now turn to the successful outcome of the
the
two  special  sessions 
implementation  of,  respectively, 
the  commitments
made  at  the  Copenhagen  World  Summit  for  Social
Development  and  at 
the  Beijing  Fourth  World
Conference  on  Women  towards  the  realization  of  a
“society  for  all”  in  the  new  millennium.  At  those
sessions,  we  all  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  put
people  at  the  centre  of  development.  For  development
to  be  sustainable,  it  must  be  carried  out  with  genuine
respect for democracy and human rights. In that regard,
my delegation  welcomes the resolution adopted by the
Commission on Human Rights last April on the role of
good governance in the promotion of human rights. My
delegation  agrees  with  the  Secretary-General  that  that
groundbreaking resolution links  good  governance  with
an  environment  conducive  to  the  enjoyment  of  human
rights 
human-centred
and 
development.
promotion 
the 
of 
One  of  the  most  fundamental  challenges  this
Organization faces is how to be more responsive to the
needs  of  the  world  public.  I  believe  that  broad-based
support  for  the  United  Nations  depends  on  timely  and
effective 
result-oriented
activities. In that regard, the  United  Nations  has  made
considerable  achievements 
in  strengthening  public
outreach  and  in  enhancing  administrative  efficiency.
However,  more  work  must be  done  to  make  better  use
of the Organization’s resources and funds.
communication 
and  on 
23
A/55/PV.31
My delegation wishes to reiterate the commitment
of  the  Republic  of  Korea  to  the  strengthening  of  the
work of the General Assembly.  We believe that,  under
the able leadership of Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, the
fifty-fifth  session,  following  the  historic  Millennium
Summit, will prove to be the most productive one ever.
Mr.  Listre  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We
thank the Secretary-General for the thoughts set out in
his  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/55/1),
report
which, 
(A/54/2000),  will  contribute 
the
problems  facing  the  international  community  as  it
enters the new  millennium and in offering solutions to
those problems.
his  millennium 
together  with 
identifying 
to 
Unfortunately,  over  this  past  year  new  conflicts
have  broken  out.  Wars,  extreme  poverty,  natural  and
man-made disasters and the AIDS pandemic symbolize
the suffering being endured.
The 
linkage  between  peace  and  poverty 
is
becoming  increasingly  clear.  As  the  Secretary-General
points out to us, there is a visible link between thriving
markets  and  human  security,  which  requires,  we
believe,  an  approach  based  on  greater  solidarity  that
will  provide  the  system  with  resources  and  will  also
promote  a  just  and  lasting  development  for  all  human
beings.  In  addressing  the  Millennium  Summit,  the
President of Argentina focused precisely on this issue.
We  still  have  not  given  thought  to  the  challenge
the Secretary-General put before us last year about the
limits to sovereignty and the need to respond to serious
and  massive  human  rights  violations.  The  principle  of
non-intervention  is  fundamental  to  relations  among
States  that  are  equal  and  sovereign.  However,  at  the
same  time,  Argentina  believes  a  principle  that  would
complement  non-intervention  must  be  added: 
the
principle  of  non-indifference.  This  principle  means,
among other things, that those responsible for aberrant
crimes  cannot  enjoy 
that  we  must
actively  pursue  ways  and  means  to  prevent  their
occurrence.
impunity  and 
Therefore,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  and  the  tribunals  for  the
former  Yugoslavia,  Rwanda  and  Sierra  Leone,
convinced 
formidable  deterrent  power
constitutes  real,  important  and  defined  progress  of  the
United  Nations  towards  peace,  national  reconciliation
and justice.
their 
that 
24
We  must  increase  the  protection  of  the  civilian
population affected by conflicts. The recommendations
contained  in  the  report  submitted  to  the  Security
Council  last  September  continue  to  be  fully  valid  and
the  resolutions  adopted  by 
the  Council  represent
important strides in that direction.
United  Nations  officials 
and  humanitarian
personnel  continue  to  experience  very  serious  attacks.
We  pay  our  tribute  to  those  who  recently  lost  their
lives.  Argentina  is  very active  in  this  arena,  and  when
we  presided  over  the  Security  Council  last  February,
we  organized  an  open  debate  on  this  matter.  We  look
that 
forward  with 
the
Secretary-General  will  make  on 
scope  of
application  of  the  1994  Convention  on  the  Safety  of
United  Nations  and  Associated  Personnel.  We  call
upon those countries that receive this report to sign and
ratify  its  text  and  for  the  international  community  to
firmly confront this problem.
the  proposals 
interest 
the 
to 
With  regard  to  Security  Council  reform,  my
country believes that the reform  must be  wide-ranging
and  comprise  all  its  aspects  in  order  to  make  it  more
democratic,  transparent  and  effective.  My  country
believes  that  expansion  of  the  membership  must  be
made  only  by  non-permanent  members  in  order  not  to
create  new  privileges  in  addition  to  those  already  in
existence.
The  consensus-achieving  body  required  for  that
reform to be legitimate must be, in our view, the Open-
ended  Working  Group  that  is  open  to  all  members  of
this Organization.
The  reception  by  Member  States  of  the  Brahimi
report  demonstrates  the  broadly  shared  recognition  of
the 
the
shortcomings  of  the  system  and  the  need  to  adopt
urgent measures to revitalize it.
importance  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
of 
the 
towards 
implementation 
This  moment  in  political  life  must  be  seized  to
advance 
its
recommendations.  Success  of  the  implementation  of
the  Brahimi  report  is  rooted  in  the  will  of  Members
States,  which,  on  one  hand,  should  be  translated  into
the decision  to  provide the Organization  the  necessary
human  and  financial  resources,  and,  secondly, 
to
assume 
in  peacekeeping  missions.
Without  the  genuine  commitment  of  its  members,  the
United  Nations  will  not  be  able 
to  maintain
international peace and security.
inherent 
risks 
The 
report 
is  a  valuable  contribution 
to
maximizing the system. We urge States to analyse their
recommendations  in  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as
in 
the
implementation  of  measures  that,  without  doubt,  will
strengthen United Nations peacekeeping capacity.
the  Security  Council,  and 
to  not  delay 
This  year’s  report  also  reflects  the  effort  of  the
United Nations to  alleviate  the  multifaceted  aspects  of
humanitarian  emergencies  that  are  exacerbated  by  the
devastating  dimensions  of  natural  disasters  and  the
terrible suffering of civil populations and humanitarian
personnel in countless conflicts.
contributions 
This  report  demonstrates  that  United  Nations
action  system-wide  is  being  impeded  by  financial  and
political limitations. In the financial realm, the decline
in 
inter-agency
consolidated appeals is alarming. In the political realm,
the inadequate capacity and readiness to cooperate with
the  affected  authorities  or  clashing  groups 
is
concerning.
response 
in 
to 
As  a  non-permanent  Security  Council  member,
Argentina has been closely following the unfolding of a
vast  number  of  humanitarian  emergencies,  examining
the  situation  of  refugees  and  internally  displaced
persons. We support the tireless work carried out by the
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees
(UNHCR),  Mrs.  Ogata,  who,  with  her  energy  and
creativity,  has  stepped  up  the  work  of  her  office  to
reach increasingly more individuals.
that 
live 
We  must  stop  and  think  even  more  about  the
in  extreme
internally  displaced  persons 
conditions, often lacking assistance and protection. We
must  support  the  States  that  are  going  through  these
processes, particularly the most extreme cases, so they
can  provide  these  citizens  with  assistance  and  basic
social services as long as they are displaced and so that
they  can  create  conditions  for  their  safe  and  dignified
return.
We  must  emphasize  that  actions  being  taken  by
the  United  Nations  and  its  subsidiary  bodies  must  be
focused on individuals and on protecting and defending
the  values  and  the  property  of  individuals  affected  by
crises and conflicts.
The United Nations has contributed to broadening
the  agenda  of 
issues  now  being  discussed  at
international  forums,  especially  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions.  Greater  interaction  between  the  United
A/55/PV.31
the  World  Bank  and 
Nations, 
International
Monetary  Fund  is  central  to  discussing  new  strategies
that  will  factor  in  the  dichotomy  seen  in  various
developing 
and
poverty eradication.
countries  between  globalization 
the 
the 
as 
society 
capability 
strengthens 
Bringing  Governments  together  with  actors  of
civil 
for
development. We highlight here the “Global Compact”
initiative,  which  links  corporations,  trade  unions  and
civil  organizations  with  the  daily  work  of  the  United
Nations 
complementing
Governments’  actions  and  generating  certainty  for  the
business  sector  in  those  countries  that  require  the
capital  flows  and 
their  economic
growth.
investment  for 
a  way  of 
system 
We must also point to the creation of a volunteer
corps  to  assist  those  countries  that  are  most  isolated
from  information  technology  and  to  work  to  integrate
the  most  backward  areas  into  the  global  information
highway.
While  the  Secretary-General  has  identified  the
drop  in  official  development  aid  as  one  of  the  main
obstacles  to  be  overcome  in  fighting  poverty,  he  has
also  called  upon  the  States  themselves  to  become
involved,  ensuring  good  governance, 
responsible
public administration and the state of law.
We must implement the policies, programmes and
projects  recommended  as  a  result  of 
the  review
processes relating to the world summits on women and
on social development. Argentina has taken upon itself
the  relevant  commitments,  and 
the
adoption  of  specific  policies  to  deal  with  poverty,  the
elderly,  pregnant  and  nursing  mothers  and 
their
children and those infected with the HIV virus or  who
are sick with AIDS.
is  promoting 
We  welcome  the  resolution  on  good  governance
adopted by the  Commission on  Human  Rights. This is
an issue of particular interest to our country because it
goes  to  the  very  heart  of  the  social  compact  between
those  governing  and  the  governed,  the  nature  of
democracy  and  the  real  existence  of  a  state  of  law.  A
transparent  government  that  does  account  for  what  it
does is a guarantee for respect for human rights.
the  appointment  of 
special
rapporteurs  for  housing  and  food,  as  well  as  of  the
special  representative  for  human  rights  defenders.
These competencies extended to the special rapporteurs
We  also  hail 
25
A/55/PV.31
further  the  advancement  and  protection  of  all  human
rights,  both  civil  and  political,  as  well  as  economic,
social and cultural.
these 
rights  are 
Unfortunately, 
still  being
trampled upon. There has been a further increase in sex
trafficking  and  the  economic  exploitation  of  women
and children. We see continuing discrimination against
migrants  and 
indigenous  peoples,  and  racist  and
xenophobic  acts.  There  is,  however,  a  series  of  major
initiatives under way, such as the Permanent Forum on
Indigenous  Issues  recently  created  by  the  Economic
and  Social  Council,  the  upcoming  World  Conference
against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia
and  Related  Intolerance,  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Convention  on 
Discrimination  against  Women  and 
the  Optional
Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
We  hope  that  these  steps  will  lead  to  an  ever-clearer
awareness  in  the  international  community  as  to  the
need to put an end to these human rights violations and
to  prosecute  and  punish 
thus
contributing to a more just and peaceful world.
responsible, 
those 
Mr. Paolillo (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): In the
report  under  consideration,  for  which  we  are  deeply
obliged 
the  Secretary-General,  we  see  a  fact
confirmed,  one  of  which  we  were  all  aware  to  some
extent:  the  fact  that,  whenever  the  United  Nations
failed in its efforts to secure or to keep the peace and to
prevent massive human rights violations, this occurred
neither  for  lack  of  means  nor  for  any  structural  flaws
inherent  in  the  Organization,  but  rather  because  of
deficiencies or shortcomings in the human management
of 
international
to 
community to respond to such crises.
instruments  available 
the 
to 
the 
In  paragraph  7  of  his  report,  the  Secretary-
General  lists  the  causes  behind  those  failures.  The
nature  of  those  failures  necessarily  determines  the
nature  of the  means to remedy  them.  Lack  of  political
will can be remedied only where there is political will.
Lack  of  resources  can  be  remedied  only  by  providing
resources.  Inappropriate  mandates  can  be  remedied
only with appropriate ones.
That is why our delegation understands that what
the  Secretary-General 
of
intervention”  must  be  resolved  not  by  resorting  to
unilateral intervention on the part of States or groups of
States acting outside the United Nations,  but rather  by
correcting  errors  that  have  frustrated  effective  action
dilemma 
calls 
“the 
26
in  which  massive  human 
by the international community in the face of tragedies
such  as  those  of  Srebrenica  and  Rwanda.  We  are
entirely  in  agreement  with  the  Secretary-General  that
we are talking about a problem of responsibility. In all
circumstances 
rights
violations  occur,  we,  the  international  community,  are
obliged  to  shoulder  our  responsibilities  and  to  act
accordingly.  But  that  responsibility  must  be  made
effective through the United Nations, created precisely
to  act  on  behalf  of  all  of  us  through  collective  action
that is legitimate because it emanates from bodies that
represent the entire international community.
interventions,  even 
the  well-
intentioned  ones,  used  to  end  up  pursuing  goals
unrelated 
causes.  Humanitarian
intervention,  designed  to  put  an  end  to  a  situation
where  juridical  norms  and  basic  morality  were  being
ignored, can itself end up being the root of situations of
this kind, thus generating more problems than it solves.
Collective  action  executed  in  consonance  with  the
norms  enshrined  in  the  Charter  has  replaced  and
displaced unilateral interventions.
to  humanitarian 
the  past, 
In 
For  these  reasons,  and  without  prejudice  to  the
fact 
that 
in  extreme  cases  dictated  by  actual
developments  we  might  be  able  to  conceive  of  the
possibility  of  resorting  to  humanitarian  intervention,
there must be no attempt to institutionalize it; nor must
it be recognized as a suitable instrument to put an end
to the perpetration of international crimes.
As regards peacekeeping operations, the report of
the  Panel  of  experts  chaired  by  Ambassador  Brahimi,
could not have come at a better time. It provides an in-
depth  examination  of  these  operations,  revealing  their
insufficiencies  and  shortcomings.  We  must  proceed  as
soon  as  possible  to  consider  its  recommendations  so
that we can translate immediately into reality those that
appear to be appropriate. We are looking forward to the
plan  for  implementing  these  recommendations,  which
the  Secretary-General  promised  us  at  the  opening  of
this session’s general debate. Moreover, we hope that it
takes  into  account  other  valuable  reports  on  the  issue
that have recently been produced.
Never is it superfluous to stress the importance of
the  preventive  aspects  of 
job  of  ensuring
international peace and security. We have read with the
keenest  interest  the  information  provided  to  us  by  the
Secretary-General on  measures adopted in the last few
years 
information  and  coordination
to  strengthen 
the 
to 
linking 
our  Organization 
machinery 
other
international  organizations,  Member  States  and  non-
governmental  organizations.  We  believe  that  it  is
absolutely  necessary  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations
information  and  analytical  services  so  that  we  can
enable them to alert the Secretariat and other bodies of
our Organization to situations that may erupt into crisis
or  conflict.  The  point  is  to  raise  these  services  to  a
level  of  high  professionalism  so  that  they  can  gather,
analyse  and  interpret  information  in  a  way  that  would
make it possible to foresee the emergence of trends and
discern  possible  threats  to  peace  and  security  and  to
warn  of  the  imminence  or  possibility  of  domestic
upheaval,  institutional  crises,  human  rights  violations,
border  incidents  and  so  forth.  The  Secretary-General
has  told  us  about  the  establishment  of  a  prevention
team  in  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs,  and  this
marks an important step in that direction.
Another  avenue  to  be  explored  is  that  of  United
Nations  cooperation  with  regional  organizations.  My
delegation  realizes  that  we  still  have  not  made  much
progress in this arena. As the Secretary-General puts it,
cooperation  with  some  regional  organizations  has,  in
some  instances,  proved  fruitful;  but  the  effort  for
cooperation  continues  to  be  difficult  in  this  arena,
owing 
series  of  practical,  political  and
organizational factors.
to  a 
Our 
is 
convinced 
that 
country 
organizations 
regional
organizations  of  a  political  nature,  such  as 
the
Organization  of  American  States  and  the  Organization
of  African  Unity,  carry  an  enormous  potential  that  in
some  cases  could  be  mined  and  made  available  for
conflict  prevention  or  peacekeeping  operations.  The
regional 
specific
advantages.  They  are  usually  seen  by  Governments  in
any  given 
the
assumption  is  that  they  are  more  familiar  with  the
realities  and  problems  of  their  member  countries.  It  is
to  be  hoped  that  tangible  progress  will  be  made  along
these lines at the high-level meeting announced by the
Secretary-General between  the  United  Nations  and the
regional organizations.
region  as  more 
their  own,  and 
certain 
afford 
A/55/PV.31
functions and the use of civilian personnel trained in a
broad  range  of  disciplines.  States’  cooperation  in  this
arena  is  becoming  more  necessary  than  ever.  Uruguay
would  like  to  express  its  readiness  to  cooperate  with
the Secretariat and other bodies of our Organization in
dealing with this issue.
Whenever  we  speak  of  international  peace  and
security,  we  are  ultimately  referring  to  the  peace  and
security  of  every  society,  every  family  and  every
individual.  In  the  final  analysis,  the  end  goal  and
purpose  of  our  cooperation  activities  is  the  human
being — every living being within the society in which
we  live.  From  this  truth  flows  the  need  to  base
cooperation  on  the  concept  of  human  security.  As  the
Secretary-General  reminds  us  in  his  report,  human
security and economic development go hand in hand.
The  enormous 
job  of  promoting  economic
development  must  now  be  pursued  in  the  context  of
globalization. It  has  already  been  pointed  out  that  this
phenomenon  has  two  sides  to  it:  on  the  one  hand  it
generates prosperity, and on the other it accentuates the
gap between the developed and the developing world.
While it is true that globalization is an inevitable
phenomenon and that trying to oppose it would be like
trying  to  oppose  the  law  of  gravity,  it  is  nevertheless
controllable  and  can  be  oriented  and  managed.  The
management of globalization to ensure that its benefits
are  distributed  more  equitably  among  all  societies  of
the  world  must  be  undertaken  on  the  basis  of  certain
to
fundamental 
international 
the
regulation of work and environmental protection.
alia, 
the  movement  of  capital, 
principles 
trade, 
relating, 
inter 
As  a  result,  we  cannot  but  agree  with 
the
Secretary-General  when  he  asserts  that,  in  order  for
globalization to be made more inclusive and equitable,
we  must  create  more  effective  global  institutions.
Among  other 
things,  we  must  adopt  norms  and
measures  to  ensure  that  freedom  of  trade  works  in
every direction for the benefit of all States, not only of
those 
their  greater  economic
development, are better equipped to compete.
that,  because  of 
The institutional instruments that we rely on to do
the  task  of  ensuring  international  peace  and  security
must  be  adapted  to  take  a  multidimensional  and
integrated approach, which the nature of contemporary
problems 
rightly
points  out  the  growing  complexity  of  peacekeeping
operations,  which  require  the  performance  of  new
requires.  The  Secretary-General 
Finally,  I  wish  briefly  to  refer  to  an  issue  whose
importance is growing day by day: that of information
and  communications  technologies.  The  report  stresses
the  need  to  enhance  cooperation  in  this  field  so  as  to
ensure the access of all to those new technologies. My
delegation  congratulates  the  Secretary-General  on  his
initiatives  to  reduce  the  digital  divide  and  encourages
27
A/55/PV.31
the  Secretariat  and  all  components  of  the  United
Nations system to persevere towards that end.
laid 
in 
foundation 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation
would  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for
producing yet another excellent document in his report
on the work of the Organization. This report builds on
the 
the  Secretary-General’s
millennium  report,  which  was  well  received  and
endorsed  by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  who
came  to  New  York  for  the  Millennium  Summit.  We
appreciate 
the
Secretary-General  and  his  staff  have  continued  to
provide to  members of this Assembly.  We believe that
these  reports  give  direction  on  how  we  could  improve
or  even  change  course,  in  order  to  make  the  United
Nations of the twenty-first century a more effective and
efficient Organization.
the  high 
reporting 
level  of 
that 
reconfirmed 
their  support 
The heads of State and Government who spoke at
the  Millennium  Summit  emphasized  several  important
points.  They 
for  and
confidence  in  the  work  of  the  Secretary-General  and
his staff. They said that it is time for us to roll  up  our
sleeves  and  to  start  implementing  the  resolutions  that
we  have  adopted  over  the  years.  The  Summit  left  us
with the spirit of the  millennium,  which calls on  us to
proceed with a sense of urgency and not at the pace of
doing business as usual.
While  the  Summit  focused  a  spotlight  on  many
issues,  in  the  view  of  our  delegation  the  overriding
theme that emerged in the plenary speeches and round-
table  debates  was  the  urgent  need  to  address  poverty
and  underdevelopment.  While  reaffirming  the  role  of
the United Nations in maintaining peace and security in
the  world, 
the  heads  of  State  and  Government
acknowledged  the  difficulty  of  maintaining  global
security  in  a  world  crippled  by  hunger,  disease  and
abject poverty.
In fact, my delegation believes that, following the
Millennium Summit, it is no longer possible to address
questions of  peace  and  security,  globalization,  poverty
eradication  and  the  like  in  isolation  from  each  other.
The  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first
century will have to be about getting closer to the lives
of  the  people  we  serve.  There  can  no  longer  be
decisions  taken  that  are  not  people-centred  in  their
approach.
President  Mbeki  said  it  better  in  his  plenary
speech when he stated that
28
“The  fundamental  challenge  that  faces  this
Millennium Summit is that, in a credible way, we
must  demonstrate  the  will  to  end  poverty  and
underdevelopment  ...  We  must  demonstrate  the
will  to  succeed,  such  as  was  demonstrated  by
those  who  died  in  the  titanic  struggle  against
Nazism and fascism.” (A/55/PV.5)
The Africans have defined the broad objectives of
the  African renaissance.  First,  we  have  concluded  that
the  African  renaissance  means  the  establishment  of
democratic  political  systems,  which  will  ensure  the
accomplishment  of  the  goal  that  the  people  must
govern. Second, the renaissance  will  make  certain that
these  systems  take  into  account  African  specifics  so
that,  while  being  truly  democratic  and  protecting
human  rights,  they  are  nevertheless  designed  in  ways
which  really  ensure  that  political  and  peaceful  means
can  be  used  to  address  the  competing  interests  of
different  social  groups  in  each  country.  Third,  it  will
establish  institutions  and  procedures  which  enable  the
continent 
to  deal  collectively  with  questions  of
democracy,  peace  and  stability.  Fourth,  it  will  seek  to
achieve  sustainable  development  that  results  in  the
continuous  improvement  of  the  standard  of  living  and
the quality of life of the masses of people. Fifth, it will
the  global
qualitatively  change  Africa’s  place 
economy  so 
the
international debt burden and no longer a mere supplier
of  raw  materials  and  an  importer  of  manufactured
goods. Sixth, it will ensure the full emancipation of the
women  of  Africa.  Seven,  it  will  successfully  confront
the  scourge  of infectious  diseases,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis and malaria. Last, the renaissance is about
protecting 
the  environment  of  our  continent  and
ensuring the sustainable use of our natural resources.
the  yoke  of 
is  free  of 
that 
in 
it 
that 
We  are  very  much  aware 
the  African
renaissance is not an event, but a process. We have no
illusions  about  the  immense  difficulties  we  face  in
meeting  the  challenges  listed  above.  We  will  make
progress,  but  we  are  also  prepared  for  setbacks.  Like
the  United  Nations  of  the  twenty-first  century,  our
challenge  is  to  tackle  the  priorities  with  a  sense  of
urgency  and  not  just  to  act  as  if  we  were  engaged  in
business as usual.
My  delegation  firmly  believes  that,  throughout
the  fifty-fifth  session,  which  we  prefer  to  call  the
Millennium  Assembly,  poverty  and  underdevelopment
will remain the root causes of most of the issues which
the 
things 
One  of 
come before us. This unshakeable reality will guide our
delegation’s participation throughout this session.
that  has  sharpened 
is 
the
inequalities  between  and  within  States 
the
phenomenon  of  globalization.  We  must  accept  that
globalization is here to  stay. It  is indeed  a reality. The
only way to make globalization a positive force for all
is  to  deal  with  its  uneven  impact.  In  April,  the
developing  countries  attending  the  South  Summit  in
Havana,  Cuba,  spoke  on  the  impact  of  globalization,
including  the  growing  “digital  divide”.  This  concern
became  one  of  the  issues  central  to  the  dialogue
between  the  South,  represented  by  President  Mbeki,
Chairman  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  President
Obasanjo, Chairman of the Group of 77 and China, and
President  Bouteflika,  representing  the  Organization  of
African Unity (OAU); and the leaders of the Group  of
Eight industrialized countries, whose Summit was held
in Japan.
They stressed that:
“The  countries  of  the  South  must  be  equitably
represented 
forum  deliberating  and
deciding on social, economic or political matters
which  can  adversely  or  otherwise 
affect
countries of the South.”
in  any 
In other  words, if  we are to put an end to the growing
disparities  between 
the  developing  and  developed
countries, there has to be a strengthening of the North-
South  dialogue.  Hence  we  welcome  the  channels  of
communication  that  have  now  been  established  at  the
highest level between the North and the South through
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and
China,  and  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),
with  the  Group  of  Eight  industrialized  countries  and
the European Union.
In 
fully 
supports 
the  pursuit  of  poverty  eradication  and
development,  our  delegation 
the
enhanced  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)
Debt Initiative, and we look forward to speeding up its
implementation.  A  critical  element  of  this  Initiative  is
the  need  for  more  resources  to  be  made  available  at  a
fast  pace.  We  believe,  however,  that  ways  need  to  be
explored to further broaden the  scope  and  enhance  the
depth of debt relief. In our view, it is equally important
to  make  serious  progress  on  the  issue  of  official
development  assistance  and  foreign  direct  investment
flows.
A/55/PV.31
In  this  context,  South  Africa  places  a  high
priority  on  the  successful  outcome  of  the  High-level
International Intergovernmental Event on Financing for
Development,  to  be  held  in  2001.  This  conference
could  become  a  test  of  our  collective  political  will  to
make decisions that will improve the lives of those who
suffer  the  most.  It  should  nevertheless  be  understood
that  developed  countries  carry  a  special  responsibility
in this regard.
for 
socio-economic 
One  of  the  cornerstones  of  our  objective  in
struggling 
development,
democratization  and  good  governance  is  to  achieve
security  and  stability  on  the  continent.  This  cannot  be
accomplished  without  combating  the  proliferation  and
the  excessive  accumulation  of  conventional  arms,  in
particular  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  and  their
illicit trafficking.
in  our  country.  We  hope 
We  welcome  the  Millennium  Declaration,  which
addressed both the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  the
need to totally ban landmines and  other anti-personnel
mines,  which  continue  to  take  the  lives  of  innocent
people 
the  2001
Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and
Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects  will  offer  the
international  community  yet  another  opportunity  to
reaffirm its commitment on this issue in a multifaceted
manner  that  takes  account  of  security,  humanitarian
and development issues.
that 
Once again, we welcome the report of the United
Nations Panel on Peace Operations, also  known  as  the
Brahimi 
important
conclusions on which Member States can build to reach
the objective of an effective United Nations.
report,  which  contains 
some 
My  delegation  deplores  the  continuing  wave  of
attacks on, and killings of, humanitarian personnel. We
support  efforts 
such
personnel and the need to prosecute the perpetrators of
these crimes.
improve  protection 
for 
to 
A  separate  but  related  topic  is  the  important
matter  of  humanitarian  intervention.  My  delegation
seriously hopes that this issue will be discussed during
this session.
South  Africa  has  in  the  past  consistently  called
for the democratization of multilateral institutions. Our
delegation sincerely hopes that the Millennium Summit
will  inject  new  energy  and  political  will  into  this
process.  The  Security  Council  needs  urgent  reform  in
29
A/55/PV.31
order  to  make  it  more  representative,  effective  and
credible.  Of  particular  importance  to  our  delegation  is
the need for the Council to reflect current realities and
for  the  representation  of  developing  countries  to  be
increased. We  shall  continue  to  work  constructively  in
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Council  reform  to
achieve these objectives.
We should like to reiterate that the Bretton Woods
institutions  are  equally  in  need  of  urgent  reform  in
order  to  discharge  their  mandate  and  respond  to  the
new  development  challenges.  We  believe  that  the
United  Nations  of  the  twenty-first  century  will  have  a
much  harder  time  meeting  the  challenges  before  us  if
we  cannot  find  a  way  to  bring  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization  into  a
closer  working  relationship  with  the  United  Nations.
The  challenges  of  the  future  demand  collective  action
and coordination.
Perhaps one of the more contentious issues on the
agenda  of  this  session  is  the  proposed  review  of  the
United Nations scale of assessments. It is our intention
to  approach  this  matter  with  an  open  mind,  always
making  sure  that  the  best  interests  of  the  United
Nations  are  not  compromised.  South  Africa  looks
forward to being moved from category B to category C
on  the  peacekeeping  scale  of  assessments  during  this
fifty-fifth  session.  We  are  thankful  to  those  Members
that  have  committed  themselves  to  helping  us  achieve
this  goal.  We  count  on  the  support  of  the  rest  of  the
Member States in this matter.
It  gives  us  great  pleasure  to  reaffirm  today  that
our  Government  would  be  honoured  to  host  the  2002
Earth Summit in South Africa. We believe that the 10-
year  review  Summit  should  reinvigorate  the  global
community’s  support  for  sustainable  development  by
serving the interests of both developing and developed
countries.  The  Summit  should  focus  in  a  holistic
integration  of  environment  and
the 
manner  on 
implementation  of
development 
towards 
Agenda  21.  Hosting 
the  African
continent  would  provide  the  people  of  Africa  with  an
opportunity  to  take  ownership  of  the  principles  of
Agenda 21 and the objectives and ideals of sustainable
development.  Furthermore, 
the
concept of the African century and give impetus to the
African  renaissance  by  highlighting  Africa’s  concerns
and aspirations related to sustainable development.
the 
the  Summit  on 
it  would  enhance 
full 
30
for,  and 
the  dignity  of, 
Since 1994, when South Africa was readmitted to
the  United  Nations,  we  have  worked  very  hard  to
maintain  support 
this
Organization.  So  it  is  with  a  deep  sense  of  our  recent
history as a nation that South Africa is in the process of
arranging  for  the  hosting  of  the  World  Conference  on
Racism  and  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and
Related Intolerance less than a year from now. Having
suffered  under  the  cruel  system  of  apartheid,  my
people,  both  black  and  white,  feel  very  strongly  about
this  Conference  and  look  forward  to  sharing  their
vision  of  the  future.  We  look  forward  to  receiving
everyone  with  the  warmth  and  kindness  that  our
continent is well-known for.
Mr.  Nesho  (Albania):  First,  I  would  like  to
extend our greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, for his comprehensive report on the work of the
Organization  and  to  express  the  deep  appreciation  of
my  Government  for  the  activities  undertaken  by  the
United  Nations  since  the  previous  session  of  the
General Assembly.
the 
role  of 
I should like now to refer to particular aspects of
the report. I take this opportunity to touch upon the role
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  peacekeeping  and  peace-
building operations in Kosovo, eloquently described in
the  Brahimi  report.  The  Albanian  Government  has
welcomed  and  supported  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  Interim  Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo
(UNMIK)  as  well  as 
the  Special
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Bernard
Kouchner. We consider that UNMIK has brought about
positive  changes 
areas  of
administration,  humanitarian 
the
and 
building  of  democratic  institutions.  This  activity  was
conducted  in  full  compliance  with  Security  Council
resolution  1244  (1999).  I  also  applaud  the  important
work of the international military presence, the Kosovo
Force, and of the civilian police in Kosovo,  which has
provided a safe and secure environment for the people
of  Kosovo  and  for  the  international  civil  presence
there.
the 
assistance 
in  Kosovo 
in 
We extend our thanks to the specialized agencies
of  the  United  Nations  —  the  Office  of  the  United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  United
Nations  Children’s  Fund, 
the  United  Nations
Population  Fund,  the  World  Food  Programme  and  so
forth  —  for  their  invaluable  work  and  the  assistance
given  during  the  emergency,  not  only  to  Kosovo,  but
also to the neighbouring countries. At the same time, it
is  important  that  these  United  Nations  bodies  increase
their  efforts  and  cooperation  with  the  international
community  to  establish  normal  living  conditions  to
prepare  for  the  return  of  more  than  200,000  refugees
presently living in other European countries.
of  Yugoslavia 
the  worrisome  situation 
the
Furthermore, 
Federal  Republic 
and
Montenegro)  and  the  potential  influx  of  refugees
requires 
these  humanitarian  agencies  prepare
emergency plans to deal with the possible humanitarian
consequences.
(Serbia 
that 
in 
in  paragraph  145  of 
to 
report,  where 
Regarding the continuing inter-ethnic violence in
the
Kosovo  —  referred 
Secretary-General’s 
the  Kosovar
Albanians  are  assigned  the  primary  responsibility  for
this  violence  —  I  would  like  to  make  the  following
remarks.  The  Albanian  Government  has  stated  that  it
supports  a  multi-ethnic  society  in  Kosovo  and  has
condemned  the  acts  of  violence.  However,  we  should
not  forget  that  the  roots  of  such  violence  are  to  be
found  in  the  Serb  genocide  and  “ethnic-cleansing”
committed  against 
the  Kosovar  Albanians.  This
genocide was characterized by the killings of thousands
of  Albanians,  horrendous  massacres,  mass  graves,
“ethnic-cleansing”  and  burned  houses.  The  Kosovar
Albanians  want  a  peaceful  and  democratic  Kosovo,
while 
to
destabilize  the  situation  by  generating  violence  inside
Kosovo and jeopardizing the UNMIK objectives.
the  Milosevic  regime 
is  always 
trying 
the 
that 
We  hope 
recent  presidential  and
parliamentarian  elections  in  the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia  (Serbia  and  Montenegro)  will  bring  to  an
end  the  criminal  Milosevic  regime  and  open  up  new
ways  of  cooperation  and  understanding  among  the
Balkan countries.
Ms.  Ibraimova  (Kyrgyzstan):  The  delegation  of
the  Kyrgyz  Republic  is  grateful  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  very  comprehensive,  thoughtful  and
informative  report.  It  gives  us  a  good  overview  of  the
work  of  our  Organization.  Reading  the  report,  I  was
thinking  that  the  Member  States  of  our  Organization
have achieved a great deal in laying the foundations for
the  further  development  of  our  common  world.  Of
course,  much  remains  to  be  done,  and  this  report
presents for consideration what still needs to be done.
Regarding peace  and  security  issues, the  view  of
that  sustainable  peace  and
the  Secretary-General 
security for all countries remains a central objective of
A/55/PV.31
is  shared  by 
the  United  Nations 
the  people  of
Kyrgyzstan. The report (A/55/305) of the Panel led by
Mr.  Brahimi  contains  many  interesting  ideas  that
should  be  developed  and  elaborated  into  the  future
programme  of  United  Nations  activities  in  this  field.
My  delegation  supports 
the  concept  of  conflict
prevention and of moving from a culture of reaction to
a culture of prevention. We welcome the establishment
of  a  Prevention  Team  within 
the  Department  of
Political Affairs. We believe that early identification of
possible  grave  conflicts  should  help  the  world  avoid
them.  We 
the  Department  of
Peacekeeping  Operations  should  be  strengthened  by
additional human resources.
fully  agree 
that 
We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  year  2000
Review  Conference of the  Parties  to the  Treaty  on  the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and urge
all  States,  particularly  the  nuclear-weapon  States,  to
follow  up  on  the  commitments  they  made  at  the
Conference.
World  security  is  threatened  not  only  by  the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  but  by
the  harmful  effects  of  armed  conflicts  —  including
international 
illicit
trafficking  in  small  arms  —  which  are  not  confined
within the national borders of any one country.
terrorism,  drug  smuggling  and 
today 
Kyrgyzstan 
faces  a  drug 
energetic  measures 
trafficking
problem  which  has  threatened  to  severely  undermine
its national security. According to the analysis of World
Health Organization experts in Kyrgyzstan, 75 per cent
of  the  drug  addicts  are  under  30  years  old.  In  spite  of
the 
the  Kyrgyz
Government,  the  number  of  drug-related  deaths  had
increased  fourfold  by  this  year.  This  means  that  the
threat  of drug  abuse and drug  trafficking  has  not  been
overcome. In this regard, we will welcome and actively
support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community
aimed at eliminating this evil.
taken  by 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
our  gratitude to the  United  Nations  International  Drug
Control  Programme  for  its  close  collaboration  on  this
issue.  Kyrgyzstan  will  support  and  contribute 
to
strengthening the global consensus on combating illicit
drug  trafficking.  I  also  join  others  in  supporting  the
proposal to hold an international conference in 2001 to
address the issue of small arms proliferation.
As regards meeting humanitarian commitments, if
peace and security is the central objective of the United
31
A/55/PV.31
is 
assistance 
humanitarian 
Nations, 
the  most
challenging  and  noble  activity  that  it  undertakes.
Millions of people who are being helped by the Office
for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  by
United  Nations  humanitarian  agencies  trust  in  the
United  Nations  as  a  friend  in  need.  We  believe  that
people’s  trust  is  the  most  important  indicator  of  the
effectiveness of our Organization.
We  strongly  believe  that  the  international  efforts
to  eradicate  HIV/AIDS,  which  has  become  a  major
problem  for  entire  regions  of  the  world,  should  be
strengthened.  My  delegation  co-sponsored  the  draft
resolution on this issue and has a strong commitment to
providing  all  possible  support  to  the  activities  in  this
field.  We  support  the  idea  of  holding,  on  an  urgent
basis,  a  special  session  to  review  the  problem  of
HIV/AIDS in all its aspects.
I 
to 
the 
turn 
subject  of  cooperating 
for
development.  The  part  of 
the  Secretary-General’s
report concerning the elimination of poverty worldwide
touches  on  the  most  important  development  goals  of
the  United  Nations.  As  regards  the  United  Nations
activities, I  commend the  group chaired  by  the  United
Nations Development Programme to prepare a proposal
for  a  system-wide  poverty-reduction  strategy.  We
believe that eliminating the gap between the developed
countries,  on 
the  developing
countries  and  countries  with  economies  in  transition,
on  the  other,  involves  inter  alia  establishing  a  fair
mechanism  so  that  the  developing  countries  and  the
countries  with  economies  in  transition  can  participate
efficiently  in  the  international  trade  and  economic
system.
the  one  hand,  and 
Kyrgyzstan  anticipates  a  positive  outcome  of  the
preparations for the Rio  + 10 conference  in  2002. The
conference  will  provide  an  important  opportunity  to
assess  the  status  of  the  progress  achieved  in  meeting
the goals established by the 1992 Earth Summit, where
Governments took a historic step towards ensuring the
future of the planet, adopting a comprehensive plan for
global  action 
to  sustainable
development.
in  all  areas  relating 
the 
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  2002  has  also  been
proclaimed 
International  Year  of  Mountains.
Mountains  are  a  source  of  hope;  their  multiplicity  of
functions makes them an obvious focal point of human
concern. The Year gives us an opportunity to ensure the
present and future well-being of mountain communities
32
and 
promoting 
ecosystems, 
conservation 
functioning,  and 
by 
sustainable
development  in  mountain  areas;  to  increase  awareness
and  knowledge  of  mountain 
their
their  overriding
dynamics  and 
importance  in  providing  a  number  of  strategic  goods
and  services  essential  to  the  well-being  of  both  rural
and  urban,  highland  and  lowland,  people,  particularly
water supply and food security; to promote and defend
the  cultural  heritage  of  mountain  communities;  and  to
pay  attention  to  frequent  conflicts  in  mountain  areas
and promote peacemaking in those regions.
and 
the  work 
appreciates 
achieve 
Kyrgyzstan 
to 
already
undertaken 
sustainable  mountain
development  by  States  and  by  organizations  of  the
United  Nations  system,  in  particular  the  Food  and
Agriculture  Organization, 
non-governmental
organizations.  We  appreciate  the  commitment  of  the
Government  of  Switzerland,  particularly  the  Swiss
Agency  for  Development  and  Cooperation,  to  raising
public  awareness  in  this  field,  and  the  commitment  of
the
non-governmental  organizations, 
Mountain  Forum  of 
the
International  Centre 
Integrated  Mountain
Development of Nepal, scientists, researchers and mass
media from all countries. They all contribute to making
the  International  Year  of  Mountains  the  year  of  hope,
the year of the future and the year of our life.
in  particular 
the  United  States  and 
for 
The  end  of  the  International  Year  of  Mountains
should be the beginning of the consistent and forward-
looking  development  of  mountain  regions.  We  believe
that  it  is  vitally  important  to  adopt  a  new  approach  to
the  understanding  of  mountain  regions  and  to  change
public awareness.
In conclusion, I reiterate our commitment to work
very closely with the President, to achieve our common
goal of the success of the fifty-fifth session.
Mr. Al-Hinai (Oman): At the outset I express on
behalf  of  my  delegation  our  sincere  gratitude  and
appreciation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General,
for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,
an  important  report  that  deserves  the  attention  of  the
Assembly.
We  share  the  view  expressed  by  the  Secretary-
General  that  the  turn  of  the  millennium  provides  a
unique  vantage  point  from  which  to  view  the  progress
achieved  and 
lie  ahead.  The
Millennium  Summit,  which  was  held  at  the  beginning
of  this  month,  was  an  opportunity  to  exchange  views
the  challenges 
that 
on  these  issues  and  to  seek  solutions  to  the  common
challenges that face humanity.
of 
the 
question 
Regarding 
humanitarian
intervention,  we  believe  the  Secretary-General  was
right  when  he  pointed  out  that  there  would  be  strong
reactions  by  Member  States  on 
issue.  We
emphasize  that  the  focus  of  the  Organization  should
and  must  remain  within  the  confines  and  mandates
specified by the United Nations Charter.
this 
issue 
is  another 
The  sanctions  regime 
that
the  Millennium
received  greater  attention  during 
Summit. Despite the fact that the sanctions regime was
intended  as  a  political  mechanism  to  guarantee  that
Governments  would  implement  their  commitments  in
accordance  with  United  Nations  resolutions, 
this
mechanism has now become a weapon that has harmed
the  basic  rights  of  societies,  which  undoubtedly
contradicts 
the  Universal
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  We  endorse  the  call  on
the  Security  Council 
to  adopt  new  policies  and
effective  mechanisms  to  relieve  the  suffering  imposed
on  States  and  people.  The  Security  Council,  with  its
responsibilities  defined by  the  Charter,  should  without
doubt  play  a  positive  and  unifying  role  to  maintain
international peace and stability.
the  letter  and  spirit  of 
is 
today 
report 
(A/55/305) 
comprehensive 
the  Organization 
It  remains  to  be  said  that  the  greatest  challenge
facing 
to  maintain
international  peace  and  security.  In  this  regard,  we
commend  the  work  of  the  Panel  on  United  Nations
Peace  Operations  chaired  by  Ambassador  Brahimi  for
its 
and  bold
recommendations.  We  are  of  the  view  that  the  report
deserves  serious  and  urgent  attention  from  Member
States.  We  cannot  but  emphasize 
for
consensus on this issue and the need to avoid stretching
the capabilities of the Organization beyond its intended
capacity, where it might become party to conflicts. We
also  believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  strictly
adhere  to  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  within  a  clear
and  concise  mandate,  with  the  full  acceptance  of  the
parties involved in conflicts.
the  need 
The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  organs
remains  a  lofty  goal  and  a  high  endeavour  which
continues 
from  my
delegation. We should review the expansion of Security
Council membership to reflect a fair representation and
the changes that have occurred in the world since 1945.
to  receive  complete  support 
A/55/PV.31
In  recent  years  globalization  has  become  an
unavoidable  force.  While  it  brings  benefits  to  certain
societies  in  the  developed  world,  it  has  had,  on  the
in 
other  hand,  a  negative 
the
the
developing  countries.  Therefore,  we  call  on 
international  community,  and  especially  on 
the
developed  countries, to take  into  account  the  concerns
of the developing countries, with the aim of narrowing
the economic and technological gap.
impact  on  others 
In  the  same  vein,  we  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  call  to  tackle  the  challenges  facing  Africa
and  the  least  developed  countries:  the  eradication  of
poverty,  the  improvement  of  health  standards  and
education,  and 
the  HIV/AIDS
epidemic, all of which necessitate a collaborative effort
by  all  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  In  this  regard,
we  call  on  the  international  community  to  spare  no
effort  to  help  the  African  countries  and  the  least
developed countries to face the challenges. Measures to
be taken should include the relief of debt.
the  combating  of 
In conclusion,  we believe that the time has come
for all of us to work together to further the lofty goals
and aspirations that we all have. Indeed, the turn of the
millennium has given us the opportunity to revamp the
United  Nations  and  to  bring  it  to  a  level  that  could
meet the challenges that lie ahead.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on this agenda item.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes
note of the report of the Secretary-General on the work
of the Organization?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  concluded  this
stage of our consideration of agenda item 10.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and organization of work:
reports of the General Committee
Second report of the General Committee
(A/55/250/Add.1)
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  draw
attention 
the  General
Committee (A/55/250/Add.1),  concerning a  request  by
Equatorial Guinea for the inclusion in the agenda of an
additional 
item,  “Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Economic  Community  of  Central
the  second 
report  of 
to 
33
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  consider  agenda 
in  plenary
meeting  for  the  sole  purpose  of  taking  action  on  the
draft United Nations Convention against Transnational
Organized Crime and the draft protocols thereto?
item  105  directly 
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The Acting President: I  would  like  to  announce
some  additions  to  the  programme  of  work  of  the
General  Assembly.  I  should  like  to  inform  Members
that on Tuesday morning, 12 October 2000, the General
Assembly  will  take  up  agenda  item  15  (b),  entitled
“Elections  of  eighteen  members  of  the  Economic  and
Social  Council”.  Furthermore,  on  Friday  morning,  20
October  2000,  the  General  Assembly  will  take  up
agenda  item  170,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe”.  On
Wednesday  morning,  25  October  2000,  the  Assembly
will  then  take  up  as  the  third  item  agenda  item  174,
entitled: “The role of the United Nations  in  promoting
a  new  global  human  order”.  This  information  will  be
reflected in an addendum to document A/INF/55/3 and
will be issued next week. The list of speakers for item
170 and 174 are now open.
The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.
A/55/PV.31
African  States”,  and  a  request  contained  in  a  letter
dated  25  September  2000 
the  Permanent
Representative of Italy to the United Nations.
from 
In  paragraph  1  of 
the  report, 
the  General
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General
Assembly that an additional item entitled “Cooperation
between 
the  Economic
Community  of  Central  African  States”  should  be
included in the agenda of the current session.
the  United  Nations  and 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  include  this  additional  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Committee
further decided to recommend to the General Assembly
that  the  additional  item  should  be  considered  directly
in  plenary  meeting.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General
Assembly  decides  to  consider  the  item  directly  in
plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  In  paragraph  2  of  the
report,  the  General  Committee  decided  to  recommend
to the General Assembly that agenda item 105, “Crime
prevention  and  criminal 
justice”,  should  also  be
considered  directly  in  plenary  meeting  for  the  sole
purpose  of  taking  action  on  the  draft  United  Nations
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and
the draft protocols thereto.
34
