United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
56th plenary meeting
Friday, 16 November 2001, 9 a.m.
New York

A/56/PV.56
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Adoption of the agenda of the fifty-sixth regular
session of the General Assembly, organization of
work and allocation of items
In 
its 
report, 
Fourth report of the General Committee
(A/56/250/Add.3)
The  President: 
that  sub-item  (f)  of  agenda 
the  General
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General
Assembly 
item  21,
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union”,  also  be  allocated  to  the
Sixth  Committee,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  considering
the  question  of  the  granting  of  observer  status  to  the
Inter-Parliamentary Union in the General Assembly.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to also allocate to the Sixth Committee sub-item (f) of
agenda  item  21,  “Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union”,  for  the
sole purpose of considering the question of the granting
of  observer  status  to  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  in
the General Assembly?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Philippe  Antonio,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Haiti.
Mr. Antonio (Haiti) (spoke in French): On behalf
of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Haiti  and  of  the
Haitian  delegation,  I  should  like  at  the  outset  to
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session. You may rest assured of the full support of the
Haitian delegation as you carry out your functions.
to 
like 
I  should  also 
to  your
predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  on  the  efficacy  and
talent  he  displayed  in  conducting  the  work  of  the
Millennium Assembly.
to  pay 
tribute 
Allow  me  furthermore  to  offer  my  warmest
congratulations  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  and
to the Organization on their receiving the Nobel Peace
Prize. Above and beyond any other consideration, this
reflects  recognition  of  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  the  Organization  to  promote  peace  and
development.
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  convey,  on  behalf
of  the  people  and  Government  of  Haiti,  our  sincere
condolences to the bereaved families, and in particular
to 
the
Dominican  Republic,  following  the  tragic  aeroplane
accident in Queens, New York, on 12 November.
the  Government  and  brotherly  people  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-64164 (E)
*0164164*
A/56/PV.56
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Haiti  firmly
condemns the hateful acts carried out on 11 September
in  Manhattan,  New  York,  Washington,  D.C.,  and
Pennsylvania, which claimed thousands of victims. On
this  occasion,  the  Government  offers  its  solidarity  to
the  American  people  and  Government  and  its  support
in  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and
manifestations,  wherever  it  may  occur  and  whomever
its  perpetrators,  victims  and  promoters  may  be.  These
inhuman  and  blind  acts,  while  eliciting  grief  and
despair,  attack 
the
democratic  system  and  do  violence  to  international
peace  and  security,  freedom,  human  rights  and  the
search for well-being and prosperity.
the  very  underpinnings  of 
legal 
addressing 
in 
two 
the 
The  international  community  already  has  at  its
two
disposal  10  conventions,  complemented  by 
its  various
terrorism 
protocols, 
additional
manifestations,  not 
to  mention 
issue.  The
initiatives  under  consideration  on 
recently
international 
strengthened  by  Security  Council  resolution  1373
(2001),  which  provides  the  major  guidelines  for  our
common  struggle.  We  all  stand  to  gain  by  adhering  to
international 
the  Haitian
Government,  notwithstanding  its  meagre  resources,  is
committed  to  taking  the  measures  necessary  to  ratify
and implement these relevant legal instruments.
instruments  were 
that  vein, 
legality. 
In 
These  legal  instruments  are  indispensable  to  our
common struggle against this scourge, to be sure, but it
is  also  of  the  utmost  importance  that  we  begin  to
consider  the  social,  economic,  political  and  other
factors  that  might  spawn  terrorism.  The  international
community,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations
and the banner of tolerance and solidarity, must build a
grand  coalition  against  poverty, 
ignorance,  want,
hunger, social exclusion and marginalization. That task
is more urgent now than ever.
It  is  time  for  the  members  of  the  international
community  to  reach  a  consensus  on  Security  Council
reform.  It  is  necessary  to  increase  the  number  of  the
Council’s  permanent  members  on  the  basis  of  better
geographic distribution. We must undertake an in-depth
re-evaluation  of  the  right  of  veto,  the  current  form  of
which  is  barely  relevant  to  international  relations  and
the  exigencies  of  the  democratic  imperative.  We  must
also 
the  Council’s
working  methods  and  procedures.  The  achievement  of
these  goals  will  make  the  Organization  more  effective
and strengthen its legitimacy and authority.
institutionalize 
transparency 
in 
2
The Republic of Haiti urges States and peoples in
conflict,  especially  in  the  Middle  East,  to  embrace
dialogue in order to find lasting peace.
Today, in a world led by financial markets, trade
exchanges  and  investments  of  unprecedented  scope,  a
number of developing countries are being marginalized
from  world  economic  developments.  We  must
refashion  cooperation  for  development  if  we  wish  to
reverse  their  slide  into  marginalization  and  extreme
poverty. We must, in partnership with the international
community  and  all  the  actors  concerned,  revise  our
strategies  and  propose  a  common  approach  that  will
tackle  the  problem  of  inequality  during  the  new
millennium.
the  opportunity 
Thus,  we  are  afforded 
to
implement  all  the  commitments  undertaken  by  our
heads of State and Government during the Millennium
Summit. More than 147 heads of State and Government
solemnly  committed  themselves  to  deliver  humanity
from  want,  and  to  make  the  right  to  development  a
reality  for  all.  It  is  incumbent  on  us  to  translate  these
commitments into concrete deeds.
The  benefits  of 
trade  for  development  are
recognized,  but  it  is  perhaps  still  necessary  to  ask
ourselves  if  in  the  context  of  globalization  the  least
developed  countries  do  not  find  themselves  in  a
dilemma.  How  can  we  seriously  speak  of  free  trade
with  countries  that,  for  the  most  part,  have  little  to
trade.  It  is  also  necessary  to  increase  their  production
and export capacities.
It  is  essential  that  these  countries  have  access  to
markets where they can sell their products. There is the
“Everything  but  arms”  initiative  of  the  European
Commission,  which  we  welcome,  and  we  invite  our
developing country partners to do the same.
The Haitian Government welcomes the holding of
the  Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  which
will  take  place  during  the  first  quarter  of  2002  in
Monterrey,  Mexico.  That  Conference  gives  us  the
opportunity  to  formulate  recommendations  on  the
reorientation  of  cooperation 
in
particular  concrete  measures  in  the  area  of  debt
management, 
trade,
investment  and  the  international  financial  system.  The
Haitian  Government  also  welcomes  the  organizing  of
the World Summit on Sustainable Development, which
will  take  place  next  September  in  Johannesburg,  and
this  concept  of
invites 
for  development, 
technological 
its  partners 
cooperation, 
to  accept 
partnership,  in  which  the  interlocutors  hold  dialogues
as equals in a framework of mutual respect.
reaffirms 
My  Government 
in  a
democratic future for Haiti, and, out of conviction, will
do  everything  necessary  to  consolidate  and  strengthen
the rule of law. Democracy will thus remain one of the
pillars of the Haitian Government’s policies.
faith 
its 
Haiti is now undergoing a crisis situation, which
is  the  result  of  an  electoral  controversy.  In  fact,  after
the elections of 21 May 2000 for the reconstitution of
the  Chamber  of  Deputies,  more  than  two  thirds  of  the
Senate  and  all  of  our  local  offices,  the  electoral
observer  mission  of  the  Organization  of  American
States (OAS), while acknowledging in a report that the
elections took place in an acceptable and credible way,
still uncovered certain irregularities in the way that the
absolute majority required for the election of the eight
candidates  to  the  Senate  had  been  calculated.  What
followed  was 
international
assistance, the resumption of which is still conditional
on resolving the post-electoral crisis.
suspension  of 
the 
As  soon  as  he  was  elected,  and  even  before  his
inauguration,  Haitian  President  Jean-Bertrand  Aristide
committed  himself  to  the  path  of  dialogue,  convinced
that opposition is necessary for the proper functioning
of  institutions.  It  was  in  this  context  that  President
Aristide’s eight-point letter of December 2000 was sent
to the then President of the United States, Mr. William
Jefferson Clinton. In fact, in his search for a negotiated
solution,  President  Aristide  encouraged  initiatives  on
the part of sectors of civil society.
In addition, during the participation of the Haitian
delegation  at  the  Quebec  Summit,  where  the  member
States of the OAS took note of the efforts made by the
Government, our head of State reiterated once again his
determination to find a negotiated solution to the crisis
in Haiti.
Once again, in Costa Rica, during the twenty-first
session  of  the  OAS  General  Assembly  in  June  2001,
President  Aristide,  in  a  letter  to  the  President  of  the
Assembly made proposals that were incorporated into a
resolution  adopted  by 
the
organization  as  recommendations  for  crisis  resolution.
Since  then,  the  head  of  State  and  the  Government  of
Haiti  have  done  everything  possible  to  effectively
implement these recommendations.
the  34  members  of 
A/56/PV.56
The  Haitian  Government  and 
the  political
organization  Fanmi  Lavalas,  with  a  mediation  role
played 
the  OAS  general  secretariat,  have  begun
negotiations  with  Democratic  Convergence,  a  political
opposition group, with a view to reaching an agreement
in  the  framework  of  the  commitments  made  in  Costa
Rica.
During those negotiations, various proposals have
been  put  forward,  particularly:  the  resignation  of  the
seven  senators  concerned  in  the  OAS  report;  the
shortening  by  two  years  of  the  term  of  office  of  all
deputies;  the  shortening  of  the  term  of  office  of  the
senators elected on 21 May 2000; the putting together
of a future provisional electoral council; the holding in
November  2002  of  early  elections  for  all  of  the
members  of  parliament  involved  in  the  points  that  I
have  just  mentioned;  and  the  holding  of  elections
during  the  first  quarter  of  2003  for  the  local  offices
whose terms will expire in November 2003.
in 
of 
the 
framework 
President  Aristide, 
the  Government  and 
the
Fanmi  Lavalas  party  have  demonstrated  much
flexibility 
negotiations.
Unfortunately,  the  Convergence  remains  intransigent
and  challenges  the  wording  of  the  two  last  points,  on
the holding of elections. The Convergence is frozen in
its  position,  called  “option  zero”,  which  consists  in
simply  annulling  the  elections  of  21  May  2000.  Thus,
the  impasse  still  exists;  international  assistance  is  still
suspended.
Meanwhile,  poverty  rages  in  Haiti.  The  AIDS
pandemic,  having  claimed  260,000  victims,  means  a
loss in terms of the life expectancy of our population,
which had  been  painstakingly  increased.  Maternal  and
infant  mortality  is  clearly  progressing.  The  figure  of
500  out  of  100,000  dying  in  childbirth  and  the  infant
mortality rate, which has risen to 61 out of every 1,000
births,  remain  very  alarming.  Given  that  children,
women  and  men  —  an  entire  population  —  are  dying
for lack of means, of financial resources, would it be an
exaggeration  to  speak  of  another  form  of  economic
terrorism that none dare reveal?
Can  one  justify  the  link  between  a  contested
method  of  tallying  votes  and  the  freeze  on  financing
given  to  my  country  in  the  form  of  loans  —  loans  on
which  we  continue,  despite  everything, 
to  pay
interest — especially since we know that the legislative
and  local  elections  of  21  May  2000  were  held  to  fill
7,500 vacant posts, that 29,000 candidates took part in
3
A/56/PV.56
these  elections,  and  that  voter  participation  of  60  per
cent was the highest since 1990?
The  Republic  of  Haiti  remains  confident  of  its
destiny.  It  appeals  to  the  international  community  so
that  its  members  will  understand  that  the  survival  of
the people cannot be tied only to political manoeuvres.
The  Haitian  Government  is  committed  to  a  process  of
strengthening institutions and remains open to dialogue
and all proposals that do not undermine the dignity of
the  Haitian  people.  Against 
this  background,  we
welcome  with  satisfaction  the  letter  of  the  Black
Caucus of the United States Congress, of 9 November
2001, addressed to the current President of the United
States,  Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  which  denounces  the
inflexible  policies  vis-à-vis  Haiti  that  make  economic
cooperation  dependent  on  unblocking  the  political
process.
The  Government  is  ready  to  do  everything  in  its
power  to  resolve  the  post-election  crisis  and  put  the
country  back  on  the  path  of  development,  but  this
cannot  be  done  without 
the
international  community.  To  this  end,  it  invites  this
community  to  join  it  in  its  daily  struggle  for  survival,
reconciliation and peace.
the  cooperation  of 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr.  Igor  Ivanov,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Russian Federation.
Mr.  Ivanov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in
Russian):  This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is
taking  place  in  the  shadow  of  an  unprecedented
challenge to humanity posed by international terrorism.
We  all  must  seriously  analyse  how  this  could  have
happened.  However,  it  has  already  become  perfectly
clear  today  that  the  period  of  globalization  and  the
threats  and  challenges  to  international  and  regional
security that it brings with it make it urgent for of all of
us 
to
international affairs.
fundamentally  new  approaches 
take 
to 
We  face  a  tough  dilemma,  whose  solution  will
truly  be  of  paramount  importance.  Either  we  work
together  to  responsibly  construct  a  genuinely  just  and
democratic  world  order  that  can  guarantee  equal
security  and  sustainable  development  for  all  States  in
the  world,  or  we  show  ourselves  to  be  unable  to
counter real threats to global stability and security.
The  most  important  task  of  the  international
community  today  is  to  create  a  global  system  to
4
counteract  new 
threats  and  challenges,  first  and
foremost  among  which  is  international  terrorism.  This
topic  was  the  focus  of  negotiations  between  the
President  of  the  Russian  Federation,  Mr.  Vladimir  V.
Putin,  and  the  President  of  the  United  States  of
America,  Mr.  George  W.  Bush,  which  recently  took
place in Washington, D.C. and Crawford, Texas.
A  universal  anti-terrorist  coalition  has  been
formed.  The  Russian  Federation  is  a  responsible
participant  in  this  coalition.  The  creation  of  this
coalition  has  involved  the  United  Nations  playing  a
very  important  role  in  consolidating  and  coordinating
activities. It is precisely the United Nations that has the
necessary universal character and authority to organize
a  response  to  the  threats  and  challenges  that  confront
mankind today.
taken  by 
The  broad  decisions 
the  Security
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  create  a  solid
political  and  legal  framework  for  efforts  to  neutralize
the  threat  of  terrorism.  It  is  now  important  for  these
decisions to be implemented by all States.
If  necessary,  the  use  of  the  most  decisive  means
against terrorists may be permissible, including the use
of military force. The Charter grants that right. At the
same  time,  this  threat  cannot  be  overcome  by  force
alone.  A  comprehensive  approach 
to  eradicating
terrorism  would  imply  the  use  of  the  whole  range  of
political, 
and  humanitarian
measures.
economic, 
financial 
the 
international 
The  consolidation  of 
legal
framework  for  combating  terrorism  is  now  on  our
agenda.  It  is  extremely  important  to  rapidly  complete
on
and 
adopt 
international 
the
suppression of acts of nuclear terrorism.
the 
convention 
terrorism  and  a  convention  for 
comprehensive 
It  would  be  of  great  importance  to  establish
within the United Nations a mechanism to monitor the
fulfilment  by  States  of 
treaty  obligations
concerning the suppression of terrorism.
their 
We  consider  promising  the  idea  to  establish,
under  the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations,  a  centre  for
coordinating  assistance  to  States  to  resolve  crises
caused by terrorist acts. Such a structure could focus on
providing  consultative  and  material  and 
technical
support in managing the consequences of terrorist acts.
The  Russian  Federation  also  proposes  studying
the  possibility  of  including  in  international  law  the
principle of the responsibility of States for their failure
to  take  measures  against  terrorists  in  their  territory  or
under their jurisdiction.
in 
Of  key 
importance 
the
comprehensive  fight  against  international  terrorism  is
the maintenance and strengthening of strategic stability
at both global and regional levels and strengthening the
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
the  success  of 
drug 
terrorism, 
The focus of the international community should
continue  to  be  on  the  interdependence  and  merging  of
international 
and
transnational organized crime. The Russian Federation
favours  the  rapid  entry  into  force  of  the  International
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of
Terrorism  and  the  United  Nations  Convention  Against
Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
its  additional
protocols.
trafficking 
It is perfectly clear that the fight against terrorism
is  not  aimed  at  any  particular  religion,  civilization  or
culture.  This  was  clearly  demonstrated  by 
the
discussions on the dialogue among civilizations during
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  also
hope  that  a  practical  contribution  in  this  area  can  be
made  by  the  implementation  of  the  initiative  put
forward  by  Islamic  religious  leaders  from  the  Russian
Federation  to  organize  an  international  conference
entitled “Islam against terrorism” in Moscow.
Terrorism  is  rooted  in  the  gap  between  affluence
and poverty, both within States and in the international
arena. Thus, the task now, as never before, is to ensure
sustainable  development  throughout  the  world  and  to
ensure  that  the  social  aspects  of  the  globalization
process are addressed.
The  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies
can do a lot to ensure effective rejection of extremism
of  all  forms.  We  suggest  that  thought  should  be  given
to organizing, under the aegis of the United Nations, a
world forum that would discuss what contribution civil
society and, particularly, the mass media could make to
combating terrorism.
has 
shown 
experience 
International 
that
successful  prevention  and  settlement  of  regional
conflicts  are  an  integral  part  of  the  counter-terrorist
efforts  of  the  international  community.  This  is  yet
another  compelling  argument  in  favour  of  further
developing  and  ensuring  greater  effectiveness  of
United Nations preventive and peacekeeping activities.
A/56/PV.56
In  particular,  the  Russian  Federation  advocates  the
development  within 
the  United  Nations  of  a
comprehensive  strategy  aimed  at  reliably  blocking
channels for outside fuelling of the conflicts.
is 
regional
cooperation in fighting these new threats. An example
of  such  successful  cooperation 
that  of 
the
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  under 
the
auspices  of  which  a  CIS  anti-terrorist  centre  has  been
set up and is working effectively.
to  ensure 
We  need 
there 
that 
is 
Today,  the  moment  of  truth  has  arrived  for  each
of  us.  The  Russian  Federation  is  in  favour  of  the
international  community  taking  decisions  that  can
provide for strategic stability and equal security for all
States,  sustainable  development  and  prosperity  for  all
the peoples of the planet and peace and tranquillity for
each family and each individual.
These noble aims can only be achieved jointly, by
working  cooperatively  and  uniting  the  efforts  of  the
entire international community. The United Nations has
a  vital  role  to  play  in  this  regard.  Our  Organization
was,  and 
important
instrument  available  to  the  international  community,
whose  effective  and  responsible  use  will  allow  us  to
create  a  new  democratic  and  just  world  order  for  the
twenty-first century.
the  most 
remains, 
indeed 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Patrice Trovoada, Minister for Foreign Affairs and
Cooperation  and  Community  of  Sao  Tome  and
Principe.
the  delegation):  Mr.  President,  allow  me 
Mr. Trovoada (Sao Tome and Principe) (spoke in
Portuguese;  interpretation  from  French  text  provided
by 
to
congratulate  you  on  behalf  of  the  State  of  Sao  Tome
and  myself  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth  session,  which
testifies  to  the  international  community’s  esteem  for
and  recognition  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  you
personally. Please accept our wishes for every success
as you carry out your mandate. Let me also express our
thanks  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  for  the
exemplary way he led the work of our last session.
I should also like to pay tribute to His Excellency
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  our  Secretary-General,  both  on  his
resounding  re-election  and  on  the  well-deserved  and
just awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to him and the
5
A/56/PV.56
United  Nations,  reflecting  their  major  contributions  to
the cause of peace and development.
This  session  is  being  held  at  a  particularly
important  juncture  in  the  history  of  international
relations,  when  the  entire  international  community  is
mobilizing to confront the devastating phenomenon of
international  terrorism,  the  scope  and  magnitude  of
which  were  evident  in  the  11  September  attacks  on
New York and Washington, D.C., and in Pennsylvania,
which  took  the  lives  of  thousands  of  innocent  people.
At that time, Sao Tome and Principe expressed its total
indignation  at 
the  criminal  and  monstrous  acts
committed against the American people, as well as its
full  solidarity  with  the  American  authorities  and  the
families of the victims. We share the opinion that those
responsible 
acts  must  be
apprehended 
terrorist
organizations  supporting  them  must  be  dismantled  by
all necessary means.
for 
and  punished, 
these  barbaric 
that 
and 
We  reaffirm  our  full  readiness  to  cooperate
actively at both the regional and international levels in
the  fight  against  terrorism,  which  is  one  of  the  major
evils  threatening  world  peace  and  security  today.  We
hail  all  initiatives  taken  to  contain  the  military  action,
justly launched against those who sow terror as well as
those  who  shelter  them  in  their  territories,  so  as  to
avoid  having  innocent  victims  among  the  civilian
population. We welcome the efforts of the international
community to adopt a juridical instrument to make the
fight against terrorism more effective in the context of
a global strategy.
No  one  can  doubt  that  this  act  of  criminal,
unacceptable  and  unjustified  aggression,  condemned
throughout  the  world,  requires  a  new  dynamic  in  the
fight against it, particularly within the United Nations.
We note with satisfaction that important measures have
been  taken  in  that  regard,  notably  by  the  Security
Council  in  resolution  1373  (2001),  of  28  September.
Yet  the  manifestation  of  extreme  violence  in  these
recent  attacks  alerts  us  to  the  need  to  understand  in  a
different  and  comprehensive  way  the  great  problems
faced by mankind throughout the world, without losing
sight of the merciless fight that must be waged against
international terrorism in all its manifestations.
the 
Despite 
considerable 
and
technological  progress  recorded  throughout  history,
which  has  permitted  high  levels  of  development,
striking  imbalances  persist  in  a  number  of  areas  with
scientific 
6
the  world.  Witness  particularly 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  A 
regard  to  social  and  economic  development,  both
within and among the countries, regions and subregions
the  situation
of 
prevailing 
look  at 
the
statistics  of  economic  and  social  conditions  in  the
countries of that region is enough to reveal the urgent
need  to  develop  a  front  that,  acting  concertedly  and
collectively,  can  fight 
their  absolute
poverty.
to  eradicate 
Faced with this scenario — rich countries on the
one hand and poor countries on the other — one might
wonder whether the political will exists to reverse this
situation,  which  is  dominated  by  selfishness  and  the
interests  of  individuals,  groups  and  States.  Only  thus
can  one  explain  the  lack  of  cooperation,  indifference
and,  indeed,  the  lack  of  sensitivity  shown  by  the
industries  of  developed  countries  in  the  face  of  real
scourges  that  devastate  thousands  of  people,  making
the  countries  of  the  South  even  more  vulnerable.  For
example, I am thinking of the HIV/AIDS pandemic as
well  as  other  epidemics,  such  as  hepatitis  B  and
malaria.
The  efforts  of  international  organizations  —
notably  the  United  Nations  and  its  system,  as  well  as
certain  non-governmental  organizations  —  to  help
mankind  cope  with  this  painful  situation  must  be
visible.
Moreover,  beyond  the  economic  data  reflecting
the  growth  of  poverty  in  Africa,  the  situation  of  our
continent  is  worsened  by  the  persistence  of  armed
conflicts,  particularly  the  crises  in  the  Great  Lakes
region,  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  Angola,  to  cite  only  a
few examples of the fratricidal war that afflicts us.
As  to  the  situation  in  Angola,  we  reaffirm  our
urgent desire to see an end to the war in that fraternal
country.  We  condemn  the  terrorist  acts  that  have
claimed countless lives, particularly among the civilian
population,  and  we  call  for  a  renewed  application  of
the terms of the Lusaka Protocol for conflict resolution.
In the context of conflict resolution, we welcome
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  find  a
solution to the East Timor question, as well as progress
made  in  the  process  of  emancipation  of  the  Maubere
people under the aegis of the United Nations. It is our
great hope to see this brotherly people admitted to the
United  Nations as a full-fledged  Member  and  to  see  a
strengthened  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking
Countries.
the  Palestinian  Authority  resume 
We  note  with  concern  the  escalation  of  violence
in  the  Middle  East.  In  our  view,  it  is  essential  that
Israel  and 
the
negotiations on the peace process, the only way to find
a just and peaceful solution that takes into account both
the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination
and the guarantee of security for the State of Israel.
Unfortunately,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  is  still  on
the  list  of  poor,  least  advanced  or  underdeveloped
countries,  despite  the  efforts  of  its  people  and  the
determination  of  its  leaders  to  place  it  on  the  track  of
development.  Today,  my  country  is  unquestionably  a
place  of  freedom  and  democracy  where  fundamental
individual  human  rights  are  respected.  The  recent
presidential  elections,  held  in  July  this  year,  which
brought Mr. Fradique de Menezes to the highest office
of  the  State  of  Sao  Tome,  are  irrefutable  proof  of
democratic  stability  in  our  country.  Nevertheless,  the
constraints arising from the inequalities that prevail in
the  new  international  economic  order  keep  us  from
attaining a state of well-being and from creating more
dignified living conditions for our people.
important 
During  the  Millennium  Summit  last  year,  the
heads  of  State  and  Government  adopted  in  this  Hall  a
very 
the  United  Nations
Millennium  Declaration.  I  take  pleasure  in  citing  a
portion of it:
(spoke in French)
text  called 
“we  have  a  duty  therefore  to  all  the  world’s
people,  especially  the  most  vulnerable  and,  in
particular, the children of the world, to whom the
future belongs”. (resolution 55/2, para. 2)
(spoke  in  Portuguese;  interpretation  from  French  text
provided by the delegation)
This  Declaration  takes  on  particular  importance
in  the  case  of  our  country,  where  the  future  and  well-
being of children seem badly compromised, bearing in
mind  the  atmosphere  of  terror,  the  horrors  of  war  and
the  abuses  of  exploitation,  famine  and  poverty.  We
must act now to protect our children. We must fight by
every  available  means  to  ensure  full  respect  for  their
fundamental  rights.  This  is  why  we  welcome  with
much  satisfaction 
the  Second  World  Conference
against  Commercial  Sexual  Exploitation  of  Children,
scheduled for next month, and the world summit on the
future of children, to be held in May 2002.
A/56/PV.56
Sao Tome and Principe considers globalization to
be  a  phenomenon  of 
interdependence,  a  unique
opportunity  to  bring  peoples  together,  not  a  political
ideal  driven  by  the  dominant  economic  Powers.  Thus
we  enthusiastically  welcome  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  and  share  the  certainty  that  this
plan  —  based  on  our  needs  and  the  aspirations  of  our
people  for  the  future,  and  designed  to  find  practical
solutions 
the  economic  and  social  problems
throughout  Africa  —  will  be  favourably  received  by
our  partners,  notably 
the  G-7/G-8,  for
implementation.
those  of 
to 
The  environment  is  a  fundamental  issue  for  the
survival  of  mankind,  and  it  must  continue  to  be  the
focus  of  special  attention  by  the  United  Nations.  We
therefore  stress  the  importance  of  the  outcome  of  the
recent seventh Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,
held at Marrakesh. Every effort must be made to create
and  disseminate  technology  that  can  minimize  the
environmental  impact  of  human  activities  and  to
the
mobilize 
policies  and  strategies  adopted 
range  of
international forums.
the  resources  needed 
implement 
in  a 
to 
Today  more  than  ever  before,  it  is  obvious  that
we need to change the working methods of the organs
of the United Nations so that they can better respond to
the  demands  of  the  day.  As  a  universal  organization,
the United Nations must be open to all States. Here we
are  talking  about  international  law,  the  sovereign
conduct  of  relations  with  other  States,  and  active
participation,  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity,  in  development
efforts  through  cooperation  and  international  trade
relationships. That certainly applies to the Republic of
China  on  Taiwan.  We  believe  in  the  right  to  disagree,
especially  when  disagreement 
is  democratically
expressed  by  people.  We  also  believe  that  dialogue  is
the only way to ease tension wherever it is most acute.
The  United  Nations,  which  has  always  aimed  to
the  development  efforts  of  all  countries,
support 
especially the poorest, must play a key role in the quest
for solutions to the major problems facing the world. It
must  do  so 
through  fostering  determination  and
adopting  appropriate  measures  to  create  a  fairer,  more
human world: a better world.
7
A/56/PV.56
Address by Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo,
President of the Republic of the Philippines
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the
Philippines.
Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, President of the
Republic of the Philippines, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Gloria  Macapagal-
Arroyo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Philippines,
and to invite her to address the Assembly.
President  Macapagal-Arroyo:  Let  me  begin  by
congratulating  Your  Excellency,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,
on your election as President of the General Assembly.
I am especially gratified to be addressing the Assembly
when a distinguished Asian is again at its helm.
I  congratulate  as  well  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi
Annan  on  the  Nobel  Prize  that  he,  together  with  the
United  Nations,  has  received.  That  prize  constitutes
recognition  by  the  international  community  of  the
indispensable  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the
necessary work it has done on the Secretary-General’s
watch towards world peace and justice.
the  parents  struck  with 
At the most elemental level, we feel most deeply
the sad and tragic impact of the recent inhuman acts of
terrorism:  the  lost  lives,  the  orphaned  children,  the
widowed  spouses, 
the
unimaginable  grief  of  outliving  their  children  and,
worse  yet,  of  watching  them  die.  As  we  watched  the
horror  unfold,  we  felt  as  though  it  were  happening  to
us  —  as  indeed  it  was,  for  the  United  Nations  is  in  a
sense  one  family.  The  blow  that  was  struck  at  this
international  city  of  New  York  was  felt  as  directly  by
the rest of the world. As people the world over stopped
to  watch  in  horror  as  the  twin  towers  came  down,  the
world’s economies ground to a virtual halt.
Business  activity  stopped, 
investments  were
withdrawn,  markets  shrank,  tourism  dried  up,  more
jobs  were  lost,  living  standards  dropped  even  further,
destitution  spread  and  the  very  conditions  that  favour
terrorism spread and deepened. Our misgivings about a
world  slowdown  deepened  into  certainty  about  a
recession  that  will  be  felt  most  deeply  by  those  least
able to endure it: not just classes but whole countries.
The average growth rate in the gross domestic product
8
of developing countries could fall from last year’s 5.5
per  cent  to  2.9  per  cent.  For  most  poor  countries,  that
will translate to sub-zero growth.
investment. 
The  face  of  terrorism  that  this  city  saw  over  a
month  ago  is  a  familiar  one  to  Asians.  It  has  taken  a
terrible toll in terms of the lives of our people and the
economies of the region. It has destroyed our credit and
has  deterred 
It  has  caused  Asian
Governments profound embarrassment at being caught
flat-footed  and  unable  to  offer  their  citizens  the  most
basic  security.  In 
the
Philippines, it has taxed our resources and our patience
to the limit, for terrorism is the argument of those who
are not really interested in reasoning but only in getting
whatever they want on their terms alone.
the  south-western  part  of 
We  know  terrorism.  We  are  fighting  it  in  the
south-western Philippines. The perpetrators of the first
attack on the World Trade Center were apprehended by
our police. Rather than dismembering our country and
dispossessing our people of their homes, we have been
negotiating  with  secessionist  groups.  But  we  have
thrown the full weight of the law, including the use of
force,  at  those  who  have  resorted  to  terrorism.  We
know the enemy, and we know that these are not people
you  talk  to;  these  are  people  you  fight.  As  the
Secretary-General has pointed out, there are those who
will  hate  and  who  will  kill  even  if  every  injustice  is
ended. You must fight them in the field, when they take
to  the  field  and  hunt  them  in  cities  when  they  hide
inside.
them 
It was in the light of that experience in the south-
western  Philippines  that  we  immediately  condemned
the  terrorist  attacks  on  the  United  States,  for  we
recognized 
immediately  as  desperate  and
despicable acts by that violent minority which seeks to
enslave  the  world  with  fear.  And  indeed,  they  have
given the world good reason to be afraid. The attack on
the World Trade Center, which aimed to take the lives
of the 50,000 people who worked inside it, shows us an
enemy without pity, without compunction and prepared
to use any means to achieve the greatest destruction.
The  Philippines  did  not  need  to  join  the  war  on
terrorism:  it  was  in  that  war  already,  in  the  south-
western  part  of  our  islands.  The  Philippines  could  not
have  done  otherwise  than  to  renew  its  commitment  to
fight  terrorism  in  a  wider  field  in  the  wake  of  11
September. We know that this is an enemy that must be
fought everywhere so that it cannot again strike at will
anywhere it pleases.
adopt  deliberate  policies  to  ensure  that  the  income
levels of the poor rise faster than those of the rich.
A/56/PV.56
This  is  a  fight  between  tolerance  and  bigotry,
between  reason  and  fanaticism,  between  law  and
anarchy,  between  justice  and  murder  pretending  to  be
just. In this fight, there is no side to choose but the one
where  the  civilized  nations  of  the  world  —  long-time
allies  and  former  enemies  —  have  chosen  to  stand
united, not least here in this Hall.
attacks 
The  Secretary-General  has  declared  that  the  11
our
September 
Organization  stands  for:  peace,  freedom,  tolerance,
human  rights,  and  the  very  idea  of  a  united  human
family.
everything 
struck 
at 
I  do  not  know  if  the  future  belongs  to  our  side,
but  I  am  convinced  that  there  will  be  no  future  if  our
side does not prevail in this fight — at least, no future
that  any  of  us  would  care  to  live  in.  In  fact,  it  would
not be a future in which most of us would be allowed
to  live.  It  would  be  a  future  where  happiness  was
suspect, delight was blasphemy, beauty was a cause for
shame and independent thought a capital crime.
But  while  terrorism  cannot  be  placated,  and  no
terrorist  should  be  appeased,  there  is  no  doubt  in  our
minds,  either,  that  we  must  address  the  concerns  that
they pretend are the inspiration for their terrible deeds.
If the world can show that it will carry on, that it
will  persevere  in  creating  a  stronger,  more  just,  more
benevolent and more genuine international community
across all lines of religion and race, then terrorism will
have failed.
No, terrorism will not stop, but it will have failed.
To stop terrorism, the terrorists themselves will have to
be stopped. What we can do, however, is to strip them
of their moral pretensions and take upon ourselves the
causes that they have perverted.
No  nation  will  indefinitely  endure  the  yawning
gap  between  rich  and  poor  —  a  gap  that  is  only
growing  bigger,  not 
the
countries  of  the  world.  It  is  this  growing  disparity
between  the  ever  fewer  rich  and  the  ever-increasing
poor that has given terrorism the freedom of movement
and impunity from accountability that it has enjoyed.
just  within,  but  across 
Poverty  can  be  reduced  partly  by  national
economic growth. But, more than that, societies have to
Recent developments in the global economy have
displayed  the  perils  of  overdependence  on  external
markets.  We  must  expand  domestic  demand  and
increase  the  purchasing  power  of  the  masses  of  our
people.
in 
The 
in 
to 
small 
infrastructure 
also  has 
of 
international 
the 
through  housing,  education, 
This  is  largely  the  responsibility  of  each  nation.
We  in  the  Philippines  are  addressing  the  affront  of
mass  poverty 
lower
medical costs, more efficient power, transportation and
the  countryside,
communications, 
credit 
farmers 
and  micro-industries,
productivity,  protection  of 
the  environment,  and
development  of  the  areas  farthest  from  our  centre  of
political power and economic activity.
community 
elimination 
a
responsibility 
poverty.
Commitments  to  devote  a  certain  percentage  of  gross
domestic  product  to  official  development  assistance
have  a  place.  But  the  most  effective,  and  least  costly,
anti-poverty measure on a global scale is for developed
countries to open their markets wider to the products of
the  developing  countries,  including  in  particular  those
products  turned  out  by  poor  people  in  the  poor
countries  — 
textiles,
clothing  and  footwear,  as  well  as  electrical  and
electronic appliances and components.
system 
allow
developed  countries 
their
agricultural exports while the developing countries are
without the means to help their own farmers.
cannot 
subsidize  heavily 
commodities, 
The  global 
agricultural 
trading 
to 
The  recent  Ministerial  Meeting  of  the  World
Trade  Organization  (WTO)  decided  to  launch  a  new
round of multilateral trade negotiations. To ensure that
the WTO does not lose credibility at this crucial time,
our top priority is to ensure that the Doha round is truly
a development round.
The  effort  to  conquer  poverty  must  embrace  all
cultures, 
religious
communities.  Nations  must  allow  all  to  preserve  their
own cultures.
ethnic  groups 
and 
all 
all 
We  must  make  political  autonomy  accessible  to
regions that want it. At the same time, no one must be
allowed to resort to terrorism to further political aims.
9
A/56/PV.56
Respect  for  culture  and  religion,  resources  for
development,  openness  to  political  autonomy  within
the sovereignty of the nation and rejection of terrorism
are  the  foundations  of  the  Philippine  approach  to  our
ethnic diversity and to the uplifting of our Muslim and
tribal minorities.
The  vision  of  nations  where  poverty  is  rapidly
reduced cannot be attained in places where women and
girls are mistreated and their rights trampled upon. As
a  woman  head  of  State,  woman  head  of  Government
and  woman  Commander-in-Chief  of 
the  world’s
fourteenth  largest  nation,  I  say:  we  cannot  conquer
poverty without liberating women and girls where they
are  oppressed.  The  gender  gap  is  a  part  of  the
development  gap  and  must  be  addressed  with  equal
vigour.
terrorism, 
the  struggle 
The  fight  against 
to
eliminate  poverty,  the  work  on  behalf  of  social  and
international  justice,  the  strengthening  of  the  rule  of
law, the promotion of tolerance and mutual respect, the
practice  of  humanitarian  compassion,  the  liberation  of
women, the never-ending quest for peace — these have
long  been  on  the  United  Nations  agenda.  We  in  the
Philippines  have  been  doing  this  in  our  region,  in
cooperation with our neighbours.
terrorism, 
The  heightened  virulence  of 
the
renewed sense of insecurity among the world’s peoples
and  the  alarming  slowdown  in  the  global  economy
have  intensified  the  urgency  and  importance  of  our
work. Together, let us get on with the job. It is serious.
It is essential. It is urgent.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of the Philippines for the statement she has just made.
Mrs. Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, President of the
Republic of the Philippines, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr. Nicolae Dudau, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Republic of Moldova.
Mr.  Dudau  (Republic  of  Moldova)  (spoke  in
Russian): Allow me at the outset, Sir, to convey to you
our  warmest  congratulations  on  your  election  as
President  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  I  am  certain  that  your  competence  and
active cooperation with United Nations Member States
will pave the way for a successful and fruitful session.
10
Allow  me  also  to  join  previous  speakers  in
expressing  our  deep  gratitude  to  your  predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for his outstanding work and for the
professional  manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the
fifty-fifth session of the Assembly.
I  should  also  like  once  again,  on  behalf  of  the
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  to  reiterate
our warmest congratulations to Secretary-General Kofi
Annan on having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize,
which was so well deserved, and for his re-election to
another term of office. His tireless efforts in redefining
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  changing  world
are  certainly  deeply  appreciated  and  supported  by  my
Government.
the 
The  barbaric  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September
have  radically  changed 
international  security
environment.  Terrorism  has  become  the  most  serious
and immediate threat to the security and stability of our
States.  A  challenge  was  laid  down,  not  only  to  the
United  States  of  America,  but  to  the  entire  world
community. We fully agree with the statement made by
the President of the United States, Mr. George Bush, in
his statement before this Assembly at the 44th plenary
meeting,  that  “that  threat  cannot  be  ignored”  and  that
“civilization  itself  —  the  civilization  we  share  —  is
threatened”.
The  fight  against  international  terrorism  has
clearly become a priority for the United Nations. Today
we see a strong international coalition emerging which,
in  the short  term,  is  determined  to  bring  to  justice  the
perpetrators  of  terrorist  acts  and,  in  the  long  term,  to
eliminate this evil from the face of the earth.
the 
large-scale 
indiscriminate 
The  Republic  of  Moldova,  which  immediately
aligned  itself with  the  ranks  of  this  coalition,  strongly
condemned 
terrorist
attacks that took place in New York, Washington, D.C.,
and  Pennsylvania.  Moldova  has  also  unreservedly
supported  the  actions  undertaken  by  the  United  States
in  its  legitimate  self-defence  and  in  accordance  with
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  Security  Council
resolution  1368  (2001).  Likewise,  we  support  the
global  and  multidimensional  approach  adopted  by  the
United States in its war against terrorism.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  has  demonstrated  its
political  will  to  combat  terrorist  activities  through
concerted efforts with other countries in the framework
of various regional and subregional organizations.
Our  Government  has  strengthened  its  counter-
terrorism  legislation  in  order  to  comply  with  relevant
regional  and  United  Nations  conventions  and  with  the
provisions of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
Our  country  is  also  taking  measures  in  order  to  speed
up  accession  to  most  of  the  remaining  specialized
United  Nations  counter-terrorism  conventions.  This
morning,  I  signed  on  behalf  of  my  country  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing of Terrorism.
to 
resolve 
The  tragic  events  of  11  September  have  shown
that  the  international  community  must  take  further
steps 
international
problems  on  which  terrorism  and  violence  feed.  We
must  urgently  address  the  conflicts  around  the  world
and  eliminate  their  root  causes  and  factors  that  can
nurture the development of terrorism.
longstanding 
the 
this  phenomenon  and 
I  feel  obliged  to  add  my  voice  to  those  who  see
the  phenomenon  of  separatism  as  a  root  cause  of
conflicts  and  a  threat  to  international  peace  and
security.  In  a  globalized  and  interdependent  world,
separatism  affects  the  bases  of  multicultural  societies
and poses grave danger to the sovereignty and integrity
of  States.  Like  international  terrorism,  separatism
emphasizes what divides rather than what unites us. As
a  country  affected  by  separatism  for  many  years,  we
have  constantly  noted 
the
it  sometimes  has  with  other  serious
connections 
criminal activities, including sometimes terrorism. This
is  why,  in  our  opinion,  this  issue,  among  others,  must
be  taken  into  account  by  the  United  Nations  Member
States  in  their  efforts  to  elaborate  and  implement  a
comprehensive and efficient counter-terrorism strategy.
The  fact  that  I  am  focusing  on  the  issues  of
conflict  settlement  and  separatism  is  not  accidental.
Over  the  years,  my  delegation  has  informed  the
Assembly  of  the  efforts  being  made  to  resolve  the
conflict  in  the  Transdniestrian  region  of  the  Republic
of Moldova. However, I am obliged to note with regret
the  lack  of  any  noticeable  positive  developments
the
towards  a  comprehensive  settlement.  Despite 
reasonable 
the  part  of 
the
constitutional  authorities  in  my  country,  the  separatist
regime  continues  to  completely  oppose  any  proposals
to grant special status to the region as a constituent part
of  the  Republic  of  Moldova.  Moreover,  the  leaders  of
that  region  have  given  a  unilateral  interpretation  to
political  documents  worked  out  with 
the  active
the  Organization  for  Security  and
mediation  of 
compromises  on 
A/56/PV.56
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  Ukraine  and  the
Russian Federation.
Another  matter  of  continuing  concern  is  the  fact
that  in  recent  years  the  illegal  production  of  different
types  of  armaments  has  been  noted  in  this  region.
These  armaments  have  reached  other  conflict  zones
through  third  countries,  supporting  terrorists,  criminal
groups and secessionist movements.
We should like to state once again that a complete
and unconditional withdrawal of troops, munitions and
armaments, as stipulated in the Istanbul OSCE Summit
documents,  would  undoubtedly  facilitate  the  peaceful
and lasting settlement of this conflict.
to  cut  back  on 
in  accordance  with 
In this connection, I would like to emphasize that
my  Government  encourages  the  recent  efforts  of  the
Russian  Federation 
its  weapons
deployed in the Transdniestrian region of the Republic
of  Moldova, 
the  Treaty  on
Conventional  Armed  Forces  in  Europe.  Given  the
considerable  progress  that  has  been  already  made,  we
certainly  hope  that  the  process  of  destruction  and
removal of the weaponry will be completed before the
Bucharest  OSCE  ministerial  meeting  this  December.  I
would  like  also  to  express  our  gratitude  to  those
Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  have  contributed
financially  to  the  OSCE  voluntary  fund  established  in
accordance with the Istanbul decisions.
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international
peace  and  security  remains  an  essential  part  of  its
global  responsibilities.  The  Republic  of  Moldova
reiterates  its  conviction  that  the  best  strategy  for
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  is  to
eliminate the root causes of conflicts. In this regard, we
fully  support  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  move
into a culture of conflict prevention.
The submission of periodic regional reports to the
Security Council on disputes of various types that may
potentially  threaten  international  peace  and  security  is
another important and necessary measure. The unequal
attention given by the international system to different
conflicts  is  still  a  matter  of  great  concern.  In  order  to
be  successful,  preventive  strategies  must  reach  all
regions in crisis.
The  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  is  called
into question whenever decisions mandating action in a
particular crisis are not matched by timely deployment
of peacekeeping forces. Experience in recent years has
11
A/56/PV.56
and 
complex 
increasingly 
shown  that  the  United  Nations  capacity  to  meet  an
expanding 
range  of
peacekeeping demands needs significant improvement.
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  action  has  been  taken  to
implement a number of practical measures proposed by
the  Secretary-General  in  his  second  report  on  the
implementation of the recommendations of the Brahimi
report on peace operations.
Moldova  has  already  established  the  legislation
and institutional framework for its future participation
in  the  peacekeeping  operations.  I  should  also  like  to
express  the  readiness  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  to
participate  in  the  stand-by  system,  for  which  the
institutional and technical preparations are currently in
their concluding stage.
sustainable  development  and 
As  we  seek  to  enhance  the  United  Nations
capacity  in  conflict  prevention  and  peacekeeping,  we
must  also  strengthen  international  cooperation  for  the
promotion  of 
the
elimination  of  poverty  worldwide.  Development  and
poverty 
tremendous
importance to many Member States, including my own.
Our  economic  development  has  been  gravely  affected
by  the  illegal  actions  of  separatists,  as  well  by  the
negative  consequences  of  globalization.  These  issues
have been considered very important by our leaders at
the Millennium Summit.
elimination 
issues  of 
are 
Since  the  beginning  of  this  year  the  world
economy  has  experienced  a  certain  slowdown.  In  the
aftermath  of  the  incidents  of  11  September,  this
tendency  has  been  exacerbated.  The  Millennium
Declaration  recognized  that  the  problems  of  both
developing  countries  and  countries  with  economies  in
transition have become even more acute, even tragic in
recent  months,  as  a  result  of  globalization.  We  hope
that developed countries will increase their support for
us  in  dealing  with  our  problems  by  granting  greater
assistance  for  development.  Debt  cancellation  would
play  a  significant  role  in  allowing  us  to  free  up
and 
financial 
towards
stimulating our economies.
resources 
redirect 
them 
indispensable 
In  meeting  the  challenges  of  globalization,  the
United  Nations  plays  an 
in
international  cooperation.  We  welcome  its  greater
participation  in  development  issues  and  in  facing  the
tasks  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  These
goals  cannot  be  reached  without  significant  financial
support. The International Conference on Financing for
role 
12
Development  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  to  be  held  next  year  offer  a  unique
opportunity to find the resources required to meet those
goals.  We  hope 
two
significant  international  events  will  be  successful  in
this regard.
the  outcome  of 
these 
that 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  remains  open  to  all
forms  of  cooperation  and  is  willing  to  contribute,  as
much  as  possible,  to  reaching  the  common  goals  of
sustainable  development  and  economic  stability.  We
consider  that  a  comprehensive  approach,  based  on  the
experience  of  other  States  and  on  the  specific  cultural
character  of  a  given  country  or  region,  will  help  us
identify  and  apply  the  best  strategy  for  sustainable
development.
In order for the United Nations to remain relevant
and credible, it must maintain a strong commitment to
the continuing programme of reform and renewal. The
reforms that have been undertaken and implemented in
recent years have already done much to strengthen and
revitalize the Organization. However, much remains to
be  done  and,  in  particular,  we  need  to  intensify  our
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the
Security  Council.  The  Republic  of  Moldova  believes
that  this  reform  should  be  guided  by  principles  of
equitable 
democracy,
effectiveness, efficiency and transparency. It is on this
basis  that  we  will  be  able  to  modernize  the  Security
Council  and  bring  it  into  line  with  the  substantial
increase  in  the  general  membership  of  the  United
Nations.
representation, 
geographic 
In this context I would like once again to reiterate
the  position  of  my  country  with  respect 
the
enlargement of the Security Council in both permanent
and  non-permanent  categories:  the  Eastern  European
Group  should  be  given  one  additional  non-permanent
membership seat.
to 
Our 
country  welcomes 
the 
improvement  of 
process 
of
revitalization  and 
the  General
Assembly  and,  at  the  same  time,  supports  efforts  to
restore  the  central  role  of  the  Assembly  as  a  main
representative body for debate at the United Nations.
This year the Republic of Moldova is celebrating
the tenth anniversary of its independence. During these
10 years as a Member State of the United Nations, we
have 
the
Organization.  We  have  achieved  many  significant
results  in  our  internal  development;  much  remains  to
the  common  values  of 
fully  shared 
be done, however. We have nonetheless laid down the
foundations  of  a  democratic  society.  This  was  not  an
easy  task,  but  we  have  made  progress.  The  most
important  achievement  has  been  that  we  have  laid
down  the  foundations  of  a  democratic  society,  with
basic human rights and the rights of national minorities
being  respected.  The  main  achievement  has  been  the
consolidation  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  as  a  peace-
loving independent European country.
The  dramatic  change  of  the  situation  in  the
international arena in the aftermath of the tragic events
of  11  September  calls  for  a  new  vision  and  a
redefinition  of  the  specific  mechanisms  for  realizing
the fundamental objectives of the Organization, which
spring essentially from the founding philosophy of the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  this  respect,  the
Organization  should  draw  conclusions  from  its  own
past  and,  relying  on  permanent  support  from  its
Member  States,  accomplish  new  tasks  in  the  light  of
the  imperatives  of  the  time.  I  join  in  expressing  the
hope that the proceedings of the General Assembly —
which  are  absolutely  necessary  for  the  international
community  in  the  twenty-first  century  —  will  also
make it possible to ensure that this process moves in a
positive direction.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Hammoud,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Lebanon.
Mr.  Hammoud  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
Mr.  President,  allow  me  first  to  congratulate  you  on
your  election  as  President  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  of
the General Assembly, which is meeting under critical
and  exceptional  circumstances.  We  wish  you  every
success  in  your  arduous  endeavours.  I  also  wish  to
thank your predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri. In addition,
on  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  the  efforts  he  has
made throughout the year. We hope that he will be able
to  enhance  the  prospects  for  peace,  stability,  and
development  in  the  world  during  his  second  term  of
office.
The whole world was shocked by the enormity of
the tragedy that struck the United States of America on
11 September — the barbaric terrorist acts against New
York  City  and  Washington,  D.C.  These  acts  exacted  a
high  toll  among  innocent  civilians  and  plunged  the
peoples and countries of the world into an atmosphere
of  gloom  and  anxiety.  We  once  again  extend  our
A/56/PV.56
condolences to the families who lost their loved ones;
some of them were Lebanese, or American of Lebanese
descent. We share their deep sense of grief and sorrow.
From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  reiterate
Lebanon’s  condemnation  of  these  terrorist  attacks.
Lebanon stands ready to cooperate seriously, positively
and responsibly with the United States and the United
Nations  in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  in  accordance
with  the  rules  of  international  law  and  with  the
prerogatives of national sovereignty.
For  a  long  time,  Lebanon  has  suffered  from
Israeli  occupation  and  Israel’s  terrorist  practices.  We
resisted  this  occupation  until  it  ultimately  ended  with
Israel’s  withdrawal 
from  most  of  our  national
territories.  It  is  perfectly  normal  in  this  context  to
stress  the  need  for  distinguishing  between  terrorism,
which  we  strongly  condemn,  and  peoples’  legitimate
right  to  struggle  for  the  liberation  of  their  territories
from  foreign  occupation  on  the  basis  of  the  United
Nations Charter and General Assembly resolutions. As
regards  Lebanon,  we  have  to  refer  to  the  April
Understanding  of  1996,  an  agreement  which  was
reached  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  States  and
France  after  Israel  had  carried  out  the  Qana  Massacre
that  same  year,  in  addition  to  the  Taif  Agreement  that
had laid down the tenets of our national reconciliation.
A  series  of  Security  Council  presidential  statements
have  given  the  Council’s  blessing  to  the  Agreement.
Both  the  Taif  Agreement  and  the  April  Understanding
recognized  the  legitimacy  of  resistance  against  the
Israeli occupation.
Let  me  recall  here  that  had  Israel  not  invaded
Lebanon on 14 March 1978, there would have been no
Lebanese Resistance — which, of course, is the subject
of our pride — to counter this invasion.
Had  Security  Council  resolution  425  (1978)
adopted on 19 March been implemented without delay,
as stipulated in its provisions, the Resistance would not
have been born.
Had  it  not  been  for  widening  the  scope  of  the
the
the
Israeli 
subsequent  occupation  of  Beirut 
Resistance would not have escalated.
territory  and 
in  1982, 
invasion  of  Lebanese 
Had 
it  not  been  for  Israel’s  persistence 
in
occupying  what  it  called  “the  security  zone”,  no  one
would  have  had  to  resist  it  and  ultimately  force  it  to
13
A/56/PV.56
withdraw in May 2000 from most of the territories that
it had occupied.
Had Israel not occupied the Palestinian territories,
there  would  have  been  no  need  for  a  courageous
uprising against occupation.
It must be pointed out that Lebanon is determined
to fight terrorism. We have acceded to 10 out of the 12
conventions  relevant  to  the  question  of  international
terrorism. We stand ready to respond positively to any
international  initiative,  including  the  convening  of  an
international conference for this purpose, to arrive at a
standard definition of terrorism. It would be wise not to
link 
religion,
particularly to Arabs and Muslims, if we want to avoid
setting  world  civilizations  and  religions  on  a  collision
course. We can thus avoid falling into the trap designed
by those who are pushing the world towards collision,
conflict and strife.
to  a  particular 
terrorism 
race  or 
to  exert  additional  efforts 
Side  by  side  with  its  Arab  brothers,  Lebanon  is
determined 
to  combat
terrorism and eradicate its various root causes. In 1998,
Arab  States  successfully  negotiated  and  concluded  the
Arab  Convention  on  the  Suppression  of  Terrorism,  a
Convention with clear-cut purposes and objectives.
The  events  of  11  September  have  demonstrated
that  humanity  has  not  yet  reached 
its  ultimate
evolutionary  stage.  They  also  prove  that  unbridled
global rejectionist movements and terrorist groups that
know  no  boundaries  and  accept  no  restrictions  are
capable  of  undermining  our  confidence  in  everything
we have achieved so far. They are working to establish
what can be referred to as a “new world disorder” and
global instability.
Under  the  circumstances,  and  given  prevailing
fears,  a  thorough  look  at  what  is  happening  in  the
Middle  East  conflict  zone  would  clearly  reveal  the
difficulty  of  realizing  the  objectives  of  peace  and
development promoted by the United Nations. In recent
months,  the  world  has  witnessed  continued  Israeli
occupation  of  Palestinian 
territories,  unjust  and
arbitrary  Israeli  practices,  desecration  of  holy  sites,
blockades,  killings,  assassinations  and  displacements.
Such  acts  continue  with  no  international  deterrence  or
control.
Intransigent  Israeli  policies,  deviation  from  the
Madrid principles and terms of reference, and stripping
the  peace  process  of  its  political  content  in  favour  of
14
so-called  Israeli  security  considerations  indicate  that
projected  solutions  to  the  Middle  East  crisis  are
divided  among  many  conflicting  rationales.  There  is
the  rationale  of  a  partial  solution  and  that  of  a
comprehensive  solution;  the  rationale  of  basing  a
solution on force and that of basing it on what is right,
just  and  grounded  in  United  Nations  resolutions;  the
rationale of achieving security at the expense of peace
and that of making peace the foundation of security.
In  the  aftermath  of  11  September,  attention  has
focused  on  the  need  to  step  up  the  effort  to  find  a
political solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, a solution
that should allow the Palestinian people to establish an
independent  Palestinian  State  on  their  national  soil.  It
is  our  duty  to  recall  that  a  just  and  comprehensive
peace  necessitates  that  we  simultaneously  address  all
aspects of the Middle East conflict. The Lebanese and
Syrian  tracks  must  not  be  separated  from  the  track  of
the  overall  settlement.  That  track  is  stalled,  and
reviving  it  will  require  the  devotion  of  additional
efforts.  The  liberation  of  Lebanese  territories  from
Israeli  occupation  must  be  completed.  Israel  must
withdraw  from  the  entire  occupied  Syrian  Golan
Heights  to  the  line  of  4  June  1967.  The  question  of
Palestinian  refugees,  their  legitimate  right  to  return,
and Lebanon’s right to oppose their resettlement on its
territories  must  not  be  ignored.  This  opposition  is
grounded  in  the  principles  of  fairness,  justice  and
sovereignty.
In  the  light  of  the  above,  we  believe  that  a
comprehensive  peace  built  on  justice  and  on  the
resolutions  conferring  international  legitimacy  is  the
sole  guarantee  of  the  sustainability  of  any  desirable
solution.
There are two fundamental questions in Lebanon
that are of direct concern to the United Nations: one is
the  mandate  of  the  international  forces  in  southern
Lebanon  and  the  other  is  the  destiny  of  Palestinian
refugees in Lebanon.
In  paragraph  14  of  Security  Council  resolution
1365  (2001),  which  was  adopted  on  31  July,  the
Security  Council  requested  the  Secretary-General  to
submit  a  comprehensive  report  on  the  activities  of  the
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL),
taking into account its possible reconfiguration into an
observer  mission  in  the  light  of  the  developments  on
the  ground,  following  appropriate  consultations  with
the Government of Lebanon.
the  realities  on 
Due  to  the  gravity  of  the  situation,  and  in
anticipation  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  it  is
important  for  me  to  stress  from  this  rostrum  that  both
logic  and 
the  ground  call  for
maintaining  Unifier’s 
existing  mandate  without
amending  it  or  reconfiguring  the  mission  into  an
observer  force.  On  the  contrary,  we  believe  that
UNIFIL’s  role  must  be  strengthened,  particularly  as  it
has  not  yet  fulfilled  the  entire  mandate  entrusted  to  it
by  the  international  community  in  Security  Council
resolution 425 (1978), which was adopted on 19 March
1978.  That  mandate  cannot  be  implemented  by  an
observer  force  due  to  the  following  questions  that  are
still pending.
The  first  pending  question  is  the  verification  of
the  Israeli  withdrawal  from  all  Lebanese  territories.  It
is a known fact that the United Nations did not verify
the  Israeli  withdrawal  from  all  Lebanese  territories.  It
only  verified  the  withdrawal  of  Israeli  forces  to  a  de
facto withdrawal line, which became known as the blue
line.  That  line  is  not  in  conformity  with  Lebanon’s
internationally recognized borders, a fact recognized in
subsequent reports of the Secretary-General.
Therefore,  the  Shab’a  farms,  on  the  slopes  of
Mount  Hermon,  remained  under  Israeli  occupation,
together  with  three  additional  points  along  the  line  of
withdrawal drawn by the United Nations. At the time,
Lebanon  expressed  its  reservations  on  these  points.
These  territories  are  Lebanese  lands  and  Lebanon
reserves its natural right to restore them and to extend
its  sovereignty  to  them.  Lebanon  would  like  to  stress
here that it will stand up for every inch of its national
soil  and  for  all  its  rights  to  its  water  resources,  in
accordance  with  international  law.  In  that  regard,  we
must draw attention to the fact that Israel continues to
violate  Lebanese  sovereignty  on  a  daily  basis.  In  his
report issued in July of this year, the Secretary-General
described these violations as provocative. Furthermore,
Israel continues to increase the frequency of its threats
against Lebanon and Syria.
the  Secretary-General  recognized 
The  second  pending  question  concerns 
the
restoration  of  international  peace  and  security.  In  his
reports to the Security Council between May 2000 and
July  2001, 
that
UNIFIL  had  not  fully  implemented  the  task  entrusted
to  it.  He  repeatedly  said  that  there  is  a  third  task  the
international  forces  have  yet  to  undertake,  and  on
which  UNIFIL  will  have  to  concentrate.  That  task  is
the  restoration  of  international  peace  and  security  in
A/56/PV.56
the region. How can we speak of a third task yet to be
completed  by  UNIFIL  under  Security  Council
resolution 425 (1978) and at the same time discuss the
possibility  of  reconfiguring  UNIFIL  into  an  observer
mission?
In  that  respect,  we  are  duty-bound  to  recall  that
the  security  of  the  region  is  indivisible.  We  would  be
deceiving  ourselves  if  we  were  to  believe  that  peace
and  security  can  be  restored  to  the  region  outside  the
context  of  a  comprehensive  overall  solution  to  all
aspects  of  the  conflict  on  all  its  tracks.  Such  an
undertaking requires an all-inclusive effort, not only by
UNIFIL  but  also  by  the  entire  United  Nations,  which
should  be  responsible  for  the  enforcement  of  its
resolutions,  particularly  resolution  242  (1967),  338
(1973) and 425 (1978).
the  Security  Council 
From  this  rostrum,  I  call  on  the  United  Nations
Secretariat  and 
to  preserve
UNIFIL’s existing mandate. The timing is of particular
importance, given the serious circumstances prevailing
in our region and in the world. We must also recall that
in  May  of  this  year  the  Security  Council  adopted  a
statement in which members acknowledged Lebanon’s
concerns and apprehensions, including those relating to
the future.
Lebanon  is  tirelessly  seeking  to  achieve  a  total
Israeli  withdrawal  from  its  territories.  At  the  same
time, it attaches great importance to the release of the
Lebanese  people  kidnapped  by  Israel  during 
its
occupation of our land and thereafter detained in Israeli
jails.  They  remain  incarcerated  in  Israeli  prisons  as
hostages,  in  contravention  of  international  laws  and
instruments,  particularly  the  Geneva  Convention  of
1949 and the subsequent Protocols thereto.
The  130,000  landmines  that  were  left  behind  by
the  Israeli  occupation  are  still  killing,  maiming  and
harming  scores  of  civilians  in  Lebanon.  They  curtail
their freedom of movement and obstruct their work. We
consider  this  to  be  a  continued  —  albeit  indirect  —
form of occupation of Lebanese territories by Israel. In
the  light  of  this  situation,  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community  should  make  a  greater  effort
to  compel  Israel  to  hand  over  all  maps  and  records
disclosing the locations of the mines, which have to be
cleared as soon a possible.
However,  with  respect 
the  hundreds  of
thousands  of  Palestinian  refugees  who  have  been
provisionally hosted on Lebanese land ever since their
to 
15
A/56/PV.56
expulsion  from  their  homes  in  Palestine  —  and  for
whose  final  status  the  United  Nations  bears  essential
responsibility  —  we  reiterate  our  demand  for  a  just
solution 
the
implementation  of  their  right  to  return  and  of  our
refusal to resettle them in Lebanon.
their  cause,  on 
the  basis  of 
to 
In this regard, it behoves us to remember that the
resettlement  of  the  Palestinian  refugees  in  Lebanon
would constitute a time bomb that would jeopardize the
peace,  security  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East;  such
refugees  will  relentlessly  seek  to  return  to  their
homeland  and  Lebanon  is  unable  to  integrate  them,
given 
internal
equilibrium and the fact that provisions of its national
pact do not allow for any form of resettlement.
the  precariousness  of 
its  own 
appeals 
Furthermore,  Lebanon 
for  greater
international attention to enable us to provide urgently
needed  assistance  that  could  help  return  our  liberated
lands  to  normalcy,  restore  economic  balance  and
provide  opportunities  for  growth  after  long  years  of
occupation and destruction.
This is an era of responsibility and accountability
for  the  world,  but  accountability  cannot  be  selective,
nor  can  it  be  based  on  double  standards.  During  the
long  years  of  occupation  of  the  Lebanese  territories,
Israeli  bombardment  and  the  destruction  that  ensued
killed  thousands  and  injured  and  disabled  thousands
more.  Our 
facilities,  houses,
schools,  farms  and  bridges  were  destroyed  and  our
growth and development were hindered. Lebanon must
therefore  be  adequately  compensated.  Lebanon  will
spare no effort in appealing to the relevant international
political and judicial organs to request that Israel make
reparations  for  the  damage  resulting  from  its  acts  of
aggression.
infrastructure,  vital 
It may be useful to recall here that Israel did not
withdraw  from  most  of  the  Lebanese  territories  of  its
own accord; neither did it withdraw in compliance with
the decision of an international authority or in response
to a political requirement that remained on the table for
over 22 years. Rather, it withdrew under pressure from
the  Lebanese  resistance,  which  was  embraced  by  the
Lebanese  State. 
the
steadfastness  of  the  Lebanese  people.  Its  withdrawal
was  not  a  voluntary  démarche  for  peace,  as  some
would have it. The withdrawal was a measure taken to
avoid peace, and instead to seek alleged security at the
It  withdrew  because  of 
16
expense  of 
comprehensive peace.
the 
requirements  of 
a 
just 
and
Lebanon  is  a  democratic  Arab  country,  open  to
the world, with a civilization that goes back thousands
of years. Thanks to our diverse social composition, our
experience  is  informed  by  coexistence  and  consensus.
It is a unique experience, rarely paralleled in our world
today. We call on the Assembly to mobilize the forces
of  peace  and  justice  in  order  to  redress  the  historical
injustice  inflicted  upon  the  Palestinian  people.  The
Assembly  must  bring  about  a  just  and  comprehensive
solution  to  one  of  the  most  complex  and  dangerous
regional  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East.  It  is  a  conflict
that  has  depleted  the  resources  of  its  people,  hindered
its progress and stunted its contributions to the world.
This  solution will  unfetter  its  creative  capabilities  and
enable it to develop a global partnership free from fear,
injustice and terror.
My country is proud to be hosting the next Arab
Summit, to be convened in Beirut in March next year.
Preparations are already under way to receive the Arab
monarchs  and  presidents.  We  will  also  be  hosting  the
Ninth  Summit  of  the  International  Organization  of  la
Francophonie  in  the  fall  of  2002,  under  the  heading,
“Dialogue  among  cultures”.  Lebanon  is  a  founding
member  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the  United
Nations  and 
la
Francophonie. Lebanon, which participated in drafting
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is capable
of  proving  that  it  can  reassert  its  active  presence  and
again  take  a  pioneering  role  at  the  regional  and
international  levels.  We  come  from  a  time-honoured
civilization, 
and
distinguished  experience  of  coexistence.  We  will  put
this to the service of the noble objectives of the United
Nations.
the  International  Organization  of 
are  blessed  by  unique 
and 
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Sahr  Matturi,  Deputy  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Sierra
Leone.
Mr.  Matturi  (Sierra  Leone):  My  delegation
extends to you, Sir, its warmest congratulations on your
election to the presidency of this body at its fifty-sixth
session.  Given  your  impressive  credentials,  we  are
confident  that  under  your  guidance  we  will  conclude
our deliberations successfully. I would like to take this
opportunity 
to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of  Finland,  who
to  express  our  appreciation 
admirably  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  epoch-making
Millennium Assembly last year.
Let  me 
congratulate 
also  warmly 
our
indefatigable  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on
his reappointment to a second term of office and on his
award,  with  the  United  Nations,  of  the  2001  Nobel
Prize  for  Peace.  As  citizens  of  the  West  African
subregion,  we  in  Sierra  Leone  are  proud  of  his
stewardship.  Sierra  Leone  is  indeed  indebted  to  him,
the  staff  of  the  Secretariat  and  the  United  Nations
family  for  their  invaluable  support  of  our  effort  to
secure peace and stability in my country.
Forty  years  ago,  on  29  September  to  be  exact,
Sierra  Leone  was  admitted  as  the  one  hundredth
Member of the United Nations. During the period that
followed, we made our own modest contribution to the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We
have  faithfully  adhered  to  the  purposes  and  principles
of  the  Charter.  We  have  practised,  and  continue  to
practise, tolerance and good-neighbourliness. Our faith
in the Organization remains as strong as it was 40 years
ago.
in  Sierra  Leone 
At  the  same  time,  the  United  Nations  and  its
agencies  have  done  a  lot  for  the  people  of  Sierra
Leone.  As  President  Kabbah  told  the  Millennium
Summit  last  year,  in  the  course  of  its  membership,
Sierra  Leone  has  tested  the  capacity  of  the  United
Nations  to  respond  to  major  challenges,  especially  in
the areas of peacekeeping, through the United Nations
Mission 
(UNAMSIL),  and  of
humanitarian law, through the proposed special court to
try  those  who  bear  the  greatest  responsibility  for
serious  violations  of  Sierra  Leonean  law,  war  crimes
and  crimes  against  humanity  committed  in  Sierra
Leone.  In  conveying  our  sincere 
the
Organization  and 
international
community  for  their  support,  my  delegation  expresses
the hope that Sierra Leone and the United Nations will
continue  to  work  closely  for  peace,  security  and
sustainable development in the coming years.
rest  of 
thanks 
the 
to 
the 
Sadly,  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is
taking place  in  the  aftermath  of  the  despicable  acts  of
terrorism inflicted on our host country on 11 September
2001  —  acts  that  claimed  the  lives  of  thousands  of
Americans  and  of  the  nationals  of  86  other  countries.
As  we  share  their  grief  and  renew  our  heartfelt
condolences  to  the  families  of  the  victims  and  the
Government  of  the  United  States,  we  Sierra  Leoneans
A/56/PV.56
are  reminded  of  that  ominous  day  in  January  1999
when over 5,000 innocent civilians were brutally killed
during the rebel onslaught on our capital city. Hundreds
of  others,  including  children  and  young  girls,  were
abducted or raped or had limbs deliberately amputated.
Terrorism 
is
deplorable  and  must  be  eradicated.  My  delegation
would  like  to  assure  this  Assembly  that  we  shall  do
everything within our power and available resources to
support the current multilateral counter-terrorism effort
under the aegis of the United Nations.
its  forms  and  manifestations 
in  all 
The  new  emerging  coalition  to  counteract  the
scourge of terrorism is absolutely necessary. However,
the  Sierra  Leone  delegation  strongly  believes  that  we
should also strengthen existing coalitions or build new
ones against those forces that continue to kill millions
of  children  and  adults  throughout  the  world  every
single  day.  We  know  these  forces.  We  know  their
vicious  and  destructive  powers.  Hunger,  poverty,
malnutrition,  malaria,  HIV/AIDS,  brutality 
and
intolerance — these are but a few of them.
Sierra  Leone  calls  upon  this  Assembly  and  the
entire  international  community  to  use  the  current
international solidarity against terrorism to translate the
Agenda  for  Peace,  the  Agenda  for  Development,  the
Millennium  Declaration,  the  Declaration  and  Plan  of
Action  of  the  World  Summit  for  Children  and  similar
strategies  and  goals  into  a  series  of  new  coalitions:  a
new  coalition  against  childhood  diseases;  a  new
coalition 
human
underdevelopment; a new coalition against the scourge
of  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria;  and  a  brand  new  coalition
against the accumulation of nuclear weapons and other
weapons of mass destruction.
poverty 
against 
and 
There  has  been  a  marked  improvement  in  the
situation  in  Sierra  Leone.  The  serious  humanitarian
crisis  still  prevails,  but 
is  gradually  subsiding.
Thousands  of  ex-combatants  have  been  disarmed  and
demobilized.  Government 
civil
administrative services are gradually being established
in 
rebels.  Our
restructured  army  is  now  truly  professional,  thanks  to
the  intensive  training  programme  directed  by  the
Government of the United Kingdom.
areas  previously  occupied  by 
authority 
and 
By  all  accounts,  we  can  say  that  the  overall
security and safety situation is one of great expectation.
In the coming months, the people of Sierra Leone will
once again start to enjoy to the fullest extent their basic
17
A/56/PV.56
right  to  life  —  a  life  free  from  brutal  armed  rebellion
such  as  that  provoked  and  abetted  by  external  forces
and  fuelled  by  blood  diamonds  for  10  long  years.  In
this  connection,  my  delegation  would  like  to  express
our  sincere  gratitude  to  the  United  Nations  and  its
agencies,  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African
States 
troop-contributing
countries,  the  United  Kingdom  and  other  friendly
nations for their individual and collective contributions
to the peace process in Sierra Leone.
(ECOWAS),  UNAMSIL 
Allow  me  from  this  rostrum  to  express  the
condolences  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Sierra
Leone  for  those  brave  and  dedicated  ambassadors  of
peace from the United Kingdom, Zambia, the Ukraine
and  Bulgaria  who 
the  recent
helicopter accidents in my country.
lives 
their 
lost 
in 
Despite  our  optimism  for  peace  and  stability  in
Sierra  Leone,  past  experience  of  adventurous  attempts
by the rebels to renege on their obligations under peace
agreements have taught us a lesson: We have to remain
constantly  vigilant.  The  safety  and  security  of  the
people will remain high on our national agenda, as will
the  process  of  consolidating 
through
sustainable  development.  This  is  why  we  would  like
the United Nations, especially the Security Council, to
continue to generate the necessary international support
for our post-conflict and peace-building effort.
the  peace 
In  this  connection,  we  would  like  to  draw  the
attention of the international community and those who
assist  us  in  the  implementation  of  our  disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration programme to the fact
that 
the  disarmament  and  demobilization  of  ex-
combatants  will  soon  come  to  a  successful  end.
However,  the  process  of  reintegration  remains  crucial.
We  could  lose  the  gains  we  have  made  in  the  peace
process if we allow the reintegration of ex-combatants
to  collapse  for  lack  of  adequate  funding.  As  President
Kabbah  pointed  out  recently,  we  also  have  tens  of
thousands  of  young  people  who  have  never  seen,
touched  or  used  an  AK-47  rifle  or  a  rocket-propelled
grenade. They, too, are waiting to be integrated into the
mainstream of our economic and social sectors.
On  behalf  of  my  Government,  I  would  like  to
appeal  to  the  international  community,  as  a  matter  of
urgency, to help us remove some of the root causes of
conflict by increasing support for our reintegration and
integration  programmes  for  the  benefit  of  youths.  We
should  no  longer  allow  the  legitimate  social  and
18
economic needs or grievances of these young people to
be exploited by ruthless warlords whose sole objective
is to drain our precious mineral resources for their own
selfish ends.
Speaking of diamonds, I would like to inform this
Assembly 
that  our  diamond  certification  system,
established  under  Security  Council  resolution  1306
(2000), has so far been a major success. First, there has
been  a  substantial  increase  in  revenue  from  legitimate
diamonds since the system was established just over a
year  ago.  Secondly,  it  has  also  helped  to  reduce  the
incidence  of  an  old  problem 
the
phenomenon of conflict or blood diamonds — namely,
smuggling.  My  Government  is  in  the  process  of
updating  the  status  of  the  certification  system  in  its
third  report  to  the  Security  Council  through  the
Committee  that  is  monitoring  the  implementation  of
resolution 1306 (2000).
that  preceded 
The  sacrifices  we  have  made  for  peace  in  Sierra
Leone are not for Sierra Leoneans alone; they are also
in the interest of peace and stability in the Mano River
Union  triangle  in  particular  and  the  West  African
subregion as a whole. The recent rapprochement at the
ministerial  level,  followed  by  meetings  of  the  Joint
Security  Committee  and  the  initiative  launched  by  the
Mano River Union Women Peace Network in the three
countries — Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone — augur
well  for  the  proposed  Mano  River  Union  summit
meeting.  Meanwhile,  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that
President  Kabbah 
his
determination to help restore adherence to the principle
of good-neighbourliness in the Union. This should lead
to 
cooperation
programmes among the three countries. We must admit
that  conflict  and  tension  in  the  Union  have  had  a
negative 
to
concentrate on the principal objective for which it was
created, 
and
development.
the  ability  of  ECOWAS 
revitalization 
cooperation 
impact  on 
committed 
economic 
economic 
namely, 
remains 
to 
a 
of 
Mr. Balzan (Malta), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
We  are  aware  that  primary  responsibility  for
alleviating  poverty,  stimulating  economic  growth  and
reducing 
disastrous
consequences  lies  in  the  hands  of  the  developing
countries 
that
development requires sound fiscal policies and rational
management of both our human and natural resources.
themselves.  We  are  also  aware 
conflicts 
often 
their 
and 
the 
in 
also 
international 
development 
consensus 
requires 
is 
that
However, 
greater
sustainable 
cooperation  between  developing 
and  developed
countries in such areas as trade, debt relief and external
financing. In this regard, Sierra Leone, one of the least
developed  countries 
looks
forward  to  the  results  of  the  forthcoming  Conference
on  Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit
on Sustainable Development.
the  world,  eagerly 
There  are  many  pressing  and  unresolved
problems  on  the  international  peace  and  security
agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  One  of  them  is  the
situation  in  Palestine.  It  remains  the  core  issue  in  the
search for peace in the Middle East. In our view, it also
breeds  tension,  and  directly  fans  the  flames  of  war  in
other parts of the world. In the current state of affairs it
is  no  longer  enough  to  speak  about  the  right  of  the
Palestinian  people  to  self-determination.  They  have  a
right to an independent State of their own. In short, the
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  is
well  overdue.  In  terms  of  international  peace  and
security, we cannot afford any further delay.
Sierra  Leone  is  obviously  not  a  nuclear  Power.
However,  as  a  member  of  the  human  family,  we  are
concerned  about  the threat  or  use  of  nuclear  weapons.
Indeed, we believe that these weapons pose the greatest
threat to human survival. Therefore, we shall continue
to  support  universal  adherence 
regional  and
to 
non-proliferation
international 
and 
instruments.  For 
recently
ratified  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,
which we strongly believe is central to the question of
the  vertical,  or  qualitative,  proliferation  of  nuclear
weapons.
instance,  Sierra  Leone 
disarmament 
We  are  also  seriously  concerned  about 
the
proliferation of conventional arms, including those that
have  brought  untold  suffering  to  the  people  of  Sierra
Leone during the past 10 years.
Last  July,  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on
the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in
All  Its  Aspects,  we  pleaded  in  vain  for  action  to
prevent  the  transfer  of  these  weapons  to  non-State
entities  such  as  terrorists  and  rebels  who  commit
atrocities  against 
recent
terrorist  attacks  and  the  awareness  that  biological
weapons in the hands of such non-State entities pose a
threat  to  us  all  should,  in  the  view  of  my  delegation,
prod those Member States that were unable to support
innocent  civilians.  The 
A/56/PV.56
our plea last July to seriously reconsider their position
on  this  important  issue  of  arms  transfers  to  non-State
entities.  We  also  need 
the
implementation of the Programme of Action adopted at
that important Conference.
their  full  support 
in 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  is  convinced  that
the  international  community  has  at  its  disposal  the
instruments,  institutions,  strategies,  targets  and  road
maps for counteracting and eradicating terrorism, HIV/
AIDS,  malaria,  hunger,  malnutrition  and  other  deadly
forces, through closer multilateral cooperation.
Let  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  this  Assembly,
which  was  interrupted  by  the  common  enemy  of
terrorism,  go  down  in  history  as  the  new  multilateral
cooperation session, one that should inspire all nations,
large  and  small,  nuclear  and  non-nuclear,  to  deal
resolutely  with  the  other  common  enemies  of  the
human race.
The  Acting  President: 
call  on
Mr. Anastase  Gasana,  Chairman  of  the  delegation  of
Rwanda.
I  now 
Mr.  Gasana  (Rwanda)  (spoke in French):  It  is  a
great  honour  for  me,  on  behalf  of  the  Rwandan
delegation, to join previous speakers in extending from
this  rostrum  of  the  United  Nations  our  sincere  and
warm  congratulations  to  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo  on  his
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the
fifty-sixth  session.  I  should  also  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute  to  his
predecessor  for  the  farsightedness  with  which  he  led
the  work  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
as 
re-election 
Secretary-General 
I  also  wish,  on  behalf  of  my  Government,  to
extend my warm congratulations to Mr. Kofi Annan on
his 
our
Organization.  His  remarkable  efforts  in  strengthening
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  his  numerous
initiatives  to  resolve  conflicts  have  been  eloquently
attested  to  by  his  election  to  a  second  term  of  office,
and  even  more  by  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  that  has  just
been awarded to him.
of 
This session began in a very tragic climate in the
wake of the cowardly and ignoble acts orchestrated by
enemies  of  international  peace  and  security.  Those
terrorist acts led to the deaths of thousands of innocent
victims in the cities of New York and Washington. This
was  a  very  heavy  blow  to  the  Government  and  the
19
A/56/PV.56
people of the United States and also a challenge to the
United  Nations  and 
international
community.
the  entire 
to 
to 
its  condolences 
The  Government  of  Rwanda  learned  of  these
ignoble  acts  with  indignation  and  consternation,  and
has  presented 
the  American
Government  and  the  families  directly  affected.  The
Rwandan  Government  reiterates  its  condemnation  of
terrorism  and  remains  open  to  all  initiatives  designed
to combat all forms of terrorism. It is in this spirit that
my  country  unreservedly  supports  all  the  resolutions
adopted against terrorism, in particular resolution 1373
(2001)  of  28  September,  and  we 
reaffirm  our
determination to implement them.
The acts of 11 September 2001 are a challenge to
the  United  Nations  and  to  each  of  its  Member  States.
Since the United Nations is the crucible of international
peace  and  security,  and  since  terrorist  groups  take
innocent  human  lives,  it  is  up  to  every  Member  State,
every  truly  human  organization  and  every  person  who
cherishes  peace  and  justice  to  fight  as  vigorously  as
possible against such a terrorist group, no matter what
its  pretext,  no  matter  how  powerful  it  may  be.  When
we say no matter how powerful, we know what we are
saying, having been victims ourselves.
We  were  victims  of  the  terror  not  of  just  any
organization,  but  of  a  State  that  in  reality  became  a
non-State, but with all the State machinery available to
it  to  fight  the  very  people  whose  protection  was  its
most  fundamental  duty.  Rwanda  and  its  people  lived
under the terror of a murderous, terrorist and genocidal
State for three months. This reign of terror by a State,
as the Assembly well knows, took more than 1 million
human  lives  in  1994.  The  instruments  of  this  blind,
terror,  whose  overwhelming  result  was
merciless 
genocide,  are  well  known: 
the  organization  of
paramilitary  militias 
the
Interahamwe, and the former Rwandese Armed Forces,
known  as  the  ex-FAR.  From  this  rostrum  we  call  for
these two organizations, which for a decade have been
veritable killing machines, to be duly listed as terrorist
groups to be fought and pursued throughout the world.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  which
since  1994  has  been  harbouring  these  forces  of  evil,
has  fed  them,  has  provided  them  with  arms  and
munitions and has allied itself with them, must respond
to  the  Security  Council’s  repeated  appeals  to  stop  all
support  for  the  negative  forces  on  its  territories,
commonly  known 
as 
20
including  the  Interahamwe  and  ex-Far,  which  planned
and carried out genocide in Rwanda.
the 
to 
With regard to peace in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and throughout the Great Lakes region in
Africa,  my  country  is  determined  to  implement  the
Lusaka  Agreement,  which,  with 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, has two important
components: 
inter-Congolese  dialogue,  which
should  lead  to  a  political  solution  to  the  Congolese
crisis, and the disarmament and withdrawal of negative
forces,  which  should  lead  to  peace  on  the  Rwandan,
Ugandan  and  Burundi  borders  of  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
respect 
We  wish  to  note  with  great  satisfaction,  the
actions of the sisterly Republic of South Africa, which,
given the failure of inter-Congolese dialogue in Addis
Ababa  —  because  of,  among  other  things,  lack  of
financial  resources  —  generously  offered  food  and
lodging to over 300 Congolese delegates going to that
greatly  anticipated  inter-Congolese  forum.  We  wish
also to congratulate the Rassemblement congolais pour
la  démocratie  (RCD)-Goma  and  the  Mouvement  pour
la  libération  du  Congo  (MLC)-Gbadolite  on  their  fine
initiative  to  create  a  special  force  to  carry  out  the
disarmament  and  disengagement  of  negative  forces
under  their  control  on  the  territory  of  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  on  having  invited  the
Kinshasa Government to join this initiative.
to 
like 
law 
Regarding  human  rights,  we  would 
the  rule  of 
to
reaffirm  our  attachment 
in
international relations. We are determined to strengthen
the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and
fundamental  freedoms.  The  Government  of  Rwanda
welcomed  with  great  interest  the  report  on  human
rights  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  It  is
regrettable,  however,  that  the  Special  Rapporteur,
Mr. Roberto Garretón, was not present when the report
was  submitted  on  8  November  2001.  Because  of  his
absence,  no  real  debate  between  the  parties  concerned
and  the  Rapporteur  was  possible.  Once  again,  my
delegation finds this highly regrettable.
The  report  on  human  rights  in  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  contains  numerous  gratuitous
allegations, including one on the alleged annexation of
that  country.  We  would  like  to  recall  here  that  the
regular  Rwandan  army  did  not  cross  borders  into  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  order  to  annex
the  country,  as  the  report  claims,  but,  as  we  have
explained  and  demonstrated  a  number  of  times,  to
ensure the security of our territory and our population.
We  acted  in  the  context  “of  the  inherent  right  of
individual  ...  self-defence”  of  a  country,  as  we  are
authorized  to  do  under  Chapter  VII,  Article  51  of  the
Charter.
that  committed 
the  Interahamwe  militia 
Indeed, security in the north of Rwanda has been
and continues to be constantly disrupted by the ex-FAR
and 
the
genocide in 1994 and that are using Congolese territory
as  their  rear  base  in  order  to  repeat  their  gruesome
deeds. These armed groups are infiltrating Rwanda and
killing  thousands  of  innocent  people.  We  hope  that
phase  III  of  the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC),
in  close  cooperation  with  the  initiative  of  the  RCD
Goma-MLC  Gbadolite,  will  lead  to  the  complete
disarmament of these groups and to stability and peace
in the Great Lakes region.
We  are  pleased  to  note  the  establishment  of  a
Transitional  Government  in  Burundi.  We  believe  that
this is a major step towards the reconciliation to which
our  brothers,  the  people  of  Burundi,  aspire.  Today  the
Great Lakes region is seeking solutions to the conflicts
that undermine it. May the example of Burundi, under
the inspiration of President Nelson Mandela, bear fruit
in the general interest and for the benefit of the people
of Burundi and Africa as a whole.
Also  regarding  Africa,  we  feel  that  a  definitive
solution to the problem of Western Sahara should also
be found.
We  would  like  to  see  peace  in  the  Middle  East.
The  question  of  Palestinian  refugees,  which  is  several
decades  old,  needs  to  be  re-examined.  Indeed,  the
existence  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State,
alongside  an  independent  Israeli  State  assured  of  its
existence as such is necessary for peace in the Middle
East.  The  friends  of  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians
within the United Nations, including us, ought rather at
this  stage  to  work  on  cultivating  and  strengthening
relations  of  friendship  and  cooperation  between  these
two  fraternal  States  —  the  Israeli  State  and  the
Palestinian State. We are anxious to start work on this
noble task.
Aside  from  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  we  are
pleased  to  note  the  significant  progress  made  on  the
Korean  peninsula,  where  both  Koreas  have  shown
A/56/PV.56
encouraging  signs  of  reaching  a  final  settlement  of  a
conflict arose in the context of the cold war.
This  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly
is  the  first  after  the  Millennium  Summit,  and  thus
should follow it up and lay the new foundation for the
future  of  mankind.  The  Summit  stressed,  among  the
values that underpin international relations and respect
for  the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter,  the  role
that 
and
recommended  the  creation  of  a  propitious  climate  for
the  development  of  the  least  developed  countries  that
were not yet on the path towards globalization.
the  United  Nations  ought 
to  play 
Throughout  this  general  debate  poverty  and  the
problem of debt have been stressed as major obstacles
to  development  and  thus  to  entry  into  the  era  of
globalization.  Globalization,  with  its  advantages  for
some and problems for others, does not seem to be able
to resolve the problem of the gap between the rich and
poor countries.  To  the contrary,  the  gap  between  them
continues 
to  grow.  The  marginalization  of  poor
countries  in  international  trade  and  the  debt  burden
have  severely  hampered  their  efforts  for  development
and  have  exacerbated  their  poverty.  This  is  why  the
United  Nations  needs 
the
development of all and adopt international measures to
support poor countries in the field of investment. Such
measures  should  also  be  aimed  at  cancelling  debt  and
ensuring  adequate  integration  of  these  countries  into
the world economy.
to  define  policies  for 
In  this  context,  we  call  on  the  United  Nations  to
reconsider the report submitted to the Security Council
by the Independent Inquiry led by Mr. Carlsson, former
Prime Minister of Sweden, on which there has been no
follow-up to date. As a Member of the United Nations,
we  believe  that  the  Organization  to  which  we  belong
should undertake a follow-up to this report that defines
well the need for economic and social reconstruction in
post-genocide Rwanda.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His
the
Excellency  Mr.  Enele  Sopoaga,  Chairman  of 
delegation of Tuvalu.
Mr. Sopoaga (Tuvalu): I am honoured to address
the  General  Assembly.  Speaking  on  behalf  of  the
people  and  the  Government  of  Tuvalu,  I  extend
Tuvalu’s  greetings  to  the  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session and our congratulations to the President and the
Vice-Presidents  of  the  Assembly  on  their  election.  I
21
A/56/PV.56
also  pledge  Tuvalu’s  full  support  and  cooperation
during their term of office.
As we come to the end of this general debate, we
are  still  overshadowed  by  the  loss  of  many  innocent
lives and property as the result of the barbaric terrorist
attack  on  America  in  September.  We  are  further
saddened by the losses earlier this week resulting from
the plane accident in our host state, New York, and our
host country, America. Tuvalu therefore joins others in
reiterating  to  the  people  and  Government  of  America
our strong condemnation of the terrorist attacks and our
pledge  of  strong  solidarity  with  the  United  States  of
America.
Let me also convey Tuvalu’s deepest sorrow and
sympathy  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the  plane
crash,  and  offer  our  prayers 
the  people  and
Government of America, and equally to the people and
Government  of  the  Dominican  Republic.  We  wholly
share their bereavement and grief.
to 
As  the  newest  Member  of  the  United  Nations,
having  joined  on  the  eve  of  the  historic  Millennium
Summit last year, Tuvalu is more than ever aware of its
responsibilities  to  the  United  Nations  and  what  the
Organization  stands  for.  In  June  this  year,  Tuvalu
established  its  Permanent  Mission  here  in  New  York.
Although this has been costly, Tuvalu believes the cost
is  offset  by  what  the  United  Nations  stands  for.  Our
presence  in  the  General  Assembly  reflects  a  basic
belief we hold true: that the United Nations, through its
enfranchising  activities,  can  help  Tuvalu  and  other
countries  like  us  by  being  an  advocate  with  regard  to
the issues that concern us most.
is  a 
itself.  This  award 
the  vast  contributions 
Tuvalu  is  proud  that  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  for
2001  was  awarded  to  our  Secretary-General  and  the
United  Nations 
telling
recognition  of 
the  United
Nations  has  made  in  so  many  fields  and  on  so  many
fronts: to peace around the world; to the protection of
the 
individual,  no  matter  his  or  her  origin  or
circumstances; and to the upholding of the basic United
Nations  principle  that  every  human  being  should  have
every  opportunity  to  lead  a  better  and  more  fulfilling
life.  We  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  and  the
Organization for this recognition.
There  is  no  doubt  in  Tuvalu  that  peace  and
stability  are 
the  well-being  of
freedom-loving  people  everywhere.  The  world  cannot
ignore  threats  to  peace  and  stability,  no  matter  what
indispensable 
to 
22
their  causes  may  be,  be  they  economic,  social  or
environmental.  The  terrorist  attacks  in  the  United
States  of  America  and  what  has  happened  around  the
world since 11 September have made those of us here
in this great Hall today feel very anxious. However, the
very  cause  of  this  anxiety  points  clearly  to  the  proper
role  of  the  United  Nations.  The  General  Assembly
must  be  a  strong  advocate  of  what  the  Secretary-
General,  in  his  new  road  map,  calls  a  new  “culture  of
prevention”.
take  advantage  of 
In our view, pursuit of this new culture is worthy
and  must 
the  new  spirit  of
cooperation  that  is  now  emerging  to  facilitate  the
elimination  of  the  causes  of  terrorism  and  threats  to
peace  and  stability.  In  this  regard,  it  is  imperative  to
address  problems 
in  an  open  and  representative
dialogue  based  on  consensus  and  mutual  respect  and
understanding.
The  consensus-building  approach  that  we  in  the
Pacific  region  often  call  the  “Pacific  way”  may  well
prove  useful  in  our  collective  venture  for  universal
cooperation.  Tuvalu  is  committed  to  its  obligation  to
adhere  to  the  United  Nations  resolutions  to  eliminate
terrorism,  and  thus  is  taking  steps  to  accede  to  the  12
United  Nations  and 
international  conventions  on
terrorism. But to honour such obligations in practice is
easier said than done. We need technical and financial
support  from  the  international  community  to  build  up
our  legislative,  surveillance  and  enforcement  tools  if
we  are  to  have  any  hope  of  meeting  these  obligations
beyond our present capabilities.
Also,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  need  for
strong  coalitions  to  deal  with  other  pressing  global
issues,  including  conflicts  and  wars;  the  challenges  of
globalization;  poverty  and  underdevelopment;  and  the
effects  of  environmental  degradation  and  climate
change.
Universal  cooperation  against  threats  to  peace
and stability cannot, however, be fully achieved as long
as  the  United  Nations  lacks  the  will  to  recognize  fair
and  just  representation  within  it  of  a  democratic  and
economically  developed  State  with  a  population  of  23
million.  The  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  is  also
suffering in the aftermath of the 11 September terrorist
attacks, having lost innocent lives as well as property.
Like  us,  they  suffer  from  the  onslaught  of  natural
disasters;  epidemics  and  diseases,  including  the  HIV/
AIDS pandemic; and other threats of instability.
their 
responsibility, 
including 
— 
as  well 
as 
international 
Yet in all these crises, and despite their enormous
contribution  to  the  world  economy  and  international
technological
development 
advancement — 
consistent
demonstration  of 
the
people of the Republic of China on Taiwan have been
left  to  fend  for  themselves,  denied  the  right  to  proper
representation and collaboration, not only in the United
Nations and its specialized agencies, such as the World
Health  Organization,  but 
in  nearly  every  other
intergovernmental  body.  The  voice  with  which  they
could share their plight and thereby benefit from world
cooperation  is  silenced.  However,  the  irony  is  that  for
more  than  50  years,  no  authority  other  than  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  itself  has  had  full
sovereign  control  over  Taiwan,  its  population  and  the
running of its affairs. To visit the country, for example,
one  must  have  immigration  papers  issued  by  its  own
authorities.
A/56/PV.56
Further solidifying of cooperation between our regional
organizations  and  the  United  Nations,  moreover,  is
fundamental  to  the  success  of  national  and  regional
efforts vital for regional and global security.
I  should  like  to  add  here  that  Tuvalu  highly
commends  the  role  played  by  the  United  Nations  and
other international organizations and major countries in
helping  restore  peace  in  the  Pacific  following  the
recent turbulence in the region.
Tuvalu is not in a good position to take advantage
of  the  opportunities  offered  by  trade  liberalization.
Like many island countries, Tuvalu currently lacks the
know-how,  trained  people  and  adequate  infrastructure
to  reap  the  benefits  that  are  enjoyed  here.  If  there  is
benefit  for  Tuvalu  in  a  free  trade  world  —  and  we
believe  there  is  —  then  surely  Tuvalu  must  have  in
place  the  means  that  would  allow  us  to  reap  that
benefit.
While  we  welcome  the  wise  decision  of  the
World  Trade  Organization  last  week  to  admit  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  it  is  Tuvalu’s  strong
view  that  the  United  Nations  must  take  the  lead  and
seriously  reconsider  United  Nations  membership  for
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  beyond  the  politics
of exclusion and on the basis of the reality of things.
In  more  ways  than  one,  small  island  developing
States such as Tuvalu are at the sharp end, the cutting
edge,  of  development.  For  us,  overseas  development
aid is indispensable to the development and sustenance
of  basic  services  necessary  for  security  and  survival.
Our priorities continue to be education, health services
and fresh water.
In Tuvalu and many other countries in the Pacific,
we  know  that  our  economic  vulnerability  is  fertile
ground for forces of terror that can threaten the security
and  survival  not  only  of  the  islands,  but  also  of  the
region  and  the  world.  We  are  worried  about  the
growing  global  interdependence  and  what  that  may
bring to our shores. We need to improve our ability to
share  and  disseminate  information  on  transnational
crimes,  particularly  those  involving  drug  trafficking,
money 
investments,  and  other
dangerous and dubious schemes that often arrive in the
Pacific islands under the pretext of being legitimate.
laundering,  bogus 
We believe that, if we are left on our own, these
threats will continue to expose Tuvalu and other Pacific
island countries to forces outside our control. It is vital,
therefore,  that  individual  Pacific  island  Governments
be  given  the  back-up  that  is  needed  to  boost  their
ability  to  tackle  security  threats  and  fight  crime.  The
existing  regional  security  arrangements  under 
the
Pacific  Islands  Forum  and  its  sister  regional  agencies
in  the  Pacific  can,  indeed,  play  a  vital  role.  However,
they need to be further strengthened to enable them to
complement  national  security  efforts  more  effectively.
While  we  commend  with  great  appreciation  the
generosity  of  our  development  partners,  particularly
our  traditional  partners,  it  has  to  be  noted  that  Tuvalu
and  other  small  island  developing  States,  like  the
landlocked  and  least  developed  countries  and  other
developing  countries,  will  for  some  time  continue  to
rely on external financing through official development
assistance to address their unique development needs.
In  our  view,  the  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development,  both  of  which  will  be  held
next year, must also capitalize on the premises laid out
under the reviewed Barbados Programme of Action for
the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island
Developing  States,  the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Least  Developed  Countries  and  the
Secretary-General’s 
the
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Millennium
Declaration  as  the  key  tools  to  address  the  unique
circumstances  and  vulnerabilities  of  small 
island
developing  States.  Ultimately,  this  must  lead  to  more
effective  delivery  of  assistance  that  is  flexible  and
more  responsive  to  the  sustainable  development  needs
road  map 
towards 
23
A/56/PV.56
of  small  island  developing  States  and  of  developing
countries in general.
Member  State  to  withdraw  because  it  had  disappeared
without a trace.
With  limited  exploitable  resources,  Tuvalu,  like
many  other  small  island  developing  States,  relies
heavily  on  the  surrounding  seas  for  its  food  security
and  economic  development.  The  proper  protection  of
the oceans from hazardous pollution is therefore vital,
and  the  sustainable  management  and  exploitation  of
fisheries  and  other  marine  resources  is  extremely
important to our sustainable development and survival.
Building  local  capacity  to  conserve,  manage  and
harvest  marine  resources  in  a  sustainable  manner  is
crucial and should therefore be supported.
As  has  already  been  said  in  this  debate,  the
biggest  long-term  threat  to  the  people  of  Tuvalu  is
posed  by  the  effects  of  climate  change,  in  particular
rising  sea  levels.  Recent  reports  released  by  the
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  have
confirmed  beyond  doubt 
the  correlation  between
accelerated atmospheric warming and sea-level rise. In
Tuvalu  too  it  is  our  strong  belief  that  the  weather  is
growing  more  severe,  hotter  and  drier,  and  that  there
have  been  unusually  high  seas  eroding  foreshores  and
intruding  into  freshwater  lenses.  We  believe  that  the
cumulative  effect  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions  in
industrial and other countries into the atmosphere has,
in  sum,  created  a  future  that  is  very  uncertain  in
Tuvalu.
the  United  Nations  membership  are 
It  may  not  be  known  in  this  Hall  but  unique
within 
the
Maldives,  the  Marshall  Islands,  Kiribati  and  Tuvalu.
Those  four  countries  are  the  only  Member  States  that
consist  entirely  of  low-lying  coral  atolls  and  reef
islands. In the event of further rising sea levels, where
are we to hide? Eventually asking countries to take us
in as environmental refugees is not what Tuvalu is after
in  the  long  run.  What  we  prefer  is  that  our  great-
grandchildren  should  grow  up  the  way  I  did  and  the
way  my  wife  and  our  brothers  and  sisters  did  in  our
island  communities,  learning  the  traditions,  customs
and culture of Tuvalu, and living our way of life.
Tuvalu is not alone in sharing that view. Tens of
millions  of  people  who  live  on  islands  or  in  coastal
communities  face  the  gloomy  onslaught  of  rising  sea
levels. Such vulnerable geography is everywhere. How
ironic it would be if decades from now the last Member
to  enter  the  United  Nations,  Tuvalu,  were  the  first
24
In  the shrinking  world  we  live  in,  environmental
pollution  has  never  known  artificial  boundaries.  The
presence  of  higher  than  normal  levels  of  greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere is a legacy of development in
industrial countries spanning the past 200 years. I hope
that  industrial  countries  realize  that  nature  is  now
imposing 
development.
Unfortunately,  it  is  Tuvalu  and  others  with  little  or
nothing to do with the causes which are now forced to
pay.
penalty 
a 
for 
that 
While  we  are  heartened  by  the  positive  outcome
of the seventh Conference of the Parties to the United
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,
held at Marrakesh, and while we are looking forward to
the  full  implementation  of  that  Convention  and  of  the
Kyoto Protocol commitments, we would also hope that
goodwill  will  prevail  beyond 
and
conventions to assist those most affected to adapt to the
immediate and long-term effects of climate change.
instruments 
This is not the time to shrink from environmental
and  survival  responsibility.  Like  the  international  war
being waged against terrorism, a global solution to the
threat  posed  by  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  will
save  Tuvalu  and  many  other  small  island  States  from
disappearing.  Our  collective  resolve  to  remove  causes
of terrorism and threats to peace and security, including
poverty 
and
environmental degradation, will ensure a truly peaceful
and secure village for all of humanity.
and  underdevelopment,  HIV/AIDS 
May  God  bless  the  United  Nations;  may  God
bless its peoples.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Amraiya  Naidu,  Chairman  of  the
delegation of Fiji.
Mr.  Naidu  (Fiji):  Fiji  mourns  the  recent  losses
and  world-changing  tragedies  which  the  United  States
of America has endured. We remember the many lives
lost  in  that  adversity,  and  we  express  the  hope  that
peace  and  goodwill  may  prevail.  Now  is  the  time  to
make  haste 
to  galvanize  collaborative  efforts  by
developed  and  developing  nations  in  the  global  fight
against terrorism.
We  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo  and  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  on
Ambassador Han’s assumption of the presidency of the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. We pledge
complete support during his term of office, fully aware
that  the  qualities  that  have  marked  his  eminent  and
distinguished  career  promise  a  resounding  conclusion
to  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly
despite its difficult start.
Fitting  tribute  is  also  due  to  his  predecessor,
Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of  Finland.  His  leadership  over  the
previous year successfully concluded a truly hectic and
full  schedule  of  business,  including  some  difficult
issues  and  special  sessions  during  the  period  of  the
fifty-fifth  session.  He  leaves  an  indelible  mark  in  the
annals of the United Nations.
My  Government  congratulates  His  Excellency
Mr.  Kofi  Annan  on  his  appointment  as  Secretary-
General  for  a  second  term;  this  signifies  the  trust  and
confidence  that  the  United  Nations  places  in  him.  He
has  aptly  been  awarded  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  which
he  shares  with  the  United  Nations.  Fiji  welcomes  the
road map he has outlined for the Organization, which,
under  his  creative  and  competent  leadership,  will
deliver  the  reforms  needed  to  launch  the  Organization
into the twenty-first century.
immediate 
In  the  wake  of  the  political  crisis  that  triggered
instability  in  Fiji  in  2000,  my  Government  set  itself
two 
constitutional
democracy and to stabilize our fragile economy. Those
goals are being achieved. Moreover, my Government is
continuing  to  pursue  strong  economic  performance
through increased investment and development.
restore 
tasks: 
to 
the  general  elections  and 
I am honoured to inform the Assembly that, only
18  months  after  its  political  crisis,  Fiji  successfully
concluded 
formed  a
multiparty  Government 
in  September  2001.  My
Government  is  confident  that,  with  the  support  of  the
United Nations and the international community, Fiji’s
forward-looking policies will steer it ahead on a path of
democratic 
economic
development.
sustainable 
rule 
and 
Fiji  acknowledges  the  support  rendered  to  us  by
the  United  Nations  and  by  Member  States  in  the
deployment of the United Nations electoral observation
team  during  our  elections.  The  team  discharged  its
duties professionally and impartially. We are confident
that  it  will  provide  the  Assembly  with  a  positive
appraisal  of  the  conduct  of  the  elections  as  free  and
fair  —  conduct 
to  which  we  have  been  well
accustomed throughout our electoral history.
A/56/PV.56
I  should  like  to  convey  my  Government’s  deep
gratitude  to  those  Member  States  that  supported  Fiji
and  to  those  that  sponsored  resolution  55/280,  which
enabled 
the  United  Nations
observer team.
the  participation  of 
Our leaders are committed, under the Millennium
Declaration of 2000, to the principles of human dignity,
equality  and  equity,  especially  with  respect  to  those
who  are  most  vulnerable,  in  particular  the  children,
who  are  our  future.  It  is  a  timely  and  constructive
commitment 
the  necessary  global
framework for addressing the plight of the poor and the
vulnerable  in  the  face  of  the  accelerating  impact  of
globalization and trade liberalization.
creates 
that 
it 
force, 
Poverty  is  at  the  root  of  many  problems.  As  the
most  powerful  destabilizing 
threatens
democracy  and  good  governance.  It  is  thus  our  most
insidious  enemy.  Successive  Human  Development
Reports  amply  document  abysmal  accounts  of  poverty
and  poverty  indicators.  A  total  of  1.2  billion  people
live on less than $1 a day, more than a billion people in
developing  countries  lack  access  to  safe  water,  and
more  than  2.4  billion  people  lack  adequate  sanitation.
We are talking not millions, but billions.
is 
Poverty 
reduction 
therefore  our  greatest
challenge  today.  The  Millennium  Declaration  set  a
target  to  halve  global  extreme  poverty  by  2015.  This
goal  must  be  the  cornerstone  of  all  development
efforts.  It  demands  an  ongoing  commitment  and
effective  measures  on  the  part  of  the  international
community.
In this connection, my Government has created a
new  Ministry  for  Poverty  Alleviation,  which  is  a  key
policy  factor  in  our  triennial  Strategic  Development
Plan. We recognize that economic, social and political
stability  are  inextricably  tied  to  reducing  the  gap
between  rich  and  poor.  That  equation  must  also
recognize  the  unique  vulnerabilities  that  beset  the
fragile economies of developing countries such as Fiji.
being
developed  in  the  Social  Justice  Bill  to  translate  into
policy  the  constitutional  provision  for  social  equity.
Primarily,  the  Bill  will  regulate  affirmative  action
policies  for  disadvantaged  groups  in  the  areas  and  in
the manner prescribed in the Fiji Constitution. This is a
critical step in Fiji’s efforts towards national unity and
nation-building  and  its  efforts  to  address  issues  of
social, ethnic and economic development and harmony.
Complementary 
legislation 
also 
is 
25
A/56/PV.56
escalating 
challenges 
unprecedented 
Today,  in  our  journey  in  this  world,  we  are
meeting  with 
and
uncertainties,  ranging  from  widespread  global  conflict
to 
economic
marginalization. The Assembly and the United Nations
system  must  devise  appropriate,  creative  responses  to
these  difficult  questions,  in  ways  that  are  compatible
with 
the  goals  of  world  peace  and  security,  as
enshrined in the United Nations Charter.
terrorist 
activities 
and 
Current  organizational 
reform  plans  present
constructive and necessary platforms for meeting these
specific  challenges.  An  amicable  agreement  on  the
expansion  of 
the  permanent  or  non-permanent
membership of the Security Council could well present
us  with  new  and  fresh  avenues  for  solutions.  My
delegation  reiterates  our  full  support  for  an  expansion
of both membership categories of the Security Council.
We  congratulate  the  Security  Council  on  the  support
that  its  landmark  resolution  1325  (2000)  received,  a
resolution  whose 
for
increased  involvement  on  the  part  of  women  in  the
process of achieving peace and security.
implementation  will  allow 
Fiji  has  excelled  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  the
peacekeeping goals of the United Nations Charter. We
remain fully committed to this goal and to the Brahimi
recommendations for reform. Our military is serving in
various United Nations missions, including in Lebanon,
East Timor and Kuwait. Our police officers are serving
in  Bosnia  and  Kosovo.  It  is  gratifying  to  see  positive
conclusions to several peacekeeping mandates and their
impending  withdrawal  or  downsizing.  We  would
caution,  however,  against  any  exit  without  strategy,  in
order  to  give  credence  to  the  huge  investment  of
goodwill  and  resources  by  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community,  and  to  avoid  a  situation  of
double  jeopardy  for  the  people  trapped  in  armed
conflict.
In  this  regard,  we  support  new  measures  to
strengthen the protective regime of the Convention on
the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel.
Its  scope  needs 
include  United  Nations  and
humanitarian  personnel  on  the  ground,  who  need  real
protection  and  security  while  working  to  ensure  the
safety of, and caring for, civilians.
to 
Fiji  has  consistently  advocated  decolonization
and  self-determination  since 
the  United
Nations.  We  note  the  delay  in  the  implementation  of
the  Declaration  on  the  Granting  of  Independence  to
joining 
26
Colonial  Countries  and  Peoples.  Fiji  supports  the
ongoing  work  of  the  Committee  of  24  and  recognizes
the political and diplomatic constraints involved.
in 
Early  on 
this  Second  Decade 
the
Eradication of Colonialism, the 17 Non-Self-Governing
Territories,  mostly  small  island  Territories  in  the
Caribbean  and  Pacific  regions,  need  our  focused
attention,  so  that  their  legitimate  aspirations  for  self-
determination can be recognized.
for 
The  Declaration  of  Commitment  on 
the
HIV/AIDS pandemic demands that we exercise greater
vigilance  and  focus  sincerely  on  safeguarding  our
development  gains  and  on  our  future  goals.  We  in  the
Pacific  are  seeking  to  maintain  our  low  infection  rate
trend, as  we  stand  to  lose  the  most  if  we  fail  to  abide
by  that  Declaration.  Only  collaboration  and  solidarity
at  the  international,  regional  and  national  levels  can
save humanity from this invasive scourge.
Despite  the  recent  political  disturbances  in  Fiji,
respect for the rule of law and for international human
rights  standards  has  been  maintained.  The  continued
existence  and  independence  of  the  Fiji  Human  Rights
Commission is testimony to our commitment to human
rights.
the  vast  distances  between  our 
Fiji,  along  with  several  of  its  Pacific  Island
neighbours,  is  for  the  first  time  facing  the  dilemmas
posed  by  refugees  and  asylum  seekers.  International
human  trafficking  has  brought  them  to  our  shores,
despite 
lands.
International refugees are the direct result of violations
and  breaches  of  human  rights.  As  a  State  party  to  the
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and to its
Protocol, Fiji pleads with Member States to respect the
rights of refugees and to support the work of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. At the very
least, Member States are obligated to protect the rights
of their citizens in their own homeland.
Fiji co-sponsored the resolution on Korean peace,
security and reunification during the fifty-fifth session
of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  elated  to  see  peace
and reunification initiatives in the Korean peninsula.
to  enhance  our 
Likewise,  the  small  island  developing  States  are
seeking  continually 
international
participation.  Strengthening  future  relations  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  is  a
mutually  beneficial  avenue.  This  will  allow  for  our
effective participation in the United Nations system. It
also  affords  the  United  Nations  with  a  unique  and
authentic  Pacific  perspective  and  voice.  Cooperation
between  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  and  the  United
Nations is a welcome addition to this session’s agenda
and  promises  greater  returns,  with  the  support  of
Member States.
Our  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders  will  meet  in
Fiji  in  2002.  It  is  therefore  opportune  to  renew  our
invitation to Mr. Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General, to
visit the Pacific Islands Forum region. Recent political
events  in  the  Pacific  and  the  successful  domestic,
regional  and  international  initiatives  to  address  these
concerns  can  only  be  positively  reinforced  by  such  a
high-level,  goodwill  visit  by  the  Secretary-General,  to
take place early, rather than later, in his second term of
office.
Our  global  development  agenda  demands  of  the
United  Nations  an  increased  facilitating  role  in  the
coordination  of  economic,  financial,  trade  and  social
issues.  At  the  International  Conference  on  Financing
for  Development  in  March  2002,  stakeholders  will
deliberate  on  enhancing  coherence  and  coordination
between development and social objectives. Fiji hopes
that  the  Conference  will  inspire  the  international
community  and  financial  institutions,  including  the
Bretton Woods institutions, to support and devise new
standards  and  indicators,  such  as  the  vulnerability
index, 
to  effectively  address  poverty  and  other
disparities.
Growing  imbalances  and  marginalization  in  the
world  economy  are  a  threat  to  humanity,  in  particular
to Fiji and other small island developing States (SIDS).
Sustainable  development  depends  on  a  given  level  of
resources  to  propel  our  fragile  economies  forward.
Moreover,  these  resources  are  needed  to  sustain  long-
term,  sound,  economic  and  environmentally  friendly
development.  The  critical  role  of  the  international
community  is  to  assist  us  in  nation-building  and
efficient  resource  utilization  so  that  we  can  fulfil  our
social obligations.
Fiji  has  long  expounded  to  the  international
community how vulnerable and heavily dependent our
economies are on the vagaries and whims of the global
economy.  Our  small  size,  extremely  remote  distance
increasing
from 
susceptibility 
lend
themselves well to economies of scale of production, to
building  export-based  trade  or  to  gaining  competitive
to  natural  disasters  do  not 
international  markets 
and 
the 
A/56/PV.56
access to foreign markets for our products. Clearly, our
ability  to  benefit  fully  from  globalization  is  doomed
from  the  start,  further  aggravating  the  divide  between
the rich and poor. It is my Government’s aspiration that
the  scope  of  equitable  and  tangible  benefits  from
globalization and trade liberalization is still to be fully
realized  if  we  are  to  meaningfully  tackle  global  and
human poverty.
island  States 
As  a  member  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,
Fiji is concerned at the fast erosion of trade preferences
in the world trade in agricultural products, sugar being
a  mainstay  of  our  economy.  Increasingly,  we  fear  that
small 
like  my  own,  which  depend
predominantly on agricultural export commodities, will
be 
seriously  affected  without  adequate  market
safeguards. We are forced to question the efficacy of a
multilateral  trade  framework  as  a  fair  mechanism  in
promoting the interests of SIDS like Fiji.
and 
official 
development 
In this context, we welcome the current work on
financing  for  development  and  preparations  for  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development.  Targeted
assistance 
assistance
programmes  to  enable  us  to  fully  implement  and
strengthen 
productivity  must
necessarily complement our efforts through regional or
multilateral trading agreements. We are optimistic that
next  year’s  high-level  conferences  will  flag  our
concerns  in  line  with  the  Barbados  Programme  of
Action and the development goals that are set out in the
Millennium Declaration.
investment 
and 
The  Acting  President:  I  call  on  Mr.  Patrick
Albert  Lewis,  Chairman  of  the  delegation  of  Antigua
and Barbuda.
if 
Mr.  Lewis  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Antigua  and
Barbuda is pleased that this is the United Nations Year
of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations.  However,  we  can
have  meaningful  dialogue  only 
the  dominant
countries  reach  out  with  genuine  understanding  when
others  speak.  We  can  have  dialogue  only  if  the  basic
principles  of  the  United  Nations  are  made  the  core  of
reality.  We  cannot  have  dialogue  if  multilateralism
remains  selective  or 
the  principle  of  rotation
continues to be based on demographics, military might
and  economic  principles.  The  people  of  my  country
represent an integral part of human civilization and we
wish to contribute our voice and our ideas to the debate
on  the  future  of  the  journey  of  humankind  on  this
planet.
if 
27
A/56/PV.56
The  tragic  events  of  11  September  in  the  host
country  of  the  United  Nations  have  presented  a
challenge  to  world  civilization.  The  Parliament  of
Antigua and Barbuda on Thursday, 18 October, passed
strong  anti-terrorism  legislation.  Also,  the  Caribbean
Community,  meeting  in  special  emergency  session  in
the  Bahamas  on  11  and  12  October,  recognized
terrorism  as  a  global  problem  requiring  a  resolute
global response. The heads of Government stated:
“We  are  conscious  that  the  unprecedented
and  barbaric  terrorist  assaults  of  11  September
will  require  of  us  extraordinary  vigilance  and
coordination  in  the  future,  to  ensure  that  our
territories,  our  institutions  and  our  citizens  are
not used in any manner to facilitate the activities
of  terrorists  or  to  undermine  our  national  and
regional security.”
We  share  the  agony  of  the  United  States,  for  we
too  had  nationals  who  perished  in  the  11  September
atrocity.  We  fully  support  Security  Council  resolution
1373 (2001), which makes it obligatory for all States to
impose far-reaching measures to combat the scourge of
terrorism.  We  support  the  work  of  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee.  International  terrorism  is  in
reality  an  act  of  war  against  the  world’s  peace-loving
peoples. It is imperative that all countries of the world
address  in  a  more  meaningful  manner  the  underlying
social,  economic  and  political  problems  that  cause
human misery and perpetuate injustice. We must act to
ensure  that  the  entire  global  society  lives  in  an
environment of freedom and is free from fear. The fight
against terrorism will be a long and arduous one, but it
is  one  in  which  we  must  thoroughly  and  completely
engage ourselves.
lies 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  has  now  ratified  the  Rome
Statute  for  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The
citizens of my country believe that in the prospect of an
international  criminal  court 
the  promise  of
universal justice, since the Court will have the power to
indict  individuals.  Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  certainly
disappointed  that  crimes  pertaining  to  drug  trafficking
and terrorism have been put on the back burner at the
International  Criminal  Court,  but  we  are  prepared  to
continue our dialogue to bring them under the ambit of
the Court when it becomes active. The cancer of drug
trafficking will continue to threaten human civilization
until we fashion a truly global response to its menace.
28
globalization. 
Interestingly,  we 
The battles in Seattle, Windsor and Quebec are an
to
integral  part  of  world  civilization’s  struggle 
humanize 
find
ourselves  agreeing  with  the  statement  made  by  the
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund
(IMF)  in  his  address  to  members  of  the  Deutsche
Bundestag  on  2  April  2001  in  Berlin.  Mr.  Köhler
declared  that  it  is  political  and  economic  madness  for
Organisation 
and
Development (OECD) countries to spend $360 billion a
year  on  agricultural  subsidies,  while  poverty  rages  in
developing  countries,  especially 
the  rural  and
farming regions. He went on to say that it is high time
for industrial countries to honour their commitment to
provide 0.7 per cent of their gross national product for
official development assistance.
Economic  Cooperation 
for 
in 
for 
for 
Economic  Cooperation 
At  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Summit,  my
the
own  Prime  Minister,  Lester  Bird,  castigated 
and
Organisation 
its  unilaterally  devised  set  of
Development 
standards  for  international  taxation  to  be  imposed  on
other  jurisdictions  and  for  demanding  that  States
change  their  domestic  laws  to  suit  OECD  purposes.
The  rule  of  law  has  become  the  rule  of  the  jungle,
where  rules  do  not  apply,  and  only  might  is  right.  In
reality,  the  OECD  Harmful  Tax  Competition  project
has nothing to do with money laundering, but has more
to do with the fact that OECD believes that its member
States  would  lose  capital  to  other  States  with  more
competitive tax regimes.
Globalization  has  left  States  like  my  own  with  a
feeling  of  exclusion,  a  feeling  of  being  cast  aside  and
pushed outside, from where we observe the gains of the
dominant. It is a feeling of not being able to participate
in  the  determination  of  our  own  destiny.  The  “green
room”  process  evident  at  World  Trade  Organization
(WTO)  ministerial  meetings  has  done  nothing  but
increase  our  apprehension.  We  call  for  serious  reform
of the global political and economic architecture to be
undertaken,  both  at  the  United  Nations  and  at  the
World  Trade  Organization.  The  multilateral  trading
system needs to be transparent. It needs to be fair and
equitable,  and  all  countries  should  be  able  to  share  in
its benefits.
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  as  a  small  island  State,  is
extremely  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters.  The  most
prevalent  threat  is  that  of  hurricanes,  three  of  which
recently impacted our sister States of Belize, Cuba and
the  Bahamas.  A  single  hurricane  can  set  back  the
development  of  a  small  island  State  by  10  years.
Between 1995 and 2000, our beloved twin island State
was hit by seven hurricanes.
and  rates  of  interest  that  would  allow  small  States  to
maintain democracy, human rights, low crime rates and
economic growth.
A/56/PV.56
the 
We  call  on 
international  community 
to
acknowledge  in  a  meaningful  way  the  vulnerability  of
small States like Antigua and Barbuda. We point to our
lack  of  capacity  in  financial  and  human  resources  to
bounce  back  from  natural  disasters  and  from  external
shocks to its economy caused by economic recession in
the  major  economies  of  the  world,  which  also  happen
to  be  our  main  trading  partners.  It  is  therefore
imperative  that  we  be  able  to  continue  to  access
concessionary  financing  through  the  World  Bank.  Our
social  and  economic  development  needs,  including
infrastructure,  seem  not  to  register  in  the  boardrooms
of the international financial institutions.
Countries  like  Antigua  and  Barbuda  are  viewed
as  middle  income  because  of  the  per  capita  income
criterion, but this is a flawed measurement and should
be  abandoned.  Financing  for  development  should  take
into  account  a  mix  of  factors  and  should  be  linked  to
the  vulnerability  index  on  which  the  United  Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has
done important work.
is 
taken  of 
No  account 
the  considerable
transaction costs faced by small States because of their
remoteness  and  the  disproportionate  burden  they  bear
in  order  to  effectively  participate  in  world  trade.  No
account  is  taken  of  the  openness  of  our  economy  to
goods  and  services  from  all  over  the  world,  without
corresponding market access for our own limited range
of goods to the markets of Europe and North America.
An inhospitable stranger known as “non-tariff barriers”
continues to slam the door in our face.
In these circumstances, we cannot overemphasize
how important it is for the IMF and the World Bank to
apply  special  and  differential  treatment  to  measuring
the  fiscal  and  economic  performance  of  small  island
States.  Our  limited  capacity  to  raise  revenue  and  our
necessity  to  spend  at  a  disproportionate  level  in  order
to  maintain  a  decent  standard  of  living  for  our  people
should  lead  the  IMF  to  have  special  and  differential
programmes  of  assistance  for  small  island  States.
These  programmes  should  not  merely  prescribe  the
traditional 
sector
dismissals  and  reduction  of  public  sector  investment
programmes. Instead, innovative ways should be found
to  provide  long-term  financing  at  repayment  periods
large-scale  public 
formula  of 
ratification  by  Governments  and 
My  country  welcomes  the  successful  conclusion
of the Marrakesh meeting on climate change, where the
parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention
on Climate Change finalized the operational details of
the  Kyoto  Protocol,  thereby  opening  the  way  to
widespread 
the
Protocol’s early entry into force. This was the result of
several  years  of  tough  negotiation  in  which  Antigua
and  Barbuda  was  very  active  and  took  a  leadership
position.  What  we  now  have 
the
institutions  and  detailed  procedures  of  the  Kyoto
Protocol, and the next step is to test their effectiveness
in  overseeing  the  five  per  cent  cut  in  greenhouse  gas
emissions by developed countries over the next decade.
The agreements reached in Marrakesh also made
important  progress  on  strengthening 
the  flow  of
financial  and  technological  support  to  developing
countries  so  that  they  can  move  towards  a  sustainable
energy  future.  They  also  send  a  clear  signal  to
business, local governments and the general public that
climate-friendly  products,  services  and  activities  will
be rewarded by consumers and national policies alike.
in  place  are 
input 
on 
to  be  held 
The  meeting  also  adopted 
the  Marrakesh
into  next
Ministerial  Declaration  as  an 
Sustainable
September’s  World 
Summit 
Development, 
in  Johannesburg.  The
Declaration emphasizes the contribution that action on
climate  change  can  make  to  sustainable  development
and  calls  for  capacity  building,  technology  innovation
and 
and
Desertification  Conventions.  With  the  Summit  a  little
less  than  a  year  away,  small  island  developing  States
such as my own, which are among the most vulnerable
to  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change,  continue  to
urge the speedy ratification of the Protocol.
cooperation  with 
the  Biodiversity 
the  Convention, 
That will require a global coalition among States
to  ensure  that  it  enters  into  force  and  becomes  legally
binding after it has been ratified by at least 55 parties
to 
industrialized
countries that represent at least 55 per cent of the total
1990 carbon dioxide emissions from this group. While
it  remains  true  that  those  with  the  highest  per  capita
levels  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions  should  take  the
lead,  it  is  incumbent  upon  all  countries  to  work
including 
the 
29
A/56/PV.56
together  to  ensure  that  there  is  full  compliance  with
commitments contained in the Protocol.
session,  coined 
successful.
the  Millennium  Assembly,  highly
There  is  a  deep  concern  in  our  countries,  a
concern that takes on paramount proportions and that is
centred  around  the  transhipment  of  nuclear  waste
through  the  waters  of  the  Caribbean  Sea,  and  which
represents  a  blatant  disregard  of  our  sovereignty.  The
countries  of  the  Caribbean  have  insisted  that  it  be
stopped,  but  to  no  avail;  and  our  populations  live  in
constant  fear  of  an  accident.  We  call  on  those  who
engage  in  this  deadly  traffic  to  respect  the  rights  of
transit States such as Antigua and Barbuda.
The  most  populous  democracy  in  the  world,
India, spoke on the first day of the general debate and
highlighted  concerns  that  we  find  it  necessary  to
reiterate.  There  needs 
to  be  a  more  determined
movement towards the liquidation of the external debts
of  low  income  and  highly  indebted  countries.  There
should be poverty alleviation programmes designed for
countries  facing  financial  crises,  and  there  should  be
stabilization  of 
international  prices  of  primary
commodity exports.
The  measures  that  we  have  outlined  here  are
essential  to  building  a  just  and  equitable  international
order. Anything less would simply be the imposition of
the  will  of  the  powerful  upon  the  pusillanimous.  All
societies are measured by the way they treat their most
vulnerable  members,  and  the  international  community
of  nations  is  no  different.  I  call  on  all  representatives
here  assembled  to  heed  the  plea  of  the  victims  and  to
construct  an  international  order  that  can  lift  human
civilization to achieve the highest ideals of the United
Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Raynard  Gideon,  Chairman  of  the
delegation of the Marshall Islands.
Islands 
Mr. Gideon (Marshall Islands): On behalf of the
Government  and  the  people  of  the  Republic  of  the
Marshall 
cordial
congratulations  to  the  President  on  his  election  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session,  and  to  offer  the  Marshall  Islands  unreserved
cooperation in our deliberations at this session.
allow  me 
to  offer 
I  must  also  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  his
predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  whose  outstanding
leadership  was  instrumental  in  making  the  fifty-fifth
30
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  also  pays
tribute to Mr. Kofi Annan on his re-election to a second
term  as  Secretary-General,  as  well  as  on  winning  the
prestigious  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  which  is  a  very  well-
deserved  and  timely  recognition  of  the  Organization
and  of  the  Secretary-General’s  wisdom  and  dedication
to the service of mankind.
It is with a heavy heart and deep sorrow that the
Government of President Kessai Note and the people of
the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  reiterate  to  the
Government  and  people  of  the  United  States  of
America  their  deepest  sympathy  and  condolences  for
the suffering and pain caused by the terrorist attacks of
11  September.  Similarly,  we  wish  to  convey  our
heartfelt  sympathy  and  condolences  to  the  other  great
nations  that  were  directly  affected  by  that  tragic  and
inhuman  act.  They  were  not  alone  in  their  daily  trials
and  tribulations;  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands
was  with  them.  Furthermore,  we  extend  our  solidarity
and  condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of  the
Dominican Republic, who suffered losses in the recent
crash of American Airlines flight 587.
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  condemns
all  acts  of  terrorism.  I  am  pleased  to  inform  the
Assembly of the ratification by the Government of the
Marshall Islands of six conventions and treaties related
to  terrorism.  They  are  the  Convention  on  the  Physical
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  the  Convention  on  the
Prevention  and  Punishment  of  Crimes  against
Internationally Protected Persons, including Diplomatic
Agents, 
the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the Convention for
the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism,  the
Convention  on  the  Marking  of  Plastic  Explosives  for
the  Purpose  of  Detection,  and 
the  International
Convention against the Taking of Hostages.
International  Convention 
the 
for 
The  marked  worldwide  increase  in  behaviours
abhorrent to human dignity, freedom and basic rights of
innocent people encouraged the early ratification of the
Rome  Statute  by  the  Marshall  Islands,  which  calls  for
the  establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court.
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  welcomes  an
early 
the
implementation of its mandate.
establishment 
the  Court 
and 
of 
The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  remains
fully  committed  to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the
human  rights  bill.  The  Government  is  currently  in  the
process  of  ratifying  the  following  conventions:  the
Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman
or  Degrading  Treatment 
the
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination;  the  United  Nations
International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and
Cultural  Rights;  and  the  International  Covenant  on
Civil and Political Rights. We are committed to accede
to them in a timely manner.
or  Punishment; 
Given the unique conditions under which we seek
our  livelihood,  our  Government  has  been  readily
supportive  of  new  scientific  breakthroughs  and
innovations  for  the  betterment  of  the  world.  However,
we  feel  there  are  certain  scientific  initiatives  that  run
counter  to  human  decency.  In  this  regard,  we  fully
associate ourselves with the call by the Governments of
Germany  and  of  France  for  a  universal  convention
banning human cloning for reproductive purposes. We
believe that such a scientific endeavour would directly
violate 
the  Human
Genome  and  Human  Rights,  drawn  up  by  the  United
Nations 
and  Cultural
Organization and endorsed by the General Assembly in
resolution  53/152.  Article  11  of 
that  Declaration
specifies that
the  Universal  Declaration  on 
Educational, 
Scientific 
“Practices  which  are  contrary  to  human  dignity,
such  as  reproductive  cloning  of  human  beings,
shall not be permitted.”
As  in  the  past,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall
Islands  will  continue  to  voice  in  the  strongest  terms
possible  and  in  the  best  form  at  its  disposal,  its
concerns  and  fears  over  issues  relating  to  climate
change  and  rising  sea  levels.  The  Assembly  is  aware
that  several  Pacific  island  countries  are  represented  in
this Organization. Like other small island countries, the
Republic of the Marshall Islands is plagued by a unique
set of problems. Our coastal zones have become highly
vulnerable  to  erosion,  our  groundwater  systems  are
affected  by  high  levels  of  saltwater  intrusion,  and
increasing  salinity  is  having  a  direct  impact  on  our
subsistence  cropping.  Such  vulnerabilities,  together
with  prolonged  drought,  constitute  a  deadly  peril  for
our health and survival.
We welcome the successful outcome of the sixth
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,
which  recently  concluded  in  Marrakesh.  The  Kyoto
A/56/PV.56
Protocol  is  the  best  available  solution  to  address  our
environmental  concerns.  We  should  be  able  to  look
back  in  the  coming  days  and  commend  ourselves  for
the  mission  that  is  to  be  accomplished.  We  owe  it  to
our children and to our children’s children.
The Millennium Declaration, adopted by heads of
State or Government during the Millennium Assembly,
should  serve  as  our  guiding  framework  and  road  map
for  achieving  sustainable  development,  eradicating
illegal
poverty,  combating  HIV/AIDS,  preventing 
trafficking 
the
environment.
in  small  arms  and  safeguarding 
Immediately following the Millennium Assembly,
President  Kessai  H.  Note  convened  a  broad-based
economic  and  social  summit,  the  outcome  of  which
was the development of a national planning vision — a
guiding 
national
development  programme.  I  commend  Member  States
for  their  generous  support  and  assistance  for  this
initiative.
framework 
long-term 
for 
a 
The Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands  is  of  the  view  that  the  United  Nations  must
move  forward  proactively  in  its  reform  process.  We
commend 
reform
programme.  However,  much  more  needs  to  be  done.
We encourage the Fifth Committee and United Nations
funds and programmes to support and cooperate in the
reform process.
the  Secretary-General 
for  his 
The Government of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands  fully  supports  the  expansion  of  the  Security
Council  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent
categories,  based  on  equity,  to  include  developed  and
developing  countries  so  as  to  respond  to  the  realities
and  challenges  of  our  contemporary  world.  We  note
that  certain  issues  need  to  be  agreed  on.  We  should
move  forward  with  broad-based  agreement  and  revisit
our differences.
Now  that  this  Organization  has  189  Member
States,  14  of  them  being  from  the  Pacific  region,  the
reconfiguration of our electoral groupings should be an
additional matter to be placed on the table. It may be a
complex  issue,  but  through  our  collective  efforts  and
inspiration, the goal can be achieved, and it should be
considered without further delay.
The  exclusion  from  this  body  and  its  related
agencies  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  is  a
major,  serious  hindrance  to  the  Government  of  the
31
A/56/PV.56
in 
to  participate 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  from 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  in  its  pursuit  of  its
fundamental  rights 
international
dialogue and regional organizations and activities. The
time  has  come  once  again  to  reconsider  the  exclusion
of 
this
prestigious body. There is so much that the Republic of
China  on  Taiwan  could  do,  in  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations  system,  in  the  areas  of  sustainable
development, technology, health, peace and prosperity.
In  conclusion,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall
Islands  pledges  its  commitment  to  the  principles
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
God bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Claude  Morel,  Chairman  of  the
delegation of Seychelles.
the  deliberations  of 
Mr.  Morel  (Seychelles):  My  delegation  would
like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Han  on  his  dynamic
stewardship  of 
the  General
Assembly  at  this  session.  Our  felicitations  also  go  to
the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and the United
Nations on being honoured with the Nobel Peace Prize.
The  brutal  and  tragic  events  that  took  place  in
New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11
September were the result of acts against not only the
United States, but the international community at large.
In his message of condolence to President George
W.  Bush,  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles,
Mr.  France  Albert  René,  condemned  the  terrorist
attacks in the strongest terms, stating
in  principle,  by 
“Our global village cannot tolerate such acts that
disrespect the value of human life and jeopardize
world peace and stability.”
The  subsequent  military  action  in  Afghanistan
was  understood, 
the  Seychelles
Government as being in accordance with Article 51 of
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs,  in  an  interview  with  the  local  media,
referred  to  this  military  action  as  “self-defence”,  and
expressed the wish that only the terrorist networks and
their clearly identified allies would be targeted, as part
of a carefully proportioned action plan, sparing civilian
populations and avoiding any kind of linkage between
religious faiths and ideologically based deviation.
The  Seychelles  Government  agrees  with  the
to
following  principles.  Terrorism 
threat 
is  a 
32
international peace and security. There is no political or
religious justification for such violence. We vigorously
condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
Further to the events of 11 September, Seychelles
recognizes  the  right  of  the  United  States  Government
to  react  under  guiding  principles  of  international  law
and to bring the perpetrators to justice. But there is also
a  need  to  acknowledge  the  root  causes  of  terrorism,
including extreme poverty, despair and injustice, and to
strongly  advocate  concerted  efforts  and  collective
commitment throughout the world to eradicate poverty
and  underdevelopment.  Based  on  those  principles  and
concerns,  the  position  of  my  Government  does  not
diverge 
recommendations
expressed by the international community.
the  views 
from 
and 
We appreciate the authority of the United Nations
in providing global legitimacy for a universal response
against terrorism. The war on terrorism must be fought
on many fronts. The elaboration of a broad, long-term
strategy 
terrorism,
including  military,  political,  diplomatic,  legal  and
economic means, is of paramount importance.
international 
combating 
for 
Seychelles welcomes Security Council resolution
1373  (2001)  of  28  September  2001,  which  outlines
clear  steps  and  measures  that  all  United  Nations
Member  States  must  now  implement  in  order  to
prevent and suppress terrorist activities. My country is
fully committed to implementing the provisions of the
resolution,  despite  being  handicapped  by 
the
constraints linked to lack of capacities and resources.
Seychelles  is  a  party  to  six  of  the  12  existing
United Nations conventions and protocols on terrorism.
My  Government  is  taking  steps  to  accede  to  the
remaining  six.  Furthermore,  we  have  also  decided  to
accede  to  the  1999  Organization  of  African  Unity
Algiers  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Combating
of Terrorism.
fully 
the 
supports 
Seychelles 
ongoing
negotiations  to  elaborate  a  comprehensive  convention
on  international  terrorism.  We  commend  the  personal
intervention  of  Secretary-General  Annan  in  trying  to
bridge  differences  and  achieve  consensus.  It  is  our
hope  that,  despite  the  complex  and  sensitive  nature  of
the 
international
community will arrive at an agreement very soon.
addressed, 
issues 
being 
the 
Bearing  in  mind  the  unprecedented  international
mobilization against terrorism and the magnitude of the
that 
the 
situation,  we  consider 
present 
larger,
influential Members of the United Nations, particularly
the permanent members of the Security Council, should
manifest  their  strong  political  will  and  backing  in
resolving  regional  conflicts  in  all  parts  of  the  globe.
Above all, they must intensify their efforts to achieve a
lasting  peace 
the  Middle  East.  Let  us  not
underestimate the fact that regional conflicts are often
breeding grounds for terrorism.
in 
It  was  mentioned  earlier  that  terrorism  is  rooted
in  poverty.  The  United  Nations  must  engage  its  full
potential to vigorously pursue its development agenda.
This  should  comprise,  inter  alia,  the  drive  for  the
alleviation  of  poverty  and  achieving  sustainable
development, the quest for equitable distribution of the
benefits  of  globalization,  and  the  achievement  of  the
Millennium  Summit  goals,  as  well  as  the  success  of
next  year’s  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  and  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.
As  a  small  island  State  whose  economy  depends
mainly  on  tourism  and  related  industries,  Seychelles’
vulnerability  is  obviously  at  issue  should  the  ongoing
military campaign in Afghanistan persist. As a peaceful
community  enjoying  stability  and  social  harmony,
Seychelles,  without  questioning 
its  strong  moral
support  for  the  cause  of  international  security,  also
encourages a dialogue giving the voices of reason and
compassion  a  chance  to  be  heard,  especially  with
regard  to  the  needs  of  the  Afghan  people,  who  have
lived three decades of war, resulting in the suffering of
very large numbers of refugees and displaced persons.
Finally, my country would like to lay stress on the
urgency  for  the  United  Nations  to  rethink  the  world
order,  not  just  in  terms  of  geopolitical  balance,  but  in
terms of a new ethic. International terrorism cannot be
fought by way of offensive weapons, either traditional
or  sophisticated.  To  agree  on  a  common  value  system
is,  in  the  middle  and  long  terms,  a  more  profitable
orientation for the whole of humanity.
This  being  said,  my  country  renews  its  adhesion
to the international coalition of nations that are united
in  the  war  on  international  terrorism  and  in  the  quest
for worldwide peace and security.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Sonatane  Tua  Taumoepeau  Tupou,
Chairman of the delegation of Tonga.
A/56/PV.56
Mr.  Tupou  (Tonga):  In  congratulating  Mr.  Han
Seung-soo  upon  his  assumption  of  high  office,  I  must
also  praise  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of
Finland, for an outstanding tenure as the President who
ushered  in  the  new  millennium.  If  the  Millennium
Summit  and  its  Declaration  could  be  considered  the
hallmark  of  Mr.  Holkeri’s  presidency,  then  Mr.  Han’s
already  has  one  of  equally  impressive  terms  with  the
Organization  and  its  Secretary-General  being  awarded
the  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  Therefore,  the  re-election  of
Mr. Kofi Annan for a second term as Secretary-General
is  sure  testament  not  only  to  his  own  personal
dedication,  creative  leadership  and  unwavering  sense
of  spirit,  but  also  to  the  vision  and  faith  of  the
Organization’s Member States.
I take this occasion to offer Tonga’s solace to all
affected  delegations,  and  in  particular  the  delegations
of  the  Dominican  Republic  and  the  United  States,  for
whom  the  tragedy  that  befell  their  communities  on  12
November has such a profound bearing.
Like  other  Member  States,  Tonga  takes  this
occasion  to  express  our  sympathy  and  condolences  to
the  President  and  people  of  the  United  States  for  the
suffering and loss of life incurred during the attacks of
11  September.  In  doing  so,  Tonga  condemns  in  the
strongest  possible  terms  these  acts  of  terror,  which
remain without moral or lawful justification.
The  events  of  11  September  have  focused  our
Organization’s  attention  on  terrorism  in  all  its  forms
and manifestations and, more importantly, on the need
to address this issue comprehensively. As such, Tonga
commends the timely and decisive action taken by the
Security  Council  with  respect  to  the  events  of  11
September.  In  doing  so,  we  fully  support  the  work  of
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  and  its  mandated
efforts to combat terrorism.
It has been stated that terrorism offends the core
values of our Organization, and that is true. The irony
is  that,  inasmuch  as  the  events  of  11  September  were
an  affront  to  one’s  sense  of  humanity,  it  is  this  very
humanity  that  has  risen  to  prevail  over  extreme
adversity. 
the
Millennium Summit was “We, the peoples”, that call is
all the more pertinent this year in our collective efforts
to combat terrorism.
last  year’s  catchphrase  during 
If 
As part of its contribution to these efforts, Tonga
is  taking  steps  to  carefully  study  and  consider  the
United  Nations  conventions  on  terrorism  that  it  is  not
33
A/56/PV.56
to.  However,  merely  becoming  parties 
party 
to
conventions  will  not  be  sufficient.  Concrete  steps  will
be  needed  if  small countries  like  ours  are  to  fully  and
meaningfully take part in these efforts.
relevant 
between 
exchange 
For  example,  Tonga’s  efforts 
to  develop,
implement  and  maintain  counter-terrorism  measures
will  require  sustained  financial  and  expert  technical
assistance  on  a  solid  foundation  of  a  network  of
information 
law
enforcement  and  aviation  agencies.  In  this  regard,  our
efforts in combating terrorism will be but a microcosm
for addressing a wider plethora of development issues.
the  Millennium  Declaration
concerned new commitments, or renewed commitments
in  some  instances,  Tonga  commends  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  for 
innovation  and  detailed
description  as 
the
implementation  of 
Declaration might be taken forward.
its 
to  how 
As  much 
as 
We look towards the International Conference on
Financing for Development as a further opportunity to
pursue  a  wide  range  of  crucial  thematic  issues  which
are  particularly  critical  to  the  development  aspirations
of  developing  countries.  The  balance  required  for
forging  consensus  on  these  thematic  issues  is  as
important as the balance between official development
assistance  and  the  mobilization  of  limited  domestic
resources.
to  enable  countries 
While  the  Declaration  of  the  recently  concluded
World  Trade  Organization 
(WTO)  Ministerial
Conference in Doha might give rise to optimism, Tonga
seeks  a  simplified,  streamlined  and  expeditious
accession  process  for  small  island  developing  States
like ours who wish to join the WTO. In this regard, we
congratulate  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  upon  its
entry  into  the  organization.  A  more  flexible  approach
and  time  frame  within  which  to  meet  obligations  are
needed 
to  adopt
measures so as to fully participate in the WTO system
and  to  fulfil  the  obligations  of  the  WTO  agreements
while  minimizing  any  adverse 
impacts  upon  our
populace.  Such  an  accession  process  can  be  achieved
only with continuing technical and financial assistance.
We  further  look  towards  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development  as  a  complementary  step  in
the  development  path  towards  the  reinvigoration  of
targeted  commitments  to  sustainable  development  —
especially  those  concerning  small  island  developing
States  —  as  contained  in  Agenda  21.  We  continue  to
like  Tonga 
34
call  on  the  international  community  for  refocused
commitment  to  and  implementation  of  the  Barbados
Programme  of  Action.  Tonga’s  preparations  for  this
Summit,  through  its  national  assessment  report,  will
include  identifying  areas  for  specific  and  priority
capacity-building needs as well as avenues by which to
take  greater  advantage  of  financial  and  technological
support.
the 
true 
index 
recognizes 
While  Tonga 
realities  of  small 
the  merit  of 
index  as  a  measure 
the
economic  vulnerability 
for
economic impacts, its application should encompass all
small island developing States and not serve as a means
to draw superficial differences between them. After all,
is  an  accurate
the  economic  vulnerability 
reflection  of 
island
developing  States,  and  if  those  realities  are  not  fully
addressed,  we  shall  continue  to  perch  precariously  on
the  edge  of  the  precipice.  Therefore,  we  continue  to
support 
appropriate
environmental  vulnerability  index,  and  we  commend
the  work  of  the  South  Pacific  Applied  Geoscience
Commission  in  this  regard.  We  believe  that  such  an
index  will  provide  accurate  indicators  of  factors  to
which  small  islands  are  vulnerable,  such  as  natural
disasters,  sea-level  rise  and  climate  change.  Tonga
therefore  welcomes 
at
Marrakech at the seventh session of the Conference of
the  United  Nations  Framework
the  Parties 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  further
opportunities for progress that it presents.
development 
consensus 
reached 
the 
of 
an 
the 
to 
As a developing ocean State, we continue to seek
our  fair  share  of  the  harvest  from  the  ocean  which
bounds  us  on  all  sides.  We  welcome  in  particular  the
preparations  for  making  effective  the  Convention  on
the Conservation and Management of Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean.
We urge the distant water fishing nations in our region
with a real interest in fisheries to make every effort to
become  party  to  a  convention  that  is  the  hallmark  of
our  commitment  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable
management  of  a  critically  important  resource.  Tonga
continues  to  value  the  work  and  decisions  this  year  at
the  eleventh  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the  United
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the
International Seabed Authority and the United Nations
Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans
and the Law of the Sea — UNICPOLOS.
We 
and
communication technologies as the way to go, and we
information 
continue 
view 
to 
take  full  advantage  of 
are making our own efforts to bridge the digital divide
to 
the  digital  revolution.
Maximizing  such  efforts  will  require  complementary
efforts in tandem with the international community and
the United Nations. We urge continued support for the
Small  Islands  Developing  States  Network,  SIDSnet,
and  efforts  to  strengthen  its  capacity  to  support  and
assist small island developing States.
Tonga  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration
of Commitment on HIV/AIDS and the establishment of
the  global  fund  to  combat  this  scourge.  We  look
forward  to  the  implementation  of  the  Declaration  and
commend those Member States who have pledged their
financial support to the fund.
We  continue  to  support  the  effort  to  reform  the
Security Council. In this regard, as was presented by a
delegation  during  the  debate  on  Security  Council
reform,  we  could  support  either  proposal  for  an
expansion  of  the  number  of  permanent  seats:  by  two,
with  an  expansion  of  the  number  of  non-permanent
seats  by  three,  or,  alternatively,  by  three,  with  the
number  of  non-permanent  seats  increased  by  four.
While  cognizant  that  issues  pertaining  to  the  veto  and
its  exercise  in  such  an  expansion  would  continue  to
demand  handling  with  the  utmost  sensitivity  and  care,
we  urge  that  where  there  are  issues  of  convergence,
steps should be taken to consolidate such convergence,
and  where  unresolved  issues  remain,  that  these  be  the
focus of continuing dialogue and discussion.
Finally,  with  respect  to  pertinent  regional  issues
in  the  Pacific,  Tonga  endorses  the  views  expressed  in
the  Nauru  communiqué,  now  contained  in  document
A/56/388,  which  was  the  outcome  of  the  annual
meeting  of  Pacific  Island  Forum  leaders  at  Nauru  in
August this year.
The Acting President: I now call on Mr. Clifford
the  delegation  of
Sibusiso  Mamba,  Chairman  of 
Swaziland.
Mr.  Mamba  (Swaziland):  It  is  an  honour  and
privilege for me to deliver this  statement  on  behalf of
His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III.  I  wish  to  convey  the
greetings  and  warm  wishes  of  His  Majesty,  Her
Majesty  The  Queen  Mother,  Ndlovukazi, 
the
Government  and  the  entire  Swazi  nation  to  all  our
friends and fellow Members of the United Nations.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  offers  her  warmest
congratulations  to  the  President  on  his  election  to  the
A/56/PV.56
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session. We are confident that with his proven abilities
and  leadership,  he  will  guide  us  to  success  in  our
deliberations at this time of crisis in global affairs.
Allow  me  to  express  our  appreciation  to  his
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  of
Finland,  who,  by  his  astute  and  judicious  leadership,
brought  to  a  successful  conclusion  the  work  of  the
fifty-fifth session.
The Kingdom of Swaziland would further like to
commend  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for
leading  our  Organization  so  effectively  through  his
tenure  thus  far.  We  will  continue  to  depend  on  his
sense  of  diplomacy  and  his
highly  developed 
undoubted  commitment 
to  achieve  global  peace,
stability  and  equitable  development.  The  recent  award
of the Nobel Peace Prize to both the Secretary-General
and  the  United  Nations  attests  to  the  aforementioned
attributes.
We are also grateful for the continuing dedication
and hard work of the staff of the United Nations, whose
efforts  are  needed  all  the  more  in  these  challenging
times.  In  this  regard,  we  call  upon  all  our  fellow
Members 
the
Secretary-General  and  his  staff  by  honouring  their
financial obligations, so that our Organization can have
sufficient  resources  with  which  to  meet  the  widening
scope of its activities.
to  demonstrate 
their  support 
for 
We  are  meeting  one  year  after  the  historic
gathering  of  world  leaders,  when  the  international
community sought to redefine and articulate a common
vision for the future of all its citizens. The goals to be
achieved  were  clearly  set  out  in  the  Millennium
Declaration as an outcome of the Millennium Summit.
Today  we  have 
the
responsibility — to evaluate just how far we have come
in that mission which we set for ourselves through this
Organization.  We  need 
to  address  honestly  our
shortcomings in commitment and action and to further
devise  practical  and  realistic  strategies  that  will  result
in  measurable  progress  in  areas  identified  for  urgent
action.
the  opportunity  — 
indeed, 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  therefore  believes
that  the  promotion  of  sustainable  international  peace
and  security  must  be  one  of  the  main  priorities  of  the
United  Nations,  because  it  is  clear  that  our  collective
aim  of  raising  the  living  standard  of  our  peoples  is
35
A/56/PV.56
possible only in conditions of global stability and with
nations living harmoniously alongside one another.
The Kingdom of Swaziland joined the rest of the
world in condemnation of the tragic terrorist attacks of
11  September,  to  which  the  international  community
must  respond  because  such  acts  are  an  assault  on
human  decency  and  humanity.  These  acts  cannot  be
justified  under  any  circumstances.  The  Kingdom  of
Swaziland repudiates such acts and aligns itself with all
peace-loving  people  around  the  world  not  only  in
condemning  such  acts,  but  also  in  calling  for  their
complete  eradication.  To  that  end,  the  Kingdom  of
Swaziland  will  do  all  in  its  power  to  prevent  acts  of
terrorism  and  to  ensure  that  the  support  and  financing
of  terrorism  cannot  take  root  on  Swazi  soil.  We  once
more  offer  our  sympathy  and  prayers  to  the  families
and friends of those who lost their lives in the tragedy.
Future global stability is threatened by the spread
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  as  well  as  the
unabated  proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light
weapons.  Vigorous  and  urgent  efforts  are  needed  to
eliminate  these  weapons.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome
the  successful  conclusion  of 
the  United  Nations
Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, as well as of
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We
deem their outcomes timely and necessary.
the 
reform: 
important  aspect  of 
While much has been done through the process of
reform  effected  by  the  Secretary-General,  it  is  also
recognized that there has been very little progress made
so  far  by  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  to  address
the  most 
the
restructuring of the Security Council. More intensified
efforts  should  be  made  to  bring  to  a  conclusion  the
deliberations on this issue, and we look forward to the
leadership of the President of the General Assembly in
advancing negotiations towards a lasting solution. The
Kingdom of Swaziland is still committed to the process
of the reform for the expansion of the Security Council
in both categories of its membership. In that regard, we
continue  to  support  the  African  position  in  favour  of
two  permanent  seats  and  three  non-permanent  seats
being allocated to the African continent.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  believes  that  the
United  Nations, 
regional
organizations,  must  take  on  a  more  proactive  role  in
preventive diplomacy to head off potentially explosive
conjunction  with 
in 
36
situations.  We  need  an  effective  early  warning
capability  to  deal  with  emerging  conflicts  and  much
closer  collaboration  between  the  Security  Council  and
the  Office  of  the  Secretary-General  in  our  efforts  to
meet security challenges wherever they may occur.
At  this  time,  our  Organization  is  understandably
focused  on  global  security.  The  crisis  in  the  peace
process between Israel and the Palestinian Authority is
a component of the overall challenge and continues to
pose a significant threat to security in both the Middle
East  and  the  wider  world  at  large.  The  Kingdom  of
Swaziland  believes  that  the  only  solution  to  the
continuing instability in that region is through peaceful
dialogue  and  a  return  to  the  spirit  of  compromise  and
understanding  that  has  characterized  the  relationship
between  the  two  sides  in  the  past.  We  commend  the
efforts  of  all  who  are 
lasting,
sustainable peace to the Middle East, and we offer our
encouragement and support for the achievement of this
goal.
to  bring 
trying 
to 
cause 
and 
restrict 
suffering 
On  the  African  continent,  security  challenges
continue 
the
development  of  many  millions  of  our  people.  While
this  is  undeniable,  it  is  also  clear  that  Africa  itself  is
taking  on  the  responsibility  to  find  solutions  to  the
crises  affecting  a  number  of  its  nations.  The  peace
processes  in  Burundi,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea and Angola
all have benefited from the involvement of our regional
and  subregional  groupings  and  from  the  efforts  of
dedicated  African  men  and  women.  The  Kingdom  of
Swaziland supports unequivocally these efforts, and we
join  our  fellow  African  Member  States  in  calling  for
continued  and  enhanced  support  from  the  United
Nations and individual countries and for commitments
in word to be followed up by action.
In  developmental  terms,  there  is  a  new  wind
blowing  through  all  the  African  countries,  bringing
fresh  hope  to  our  peoples  for  improved  standards  of
living  and  the  removal  of  the  burdens  of  the  past.  A
series  of  historic  agreements  by  all  African  countries
indicates  a  new  era  of  optimism  for  the  continent,  as
well as the start of a new relationship with the rest of
the  world.  The  continent  will  no  longer  tolerate  the
notion  of  unconstitutional  Governments,  and  we  have
all  confirmed  our  belief 
transparency  and
accountability  are  the  watchwords  of  governance  that
places people at the centre of development.
that 
investment  and 
We  also  believe  that  trade  with  the  rest  of  the
world  is  the  lifeblood  of  our  developing  economies,
encouraging the creation of businesses and inward and
local 
increasing  employment.  We
therefore  commend  those  countries  and  trading  blocs
that  recognize  the  importance  to  Africa  of  freeing  up
their markets for our goods and services and encourage
others to follow suit.
The  birth  of  the  African  Union  is  a  signal  to  the
rest  of  the  world  that  Africa  means  business  and  is
ready  to  back  up  its  words  with  action.  The  New
African  Initiative  proposes  a  partnership  that  is  based
on support for an Africa that recognizes and accepts its
responsibilities  from  a  world  that  understands  our
priorities  for  development.  We  commend  the  initiative
to  those  who  are  in  a  position  to  help  Africa  emerge
from the disappointments of the past into a prosperous
and secure future.
We are on the edge of a global recession, and its
effects  will  be  felt  hardest  among  those  of  us  in  the
developing  world.  After  a  decade  of  encouraging  talk
of the benefits of globalization, we are discovering the
hard truth: that we are nowhere near the stage of being
able  to  gain  advantage  from  a  world  of  liberalized
trade. This must now surely be plain for anyone to see.
Globalization in its unfettered form is likely to do
more  harm 
the  small,  vulnerable
economies  unless  measures  are  put  in  place  to  protect
them  in  the  short  to  medium  term.  There  must  be
agreed  ground  rules  to  regulate  the  conduct  of  free
trade  in  goods  and  services  to  ensure  an  equitable
exchange between unequal partners.
than  good 
to 
Considering  the  intrinsic  link  between  peace,
security  and  development,  the  United  Nations  has  an
even  bigger  responsibility  to  increase  its  efforts  to
secure resources to finance development, especially for
those  of  us  most  at  risk  in  these  times  of  economic
uncertainty.  We  believe  it  is  the  responsibility  of  the
wider  international  community  to  continue  to  provide
resources  to  assist  developing  countries  to  fight  their
way out of poverty.
The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to develop
confidently  and  peacefully,  according  to  the  wishes  of
its  people.  Our  review  of 
the  Constitution  was
completed  earlier  this  year,  and  the  recommendations
of the people will now be drafted into a legal document
for  final  approval  by  the  Swazi  nation  next  year.  This
in  a
vital  nation-building  process  will 
result 
A/56/PV.56
Constitution that is based entirely on the wishes of the
people  themselves,  and  we  are  confident  that  it  will
serve  the  best  interests  of  the  Kingdom  for  many
generations to come.
this  aim 
Poverty  alleviation  remains  the  top  priority  for
the Kingdom, and we continue to make great efforts to
achieve 
through  a  series  of  economic
measures,  such  as  investment  attraction,  increased
trade and the stimulation of local entrepreneurship. We
are  embarking  on  an  ambitious  programme 
to
maximize  the  potential  of  our  tourism  and  industry
sectors,  and  in  this  we  need  the  support  of  the
international  financial  institutions,  as  well  as  the
United Nations Development Programme.
Despite our best efforts, and in common with all
developing countries, the Kingdom is finding progress
difficult to achieve in the face of huge obstacles, with
the greatest undoubtedly being the threat to our future
posed  by  the  HIV/AIDS  crisis.  During  the  United
Nations  special  session  on  HIV/AIDS  held  here  in
June, we made clear the scale of the disaster facing our
nation. There is no doubt that the spread of HIV among
the  population  represents  our  greatest  development
challenge,  and  we  are  working  hard  in  a  combined,
national  effort  to  overcome  the  devastating  effects  of
the pandemic.
to 
However,  we  cannot  do  this  alone.  We  need
substantial  support 
implement  our  strategy  of
education,  prevention,  care  and  counselling.  Finances,
drugs, expertise and guidance are all urgently required.
The  very  survival  of  our  nation  is  at  stake,  and  we
appeal  once  more  to  the  United  Nations  and  to  the
international  community  at  large  not  to  abandon  us  at
this moment of supreme necessity.
that 
It  could  be  said 
there  has  been  an
inauspicious  start  to  the  twenty-first  century,  with  the
globalization  of  terrorism  and  the  reality  of  a  global
economic recession at the forefront of our minds. This
places all the more responsibility on the United Nations
to  harness  the  resources  and  commitment  of  the
citizens  of  the  world  for  the  benefit  of  humankind.  In
this  regard,  there  is  a  compelling  need  to  include  all
peoples  of  the  world,  as  envisaged  by  our  founding
fathers and as enshrined in the principle of universality.
Acknowledging  the  importance  of  this  principle,
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  raises  once  more  the
question  of  the  inclusion  of  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan  in  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
37
A/56/PV.56
associated  agencies.  We  appeal  on  behalf  of  the  23
million people of the Republic of China on Taiwan for
their  right  to  representation  in  the  United  Nations
Organization.  The  Government  and  people  of  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  have  shown  themselves
to be wholly committed to observing the principles and
spirit  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights
and of the Charter of the United Nations.
In  addition  to  the  peaceful  democratic  transition
that  took  place  last  year,  the  recent  admission  of  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  the  World  Trade
Organization  attests  to  the  significant  contribution  the
Republic of China has made and will continue to make
to  international  trade.  The  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan  has  shown  time  and  again  its  willingness  to
participate  in  efforts  to  bring  about  true  global  peace,
development  and  security,  and  its  commitment  to
utilize its resources for the benefit of mankind.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  has  been  at  the
forefront  of  efforts  to  support  the  readmittance  of  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  the  United  Nations.
Our  position  on 
remains
unchanged. We therefore appeal to our fellow Members
to  support  the  establishment  of  a  working  group  to
examine in detail the exceptional international situation
relating  to  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  with  a
important 
this 
issue 
view  to  ensuring  that  its  23  million  people  can
contribute  actively  to  the  international  community
through  participation  in  the  United  Nations  and  its
related agencies.
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  we  the  Member
States  of  the  United  Nations  agreed  to  seize  the
opportunity  to  forge  a  new  era  of  optimism  for  the
world,  based  on  equality,  peace  and  prosperity.  That
opportunity is fading fast, and we need to redouble our
efforts and determination to make that vision a reality.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  renews  its  commitment  to
the Charter and aims of the United Nations and offers
to its fellow Members assurances of continued support
for  all  activities  that  will  help  the  world  to  achieve  a
better future for all its peoples.
The President in the Chair.
Programme of work
The  President:  On  Wednesday,  21  November
2001,  in  the  morning,  the  General  Assembly  will  take
up  sub-item  (d)  of  agenda  item  16,  “Elections  to  fill
vacancies  in  subsidiary  organs  and  other  elections:
Election  of  the  Executive  Director  of  the  United
Nations  Environment  Programme”  as  the  second  item
for that morning.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
38
