United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
19th plenary meeting
Thursday, 4 October 2001, 3 p.m.
New York

A/56/PV.19
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 166 (continued)
Measures to eliminate international terrorism
(Zambia): 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/160 and
Corr.1 and Add.1)
Mr.  Musambachime 
Zambia
condemns,  in  the  strongest  terms,  the  barbaric  and
terrorist  acts  committed  against  the  United  States  of
America  on  11  September  2001.  I  wish  to  take  this
opportunity 
to  convey  my  Government’s  deepest
sympathies  and  sincere  condolences  to  the  United
States Government, its people and the families affected
by these senseless and dastardly acts.
issued 
The  President  of Zambia,  Frederick  Chiluba,  has
already 
these
heinous  and  unjustified  attacks.  In  the  first  statement,
made  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Republic  of
Zambia, Mr. Chiluba stated,
two  statements  condemning 
“We  unreservedly  condemn 
these  most
deplorable,  heinous  and  wanton  attacks  on
defenceless  people,  which  are  an  affront  to  all
norms of civilized human behaviour and a direct
threat 
security.  The
perpetrators  of  these  dastardly  acts  should  be
sought and swiftly brought to book to answer for
their crimes”.
to  global  peace  and 
In the second statement, issued in his capacity as
Chairman  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity,  Mr.
Chiluba said,
should, 
by 
the 
entire 
therefore,  be 
“We wish to state unreservedly that terrorist
acts  should  have  no  place  in  today’s  civilized
world  and 
strongly
international
condemned 
community”.
Today, in this Assembly and from this podium, I
reiterate  the  President’s  condemnation  of  all  acts,
methods  and  practices  of  terrorism  by  whomever,
whenever  and  wherever  they  are  perpetrated.  The
consequences of terrorism are indeed, the antithesis of
social  and  economic  development  and, 
therefore,
should  be  fought  by  all  democratic  and  peace-loving
nations.
I wish to assure the American Government of the
full  and  unconditional  support  and  cooperation  of  the
Government of the Republic of Zambia in all efforts to
pursue  the  perpetrators  of  these  cowardly  acts  and  to
ensure that they are brought to justice.
By  definition, 
terrorism  means  violent  acts
intended  to  create  a  state  of  fear  and  insecurity  in  the
general  public  or  a  group  of  persons.  My  delegation
has  noted  with  great  admiration  the  response  of  the
American people to these acts of terror. The American
people  have  not  been  intimidated.  Instead,  they  have
become more united and determined in their resolve to
recover from this tragedy.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-56356 (E)
*0156356*
A/56/PV.19
My  delegation  commends  the  gallant  efforts  of
the  Mayor  of  New  York,  our  host  city,  Mr.  Rudolph
Guiliani, who addressed us on Monday, 1 October, and
of Governor George Pataki, in coordinating the rescue
work.  Their  strong  leadership  enabled  the  City  to
quickly organize and coordinate the resources required
for rescue and recovery operations.
We  pay  tribute  to  the  brave  and  courageous
members of the Fire Department of New York, the New
York  Police  Department,  the  Port  Authority  of  New
York and New Jersey and others who made the ultimate
sacrifice while rescuing those trapped in the wreckage.
We also commend the many volunteers who have saved
so  many  lives  and  continue  to  give  their  time  to  the
rescue and recovery efforts.
the  Congress  and 
President  George  W.  Bush, 
the  American
Government, 
the  entire  nation
deserve  our  praise  for  the  tremendous  support  they
have  given  to  our  host  city.  The  heavy  death  toll  and
the  level  of  destruction  of  property  caused  by  the
terrorist  attacks  in  New  York  and  Washington,  whose
images  we  vividly  saw  on  television  with  horror,
disbelief and indignation, have demonstrated to us the
seriousness  of  the  threat  of  terrorism.  They  have  also
underlined  the  urgency  with  which  the  international
community  must  respond  to  this  problem,  whose
magnitude threatens international peace and security.
Indeed,  as  the  Secretary-General  said  last  week,
when  he  presented  his  report  on  the  work  of  the
Organization, the attack was
“a blow, not against one city or one country, but
against  all  of  us  ...  an  attack  ...  on  our  shared
values.  It  struck  at  everything  this  Organization
stands  for:  peace,  freedom,  tolerance,  human
rights  and  the  very  idea  of  a  united  human
family.” (A/56/PV.7)
The  large  number  of  fatalities,  who  included
nationals  from  80  countries,  and  the  destruction  of
important infrastructure, as well as the disruption of the
normal life of New Yorkers, the normal programme of
the  United  Nations,  international  travel  and  world
financial  markets  all  go  to  show  that  terrorism  is  a
global  problem,  which  requires  an  urgent  global
response.
We should not forget that this tragedy comes after
terrorist  attacks  on  the  embassies  of  the  United  States
in  Nairobi,  Kenya,  and  Dar  es  Salaam,  Tanzania,  and
2
on  the  USS  Cole  in  Yemen.  The  diversity  of  these
attacks  in  various  parts  of  the  world  clearly  indicates
that terrorism should be of concern to all nations.
including 
My  delegation  welcomes  and  supports 
the
measures, 
the  diplomatic  efforts,  being
undertaken by the United States Government to muster
an international coalition in the wake of the attacks in
New  York  and  Washington  D.C.  The  perpetrators  of
these  barbaric  and  heinous  attacks  deserve  our
strongest condemnation.
The 
the 
joins 
convention 
Zambian  Government 
that  have  called  for 
other
Governments 
immediate
conclusion  and  implementation  of  a  comprehensive
international 
terrorism.  My
Government  is  aware  that  much  work  has  been  done
both  by 
regional
organizations  in  this  regard.  However,  there  is  a  need
to  coordinate  all  this  work  in  order  to  establish  a
formidable and effective force against terrorism.
the  United  Nations  and  by 
against 
It  is  important  that  the  United  Nations  play  a
crucial  and  leading  role  in  the  global  response  to
terrorism. The United Nations is the natural forum for
building  the  necessary  universal  coalition  to  give
international 
struggle  against
terrorism.
legitimacy 
the 
to 
In  view  of  its  complicated  nature,  the  fight
against  terrorism  will  not  be  easy.  It  will  be  difficult
and  protracted.  There  is,  therefore,  an  urgent  need  for
the international community to adopt measures that are
comprehensive,  effective  and  sustainable,  which  will
not only deal with the current violent acts of terror, but
will  also  involve  long-term  measures  to  prevent  their
recurrence.  Hence  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  to
play a leading role.
My  delegation  would,  therefore,  like  to  express
its fullest support for Security Council resolutions 1368
(2001) and 1373 (2001), adopted on 12 September and
28  September  respectively,  and  General  Assembly
resolution  56/1,  adopted  on  12  September,  which  call
for  urgent  action  to  enhance  international  cooperation
to  prevent  and  eradicate  acts  of  terrorism.  It  is
important  for  the  international  community  to  rally
behind  these  resolutions  and  to  promote  unity  of
purpose  in  order  to  facilitate,  strengthen  and  enforce
action against terrorism.
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  with  the  full
implementation  of  the  measures  contained  in  these
those 
resolutions,  especially 
in  Security  Council
resolution 1373 (2001), we will win this war. This is a
war the international community cannot afford to lose.
It is now up to us, as individual Members of the United
Nations, to do our part and help win the war.
For  our  part,  my  Government  has  undertaken  to
cooperate  at  the  regional  and  international  levels  to
prohibit  and  to  prosecute  all  criminal  acts  intended  or
calculated  to  provoke  a  state  of  terror  in  the  general
public,  a  group  of  persons  or  individuals  targeted  for
whatever reasons, in any circumstance, as unjustifiable,
whatever  considerations  or  factors  may  be  invoked  to
justify them.
Mr.  Nguyen  Thanh  Chau  (Viet  Nam):  The
tragedies  of  11  September  will  go  down 
in
contemporary  history  as  one  of  the  most  heinous
crimes committed against innocent people. Some 6,000
men  and  women  perished  in  the  ruins  of  the  World
Trade  Center,  in  Virginia  and  in  the  wreckage  in
Pennsylvania,  while  thousands  of  others  are  suffering
in  hospitals.  Who  can  hold  back  the  tears,  looking  at
those photos along the sidewalks of Lexington Avenue,
in  Union  Square,  in  New  Jersey  and  elsewhere?  They
are  proof  of  the  suffering,  the  agony,  the  mourning  of
the  living  over  the  tragic  death  of  their  husbands,
wives, parents, children, siblings and friends.
Death in war is as painful as death in peace, I can
assure  the  Assembly.  Right  after  these  horrendous
killings  by  the  insane  terrorists,  President  Tran  Duc
Luong  and  Foreign  Minister  Nguyen  Dy  Nien  of  the
Socialist  Republic  of  Viet  Nam,  in  their  messages  of
condolence  addressed  to  President  George  Bush  and
Secretary  of  State  Colin  Powell,  extended  the  deepest
the  people  and
sympathy  and  condolences  of 
Government  of  Viet  Nam 
to 
the  people  and
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  and
voiced their indignation at and strong condemnation of
the  barbarous  acts,  which  involved  the  heavy  loss  of
innocent 
the  Foreign
Ministry  of  Viet  Nam  went  on  to  say  that  the
perpetrators  should  be  brought  to  justice  and  severely
punished.
lives.  The  spokesperson  of 
The  demand  to  vent  the  anger  that  has  built  up
inside  is  understandable.  In  the  same  vein,  it  is
necessary 
the  planners,  organizers  and
perpetrators  of  these  senseless  acts  of  terrorism  to
justice, but it should be done in such a way that it does
not  turn  into  acts  of  vengeance,  which  can  easily
to  bring 
A/56/PV.19
endanger  other  innocent  people.  Otherwise  we  could
get into a vicious circle in which violence may lead to
numerous other rounds of violence, with no finality in
sight.
As  terrorism  is  going  global,  counter-terrorism
should  go  global  as  well.  Solidarity  and  unity  among
people  around  the  world  and  their  participation  in  a
common endeavour are badly needed to meet the goal
of rooting out terrorists from our daily life. To this end,
a comprehensive strategy should be worked out to deal
with  the  political,  diplomatic  and  development  issues
of genuine concern. The United Nations, as a universal
Organization where every nation, big or small, acts on
an equal footing, should play a key role in the process,
through  discharging  its  functions  enshrined  in  the
Charter,  in  accordance  with  international  laws  and
relevant international conventions.
attacks 
and  bombings  of 
foreign  citizens,  bombarding 
While  condemning  in  the  strongest  terms  acts  of
terrorism  of  the  magnitude  of  those  of  11  September,
we  should  be  equally  resolute  in  our  determination  to
pay  attention  to  other  forms  of  terrorism,  such  as
kidnapping 
foreign
embassies and hijacking aeroplanes, to name just a few.
Having  been  victim  of  such  acts  of  terrorism  as  the
hijacking of an aeroplane of its national airline in 1978,
the 
its  diplomatic
representation offices in a number of capitals in Europe
and Asia in 1999 and the violation of its airspace by a
criminal pilot in 2000, Viet Nam is fully aware that it is
very important to have international cooperation in the
prevention of those crimes and in the punishment of the
culprits.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  each  nation  not  to
provide  shelter  or  support  in  whatever  form  to  the
terrorists,  before,  during  or  after  such  acts  of
barbarism. Viet Nam is willing to fulfil its obligations
in  conformity  with  national  and  international  law  in  a
worldwide endeavour to counter terrorism.
There  is  a  story  about  a  happy  six-year-old  girl.
She was happy because her mother had taken her to the
top  of  World  Trade  Center  building,  as  promised,  so
that she could look at the panoramic view of New York
on  that  fateful  day.  She  and  her  mother,  together  with
thousands of others, disappeared, forever, in the ruins.
It is better to act than to react. We should not wait
until  the  cow  is  stolen  to  lock  the  barn.  Something
should  be  done,  and  done  fast,  in  a  manner  that  is
allowed  for  under  the  Charter,  international  laws  and
3
A/56/PV.19
international  norms  governing  the  relations  among
sovereign States.
Mr.  Moutari  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  May  I
address to you, Sir, the heartfelt congratulations of the
Nigerian  delegation  on  your  eminent  election  to  the
presidency  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate
the Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan, on his eminent
re-election  to  a  second  term  at  the  helm  of  our
Organization.  On  behalf  of  the  Niger,  I  pay  a  ringing
tribute  to  him  for  the  strides  that  the  United  Nations
has  made  during  his  first  term  and  for  his  constant,
tireless efforts in the service of humanity.
the  measures 
taking 
to  eliminate
international 
place 
under
exceptionally  grave  circumstances  in  the  aftermath  of
the  despicable  terrorist  attacks  perpetrated  on  11
September  in  the  United  States  —  attacks  that  took
thousands  of  innocent  victims,  men  and  women  of  all
ages,  cultures  and  faiths  and  of  more 
than  80
nationalities.
This  debate  on 
terrorism 
is 
In  the  wake  of  these  terrible  attacks,  the  Niger
has  expressed  its  position  through  two  messages
addressed to the United States authorities — one by the
President of the Republic of the Niger and the other by
the  Government.  These  two  documents  state  that  the
Niger  vigorously  and  firmly  condemns  the  blind
violence  that  has  just  struck  innocent  people.  The
Niger  is  committed  to  becoming  involved  in  all
initiatives  taken  at  the  subregional  and  international
levels,  particularly  those  initiated  by  the  Organization
of  African  Unity,  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic
Conference  and  the  United  Nations,  so  that  we  can
come up with concerted, lasting solutions to the threat
posed by terrorism to international peace and security.
We  offer  every  means  at  our  disposal  for  cooperating
with the United States of America on the exchange of
information 
the
international  community 
to  display  prudence  and
discernment to avoid any confusion between terrorism
and Islam.
intelligence.  We 
invite 
and 
The Niger endorses the terms of Security Council
resolutions  1368  (2001)  and  1373  (2001),  notably  the
appeal addressed to all States to work together with the
utmost  urgency 
those  who
perpetrated,  organized  and  directed  these  terrorist
attacks.
to  bring 
justice 
to 
4
terrorism: 
the  Convention  for 
The Republic of the Niger condemns recourse to
violence as a means of putting ideas forward or settling
disputes. In practical terms, we have taken a number of
measures  to  combat  terrorism.  At  the  international
level,  the  Niger  has  proceeded  to  ratify  the  following
major  legal  instruments  designed  to  fight  the  various
manifestations  of 
the  Convention  on
Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board
Aircraft; 
the  Suppression  of
Unlawful  Seizure  of  Aircraft;  the  Convention  for  the
Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the  Safety  of
Civilian  Aviation;  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention
and  Punishment  of  Crimes  against  Internationally
Protected  Persons,  including  Diplomatic  Agents;  and
the  Organization  of  African  Unity  Convention  for  the
Elimination of Mercenarism in Africa.
the  Niger  signed 
in
conformity  with  article  III  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  a  safeguards
agreement  with 
the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency,  for  the  purpose  of  verifying  compliance  with
obligations  assumed  under  the  terms  of  that  Treaty  in
order to ensure that nuclear energy is not diverted away
from  peaceful  uses  towards  the  production  of  nuclear
weapons or any other nuclear explosive devices.
this  year, 
Moreover, 
In the same context, the Niger also entered into a
protocol this year with the Preparatory Commission for
the 
Treaty
Organization  relating  to  the  establishment  of  two
international monitoring stations in the Niger.
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Comprehensive 
My country has furthermore begun the process of
ratifying a number of texts on terrorism. These include
the  International  Convention  against  the  Taking  of
Hostages  and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty.
for 
and  Training 
of  Mercenaries, 
Finally, my country will begin as soon as possible
the process of ratifying the following conventions: the
International Convention against the Recruitment, Use,
Financing 
the
International  Convention 
the  Suppression  of
Terrorist  Bombings,  the  International  Convention  for
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the
Protocol  for  the  Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  of
Violence  at  Airports  Serving 
International  Civil
Aviation,  supplementary  to  the  Convention  for  the
Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the  Safety  of
Civil  Aviation.  Those  are  our  activities  at 
the
international level.
Domestically,  the  relevant  provisions  of  Niger’s
penal code punish acts of terrorism in conformity with
international  and  regional  conventions  on  the  subject.
And  article  78  and  subsequent  articles  of  our  penal
code punish attacks, plots and other crimes against the
authority  of  the  State  and  against  the  security  of  our
national territory.
the 
repository.  Here, 
Fighting  and  eradicating  international  terrorism
requires  comprehensive  collective  action  within  the
framework  of  international  law,  of  which  the  United
Nations 
the
Organization’s  important  contribution  in  the  legal
sphere. Under United Nations auspices, no less than 12
conventions have been formulated to deal with various
aspects  of 
legal
instruments, two draft conventions are under discussion
in the Sixth Committee. Niger hails the sponsors of the
initiatives 
the  Russian
Federation.
terrorism.  And  beyond 
that  regard,  India  and 
I  hail 
those 
is 
in 
The  draft  text  initiated  by  India  relates  to  a
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism.
That  would  be  an  important  legal  instrument  defining
the  concept  of  international  terrorism,  because  other
conventions  on  international  terrorism  are  sectoral  in
nature.  The  draft  convention  proposed  by  the  Russian
Federation relates to the suppression of acts of nuclear
terrorism.
My country very much hopes that those two draft
texts  will  be  completed  as  soon  as  possible.  The
adoption  of  the  two  draft  instruments  would  provide
the legal arsenal the international community needs to
combat and eradicate this scourge.
Let me recall two key truths that have emerged as
a  leitmotif  of  this  debate.  First,  Islam  is  a  religion  of
peace,  a  religion  of  moderation.  Thus,  no  credible
interpretation of the basic sources of the religion of the
Prophet can possibly justify murder or suicide, or even
less  suggest  that  these  offer  a  shortcut  to  paradise.
Muslim  scholars  the  world  over  are  unanimous  about
that.  And  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,
which  brings  together  56  States  representing  nearly  a
billion Muslims, has strongly condemned these acts as
contrary  to  Islam,  to  its  own  resolutions  and  to  the
Convention  of 
Islamic
Conference on Combating International Terrorism.
the  Organization  of 
the 
Secondly, 
blind
fanaticism,  which  is  in  turn  born  of  ignorance  and
poverty. It follows that, ultimately, any strategy for the
terrorism 
derives 
from 
A/56/PV.19
total  eradication  of  terrorism  cannot  be  limited  to  ad
hoc  or  unilateral  action.  Niger  therefore  welcomes  the
emergence of a consensus view that if the fight against
terrorism is to succeed, it will have to be collective and
will  have  to  encompass  the  need  for  a  more  just  and
equitable  international  economic  and  political  order
that  takes  more  careful  account  of  the  interests  of  the
greatest number of people.
It  is  obvious  that  extreme  poverty,  injustice  and
myriad frustrations can lead only to the extremism that
poses a serious threat to the whole of mankind. For our
fight to be effective, it must therefore be multisectoral
and  must  call  for  an  accelerated  fight  against  poverty
and injustice.
that 
We  hope 
the  high-level 
to  make  a  meaningful  contribution 
international
conference  proposed  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement
can  provide  an  appropriate  opportunity  to  formulate  a
programme  of  international  cooperation  that  would
include,  inter  alia,  substantial  technical  and  financial
assistance  to  the  least  developed  countries  to  enable
them 
the
international  fight  against  terrorism.  Those  measures
should  be  complemented  by  other 
forthcoming
conferences, including the International Conference on
Financing  for  Development,  to  be  held  at  Monterrey,
Mexico,  and 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development,  to  be  held  at  Johannesburg,  South
Africa.
to 
Mr.  Abulhasan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
Terrorism  is  among  the  most  important  challenges
facing  the  international  community.  It  arises  time  and
again  in  the  form  of  crimes  against  many  innocent
civilians.  These  crimes  are  intended  to  intimidate
societies and to spread chaos and panic among peoples,
and  they  serve  to  remind  us  of  our  responsibility  to
confront and eradicate this phenomenon.
to 
thinking  unrelated 
Events have proved that terrorist acts result from
extremist 
any  particular
geographical  area,  culture,  religion  or  other  factor.
Terrorism  breaches  the  basic  values  and  principles
embraced  by 
international
community  to  define  their  behaviour,  and  seeks  to
return  us  to  the  law  of  the  jungle  and  to  destroy  the
doctrine of free will.
the  members  of 
the 
Here,  my  delegation  reiterates 
the  powerful
condemnation issued by the Government of Kuwait of
the  11  September  terrorist  acts  against  the  United
States and its friendly people. We convey our heartfelt
5
A/56/PV.19
condolences to the families of the victims, and we pray
God to grant them patience and to hasten the recovery
of  those  who  were  injured.  We  reaffirm  our  total
support  for  United  States  Government  efforts 
to
confront terrorism and the criminal acts against it.
The role of the United Nations in confronting the
terrorist acts against the United States began less than
24 hours after the perpetration of those unprecedented
crimes against humanity. The Security Council adopted
its  resolution  1368  (2001)  of  12  September  2001,  by
which  it  condemned  the  terrorist  attacks  against  the
United States. On the same day, the General Assembly
adopted resolution 56/1, by which it too condemned the
terrorist attacks against the United States. I believe that
the  next  Security  Council  resolution  on  this  matter,
resolution  1373  (2001),  which  was  adopted  on  28
September  under  Chapter  VII  of 
the  Charter,
constitutes a political and legal response that will help
us  excise  this  cancer  that  has  spread  throughout  the
body of our world.
We  in  Kuwait  are  in  full  support  of  all  those
United  Nations  endeavours,  and  we  pledge  our  full
cooperation  with  the  international  community  in  any
action  that  could  result  in  the  eradication  of  these
crimes,  which  are  in  fact  crimes  against  all  humanity,
in bringing their perpetrators to justice, and in studying
their root causes and reasons with a view to eliminating
them or easing their impact.
the  entire 
International terrorism is one of the major issues
on  which 
is
focusing,  because  this  phenomenon  poses  a  specific
danger  to  people’s  lives.  No  State,  however  large  or
small, can be immune to terrorism.
international  community 
The  phenomenon  of  terrorism  did  not  come  into
existence only recently. The world has been aware of it
for  a  long  time  now.  What  is  new,  however,  is  the
increase,  in  the  last  few  years,  of  the  number  of
incidents and the expansion of its scope.
Kuwait  has  been,  and  still  is,  a  victim  of
terrorism,  and  in  particular  State  terrorism.  The  Amir
of  Kuwait  was  the  subject  of  an  assassination  attempt
during  which  a  Kuwaiti  aircraft  was  hijacked  and
Kuwaiti citizens killed. Many Kuwait institutions have
been  bombed,  killing  many  innocent  civilians  and
causing  tremendous  material  losses.  Thus,  when  we
speak of terrorism, we speak of a reality that we have
lived through in recent years.
6
is 
the 
take 
terrorism 
therefore,  must 
The  State  of  Kuwait  wishes  to  affirm  that
combating 
responsibility  of  all
countries  of  the  world.  We  must  work  at  all  levels  to
combat terrorism in a manner that does not contravene
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. All
States, 
legal
measures  —  at  the  local,  regional  and  international
levels — to combat and eradicate terrorism. They must
also implement the provisions of international law and
of  the  relevant  internationally  binding  resolutions,  in
financing,  or
order 
instigation  of 
the
harbouring  of  their  perpetrators.  We  would  like  to
emphasize 
importance  of  adopting  carefully
thought-out measures within that legal framework.
terrorist  acts  and 
the  execution, 
the  necessary 
to  suppress 
to  prevent 
the 
In that context, Kuwait supports the convening of
an  international  conference  under  the  auspices  of  the
United Nations whose goal would be to arrive at a clear
definition  of  terrorism  and  to  work  on  an  organized
joint  response  by  the  international  community  as  a
whole  against 
forms  and
manifestations.
terrorism 
in  all 
its 
The 
international 
This  is  a  responsibility  that  all  of  us  must
shoulder. 
community  must
concentrate  on  the  importance  of  addressing  the  root
causes 
the
phenomenon  of  terrorism  and  of  eradicating  such
causes.
the  escalation  of 
that  have 
led 
to 
once 
again 
Kuwait 
reaffirms 
total
condemnation  and  rejection  of  all  forms  of  terrorism.
However,  we  must  draw  a  distinction  between  the
genuine  struggle  of  peoples  for  self-determination  in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, and
terrorism that targets innocent civilians.
its 
We  in  Kuwait  believe  that  the  struggle  of  the
Palestinian  people,  for  example,  in  its  legitimate
resistance  to  Israeli  occupation,  cannot  by  any  means
be  considered  a  form  of  terrorism.  It  is  a  legitimate
form of self-defence and a defence of the rights of the
people, pre-eminent among which is the right to life, to
land and to sovereignty.
A  genuine  source  of  concern  is  the  campaign
being  waged  by  the  mass  media  to  try  to  link  Islam
with terrorism. Needless to say, Islam, like many other
divine  religions,  prohibits  the  killing  of  innocent
civilians.  This  is  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of
international 
strengthening
cooperation  between  peoples  in  order  to  establish
law,  which 
aim 
at 
peace.  Islam 
brotherliness. God Almighty says in the Koran:
is  a  religion  of  peace, 
love  and
“That if anyone slew a person — unless it be for
murder or for spreading mischief in the land — it
would be  as  if  he  slew  the  whole  people.  And  if
anyone saved a life, it would be as if he saved the
life of the whole people.” (The Holy Koran, V:32)
We  would  like,  therefore,  to  emphasize  that  it  is
inadmissible  to  link  terrorism  and  Islam,  or  terrorism
and Arabs, if we wish to avoid a clash of religions and
civilizations — the Arab and Islamic world on the one
hand, and the West on the other. We reject that linkage,
which is condemned on the international level. Anyone
who says such things does not want peace or the well-
being  of  peoples  and  is  working  against  all  values  of
peaceful  coexistence  between  peoples,  religions  and
cultures.
Our Holy Koran, which is the highest constitution
for all Muslims, is based on the concept that
“The most honoured of you in the sight of Allah
is (he who is) the most righteous of you.”
The  Holy  Koran  also  says  that  there  is  no  difference
between an Arab and a foreigner; only piety counts. It
is well-known linguistically that a foreigner refers to a
non-Arab.  This  is  our  religion.  This  is  our  Arab
culture.  These  are  the  principles  of  coexistence  we
abide  by,  which  conform  to  relevant  international
conventions and the Charter of the United Nations.
Our last prayer is to thank God and to praise the
Almighty.
Mr. Shihab (Maldives): I would like to begin by
reiterating  my  Government’s  condemnation  of  the
horrendous 
terrorist  attacks  on  New  York  City;
Washington,  D.C.;  and  Pennsylvania  on  11  September
2001. I would like also to reaffirm the condolences of
my  Government  to  the  Government  and  to  the  people
of the United States on the great loss of human life and
the trauma caused by the atrocious attacks. I also offer
my Government’s condolences to the other delegations
whose compatriots were also among the victims of the
outrage of 11 September.
We  must  not,  we  cannot  and  we  should  not
tolerate terrorism in any form.
The 
attacks  on 
the  United  States  have
undoubtedly  given  a  new,  more  sinister  meaning  to
international terrorism. The tremendous loss of life and
A/56/PV.19
incalculable  damage  to  property  resulting  from  the
attacks  has  demonstrated  the  viciousness  and  the
heinous  nature  of  international  terrorism  and  the  pain
and  anguish  that  it  can  cause  to  human  beings.  These
attacks have confirmed that civilization is no guarantee
against barbarism.
the  first  States 
My  country  was  among 
to
condemn  the  terrorist  attacks  on  the  United  States  in
the strongest possible terms. The Maldives has always
denounced and deplored terrorism in unequivocal terms
wherever and  whenever  it  has  occurred.  Upon  hearing
the  news  of  the  barbaric  attacks  on  the  United  States,
President  Gayoom  immediately  telephoned  the  United
States Government to condemn the attacks and pledged
full  support  to  the  United  States  in  the  hour  of  its
tragedy.  We  stand  by 
that  pledge  and  we  are
cooperating  fully  with  the  United  States  in  taking
measures  against  terrorism.  Small  as  our  country  is,
and  vulnerable  also  to  attacks  by  terrorists,  we  took
immediate  steps  to  increase  our  vigilance  against  any
movement by any terrorist from anywhere.
terrorism 
to 
finalize 
group 
on 
international 
that  strengthening 
My  country  believes 
is  progressing.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the
existing  national,  regional  and 
legal
frameworks against terrorism is essential to effectively
fighting the war against terrorism. My country is happy
to  note  the  positive  manner  in  which  the  work  in  this
field 
the
constructive  work  that  is  being  carried  out  by  the
working 
a
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism.
We are also looking forward to the early conclusion of
the  proposed 
the
suppression  of  acts  of  nuclear  terrorism,  which  we
believe  will  broaden  and  further  strengthen 
the
international legal regime. My delegation also supports
the early convening of the high-level conference, under
the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  formulate  a
international
jointly  organized 
community 
to 
forms  and
manifestations.
response  of 
terrorism 
in  all 
international 
convention 
for 
the 
its 
To  us  in  the  Maldives,  any  terrorist  attack
anywhere brings back memories of the carnage caused
by terrorists in the Maldives in November 1988. Every
year  since  that  time,  my  delegation  has  addressed  this
Assembly  on 
timely
international  cooperation  to  combat  and  eliminate
terrorism,  which  is  almost  always  transnational  in
nature. In an age of globalization and high finance, our
the  need  for  effective  and 
7
A/56/PV.19
vigilance against terrorism and organized crime has to
be stepped up.
Following  our  own  tragic  experience  as  a  victim
of  terrorism,  we  have  strengthened  out  national  legal
framework  to  counter  terrorism.  Under  our  Anti-
Terrorism  Law  of  1990,  I  am  happy  to  report  that  we
have  enabled  ourselves  to  be  in  full  compliance  with
Security  Council  resolutions  1333  (2000)  and  1373
(2001).  We  have  taken  measures,  such  as  those  called
for in resolutions 1333 (2000) and 1373 (2001), so that
no  activities  can  be  undertaken  in  the  Maldives  to
support terrorist acts. Our laws ensure that no terrorist
can  find  safe  haven  on  our  shores  and  that  terrorists
cannot  enter  the  Maldives,  let  alone  undertake  any
activities  in  the  Maldives.  We  have  acceded  to  the
International  Convention 
the  Suppression  of
Terrorist  Bombings, 
other
international  conventions  on  terrorism.  We  are  now
completing  the  process  of  signing  the  International
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of
Terrorism.
along  with 
seven 
for 
terrorist  activities.  Quite  often, 
As  in  the  past,  my  delegation  would  also  like  to
assert  that  terrorism  is  linked  to  a  wide  network  of
organized  crime.  We  must  therefore  target  not  only
terrorists, but all those who assist terrorists and benefit
from 
those  who
smuggle  arms  and  launder  funds  from  the  illicit  trade
in  narcotics  operate  hand  in  hand  with  terrorists.
Similarly, mercenaries who provide training and supply
weapons  of  terror  also  pose  a  serious  threat  to  peace
and  security.  In  this  regard,  we  believe  that  it  is  high
time  that  the  international  community  give  serious
thought 
the  International  Convention
against  the  Recruitment,  Use,  Financing  and  Training
of Mercenaries as well.
to  ratifying 
The  important  and  positive  role  that  regional
cooperation can play in combating terrorism cannot be
overemphasized.  Increased 
interaction,  consultation
and cooperation at the regional level can pave the way
to setting up effective security arrangements and legal
frameworks that complement efforts at the international
level.  In  South  Asia,  a  region  that  understands  the
destructive  effects  of  terrorism,  a  regional  Convention
on  the  Suppression  of  Terrorism  is  presently  in  force.
Under 
the  Convention,  States
members  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for  Regional
Cooperation (SAARC) are committed to extraditing or
prosecuting 
them  from
enjoying  safe  haven.  A  Terrorist  Offences  Monitoring
the  provisions  of 
thus  preventing 
terrorists, 
8
Desk  also  functions  under  SAARC  with  the  aim  of
collecting, analysing and disseminating information on
incidents of terrorism, along with tactics, strategies and
methods  used  by  terrorists.  However,  a  lot  more
remains  to  be  done  if  we  are  to  have  an  impact  on
terrorism in our region.
My  delegation  would  like  to  compliment  the
Security  Council  for  the  prompt  manner  in  which  the
horrifying  attacks  on 
the  United  States  were
condemned and for quickly acting under Chapter VII of
the  United  Nations  Charter,  detailing  measures  to  be
taken by the world community to combat terrorism. In
a  global  village,  an  attack  against  one  is  an  attack
against all, especially where the fundamental tenets of
civilization  come  under  attack.  My  country  has  long
valued  and  stressed  the  importance  of  the  Declaration
on  the  Principles  of  International  Law  concerning
Friendly  Relations  and  Cooperation  among  States,
adopted  by  the  United  Nations  in  October  1970  in
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,
contained 
resolution  2625
(XXV).  Adherence  to  these  Principles  is  so  crucial  to
the peace, security and well-being of small States, such
as the Maldives. In a globalized world, the observance
of these Principles is of profound importance indeed to
all States, big and small.
in  General  Assembly 
Our aim is to live in a more peaceful world, one
where the small shall feel as secure as the mighty and
where the fruits of human labour and ingenuity are not
destroyed  by  wanton  acts  of  barbarism.  Never  before
has  the  international  community  come  together  to
speak  in  one  voice,  as  it  has  now,  to  condemn  the
senseless  and  brutal  murder  of  so  many  people.  We
must seize the moment to ensure that such a tragedy is
never  allowed  to  occur  again.  We  stand  shoulder  to
shoulder  with  the  world  community  in  doing  our
utmost to this end.
Mr. Kawah (Liberia): Over the past three weeks,
we  have  concentrated  on  the  matter  of  terrorism  to  a
degree  which  is  unprecedented,  not  only  here  at  the
United  Nations  but  throughout  the  entire  world.  This
high  degree  of  attention,  as  many  have  observed,  is
principally the result of the wave of terrorism recently
perpetrated  on  the  United  States  of  America  and  the
American  people,  which  has  caused  an  immeasurable
loss  of  innocent  life,  acute  fear  and  suffering,  and
economic  dislocation  and  downturn  throughout  the
world.
Terrorism  is  not  a  new  phenomenon;  however,  it
is  changing  in  its  scope,  parameters  and  scale.  It  has
reached a new level of viciousness and insidiousness; it
has  reawakened  fear  and  vulnerability  within  us
because  of  its  senselessness  and  because  we  cannot
rationalize or comprehend it.
We  sit  here  deliberating  only  a  brief  distance
from the site of one of the greatest crimes ever inflicted
on civilization, a crime that threatens to tear apart our
spirit  and  our  vision  of  a  better  world.  The  United
Nations  is  now  called  upon  to  draw  upon  its  great
reserves  of  resolve  so  as  to  eliminate  the  scourge  of
humankind  that  has  brought  death  and  sorrow  to  so
many  of  God’s  children.  We  must  respond  together  to
the call.  All  of  us  have  a  stake  in  the  outcome  of  this
struggle.
Liberia  is  a  small  nation  with  big  problems:  we
have  been  torn  apart  by  a  long  civil  war,  we  are
suffering  as  a  result  of  the  ongoing  conflicts  that
surround us and we are beset by internal political strife.
Yet  we  hold  onto  a  clear  vision  that  we,  too,  must
contribute our voice and support to world efforts to rid
all peoples and cultures of the threat of ignorance and
evil.
Terrorism can be allowed no part of our collective
future.  Even  as  we  speak,  small  groups  of  self-
appointed  rebels  are  challenging,  with  arms, 
the
stability  and  progress  of  our 
fragile  Liberian
democratic  system.  They  bring  death,  destruction  and
anarchy, not truth or enlightenment. Now is the time to
call a halt to terrorism, with its corrosive effect on our
social and religious foundations.
In  their  grief  and  shock  over  the  events  of
11 September,  the  Americans  have  issued  a  call  to  all
of  us  to  join  in  a  common  effort  to  eliminate  the
elements among us that would destroy our values, kill
our innocents and impose fear on our lives. The nations
here  must  unite  to  prevent  even  transient  success  for
those elements.
My  Government  has  already  expressed  to  the
Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States  of
America  its  profound  regret,  as  well  as  its  horror  and
disbelief, at the cold-blooded murder of so many of its
citizens that took place on 11 September. As President
Taylor said,
“We share the sorrow and distress of the suffering
American  people.  In  the  name  of  humanity,  love
A/56/PV.19
and  affection,  which  have  no  boundaries,  we
identify with you and share your anxiety”.
For many years now, terrorism has been growing
at  an  alarming  rate  and  has  visited  every  Member  of
this Organization. In recognition of the need to combat
this  scourge,  world 
in 
the  Millennium
Declaration, committed themselves to
leaders, 
“take  concerted  action  against 
international
terrorism, and to accede as soon as possible to all
the 
conventions.”
(resolution 55/2, para. 9)
international 
relevant 
Equally  important  is  adherence  to  those  conventions.
To  this  end,  the  Government  of  Liberia  has  instructed
me  to  sign  the  International  Convention  for  the
Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  and  the
International  Convention 
the  Suppression  of
Terrorist Bombings.
for 
At 
the 
thirty-fifth  ordinary  session  of 
the
Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the
Organization of African Unity (OAU), held in Algiers,
Algeria, in July 1999, the OAU adopted a Convention
on  the  Prevention  and  Combating  of  Terrorism.  This
Convention  explicitly  acknowledges 
that
terrorism  constitutes  a  serious  violation  of  human
rights,  in  particular  of  the  rights  to  physical  integrity,
life,  freedom  and  security,  and  that  it  impedes  socio-
economic  development  through  the  destabilization  of
States. 
that  political,  philosophical,
ideological, racial, ethnic or other motives can never be
used in justification or defence of terrorist acts.
It  concludes 
the  fact 
Today, the peoples of the entire world — not only
those  of 
the  United  States  and  other  developed
countries — face personal and collective dangers from
this  new  wave  of  terrorism  from  lone  individuals  or
small  groups  of  people  who,  for  personal,  selfish  and
parochial  reasons  bring  untold  tragedy  to  the  lives  of
other  people  by  committing  unspeakable  acts  of
violence.
this  gathering  should 
In  discussing  such  manifestations  of  terrorism
this
and  United  Nations  plans  for  dealing  with 
affliction, 
that,
remember 
although  such  plans  are  essential  in  the  short  term,  in
the longer term our Organization must not lose sight of
the  underlying  causes  of  terrorism.  In  this  respect,  we
are  still  shrouded  in  a  considerable  fog  of  ignorance,
and sometimes of denial.
9
A/56/PV.19
We believe that the root cause of these nefarious
acts is the lack of a proper balance between the liberty
of the individual or group of individuals, and the needs
of society in general. It has been said that
“Liberty  causeth  man  to  overstep  the  bounds  of
propriety,  and  to  infringe  on  the  dignity  of  his
station.  It  debaseth  him  to  the  level  of  extreme
depravity and wickedness.” (Kitab-i-Aqdas, verse
123)
We must reconcile ourselves to the fact that the liberty
of  individuals  or  groups  of  individuals  to  act  as  they
wish can never be absolute.
In  our  search  for  solutions  and  remedy,  we  must
acknowledge that peace, security and the well-being of
mankind will not be obtainable unless and until global
unity  is  firmly  established.  What  we  need  to  develop
among  mankind  is  genuine  respect  for  humanity.  This
is the goal we should pursue, and, once it is achieved,
the  fierce  nationalism  and  parochial  interests  that
underlie,  or  are  used  as  justification  for,  acts  of  terror
will  be  undermined.  In  short,  we  should  develop  a
sense of world citizenship. Accordingly, the oneness of
mankind  should  become  a  conscious  goal  of  our
political,  educational  and  religious  life.  Every  nation,
race,  religion,  sect  or  tribe  should  have  its  rightful
place 
this  global  village.  Globalization  must
manifest itself in equity, true universality and purity of
self,  and  divest  itself  of  nationalistic  and  exploitative
trappings.
in 
In condemning all acts of terrorism, the Liberian
Government,  in  conjunction  with  other  nations  of  the
world,  supports  the  initiatives  of  the  Non-Aligned
Movement, 
for  a  high-level
conference  on  international  terrorism,  held  under  the
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  focus  on  the  total
elimination  of  acts  of  war  launched  by  terrorists  the
world over.
including 
the  call 
The conclusion of such a conference should be to
universally  condemn  every  act  of  terrorism,  be  it
committed  by  ally  or  foe;  create  an  international
cooperation  centre;  make  economic  opportunities  and
development available  to  and  possible  for  all;  identify
the  causes  of  despair  and  poverty  and  act  upon  that
knowledge;  continue  to  acknowledge  the  diversity  of
customs  and  religion  and  to  recognize  economic
disparities; ensure that the helpless and innocent do not
suffer;  and  ensure  full  respect  for  all  international
10
conventions so that no nation, large or small, abandons
basic principles of law.
to  our  cherished  norms  of 
Liberia  stands  ready  to  do  its  part  to  defeat  this
menace 
international
interaction  that  foster  international  trade,  travel  and
commerce.  Furthermore,  my  Government  is  in  full
support  of  the  anti-terrorism  efforts  of  the  United
States and other nations and unreservedly condemns all
acts  of  terrorism,  their  perpetrators,  organizers  and
sponsors.  It  is  prepared  to  participate  in  any  and  all
efforts  to  eliminate  this  crime  from  the  face  of  the
earth.  In  doing  so,  we  must  make  certain  that  the
principles enshrined in the Charter of this Organization
are upheld.
Finally, we must admit in all candour that it will
be  impossible  to  eliminate  terrorism  unless,  and  until,
some  sort  of  conscious  consensus  is  reached  on  the
norms that would govern world unity and togetherness.
As  has  been  said,  “The  earth  is  but  one  country,  and
mankind its citizens.”
Mr.  Erdös  (Hungary):  Taking  the  floor  after  so
many  speakers  in  this  debate  on  terrorism,  I  fully
recognize that previous speakers have already covered
the  multiple  aspects  of  both  how  we  all  felt  and  how
we  continue  to  feel  about  what  happened  on  11
September  in  New  York  City  and  other  places  in  the
United  States  and  how  the  international  community
should be waging an uncompromising struggle against
this deadly phenomenon of our times.
Here  at  the  United  Nations,  we  have  been
speaking for years about the many global problems that
transcend  national  borders  and  that  affect  each  and
every one  of  us.  Reference  was  made  not  just  once  to
international terrorism as one of those global problems.
As  time  went  by  and  events  unfolded,  it  became  ever
more obvious that no one could feel safe and secure in
the face of the many difficult issues that have left their
dramatic  imprints  on  life  in  the  four  corners  of  our
globalizing  world.  The  barbaric  acts  of  11  September
have  proven  with  elementary  force  that,  in  fact,
terrorism  knows  no  boundaries. 
Its  horrifying
consequences  show,  as  unambiguously  as  ever,  the
interrelated  nature  of  our  societies.  They  demonstrate
that terrorist acts in one country can have wide-ranging
repercussions in many other parts of the world.
As  has  already  been  said  many  times  in  the  last
three weeks, the terrorist strikes in this country are an
attack  against  everything  we  all  stand  for,  everything
we  believe  in,  and  go  against  the  very  foundations  of
our  civilization.  I  wish  to  reiterate  my  Government’s
position  that  there  can  be  no  justification  whatsoever
for any kind of terrorist act.
Hungary fully supports the statement made by the
European  Union  in  this  debate.  Combating  terrorism
must  become  a  priority  objective  of  the  international
community.  Since  this  struggle  will  be  a  multifaceted
and  complex  undertaking,  we  need 
the  strongest
resolve,  unrelenting  determination  and  effective
coordination within the community of nations. A global
coalition is imperative, where all nations act in unison
and  in  the  same  cohesive  spirit  of  purpose  in  order  to
prevent and to suppress the scourge of terrorism. This
large  coalition  is  emerging  as  we  speak  within  the
framework of the United Nations.
What happened in New York City and elsewhere
in  this  country  in  early  September  was  a  wake-up
call — perhaps the last wake-up call — for all of us at
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  We  all
have  been  speaking  about  the  threat  of  international
terrorism. We have been witnessing its rampage across
the  globe.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  we  were  taking
various steps to counter its threat; yet, we were caught
unprepared as we watched the horrible outburst of this
contemporary  evil  in  our  host  city.  By  now,  the
question is not so much about choosing sides any more
in  this  planetary  fight  against  terrorists  as  it  is  about
the most effective ways to combat them.
Mr.  Kamara  (Sierra  Leone),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
The  United  Nations  has  not  remained  idle  in  the
face of the September tragedy. The full solidarity of the
world community, including my own country, with the
Government  and  people  of  the  United  States  is  on
public  record.  In  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the
tragedy,  our  world  Organization,  through  the  Security
Council  and  General  Assembly,  reacted  to  the  events
without delay and in no uncertain terms. And the most
recent Security Council resolution is an integral part of
the  emerging  strategy  to  identify  ways  and  means  of
taking  up  the  challenge  of  terrorism,  this  time  with
more determination and consistency, including ongoing
monitoring activities. Part of this strategy should be the
completion  of  work  on  the  two  draft  international
conventions  on  the  suppression  of  nuclear  terrorism
and on international terrorism.
A/56/PV.19
There  might  be  many  other  ways  to  tackle  this
global  enemy  of  humankind.  Various  other  United
Nations  entities,  such  as  the  Office  for  Drug  Control
and  Crime  Prevention 
in  Vienna,  multilateral
organizations,  such  as  Interpol  and  many  others,  all
need to have a second look at their strategies and action
plans,  which  will  have  to  be  updated  and  better
coordinated  in  order  to  achieve  maximum  efficiency.
Simultaneously, and no less importantly as a reflection
of  expected  evolution  in  the  multilateral  field,  the
development  of  a  harmonized  network  of  national
legislative measures is also necessary.
to 
Aware  of 
the  European  Convention  on 
the  significance  of  regional  and
international cooperation, Hungary has concluded a set
of  bilateral  treaties  on  terrorism  with  28  States,
including  most  of  its  neighbours.  In  1996,  Hungary
acceded 
the
Suppression  of  Terrorism  in  the  framework  of  the
Council of Europe. Hungarian efforts in this field have
also  been  bolstered  by  ever-increasing  cooperation
with 
the  European  Union.  Equally,  Hungary’s
membership in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
entails  cooperation  and  the  provision  of  concrete
support 
terrorism.
Hungary 
the  12  major
international  conventions  pertaining  to  international
terrorism.  As  regards  the  two  remaining  ones,  on  7
September  the  Hungarian  Parliament  ratified  the  1997
International  Convention 
the  Suppression  of
Terrorist  Bombings. 
International
1999 
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of
Terrorism will also be signed this year and ratified by
our Parliament at an early date.
in 
is  also  party 
the  collective  fight  against 
to  10  of 
for 
The 
in  a 
The  Hungarian  Parliament, 
resolution
adopted  in  the  wake  of  the  terrorist  attacks,  called  for
the  further  development  of  international  law  in  the
struggle against global terrorism. Hungary believes that
efforts in this direction must be intensified. Regarding
the  two  as  yet  unfinished  international  conventions
related to terrorism, my country is looking forward to a
constructive  discussion  on 
the  draft
convention on the suppression of nuclear terrorism and
believes that the time has come for speedy finalization,
on  a  priority  basis,  of  the  draft  on  a  comprehensive
convention on international terrorism.
text  of 
the 
We  have  to  recognize  that  this  vast  strategy  of
several
combating 
to  defeat
interdisciplinary  elements.  The  struggle 
terrorism  must  be  an  overarching  theme  in  the  whole
threat  contains 
terrorist 
the 
11
A/56/PV.19
and 
social, 
in 
the 
humanitarian 
spectrum  of  human  activities, 
fields  of
diplomacy,  security,  the  judiciary,  intelligence  and  in
financial, 
economic
endeavours. For this struggle to be effective, adequate
solutions must be found to the many issues that create
instability and conflict and that are the breeding ground
for  the  phenomenon  of  terrorism.  Each  and  every
nation  on  Earth  must  feel,  irrespective  of  its  location
on the map and the level of its development, that it is a
genuine  stakeholder  in  this  fight,  that  this  universal
undertaking 
national
preoccupations and priorities.
responds 
also 
to 
its 
Finally, a strong alliance against terrorists implies
much  better  coordination  of  our  efforts  to  reach  the
goals  laid  down  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  It
implies the most resolute rejection of suggestions of a
clash  among  various  religious  beliefs  and  cultural
traditions.  It  also  implies  an  unequivocal  refusal  of
cheap demagoguery, nationalist extremism and racism,
at a time when tolerance, mutual understanding, human
solidarity and openness must become, as importantly as
ever,  the  guiding  principles  in  our  quest  to  create
enlightened democratic and inclusive societies.
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in
Arabic):  I  am  honoured  at  the  outset  to  extend  to  Mr.
Han our heartfelt congratulations on his election to the
presidency  of  this  important  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  which 
in  very  unusual
international circumstances. We are fully confident that
his  wisdom  and  political  expertise  will  contribute  to
the success of our work.
is  being  held 
I wish on this occasion to express our thanks and
appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for  his  report  on  this  item,  which  will  strengthen
international endeavours to combat terrorism. I wish to
show  my  full  support  for  the  positions  stated  to  the
Assembly by my colleague the representative of Libya
in his capacity as Chairman of the Arab Group.
On 11 September the entire world saw three grave
attacks on America, in which thousands of its citizens
were  killed.  Citizens  of  80  other  countries  who
happened to be at the sites where these barbaric attacks
occurred  were  also  killed.  The  perpetrators  of  these
criminal and regrettable acts, despite the fact that they
directly  targeted  the  city  of  New  York  —  the  United
Nations  host  city  —  as  well  as  the  sovereignty  of  the
United  States,  with  which  the  United  Arab  Emirates
has  very  unique  friendly  relations  and  solid  historical
12
interests,  have  shown  their  real  extremist  face,  which
has  targeted  not  only  the  American  people,  but  also
other  people  who  have  expressed  their  solidarity  with
the United States.
to 
The United Arab Emirates, which was one of the
first  countries  to  express  its  heartfelt  condolences  to
the  people  and  the  Government  of  the  United  States
and the families of the victims of these brutal attacks,
which  we  strongly  condemn,  determined  from  the
moment of the attacks to cooperate in the exchange of
information  and 
fully  support  all  American
endeavours  in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  in  pursuing
the  perpetrators  and  in  bringing  them  to  justice.  We
have  cut  off  diplomatic  relations  with  the  Taliban
Government,  since  it  has  not  responded  to  the  will  of
the international community, which has called for it to
surrender Osama bin Laden to face a fair international
trial  for  the  indictments  against  him  in  the  attacks  on
the  United  States  and  in  compliance  with  Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), adopted last Friday.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  has 
taken  some
rigorous measures to stop attempts to finance terrorism,
including  announcing  a 
individuals  and
organizations that have ties to terrorist attacks, freezing
their accounts, deposits and investments and imposing
punitive  measures  on  any 
individual  conducting
transactions with these entities.
list  of 
the 
international  community 
The  position  and  action  of  the  United  Arab
Emirates  in  this  regard  was  neither  a  coincidence  nor
the result of external pressures. It was the result of our
absolute belief in human justice and the importance of
joining 
to  combat
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  This
phenomenon  has  become  one  of  the  most  important
international  challenges  and 
threatens  all  humans
regardless  of  creed,  because  of  the  growth  and  spread
of  criminal  methods  used  by  terrorists.  This  not  only
causes the loss of innocent civilians and the destruction
of public and private property, but also undermines the
security  and  the  stability  of  States  and  their  national
economies.
In  condemning  all  terrorist  practices,  whatever
their  source  or  objective,  we  wish  to  emphasize  that
combating  this  dangerous  phenomenon  that  extends
beyond  national  and  regional  borders 
joint
international responsibility. No State or region can face
it  alone.  This  requires  primarily  that  the  international
community  find  a  framework  for  a  comprehensive
is  a 
terrorism 
specific  definition  of 
strategy  to  combat  it,  based  on  justice,  balance  and
transparency.  We  would  like,  as  a  priority,  to  find  a
clear  and 
that
distinguishes  between  criminal  acts  against  innocent
civilians  and  their  property  and  the  interests  and
stability  of  countries  and  peoples,  and  between  the
legitimate struggle of people under foreign domination
or  occupation 
self-
determination,  which  is  not  considered  a  form  of
terrorism on the basis of the Charter, international law
and resolutions of international legitimacy.
liberation 
their 
and 
for 
We  consider  State  terrorism,  which  is  practised
by  the  Israeli  Government  against  the  Palestinian
people  daily,  to  be  the  most  dangerous  kind  of
international  terrorism.  This  includes  the  killing  of
thousands  of  innocent  civilians,  arbitrary  arrests,  the
prevention  of  people’s  movement  and  of  the  transport
of  food  and  medication,  the  confiscation  of  land,  the
destruction  of  property  and  infrastructure  and  the
desecration of Islamic and Christian holy places. All of
this  takes  place  in  disregard  of  international  law  and
relevant  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  that
prohibit collective terrorism against an entire people, in
accordance  with  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human
Rights  and  the  Geneva  Convention  relative  to  the
Protection  of  Civilian  Persons  in  Time  of  War,  of  12
August 1949.
Therefore,  we  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  the
international  community  to  the  fact  that  the  Israeli
Government  is  trying  to  exploit  the  current  unusual
situation,  following  the  attacks  against  the  United
States, to kill and maim and compel many Palestinians
to  emigrate  from  their  land  and  end  the  legitimate
resistance to bring about their liberation, independence
and self-determination.
Like  other  speakers,  we  wish  to  emphasize  the
need  to  reach  a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting
settlement for the Palestinian question and the situation
in the Middle East, which will put an end to frustration,
despair  and  extremist  responses  that  are  violent  and
threaten not only the region, but the world as a whole.
We are very concerned about the purpose of biased and
provocative  mass  media  campaigns  and  modern
communications  networks  deployed  against  Arabs  and
Muslims,  which  have  caused  hundreds  of  them  to
suffer bodily, financial and moral harm as institutions,
individuals and groups living abroad.
A/56/PV.19
We 
that 
insist 
efforts 
international 
be
strengthened  to  put  an  end  to  these  racist  acts,  which
we  consider  terroristic,  against  Arabs  and  Muslims.
This 
form  of  cultural  and  civilizational
confrontation, which will only lead to hostility between
peoples  and  nations  and  heat  up  hot  spots  and  cause
insecurity and instability all over the world.
is  a 
role  of 
to  emphasize 
the  United  Nations 
In  conclusion,  we  wish 
the
important 
in  any
arrangements or international plan to combat terrorism
within  the  context  of  the  conventions  and  protocols
dealing with all forms of combating terrorism, the most
important of which is the International Convention for
the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. In that
regard, we urge the international community to respond
to  the  proposals  made  by  some  Arab  leaders  and  the
leaders  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  in  favour  of
holding an international conference under the auspices
of  the  United  Nations.  This  would  contribute  to
providing  a  complete  and  joint  response  to  combat
terrorism  politically,  technologically  and  legally.  This
will finally put an end to this evil, which is threatening
not  only  our  present  economic,  cultural  and  human
wealth, but also our future generations.
Mr.  Aldouri  (Iraq)  (spoke 
the  statement  made  by  His  Excellency 
in  Arabic):  My
delegation  would  like  at  the  outset  to  associate  itself
with 
the
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Socialist  People’s
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  on  behalf  of  the  Arab  Group
in the United Nations.
that 
truly 
touches  upon 
The  General  Assembly  is  discussing  today  an
issue 
the  essence  of
international  relations  and  the  interests  of  States,
nations,  peoples  and  religions.  The  discussion  should
therefore be objective and constructive so we can reach
a  common  position  that  deals  with  the  core  of  the
problem  before  us.  All  this  must  be  done  without
pressure, 
hegemony,
domination and unilateral action.
exploitation, 
blackmail, 
It is clear that the current discussion is a result of
the  events  that  took  place  in  the  United  States  on  11
September  2001,  which  led  to  the  death  of  a  large
number  of  victims.  This  raises  a  number  of  questions
that  require  all  of  us  to  think  responsibly,  while
remaining resolutely faithful to the responsibilities that
we shoulder under the Charter.
The  United  Nations  and  other  regional  and
international  organizations  have  made  continuous  and
13
A/56/PV.19
resulted 
tireless  efforts  since  1972  to  deal  with  the  issue  of
terrorism.  This  has 
in  a  number  of
international  conventions  and  agreements  on  various
types  of  actions  that  deal  with  several  aspects  of  the
question.  But  we  should  recall  that  these  efforts  have
regrettably still not even led to an agreement on a clear
definition  of  terrorism,  and  that  the  matter  is  still
subject to political opinions, speculations and interests.
On the other hand, we should also recall that the
discussion  of  this  issue  within  this  Organization  has
been  linked  from  the  beginning  with  the  necessity  of
studying the roots of the problem and the reasons that
lie  behind  committing  such  actions,  which  are  to  be
combated. And we support combating them. We should
all admit to the great shortcomings in this area.
Today’s world suffers from a number of negative
phenomena.  We  are  witnessing  global  suffering,
especially  in  the  third  world  —  the  countries  of  the
South  —  because  of  political  coercion,  economic  and
political blackmail, the use of force and aggression, the
unilateral conduct of international relations, the law of
might  rather  than  the  rule  of  law  and  the  distinction
among  peoples  and  communities  on  the  basis  of  their
cultural,  ethnic  and  religious  origins.  All  these  factors
contribute  to  creating  dangerous  elements  that  arouse
the  worst  of  feelings  and  approaches  to  combating
injustice and tyranny.
terrorism, 
My  country,  Iraq,  has  suffered  and 
is  still
suffering  from  acts  of 
including  State
terrorism  under  different  names.  Consequently,  we
understand,  and  we  are  deeply  aware  of, 
the
consequences  of  such  acts  that  cause  suffering  and
sacrifices among innocent people. This was our feeling
towards  the  loss  of  civilian  victims  as  a  result  of  the
explosions  in  the  United  States  recently.  We  did  not
rejoice  or  gloat  at  what  happened,  as  some  Zionist
circles or some in the mass media have said, in a clear
attempt at provocation.
The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Tariq Aziz, sent
personal  letters  of  condolence  to  some  prominent
American figures, who had expressed sympathy for the
people of Iraq when they lost hundreds of thousands of
innocent victims as a result of acts of terrorism, which
the  United  States  and  the  United  Kingdom  have  been
undertaking  against  Iraq  since  August  1990.  In  these
letters, 
expressed
condolences to the bereaved families of the victims and
the  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
14
to  every  honourable  American  citizen  who  has  shown
solidarity with the people of Iraq in their plight.
Iraq has, to date, lost more than 1.6 million of its
innocent children, women and the elderly as a result of
the  continued  unjust  sanctions  and  the  siege  imposed
by  the  United  States  through  the  Security  Council  on
Iraq.  The  United  States  has  striven,  and  continues  to
strive,  to  maintain  sanctions  by  every  means.  Iraq  has
lost  thousands  of  innocent  civilians  as  a  result  of  the
military terrorist acts that have been carried out by the
United  States  and  the  United  Kingdom  against  the
people of Iraq from 17 January 1991 until now.
Moreover,  the  last  American-British  aggression
against  Iraq  occurred  the  day  before  yesterday  and
killed  two  civilians  in  the  city  of  Basra.  Furthermore,
the  large  devastation  caused  by  these  barbaric  attacks
was directed against every sector of life and the whole
infrastructure  of  Iraq,  including  schools,  hospitals,
factories,  residential  neighbourhoods,  streets,  bridges,
mosques,  churches,  water  sanitation  plants,  sewage
plants,  electricity  plants  and  oil  refineries.  American
missiles did not spare even the graveyards.
During  the  1991  aggression  against  Iraq,  the
United  States  and  the  United  Kingdom  deliberately
contaminated 
the  environment  by  using  depleted
uranium. This caused a tenfold increase in cancer cases
compared with 1990 figures.
The  United  States  far  surpassed  those  terrorist
acts  against  Iraq  by  adopting  what  it  called  the  Iraq
Liberation  Act,  which  included  specific  provisions  on
organizing,  financing  and  supporting  terrorist  acts
aimed  at  attaining  an  illegitimate  goal  in  violation  of
international law, the Charter of the United Nations and
all  conventions  and  norms  governing  international
relations: that goal was for a foreign Power to change
the political system of Iraq by force. Under that act, the
United  States  has  set  aside  nearly  $100  million,  $97
million to be exact. Under that national legislation, the
United States is training groups of mercenaries — who
once bore Iraqi nationality — on  military bases in the
United  States  in  order  to  prepare  them  to  be  sent  into
Iraq to carry out terrorist operations in our cities. These
would include bombings and assassinations and would
be aimed at the political destabilization of Iraq.
But it is not only the United States and the United
Kingdom  that  are  doing  such  things.  Other  countries
too  are  carrying  out  armed  terrorism  against  Iraq  by
organizing,  supporting  and  financing  terrorists  who
sneak  over 
to  engage 
assassinations and bombings within Iraq.
the  border 
in  sabotage,
include 
the  mass  murder  of 
In another sphere, I must mention the acts of the
Israeli authorities in Palestine and in the occupied Arab
territories,  with  direct  support  and  financing  from  the
United  States  and  with  that  country’s  unequivocal
international  protection.  These 
targeted
assassinations, 
the  people,
displacement  of  the  people,  the  imposition  of  siege,
preventing  the  delivery  of  food,  destroying  houses,
bulldozing  farms,  bombing  cities  and  villages  with
high-technology  United  States  weaponry,  and  the  use
of depleted-uranium munitions and poison gas. By any
international  standard, 
those  acts  are  organized
terrorism  against  an  entire  population  whose  land  has
been looted and whose rights have been ignored. It will
take  a  serious,  broad-based  international  effort  to  put
an end to this organized terrorism and to bring justice
to the Palestinian people.
What is happening in Palestine is happening also
in  many  other  parts  of  the  world,  especially  in  the
third-world  countries  of  Africa,  Latin  America  and
Asia.
In  that  connection,  Iraq  has  explicitly  stated  its
position  in  two  internationally  disseminated  letters
from His Excellency President Saddam Hussein, dated
15  September  and  18  September  2001,  which  make
reference  to  these  facts.  Their  purpose  is  simply  to
encourage the United States to act responsibly, wisely,
rationally,  foresightedly  and  fairly,  and  to  carry  out  a
comprehensive  review  of  its  domestic  and  foreign
policy  in  order  to  identify  ways  to  guarantee  the
security  and  stability  of  the  United  States  and  of  the
international community at large, and not to act on an
unbridled  wish  to  incite  hatred,  chauvinism  and  a
crusader  mentality  aimed  at  retaliating  against  an
unknown enemy, or to exploit the attacks as a cover for
settling  old  scores  against  any  particular  nation,
religion or Arab or Islamic country.
represents 
Those  letters  were  intended  to  remind  United
States  politicians  of  the  need  for  a  comprehensive
review  of  what  their  country’s  political  and  economic
system 
terms  of  oppression  and
aggression  against  United  States  citizens  belonging  to
ethnic  or  religious  minorities  and  against  millions  of
other poor Americans, and of what United States policy
stands  for  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  in  terms  of
hegemony,  slavery  and 
the  denial  of  rights  and
in 
A/56/PV.19
to  make  use  of 
legitimate  aspirations  and  interests,  and  to  call  upon
them 
the  means  provided  by
international  law,  which  is  the  core  duty  of  State
leaders who act responsibly and who are interested in a
world  order  that  is  just  and  fair,  and  that  does  not
include 
the  elimination  of  peoples  or  economic
blockades against peoples, which deprive them of their
basic  human  rights.  Under  such  a  world  order,
everyone  would  enjoy  peace  and  security  and  would
share equally and fairly in humanitarian values.
In a statement issued on 22 September 2001, His
Excellency President Saddam Hussein explicitly called
upon the United States to act with justice and to make
numerous,  broad  friendships  as  it  did  in  the  past.  It
would  then  find  its  circle  of  friends  enlarging  and
expanding.
Fighting  terrorism  requires,  first  and  foremost,
agreement  on  the  definition  of  terrorism.  We  need  a
clear definition that is neither misleading nor vague so
that  it  cannot  be  distorted  to  gain  political  advantage,
to  punish  acts  that  are  unrelated  to  terrorism,  or  to
ignore obvious terrorist acts.
Arab  States  were  the  first  to  offer  initiatives  in
the United Nations to combat terrorism; they have been
doing  so  since  1972.  These  have  met  with  broad
international  understanding  and  have  been  ratified  at
summit  meetings  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and  other
intergovernmental  organizations.  This  is  reflected  in
the  adoption  of 
the
Suppression  of  Terrorism,  the  Convention  of  the
Organization of the Islamic Conference  on  Combating
International Terrorism and the Organization of African
Unity Convention on the Prevention and Combating of
Terrorism.
the  Arab  Convention  on 
to  counter 
Here,  I  want  to  reaffirm  the  natural  inalienable
right  of  all  peoples  struggling  against 
foreign
occupation,  colonial  domination  and  aggression  in  all
its  military  and  economic  forms 
the
aggression they face and to stand up against sanctions
and exploitation. That right is set out in the Charter of
the  United  Nations  and  in  agreed  conventions  and
norms  of  international  law.  The  legitimate  struggle  of
the Palestinian people against occupation, terrorism and
Zionist aggression cannot be considered terrorism. Nor
can the legitimate struggle of the peoples of the world
against  United  States  siege  and  embargo  and  against
15
A/56/PV.19
United States and United Kingdom colonial aggression
be viewed as terrorism.
The 
issue  of 
terrorism 
is  multifaceted  and
multidimensional.  It  requires  a  joint  endeavour  by  the
international  community  if  it  is  to  be  resolved  in
accordance  with  international  law  and  the  Charter  of
the  United  Nations,  and  not  in  accordance  with
individual  interests,  advantages  or  the  exigencies  of  a
given situation.
This  must  include  all  acts  of  violence,  whether
perpetrated  by  individuals  or  by  States,  carried  out  in
violation of international law. These acts include settler
occupation and settler colonialism; the unilateral use of
force; aggression and interference in the internal affairs
of States; the training, financing and arming of military
groups with a view to destabilizing the internal security
of  States;  the  provoking  of  separatist  and  ethnic  and
religious  conflicts;  economic  and  social  pressures;
cultural and religious repression; mass murder; the use
of  prohibited  weapons;  the  imposition  of  starvation
policies;  and  attempts  to  deprive  certain  States  of  the
right to technical, cultural and scientific advancements
and development. Let us not forget, either, the resort by
certain  countries  to  the  use  of  threats,  blackmail  and
bribery to set some nations against each other.
Finally, every act that violates international law is
a  form  of  terrorism,  whether  carried  out  by  an
individual, an organization or a State. No action carried
out  in  accordance  with  international  law  as  it  was
before the American hegemony of the world should be
considered to be terrorism.
Mr.  Baialinov  (Kyrgyzstan)  (spoke  in  Russian):
On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Kyrgyz  Republic,
may  I  extend  our  most  sincere  condolences  to  the
Government and the people of the United States and to
the relatives and loved ones of those who died or were
injured  in  the  unprecedented  terrorist  acts  that  took
place  in  this  country.  The  people  of  the  Kyrgyz
Republic  deeply  mourn  the  many  innocent  victims  of
this 
loathsome  act.  Those  who  perpetrate  and
encourage  such  cruel  and  hateful  acts  can  never  be
forgiven.
We  also  express  our  condolences  to  Israel  and
Russia,  which  also  have  apparently  lost  citizens  to  a
terrorist  act  against  a  Russian  TU-154  plane  that  was
flying from Tel Aviv to Novosibirsk.
16
These  tragic  events  demonstrate  once  again  that
terrorism  knows  no  national  borders.  Kyrgyzstan  has
always  condemned,  and  continues 
to  condemn,
international  terrorism  and  extremism  in  all  of  its
manifestations 
a
strengthening  of  international  cooperation  to  combat
this global scourge, in order to prevent such acts from
happening again.
continues 
advocate 
and 
to 
In  his  statement  of  25  September  2001,  the
President of Kyrgyzstan, Mr. Askar Akayev, expressed
the  country’s  readiness  to  make  available  its  airspace
for 
in
Afghanistan.  Kyrgyzstan  is  also  prepared  to  discuss
any other form of assistance and cooperation.
the  conduct  of  anti-terrorist  operations 
Our  country  has  taken  a  firm  stance  with  regard
to 
international 
terrorism,  extremism  and  drug
trafficking.  The  international  community  must  combat
these  evils  —  which  have  no  specific  national  or
religious origins — until they are eradicated.
The  President  emphasized  that  our  country’s
position  has  always  been  clear-cut:  the  source  of  the
threat  to  security  in  the  region  has  always  been  and
remains  Afghanistan  and  the  Taliban  regime,  from
which  have  emerged  drug  trafficking,  terrorism  and
religious  extremism,  which  today  pose  a  tremendous
threat  to  the  entire  world.  In  the  past  three  years,  our
region has been confronted with these three sources of
destabilization.  From  the  very  outset,  our  President
emphasized, we have been convinced that the only way
to  fight  these  three  security  threats  is  through  the
collective efforts of the international community.
Central Asia has been at the forefront of the fight
against international terrorism and religious extremism.
In 1999 and 2000, our Republic was forced to carry our
broad-scale actions in the south of the country in order
to  rout  large  bands  of  rebels  who  had  invaded  our
territory. We were able to deal with this threat through
the  armed  forces  of  our  country,  with  military  and
technical  assistance  from  Russia  and  with  the  support
of neighbours.
Guided not only by our own national interests but
by those of other countries and regions affected by the
threat  of  terrorism,  Kyrgyzstan  has  consistently  and
firmly 
combat
international  terrorism  and  religious  extremism.  We
welcome the calls made by the United Nations and the
international  community  for  collective  action,  which
concrete
already 
advocated 
translated 
collective 
efforts 
have 
to 
been 
into 
organizational  measures.  In  this  connection,  Security
Council  resolution  1373  (2001),  adopted  last  week,
represents a step forward in our fight against terrorism.
For a campaign against international terrorism to
be  effective,  we  need  to  present  a  united  anti-terrorist
front that includes all continents, regions and countries.
That is why the Commonwealth of Independent States
(CIS) established a CIS anti-terrorist centre, within the
framework  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization,
headquartered  in  Bishkek.  The  Shanghai  Convention
on  Combating  Terrorism,  Separatism  and  Extremism
was  adopted  within  that  same  framework,  and  at  that
same Centre, located in the capital of our country.
The  establishment  of  such  centres  has  been
prompted  by  the  fact  that  the  threat  of  international
terrorism  is  so  great  that  global  anti-terrorist  centres
are not enough: regional, subregional and local centres
are also needed. Together, acting in coordination, they
can  reach  all  regions  of  the  world  that  have  been
infected by the deadly terrorist virus.
The  forces  of  terrorism  and  religious  extremism,
in  their  fight  against  the  civilized  world,  are  acting  in
close coordination with those of the drug world, which
is using Central Asia as a major transhipment point for
sending  drugs  to  Russia  and  further  on  to  the  West.
Therefore  a 
international
community  as  a  whole  against  drug  trafficking  would
represent a direct blow to terrorism, and vice versa.
joint  campaign  of 
the 
An important element of the mechanism of such a
campaign  is  the  conduct  of  global  investigations  into
illicit international drug activity, which would allow us,
in  a  timely  manner,  to  identify  organized  criminal
groups  and  provide  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  international  community  with  reliable
data  and  analyses  on  the  activities  of  transnational
criminal organizations.
armed 
acting 
stealthily 
terrorism 
today 
International 
is  not  only  a
powerful military organization relying on mobile, very
well 
and
treacherously;  it  also  relies  on  subversion,  ideological
subterfuge,  religious  extremism  and  the  fomenting  of
inter-ethnic conflicts.
criminals 
A  focal  point  for  the  ideology  of  international
terrorism  in  Central  Asia  has  now  become  the  Hizbut
Tahrir  party,  established  in  1953  in  Palestine.  Since
1995 that party has begun to extend its activities to the
territory of Central Asia, including Kyrgyzstan.
A/56/PV.19
We must fight these criminals with weapons, but
religious  extremism  and
we  must  also  combat 
fanaticism 
force  of  persuasion  and
the 
education.  True  Islam  is  a  humanitarian  faith,  one  of
eternal  truths  and  high  moral  values.  Those  who  put
forward harmful ideas are heretics of Islam.
through 
There  is  yet  another  particular  feature  in  Central
Asia.  As  has  been  repeatedly  pointed  out  by  the
President of Kyrgyzstan, our opponents have one major
potential ally within our countries: that is, poverty and
unemployment.  They  are  in  fact  the  major  breeding
grounds  of  all 
this
standpoint,  it  is  extremely  important  for  the  entire
international  community  to  make  every  effort  to  root
out that evil.
types  of  extremism.  From 
As  has  been  repeatedly  emphasized  from  this
rostrum,  we  can  put  an  end  to  terrorism  only  through
the collective efforts of the international community to
establish  a  global  system  of  measures  to  combat  its
threats and challenges.
Mr.  Andino  Salazar  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.
Han  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General
Assembly at its fifty-sixth session. I wish him and the
other members of the Bureau every success in carrying
out  their  mission,  especially  since  their  term  comes  at
the  time  of  an  exceptionally  difficult  and  complex
international  situation  arising  from  the  terrorist  acts
that occurred in the United States. These circumstances
will again test the capacity and readiness of the United
Nations  and  its  Member  States  to  live  up  to  the
purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter,
particularly  with 
the  maintenance  of
to 
international peace and security.
regard 
As the representative of Chile put it, speaking on
behalf  of  the  Rio  Group,  we  reiterate  the  importance
for  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  concrete  decisions
at  the  conclusion  of  this  debate  that  complement  the
measures already adopted in the fight against terrorism.
At the unilateral level and jointly with the rest of
the  Central  American  countries, 
the  people  and
Government  of  El  Salvador,  in  the  declaration  on
Central  America  united  against 
terrorism,  have
demonstrated  their  solidarity  with  and  grief  for  the
people  and  Government  of  the  United  States  of
America,  categorically  condemning 
the  acts  of
terrorism and expressing the firm resolve to cooperate
in  and  support  the  adoption  and  implementation  of
17
A/56/PV.19
measures  aimed  at  punishing  those  responsible,  in
accordance  with  the  norms  of  international  law.  We
fully  support  and  offer  all  our  cooperation  in  the
implementation  of  measures  recommended  at 
the
hemispheric  level  and  in  the  provisions  of  General
Assembly resolution 56/1 and, in particular, of Security
Council  resolutions  1368  (2001)  and  1373  (2001),
which call on us to recognize the need and to decide on
measures 
to
prevent,  suppress  and  eliminate  terrorism  in  all  its
forms and manifestations.
international  cooperation 
to  enhance 
On  behalf  of  the  people  and  Government  of  El
Salvador, I reiterate the expressions of solidarity, grief
and  support  for  the  people  and  Government  of  the
United  States,  in  particular  for  the  families  of  the
victims  of  these  utterly  odious  terrorist  acts,  and  our
support  for  the  right  of  the  United  States,  as  an
aggressed  State, 
legitimate
individual  and  collective  self-defence  to  ensure  the
security of its citizens, property and institutions. Those
responsible  for  the  acts  of  11  September  must  be
brought  to  justice,  while  every  effort  should  be  made
—  as  Cardinal  Edward  Egan  of  New  York  said  on  1
October  at  the  worldwide  synod  of  bishops  at  the
Vatican — to avoid committing injustices against those
who had nothing to do with the attacks.
to  adopt  measures  of 
Acts of terrorism are not new to modern history.
They have been used in various forms and for various
objectives, justified by some and condemned by others.
Apart  from  any  justification  that  might  be  sought  and
the  fact  that  such  attacks  are  unanimously  repudiated
and  condemned  by  society,  most  victims  are  innocent
people  and  the  property  and  economic  infrastructure
that are destroyed serve the progress and well-being of
peoples.
During  the  1980s,  Central  America,  and  El
Salvador in particular, suffered from armed conflict in
which terrorist acts were part of the daily lives of our
people.  The  negative  consequences  of 
these  acts
included a heavy toll in human life, the destruction of
the  economic  infrastructure  and  constant  anguish  and
uncertainty  amongst  our  people  in  the  face  of  violent
acts  that  were  liable  to  strike  anywhere  and  at  any
moment  and  in  general,  set  back  the  country’s  growth
and development.
These  and  many  other  terrorist  acts  that  have
occurred  in  various  countries  and  regions,  along  with
their grave and tragic consequences for the people who
18
international 
have endured them — be it within their borders, on the
high seas or aboard aircraft — did not sufficiently elicit
and
the 
understanding  of  what 
the
development of peoples and for peaceful coexistence in
modern times.
terrorism  means 
community’s 
concern 
for 
The  irrational  and  reprehensible  terrorist  acts
against  the  people  and  Government  of  the  United
States,  the  consequences  of  which  touch  many  of  our
countries,  have  aroused  the  widespread  opinion  and
awareness  that  the  scourge  of  terrorism,  with  its
danger, threat, scope and magnitude, must stand at the
forefront of global debate. These acts have revealed the
vulnerability  of  each  and  every  member  of 
the
international  community.  As  we  face  a  challenge,  the
particular  features  of  which  we  are  all  familiar  with,
the fight against and eradication of terrorism — as has
been  repeatedly  noted 
this  debate  —  require
resolute,  firm  and  joint  action  on  the  part  of  the
international  community  and  the  cooperation  and  full
support of each and every Member of this Organization
to  combat  a  common  enemy  that  is  one  of  the  most
inhuman  scourges  inflicted  upon  our  peoples  at  the
dawn of the twenty-first century.
in 
We  know  that  the  struggle  against  terrorism  will
be neither easy nor swift. As we seek to eliminate it, it
is important to note that a general view has evolved in
favour 
international
instruments,  of  considering  new  initiatives  and  of
adopting  national  measures  to  promote  and  strengthen
cooperation  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its
forms and manifestations.
implementing 
existing 
of 
In  this  respect,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly,  El  Salvador  is  committed  to  complying
strictly  with  international  conventions  on  terrorism  to
which  it  is  a  State  party.  It  is  studying  the  other
conventions on this issue to which it is not a party  —
the
including 
Suppression 
the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing  of  Terrorism  —  so  that,  in  accordance  with
our  relevant  domestic  legislation,  we  may  accede  to
them as soon as possible.
of  Terrorist  Bombings 
International  Convention 
for 
and 
the 
In  the  context  of  additional  immediate  steps  that
reflect  the  interest,  resolve  and  commitment  of  the
States  Members  of  our  Organization,  my  Government
supports  and  urges  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  created  by
complement 
the 
and 
international 
General  Assembly  resolution  51/210  to  conclude  its
work on the draft convention on the suppression of acts
of nuclear terrorism and to start and conclude work as
soon  as  possible  on 
the  draft  comprehensive
terrorism,  which  will
convention  on 
comprehend 
international
instruments on terrorism. In this way, and in distinction
from  the  1994  Declaration  and  its  1996  follow-up  on
measures to eliminate international terrorism, we shall
adopt  an  instrument  with  provisions  binding  on  all
States  to  abstain  from  supporting,  helping,  organizing
and protecting terrorists and from allowing them to use
their  national  territories  for  terrorist  purposes.  India’s
proposal, which we have considered on past occasions,
is  an  excellent  basis  for  accelerating  the  process  of
adopting that draft convention.
Similarly, 
the  Government  of  El  Salvador
believes  that,  in  the  light  of  recent  events,  it  is
important that we once again consider the possibility of
convening  a  high-level  conference  —  under 
the
auspices  of 
the  universally
recognized  institution  for  coordinating  the  efforts  of
nations to attain common ends — to consider measures
and new and additional machinery for the international
community’s effective struggle against terrorism.
the  United  Nations, 
including 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  the
political  determination  of 
the  Government  of  El
Salvador to cooperate, to the best of its abilities, in the
international  effort  to  combat  terrorism.  To  that  end,
we have adopted a package of measures at the domestic
level, 
security
arrangements at our ports and airports, tighter controls
on  the  movement  of  people,  particularly  citizens  of
countries  that  might  contain  radical  groups  affiliated
with  terrorism,  and  investigations  into  the  financial
system so as to ensure that there are no bank accounts
containing  funds  that  might  be  used  for  terrorist
purposes.
improved  checks  and 
with 
Furthermore, 
accordance 
in 
the
in 
the  Central  American
commitments  contained 
declaration against terrorism, the heads of State of the
region  decided  to  convene  extraordinary  meetings  of
the  Central  American  Security  Commission  with  the
heads  of  the  national  civil  police  forces  of  Central
America  and  the  Conference  of  the  Armed  Forces  of
Central  America.  They  also  decide  to  study  other
relevant  national  steps  aimed  at  assisting  in  the  fight
against terrorism.
A/56/PV.19
We  have  also  heeded  the  international  appeal,  at
both the hemispheric and the global levels, reaffirming
our  determination  to  provide  support  in  the  fight
against terrorism.
the  Minister 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  mention
the  fact  that,  from  25  to  28  September,  a  presidential
commission  from  El  Salvador,  headed  by  the  Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs,  María  Eugenia  Brizuela  de  Avila,
and 
for  Security  and  Governance,
Francisco  Bertrand  Galindo,  visited  Washington  and
New York, the cities hardest hit by the terrorist acts, so
that they could directly express their solidarity with the
people  and  the  Government  of  the  United  States,  as
well  as  with  the  families  of  the  victims,  in  particular
those from El Salvador. Their visit concluded with the
placing of a floral tribute, on the  “Wall of Prayers” at
Bellevue  hospital  in  New  York,  to  the  victims  of  the
terrorist attacks.
Mr. Lancry (Israel): We have gathered this week
to  address  a  matter  of  the  utmost  urgency  to  the
international  community.  On 
the  morning  of  11
September  2001,  in  the  most  devastating  terror  attack
in  history,  a  group  of  terrorists  brought  two  towering
symbols  of  our  host  city  crashing  to  the  ground  and
wrought  havoc  on  the  streets  of  New  York  and
Washington, D.C. Of course, that was not the first time
that  civilians  had  been  the  direct  target  of  violent
attacks.  Indeed,  the  deadly  plague  of  terrorism  has
posed a grave threat to international peace and security
for  decades.  But  the  attacks  of  11  September  have
demonstrated,  in  the  most  dramatic  and  catastrophic
way  imaginable,  the  devastation  terrorism  can  cause
and  the  extent  of  its  reach,  if  it  is  not  aggressively
confronted wherever it may breed.
The people and the Government of Israel express
their  most  profound  condolences  and  heartfelt
sympathy to the people of the United States and to all
those whose lives have been affected by these heinous
attacks.  We  join  the  resounding  chorus  of  voices  that
have condemned this evil act in the harshest terms. The
terrorists  who  destroyed  the  World  Trade  Center  and
flattened the west side of the Pentagon in Washington,
D.C.,  shattered  not  only  glass  and  steel,  but  the
misconception  that  terrorism  is  confined  to  remote
areas  of  conflict  and  does  not  pose  a  global  threat  of
the highest order.
There  are  those  who  worry  that  terror  cannot  be
eliminated  because  it  is  elusive.  It  is  true  that  those
19
A/56/PV.19
who  are  willing  to  sacrifice  themselves  to  kill  others
cannot be deterred by ordinary means. But the war on
terrorism  can  be  won  through  the  comprehensive,
uncompromising  and  unrelenting  determination  of  the
international community. To ensure that this campaign
succeeds,  we  must  bring  our  economic,  legal,  military
and  diplomatic  might  to  bear,  in  a  coordinated  and
long-term international, regional and national effort.
targets 
(2001).  That 
resolution,  which 
Israel  is  encouraged  by  the  recent  far-reaching
measures adopted by the Security Council in resolution
1373 
in
particular those who finance terrorists and support their
actions,  represents  a  crucial  step  in  the  war  on
terrorism.  All  States  must  act  now  to  root  out  the
terrorists  operating 
the
International
infrastructure 
that 
mechanisms  of  cooperation  must  continue 
to  be
expanded  and  enhanced  to  ensure  that  terrorists  and
their  supporters  are  held  fully  accountable  for  their
crimes.  This  means  more  than  adopting  and  enforcing
international  legal  mechanisms  to  combat  terrorism.  It
means, above all, mustering the sustained political will
required to eradicate all terrorism comprehensively and
without compromise.
territory  and 
their 
in 
feeds 
them. 
These measures must be accompanied by a broad
campaign,  involving  religious  leaders,  educators  and
civil  society,  aimed  at  rooting  out  the  incitement  to
hatred  and  violence  that  creates  a  breeding  ground
where  murderous  ideologies  flourish.  Now,  more  than
ever,  voices  of  tolerance  and  mutual  respect  must  be
heard, 
in  particular  from  political,  spiritual  and
educational leaders in positions of influence. Terrorists
must hear from their own societies that they will not be
tolerated. They must learn that they cannot hide. They
will  not  find  refuge.  They  will  not  be  allowed  to
trample upon the common values of humanity.
The  principles  of  international  law,  and  the
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly,  which  condemn  all  acts  of 
terrorism,
whatever  their  form  or  motivation,  as  criminal  and
unjustifiable,  must  serve  as  a  global  call  to  action.
Terrorism  must  be  fought  without  exception,  without
hesitation and without fear.
While  most  nations  and  peoples  have  lowered
their flags in solidarity with America, some have raised
their  voices  in  an  attempt  to  justify  the  unjustifiable
and  to  artificially  distinguish  between  one  kind  of
terror  and  another.  These  apologists,  by  purporting  to
20
identify the underlying causes of these attacks, not only
justify,  in  effect,  the  heinous  crimes  of  11  September,
but lay the moral foundation for future attacks.
The  United  Nations  has  heard  such  statements
before.  We  have  heard  those  who  claim  that  certain
types  of  terrorism  are  acceptable  and  that  some
innocent civilians are legitimate targets.
The United Nations must reaffirm today that there
is  no  justification,  and  that  there  can  never  be  any
justification,  for  the  calculated  murder  of  innocents.
Let us be clear: the indiscriminate murder of innocent
civilians  to  advance  political  or  religious  objectives  is
terrorism, no matter how its apologists seek to label it.
As  the  Secretary-General  declared  on  Monday,
and has emphasized on previous occasions,
“There can be no acceptance of those who would
seek  to  justify  the  deliberate  taking  of  innocent
civilian  life,  regardless  of  cause  or  grievance.  If
there  is  one  universal  principle  that  all  peoples
can agree on, surely it is that.” (A/56/PV.12)
Fabricating  distinctions  between  different  types
of terror, though conveniently couched in the language
of  noble  ideals,  is  an  unforgivable  insult  to  the
memories of those who have perished. There has never
been a terrorist group that did not believe that the ends
justify  the  means.  These  ends  are  typically  articulated
in 
rights  without  any
corresponding  responsibilities,  so-called  rights  that
permit  indiscriminate  murder  with  impunity,  so-called
rights  that  clearly  defy  unequivocal  legal  obligations
and historical commitments.
rights  —  but 
terms  of 
legitimacy  on 
But  the  thousands  of  innocents  butchered  in  the
name of these ideals tell a different story, and the moral
of that story is clear: terrorism is defined by what one
does,  not  by  what  one  does  it  for.  By  bestowing  any
measure  of 
those
extremists  who  seek  to  achieve  their  goals  through
violence  will  be  empowered  at  the  expense  of  leaders
willing  to  resolve  disputes  through  peaceful  dialogue.
If  the  international  community  tolerates  any  act  of
terrorism, it renders irrelevant the very methods it has
championed for the peaceful resolution of disputes.
terrorist 
tactics, 
The  renewed  determination  of  the  international
community to combat terrorism is welcome. But, at this
critical juncture, it is essential that the alliance against
terror manage to clearly identify and recognize its foe.
Defeating  terror  means  far  more  than  finding  and
punishing its immediate perpetrators. Terrorists do not
operate  in  a  vacuum,  but  rather  as  part  of  a  complex
network  whose  constituent  parts  nourish  and  inspire
each other, both organizationally and ideologically. The
success  of  a  terrorist  group  in  wreaking  havoc  in  one
society makes it easier for other groups to sow fear and
panic elsewhere.
sustain 
it.  Terrorists 
Terrorist groups do not present a discrete series of
threats.  They  are  not  distinct  entities  that  can  be
toppled  one  by  one.  On  the  contrary,  terrorism  is
organic,  and  the  attempt  to  tackle  one  branch  while
expressing sympathy or understanding for another will
only undermine our efforts. The terrorist organism, like
any organism, cannot survive for long without systems
to 
rely  on  an  extensive
infrastructure  that  provides  the  financial  means,  the
suicidal  indoctrination  and  the  murderous  tools  with
which to carry out attacks. And this infrastructure can
only exist with the assistance and complicity of States.
Certain regimes in the Middle East and elsewhere
have granted terrorists safe harbour, supplied them with
weapons  and 
the
financial  backing  for  the  perpetration  of  thousands  of
attacks  on  innocent  civilians.  Through  their  support,
both  active  and  tacit,  these  regimes  have  declared
themselves  the  allies  of  terrorism  and  bear  no  less
responsibility than the terrorists themselves.
training  grounds  and  provided 
If 
the 
resources  and  determination  of 
the
international community can be galvanized to eliminate
State  support  for  terrorism,  a  decisive  blow  will  have
been struck in this battle. But there can be no neutrality
in this effort. Those States that fail to comply with their
legal  obligations  to  suppress  terrorists  operating  in
their territory are not neutral  — they are collaborators
and must be regarded as such.
Since  Israel’s  establishment,  its  citizens  have
been the targets of countless terrorist attacks. This past
year, Israel has been compelled to engage in legitimate
self-defence  against  an  indiscriminate  and  suicidal
terrorist  campaign  that  erupted  in  blatant  violation  of
signed  agreements  and  that  has  claimed  hundreds  of
innocent lives.
The people of Israel are all too familiar with the
attempts  of  terrorists  and  their  allies  to  justify  the
murder  of  civilians  and  blame  the  victims  for  their
crimes.  But  in  the  words  of  the  Mayor  of  New  York
City, who addressed us at the outset of this debate,
A/56/PV.19
“The era of moral relativism between those
who  practice  or  condone  terrorism,  and  those
nations who stand up against it, must end.”
History  has  shown  the  world  that  all  that  is
required  for  evil  to  triumph  is  for  good  people  to  do
nothing. Standing on the sidelines, or cowering before
the terrorist threat, in the naive hope that if we do not
oppose terrorism we will not draw its fire, cannot be an
option. The people of the world look to their countries
to prevail over terrorism. It cannot be appeased, and it
cannot be assuaged. The only option is to defeat it.
Having  said  that,  I  would  like  to  express  my
deeply  held  conviction  that  the  three  great  faiths  —
Judaism,  Christianity  and  Islam  —  share  the  same
values  and  obey  the  same  fundamental  commitments.
They  have  emerged  from  a  common  spirit  that  gave
humanity its ideals of justice, compassion, love and its
promise  of  a  future  of  goodness.  Islam,  Christianity
and  Judaism  together  constitute  the  bedrock  of  this
human apogee. They epitomize the monotheistic creed
that  should  flourish  alongside  other  ancient  religions
and beliefs within a true, comprehensive and inclusive
inter-faith dialogue.
Today,  more  than  ever,  our  common  spiritual
heritage  should  inspire  and  nurture  our  acts  for  the
betterment  of  our  common  being  and  our  common
destiny.
Mr.  Leslie  (Belize):  The  delegation  of  Belize
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  to  be  presented  by  the
representative of Dominica on behalf of the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM) Group.
in 
We 
are  gathered 
solidarity  with 
the
international  community  in  an  effort  to  formulate  a
united  response  to  terrorism.  At  the  outset,  allow  me,
on  behalf  of  Prime  Minister  Said  Musa, 
the
Government and people of Belize, to once more extend
our deepest expressions of sympathy to the people and
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  and,  in
particular, to the families of those directly impacted by
the terrorist attacks we all witnessed on 11 September
in our host city, New York, and in Washington, D.C.
The  events  of  that  terrible  September  morning
served  to  highlight  the  great  risks  that  we  face  from
terrorism.  These  attacks,  while  specifically  targeted  at
the  citizens  of  the  United  States  of  America,  were,  in
reality, attacks against all freedom-loving people.
21
A/56/PV.19
terrorism 
Those  who  engage  in  acts  of  terrorism  seek  to
justify  their  criminal  behaviour  as  championing  the
plight  of  the  poor  and  oppressed  of  our  world.  We
categorically reject such claims and say that justice can
never be pursued through indiscriminate violence. It is
the  position  of  the  Government  of  Belize  that  any  act
of 
is  an  attack  against  our  professed
commitment to democratic principles. Let no one claim
to  be  acting  on  behalf  of  the  marginalized  of  our
societies  through  such  unconscionable  actions.  As  a
developing  country  whose  population  is  working  to
eradicate  poverty  and  its  attendant  hardships,  we
condemn any form of terrorism, for we strongly believe
that  terrorism  can  serve  no  good  purpose.  Those  who
attack innocent civilians, who support, finance, engage
in and encourage these criminal acts against  humanity
should find no safe place in which to exist and operate.
in  condemning
terrorism, we are also committed to work to put an end
to  it  by  eliminating  those  forces  that  lie  at  its  roots.
Belize  wants  to  be  a  partner  in  the  global  effort  to
combat terrorism and remove it from our world, for it
is  in  our  interests  to  ensure  that  further  acts  of
terrorism  are  not  allowed  to  continue  to  take  innocent
lives. Attacks such as we have witnessed here in New
York,  Washington,  D.C.,  and  Pennsylvania  do  not
impact  only  those  at  whom  they  are  directly  targeted,
they  impact  the  entire  world,  compromising  the  very
confidence and security we work so hard to protect.
Not  only  are  we  steadfast 
The Belize delegation welcomes Security Council
resolutions  1373  (2001)  and  1368  (2001),  as  well  as
General  Assembly 
further
undertake  to  use  our  best  efforts  to  implement  these
resolutions  and  to  participate  in  the  development  of
holistic  strategies  at  the  multilateral,  regional  and
national levels to combat terrorism.
resolution  56/1.  We 
in  all 
terrorist  activities 
Belize  shares  the  grief  caused  by  terrorism.  We
condemn 
its  forms  and
manifestations and assure the international community
that we will do all we can to counter this scourge. We
will  continue  to  advocate  for  the  rights  of  all  people,
but we will do so preserving the democratic principles
and human rights we cherish.
Mr.  Jalang’o  (Kenya):  Since  I  am  taking  the
floor for the first time, allow me to join other delegates
who  have  spoken  before  me  in  extending  to  the
President  our  congratulations  on  his  election  to  the
presidency of the General Assembly. My delegation is
22
confident  that  his  wise  and  able  leadership  will  steer
the  work  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  towards  its  desired
goals.
to 
I  wish  also 
the  Secretary-General 
to  express  my  delegation’s
appreciation 
for  his
comprehensive report on the work of the Organization
and  to  congratulate  him  on  his  unanimous  re-election
to  a  second  term  in  office.  His  re-election  is  an
unequivocal  manifestation  of  the  confidence  bestowed
upon him, not only by the Member States of the United
Nations,  but  by  the  international  community  in  its
entirety.
The  eleventh  of  September  2001  will  remain  a
black mark in the history of the world because it is the
day  the  brutal  hand  of  terrorism  chose  to  strike  the
United States of America in the cities of New York and
Washington,  D.C.  This  dastardly  attack,  although
committed in the territory of the United States, was an
attack  not  just  on  America  and  its  people,  but  on
humanity as a whole. It was, in fact, an attack on all the
peace-loving people of the world, who  were  poised  to
celebrate or were celebrating International Peace Day.
At  the  dawn  of  the  events  of  11  September,  His
Excellency  President  Daniel  Toroitich  arap  Moi  of
Kenya, on behalf of the people and the Government of
Kenya,  sent  a  message  to  President  George  W.  Bush,
the Government and the people of America, expressing
our 
in
unequivocal  terms  these  cowardly  and  despicable  acts
of terror.
condemning 
sympathies 
deepest 
and 
Kenya  once  more  condemns,  in  the  strongest
possible  terms,  these  brutal  acts  of  terrorism  and  all
forms  and  manifestations  of  international  terrorism,
whatever  its  motivation.  As  stated  by  my  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  this
week on 2 October 2001, in a ministerial statement to
Kenya’s Parliament:
“It is our profound belief that terrorism can never
form the basis for the resolution of conflicts and
cannot  be  justified  under  any  circumstances.  We
therefore  call  upon  the  international  community
to  redouble 
the  fight  against
terrorism.”
Terrorism  poses  a  serious  threat  to  international
peace 
in
contradiction to the Charter of the United Nations and
the  established  principles  of  international  relations.  It
fundamentally 
its  efforts 
security 
and 
in 
and 
is 
therefore  behoves  every  nation  that  believes  in  these
principles to abhor and condemn terrorism and to take
every  step  within  its  power  to  fight  this  heinous
scourge.
All  nations,  irrespective  of  their  size,  might  or
influence,  and  all  people,  irrespective  of  their  colour,
sex, race or religion, are directly or indirectly affected
by  terrorism.  In  1998  my  country  had  a  first-hand
experience  with  the  grim  face  of  terrorism,  when  the
hand of terror struck the American Embassy in Nairobi,
killing not only Americans, but over 200 Kenyans, who
were  innocently  going  about  their  daily  business  and
leaving thousands severely injured and/or impaired for
life.  The  1998  attack  was  targeted  at  three  American
Embassies  in  East  Africa.  The  Embassy  in  Dar-es-
Salaam was bombed simultaneously with the Embassy
in  Nairobi,  whereas  the  attempt  on  the  American
Embassy in Kampala was thwarted. As a result of these
attacks, the East African community established a joint
committee to coordinate our actions against terrorism.
For its part, immediately after the 1998 bombing,
Kenya  put  in  place  various  measures  as  safeguards
against  any  terrorist  attacks  in  the  future.  These
included the tracking down and arrest of any suspected
accomplices  to  terrorist  groups,  more  vigorous  vetting
of  foreigners  and  the  tightening  of  security  at  our
airports  and  other  entry  points.  These  measures  have
been further strengthened after the 11 September attack
on United States territory.
We  call  for  a  unified,  global  and  unrelenting
approach in fighting this scourge, under the auspices of
the  United  Nations.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation
wishes  to  echo  the  words  of  the  Secretary-General  in
calling  for  a  united  front,  a  global  coalition  under  the
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  in  fighting  terrorism;
for 
is  now  a  worldwide  problem.  My
delegation  shares  the  concerns  of  the  international
community  about  the  alarming  increase  in  acts  of
terrorism  and 
the
international level to combat terrorism.
supports  measures  at 
terrorism 
fully 
International  Convention 
Kenya  has  signed  and  ratified  or  acceded  to  a
number  of  international  conventions  on  combating
terrorism.  The 
the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings has been signed and
internal  procedures  are  under  way  for  its  ratification.
We also support measures taken by the United Nations
towards  the  suppression  of  international  financing  of
terrorism and, in this regard, will sign the International
for 
A/56/PV.19
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of
Terrorism in the near future.
Kenya  commends  the  Security  Council  for  its
adoption  of  resolutions  1368  (2001)  and  1373  (2001).
Those  resolutions  are  comprehensive  and  add  impetus
to  the  global  fight  against  terrorism.  We  support  the
measures  outlined  in  the  resolutions  and  call  for
international  cooperation  in  their  implementation.  We
also  call 
international
cooperation and for the speedy conclusion of the work
of 
to  establish  an  effective
international  legal  regime  to  fight  this  evil  and  its
perpetrators.
the  strengthening  of 
the  United  Nations 
for 
However,  many  small  countries  have  neither  the
means  nor  the  ability  to  respond  effectively  to  this
threat.  My  delegation  therefore  calls  upon  the  United
Nations  to  explore  and  coordinate  the  possibilities
existing  within  its  system  to  assist  States  in  building
capacity  to  combat  the  menace.  As  the  Secretary-
General rightly put it,
the 
this  effort. 
It  provides 
“The  United  Nations  is  uniquely  positioned  to
advance 
forum
necessary  for  building  a  universal  coalition  and
can  ensure  global  legitimacy  for  the  long-term
response  to  terrorism.”  (The New York Times, 21
September 2001)
The  time  is  now  ripe  for  the  holding  of  the
proposed high-level conference to formulate a joint and
organized international response to terrorism.
In 
to 
I  wish 
conclusion, 
reiterate  my
Government’s  full  cooperation  and  support  in  the
global war against terrorism. It is incumbent upon us to
work  together  to  eliminate  the  threats  to  international
peace and security.
Mr.  Ishmael  (Guyana):  The  Guyana  delegation
associates itself with the statement that will be made by
the  representative  of  the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica
on behalf of the Caribbean Community.
Guyana  vehemently  deplores  the  criminal  and
monstrously destructive terrorist acts of 11 September,
which  have  had  the  effect  of  converting  a  part  of  our
host city into a veritable war zone with enormous loss
of  life,  a  state  of  affairs  replicated  to  a  degree  in
Washington, D.C., and in Pennsylvania. The loss of life
reverberates throughout the community and the world,
the  victims  and  their  loved  ones  coming  from  a
multitude  of  nationalities  and  ethnicities,  many  of  my
23
A/56/PV.19
own countrymen and countrywomen perishing with the
rest.  The  loss  of  life  and  property  has  also  been
injurious  to  economies  everywhere  in  this  age  of
globalization.
Guyana  extends  its  deepest  sympathy  to  the
people  and  the  Government  of  the  United  States  upon
their  suffering  and  loss.  We  wish  the  United  States
Government every success in its efforts to marshal the
forces  of  humanity 
to  conquer
international terrorism, which affects us all and which
violates the ideals that we both profess and support. If
it were to go unchallenged, it would have the effect of
negating  all  that  we  have  worked  and  struggled  for  in
this Organization since its founding in 1945.
in  a  coalition 
Guyana’s opposition to terrorism is complete and
absolute. In a message delivered on the occasion of an
inter-faith  service  of  remembrance  held  in  New  York
on 30 September 2001 for 24 Guyanese nationals who
lost their lives in this disaster, Guyana’s President, His
Excellency Bharrat Jagdeo, declared that
“Death  is  always  a  painful  thing.  When  it
comes to people in their youth or in the prime of
their lives, and when it comes so tragically and in
such  an  unexpected  fashion,  as  it  did  to  our
Guyanese brothers and sisters on 11 September in
that  disaster  of  such  mind-boggling  dimensions,
the  wrenching  pain  is  unbearable  and  the  grief
unsupportable. Guyana supports the efforts to rein
in  terror  and  we  pledge  our  full  cooperation  to
root out terrorism”.
Guyana,  as  a  country  with  a  substantial  Muslim
population and as a member of the Organization of the
Islamic  Conference,  is  anxious  for  our  efforts  to
eradicate 
is
imperative  that  we  guard  against  the  bigotry  that  has
driven  some  to  blame  Muslims  and  Arabs  for  the
events of 11 September. It has been well and succinctly
stated  at  this  podium  earlier  in  the  debate,  that
terrorism  has  no  religion,  no  nationality  and  no
ethnicity.  No 
legitimizes
terrorism,  and  any  protestations  or  claims  to  the
contrary  are  no  more  than  a  vain  political  excuse  to
justify that which can never be vindicated.
religion  authorizes  or 
to  succeed.  However, 
terrorism 
it 
Guyana  supports  the  multifaceted  efforts  of  our
Organization  to  deal  with  terrorism.  An  abundance  of
anti-terrorist  conventions  is  today  on  offer,  and  one
more  is  still  in  negotiation.  We  currently  subscribe  to
the  Organization  of  American  States  Declaration  of
24
Lima to Prevent, Combat and Eliminate Terrorism with
its  Plan  of  Action  on  Hemispheric  Cooperation,
approved  on  26  April  1996.  We  also  support  the
resolution  adopted  by  the  Organization  of  American
States  on  21  September  2001  at  the  Meeting  of
Consultation  of  Ministers  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  States
parties, 
Inter-American  Treaty  of
Reciprocal  Assistance,  the  Rio  Treaty.  That  resolution
established  a  programme  of  solidarity  and  mutual
assistance in the American hemisphere to deal with the
scourge of terrorism.
invoking 
the 
These efforts require for their success that we pay
heed  to  the  instances  of  injustice  that  abound  in  the
contemporary world. Where injustice is manifest, it can
become  a  politically  destabilizing  force  and  breed
hatred  —  conditions  that  might  be  exploited  by  the
unscrupulous for the furtherance of their own evil ends.
The  current  revolution  in  communications  has  now
rendered  it  impossible  to  conceal  injustice  from  the
eyes of its victims.
in 
increase 
It was the decolonization process that gave rise to
the  greatest 
the  membership  of  our
Organization. We must ensure that the freedoms which
we  sought  for  ourselves  are  enjoyed  by  everyone  else
—  that  there  is  everywhere  respect  for  human  rights,
for  our  common  humanity;  for  our  right  as  human
beings 
legitimate  destiny,  whether
individually  or  as  a  collective,  embodied  in  a  state
without  arbitrary 
the
autonomy  of  the  human  spirit  is  maximized  and  its
creativity thereby nurtured.
interference  or  denial; 
to  pursue  our 
that 
to 
an 
terrorism, 
eradicate 
constituting 
Guyana  welcomes  Security  Council  resolution
1373  (2001),  which, 
in  our  view,  represents  a
significant  advance  in  the  efforts  of  the  international
community 
while
simultaneously 
innovative
interpretation of the Charter of the United Nations. The
meaning  of  the  Charter  in  2001  is  significantly  at
variance  with  its  meaning  in  1945,  and  this  reality  is
reflective  of  the  changes  in  the  world  that  have
occurred  in  the  intervening  period.  We  are  concerned
here  with  the  fashioning  of  a  legal  structure  that  will
facilitate  the  attainment  of  a  purpose  we  all  endorse.
The  validity  of  all  law  —  and  international  law  is  no
exception  —  has  a  temporal  dimension,  and  change
being 
social
organization,  it  follows  inevitably  and  inexorably  that
law must be adapted to the exigencies of that change if
it is to preserve its relevance and effectiveness.
forms  of  human 
inherent 
in  all 
In  a  dissent  from  an  advisory  opinion  given  by
the International Court of Justice and requested by our
Assembly concerning the “Competence of the General
Assembly  for  the  Admission  of  a  State  to  the  United
Nations,”  the  distinguished  Chilean  Judge  Alejandro
Alvarez stated that
to 
the 
regard 
“it  is  necessary,  when  interpreting  treaties  —  in
particular, the Charter of the United Nations — to
look  ahead,  that  is,  to  have  regard  to  the  new
conditions,  and  not  to  look  back.  A  treaty  or  a
text that has once been established acquires a life
of  its  own.  Consequently,  in  interpreting  it  we
must  have 
exigencies  of
contemporary life.”
The  period  in  which  we  live  is  different  from
1945,  and  the  framers  of  the  Charter  contemplated
threats  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  that  are  often  radically  at  variance  with  the
kinds  of  threats  with  which  we  are  confronted  today.
International  terrorism,  in  all  its  ramifications,  does
constitute  a  threat  to  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security.  It  is  therefore  appropriate  that  the
decision-making  machinery  that  is  vested  in  Chapter
VII of the Charter is enlisted with a view to eradicating
this  malady.  Guyana  will  fulfil  the  obligations  that
have  been  laid  upon  us  all  by  Security  Council
resolution 1373 (2001).
As  I  close,  I  reiterate  Guyana’s  unswerving
support  for  all  the  efforts  we  have  crafted  for  the
purpose  of  defeating  terrorism.  These  efforts  are
hugely  multilateral and derive an enhanced  legitimacy
from  that  sobering  reality.  We  shall  prevail.  Our
survival,  with  the  full  complement  of  rights  to  which
we all aspire, requires that we do.
Mr.  Botnaru
(Republic  of  Moldova):  The
terrorist  acts  perpetrated  in  New  York,  Washington,
D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11 September are an assault
not  only  on  the  United  States  but  also  on  all  of
humankind.
My  delegation  strongly  condemns  these  criminal
acts, which brought terror and resulted in the deaths of
thousands  of  innocent  people  from  the  United  States
and  from  many  other  nations.  As  the  President  of  the
Republic  of  Moldova  stated  immediately  after  those
tragic events,
“We oppose and condemn terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations. We are fully committed
A/56/PV.19
to 
that 
to  ensure 
immediate 
response  by 
international  efforts 
to 
those
responsible  for  these  inhumane  acts,  whoever
they  might  be,  are  brought 
justice  and
punished.”
The 
the  General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  on  12  September,
as well as the unanimous adoption of Security Council
resolution  1373 
increased
importance  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  fight  against
terrorism. The establishment of a committee to monitor
the 
should
significantly enhance its practical impact on the way in
which  States  coordinate 
to  combat
terrorism.
implementation 
their  efforts 
resolution 
this 
(2001), 
illustrates 
the 
of 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  fully  associates  itself
with  all  aspects  of  Security  Council  resolutions  1368
the
(2001)  and  1373 
determination  of 
to
combat by all means threats to international peace and
security caused by terrorist acts.
international  community 
(2001),  which 
reaffirm 
the 
Moldova  actively  supported  the  adoption  of  the
to  Eliminate
that
1994  Declaration 
International  Terrorism,  which  underscores 
terrorist acts are
on  Measures 
“in  any  circumstance  unjustifiable,  whatever  the
considerations  of  a  political,  philosophical,
ideological,  racial,  ethnic,  religious  or  any  other
nature  that  may  be  invoked  to  justify  them”.
(A/49/60, annex, part I, para. 3).
In  this  spirit,  we  support  the  multilateral  efforts
aimed at strengthening the United Nations anti-terrorist
legal  framework,  including  the  early  conclusion  of  a
convention  for  the  suppression  of  acts  of  nuclear
terrorism  as  well  as  a  comprehensive  international
convention on international terrorism. In particular, we
believe  that  with  the  adoption  of  the  comprehensive
convention, some sensitive and complex issues will be
resolved  and,  consequently,  the  existing  gaps  in  the
legal regime of anti-terrorist cooperation will be filled.
It  is  only  through  developing  and  implementing  a
network  of 
the
international  community  can  effectively  ensure  that
terrorists  find  no  safe  haven  from  which  they  can
continue their criminal activities.
anti-terrorist 
instruments 
that 
The President returned to the Chair.
The Republic of Moldova is a State party to six of
the  12  terrorism-related  United  Nations  treaties  and
25
terrorism  and 
The Security Council emphasizes, in paragraph 4
of  resolution  1373  (2001),  the  connection  between
international 
transnational  organized
crime,  illicit  drugs  and  other  illegal  activities.  In  this
context, I feel obliged to add my voice to that of those
who  see  the  phenomenon  of  separatism  also  as  a  root
cause  of  conflict,  as  well  as  a  threat  to  international
peace  and  security.  Besides  being  anachronistic  in  a
globalized and interdependent world, separatism affects
the  very  basis  of  multicultural  and  multi-ethnic
societies  and  poses  a  grave  danger  to  the  sovereignty
and integrity of many States. As a country affected by
separatism,  we  are  alarmed  at  the  persistence  of  this
scourge  and  the  connections  it  may  sometimes  have
with  other  serious  criminal  activities.  That  is  why,  in
our  opinion,  this  issue,  among  others,  must  be  taken
into  account  by  the  United  Nations  Member  States  in
their 
a
comprehensive and efficient anti-terrorist strategy.
implement 
elaborate 
and 
efforts 
to 
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  reasserting  our
unreserved condemnation of all forms of terrorism and
our firm commitment to standing with the international
community  in  this  struggle  at  every  step  of  this  long
way.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
A/56/PV.19
the 
for 
and 
International  Convention 
of  Terrorist  Bombings 
protocols.  Measures  are  under  way  to  enable  our
country  to  accede  to  other  remaining  conventions,
the
including 
Suppression 
the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing  of  Terrorism.  My  Government  is  seriously
considering  signing  those  two  conventions  by  the  end
of  this  year.  Early  this  week,  our  Parliament  adopted,
on  the  first  reading,  a  bill  on  terrorism,  which  is  a
further  indication  of  our  ongoing  commitment  to
implementing 
the  United  Nations  conventions  on
terrorism.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  will  also  actively
cooperate in combating any terrorist activities through
concerted efforts with other countries in the framework
of  various 
the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,
the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  Commonwealth  of
Independent States.
regional  organizations, 
including 
The events of 11 September have shown that the
international  community  must  seek  with  renewed
determination to resolve the long-standing international
problems  on  which 
this
perspective,  we  must  urgently  address  many  conflicts
around  the  world,  their  roots  and,  implicitly,  all  those
factors  which  could  nurture 
the  development  of
terrorism.
feeds.  From 
terrorism 
26
