United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
30th plenary meeting
Monday, 22 October 2001, 3 p.m.
New York

A/56/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Sharma
(Nepal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 14
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Agency (A/56/313)
The  Acting  President: I  invite  the  Director
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,
Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  to  present  the  report  of  the
Agency for the year 2000.
Mr. ElBaradei: The International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) continues to play an important role as
a  catalyst  for  development  and  as  a  cornerstone  for
nuclear non-proliferation and nuclear safety.
I  will  speak  briefly  today  about  the  IAEA’s
activities  in  terms  of  our  three  fundamental  functions:
to bring about the development and transfer of peaceful
nuclear  technologies,  to  build  and  maintain  a  global
nuclear  safety  regime,  and  to  prevent  the  proliferation
of  nuclear  weapons  and  ensure  the  security  of  nuclear
material and facilities.
I  will  begin  with  a  subject  to  which  the  Agency
has  been  devoting  much  attention  in  recent  weeks  —
namely,  the  enhancement  of  our  efforts  to  protect
against nuclear terrorism.
The  Agency  has  been  at 
the  forefront  of
encouraging States to make security an integral part of
the  management  of  their  overall  nuclear  programmes;
however, the attacks in the United States were a wake-
up call to us all that more can and must be done. In the
week  immediately  following  the  tragedy,  the  IAEA
General Conference adopted a resolution that requested
that  I  initiate  a  thorough  review  of  Agency  activities
and  programmes 
to  preventing  acts  of
terrorism 
involving  nuclear  and  other  radioactive
materials.
relevant 
to  ensure  physical  security, 
The  Agency  is  engaged  in  a  variety  of  activities
relevant  to  combating  nuclear  terrorism,  including
programmes 
to  help
prevent  and  respond  to  illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear
material  and  other  radioactive  sources,  to  promote  the
safety  of  nuclear  facilities, 
to  safeguard  nuclear
material  against  non-peaceful  uses  and  to  respond  to
emergencies. In all these areas of activity, the Agency
develops 
legal  norms  and  guidelines,  promotes
international  cooperation,  provides  expert  advice,
training  and  equipment  and  provides  varying  degrees
of oversight. In the past few years, we have focused on
increasing nuclear security cooperation among relevant
organizations, 
organizations,
Interpol  and  other  law  enforcement  organizations,
national  Governments  and  the  Agency.  We  also  have
provided  an  expanding  array  of  advisory  services  to
States  to  assist  them  in  upgrading  nuclear  safety,
protecting  nuclear  material  and  facilities  against  theft
and 
sabotage  and  managing  and  disposing  of
radioactive  sources  safely.  We  have  also  strengthened
including 
customs 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-59285 (E)
*0159285*
A/56/PV.30
our  verification  system  to  cover  both  declared  and
possible undeclared activities.
conferences  on  climate  change  and 
development.
sustainable
We  are 
reviewing 
in  depth  each  of 
the
programmes  I  just  mentioned  to  identify  additional
measures  that  need  to  be  taken  in  the  light  of  recent
events. In particular, we are considering expanding the
scope  and  reach  of  many  of  our  security  and  safety
services.  Equally,  we  will  review  existing  conventions
and  guidelines  —  including  the  Convention  on  the
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  —  to  ensure
that they are comprehensive and effective, and we will
make  every  effort  to  ensure  that  they  are  universally
applied.
To enable the Agency to assist States that lack the
resources to upgrade their security systems, we are also
exploring  the  feasibility  of  establishing  a  fund  for
protection against nuclear terrorism. I trust that, in the
light  of  the  current  threats,  the  development  of  an
effective  global  system  for  protection  against  nuclear
theft, sabotage and terrorism will be given the priority
it deserves by all concerned. These are unconventional
threats that require unconventional responses.
I will turn now to other Agency activities.
The rapid expansion in global energy demand —
and the growing awareness of the need for sustainable
development  —  has  put  increasing  focus  on  the
environmental  consequences  of  burning  fossil  fuels.
Nuclear  power,  which  currently  supplies  about  one
sixth  of  global  electricity,  is  the  principal  alternative
that can in the foreseeable future provide electricity on
a  large  scale  with  practically  no  greenhouse  gas
emissions.
In 
for  nuclear  power. 
The  past  12  months  have  seen  some  positive
developments 
terms  of
performance,  we  have  continued  to  see  strong  safety
practices,  reduced  generating  costs  and 
the  first
extensions of power plant licences to 60 years. Six new
plants  were  connected  to  national  electricity  grids  in
the year 2000, and 33 more were under construction by
the  end  of  the  year.  Views  on  the  future  of  nuclear
power,  however,  are  still  mixed  because  of  safety  and
non-proliferation  concerns.  For  example,  the  United
States  Government’s  new  energy  policy  gave  an
explicit endorsement to nuclear expansion, whereas the
German Government concluded an agreement with the
industry  to  phase  out  nuclear  power.  This  mixed
outlook  has  also  been  reflected  in  the  conclusions
the  role  of  nuclear  power  at  major
reached  on 
2
It may be too early to forecast how the future will
unfold  for  nuclear  power.  Clearly  there  is  a  new,
substantive  debate  on  the  role  of  nuclear  power  and  a
recognition in many quarters that its merits as a source
of  clean  energy  cannot  simply  be  ignored.  Three
crucial questions, however, will determine the future of
nuclear power: whether it will continue to prove itself a
safe 
it  can  be  effectively
safeguarded  against  non-peaceful  purposes;  and
whether 
it  can  be  an  economically  competitive
technology.
technology;  whether 
These  questions  are  among  the  subjects  for
review by the Agency’s newly established International
Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel
Cycles (INPRO), a project designed to support the safe,
economical  and  proliferation-resistant  use  of  nuclear
energy to assist in meeting the global energy needs of
the  twenty-first  century.  For  the  nuclear  option  to
remain  viable,  it  is  important  that  nuclear  power
technology, like other technologies, be enterprising and
innovative.
Nuclear 
provide 
technologies 
technology  activities, 
preferred
solutions —  and  sometimes  the  only  solutions  —  to
many  economic  and  social  problems.  A  major  portion
of  our  nuclear 
therefore,
concerns applications other than electricity generation.
Through  both  its  coordinated  research  projects  and  its
technical cooperation programme, the Agency works to
strengthen the scientific and technological capacities of
its  Member  States  and  functions  as  a  vehicle  for  the
transfer of nuclear technologies to combat disease and
child  malnutrition,  to  manage  water  resources,  to
increase 
the
environment.
food  production 
to  protect 
and 
For  example,  in  the  area  of  human  health,
radiotherapy  has  long  been  recognized  as  a  valuable
tool  in  both  the  cure  and  palliation  of  cancer.  Agency
attention  to  this  issue  in  developing  countries  is
becoming  increasingly  important,  as  life  expectancies
increase  and  cancer  rates  go  up.  The  Agency  seeks  to
training
build 
practitioners, 
therapy
equipment,  and 
treatment  quality  and
effectiveness.
capabilities 
by 
the  quality  of 
indigenous 
improving 
increasing 
up 
In 
the  area  of  water  management,  nuclear
techniques  are  gaining  increasing  recognition.  Isotope
hydrology  is  being  used  to  plot  groundwater  aquifers
for  sustainable  water  resource  management,  with  75
active  Agency  projects  in  some  40  Member  States.  In
Ethiopia,  for  example,  the  use  of  isotope  hydrology
under  an  Agency  project  helped 
tap  a  new
groundwater field to provide more than 40 per cent of
Addis  Ababa’s  water  supply.  We  are  also  joining  with
the  Organization  of  American  States,  the  World  Bank
and  the  Global  Environment  Facility  to  protect  and
manage the Guarani Aquifer — the largest groundwater
aquifer  in  South  America,  with  enough  freshwater,  if
protected in a sustainable manner, to supply the needs
of over 300 million people.
to 
insect 
the  proven  sterile 
Agricultural  yield  and 
livestock  production
continue  to  be  enhanced  by  the  expanding  application
of 
technique  (SIT),  an
environmentally friendly alternative to insecticides. At
their July 2001 summit in Lusaka, the African heads of
State  and  Government  approved  a  plan  for  the  Pan-
African  Tsetse  and  Trypanosomosis  Eradication
Campaign  through  the  use  of  SIT,  which  will  be
supported  by,  among  others,  the  IAEA,  the  World
Health  Organization  and  the  Food  and  Agriculture
Organization.  The  plan  should  result  in  significant
health  and  economic  benefits  across 
the  African
continent.  Radiation-induced  mutations  are  also  being
used  to  produce  crops  with  greater  yield  and  higher
quality, and irradiation of agricultural products is being
employed  to  preserve  freshness  and  eliminate  disease-
causing organisms.
In  the  area  of  environmental  protection,  our
Marine  Environment  Laboratory  in  Monaco  has  been
giving priority to the use of nuclear techniques for the
sustainable  management  of  coastal  zones  —  the  parts
of the ocean closest to human use and needs. Progress
is  also  being  made  on  developing  nuclear  techniques
for 
landmines  —
techniques  that  should  be  significantly  less  costly  and
labour-intensive than conventional techniques.
the  detection  of  abandoned 
In each of these areas of nuclear application, the
Agency seeks to promote the development and transfer
of  techniques  that  serve  the  priorities  of  its  member
States, with a focus on the special needs of developing
countries.  As  we  will  report  at  the  upcoming  World
Summit on Sustainable Development, of the more than
$500  million  worth  of  technical  cooperation  provided
by the Agency since 1992, more than $200 million has
gone  to  more  than  800  projects  that  have  specifically
A/56/PV.30
supported  Agenda  21  priorities,  such  as  land  and
agriculture, human health and fresh water.
to 
the 
continued 
Safety  in  nuclear  activities  around  the  globe  is
vital 
credibility  of  nuclear
technologies.  While  safety  is  primarily  a  national
responsibility,  it  is  equally  a  legitimate  international
concern.  Nuclear  safety,  like  environmental  practices,
has  implications  that  transcend  national  boundaries.
Since  the  Chernobyl  accident,  safety  performance  has
continued  to  show  significant  improvement,  but  much
remains  to  be  done  at  the  national  and  international
levels  to  address  the  remaining  unevenness  in  safety
practices in different countries.
The  development  and  adoption  of  international
legally binding norms under the auspices of the Agency
has  significantly  contributed  to  the  enhancement  of
nuclear  safety  worldwide.  To  date,  conventions  have
been  developed  covering  the  safety  of  power  reactors,
radioactive  waste  and  spent  fuel  management,  early
notification and assistance in case of a nuclear accident
or radiological emergency, and the physical protection
of  nuclear  material.  However,  many  States  are  not  yet
party to these conventions; certain key areas of nuclear
activity  are  still  not  subject  to  conventions;  and  some
of the conventions that exist are not comprehensive in
their  coverage.  I  urge  all  States  that  have  not  already
done  so 
to  all  safety-related
conventions. In addition, I believe we should continue
to  consider  the  merits  of  establishing  legally  binding
norms in areas not currently covered by conventions.
to  become  party 
A  second  key  Agency  contribution  to  nuclear
safety  is  the  development  and  maintenance  of  a
comprehensive body of safety standards. An increasing
number of States use IAEA standards directly or as the
reference  basis  for 
their  national  nuclear  safety
regulations.  Over  the  past  few  years,  the  Agency
secretariat has been working intensively to update and
complete  an  overall  corpus  of  safety  standards  that
covers  the  entire  range  of  nuclear  activities,  including
waste and transport safety.
Safety  standards  can  be  effective,  however,  only
if  applied  in  practice.  The  Agency  assists  States  in
applying  its  standards  by  providing  education  and
training,  promoting  information  exchange  on  best
safety  practices  and  rendering  a  broad  range  of  safety
services.  Agency  safety  services  —  such  as  our
operational  reactor  safety  assessments,  design  reviews
and  regulatory  reviews  —  continue  to  be  in  high
3
A/56/PV.30
demand.  The  benefits  of  these  international  peer
reviews  and  other  services  are  demonstrated  by  the
increasing degree to which follow-up missions find that
identified  safety  problems  have  been  resolved.  In  the
to  develop  a  more
past  year,  we  have  begun 
comprehensive  approach  —  an 
integrated  safety
evaluation  —  that  would  provide  a  diagnostic  of  a
given  country’s  overall  nuclear  safety  profile,  tailored
to  the  degree  of  complexity  of  the  country’s  nuclear
programme  and  identifying  those  areas  where  safety
enhancements should be focused.
A major issue in the current debate regarding the
role  of  nuclear  power  is  the  safe  management  and
disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Near-term
waste concerns — specifically the disposal of low-level
and  short-lived  waste  and  the  storage  of  waste  in  all
categories  —  are  already  being  dealt  with  safely  and
effectively.  However,  the  public  at  large  remains
sceptical  about  high-level  waste  management  and
disposal,  despite  the  confidence  among  experts  that
geological  disposal  is  safe,  technically  feasible  and
environmentally responsible.
In 
Some  progress  is  worthy  of  note.  The  Finnish
Parliament  in  May  ratified  the  Government’s  decision
to  construct  a  deep  disposal  facility  for  spent  fuel  at
Olkiluoto. 
the  United  States  of  America,  a
recommendation  to  the  President  on  the  proposed
geological  repository  site  at  Yucca  Mountain  may  be
made in the coming months. And research continues on
waste  disposal  methods  that  are  reversible  to  allow
later  retrieval  of  the  waste  in  case  concerns  arise  or
preferred solutions are developed, and on transmutation
and  other  techniques  to  reduce  the  radioactivity  and
volume  of  long-lived  waste.  The  Agency  continues  to
focus  international  attention  on  waste-management
issues  in  order  to  accelerate  progress  towards  the
demonstration of successful solutions, which is key to
public acceptance.
in  Kiev 
conferences 
the  accident, 
This year marked the fifteenth anniversary of the
two
Chernobyl  accident.  With  Agency  support, 
focused  on
international 
consequences  of 
including  health,
environmental  and  social  impacts.  In  a  recent  visit  to
some  of  the  affected  areas  in  Belarus,  I  continued  to
observe the lack of trust that prevails among the people
of the region, due in no small part to contradictory data
and  reports  concerning  the  precise  environmental  and
health  impacts  of  the  accident  —  contradictions  that
continue  among  national  authorities  as  well  as  among
4
the relevant international organizations. I believe that it
would  be  helpful  to  establish  a  common  forum  on  the
consequences  of  Chernobyl  in  which  the  relevant
United  Nations  organizations  and  the  Governments  of
the affected countries would deliver a clear and unified
message  to  the  people  of  the  region  and  the  public  at
large. The Agency is currently exploring the feasibility
of establishing such a forum.
led  by 
that 
to  Kosovo, 
Last November, the Agency participated in a field
mission 
the  United  Nations
Environment  Programme  (UNEP),  to  assess  possible
consequences  of  the  use  of  depleted  uranium  in
ammunition  during  the  Kosovo  conflict.  The  mission
report 
ground
contamination was found in the investigated areas and,
therefore,  that 
the  corresponding  radiological  and
chemical risks are insignificant. Nonetheless, the report
called for certain precautionary actions.
no  widespread 
concluded 
The  Agency  is  still  working  to  respond  —  with
UNEP  and  the  World  Health  Organization  —  to
requests  received  from  various  States  in  the  Middle
East and the Balkans regarding additional radiological
assessments  of  depleted  uranium 
residues.  A
preliminary  mission  was  completed  in  Kuwait  in
September;  we  are  participating  with  UNEP  in  a
mission  to  Yugoslavia  next  week;  and  other  missions
may follow as resources permit.
Clearly,  a  number  of  challenges  remain  in  the
area  of  nuclear  safety.  Among  them  is  the  need  to
continue to improve safety in areas where vulnerability
is  apparent  and  to  cultivate  a  nuclear  safety  culture
globally.  This  requires 
the
international  harmonization  of  safety  standards  and
the  development  of  effective
approaches  and  for 
legislative  and 
in  all
countries.
increased  efforts  for 
infrastructures 
regulatory 
The Agency’s verification activities are designed
to  provide  assurances 
that  nuclear  material  and
facilities are used exclusively for peaceful purposes. In
the  early  1990s,  after  the  discovery  of  the  clandestine
nuclear-weapons  programme  in  Iraq,  the  international
community  declared  its  readiness  to  give  the  Agency
broader  authority  to  strengthen  its  verification  ability,
particularly  its  ability  to  provide  assurance  not  only
that declared nuclear material has not been diverted for
non-peaceful  purposes,  but,  equally  important,  that  no
undeclared  nuclear  material  or  activities  exist.  Except
in a limited number of countries, however, we still do
not have that authority, because such authority requires
that, 
in  question,  a  safeguards
agreement and an additional protocol be in force.
in  every  country 
(NPT) 
Fifty  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
remain
without  a  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  in
force.  For  those  countries,  the  Agency  cannot  provide
any  safeguards  assurance.  And  since  1997,  when  the
IAEA  Board  of  Governors  adopted 
the  Model
Additional Protocol, the Board has approved additional
protocols  for  only  58  member  States,  and  only  21  of
those have entered into force. This is an unsatisfactory
situation.  The  Agency  can  provide 
the  required
assurances  only  if  we  are  given  the  corresponding
authority.
For  nearly  three  years,  the  Agency  has  not  been
in  a  position  to  implement  its  mandate  in  Iraq  under
Security  Council  resolution  687  (1991)  and  related
resolutions.  As  a  consequence,  we  cannot  at  present
provide  any  assurance  that  Iraq  is  in  compliance  with
its  obligations  under  these  resolutions.  The  Agency
remains prepared to resume its verification activities in
Iraq under the relevant Security Council resolutions at
short notice.
Iraq’s  past  nuclear  programme, 
A  number  of  questions  and  concerns  remain
regarding 
the
clarification  of  which  would  reduce  the  uncertainty  in
the  completeness  of  the  Agency’s  knowledge  of  that
programme.  Provided  that  the  Agency  could  satisfy
itself that the status of Iraq’s nuclear activities has not
changed  since  December  1998, 
the  uncertainties
resulting from these questions and concerns would not
prevent 
full
implementation  of 
its  ongoing  monitoring  and
verification plan. Clearly, the longer the suspension of
Security  Council-mandated  inspections  lasts,  the  more
difficult it will be and the more time it will take for the
Agency to re-establish the level of knowledge that had
been achieved at the end of 1998.
from  moving 
the  Agency 
to 
the 
to 
Iraq’s  NPT 
In  January  2001,  the  Agency  carried  out  a
verification  of  the  nuclear  material  remaining  under
safeguards,  pursuant 
safeguards
agreement  with  the  Agency.  With  the  cooperation  of
the  Iraqi  authorities,  Agency  inspectors  were  able  to
verify the presence of this material. However, as I have
stated  before,  these  safeguards  activities  do  not  serve
as a substitute for the verification activities required by
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council, nor do
A/56/PV.30
they  provide  the  needed  assurances  sought  by  the
Council.
Since 1993, the Agency has been unable to fully
implement  its  NPT  safeguards  agreement  with  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  Pursuant  to
the  Agreed  Framework  between  the  United  States  and
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  however,
since November 1994 the Agency has been monitoring
the  freeze  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of
Korea’s graphite-moderated nuclear reactor and related
facilities.  We  have  also  maintained  a  continuous
inspector presence at the Nyongbyong site.
The  Agency  continues  to  be  unable  to  verify  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea’s  declaration
that  all  nuclear  material  subject  to  safeguards  in  the
country has been declared to the Agency.
As I noted last year, this verification process will
take  three  to  four  years.  In  May  of  this  year,  the
Agency proposed to the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea the first concrete steps that need to be carried
out  in  that  process  and  we  indicated  our  readiness  to
start  implementing  these  measures  as  soon  as  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  enables  us  to
do  so.  We  have  not  yet  received  a  response  from  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which
continues to link its acceptance of Agency verification
of  its  declaration  to  the  degree  of  progress  in  the
implementation  of  the  Agreed  Framework.  I  continue
to  call  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea
to  normalize  its  relations  with  the  Agency,  including
the resumption of its membership. This would not only
make for better interaction in the verification field, but
also  enable  us  to  provide  important  safety  advice  and
expertise  related  to  the  ongoing  light-water  reactor
project.
In  keeping  with  my  mandate  from  the  Agency’s
General  Conference,  I  have  continued  to  consult  with
the States of the Middle East region on the application
of  full-scope safeguards  to  all  nuclear  activities  in  the
Middle  East  and  on 
the  development  of  model
agreements  that  would  contribute  to  the  eventual
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  that
region.  Regrettably,  I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  make
progress in fulfilling this mandate. I do hope that future
progress in the Middle East peace process will make it
feasible to make parallel progress in this major security
issue.
5
A/56/PV.30
criteria 
technical 
and  methods 
Within  the  framework  of  the  initiative  to  submit
nuclear material released from the military programmes
of  the  Russian  Federation  and  the  United  States  for
Agency verification, consultations have continued in an
effort  to  resolve  various  legal  and  technical  issues.  In
the  past  12  months,  progress  has  been  made  on
developing 
for
verification  measures.  Agreement,
implementing 
however,  has  still  to  be  reached  on  the  scope  of  the
verification measures, the nature of the material subject
to  verification  and 
the  duration  of  verification
measures  under  the  agreements.  Last  month,  I  met  in
Vienna with the Russian Federation Minister of Atomic
Energy  and  the  United  States  Secretary  of  Energy  to
take  stock  of  progress  and  to  give  impetus  to  this
important  arms  control  initiative,  which,  if  successful,
would  ensure  that  large  amounts  of  weapon-usable
material  are  irreversibly  removed  from  those  military
programmes.
is 
them 
through 
the  attainment  of 
the  universal  application  of 
Stemming  the  spread  of  nuclear  weapons  and
moving towards nuclear arms control and disarmament
continue to be a major human aspiration. A number of
challenges  are  critical  to  our  future  success.  High
among 
the
Agency’s safeguards system through the conclusion of
the  relevant  safeguards  agreements  and  additional
protocols by all States that have made non-proliferation
commitments,  and 
the
universality  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.
But  a  closely  linked  challenge  is  to  make  the  needed
tangible  progress  towards  nuclear  arms  control  and
disarmament.  This 
is  crucial  for  sustaining  and
consolidating  the  non-proliferation  regime  in  the  long
run.  The  unequivocal  commitment  by  the  nuclear-
weapon  States  during  the  2000  Review  Conference  of
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  to  “accomplish  the  total  elimination
of nuclear weapons” (NPT/CONF.2000/28 (Parts I and
II), p. 14) needs to be followed by concrete steps at an
early date.
In 
This  review  of  some  of  the  Agency’s  activities
makes it clear that the scope of our work continues to
expand. 
the  environment  of  zero-real-growth
budgets,  to  which  the  Agency  has  been  subjected  for
more than a decade, some of these priorities cannot be
accommodated.  The  compromises  achieved  to  date  to
resolve near-term budget issues should not be mistaken
for  long-term  solutions.  If  the  Agency  is  to  fulfil  its
mandate while maintaining the required balance among
6
its  priority  activities,  we  must  find  better  ways  to
ensure adequate and predictable funding. We must also
have  the  foresight,  when  planning  our  activities,  to
invest  in  preventive  measures  rather  than  simply
responding to crises, when it is often too late and much
more costly.
Over  the  past  four  years,  we  have  initiated  a
programme  of  reform  in  the  management  of  the
Agency.  Of  particular 
importance  has  been  our
accelerated  introduction  of  results-based  programming
and budgeting, accompanied by a transition to biennial
programming and budgeting. Those changes have been
facilitated  by  considerable  restructuring  within  the
secretariat  and  by  a  “one-house”  approach 
to
improving  coordination  and  efficiency  among  our
diverse  programmes.  Thus,  while  reform  will  remain
an ongoing process, our basic machinery is now sharp
and focused.
the 
that 
international  community 
IAEA  continues  to  play  a  key  role  in  ensuring
that  the  benefits  of  nuclear  technology  are  shared
globally, that peaceful nuclear activities are conducted
safely,  and 
is
provided with a credible framework for curbing nuclear
weapon  proliferation  and  for  ensuring  the  security  of
nuclear materials and facilities. Naturally, our ability to
effectively  perform  those  functions  depends  on  the
political  commitment  and  financial  support  of  our
member  States,  which  I  trust  will  continue  to  be
forthcoming.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  my  sincere
appreciation  to  the  Government  of  Austria,  which  has
continued to be an exemplary and gracious host to the
IAEA for more than four decades.
Mr.  Prakash  (India):  The  Indian  delegation  has
taken  note  of  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA), just presented by the Agency’s
Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei.
review  cites 
The Agency must be commended for bringing out
a nuclear technology review, as it has for the past few
years.  The 
studies  conducted  by
prestigious  organizations  which  indicate  the  necessity
and indeed the inevitability of nuclear energy over the
long 
term.  Objective  analyses  of  various  energy
scenarios  clearly  reveal  that  nuclear  energy  forms  an
important component of the energy mix and that it will
be  one  of  the  principal  sources  of  electricity  in  the
future.
the  situation 
At  present,  of  course,  we  are  faced  with  an
unusual  situation.  Many  industrialized  countries  with
nuclear-power  technology  capabilities  are  witnessing
electricity  demand  saturation,  while  many  developing
countries,  for  one  reason  or  another,  are  unable  to
access  nuclear  power.  In  sharp  contrast  to  that  global
scenario, 
in  some  Asian  countries,
especially  India,  is  vastly  different,  since  in  those
countries  there  is  a  growing  energy  demand  matched
by  significant  industrialization.  These  countries  have
acquired  the  necessary  capability  to  pursue  nuclear
technology  to  meet  their  energy  needs.  If  the  global
community  wishes  to  bridge  the  energy  divide  to  the
maximum  extent  as  a  prerequisite  for  economic
development,  there  is  no  alternative  to  large-scale
utilization  of  nuclear  energy.  Several  studies  have
confirmed 
those  studies  are
premised  on  the  mistaken  perception  that  developing
countries  are  unable  to  access  energy  sources  either
due 
to
psychological fear in the matter of nuclear power.
that  conclusion,  but 
strength  or  due 
financial 
lack  of 
to 
in 
the 
energy 
context  of 
the  Bonn  meeting  of 
It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  the  Commission  on
Sustainable  Development  has  recognized  the  value  of
nuclear 
sustainable
development  and  has  agreed  that  the  choice  to  use
appropriate  energy  sources  should  be  left  to  the
countries  concerned.  The  nuclear  option,  however,
suffered  a  setback  at 
the
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  when  it
was  decided  that  developed  countries  were  to  refrain
from  using  certified  emission  reductions  generated
from  nuclear  facilities  to  meet  their  commitments
under the Kyoto Protocol to the Convention. It is ironic
that  an  energy  source  that  is  devoid  of  the  danger  of
greenhouse  gas  emissions  should  be  discouraged  by  a
body that is most concerned with the reduction of such
emissions.  We  commend  the  IAEA  secretariat  for  the
role  it  played  in  New  York  and  in  Bonn,  distributing
fact 
sustainable
development,  organizing  side  events  and  presenting
case studies, all of which made a considerable impact.
sheets  on  nuclear  power  and 
We  should  recognize  the  reality  that  nuclear
power  will  play  an  increasingly  important  role  in
meeting  the  energy  needs  of  the  world.  There  is  an
imperative  need  to  eliminate,  through  innovation  and
improvement,  the  remaining  concerns  about  nuclear
power  generation.  Thus,  we  need 
technological
solutions  not  only  to  ensure  economical  generation  of
A/56/PV.30
all 
those 
address 
nuclear  power  but  also  to  address  questions  of  safety,
sustainability,  proliferation  resistance  and  long-term
waste  management.  We  believe  that  there  are  several
canons by way of technological solutions which would
simultaneously 
issues.  The
development  of  the  advanced  heavy  water  reactor  in
India is a step in the right direction. In that context, the
initiative  of  IAEA  to  launch  the  International  Project
on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles  is
highly  laudable  and  worthy  of  strong  support  and
participation.  Such  programmes,  if  well  supported,
would  contribute  to  greater  nuclear  power  generation
as  well  as  to  enhancing  safety  with  no  fear  of
proliferation.  We  therefore  strongly  recommend  better
budgetary 
such  programmes,  which
simultaneously  address  the  long-term  objectives  of
IAEA  programmes  in  nuclear  energy,  nuclear  safety
and  safeguards.  For  our  part,  we  are  actively
participating in that vital programme, including by way
of  providing  cost-free  expertise.  We  hope  it  would  be
possible  for  this  programme  to  be  made  a  part  of  the
regular  budget  of  the  Agency,  with  adequate  support.
We feel that this is the most cost-effective strategy that
could  meet  the  statutory  mandate  of  the  IAEA  in  the
long  run  without  losing  the  balance  between  the
promotional and safeguards activities.
support 
to 
India’s  modest  uranium  resources  have  been  a
key determinant in the direction that our nuclear-power
programme  has  taken.  A  closed  nuclear-fuel  cycle,
which  involves  reprocessing  and  recycling  of  fissile
materials,  is  central  to  our  nuclear  energy  policy.
Incidentally, this also facilitates a logical answer to the
issue  of  long-term  waste  management.  Since  our
thorium  reserves  are  five  to  six  times  larger  than  our
uranium  reserves,  thorium  utilization  for  large-scale
energy  production  is  an  important  long-term  goal  of
our nuclear-power programme.
reactor 
In  the  year  2000,  four  220  megawatt  (MWe)
pressurized  heavy  water 
(PHWR)  units
commenced  commercial  operation  in  India,  bringing
our  nuclear  power  capacity  to  2,720  MWe  from  14
operational  units.  India’s  nuclear  power  reactors  are
also  a  maintaining  high-capacity  factor  of  around  82
per cent. In the next 10 years it is envisaged that a total
nuclear power capacity of about 10,000 MWe would be
established.  Our  fast-breeder  reactor  programme  is  on
course.  The  design  of  the  500  MWe  sodium-cooled
pool-type  prototype  fast-breeder  reactor  (PFBR)  is
nearing  completion  and  we  expect  to  be  able  to
7
A/56/PV.30
commence  construction  of  a  PFBR  soon.  The  detailed
design  and  development  of  the  uranium-233  and
plutonium-fuelled 
reactor
(AHWR)  continued  at  the  Bhabha  Atomic  Research
Centre  (BARC).  Research  and  development  in  fusion
technology continues.
heavy-water 
advanced 
Self-reliance continues to be the guiding principle
of  our  nuclear  programme,  which  is  now  firmly  in
place,  and  will  continue  to  grow  on  the  basis  of
indigenous capabilities. However, to increase the share
of  nuclear  power  rapidly,  the  import  of  light-water-
reactor (LWR) technology has been envisaged. We are
now in the process of setting up two 1000 MWe VVER
pressurized-water  reactors  in  collaboration  with  the
Russian  Federation.  Consistent  with  our  policy,  these
reactors  will  also  be  placed  under  the  facility-specific
safeguards  of  the  IAEA.  The  same  would  apply  to
other  similar plants  established  through  imports  in  the
future.
While nuclear power is a major component of our
research-and-development  activities,  we  continues  to
lay  emphasis  on  applied  research  in  the  use  of  atomic
energy  in  non-power  areas  such  as  health,  agriculture,
food processing, water and industry.
India  is  alert  to  the  dangers  inherent  in  illicit
trafficking  of  nuclear  materials  and  other  radioactive
sources, particularly in the context of the international
situation  brought  about  by  the  11  September  events.
The events have since underlined the necessity for the
international  community  to  pool  its  efforts  to  counter
the  menace  of  global  terrorism.  India  appreciates  the
efforts made by the IAEA for the past several years, in
cooperation with other States, aimed at preventing and
combating  illicit  nuclear  trafficking.  In  India  we  have
an elaborate domestic system through adherence to the
standards  of  physical  protection  recommended  by  the
IAEA. We also have put in place a stringent system of
expert  controls  to  rule  out  illicit  diversion  of  material
equipment or technology in the nuclear field.
India 
to 
considers 
the  Regional  Cooperative
Agreement  for  Asia  and 
the  Pacific  (RCA)  an
important mechanism for the growth and use of nuclear
technologies for sustainable development in the region.
Following  the  Agency’s  efforts  aimed  at  transferring
more  and  more  management  responsibilities  and
ownership 
the  member  States,  we  have  been
continuously  increasing  our  participation  in  the  RCA
Programmes.  India  has 
in
the  requisite  expertise 
8
various  RCA-related  activities  and  well-developed
infrastructure 
facilities,  which  have  been  made
available  as  regional  resource  units.  India  has  been
regularly  making  its  contribution  to  the  Technical
Cooperation Fund (TCF) in full and on time. This year
also, we have pledged to contribute in full to the TCF.
The  Agency,  which  has  been  fulfilling 
its
mandate  and  has  enlarged  its  core  competence  in  the
past 44 years, deserves our support, both technological
and financial. New obligations of the Agency cannot be
met  without  additional  financial  resources.  Through  a
budgetary  stratagem,  this  year  we  have  managed  to
appear to be adhering to zero real growth, but in actual
fact,  there  has  been  an  increase  in  the  outlay  of  the
Agency.  We  have  always  urged  that  the  IAEA,  as  a
unique  multidisciplinary 
science-and-technology
organization  in  the  United  Nations  system,  must  have
the means to execute its activities. Under the one-house
concept,  rightly  advocated  by  the  Director  General,  it
should  be  possible  to  judiciously  use  the  scarce
resources  and  implement  activities  that  are  mandatory
and statutory and either sought by General Conference
resolutions  or  requested  by  member  States.  While
extra-budgetary  support  has  its  uses,  it  fundamentally
promotes  commerce  and  not 
technological
empowerment.
the 
The IAEA was created with the primary objective
of accelerating and enlarging the contribution of atomic
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout  the
world.  This  objective  can  be  fulfilled  only  through
advancement  of  technology.  Accordingly,  technology
must become the central pillar on which the Agency’s
activities  should  rest.  Safety  and  safeguards,  while
indeed important, can only be supporting activities.
Mr.  Ahmad  (Pakistan):  At  the  outset,  I  would
like  to  extend  our  warm  felicitations  to  Dr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei on his reappointment as Director General of
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  We
also appreciate the excellent work that the Agency has
been doing under his able leadership in the promotion
of the peaceful application of nuclear energy.
Being a founding member of the IAEA, Pakistan
is  fully  committed  to  the  goals  and  objectives  of  the
Agency. We acknowledge IAEA’s important role in the
process  of  economic  development 
the
enhanced  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace,
health and prosperity throughout the world.
through 
The promotion of peaceful uses of nuclear energy
is the raison d’être of the International Atomic Energy
Agency. The world steadily needs more energy. Energy
multiplies  human  labour,  increasing  productivity.  The
world  population  surpassed  the  6  billion  mark  two
years  ago.  Yet  one  third  of  that  number,  or  2  billion
people, lack access to electricity. Development depends
on  energy,  and  the  alternative  to  development  is
poverty and suffering.
The  energy  demand  cannot  be  met  by  fossil  fuel
alone since that would impose an unacceptable burden
on  the  environment.  The  massive  development  of
hydropower  is  one  option.  The  only  other  proven  and
sustainable option is the use of nuclear energy. We feel
that  opposition  to  nuclear  power,  despite  its  good
safety  record  and  environment-friendly  character,  is
either based on misunderstandings or it is a deliberate
pretext to deny this technology to developing countries.
Pakistan,  in  view  of  the  limitations  of  its  fossil
fuel  and  hydropower  resources,  is  keen  to  make
increasing  use  of  nuclear  power  to  meet  its  future
electricity  requirements.  Moreover,  current  power-
generation  requirements  in  my  country  are  largely
being met through the use of oil, resulting in huge oil
import  bills.  In  order  to  diversify  the  country’s  power
generation system and reduce its dependence on energy
imports,  increasing  utilization  of  nuclear  power  is  a
desirable  option  for  Pakistan.  In  this  context,  we  duly
acknowledge  the  cooperation  extended  by  the  IAEA
during  the  construction  phase  of  our  second  nuclear
plant at Chashma, which is under IAEA safeguards and
which  started  its  commercial  operation  in  September
last  year.  This  power  plant  is  a  shining  example  of
south-south  cooperation  and  is  making  a  significant
contribution to our gross national product.
of 
any 
nuclear 
successful 
A  high-profile  safety  culture  is  an  indispensable
component 
power
programme.  IAEA  is  playing  an  important  role  in
safety-related  issues.  Pakistan  itself  attaches  great
importance  and  priority  to  the  safe  operation  of  its
nuclear  facilities.  To  ensure 
the  requisite  safety
controls,  our  Government  earlier  this  year  set  up  the
Pakistan Nuclear Regulatory Authority, which has been
given  the  responsibility  of  controlling,  regulating  and
supervising  all  matters  related  to  nuclear  safety  and
radiation  protection.  Our  commitment  to  a  safety
culture was also manifest in our prompt acceptance and
ratification of the Convention on Nuclear Safety and in
our  steadfast  commitment  to  compliance  with  the
A/56/PV.30
Convention  by  way  of  our  active  participation  in  the
follow-up activities of the IAEA.
We appreciate the invaluable assistance provided
by  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of  nuclear  safety  through  its
advice, guidance, expert missions, lectures, workshops
and  short  courses.  For  its  part,  Pakistan  has  been
offering  training  to  many  IAEA  nominees  and,  in
collaboration with the IAEA, is ready to conduct long-
duration  courses  in  operational  safety  and  safety
analysis, with a university degree in nuclear safety. It is
important that we strengthen and expand safety-related
technical  cooperation  among  all 
IAEA  member
countries.  In  this  regard,  we  hope  that  the  IAEA  will
play  a  more  proactive  role  in  convincing  advanced
countries  to  provide  liberal  transfers  of  safety-related
technology and equipment to developing countries.
IAEA 
safeguards.  By 
Pakistan  has  always  emphasized  the  need  and
enacting
importance  of 
legislation 
last  year  on  effective  nuclear  export
controls,  and  by  acceding  to  the  Convention  on  the
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  Pakistan  has
clearly  demonstrated  its  resolve  to  carry  out  its
obligations  and  responsibilities  in  this  regard.  Our
track  record  in  adhering  to  IAEA  safeguards  has  been
immaculate.
that 
the  Agency’s 
We  are  happy 
technical
cooperation  programme  is  gaining  strength  both  in
quality  and  in  quantity.  However,  we  feel  that  greater
programme effectiveness could be ensured if adequate
allocations  were  made  to  the  Technical  Cooperation
Fund. Another source of concern is the non-payment or
delayed  payment  of  the  contributions  of  Member
States.  As  the  Director  General  said  himself  in  his
statement, we must find better ways to ensure adequate
and predictable funding. This is essential indeed, if the
Agency  is  to  have  the  necessary  means  to  fulfil  its
mandate. In addition, maximum utilization of available
resources  within  the  regional  areas  and  the  universal
involvement  of  developing  countries  in  programme
formulation  are  some  of  the  other  points  requiring  the
Agency’s attention.
While  the  Agency’s  positive  role  in  promoting
technical  cooperation  is  acknowledged,  it  is  important
for  the  credibility  of  the  IAEA  to  promote  peaceful
uses  of  the  atom  and  to  maintain  the  focus  on  its
technical promotional character. We expect the Agency
to  follow  a  balanced  and  non-discriminatory  approach
9
A/56/PV.30
in  providing  access  to  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful
purposes, particularly to developing States.
Mr.  De  Loecker  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  I
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union.  The  countries  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe
associated  with  the  European  Union  —  Bulgaria,  the
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,
Poland,  Romania,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia  — 
the
associated countries of Cyprus, Malta and Turkey, and
the  European  Free  Trade  Association  countries
members 
the  European  Economic  Area,
Liechtenstein  and  Norway,  align  themselves  with  this
statement.
of 
The European Union has noted with great interest
the report on the activities of the International Atomic
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  presented  to  us  by  Director
General ElBaradei, whose presence among us today we
welcome.  We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
reaffirm  our  full  support  for  the  important  activities
being  conducted  by  the  Agency  in  the  areas  of
guaranteeing  non-proliferation  and  of  safety  and  the
promotion  of  the  safe  use  of  nuclear  technology  for
peaceful purposes in the member States that have opted
to use such technology.
The European Union is well aware of the difficult
financial context within which the Agency is having to
carry  out  its  important  tasks,  and  is  concerned  that  a
large  number  of  the  Agency’s  member  States  are  still
failing to pay their contributions to the regular budget.
The  Union  unreservedly  supports 
important
initiatives which have been launched in order to adapt
to  this  difficult  budgetary  situation  and  to  try  to
maximize  the  effectiveness  of  the  Agency’s  activities.
We  believe  that  those  initiatives  are  in  the  right
direction and are bound to bear fruit as long as efforts
continue.
the 
On several occasions this year, the member States
of  the  European  Union  have  reaffirmed  a  number  of
fundamental management principles that they consider
to be of particular importance. Those principles include
strict  limits  on  the  number  of  projects  on  the  basis  of
the 
clear  hierarchical
organization of programmes and, as a corollary, greater
flexibility  in  transferring  resources  between  sectoral
programmes  as  required;  and  focusing  the  Agency’s
efforts on those areas in which such activities are most
likely to have a significant impact.
less-but-better  notion; 
a 
10
The  European  Union  considers  that  all  of  the
Agency’s  various  tasks  are  important  and  useful.
However,  we  believe  that  special  attention  should,  of
course, be paid to the safeguards programme. It is clear
that  the  international  community  will  not  be  able  to
reap  the  benefits  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  the  atom
unless  there  is  an  absolute  assurance  that  nuclear
activities  and  cooperation  cannot  be  diverted  from
exclusively peaceful applications.
concern 
the  growing 
safeguards  and 
to  non-proliferation 
In  that  connection,  the  European  Union  notes
with 
imbalance  between
expenditures  on  the  Agency’s  statutory  activities  with
regard 
the
resources  which  its  member  States  are  willing  to
allocate  to  it  for  that  purpose  as  part  of  the  regular
budget. The Union would like to issue a firm reminder
to  member  States  that  the  responsibilities  conferred
upon  the  Agency  by  the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  in
terms  of  verifying  member  States’  compliance  with
their  obligations  necessitate  essential  activities 
to
which  the  Agency  is  obliged  to  devote  sufficient
resources, 
international
community as a whole.
interests  of 
the 
in 
the 
safeguards.  We 
The  European  Union  has,  of  course,  studied  in
great  detail  the  Agency’s  report  on  its  activities  to
ensure  implementation  of  the  safeguards  agreements,
and it welcomes its encouraging conclusions. It is also
following  with  great  interest  the  Agency’s  work  on
integrating 
this  will
eventually  lead  to  a  reduction  in  inspection  efforts  in
those  States 
that  have  signed  and  satisfactorily
implemented  an  additional  protocol,  and  in  respect  of
which  the  Agency  has  been  able  to  conclude  —  or  it
has been established by other means — that all nuclear
materials  are  subject  to  safeguards  and  continue  to  be
used for peaceful nuclear activities.
trust 
that 
The  European  Union  welcomes 
the  many
important  initiatives  being  taken  by  the  Agency  with
regard  to  safety.  We  are  pleased  to  note  that  those
efforts  are  bearing  fruit  and 
the  Agency’s
investigations  are  continuing  to  indicate  a  general
improvement in safety levels.
that 
The European Union also welcomes the Agency’s
activities  in  assisting  the  development  of  the  peaceful
use  of  nuclear  energy  in  its  Member  States.  In  that
connection,  we  would  reiterate  our  commitment  to
cooperating closely in that third pillar of the Agency’s
activities, inter alia through the Technical Cooperation
Programme,  to  which  the  Union  makes  a  substantial
contribution.
to 
efforts 
continuing 
The  European  Union 
is  satisfied  with 
improve 
the
Agency’s 
the
effectiveness of the Technical Cooperation Programme
in  the  interests  of  its  recipients  and  of  the  donor
countries.  We  particularly  appreciate  the  Agency’s
policy  of  subjecting  projects  to  a  rigorous  assessment
and  of  selecting  only  those  that  meet  a  series  of
specific  criteria.  We  note  that  this  policy  is  already
beginning  to  bear  fruit,  as  shown  by  the  reduction  in
the  number  of  projects.  The  Union  would  like  to
encourage the Agency to persevere with this policy and
to  keep  using  all  of 
the  resources  of  modern
management  methods  to  continuously  monitor  the
progress  of  projects 
their
objectives.
in  accordance  with 
We look forward with great interest to the text of
the  draft  resolution  that  is  soon  to  be  presented  by
Australia.  We  wish  to  affirm  once  again  the  European
Union’s  firm  intention  to  continue  to  cooperate  with
the International Atomic Energy Agency and to give it
its full support. The European Union considers that the
Agency  plays  an  irreplaceable  role  in  those  areas  for
which it is responsible.
of 
the 
Japan, 
offer  my 
forty-fifth  General  Conference  of 
Mr.  Motomura  (Japan):  On  behalf  of 
the
Government 
heartfelt
congratulations  to  Mr.  Grönberg  of  Finland  for  the
excellent manner in which he conducted his presidency
of 
the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  I  would
also  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  on
his reappointment as Director General of the IAEA and
to extend to him my best wishes for the success of his
second  term.  I  also  wish  to  thank  him  for  his
presentation  of  the  IAEA  report.  Furthermore,  I  am
pleased  to  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and 
the  Republic  of
Botswana, which have recently become members of the
Agency.
I 
to 
in 
and 
role 
fostering 
The Government of Japan greatly appreciates the
Agency’s 
strengthening
international cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear
energy,  nuclear  safety  and  nuclear  non-proliferation.
As  the  only  country  to  have  suffered  a  nuclear  attack
and  as  a  country  that  has  long  been  committed  to  the
peaceful use of nuclear energy, Japan is determined to
use  its  wealth  of  experience  for  the  greater  benefit  of
A/56/PV.30
physical 
protection  measures, 
humankind. We attach the highest priority to safety and
security 
in  utilizing  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful
purposes, and we are striving to promote safety and to
improve 
both
domestically and internationally.
the  scarcity  of 
its  domestic  energy
resources,  Japan  has  actively  promoted  the  peaceful
use  of  nuclear  energy  as  a  stable  energy  source  in  the
course  of  its  economic  development.  I  am  certain  that
the importance of this resource for Japan will increase
in the years ahead.
Given 
There  are  two  reasons  why  my  Government  has
been  promoting  the  enhanced  utilization  of  nuclear
energy.  First,  since  Japan  is  heavily  dependent  on
imported oil from abroad, nuclear energy contributes to
a  stable  energy  supply.  Secondly,  nuclear  energy  has
enormous  merit 
the  perspective  of  global
environmental  considerations.  The  Government  of
Japan  will  continue  to  make  its  use  of  plutonium
transparent.
from 
In the context of our bilateral cooperation, we are
concerned  at  the  situation  of  the  people  of  the
Semipalatinsk  region  of  Kazakhstan.  In  September
1999,  the  Government  of  Japan,  together  with  the
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),
convened 
the  Tokyo  International  Conference  for
assistance to the Semipalatinsk. As a follow-up to that
Conference,  and 
the
Government  of  Kazakhstan,  my  Government  recently
commenced  a  survey  to  assess  the  effects  of  radiation
on the health of the people of that region.
in  close  cooperation  with 
Allow me briefly to highlight some of the aspects
to  be
the  IAEA’s  activities  which  we  deem 
of 
particularly important.
In the light of the present international situation,
enhancement of the nuclear non-proliferation regime is
one  of  the  most  important  items  on  the  agenda  of  the
international  community.  It  is  my  conviction  that
strengthening  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  regime  is  the  most  realistic
option. That is why the Government of Japan promptly
concluded the additional protocol, which has the effect
of 
for  nuclear  non-
proliferation.  We  also  proposed,  during  the  General
Conference  of  the  IAEA  last  year,  a  plan  of  action  to
promote  the  conclusion  of  additional  protocols  by
many States which have not yet done so.
strengthening 
safeguards 
11
A/56/PV.30
the 
International  Symposium 
Based  on  the  plan  of  action  and  in  cooperation
with the IAEA, the Government of Japan organized in
June 
for  Further
Reinforcement of IAEA Safeguards in the Asia-Pacific
Region.  The  Symposium  succeeded  in  deepening  the
understanding  of  participants  on  the  issue  of  the
universalization of the Additional Protocol. I hope that
similar  events  will  be  organized  by  the  Agency  for
other regions of the world.
I  also  call  upon  all  States  parties  to  the  IAEA
Safeguards Agreement to promptly conclude additional
protocols through implementation of the plan of action.
Towards  that  end,  the  Government  of  Japan  remains
willing  to  cooperate  with  the  IAEA  in  terms  of  both
human and financial resources.
As was stated in the Final Document of the NPT
Review  Conference  last  year,  the  early  adoption  of
integrated  safeguards  will  rationalize  the  burden  of
safeguards  and  should  prove  to  be  an  important
incentive  for  concluding  the  additional  protocol.  We
urge  the  IAEA  secretariat  to  accelerate  its  work  on
substantiating the concept of integrated safeguards.
Needless  to  say,  it  is  essential  to  improve  and
create adequate security measures for nuclear materials
and  facilities.  The  Government  of  Japan  remains
strongly supportive of the activities and programmes of
the  IAEA,  which,  we  believe,  are  conducive 
to
preventing acts of terrorism.
of 
context 
suspected 
From  the  perspective  of  maintaining  peace  and
security in North-East Asia, the role of the IAEA in the
grave 
nuclear  weapons
development by North Korea is a pivotal one. In order
that  we  may  arrive  at  a  realistic  resolution  of  this
matter,  the  Government  of  Japan  will  continue  to
actively  support  the  efforts  made  by  the  Korean
Peninsula  Energy  Development  Organization 
to
implement, smoothly and expeditiously, the Lightwater
Reactor  Project.  I  urge  North  Korea  to  improve  its
relations  with  the  IAEA  and  to  comply  promptly  and
completely  with  its  obligations  under  the  safeguards
agreement.
In  closing, 
reiterate  my
Government’s  strong  commitment  to  and  support  for
the activities of the IAEA.
I  would 
like 
to 
Mr.  Tomka  (Slovakia):  First  and  foremost,  I
would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  for  his
comprehensive 
the
introduction  of 
the  report  on 
12
activities  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency.
Again,  we  find  the  report  well  balanced  and  highly
informative.
My delegation fully supports and associates itself
with the statement of the European Union delivered by
the  representative  of  Belgium.  I  would  like,  however,
to  briefly  address  some  issues  of  particular  interest  to
my delegation.
Slovakia  continues  to  view  the  work  of  the
Agency as truly indispensable for the promotion of the
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and  for  ensuring  that
its sources are not used for anything other than strictly
peaceful purposes.
Looking  back  at  last  year’s  nuclear  agenda,  we
would  like  to  underline  the  importance  of  the  sixth
Review  Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  Treaty
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  its
Final Document, which stressed the central position of
the Agency in upholding the Treaty’s non-proliferation
regime through the operation of its safeguards system.
In  our  view,  it  is  the  viability  of  the  non-proliferation
regime  and  the  continued  adherence  of  the  States
parties  that,  first  and  foremost,  create  the  necessary
conditions  for  the  successful  implementation  of  the
strengthened review process of the Treaty.
the  Model  Additional  Protocol 
We  fully  support  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the
Agency  aimed  at  refining  its  safeguards  system.  The
launching  of 
to
safeguards  agreements  represents  a  major  tool  in  this
respect.  We  encourage 
the  swift  conclusion  of
additional  protocols  by  as  many  States  as  possible.
Slovakia signed the Protocol in 1999, and preparations
for its implementation are well under way.
Although we are pleased to note that the Agency
has so far been able to verify the compliance of almost
all  States  with 
their  nuclear  non-proliferation
obligations, it is regrettable that in two cases it has not
been in a position to fully perform its mandated duties.
We  regret  the  continuing  failure  to  bring  the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty into force and
the  inability  to  resume  negotiations  on  a  ban  on  the
production  of  fissile  materials  for  nuclear  weapons.
Both  elements,  if  in  place,  would  represent  a  large
qualitative  step 
the  global
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  We  appreciate  the
Agency’s 
for
negotiations on a fissile material cut-off treaty.
towards  strengthening 
its  expertise 
to  provide 
readiness 
It 
is  clear 
to  strengthen 
that  measures 
the
safeguards  system  must  be  supported  by  the  effective
physical  protection  of  nuclear  material.  Although
illegal  trafficking  has  so  far  involved  only  small
quantities of nuclear material, combating it represents a
growing  challenge 
that  calls  for  further  decisive
measures  to  be  taken  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of
incidents.  It  is  no  wonder  that  at  this  session  of  the
General  Assembly  we  are  paying  more  detailed
attention  to  the  chapters  of  the  Agency’s  report
covering that issue. The recent tragic events in our host
country  clearly  suggest  the  scale  of  the  consequences
we  might  face  in  the  future  if  the  issue  is  not
adequately addressed.
We recognize the activities of the Agency in this
field, including the continued debate among experts on
the  need  to  revise  the  Convention  on  the  Physical
Protection  of  Nuclear  Materials.  The  Agency’s
database on illicit trafficking incidents also represents a
valuable  instrument  for  understanding  the  scale  of  the
issue  and  for  the  elaboration  of  effective  remedial
measures.
Slovakia  is  among  the  countries  that  operate
peaceful  nuclear  facilities.  Such  facilities  provide
nearly 50 per cent of the electricity that we generate in
a  year.  Their  safe  operation  continues  to  be  one  our
highest priorities. With this in mind, we have promoted
and enjoyed fruitful cooperation with the Agency since
joining  it  in  the  early  1990s.  In  the  field  of  nuclear
safety, I would like to mention the Agency’s year 2000
review  mission  of  units  1  and  2  of  the  Bohunice
nuclear power plant in Slovakia, which concluded that
a comprehensive safety upgrading programme had been
developed and implemented.
At  present,  Slovakia  is  cooperating  with  the
Agency  on  dozens  of  national, 
and
interregional  technical  projects.  One  national  project
which  merits  particular 
that  on
radiochemical 
producing  medical
radionuclides,  which  we  are  supporting  by  providing
$1.45 million.
attention 
facilities 
regional 
is 
for 
In addition to nuclear safety and technology, there
are other important areas in which cooperation between
Slovakia  and  the  Agency  takes  place.  The  holding  of
international  expert  workshops  has  been  particularly
successful, and we are ready to continue to host them.
With  our  broad  expertise  in  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear
energy  and  nuclear-related  applications,  we  are  also
A/56/PV.30
prepared 
sponsored by the Agency.
to  host 
fellows  and  visiting  scholars
Throughout  the  past  year  we  also  continued  our
cooperation in the field of the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy  with  more  than  20  States  members  of  the
Agency,  as  well  as  with  a  number  of  international
organizations.
In conclusion, my delegation hopes that this year
the General Assembly will be able to reintroduce, and
possibly  adopt  by  consensus,  a  substantial  draft
resolution  on  the  report  of  the  Agency.  Without  any
doubt, that would be the best message we could deliver
to Vienna, thereby demonstrating our unfailing support
for  the  Agency.  To  this  end,  I  pledge  my  delegation’s
full cooperation.
like 
to  begin  by 
Mr. Requeijo Gual (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): I
would 
thanking  Mr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei  for  his  introduction  to  the  annual  report  on
the  work  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency
(IAEA).  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  him  on  his
well-deserved  election  to  a  second  term  as  Director
General  of  the  IAEA  and  to  convey  to  him  Cuba’s
satisfaction  with  his  excellent 
the
Agency.
leadership  of 
I also wish to welcome the Republic of Botswana
and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,  as  new
members of the IAEA this year.
The  IAEA’s  efforts  in  the  area  of  technical
assistance  and  cooperation,  safeguards  and  nuclear
safety  are  valued  by  Cuba.  Apart  from  certain
questionable elements, these efforts result in a balance
that  is  favourable  to  the  tasks  of  the  Organization.
Technical  development,  promotion  and  cooperation
activities 
and
commendable part of the IAEA’s work. For this reason
we believe that everyone is duty-bound to work so that
cooperation 
is  also
strengthened and diversified.
is  not  only  maintained  but 
the  most 
represent 
valuable 
to  meet 
Nuclear  energy  offers  a  safe,  technically  rational
and  economically  viable  alternative 
the
pressing  energy  needs  of  most  States.  However,  this
has  not  prevented  some  developed  countries  from
maintaining  attitudes  that  are  not  in  keeping  with  the
principles and purposes of the IAEA, trying to cut back
technical  assistance  programmes, 
their
contributions  to  the  fund  created  for  such  purposes  or
placing selective conditions on their use.
reducing 
13
A/56/PV.30
should  mean  not  only 
Strengthening  the  IAEA  technical  cooperation
programme 
improving
organizational  systems  and  management  methods;  it
should also ensure that the financial resources destined
for  that  programme  are  made  available  on  a  reliable
and 
the  diversion  of
resources  from  the  technical  cooperation  fund  to  the
management  of  the  programme  should  be  prevented,
and  the  programme  management  should  be  ensured  in
the regular budget.
increasing  basis.  In  future 
Despite the significant results achieved, there are
many challenges that the Agency faces. We feel that at
this  time  there  is  an  imbalance  between  the  two  main
facets  of  the  IAEA’s  work:  cooperation  and  technical
assistance have not benefited from the same vigour and
integrity  as  have  safeguard  activities.  The 
trend
towards  a  decrease  in  real  terms  in  financing  for
technical  cooperation  activities  is  not  in  accord  with
the  growing  needs  of  the  developing  countries.  The
increasingly globalized world in which we live will be
less  viable  if  there  is  no  genuine  resolve  to  contribute
on the part of States possessing the greatest resources.
Those  are 
the  greatest
responsibility  to  contribute  to  a  genuine  transfer  of
technology,  accessible  to  all  on  an  equal  footing  and
without conditions.
the  countries 
that  have 
includes 
The nuclear programme that has been carried out
in  Cuba  since  the  1980s  was  designed  as  part  of  the
country’s  development  and 
two  basic
components:  applications  of  nuclear  techniques,  and
nuclear  energy.  The  plan  to  build  the  Juraguá  nuclear
electric  power  station  was  stopped  recently  because
other options have emerged that are more economically
viable  in  the  country’s  current  circumstances.  Cuba
meets more than 70 per cent of its electricity demands
from nationally produced fuels.
technologies 
Notwithstanding  the  decision  concerning  this
specific project, Cuba recognizes the important role of
nuclear 
in  sustainable  development.
Therefore,  the  country  will  continue  to  develop  its
nuclear programme, focusing now on the application of
nuclear  techniques  to  the  various  sectors  of  the  socio-
economic  life  of  the  country.  We  have  achieved
excellent  results 
the  areas  of  human  health,
agriculture,  industry  and  other  applications.  We  are
sending  experts  from  a  number  of  areas  to  other
countries and offering our facilities for training foreign
specialists,  and  some  Cuban  products  have  even  been
in 
14
used for international cooperation projects in the use of
nuclear energy.
In  addressing  the  question  of  safeguards,  the
question  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear Weapons (NPT) becomes an almost inevitable
issue. Cuba’s position on this Treaty is known. We take
the  view  that  its  provisions  are  discriminatory  and
selective  by  their  very  nature,  because  they  legitimize
the  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  by  a  select  club  of
countries.  The  nuclear  Powers  that  derive  legitimacy
from 
the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  are  not  even
required  to  submit  their  nuclear  facilities  and  arsenals
to  IAEA  safeguards.  These  are  the  basic  reasons  why
thus  far  Cuba  has  neither  signed  nor  ratified  that
Treaty.
Although  it  is  not  a  State  party  to  the  Non-
Proliferation  Treaty  and 
thus  has  no  obligation
whatsoever to negotiate safeguard agreements with the
IAEA,  Cuba  currently  has  all  its  nuclear  facilities
subject  to  safeguard  agreements  with  the  Agency,  and
it  fulfils  them  scrupulously.  Moreover,  October  1999
saw  the  signing  of  the  additional  protocol  to  the
existing  safeguard  agreements  between  Cuba  and  the
IAEA. Cuba thus became the first non-signatory of the
Treaty to sign such a protocol.
As  part  of  the  rigid  economic,  financial  and
commercial  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba  for  more  than
40 years, various actions have targeted our programme
for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  to  prevent  its
advance.  As  is  well  known,  in  1996  the  United  States
Government  adopted  the  infamous  Helms-Burton  Act,
which,  among  other 
the
termination and the operation of any nuclear facility in
Cuba, even when it is a facility for the peaceful use of
nuclear  energy,  would  be  considered  an  act  of
aggression that would provoke an appropriate response
from the United States.
things,  provides 
that 
Other pieces of American legislation currently in
force  spell  out  actions  designed  to  boycott  Cuba’s
nuclear programme in various ways. Cuba reiterates its
strongest  rejection  of  such  discriminatory  actions,
which run  counter  to  the  statute  of  the  IAEA.  Despite
those  actions,  our  country  will  continue  to  develop  its
nuclear  programme  for  peaceful  purposes  in  a  totally
transparent manner and will continue to work tirelessly
to  promote  nuclear  disarmament  and 
total
elimination of nuclear weapons.
the 
Last  year,  following  negotiations  in  Vienna  and
New  York  that  lasted  several  months,  the  General
Assembly adopted a basically procedural resolution on
the IAEA’s annual report. Although for many it was a
frustrating  exercise,  in  our  view  its  main  virtue  was
that  a  text  was  adopted  without  a  vote,  in  contrast  to
what  had  been  happening  for  several  years.  We  hope
that last year’s experience spelled the end of the cycle
of  confrontation  which  should  never  have  been
initiated  concerning  this  resolution.  Given  that  it  is
dealing with an agency of the importance of the IAEA,
the  resolution  should  contain  only  consensus  elements
and should reflect those issues that have the necessary
support  from  all  delegations.  This  would  make  it
possible  for  the  General  Assembly  to  send  a  clear
signal  of  unity  and  support  for  the  work  done  by  the
IAEA. Cuba reaffirms its full readiness to contribute to
efforts made to achieve that objective.
Mr. Sevilla Somoza (Nicaragua), Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Mr.  Gatilov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in
Russian):  First  of  all,  let  me  express  our  heartfelt
condolences  to  the  delegation  and  the  people  of  the
United States, the victims and the bereaved families of
all those who died as a result of the unprecedented act
of aggression perpetrated by the forces of international
terrorism.
the 
The  large-scale  terrorist  attack  perpetrated  on
11 September  2001  demonstrated  where 
real
challenge  to  security  comes  from,  especially  when
coupled  with  terrorists’  attempts  to  get  their  hands  on
weapons of mass destruction. It also demonstrated what
civilized States should deploy their efforts against. We
believe  that  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency
(IAEA) should play its own important role in this area.
The  Russian  Federation  would  like  to  welcome
the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  Mr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei, to congratulate him on his re-election to his
position  and  to  thank  him  for  submitting  this  regular
Agency  report  for  our  consideration.  In  our  opinion,
the report provides us with an objective picture of the
multifaceted  activities  of  the  Agency,  covering  such
major  areas  as  ensuring  nuclear  non-proliferation
through  its  verification  functions  and  assisting  in  the
peaceful  use  of  atomic  energy  for  development
purposes.
Russia adheres to a consistent policy with regard
to securing strategic stability on the basis of preserving
A/56/PV.30
and strengthening the international legal framework in
the area of nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament.
By  ratifying  the  key  disarmament  agreements  —
START  II,  along  with  the  package  of  the  New  York
arrangements on START and the Anti-Ballistic Missile
(ABM)  Treaty,  and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  —  Russia  has  confirmed,  not  in
word but in deed, its commitment to its obligations.
At this session of the General Assembly, Russia,
together with the delegations of Belarus and China, has
introduced a draft resolution on the preservation of and
compliance with the ABM Treaty, which has been and
remains the backbone of strategic stability system. By
proposing  this  draft  resolution  in  support  of  the  ABM
Treaty,  we  proceed  from  the  need  to  further  mobilize
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  prevent
the  existing  system  of  treaties  and  agreements  in  the
area  of  arms  control  and  disarmament  from  being
undermined.
Among 
important  elements  of  nuclear
the 
disarmament  are 
the  disposal  of  excess  weapon
materials  and  the  reduction  of  the  nuclear-weapon
complex 
successful
implementation 
States
intergovernmental  agreement  of  18  February  1993  on
the  use  of  highly  enriched  uranium  extracted  from
nuclear  weapons,  approximately  5,000  warheads  have
already  been  destroyed.  We  can  also  mention  the
progress  made  in  the  conversion  of  nuclear-weapon
enterprises.
the  Russia/United 
the 
in  Russia.  Due 
to 
of 
We  believe 
that,  apart  from  unilateral  and
bilateral  steps  in  the  area  of  nuclear  disarmament,  the
time  has  come  to  start  discussions  on  strategic  issues
within  the  framework  of  multilateral  mechanisms,
including  among  the  five  permanent  members  of  the
Security  Council,  who  bear  special  responsibility  for
the  fate  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons 
the  CTBT  and  other
international agreements.
(NPT), 
Certainly,  one  of  the  fundamental  treaties  in  the
nuclear  sphere  is  the  NPT,  which  has  defined  the
international security system for over 30 years. Russia
attaches great significance to the implementation of the
Final Document of the 2000 NPT Review Conference.
As  can  be  seen  from  the  IAEA  report,  last  year
virtually  all  major  programmes  were  implemented
according  to  plan.  We  take  special  note  of  one
the
important  area  of 
the  Agency’s  activities, 
15
A/56/PV.30
application of safeguards, which is interlinked with the
enforcement  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.
The Russian Federation consistently acts in support of
developing  measures  for  the  further  strengthening  of
the  IAEA  safeguards  system,  including  efforts  to
develop comprehensive safeguards. Russia is financing
a  national  programme 
and
technological support of IAEA guarantees.
scientific 
the 
for 
We  should  note  the  role  that  could  be  played  by
the IAEA in the possible international control of fissile
materials  released  as  a  result  of  genuine  nuclear
disarmament. We believe that an example of this could
be  the  Trilateral  Initiative  aimed  at  examining  the
various  aspects  of  the  placement  by  Russia  and  the
United  States  of  excess  fissile  materials  originating  in
weapons under IAEA control.
the 
the  beginning  of 
We are convinced that helping in the development
of  nuclear  energy  has  to  remain  a  key  priority  area  of
the Agency’s activities. An important event in this area
was 
implementation  of  an
international project on innovative nuclear reactors and
nuclear fuel cycles. We see that this project is aimed at
dealing  with  a  specific  task:  developing  coordinated
criteria for selecting promising nuclear technologies of
a  new  generation.  Its  implementation  is  one  of  the
practical  steps  within  the  initiative  put  forward  by
President  Vladimir  Putin  at  the  Millennium  Summit
last year, and this implementation will be conducive to
the  sustainable  development  of  humankind,  nuclear
non-proliferation and the environmental stability of the
planet.
On  Russia’s  initiative,  the  forty-fifth  session  of
the  IAEA  General  Conference  adopted  a  resolution
encouraging  all  interested  States  to  fully  join  the
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors
and Fuel Cycles and to make their own contributions to
its  implementation.  We  are  grateful  to  the  States  that
supported that resolution.
We see a positive trend in the change of attitude
to  nuclear  energy  that  is  taking  place  in  the  world.  In
May  2000,  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federation
approved a strategy for nuclear energy development in
Russia  for  the  first  half  of  the  twenty-first  century.
According to that strategy, nuclear energy development
will  exceed  the  development  of  other  types  of  power
generation by a factor of three. In July this year, Russia
saw  the  adoption  of  a  legislation  package  authorizing
the import of radioactive nuclear fuel for technological
16
storage  and  processing.  We  now  have  broad
capabilities  in  terms  of  reprocessing  spent  fuel  from
nuclear  power  plants,  especially  as  concerns  power
plants  in  the  construction  and  operation  of  which  we
helped. New laws provide for the possibility of leasing
fuel, which would guarantee the return of spent fuel to
Russia.  All  of  this  will  certainly  be  conducive  to  the
promotion  of  international  cooperation  in  the  peaceful
use of nuclear energy.
Russia  supports  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in
improving  the  strategy  of  technical  cooperation.  The
Russian Federation made its voluntary contribution, on
time and in full, to the IAEA Technical Assistance and
Cooperation Fund for the year 2000.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our
generally positive opinion the IAEA’s work in the past
year.  I  would  like  to  suggest  that  there  is  a  need  to
maintain  the  right  proportion  and  balance  among  the
major IAEA functional programmes.
We  expect  that  this  year  the  General  Assembly
will  adopt  a  substantive  draft  resolution  on  the  IAEA
report.  In  our  view,  this  would  tangibly  confirm  the
role  that  the  Agency  plays  in  fulfilling  its  important
tasks 
to  nuclear  non-proliferation  and
assistance in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
relating 
Mr.  Khairat  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the
outset,  I  wish  to  extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to
Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei on the renewal of his mandate
as Director General of the International Atomic Energy
Agency.  This  demonstrates 
the  confidence  of  all
countries and their appreciation for his wise leadership
in  conducting 
in
the  peaceful
developing 
application  of  nuclear  energy 
the  service  of
humankind  and  prosperity,  and  in  strengthening  the
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  I  also  wish  to  thank
him  for  his  excellent  presentation  of  the  Agency’s
annual report.
the  Agency  and 
the  work  of 
its  activities 
to  enhance 
in 
We have read the annual report of the Agency and
have  learned  of  its  clear  achievements  over  the  past
year. Due to lack of time, it would be difficult for us to
address the various aspects of the Agency’s work as set
out  in  the  report,  aspects  such  as  nuclear  safety,
radiation  safety,  security  of  material,  and  so  on.
However, we wish to reaffirm the great importance we
attach 
the  Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards
system  as  a  means  of  observing  and  verifying  the
to 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  and  for  preventing  the
diversion of such energy towards military applications.
As  has  been  its  firm  position  at  the  regional  and
international levels over the years, Egypt believes that
the  Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards  system  is  the
cornerstone  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.
We  believe  that  universal  accession  is  of  utmost
priority.  This  was  called  for  by  the  sixth  Review
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  and  that
appeal  was  renewed  unanimously  as  one  of  the  main
objectives in the strengthening of the non-proliferation
regime.  From  this  perspective  and  in  the  light  of  the
international  momentum  towards  achieving  universal
accession  to  the  Agency’s  safeguards  regime,  we  are
amazed  at  the  position  of  certain  countries  that  are
active  and  influential  in  the  field  of  non-proliferation,
which  occasionally  adopt  a  negative  attitude  towards
the need to attain universal accession to the safeguards
system.  This clear  contradiction  demonstrates  the  lack
of credibility of certain influential countries in dealing
seriously with the countries that fail to comply with the
principles  now  enshrined  at  the  international  level.
They  continue  to  demand  that  additional  measures  be
implemented  by  countries  already  committed  to  those
principles. 
completely
incomprehensible  and  does  not  reflect  a  serious
international  approach  to  non-proliferation.  In  this
context, we believe that the resolution of the Agency’s
General  Conference  on 
the
safeguards system is a good step forward. It evinces a
certain  objectivity 
importance  of
achieving the safeguards regime, and we look forward
to more international action in this regard.
the  strengthening  of 
contradiction 
regarding 
This 
is 
the 
Egypt  attaches  great  importance  to  the  aims  and
principles  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and
nuclear disarmament in the world. Achieving progress
in this field, especially in the Middle East, is of critical
importance in the light of Israel’s intransigence and its
threatening use of obsolete strategies of deterrence. All
the  countries  of  the  region  have  acceded  to  the  NPT
and  have  placed 
their  nuclear  activities  under
comprehensive  Agency  safeguards.  That  is  a  bid  to
establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle
East. However, Israel continues to stand apart from the
efforts in the region in this regard.
Since  1974,  Egypt  has  taken  the  initiative  to
establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle
East. This is an appeal that the General Assembly has
A/56/PV.30
in 
consensus 
renewed  by 
repeatedly 
since  1980,
culminating  in  President  Mubarak’s  initiative  of  18
April 1990 calling for the creation of a zone free of all
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East,  as  a
natural continuation of Egypt’s ongoing bid to establish
a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
the  Middle  East.
Towards  the  implementation  of  this  initiative,  the
Agency’s  General  Conference  unanimously 
issues
annually a resolution on applying Agency safeguards in
the Middle East. Despite all of that, Israel still refuses
to comply with international will and refuses to subject
its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  safeguards  regime.  Those
efforts  and  appeals  are  not  merely  Egyptian  or  Arab
demands, but an international demand involving many
other countries. That international will was reflected in
the  Final  Document  of 
the  sixth  NPT  Review
Conference,  held 
in  2000.  The  Final  Document
welcomed  the  accession  of  all  the  countries  of  the
Middle  East,  except  Israel, 
the  NPT.  It  also
reaffirmed  the  importance  of  Israel’s  accession  to  the
Treaty and its placing all its nuclear installations under
the full scope of Agency safeguards.
to 
the  aims  and  effectiveness  of 
towards 
cooperation  programme 
in  Africa.  We  also  support 
improving 
through 
We  appreciate  the  Agency’s  efforts  to  develop
improve 
the
and 
Agency’s 
technical  cooperation  programme  with
Member  States,  especially  with  developing  countries,
the
and  particularly 
the
Agency’s  practical  steps 
technical 
early
consultations  with  Member  States  concerning 
the
details  of  the  various  programmes,  as  well  as  through
improving coordination between the secretariat and the
managers  of  proposed  projects.  However,  we  wish  to
highlight  the  importance  of  adequately  funding  these
activities  because  they  are  a  basic  component  of  the
Agency’s work.
In conclusion, I wish to reaffirm Egypt’s attention
to  the  need  for  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  a
substantive  resolution  every  year  concerning 
this
agenda item, in the light of the importance we attach to
the Agency’s work and to the peaceful applications of
nuclear  energy.  We  believe 
the  procedural
resolution of the General Assembly’s fifty-fifth session
does not rise to the level of the Agency’s work.
that 
Mr. Balarezo (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I would
like  to  convey  our  thanks  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei
for  his  presentation  of  the  exhaustive  report  of  the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  to
congratulate him on his re-election to a second term as
17
A/56/PV.30
of 
the 
the 
confidence 
the  IAEA.  This  re-election
Director  General  of 
reaffirms 
international
community  in  the  important  work  that  he  has  been
doing  and  the  need  for  it  to  continue  in  order  to
consolidate the achievements in the three pillars of the
Agency’s task: the safeguards system, encouraging the
safety  of  nuclear  facilities  and  promoting  the  transfer
of  technology  and  technical  cooperation  for  peaceful
purposes.
The 
and
Washington, D.C., almost two months ago highlight the
urgent  need  for  an  effective  system  of  protection  for
fissile  material  and  nuclear  facilities,  to  combat  illicit
trafficking in such material and to strengthen the non-
proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament  regime  through
the  immediate  implementation  of  the  13  points  agreed
by  consensus  at  the  2000  Review  Conference  of  the
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear Weapons.
in  New  York 
terrorist 
attacks 
The  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  has
played  a  key  role  in  these  areas  by  strengthening  the
only  option  that  absolutely  guarantees  the  non-use  of
nuclear  weapons  by  state  and  non-state  actors.  That
option 
total  elimination  of  nuclear
weapons. Peru is convinced of the need for an effective
and genuine international verification system for fissile
materials  and  nuclear  facilities  and  for  ensuring
exclusively peaceful use.
requires 
the 
On the basis of the experience of recent years and
of  the  recognition  of  the  need  to  expand  the  IAEA’s
assessment  and  information  capacities  accurately  to
determine if a diversion of fissile material for military
purposes  has  occurred,  my  country  signed 
the
additional  safeguards  Protocol.  When  this  Protocol
came into force on 23 July, Peru became the first Latin
American State fully to commit itself to the objectives
of the Agency, aimed at making the safeguards system
more  effective  and  efficient  and  thus  at  enhancing  the
nuclear non-proliferation regime.
Moreover, in December this year, Peru will host a
regional  IAEA  seminar  to  promote  the  signing  of
safeguards agreements and additional protocols among
the  States  parties  to  the  Treaty  of  Tlatelolco.  Peru
thereby seeks to contribute to the strengthening of the
non-proliferation  regime  in  Latin  America  and  the
Caribbean. The seminar will also enjoy the cooperation
of  the  United  Nations  Regional  Centre  for  Peace,
Disarmament  and  Development  in  Latin  America  and
18
the Caribbean and of the Agency for the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons in Latin America.
My  country  wishes  to  highlight  here  the  debate
that was held at the recent forty-fifth regular session of
the General Conference on radiological protection and
the  safe  management  of  radioactive  waste,  including
safe  transport  of  such  materials,  which  led  to  the
consensus  adoption  of  an  unprecedented  resolution  on
that  important  topic.  That  resolution,  co-sponsored  by
to  foster  constructive  dialogue
Peru, 
between 
those  potentially
affected  by  such  activity  through  early  notification  of
such  shipment.  It  also  recognizes  such  important
concepts  as  the  protection  of  island  and  coastal  States
from actual economic losses that could be caused by an
accident 
the
objective liability in such cases.
radioactive  material  and 
transporting  States  and 
is  designed 
involving 
These  elements,  among  others,  will  by  a  key
contribution 
towards  building  an  adequate  and
comprehensive international regime on the transport of
radioactive  material.  This  is  a  matter  of  profound
international  concern,  as  confirmed  by  the  convening
by  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors  of  a  conference  on
this  issue,  to  be  held  in  2003.  Moreover,  Peru  would
stress  the  significant  support  it  has  received  from  the
IAEA in the area of technical cooperation for peaceful
purposes, 
the
development plan for the Peru-Ecuador border region.
the  context  of 
in  particular 
in 
As in the past, Peru will continue to work for the
priority  objectives  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency  and  will  support  its  efforts  to  fulfil  its
responsibility  in  promoting  the  safe  and  peaceful  uses
of nuclear energy and in averting their destructive use.
In 
international
community  to  provide  the  IAEA  with  the  requisite
financial resources so that it may continue to carry out
its  valuable  objectives  of  strengthening  development
and international peace and security.
regard,  we  appeal 
this 
the 
to 
for 
Mr.  Dauth  (Australia):  I  want  to  begin  by
thanking  Director  General  ElBaradei 
his
comprehensive  statement  on  the  achievements  of  the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the
challenges  it  will  face  over  the  coming  year.  In
carrying  out  the  Agency’s  mandate,  member  States
have  been  very  well  served  by  Mr.  ElBaradei’s
leadership. Australia was therefore very pleased to join
with others in approving his reappointment as Director
General until 2005. We look forward to continuing our
close  cooperation  with  him  and  the  members  of  the
Secretariat.
Australia looks forward to an even closer working
relationship  with  the  Agency  in  2001-2002,  when  an
Australian  will  chair  the  Board  of  Governors.  As  part
of  those  responsibilities,  it  falls  to  my  delegation  to
submit a draft resolution on the report of the IAEA to
this Assembly. We hope to do so in the next few days,
once 
informal
consultations currently being undertaken in Vienna has
concluded.
intensive  process  of 
the  very 
Article 1 of the United Nations Charter lays down
a lofty goal, that is, to
“maintain international peace and security, and to
that end: to take effective collective measures for
the  prevention  and  removal  of  threats  to  the
peace”.
Preventing threats to the peace requires the building of
confidence between nations and the development of an
effective  international  security  system.  The  IAEA’s
system  of  nuclear  safeguards  and  other  verification
measures  make  a  vital  contribution  to  pursuing  this
goal.
The  events  of  11  September  have  vividly
demonstrated to us all the imperative of redoubling the
international  community’s  efforts  to  respond  to  global
security threats, such as terrorism and the proliferation
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The  Agency’s  efforts
to ensure that nuclear and other radioactive material is
not  misappropriated  are  vitally  important,  as  is  the
observance by all States of the various guides and other
documents  on  physical  protection  developed  by  the
Agency  over  the  years.  Australia  attaches  particular
importance 
the  Physical
Protection of Nuclear Material, calls upon all States to
adhere  to  it  and  looks  forward  to  the  extension  of  its
scope  to  cover  material  in  domestic  use,  storage  and
transport.  In  this  regard,  Australia  welcomes  the
Director  General’s  decision  to  convene  a  group  of
experts  to  draft  a  well-defined  amendment  aimed  at
strengthening the Convention and at encouraging States
to become parties to it.
the  Convention  on 
to 
Australia  considers 
the  International  Atomic
Energy  Agency  to  be  a  central  pillar  of  the  nuclear
non-proliferation  regime,  of  which  the  Treaty  on  the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  is  the
cornerstone.  NPT  safeguards  applied  by  the  Agency
A/56/PV.30
remain essential to advancing trade and cooperation in
support of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. As a major
uranium  supplier,  Australia  places  its  uranium  exports
under  Agency  safeguards  to  ensure  that  Australian-
obligated  nuclear  material  is  used  only  for  peaceful
purposes. We very much value the contribution that the
Agency’s  safeguards  make  to  establishing  the  climate
of  assurance  under  which 
international  nuclear
cooperation is possible.
More  than  a  year  has  passed  since  the  landmark
outcome  of  the  2000  NPT  Review  Conference  set  an
ambitious  agenda  for  the  international  community  for
promoting  nuclear  non-proliferation,  disarmament  and
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  The  Final
Document  of  the  2000  Review  Conference  recognized
that  the  Agency’s  safeguards  are  an  indispensable
component of the nuclear non-proliferation regime, and
endorsed  strengthening  the  safeguards  system  through
adoption of additional protocols. Regrettably, the 2000
Review Conference’s recognition of the importance of
additional  protocols  has  not  been  reflected  in  the  rate
of signature and ratification of additional protocols by
States.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  urge  States  that
have yet to sign or ratify an additional protocol to do so
as  quickly  as  possible.  We  also  urge  those  States  that
have yet to conclude their NPT safeguards agreements
to do so without further delay.
practical 
experience 
in  Australia 
Australia is pleased to be the first State in which
integrated safeguards are being applied. The Agency is
gaining 
in
implementing  new  measures  such  as  unannounced
inspections,  complementary  access  and  managed
access,  which  will  prove  invaluable  as  integrated
safeguards  are  extended  to  other  countries.  We  hope
that, as an important matter, Australia’s experience will
also  demonstrate  that  integrated  safeguards  are  not
burdensome,  but  that  they  rather  deliver  benefits  in
terms of increased efficiency and effectiveness.
non-proliferation. 
The ultimate goal of nuclear disarmament will not
be  achieved  without  effective  measures  that  ensure
nuclear 
2000  Review
Conference  identified  the  negotiation  of  a  fissile
material  cut-off  treaty  as  one  of  the  most  urgent
disarmament 
the
international community should take. We commend the
Agency for its ongoing contribution to the dialogue on
possible verification requirements for such a treaty.
non-proliferation 
steps 
The 
and 
19
A/56/PV.30
There  is  a  continuing  need  to  remain  vigilant  in
looking  for  clandestine  nuclear  weapons  programmes
and  in  maintaining  pressure  on  non-compliant  States.
Two  States  continue  to  test  the  non-proliferation
regime:  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea
and Iraq. It is of concern that the Agency is still unable
to  verify  the  correctness  and  completeness  of  the
inventory  declaration  of 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea  given  that  that  country  has  an
international 
its
safeguards  agreement.  It  is  essential  for  successful
completion  of  the  light  water  reactor  project  that  the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea cooperate fully
with the IAEA and come into full compliance with its
IAEA safeguards agreement as soon as possible.
to  comply  with 
legal  obligation 
resolutions.  We  welcome 
The  concern  with  Iraq  is  that,  since  December
1998,  the  IAEA  has  been  unable  to  conduct  its
verification  and  monitoring  activities  under  relevant
Security  Council 
the
Agency’s  preparedness  to  resume  such  verification  in
Iraq  as  soon  as  circumstances  allow.  For  its  part,  Iraq
must now cooperate fully with the Agency and with the
United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection
Commission to enable the Agency to fulfil the mandate
entrusted to it by the Security Council.
Maintaining  peace  and  security  also  has  socio-
economic  dimensions.  In  that  regard,  Australia  places
great  importance  on  the  unique  role  played  by  the
Agency  in  ensuring  the  safe  utilization  of  nuclear
energy and in the application of nuclear technologies in
developing countries.
the  central 
The 2000 NPT Review Conference, reinforced by
successive  General  Conferences  of  the  IAEA,  has
underlined 
importance  of  maintaining
nuclear  safety  at  optimal  levels.  Australia  emphasizes
the  importance  of  the  Agency’s  work  in  developing
safety standards governing the nuclear industry  and in
developing legal regimes and assistance programmes to
in  member  States.  A
strengthen  nuclear  safety 
particular 
promoting
improvements  in  the  international  safety  regime  for
research  reactors.  Australia  also  continues  to  promote
constructive  dialogue  between  shipping  and  coastal
States on the safe transport of radioactive material.
for  Australia 
focus 
is 
recognized 
In line with article IV of the NPT, the Agency has
been 
successive  NPT  Review
Conferences  as  the  principal  agent  for  technology
transfers  for  peaceful  nuclear  purposes.  We  welcome
by 
20
the  Agency’s  efforts  to  strengthen  the  delivery  of
technical  cooperation,  including  through  the  use  of
strategic  planning  tools  such  as  thematic  planning,
country programme frameworks and the model project
approach.
technology 
Australia  has  been  pleased  to  contribute  to  the
Agency’s technical cooperation activities over the past
year,  both  by  contributing  to  the  Agency’s  Technical
Cooperation  Fund  and  through  direct  involvement  in
activities  which  foster  cooperation  in  the  transfer  of
knowledge  and 
for  peaceful  nuclear
applications.  Australian  specialists  have  undertaken
many expert missions and lecturing assignments as part
of 
technical  cooperation
programme,  and  Australia  has  hosted  a  number  of
IAEA meetings and training events. We also contribute
significantly to technical cooperation activities through
our  extra-budgetary  contributions  to  specific  Agency
projects. Australia has also provided strong support to
the  management,  structure  and  programme  of  the
Agency’s  Regional  Cooperative  Agreement  for  Asia
and the Pacific.
the  activities  of 
the 
The  external  environment  in  which  the  Agency
operates is highly fluid, and the Agency must maintain
the  capacity  to  respond  quickly  and  effectively  to
external  developments,  be  they  related  to  physical
protection,  nuclear  proliferation,  nuclear  safety  or
sustainable development.
Mr.  ElBaradei’s  comments  reflect  the  highlights
of  another  full  year  of  activity  by  the  Agency  in
pushing  forward  with  its  mandate  to  harness  the  atom
for  the  benefit  of  humanity.  Australia  will  continue  to
provide  technical,  financial  and  political  support  for
that effort.
Mr. Sun Joun-yung (Republic of Korea): First of
all,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  sincere  congratulations
to Mr. ElBaradei on his re-election as Director General
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).
My delegation would like to thank him and his staff for
their  dedication  and  for  their  untiring  efforts  to
accomplish the Agency’s mandates.
Throughout  its  45-year  history,  the  IAEA  has
fulfilled  many  important  roles.  It  has  been  a  steadfast
advocate  for  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  a  mediator  in  favour  of  the
peaceful use of nuclear energy, and a leader in forging
international cooperation on nuclear issues. In this new
international
century, 
imperative 
that 
the 
it 
is 
to  recognize  and  assert 
community  continue 
the
importance  of  the  Agency  in  those  and  other  areas  in
order  to  ensure  the  more  positive  and  productive  uses
of nuclear energy.
power 
continues 
to  make 
As  a  stable  and  economical  energy  source,
nuclear 
significant
contributions to economic development, environmental
conservation  and  the  improvement  of  living  standards
around the globe. I believe that in the future the role of
nuclear  energy  in  assisting  sustainable  development
worldwide will further increase. One upcoming project
that points the way towards the broader use of nuclear
power is the IAEA’s International Project on Innovative
Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel  Cycles.  My  Government
welcomes  that  project  and  plans  to  contribute  to  its
successful development.
The Republic of Korea remains at the forefront in
developing  advanced  nuclear  power  technology.  In
particular,  Korea 
is  developing  a  next-generation
1,400-megawatt 
system-integrated
modular  small  reactor  used  for  both  desalination  and
power  generation.  We  are  proud  to  be  among  the
Member  States  working  hard  to  develop  innovative
nuclear systems to meet a wide range of global needs.
reactor  and  a 
The  future  of  nuclear  energy  is  inextricably
linked with the issue of nuclear safety. For this reason,
we  must  make  continuous  efforts 
to  promote
worldwide  nuclear  safety.  We  welcome  the  entry  into
force last June of the Joint Convention on the Safety of
the  Safety  of
Spent  Fuel  Management  and  on 
Radioactive  Waste  Management,  as  an 
important
framework  for  securing  global  nuclear  safety.  My
Government is currently in the process of ratifying this
Convention.
the 
Regarding  the  safety  and  security  of  radioactive
materials,  my  country  has  implemented  the  radiation
safety  information  system  (RASIS),  which  can  track
and monitor radioisotopes from production to disposal
via the Internet. We believe that further discussions are
needed  at 
to  continuously
improve 
radioactive
materials. In this context, I would like to draw attention
to  my  country’s  recent  proposal 
to  establish  a
worldwide  information  network  monitoring  the  sale
and  management  of  radioactive  materials,  a  proposal
made  during  the  IAEA’s  General  Conference  last
month.
the  safety  and  security  of 
international 
level 
A/56/PV.30
Furthermore,  in  light  of  the  terrorist  attacks  of
11 September  in  the  United  States,  the  importance  of
the physical protection of nuclear material and the need
to combat illicit trafficking cannot be overemphasized.
In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  Director  General’s
decision  to  convene  an  open-ended  group  meeting  of
legal  and  technical  experts  next  December  to  draft  a
well-defined amendment strengthening the Convention
on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  My
Government is looking forward to participating in this
meeting.
considers 
The  Korean  Government 
non-
proliferation to be the foremost prerequisite for the use
and development of nuclear energy. For this reason, we
have  made  an  active  contribution  to  all  aspects  of  the
international  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  One  of
the  most  essential  elements  of  this  regime  is  the
safeguards system of the IAEA.
in 
its 
has 
concluded 
In  this  context,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  the
Agency 
Safeguards
Implementation  Report  (SIR)  for  2000  that  among  the
140  States  that  have  implemented  their  safeguards
agreements  there  have  been  no  indications  of  either  a
diversion of nuclear material or the misuse of facilities
or  equipment  placed  under  the  safeguard  of  the
Agency.
In  addition,  the  report  provides  even  broader
assurances for the seven member States with additional
protocols  that  are  in  force  or  are  being  provisionally
applied.  The  Agency  was  able  to  affirm  not  only  that
there  had  been  no  diversion  of  declared  nuclear
material,  but  also  that  there  has  been  no  indication  of
undeclared 
activities  or  nuclear  material.  My
delegation commends the Agency for its endeavours to
bring about these positive results.
The  delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  would
also like to commend the recent efforts by the IAEA to
strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  the  safeguards  system
and  improve  its  efficiency.  We  look  forward  to  the
timely  completion  of  a  conceptual  framework  for  the
integrated  safeguards  system.  We  also  urge  the  IAEA
to  remain  vigilant  in  securing  cost  neutrality  in  this
project.
To enhance nuclear transparency, the Republic of
Korea has for the past four years had in effect its own
State  system  of  accounting  and  control,  in  addition  to
the  inspections  conducted  by  the  IAEA.  These  efforts
have  enabled  my  country  to  attain  more  than  95  per
21
A/56/PV.30
cent  of  the  inspection  goals.  Under  this  programme,
Korea is helping the IAEA foster the experimental new
partnership approach, which we hope will be developed
into a new model for IAEA inspections in the future.
IAEA’s Board of Governors. We ask all member States
that have not ratified the amendment to do so promptly,
so that the amendment can enter into force as soon as
possible.
Since  1993  the  General  Conference  of  the  IAEA
has adopted resolutions urging the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea to fully comply with its safeguards
agreement with the IAEA. Last November the Agency
conveyed  to  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of
Korea  a  detailed  programme  of  the  entire  verification
process.  In  May  2001  the  Agency  presented  two
concrete  steps  that  could  be  taken  with  respect  to  the
isotope  production  laboratory  and  the  verification  of
plutonium  in  spent  fuel  rods  stored  in  canisters  at  the
5 megawatt reactor facility. The General Conference of
the 
resolution  GC(45)/RES/16  of
21 September  2001,  inter  alia,  welcomes  such  efforts
by the Agency and strongly encourages the Democratic
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  respond  positively  and
at an early date to the Agency’s first concrete steps.
IAEA, 
its 
in 
reactor  project 
Thanks  to  the  efforts  of  the  Korean  Peninsula
Energy Development Organization (KEDO) secretariat
and  its  partners,  the  construction  work  for  the  light-
water 
forward.  Last
September  KEDO  began  the  excavation  of  the  power
block, with the permission of the Democratic People’s
Republic  of  Korea.  With  the  completion  of  the  site
arrangement  and  building  infrastructure,  KEDO  is
poised to proceed with this important milestone in the
construction of the reactors.
is  moving 
Under 
the  Agreed  Framework,  before 
the
reactor’s key nuclear components can be delivered, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea must come into
full compliance with its safeguards agreement with the
IAEA.  Given  the  Agency’s  assessment  that  it  would
take  three  to  four  years  to  verify  the  correctness  and
completeness  of  the  initial  report  of  the  Democratic
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  we  call  upon 
the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to provide the
IAEA  with  full  cooperation  in  a  prompt  manner.
Against such a backdrop, we sincerely hope that recent
positive developments on the Korean Peninsula and in
North-East  Asia  will  promote  full  implementation  of
the relevant agreements.
Before  closing,  I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to
the  resolution  adopted  at 
the  forty-third  General
Conference  of  the  IAEA  to  amend  article  VI  of  the
Agency’s  Statute,  regarding  the  enlargement  of  the
22
I  conclude  by  affirming  my  delegation’s
unwavering commitment to the objectives of the IAEA
and its strong support for the Agency’s work.
Mr.  Fonseca  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  am
honoured to take the floor on behalf of the delegations
of Argentina and Brazil to express our appreciation for
the  report  introduced  by  the  Director  General  of  the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  Mr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei.
Everyone  is  familiar  with  Brazil  and  Argentina’s
active  and  permanent  commitment  to  the  international
community’s  objectives  of  non-proliferation,  nuclear
disarmament and the promotion of the peaceful uses of
atomic energy. Those objectives guarantee the rights of
all States to carry out research on nuclear energy and to
produce  and  utilize  it  for  peaceful  purposes.  It  is  for
this  reason  that  Brazil  and  Argentina  are  making  this
joint  statement  today  in  commemoration  of  the  tenth
anniversary  of  the  Brazilian-Argentine  Agency  for
Accounting 
and  Control  of  Nuclear  Materials
(ABACC), and in order to announce the establishment
of the Argentine-Brazilian Agency for the Application
of Nuclear Energy (ABAEN).
resolve 
Both  of 
those  events 
illustrate  Brazil  and
to
Argentina’s  continued  and  permanent 
maintain  and  strengthen 
the  bonds  of  friendship
developed  in  the  1980s,  when  the  political  will  first
emerged  in  our  countries  to  bring  our  societies  closer
together and to integrate them. Our societies’ political
will  to  enhance  trust  in  the  peaceful  purposes  of  our
respective  nuclear  programmes 
is  a  fundamental
component  of  a  broader  commitment  to  the  non-
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  That
political will coalesced in 1991 with the creation of the
ABACC, a bilateral agency aimed at applying bilateral
safeguards  on  nuclear  materials  in  both  countries
through the common accounting and control system.
in  hand  with 
the
International  Atomic  Energy
application  of 
Agency’s  (IAEA)  safeguards  at  every  facility 
in
Argentina  and  Brazil.  Those  safeguards  take  into
account the bilateral control system and the entry into
force in both countries of the Treaty for the Prohibition
That  action  went  hand 
the 
of  Nuclear  Weapons 
Caribbean.
in  Latin  America  and 
the
This year we are celebrating the tenth anniversary
of  ABACC.  Since  its  establishment,  the  Agency  has
been  accumulating  considerable  experience  in  the
fulfilment of the tasks entrusted to it. We would like to
underscore  the  competence  and  professionalism  of  its
staff and inspectors, who meet, and indeed exceed, the
highest  international  standards,  and  who  demonstrate
the  high  level  of  technical  and  functional  training
provided  by  the  Agency.  The  mandate  this  bilateral
agency  received  from  our  countries  is  concrete  and
permanent.  ABACC  has  been,  is  and  will  continue  to
be  a  key  instrument  for  transparency  and  bilateral
rapprochement.  We  believe  that  ABACC’s  permanent
mission  will  continue  to  promote  greater  ties  of
friendship between our two countries.
In  that  context,  it  is  only  natural  that  the  next
steps  in  bilateral  cooperation  between  Argentina  and
Brazil  in  this  sphere  should  be  in  the  heretofore
unexplored  dimension  of  joint  endeavours  in  the  field
of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technology.  In  Buenos
Aires on 14 August 2001, Argentina and Brazil signed
a joint declaration establishing the Argentine-Brazilian
Agency for Applications of Nuclear Energy (ABAEN).
ABAEN opens a new chapter in relations between
Argentina  and  Brazil 
the  nuclear  sphere  by
increasing  cooperation  in  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear
science  and  technology.  We  trust  that  the  closest
possible  cooperation  in  such  areas  as  the  nuclear  fuel
cycle, the production of radioisotopes, the management
of 
innovative
technologies  for  power-generating  reactors,  among
others, will yield concrete results to the benefit of both
our  countries.  ABAEN  will  provide 
the  proper
conditions  and  synergies  in  this  and  other  fields
appropriate for the development and implementation of
joint projects.
radioactive  waste  and  developing 
in 
strengthen 
Furthermore,  ABAEN  will 
and
complement  the  activities  of  the  Brazil-Argentina
Standing  Committee  on  Nuclear  Policy  which,  in
addition to being the context in which the Agency was
conceived,  is  also  a  vehicle  for  dialogue  conducive  to
undertaking  and  coordinating  political,  technical  and
business initiatives in the nuclear sector. ABAEN will
have 
structure  with
representation from governmental entities and the main
corporations  of  each  country’s  nuclear  sector.  As  its
organizational 
a 
virtual 
A/56/PV.30
first task, ABAEN will, in the next 180 days, develop
medium-term scenarios for Government planning in the
nuclear sector, as well as a programme of action for the
first year.
Apart  from  being  a  remarkable  result  of  the
process  of  confidence-building  and  transparency,  the
establishment of ABAEN also strengthens our relations
in  the  nuclear  area  —  which  every  day  include  more
new projects and common objectives.
Finally,  we  wish  to  underscore  the  role  of  the
IAEA  as  the  promoter  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear
energy  and  as  an  essential  actor  in  the  international
regime for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Mr.  Kmoníček  (Czech  Republic):  Since  the
Czech  Republic  has  joined  the  position  presented  by
Belgium  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and  the
associated  countries,  I  would  like  to  touch  upon  only
some  topics  that  are  of  particular  importance  to  my
Government.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  Director
General  ElBaradei  for  his  comprehensive  statement
highlighting  the  progress  of  the  Agency’s  activities
during the past year.
its  budgetary  constraints.  Given 
First,  let  me  share.  some  thoughts  on  the  role  of
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) at the
threshold of the new millennium. The Czech Republic
supports the ongoing joint efforts of the secretariat and
the  member  States  to  strengthen  the  Agency,  to
increase its necessary effectiveness and  efficiency  and
to  address 
the
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century,  it  is  imperative
to  make  better  use  of  the  Agency’s  capacities,  as  it  is
the only global platform for cooperation in the peaceful
use  of  nuclear  energy  and  ionizing  radiation.  At  the
same  time,  it  is  equally  important  to  maintain  and
strengthen  the  objective  character  of  its  work,  which
ensures  its  competence  and  universally  recognized
reputation.
We cannot overstate the importance of the IAEA’s
responsibilities  in  relation  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), which require
continuous support by all members in terms of policies,
know-how, financing and implementation of the related
legal instruments. My country is about to complete the
necessary domestic legislative and systemic framework
for  the  implementation  of  the  additional  protocol,
signed  with  the  IAEA  during  the  forty-third  General
23
A/56/PV.30
Conference. A comprehensive amendment of the Czech
Atomic Act, on which the Parliament will deliberate by
the  end  of  this  year,  is  the  last  prerequisite  for
launching  a  speedy  ratification  of 
the  additional
protocol.  We  are  well  on  the  way  to  applying  the
strengthened  IAEA  safeguards  to  the  fullest  and  we
reiterate  our  call  on  Member  States  that  have  not
already done so to proceed likewise.
the  support 
the  Agency  has
rendered  to  member  States  in  recent  years  in  working
out  and  implementing  important  legal  instruments.  In
this  regard,  let  me  recall  the  Convention  on  Nuclear
Safety and the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent
Fuel  Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive
Waste Management.
We  commend 
I am pleased to report that my country was among
the  26  States  that  adhered  to  the  Joint  Convention  by
depositing  its  instrument  of  ratification  by  20  March
2001,  thereby  enabling  the  Convention’s  entry  into
force 90 days later. I would like to take this opportunity
to  appeal  to  all  Member  States  that  have  not  yet  done
so to take the necessary steps to become a party to the
Joint  Convention  in  time  to  be  able  to  attend  the  first
review meeting of contracting parties.
The second round of reporting procedures for the
Convention on Nuclear Safety is just about to start. The
Government  of 
the  Czech  Republic  has  already
approved  the  amended  text  of  the  national  report,
which  provides  an  update  on  the  existing  regulatory
and  legal  framework  as  well  as  a  case  study  of  the
Dukovany and Temelín nuclear power plants. We look
forward 
the
Contracting  Parties,  scheduled  for  April  2002,  to
demonstrate our full compliance with the requirements
of the Convention.
the  second  Review  Meeting  of 
to 
We also welcome the Agency’s role in the process
of  amending  and  reinforcing  the  Convention  on  the
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material.  Like  the
European  Union,  the  Czech  Republic  is  in  favour  of
considering  the  need  for  a  review  conference  after  a
well-defined draft amendment has been prepared.
At 
last  year, 
the  very  end  of 
the  Czech
Government  approved  an  updated  national  energy
policy. The nuclear option is maintained, and improved
efforts will be made with respect to the efficient use of
energy  and  the  use  of  renewable  energy  sources.  This
was  done  in  line  with  the  new  legal  framework
implemented  in  the  Czech  Republic  for  the  utilization
24
ionizing 
of  nuclear  energy  and 
radiation.  That
framework  is  based  on  the  following  priorities:  the
degree  of  control  and  transparency  in  the  nuclear
industry,  and 
independence  and  diversity  of
expertise on safety and radiological protection.
the 
In  the  context  of  these  steps,  the  commissioning
of the Temelín nuclear power plant is nearing its final
stage. The power plant underwent a thorough licensing
procedure,  and,  taking  into  account  the  complexity  of
the  technology,  nothing  irregular  has  happened  so  far
during 
the
international  dimension  of  nuclear  safety  and  of
radiation  protection  issues,  the  Czech  authorities  and
the 
siting,  design
improvement,  construction  and  commissioning  of  the
power plant to the scrutiny of a number of independent
peer reviews with international participation.
the  commissioning 
tests.  Recognizing 
licence-holder 
submitted 
the 
At  this  stage,  let  me  reiterate  what  I  said  at  the
beginning  of  my  statement  when  I  underlined  the  role
of  the  Agency  as  an  information-exchange  platform
and  an  action  centre  for  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear
energy and radiation.
Since  we  have  learned  several  lessons  in  the
course  of  the  Temelín  nuclear  power  plant  debate,  I
would like to share some of them with the Assembly.
The valuable results of the peer reviews provided
by the IAEA should be better advertised and explained
to the public in member States. The same applies, more
generally,  to  the  philosophy  of  IAEA  safety  standards
as  well  to  the  measures  taken  to  increase  the  safety
level of nuclear installations.
We  note  that  member  States  have  failed  to  take
due  account  of,  and  even  deliberately  ignored,  the
findings made by the IAEA, especially on the safety of
nuclear  installations,  which  undermines  the  Agency’s
competence  and  authority.  The  increase  in  safety
reviews 
various
organizations and forums may cast doubt on the central
role of the IAEA in this field. We must not allow this
role to be eroded.
installations 
nuclear 
of 
by 
Let  me  now  touch  upon  the  issue  of  IAEA
technical  assistance  and  cooperation.  In  2001  the
Czech  Republic  took  another  step  towards  balancing
the  amount  of  technical  support  received  and  the
assistance  provided  to  other  member  States.  We  are
gradually  increasing  our  involvement  in  technical
cooperation programmes for third countries, so that we
Let  me  also  express  our  gratitude 
can  share  with  them  our  knowledge  and  expertise.
Earlier 
this  year  we  pledged  voluntary  financial
contributions to national technical cooperation projects
in Armenia, Bulgaria and Georgia. We are continuing,
as  a  long-term  initiative,  to  accept  fellowships  and
scientific  visits  related  to  upgrading  national  radiation
protection networks in various regions of the world.
to 
the
secretariat,  namely  to  the  European  section  of  the
Department of Technical Cooperation, for the excellent
coordination  work  done  in  the  projects  in  which  my
country takes part. I would like specifically to mention
the  regional  initiative  of  countries  operating  nuclear
power plants with VVER 1000-type reactors to review
the design basis of those reactors — an initiative that is
being  carried  out  under 
regional
programme.
the  European 
In  conclusion,  let  me  reassure  the  Assembly  of
my Government’s continued commitment to supporting
and  expanding  the  Agency’s  role  in  international
cooperation  in  the  peaceful  and  safe  use  of  nuclear
energy  and  ionizing  radiation  for  the  benefit  of  all
member States. I would like also to express the Czech
Republic’s  appreciation  for  the  personal  involvement
of  the  Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  in
the  promotion  of  the  Agency’s  activities.  We  look
forward to further fruitful cooperation with him in the
course of his second term in office.
the  report  of 
Ms.  Lajous  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow
me to convey the Mexican delegation’s appreciation to
the Director General, Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, for his
introduction  of 
the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  for  the
year 2000. Our warmest recognition goes to him for the
leadership that he has shown at the helm of the Agency
and for the way in which he has fulfilled the mandate
entrusted to him by member States. We wish him every
success in his second term in office in the leadership of
the IAEA.
the  work  of 
The  appalling  terrorist  acts  that  took  place  on
11 September in this country have provoked worldwide
condemnation. Mexico has stated its political resolve to
act  in  concert  with  the  international  community  to
combat  the  threat  to  international  peace  and  security
represented  by  acts  of  terrorism.  Security  Council
resolutions  1368 
(2001)  have
established a frame of reference for coordinated action.
In  this  regard,  Mexico  believes  that  the  IAEA  has  a
(2001)  and  1373 
A/56/PV.30
role  to  play  in  combating  the  threat  posed  by  the
possession  by  terrorist  groups  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction. It is clear that all nuclear facilities must to
be subject to the safeguards of the IAEA. We appeal to
all  of  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  to  so  to
finalize the appropriate agreements with the Agency.
Mexico will continue to urge that the application
of  verification  measures  to  nuclear  materials  and
equipment should be a priority activity for the Agency.
Activities in this field have been particularly important
in  the  light  of  the  unequivocal  commitment  of  the
nuclear-weapon  States  to  the  total  elimination  of  their
nuclear arsenals, with a view to bringing about nuclear
disarmament.
Another issue of particular importance to Mexico
relates to the Agency’s technical cooperation activities.
We  support  the  efforts  of  the  Director  General  to
promote projects in this area. We commend him for the
application of concepts such as the central criterion, the
sustainability  of  projects  and  the  methodology  of  the
logical  framework,  which  will  have  an  impact  on  the
design and the quality of projects in this field. Mexico
is  promoting  technical  cooperation  among  developing
countries,  as  evidenced  by 
technical
two 
cooperation  projects  we  are  engaged 
in  with
Guatemala.
the 
the  Regional  Cooperation  Agreement  for 
At the regional level, Mexico is honoured to hold
the chairmanship of the Technical Coordination Board
of 
the
Promotion of Nuclear Science and Technology in Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean.  In  this  context,  we  will
strive  to  enhance  the  Agreement’s  impact  on  the
region,  to  streamline  administrative  procedures  and  to
mobilize resources to support technical activities.
We  would  like  to  express  our  satisfaction  at  the
adoption,  at  the  recent  General  Conference  of  the
Agency,  of  resolutions  relating  to  measures  to  step  up
international  cooperation 
the  area  of  nuclear,
radiological, transport and radioactive-waste safety. We
welcome  the  fact  that  States  continue  to  request  the
assistance of the Agency in carrying out nuclear safety
assessments and identifying needs and priorities in this
area.
in 
We welcome the fact that, during the most recent
General  Conference,  progress  was  also  made  on  the
question  of  the  transport  of  radioactive  materials.  The
acceptance  of  nuclear  energy  as  an  option  for  the
support  of  sustainable  development  is  linked  to  issues
25
A/56/PV.30
of  safety,  in  particular  the  handling  of  radioactive
waste and the transport of such waste.
involved 
in 
the  maritime 
Mexico  would  like  to  express  its  concern  about
the  risks 
transport  of
radioactive  material  and  hazardous  waste.  At  the
national  level,  we  have  begun  a  process  of  reviewing
and  updating  Mexican  legislation  in  this  field.  We  are
in the process of drafting a regulation on the transport
of radioactive material, which will incorporate the most
recent  recommendations  of  the  Agency  and  other
international agencies.
We  encourage  States  to  take  into  account  the
practices of certain dispatching and operating States in
the area of radioactive materials and spent fuel and to
hold  timely  consultations  with  the  coastal  States
involved  prior  to  the  dispatch  of  such  materials.
Dialogue  between  the  parties  directly  affected  may  be
effective in terms of reducing the risks involved in the
transport  of  radioactive  materials,  in  full  conformity
with the Agency’s transport regulations.
My  delegation  would  like  to  place  on  record  its
gratitude to the Director General and to the secretariat
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  for  their
efforts in fully implementing the mandates entrusted to
them  by  Member  States.  We  are  convinced  that,  in
addition  to  political  support,  the  International  Atomic
Energy Agency needs a solid financial foundation. We
hope  that  States  will  be  punctual  in  paying  their
contributions  and  increase  the  level  of  extrabudgetary
resources  to  enable  the  Agency  to  carry  out  its
programme  of  activities,  particularly  those  in  the  area
of technical cooperation.
Mr.  Rosenthal  (United  States  of  America):  We
are  meeting  today  just  blocks  from  the  ashes  of  the
World  Trade  Center  towers.  The  appalling  acts  of
terrorism  on  11  September  underscore  the  fact  that
terrorists  will  use  any  lethal  means  accessible  to  kill
innocent  civilians.  The  countrymen  of  many  of  the
States  represented  here  were  murdered  on  that  sunny
fall  day.  Had  nuclear  weapons  been  available  to  the
terrorists,  the  carnage  would  have  been  incalculable.
We  deeply  appreciate  the  condolences  for  the  victims
of  the  11  September  terrorist  attacks  that  we  received
from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
and its member States, and we offer our condolences to
all of the victims of the 11 September attacks. We are
also  grateful  for  the  unequivocal  condemnation  of
those  attacks  by  the  United  Nations,  as  expressed  in
26
Security  Council  resolution  1368  (2001).  Although
they were intended to make us cower and to intimidate
us,  those  acts  of  terror  have  only  strengthened  our
resolve  to  counter  the  evil  of  terrorism  wherever  it
appears.
for  progress 
As  we  reflect  on  those  acts  of  terror,  we  have
become  increasingly  mindful  that  the  Treaty  on  the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  the
IAEA  have  been,  and  will  remain,  critical  to  our
collective  efforts  to  counter  any  form  of  nuclear
terrorism. The NPT establishes an essential framework
for  global  and  regional  stability  by  inhibiting  the
spread  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  Treaty  also  facilitates
and regulates cooperation among States in the peaceful
uses  of  nuclear  energy,  and  serves  as  an  essential
foundation 
in  nuclear  disarmament.
Moreover, the efforts of the Agency to deter and detect
the diversion of nuclear material from peaceful to non-
peaceful uses have become increasingly important over
the  past  decade,  as  more  States  have  joined  the  NPT
and  as  additional  nuclear  material  and  facilities  have
come under the Agency’s safeguards system. As such,
the  NPT  and  Agency  safeguards  are  instruments  to  be
used  so  as  to  prevent  nuclear  material  from  being
diverted  to  terrorists  or  to  States  that  might  support
them. The success of the NPT regime in general, and of
nuclear  safeguards  in  particular,  has  limited  terrorists’
targets of opportunity.
in 
The  NPT  has  become  almost  universal,  and  it
would  not  be  as  strong  today  were  it  not  for  political
decisions by almost all States over the past 30 years to
join the Treaty. Joining includes an undertaking by all
non-nuclear-weapon States to conclude comprehensive
IAEA  safeguards  agreements.  Today,  however,  the
Agency  has  new  tools  and  new  authorities  that  are
contained 
the  Model  Protocol.  Acceptance  of
additional  protocols  will  further  strengthen  the  Treaty
and  promote  the  obtaining  of  our  shared  nuclear  non-
proliferation  objectives.  The  Protocol’s  value  to  non-
proliferation will grow as more countries accept it and
as  momentum  builds  toward  universal  acceptance.  We
welcome  the  important  role  the  Agency  has  played  in
promoting universal acceptance of additional protocols.
Action  on 
important
opportunity  for  each  State  to  contribute  further  to
strengthening  the  barriers  to  the  spread  of  nuclear
weapons.  The  United  States  calls  upon  all  States  to
bring  into  force  additional  protocols,  as  well  as
required safeguards agreements.
the  Protocol  represents  an 
Over  the  past  15  years,  its  member  States  have
steadily  expanded  the  scope  of  the  Agency’s  work  in
safeguards  and  physical  protection,  nuclear  safety  and
technical  cooperation.  The  resources  to  do  this  work,
however,  are  increasingly  strained  due  to  serious
constraints on the Agency’s regular budget. The IAEA
Director  General  has  recently  warned  that,  without
relief soon, the Agency may fail in its critical function
of  verifying  the  location  and  use  of  nuclear  material
and  supporting  nuclear  safety  worldwide.  These
the  events  of  11
warnings  were 
reinforced 
September,  which  have 
the
importance  of  strengthening  safeguards  and 
the
protection of nuclear material and facilities.
issued  before 
further 
the 
The  possible 
theft  of  nuclear  material  and
sabotage of nuclear facilities have long been matters of
great concern. If the Agency were unable effectively to
track 
location  and  use  of  nuclear  material
worldwide,  or  to  give  adequate  support  to  national
nuclear safety measures, the consequences to the global
community  could  be  grave.  We  must  not  let  this
happen.  Now  more  than  ever,  we  need  the  IAEA’s
skills and expertise to guard against this.
theft  and 
is  essential 
for  physical  protection  help  States 
The  physical  protection  of  nuclear  material  and
facilities 
to  preventing  sabotage  and
provides a first line of defence by ensuring that nuclear
material is not diverted to unauthorized uses, including
during 
transport.  Agency  guidelines  and  advisory
services 
to
implement  measures  to  protect  their  nuclear  material
against 
their  nuclear  facilities  against
sabotage,  thereby  reducing  the  risk  that  a  terrorist
could steal nuclear material or seize a nuclear facility.
We  welcome 
to
convene an open-ended meeting of legal and technical
experts 
to
strengthen  the  Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection
of Nuclear Material. The time is right to strengthen the
Convention,  and  we  look  forward  to  an  early  decision
to do so.
to  draft  a  well-defined  amendment 
the  Director  General’s  decision 
safeguards 
The  Agency’s 
system  provides
assurance  to  all  States  that  nuclear  activities  under
safeguards  are  devoted  solely  to  peaceful  purposes.
Safeguards  dissuade  potential  proliferators 
from
diverting  nuclear  material  for  nuclear  weapons  and
help  to  detect,  in  a  timely  manner,  diversion  of  this
material from peaceful use. These safeguards are based
on  a  comprehensive,  interrelated  system,  including
careful accounting for and control of nuclear material,
A/56/PV.30
reporting  procedures,  measurements  and  on-site
inspections.  The  United  States  commends  the  Agency
for  its  success  in  supporting  this  system  and  in
applying  safeguards.  We  reaffirm  the  necessity  of
maintaining  this  effectiveness  while  strengthening  the
Agency’s  ability  to  detect  undeclared  nuclear  material
and  activities.  Preserving  and  strengthening 
the
international  safeguards  system  is  the  highest  priority
for the United States in supporting the IAEA.
to  note 
We  are  also  pleased 
the  Agency’s
impressive  effort  to  intensify  its  work  dealing  with
radiation sources that either have never been in or have
fallen  out  of  effective  regulatory  control.  While  many
of these sources are small, posing little health or safety
risk, some are larger and can pose significant risks. The
Agency’s  effort  has  begun  to  reduce  the  human
suffering  and  potential  long-term  health  effects  from
orphaned  radiation  sources,  as  well  as  to  reduce  the
risk  that  such  sources  could  be  used  by  terrorists  as
radiological weapons, with the danger of contaminating
large  geographic  areas.  However,  we  know  that  more
needs to be done.
The  IAEA’s  ability  to  sustain  these  important
programmes  depends  on  continued  support  from  its
members.  The  United  States  will  continue  to  provide
the  Agency  with  significant  financial  assistance.
However,  in  light  of  the  events  of  11  September,  the
United  States  is  undertaking  a  careful  review  of  both
the  Agency’s  programmes  and  its  needs  and  how  best
to  meet  these  needs  to  the  fullest  extent  possible.  We
hope to complete this review soon, and we will look to
other  member  States  to  be  our  partners  in  efforts  to
ensure  that  the  Agency  has  the  resources  it  needs  to
continue its important work and to adapt it to the needs
of the future.
goals 
requires 
Continued  progress 
non-proliferation 
in  achieving  our  shared
nuclear 
broad
international  cooperation  and  leadership.  On  behalf  of
my  Government,  I  would  like  to  thank  Director
General  ElBaradei  for  his  excellent  report  on  the
IAEA’s  work  during  the  past  year,  as  well  as  to
commend the accomplishments of the Agency. We look
forward  to  his  upcoming  report  to  the  Board  of
Governors on means whereby the work of the Agency
can  be  strengthened  to  prevent  acts  of  terrorism
involving nuclear and other radioactive materials. Just
as  the  United  Nations  has  been  recognized  for  its
critical role in pursuit of peace, we see the Agency as a
27
A/56/PV.30
vital  partner 
international peace and security.
in  our  continuing 
journey 
towards
Mr.  Ling  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  We  first
express  our  most  sincere  appreciation  to  the  Director
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency
(IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his  presentation
of  the  IAEA  2000  annual  report.  We  consider  this
document,  which  is  as  comprehensive  as  usual,  a
valuable  contribution  to  enhancing  the  international
community’s  awareness  of  the  important  work  carried
out by the Agency for international peace and security,
as well as social and economic progress.
Belarus is a fully fledged member of the Agency,
and  has  invariably  and  consistently  supported  the  role
that  the  Agency  continues  to  play  in  order  to  provide
for  the  effective  maintenance  and  consolidation  of  the
nuclear  non-proliferation  regimes,  as  well  as  the
establishment  of  a  reliable  system  of  safeguards  for
existing atomic power plants and nuclear technologies.
My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  re-
emphasize  the  full  commitment  of  the  Republic  of
Belarus to fulfil all its international obligations in these
areas. We appreciate the assistance and support that we
receive from the IAEA for their effective fulfilment.
Overcoming  the  consequences  of  the  disaster  at
the Chernobyl nuclear power plant has a special role in
the  cooperation  between  Belarus  and  the  IAEA.  We
note  with  appreciation  that  today,  15  years  after  the
accident,  the  Agency  continues  to  pay  a  great  deal  of
attention  to  this  problem.  Practical  evidence  of  this
attention is a number of important projects on studying,
mitigating  and  minimizing  the  consequences  of  the
Chernobyl  disaster,  implemented  in  my  country  with
the Agency’s assistance. We hope that in the course of
its  future  work  in  this  area  the  Agency  will  strive  to
develop  and 
to
international  cooperation  on  Chernobyl,  in  accordance
with  the  provisions  of  the  relevant  General  Assembly
resolutions.
innovative  approaches 
implement 
In  this  context,  the  Republic  of  Belarus  noted
with great interest what the Director General said at the
recent  forty-fifth  regular  session  of  the  IAEA  General
Conference, and in our present deliberations, about the
possibility  of  establishing  a  single 
international
consultative mechanism to collect and analyse data on
the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and about
measures  that  are  being  taken,  or  could  be  taken,  to
overcome  these  consequences.  This  idea  deserves
28
detailed 
comprehensive, 
further 
international
consideration, taking into account the views expressed
by all interested stakeholders, above all with regard to
providing  for  the  further  sustainable  development  of
affected regions.
Mr.  Krokhmal  (Ukraine):  The  delegation  of
Ukraine  congratulates  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  on  his
reappointment as Director General of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and commends him for
submitting  the  annual  report  of  the  Agency  and  his
introduction concerning its current activities.
and 
nuclear 
development 
technical  cooperation  —  make 
The  four  fundamental  areas  of  the  Agency’s
expertise  —  technology,  nuclear  safety,  verification
and 
it  a  unique
international body, combining technological objectives
for 
non-proliferation
safeguards  tools.  The  strengthening  of  safeguards  has
received  a  qualitatively  new  input.  Last  year  the
Agency  was  able  to  evaluate  and  provide  broad
assurances  of  no  diversion  and  no  indication  of  the
presence of undeclared nuclear material or activities at
the  facilities  in  the  seven  States  having  both  a
comprehensive safeguards agreement and an additional
protocol. We are concerned that 50 States parties to the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
(NPT)  remain  without  a  comprehensive  safeguards
agreement with the Agency.
Ukraine  views  the  universal  application  of  the
safeguards  system  as  a  cornerstone  of 
the  non-
proliferation  regime.  We  call  upon  those  States  that
have not yet done so to conclude or bring into force a
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  with  the  Agency
without  delay.  That  would  speed  up  progress  in
the  2000  NPT  Review
achieving 
Conference  and  consolidate 
the  non-proliferation
regime at large.
the  goals  of 
The  forty-fifth  IAEA  General  Conference  once
again  proved  that  the  member  States  of  the  Agency
remain  committed  to  working  together  in  promoting
the  peaceful  application  of  nuclear  energy 
for
sustainable  development.  Having  shut  down 
the
Chernobyl nuclear power plant last December, Ukraine
contributed  considerably  to  strengthening  the  global
nuclear safety regime.
At the same time, the follow-up actions regarding
the decommissioning of the three reactors at the site, as
well as the shelter, require the immediate and concerted
the  world  community.  Ukraine  greatly
efforts  of 
The  Agency,  with 
welcomes an initiative to establish a common forum on
the  consequences  of  Chernobyl,  which  the  Director
General  mentioned  in  his  statement.  I  believe  that  the
Agency will have a central role to play in such a forum.
technology
component,  helps  its  member  States  to  resolve  urgent
development  issues.  Many  member  States  see  nuclear
power as their primary alternative energy source and as
a  way  to  ensure  sustainable  development.  Ukraine
views  the  further  development  of  its  nuclear  power
sector as being inalienably connected with international
safety  standards  applied  at  operational  nuclear  power
plants and those under construction.
its  nuclear 
Ukraine  welcomes 
the  Agency’s  efforts 
to
strengthen  nuclear  safety  and  radioactive  waste  safety
and  measures  to  improve  international  cooperation  on
transport  safety,  education  and  training,  and  IAEA
technical  cooperation  activities.  At  the  IAEA’s  forty-
fifth General Conference, the Ukrainian delegation was
pleased  to  note  that  the  Agency  has  continued  to
effectively  carry  out  these  activities  despite  serious
budget constraints.
The threat of global terrorism has underlined the
importance  of  physical  protection,  accounting  and
nuclear  non-proliferation  measures  to  prevent  entities
from  acquiring  and  converting  nuclear  materials  and
technologies.  We  fully  share  the  Secretary-General’s
view  that,  while  the  world  was  unable  to  prevent  the
11 September attacks, we can do much to help prevent
future  terrorist  acts  carried  out  with  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  The  international  community  should  take
full  account  of  the  greatest  immediate  danger,  which
might  arise  from  a  non-State  group,  or  even  an
individual, acquiring and using a nuclear, biological or
chemical weapon.
Ukraine  has  been  an  enthusiastic  supporter  of
resolution  GC(45)/RES/14  “Measures  to  improve  the
security  of  nuclear  materials  and  other  radioactive
materials”,  adopted  by  the  IAEA  General  Conference
in such a timely manner. The resolution emphasizes the
importance  of  physical  protection  of  nuclear  material
to  prevent  its  illicit  use  and  the  sabotage  of  nuclear
facilities  and  nuclear  materials.  We  hope  that  the
Agency  will  embark  on  a  thorough  review  of  the
relevant  programmes  to  identify  further  measures  to
enhance the security of nuclear materials and facilities.
An important step in moving towards the goal of
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is, of
A/56/PV.30
course,  the  introduction  of  a  global  database  based  on
publicly available materials on acts, threatened acts or
suspected  acts  of  terrorism  involving  such  weapons.
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Department  for
the
Disarmament  Affairs 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
the
Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
(OPCW) in the development of approaches to carry out
this task.
is  collaborating  with 
and 
In conclusion, we look forward to the adoption of
a  comprehensive  resolution  on  the  agenda  item  under
discussion, and hope that the General Assembly will be
able  to  adopt  by  consensus  the  draft  resolution  on  the
report  of  the  IAEA  to  demonstrate  its  continued
support for the Agency, which is a key organization in
the  promotion  and  application  of  nuclear  energy  for
peaceful purposes.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I wish
to  inform  Members  that  a  draft  resolution  will  be
submitted at a future date under this agenda item.
I  shall  now  call  on  those  representatives  who
wish to speak in exercise of the right of reply.
May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  statements 
in
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the
second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their
seats.
Mr.  Al-Kadhe  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My
delegation wishes to exercise its right of reply in order
to respond to some references in the statement made by
the representative of Australia.
Before  making  our  observations,  we  must
congratulate  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  the  Director
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency
(IAEA),  on  his  report.  We  would  also  like  to  express
our  appreciation  for  the  IAEA’s  efforts  in  the  area  of
nuclear non-proliferation.
The  representative  of  Australia  referred  to  my
country  on 
the  subject  of  nuclear  disarmament
measures and related Security Council resolutions. We
would like to clarify the following points:
First,  we  draw  attention  to  the  reports  of  the
IAEA submitted  to  the  Security  Council  on  8  October
1997 
and  on  7  October  1998
(S/1998/927). The latter states, in paragraph 17:
(S/1997/779) 
29
A/56/PV.30
“There is no evidence that there is any capability
in  Iraq  to  produce  nuclear  material  in  a  manner
that  could  be  used  for  armaments.  In  February
1994, the Agency completed its work in removing
all  nuclear  weapons  for  armaments  purposes  in
Iraq,  particularly  fuel  for  research-reactors  that
were subject to the safeguards of the Agency.”
Secondly, we would like to draw attention to the
following  statement  by  Mr.  Scott  Ritter,  chairman  of
the inspection teams in charge of removing all weapons
of mass destruction in Iraq, which appeared in the June
2000 issue of the magazine Arms Control Today:
to 
some 
in 
acknowledge 
“By the end of 1998, Iraq had, in fact, been
disarmed,  to  a  level  unprecedented  in  modern
history,  but  UNSCOM  and  the  Security  Council
were  unable  —  and 
instances
unwilling — 
this
accomplishment.”
Thirdly,  in  general,  the  Special  Committee  of
UNSCOM  had  very  clearly  and  unambiguously
adopted an approach that could be described as one of
raising  obstacles  and  creating  crises  over  matters  that
had  nothing  to  do  with  disarmament  or  with  their
dossiers.  That  approach  had  begun  to  appear  in  the
autumn  of  1998,  with  a  view  to  perpetuating  the
embargo against Iraq, in spite of Iraq’s many efforts, by
which  it  had  materially  and  qualitatively  upheld  its
obligations  in  accordance  with  the  different  issues
within the competence of the Special Committee, as we
have previously stated.
Lastly,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of
delegates  to  the  need  to  consider  objectively  the  issue
of  disarmament  in  Iraq,  without  being  influenced  by
the  political  whims  of  certain  countries  attempting  to
act according to their political interests. Iraq has spared
no  effort  in  fulfilling  the  obligations  imposed  on  it  in
the  hope  that  that  would  lead  the  Security  Council  to
adopt  a  position  consistent  with  its  clear  obligations
towards  Iraq,  as  mentioned  in  the  Council’s  own
resolutions.
The  representative  of  Australia  referred  to  my
country.  I  would  like  to  draw  his  attention  to  the  fact
that  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  stated  a  short  time  ago,
30
while presenting the Agency’s report, that a team from
the  Agency  had  visited  Iraq  for  the  second  year  in  a
row to verify the existence of any nuclear material. Iraq
complies  with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  and  cooperates  with  the  Agency  in
accordance  with  the  safeguards  agreement  between
Iraq  and  the  Agency.  Therefore,  I  would  like  to  state
that 
the
representative of Australia lacks objectivity.
to  my  country  made  by 
the  reference 
Mr. An  Myong  Hun 
(Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea):  My  delegation  would  like  to
respond to statements by some delegations with regard
to  the  safeguard  agreements  with  the  International
Atomic  Energy  Agency.  The  so-called  nuclear  issue
has been originated with the aim of stifling our country
against  the  background  of  the  international  political
situation prevailing in the early 1990s. It is, in essence,
the  product  of  the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States
towards the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
The 
safeguard 
issue  of 
resolved  when 
agreements  will
automatically  be 
the  Democratic
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States
agreed framework reached in 1994 is implemented and
the  hostile  relation  between  the  Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  is  eased.
However,  the  United  States  does  not  implement  the
agreed  framework  in  good  faith.  The  project  for  the
construction  of  light  water  reactors  scheduled  to  be
completed  by  2003  now  stands  at  only  ground
excavation.  The  fate  of 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea and United States agreed framework
depends  on  the  will  and  stance  of  the  United  States
side.  If  Japan  and  South  Korea  are  to  take  a  fair
approach  to  this  issue,  they  would  have  to  urge  the
United  States  to  implement  the  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea and United States agreed framework
in good faith.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  Before  adjourning  the
meeting,  I  should  like  to  inform  members  that  a  draft
resolution under this agenda item will be submitted at a
future date.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
