United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
35th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 31 October 2001, 3 p.m.
New York

A/56/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Botnaru
(Republic of Moldova), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 49 (continued)
Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters
Mr.  Nguyen  Thanh  Chau  (Viet  Nam):  It  is  a
great  privilege  for  me  to  speak  on  this  important
agenda  item.  The  question  of  equitable  representation
on the Security Council and the urgent need to expand
its  membership  have  been  discussed  in  the  General
Assembly,  and  in  the  Working  Group  set  up  for  that
purpose,  in  a  continuous  manner  during  the  past  eight
years.  An  acceptable  outcome  is  still  far  beyond  our
reach. This is a critical moment for the Working Group:
we should either throw in the towel or move the Group
to  a  new  stage  —  a  stage  of  true  and  faithful
negotiations, with a view to reaching a solution agreed
upon by all Members of the United Nations.
In  this  connection,  I  commend  the  previous
President  of  the  Assembly,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  for  his
dedication  to  the  work  of  the  Working  Group  and  for
taking  the  initiative  to  write  to  his  counterparts  and
seek  their  views  and  assistance  so  as  to  make  further
progress  in  the  exercise.  We  also  congratulate  the  two
Vice-Chairmen  of  the  Working  Group,  Ambassador
John  de  Saram  of  Sri  Lanka  and  Ambassador
Thorsteinn Ingólfsson of Iceland, for their patience and
painstaking  efforts  in  guiding  the  discussions  in  the
Working Group during the previous session.
At the Millennium Summit the heads of State and
Government  agreed  to  intensify  efforts  to  achieve  a
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. A new
momentum  emerged since  the  Summit,  and  we  should
work  much  harder  to  carry  out  the  mandate  set  out  in
the Summit Declaration.
The  United  Nations  cannot  afford  to  fail  in  this
important task, or the credibility of the Organization as
a  whole  will  be  put  at  substantial  risk.  My  delegation
therefore strongly supports the view that more vigorous
efforts  should  be  made  by  all  countries  —  the  five
permanent  members  of 
in
particular  —  to  move  the  process  of  reforming  the
Security Council forward.
the  Security  Council 
We  are  now  at  a  crossroads  in  our  exercise  to
achieve a reformed and expanded Security Council that
is  more  transparent  and  democratic  in  its  work  and
more accountable and representative in its membership.
Obviously,  there  is  a  general  agreement  among  all
Member  countries  on  the  need  to  reform  the  working
methods and to expand the membership of the Security
Council. There is also concrete agreement on principles
and criteria for renovating the working methods of the
Council,  as  correctly  reflected  in  the  report  of  the
Open-ended Working Group.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-61154 (E)
*0161154*
A/56/PV.35
is 
There  are,  however,  clear  differences  of  view
among Member countries concerning expansion of the
permanent  membership  and  ways  to  deal  with  the
decision-making  modes,  the  veto  power  in  particular.
The  whole  process 
truly  very  complex  and
challenging.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  common
objective  is  to  bring  the  Council  better  into  tune  with
the economic and political realities of our time and to
enable  it  to  be  better  equipped  to  deal  with  the
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  The  enormous
increase  of  the  general  membership  of  the  United
Nations  following  the  demise  of  the  colonial  age  has
brought  a  call  for  redressing  the  serious  imbalance  in
the membership of the Council.
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  will  be
durable  and  fruitful  only  if  it  fully  reflects  the
the  sovereign  equality  of  States,
principles  of 
accountability,
equitable geographical 
democratization  and 
the  working
methods  and  procedures  of  the  Council,  including  its
decision-making  process.  The  genuine  legitimacy  of
the  decisions  of  the  Council  relies  heavily  on  the
measure of its accountability to the membership of the
United Nations.
transparency 
distribution, 
in 
Viet Nam’s position in this matter is clear. It has
been  stated  on  various  occasions,  both  in  this  forum
and  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group.  I  wish  to
reiterate that Viet Nam strongly supports an increase in
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the
permanent and non-permanent categories.
to 
As  regards  the  new  permanent  members,  Viet
Nam  shares  the  view  that  developing  countries  must
have appropriate representation on the Council, taking
into account the fact that  most of the issues under the
authority  of  the  Council  today  involve  or  are  of  vital
interest 
the  developing  countries.  Developing
countries  from  the  three  regions  of  Asia,  Africa  and
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  must  have  their
permanent  representatives  in  an  expanded  Security
Council.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  reasonable  that  new
permanent  seats  should  be  allocated  to  industrialized
countries 
to  undertake  greater
commitments  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  Viet
Nam  supports  the  aspirations  of  countries  such  as
India,  Japan  and  Germany  to  permanent  seats  in  the
Council.
that  are  willing 
Given  the  fact  that  there  are  quite  a  number  of
to  become  new
that  may  be  eligible 
countries 
2
permanent members of the Security Council, Viet Nam
is willing to support the proposal to work out rotation
arrangements that will allow more countries to serve on
the Council.
Any formula of reform will fail to be satisfactory
if  the  veto  power  is  left  intact.  In  this  respect,  our
delegation  wishes  to  reaffirm  that,  pending  its  final
elimination,  that  power  should  be  used  only  with  the
greatest  restraint  and  only  on  issues  that  fall  under
Chapter  VII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  In  the
meantime,  Viet  Nam  shares 
that  new
permanent  members  of  the  Council  should  enjoy  that
privilege in accordance with the principle of sovereign
equality.  This  will  also  help  to  redress  the  inherent
imbalance  of  power  between  the  developed  and  the
developing countries within the Council.
the  view 
that 
the  United  Nations, 
With  reforms  taken  along  these  lines,  we  are
confident 
the
Security  Council,  will  be  enabled  to  make  further
positive  contributions  to  realizing  mankind’s  shared
aspirations 
justice  and
prosperity.
independence, 
to  peace, 
including 
Mr.  Shen  Guofang  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
First of all, please allow me to thank Mr. Harri Holkeri,
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth
session  and  former  Chairman  of  the  Open-ended
Working  Group  on 
the  Question  of  Equitable
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the
Security  Council,  and  his  two  deputies,  Ambassador
Ingólfsson  and  Ambassador  De  Saram,  for 
their
vigorous  efforts  in  the  preparation  for  and  smooth
running of the Working Group. We believe that, under
Mr.  Han’s  guidance,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
will achieve further positive results.
Mr.  Holkeri  pointed  out  at 
meeting of the fifty-fifth session that
the  concluding
“there  is  a  common  recognition  that  the  Council
needs  to  reflect  the  realities  of  the  twenty-first
century to better serve the interests of peace and
security”. (A/55/PV.112, p. 3)
This indeed reflects the general view of Member States
on Security Council reform. Over the past 50 years and
more  since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  great
changes  have  taken  place  on  the  international  scene
and  in  the  United  Nations  itself.  In  our  view,  the
Security  Council  needs  appropriate  and  necessary
reforms in order to adapt itself to these changes and the
needs  of  the  times  and  to  fulfil  more  effectively  its
responsibility  for  maintaining  international  peace  and
security in accordance with the purposes and principles
of the United Nations Charter.
the 
truly 
most 
The  most  notable  change  in  this  Organization
since  its  foundation  more  than  half  a  century  ago  has
been the growth of its membership from 51 at the time
of its establishment to the present 189 members, most
of  which  are  developing  countries,  making  the  United
Nations 
representative
intergovernmental  international  organization  in  the
world. Therefore, the overriding priority in the reform
of  the  Council  is  to  correct  the  imbalance  of  its
composition  and  to  increase  the  representation  of
developing countries,  in  accordance  with  the  principle
of  equitable  geographical  distribution,  so  that  the
composition  of  the  Council  will  reflect  the  current
reality of the membership of the United Nations. Only
thus  can  the  reform  be  of  practical  significance  and
conform to the common aspirations and interests of all
Member States.
In  September  last  year,  the  Millennium  Summit
of 
the  United  Nations  adopted 
the  Millennium
Declaration, which, inter alia, expresses the resolve of
our heads of State and Government
to 
our 
efforts 
achieve 
intensify 
“to 
a
comprehensive reform of the Security Council in
all its aspects”. (resolution 55/2, para. 30)
This  represents  the  solemn  commitment  of  the
leaders  of  all  Member  States  to  Security  Council
reform.  In  order  to  implement  this  commitment,  the
Open-ended  Working  Group  conducted  a  series  of
discussions  on  Security  Council  reform,  in  which
Member  States  participated  in  an  active  manner.  Over
the  past  year,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  has
made  no  remarkable  progress  in  any  area  except  the
working  methods  of  the  Council.  This  demonstrates
once again that reform of the Security Council involves
the interests of all countries and that there are therefore
differing views, positions and concerns when it comes
to  issues  of  importance  and  principle.  In  order  to
implement  the  will  of  the  leaders  of  Member  States,
there  should  be  full,  careful  and  in-depth  discussions
and  exchanges  of  views  among  the  Member  States  so
as  to  seek  solutions  on  the  basis  of  consensus.  We
cannot simply impose a specific timetable.
A/56/PV.35
The Chinese delegation supports the continuation
of  in-depth  discussions  on  reform  within  the  Open-
ended Working Group. At present, almost all Members
are seriously concerned about how to enable the Open-
ended Working Group to achieve greater progress. We
have  taken  note  of  the  indication  by  the  President  of
the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth  session,  in  his
remarks at its concluding meeting, that many countries
believe that “the time may have come to consider other
avenues 
process”
(A/55/PV.112, p. 4). We feel that his remarks are quite
inspiring  to  our  efforts  to  identify  priorities  and
working  methods  for  the  future  work  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  and 
therefore  merit  our
attention.  The  Chinese  delegation  will  continue  to
support  and  participate  actively  in  the  work  of  the
Open-ended Working Group and to join hands with all
other Members to facilitate the reform process.
that  would 
advance 
this 
Mr.  Navarrete  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Today’s meeting and the debate that has taken place in
recent  days  mark  the  beginning  of  a  new  year  in  the
consideration  of  the  item  on  Security  Council  reform,
in accordance with the decision adopted by the General
Assembly in the closing days of the fifty-fifth session,
when  it  took  note  of  the  report  of  the  Open-ended
Working Group for that year.
In 
the  course  of  our  consideration  of 
this
question,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  established
by  resolution  48/26  has  made  progress  towards  the
objective  for  which  it  was  created:  designing  a  more
representative,  more  democratic  and  more  transparent
Security  Council  capable  of  successfully  meeting  the
challenges of the new century. That is a task to which
Mexico is deeply committed.
It has been clear throughout the Working Group’s
deliberations  that  Security  Council  reform  is  no  easy
task.  The  aim  is  ambitious:  in-depth  reform  of  the
structure  and  working  methods  of  an  organ  whose
decisions  affect  all  Member  States.  The  political
sensitivity of these matters precludes hasty progress or
dramatic  change.  But  with  tenacity  and  dedication  we
have succeeded in making the international community
aware  of  the  need  for  reform,  and  we  have  identified
the main issues that must be resolved.
Security Council reform is an indivisible package
whose  elements  cannot  be  dealt  with  in  a  fragmented
manner. Decisions cannot be taken on them one by one
or  step  by  step:  the  Working  Group  must  adopt  a
3
A/56/PV.35
comprehensive  package  by  general  agreement, 
in
conformity  with  resolution  48/26,  which  initiated  this
exercise.  The  package  must,  at  the  least,  include  the
following  elements:  a  reasonable 
the
number  of  Council  members  on  the  basis  of  the
sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical
distribution; rules relating to the privilege of the veto;
and  substantive  changes  in  working  methods  with  a
view to improved transparency and openness.
increase 
in 
The  areas  in  which  there  has  been  the  most
progress  relate  to  the  Security  Council’s  working
methods:  the  so-called  cluster  II  issues.  We  must
acknowledge  that  the  Working  Group’s  deliberations
on  these  issues  have  influenced  the  members  of  the
Security  Council,  which  have  taken  steps  to  enhance
the  openness  and  transparency  of  the  Council’s  work.
We  welcome  the  good  will  they  have  shown  with
respect to implementing some of the recommendations.
We urge the members of the Council to continue along
that  path  and  to  find  ways  to  provide  a  legislative
foundation for innovative aspects of current practice by
incorporating them into the Council’s provisional rules
of procedure or into other binding documents.
responsibility 
Transparency  and  openness  must  become  central
pillars  of  the  work  of  the  Council,  on  which  the
members  of  the  General  Assembly  have  conferred
primary 
the  maintenance  of
security.  Transparency
international 
engenders 
trust;  openness  makes  possible  greater
participation  by  all:  we  must  not  forget  that  the
Security  Council  has  no  authority  of  its  own  and  acts
on behalf of the General Assembly.
peace 
for 
and 
In the Millennium Declaration, our heads of State
or Government called for redoubled efforts to attain the
goal we have set: comprehensive reform of the Security
Council  in  all  its  aspects.  In  that  spirit,  we  must
continue  to  work  patiently  and  with  tenacity  in  the
context  of  the  Working  Group  established  by  the
Assembly  to  overcome  obstacles  without  deadlines  or
undue  haste.  We  cannot  minimize  how  difficult  is  the
task before us. Only comprehensive reform adopted by
general  agreement  will  enjoy  political  legitimacy  and
legal validity.
Mexico 
to
continue its enthusiastic, dedicated efforts to attain the
principal goals of the Working Group.
firm  commitment 
reiterates 
its 
Mr.  Stańczyk  (Poland):  Eight  years  after  the
inception  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the
4
forefront  of 
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other
Matters  related  to  the  Security  Council,  adapting  the
principal  organ  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  to  the  requirements
and  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  remains  at
the 
the  General
Assembly.  The  progress  achieved  so  far  has  been
uneven, and, while we are heartened by what has been
achieved  in  reforming  the  working  methods  of  the
Security  Council,  we  have  to  recognize  that  the
discussion  of  crucial  issues  with  which  the  Working
Group  has  been  entrusted  —  equitable  representation
on  and  enlargement  of  the  Council  —  seems  to  have
reached a dead end.
issues  before 
the 
that  have 
taken  place  on 
While  it  is  widely  recognized  that  in  order  to
meet present and future challenges the United Nations
needs a reformed Security Council that will reflect the
profound  changes 
the
geopolitical  scene  in  recent  decades,  agreement  on
practical  ways  to  achieve  that  goal  still  remains
elusive.  The  lack  of  tangible  progress  in  fundamental
areas of reform despite several years of discussion has
no  doubt  been  frustrating.  It  is  true  that  the  issues  on
the table are of a complex and sensitive nature, which
makes  the  task  of  reaching  general  agreement  a
formidable  challenge.  The  importance  of  a  successful
outcome of the Security Council reform process for the
future  of  the  Organization  and  for  its  ability  to  better
cope  with  challenges 
international  peace  and
security  requires  that  all  the  parties  to  the  discussions
work in a spirit of compromise and show the flexibility
necessary to move our work forward.
to 
I  would  like  to  use  this  occasion  to  thank  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth
session,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  for  his  untiring  efforts  to
find  common  ground  among  the  divergent  views  and
proposals and to move the process from the discussion
phase  to  the  negotiating  phase.  Our  appreciation
extends  likewise  to  the  two  Vice-Chairmen  of  the
Working Group.
increase 
representation  on  and 
The General Assembly debate on the question of
the
equitable 
the  Security  Council  and  related
membership  of 
matters  allows  us  to  better  grasp  the  nature  of  the
challenges ahead. Although the position of my country
on various aspects of Security Council reform has been
presented in this forum on numerous occasions, we feel
that  it  is  important  to  highlight  once  again  the  gist  of
in 
our  standpoint.  Poland  views  reform  of  the  Security
Council  as  a  key  component  of  the  overall  reform  of
the United Nations and an indispensable element of the
effort  to  increase  the  Organization’s  effectiveness  in
dealing  with  the  complex  challenges  of  the  new
millennium.
in 
both 
increase 
categories 
The  changed  realities  of  the  world  should  be
recognized  in  an  agreement  that  would  allow  for  a
simultaneous 
of
membership.  The  increase  in  the  permanent-member
category  should  both  encompass  developed  countries
that have demonstrated their ability and willingness to
act  in  that  role  and  take  into  account  the  legitimate
aspirations  of  developing  countries.  We  believe  that
increasing  the  composition  of  the  Council  by  five
permanent  members,  two  of  which  should  be  from
industrialized  and  three  from  developing  countries,
would  be  the  optimal  solution.  While  each  regional
group should have discretion as to the way to select its
representative  in  this  category  of  membership,  its
decision  in  that  respect  should  be  subject  to  General
Assembly approval.
At  the  same  time,  the  non-permanent  category
should  be  expanded  so  as  to  take  into  account  the
legitimate  interests  of  all  regional  groups.  The  Group
of  Eastern  European  States  should  be  assigned  one
additional  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Council.  Such  a
solution  would  reflect  both  the  large  increase  in  the
number of Members from our regional group in recent
years  and  the  comprehensive  nature  of  the  reform,
including in its scope all the regional groupings.
A solution will also be needed with regard to the
decision-making  process,  specifically,  the  question  of
the veto. We recognize the sensitivity of the issue and
the difficulties lying ahead in the search for a broadly
acceptable  solution.  A  balance  will  have  to  be  struck
between  the  need  to  maintain  equality  of  rights  in  the
permanent  member  category  and  the  need  to  enhance
the  efficiency  of  the  Security  Council  as  one  of  the
main objectives of its reform.
A comprehensive reform of the Security Council
should also address the question of the periodic review
of  the  enlarged  Council.  Introducing  a  mechanism
allowing  for  the  evaluation  of  decisions  taken  during
the  current  reform  process  would  be  reassuring  for
Member  States  taking  part  in  the  process  and  thus
conducive to an early agreement.
A/56/PV.35
We welcome the progress achieved thus far in the
reform of the working methods of the Security Council.
The  work  done  in  this  respect  in  the  Open-ended
Working Group during recent years has already yielded
practical and tangible results, and we are confident that
the  current  session  will  bring  even  further  progress.
The  progress  achieved 
issues,
however,  makes  us  all  the  more  aware  of  the  need  to
make  every  effort  to  achieve  similar  progress  in  all
aspects of reform, as mandated by resolution 48/26 of
1993. I can assure President Han, that my country will
spare  no  effort  to  assist  him  in  his  efforts  to  achieve
this goal.
this  cluster  of 
in 
in 
last  year 
Mr. Mbanefo (Nigeria): The debate on reform of
the  Security  Council  has  become  an  annual  ritual,
culminating 
the  Millennium  Summit
debate,  in  which  many  world  leaders  made  references
in their statements to the question of Security Council
reform.  In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the  heads  of
State  and  Government  resolved  “To  intensify  our
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the
Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects”  (resolution  55/2,
para.  30).  In  his  contribution  to  the  Millennium
Summit  debate,  President  Olusegun  Obasanjo  stressed
the need to reform the United Nations, in particular to
expand and democratize the Security Council, which in
his view is “a task which can no longer be postponed”
(A/55/PV.7, p. 14) if the United Nations is to withstand
future challenges.
interests  or 
Our world has changed dramatically in the last 55
years. It is likely to change more and more in the years
ahead. It is therefore naive to believe that the Council
that was created in 1945, reflecting the geopolitical and
geostrategic 
the
victorious  Allied  Powers  of  the  Second  World  War,  is
still adequate in its composition and practice to cater to
the  needs  and  interests  of  our  times.  Certainly,  the
present composition of the Security Council is lopsided
in  favour  of  a  particular  group.  The  Council  as
presently constituted cannot be said to be a microcosm
of the 189 Members of our Organization.
considerations  of 
My delegation believes that it has never been the
purpose  of  the  United  Nations  to  prescribe  democracy
and  change  for  its  Members  while  making  little  or  no
progress in the democratization of its own organs, such
as  the  Security  Council.  We  believe  that  the  United
Nations will not be strengthened if reform concentrates
only  on  cost-effectiveness,  efficiency  and  better
coordination. Indeed, no reform of the United Nations
5
A/56/PV.35
will  be  complete  without  addressing  issues  related  to
the  expansion  and  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council. The thrust of reform, therefore, should include
expansion  of  the  Council’s  membership,  improvement
in  its  working  methods  and  reform  of  its  decision-
making process.
Regrettably,  after  more 
than  eight  years  of
deliberations,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the
reform of the Council and other related matters has not
made  any  appreciable  progress.  The  decision-making
process in the Open-ended Working Group is governed
by  “general  agreement”  pursuant 
the  ninth
preambular  paragraph  of 
resolution  48/26  of  3
December 1993. In the absence of a precise definition
or  meaning,  the  term  “general  agreement”  has  been
interpreted  by  some  delegations  to  mean  “consensus”.
However,  in  his  speech  of  12  September  2000  in  the
General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  stated,  inter
alia,
to 
“Consensus  is  highly  desirable,  but  it  need
not mean waiting for absolute unanimity on every
sub-clause  among  189  Member  States.  A
minority, often a very small minority, should not
withhold  its  consent  unreasonably.  ...  We  can  no
longer afford to always operate at the level of the
lowest,  and  slowest,  common  denominator.”
(A/55/PV.10, p. 2)
My delegation subscribes to that statement of the
Secretary-General. The time has come for the Working
Group  to  revisit  its  decision-making  process  in  the
light of this statement. A handful of States cannot hold
the  Working  Group  to  ransom  in  the  name  of  general
agreement  or  consensus.  We  believe  that  a  more
plausible  and  practical  approach  is  for  the  General
Assembly,  in  the  light  of  the  Secretary-General’s
statement,  to  apply  resolution  53/30  of  23  November
1998  to  the  decision-making  process  of  the  Open-
ended Working Group.
Notwithstanding  the  apparent  lack  of  progress,
especially on cluster I issues, the Open-ended Working
Group  has  registered  provisional  agreement  on  some
cluster  II  issues.  Areas  where  provisional  agreement
has  been  reached  include  greater  transparency  in
informal  consultations,  more  involvement  of  troop-
contributing  countries,  more  formal  open  meetings  of
the  Council,  a  more  substantial  report  of  the  Security
Council to the General Assembly and more prompt and
6
detailed  briefings  on  the  Council’s  activities  by  the
President in office.
On 
It 
should 
important  question  of 
We  note  that  the  Security  Council  is  already
implementing  some  of  the  suggestions  in  these  areas.
We  welcome  the  increased  interaction  between  the
Open-ended  Working  Group  and  the  Council.  That
trend should continue.
the  very 
the
enlargement of the Council, Nigeria wishes to recall its
previous position. We believe that the Security Council
should be much more reflective of contemporary global
realities. 
therefore  be  made  more
representative of the membership of the United Nations
today.  The  enlargement  of  the  Council  should  take
place 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent
categories, and it should take into account the principle
of equitable geographical representation. Other criteria,
such as whether States are emerging regional players or
centres  of  economic  power,  should  also  be  taken  into
consideration.
in  both 
In this regard, Nigeria unequivocally supports the
position  of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU),
which  calls  for  the  allocation  of  two  permanent  seats
for Africa in an enlarged Security Council. Africa, with
its  53  Member  States,  collectively  constitutes  almost
one  third  of  the  entire  membership  of  the  United
Nations. We believe, therefore, that the OAU’s decision
to  seek  two  permanent  seats  for  Africa  in  a  reformed
and expanded Council cannot be ignored.
My delegation believes that the essence of reform
is to strengthen the effectiveness and efficiency of the
Council. In this regard, expansion of the Council to 26
members  will  not  detract  from  its  effectiveness.  The
fate  of 
the  new  permanent  members  should  be
inextricably linked so as to forestall the so-called quick
fix:  no  single  State  should  become  a  permanent
member  until  the  remaining  new  permanent  members
are elected in the General Assembly.
With regard to the related question of the veto as
a  voting  instrument  in  the  Security  Council,  Nigeria
supports  the  curtailment  of  its  use  by  the  permanent
members  of  the  Council.  We  would  even  support  its
abolition  if  that  is  the  consensus  of  the  international
community. However, if the veto is to be retained in its
present  form,  it  is  my  delegation’s  view  that  it  should
be extended to new permanent members of the Council.
To  deny  the  veto  to  new  permanent  members  in  an
enlarged  Security  Council  would  not  only  be
discriminatory  but  would  also  create  two  different
classes of permanent membership.
However,  in  order  to  forestall  any  abuses  of  the
exercise of the veto — if the veto is to be retained — it
may be necessary for the General Assembly to adopt a
resolution  reminding  the  permanent  members  of  the
fact that they are acting on behalf of the United Nations
as a whole, and that they should therefore exercise the
veto only when they consider the question to be of vital
importance,  taking  into  consideration  the  interests  of
the  United  Nations;  and  that  they  should  also  state  in
each  case,  in  writing,  on  what  grounds  they  consider
the conditions for a veto to be present. Nigeria believes
that  the  veto  should  not  be  used  for  the  attainment  of
selfish or parochial interests.
There  is  a  general  agreement  on  the  need  for  a
coherent  and  coordinated  approach  to  render  the
Security  Council  more  efficient  and 
increasingly
capable  of  addressing  universal  challenges.  Universal
challenges  come  in  different  forms  and  therefore  need
different  responses.  The  Security  Council  has  primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security.  Not  only  must  its  decisions  and
actions  command  legitimacy,  but  it  must  also  be  seen
by  other  players  within  the  international  system  to  be
transparent,  democratic  and  timely.  In  this  regard,  a
reformed  Council  is  inevitable.  We  urge  all  Member
States  to  demonstrate  the  political  will  needed  to
achieve, in a timely fashion, the desired reform of the
Security Council.
Mr. Duval (Canada) (spoke in French): Speaking
on the topic of the reform of the Security Council has
become  a  perennial  event.  But  instead  of  simply
restating our position on the proceedings of the Open-
ended Working Group, we have, over the years, found
it more useful to focus on the changes that the Security
Council  can  and  should  implement  until  there  is
agreement on its comprehensive reform.
I will therefore focus my comments on aspects of
the  Security  Council’s  working  methods  —  what  we
call  cluster  II  issues  in  Security  Council  reform
parlance  —  a  cluster  which  we  feel  need  to  be
improved.
A/56/PV.35
Following  these  briefings,  Security  Council  members
offer  their  views  on  these  developments.  None  of  this
information needs to be withheld from Member States
of  this  Organization.  In  our  view,  there  are  few
occasions when the Council needs to meet in camera.
typically  been  rather  dull  and 
So  what  are  the  factors  that  are  continuing  to
prevent the Council from achieving the proper balance
of  open  and  closed  meetings?  First,  open  meetings
have 
long-winded
affairs — a fact that has lessened the Council’s interest
in holding them. This need not be so. Interventions do
not  need  to  state  and  restate  well-known  national
positions.  Instead,  they  should  provide  an  opportunity
to  pose  questions  to  Council  members  and  Secretariat
officials and to respond interactively. In this way open
meetings  would  be  shorter  and  certainly  more
interesting.
The  other  obstacle  is  a  problem  of  habit.  We
could  even  say  that  informal  consultations  are  the
default  position  of  the  Council  —  unless  a  Council
member  suggests  otherwise,  often  over  the  objections
of  the  permanent  members,  which  perhaps  feel  less
compunction to respond to the demands of the general
membership, their tenure being secure. Once again, this
need not be the case. The default position should be a
meeting  open  to  Member  States  of  this  Organization.
Only if circumstances require should the Council meet
behind closed doors.
Secondly,  the  Council  needs  to  end  the  fiction
that  informal  consultations  are  not  meetings  of  the
Security  Council.  It  serves  no  one,  least  of  all  the
Council,  to  pretend  that  these  meetings  do  not  exist.
Informal  consultations  are  closed  meetings  of  the
Council  and  should  be  treated  as  such.  This  would
ensure  that  official  records  could  be  kept  of  the
decisions taken.
that 
the 
It  would  also  ensure 
rights  of
participation  pursuant  to  Articles  31  and  32  of  the
Charter would be respected. Most importantly, it would
mean  that  meetings  of  the  Security  Council  would  be
treated  with all  the  seriousness  deserving  of  the  organ
with  the  primary  responsibility  for  international  peace
and security.
First,  the  Security  Council  still  conducts  far  too
much of its regular business behind closed doors. Some
of  its  meetings  involve  briefings  from  the  Secretariat
on important developments in relation to whatever the
subject  matter  is  —  often  peacekeeping  operations.
Thirdly, Security Council working methods could
be improved by strengthening the relationship between
the  Security  Council  and  troop-contributing  countries.
Indeed,  we  have  a  consultation  process  with  troop
contributors  and,  with  the  commitments  undertaken
7
A/56/PV.35
such 
that 
the  most 
cooperation  would  narrow 
that  make 
and  renewed  in  Security  Council  resolution  1353
(2001),  the  information  and  consultation  process  with
the  troop  contributors  as  a  group  seems  better  served.
Yet,  there  is  a  need  to  go  beyond  consultations  to
genuine  cooperation  with  the  main  contributors  of
troop  deployed  in  complex  missions.  If  properly
the
executed, 
accountability  gap  between 
the
decisions and those that assume the risks. It would also
ensure 
reliable
information  at  its  disposal  from  the  countries  with
forces  deployed  in  the  field.  And  it  would  give  the
Council  access  to  the  perspectives  and  ideas  of  the
troop-contributing  countries.  We  hope  and
major 
expect 
the  Security  Council  Working  Group  on
Peacekeeping  Operations  to  take  to  heart  the  proposal
that  a  number  of  troop-contributing  countries  have
submitted in this regard.
the  Council  had 
those 
that  much  of 
Lastly,  as  we  stated  a  few  weeks  ago  during  our
statement  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,
however compelling the rationale for a veto, it remains
true 
the  general  membership’s
dissatisfaction with the Council arises from the use or
the  threat  of  the  use  of  the  veto.  An  overwhelming
number  of  delegations  continue  to  call  for  limitations
on  the  veto  power.  The  permanent  members  who
expect  the  general  membership  to  respect  Council
decisions need to respond to this demand. As proposed
by  one  permanent  member  of  the  Council  two  years
ago,  a  voluntary  code  of  conduct  would  be  a  good
starting  point.  The  code  could  clarify  under  what
circumstances 
should
consider it legitimate to exercise the veto — and could
also, as some colleagues have suggested, require them
to explain their reasons for using it. Such a code would
assist  our  efforts  to  reform  the  Security  Council  by
initiating  movement  on  a  topic  that  has  long  held  up
our progress.
veto-empowered  members 
We  will  refrain  from  commenting  on  cluster  I
issues  today,  except  to  say  that  we  call  on  those
delegations  that  continue  to  insist  that  we  enlarge  the
Council  in  a  way  that  grants  them  permanent  seats  to
set  aside  their  national  aspirations  for  the  sake  of
moving forward on the reform of the Security Council.
An  agreement  on  enlarging  the  Council  in  the  non-
permanent category alone could help us get out of this
quagmire  and  assure  a  more  representative  —  and
elected  —  Council.  But  as  long  as  a  handful  of
countries insist on more individual permanent seats and
8
additional  new  privileges,  such  agreement  will  be
difficult to reach.
Mr.  Amer  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  express  my
delegation’s  gratitude  to  Mr.  Holkeri,  the  President  of
the  fifty-fifth  session  of  General  Assembly,  for  the
manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  work  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of
the Security Council and Other Matters.
I also wish to extend our thanks to the two Vice-
Chairmen,  the  representative  of  Sri  Lanka  and  the
representative  of  Iceland.  Their  report  reflects  their
tireless  efforts  to  achieve  tangible  progress  on  the
comprehensive reform of the Security Council.
When the General Assembly decided to establish
the  Working  Group  on  Security  Council  reform  in
1993,  we  hoped  that  the  Working  Group  would
conclude  its  work  in  a  manner  meeting  the  goals  set
forth in General Assembly resolution 48/26, so that the
new composition of the Council would be equitable in
its representation of all geographical areas, democratic
in  its  decision-making,  and  more  transparent  in  its
working  methods.  If  we  pause  a  moment  to  evaluate
the results of the negotiations of the past nine years, we
find that all Member States of the United Nations were
able  during  that  period  to  express  their  views  and  to
submit their proposals on Council reform.
Two  years  ago,  the  Assembly  adopted  resolution
53/30 by consensus. It enabled us to settle the question
of the majority required for adopting any resolution on
Council  reform.  It  is  clear  from  the  negotiations  that
there is unanimity on the need to reform the Council so
as  to  reflect  the  changes  witnessed  by  the  United
Nations  since  1945,  particularly  the  great  increase  in
the  number  of  its  members,  on  whose  behalf  the
Council works. Despite the fact that there are numerous
matters that have not been settled yet, the report of the
Working  Group,  contained 
in  document  A/55/47,
indicates  that  there  is  broad  consensus  on  many
proposals  to  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods.
The Council has begun work on some of the proposals,
such as consulting with troop-contributing countries on
peacekeeping operations and increasing the number of
open 
formal  meetings.  These  steps  are  correct.
However,  they  do  not  answer  all  the  demands.  It  is
important  that  the  Council  take  into  consideration  the
proposals  of  all  Member  States  and  abide  by  the
regional  organizations, 
measures aimed at enhancing its links with members of
the  United  Nations  and  at  expanding  its  cooperation
with 
in  accordance  with
relevant  provisions  of  the  Charter.  It  should  also  take
necessary  measures  to  make  such  proposals  binding
and  to  include  them  in  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the
Council so that such practices would not be tied to the
States that succeed to its presidency.
In  the  framework  of  the  reform  process,  it  is
important  that  the  Council  cooperate  better  with  the
other  main  organs  of  the  United  Nations  system.  It  is
not  acceptable  that  its  relationship  with  the  General
Assembly  be  confined  to  presenting  its  annual  report.
The  Council  should  submit  to  the  General  Assembly
special reports as provided for in articles 15 and 24 of
the  Charter,  so  that  both  bodies  can  cooperate  closely
in matters relating to international peace and security.
It  is  important  that  the  Council  foster  relations
with  the  International  Court  of  Justice  by  seeking  its
advisory opinions on legal matters. The Council should
abide by its rules of procedure in its meetings, so that
official  open  meetings  become  the  foundation  of  its
deliberations.  That  way,  all  Member  States  could
express their positions on matters deliberated on in the
Council  before  it  adopts  resolutions  on  them.  What  is
currently 
informal
consultations,  which  are  the  main  forum  for  decision-
taking,  is  not  characterized  by  clarity  or  transparency.
It  does  not  reflect  in  most  cases  the  opinions  and
positions  of  Member  States.  It  gives  the  impression
that one member or a few permanent members are the
real  decision-makers.  This  puts  the  legitimacy  of
Council’s  resolutions  in  question.  The  Council  then
would not be characterized as working on behalf of the
international community.
transpiring 
so-called 
the 
in 
Increasing 
the  membership  of 
the  Security
Council is one of the main elements of Council reform.
Annex  XIII  of  the  Working  Group’s  report  contains
many  important  and  constructive  proposals  submitted
by  States  and  groups,  including  the  Non-Aligned
Movement.  Equal  sovereignty  among  States  should
constitute  the  basis  of  any  effort  to  expand  the
membership of the Council. We would like to state here
that our delegation has continuously maintained that an
increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Council  should  be
the  non-permanent  category.  We  are
confined 
convinced 
to  create  new
permanent members, which would perpetuate the state
of  discrimination  in  the  United  Nations.  If  there  is  an
is  no  need 
there 
that 
to 
A/56/PV.35
for  new  permanent  members, 
actual  need 
their
selection should not be a way of granting privileges to
those that bear the greatest responsibility for the United
Nations  budget  or 
troops  and
equipment  to  peacekeeping  operations.  Abiding  by
such criteria would strengthen the grip of the rich and
powerful on the Security Council.
that  can  provide 
It  is  essential  to  apply  the  principle  of  fair
geographical  distribution  in  the  expansion  of  the
Council while taking into consideration the developing
countries  of  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin  America,  some  of
which are not represented at all. In this regard, we wish
to point out that any increase in the membership of the
Council 
increasing  Africa’s
representation.  We  would  like  to  point  to  the  position
formulated  by  African  leaders  in  1997,  whereby  they
asked 
the  Council’s
membership,  of  which  two  permanent,  rotating  seats
should  be  allocated  to  Africa  in  accordance  with
criteria agreed to by Africans themselves.
increase  of  11 
for  an 
should 
result 
in 
in 
The discussions that have so far taken place have
indicated  that  a  main  obstacle  is  the  desire  not  to
relinquish  the  privileges  that  have  been  gained  by
some,  especially  the  privilege  of  the  veto.  Many
countries  object  to  this,  including  mine.  We  are
convinced  that  the  veto  runs  counter  to  the  equal
sovereignty of States as guaranteed by the Charter and
undermines the values of justice and democracy. Many
arguments  have  been  made  for  this,  including  the  one
that  holds 
share  of
responsibility  for  the  budget  should  be  the  main
criterion  for  permanent  memberships  and  for  veto
power. If we accept that, then how are we to force such
a party to pay its contributions? We have also been told
that  the  veto  was  given  to  States  that  have  a  greater
responsibility in the maintenance of international peace
and security. How can we guarantee that their conduct
does not run counter to the interests of other States?
that  bearing 
the  greatest 
The fact is that the States that emerged victorious
from  the  Second  World  War  gave  themselves  special
privileges.  The  United  Nations  today  is  different  from
what  it  was  over  five  decades  ago.  Among  the  main
differences  is  the  fact  that  its  membership  stands  now
at  189.  Two  thirds  of  the  current  Members  were  not
Members  then,  and  had  no  say  about  the  privileges
conferred upon five States.
My  delegation  has  for  over  30  years  maintained
that  the  veto  should  be  eliminated.  At  a  minimum,  it
9
A/56/PV.35
should be used sparingly. It cannot be effective unless
specific conditions are placed on its use, such requiring
at  least  two  negative  votes  among  the  permanent
members  in  order  to  prevent  the  adoption  of  a  draft
resolution  supported  by  the  required  majority,  or
subjecting the veto to the General Assembly’s approval
by at least two-thirds majority. We believe that without
taking  these  measures,  or  eliminating  the  veto,  the
process of reforming the Security Council will continue
to allow some States to retain their privileges, to have
hegemony  over  the  rest  of  the  world  and  to  control
international resolutions.
We  are  now  in  the  process  of  a  new  round  of
negotiations  to  reform  the  Security  Council.  We  hope
that  we  will  not  have  to  wait  a  long  time  before  the
Working  Group  reaches  a  conclusion  on  reform
proposals  that  has  the  approval  of  all  members.  Our
position  should  not  be  interpreted  as  a  desire  to  set  a
timetable for the conclusion of this important process.
In this connection, we support the position adopted by
the Non-Aligned Movement, namely, that the efforts at
Security  Council  reform  should  not  be  subject  to  a
timetable  and 
reach  a
comprehensive  agreement  on  all  these  matters  so  that
the  Council  may  be  more  representative 
its
membership, transparent in its work, and democratic in
its decision-making, and so that it may be accountable
to 
the  Organization
represented in the Assembly.
the  entire  membership  of 
important 
that 
in 
to 
it 
is 
Mr. Sun Joun-yung (Republic of Korea): During
the  Millennium  Summit,  heads  of  State 
and
Government  reaffirmed  the  unique  and  indispensable
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  promoting  international
peace  and  shared  prosperity.  To  meet  the  spirit  of  the
Millennium Declaration and the challenges of the new
millennium, the functions of the United Nations should
be  strengthened  in  a  systematic  manner.  For  that
purpose, the Organization will have to be reformed in a
way  that  would  allow  it  to  function  more  effectively
and authoritatively. My delegation firmly believes that
achieving  this  goal  through  concerted  efforts  should
become  our 
this
extraordinary  time  when  cooperation  among  Member
States is sorely needed.
first  priority,  particularly  at 
The  most  crucial  component  of  this  overall
United Nations reform process should be the reform of
the  Security  Council,  given 
its  critical  role  and
weighted authority in the maintenance of international
peace and security. The reform of the Security Council
10
must  be  comprehensive,  a  guiding  principle  expressed
by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  in  last  year’s
Millennium Declaration.
The reforms should reflect our current reality and
encompass  all  aspects  regarding  the  structure  of  the
Council,  while  honouring  the  purposes  and  principles
of the Charter, as well as emerging principles that can
guide  the  actions  of  Member  States  in  the  future.  We
should also bear in mind that the reform of the Council
has  implications  not  only  for  peace  and  security,  but
also  for  a  number  of  other  issues,  such  as  improving
the financial and budgetary structure and upgrading the
United  Nations 
social
development.
economic 
role 
and 
in 
As  we  have  witnessed,  a  growing  number  of
States  are  playing  an  increasingly  active  role  in  the
work  of 
the  United  Nations,  and  have  become
indispensable  to  the  maintenance  and  promotion  of
international peace and security. However, only a small
number of Member States are given the opportunity to
fully  participate  in  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.
Moreover,  a  large  majority  of  Member  States  are
marginalized 
the  Council’s  decision-making
process.  This  discrepancy  lies  at  the  heart  of  the
Security  Council  reform  effort.  While  some  progress
has  been  made  in  improving  the  working  methods  of
the Council, the most critical issues remain unresolved.
My  delegation  firmly  believes  that,  if  the  United
Nations  is  to  be  a  relevant  international  actor  in  the
twenty-first  century,  a  genuine  effort  must  be  made  to
enhance 
transparency  and
effectiveness of the Security Council.
representativeness, 
from 
the 
Reform  of  the  Council,  both  in  its  shape  and
decision-making  process, 
should  be  guided  by
democratic  principles  and  reflect  our  current  reality.
The two major sticking points of the Security Council
reform  process  —  the  enlargement  of  the  Council  and
the  veto  power  —  are  inextricably  linked,  and  should
therefore  be  considered  in  one  context.  A  quick  and
partial  solution  for  expansion,  while  setting  aside  the
question  of  decision-making  procedures,  is  likely  to
undermine  our 
far-reaching
comprehensive reform.
achieve 
efforts 
to 
As a strong advocate of United Nations reform in
general, and Security Council reform in particular, the
Republic of Korea has been an active participant in the
Open-ended  Working  Group  since  the  inception  of  its
work eight years ago. I am well aware of the sense of
frustration  over  the  slow  pace  of  the  discussions  and
the lack of tangible progress in the group. However, we
must bear in mind that this stalemate is not due to the
ineffectiveness of our discussion process; rather, it is a
reflection  of 
and
politically sensitive nature of this issue. My delegation
believes  that  the  Working  Group,  the  sole  body
mandated by the General Assembly to actively discuss
Security  Council  reform,  still  remains  the  best  forum
for advancing reforms.
implications 
tremendous 
the 
The 
landscape  of 
the  world  has  changed
dramatically  since  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations
55 years ago, and these changes should be reflected in
the  structure  and  decision-making  process  of  the
Security  Council.  And,  as  I  noted  earlier,  many
countries contribute to the work of the United Nations
without  having  their  views  adequately  reflected  in  the
Council’s  decision-making  process.  Accordingly,  we
should  make  a  greater  effort  to  find  ways  to  give  as
many countries as possible the opportunity to serve the
Council on a more frequent basis.
The Republic of Korea supports the view that an
increase only in non-permanent seats is a viable option
for  the  time  being,  if  we  are  unable  to  reach  an
agreement  on  expansion.  This  enlargement  could  be
achieved  by  allowing  more  seats  to  be  elected  for
regular 
the  Council  more
democratic and accountable.
thereby  making 
terms, 
While  there  may  have  been  little  progress  in  the
overall  Security  Council  reform  process,  there  have
been marked improvements in the working methods of
the  Council.  Among  the  many  positive  developments
over the course of the past five years, my delegation is
pleased  to  note  the  more  frequent  holding  of  public
meetings  and  improved  briefings  for  non-members  of
the  Council.  And,  as  a  troop-contributing  country  and
strong  advocate  of  Security  Council  reform, 
the
Republic of Korea particularly welcomes the enhanced
cooperation  between  troop-contributing  countries  and
the  Security  Council.  As  we  experienced  over  the
course of the discussions in the Working Group in the
fifty-fifth  session,  many  constructive  proposals  to
improve  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council
have  been  raised  by  Member  States.  My  delegation
firmly  believes  that  we  must  all  exert  extra  effort  to
reach  conclusions  on  whatever  progress  is  already  in
our reach.
A/56/PV.35
At this particular time of challenge, unity among
Member States is needed more than ever before.
My  delegation  firmly  believes  that  reform  of  the
Security Council should be carried out in such a way as
to unite, rather than divide, Member States. I call upon
all Member States to make an effort to overcome major
differences,  while  remaining  faithful  to  the  purposes
and  principles  of  these  reform  efforts,  which  we  have
already agreed upon.
their  dissatisfaction  with 
Mr. Paolillo (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): A few
days ago in this very Hall in the course of discussions
on the report of the Security Council, many delegations
expressed 
limited
representative  nature  of  the  Council,  which,  together
with the lack of transparency in its proceedings, makes
this body of restricted membership act separately from
the  General  Assembly,  a  truly  representative  body  of
the international community.
the 
that 
firstly, 
all  members 
of 
this  Assembly  —  confer  on 
These  criticisms  basically  reveal  that  the  main
organs of the Organization are not acting in accordance
with  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which  in  Article  24
the
stipulates, 
Organization — 
the
Security  Council 
primary
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and
security.  Secondly,  it  stipulates  that  the  Council,  in
fulfilling  its  duties,  acts  on  behalf  of  all  members.  In
other  words,  the  Council  is  the  body  that  carries  out
instructions and the General Assembly is the body that
issues those instructions.
non-exclusive 
the 
These  criticisms  are  not  new.  They  have  been
repeated  for  years  in  this  Assembly  and  other  forums.
Similarly,  the  remedies  for  these  shortcomings  have
been known for a long time. If the Security Council is
not  sufficiently  representative,  then  the  number  of  its
members  should  be  increased.  If  the  Council  does  not
act  with  sufficient  transparency,  then  its  working
methods should be modified.
This  logical  response  has  never  been  refuted.
Since  the  beginning  of  consultations  on  the  reform  of
the  Council,  more  than  eight  years  ago,  no  one  could
deny the need to increase the membership of this body.
Since 
there  was
agreement at all times that regardless of the reform to
be  adopted,  it  should  include  an  increase  in  the  non-
permanent  members.  There  has  not  been  nor  is  there
disagreement on this.
the  first  day  of  consultations, 
11
A/56/PV.35
It is true that there has not been agreement on the
number  of  seats  that  should  be  added.  But  the  range
that is being considered make it possible to predict that
there  would  not  be  major  difficulty 
in  reaching
agreement  on  this  point;  so  this  question  does  not
constitute a genuine difficulty.
Why then, if we agree that an urgent need exists
to  increase  the  membership  of  the  Council  in  order  to
improve its representativity, and if we all agree that, at
the  very  least,  the  number  of  non-permanent  members
should  be  increased,  why,  I  repeat,  have  we  do  not
that?  We  have  not  done  so  because  the  question  of  an
increase  of  the  non-permanent  membership,  on  which
there  is  no  disagreement,  has  become  hostage  to  the
acceptance  of  other  reforms  on  which  there  is  no
agreement nor, in my view, any prospect of agreement,
because of their highly controversial nature.
We  find  ourselves  in  a  paradoxical  situation,  in
which a reform desired by all has been blocked by the
desire to carry out a controversial reform that does not
have general support, because it affects basic principles
of the United Nations Charter and of international law,
such as the principle of the sovereign equality of all the
Members of the Organization.
This  has  been  happening  for  more  than  eight
years  with  the  outcome  that  we  continue  to  have  a
Council  whose  representative  nature  and  working
methods are unsatisfactory. Frankly, as I do not see any
signs  of  change  in  the  position  of  the  groups  that
participate in the consultations, I fear that this situation
could continue for at least another eight years.
However, the conduct of the consultations at their
most recent stages could not have been in better hands.
The  President’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  and
Ambassadors  Thorsteinn  Ingólfsson  of  Iceland  and
John de Saram of Sri Lanka, have been making patient
and ingenious efforts to lead the Open-ended Working
Group to tangible results. We have every confidence in
the 
these 
the
chairmanship of President Han.
continuation 
of 
efforts 
under 
Nonetheless, we think that no matter how patient
or  ingenious  future  efforts  may  be,  we  will  not  make
progress  so  long  as  the  negotiations  continue  on  the
same  bases  and  proposals  as  were  put  forward  eight
years ago. We therefore believe that if we are to renew
the  Working  Group’s  mandate  for  the  ninth  time  we
must  prepare  to  give  the  consultations  a  different
directions.
12
increasing 
the  question  of 
The  Working  Group  now  has  three  options.  One
is 
to  delink 
the
non-permanent  membership  and  the  already  accepted
reforms  of  the  working  methods  from  the  more
controversial  issues,  thus  achieving  a  simple  reform,
without  prejudice  to  continuing  discussion  of  other
reforms. Another option is for consultations to continue
on  the  basis  of  new  proposals  with  a  better  chance  of
general  acceptance  than  those  that  have  been  under
discussion  so  far.  The  third  possibility  —  resuming
consultations  on  the  old  proposals  —  does  not  seem
very promising to my delegation. Choosing this option
would be very frustrating — unjustifiably so — since it
would  mean  preventing  wider  participation  of
Members of the Organization in the Security Council. I
shall explain why.
In  the  course  of  this  debate,  some  delegations
have maintained that proceeding to an increase only in
the  non-permanent  membership  would  be  detrimental
to  the  Organization  and  to  ourselves.  But  nobody  has
explained  the  nature  of  this  damage,  and  I  cannot
imagine  what  it  might  be.  On  the  contrary,  as  one
speaker  suggested  this  morning,  precisely  by  not
delinking  these  two  aspects  of  the  problem  we  have
harmed  the  Organization  and  ourselves.  If  an  increase
in the non-permanent membership had been accepted in
the  year  when  the  consultations  began  —  in  1993  —
and  if  the  increase  had  been,  say,  10  non-permanent
members,  a 
figure  which  probably  would  have
commanded  general  support,  then  in  the  eight  years
since,  40  countries  could  have  been  members  of  the
Security  Council,  in  addition  to  the  40  which  have
occupied the 10 existing non-permanent seats. With the
lack  of  any  real  prospect  of  agreement  on  the  other
reforms,  the  years  keep  passing,  and  with  them  our
countries  keep  being  deprived  of  the  opportunity  to
take part in the work of the Security Council.
In  any  event,  whatever  option  the  Open-ended
Working  Group  chooses,  Uruguay  will  continue  to
participate in efforts to reach agreement on all aspects
of  Council  reform,  and  will  do  so  in  a  flexible  spirit,
but  with  one  limitation:  we  cannot  go  along  with  any
reform that is contrary to the fundamental principles of
this  Organization  through  an  extension  to  other  States
of existing privileges and inequalities.
Ms.  Novotná  (Slovakia):  I  begin  by  expressing
my  gratitude  to  the  former  President  of  the  General
Assembly,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  for  the  leadership  he
demonstrated on Security Council reform. I also thank
Ambassadors de Saram of Sri Lanka and Ingólfsson of
Iceland for their good work.
The  Slovak  Republic,  like  the  overwhelming
majority of Member States, supports a Security Council
reform that would enhance its representative character,
improve  its  working  methods  and  the  transparency  of
its  work,  and  preserve  the  Council’s  capability  to  act
promptly. All of us undoubtedly know that the size of
the  Council  has  remained  unchanged  for  37  years,
whereas the number of United Nations Member States
has risen during this period from 113 to 189.
Security  Council  reform  is  urgently  needed  in
order to strengthen confidence in the United Nations in
general,  and  in  particular  to  enhance  the  perceived
legitimacy  of  the  Council  and  its  actions.  A  truly
effective  Security  Council  requires  comprehensive
reform. This is essential not least in order to strengthen
the  Council’s  ability  to  perform  its  role  in  preventive
diplomacy.  In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  express  my
country’s views on both the role of the Council in the
international system and its internal functioning.
Effectiveness  means  that  the  decisions  of  the
Security Council are respected and carried out. Reform
should  ensure  that  a  broad  range  of  international
concerns  is  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  Security
Council.  It  should  ensure  that  important  global  and
regional  perspectives  are  included  in  the  Council’s
decision-making  process  and  that  States  take  the
responsibility for  its  results.  It  should  also  ensure  that
the  Security  Council  acts,  and  is  seen  as  acting,  on
behalf  of  all  Members  of 
the  United  Nations.
Comprehensive Security Council reform, therefore, has
to  deal  with  the  content  of  Council  decisions,  with  its
working methods and with its size and composition.
It  should  be  our  goal  that  a  global  decision  on
Security  Council  enlargement  —  and  it  must  be  a
global decision — takes regional views into account as
much  as  possible.  The  members  of  the  Security
Council, permanent and non-permanent, share a global
responsibility.  At  the  same  time,  all  of  them  bring
valuable  regional  knowledge  and  experience  to  the
Council. Balance and interaction between these global
and regional factors is a key element in the work of the
Security Council. It should also be a major factor in the
process of enlargement.
With regard to the issue of the enlargement of the
Security  Council,  Slovakia  considers  increasing  the
number  of  members  in  both  categories  to  be  the  best
A/56/PV.35
way  to  make  the  Security  Council  correspond  to  the
realities of the international community. The failure to
reach  an  agreement  on  enlargement  in  both  categories
should  not,  however,  necessarily  preclude 
the
endeavours  to  reach  agreement  on  enlargement  in  at
least  one  category.  The  total  number  of  the  Council’s
members should not exceed 25. The Slovak Republic is
convinced 
that  a  25-member  Council  will  be
sufficiently  representative  and,  at  the  same  time,  able
to  preserve  its  operational  flexibility.  We  share  what
seems to be a clear majority view — namely, that it is
important  to  reflect  major  changes  in  the  international
system  in  this  way.  The  Group  of  Eastern  European
States, whose membership has more than doubled over
the  last  10  years,  should  not  be  omitted  in  the
enlargement process of the Security Council.
Let  me  address  some  of  the  crucial  issues  in
mutual  dependence  where  some  improvement  in  the
work of the Security Council is needed. The credibility
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  transparency  of  its
work  are  indeed  related.  Discussions  and  proposals
from  the  Working  Group  have  very  clearly  influenced
the tendency in the last few years towards a more open
Security  Council.  Progress  has  been  made,  but  more
still  needs  to  be  done.  We  realize  fully  the  need  for
Council  members  to  deliberate  behind  closed  doors
when specific situations so require, but we also expect
substantial  briefings  to  follow  such  meetings.  Gradual
improvements in this regard have been duly noted.
The Security Council should continue to improve
its practice with respect to regularly informing the non-
members.  The  practice  of  open  debates,  the  inclusion
of  affected  non-members  in  its  discussions  and  troop-
contributors’ meetings should be continued. Openness,
transparency  and  consultation  are  to  a  large  extent  a
matter  of  improving  the  practices  and  culture  of  the
Council.  This  could  also  be  reflected  in  the  rules  of
procedure,  provided  that  enough  flexibility  is  left  for
further development.
The  new  international  situation  has  created  fresh
opportunities for unity in the Security Council and for
a  cooperative  approach  to  its  decision-making.  In  this
regard,  Slovakia  considers  that  the  problem  of  the
threat  of 
issue  of  central
importance.  The  Slovak  Republic  can  accept  the  right
of  veto  being  extended  to  new  permanent  members  of
the  Security  Council,  but  at  the  same  time  we  would
want  to  see  concerted  action  to  reduce  the  role  of  the
veto.  The  permanent  members  should  be  strongly
the  veto  remains 
the 
13
A/56/PV.35
encouraged  to  minimize  their  use  of  it.  They  should
now  be  able  to  do  what  the  General  Assembly
requested 55 years ago: to agree among themselves on
limiting the number of situations in which the veto may
be  used,  and  also  to  agree  which  issues  should  be
defined  as  procedural.  And,  as  a  part  of  the  future
amendments  of  the  Charter,  the  right  to  exercise  the
veto  could  perhaps  be  excluded  for  a  number  of
specific  situations.  The  right  of  veto  should  be
restricted  to  decisions  on  matters  taken  under  Chapter
VII  of  the  Charter.  As  regards  the  decision-making
process, the Slovak Republic considers it possible in a
25-member  Council  for  decisions  to  be  taken  by  a
majority of 15 votes.
The  Council  has  already  moved  considerably
towards greater flexibility, and the use of the veto has
been  reduced.  As  the  Security  Council,  hopefully,
continues  on  this  course  of  gradually  limiting  the  use
of the veto, it might also become less difficult to find a
consensus  and  make  progress  in  the  negotiations  on
Security Council reform.
For  those  of  us  —  and  I  believe  that  we  are
many — who put our trust in the United Nations as the
ultimate guarantor of upholding peace and security, this
debate on essential changes leading to the reform of the
Security  Council  is  very  important.  This  is  also  the
only  way  in  which  the  credibility  of  the  Security
Council can be improved. Our delegation is prepared to
work  in  a  flexible  manner  in  the  Working  Group
together with other members of the United Nations on
this challenging task.
Mr.  Pamir  (Turkey):  After  many  years  of  work,
we are at the beginning of yet another — and we hope
more 
the
comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all its
aspects.
fruitful  —  period  of  discussion  on 
Let  me  first  recognize  the  contributions  of  the
previous  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,
Mr.  Holkeri,  as  well  as  his  Working  Group  Vice-
Chairmen,  Ambassadors  de  Saram  and  Ingólffson.
Turkey  now 
the
President  and  his  Vice-Chairmen  during  the  coming
months.
to  working  with 
looks  forward 
Since 
the  establishment  of 
the  Open-ended
Working  Group,  Turkey,  like  many  others,  has  been  a
strong  advocate  of  a  comprehensive  reform,  which
should  give 
international  community  a  more
effective,  cooperative,  representative  and  transparent
the 
14
Security Council. There is no doubt that this reform is
necessary, and would, in the end, reflect the adaptation
of  this  world  body  to  the  current  realities  of  the
international  arena,  which  has  changed  so  drastically
during the last decade.
I  reiterate  Turkey’s  firm  commitment 
to  a
comprehensive  reform,  encompassing  all  facets  of  the
question.  The  Open-ended  Working  Group  is,  and
should  remain,  the  only  appropriate  forum  to  examine
in substance all the issues at hand. We believe that the
progress  achieved  so  far  is  modest,  and  therefore  call
upon all members to commit themselves to the reform
process  with  more  dedication  and 
the  necessary
political  will.  This  would  also  be  in  conformity  with
the  call  of  our  leaders  at  the  Millennium  Summit  to
intensify reform efforts.
reassessment.  Moreover,  during 
We acknowledge that the right of veto played an
important  role  in  the  past  in  sustaining  global  peace.
Nevertheless,  its  scope  and  use  today  are  in  dire  need
of 
last  year’s
deliberations it became evident once again that the veto
is  a  central  element  in  our  entire  discussion  and
inextricably  linked  to  other  issues  of  the  reform
process.  However,  insofar  as  those  countries  enjoying
this  prerogative  are  not  prepared  to  review  in  earnest
its scope, we must work towards increasing the number
of non-permanent seats, and thus not allow the issue of
the veto to preclude us from moving in the direction of
reform.
We cannot emphasize enough how important it is
to address the other issues waiting for reform as well.
Progress  on  improving  the  working  methods  of  the
Council  is  still  slow.  During  last  year’s  work  we
observed  a  certain  willingness  on  the  part  of  some
members  of  the  Council  to  improve  the  existing
working methods, with a view to making its work more
transparent.  In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  mention
particularly 
countries
contributing  troops  to  peacekeeping  operations,  and
improved  means  of  dialogue  with 
the  Council’s
secretariat.
consultations  with 
the 
the 
We  appreciate 
interaction  between 
the
Council  and  the  Working  Group,  and  we  hope  that  it
will  intensify  in  the  coming  months.  Yet,  at  the  same
time,  we  believe  that  the  modest  steps  taken  by  some
Council  members  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  a  more
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council  and  its  more
effective functioning.
With 
these 
thoughts 
looks
forward to the next session of the Working Group and
is convinced that under the President’s guidance it will
be able to make more progress.
in  mind,  Turkey 
Mr.  Levitte  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow
me,  first,  to  reiterate  the  thanks  of  France  to  the
President’s predecessor, President Harri Holkeri, and to
the other members of the Bureau, who spared no effort
to make more constructive and operational the debates
in  2001  of  the  Working  Group  on  Security  Council
reform.  Their  efforts  contributed  to  deliberations  on
matters  whose 
are
appreciated by all.
complexity 
sensitivity 
and 
As  the  President  of  the  Republic  indicated  on
7 September 2000 at the Security Council meeting held
at the level of heads of State and Government, France
supports  an  enlargement  of 
in  both
categories  of  membership  —  permanent  and  non-
permanent.
the  Council 
That expansion must include developed countries
and  allow  for  better  representation  of  developing
countries. France’s consistent position is guided by the
need to bear in mind the emergence of new powers and
to  enable  the  Security  Council  to  continue  to  play  its
role  in  full.  It  is  therefore  based  on  the  idea  of  better
representativeness  of 
the  Security  Council,  while
preserving the indispensable efficiency of its work.
France  is  therefore  prepared  to  consider  an
increase of five permanent seats for two industrialized
countries  and  three  developing  States  representing
major  regions  of  the  world:  Asia,  Africa  and  Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean.  With  respect  to  the
enlargement  of  the  Council,  France  believes  that
Germany,  Japan  and  India  could  occupy  permanent
seats. France could also accept an increase of four non-
permanent  seats  to  be  allocated  respectively  to  the
African,  Asian,  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  and
Central and Eastern European Groups.
We are attached to the right of veto, as recognized
by 
the  Charter.  Its  use  cannot  be  regulated  or
constrained  by  pre-defined  criteria.  At  the  same  time,
France believes that the Security Council must be able
fully to exercise the primary responsibility entrusted to
it  by  the  Charter,  in  particular  in  situations  of  serious
violations  of 
that
threaten  international  peace  and  security.  For  the
permanent  members,  that  would  entail  a  responsible
use of their right of veto.
international  humanitarian 
law 
A/56/PV.35
first  with 
importance 
In  September,  during 
the  working  methods  of 
France  also  attaches  great 
to
improving 
the  Security
Council. Clear progress has been made in this area on
two fronts: better cooperation and greater transparency.
The  Council,  engaged  in  numerous  and  increasingly
complex  peacekeeping  operations,  has  been  able  to
troop-
develop  a  dual  partnership, 
contributing  countries. 
its
presidency of the Security Council, France was pleased
to  preside  over  the  first  implementation  of  resolution
1353  (2001).  Henceforth,  the  representatives  of  troop-
contributing  countries  can  have  genuine  dialogue,
whenever  desirable,  with  the  representatives  of  the
members  of  the  Council.  A  partnership  has  also
evolved  with  the  representatives  of  financial  and
development  organizations  of 
the  United  Nations
system  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  in  order  to
clearly  define  the  actions  of  the  Council  and  the
complementary  work  undertaken  by  these  agencies  in
the field.
We must still give thought to a clear definition of
the responsibilities of the Security Council and those of
the  General  Assembly 
implementation  of
operations  that  incorporate  peacekeeping  and  nation-
building  or  national  reconstruction  activities.  I  spoke
on this important question at length this morning with
regard  to  East  Timor,  but  of  course  it  applies  to  all
other missions of that nature.
the 
in 
The Council has also striven to work with greater
transparency. More public meetings are now being held
and  the  daily  summaries  of  consultations  are  being
made  available  more  quickly.  Thus,  during 
its
presidency last month, France daily summarized all the
Council’s work on its Web site. Its monthly report was
issued  on 
last  day  of  September.  Greater
transparency,  however,  may  also  mean  involving  the
representatives  of  countries  directly  concerned  by  a
conflict more directly in the consultations on the issue.
This  idea  has  been  proposed  and  France  believes  that
its  immediate  implementation  could  only  be  of  great
benefit.
the 
The  reform  of  the  composition  and  working
methods  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  important
objective for France. We have no doubt that, under Mr.
Han’s  presidency,  no  effort  will  be  spared  to  register
progress in the discussions of the Working Group.
Mr.  Nejad  Hosseinian  (Islamic  Republic  of
to  begin  by  expressing  high
Iran):  Allow  me 
15
A/56/PV.35
for 
the  outstanding 
appreciation 
leadership  and
patience  of  the  former  Chairman  and  his  two  Vice-
Chairmen  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other
Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  for  their
outstanding work over the past year. We also trust that,
under  Mr.  Han’s  skilful  and  able  leadership,  the
Working  Group  will  explore  all  possible  avenues  and
exhaust every possibility to fulfil its mandate.
As members of the General Assembly are aware,
despite the passage of eight years, the Working Group
has  yet  to  agree  upon  such  substantive  matters  as  the
size  and  composition  of  the  Security  Council,  and
especially on an increase in the permanent membership
and  the  power  of  the  veto.  In  other  words,  the
fundamental  question  of  how  to  advance  from  the
Security Council that we have now to an organ that is
more  representative  and  democratic,  but  no 
less
efficient, has yet to be answered. As the debates in the
course  of  the  last  and  current  sessions  of  the  Working
Group testify, uphill efforts are still ahead.
At  the  same  time,  we  need  also  to  recall  that
some considerable progress in the issues relating to the
Council’s  working  methods,  achieved  in  the  course  of
some  previous  sessions  of  the  Working  Group,  could
still  serve  as  a  source  of  encouragement.  Likewise,
there  is  no  doubt  that  the  deliberations  in  the  Group
over the past few years have to some extent positively
affected the day-to-day work of the Council, leading it
increased  accessibility  and
in 
transparency.  However, 
it 
the
momentum  built  up 
this  field  could  not  be
maintained in the last session.
the  direction  of 
is  unfortunate 
that 
in 
On the other hand, we believe that the impasse or
lack  of  progress  in  the  expansion  of  the  permanent
membership  of  the  Council,  which  continued  during
the last session, should be viewed as a direct product of
the enormous importance of the issue and the diversity
of  views  and 
the  same
mechanism  —  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the
reform of the Security Council — with the same format
and rules of procedure, is not yet exhausted and should
be given another chance.
interests.  It  proves 
that 
A  considerable  number  of  delegations,  including
mine,  have  been  expressing  frustration  over  the  slow
progress  —  if  not  an  impasse  —  in  the  work  of  the
Working Group. But we do not believe that we should
16
contemplate  working  out  a  way  out  of  the  current
situation  by,  for  instance,  relinquishing  the  basic
principles that the great majority of the States Members
of the United Nations have relentlessly endeavoured to
uphold over the years. In other words, we believe that
agreement on the reform of the Council should reflect
the legitimate objectives of the general membership of
the United Nations.
Here, it is worth reaffirming the fallback position
maintained  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  namely,
that if agreement is not reached on the expansion of the
permanent  membership, 
the  expansion  should  be
limited, for the time being, to non-permanent seats.
Because of the importance of Council reform, we
are  of  the  view  that,  while  respecting  the  principle  of
the  equality  of  all  Member  States,  every  effort  should
be  made  to  reach  the  broadest  possible  agreement
among Member States. In other words, the interests of
all States and regions should be seriously considered in
this  unprecedented  and  historic  exercise,  which  is  at
the same time crucially important for the future of the
United Nations and international relations. The process
of  reforming  the  Council,  therefore,  should  not  be
subject  to  any  predetermined  or  superficial  timetable.
Any  attempt  to  impose  a  premature,  hasty  decision
would run the risk of doing harm to this very delicate
process,  which  is  so  important  to  all  the  States
Members of our Organization.
We  believe  that  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  —  with  the
current  format  and  rules  of  procedure  —  continues  to
be  the  appropriate  forum  in  which  to  pursue  efforts
aimed at reforming the work of the Council. It should
therefore  be  given  an  opportunity  to  carry  out  the
mandate entrusted to it by the General Assembly.
remain, 
to  make 
As to the objectives of the reform of the Council,
we  continue  to  believe  that  the  goal  of  the  process  is,
and  must 
the  Council  more
representative,  more  democratic,  more  transparent  and
more  accountable,  thereby  helping  to  strengthen  its
efficiency  and  increase  its  authority  and  that  of  the
United Nations as a whole. It must therefore take into
account  the  dramatic  changes  which  have  taken  place
since the creation of the United Nations 55 years ago,
such as the end of the colonial era, which has resulted
in the growing number of developing countries, and the
end of the cold war. We believe that the attainment of
these objectives will require, among other reforms, the
expansion of the membership of the Council to at least
26,  so  that 
the  developing  world  can  be  better
represented.
The  curtailment  of  the  veto  figures  prominently
among  the  minimum  objectives  sought  by  the  general
membership  of  the  United  Nations  over  the  years.  It
would not be an exaggeration to say that there is a near
consensus  on  this  issue.  At  their  most  recent  summit
meeting,  114  members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement
agreed on the need for the curtailment of the veto, with
a  view  to  its  eventual  elimination.  Moreover,  in  last
year’s  general  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  on  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  about  95  out  of  110
speakers  who  took  part  in  the  debate  pronounced
themselves,  in  one  way  or  another,  in  favour  of  the
curtailment or limitation of the veto.
We  believe  that  a  position  so  widely  expressed
and maintained cannot and should not be overlooked in
the  course  of  our  exercise.  Furthermore,  we  believe
that disregard of the widespread call for the curtailment
of  the  veto  is  not  in  the  interests  of  the  Security
Council  and  will  not  contribute  to  making  it  more
democratic  and 
the
legitimacy of its decisions.
transparent  or 
to  enhancing 
The  issue  of  the  veto  is  a  key  element  in  the
reform  of  the  Council.  It  links  both  clusters  under
consideration,  and  relates  closely  to  the  expansion  of
the  Council.  We  doubt  that  a  vague  commitment  to
apply self-restraint in the exercise of the power of veto
or to resort to it in a responsible manner could supplant
its curtailment in a legally-binding way. Nor would it,
therefore,  be  an  acceptable  response  to  the  aspirations
of the vast majority of United Nations Member States.
Mr.  Kasemsarn  (Thailand):  As  I  am  speaking
from  this  rostrum  for  the  first  time,  I  would  like  to
congratulate Mr. Han on his election as President of the
General Assembly. I would like to add my voice to all
the delegates who have spoken before me on this very
important  agenda  item  on  Security  Council  reform,  in
expressing  our  deep  appreciation  for  the  perseverance
and  hard  work  of  the  outgoing  Bureau  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of  Equitable
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the
Security  Council.  I  am  confident  that  under  the  new
leadership, 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  will
continue to make progress in implementing its daunting
task.
A/56/PV.35
in  view  of 
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  usher
in  the ninth year  of  deliberations  on  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council  by  the  Open-ended  Working  Group.
The  Thai  delegation  fully  sympathizes  with 
the
Working  Group 
the  difficulties  and
challenges  that  it  faces.  Because  of  the  multifaceted
nature of the issue of Security Council reform, and the
inter-linkages between those facets, it would be wise to
deal  with  Security  Council  reform  comprehensively,
using  a  package  approach.  That  is  why  we  have  to
attach  equal  importance  to  achieving  progress  —
incremental  as  it  may  be  —  on  both  cluster  I  and
cluster II issues.
Within  cluster  I,  we  are  faced  with  three  key
issues,  namely,  the  expansion  of  the  Council;  the
decision-making  process  of  the  Council;  and  the
periodic review of the enlarged Council. According to
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  Members  of  the
United  Nations,  the  core  issue  is,  without  doubt,  the
decision-making  process  of  the  Council  and,  with  it,
the central question of the veto.
The exclusive character of the veto is anathema to
any notion of democracy. In our view, the legitimacy of
the  veto  will be  increasingly  difficult  to  justify  by  the
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  as  we
build  a  more  democratic  and  more  representative
United Nations. We recognize that this will not happen
overnight.  That  is  why  we  echo  the  call  made  by  the
Non-Aligned  Movement  for  a  gradual  approach,
beginning with curtailment of the veto, and leading to
its eventual abolition.
In 
this 
connection, 
indications  by 
some
permanent  members  of  a  political  willingness 
to
constrain the use of the veto are encouraging signs. But
these  indications  should  build  towards,  rather  than
detract from, the ultimate goal of veto elimination. We
hope  that  the  five  permanent  members  will  recognize
that  the  entrustment  to  them  of  the  veto  by  the
international  community  more  than  55  years  ago
implies  the  need  to  exercise  moral  and  political
responsibility  in  its  use.  We  thus  call  on  the  five
permanent  members  to  take  an  important  first  step
forward by pledging publicly to use the veto only with
regard  to  actions  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  United
Nations Charter.
Given the increasing membership and diversity of
the  United  Nations  body,  the  need  to  expand  the
Security  Council  is  self-evident.  In  fact,  the  need  to
17
A/56/PV.35
expand the Council is one of the few issues related to
Council  reform  on  which 
is  near-universal
agreement.  How,  and  to  what  extent,  the  expansion
should proceed have elicited many competing views, as
enumerated in the report of the Working Group.
there 
in  both 
The  proposed  number  of  seats  on  an  enlarged
Council ranges from 20 to at least 30. Thailand favours
the  mainstream  approach:  expansion 
the
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories.  Such
expansion  should  be  based  on  two  considerations:
equitable geographical representation on the one hand,
and  the  ability  and  readiness  to  share  and  to  make
financial  and  political  contributions  to  the  United
Nations on the other. On the basis of those criteria, we
see Japan as a worthy candidate to be a new permanent
member  of  the  Council.  Regarding  the  upper  limit  on
the  size  of  the  Council,  we  need  to  find  a  balance
between ensuring the representative nature of that body
and its need to work quickly, effectively and efficiently
to resolve both old and new challenges to international
peace and security.
In  terms  of  expanding  the  Council,  any  solution
agreed  upon  should  be  subject  to  periodic  review  in
view  of  the  increasingly  dynamic  nature  of  political
and economic developments. That is because solutions
that may seem equitable and practical today may not be
so 10 or even five years from now.
It  should  come  as  no  surprise  that  most  of  the
progress  in  the  deliberations  on  Security  Council
reform has come about on cluster II issues, which deal
with  the  working  methods  of  the  Council  and  the
transparency  of  its  work.  We  have  indeed  witnessed  a
greater  willingness  by  the  Security  Council  to  interact
more  frequently  with  the  general  membership  of  the
United  Nations.  Within  the  context  of  the  work  of  the
Working Group this year, we welcome the participation
at  one  of  the  Group’s  meetings  —  on  13  June  —  of
representatives  of  the  Security  Council.  We  hope  that
this practice will be intensified and institutionalized in
coming  years.  We  indeed  welcome  and  appreciate  the
efforts  by  many  Presidents  of  the  Council  to  ensure  a
continuous  flow  of  information  between  the  Council
and  non-members.  Moreover,  we  would 
to
encourage  the  Council  to  accept  the  involvement  of
non-members directly concerned prior to or during the
deliberation of issues.
like 
The importance of transparency and the need for
close  interaction  between  the  Council  and  the  general
18
by 
than 
international 
to  make  some 
cannot  be  better
United  Nations  membership 
exemplified 
formulation 
and
the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1373
(2001).  While  recognizing  the  prerogative  of,  and  the
need  for,  the  Council  to  act  quickly  and  decisively  to
confront the threat of international terrorism, we cannot
but  feel  that  members  of  the  international  community
should  have  been  able 
important
contribution  to  strengthening  that  new  framework  for
cooperation  against 
terrorism.  The
ramifications  of  resolution  1373  (2001)  for  Member
States are tremendous, and yet they are unclear in some
aspects.  The  Council  will  need  to  work  very  closely
with  the  general  United  Nations  membership  to  fine
tune the evolving framework for cooperation to ensure
its  effectiveness  and  universality  of  its  application.  In
that  connection,  I  commend  the  efforts  of  the  United
Kingdom,  as  Chairman  of 
the  counter-terrorism
Committee,  as  well  as  the  three  Vice-Chairmen  —
Colombia,  Madagascar  and  the  Russian  Federation  —
to institute a continuous dialogue between the Council
and  the  rest  of  the  international  community  on  that
very important matter.
As additional examples, I should like to highlight
other  two  issues  that  have  a  great  impact  on  the
international  community  and  on  which  we  had  hoped
for greater interaction between the general membership
and 
latter’s
deliberations.
the  Security  Council  during 
the 
The  first  is  the  issue  of  reform  of  the  sanctions
regimes of the Security Council. That issue is of great
interest  because  it  not  only  affects  international  trade
and investment but also involves the important issue of
the humanitarian consequences of sanctions. It also has
a direct bearing on our Charter responsibilities as third
parties  with  regard  to  compliance  with  sanctions
regimes.  Surely,  ideas  and  perspectives  from  the
general membership of the United Nations would have
been  useful  to  the  Security  Council’s  deliberations  on
the matter. Thailand wishes to see continued efforts by
the 
targeted
sanctions  and  endeavours  by  the  Council  to  improve
the  international  monitoring  of  sanctions  regimes  and
to assess the humanitarian impact of sanctions.
international  community 
to  develop 
The  second  issue  is  that  of  peacekeeping.  As  a
troop-contributing 
currently
contributing  a  sizeable  force  to  the  United  Nations
Transitional  Administration  in  East  Timor,  as  well  as
its Force Commander, Thailand appreciates and would
country 
that 
is 
like to commend the enhanced interaction between the
Council  and  troop-contributing  countries,  which  is
effective and continuous.
last  year, 
the  Millennium  Summit 
Finally,  there  is  no  substitute  for  strong  political
will, by each and every one of us, as the key ingredient
for  progress  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.
During 
the
international community expressed its political will for
reform. What is needed now is our strong political will
to  take  the  work  forward.  It  is  my  hope  that  by  the
tenth  anniversary  of  the  operation  of  the  Open-ended
Working  Group,  we  will  be  witness  to  a  reformed
Security Council that is more representative but whose
effectiveness  in  maintaining  international  peace  and
security has not been impaired.
Mr.  Effah-Apenteng
(Ghana):  Once  again,
Ghana  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the
General  Assembly’s  consideration  of  agenda  item  49,
which deals with a matter of cardinal importance to the
long-term development and effectiveness of the United
Nations  in  its  aspiration  to  ensure  global  peace  and
security.  I  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Harri
Holkeri of Finland, President of the General Assembly
at  its  fifty-fifth  session,  and  Ambassadors  John  de
Saram  of  Sri  Lanka  and  Thorsteinn  Ingólfsson  of
Iceland  for  their  leadership  and  assiduous  work  in
guiding  the  discussions  in  the  Open-ended  Working
Group  on  Security  Council  reform  over  the  past  year.
The  debate  and  the  issues  involved  are  not  new  and
have  gone  on  for  the  past  eight  years  as  the  Working
Group  has  continued 
to  grapple  with  disparate
proposals  on  the  underlying  principles,  nature  and
scope of reform.
to  make 
We  must  acknowledge  that  the  process  has  been
slow  and  laborious,  and  sometimes  frustrating  and
disheartening. What is not in doubt is the convergence
of views on the need for comprehensive reform of the
Security  Council 
it  more  democratic,
transparent  and  in  conformity  with  current  global
political  configuration.  Our  slow  progress 
is  a
reflection  of  a  substantial  divergence  of  views  on  key
issues  such  as  the  size  of  the  increase,  the  use  of  the
veto,  improvements  in  the  working  methods  of  the
Council,  and  the  need  for  periodic  review.  That
situation  is  all  the  more  regrettable  because  the  most
persistent 
advocates  of  democratic  governance,
accountability  and  transparency  in  decision-making  at
the  national  level  do  not  seem,  on  the  international
A/56/PV.35
plane,  wedded 
underline the issue of reforms of the Council.
those  same  principles,  which
to 
challenging 
responsibilities 
Ghana has stressed time and again that the needs
and 
the 
the
Organization  faces  —  issues  of  peace  and  security,
development,  poverty  alleviation,  the  dimensions  of
globalization,  humanitarian 
its
implications  for  contemporary  international  law,  the
concept  of  good  governance  and,  now,  international
terrorism — require the active support and cooperation
of all Member States, irrespective of size.
intervention 
that 
and 
the  United  Nations.  The  Council 
The  recent  terrorist  attacks  in  the  United  States
have been soundly condemned. They have ushered in a
new spirit of cooperation, coalition and collectivity that
will bode well for multilateralism if we allow the same
spirit and enthusiasm to pervade all aspects of the work
of 
itself  has
demonstrated recognition of that approach through the
speed with which it is spearheading the Organization’s
agenda  on  countering  terrorism  at  all  levels.  My
delegation  hopes  that  the  Council,  particularly  its
permanent  members,  will  demonstrate  a  similar
commitment to the process of discussion at the level of
the Working Group on Security Council reform.
Ghana wishes to stress, as it has done in previous
statements,  the  need  to  enhance  the  credibility  of  the
Council through substantive reform which is guided by
the  principles  of  democracy,  the  sovereign  equality  of
States  and  equitable  geographical  representation.  A
reformed Security Council should be transparent in its
activities  and  more  responsive  to  the  interests  of  the
general  membership  in  matters  deriving  from  its
mandate  under  the  Charter  —  the  more  so  as  all
Members  of  the  United  Nations  are  called  upon  to
share  the  burden  of  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security 
inter  alia,  assessed
contributions to the peacekeeping budget and provision
of troops for United Nations peacekeeping missions.
this  backdrop,  Ghana  continues 
the  position  of 
to
subscribe 
the  Non-Aligned
Movement on all aspects of the question of an increase
in 
the  Security  Council,
complemented by the African position, as expressed in
the Harare Declaration of June 1997. Africa’s claim to
at  least  two  permanent  seats  should  be  adequately
addressed, since Africa is the largest regional group in
the Organization.
the  membership  of 
Against 
to 
through, 
19
A/56/PV.35
The  new  spirit  of  cooperation  and  collectivism
that is beginning to characterize multilateral diplomacy
reflects  a  trend  that  augurs  well  for  our  active  and
positive consideration of this subject. It is only in this
way that we can translate into reality the resolve of our
heads  of  State  and  Government  in  the  Millennium
Declaration  to,  inter  alia,  intensify  efforts  to  achieve
comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all its
aspects.  Any  piecemeal  and  ad  hoc  approach  to  the
reform  process  would  thus  be  a  betrayal  of  the
intentions of our political leaders.
Mr.  Kmoníček 
(Czech  Republic): 
The
representative of Belgium yesterday presented the joint
position  of  the  Group  of  Ten  on  issues  related  to
enlargement and reform of the Security Council, and he
also spoke on behalf of my delegation. This allows me
to be very short.
The  response  by  the  international  community  to
the terrorist attack was immediate and firm, and in that
response  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  were
more  unified  than  ever  before.  The  prestige  of  the
Council  in  this  historic  moment  grew,  but  so  did  its
responsibility  and,  in  a  way,  the  scope  of  its  action.
Indeed,  our  very  understanding  of  security  has  been
modified. The overall message is clear: as international
security  vis-à-vis  globalized  crime  calls  for  broader
coalitions,  for  collective  action  by  as  many  States  as
possible,  the  need  for  a  truly  representative  Council
becomes more urgent. The Council should be enlarged,
and its working methods should be improved.
Together  with  many  other  countries,  the  Czech
Republic  has  been  pushing  the  reform  agenda  through
the  years  of  protracted  debates  in  the  Open-ended
Working  Group  or  in  this  plenary.  We  are  of  the
opinion that there exist enough reform proposals from
which to choose. Our own choice is what we believe is
in the realistic mainstream of the reform.
We  believe  that  the  Security  Council  should  be
enlarged 
in  both  categories,  preferably  with  five
additional  permanent  seats  and  four  to  five  additional
non-permanent seats, including one for Eastern Europe.
We  respect  the  option  of  rotating  permanent  seats  for
specific  regions,  but  no  country  or  region  should  be
forced into such a scheme.
We continue to favour some reduction in the areas
where  the  veto  can  be  applied,  possibly  through
individual  commitments  by  permanent  members  and
20
other  steps  which  do  not  necessarily  require  Charter
amendments.
In the area of Security Council working methods,
we  generally  welcome  and  support  any  reasonable
motion  towards  greater  openness  and  transparency  in
the Council’s work.
I  am  confining  myself  to  these  brief  comments.
There  is  little  need  to  elaborate  the  details  of  the
proposals  before  mobilizing  the  political  will  and
environment  conducive  to  reform.  Let  me  express  my
hope  that  the  newly  found  unity  in  action  against
terrorism will help to generate such a momentum, and
that  this  will  soon  be  mirrored  in  greater  unity  in  our
reform  efforts.  In  this,  the  guidance  of  the  President
will be crucial.
Mr.  Kim  Chang  Guk (Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea):  My  delegation  has  noted  with
great  attention  the  report  submitted  by  the  Working
Group  on  Security  Council  reform  and  would  like  to
present its views on this issue.
Proposals to increase membership of the Security
Council and thus ensure equitable representation by all
regions constitute an essential part of the deliberations
on Council reform. They are also part and parcel of the
movement  to  democratize  the  United  Nations  as  a
whole.
We are of the view that it is important, above all,
to  have  a  correct  concept  of  the  purpose  of  Security
Council reform in order to further proceed with reform
in  a  proper  way.  Ensuring  equitable  representation  in
the Security Council undoubtedly means an increase in
the number of developing countries in its membership.
However,  the  present  debates  on  reform  give  rise  to
concern as to whether reform of the Council would be
carried out in conformity with its intrinsic purpose.
The need for reform is recognized by all Member
States,  but  we  have  noticed  some  goals  being  pursued
that stray from the purpose of reform. Certain countries
are  interested  in  decreasing  their  financial  burdens
while  preserving  their  privileges,  and  some  others  are
trying  to  gain  a  privileged  position  by  waving  the
money 
political
qualifications.  If  these  erroneous  purposes  keep  being
pursued in disregard of the intrinsic purpose of Council
reform,  reform  will  not  be  achieved  for  a  long  time
and, even when carried out, will make no contribution
to the establishment of a fair international order.
purse  without 
having 
any 
It  is  a  prerequisite  for  proper  reform  of  the
Security  Council 
that  all  matters  be  settled  by
consensus  through  full  negotiations  by  all  Member
States.  Any  pressure  or  arbitrary  action  should  not  be
tolerated  in  the  discussion  of  reform  issues.  If  we
cannot agree on all issues at one time, we can start one
by  one  with  the  issues  that  can  be  easily  agreed.  And
reform of the Security Council, as it is only one part of
overall United Nations reforms, should be addressed in
the  context  of  the  increased  power  of  the  General
Assembly.
A  main  point  in  the  issue  of  enlarging  the
composition  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  increase  in
the  representation  of  developing  countries.  Since  the
composition  of  the  Council,  which  was  formed  on  the
basis of the United Nations membership 40 years ago,
remains  intact  and  more  than  70  developing  countries
have  joined  the  Organization  since  then,  it  cannot
reflect the reality. In light of this, my delegation holds
that developing countries would be fully represented in
the  Security  Council  if  the  number  of  non-permanent
members were to be increased.
We  consider  it  appropriate  that  increasing  the
number  of  non-permanent  and  permanent  members  be
discussed  separately  and  that  enlargement  of  non-
permanent  membership  be  given  priority.  My
delegation  also  holds  that  greater  prudence  should  be
exercised  with  regard  to  the  enlargement  of  the
permanent  membership.  Enlargement  of  Council  does
not necessarily require more permanent members.
We  must  consider  very  carefully  if  enlarging  the
permanent  membership  would 
to
democratize  the  United  Nations  and  enhance  the
effectiveness  of  the  Security  Council,  or,  rather,  if  it
might not bring about the opposite result. Furthermore,
if enlargement of the permanent membership is agreed,
priority must be given to the developing countries.
really 
help 
However, 
to  submit 
the  candidature  of  an
individual country as a new permanent member, before
any  agreement  on  the  enlargement  of  the  permanent
membership has been reached, is tantamount to putting
the cart before the horse. Furthermore, it is not in line
with the lofty objectives of Security Council reform to
consider  for  permanent  membership  in  the  Council  a
country  that  has  not  yet  made  amends  for  its  past
crimes against humanity.
My  delegation  hopes  that  discussion  of  this  item
will  serve  to  democratize  the  Security  Council  and
A/56/PV.35
the 
strengthen 
in
conformity with the legitimate demands and aspirations
of the majority of Member States.
the  United  Nations, 
role  of 
tribute 
(spoke 
(Madagascar) 
Mr.  Bakoniarivo
in
French):  May  I  first  pay 
to  Mr.  Han’s
predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  Chairman  of 
the
Working Group on the reform of the Security Council,
and to the two Vice-Chairmen, the Ambassadors of Sri
Lanka  and  Iceland,  for  the  sustained  efforts  they  have
made to advance our work on this question during the
past session.
The report submitted to us is a good reflection not
only of the results of their personal efforts but also of
the  contributions  of  Member  States  to  ensuring  the
progress of the reform of the Security Council.
The deliberations of the Working Group over the
past  eight  years  have  demonstrated  the  importance  of
reforming  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  make  it
more  effective  and  better  able  to  meet  the  growing
challenges  of  our  century.  The  climate  of  uncertainty
now  prevailing  in  international  relations  is  making  it
more  urgent  than  ever  to  undertake  a  comprehensive
reform  of  the  Council,  which  is  the  primary  organ
responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security.
Like  other  delegations,  Madagascar  cannot
conceal its concern at the little progress achieved in the
process that has been under way these past years. It is
all  the  more  regrettable  that  the  momentum  conferred
by  the  Millennium  Summit  and  supported  by  the
General  Assembly  has  not  led  to  any  significant
advances,  notwithstanding  the  appeal  contained  in  the
Millennium  Declaration  for  additional  efforts  to  be
made  in  order  to  bring  about  a  global  reform  of  the
Security Council.
It is therefore not surprising that such a situation
should  give  rise  to  weariness  and  scepticism  as  to  the
prospect of continuing further along this road.
Nevertheless, we feel that, despite the continuing
difficulties, reform is indispensable if we really wish to
enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council,  as  Member
States  so  ardently  wish  to  do.  Furthermore,  it  is
undeniable that the Security Council can gain credence
and win the confidence of the international community
only  if  it  becomes  more  representative,  democratic,
transparent and accountable.
21
A/56/PV.35
It is widely recognized that currently the structure
and  composition  of  the  Council  do  not  reflect  the
political,  economic  and  demographic  realities  of  our
time.  Despite  the  changes  that  have  occurred  in  the
global  configuration,  the  permanent  members  have
remained  the  same,  with  all  of  the  privileges  attached
to that status. Developing countries, which represent a
majority  in  the  new  global  landscape,  have  become
marginalized  and  must  simply  accept  the  decisions
taken by the small Security Council club.
This anomaly must be done away with through an
enlargement of the Security Council in both categories
of  seats  —  permanent  and  non-permanent  —  on  the
basis  of  equitable  geographical  distribution  and  in  the
framework  of  an  adequate  balance  between  North  and
South  and  between  developing  and 
industrialized
countries.  Africa,  which  represents  one  quarter  of  the
membership,  must  have  at 
two  additional
permanent and two additional non-permanent seats in a
reformed Security Council.
least 
Madagascar  welcomes  the  fact  that  there  is
general agreement on the idea of enlarging the Council,
but  deplores  the  absence  of  consensus  on  practical
arrangements  for  bringing  it  about.  My  delegation
entertains  the  hope  that,  in  the  course  of  this  session,
the  Working  Group  will  find  some  common  ground
upon  which  agreement  could  be  reached  on  this
fundamental aspect of the reform.
Turning now to the right of veto, the debate that
has  been  held  on  this  subject,  both  in  the  Working
Group and in plenary, has shown that a great majority
of  States  consider  the  veto  to  be  an  anachronistic  and
discriminatory right and that therefore its scope should
be limited, with a view to its elimination. Exercised in
breach  of  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of
States  and  of  the  principle  of  democracy,  the  right  of
veto  should  no  longer  have  any  place  in  a  Security
Council that is seeking effectiveness and legitimacy.
Efforts  to  reform  the  Council  should  therefore
lead to the abolition of the veto right, without which no
change  can  be  meaningful.  Pending  the  elimination  of
the  right  of  veto,  its  use  should  be  limited  to  Chapter
VII  of  the  Charter.  In  this  context,  it  is  essential  to
envisage  the  possibility  of  the  General  Assembly’s
requiring  explanations  as  to  the  way  in  which  use  is
made  of  the  veto  in  certain  cases,  in  order  to  avoid
abuse of the veto.
22
Bearing  in  mind  the  political  considerations  that
are  intrinsic  to  the  right  of  veto,  my  delegation
supports  the  idea  of  holding  a  substantive  debate  on
this  question  with  the  permanent  members,  so  as  to
find, in concert with them, formulas that could help us
to break the current deadlock.
As  other  delegations  have  noted,  transparency  is
an  important  measure  in  innovations  to  the  Council’s
working  methods.  On  this  subject,  my  delegation
welcomes the efforts undertaken by the members of the
Council to increase the number of open meetings, even
though  they  are  still  fewer  in  number  than  the  closed
the  Security
meetings.  My  delegation  hopes 
Council  will  maintain 
towards
openness  in  order  to  enhance  the  transparency  of  its
work.
timely 
trend 
that 
this 
Given  the  collective  and  shared  responsibility  of
all  Member  States  in  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security,  my  delegation  considers  that  the
Council’s  debates  are  effective  only  to  the  extent  that
they afford an opportunity for interaction between that
body and States that are not members of the Council. It
is in that spirit that my delegation would have wished
for  a  more  open  debate  in  the  process  of  adopting
resolution  1373  (2001),  which  addresses  a  subject  of
vital  importance  to  the  international  community.  The
implementation  of 
the
collaboration of all Member States.
resolution 
requires 
that 
Security Council reform affects the vital interests
of  all  Member  States  and  plays  a  crucial  role  in  the
future  development  of  the  United  Nations.  For  this
reason,  the  continuation  of  efforts  to  arrive  at  a  final
agreement  on  the  totality  of  measures  envisaged  for
reforming  the  Council  has  become  an  urgent  task  that
we cannot postpone and a moral duty that we must not
shirk.
We  have  confidence  that  under  President  Han’s
guidance,  the  Working  Group  will  prove  equal  to  the
mission  that  has  been  entrusted  to  it,  ensuring  that  a
spirit  of  compromise  and  cooperation  prevails.  The
future  of  our  Organization  and  of  humankind  are  at
stake.
Mr. Mra  (Myanmar):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to
express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  Mr.  Harri
Holkeri, former Chairman of the Open-ended Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security
Council,  and  to  the  Ambassadors  of  Sri  Lanka  and
Iceland,  Vice-Chairmen  of  the  Working  Group,  for
their tireless efforts to move forward the discussions on
Council reform.
How to move forward the discussions we started
on this issue in 1993 is the most pertinent question of
the day. This is the question that many delegations are
asking  and,  may  I  say,  with  justification.  We  find  it
frustrating  that  we  are  still  faced  with  a  stalemate,
especially  after  we  have  spent  so  much  time,  energy
and  effort  for  many  years  to  reach  general  agreement
on  a  final  package  for  submission  to  the  General
Assembly.  For  many,  this  frustration  has  given  rise  to
dwindling  interest  in  the  issue  of  Council  reform.  As
many  delegations  have  rightly  assessed,  the  present
stalemate is the result of the lack of necessary political
will  and  of  leadership  on  the  part  of  the  most
responsible members of the Security Council. It is our
belief  that  without  that  leadership,  it  will  not  be
possible  to  move  Council  reform  forward.  We  are
greatly  concerned  that  this  stalemate  will  undermine
confidence in the Security Council, the organ primarily
responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security.
The reform of the Security Council is not a mere
restructuring  of  an  organ.  It  goes  far  beyond  that.  It
also  represents  the  most  fundamental  question  in
international  relations.  As  the  Secretary-General  has
aptly  remarked  in  his  Millennium  Report,  the  present
composition  of  the  Council  does  not  fully  represent
either  the  character  or  the  needs  of  our  globalized
world.  Therefore,  a  continued 
stalemate  would
perpetuate  the  anomalous  situation  of  the  Council  in
the complex and difficult international situation which
we face today.
the 
need 
When  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  the  10  member
countries  of  the  Association  of  South-East  Asian
Nations (ASEAN) met in Hanoi in July this year, they
strengthen 
emphasized 
to 
the
representativeness,  effectiveness, 
transparency  and
accountability  of  the  Council  through  our  efforts  to
reform 
situation  clearly
demonstrates,  the  Council  needs  to  enhance  these
qualities  to  be  able  to  deal  with  the  new  and  complex
issues of peace and security.
today’s  world 
it.  As 
Concerning  its  representativeness,  there  is  no
denying  that  a  membership  of  15  countries  could  not
adequately 
the
the  189  countries  of 
represent 
A/56/PV.35
Organization.  However  hard  we  may  try  to  observe
scrupulously  the  principle  of  equitable  geographical
distribution in electing new non-permanent members of
the  Council, 
leaves  many
regions  and  subregions  either  underrepresented  or
wholly unrepresented.
the  small  membership 
It  is  therefore  generally  agreed  that  the  Council
must  be  expanded  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent  categories  of  membership  to  enhance  its
representative character. Given this general agreement,
the immediate and most important question, deserving
our  urgent  attention,  is,  in  my  delegation’s  view,  the
overall size of the new Council and its corollary issues
of  how  many  new  seats  should  be  created  and  which
countries  should  fill  these  new  seats.  Because  of  its
linkage to the distribution of new permanent and non-
permanent  members  among  regions,  the  question  of
size must be addressed as a matter of top priority if we
wish  to  see  forward  movement  in  our  now-stalled
discussions.  Although  there  are  divergent  positions  on
the  total  size  of  the  enlarged  Council,  we  hope  that
some flexibility on all sides will enable us to arrive at a
realistic figure that is both representative and effective.
We consider that an agreement on size would certainly
facilitate  our  next  stage  of  discussions  on  how  to
distribute  the  new  seats  among  regions.  Therefore,
there is a strong case for focusing our new attempts on
this core issue.
With regard to the effectiveness and transparency
of the Council, it is encouraging that some progress has
been made on the question of the working methods of
the  Council.  We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that  that
progress  has  been  reflected  in  the  actual  practices  of
the  Council  and  that  some  useful  proposals  have  been
taken  up  by 
the  Council.  These  are  welcome
developments.
We are of the view that we should seek ways and
means to institutionalize the suggestions that have been
submitted  to  make  the  work  of  the  Council  effective
and  transparent.  We  are  also  of  the  view  that  further
improvement in the Council’s working methods and its
greater  openness  to  the  general  membership  would
make our discussions on Council reform a worthwhile
exercise.  This  would  also  send  to  the  international
community  the  important  message  that  our  sustained
efforts  to  modernize  the  Council  have  paid  off  in
regard to certain aspects.
23
A/56/PV.35
the  Council 
the 
on 
in 
full 
taken  by 
its  cardinal 
the  relevant  decisions  by 
The  Security  Council  derives  its  mandate  from
the  general  membership  of  the  Organization,  which
agrees  to  fulfil  any  obligation  that  stems  from  a
decision 
the  Security  Council.  The
effectiveness  of 
task
and  willing
therefore 
depends 
implementation  of 
the
the  Organization.  The  division  of
Members  of 
obligations  between  the  Council  and  non-members  of
the Council, as provided for in the Charter, requires the
Security  Council  to  fulfil  its  part  of  the  obligations.
These include  being alert  to  the  threat  to  international
peace  and  security;  taking  necessary  measures  in
accordance  with  Charter  provisions;  ensuring  that
decisions  adopted  are  fully  implemented;  and,  last  but
not least, being accountable to the general membership,
which  in  fact  is  the  source  of  the  enormous  powers
vested in the Council.
As  for  the  accountability  of  the  Council  there  is
still  much  room  for  improvement  although  the  annual
reporting  mechanism,  the  resort  to  more  presidential
briefings  of  non-members  of  the  Council  and  the
holding  of  more  open  meetings  served  as  useful
devices  to  account  for  what  the  Council  has  done  on
our  behalf  under  Article  24  of  the  Charter.  The
Council’s  accountability  would  be  much  enhanced  if
more formal channels could be established between the
Council and the General Assembly, other than the stop-
gap  measures  being  taken  to  assuage  our  concern  to
know  more  about  the  Council’s  work.  In  this  respect,
special reporting on issues of particular concern to our
members  could  be  an  effective  device,  although  that
would  mean  an  extra  burden  on  the  Council’s  already
heavy  agenda.  However,  such  a  mechanism  would
greatly strengthen confidence in the Council.
It is the general feeling that, due to the continued
stalemate, the momentum that we have created over the
last  several  years  has  been  lost.  Given  that  the  great
majority  of  Member  States  wish  to  see  the  early
realization of Security Council reform, as reaffirmed at
the  Millennium  Summit,  it  is  vitally  important  to
rekindle  the  interest  of  Member  States  in  the  issue  of
Council  reform.  One  way  of  doing  this  is  to  explore
how  to  give  effect  to  many  worthwhile  proposals  on
the  table  while  we  attempt  to  arrive  at  a  Council  size
acceptable  to  all,  including  the  permanent  members.
We  believe  that  this  parallel  approach  will  have  the
benefit of achieving something tangible from our years
24
of discussions in the event that no progress is possible
on the expansion question.
the  world  are  being 
At a time when economic and political processes
all  over 
liberalized  and
democratized, the Security Council cannot maintain its
status quo. Its continued relevance and legitimacy will
not  stand  if  its  composition  and  powers  are  not
compatible with the changes of the time and the ideals
of democracy. As we stated last year, our success in the
reform  of  the  Council  will  be  tantamount  to  the
genuine democratization of the United Nations. Despite
the  fact  that  we  appreciate  the  achievements  made  in
our  endeavour  to  reform  the  United  Nations,  this
success  will  not  be  genuine  if  we  cannot  resolve  the
expansion question. The resolution of this question will
be possible only if we focus on the issue of the size of
the Council and show a spirit of accommodation in our
new attempts at progress in our future discussions. In a
spirit  of  accommodation,  my  delegation  will  continue
to cooperate with other delegations to achieve as much
success as possible in our common efforts. The absence
of  discernible  success  in  this  important  task  of  the
United Nations could do great damage to the credibility
of the Security Council.
Ms.  Ognjanovac  (Croatia):  This  topic  has  been
on  our  agenda  for  eight  years  now.  During  all  these
years  we  have  all  been  aware  that  the  fundamental
changes  in  international  relations  aware  since  the
founding  of  the  United  Nations,  more  than  50  years
ago,  require  corresponding  change  in  the  composition
and work of the Security Council. Although many of us
were ready to undertake certain steps in that direction,
some, remained reluctant.
Although we have been discussing this matter for
so  long,  there  still  remain  many  differences  amongst
us.  At  the  same  time,  valuable  work  has  already  been
done, and we believe that we should continue to build
on  it.  In  this  regard,  let  me  pay  tribute  to  the
contribution  towards  reform  made  by  the  President’s
predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  and  his  two  Working
Group  Vice-Chairmen,  Ambassadors  de  Saram  and
Ingólfsson.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the
President  and  his  Vice-Chairmen  during  the  coming
year.  However,  we  are  aware  that  visible  progress
cannot  be  achieved  without  the  clear  political  will  of
all Member States. We are therefore of the opinion that
we should not exclude the idea of moving this process
to a higher political level at the appropriate time.
The  Croatian  position  is  very  well  known,  and
therefore I will reiterate just its main outline. We hold
that the Council must be enlarged in both categories of
membership  to  reflect  changes  in  international  affairs.
In  this  regard,  we  support  the  creation  of  five  new
permanent  seats,  of  which  two  should  be  allocated  to
the  industrialized  countries  and  three  to  developing
countries.  Regarding  the  possible  rotation  of  these
posts, we believe that it is up to the regions to decide
about  such  an  arrangement,  with  the  consent  of  each
Member  State  in  question.  On  the  question  of  non-
permanent  seats,  we  support  the  idea  of  increasing
them  by  four  seats,  with  one  each  allocated  to  the
African,  Asian  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean
regions, and one to the Eastern European region. In this
way,  we  support  increasing  Council  membership  to  a
maximum of 24 seats.
With  regard  to  the  veto,  we  favour  its  abolition,
as do a number of other Member States, arguing that it
is  not  a  democratic  method  of  decision-making.
However,  if  political  realities  will  not  allow  the
negotiations to go in this direction, we would support a
reduction  of  the  power  of  the  veto  and  the  use  of  the
so-called double veto.
commend 
We  all  agree  that  the  working  methods  of  the
Security  Council  should  be  more  transparent  and
further  democratized.  We 
latest
endeavours  by  some  Security  Council  Presidents  to
hold  regular  exchanges  of  views  with  non-members
regarding  topics  discussed  in  the  Security  Council,  a
good  example  being 
troop
contributors  to  peacekeeping  missions.  Even  so,  there
is  much  more  to  be  done,  not  just  in  the  area  of
transparency  and  improving  the  working  methods  of
the Security Council, but in improving coordination of
the work of all the main bodies of the United Nations
based  on 
to
peacekeeping and peace-building.
the  new,  multifaceted 
the  meetings  with 
the 
approach 
the 
Today, 
following 
tragic  events  of  11
September, when we are all united in the common fight
against  terrorism,  we  should  use  this  positive  spirit  of
togetherness  and  respect  for  our  Organization  as  a
global  leader  to  strive  to  achieve  our  goal  of  moving
the  process  of  Security  Council  reform  forward.  The
Nobel Prize awarded to our Organization demonstrates
that we are on the right path, and should give us added
impetus to complete the unfinished agenda before us.
A/56/PV.35
Mr. Nacerodien (South Africa): We would like to
express  our  gratitude  to  the  President’s  predecessor,
Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  whose  unwavering  commitment  to
the  work  of  the  Working  Group  was  exemplary.  We
thank  him,  the  Vice-Chairmen  and  the  Bureau  for
making every effort to ensure that the Working Group
remains true to its mandate.
The  report  before  us  is  testimony  to  the  efforts
made  to  address  all  the  issues  related  to  Security
Council  reform.  However,  the  Open-ended  Working
Group  remains  deadlocked  on  key  issues.  Even  more
disconcerting  is  the  fact  that  the  Open-ended  Working
Group  was  again  unable  to  properly  engage  on  issues
such  as  the  veto  or  the  final  size  of  an  expanded
Security Council.
This  Assembly  adopted  resolution  48/26  on  3
December  1993  in  recognition  of  the  need  to  review
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related
matters. It did so because the substantial increase in the
membership of the United Nations, especially in terms
of  developing  countries,  as  well  as  the  changes  in
international  relations,  necessitated  a  review  of  the
composition of the Security Council.
My delegation realizes that any final decision on
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  will  have  to  take
place  at  the  highest  political  level.  However,  such  a
decision  is  meant  to  emanate  from  the  technical
deliberations and recommendations of the Open-ended
Working Group.
In practice, the ongoing stalemate has meant that
many  Member  States,  particularly  from  developing
countries,  are  unable  to  justify  continued  participation
in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group.  Surely,  we  cannot
have  a  Working  Group  that  will  eventually  mirror  the
body it is trying to reform — an unrepresentative club
presiding  over  and  deciding  on  matters  of  importance
to us all.
to,  Council  reform.  To 
We are convinced that the lack of participation by
developing countries, particularly African countries, is
not  due  to  a  lack  of  interest  in,  or  diminished
importance  attributed 
the
contrary, on those occasions when permanent members
of  the  Security  Council  have  demonstrated  some
flexibility,  discussions  in  the  Open-ended  Working
Group  have  been 
lively  and  well  attended.  The
assumption  can  therefore  be  made  that  delegations
from  developing  countries  would  be  more  willing  to
25
Mr. Holkeri also made the important point that in
order to resolve the stalemate and maintain the impetus
of  the  Millennium  Summit,  Member  States  should
move  from  discussions  into  negotiations.  Again  it  is
clear  that  the  issue  needs  to  be  taken  to  a  higher
political  level,  because  the  technical  experts  in  the
Open-ended Working Group are apparently not able to
fulfil the task of negotiating Security Council reform.
If  we  are  to  achieve  measurable  results,  South
Africa believes that the next session of the Open-ended
Working Group should be devoted to ensuring that the
technical  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  is
brought  into  step  with  the  political  will  expressed  by
our leaders in the Millennium Summit. Since it appears
that  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  is  unable  to
achieve  this  on  its  own,  then  clearly  it  is  now  time  to
establish  the  high-level  political  dialogue  proposed  by
Mr. Holkeri in order to take the process forward.
We  look  forward  to  cooperating  with  President
Han, in the coming session on this important work.
Programme of work
the  General  Assembly 
The Acting President: I should like to draw the
attention  of 
to  document
A/INF/56/3/Add.1,  which  covers  the  period  from  5
November  through  11  December  2001,  and  which  has
been  distributed  to  Member  States  in  the  Hall  this
afternoon.  The 
items
mentioned in document A/INF/56/3/Add.1 are open.
the 
lists  of  speakers 
for 
The General Assembly in due course will be kept
informed  of  the  dates  for  the  consideration  of  other
agenda items as well as of any additions or changes.
The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m.
A/56/PV.35
participate  in  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  if  they
anticipated some concrete progress in its deliberations.
At the Millennium Assembly our political leaders
stated that the
“Responsibility 
for  managing  worldwide
economic  and  social  development,  as  well  as
threats  to  international  peace  and  security,  must
be  shared  among  the  nations  of  the  world  and
should  be  exercised  multilaterally.”  (resolution
55/2, para. 6)
In  order  to  translate  these  shared  values  into  actions,
the  Summit  identified  key  objectives  to  which  they
assigned  special  significance,  including  to  “intensify
our  efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the
Security Council in all its aspects.” (ibid., para. 30)
When  set  against  this  overwhelming  expression
of  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  made  just
one  year  ago,  the  ongoing  stalemate  leads  one  to  the
conclusion  that  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  is  in
danger of losing its credibility.
In  our  view,  the  General  Assembly  should  not
merely  mandate  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  to
continue  with  business  as  usual.  Neither  would  it  be
productive to review the Open-ended Working Group’s
current  mandate  and  working  methods,  as  this  would
most  likely  result  in  an  unproductive  debate  on
reforming the Open-ended Working Group and not the
Council.
At  the  concluding  plenary  meeting  of  the  fifty-
fifth session of the General Assembly, the President of
the  General  Assembly  and  Chairman  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  noted  that
many  Foreign  Ministers  had  responded  to  his  request
for assistance on ways to intensify efforts to reform the
Security  Council,  as  called  for  in  the  Millennium
Declaration.  He  observed 
that  many  Ministers
acknowledged that the Open-ended Working Group had
worked well as an initial discussion forum, but that the
time  had  perhaps  come  to  consider  other  avenues  to
advance the process.
26
