United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
41st plenary meeting
Thursday, 8 November 2001, 3 p.m.
New York

A/56/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 25 (continued)
United Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/523)
Draft resolution (A/56/L.3)
Mr.  Sun  Joun-yung  (Republic  of  Korea):  Allow
me to begin by expressing my delegation’s appreciation
to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for
preparing  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Global  agenda
for  dialogue  among  civilizations”  (A/56/L.3).  I  would
also like to thank the Secretary-General for preparing a
succinct  yet  informative  report,  and  his  Personal
Representative for the United Nations Year of Dialogue
among  Civilizations,  Mr.  Giandomenico  Picco,  for  his
tireless efforts to promote the spirit of dialogue among
civilizations.  In  particular,  we  commend  him  for
launching  yesterday  the  book  entitled  Crossing  the
Divide:  Dialogue  among  Civilizations,  the  fruits  of  a
two-year  collaborative  effort  undertaken  by  18
members of the Group of Eminent Persons.
Last  year  we  ushered  in  the  new  century  with
great confidence and high expectations for the years to
come.  This  optimism  derived  from  the  anticipation
that,  with  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  barriers  among
nations  would  erode  and  economic  prosperity  would
spread  around  the  globe,  aided  by  the  information
technology revolution and the onset of globalization.
to 
rapid  advances 
in 
The  reality,  however,  is  that  the  benefits  of
globalization and the information revolution have been
unevenly distributed throughout the world. In addition,
thanks 
telecommunications
technology,  different  civilizations  now  interface  more
frequently than ever before, but this generally occurs in
an  asymmetrical  manner.  Such  developments  have
inevitably produced side-effects, which may shed more
the  economic  disparities  and  diverse
light  on 
perspectives 
regions
belonging to different civilizations.
among  various 
exist 
that 
Rather  than  allow  the  information  technology
revolution and globalization to drive a wedge between
civilizations,  the  international  community  should  take
advantage of their potential to enhance contact among
diverse groups. To do so, we should devise a normative
framework that would foster the spirit of tolerance and
understanding 
through  expanded  contact  among
people.
In  this  context,  the  Government  of  the  Republic
of  Korea  appreciates  all  the  initiatives  taken  by  the
Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  since
1998.  We  believe  it  would  be  a  very  welcome  and
fitting step  to adopt  the  draft  resolution  on  the  Global
Agenda  for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations  during  the
very  year  the  United  Nations  has  designated  for  such
dialogue.
Looking  back  upon  a  succession  of  recent
conflicts, it becomes evident that many conflicts can be
attributed  to  a  lack  of  communication  and  consequent
misunderstandings  between  different  groups,  be  they
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-62644 (E)
*0162644*
A/56/PV.41
national,  ethnic  or  religious.  However,  we  need  to
beware  of  those  who  exploit  such  differences  and
diversity for political purposes, particularly those who
espouse  hatred  under 
the  guise  of  safeguarding
civilization. Those are the people who draw fault lines
between civilizations. To prevent such fault lines from
becoming  more  deeply  inscribed,  dialogue  among
civilizations  should  be  more  vigorously  encouraged  in
the future.
In  conducting  such  dialogues,  no  one  can  deny
that a spirit of tolerance and an acceptance of diversity
are  essential.  Unless  guided  by  the  spirit  of  tolerance,
increased  contact  among  people 
the  era  of
globalization  might  arouse  fear  of  those  who  are
different.  If  left  unchecked,  such  fear  can  turn  into
hatred. In this regard, dialogue among civilizations has
become  all  the  more  important  in  the  wake  of  the
terrorist attacks of 11 September.
in 
As indicated in the preambular part of the Global
Agenda,  we  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that
interaction  among  civilizations  has  enriched  humanity
throughout  history.  In  fact,  rich  diversity  among  the
world’s  civilizations  can  and  should  be  an  asset  and  a
stimulus to mutual development, rather than a source of
conflict.
Although  an  acceptance  of  diversity  and  a  spirit
of  tolerance  are  essential  ingredients  in  any  dialogue
among  civilizations,  we  cannot  deny  the  existence  of
certain universal values. These universal values are the
embodiment  of  the  collective  wisdom,  insights  and
experiences emanating from different civilizations over
the course of humankind’s long history. In some sense,
they  provide  fertile  soil  in  which  diverse  seeds  from
different  civilizations  can  together  be  planted  and
encouraged 
time,  my
delegation  would  like  to  stress  that  dialogue  does  not
mean appeasement of the arrogance of power or of the
blind courage of ignorance. Rather, dialogue should be
based  on  the  fundamental  principles  enshrined  in  the
Charter of the United Nations.
flourish.  At 
the  same 
to 
In  this  context,  my  delegation  believes  that  the
United Nations serves as a unique forum where a broad
array  of  civilizations,  represented  by  Member  States,
can  pursue  dialogue,  accepting  diversity  as  well  as
universal  values.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  that  the
United  Nations  system,  including  the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization
(UNESCO), has made so far to foster dialogue among
2
civilizations.  Furthermore,  we  believe  that  long-term
projects promoting dialogue and tolerance in the fields
of education and culture should be further encouraged
throughout  the  United  Nations  system.  While  we
recognize  that  the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue
among  Civilizations  will  come  to  an  end  in  less  than
two  months,  we  hope  that  the  momentum  gained
throughout the Year will be sustained and revitalized in
the years to come.
Having  consecutively 
inherited  Buddhist  and
Confucian  civilizations  in  the  past,  and  more  recently
elements  of  a  Christian  culture,  the  Korean  people
consider  themselves  well  equipped  to  engage  in  a
dialogue  among  civilizations  on  the  basis  of  their
enriched  cultural  and  spiritual  heritage.  Indeed,  the
Korean  Government  held  a  successful  seminar  on
dialogue  among  civilizations  in  Seoul  last  year,  in
cooperation with UNESCO.
The  Republic  of  Korea  looks  forward  to  making
the  cause  of
more  constructive  contributions 
dialogue among civilizations in the years to come.
to 
international 
relations  and 
Mr.  Moushoutas  (Cyprus):  The  Charter  of  the
United  Nations  considers  dialogue  to  be  a  means  of
harmonizing 
resolving
differences  among  States.  It  places  dialogue  at  the
highest  peak  of  human  endeavours,  for  the  promotion
of  peace  and  the  solution  of  international  problems.
The item under consideration aims at these lofty goals,
as well as at strengthening the bonds within and among
civilizations,  emphasizing  the  common  destiny  of
humankind.  Promoting 
interchange,
tolerance  and  understanding  among  peoples,  and
coexistence among countries, cultures and religions, is
not only a good policy; it is also an imperative choice
for survival.
cooperation, 
Our societies and our cultures are not, and cannot
be,  isolated  entities.  A  local  crisis  in  a  place  far
removed  from  our  borders  or  shores  unfailingly  and
immediately affects us all. We are part, it seems, of the
same  global  village,  where  our  actions  or  omissions,
our  deeds  or  misdeeds,  are  affecting  everyday  life
everywhere.  And  here  lies  the  contradiction  of  our
present day: instead of drawing closer to each other in
this  interdependent  world,  we  continue  to  experience
much  conflict  and  human  misery  from  segregation,
separation and divisions.
The  twentieth  century  has  been  marked  more  by
than  by  cooperation.  It  has  been  rightly
rivalry 
observed that the majority of conflicts in which United
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  take  place  are  based
on  ethnic,  tribal  or  religious  grounds.  Separatism,
especially  militant  separatism,  forms  one  of  the  root
causes  of  conflicts  in  our  world.  As  the  Personal
Representative of the Secretary-General for the Year of
Dialogue among Civilizations has said,
“Just as, during the 1990s, many who went to war
used  the  threat  of  diversity  as  a  justification  for
conflict,  perhaps  in  the  future  those  who  seek
peace  will  use  the  spirit  of  dialogue  among
civilizations  as  a  means  to  move  forward.”
(A/54/546, annex, para. 14)
Common  sense  dictates  that  the  calamities  we
have  brought  upon  ourselves  should  be  avoided,  and
that 
replace
confrontation  and  conflict.  To  achieve  that  goal  we
must 
institutionalize  dialogue  among  peoples  of
different  cultures  and  civilizations.  As  the  Secretary-
General notes,
cooperation 
should 
peace 
and 
“It is the perception of diversity as a threat that is
at the very origin of war.” (A/55/492, para. 4)
The  many  positive  and  mutually  beneficial
interactions  among  civilizations  and 
the  mutual
enrichment of civilizations must be cultivated and form
the  basis  of  educating  the  young,  especially  children.
We are all part of creation, linked by common destiny
and  facing  a  challenging  future.  It  is  time  for  the
beauty of integration and peaceful coexistence through
diversity 
to  be  promoted  and  further  addressed.
Tendencies  to  portray  specific  cultures  as  threats  to
peace  must  be  rooted  out  of  our 
teaching  and
schoolbooks.
In  this  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among
Civilizations,  we  celebrate  the  unity  and  diversity  of
mankind.  We  agree 
that  our  survival  ultimately
depends  on  our  success  to  promote  tolerance  as  the
accepted  mode  of  behaviour,  despite  the  obstacles  of
intolerance  and  aggression.  Again,  let  us  not  forget
Mr. Picco’s words:
“History  does  not  kill.  Religion  does  not  rape
women,  the  purity  of  blood  does  not  destroy
buildings ... Only individuals do those things.”
It  is  through  dialogue  that  my  Government  is
committed  to  solve  the  problem  of  Cyprus.  We  strive
for  a  peaceful  solution 
two
communities  on  the  island  may  live  in  peace  and
through  which 
the 
A/56/PV.41
harmony,  as  they  did  for  centuries  in  the  past  without
occupation troops and barbed wire.
It  is  with  those  thoughts  in  mind  that  we  have
again  co-sponsored  draft  resolution  A/56/L.3,  which
was pioneered by the Islamic Republic of Iran and also
co-sponsored  by  a  great  number  of  Member  States
representing  every  regional  group.  It  contains  all  the
elements  for  promoting  dialogue  among  different
civilizations.  It  underlines  the  importance  of  inclusion
and  the  enhancement  of  mutual  understanding  and
provides  a  programme  of  action 
for  cultural,
educational  and  social  events  by  Governments,
regional groups and non-governmental organizations.
In  that  regard,  we  commend  the  initiative  of  the
visionary  and  wise  President  of  Iran,  Mr.  Mohammad
Khatami. To the members of the Permanent Mission of
Iran to the United Nations, which undertook the heavy
task  of  promoting  this  lofty  cause  within  the  United
Nations,  we  extend  our  deep  appreciation,  while  we
welcome among us the Group of Eminent Persons.
Mr.  Kerim  (The  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia):  The  decision  of  the  General  Assembly
contained in its resolution 53/22, of November 1998, to
proclaim the year 2001 as the Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations  was  undoubtedly  wise 
and  most
appropriate  and,  as  such,  well  received  across  the
world.
It is not only the conceptual underpinnings of the
dialogue among civilizations embodied in diversity and
tolerance  that  justify  the  presence  of  this  topic  on  the
agenda of the United Nations; it is more than that. It is
the need to mark the beginning of the third millennium
of mankind with a great cross-fertilization of cultures,
to use an expression from the charter of the Académie
Universelle  des  Cultures  in  Paris,  adopted  when  that
multinational organization of artists and scientists was
established a few years ago.
Being  in  New  York  one  does  not  need  to
undertake a journey in order to convince oneself of this
true  and  visionary  assessment.  Here  in  New  York  we
see  a  reorientation  of  the  melting  pot  concept  in
practice. Perhaps it would be better to say that a cross-
fertilization of cultures exists: different cultures living
shoulder-to-shoulder. Some ethnic groups have merged
with  one  another,  others  have  kept 
themselves
separate — 
in  different  districts,  speaking
different  languages  and  following  different  traditions.
living 
3
A/56/PV.41
Yet  all  come  together  on  the  basis  of  some  common
laws and a common lingua franca, English.
Without even wanting to speculate about the real
intentions  of  the  perpetrators  of  the  assault  on  11
September  in  lower  Manhattan,  one  might  think  of  an
attempt  to  challenge  these  values  and  way  of  life.
Watching the replay of the cataclysmic pictures of the
collapsing World Trade Center Towers, one could ask,
Where  is  civilization  heading?  Will  barbaric  acts  of
terrorism  provoke  the  opening  of  new  gaps  among
people, nations and religions or widen already existing
ones?
In  order 
to  prevent  dissension  along 
the
worldwide  front,  one  thing  must  be  clear  in  the
decisive battle against terrorism: no religion, people or
region  should  be  targeted.  However,  the  main  goal
must  not  be  compromised,  namely, 
to  subdue
international terrorism.
As the Secretary-General aptly pointed out in his
report,
the  dialogue  aims 
“A  dialogue  among  civilizations  is  not  only  a
necessary  answer  to  terrorism  —  it  is  in  many
ways its nemesis. Where terrorism seeks to divide
humanity, 
to  unite  us.”
(A/56/523, para. 19)
On  the  other  hand,  we  have  to  be  aware  of  the
fact that the world we live in is far from perfect. Some
people believe there is a struggle between globalization
and  cultural  diversity.  Other  people  fear  they  will  be
left behind in this great global process. These fears are
not groundless.
Recognizing these fears, political leaders, as well
as  international  organizations,  including  the  United
Nations,  have  realized  that  we  cannot  hand  over  the
world  to  market  forces  alone.  Recently  addressing  the
General Conference of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO),
French President Chirac said,
(spoke in French)
of 
cultures 
“Cultural diversity is the way to counter the
standardization 
by
globalization.  Diversity  must  be  based  on  the
conviction 
that  each  people  has  a  specific
message to the world, that each people can enrich
humanity by contributing its share of beauty and
truth.”
produced 
4
(spoke in English)
With such an approach in mind, we would like to
emphasize that globalization cannot be separated from
democracy,  the  rule  of  law,  respect  for  human  rights,
individual  liberty,  social  justice,  respect  for  different
groups  and  communities  and  respect  for  cultural
identities.
This 
to  be
governed by global principles of ethics and democracy,
it is necessary to follow a course that leads to no other
destination  but  worldwide  progress.  It  is  therefore  the
duty  of  political  leaders  and  all  other  people  in
positions  of  power 
the  process  of
globalization to ensure that the interests of people — of
all people — prevail.
if  globalization 
to  civilize 
implies 
that, 
is 
Examples  are  the  best  means  of  conveying  a
message in a convincing manner. In terms of the scope
of  the  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  its  worldwide
dimensions, allow me to cite some examples. Is it not a
common challenge for all societies, regardless of their
religious  background,  cultural 
roots  or  national
traditions,  to  generate  sufficient  opportunities  for  all
young people to obtain decent and productive work in
conditions  of  freedom,  equity,  security  and  human
dignity?
Let  me  also  cite  another  example.  A  genuine
dialogue  between  cultures  and  faiths  could  help  the
protagonists  find  their  way  to  peace  and  a  prosperous
future. Who does not remember the bitter experience of
the  inter-ethnic  clashes  in  the  Balkans  during  the  last
10  years?  Ethnic  cleansing  or  the  destruction  of
religious  sites  were  integral  parts  of  these  conflicts.
Unfortunately,  we  have  been  witnessing  them  in  other
parts of the world, too.
These  are  serious  warnings.  Even  in  the  age  of
highly  sophisticated  information  and  communication
technologies,  mankind  is  suffering  from  the  same
atavisms  of  the  past,  typical  of  medieval  times  or  the
Crusades.  In  terms  of  mankind’s  history,  there  is  also
the  other  side  of  the  coin.  During  the  period  between
the eighth and the thirteenth centuries, Jews, Christians
and  Muslims  participated  in  flourishing  examples  of
scientific, 
philosophical
endeavours.
artistic,  medical 
and 
It  is  of  particular  importance  to  stress  that  the
dialogue among civilizations must play a crucial role in
overcoming  every 
fundamentalism  and
type  of 
integralism, as the two most obvious societal forms of
intolerance,  regardless  of  their  religious  roots  and
backgrounds.
My country, the Republic of Macedonia — being
a  unique  incarnation  of  the  turbulent  and  manifold
history  of  the  region  of  south-eastern  Europe  where
Hellenic culture and Roman civilization left numerous
traces;  where  down  through  the  ages  Christianity  and
Islam  fought  for  predominance;  and  where  Slavic,
Greek,  Albanian,  Roman  and  Turkish  ethnicities  have
been  interwoven  —  had  more  than  good  reason  to  be
among the sponsoring countries of resolution 55/23 on
the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among
Civilizations, adopted by the General Assembly on 13
November 2000.
representative  of 
We  welcome  the  activities  undertaken  by  the
personal 
the  Secretary-General,
Mr. Giandomenico  Picco,  working  together  with  the
Director-General of UNESCO, along with a number of
Governments  and  eminent  persons,  various  civil
society  organizations  and  representatives  around  the
world,  to  further  the  dialogue  among  civilizations
through  a  series  of  organized  manifestations,  projects,
gatherings, workshops, conferences and other events.
The Salzburg dialogue among civilizations, a new
paradigm of international relations to be continued next
year; the Vilnius International Conference on Dialogue
among  Civilizations  and  the  Declaration  adopted  on
that  occasion;  the  International  Conference  on  the
Dialogue  of  Civilizations  in  Tokyo  and  Kyoto;  the
International  Seminar  and  the  Tehran  Declaration  on
Environment,  Religion  and  Culture  adopted  on  that
occasion; the twenty-first century forum-symposium on
dialogue among civilizations held in Beijing are a few
examples.
the  global  agenda 
In  accordance  with  the  programme  of  action
within 
for  dialogue  among
civilizations envisaged in draft resolution A/56/L.3, the
President  of  the  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Mr.  Boris
Trajkovski, intends to undertake an initiative to host a
conference or seminar on dialogue among civilizations,
in  the  framework  of  UNESCO,  in  the  year  2002  in
Ohrid, Macedonia.
In view of the follow-up measures, as well as the
prospect of dialogue among civilizations, we must give
special attention to the work of the Group of Eminent
Persons  established  by  the  Secretary-General,  which
has  completed  its  work.  The  authors  have  embarked
A/56/PV.41
international 
upon a daring mission focusing on the elaboration of a
new  paradigm  of 
relations.  The
reassessment  of  the  concept  of  enemy,  alignments
based  on  issues  rather  than  ideology,  the  concept  of
stakeholders  and,  finally,  the  decision-making  system
based  on  equal  footing  and  individual  responsibilities
are certainly crystallizing this new paradigm. Not only
does  the  intellectual  endeavour  of  the  Group  deserve
our  full  respect,  but  we  also  respect  it  for  making  the
dialogue a more than attractive field of discussion.
The  basic  values  and  principles  of  a  multipolar
and  interdependent  world  differ  substantially  from  the
one  in  which  the  United  Nations  was  created.  A
unilateral  implementation  of  the  concept  of  enemy,  or
alignments  based  on  issues  according  to  the  new
paradigm,  would  require  a  reconsideration  of  the
United Nations Charter or, at least, of some of its basic
principles.  To  conduct  a  dialogue  along  these  lines
would  not  only  engender  a  new  paradigm  of
international  relations,  but  would  also 
the
breaking of a taboo when it comes to the grass-roots of
our Organization. On the other hand, one could rightly
pose  the  question:  Are  we  really  eager  to  make  the
United  Nations  a  permissive  Organization,  bearing  in
mind the clear commitment enunciated and underlined
in  the  Millennium  Declaration  to  principles  that  have
proved timeless and universal?
imply 
In  terms  of  the  goal  of  dialogue,  the  ongoing
discussion  concerning  the  equitable  representation  on
and increase in the membership of the Security Council
may  be  the  most  convincing  landmark.  It  shows  that
building  something  together  takes  time  and  requires
stamina,  determination,  courage  and  wisdom,  thus
becoming  at  the  end  of  the  day  the  real  form  of
dialogue.
Let me conclude by stressing that, eventually, we
all have to strive for inner courage and wisdom to help
design  an 
is
perceived  no  longer  as  a  threat,  but  as  an  element  of
progress in the growth of our civilization.
in  which  diversity 
inclusive  world 
Mr.  Al-Nasser  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow
me at the outset to convey the feelings of the State of
Qatar  regarding  this  debate  on  the  dialogue  among
civilizations.
This  is  a  timely  debate,  given  current  conditions
in  the  world.  It  is  timely  not  only  because  of  the  new
millennium that has just begun  — a new era in which
in
we  had  hoped 
there  would  be  an 
increase 
5
A/56/PV.41
understanding  and  awareness  —  but  because  of  the
violence  that  is  affecting  most  of  the  world.  The
previous century may have been one of the bloodiest in
history.  The  new  century  has  begun  with  some  of  the
most violent events imaginable.
dialogue  among  civilizations,  to  establish  a  culture  of
peace and to learn, first and foremost, to live in peace
with  ourselves  and  with  one  another  so  that  we  can
tackle  threats  to  peace  and  prosperity  throughout  the
world.
for 
policy  makers 
The  new  millennium  is  suddenly  reflecting  the
familiar  face  of  violence,  hatred  and  anger.  Is  it  not
time 
culturally,
technologically and scientifically advanced era to study
thoroughly  the  essential  elements  of  the  concept  of
culture,  civilization  and  dialogue,  and  to  acknowledge
that  such  elements  represent  security  and  peace  for
people throughout the world today?
in 
this 
There is an urgent need for humankind to ensure
moral  solidarity  at  the  global  level,  and  for  dialogue
among civilizations to be accepted by all peoples as a
means  of  understanding  their  common  cultural,  social
and  religious  values.  Such  moral  values  are,  in  their
turn,  the  foundation  of  human  solidarity.  They  will
enable  us  to  better  understand  the  basic  causes  that
force  human  beings  to  inflict  pain  and  suffering  on
their brothers and sisters.
In  the  context  of  such  human  solidarity  and  the
need to identify a global vision based on international
humanitarian  law  and  respect  for  human  rights,  this
dialogue can help to resolve conflict among all human
beings,  whether  individuals  or  groups.  Unfortunately,
despite  our  cultures, 
technological  resources  and
tolerant  religions,  the  world  today  is  faced  with  many
more problems than it has solutions.
We  need  a  long-term  vision  and  policies  to  help
us  to  tackle  the  new  conditions  in  the  world.  Today,
many countries are being torn apart by armed conflict,
extreme  poverty  and  disease.  Given 
tragic
circumstances  surrounding  us,  therefore,  how  can  we
undertake a dialogue among civilizations?
the 
We  need  to  begin  such  a  dialogue  if  we  are  to
face  up  to  contemporary  challenges  such  as  terrorism
and  its  causes.  We  need  to  lay  the  groundwork  to
enable future generations to develop a positive vision,
to  tackle  existing  conflicts  and  make  dialogue  among
peoples our priority.
Do we need war, conflict and terrorism, including
State  terrorism,  to  remind  us  of  this?  We  must  defend
peace. And we must make every effort to create peace,
instead  of  just  maintaining  it.  We  must  prevent  crises
before  they  occur.  It  is  up  to  us  now  to  promote  a
6
The  recent  terrorist  attacks  and  their  negative
consequences  for  international  human  and  religious
relations remind us of what was believed in the 1990s
regarding  a  clash  among  civilizations.  We  must
therefore  pursue  dialogue  among  civilizations  and
ensure  interaction  between  different  cultures  so  that
concepts  can  be  better  analysed  and  harmonized  and
we  can  reaffirm  the  values  that  certain  extremists  are
trying  to  keep  us  from  sharing.  This  meeting  has
acquired special importance since terrorism as a global
phenomenon  and  a  political  movement  has  been
attached to Muslims and Arabs, who have become the
favourite  guilty  party  in  the  eyes  of  the  West.  All  we
need to do is consider the information in the Arab and
other  media  to  become  aware  of  the  fact  that  third
world countries are being pushed to total paralysis. The
world — particularly the Arab and Islamic world — is
faced  with  an 
the  conflict  of
civilizations  from  the  religious  and  ethnic  point  of
view.
intensification  of 
Global  appeals  for  a  cultural  dialogue  among
civilizations  are  becoming  stronger.  The  United  States
could become a leader of such a dialogue, because it is
a  country  of  great  cultural  diversity  and  could  set  an
example in the area of social coexistence.
The  State  of  Qatar  will  not  be  party  to  conflicts
between civilizations, religions and ethnic groups.
The General Assembly should play a leading role
in supporting human solidarity and promoting dialogue
among  civilizations  and  peoples  for  the  benefit  of
international  peace  and  security.  Islam  considers
murder to be an abominable crime and has encouraged
dialogue  between  civilizations  and  religions.  We  need
to  undertake  dialogue  to  resolve  crises,  ensure  that
justice  reigns  and  avoid  condemning  particular  ethnic
groups, nationalities or religions.
The  Islamic  religion  tells  us  not  to  resort  to
terrorism  and  not  to  kill  human  beings  unjustly.  Such
acts  have  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  religion  or
nationalities. We must support the principle of dialogue
among  civilizations  and  the  underlying  principles  of
international 
rights.  These  are
principles shared by all peoples and civilizations.
law  and  human 
We  live  in  a  united,  though  multidimensional,
world  of  different  cultures  and  nationalities.  The
Governments that do not heed their people will not be
successful. That is why we must listen to the voices of
our citizens, the voices of the people, whether through
civil 
society,  non-regional  or  non-governmental
organizations or through the United Nations system.
The 
terrorists  who  have  spread  death  and
destruction  do  not  share  our  view  of  the  world.  They
are filled with hatred and do not represent any religion
or any nationality; they represent only themselves and
their narrow political causes.
The  international  community  should  ask  itself
whether  it  has  properly  protected  its  patrimony  of
wisdom,  experience  and  duties.  We  must  save
humankind  from  the  evil  that  it  has  created,  and  we
must  look  to  history  to  learn  lessons.  We  must
safeguard  the  resources  that  we  will  leave  to  future
generations, 
respect
international moral and legal criteria and the principle
of  dialogue  among  civilizations,  ensuring  that  such
dialogue  replaces  the  conflict  among  civilizations  and
the  future  becomes  the  age  of  reason,  wisdom,  peace
and security.
particularly 
need 
the 
to 
Improvements  in  communications  systems  have
brought  major  advantages  for  all  future  generations
because  they  enable  us  to  exchange  ideas  and  achieve
peace. Today we are in a unique position to expand the
dialogue  so  that  it  can  become  a  genuine  dialogue
among civilizations throughout the world.
transportation  have  made 
Information technology and progress in means of
communication  and 
the
dialogue among civilizations a necessity in our world.
Globalization  will  be  welcomed  as  a  positive  process
once  all  peoples  and  civilizations  are  involved  in
dialogue rather than confrontation.
The  cold  war  and  the  decades-long  conflict
between  the  East  and  West  have  come  to  an  end.  But
suddenly  we  are  faced  with  another  type  of  conflict:
the conflict between the East and West, some say, will
be  replaced  by  a  conflict  between  the  North  and  the
South  and  between  the  rich  and  the  poor.  This  is  why
we  must  avoid  at  all  costs  an  increase  in  conflict
between 
among
civilizations is very important if we wish to achieve the
objectives 
racial
discrimination and consolidating human rights through
cooperation and understanding.
civilizations. 
eliminating 
dialogue 
racism 
The 
of 
and 
A/56/PV.41
In  this  respect,  we  must  remember  that  diversity
is a source of strength and not a cause for division. As
the Holy Koran says,
“O mankind! We created
You from a single (pair)
Of a male and a female,
And made you into
Nations and tribes, that
Ye may know each other
(Not that ye may despise
(Each other). Verily
The most honoured of you
In the sight of Allah
Is (he who is) the most
Righteous of you.” (The Holy Koran, IL:13)
Ignorance of the values of others or of their religions,
and attitudes of supremacy and bigotry are not the view
of the Koran. Almighty God created men and women to
cooperate  with  each  other  and  with  humanity  as  a
whole  for  our  common  benefit.  This  encourages  us  to
recognize  the  rights  of  others  and  to  appreciate  their
values  and  convictions  based  on  justice,  equality  and
noble  principles  and  ideals,  as  well  as  to  try  to
eliminate 
through
misunderstandings 
suspicions.  The
dialogue must be global and allow all to participate in
the creation of a culture of world peace.
obstacles 
and  mutual 
created 
all 
to  an 
Qatar,  based  on  its  domestic  experience  and
recognizing the genuine need to create an environment
favourable 
international  dialogue  among
civilizations,  fully  supports  the  concept  of  a  dialogue
instead  of  a  clash  among  civilizations.  The  appeal
launched by Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, Emir
of the State of Qatar, at the round table held last year,
to hold in Doha one of the three meetings of the Group
of  Eminent  Persons  led  by  Mr.  Giandomenico  Picco,
Personal  Representative  of  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan for the United Nations Year of Dialogue among
Civilizations, is clear proof that the State of Qatar fully
supports  this  concept.  Indeed,  the  third  such  meeting
was held in Doha on 5 September 2001.
In  this  respect,  Qatar  would  like  to  welcome  the
Tehran  Declaration  resulting  from  the  fifth  session  of
the  Islamic  Conference  of  Information  Ministers,  held
in Tehran on 1 and 2 December 1999. We also welcome
the  global  document  on  dialogue  among  civilizations
and 
the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference.  The  second
the  substantive  activities  undertaken  by 
7
A/56/PV.41
for  preparing 
meeting  of  the  Intergovernmental  Group  of  Experts
responsible 
an  Executive  Work
Programme on Dialogue among Civilizations was held
in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on 23 to 25 September 2000.
We  have  also  supported  the  global  document  for
dialogue  among  civilizations  and  the  draft  Global
Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations.
The dialogue we aspire to should be an open one
involving all civilizations without exception. It should
be  based  on  the  attempt  to  understand  the  concerns,
interests  and  objectives  of  others.  It  should  be  a
dialogue  aimed  at  creating  peaceful  coexistence,  free
from  all  forms  of  racism,  exclusion,  enslavement  of
others  or  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  other
States.  It  should  include  cultural  divergences  and
differences  and  be  aimed  at  creating  a  real  future  for
humanity. It should be a frank and sincere dialogue that
will produce understanding and tolerance and that will
renounce violence, hatred and aggression. The dialogue
among  civilizations  should  also  affirm  the  legitimacy
of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,
strengthen  the  idea  of  dialogues  and  discussions,  and
allow us to move forward in the area of human rights,
environmental issues and other issues of concern to all
of us.
We  reaffirm  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in
increasing  awareness  among  the  peoples  of  the  world
of  the  concept  of  a  dialogue  among  civilizations  in
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
Charter of the United Nations.
Mr.  Pradhan  (Bhutan):  The  dialogue  among
civilizations is a unique item on our agenda. In fact, we
are  of  the  view  that  in  many  ways  the  entire  range  of
discussions and interactions within the United Nations
family between different peoples, cultures and ways of
life also constitute part of such a dialogue.
In  my  view,  most  of  the  effort  and  work  of  the
United  Nations  should  have  the  objective  of  pursuing
peace  and  security  through  the  non-violent  resolution
of  disputes,  no  matter  how  difficult  they  may  seem.
These  efforts  should  also  contribute  to  promoting
tolerance and understanding among races, religions and
cultures.  Above  all, 
to
accomplish  peaceful  coexistence  among  nations,
peoples and their respective civilizations.
the  objective  should  be 
Whether we talk about a dialogue among nations
or  civilizations,  there  has  to  be  a  basic  premise  and
8
understanding  from  which  we  can  continue  such  an
interaction. How could we describe such a premise?
First,  in  our  view,  all  civilizations  taking  part  in
such  a  dialogue  have  to  subscribe  to  and  faithfully
practise  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United
Nations Charter, especially in their dealings with each
other.  This  would  mean  that  they  exercise  utmost
tolerance, whether in respect of race, colour, religion or
levels  of  socio-economic  development.  They  must
consider  each  other  equals  and  equal  partners  on  this
planet  and,  above  all,  decide  to  interact  with  the
objective of living in peace with each other.
History  has  shown  us  that  peoples  have  gone  to
war in attempts to wipe out or dominate each other in
the name of religion and civilization. Some have taken
such  a  course  simply 
territory.  The
colonization  of  peoples 
the
enslavement  and  exploitation  of  people  of  other  races
and  colour,  and  conflicts  over  political  ideology  and
religion  have  all  led  only  to  gross  injustice,  suffering,
violence and terrorism.
to  conquer 
and 
their 
lands, 
A  great  awareness  dawned  after  the  Second
World  War,  when  nations  emerging  from  the  ashes  of
the  death  and  destruction  wrought  by  increasingly
modern  weapons  decided  to  establish  the  United
Nations, in order “to save succeeding generations from
the  scourge  of  war”.  Unfortunately,  we  are  still  some
way from achieving this laudable goal.
If  one  race,  religion  or  culture  considers  itself
superior  to  another,  and  perhaps  even  harbours  hatred
and  the  intention  of  destroying  the  other,  if  it  has  a
“we-versus-them”  attitude,  there  simply  cannot  be  a
genuine and peaceful dialogue. This would lead not to
a  dialogue  between  civilizations  but  to  a  clash  of
civilizations.
It is my understanding that civilization arises out
of  human  evolution,  through  the  acquisition  of  higher
values, knowledge and the experience over centuries by
peoples  of  diverse  races  and  religions.  It  also  consists
of  the  experience  gained  through  dealings  between
civilizations  as  well  as  the  ironing  out  of  differences
and  the  smoothing  over  of  rough  spots.  Rarely  does
civilization emerge in a state of total isolation.
Hence civilizations and their beliefs and practices
cannot be expected to remain static. Civilizations must
be  dynamic.  Long-held  views  and  beliefs,  however
dear  or  final  they  may  seem  to  us,  sometimes  are  not
tenable  in  the  context  of  today’s  global  village.
Practices  that  harm  others  and  that  stunt  the  full
potential  of  individuals,  including  one’s  own  people,
and belligerent views that give rise to conflicts have to
be changed or abandoned, so that all can live in peace
and cooperate to achieve common human goals.
I 
In 
that 
reiterate 
conclusion, 
peaceful
coexistence  can  be  achieved  only  when  civilizations
learn to adapt to changing times, peacefully to resolve
differences with others, and give up violence, terrorism
and  warfare.  As  we  witness  what  is  happening  in  the
world around us, we can see that we still have to learn
how  to  live  peacefully  with  each  other.  The  terrorist
attacks  in  the  United  States  on  11  September  and  the
developments in Afghanistan have made this glaringly
clear.
It is hoped that this dialogue will bring to the fore
issues  that  need  to  be  looked  at  more  closely  by  the
international  community  and  that  it  will  lead  to
peaceful coexistence and cooperation.
In our view, this should be the ultimate objective
of the dialogue among civilizations.
Mr.  Hønningstad
(Norway):  This  dialogue
among  civilizations  aims  to  encourage  interaction,  in
its  most  diverse  sense,  among  and  within  countries,
nations, cultures and religions. This is an excellent way
of  promoting  pluralism  and  tolerance,  as  well  as  the
participation  of  civil 
in  processes  of
governance.
society 
and 
integration 
Technology,  migration 
are
bringing  people  of  different  races,  cultures  and
ethnicities  closer  together,  breaking  down  old  barriers
and  creating  new  realities.  The  ongoing  process  of
globalization 
intercultural
interchange. At the same time, today’s communication
opportunities present a tremendous challenge for us, in
terms  of  increasing  our  ability  both  to  understand  and
to make ourselves understood.
intensified 
entails 
an 
We  would  like  to  stress  that  the  dialogue  must
also  encompass  indigenous  peoples  and  cultures.  In
this  regard,  dialogue  among  civilizations  should  also
become a vehicle to promote and ensure the enjoyment
by  indigenous  peoples  of  their  rights,  in  concert  with
the indigenous peoples themselves.
Alongside 
of
civilizations,  cultures  and  groups,  there  is  a  global
civilization based on the purposes and principles of the
the  world’s 
variety 
rich 
A/56/PV.41
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  Universal  Declaration
on Human Rights, which we are all called on to defend
and  promote.  This  global  civilization  can  thus  be
characterized  by  its  insistence  on  universal  human
rights  and  freedoms,  its  tolerance  of  dissent,  and  its
belief in the right of individuals everywhere to have a
say in how they are governed. It is a civilization based
on 
to  be
celebrated,  not  feared.  Indeed,  many  conflicts  are
fuelled  by  people’s  fear  of  those  who  are  different.
Only through dialogue can such fears be overcome.
that  diversity 
is  something 
the  belief 
leads 
logically 
It is our belief that the concept of dialogue among
civilizations  naturally  and 
to  an
affirmation  of  a  value  that  increasingly  unites  us  all:
the  universality  of  human  rights.  The  United  Nations
itself  has  done  a  great  deal  to  establish  a  culture  of
dialogue,  and  the  world  community  has  repeatedly
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  a  shared  existing
ethical foundation. At the same time, it is important to
emphasize 
the  primary
responsibility for ensuring respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms.
that  Governments  have 
This  year  has  been  designated  as  the  United
Nations Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. Norway
welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the
prospect  of  dialogue  among  civilizations  and  the
activities  pertaining  to  the  Year,  as  well  as  all  the
preparations  and  concrete  initiatives  that  have  already
taken  place  and  those  that  are  planned.  We  note  with
satisfaction the work undertaken by Mr. Giandomenico
Picco  as  personal  representative  of  the  Secretary-
General.
for  global  dialogue  and  an 
Dialogue  can  help  us  distinguish  lies  from  facts,
and propaganda from sound analysis. In the light of the
attacks against the United States on 11 September, the
need 
international
commitment  against  terrorism  must  lie  at  the  heart  of
all  our  activities.  Terrorism 
transcends  national
borders. It strikes at the core of the values that we hold
to  be  universal  and 
independent  of  our  cultural
backgrounds and religious affiliations. Like the people
of  New  York,  who  stand  united  in  grief,  bravery,  and
determination, 
international
community,  stand  united  in  confronting  international
terrorism.
so  must  we, 
the 
We must stand firm in rejecting any threat against
the  United  Nations, 
the  main  meeting  place  for
dialogue  in  the  world.  As  the  concept  of  a  dialogue
9
A/56/PV.41
the  United  Nations  Charter, 
among civilizations must be based on the purposes and
principles  of 
the
fundamental challenge for us as Members of the United
Nations is to strive for peace and security while never
tolerating  terrorist  attempts  to  destabilize  the  global
values represented by this Organization.
Mr.  Navarrete  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  convey  its
gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General,  to  his  personal
representative for the United Nations Year of Dialogue
among Civilizations, and to the Director-General of the
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization,  both  for  the  submission  of  the  various
reports and documents which are enriching our debate
today 
institutional
commitment that they have demonstrated in promoting
a  lofty  and  relevant  initiative:  the  promotion  of  a
dialogue and of understanding among civilizations.
the  personal 
and 
and 
for 
to 
We  are  also  grateful 
the  enlightened
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran for having
proposed  the  introduction  of  this  very  important  topic
initiated
for  discussion,  as  well  as 
consideration  of  a  draft 
the  broad
sponsorship  of  which  augurs  well  for  its  adoption  by
consensus.
for  having 
resolution, 
The  atrocious  terrorist  acts  of  11  September  and
their consequences for the political and economic areas
and for international peace and security, among others,
make it even more urgent to make dialogue a constant,
permanent  and  favoured  tool  in  attempting  to  resolve
the differences arising out of our diversity at all levels:
local, national, bilateral, regional and global.
The subject that we are examining today, complex
in itself, includes both directly and indirectly concepts,
such  as  culture  and  civilization,  that  are  distinguished
by  their  changeability,  evolution  and  diversity  as  well
as by the complexity of their interactions.
living  beings 
We  know  that  culture,  in  its  broadest  sense,  is
through
everything  we  possess  as 
learning  from  or  imitating  our  fellow  human  beings.
Language, food, dance, clothing and everything that we
have  learned  form  part  of  our  culture.  The  term  is
extremely  broad.  There  is  not  and  cannot  be  a  human
community without culture.
Civilization is something else. The concept comes
from  the  Latin  word  for  city.  It  has  two  principal
aspects: the mode of understanding the universe and its
10
manifestations in art, religion, science and technology,
among  others;  and  the  mode  of  social  organization,
especially  the  State  and  laws.  To  civilize  means  to
subject  to  reason,  to  apply  the  rationality  of  thought,
religion or law.
In this context, just as there is not and cannot be a
human  community  without  culture,  there  can  be  and
are  uncivilized  communities.  Where 
is  no
rationality, there is no civilized life.
there 
On the other hand, dialogue, or the confrontation
of  different  positions,  is  the  best  way  to  clarify  a
problem,  to  shed  light  on  what  is  uncertain.  In  this
sense, Plato said thought is a dialogue with oneself; in
the  intimate  and  solitary  act  of  exercising  thought,
there is a hidden dialogue. This is because thinking is
tied closely to presenting arguments, explaining, giving
reasons.
But  it  is  very  difficult,  perhaps  impossible,  to
understand  oneself  without  subjecting  one’s  own
arguments  to  the  scrutiny  and  objections  of  others.
Here  again  we  see  the  link  between  dialogue  and
thought. To think is to engage in dialogue.
Seen  from  this  point  of  view,  dialogue  among
civilizations  is  a  paean  to  diversity  and  pluralism.
Diversity  in  both  the  biological  and  human  worlds  is
rich  and  creative.  Diversity  is  life;  it  is,  as  scientists
say,  order.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the  uniform  and
global,  one  cannot  identify  what  is  particular  and
different  from  the  rest.  What  makes  the  story  of
humanity fascinating is that each of us is different. The
same can be said about history: each nation is different,
with peculiarities that distinguish it from the rest.
Therefore,  the  only  way  in  which  we  can  enrich
ourselves both spiritually and materially is to reach out
to  what  is  different  —  other  perspectives  and  views.
Dialogue,  for  its  part,  presupposes  respect  for  the
diversity and peculiarity of the other. It is not a matter
of  erasing  diversity  or  of  unifying  by  cancelling.
Incorporating  means  adding  together  what  is  diverse,
conserving its distinctive peculiarity as it becomes part
of one common goal.
The example of Europe is illustrative. Europe was
always a cauldron of cultures: an enormous diversity of
peoples  in  a  territory  that  was  not  very  large.  As  a
result, European cultures made notable progress where
they lived together, next to one another. In contrast, as
the  Mexican  writer  Octavio  Paz  pointed  out,  the
greatest difficulty for the development of pre-Hispanic
cultures  in  what  is  now  Latin  America  was  their  total
isolation and lack of dialogue with each other.
cultures 
and 
Different 
civilizations 
can
understand  each  other  only  by  engaging  in  dialogue.
Understanding  a  civilization  means  nothing  more  than
grasping  it  as  a  similar  response  —  of  the  same  kind
but with specific differences — to the needs and ideals
of  the  civilization  known  to  us.  In  other  words,
dialogue  means  making  a  civilization  different  from
ours become our own.
When  dialogue  fails  and  understanding  of  a
different  civilization  does  not  result,  we  tend  to  view
that  civilization  as  totally  different  from  us,  and  often
hostile.  There  is  not  much  distance  between  lack  of
understanding,  hostility  and  conflict.  Confrontation,
from  this  point  of  view,  is  a  result  of  the  failure  of
mutual  understanding  —  the  breakdown  of  dialogue.
Confrontation  encompasses  the  desire  to  destroy  what
we  cannot  understand.  Lack  of  understanding,  the
breakdown of dialogue and the will to destroy go hand
in hand.
Proof  that  dialogue  among  civilizations  is  not
easy  can  be  found  by  looking  at  human  history  as  a
whole.  Conflict  and  war  between  various  groups  have
perhaps  been  more  common  and  frequent  than  peace
and harmony.
The  perpetual  peace  of  which  Immanuel  Kant
spoke remains an ideal to be attained. If there is human
moral  progress  —  which,  despite  everything,  seems
certain — it should be reflected primarily in the effort
to  understand, 
and
civilizations different from ours that appear before us.
through  dialogue, 
cultures 
In conclusion, my delegation wishes to express its
full  agreement  with  the  observation,  contained  in  the
Secretary-General’s  report,  that  cultural  and  religious
diversity  is  a  source  of  strength  and  not  a  cause  of
division  and  conflict.  My  delegation  also  shares  the
belief  that  the  United  Nations  —  this  forum  —
continues  to  be  the  natural  place  for  the  dialogue
among civilizations, the forum where that dialogue can
flourish, be fruitful and help achieve the objectives of
maintaining peace and promoting human development.
Mr.  Lancry  (Israel)  (spoke  in  French):  In  this
General  Assembly  discussion  devoted  to  the  United
Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations,  I
A/56/PV.41
thought  it  appropriate  to  include  in  my  statement  a
brief introduction in Arabic.
this 
remain 
imperfect.  Having  acquired 
Of  course,  my  mastery  of  classical  Arabic  will
the
forever 
rudiments  of 
language  during  my  Moroccan
adolescence,  I  am  trying,  at  the  United  Nations,  to
update  the  distant  echoes  that  carry  the  magic  of
yesteryear  back  to  me.  Therefore,  in  tribute  to  the
language  of  my  youth,  I  have  decided  to  include  this
fragment  in  Arabic  as  a  miniature  illustration  of  our
discussion.
(spoke in Arabic)
I  wish  to  begin  my  statement  in  Arabic  as  an
expression  of 
the  dialogue  between  cultures  and
civilizations.  In  my  country,  the  Arabic  language  is
considered the second official language.
in 
the  beautiful  Arabic 
I consider myself fortunate to be able to read and
write 
language,  but
unfortunately  that  is  not  enough.  My  effort  to  learn
Arabic  is  one  of  the  incentives  for  contact  with  and
respect  for  this  language,  which  is  part  of  my  culture,
as I was born in Morocco.
I  am  fully  confident  that  the  dialogue  among
languages  and  cultures  in  our  region  will  help  create
the  necessary  language  of  peace,  not  only  to  achieve
political  peace,  but  also  to  sow  reconciliation  and
coexistence  among  the  peoples  of  the  region.  As  the
saying  goes,  by  spreading  one  people’s  culture  to
another, the stupidity of war will be avoided.
(spoke in French)
In  our  preceding  statements  on  the  dialogue
among civilizations, we have, in the context of general
consensus,  indicated  our  unreserved  support  for,  and
desire to participate actively in, the dialogue.
With  regard  to  the  State  of  Israel,  the  modern
incarnation  of  an  ancient  people, 
shared
foundations  of  three  monotheistic  religions  and  their
scriptural,  spiritual  and  intertextual  manifestations  are
a generating force for dialogue and openness.
the 
The  history  of  humanity,  based  for  too  long  on
negating  the  other,  on  the  supremacy  claimed  by  a
philosophy,  an  ideology,  a  race,  a  culture,  a  truth  or  a
revelation,  is  a  history  in  which  man  has  been
destroyed in the most appalling disasters.
11
A/56/PV.41
the 
centuries, 
Throughout 
implacable
antagonism  between  civilizations,  the  superimposition
of  one culture  on  another,  the  attempts  by  one  race  to
obliterate another have been tragic tendencies, a source
of chaos and misfortune in our world.
the 
the 
Judeo-Arab  Golden  Age 
On this list of disaster marked by the subjugation
of  man  by  man  in  the  name  of  triumphant  ideologies,
some  bright  periods,  some  sustained  peaks,  guided
humankind  towards  salvation.  The  Renaissance,  the
Enlightenment, 
in
medieval  Spain,  the  thousands  of  years  of  Jews  living
in the Maghreb, the ancient Egypt of Joseph or that of
the  wise  men  of  Alexandria,  the  Persia  of  Cyrus  and
Darius  —  dialogue  and  respect  for  diversity  were  the
driving forces of these peak periods of our civilization.
In  diversity  harmoniously  lived,  the  differences
are  interwoven  without  being  nullified;  they  flourish,
without  one  rising  at  the  expense  of  the  others.  They
often  converge  to  introduce  new  differences.  It  is  in
these  median  areas 
that  differences  of  cultural
crossbreeding  emerge,  where  borders  transform  into
vibrating membranes that thwart closure and isolation.
In  order  to  intensify  the  dialogue  among  civilizations,
we  must  cross  our  own  mental  borders,  pierce  our
ideological walls and dig tunnels under our ramparts of
inhibitions, so that the best of ourselves can first ooze
and then spurt liberating words.
It  is  through  contact  with  areas  of  cultural
mixture,  at  the  intersection  of  diverse  areas,  histories
and civilizations, where dialogue and understanding are
possible,  that  mankind  is  able  to  trace  its  future  in
peace.
that 
is  prey 
In  a  world 
isolation  and
Manichaean  divisions  such  as  those  that  produced  the
horror  of  11  September,  a  living  and  diversified
dialogue  among  civilizations 
to
fundamentalist  terrorism  and  its  nebulous  carriers  of
death, destruction and suicidal impulse.
the  antidote 
to 
is 
After  the  unspeakable  disaster  of  11  September,
there  is  an  urgent  need  to  extend  the  dialogue  among
civilizations and promote interfaith dialogue. This is a
responsibility  that  is  incumbent  first  and  foremost  on
the family of nations and on its spiritual, political and
intellectual leaders. The chief Organization, the United
Nations, led by a visionary Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, and his remarkable Personal Representative for
the  dialogue  among  civilizations,  Mr.  Giandomenico
12
Picco, are useful —indeed, essential — catalysts in this
vast and valuable project for our century.
Mr. Abelian (Armenia): I would like to begin by
expressing 
to  Mr.  Seyed  Mohammad  Khatami,
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, my country’s
respect  for  the  devotion  with  which  he  pursues  the
vision  of  a  dialogue  among  civilizations.  Our
appreciation  and  respect  also  go  to  the  Secretary-
General, Kofi Annan, for supporting this initiative and
promoting it within the United Nations system.
Initiatives  like  the  one  we  are  addressing  today
appear  on  the  international  agenda  at  very  specific
times  in  human  history.  At  the  threshold  of  the  new
millennium, which undoubtedly will be the millennium
of  human  expansion  into  the  universe,  there  is  a
growing  understanding  that  the  human  race  can  no
longer  be  weakened  by  cultural, 
religious  and
ideological differences. Such differences should instead
be  turned  into  an  inexhaustible  source  of  strength,
inspiration  and  new 
ideas.  A  dialogue  among
civilizations  is  both  a  sign  of  mankind’s  maturity  and
an instrument for its progress.
In  fact,  the  entire  concept  of  a  dialogue  among
civilizations leads us to the realization that there exists
only  one  human  civilization,  which  is  extraordinarily
rich  and  diverse,  as  exceptionally  manifold  as  the
human  species  itself.  Therefore,  a  dialogue  among
civilizations  will  eventually  evolve  into  the  self-
knowledge  of  humanity,  without  which  the  human
quest for perfection will never be accomplished.
the 
in 
this  process 
In  today’s  world,  more  and  more  people  have
begun  to  realize  that  they  belong  to  more  than  one
civilization. Multiculturalism has become a reality, and
it can grow to become a universal standard for cultural
self-identification 
twenty-first  century.  Of
course, 
should  not  be  artificially
accelerated  or  enforced.  The  unfortunate  reality  that
several  mini-cultures  and  micro-civilizations  vanish
each decade from the face of our planet, even in remote
and hardly accessible regions, cannot be perceived as a
necessary  and  unavoidable  sacrifice  on  the  altar  of
globalization.  There  are,  and  will  be,  societies  and
groups  of  people  for  whom  cultural  globalization  can
be, or already has been, very painful. The international
community  must  respect  the  right  to  cultural  self-
determination  in  the  same  manner  as  the  right  to
political  self-determination.  There  are  small  ethnic
groups  in  today’s  world  which,  despite  their  modest
demographics,  are  the  living  heirs  of  great  past
forgotten  and
civilizations.  Many  of 
them  are 
neglected.  Some  are  endangered 
in 
their  own
homelands,  such  as,  for  example,  the  Assyrians,  who
keep  alive  the  Aramaic  tongue  of  Jesus  Christ.  Such
ethnic  and  religious  groups  should  be  regarded  as  the
cultural heritage of all mankind, and a special approach
should be taken to their needs and aspirations.
a  way  that  it  actually  reinforces  barriers  to  dialogue
instead of bringing them down. During the last session
of  the  General  Assembly,  we  already  witnessed  some
attempts 
for  negative
propagandistic  purposes.  We  strongly  reject  such
moves  and  urge  all  Member  States  to  spare  no  efforts
in  preserving  the  original  hate-free  nature  of  this
initiative.
this  agenda 
to  use 
item 
A/56/PV.41
But 
there 
is  opposition 
to  dialogue  of  a
completely different kind, which springs from a notion
of  cultural  superiority.  Calling  others  “inferiors”,
“barbarians”  or  “infidels” 
is  a  sign  of  cultural
insularity,  which  provides  fertile  soil  for  ethnic  and
religious  intolerance  and  far  too  often  manifests  itself
in  acts  of  violence  and  terrorism.  It  is  regrettable  that
during  the  International  Year  of  Dialogue  Among
Civilizations we suffered the unspeakable horror of 11
September. This tragedy has revived the ill-fated theory
about a clash among civilizations, which seems to have
acquired  many  new  adherents.  The  seriousness  of  this
theory  should  not  be  underestimated.  We  should  be
honest  with  ourselves,  and  we  have  to  admit  that  the
clash  is  no  less  real  and  no  less  likely  than  the
dialogue.  It  is  a  serious  threat,  and  it  is  a  bold
challenge  to  the  adherents  to  dialogue  and  to  the
United Nations itself. It is up to all of us to determine
the possible course of human history. In this regard, we
would like to mention the valuable contribution to the
United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations
made by the World Conference against Racism, Racial
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance,
held earlier this year in Durban, South Africa.
The  lesson  that  we  must  learn  today  is  simple:
political  actions  and  military  operations  can  destroy
training  camps  and  terrorist  infrastructures.  They  can
bring  to  justice  the  persons  responsible  for  crimes
against  humanity,  but  they  cannot  destroy  completely
the  ideology  motivating  them  and  poisoning  their
minds  with  hatred.  This  is  where  initiatives  like  the
dialogue among civilizations can prove to be effective.
But the dialogue should not limit itself to high podiums
and  scientific  conferences.  It  should  find  immediate
and  effective  ways  to  reach  out  to  ordinary  people  in
the  streets,  who  are  often  dangerously  influenced  by
extreme nationalists and religious fanatics.
The concept of a dialogue among civilizations is
new  and  still  very  fragile.  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  rightly  noted  that  even  the  discussion  of  the
dialogue among civilizations can be conducted in such
cultures 
story  of 
Zoroastrian 
interaction  of 
Mr.  Shobokshi  (Saudi  Arabia),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
I  represent  a  country  that  may  be  considered  a
success 
and
civilizations.  Being  the  heir  of  the  great  ancient
civilizations  of  eastern  Anatolia,  Armenia 
later
developed a culture that bore remarkable similarities to
neighbouring 
Greco-Roman
civilizations.  A  Christian  nation  since  301  A.D.,  and
speaking  an  Indo-European  language,  Armenians  are
naturally  attached  to  Europe  culturally,  spiritually  and
linguistically.  At  the  same  time  we  have  a  deep
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  neighbouring
Islamic  civilization,  which  we  have  learned  to  respect
during  centuries  of  coexistence  and  active  interaction.
We  want  to  confirm  once  again  from  this  podium  our
strong  commitment  to  the  idea  of  a  dialogue  among
civilizations,  which  promises  a  much  better  future  for
humanity on this small planet.
and 
Mr.  Widodo  (Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by
expressing  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for
his  report  in  document  A/56/523  and  to  the  eminent
persons who contributed to the publication of the book
entitled  Crossing 
the  Divide:  Dialogue  among
Civilizations.  My  delegation  would  also 
to
recognize the foresight of President Seyed Mohammad
Khatami  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  this
initiative. Likewise, we would like to take this occasion
to  recognize  the  financial  contribution  that  has  been
made  by  the  Government  of  Switzerland  to  the  trust
fund  established  for  the  United  Nations  Year  of
Dialogue among Civilizations.
like 
The  celebration  of  this  United  Nations  Year  of
Dialogue  among  Civilizations  and  the  many  activities
that have taken place indeed encourage us. As a multi-
ethnic,  multi-religious  and  multilingual  country,
Indonesia  embraces 
tolerance  and
understanding through dialogue. The Year was marked
by  a  peaceful  transition  of  power  and  a  further
strengthening  of  the  democratic  process  in  Indonesia
the  need 
for 
13
A/56/PV.41
and  the  beginning  of  a  more  stable  era.  We  therefore
fully subscribe to the basic principle that the necessary
political  will  must  be  exercised  to  ensure  a  dialogue
among the groups concerned in society and that it must
be  carried  out  at  the  local,  national,  regional  and
international  levels.  Moreover,  the  dialogue  among
civilizations  should  become  a  soft  tool  of  diplomacy
that will ultimately prove cost effective and successful
in  our  joint  efforts  to  prevent,  combat  and  eradicate
conflict, violence and terrorism.
in  Aceh, 
Our  own  political  problems 
the
Maluccas  and  Irian  Jaya  provinces  are  being  duly
addressed 
through  dialogue.  The  Government  of
Indonesia  does  encourage  a  free  exchange  of  views
through a free press. Various groups in our society are
working together to solve the problems of globalization
and economic uncertainty. Dialogue is alive and well in
Indonesia.
Integral to that effort is the contribution made by
non-governmental  organizations  in  particular,  and  by
members of civil society. It is our experience that these
bodies  can  be  effectively  utilized  as  venues  for
representing  different
dialogue  between  groups 
constituencies  and  as  mechanisms 
for  building
confidence and trust.
Indonesia is also of the view that it is imperative
to have such a dialogue at the regional level, where it
can  contribute  to  confidence-building  measures  and
create  an  atmosphere  of  understanding.  I  would  recall
that the Declaration of the Tehran seminar on dialogue
among civilizations did emphasize, among other things,
that 
our  mutual
understanding  and  knowledge  about  different  cultures,
should  enhance  cooperation  in  addressing  threats  to
global peace, security and well-being, and should
dialogue 
enhance 
the 
can 
enrich  the  promotion  and  protection  of  all  human
rights.
At  the  global  level,  Indonesia’s  commitment  to
the  dialogue  among  civilizations 
is  appropriately
reflected  in  our  co-sponsorship  of  the  Global  Agenda
and its Programme of Action. The task now is to ensure
the  necessary  financial  resources  are  made
that 
available  for  a  successful 
the
Programme.
implementation  of 
My  delegation  joins  others  in  the  belief  that  the
United Nations is the natural home of the dialogue and
the  only  multilateral  forum  where  it  can  flourish  and
manifest  itself  in  genuine  and  concrete  achievements.
Through the framework of the United Nations, we are
confident  that  the  dialogue  among  civilizations  will
become the new paradigm of international relations for
the twenty-first century.
this  Organization 
Our  commitment  to  the  venue  of  the  United
Nations  for  this  purpose  is,  we  believe,  vindicated  by
the 
tragic  events  of  11  September  2001.  The
tremendous  loss  of  life  and  the  subsequent  unfolding
events  lend  added  importance  and  urgency  to  the  role
of 
internationally
acceptable solutions to issues of peace and security and
in promoting development, in full conformity with the
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter.
Indonesia  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the
success  of  that  effort  and  to  the  success  of  a  dialogue
among civilizations.
seeking 
in 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on this item for this meeting. We
shall  continue  to  hear  speakers  in  the  debate  on  this
item tomorrow morning at 10 a.m.
The meeting rose at 4.50 p.m.
14
