United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
32nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 30 October 2001, 10 a.m.
New York

A/56/PV.32
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. Ismat
Kittani, President of the General Assembly at its
thirty-sixth session
The  President:  Before  we  take  up  the  items  on
our agenda for this morning, it is my sad duty to inform
members  of  the  Assembly  of  the  recent  death  of  His
Excellency Mr. Ismat Kittani, a national of Iraq.
its 
Mr.  Kittani  was  President  of 
thirty-sixth  session 
the  General
Assembly  at 
in  1981.  In
addition,  Mr.  Kittani  was  a  well-known  diplomat  who
served  his  country  in  a  number  of  very  important
positions.
Mr.  Kittani  also  had  a  long  and  distinguished
career  at  the  United  Nations,  having  served  previous
Secretaries-General  at  various  intervals  as  Assistant
Secretary-General,  Chef  de  Cabinet  and  Special
Adviser,  as  well  as  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General  on  some  highly  sensitive  missions.
A  skilful  diplomat  and  negotiator,  he  will  be
remembered for his dedication and commitment to the
ideals and principles of the United Nations.
On behalf of the General Assembly, I should like
to convey our deepest condolences to the Government
and  people  of  Iraq  and  to  the  bereaved  family  of
Mr. Kittani.
I now invite representatives to stand and observe
a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His
Excellency Mr. Kittani.
The members of the General Assembly observed a
minute of silence.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Deputy Secretary-General.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  We  have
gathered  to  pay  tribute  to  an  unforgettable  member  of
our United Nations family. Ismat Kittani was a friend,
colleague,  mentor  and  inspiration  to  countless  people.
He  was  loved  by  those  who  knew  him,  and  respected
by  all  who  came  in  contact  with  him.  For  several
decades  our  Organization  benefited  from  his  wisdom,
experience  and  diplomatic  skills  as  well  as  his  human
warmth and kindness.
the  United  Nations  — 
term  as  President  of 
Both  in  the  service  of  his  country  and  as  an
including  a
official  of 
distinguished 
the  General
Assembly  at  its  thirty-sixth  session  —  he  was  an
accomplished diplomat, combining the discretion of the
international  civil  servant  with  an  intimate  knowledge
of the intergovernmental process. He brought skill and
judgement to any assignment, no matter how sensitive.
He  brought  professionalism  and  objectivity  to  all  his
work,  no  matter  how  arduous.  Equally  important,  he
brought  a  great  deal  of  warmth  and  humour  to  this
House.
When  Ismat  Kittani  retired  from  the  staff  of  the
Organization, he said in his farewell remarks that none
of us is forced to work for the United Nations, that we
do so because we believe in its ideals. He was someone
who helped us all sustain that belief, and who made our
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-60867 (E)
*0160867*
A/56/PV.32
work  here  even  more  rewarding.  As  we  express  our
condolences today to his family and loved ones, let us
also give thanks for the example he gave all of us. Let
us be inspired by it as we confront the many challenges
ahead.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of the Sudan, who will speak on behalf of the African
States.
Mr. Rahmtalla  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
General Assembly gathers this morning to eulogize the
late Ismat Kittani. The record of his life is replete with
distinguished  and  abundant  diplomatic  activity  and
achievement. He was the representative of his country,
Iraq. He began his long, rich career as a diplomat in the
Iraqi  Foreign  Ministry,  and  he  worked  as 
the
Permanent Representative of his country to the United
Nations  here  in  New  York  and  at  its  European  seat  in
Geneva. He was a Deputy Foreign Minister of Iraq, and
had 
the  General
Assembly at its thirty-sixth session.
the  privilege  of  presiding  over 
We  also  recall  the  distinguished  performance  by
Mr.  Kittani  of  his  tasks  and  responsibilities  as  a
distinguished,  eminent  and  responsible  official  of  this
Organization.  He  was  the  Chef  de  Cabinet  of  five
Secretaries-General.  He  proved  his  ability  and
demonstrated  distinguished  achievement,  and  he
managed  to  imbue  multilateral  diplomacy  with  his
wide experience.
We  on  the  African  continent  remember  with
gratitude and appreciation Mr. Kittani when he worked
as  the  Special  Representative  of  the  then  Secretary-
General  to  Somalia  in  1992,  in  very  sensitive  and
complicated circumstances.
As they join the rest of the international family in
conveying its condolences on the death of Mr. Kittani,
the  members  of  the  African  Group  pray  that  his  soul
may  reside  in  paradise  and  ask  God  to  grant  patience
and comfort to his family and to his many friends. We
are of God, and to God we return.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of  Sri  Lanka,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Asian
States.
Mr. De Saram (Sri Lanka): I have the honour on
behalf of the Asian Group to speak this morning in the
Assembly’s 
life  and  memory  of
Ambassador Ismat Kittani. Although I had the pleasure
of  meeting  Ambassador  Kittani  on  a  few  occasions,  I
tribute 
to 
the 
2
would  not  say  that  I  knew  him  well.  But  in  preparing
my  remarks  this  morning  I  spoke  to  a  few  who  were
among  his  closest  friends.  Of  his  personal  qualities,
above  all  else,  they  spoke  with  feeling  of  his  poise
without pretension, his kindness and his humour, of his
deep  personal  loyalties  and  his  helpfulness  to  many.
Some of those with whom I spoke said that they would
not be where they were today — and, like Ambassador
Kittani,  they  have  had  distinguished  careers  at  the
United  Nations  —  had  it  not  been  for  the  unusually
kind  and  unexpected  assistance  they  received  from
Ambassador Kittani along the way.
His  was  an  agile,  inventive  and  flexible  mind,
they  said:  so  suitable  to  what  we  do  at  the  United
Nations. He used to do the New York Times crossword
puzzle  every  day,  a  friend  recalled.  What  that  friend
most  remembered  about  Ambassador  Kittani  was  that,
notwithstanding his elegance, he had the extraordinary
ability to speak to everyone in the same direct, simple
way.
Ambassador  Kittani’s  career  at 
the  United
Nations  was,  of  course,  one  of  the  most  distinguished
there ever was. He served as Permanent Representative
of  his  country,  both  at  the  United  Nations  Office  at
Geneva and at Headquarters here in New York. He had
a  knowledge  of  the  United  Nations  system  that  was
unequalled;  he  had  held  more  than  one  high  office  in
its agencies. He was a close adviser to five Secretaries-
General  and  Chef  de  Cabinet  to  one,  and,  of  course,
was a former President of the General Assembly.
There will be few like him, I think, that we shall
meet in the United Nations community. His was a life
of  extraordinary  dimension;  his  service  to  the  United
Nations  and  to  its  purposes  was  devoted.  Ambassador
Kittani will be long remembered at the United Nations,
and  there  will  be  many  around  the  world  who  will  be
deeply saddened to learn that he has now left us.
To Ambassador Mohammed A. Aldouri and to his
colleagues  in  the  delegation  of  Iraq,  and,  through
Ambassador  Aldouri  to  the  family  of  Ambassador
Kittani,  I  wish  on  behalf  of  all  the  members  of  the
Asian Group to convey the deepest sympathy.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of  Georgia,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Eastern
European States.
Mr. Volski (Georgia): As Chairman of the Group
of Eastern European States for the month of October, I
should like to express our deep sorrow at the passing of
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ismat  Kittani,  who  served  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  thirty-sixth
session.  We  share  with  his  family,  with  his  friends,
with  the  people  of  Iraq  and  with  the  United  Nations
grief at the loss of a distinguished diplomat and United
Nations  official  who  worked  tirelessly  to  bring  peace
and prosperity to his people as well as to the people of
Somalia, whom he served during his tenure as Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for Somalia.
session,  Mr.  Kittani 
As  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
thirty-sixth 
demonstrated
outstanding  leadership  in  guiding  the  work  of  the
Assembly through the complex challenges of the cold-
war era.  He  will  always  be  remembered  for  his  vision
and for his dedication to making that vision come true.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of  Haiti,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Latin
American and Caribbean States.
to 
request 
Mr.  Lelong  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my
sad  duty  today,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin
American  and  Caribbean  States, 
the
Permanent  Mission  of  Iraq  to  the  United  Nations  to
transmit  to  its  Government,  to  its  people  and  to  the
bereaved  family  our  sincere  condolences  and  deep
sympathy  on  the  death  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ismat
Kittani.  It  is  fitting  that  the  General  Assembly  is
paying  homage  to  the  memory  of  a  citizen  who  not
only  served  his  country  in  an  exemplary  manner  in
various  posts  in  its  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs —
including  as  Under-Secretary  and  as  Permanent
Representative of Iraq to the United Nations — but was
also  distinguished  by  his  tangible  contribution  to  the
prestige  and  the  success  of  the  United  Nations,  where
in the course of his long career he served, inter alia, as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  thirty-sixth
session,  as  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General  for  Somalia  and  Chef  de  Cabinet  to  the
Secretary-General.
His  was  a  life  of  dedication,  responsibility  and
success. May his soul rest in peace.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of  Ireland,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Western
European and other States.
Ms.  Murnaghan  (Ireland):  On  behalf  of  the
Group of Western European and other States, I wish to
add our voice to the expressions of appreciation offered
A/56/PV.32
here today with respect to the life and memory of Ismat
Kittani.  Mr.  Kittani  had  a  distinguished  career  at  the
United Nations. He is remembered for his distinguished
service in the General Assembly, where he served both
in front of the podium and behind it. He was President
of the General Assembly during its thirty-sixth session,
and he also served the United Nations as director of the
executive  office  of  Secretary-General  U  Thant  and  as
Chef  de  Cabinet  to  Secretary-General  Kurt  Waldheim.
In  all,  Mr.  Kittani  served  five  Secretaries-General  and
was entrusted by them with many sensitive missions.
Particular mention should be made of his role as
Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for
Somalia 
the  early  1990s  and  as  Special
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the  Fourth
World Conference on Women, held at Beijing in 1995.
He fulfilled those roles with great distinction.
in 
We extend  our  sincere  condolences  to  his  family
and his friends, and ask also that the condolences of the
Group  of  Western  European  and  other  States  be
conveyed,  by  the  Mission  of  Iraq,  to  the  Government
and the people of Iraq.
The  President:  I  call  now  on  the  representative
of the United States of America.
Ms.  Marcus  (United  States  of  America):  On
behalf  of  the  United  States,  in  sympathetic  solidarity
with  our  friends  and  colleagues  in  the  United  Nations
community, I come before the Assembly to honour the
memory of the late Assistant Secretary-General, Ismat
Kittani, 
the  General
Assembly.
thirty-sixth  President  of 
the 
respected 
Mr.  Kittani  was  a 
international
diplomat,  known  for  his  commitment  to  the  United
Nations over a long and distinguished career. He made
important  contributions 
the  United  Nations
Secretariat  as  Secretary  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council;  Director  of  the  Executive  Office  of  the
Secretary-General;  Deputy  to  the  Assistant  Secretary-
General 
Inter-Agency  Affairs;  and  Assistant
Secretary-General.
to 
for 
That Mr. Kittani diligently sought peace and well-
being for the nations of the world is clearly evidenced
by  his  work  with  the  World  Health  Organization,  the
World  Health  Assembly  and  the  International  Labour
Organization,  and  as  President  of  the  Second  Review
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
3
A/56/PV.32
The  United  States  mourns 
the
distinguished diplomat Mr. Ismat Kittani, and honours
his  commitment  to  the  noble  aims  of  the  United
Nations.
loss  of 
the 
Mr.  Aldouri  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should
like at the outset to thank you, Mr. President, for giving
us  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute,  here  in  the  General
Assembly  Hall,  to  the  memory  of  the  late  Mr.  Ismat
Kittani.
The  late  Mr.  Ismat  Kittani  was  one  of  a  small
number of distinguished Iraqi citizens who served their
country  in  many  capacities.  He  began  his  career  in
1952 in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iraq, where
he  became  well  known,  and  is  still  remembered,  for
noble  qualities  and  for  his  important,  distinguished
work. Mr. Kittani continued to be promoted within the
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  becoming  Permanent
Representative  of  Iraq  to  the  European  Office  of  the
United Nations in Geneva, as well as representing Iraq
at  Headquarters  here  in  New  York.  He  achieved  the
position  of  Deputy  Foreign  Minister  of 
Iraq,
represented the Iraqi Government in many international
activities and was nominated by the Iraqi Government
for  the  position  of  President  of  the  General  Assembly
at its thirty-sixth session in 1982.
It is well known that the late Mr. Kittani was an
outstanding  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  and
made  a  lasting  impression  on  the  delegations  of  many
countries,  as  well  as  in  the  Secretariat.  It  is  also  well
known  that  the  late  Mr.  Kittani  held  very  important
positions 
the  Organization,
representing  the  Secretary-General  on  important  and
special international missions. He will be remembered
for the unique characteristics of his personality and his
diplomatic and great social skills. He believed fully in
the United Nations and its noble and lofty objectives.
the  Secretariat  of 
in 
In  paying  tribute  to  Mr.  Kittani’s  memory,  the
Deputy  Secretary-General 
to  his  many
personal  qualities,  and  I  would  like  to  extend  my
gratitude  and  thanks  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-General
for her eulogy.
referred 
In conclusion, I thank all those who have offered
condolences  to  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Iraq  to  the
United  Nations  in  New  York  and  to  me  personally.
Again, I thank you, Mr. President, for this tribute. May
God Almighty have mercy on the late Mr. Kittani and
preserve his soul. Verily, we are unto God and to Him
we return.
4
The President: That concludes our tribute to the
memory of His Excellency Mr. Ismat Kittani, President
of the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
(b) Election of eighteen members of the Economic
and Social Council
The  President: For  the  record,  the  complete
results of the round of balloting held at the 31st plenary
meeting  on  Friday,  26  October  2001,  to  elect  18
members  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  are  as
follows:
Group A — African States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Burundi
Ghana
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
Zimbabwe
Zambia
Congo
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Gabon
Gambia
Group B — Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
177
0
177
4
173
116
170
168
163
162
2
1
1
1
1
177
1
176
0
176
118
146
Bhutan
145
India
142
Qatar
China
134
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 64
Myanmar
56
1
Indonesia
Lebanon
1
Group C — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
177
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Hungary
Ukraine
Russian Federation
the former Yugoslav Republic of 
Macedonia
3
Group D — Latin American and Caribbean States
177
Number of ballot papers:
0
Number of invalid ballots:
177
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
0
177
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
118
Number of votes obtained:
Chile
El Salvador
Guatemala
Haiti
Ecuador
Grenada
Nicaragua
Panama
Trinidad and Tobago
Group E — Western European and other States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
177
1
176
8
168
112
Australia
Finland
United Kingdom
Sweden
168
167
167
165
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
Australia,  Bhutan,  Burundi,  Chile,  China,  El
Salvador,  Finland,  Ghana,  Guatemala,  Hungary,
India,  the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Qatar,  the
Russian Federation, Sweden, Ukraine, the United
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland
and  Zimbabwe  were  elected  members  of  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  a  three-year
term of office beginning on 1 January 2002.
1
176
3
173
116
170
168
161
140
135
125
108
3
1
1
1
1
A/56/PV.32
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Adoption of the agenda and allocation of items
Second report of the General Committee
(A/56/250/Add.1)
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of  representatives  to  the  second  report  of  the  General
Committee (A/56/250/Add.1), concerning a request by
a  number  of  Member  States  for  the  inclusion  of  an
additional item in the agenda. In the report, the General
Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General
Assembly  that  an  additional  item,  entitled  “United
Nations  Year  of  Cultural  Heritage  2002”,  be  included
in the agenda of the current session.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to  include  this  additional  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  General  Committee  further
decided  to  recommend  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the  additional  item  be  considered  directly  in  plenary
meeting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides
to consider this item directly in plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 13
Report of the International Court of Justice
Report of the International Court of Justice
(A/56/4)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/456)
The  President: The  report  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice  covering  the  period  from  1  August
2000 to 31 July 2001 is contained in document A/56/4.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes
note of the report of the International Court of Justice?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Gilbert
Guillaume,  President  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice.
5
A/56/PV.32
Mr.  Guillaume  (International  Court  of  Justice)
(spoke in French): It is an honour for me to address the
General Assembly for the second time on the occasion
of  its  examination  of  the  report  of  the  International
Court of Justice — in this case, for the period 1 August
2000 to 31 July 2001.
The  fact  that  the  Assembly  has  for  more  than  a
decade invited the President of the Court to address it
is  evidence  of  the  interest  it  takes  in  the  Court  as  the
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  and  its
respect  for  the  role  played  by  the  Court  in  the
settlement  of  disputes  between  States  and  in  the
development  of  international  law.  We  are  extremely
grateful to the Assembly for this.
I am particularly pleased to address the Assembly
today  under  the  presidency  of  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic
of Korea, to whom I offer my warm congratulations on
his  election.  He  has  my  sincerest  wishes  for  every
success in his distinguished office.
The  Court  has,  as  usual,  transmitted  its  annual
report to the Assembly; this report has been circulated,
and  the  Assembly  has  taken  note  of  it.  The  report
shows that the Court’s docket is still extremely full and
that it continues to work at an unflagging pace. At this
time, the Court has 22 cases before it for consideration.
These cases come from every continent and touch
on  an  extremely  wide  range  of  issues.  Three  of  them
concern 
territorial  disputes  between  neighbouring
States: Cameroon and Nigeria, Indonesia and Malaysia,
Nicaragua  and  Honduras.  These  are  complex  disputes
in which the Court has played and will continue to play
a  prominent 
the
maintenance of international peace and security.
thereby  contributing 
role, 
to 
Another  classic  type  of  dispute  involves  cases
between  States  concerning  the  treatment  of  foreign
nationals. There are two cases in this category: the first
between  Guinea  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  and  the  second  between  Liechtenstein  and
Germany.
Finally, there are other cases linked more directly
to events that the Assembly or the Security Council has
had  to  examine,  such  as  the  destruction  of  Iranian  oil
platforms  by  the  United  States  in  1987  and  1988;  the
consequences  of  the  explosion  of  an  American  civil
aircraft over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1992; the crises in
6
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo; and the situation
in the African Great Lakes region.
In the course of the past year the Court has made
particular efforts to address this increase in the number
of  disputes  before  it.  In  all,  it  has  succeeded  in
concluding  four  cases,  while  three  new  cases  were
brought  before  it.  On  those  occasions  it  delivered
important decisions, about which I should now  like  to
speak for a few moments.
In  a  judgment  rendered  on  16  March  2001,  the
Court  began  by  adjudicating  on  the  merits  of  a
territorial  dispute  between  Qatar  and  Bahrain.  That
judgment brought to a conclusion lengthy proceedings
involving  the  filing  by  the  parties  of  more  than  6,000
pages of written pleadings, five weeks of oral hearings
and  deliberations  that  were  commensurate  with  the
difficulties that the Court encountered.
The  Court  found  that  the  State  of  Bahrain  has
sovereignty  over  the  Hawar  Islands  and  the  island  of
Qit’at  Jaradah.  It  recognized  the  sovereignty  of  the
State of Qatar over Zubarah, Janan Island and the low-
tide  elevation  of  Fasht  al  Dibal.  In  the  light  of  these
decisions,  it  fixed  the  boundaries  of  the  different
maritime zones appertaining to Bahrain and Qatar and
restated  the  law  applicable  in  this  field.  It  also
explained the influence that islands, islets and low-tide
elevations may have on maritime delimitations.
The  judgment  thus  handed  down  brought  an  end
to a long-standing dispute that had given rise to serious
tension between the parties. Both of them thanked the
Court for this contribution to peace in the region and to
the  restoration  of  friendly  relations  between  two
neighbouring States. The Court took particular pleasure
in this and hopes that the wisdom that the two countries
displayed  in  this  instance  will  serve  as  an  example  to
others.
in 
the  United  States  of 
In  the  judicial  year  which  has  just  come  to  a
close, a second judgment was handed down on 27 June
2001, settling the merits of a dispute between Germany
and  the  United  States  of  America  following  the
execution 
two  German
nationals.  In  its  decision,  the  Court  had  occasion  to
clarify certain provisions of the Vienna Convention on
Consular  Relations  of  24  April  1963.  Further,  for  the
first time in its history, the Court took the opportunity
to  give  a  clear  ruling  on  the  effect  of  the  provisional
measures which it has the power to indicate to parties
pursuant to article 41 of its Statute.
This  issue  —  a  delicate  one  —  had  been  the
subject  of  lively  controversy  in  the  literature  as  to
whether or not a provisional measure is binding.
By a very large majority, the Court answered this
question in the affirmative. It held that:
“The object and purpose of the Statute is to
enable  the  Court  to  fulfil  the  functions  provided
for  therein,  and,  in  particular,  the  basic  function
of judicial settlement of international disputes by
binding decisions in accordance with article 59 of
the Statute. The context in which article 41 has to
be seen within the Statute is to prevent the Court
from  being  hampered  in  the  exercise  of  its
functions  because  the  respective  rights  of  the
parties  to  a  dispute  before  the  Court  are  not
preserved. It follows from the object and purpose
of the Statute, as well as from the terms of article
41  when  read  in  their  context,  that  the  power  to
indicate  provisional  measures  entails  that  such
measures should be binding.”
Thus there is no longer any room for doubt. The
provisional  measures  indicated  as  a  matter  of  urgency
by the Court for the purpose of safeguarding the rights
of 
them.  The  Court
anticipates  that  in  future  these  measures  will,  as  a
result,  be  better  executed  than  when  the  matter  was
subject to doubt. We hope that the Court’s contribution
to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security
will thereby be enhanced.
the  parties  are  binding  on 
Having  analysed  the  two  most  important  rulings
handed down by the Court over the last year, I will not
go  into  detail  on  the  other  rulings  handed  down  or  on
the 32 orders, ranging widely in content, that have been
issued.
However, I should add that, since the drafting of
the  report  —  concluded  on  1  July  2001  —  the  Court
has dealt with three further cases. First, on 23 October,
it  delivered  a  ruling  rejecting  an  application  by  the
Philippines  for  permission  to  intervene  in  a  territorial
dispute  between  Malaysia  and  Indonesia,  while  at  the
same 
the  Philippine
position.
taking  formal  note  of 
time 
Secondly, 
submitted  by  Uganda  against 
it  commenced  consideration  of  a
counterclaim 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Thirdly,  it  held  a
public  hearing  in  a  case  between  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Belgium  concerning  the
A/56/PV.32
legality of an international arrest warrant issued a year
ago  by  a  Belgian  investigating  judge  against  the  then
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Congo.  Finally,  at
the  beginning  of  next  year 
it  will  commence
consideration  of  the  dispute  between  Cameroon  and
Nigeria, devoting five weeks of public hearings to the
case.
Despite  these  efforts,  the  Court’s  docket  remains
overburdened.  Several  cases  are  ready  to  be  heard
during  2002,  and  solutions  will  have  to  be  found  in
order  to  avoid  excessive  delays  in  examining  these
cases.
The  Court  has  attempted  to  meet  this  challenge
by  rationalizing  work  within  the  Registry  and  by
modernizing  its  working  and  communication  methods.
Major progress has been made, notably with regard to
publications 
and
Internet.  However,  further  progress  is  needed,  for
example, in modernizing the Court’s archives, and the
Registry has taken this matter in hand.
communications, 
Intranet 
and 
to  pleadings  and 
The  Court  has  also  made  efforts  to  improve  its
procedures. As regards the preparation of cases, it has
sought  increased  cooperation  from  the  parties  in  the
functioning  of  justice.  In  particular,  it  has  again
informed  them  of  its  desire  to  see  a  decrease  in  the
number  of  pleadings  exchanged,  in  the  volume  of
annexes 
length  of  oral
arguments. The Court’s comments have had the desired
effect  in  the  new  cases  brought  before  it.  Thus,  in  the
case  between  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo
and  Belgium,  the  parties  agreed  to  exchange  only  one
series  of  written  pleadings  and  to  limit  their  oral
arguments  to  one  week.  However,  old  habits  die  hard,
and  it  has  been  necessary  in  other  cases  to  impose
certain restrictions on the parties in their own interest.
the 
in 
Since 1997, the Court has taken several measures
with a view to speeding up its deliberations — a fact to
which I drew the Assembly’s attention last year. It has
continued 
efforts.  The  days  when  our
predecessors  dealt  with  cases  one  at  a  time  are  long
gone.  In  the  week  of  15  October,  for  example,  the
Court deliberated on two cases while holding hearings
in a third.
these 
Finally,  the  Court  has  recently  taken  various
decisions to improve its procedural rules. By amending
rule 79 of its rules, it has reduced the time-limit within
which  preliminary  objections  may  be  raised.  It  has
revised rule 80 of its rules in respect of counter-claims
7
A/56/PV.32
and  amended  rule  52,  paragraph  3,  concerning  the
printing  of  pleadings.  It  proposes  amending  rule  56
concerning  the  production  of  new  documents  after  the
closure  of  written  proceedings.  It  has  carried  out  a
detailed  study  of  the  practical  issues  involved  in
hearing  a  large  number  of  witnesses.  Finally,  it  has
decided  to  convert  various  indications  formerly  given
to  parties 
true  practice  directions  and  has
implemented 
those
a  procedure 
directions at regular intervals.
reviewing 
into 
for 
these 
efforts, 
various 
However, 
both
administrative  and  procedural,  would  not  be  sufficient
in themselves to redress the situation. Accordingly, last
year,  I  appealed  to  the  Assembly  to  ensure  that  the
Court might in future have the necessary financial and
human resources to perform its duties properly.
increase 
Being  well  aware  of  the  financial  difficulties  of
the  United  Nations,  the  Court  has  requested  for  the
coming  biennium  only  a  moderate 
in
resources. The Advisory Committee on Administrative
and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ) has considered our
proposals  sympathetically.  While  it  has  not  agreed  to
all our requests, it has nonetheless recommended to the
General Assembly a significant increase in our budget
from  $20,606,700  for  the  biennium  2000-2001  to
$22,873,500  for  the  coming  biennium:  an  increase  of
11  per  cent.  The  Court  is  grateful  to  the  Advisory
Committee  and  hopes  that  these  proposals  will  meet
with your agreement.
If that is the case, the staff in the Registry of the
International Court of Justice would be increased to 91
persons.  This  figure  is  still  modest,  but  the  increase
will  certainly  enable  the  Court  to  work  under  better
conditions and achieve improved results in the coming
year.  In  the  light  of  experience,  the  Court  will
determine  whether  these  resources,  particularly  in
respect  of  the  translation  service  and  law  clerks,  are
sufficient. In any event, the Assembly can rest assured
that,  with  the  new  resources  at  its  disposal,  the  Court
will  do  its  utmost  to  adjudicate  the  current  cases  as
expeditiously as possible, while maintaining the quality
of its jurisprudence.
The  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  have
undertaken,  pursuant  to  Article  33  of  the  Charter,  to
seek by peaceful means the solution to any dispute the
continuance  of  which 
the
maintenance of international peace and security. Article
36, paragraph 3, provides that legal disputes should be
to  endanger 
likely 
is 
8
referred  by  the  parties  to  the  International  Court  of
Justice in accordance with the provisions of the Statute
of  the  Court.  The  Court  thus  has  a  prominent  role  to
play in the solution of legal disputes and hence in the
maintenance of international peace and security.
However,  the  progress  noted  in  this  respect  in
recent years should not lead us to harbour the illusion
that peace between nations can be assured by methods
appropriate for the settlement of legal disputes, or even
that  it  is  for  the  Court  to  prevent  and  put  an  end  to
armed conflicts. The Court cannot be the sole guarantor
of peace. That is a task which depends on action taken
by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.
Furthermore, in addition to these various mechanisms,
we should always remain conscious of the fact that war
is,  first  and  foremost,  the  creation  of  the  human  spirit
and that security can be achieved only through human
endeavour.
territorial  conflicts,  as 
Nevertheless,  the  International  Court  of  Justice
can  play  an  important  role  in  preventing  conflicts,
particularly 
the  experience
gained  by  the  Court  in  all  continents  demonstrates.  In
this light, I would particularly wish to encourage States
which have such disputes to refer those disputes to the
Court by way of special agreement. The Court is aware
that certain States in Africa, in Europe and in Asia are
considering  such  action  at  the  present  time,  and  it
welcomes that fact.
to 
the  special  fund  established  by 
In  this  connection,  I  would  moreover  call  your
attention 
the
Secretary-General  in  1989  to  assist  States  unable  to
meet  the  expenses  incurred  in  submitting  a  dispute  to
the  Court.  While  addressing  the  Assembly  from  this
very  rostrum,  my  predecessors  were  concerned  to
emphasize the importance of such a fund for countries
with limited financial resources. They also encouraged
those  States  which  are  able  to  make  more  generous
contributions  to  this  fund  to  do  so  by  increasing  the
resources  at  its  disposal.  With  the  permission  of  the
Assembly,  I  should  like  to  add  my  voice  to  theirs  and
to  reiterate  this  appeal  to  all  Member  States  and  call
upon them to support this fund financially with a view
to  enabling  the  poorest  States  to  have  easier  access  to
the Court. Access to international justice should not be
impeded by financial inequality.
The  nineteenth  century  was  the  century  that  saw
the  development  of  international  law  and  arbitration.
International 
the
judicial  settlement  was  born 
in 
the  Permanent  Court  of
twentieth  century  with 
International  Justice,  which 
the
International Court of Justice. Since then, international
tribunals have proliferated.
in  1945  became 
diplomatic and human abilities, as well as his services
to  the  international  community.  I  would  therefore  like
to  extend  the  deepest  sympathy  of  the  delegation  of
Peru to his family and to the delegation of Iraq.
A/56/PV.32
This  phenomenon  reflects  greater  confidence  in
justice  and  makes  it  possible  for  international  law  to
develop  in  ever  more  varied  spheres.  However,  it  also
raises  the  risk  of  parties  competing  for  courts —
sometimes  referred  to  as  “forum  shopping”  —  and
conflicting  jurisprudence.  Each  year,  for  the  last  six
years,  successive  presidents  of  the  Court  have  called
the  Assembly’s  attention  to  these  risks  which  on
several occasions have since been realized.
I  am  bound  to  do  so  again.  The  proliferation  of
international  courts  may 
the  unity  of
international  law  and,  as  a  consequence,  its  role  in
inter-State relations.
jeopardize 
No  new  international  court  should  be  created
without  first  questioning  whether  the  duties  which  the
international legislator intends to confer on it could not
be better performed by an existing court. International
courts  should  be  aware  of  the  dangers  involved  in  the
fragmentation of the law and take efforts to avoid such
dangers.  However,  those  efforts  may  not  be  enough,
and the International Court of Justice, the only judicial
body vested with universal and general jurisdiction, has
a  role  to  play  in  this  area.  For  the  purpose  of
maintaining  the  unity  of  the  law,  the  various  existing
courts or those yet to be created could, in my opinion,
be 
indeed
encouraged —  to  request  advisory  opinions  from  the
International Court of Justice through the intermediary
of 
the  General
Assembly.
the  Security  Council  or 
empowered 
through 
in 
certain 
cases  — 
First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  Judge  Gilbert
Guillaume,  President  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice, for his clear statement on the work of the Court
for the period from August 2000 through July 2001.
Although  my  country  has  a  long  tradition  of
respect for the law, in recent times Peruvians were able
to  experience  up  close  how  an  elected  Government
tried to destroy democratic institutions and the rule of
law and to subjugate the political rights of its citizens.
Fortunately,  that  sombre  episode  has  been  overcome
with  the  re-establishment  of  genuine  democracy  and
the  rule  of  law  in  Peru.  However,  the  unpleasant
experience  of  seeing  an  elected  Government  destroy
democratic  institutions  has  served  to  strengthen  our
belief in the need to observe the rule of law and justice
as  necessary  conditions  for  social  harmony  and
economic development.
This  conviction 
the
international  scene.  The  viability  of  the  international
community  depends  on  a  genuine  commitment  by
States to respect international law and to seek solutions
to  their  disputes  through  juridical  means.  In  this
connection,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  has  a
great task to accomplish in the twenty-first century, not
only  with  regard  to  resolving  various  differences  but
also  in  producing  the  precedents  that  are  a  valuable
element  in  the  process  of  the  progressive  codifying  of
international  law  and  in  the  preventive  character
implicit in the law. The same also applies to the various
advisory opinions that have been issued by the Court.
is  also  applicable 
to 
International  society  needs  peace.  International
society needs judges to watch over the law. To that end,
the  Assembly  can  rest  assured  that  the  International
Court  of  Justice  will  continue  to  perform  the  duties  it
currently bears, and that it is ready to fulfil other duties
that  may  be  entrusted  to  it.  The  Court  expresses  its
gratitude for any assistance the Assembly may be able
to give it.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the
International Court of Justice for his statement.
Mr. De Rivero (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): As the
first speaker, and having personally known Mr. Kittani,
allow  me  to  say  that  I  was  witness  to  his  great
It  is  in  that  context  that  the  annual  report  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice 
takes  on  special
importance,  especially  as  we  have  witnessed  in  shock
the  disastrous  consequences  of  the  lack  of  peaceful
solutions  to  the  disputes  on  the  current  international
scene. We  are  therefore  pleased  that  during  the  period
under  consideration  26  cases  were  submitted  to  the
jurisdiction of the Court.
We  welcome  the  settlement  of  the  long-standing
territorial  and  maritime  dispute  between  Qatar  and
Bahrain regarding sovereignty over the Hawar Islands,
sovereignty  rights  over  the  Dibal  and  Qit’at  Jaradah
shoals, and the delimitation of the maritime areas of the
two  States.  In  addition  to  resolving  the  dispute,  the
9
A/56/PV.32
decision  has  established  important  legal  precedents
with  regard  to  innocent  passage,  emerging  insular
surfaces and maritime delimitation.
(Republic  of  Moldova),  Vice-
Mr.  Botnaru 
President, took the Chair.
The  Court  also  issued  a  decision  regarding  a
substantive  issue  between  Germany  and  the  United
States  on  the  execution  of  the  LaGrand  brothers.  That
decision also produced valuable legal precedents on the
juridical  effects  of  the  provisional  measures  provided
for in article 41 of the Court’s Statute. We hope that the
22  contentious  cases  still  pending  will  also  find  a
definitive solution soon.
We  very  much  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the
International Court of Justice to rationalize its work, as
well  as  its  growing  use  of  information  technology  to
that end. The web site established by the Court several
years ago continues to compile information of value to
law  students,  persons  working  in  the  legal  field,
diplomats,  legislators  and  the  general  public.  We  also
welcome the review of the Court’s rules to make them
more efficient and flexible. It is important not  only  to
provide justice; it must be done in a timely manner.
However,  despite  the  important  administrative
efforts  made  by  the  Court,  there  is  a  significant
logistical  problem,  namely,  the  lack  of  necessary
budgetary  resources  for  a  growing  procedural  load.
This situation must be duly remedied to be in line with
the  privileged  position  conferred  upon  the  Court  by
Article  92  of  the  Charter  as  the  “principal  judicial
organ of the United Nations”, and to ensure the Court’s
proper role in the new century.
The  review  of  the  Court’s  regulations,  which  is
aimed  at  making  legal  proceedings  more  streamlined
and  expeditious,  may  also  provide  a  good  opportunity
to  incorporate  changes  designed  to  make  judicial
proceedings  less  onerous  for  both  the  Court  and  the
parties  before  it,  without  affecting  the  right  of  parties
to due process.
The  actual  reach  of  the  Court  is  limited  by  its
Statute, in that States can chose whether or not to place
themselves under its jurisdiction. All necessary efforts
must be made to ensure that its contentious jurisdiction
is extended — ratione persone. To date only 63 States
have  made  declarations  acknowledging  the  mandatory
jurisdiction of the Court, in accordance with article 36,
paragraphs  2  and  5,  of  the  Statute.  The  International
10
Court  of  Justice  will  be  universal  only  if  the  Member
States maintain the genuine will that it be universal in
scope.  The  effectiveness  of  international  law  will
depend  to  a  considerable  extent  on  the  degree  of
effective  commitment  to  the  obligatory  binding  nature
of the Court’s findings.
Peru,  which  has  resolved  its  disputes  peacefully
and  has  resorted  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  twice,
reiterates its appreciation for the International Court of
Justice’s  fundamental  task  of  preserving  peace,  and  it
ratifies its commitment to respect law and justice in its
international  relations  for  the  sake  of  harmonious
relations in the world.
Mr.  Niehaus  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Allow me at the outset to thank the International Court
of  Justice  for 
the  valuable  report  we  are  now
considering and its President, Judge Gilbert Guillaume,
for  his  statement.  We  note  with  satisfaction 
the
substantial  improvements  in  this  document,  which
allows us to appreciate in depth the invaluable work of
this  judicial  organ  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of
disputes.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate  Judge  Nabil  Elaraby  of  Egypt  on  his
recent well-deserved election to this high tribunal.
their  unnecessary  and 
The International Court of Justice has become an
engine  of  peaceful  relations  among  nations.  We  have
seen  how  in  some  cases  legal  disputes  can  deteriorate
into  real  threats  to  peace  or  international  security
because  of 
irresponsible
politicization.  Land  disputes  in  particular  can  easily
lead  to  military  escalation.  The  peaceful  resolution  of
disputes in those cases through the International Court
of  Justice  reduces  tension  and  resolves  definitively
disputes  among  States.  Therefore,  my  delegation  very
much  appreciates  the  contribution  of  the  International
Court of Justice to world stability.
Furthermore,  as  the  main  judicial  organ  of  the
United Nations, the International Court of Justice plays
a  central  role  in  the  progressive  development  of
contemporary international law. Not only does it settle
disputes  among  States  peacefully, 
it  also  has  a
declaratory role in defining international law applicable
to  all  nations.  Its  jurisprudence  in  contentious  cases
and  advisory  opinions  not  only  determines  the  rights
and the obligations of the parties to a conflict, but also
clarifies obscure or controversial areas of law for other
States. We recall and admire the many times the Court
has  taken  progressive  stances  that  have  promoted  and
consolidated the development of the international legal
order.
In  this  context,  I  wish  to  mention  the  extremely
important  findings  of  the  Court  in  the  LaGrand  case,
handed  down  on  27  June  2001.  We  consider  its
interpretation  of  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Consular
Relations  very  appropriate  because  it  recognizes  that
that 
individual
rights  which  all  Member  States  must  respect.  We  also
note  with  satisfaction  its  decision  that  provisional
measures dictated by the Court impose an obligation of
compliance.
instrument  establishes 
international 
their 
the  conduct  of 
Costa  Rica  believes  that  the  substantial  increase
in the number of cases on the Court docket is a positive
indication  of  States’  will  to  submit  to  legal  principles
in 
relations.
Accepting  the  mandatory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court
through  optional  declarations  clearly  demonstrates
good  will. 
In 
the
Government  of 
its
declaration  of  this  kind  made  during  the  period  under
review.
this 
regard,  we  congratulate 
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  on 
international 
Similarly,  we  must  note  our  concern  about  the
existence  and  the  presentation  of  new  reservations  on
voluntary  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  We
call  on  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to
demonstrate  their  commitment  to  the  basic  principles
of  international  law  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of
disputes  by 
the  Court’s  mandatory
jurisdiction and withdrawing the reservations they may
have interjected.
accepting 
My  delegation  is  also  aware  of  the  practical
difficulties  that  the  Court  has  experienced  in  recent
years  as  a  result  of  the  unexpected  increase  in  the
number  of  cases.  Undoubtedly,  we  must  provide  the
Court with the necessary resources and staff to enable
it to discharge obligations arising from this increase in
the  number  of  cases.  In  this  context,  we  cannot  forget
that its budget pales in comparison to the budget of the
ad hoc tribunals established by the Security Council.
That  is  why  we  welcome  the  decision  of  the
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions  to  authorize  an  increase  in  the  number  of
staff  and  the  budget  of  the  Court.  My  delegation  is
prepared to support this decision and to view positively
all  additional  requests  the  Court  may  make  in  the
future.
A/56/PV.32
My 
the 
country 
appreciates 
excellent
dissemination  that  the  Court  achieves  through  its
Internet  web  site.  It  is  an  invaluable  service  for
developing  countries 
sometimes  experience
difficulties accessing the most recent jurisprudence. We
trust that in the future the Court will expand its Internet
web site by including the full text of all its findings and
sentences handed down since its inception. Eventually
the  Court  may  wish  to  include  jurisprudence  from  the
former Permanent Court of International Justice.
that 
The  international  community  is  going  through  a
difficult  period.  It  has  never  been  more  necessary  to
reaffirm  the  rule  of  law  and  the  pre-eminence  of
international  law.  Today  we  must  restate  our  resolute
and  unconditional  commitment 
the  peaceful
resolution of disputes.
to 
embracing 
the 
Today we must reject unilateral action in order to
negotiation,
resolve 
disputes,  while 
dialogue,  mediation  and 
resolution  of
disputes.  This  is  the  only  way  that  we  will  be  able  to
build a more just and peaceful world for the well-being
of all peoples. That is why Costa Rica supports and has
full  confidence 
the
International Court of Justice.
the  excellent  work  of 
legal 
in 
Mr.  Hasmy  (Malaysia):  At 
the  outset,  my
delegation  wishes  to  thank  Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume,
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Court  contained  in
document A/56/4. The comprehensive report contains a
wealth  of  information  about  the  work  of  the  Court.
This 
in
appreciating  the  complexity  of  the  issues  handled  by
the  Court.  Judge  Guillaume’s  oral  presentation  this
morning  was  most  illuminating  and  has  given  us  food
for thought. My delegation would also like to take this
opportunity  to  extend  our  felicitations  to  Judge  Nabil
Elaraby on his recent election.
is  extremely  useful 
to  Member  States 
My  delegation  would  like  to  pay  a  tribute  to  the
Court for its contribution to the peaceful settlement of
international  disputes, 
the  first
purpose of the United Nations enshrined in Article 1 of
the Charter, namely:
in  furtherance  of 
“to  bring  about  by  peaceful  means,  and  in
conformity  with  the  principles  of  justice  and
international  law,  adjustment  or  settlement  of
international  disputes  …  which  might  lead  to  a
breach of the peace”.
11
A/56/PV.32
Undeniably, as the principal judicial organ of the
United Nations, the International Court of Justice has a
tremendous  influence  on  the  promotion  of  peace  and
harmony  between  nations  and  peoples  of  the  world
through  the  rule  of  law.  The  importance  of  its  role  in
settling,  in  accordance  with  international  law,  legal
disputes  submitted  by  States  and  giving  advisory
opinions  on  legal  questions  referred  to  it  by  duly
authorized  international  organs  and  agencies  is  not  to
be taken lightly.
Since 1946 the Court has delivered 72 judgments
on  disputes  concerning,  inter  alia,  land  frontiers  and
maritime  boundaries,  territorial  sovereignty,  the  non-
use of force, non-interference in the internal affairs of
the  right  of  asylum,
States,  diplomatic  relations, 
nationality,  guardianship, 
rights  of  passage  and
economic  rights.  In  the  same  period  it  has  also  given
24  advisory  opinions  concerning,  inter  alia,  admission
to  United  Nations  membership,  reparation  for  injuries
suffered  in  the  service  of  the  United  Nations,  the
territorial  status  of  South-West  Africa  —  now
Namibia —  and  Western  Sahara,  judgements  rendered
by  international  administrative  tribunals,  expenses  of
certain  United  Nations  operations,  applicability  of  the
United  Nations  Headquarters  Agreement,  the  status  of
human rights rapporteurs and the legality of the threat
or  use  of  nuclear  weapons.  Indeed,  the  wisdom  and
fairness  of  this  body  is  evident  from  the  excellent
quality  of  the  judgments  and  opinions  that  it  has
handed  down  and  their  acceptance  by  the  parties
concerned.
It is this confidence in the International Court of
Justice that strengthens Malaysia’s belief that the Court
is the most appropriate forum for the peaceful and final
resolution  of  disputes  when  all  efforts  of  diplomacy
have been exhausted in vain. To this end, Malaysia, in
mutual  agreement  with  Indonesia,  decided  to  submit
the territorial dispute between them for adjudication by
the  Court.  This  dispute,  which 
the
sovereignty over two islands — namely, Pulau Ligitan
and Pulau Sipadan — is currently before the Court. My
delegation  welcomes 
the  Court,
delivered on 23 October 2001, regarding the request by
our neighbour the Philippines to intervene in the case.
We  trust  that  the  Court’s  decision  will  be  fully
respected,  thereby  enhancing  the  Court’s  stature  and
prestige  among  Member  States,  This  is  important  in
inculcating a culture of respect for international law in
relations among States.
the  decision  of 
relates 
to 
12
the  settlement  of  disputes 
My  delegation  notes  with  interest  that  there  has
been  increasing  recourse  to  the  Court  by  Member
States  over  the  years.  This  clearly  demonstrates  the
growing  confidence  in  the  decisions  of  the  Court  and
reliance  on 
through
adjudication rather than by use of force. The significant
increase of cases in the Court’s docket — from 9 to 13
cases between 1990 and 1997 to the current 22 cases —
augurs  well  for 
the  progressive  development  of
international law and the role of the Court as a dispute
settlement mechanism. It is also heartening to note that
63  States  have  declared  the  acceptance  of  the  Court’s
compulsory  jurisdiction  in  accordance  with  article  36,
paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute.  Also  noteworthy  is  the
increasing trend of  referring  treaties,  whether  bilateral
or  multilateral,  to  the  Court  for  jurisdiction  in  the
resolution of disputes arising out of their application or
interpretation.
In  light  of  the  increase  in  the  Court’s  workload,
my delegation strongly believes that there is an urgent
need  to  strengthen  the  Court’s  capacity  to  efficiently
dispose  of  the  cases  before  it,  as  well  as  to  undertake
the  additional  administrative  responsibilities  arising
therefrom.  In  this  respect,  we  hope  the  financial
resources  allocated  to  the  Court  will  correspond  to  its
needs  in  dealing  with  the  increased  workload.  On  its
part, the Court has continued to implement the various
measures  that  it  had  initiated  to  overcome  the  severe
strain  caused  by  reductions  in  human  and  financial
resources  since  1997.  It  has  gone  to  great  lengths  to
rationalize  the  work  of  the  Registry,  to  make  greater
use  of  information  technology,  to  improve  its  own
working  methods  and  to  secure  greater  collaboration
from  parties  in  relation  to  its  procedures.  We  are
pleased to note that the Court has taken steps to shorten
and simplify proceedings and is continuing its revision
of the Rules of the Court.
We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that  the  General
Assembly had approved a supplementary budget for the
year 2001 which made possible the enhancement of the
Court’s  Department  of  Linguistic  Matters  with  the
creation  of  the  much-needed  posts  of  translators  and
secretarial  staff.  However,  this  is  not  sufficient  to
overcome  the  budgetary  problems  faced  by  the  Court.
For the biennium 2002-2003, the Court has found itself
obliged to request substantial appropriations which are
required  to  enhance  the  capacity  of  other  departments
of  the  Court  and  to  provide  assistance  for  the  judges.
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  that  this  request  has
considered 
favourably  by 
been 
the  Advisory
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions
(ACABQ)  and  hopes  that  it  will  be  approved  by  the
General  Assembly.  It  is  essential  that  the  Court
continue  to  be  afforded  the  resources  to  enable  it  to
work as intensively and expeditiously as its increasing
workload demands.
My  delegation  commends  the  Court’s  efforts  to
increase  public  awareness  and  understanding  of  its
work  in  the  judicial  settlement  of  disputes  and  its
advisory functions through its publications and lectures
by members of the Court. In this regard, we commend
the  steps  taken  by  the  Court  to  update  and  modernize
the  methods  of  disseminating  information  concerning
its  work  by  utilizing  the  electronic  media  and  the
construction of a web site. Indeed, the Court’s web site
is  well  utilized  by  students,  academicians,  diplomats
and interested members of the public. It is an extremely
useful source of public access to the Court’s judgments
and the most recent developments in international case
law.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  believes  that,  like
other  organs  within  the  United  Nations  system,  the
International Court of Justice should also benefit from
the ongoing reform undertaken by the United Nations.
A  revitalized  International  Court  of  Justice  would
certainly  contribute  to  its  efficiency  and  enhance  its
role in the promotion of justice under international law.
Mr. Chik (Singapore): My delegation would like
to congratulate the International Court of Justice for its
continued good work in enforcing the rule of law in the
past  year.  From  the  size  and  diversity  of  cases
submitted  to  the  Court,  the  increase  in  volume  and
complexity  and  the  sustained  activity  in  dealing  with
its  cases,  my  delegation  is  truly  impressed  by  the
Court’s  ability  to  deal  with  its  increased  workload
under 
constraints.  The
international community spends only about $11 million
a  year  on  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  while  it
spends  about  $206  million  on 
International
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda.
budgetary 
tight 
very 
the 
recognizing 
With  190  parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  63
States 
as
compulsory  and  an  ever  expanding  list  of  multilateral
and  bilateral  conventions  providing  for  the  Court’s
jurisdiction, the Court’s role is as vital as ever.
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction 
A/56/PV.32
The  past  year  has  seen  cases  before 
the
International  Court  of  Justice  on  a  myriad  of
international  law  topics,  including  the  use  of  force,
maritime  and  land  boundary,  diplomatic  protection,
state  responsibility  and 
treaties.  The
decisions of the Court also have an even wider-ranging
effect with implications for other areas of law.
law  of 
the 
For  example,  in  the  Gabčikovo  case,  the  Court
has  gone  a  considerable  distance  towards  achieving
milestones 
the  areas  of  environmental  and
watercourses  law,  even  though  the  judgment  was  not
primarily  based  on  those  areas  of  law.  It  was  the  first
real  case  dealing  with  substantive  water  law  issues,
the
establishing  reasonable  and  equitable  use  as 
governing  principle, 
increased
jurisprudence  into  the  principles  and  standards  of
the
international  environmental 
Gabčikovo
law  of
countermeasures and influenced the retention of article
22 
text  on  state  responsibility  for
internationally  wrongful  acts  developed  by 
the
International Law Commission.
law.  It  was  also 
affirmed 
case  which 
also  gave 
the  final 
and 
the 
in 
in 
Similarly,  in  the  LaGrand  case,  questions  of
assurances  and  guarantees  of  non-repetition  were
raised  as  central  issues,  leading  the  International  Law
Commission  to  decide  on  a  review  of  the  principle  of
cessation  and  other  related  articles.  These  are  some
illustrations  of  the  ongoing  cooperation  and  exchange
of  views  between  the  Court  and  other  lawmaking  and
codification  forums,  which  is  so  integral  a  part  of  the
process  of  developing  a  coherent  body  of 
law.
Referring back to the Gabčikovo case, for example, we
also note the Court’s flexibility in setting and defining
the  fundamental  legal  parameters  for  negotiations
between  parties,  which  could  help  forge  results  that
would be mutually acceptable, rather than provide one-
sided solutions.
Similarly, in the case between Qatar and Bahrain,
the  decision  was  uncommonly  satisfactory  to  both
parties. We hope to see more decisions of this kind in
the  future,  which  will  contribute  to  good  relations
between States.
Singapore continues to fully support the work of
the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  follows  with
interest  every  decision  and  advisory  opinion  produced
by  the  Court.  In  these  uncertain  times,  especially
having  witnessed  the  atrocious  and  lawless  events
which 
in  September,  upholding  and
transpired 
13
A/56/PV.32
international  peace 
enforcing  the  law  in  all  its  symbolism  and  reality  is
more  vital  than  ever.  The  Court  plays  a  key  role  in
furthering 
security  by
impartially  and  fairly  adjudicating  matters  involving,
for  example, 
the  genocide
Convention in complaints of violations and the United
Nations Charter on issues regarding the legitimate use
of force, in some of the Court’s cases.
the  application  of 
and 
From  the  substantive  treatment  of  the  law  to
procedural  methodology,  my  delegation  is  pleased  to
note  how  the  Court  has  striven  to  keep  up  with  the
times.  The  Registry,  under  the  capable  leadership  of
Mr. Philippe Couvreur and Mr. Jean-Jacques Arnaldez,
has  instituted  improvements  in  the  use  of  information
technology.  We  appreciate  the  Court’s  constant  efforts
to 
to  remain
efficient. This adaptability of the Court and its Registry
is highly commendable.
its  working  methods  and 
improve 
We note in particular the Court’s steps to shorten
and simplify pleadings and proceedings, notably article
79  relating  to  preliminary  objections  and  article  80
relating 
to  counter-claims.  These  measures  will
certainly  shorten  the  time  of  proceedings,  clarify  the
rules and adapt them to reality.
We  note,  however,  that  the  Computerization
Division  is  particularly  small.  Despite  its  efficiency,
given the current allocation of resources, my delegation
is concerned that the Court may not be in a position to
take advantage of some of the advancements in global
technology 
its
procedures, such as the use of electronic filing and the
digital  submission  of  pleadings  and  submissions.  We
recognize that training and the implementation of such
improvements are intrinsically linked to the question of
funding  and  resources,  which  the  Court  has  time  and
again appealed for.
for  streamlining  and  simplifying 
Indeed,  it  is  disturbing  that  the  Court  has  to
constantly  appeal  for  funding  for  work  so  important
and  vital  to  the  enunciation  and  development  of
international  jurisprudence.  If  States  are  seriously
committed  to  the  development  and  maintenance  of
international 
there  must  be  a  meeting  of
commitments  by  the  paying  up  of  arrears  and  the
further dedication of greater funding.
law, 
Singapore  places  great  emphasis  on  the  rule  of
law, both domestic and international. Our Government
will  continue  to  regard  with  interest  the  decisions  of
14
the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  to  support  the
Court’s work in whatever way we can.
Mr.  Robledo  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is
an honour for my delegation, as it has been every year
in  the  past,  to  address  this  Assembly  on  the  item
“Report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice”.  I  am
grateful  to  Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume,  President  of  the
Court, for presenting the report and for his comments.
His  words  are  always  illuminating  and  they  always
stimulate our thinking.
The presentation of the report of the International
Court of Justice is always an invaluable opportunity to
strengthen  dialogue  and  the  ties  between  the  General
Assembly  and  our  highest  judicial  organ.  It  also
informs  us  in  greater  detail  of  the  Court’s  activities
over the past year.
Reading  the  document  before  the  Assembly  was
very  encouraging  to  my  delegation.  The  quantity  of
information it contains has improved our knowledge of
the  way  in  which  the  Court  works,  the  challenges  it
faces  and  possible  ways  of  helping  it  to  overcome  its
difficulties.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Court  for  having
introduced some improvements to its reports and hope
that it will continue to do so. The more we understand
the difficulties it encounters, the easier it will be to find
solutions to them.
The  number  of  cases  brought  before  the  Court
continues  to  grow.  It  is  currently  seized  with  an
extensive list of cases originating in all regions of the
world  and  covering  the  most  diverse  topics.  This
demonstrates the great confidence that the members of
the international community place in the machinery for
the  judicial  resolution  of  disputes  and  will  henceforth
contribute to strengthening international law.
the 
the  consideration  of 
the 
Speaking of the Court’s workload, we cannot fail
to  recognize  the  very  responsible  and  timely  action  of
the  Court  to  confront  its  growing  number  of  cases.  In
this 
respect, 
item  on
International  Court  of  Justice,
strengthening 
promoted  by  Mexico 
the  Sixth  Committee,
undoubtedly  contributed  to  increasing  the  resources
allocated  to  the  Court.  Nevertheless,  offering  greater
financial resources is not the only way to facilitate the
processing  of  cases  before  the  Court.  We  must  also
adopt  measures 
the
handling of procedures.
to  strengthen  and  streamline 
in 
Aware of this need, the Court has adopted a series
of  measures  to  review  and  continuously  upgrade  its
working methods. We encourage it to pursue that path.
We  note  once  again  that,  whenever  all  the  parties
involved in a case cooperate to streamline proceedings,
the time required to resolve it is reduced.
We note that, in the period covered by the report,
two  contentious  cases  were  resolved.  These  were  the
delimitation dispute between Qatar and Bahrain and the
LaGrand case between Germany and the United States.
In  both  cases, 
the  Court  has  made  significant
contributions  to  international  law  and  towards  the
objective  of  facilitating  the  future  implementation  of
international legal norms. We are grateful to the Court
for those two decisions.
Because  of  the  importance  that  Mexico  attaches
to the matters considered by the Court in the LaGrand
case,  we  would 
this
opportunity to highlight some of the conclusions of the
Court.
to  avail  ourselves  of 
like 
The  Court  resolved  a  long-standing  debate  by
determining  that  the  provisional  measures  set  forth  in
its  decisions,  in  conformity  with  article  41  of  its
Statute, are binding and create a legal obligation for the
States to which they are addressed. We believe that this
relevant  conclusion  is  also  valid  for  measures  decreed
by  other  tribunals  similar  to  the  Court,  especially  for
regional  courts  that  have  jurisdiction  in  matters  of
human rights.
this 
for 
topic  and 
the  questions  presented 
Secondly, as regards the obligations contained in
article  36,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Vienna  Convention  on
Consular  Relations,  the  Court  determined  that  that
article  confers  individual  rights  as  well  as  rights  of
States.  Mexico  supports  this  conclusion.  At  the  same
time, we would have preferred the Court to pronounce
itself  on  all 
its
consideration  on 
to  determine
unambiguously  that  the  rights  contained  in  article  36,
paragraph 1, of that Vienna Convention are of the same
nature  as  human  rights.  This  question  has  been
examined  in  other  forums,  including  by  the  Inter-
American  Court  of  Human  Rights  in  its  advisory
opinion  OC-16.  There  are 
in
international 
this
conclusion.  A  pronouncement  by  the  Court  on  this
topic would have been very relevant. However, the fact
that the Court did not go into this discussion does not
in  any  way  change  the  human  rights  character  that
strong  elements 
to  reaffirm 
law 
that  allow  us 
A/56/PV.32
other organs have attributed to article 36, paragraph 1,
of the Vienna Convention.
Finally, as regards compensation for violations of
the  rights  conferred  upon  individuals  under  article  36
of  the  Vienna  Convention  on  Consular  Relations,  the
Court  found  that  an  apology  is  inadequate  in  cases  in
which persons have been detained for extended periods
or  found  guilty  and  sentenced  to  severe  punishments.
In these situations, the State that commits the violation
should  allow  the  review  and  reconsideration  of  the
sentence  and  punishment,  taking  into  account  the
violation  of 
the  Vienna
Convention. As in all the cases resolved by the Court,
we are convinced that its decision in the LaGrand case
will  contribute  to  the  effective  implementation  of
instruments  such  as 
the  Vienna  Convention  on
Consular  Relations,  and  will  help  States  resolve
potential future disputes.
the  rights  conferred  by 
There is no question about the importance of the
decisions  of  the  Court  and  its  influence  on  the
development  and  implementation  of  the  standards  of
international  law.  We  are  convinced  that  to  facilitate
the  work  of  our  supreme  judicial  organ,  States  must
accompany  their  expressions  of  support  with  the
adoption  of  concrete  measures  that  will  strengthen
compliance.  In  the  Fifth  Committee  Mexico  will
support  the  granting  of  greater  resources  to  the  Court
and  will  continue  to  see  to  it  that  it  has  the  necessary
tools  to  fulfil  its  lofty  mandate  in  the  same  effective
and professional manner as it has done thus far.
Mr.  Kamara  (Sierra  Leone):  On  behalf  of  the
Sierra  Leone  delegation,  I  would  like  to  express  my
appreciation to the President of the International Court
of  Justice,  Mr.  Gilbert  Guillaume,  for  his  introduction
of the comprehensive and very interesting report on the
work  of  the  Court.  His  presence  here  to  apprise  the
General  Assembly  of  the  activities  of  the  Court  is  an
affirmation  of  the  symbiotic  relationship  which  exists
between  the  two  organs  of  this  world  body  in  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  the  peaceful
settlement of disputes. Today, the International Court is
recognized as a symbol of international justice and the
rule  of  law  throughout  the  world.  That  this  is  so  is  in
no  small  measure  attributable  to  the  President  of  the
Court for the wise leadership which he has continued to
provide it.
Sierra  Leone  attaches  great  importance  to  the
International Court of Justice and all that it stands for.
15
A/56/PV.32
By virtue of its being the principal judicial organ of the
United Nations, of its permanent nature and of the wide
range  of  legal  disputes  which  are  submitted  to  it  for
judicial settlement, the Court is today making a major
contribution to a more peaceful world.
According  to  the  report  for  the  year  under
consideration,  the  Court’s  docket  has  continued  to
expand  as  more  and  more  disputes  are  referred  to  it
from  the  various  regions  of  the  world.  This  is  a
welcome  development.  It  attests  to  the  confidence
which  the  Court  now  enjoys  on  the  part  of  the
international  community  that  it  can  render  impartial
and 
the  peaceful  settlement  of
disputes.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  has  taken
particular  cognizance  of  the  role  of  the  Court  in
adjudicating disputes between African States and, in so
doing, helping to decrease tension in the region, as well
as  contributing  to  the  advancement  of  States  and  to
regional peace and stability.
just  decisions 
in 
We  have  also  noted  the  efforts  of  the  Court  to
modernize and improve its methods of work, both with
respect  to  its  procedures  and  with  a  view  to  reaching
the public through its publications and the Internet. In
this  connection,  we  find  the  report  itself  very  useful
and  comprehensive.  My  delegation  welcomes  these
developments  and  believes  they  can  contribute  to  the
proper  and  effective  administration  of  justice  and  the
wider appreciation of the role of the Court.
resources 
to  make 
Without  a  doubt,  if  the  Court  is  to  continue  to
operate  as  a  modern  institution  and  render  justice
speedily and efficiently, it should be provided with the
necessary 
as
expeditious  as  possible,  while  maintaining  the  quality
of jurisprudence. The Court has demonstrated that it is
cost-effective.  My  delegation  will  support  the  request
for modestly increased resources to be made available
to it.
adjudication 
Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  join  the
appeal  for  an  increase  in  monetary  contributions  to
replenish  or  augment  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust
Fund  to  assist  States,  in  particular,  developing  States,
to settle their disputes through the Court. The fund has
already justified its existence by encouraging States to
bring 
instead  of
resorting  to  armed  conflict.  This  not  only  represents  a
peaceful way to resolve a conflict, but is also far more
economical.  The  appeal  is  therefore  worthy  of  our
support.
their  disputes  before 
the  Court 
16
Mr.  Onobu  (Nigeria):  My  delegation  commends
the  President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,
Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume,  for  his  lucid  introduction  of
the report of the Court for the period 1 August 2000 to
31  July  2001 
report  contains  a
comprehensive account of the Court’s activities during
the period under review.
(A/56/4).  The 
international 
law.  States, 
As we all know, the International Court of Justice
is the only court with a universal character and general
jurisdiction.  It  plays  a  pivotal  role  in  the  pacific
settlement  of  disputes  between  Member  States  and  in
the  development  of 
in
exercise  of 
their  sovereignty,  voluntarily  submit
disputes  to  the  Court  for  arbitration.  It  is  therefore
significant  that,  as  at  31  July  2001,  63  States  had
deposited  with  the  Secretary-General  declarations  of
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction
under  article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  its  Statute.  It  is  the
view of my delegation that action along those lines by
States which have yet to take such action would further
strengthen  the  arbitration  function  of  the  Court  in
disputes between Member States.
There  has  been  an  enormous  increase  in  the
workload  of  the  Court.  Without  doubt,  that  is  a
reflection  of  the  increasing  recognition  of  the  Court’s
jurisdiction.  It  is  worthy  of  note  that,  whereas  in  the
1970s  the  Court  had  only  one  or  two  cases  on  its
docket at any one time, the number of cases increased
dramatically between 1990 and 1997, and that as at 31
July  2001  it  stood  at  22.  The  subject  matter  of  these
cases  includes  a  wide  variety  of  issues,  ranging  from
disputes  over 
land  and  maritime  boundaries  and
sovereignty  over  particular  areas  to  questions  on  the
legality  of  the  use  of  force  and  the  expropriation  of
foreign  property.  We  note  with  appreciation  that  the
Court was able during the judicial year under review to
dispose of some of the cases before it and to issue 32
orders  concerning  the  organization  of  proceedings  in
current cases.
It is clear from the report that the Court has been
able to make significant progress in its assignment as a
result  of  various  measures  it  embarked  upon  aimed  at
improving  its  working  methods.  My  delegation  is
happy  to  note  that  those  measures,  which  started  in
1997, have continued. Nigeria believes that with more
access to information technology the Court is poised to
achieve even greater success in the future.
It  must  be  noted,  however,  that  the  increased
workload  will  of  necessity  require  an 
increased
financial allocation to the Court. It is our view that, for
the  Court  to  cope  with  its  increased  workload  and  to
sustain the high standard for which it has a worldwide
reputation,  more  resources  must  be  allocated  to  it.  In
that  regard,  I  note  with  satisfaction  that  the  General
Assembly 
a
supplementary budget for the Court to enable it to meet
the  cost  of  needed  additional  personnel.  For  the
biennium  2002-2003, 
requested
substantial  appropriations.  My  delegation  supports  the
allocation  of  more  resources  to  the  Court  to  enable  it
effectively  to  discharge  its  statutory  functions  and
obligations.
the  Court  has 
in  December 
approved 
2000 
My delegation values the various publications of
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  Those  publications
include  reports  of  judgments,  advisory  opinions  and
orders issued by the Court. We regret the backlog in the
publication  of 
those  vital  documents,  which  are
invaluable  to  the  development  and  codification  of
international law. We believe that easy access to those
publications, especially by developing countries, would
create  greater  awareness  and  understanding  among
them of the work of the Court and of international law.
We  therefore  welcome  the  new  volumes  published
within  the  period  under  review.  We  urge  the  Court  to
expedite  action  on  the  publication  of  its  various
documents  as  soon  as  more  resources  are  made
available to it.
its 
judicial 
task  with 
My  delegation  shares  the  view  expressed  in  the
report  that,  during  the  period  2000-2001,  the  Court
carried  out 
and
determination.  We  welcome  the  increased  confidence
which  States  have  shown  in  the  Court’s  ability  to
resolve disputes peacefully. We believe that the ideal of
the  primacy  of 
inter-State  relations
constitutes  the  Court’s  raison  d’être.  We  urge  that
relations  between  States  continue  to  be  founded  on
mutual respect, desire for peace and the rule of law.
care 
law 
the 
in 
My  delegation  is  only  too  aware  that  the  task  of
the  Court  is  not  an  easy  one,  considering  the  political
coloration  of  some  of  the  disputes  referred  to  it.  That
notwithstanding, the Court has played its role well, as
reflected 
judgments.  I
therefore  believe  that  it  is  in  the  interest  of  Member
States to assist the Court to maintain the high standard
of arbitration that it has set in the pacific settlement of
disputes between States parties to its Statute.
its  rulings,  orders  and 
in 
A/56/PV.32
Ms.  Xue  Hanqin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At
the  outset,  I  wish  on  behalf  of  the  Chinese  delegation
to  express  our  sincere 
to  Judge  Gilbert
Guillaume,  President  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice, for his concise and excellent report on the work
of the Court (A/56/4).
thanks 
The International Court of Justice is not only one
of the principal organs of the United Nations; it is also
a  world-renowned  international  judicial  body.  It  has
been  playing  an  active  and  important  role  in  the
peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes.  Through
its  judgments  on  contentious  cases  and  its  advisory
opinions, 
the
application and development of international law. It has
also  had  a  far-reaching 
international
relations  and  on  the  forging  of  a  new  international
order.  The  Court’s  caseload  continues 
to  grow
considerably,  which  shows 
international
community has high expectations of the Court and that
the Court’s work is outstanding and highly effective.
the  Court  contributes  greatly 
impact  on 
that 
the 
to 
its 
judges  and 
The  peaceful  settlement  of  international  disputes
is one of the basic principles of international law. The
Court’s judicial independence and impartiality, the high
qualifications  of 
its  universal
representation of the main forms of civilization and of
the  world’s  principal  legal  systems  all  mean  that  the
International  Court  of  Justice  is  bound  to  play  an  ever
more  important  role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of
international  disputes.  We  have  noted  that,  with  the
steady increase  in  the  number  of  cases  brought  before
the  Court,  the  difficulties  faced  by  the  Court  in  terms
of  human  and  financial  resources  have  become  more
palpable and more acute. We call upon the international
community,  especially  the  United  Nations  and  the
parties  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  to  devote  greater
attention  to  this  situation  and  to  do  their  utmost  to
enable  the  Court  properly  to  fulfil  its  mandate  and  to
play its proper role to the fullest.
China  has  a  history  that  stretches  back  5,000
years,  a  magnificent  civilization  and  one  of  the
principal  legal  systems  of  the  world.  We  believe  that
representation, among the body of judges on the Court,
of  the  main  forms  of  civilization  and  of  the  principal
legal  systems  of  the  world  is  essential  if  we  are  to
preserve  the  authority  and  ensure  the  fairness  of  the
Court.  The  Chinese  Government 
to
continue  to  contribute  in  this  regard.  The  Chinese
Government  attaches  great  importance  to  the  role  of
the  Court  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international
is  prepared 
17
A/56/PV.32
disputes,  and  has  always  believed 
that  disputes
between  States  should  be  resolved  through  peaceful
means, including through negotiation and adjudication.
As  always,  the  Chinese  Government  will  support  the
work  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  work
tirelessly to promote the rule of law at the international
level and to safeguard world peace.
Mr. Perez Giralda (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): It
is  an  honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly
on  behalf  of  the  Kingdom  of  Spain  to  thank  the
International  Court  of  Justice  for  its  report  and,  in
particular,  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Gilbert
Guillaume, for his statement, as well as to reaffirm the
trust  that  Spain  places  in  the  International  Court  of
Justice,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations.
to  peacemaking 
international  disputes, 
My  Government  is  convinced  that  it  is  essential
for States to place their trust in that lofty tribunal if it
is  to  be  able  effectively  to  discharge  its  mission  in
settling 
in
contributing 
through  deciding  on
issues  of  international  law.  Spain  has  demonstrated
such  trust  by  accepting  the  mandatory  jurisdiction  of
the  Court  and  by  undertaking,  on  an  ongoing  basis,
activities  that  demonstrate  this  acknowledgement,  the
most recent of which was a visit by His Majesty King
Don Juan Carlos to the Peace Palace on 23 October.
as  well 
as 
emphasized 
issues,  His  Majesty 
On  that  occasion,  in  addition  to  discussing  other
relevant 
the
importance of the International Court of Justice as the
international  tribunal  par  excellence  because  of  its
universal  and  general  jurisdiction  and  its  recognized
authority.  It  is  important  here  to  reaffirm  those  words
of appreciation, in the context of the concern expressed
by the President of the Court about the proliferation of
international tribunals and the dangers of legal overlap
or  contradiction  that  that  might  entail.  It  should  be
recalled that on previous occasions, the President of the
Court  highlighted  the  need  for  a  dialogue  among
jurisdictions  in  order  to  try  to  avoid  the  potentially
harmful  effects  of  the  fragmentation  of  international
law.  Spain  believes  that  the  International  Court  of
Justice  is  the  most  appropriate  institution  to  channel
such a dialogue, as long as the international community
puts its trust in the Court and endows it with the means
of discharging that function. We should also remember
that  both  the  current  President  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice  and  his  predecessor  referred  to
advisory  opinions  as  representing  a  possible  means  of
18
establishing  such  a  dialogue  and  thereby  of  ensuring
that  the  International  Court  of  Justice  speaks  with  an
authoritative voice.
Judge Guillaume’s comments that Member States
make frequent use of the International Court of Justice
were also very encouraging. The universal character of
the Court is reflected in the diversity of the parties that
participate  in  the  cases  before  it,  as  well  as  in  the
multiplicity of the complex issues with which it deals.
The  report  of  the  Court  to  the  General  Assembly
provides  a  great  deal  of  information  about  different
cases and other details; there is no need me to refer to
them here.
Spain is, of course, fully aware of the difficulties
regarding  the  funding  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice  and  of  the  negative  impact  that  that  is  having.
Human  and  material  resources  are  scarce  —  although
the  excellent  work  done  by  the  Court  makes  that  fact
seem irrelevant. Spain therefore hopes that proposals to
increase the budget of the Court will elicit a favourable
response from the relevant bodies.
The excellent results to which we referred can be
seen  in  every  aspect  of  the  work  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice,  but  we  would  like  in  particular  to
highlight  its  efforts  to  improve  its  internal  working
methods  by  rationalizing  the  work  of  its  secretariat,
using  new  information  technology  and  improving  the
practices  of  the  Court  itself,  as  well  as  its  methods  of
cooperating  with  the  parties  on  procedural  matters.
Furthermore, its efforts to disseminate information and
news relating to the Court through its Web site are also
very useful.
In conclusion, I would like to reaffirm that Spain
has  full  confidence  in  the  present  and  future  work  of
the International Court of Justice.
Mr. Oe (Japan): It is a great pleasure and honour
for  me  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the
Government  of  Japan.  My  delegation  would  like  to
thank  President  Guillaume  for  his  lucid  report  on  the
current situation of the International Court of Justice.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  importance  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  given  its  long  history
and solid jurisprudence, and the confidence that States
place  in  it,  remains  unchanged  in  the  twenty-first
the  possible
century.  Although  concerns  about 
fragmentation  of 
the
international 
international  courts  have  been
proliferation  of 
law  due 
to 
expressed  in  statements  made  by  President  Guillaume
and  his  predecessors  in  recent  years,  the  International
Court  of  Justice,  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the
United  Nations,  has  no  equal  with  regard  to  the
important 
the  development  of
role 
international law.
it  plays 
in 
As a State that strongly believes in the rule of law
and  firmly  upholds  the  principle  of  the  peaceful
settlement  of  disputes,  Japan  greatly  appreciates  the
strenuous efforts and work of the International Court of
Justice.  Japan  fully  supports  the  spirit  of  the  Court  in
striving to make further contributions to strengthening
the 
resolving
international crises.
law  and  preventing  and 
rule  of 
For  its  part,  to  show  its  firm  adherence  to  the
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  Japan
has been contributing annually over the past decade to
the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International
Court  of  Justice.  Its  contributions  to  the  Fund  to  date
amount  to  $252,000.  Judging  from  past  and  current
the  proposed  biennium
biannual  documents  and 
programme  budgets, 
to  be
underutilized.  In  accordance  with  the  belief  that  a
dispute 
than
through armed conflict, a State that is in urgent need of
resolving  a  dispute  but  without  proper  legal  expertise
or assistance would be encouraged to seek recourse to
the Court by utilizing this Fund.
is  better  resolved 
the  Fund 
litigation 
through 
seems 
Japan’s  commitment  to  the  Court  may  also  be
seen  in  the  context  of  its  long  history  of  providing
highly  qualified  jurists  to  serve  as  judges.  Indeed,
during  the  Permanent  Court  of  International  Justice
period, three Japanese lawyers served as judges. After
the creation of the International Court of Justice, Judge
Tanaka served from 1961 to 1970, and currently Judge
Oda  is  serving  as  the  most  senior  judge  in  the  Court.
Judge  Oda  has  indicated  his  intention  to  retire  after
finishing  his  current  term,  which  ends  in  February
2003. The Government of Japan has decided to present
a  new  candidate  for  election  to  the  Court  in  the  year
2002.  In  this  way,  Japan  sincerely  hopes  to  continue
contributing  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice,
whose noble mission will be all the more important in
the twenty-first century.
Before  concluding  my  statement,  I  wish,  on
behalf  of  the  Government  of  Japan  —  which  is  the
second 
the  United  Nations
largest  contributor 
to 
A/56/PV.32
budget —  to  take  this  opportunity  to  touch  upon  the
issue  of  the  Court’s  budget  and  its  appeal  for  an
increase for the coming biennium.
Japan  is  fully  aware  of  the  situation  in  the
International Court of Justice. Its workload has grown
significantly  in  recent  years,  while  the  resources
available  to  it  remain  limited.  The  General  Assembly,
which  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the
Court,  in  1999  granted  it  four  additional  posts.  In
addition, 
the  General  Assembly
approved  the  establishment  of  12  translator  posts,  2
General  Service  posts  and  temporary  assistance  in  the
additional  programme  budget  of  the  Court  for  the
biennium  2000-2001,  despite 
tight  budgetary
constraints  of  the  United  Nations,  which  are  forcing
many other bodies to cut their budgets.
last  December, 
the 
to 
respect 
on  Administrative 
Also, I would like to point out that the Advisory
and  Budgetary
Committee 
Questions,  with 
the  next  biennium
programme  budget  of  the  Court,  recommended  the
approval  of  the  16  additional  posts  requested  by  the
Court. In view of United Nations budgetary constraints,
the  Court  should  not  take  lightly  such  favourable
treatment  by  the  General  Assembly  or  the  possible
approval  of  future  additional  posts,  although  such  a
request may not be fully granted.
With that in mind, every State having recourse to
the International Court of Justice should try its best to
facilitate  the  efficient  functioning  of  the  Court.  In
response  to  the  Court’s  appeal,  an  applicant  State  can
reduce  the  burden  it  places  on  the  Court  and  expedite
the  proceedings,  for  instance,  by  keeping  to  the
minimum necessary the volume of its written pleadings
and  the  length  of  oral  arguments.  We  look  forward  to
the  Court’s  continuing  efforts  to  improve,  rationalize
and update the practices and procedures in question in
order to ensure the continued support of Member States
and their taxpayers for its activities.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  once  again
Japan’s  willingness  to  contribute  to  the  strengthening
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  enable  it
efficiently  to accomplish  the  mission  expected  of  it  in
the twenty-first century.
Mr.  Tarabrin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian): Let me begin by thanking the President of the
International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Guillaume,  for
presenting  the  report  of  the  body  over  which  he
presides.
19
A/56/PV.32
The  Russian  Federation  is  convinced  that  the
International  Court  has  a  leading  part  to  play  in
defending  the  norms  and  principles  of  international
law, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,
in particular the principle of the peaceful settlement of
disputes  between  States.  Although  Article  33  of  the
Charter provides States with a broad range of means to
resolve  disputes  arising  between  them,  experience  has
shown that the Court is the most authoritative body to
which  a  State  can  have  recourse  for  a  solution  to  the
thorniest  of  problems.  We  also  see  the  Court  as  being
very  important  in  the  field  of  the  prevention  of  the
unlawful use of force in international relations.
As  the  primary  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations, the International Court of Justice has a central
role  in  the  development  of  jurisprudential  practice  in
the field of international law. In this respect, we call for
a broader use of mechanisms for judicial supervision of
the provision of guarantees that violations of the norms
of international law will not be permitted.
The role of the Court in interpreting the norms of
international law is also a major one. In fact, it would
be difficult to imagine any progressive development of
international law without the Court.
The radical changes we have seen in the nature of
international relations over the last 10 years have led to
an  increasing  interest  by  States  in  the  International
Court of Justice as a means of settling their disputes. A
clear sign of this is the great increase in the number of
cases before it and also the broad geographical spread
of the countries bringing cases before the Court.
We see this trend as positive, and we hope that it
will continue into the foreseeable future. However, this
does  place  an  additional  burden  of  responsibility  both
on  the  Court  itself  and  on  the  United  Nations  as  a
whole.  We  welcome  the  steps  that  have  already  been
taken  by  the  Court  to  increase  its  efficiency  and
enhance  its  methods  of  work,  which  have  allowed
cases  to  be  heard  a  little  more  quickly.  However,  the
pace — with a few exceptions — remains too slow. We
therefore  would  like  to  recommend  that  the  Court
should  further  reflect  on  how  it  could  increase  its
productivity  within  the  framework  of  the  Statute,
without  prejudice  to  the  quality  of  its  judgments  and
advisory opinions.
On  the  other  hand,  it  is  equally  clear  that  if  it  is
effectively  to  fulfil  its  functions  in  a  changed  world,
the  Court  need  adequate  resources.  We  cannot  fail  to
20
note,  in  this  respect,  that  in  recent  years  the  Court’s
financing  has  been  a  cause  for  concern.  Indeed,  the
budget  of  the  highest  organ  in  the  United  Nations
system 
the
International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which
seems, in our view, to be unjustified.
is  several 
that  of 
lower 
times 
than 
It  looks  as  though  the  situation  will  improve  in
the  coming  biennium.  We  support  the  proposal  to
increase the Court’s budget and also allow for a modest
increase in its staff, but on the understanding that this
will  not  affect  the  level  of  the  United  Nations  regular
budget for the biennium 2002-2003.
One of the clearest of recent trends — and this is
very  closely  connected  with  the  confirmation  of  the
supremacy  of  law  in  international  relations  —  is  the
increasing number of international judicial organs that
are  being  established  —  the  International  Tribunal  for
the  former  Yugoslavia,  the  International  Tribunal  for
Rwanda,  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the
Sea and the special court that is being set up for Sierra
Leone — not to mention the upcoming entry into force
of the Statute of the International Criminal Court.
increases 
the 
international 
it 
the  unity  of 
This trend is of course positive, but it also has a
risk  of
negative  side  because 
undermining 
law  and
encouraging  the  emergence  of  legal  precedents  that
might contradict one another. That in turn could lead to
a  situation  where  States  succumb  to  the  temptation  of
applying  to  whichever  court  they  consider  to  be  the
most convenient one available. In that light, we should
think  about  developing  procedures  so  that,  when
necessary,  contentious 
law
arising 
the  activities  of  any
international  judicial  organ  could  be  submitted  to  the
International Court of Justice for an advisory opinion.
the  course  of 
international 
issues  of 
in 
the  report  of 
In conclusion, may I express our confidence that
the  Assembly’s  discussion  of 
the
International  Court  of  Justice  will  help  to  draw  the
international  community’s  attention  to  the  Court’s
activities 
improving
coordination  among  the  work  of  the  main  United
Nations  organs  in  pursuing  the  Organization’s  core
goals.
cause  of 
serve 
and 
the 
Mr.  Kim  Eun-soo  (Republic  of  Korea):  It  is  an
honour for me to address the General Assembly on the
occasion of the examination of the annual report of the
International Court of Justice.
This  morning  Judge  Gilbert  Guillaume, 
the
President  of  the  Court,  has  delivered  his  statement  on
the  overall  situation  of  this  principal  judicial  organ  of
the  United  Nations.  His  remarks  summarized  the
Court’s  work  and  activities,  which  have  been
remarkable  over  the  past  year.  My  delegation  would
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  President
Guillaume  on  his 
since  his
inauguration in February of last year and his success in
carrying  out  the  important  missions  entrusted  to  the
Court.
leadership 
superb 
Some  of  the  Court’s  achievements  deserve  our
particular attention. This year, the Court put an end to a
long-standing  dispute  between  Qatar  and  Bahrain  by
virtue  of  its  judgment  of  16  March  in  the  case
concerning  Maritime  Delimitation  and  Territorial
Questions  between  Qatar  and  Bahrain.  Due  to  the
complicated nature of this case combining questions of
both the territorial sovereignty of islands and maritime
delimitation,  it  took  the  Court  10  years  to  reach  its
final  decision.  It  is  my  delegation’s  view  that  the
judgment,  given  its  insightful  reasoning  and  analysis,
will  be  recorded  and  referred  to  as  one  of  the  most
important  judicial  decisions  in  the  Court’s  history  in
the  field  of  territorial  disputes  and  maritime  boundary
delimitations.
From  a  methodological  point  of  view,  my
delegation  wishes  to  note  one  particular  point  in  the
judgment  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  In
drawing  the  single  maritime  boundary  line  between
Qatar  and  Bahrain,  the  Court  began  by  provisionally
establishing  the  median  line  and  proceeded  to  make
adjustments in order to achieve an equitable result. The
method  adopted  in  this  case  seems  to  be  well  in  line
with  the  approach  taken  by  the  Court  in  previous,
similar  cases.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the
continued  application  of  this  approach  in  the  future
would  be  desirable  for  the  sake  of  uniformity  and
consistency 
jurisprudence  of
maritime boundary delimitation.
international 
the 
in 
As  pointed  out  by  previous  speakers,  another
landmark  judgment  of  the  Court  was  that  of  the
LaGrand  case.  In  its  ruling,  the  Court  recognized  for
the  first  time  the  binding  nature  of  its  orders  for  the
indication  of  provisional  measures  under  article  41  of
the  Statute.  Given  the  ambiguity  of  the  legal  effect  of
provisional  measures  prior  to  this  case,  my  delegation
feels 
to
judgment  will  serve 
the  LaGrand
that 
A/56/PV.32
strengthen the role and authority of the Court and also
encourage States to make use of it more frequently.
The number of cases coming before the Court has
risen substantially during the last decade, significantly
increasing  its  workload.  The  current  number  of  cases
on  the  Court’s  docket  attests  to  this.  While  this
development  reflects  the  inclination  of  more  States  to
seek  settlement  of  disputes  by  judicial  means,  it  has
overburdened the Court and made it difficult to handle
cases in a timely fashion. These problems were pointed
out in last year’s report of the Joint Inspection Unit on
the International Court of Justice, which made several
useful  recommendations  to  help  deal  with  this  new
challenge. A great deal of effort has been made so far
to  enhance  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the
Court, and the outcome has generally been successful.
Accordingly, my delegation welcomes the resolution of
the  General  Assembly  of  22  June,  in  which  the
Assembly  noted  that  problems  in  the  management  of
the Registry of the Court had been resolved to a large
extent.
For  the  purpose  of  improving  efficiency,  last
December  the  Court  took  an  important  step  towards
simplifying  its  procedures  by  amending  two  relevant
articles concerning preliminary objections and counter-
claims. The amendments aim to shorten the duration of
the  Court’s  proceedings,  to  clarify  the  existing  rules
and  to  adapt  them  to  reflect  more  closely  the  practice
developed  by  the  Court.  These  measures  are  part  of  a
series  of  endeavours  undertaken  since  1997 
to
rationalize  the  work  of  the  Court.  My  country  fully
supports these initiatives and hopes that the Court will
continue  its  efforts  to  improve  efficiency,  in  order  to
provide  the  international  community  with  even  better
legal service.
the 
As  the  only  international  judicial  institution,  the
International Court of Justice is now being called upon
to  play  a  more  active  role  in  promoting  world  peace
based  upon  the  rule  of  law.  This  can  indeed  be  made
possible through the increased use of the Court on the
part  of  States  and  unreserved  cooperation  and  support
from 
international  community  as  a  whole.
However, a considerable increase in the Court’s budget
seems  to  be  necessary  in  order  for  it  to  deal  with  its
heavy  workload  and  overcome  the  difficulties  in  its
administration  and  management.  In  this  regard,  my
delegation  is  of  the  view  that  President  Guillaume’s
proposed  budget  for  the  next  biennium  should  receive
favourable  consideration.  A  revitalized  and  more
21
A/56/PV.32
efficient  Court  with  sufficient  funding,  we  believe,
would  be  a  great  benefit  to  all  members  of  the
international community.
In  concluding,  my  delegation  would  like  to
reaffirm  its  full  confidence  in,  and  its  support  for,  the
invaluable work of the International Court of Justice in
the  development  and  promotion  of  the  role  of  law  in
international relations.
Mr. Kamto  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is
always  a  great  pleasure  and  honour  for  the  delegation
of  Cameroon  to  hear  the  traditional  statement  by  the
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  the
activities  of  the  Court.  I  thank  the  President  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  clarity  of  his
statement.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our
congratulations  not  only 
to  President  Gilbert
Guillaume,  but  also  to  all  the  members  of  the  Court.
My  delegation  would  like  to  encourage  the  Court’s
tangible  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  peace
between nations through the law. We also commend the
Court’s  remarkable  efforts  to  deal  with  the  various
cases  before  it  in  the  shortest  time  possible.  The  fact
that there are many more cases on the Court’s docket is
a  clear  sign  of  the  increasing  confidence  of  States  in
the authority of the highest court in the world. This is
something  we  should  welcome.  Let  us  hope  that  the
trend continues, for the sake of international peace.
Two  points  in  the  President’s  statement  were  of
particular interest to my delegation. The first concerned
the LaGrand affair. The decisions handed down in this
case indeed constitute a high point in the legal history
of the Court, for at least three reasons. The first is the
fact that the decisions are a very clear indication of the
Court’s sensitivity to the right to life. This is evident in
the  order  dated  3  March  1999  containing  provisional
measures, which was handed down with unprecedented
speed  —  in  fact,  in  just  24  hours,  as  the  case  went
before the Court on 2 March. The firm language of the
order is a sign of the Court’s keenness to save the lives
of  the  two  LaGrand  brothers,  who  had  not  yet  been
executed.  The  Court  demanded 
that  Mr.  Walter
LaGrand  not  be  executed  until  a  final  decision  had
been handed down, and that the respondent State report
back  to  the  Court  all  the  measures  it  would  take  to
comply with the order.
There was also the judgment of 27 June 2001, in
which the Court pronounced itself on the substance of
the  case.  This  contributed  to  strengthening  consular
22
law as part of international law. The Court decided that
the rules of domestic law — and in particular the rules
governing  legal  proceedings  under  domestic  law —
could  not  be  allowed  to  undermine  the  rules  of
international  law,  to  which  this  particular  State  had
subscribed. The Court affirmed that when applying its
own domestic law — which prevented Karl and Walter
LaGrand  from  putting  their  claims  forward  under  the
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, of 24 April
1963  — 
its
international obligations under the Convention.
respondent  State  had  violated 
the 
Finally,  what  is  particularly  important  is  that  the
Court’s ruling in the LaGrand case decides a question
that has long been at the fore in debate on doctrine: the
legal  force  of  orders  for  the  indication  of  provisional
measures given by the highest court in the world. Last
year  Cameroon  became  one  of 
those  countries
advocating  making  such  orders  binding  upon  those  to
whom  they  are  addressed.  Cameroon  is  not  so  foolish
as  to  imagine  that  its  view  in  any  way  influenced  the
decision of the Court in the LaGrand case, but we note
with  satisfaction  that  the  Court  decided  that  these
orders  are  binding.  The  Court  was  absolutely
unambiguous on this, saying:
“by failing to take all measures at its disposal to
ensure  that  Walter  LaGrand  was  not  executed
pending  the  final  decision  of  the  International
Court of Justice in the case, the United States of
America breached the obligation incumbent upon
it  under 
indicating  provisional
measures issued by the Court on 3 March 1999”.
(A/56/4, p. 43)
the  Order 
The  delegation  of  Cameroon  welcomes  this  dictum  of
the judgment of 27 June 2001, which fully justifies the
procedure  of  provisional  measures  before 
the
International Court of Justice.
The  second  matter  in  the  report  that  drew  my
delegation’s attention was the amendment of articles 79
and  80  of  the  Rules  of  Court,  and  the  modification  of
the  note  containing  recommendations  to  the  parties.
The  delegation  of  Cameroon  welcomes  these  changes,
which  have  a  single  goal  —  to  accelerate  proceedings
on  preliminary  objections  and  requests  for  counter-
claims,  thus  preventing  such  procedural  matters  from
paralysing  the  Court’s  activities  and  preventing  States
parties  to  a  case  before  the  Court  from  feeling  as  if
they have been put through the mill before their cases
are heard.
The high cost of Court proceedings and the hope
for  a  speedy  and  definitive  Court  decision  which
inspires every applicant State are incompatible with the
slow  progress  allowed  by  the  provisions  before  they
were  amended.  Through  these  amendments,  the  Court
their
forces  parties 
a  dispute 
responsibilities,  while  giving 
legal
processes  the  ability  to  remain  in  control  of  the
proceedings.  International  justice  is  bound  to  be  more
effective as a result.
to 
assume 
the  Court’s 
to 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 13?
to  conclude 
It was so decided.
Organization of work
The Acting President: Before calling on the next
speaker, I should now like to draw members’ attention
to  the  announcement  in  today’s  Journal  concerning
agenda  item  49,  “Question  of  equitable  representation
on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security
Council and related matters”, the third item to be taken
up  this  afternoon.  For  this  agenda  item  there  is  no
documentation at this time.
Following  the  practice  of  previous  sessions,  the
the  Question  of
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
the
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
in 
A/56/PV.32
related  to  the  Security  Council  will  report  to  the
General Assembly next year, after having concluded its
work at the fifty-sixth session.
Programme of work
The President in the Chair.
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of  the  members  to  two  draft  resolutions,  under  the
symbols  A/56/L.6  and  A/56/L.7, 
that  have  been
distributed to delegations this morning.
Draft resolution A/56/L.6 contains the new dates
for  consideration  by  the  General  Assembly  of  agenda
item  25,  entitled  “United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue
among Civilizations”, originally scheduled for 3 and 4
December  2001, 
in  accordance  with  Assembly
resolution 55/23 of 13 November 2000.
Draft resolution A/56/L.7, under agenda item 26,
contains  the  new  dates  for  the  special  session  of  the
General Assembly on children, originally scheduled for
19 to 24 September 2001, in accordance with Assembly
resolution 55/26 of 20 November 2000.
To facilitate planning for delegations, the General
Assembly will take up agenda item 25 this afternoon as
the  first  item,  for  the  purpose  of  considering  draft
resolution  A/56/L.6,  followed  by  agenda  item  26,  for
the  purpose  of  considering  draft  resolution  A/56/L.7.
Thereafter, the Assembly will consider agenda item 49,
as announced in the Journal today.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
23
