United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
48th plenary meeting
Monday, 12 November 2001, 9 a.m.
New York

A/56/PV.48
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m.
Address by The Honourable Rene R. Harris,
President and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the
Republic of Nauru
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  and  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Nauru.
The  Honourable  Rene  R.  Harris,  President  and
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of
Nauru,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly
Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Rene  R.
Harris,  President  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the Republic of Nauru, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
Mr. Harris (Nauru): I bid the Assembly welcome
from  the  people  of  Nauru,  the  pleasant  little  island  of
the  Pacific.  Let  me  avail  myself  of  the  opportunity  to
extend 
to  you,  Sir,  my  Government’s  belated
congratulations  on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency
of the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
Much of the work of the United Nations since the
despicable attacks on the United States of America on
11  September  has  been  focused  on  counter-terrorism,
and  this  is  understandable.  The  Security  Council’s
adoption  of 
(2001),  obligating
resolution  1373 
the 
Members  to  implement  anti-terrorist  measures,  should
recognize 
importance  of  supporting  existing
regional  initiatives  in  the  fight  against  terrorism.  To
this end, we welcome the undertakings by the Security
Council Committee on Counter-Terrorism.
tourism, 
remittances  and 
The World Bank has predicted that the events of
11  September  will  exacerbate  the  already  gloomy
global economic outlook. Its ripples will be felt across
all  of  the  world’s  regions,  particularly  in  countries
dependent  on 
foreign
investment. It is thus critical that the Security Council
allow  the  competent  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  to
assess the costs of extending, expanding or adding new
peacekeeping operations before their implementation.
international  community 
in
offering  our  belated  but  heartfelt  congratulations  to
Mr. Kofi Annan and the Organization on being the joint
recipients of this year’s prestigious Nobel Peace Prize.
The  former  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,
Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, has to be commended for
capitalizing  on 
the
Millennium Declaration.
the  momentum  generated  by 
the 
Nauru 
joins 
is  pleased 
My  delegation 
to  endorse  your
proposed  agenda,  Mr.  President,  for  the  fifty-sixth
session. The work of the General Assembly should be
relevant  to  the  tasks  at  hand,  but  at  the  same  time  it
should  address 
the
efficiency  and  status  of 
this  body.  Meaningful
cooperation  between  Member  States  must  always  be
encouraged across the boundaries of religion, ethnicity
issues  affecting 
long-standing 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-63224 (E)
*0163224*
A/56/PV.48
and  culture.  The  recent  World  Conference  against
Racism  is  a  stark  reminder  of  how  the  work  of  the
United  Nations  will  otherwise  continue 
to  be
frustrated;  but  the  one  significant  area  where  the
United Nations has made little or no progress is on the
question  of  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We
would therefore support a proposal to move the process
to a higher level and to deal with the complex issues in
a step-by-step fashion.
The  last  meeting  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum
leaders was held in my country a few months ago. The
communiqué  of  that  meeting  has  been  circulated  as  a
document  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  communiqué
the  Forum  leaders  sought  to  formalize  cooperation
arrangements  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Pacific  Islands  Forum.  I  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  kindly  request  your  support  of  the
relevant draft resolution.
The  issues  of  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise
continue to be of major concern to my country, and we
have  repeatedly  voiced  our  deep  concern  about  the
adverse  impact  of  human-induced  climate  change,
especially  on  the  low-lying  atolls  around  the  Pacific.
We  have  stressed  the  importance  of  efforts  to  build
appropriate human and institutional capacity.
The  Kyoto  Protocol  represents  a  significant  step
forward on the path to taking action to combat climate
change,  but  unless  significant  action  is  taken  on  a
practical  compliance regime,  there is  little  prospect  of
any outcome being enforceable.
Nauru  therefore  looks  forward  to  participating
with the rest of the world in Johannesburg next year to
review  the  progress  made  since  Rio,  and  it  is  our
fervent  hope  that  the  Kyoto  Protocol  will  have  come
into force by then.
There  is  a  special  urgency  for  Nauru.  Economic
growth in our small country has been negative for more
than  a  decade,  and,  as  reflected  in  recent  revisions  of
our classification by the United Nations and the United
Nations  Development  Programme,  our  per  capita
income  has  fallen  by  almost  80  per  cent  since  the
1980s.  We  look  to  the  international  community,  the
United  Nations  and  its  various  agencies  to  assist  us
through  these  difficult  times  and  to  help  secure  a  safe
future for our children.
Our  region,  the  world’s  very  first  nuclear-free
zone, has a long history of supporting disarmament and
2
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  born  of  the
region’s  harsh  experience  with  nuclear  testing  by
colonial  Powers.  The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  leaders
have  again  expressed  their  desire  for  the  entry  into
force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.
Nauru  will  be  depositing  its  instrument  of  ratification
today, and I call on other States to follow suit.
The  trans-shipment  of  radioactive  material  and
MOX fuel, through our exclusive economic zones is a
continuing concern, but we are committed to pursuing
our  concerns  constructively  and  vigorously  at  the
appropriate political level.
is 
Nauru’s commitment to the international effort to
combat  money-laundering 
unwavering.  Our
Parliament passed anti-money-laundering legislation in
August  of  this  year  to  correct  the  deficiencies  in  our
regulatory  and  administrative  arrangements.  However,
Nauru  is  disappointed  not  to  have  graduated  from  the
list  of  special  non-cooperating  countries  despite  the
fact 
in  close
collaboration  with  Financial  Action  Task  Force  on
Money  Laundering  (FATF)  regional  representatives.
We will nonetheless continue to work on satisfying the
key players in FATF on this issue, and we look forward
to working with our regional partners under the Pacific
regional action plan being developed.
legislation  was  drafted 
that 
the 
the 
inclusion  of  a  resolution  on 
Nauru, along with 20 other Member States, again
supported 
the
admission  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  on  the
agenda  of  the  fifty-sixth  session.  While  the  attempt
failed, Nauru will not be  discouraged  from continuing
its  efforts  to  correct  this  anomaly.  We  on  Nauru
wholeheartedly  believe  that  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan has a part to play in this Organization, and its
people should not be denied a voice in this world body.
We  note  with  pleasure  the  recent  admission  of  the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  the  World  Trade
Organization.
Finally, I wish to end my statement by revisiting
the issue of security and terrorism. It is indeed sad that
as  we  meet  here  today,  there  is  a  war  going  on  in  the
world - a war against terrorism. Prior to the horrific 11
September attacks on the United States of America, my
Government,  at  the  request  of  the  Government  of
Australia,  agreed  to  the  use  of  Nauru  as  a  refugee-
processing  centre.  We  made 
this  decision  on
humanitarian grounds. As a consequence, we now have
on Nauru nearly 800 asylum seekers from Afghanistan,
Iraq  and  Palestine  —  10  per  cent  of  the  whole
population of Nauru — along with migration personnel
from the United Nations, the International Organization
for  Migration  and  Australia.  The  asylum  seekers  are
now being processed.
I have taken it upon myself to personally visit the
camps  from  time  to  time  and  to  mingle  with  these
unfortunate  people,  and  on  several  occasions  have  sat
down and broken bread with them. I found that they are
like you and me. They are brave human beings seeking
a  better  life  for  themselves  and  their  children  and
escape from the oppression back home.
The  resources  of  the  United  Nations  need  to  be
augmented to cope with this humanitarian tragedy, and
the  international  community  needs  to  urgently  tackle
the problem in a coordinated manner, not only in terms
of  providing  assistance  and  refuge  where  possible,
but also in terms of addressing the sources and causes
of 
terrorism.
Understanding  and  responding  will  not  necessarily
solve  the  problem,  but  it  will  make  it  easier  for
Governments  to  share  in  the  continuing  international
effort that will be needed.
refugees,  people- 
smuggling  and 
A/56/PV.48
The  Honourable  Daniel  Toroitich  arap  Moi,
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of 
the
Republic of Kenya, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency 
the  Honourable  Daniel
Toroitich arap Moi, President and Commander-in-Chief
of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kenya, and to
invite him to address the Assembly.
President arap Moi (Kenya): I congratulate you,
Sir,  on  your  unanimous  election  as  President  of  the
fifty-sixth  session  of  the  United  Nations  General
Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  my  sincere
congratulations  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the  Secretary-
General,  for  his  re-election  to  a  second  term  in  office
and for the richly deserved Nobel Peace Prize awarded
to him and the United Nations Organization. This is an
acknowledgement  of  his  tireless  efforts  in  the  service
of mankind and, as the Secretary-General has said, of a
challenge to do better and, I hope, faster. I would like
to  assure  the  Secretary-General  of  my  Government’s
cooperation and firm commitment in that regard.
Finally, may I say that the good old days, before
11 September, are gone forever, and I shed a tear. The
sad  part  is  that  we  inherited  a  world  that  was  good
from  our  forefathers.  Today,  I  ask,  do  we  leave
tomorrow  a  better  world  for  our  children  and  our
children’s children? That I ask. Mr. President, we look
to you for leadership on these vital issues.
The  achievements  of 
the  United  Nations
Organization are many and varied, while its increasing
relevance  in  an  ever  more  complex  international
environment  is  clear  to  us.  Its  objectives  are  still  as
valid and noble today as they were 56 years ago and, I
believe,  can  only  be  achieved  by  our  continued
commitment, careful vigilance and firm action.
Thank you. May God bless those in sorrow. May
God bless the United States of America. And may God
bless the United Nations.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and  Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru  for  the
statement he has just made.
Mr.  Rene  R.  Harris,  President  and  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Nauru,  was
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Daniel Toroitich arap Moi, President
and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the
Republic of Kenya
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  and  Commander  in  Chief  of
the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kenya.
I would now like to turn my attention to an issue
that is uppermost in my mind and that has changed the
way  we  live  and  do  business,  maybe  forever.  I  am
referring to the terrorist attacks on the United States of
America,  an  important,  worthy  and  respected  Member
of the United Nations Organization and a long-standing
and trusted friend of Kenya.
Terrorism  poses  a  real  threat  to  international
peace  and  security  and  must  be  condemned  by  people
of good will throughout the world. Terrorism cannot be
justified  in  any  form  whatsoever.  No  philosophy,
religion or creed can allow the taking away of innocent
lives  and  the  destruction  of  valuable  property.  The
people of Kenya experienced first-hand the devastating
effects  of  terrorism  in  August  1998.  The  attack  on
Kenya, a country faced with challenges of poverty and
underdevelopment, was especially severe and continues
to affect us. Kenya understands well the pain of those
3
A/56/PV.48
affected  by  the  recent  attacks  in  the  United  States  of
America and fully supports the efforts being led by the
President of the United States of America, Mr. George
W. Bush, and his administration to fight terrorism in all
its forms.
the  United  Nations,  and 
In  order  to  carry  out  one  of  its  fundamental
objectives,  that  of  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security, 
in
particular  its  membership,  must  intensify  efforts  to
resolve  all  outstanding  and  persistent  conflicts  raging
in  many  parts  of  the  world.  We  the  Member  States  of
the  United  Nations  must  work  very  closely  to  ensure
that we completely disable the terrorist machinery. We
must  particularly 
the  coalition  against
terrorism.
support 
situations 
seriously.  Conflict 
As an Organization, we must address the issue of
conflicts 
impede
development,  provide  an  atmosphere  for  the  illegal
exploitation  of  resources,  the  abuse  of  children,  the
influx  of  refugees,  the  spread  of  dangerous  weapons
and  the  deepening  of  poverty,  to  mention  just  a  few
aspects.  Conflicts  steal  the  dreams,  hopes,  aspirations
and  opportunities  of  many,  many  people,  especially
children. We must intensify our efforts in the search for
the peaceful and speedy resolution of conflicts.
The  peaceful 
resolution  of  conflicts 
The conflicts in Africa continue to destabilize our
continent.  The  United  Nations  and  its  membership
must intensify efforts to find solutions to the conflicts.
is  a
fundamental  tenet  of  Kenya’s  foreign  policy.  It  is  a
matter of record that I have spared no effort throughout
my  political  career  in  search  of  peaceful  solutions  to
conflicts in our region and elsewhere. Currently, Kenya
is  involved  in  peace  negotiations  in  southern  Sudan,
Somalia,  Burundi  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo. We would like more international involvement
in peace efforts in Africa.
The  biggest  challenge 
the  African
continent  today  is  the  increasing  level  of  poverty.
Poverty  has  become  an  obstacle,  a  roadblock  to  every
effort  we  are  making  at  improving  the  overall  welfare
of our people.
facing 
Poverty  is  a  fertile  breeding  ground  for  conflict
and  instability,  and  even  terrorism.  It  is  therefore
regrettable  that  very  little  progress,  if  any,  has  been
made since the World Summit for Social Development,
held in Copenhagen in 1995. I remind members that the
4
main  outcome  of  that  Summit  was  the  resolve  to
eradicate 
human
development.
obstacle 
poverty 
an 
as 
to 
We cannot succeed in improving the lives of our
people  without  the  wholehearted  engagement  of  the
international community. The global target of reducing
poverty  by  half  by  the  year  2015  cannot  be  achieved
without tangible availability of resources.
Our  efforts  at  attacking  poverty  are  further
undermined  by  the  scourge  of  HIV/AIDS  and  other
treatable diseases like malaria and tuberculosis, which
have  the  potential  of  reversing  all  the  socio-economic
gains we have worked so hard to achieve.
I  applaud  the  Secretary-General  for  organizing  a
special  session  on  HIV/AIDS  earlier  this  year.  The
establishment  of  the  Global  AIDS  Fund  is  a  very
welcome  development. 
its
contribution  and  active  participation  in  our  daily
struggle  against  HIV/AIDS.  Kenya  calls  on 
the
international  community  to  lend  its  full  support  to  the
fund.
forward 
look 
to 
I 
The  effect  of  marginalization  on  developing
countries  posed  by 
the  accelerated  process  of
globalization must be addressed as a matter of priority.
It is my hope that the Fourth World Trade Organization
Ministerial Conference in Doha, Qatar, will address the
issue  of  the  imbalance  in  international  trade  more
effectively.  The  issue  of  meaningful  market  access,
particularly for agricultural products, must be resolved
quickly.  Protectionist  policies  are  in  no  country's
interest  and  definitely  contradict  the  principles  of  free
trade  and  the  process  of  liberalization.  In  addition,
resources  must  be  made  available  to  the  World  Trade
Organization  by  our  partners  to  enable  it  to  provide
technical 
to
developing countries.
capacity-building 
assistance 
and 
Solutions in the form of better terms of trade and
market  access  must  go  hand-in-hand  with  the  flow  of
foreign  direct  investment  to  developing  countries.
Many  African  countries  have  taken  bold  initiatives  to
provide  a  conducive  environment  for  investors.  These
efforts  need  to  be  supported  by  clear  policies  of
developed  countries 
to  encourage  private  sector
investment in Africa.
We  urgently  need  to  be  freed  from  the  burdens
that  are  diverting  vital  resources  from  our  economic
development.  Debt  relief  is  necessary.  It  is  in  our
common  interest  that  our  economies  be  restored  to
health in a meaningful time frame.
My  concluding  remarks  relate  to  the  desire  for
equity,  fair  play  and  justice  for  all.  This  is  one  of  the
cardinal  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  I  welcome
the efforts that the Organization has made in the pursuit
of these objectives.
We  welcome  these  efforts.  Yet  it  is  a  matter  of
concern that commitments in the programmes of action
agreed  upon  have  not  been  fully  complied  with.  This
situation  must  be  reversed.  My  challenge  to  the
Organization is that these commitments be honoured so
that humanity can feel that the United Nations is truly
an  organization  of  hope  for  many  nations  and  peoples
throughout  the  world.  We  cannot  continue  doing  what
has  so  far  failed.  We  need  to  work  on  new  ways  of
addressing  our  common  problems.  My  Government
stands  ready  to  do  its  part,  and  I  challenge  other
Governments to do theirs. Together we shall succeed in
meeting  our  commitments  to  have  poverty  reduced  by
half by 2015.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
the  President  and
Assembly, 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the
Republic of Kenya for the statement he has just made.
I  wish 
thank 
to 
The  Honourable  Daniel  Toroitich  arap  Moi,  MP,
President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces  of  the  Republic  of  Kenya,  was  escorted
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
limit.  This  has  disrupted 
The President: I should to draw the attention of
members to the fact that a number of statements made
in the general debate have gone beyond the 15-minute
time 
the  schedule  of
statements by other speakers as well as the schedule of
bilateral  consultations.  In  that  connection,  and  with
consideration  for  other  delegations,  I  should  like  once
again  to  appeal  earnestly  to  Member  States  to  limit
their  statements  to  15  minutes  so  that  all  speakers  on
the list for each meeting during the remaining five days
of  the  general  debate  can  be  accommodated  at  the
projected  time  and  so  that  bilateral  consultations  and
other  planned  activities  can  proceed  as  scheduled.  I
thank  members  for  their  understanding  and  for  their
cooperation.
A/56/PV.48
Mr.  Borg  (Malta):  Allow  me 
to  begin  by
expressing  my  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  The
fifty-sixth  session  is  clearly  going  to  be  a  challenging
one,  and  one  that  I  predict  will  further  strengthen  the
resolve  of  members  to  work  hand  in  hand  on  all  the
different  issues  requiring  our  attention.  I  would  like
also  to  convey  my  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.
Harri Holkeri for the determined and skilful manner in
which he presided over the previous session.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate 
tireless
Secretary-General  on  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  that  they
have jointly and so deservedly been awarded.
the  United  Nations  and 
its 
This  session  started  in  a  markedly  different
manner  from  those  of  previous  years.  The  horrendous
11  September  terrorist  attacks  brought  home  the  very
real threat of terrorism to each and every one of us no
matter  what  corner  of 
inhabit.
International  terrorism  does  not  limit  its  actions  to
individual countries. In fact, although the attacks were
launched  on  United  States  soil,  the  specific  targets
chosen  clearly  show  the  intent  to  destroy  symbols  of
the modern world, icons to free people everywhere.
the  world  we 
Indeed,  by  attacking  this  cosmopolitan  city  and
its World Trade Center, the perpetrators targeted us all.
Nationals of more than 60 countries met their death in
those dastardly attacks. Even if our own nationals were
not among those who lost their lives, we all felt under
attack. We all felt violated. In one way or another, our
lives  have  been  altered  forever,  and  we  must  respond
accordingly.
We  must  fight  the  scourge  of  terrorism  with
unreserved  and  unhesitating  resolve.  We  must  do  this
not merely as a means to defend all that we hold dear.
We must do it to secure a safer world for ourselves, for
those  who  will  follow  us  and  for  those  who  have  had
their lives irrevocably transformed as a result of  these
terrorist attacks. That resolve must be our tribute to the
innocent  and  the  brave  who  lost  their  lives  in  the  l1
September attacks.
The  two-month  postponement  of  the  general
debate has provided us with time to reflect and to act.
Malta  has 
international  community’s
absolute  and  unreserved  condemnation  of  the  terrorist
acts. We have also stepped up our action in pursuit of
the 
anti-terrorism
implementation 
effective 
joined 
the 
of 
5
A/56/PV.48
measures,  including  comprehensive  compliance  with
Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
Malta  was  among  the  first  six  countries  to  sign
the International Convention for the Suppression of the
Financing  of  Terrorism,  and  yesterday  became  one  of
the  first  States  to  ratify  it.  On  Sunday,  Malta  also
acceded  to  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and
Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected
Persons, 
the
International  Convention  against 
the  Taking  of
Hostages;  and  to  the  International  Convention  for  the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings.
including  Diplomatic  Agents; 
to 
The new realities of today’s world have certainly
brought to the fore the importance of those conventions
on terrorism. At the same time, they have also brought
into bold relief the wisdom that underpins the efforts of
the  international  community  in  its  pursuit  of  the
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  My
Government  is  politically  committed  to  the  Court  and
will  seek  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  by  the
Maltese parliament in the near future. We feel that, in
that  way,  we  are  doing  all  we  can  to  ensure  that  no
stone is left unturned in our fight against terrorism.
With  each  passing  day,  we  witness  the  domino
effect  that  acts  of  terror  may  have  at  a  national,
regional  and  global  level.  The  impact  this  has  on  the
lives of  millions  must  be  addressed.  We  feel  therefore
that  the  time  is  ripe  to  conclude  the  debate  on  an
operational  definition  of  the  perpetration  of  a  terrorist
act.  Intensified  efforts  aimed  at 
the  expeditious
conclusion  of  negotiations  on  the  Indian  proposal
should subsequently yield a comprehensive convention
on  international  terrorism,  which  will  be  of  benefit  to
us  all.  We  firmly  believe  that  such  an  umbrella
agreement  will  give  added  value  to,  and  further
complement,  other  existing  conventions  on  terrorism.
We  also  believe  that  the  General  Assembly  should
actively consider convening a high-level conference on
terrorism  under  United  Nations  auspices  upon  or
immediately after the conclusion of such a convention.
That  would  serve  to  reinforce  ongoing  international
efforts to formulate a collective response to terrorism.
The  unity  of  purpose  currently  prevailing  within
international  community 
its  fight  against
the 
terrorism 
the
political  will  displayed  over  the  past  two  months  is  a
clear  manifestation, 
that
multilateralism  remains  a  vital  tool  in  the  conduct  of
is  perhaps  unprecedented. 
if  any  were  needed, 
Indeed, 
in 
6
relations among States at a global level. That political
will  has  also  been  seen  in  the  other  work  of  the
Organization.  Allow  me  therefore  to  turn  to  other
issues on the agenda of the General Assembly.
I would like first to express my Government’s full
support  for  the  initiative  of  the  German  and  French
Governments  to  bring  the  issue  of  human  cloning
before 
the  United  Nations.  Aimed  at  drafting  a
convention banning human cloning for the purposes of
reproduction,  that  initiative  has  received  wide  support
from all quarters. The concern expressed underlines the
fundamental nature of the threat to humanity posed by
scientists who are unwilling to accept ethical and moral
limits  on  their  work.  In  responding  to  the  Franco-
German initiative, the United Nations will ensure that a
strong  and  meaningful  convention  can  be  drafted  and
adopted within as short a time frame as possible.
community 
international 
into  force  of 
The  United  Nations  has  already  had  occasion  to
exhibit its ability to act swiftly and decisively when the
conscience  of 
is
heightened.  The  entry 
the  Ottawa
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling,
Production  and  Transfer  of  Anti-personnel  Mines  and
on  Their  Destruction,  which  Malta  ratified  earlier  this
year,  was  made  possible  by 
international
community’s outrage at the devastating impact of those
indiscriminate  weapons,  whose  horrific  effects  long
outlast their military purpose.
the 
the 
Similarly,  the  seriousness  and  urgency  of  the
problem  of  human  cloning  should  expedite 
the
conclusion  of  an  internationally  binding  agreement  on
that  issue.  I  have  no  doubt  that  the  richly  diverse
beliefs reflected in this room are united in their respect
for human dignity and identity, and their concern with
the  fundamental  and  far-reaching 
implications  of
human cloning.
Other  world  events  continue  to  pose  a  threat  to
the  fundamental  right  of  peoples  to  live  in  a  secure,
stable and prosperous environment. The current state of
affairs in the Middle East is an example. The dramatic
contrast  between 
the
Millennium  Assembly’s  opening  and  the  escalation  in
violence  over  the  past  few  months  has  made  it
increasingly  difficult  for  the  parties  to  return  to  the
positions they were in just over 12 months ago.
the  optimism  apparent  at 
Malta  is  convinced  that  the  Mitchell  report  and
readily
the  Tenet  Plan  provide  a 
achievable  way  out  of  the  spiral  of  violence  that  has
realistic  and 
of 
the 
that 
re-establishment 
the  people  concerned  require 
engulfed the region. The peace, security and welfare of
all 
their  full
implementation  be  urgently  embarked  upon.  This
necessitates 
security
cooperation between the parties in the interests of both
Israelis and Palestinians; the stationing of international
observers, preferably from several regions; and an end
to  all  new  settlement  activity,  including  so-called
“natural  growth”.  Against  this  backdrop,  Malta  hopes
that  both  parties  will  be  able 
the
negotiating  table  with  the  aim  of  achieving  a  just  and
permanent  peace  in  the  region  on  the  basis  of  the
relevant Security Council resolutions.
to  return 
to 
Also in the Mediterranean, the situation in Cyprus
has remained a cause of concern for over 25 years. We
earnestly  hope  that  an  early  settlement  of  the  Cyprus
question will be found. In this connection, we reaffirm
our  full  support  for  efforts  to  find  a  solution  on  the
basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions.
Progress towards lasting peace and stability in the
Mediterranean  often  appears  to  unfold  very  slowly.
Events  in  the  Balkans  since  we  met  here  last  year,
however,  bring  fresh  hope  to  us  all.  The  end  of  the
Milosevic  era  was  a  clear  example  of  the  positive
change  that  can  be  wrought  through  the  power  of  the
people,  signalling  a  fresh  beginning  for  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and 
the
neighbouring independent republics.
indeed  for  all 
In  recent  months,  turmoil  and  unrest  have  also
threatened  to  engulf  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia.  Yet  the  unfolding  situation  now  reveals
encouraging  signs  of 
the  power  of  diplomacy.
International  assistance  extended  to  republics  in  the
Balkan  region  is  also  indicative  of  the  power  within
each of us to make our own contribution and to play a
part.
Malta  feels  this  onus  most  strongly  and  actively
seeks to play a role on the international stage that goes
beyond the mere limitations of its geographical size. In
fact,  in  keeping  with  this  consciousness,  Malta  is
proceeding steadily towards its objective of acceding to
the  European  Union  —  a  union  of  like-minded  States
where  we  naturally  belong,  not  only  politically,  but
also  economically,  culturally  and  historically.  Our
intention is therefore to become an integral part of the
European Union at its next enlargement, enabling us to
participate  fully  in  a  decision-making  process  that  all
A/56/PV.48
too  often  carries  wide-ranging  implications  for  our
country.
Like other candidate countries, Malta is currently
negotiating the terms of entry into the European Union
in  what  will  be  an  unprecedented  widening  and
deepening  of  the  Union.  Already  more  than  halfway
through  this  process,  we  are  working  hard  to  ensure
that  Malta  is  not  only  well  equipped  to  deal  with  the
challenges  of  membership  but  is  also  in  a  position  to
make  a  significant  contribution  to  the  Union.  This
historic project and the enhancement of Mediterranean
cooperation  are  both  of  immediate  concern  to  Malta.
We feel that they go hand in hand.
An increase in dialogue between all nations and a
move towards securing a safer planet are in everyone’s
interest. However, threats to international security, not
least  those  posed  by  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
continue  to  lurk  in  the  background.  In  July  this  year,
Malta  deposited  its  instrument  of  ratification  of  the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  Malta  hopes
that  the  remaining  13  countries  whose  ratification  is
necessary for the Treaty to come into force will join the
84  countries  that  have  already  done  this.  Thus  a
significant collective step will have been taken towards
reducing the risk of nuclear disaster.
the 
the 
two 
link  between 
Not  so  long  ago,  the  terms  “environment”  and
“international  security”  in  the  same  sentence  would
have drawn a perplexed response from most audiences.
Today, 
is  becoming
increasingly  apparent.  The  urgency  in  addressing  the
greatest  threats  to  our  natural  environment  was  made
amply  clear  in  Bonn  during  the  sixth  session  of  the
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  Despite
being  faced  with  seemingly  insurmountable  obstacles,
the  international  community  succeeded  in  forging  the
Earth’s  first  major  action-oriented  response  to  the
phenomenon of global warming.
In 
this 
respect,  allow  me 
to  offer  my
Government’s expression of gratitude to the Chairman
of  the  Conference,  Mr.  Jan  Pronk,  as  well  as  to  my
compatriot  Mr.  Michael  Zammit  Cutajar,  Executive
Secretary 
the  United  Nations  Framework
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  for  their  enormous
personal  efforts  to  secure  a  successful  outcome.  Their
success  laid  the  groundwork  for  the  breakthrough
achieved  at  the  seventh  session  of  the  Conference  in
Marrakech last week. The agreement on the modalities
of 
7
A/56/PV.48
of  implementation  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol  has  opened
the  door  to  its  ratification  by  all  States  signatories.
Indeed,  Malta  deposited  its  instrument  of  ratification
yesterday and looks forward to the present momentum
being sustained, leading to an early entry into force of
this landmark Protocol.
peoples  must  ensure 
that  we  continue  first  and
foremost  to  build  peace  in  the  minds  of  men  and
women.  That  undertaking,  adopted  by  the  generation
that  survived  the  Second  World  War,  retains  its  noble
authenticity today as we face the challenges of our own
times.
Difficult  and  complex  as  it  may  be  to  tackle
environmental  global  problems,  the  most  challenging
environmental  problems  are  often  those  in  our  own
backyards. With one of the highest population densities
in the world, Malta has achieved a high level of human
development  without  any  natural  resources  at  its
disposal.  In  seeking  to  continue  to  raise  our  living
standards,  we  grapple  daily  with  difficult  decisions
aimed  at  ensuring  that  economic  development  on  our
islands is environmentally sustainable.
There 
is  no  simple 
trade-off  between 
the
protection  of  the  environment  and  the  production  of
wealth.  The  Mediterranean  Sea,  which  provides  Malta
with its economic lifeline, is perhaps the most tangible
proof of the fact that economic progress at the expense
of the environment is no progress at all. In reaping its
bountiful  fruits,  we  know  that  they  are  not  unlimited
and, if not tended to, will dry up altogether. The same
applies to other seas and oceans.
With  this  in  mind,  Malta  yesterday  became  the
thirtieth  State  to  accede  to  the  Agreement  for  the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  relating  to  the
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  —  a  move
that  will  bring  the  Agreement  itself  into  force  on  11
December 2001. For Malta, having initiated the process
that led to the United Nations Convention on the Law
of  the  Sea,  it  is  a  source  of  great  satisfaction  to
contribute  to  the  further  development  of  this  veritable
pillar of international law.
While  there  is  inevitably  still  more  that  can  be
done,  both  at  a  domestic  and  an  international  level,  I
hope that this General Assembly session will serve as a
renewed  impetus  for  us  all  to  promote  everything
necessary  to  make  the  world  safer  and  more  secure.
This  is  our  fundamental  duty,  as  political  leaders,  for
the welfare of present and future generations. We must
continue  to  foster  social  justice,  promote  equitable
development, nurture confidence among peoples, settle
conflicts  and  take  the  appropriate  measures  to  ensure
security for all. Yet in doing all this, Governments and
8
Mr. Cem (Turkey): This meeting is being held at
a most difficult hour. The terrorist attacks carried out in
New  York  and  Washington,  D.C.,  cast  a  long  shadow
over this session of the General Assembly. But we must
stand  united,  drawing  the  right  conclusions  from  this
catastrophe.  The  date  of  11  September  has  made  it
clear  that  terrorism  is  now  humankind’s  number-one
enemy,  and  that  it  must  be  addressed  with  the  utmost
seriousness and determination.
We  share 
full  support 
the  American  nation’s  grief.  We
reiterate  our 
the  United  States
Administration  in  its  efforts  to  track  down  those
responsible  and  to  bring  them  to  justice.  As  a  country
that  has  lost  so  many  of  its  citizens  to  terrorism,
Turkey deeply feels the grief of this tragic event.
to 
To  combat  terrorism  efficiently  and  to  develop  a
strong  coalition  of  United  Nations  Members  against
terrorism, certain principles should guide our collective
effort.  First,  terrorism  does  not  have  a  religion  or  a
geography,  and  there  can  be  no  justification  for
terrorist  acts  under  any  circumstances.  Secondly,  the
use of double standards is the main obstacle to the fight
against terrorism. Thirdly, we have to be  conscious  of
the fact that terrorism is a global phenomenon.
No  ideal,  no  cause  and  no  end  can  justify
terrorism.  We  should  avoid  spurious  justifications  for
deliberate  killing.  To  identify  terrorism  with  any
religion is a sacrilege against all religions. We strongly
condemn those who couple the name of a religion with
a  definition  of  terrorism  or  terrorists.  To  fight  this
dangerous trend, we fully support all initiatives aimed
at dispelling these erroneous approaches.
We  commend  the  ongoing  mutual  efforts  of  the
United  Nations,  as  well  as  several  other  initiatives.  In
this  context,  Turkey  has  proposed  an  informal  forum
between  members  of,  and  aspirants  to,  the  European
Union and the Organization of the Islamic Conference
(OIC)  to  discuss,  from  a  political  perspective,  issues
pertaining  to  harmony  among  civilizations.  We  have
the initial support of the relevant organizations and of
several  countries.  We  hope  to  hold  this  conference  by
February 2002.
Terrorism  does  not  have  a  geography.  The  same
terrorism manifests itself in different countries all over
the  world,  both  in  the  West  and  in  the  East.  To  be
serious  and  effective,  the  anti-terrorist  struggle  has  to
be all-encompassing and deal with all terrorist centres,
activities  and  logistics.  It  should  address  all  countries
that  harbour  and 
that  are
indifferent  to  terrorist  groups  that  incite  or  actively
plan, finance or command terrorist operations executed
in another country.
terrorism  or 
tolerate 
in  dealing  with 
Being drawn into the trap of double standards in
defining  or 
inherently
provides support for terrorism. Unfortunately, we have
been  witnessing  several  cases  of  double  standards.  I
will try to give some views on this particular subject.
terrorism 
There is an unfortunate de facto distinction made
in  the  conceptual  approaches  of  several  countries
between “bad” terrorists, who work against a particular
country,  and  tolerated  terrorists,  who,  while  enjoying
safe  haven  in  the  same  country,  incite,  plan,  finance
and  sometimes  command  terrorist  acts  in  another.  My
country,  as  well  as  several  others,  has  been  victim  of
this  double-standard  approach.  Groups  implanted  in
foreign  countries  openly  advocate  the  use  of  terrorist
means  under  all  sorts  of  pretexts.  Their  activities  and
messages  —  which  call  for  violence,  and  sometimes
for  assassination  —  are  freely  propagated  and  are
sometimes transmitted through the authorized media in
their host countries. In short, acts and calls that would
draw  an  immediate  reaction  if  they  were  the  acts  and
calls  of 
their  own
country  are  ignored  and  tolerated  when  they  emanate
from  guest  terrorists  targeting  their  country  of  origin.
This unfortunate distinction between terrorists that hurt
others  but  not  us  and  the  prevailing  double  standards
have  to  be  overcome  if  we  are  serious  about  fighting
terrorists.
indigenous 
terrorists 
targeting 
Terrorism  is  a  global  phenomenon  that  crosses
borders,  and  the  fight  against  it  requires  effective
international  cooperation.  Security  Council  resolution
1373  (2001)  in  particular  provides  a  clear  road  map
regarding  the  steps  to  be  taken.  We  hope  that  all
Member  States  will 
this
groundbreaking  resolution.  The  establishment  of  the
Counter-Terrorism 
monitor
implementation  of  resolution  1373  (2001)  is  a  major
development.
comply  with 
Committee 
fully 
to 
A/56/PV.48
We  welcome  the  joint  declarations  of  14  and  21
September  2001  by  the  European  Union.  Turkey
aligned  itself  with  both,  and  we  expect  their  prompt
and resolute implementation. The European Union is in
the  process  of  identifying  terrorist  organizations  and
their 
terrorist
organizations  to  be  drawn  up  by  the  European  Union
must not be restricted only to the geographical area of
its  members.  It  should  definitely  include  those  groups
that  finance,  plan  and  command  terrorist  activities  in
other countries.
support  networks.  The 
list  of 
There  is  a  drastic  need  for  vigilance  and  further
cooperation  between  the  relevant  authorities,  namely,
the  justice  and  interior  ministries  of  all  countries.  A
drastic change in attitude is imperative.
In  order  for  it  to  be  credible  and  effective,  the
anti-terror  struggle  has  to  be  comprehensive  and  deal
with all terrorist centres. It is also incumbent upon all
United  Nations  Member  States  to  adopt  the  existing
international  legislation  and  to  review  national  laws
accordingly.  International  efforts  to  combat  terrorism
cannot  be  fully  effective  in  the  absence  of  a  global
convention in this field.
The 
draft 
convention 
comprehensive 
to  be  our  best  chance 
on
international  terrorism  now  under  discussion  in  the
working  group  established  by  the  Sixth  Committee
seems 
this
shortcoming.  Although  all  participants  have  displayed
remarkable flexibility, the working group has failed to
resolve 
the
definition of a terrorist offence and exclusions from the
scope of the convention. I wish to take this opportunity
to  call  upon  all  States  to  make  an  additional  effort
towards finalizing the convention.
two  central  and 
to  address 
interrelated 
issues: 
and 
political 
conditions. 
In combating terrorism, we cannot ignore the fact
feeds  on  deteriorating  social,
this  scourge 
that 
Illiteracy,
economic 
destitution,  bigotry, 
racism,  social  and  political
injustice  and  similar  sources  of  grievance  all  play  a
role  in  creating  fertile  ground  for  terrorism.  The  gap
between  the  richest  and  the  least  fortunate  nations  of
the world keeps widening at an alarming pace. Threats
such  as  illegal  mass  migration,  corruption,  drugs  and
arms  smuggling,  money  laundering  and  other  types  of
organized crime are on the increase.
It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to  find  lasting,
viable solutions to these problems. Developing nations
must focus on ways of achieving sustainable economic
9
A/56/PV.48
growth,  on  improving  income  distribution,  education
and  justice  and  on  addressing  other  social  needs.
Developed  nations  must  be  more  forthcoming  in  debt
relief, must increase development and humanitarian aid
and must allow greater access to their markets.
Today, the United Nations and its Member States
face a mutual challenge. The name of this challenge is
Afghanistan, and it has two dimensions: to combat the
terrorist  network,  which,  by  exploiting  the  Afghan
people’s plight, has taken root in its geography; and to
support  the  revival  of  Afghanistan,  of  the  Afghan
identity,  by  ensuring  peace,  stability  and  economic
development.
Turkey  is  resolutely  committed  to  meet  this
challenge;  we  fully  support  the  United  Nations  efforts
and  those  of  the  Special  Representative,  Mr.  Brahimi.
Turkey  worked  together  with  the  Afghan  people  from
the  1920s  to  the  1960s;  and  it  resumed  cooperation
again  in  the  early  1990s.  We  believe  that  concerted
international  action,  with 
sound  principles  and
effective  means,  is  of  crucial  importance.  I  will  try  to
elaborate on some suggestions.
First, it is the Afghan people themselves who will
rebuild  their  identity  and  their  country.  Our  task  is  to
assist  and  support  their  efforts  —  not  to  dictate  who
will run their country, and how. In this respect, regional
and tribal affinities should be encouraged to merge into
a  single  Afghan  identity  and  assume  a  secondary  role
as sub-cultures. This is capital for Afghanistan.
Secondly,  all  countries,  either  neighbours  of  or
involved  in  Afghanistan,  should  be  discouraged  from
relying  on  particular  Afghan  groups  as  their  primary
allies  and  should  refrain  from  pursuing  their  special
interests through those groups.
Thirdly,  while  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  its
supporters  goes  on,  special  care  must  be  taken  to
ensure  that  innocent  civilians  are  kept  out  of  harm’s
way.  All  humanitarian  support  should  be  provided,
organized and facilitated.
Fourthly,  in  regions  and  cities  of  Afghanistan
freed from terrorist oppression, the United Nations and
involved  forces  should  act  immediately  to  ensure
security  and  relief.  The  success  in  providing  for  basic
needs  and  displaying  the  ability  to  produce  a  better
future will be paramount in expanding positive changes
to  other  parts  of  the  country.  Setting  a  successful
precedent would serve as the best catalyst.
10
In 
administration 
Fifthly, and finally, everyone seems to agree that
the 
future 
and  Government  of
Afghanistan should reflect all ethnicities. It should also
encompass all political trends that have not resorted to
terrorism. 
this  process,  overemphasizing  or
undermining the role of any group in the country would
be  counterproductive.  It  is  evident  that  in  the  process
of  rebuilding  Afghanistan,  the  United  Nations  has  to
play  a  leading  role.  It  is  the  duty  of  each  and  every
Member State of the Organization to contribute to this
gigantic task.
I will touch upon one more issue, and the rest will
be  distributed  in  the  paper  that  I  have  prepared.  This
last  issue  is:  Cyprus.  The  Cyprus  issue  has  remained
for  38  years.  This  subject  is  one  that  is  known  to  the
United Nations. As the dates for some radical changes
in  Cyprus  through  the  Greek  Cypriot  side’s  unilateral
accession to the European Union seem to be suggested,
and  as  Turkey  considers  these  changes  potentially
dangerous for the two parties and for the whole region,
this  issue  needs  further  attention.  Any  artificially
imposed  solution  that  is  not  mutually  acceptable  to
both nations in the island and to the guarantor countries
is bound to create a severe crisis. Turkey, as well as the
Turkish  Republic  of  Northern  Cyprus  (TRNC),  aspire
to  a  mutually  acceptable  solution,  sought  through  all
possible means.
A  unilateral  act  by  the  Greek  Cypriots,  in
violation  of  the  1959-1960  system,  and  pretending  to
represent both nations, contradicts the legal framework
and  the  realities  of  Cyprus.  The  legal  and  practical
realities do not permit any party in the island to decide
unilaterally  to  enter  any  international  body  of  which
both Turkey and Greece are not members; and any such
decision  has  to  be  taken  mutually  by  the  two  co-
founders.
Through  formal  decisions  of  their  parliaments
and  Governments,  both  Turkey  and  the  TRNC  have
declared  that  they  will  not  accept  any  solution  that  is
not  freely  negotiated  and  mutually  accepted.  Both
Turkey and the TRNC have also made it clear that they
reject  any  such  development,  which  would  make  the
Turkish Cypriots a minority under Greek Cypriot rule.
The Turkish Government will not allow the resurgence
of  a  situation  that  in  1964  and  1974  caused  massive
crimes to be committed against the Turkish Cypriots.
Turkey and the TRNC are for a solution based on
the realities of the island. There are two distinct nations
with  different  religions,  languages  and  cultures  with
two  separate  States  and  democracies  in  Cyprus.  The
confederation  proposal  of  President  Denktaş  deserves
serious  consideration.  We  also  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  Mission  of  Good  Offices  and  his  efforts  to
start  a  new  phase  of  talks.  In  order  to  succeed,  this
initiative  should  depart 
from  sufficient  common
ground.
Turkey welcomes the recent proposal of President
Denktaş to his Greek Cypriot counterpart that they get
together  informally,  without  any  preconditions,  and
discuss  all  relevant  issues  in  order  to  find  a  way
forward. The refusal of the Greek Cypriot party is in no
one’s interest.
The tragedy of 11 September can be viewed as an
omen of what can happen if the slightest carelessness is
shown  towards  any  of  the  old  and  new  threats  the
world  faces  in  the  modern  age,  be  they  terrorism,
environment or poverty.
All  I  have  said  points  to  the  need  for  the  strong
commitment  of  Member  countries  to  efforts  aimed  at
the  shaping  of  a  better  future.  I  point  as  well  to  the
need  to  strengthen  and  streamline  the  United  Nations,
with  all  its  principal  organs.  This  General  Assembly
session of 2001 is a meaningful link in the chain which
the  international  community  has  forged  to  meet  the
growing  challenges  of  the  new  century.  With  realism
and courage we shall succeed.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Joschka  Fischer,  Deputy  Chancellor
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany.
Mr.  Fischer  (Germany)  (spoke 
in  German;
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):
Only  a  few  moments  ago,  we  were  informed  of  the
crash  of  a  commercial  airliner  not  far  from  here,  in
Queens. At the moment, we do not know the cause of
this disaster, but we are shocked and horrified. I would
express  to  the  bereaved  families  and  to  the  American
people our sincere condolences and sympathy.
It  has  been  only  two  months  since  thousands  of
innocent  persons  lost  their  lives  in  the  World  Trade
Center  here  in  New  York.  Today,  we  are  seeing  the
extent to which the people here have been affected. In
the entire history of the United Nations, there has never
been a situation like this one.
A/56/PV.48
victims  and  their  families.  These  horrific  terrorist
attacks  struck  not  just  Americans,  but  also  innocent
people  from  over  80  countries,  members  of  all  the
major  world  religions  and  cultures.  They  targeted  us
all. It must therefore be a common concern of humanity
to  prevent  a  recurrence  of  this  tragedy  or  indeed
something even worse.
The  events  of  11  September  thrust  a  dangerous
future  upon  the  world.  We  now  live  in  the  terrible
knowledge  that  no  country  in  the  globalized  world  is
invulnerable  and 
that  enemies  within,  who  are
determined  to  kill  and  to  die,  can  perpetrate  mass
murder  at  any  time.  This  eerie,  awful  danger  has  at  a
stroke  dramatically  altered  the  foundations  of  security
policy as we know it. The fight against internationally
operative terrorist networks will require new responses
from  the  community  of  States.  International  terrorism
is  a  challenge  above  all  for  politics,  the  military,  the
police  and  the  judiciary,  as  well  as  for  the  economy
and — very importantly — for culture. At the dawn of
the twenty-first century, the issue of peace and security
has thus taken on an entirely new perspective.
Mr.  Imanaliev  (Kyrgyzstan),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
Humanity  has  rarely  been  as  united  as  it  was  on
that terrible day two months ago. This unity was born
not  only  of  horror  and  compassion,  but  also  of  the
realization  that  we  can  successfully  counter  this  new
deadly  threat  only  if  we  combine  our  full  force  and
energy.  The  day  of  11  September  was  a  defining
moment  that  altered  the  direction  of  world  politics.  A
new alliance was created. It must now be strengthened
and  developed  into  a  genuine  partnership.  If  this  is
achieved,  11  September  could  go  down  in  history  not
only  as  a  horrific  day  for  humanity,  but  also  as  the
beginning  of  a  new  era  of  cooperation  and
multilateralism.
What 
people 
to 
drives 
commit 
these
inconceivable  crimes  and  to  blow  up  themselves  and
thousands  of 
innocents?  From  where  does  such
uncontrollable  hatred  come?  How  can  it  be  curbed?
How  can  it  be  conquered?  It  is  certain  that  in  any
attempt  to  develop  an  effective  counter-strategy  we
must,  while  waging  the  war  on  terrorism,  analyse  the
full range of causes and circumstances that permit such
hatred and violence to grow.
Throughout  the  world,  people  have  expressed
their sincere solidarity with and commiseration for the
The United Nations is uniquely suited to the task
ahead.  It  provides  the  forum  required  for  the  creation
11
A/56/PV.48
of  a  universal  coalition.  Only  it  can  give  international
legitimacy  to  the  response  to  terrorism.  It  has  at  its
disposal  the  instruments  to  manage  political  conflicts
and the underlying development problems that nurture
hatred and despair.
A comprehensive strategy against terrorism must
concentrate primarily on prevention. Developing such a
strategy means nothing less than drafting a policy for a
cooperative  world  order  for  the  twenty-first  century,  a
policy that no longer tolerates areas characterized by a
breakdown  of  order,  a  policy  that  has  as  its  goal  a
world  order  under  which  all  peoples  can  claim  their
full  and  equitable  share.  This 
includes  making
economic  globalization  more  socially  just  for  more
people  and  supplementing 
the  political
globalization so urgently needed.
it  with 
(2001), 
The Security Council responded to 11 September
with  rare  solidarity  and,  with  resolutions  1368  (2001)
and  1373 
took  decisions  on  concrete,
internationally  binding  anti-terrorism  measures  that
point  the  way  ahead.  The  General  Assembly,  too,
severely condemned the terrorist attacks and called for
joint action against international terrorism.
This  path  must  now  be  rigorously  pursued  with
the rapid and universal ratification and implementation
of  the  12  United  Nations  anti-terrorism  conventions
and  the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive  convention  on
international  terrorism.  We  must  endeavour  anew  to
bring this project, on which we all place so much hope,
to  a  successful  conclusion.  I  therefore  call  upon  all
States 
that  have  not  yet  approved 
the  present
compromise to reconsider their position.
The International Criminal Court can also become
a  valuable  instrument  in  the  fight  against  terrorism.
Under article 7, paragraph 1, of its statute, it will have
jurisdiction to try cases of murder “when committed as
part  of  a  widespread  or  systematic  attack  directed
against any civilian population”. There can be no doubt
that 
the  attacks  on  New  York,  Washington  and
Pennsylvania fulfil this requirement. For this reason, I
would like to ask you all once again to ratify the Rome
Statute as quickly as possible.
The  attack  on  the  World  Trade  Center  was  a
wake-up call to the profound threat to world peace that
can  be  posed  by  failing  States.  Areas  where  political
and  social  order  has  collapsed  offer  terrorists  a  safe
haven  from  which  they  can  organize  their  murderous
networks worldwide. The community of States urgently
12
needs  to  take  a  closer  and  preventive  look  at  the
problem  of 
in
Afghanistan,  and  not  only  after  a  catastrophe  has
occurred.
failing  States  —  but  not 
just 
No  conflict  prevention  measures  have  ever  been
undertaken  in  Afghanistan.  Far  from  it.  This  has
proved  to  be  a  fatal  error.  For  more  than  20  years,  a
humanitarian  catastrophe  has  been  playing  itself  out
before  the  eyes  of  the  world,  in  which  women  and
children, in particular, have suffered. Civil war, human
rights  violations  and  abject  misery  have  also  been  the
nourishing  ground  for  the  unprecedented  symbiosis
between  the  terrorists  of  the  Al  Qaeda  group  and  the
Taliban regime.
From  there  the  trail  leads  directly  to  the  horrific
attacks  in  the  United  States.  As  hard  as  this  decision
may  be,  without  the  use  of  military  means,  this  threat
cannot be averted. We must not forget that the suffering
of  the  people  in  Afghanistan  is  above  all  the  work  of
the  Taliban.  It  was  the  Taliban  that,  long  before  11
September, 
effective
humanitarian relief, robbed women and girls of all their
rights  and  actively  supported  terrorism,  also  with  the
goal of destabilizing Arab and Muslim States.
increasingly 
impeded 
Not  to  react  would  indeed  be  to  invite  further
terror  and  oppression  and  would  be  extremely
dangerous for world peace. The dramatic nature of this
threat  is  illustrated  by  Osama  bin  Laden’s  statement
that  he  will  not  shrink  from  using  even  nuclear
weapons.  Civilian  means  alone  are  unfortunately  not
always  enough  to  put  an  end  to  violence  and  terror.
This was the case in the Balkans.
In Afghanistan, too, the root of the tragic conflict
is  profoundly  political,  and  so  the  solution,  too,  can
ultimately  only  be  a  political  one.  It  must  come  from
within, must reflect the diversity of peoples in Afghan
society  and  must  be  accepted  by  the  Afghan  people.
But  a  peaceful  solution  also  requires  assistance  from
the  international  community.  Afghanistan  must  not  be
left alone with its problems yet again.
A clear political and humanitarian perspective for
Afghanistan is now crucial. The United Nations should
be  the  coordinating  agency  for  all  peace  efforts.  It  is
indispensable  as 
the  political
process  and  as  the  guarantor  of  internal  agreements
within  Afghanistan.  Only  a  peace  process  under  the
auspices  of 
in
excluding  external  involvement  in  the  future  and
the  United  Nations  will  succeed 
the  framework  for 
ensuring  a  peaceful  future  for  the  country  in  harmony
with its neighbours. Germany and the European Union
are  willing  to  play  their  part  towards  a  political
solution for Afghanistan and to participate in the long
term  in  the  economic  and  social  reconstruction  of
Afghanistan.
it  possible 
More than anything, the refugees and the civilian
population must be helped. We cannot tolerate the fact
that the Taliban is hindering humanitarian access and is
using  the  civilian  population  as  a  shield.  Especially
because  of 
the  approaching  winter,  we  must  do
everything  in  our  power  to  provide  the  people  with  at
least  the  most  basic  necessities  and  to  alleviate  their
despair  and  hardship.  Is 
to  establish
humanitarian  protected  areas,  to  use  the  expulsion  of
the  Taliban  from  Mazar-e-Sharif  and  other  towns  to
improve  the  humanitarian  situation,  and  to  make  a
town  like  Kabul  an  open  city?  Of  course  this  will  be
very  difficult,  but  let  us  nevertheless  think  without
taboos  about  absolutely  all  ways  in  which  we  could
help  the  people.  As  chair  of  the  Afghanistan  Support
Group, Germany has issued an invitation to a meeting
in Berlin at the beginning of December. I appeal to all
States to make a great humanitarian effort now and to
come to the aid of the downtrodden Afghan people.
Solving  regional  conflicts  will  be  of  critical
importance  in  the  fight  against  terrorism.  The  Middle
East conflict is a top priority. Our hearts go out to the
many innocent victims on all sides. Both the Israeli and
Palestinian peoples have a right to live free of fear, in
dignity and in peace. This is indivisible not only from
Israel’s right of statehood, as recognized in Madrid —
which  is,  in  our  view,  inviolable  —  but  also  from  its
security.  Germany  bears  a  special 
responsibility
towards Israel stemming from its past. Any policy that
aims  at  destroying  Israel  by  means  of  terrorism  or
from
otherwise  will 
Germany.  However,  we 
the
Palestinians’ right to self-determination and their right
to  their  own  State,  Palestine.  In  the  European  Union
Berlin  Declaration  of  March  1999  we  stated  that  “the
creation of a democratic, viable and peaceful sovereign
Palestinian  State  on  the  basis  of  existing  agreements
and  through  negotiations  would  be  the  best  guarantee
of  Israel’s  security”.  This  is  truer  today  than  ever
before.
face  determined  opposition 
advocate 
equally 
Never before has there been broader international
the  Israeli-Palestinian
backing  for  a  solution 
conflict.  The  Mitchell  recommendations  still  form  the
to 
A/56/PV.48
basis  for  the  timetable  accepted  by  all  sides,  and  in
their spirit we call on Israelis and Palestinians alike to
put  an  immediate  and  lasting  end  to  violence  and
confrontation, to resume the agreed direct talks without
the  negotiated
delay  and 
ceasefires.  These 
lead 
to  genuine
negotiations on a viable political solution.
to  seriously 
talks  must 
implement 
The real aim of the terrorists is to trigger a clash
of civilizations and to inflame the situation in the Near
and Middle East. Under no circumstances can we allow
ourselves  to  be  drawn  into  such  a  conflict.  We  are
fighting international terrorism, not Islam.
We must counter the terrorist strategy designed to
bring about the clash of civilizations with a dialogue of
cultures and religions. We need a spiritual debate based
on mutual understanding that attempts to reach genuine
agreement  on  the  fundamental  values  that  unite  us.
Such  a  dialogue  presupposes  the  existence  of  shared
values,  but  also  respect  for  other 
traditions  and
differences between peoples. However, one thing must
be  clear:  human  rights  are  universal,  not  Western
values.  Consensus  was  reached  on 
the
international community of States in the Charter of the
United Nations and the human rights conventions.
them  by 
Any  dialogue  must  build  on  the  universality  of
human rights. It must be conducted with respect for the
dignity  of  all  involved,  in  tolerance  and  openness.  It
must  start  at  home,  within  cultures  themselves.  It  can
bear  fruit  only  if  it  is  pursued  free  of  all  constraint.
And  it  has  a  purpose  only  if  all  participants  are  also
ready to offer self-criticism.
The insidious anthrax attacks since 11 September
show that the threat from weapons of mass destruction
in  terrorist  hands,  which  yesterday  seemed  abstract,  is
today  a  real  and  deadly  danger.  The  community  of
States  must  do  everything  in  its  power  to  counter  it
with  a  new  push  for  non-proliferation  and  global
disarmament.
In 
sanctions. 
The  dangers  of  the  dissemination  of  weapons  to
non-State  groups  and  of  regional  arms  races  require
new answers and effective, internationally enforceable
criminal 
the
commitment contained in the Non-Proliferation Treaty
to  complete  nuclear  disarmament  remains  crucial.  As
regards biological weapons, in view of the acute threat,
effective  global  control  mechanisms  must  finally  be
created.  The  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  must  be
more  rigorously  implemented.  All  States  are  called
the  nuclear 
field, 
13
A/56/PV.48
to  participate 
upon 
the  negotiation  of  an
international  code  of  conduct  on  ballistic  missile
proliferation.
in 
The  fight  now  beginning  against  terrorism  must
build on the awareness that the first world cannot in the
long  term  live  secure  and  safe  from  the  tensions  and
conflicts of the third world. Almost one quarter of the
world  population  is  starving.  Ninety-five  per  cent  of
those infected with AIDS live in developing countries.
Africa  is  particularly  hard  hit.  At  present  only  a
minority  of 
the
opportunities  for  growth  offered  by  globalization  and
from the use of the new information technologies. This
state  of  affairs  cannot  be  accepted,  even  by  the  rich
countries  —  for  moral  reasons,  but  also  because
tensions and conflicts today spread much more quickly
and widely than ever before.
the  world’s  citizens  profit  from 
leap 
forward 
The  battle  against  poverty  cannot  be  won  unless
we  take  equally  determined  steps  to  preserve  the
natural resources on which life depends. At the coming
World  Summit  in  Johannesburg  we  must  make  a
quantum 
sustainable
development,  improved  poverty  eradication  and  better
management  of  our  natural  resources.  The  Kyoto
Protocol must enter into force next year. And we must
strengthen the sole advocate of the global environment,
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme,
institutionally, operationally and financially.
towards 
11  September  made  it  horrifyingly  clear  that  the
human  race  will  not  be  able  to  live  in  peace  and
security  in  the  absence  of  political  order  at  the  global
and regional levels.
Germany  will  continue  to  do  its  utmost  to  bring
about  the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
capacity  to  act,  so  that  the  world  will  be  a  more
peaceful,  just  and  humane  place  in  the  twenty-first
century than it was in the twentieth century. The future
belongs  to  responsible  governance  for  one  world,
governance  based  not  on  hegemonic  claims,  but  on
cooperation,  solidarity  and  multilateralism.  If  together
we succeed in implementing such a policy, we will not
just  ultimately  win  the  war  against  terrorism  but  will
also be able to eradicate its roots forever.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  The  Honourable  John  Briceño,  Deputy
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Natural  Resources,
Environment, Commerce and Industry of Belize.
14
Mr.  Briceño  (Belize):  We  understand  that  an
American  Airlines  flight  to  the  Dominican  Republic
has gone down in Queens. We extend the condolences
and the support of my Government to the United States
and the Dominican Republic.
That  we  have  forged  ahead  with  the  fifty-sixth
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  that  political
leaders have assembled for the general debate mark an
extraordinary  accomplishment,  one  that  brings  great
credibility  to  the  United  Nations.  I  applaud  and  thank
all  who  reside  in  this  great  city  for  continuing  their
work.  Today,  more  than  ever,  our  efforts  and  energies
should  focus  on 
the  purposes  and
principles  of  our  Charter  and  should  inspire  hope  and
confidence in all humanity.
implementing 
Foreign Minister Han Seung-soo, on behalf of my
delegation,  I  extend  congratulations  to  him  on  his
election  as  President  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the
Assembly.  The  manner  in  which  he  has  guided  our
work  thus  far  is  outstanding  and  worthy  of  our
recognition.  We  wish  him  continued  success  as  he
presides  over  this  Assembly.  To  the  Secretary-General
and  to  the  United  Nations,  we  extend  congratulations
on being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
Before  I  proceed,  please  allow  me,  on  behalf  of
the Belizean people, to extend to the President and the
people  of  the  United  States  of  America,  especially  to
the people of New York City, our heartfelt condolences
on the tremendous loss suffered on 11 September.
For  most  of  us,  the  immediate  reaction  to  this
tragedy  was  one  of  shock  and  disbelief.  As  we  joined
in mourning the loss of innocent lives, including some
of  our  own  nationals,  the  international  community
moved swiftly to adopt a number of resolutions here at
the  United  Nations.  Through 
these  actions  we
forcefully condemned acts of terrorism and reached out
to  the  United  States  of  America  in  solidarity,  firm  in
our support to uphold the principles of justice and the
maintenance of peace.
Today,  despots  feast  in  the  raging  rivers  of
desperation,  seeking  refuge  among  the  weak,  preying
upon  the  vulnerabilities  of  the  less  fortunate.  Those
who  are  caught  in  the  sweeping  currents  of  poverty,
forced to live in a world were a dollar is a luxury, find
little  hope  for  a  better  future  and  are  often  abused  by
those who manipulate them for selfish and destructive
reasons. For us, securing a better future for the millions
who live in poverty continues to be our most noble of
challenges.
To  meet  this  challenge,  the  United  Nations  must
remain  true  to  its  task  as  set  forth  in  the  Charter  and
reaffirmed just over a year ago when our heads of State
and  Government  gathered  here  and  adopted 
the
Millennium  Declaration.  That  Declaration  outlines
various issues critical to the realization of a world with
less poverty, death and despair, exhorting the values of
freedom,  equality,  justice  and  tolerance.  We  must  not
allow  the  events  of  11  September  to  cause  us  to  lose
our  focus  on  this  righteous  undertaking  —  we  must
stay the course.
For  Belize,  the  path  to  fulfilling  the  goals  of  the
Millennium  Declaration  begins  with  addressing  the
issues  of  development  and  poverty  eradication.  We
confirm  our  support  for  the  Agenda  for  Development.
As  a  small  State  working 
to  provide  greater
opportunities  for  its  people,  especially  those  who  live
in  poverty,  meaningful  sustainable  development  is
critical  and  can  be  achieved  only  through  partnership
with the international community. Regional and global
cooperation  are  fundamental  components  for  progress
and  necessitate  a  universal  acceptance  of  our  shared
responsibility  to  create  opportunities  for  growth  and
development.  Please  allow  me  to  say  a  few  words  in
Spanish.
(spoke in Spanish)
Globalization 
our
interdependence  and  the  importance  of  cooperation
with  the  rest  of  the  world  based  on  the  principle  of
mutual 
respect.  Genuine  sustainable  development
requires inclusive and transparent trading practices that
allow  for  the  participation  of  developing  countries  in
the  global  economy.  The  geographical  location  of
Belize  enables  us  to  participate  in  the  Caribbean
Community  and  the  Central  American  Integration
System,  which  gives  us  the  opportunity  to  offer
different  perspectives  in  the  fight  against  poverty.  At
the same time, it increases our possibilities for greater
participation  in  all  entities  concerned  with  developing
innovative  mechanisms  to  efficiently  integrate  our
economies  into  the  global  economic  system.  In  this
respect,  we  consider  that  equitable  and  participatory
cooperation  in  which  our  concerns  and  vulnerabilities
will receive the attention they deserve is fundamental.
demonstrates 
amply 
(spoke in English)
A/56/PV.48
The  twenty-sixth  special  session  of  the  General
Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS,  held  last  June,  brought  the
international community together to collectively affirm
the  urgent  need  for  critical  action  on  the  part  of  all
stakeholders  to  combat  this  pandemic.  For  us  in  the
Caribbean,  the  Conference  was  of  special  importance.
Ranked the second highest region in rate of HIV/AIDS
infection  after  sub-Saharan  Africa,  Caribbean  States
are working with their international partners to combat
the  spread  of  this  deadly  disease.  Any  progress  made
during 
the  HIV/AIDS  special  session  must  be
attributed  to  the  collaborative  spirit  displayed  by  all
those  involved,  at  both  the  political  and  technical
levels.  The  inclusion  of  civil  society,  as  well  as  the
private  sector,  contributed  to  the  effectiveness  of  the
conference  and  remains  critical  to  the  success  of  any
programme  to  eradicate  HIV/AIDS.  We  welcome  the
decision  of  the  Secretary-General  to  reach  out  to  the
entire  world  community  to  assist  in  the  establishment
of the Global HIV/AIDS and Health Fund, in an effort
to help alleviate the suffering of the millions of people
afflicted by the scourge.
protection 
our
environment  is  a  major  concern  to  the  developing
world,  as  so  many  of  us  depend  on  our  natural
resources for our  survival.  The  commitments  made  by
the  international  community  for  the  protection  of  the
environment  have  not  been  implemented,  and  if  they
are  not  addressed  urgently,  the  consequences  will
impact  negatively  our  small  dependent  economies,  as
well  as  the  economy  of  the  global  community.  We
attach  great 
the  United  Nations
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and
welcome 
recently
concluded  meeting  in  Marrakech,  hoping  to  see  more
States ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
the  successful 
preservation 
importance 
results  of 
the 
to 
The 
and 
of 
the 
In the Central America and the Caribbean regions
we  perpetually  suffer  from  the  effects  of  natural
disasters,  with  the  number  and  intensity  of  hurricanes
increasing  over 
last  decade.  This  has  been
attributed  to  the  effects  of  climate  change  caused  by
global warming. For two consecutive years, Belize has
been  struck  by  category-four  hurricanes,  magnifying
the need to protect our environment and minimize our
vulnerabilities. It is imperative that we gear our efforts
towards  creating  the  necessary  mechanisms  to  reverse
and  curtail  negative  actions  that  contribute  to  the
deterioration  of  the  state  of  our  environment.  For  this
15
A/56/PV.48
reason, Belize, along with its partners in the Caribbean
region,  continues  to  seek  the  support  of  the  United
Nations for a special regime for the Caribbean Sea.
If  we  are  to  speak  of  shared  responsibility  for
development  and 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and
security,  this  year  especially  we  must  ensure  that
everyone be allowed to participate in this global forum.
In this light, we continue to appeal to this Organization
to  consider  the  right  of  the  23  million  people  of  the
Republic of China on Taiwan and allow their voices to
be  heard  in  this  world  institution.  Equally,  we  must
continue  to  advocate  recognition  of  the  Palestinian
people’s right to self-determination, including the right
to their independent State.
With 
to 
respect 
to  our  commitment 
the
development of peace and security, Belize is pleased to
report the continuation of dialogue with our neighbour,
the Republic of Guatemala. We continue to support all
efforts to peacefully resolve our differences.
this  agenda 
This year has been designated the United Nations
Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations.  The  recently
concluded  debate  on 
item  produced
meaningful  discussion  on  the  advantages  of  diversity
and  its  benefits  to  human  progress.  Enhanced  by
globalization,  our  actions  impact  others  immediately,
creating  new  realities  that  require  more  openness  and
greater  sensitivity  to  the  differences  among  us.  In  our
country, where seven languages or dialects are spoken
and diverse ethnic populations live together peacefully,
my  delegation  welcomes  the  prospect  of  increased
dialogue  among  civilizations,  one  inclusive  of  all
peoples,  that  will  improve  upon  the  understanding  of
who  we  are  and  where  we  came  from.  The  Secretary-
General,  in  his  report  on  the  United  Nations  Year  of
Dialogue among Civilizations, noted the importance of
ensuring 
the  process  of  globalization  be
comprehensive  and  fair.  Let  us  grasp  the  opportunity
given  to  us  through  this  process  to  work  together  as
equal  partners  in  this  global  community,  seeking  to
understand  our  common  objectives  while  respecting
our differences.
that 
recognizes 
The  Millennium  Declaration 
the
existing inequalities in our world. Likewise, it offers a
comprehensive formula for greater prosperity for all. It
directs  us  towards  a  collective  responsibility  through
greater  partnership  among  the  countries  of  the  world.
At  this  time,  when  we  are  faced  with  new  global
realities,  let  us  make  this  Declaration  meaningful  by
16
accelerating our efforts to achieve the just objectives of
lasting peace and prosperity for all of our peoples.
Mr. Gadio (Senegal) (spoke in French): Pending
further news, I also wish to share in the sadness we all
feel  on  the  announcement  of  an  aeroplane  crash  in
Queens.
Through  me,  Senegal  has 
the  pleasure  of
addressing its warm congratulations to Mr. Han Seung-
soo  on  his  brilliant  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
His election clearly is a tribute to his outstanding
qualities  as  a  diplomat  and  statesman  and  it  also
expresses  the  unanimous  recognition  of  the  Member
States of our Organization of his country, the Republic
of Korea, for its steadfast commitment to the service of
universal peace and international cooperation.
I  wish 
to  express 
to  his  predecessor,  His
Excellency  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri  of  Finland,  our  deep
gratitude for the competence, commitment and spirit of
openness with which he discharged his mandate during
a particularly heavy year.
Finally,  I  am  happy  to  reiterate  Senegal’s  deep
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  and  at  the  same  time  to  reiterate  to
him  our  wholehearted  compliments  on  his  historic  re-
election,  the  dazzling  consecration  of  outstanding
qualities of a man of good will, conviction and vision,
who  has  devoted  his  life  to  the  noble  causes  of  the
United Nations. I also congratulate him on the brilliant
recognition  he  and  the  United  Nations  have  just
received as the Nobel Peace Prize laureates.
He deserves our full support in the pursuit and the
achievement  of  the  outstanding  work  in  the  area  of
reform in which he, along with his colleagues, is fully
invested  to  bring  our  Organization  closer  to  the
realities of the twenty-first century.
The  terrorist  attempts  of  11  September,  which
tragically  struck  New  York,  the  Headquarters  of  our
Organization,  Washington  and  Pennsylvania,  have
radically  changed  our  vision  of  the  world  and  of
international  relations.  My  country,  Senegal,  once
again conveys its sympathy to the people of the United
States  and  reiterates  its  heartfelt  condolences  to  the
bereaved families.
Let  us  say  it  unambiguously:  there  is  no  moral,
religious  or  political  cause  noble  enough  to  justify
terrorism  or  its  always  barbarous  manifestations  —
which  all  of  us  without  exception  must  condemn  with
unwavering unity and with the utmost force.
Senegal  is  a  secular  democratic  country  whose
population is more than 90 per cent Muslim; we reject
all  forms  of  confrontation  between  religions,  cultures
or civilizations. Senegal believes that Islam, like other
revealed religions, is a faith of peace and tolerance, and
vigorously  condemns  any  equation  of  Islam  with
terrorism and any attempt to invoke or use religion for
criminal  purposes.  The  massacre  of  pregnant  women
and  the  destruction  of  buildings  occupied  by  innocent
civilians — God’s creatures every one — are acts that
have no justification in any religion, least of all Islam,
whose  banner  of  peace  and  harmony  among  men  and
women, peoples, cultures and civilizations we proudly
bear.
Beyond  simply  condemning  terrorism  in  all  its
forms,  methods  and  manifestations,  the  international
community  must  act  firmly  to  eradicate  terrorism,  its
sources of financing and its bases of action throughout
the world.
Senegal is committed to that course, which is why
His  Excellency  President  Abdoulaye  Wade  took  the
well  known  initiative  of  convening  on  17  October  at
Dakar  an  African  conference  against  terrorism,  in
which  27  countries  participated.  President  Wade
submitted  to  that  forum  a  draft  African  pact  against
terrorism as a needed complement to the Organization
of African Unity (OAU) Convention on the Prevention
and  Combating  of  Terrorism.  The  conference  ended
with  the  adoption  of  the  Dakar  Declaration  against
Terrorism, which firmly condemned terrorism in all its
forms;  reaffirmed  our  solidarity  with  all  victims  of
terrorist  acts,  in  particular  the  thousands  of  innocent
civilian citizens of countries throughout the world who
died  on  11  September;  and  invited  the  OAU  promptly
to  convene  an  extraordinary  session  on  terrorism  to
consider,  inter  alia,  the  draft  African  pact  against
terrorism  submitted  by  Senegal  with  the  support  of
other countries.
Let  me  make  it  clear  that  those  who  argue  that
Africa  has  priorities  other  than  terrorism  are  surely
forgetting  that  tragedy  resulting  from  acts  of  blind
slaughter struck first in Africa: in Kenya and Tanzania.
With bald lack of consideration and respect for African
lives,  bombers  in  Nairobi  killed  12  United  States
nationals  and  212  Kenyans  and  wounded  more  than
A/56/PV.48
3,000  of  our  Kenyan  brothers  and  sisters.  They  have
never  expressed  any  regret,  much  less  remorse,  for
their  obvious  contempt  for  us.  Fighting  international
terrorism  means  saying  loud  and  clear  that  Africans,
like Europeans, Americans and all the other peoples of
the  world,  have  an  equal  right  to  safety,  security,
stability and peace.
That is the powerful message that His Excellency
President  Abdoulaye  Wade  of  Senegal  wants  to  echo
throughout  the  world.  Let  us  remember  his  initiative
for a genuine security policy in Africa, along with his
initiative  to  review  African  debt  and  his  Omega
Plan — a genuine African globalization strategy which
has now been merged with the Millennium Partnership
for  African  Recovery 
the  New  African
Initiative.
to  form 
among 
these; 
is  undoubtedly 
There  are  years  that  the  long  march  of  history
cannot  conceal  or  obliterate,  and  the  past  12-month
period 
it  was
extraordinarily rich in events of great importance both
for  the  United  Nations  and  for  Africa,  the  seat  of
humankind.  Thus,  within  the  framework  of  the  fifty-
fifth session, the Millennium Summit brought together
in  this  Hall  heads  of  State  or  Government  to,  in  the
felicitous  words  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  identify  and  work  to  solve  the  world’s  major
problems.
In  an  extraordinary  convergence  of  views,  world
leaders reaffirmed their faith in the United Nations and
its  irreplaceable  mission  to  protect  international  peace
and security, to fight poverty, to promote economic and
social  development,  to  strengthen  democracy  and  the
rule  of  law  and  to  ensure  justice  and  equity  among
citizens, peoples, cultures and civilizations.
In view of the universality which is the hallmark
of the United Nations and which was reaffirmed at the
Millennium  Summit,  Senegal  firmly  supports 
the
legitimate request of the Republic of China on Taiwan
to  resume  its  seat  in  the  Organization  and  in  its
specialized  agencies.  That  request  is  not  directed
against any State Member of the United Nations; meeting
it  would  be  a  key  contribution  to  consolidating  the
ideal  of  the  universality  of  the  United  Nations  and  to
the  advent  of  an  era  of  peace  and  stability  in  that
sensitive part of the world.
Africa  remains  the  region  where  some  conflicts
seem to exist in tragic eternity; it is where nearly half
of the world’s refugees and displaced persons are to be
17
A/56/PV.48
found;  it  is  the  site  of  33  of  the  world’s  48  least
developed  countries.  Africa  is  also  the  region  whose
inhabitants  are  the  most  appallingly  affected  by  the
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  pandemics.  Unquestionably,
that  enormously  disturbing  situation  calls  out  to  the
entire  international  community  and,  in  particular,  to
Africans. That is why it is important to implement the
outcome  of  the  twenty-sixth  special  session  of  the
General  Assembly,  which  was  devoted  to  the  fight
against HIV/AIDS.
Last July, the African Union was christened at the
historic  Lusaka  summit  of  the  OAU.  By  that  historic
act, Africa committed itself, in a proactive and unified
spirit, to find African solutions to the many challenges
before  it,  by  establishing  a  modern,  viable,  open
institutional  framework  that  can  respond  to  Africa’s
emergencies  and  needs  in  the  new  century.  Here,  I
renew  my  congratulations  to  my  friend  and  brother
Amara  Essy,  to  whom  African  heads  of  State  or
Government have entrusted the task of following Salim
Ahmed  Salim  in  shouldering  the  high  responsibilities
of  the  post  of  Secretary-General  of  the  OAU  and  of
putting  in  place  the  new  structures  of  the  African
Union.
The second major event of the Lusaka summit is
part of the same pan-African dynamic: the adoption of
a  plan  for  the  economic  and  social  development  of
Africa, known as the New African Initiative — the new
partnership  for  the  development  of  Africa,  to  which  I
earlier  referred.  This  has  the  quality  of  having  been
conceived  by  Africans  for  Africa  on  the  basis  of  the
merger  of  two  novel  projects:  the  Omega  Plan  of
President Abdoulaye Wade; and the programme for an
African  renaissance  of  Presidents  Thabo  Mbeki  of
South  Africa,  Abelaziz  Bouteflika  of  Algeria  and
Olusegun  Obasanjo  of  Nigeria.  That  joint  initiative
should  help  create  the  synergy  needed  to  eradicate
poverty  in  Africa  and  to  lay  the  foundations  for
sustainable economic and social development, which is
a  prerequisite  for  integrating  the  continent  into  the
ongoing process of globalization.
For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  plans  for  the
renewal  of  Africa,  an  international  conference  on  the
financing  of  the  New  African  Initiative  is  planned  for
January  2002  at  Dakar.  That  forum  will  truly  be  an
African  Davos  and  should  make  it  possible  to  hold  a
fruitful  dialogue  among  all  development  partners  that
have understood the renewal heralded by the new plan,
18
which  sums  up  our  experiences  and  symbolizes  the
hopes of all of us who unconditionally love Africa.
There has been impressive progress in Africa this
year  with  respect  to  the  urgent  need  to  tackle  the  root
causes  of  the  many  conflicts  that  shake  the  continent
and to work peacefully towards their lasting resolution.
On the crises in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
in Burundi and in Sierra Leone, we are pleased to say
that  significant  milestones  have  been  reached  by  all
actors  in  the  implementation  of  peace  agreements
already concluded.
in  Gaborone,  Botswana,  and 
From  that  standpoint,  there  is  true  cause  for
encouragement in the beginning of an inter-Congolese
dialogue 
the  recent
formation,  with  the  help  of  the  incomparable  Nelson
Mandela, of the transitional government of Burundi for
national  reconciliation.  It  is  now  up  to  the  Security
Council  to  perform  all  of  its  responsibilities  under
Chapter VII of the Charter. These efforts deserve to be
intensified  and  given  diplomatic  support  by 
the
international  community  through  concrete  actions  to
finance  strategies  for  post-conflict  peace-building.  In
the same spirit, it is important to support the efforts of
Angola  and  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  for  the
rapid settlement of the conflict in that country.
In  light  of  the  debt  crisis  aggravated  by  the
exponential drop in official development assistance, the
international  community  must  explore  new  ways  and
means  to  develop  the  third  world,  especially  Africa,
through,  inter  alia,  an  increase  in  direct  foreign
investment.  It  is  this  break  with  the  past  —  this
“epistemological”  departure  — 
that  our  President
proposes to Africa and its partners. He argues that the
aid/credit couplet, which has been the principal way to
finance  development  in  Africa  and  has  led  to  the
impasse  we  all  know,  should  be  abandoned  and
replaced  by  an  approach  that  makes  Africa  attractive
and competitive, leading to a massive inflow of private
investment, both domestic and international.
The  cycle  of  debt  followed  by  ever  greater
debt —  a  cycle  that  has  been  described  by  our
President  as  a  scourge  similar  to  the  slavery  that
devastated  Africa  —  should  give  way  to  an  approach
that brings in massive investment in an adequate fiscal
and legal environment — investment capable of filling
the  gaps  in  priority  sectors  such  as  infrastructure,
education,  health,  agriculture,  new  technologies  and
access  to  the  markets  of  developed  countries.  This
approach,  of  course,  would  be  part  of  a  strategy  of
good  political 
and
unqualified respect for the rule of law, democracy and
human rights.
economic  governance 
and 
of 
that 
Conference 
just  opened 
on 
Africa  is  relying  greatly  on  the  results  of  the
Ministerial  Conference 
the  World  Trade
Organization 
the
International 
for
Development in Monterrey, scheduled for March 2002;
and the World Summit on Sustainable Development in
Johannesburg,  planned  for  September, 
to  provide
innovative solutions to the challenges besetting Africa
at the beginning of this millennium.
in  Doha; 
Financing 
Looking sadly toward the Middle East, Senegal is
following recent developments with great concern and
feels  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  in  light  of
the new tragedy. Horrified by the scope of this tragedy,
Senegal condemns the Israeli occupation of Palestinian
territories  and  the  intensification  of  acts  of  violence
against innocent civilians. Senegal addresses an earnest
appeal  to  all  the  parties,  the  co-sponsors  of  the  peace
process, the European Union, the Security Council and
the  international  community,  for  the  withdrawal  of
Israeli  forces  from  the  occupied  Palestinian  areas;  for
the  immediate  cessation  of  all  acts  of  violence  and
provocation;  for  respect  for  the  Geneva  Convention
Relative  to  the  Protection  of  Civilian  Persons  in  Time
of War and the relevant United Nations resolutions; for
the  resumption  of  peace  negotiations  in  accordance
with the agreed timetable; and for the conclusion of an
overall settlement agreement that is just, durable and in
conformity with resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973)
of the Security Council.
Peace cannot prosper nor can the development of
the  region  be  ensured  so 
long  as  Israelis  and
Palestinians  fail  in  their  efforts  to  forge  bonds  of
confidence,  as  sovereign  States  within  internationally
recognized and guaranteed borders. I am happy to note
that  the  European  Union  and  the  United  States  have
recently  affirmed  this,  inasmuch  as  Israel  and  the
future State of Palestine each have the right to exist, to
live in peace and to develop in security and dignity.
that 
the
consolidation of the rule of law and the promotion and
protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms
remain  one  of  the  major  focal  points  of  our  national
and  foreign  policy.  The  special  importance  that  our
President attaches to these matters has been eloquently
to  conclude  by 
I  wish 
saying 
A/56/PV.48
expressed in the appointment of a woman to the post of
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance
was  held,  despite  all  obstacles,  and  dealt  with  its
agenda  despite  the  complexity  of  the  issues  and  the
particularly  difficult  conditions  under  which 
the
negotiations  took  place.  My  country,  which  had  the
honour  to  preside  over  the  work  of  the  Preparatory
Committee, once again addresses a solemn appeal to all
actors  in  international  life  to  translate  the  Declaration
and  Plan  of  Action  adopted  at  Durban  into  action.
Thus,  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  the
world  can  be  definitively  freed  of  the  scourge  of
racism,  which  represents  a  grave  infringement  of
human dignity and a flagrant violation of human rights.
Speaking of human rights, we also naturally think
of  the  rights  of  women  and  children.  The  twenty-
seventh  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly,
planned  for  8-10  May  2002,  will  adopt  a  new  agenda
for 
international  community  aimed  at  better
ensuring,  safeguarding  and defending  the  rights  of  the
child  and  promoting  the  Convention  on  that  subject.
The  commitments  to  which  our  Governments  will
subscribe  must  be 
the
conclusions  of  the  Fourth  World  Youth  Forum  of  the
United Nations system, held in Senegal in August this
year.
implemented,  as  must 
the 
It  is  imperative  that  we  face  the  challenges  of
peace and development. We have no other choice but to
do  so  through  multilateralism  and  universalism.  Thus
the  world  needs  the  United  Nations,  an  organization
that  is  universal  and  unique.  This  is  the  conviction  of
Senegal, which proclaims that a United Nations that is
well  restructured  and  more  representative  would  be
better  equipped  to  face  the  challenges  that  humanity
confronts  today.  Those  challenges  seem  as  immovable
as  mountains,  but  everything  is  possible  in  a  world  of
solidarity,  brotherhood,  security  and  respect  for  the
sacred  character  of  human 
the
inalienable right of all peoples to happiness and liberty.
Mr.  Ásgrímsson  (Iceland): Once  again,  we  have
witnessed  a  terrible  incident  in  the  neighbourhood  of
the United Nations here in New York. Although we do
not know the circumstances, we are shocked, and it is
clear  that  many  have  lost  their  lives.  I  express  my
sincere  condolences  to  all  those  who  have  lost  their
loved ones in this tragic incident.
life,  dignity  and 
19
A/56/PV.48
Allow me to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo on
his election to the presidency of the General Assembly.
I am confident that he will guide us wisely through the
complex tasks ahead of us in this session.
The ability of the United Nations to act swiftly in
response to acute crisis was seriously tested following
the terrorist attacks on the United States. During these
trying times, it has been valuable to have at the helm a
Secretary-General who enjoys such wide support.
Let  me  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  and
the United Nations on being awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize  —  in  my  view,  a  well-deserved  recognition  of
Kofi  Annan’s  leadership  and  of  the  dedication  he  and
his  staff  have  put  into  upholding  the  purposes  and
principles of the United Nations Charter. Hopefully, the
award will serve as an inspiration as well as strengthen
worldwide  support  for  the  United  Nations  and  what  it
stands for.
The tragic events of 11 September have radically
challenged  and  changed  our  security  environment.
Fighting  terrorism  should  therefore  become  a  priority
of  the  United  Nations.  We  recognize  that  the  United
Nations  has  long  been  active  in  the  fight  against
international terrorism, but we now need to go beyond
political statements and become truly operational. This
means developing new methods and, at the same time,
making full use of all the means at the disposal of the
United Nations system, the truly global character of the
Organization  and  the  numerous  international  legal
instruments available to us.
Iceland  strongly  supports 
the  creation  of  a
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism
and hopes that an agreement can be reached on such an
instrument during the fifty-sixth session. Otherwise, we
will  lose  the  opportunity  to  develop  the  coherent
strategy lacking today. We cannot fail to react.
The  key  role  the  United  Nations  should  play  in
fighting  international  terrorism  must  be  an  impetus  to
us  to  intensify  our  efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects.
Iceland is seriously concerned about the slow progress
made  towards  reaching  this  goal.  It  is  essential  and
timely  that  the  membership  of  the  Council  becomes
more representative, and thus more likely to sustain the
present  international  coalition  in  the  fight  against
terrorism. It goes without saying that the efficiency of
the  Council  must  be  secured.  Enhancing  transparency
20
in  the  decision-making  process  is  also  of  importance,
especially for non-member States.
One of the main purposes of the United Nations is
to promote and encourage respect for human rights and
fundamental  freedoms  for  all  without  distinction  as  to
race, sex, language or religion. This continues to be of
the  utmost  importance.  Let  me  therefore  make  it
absolutely  clear  that  the  fight  against  terrorism  is  not,
and  must  not  become,  a  fight  against  any  religious  or
ethnic  group.  We  must 
forms  of
discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
intolerance.  Most
importantly,  we  must  at  all  times  adhere  to  the  basic
values of human rights, freedom and democracy.
avoid 
all 
implemented  all 
Turning  to  the  actions  at  the  national  level,
Iceland  is  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  ratify  all
relevant  United  Nations  conventions  against  terrorism
that we have not already ratified. Furthermore, Iceland
has 
relevant  Security  Council
resolutions,  including  resolution  1373  (2001).  But  in
fighting  the  menace  of  international  terrorism  —  a
fight  that  we  all  agree  needs  to  be  both  wide-ranging
and forceful — we  must, at the end of the day, not in
any way undermine the basic values of our societies —
those of human rights, the rule of law, and democracy.
We  need  to  strike  a  balance  between  freedom  and  the
security measures we opt for.
Uprooting terrorism in the world must go hand in
hand  with  solving  regional  conflicts  that  threaten
international  peace  and  security.  This  is  particularly
true  for  the  Middle  East.  By  prolonging  the  violence
and  refusing  to  negotiate,  both  sides  play  into  the
hands  of  extremist  elements  that  want  neither  a
continuation  of  the  peace  process  nor  a  political
solution to the Middle East conflict. Both parties have
to resume negotiations unconditionally. That is the only
way to secure lasting peace in the region, which should
be  based  upon  the  establishment  of  a  viable  and
democratic  Palestinian  State  and  on  the  right  of  the
Israelis 
security  within
internationally  recognized  borders.  A  continuation  of
the  present  dire  conditions  cannot  be  tolerated  any
longer.
in  peace  and 
live 
to 
I said earlier that the events of 11 September have
made  United  Nations  reforms  even  more  urgent.  The
same  is  true  for  the  ongoing  work  to  strengthen  the
peacekeeping capabilities  of  the  United  Nations.  Until
now, 
in  United  Nations
peacekeeping operations has been modest. My country
Iceland’s  participation 
has  participated  in  peacekeeping  by  providing  civilian
personnel such as gender experts and police and health
professionals.  With  the  changing  and  more  complex
nature of peacekeeping, the need for civilian personnel
has been increased. The Icelandic Government decided
last  year  systematically  to  increase  its  contribution  to
peacekeeping. Our aim is to provide more personnel to
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  to  the  Organization  for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European
Union.
By adopting resolution 1325 (2000) last year, on
women,  peace  and  security,  the  Security  Council
recognized  the  importance  of  incorporating  a  gender
perspective  into  peacekeeping  operations.  When  the
United  Nations  becomes  involved  in  peace-building
and  reconstruction  in  Afghanistan  we  have  to  make
sure  that  resolution  1325  (2000)  is  honoured  in  the
process,  for  the  benefit  of  Afghan  women  and,  as  a
result,  for  the  Afghan  population  as  a  whole.  The
United  Nations  must  play  a  key  role  in  the  nation-
building  process  in  Afghanistan.  Iceland  stands  ready
to contribute civilian experts should the United Nations
become involved in a post-conflict operation.
Next year, 10 years will have passed since world
leaders met at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. We
are  asked,  what  has  been  accomplished  in  this  past
decade to secure the prosperity of future generations in
harmony  with  nature?  The  truth  is  that  there  has  been
rather little progress and that we face enormous tasks.
The  world  community  will  look  towards  the  World
Summit on Sustainable Development, in Johannesburg,
for further commitments by all nations.
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  quote  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, who in his opening remarks at the
44th meeting, last Saturday, said
“We must put the issue of sustainability where it
belongs,  in  the  centre  of  the  policy-making
process.”
to 
sustainable  development  at 
It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  renew  our  strong
commitment 
the
Johannesburg  Summit.  We  are 
faced  with  new
challenges, but also with new opportunities, namely, to
build  a  global  partnership  to  harness  the  forces  of
globalization in favour of sustainable development.
The  world  community  has  just  achieved,  in
the
a  milestone 
Marrakech, 
agreement 
on 
A/56/PV.48
implementation  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  The  Kyoto
negotiations  have  been  especially  difficult.  Now  we
have  reached  the  moment  when  we  can  bring  the
Protocol  into  force.  But  more  needs  to  be  done  to
include  other  key  emitters  of  greenhouse  gases  in  the
battle against climate change.
In the area of oceans — the foundation of human
life — we have made some progress. We have adopted
significant  agreements,  and  we  are  looking  at  ways  to
improve  the  assessment  of  the  state  of  the  oceans  in
order 
further  enhance  marine  protection  and
management. New knowledge and new approaches are
also  evolving,  thus  providing  the  world  community
with opportunities to improve protection of the oceans
and the sustainable use of their living resources.
to 
Last  October,  Iceland,  in  cooperation  with  the
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
Nations and Norway, hosted the Reykjavik Conference
on Responsible Fisheries in the Marine Ecosystem. In a
document  adopted  by  the  Conference,  States  declared
that  they  would  incorporate  ecosystem  considerations
into  fisheries  management  with  the  aim  of  reinforcing
responsible  and  sustainable  fisheries  in  the  marine
ecosystem.  This  Reykjavik  Declaration  is  a  landmark
contribution  of  the  fisheries  nations  to  the  World
Summit on Sustainable Development. We trust that we
will  see  the  spirit  of  the  Declaration  reflected  in  the
results of the World Summit in Johannesburg.
is  why 
The time has come for a unified effort by political
leaders,  as  well  as  by  civil  society  and  the  private
sector,  to  reverse  the  trend  of  marginalization  and
underdevelopment.  That 
the  International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  to  be  held
in  Mexico  next  year,  offers  an  unprecedented
opportunity  to  make  a  real  difference  in  the  lives  of
millions  of  people  throughout  the  developing  world.
The  outcome  of  the  Conference  should  focus  on  the
great  challenge  of  poverty  eradication,  as  well  as  on
how 
the  developed  and
developing  countries  should  be  shared.  We  should,
however,  never  lose  sight  of  each  State’s  primary
responsibility for its own development. The importance
of  responsible  national  governance  and  respect  for
human rights cannot be overstated.
responsibilities  between 
My focus, like that of many speakers before me,
has  been  on  the  fight  against  international  terrorism.
Fighting international terrorism involves all States and
international  as  well  as  regional  organizations.  We
21
A/56/PV.48
must  concentrate  on  the  available  instruments  of  each
organization and find ways to adjust them as necessary.
Furthermore,  we  need 
to  ensure  consistency  and
complementarity of international efforts.
The malicious acts of 11 September and the latest
shocking news of the suspicion of biological terrorism
demonstrate  that  all  of  our  concerted  efforts  are  not
only necessary but also crucial to fulfilling our duty to
protect the lives of our citizens.
The  United  Nations  was  founded  to  preserve
peace  and  to  work  for  a  better  world.  Terrorists  are
fighting  against  everything  the  United  Nations  stands
for.  Fighting  against  them  means  fighting  for  the
United  Nations,  for  the  future  of  our  civilization  and
for all humankind.
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to
Mrs.  Benita  Ferrero-Waldner,  the  Federal  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Austria.
in  Queens,  our 
Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner (Austria): I am  speaking
here  while  still  in  shock  over  the  terrible  aeroplane
crash 
immediate  neighbourhood,
especially since the area of Rockaway, where so many
brave New York firefighters live, was already suffering
in  the  aftermath  of  the  earlier  catastrophe.  I  wish  to
express my deep sympathy to all those families and to
the great number of people affected by this tragedy.
Let me at the outset congratulate His Excellency
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to this high office.
While assuring him of my delegation’s full cooperation
and support, I am confident that under his guidance and
leadership  — which he has already proven in the first
days of his new function — this session of the General
Assembly  will  contribute 
to  strengthening  global
cooperation  and  its  indispensable  platform,  the  United
Nations, in the coming months.
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
reiterate my very best wishes to the Secretary-General
on  his  appointment  to  a  second  term  of  office.
Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  him  very
warmly  on  being  awarded,  jointly  with  the  United
the  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  an  honour  and
Nations, 
recognition  he 
leadership,
dedication  and  courage 
the  service  of  our
Organization.  This  award  also  signals  recognition  of
and encouragement for the United Nations and all those
who  are  committed  to  its  mission,  not  least  United
Nations staff members.
truly  deserves  for  his 
in 
22
Allow  me  to  also  express  here  our  thanks  to  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fifth
session,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri,  for  the  many  efforts  he
undertook not only in conducting day-to-day business,
but also in revitalizing the United Nations, in particular
the General Assembly.
My  colleague,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Belgium,
has  already  addressed  this  Assembly  on  behalf  of  the
European Union. Austria fully endorses his remarks.
Two  months  have  passed  now  since  the  heinous
terrorist attacks of 11 September. Although we are still
in shock at the loss of thousands of innocent lives, we
have,  however,  also  been  encouraged  by  the  resolve
expressed in the collective response of the community
of  nations,  here  in  the  General  Assembly  and  in  the
Security Council. This unanimous strong reaction gives
us hope that today our nations are ready to cross over a
threshold,  leaving  behind  a  world  of  deadly  divisions
and entering a genuine global community.
of 
type  of 
terrorism 
Secondly, 
the  menace 
There  are  some  positive  signs  to  that  effect.
These  are,  first,  that  during  the  past  weeks,  we  have
witnessed  new  astonishing  political  —  maybe  even
geopolitical  —  alignments  that,  if  followed  through,
are  comparable  to  other  watershed  events  of  historic
an
proportions. 
unprecedented,  devastating 
is
compelling us to take a fresh look at the root causes of
much  that  is  unacceptable  in  our  world,  according  to
our own standards, but which we have been tolerating,
or  at  least  living  with,  quite  contrary  to  our  declared
principles.  I  refer  to  the  abject  levels  of  poverty,
inequality and injustice. These factors are at the origin
of many conflicts around the globe. Some of them are
particularly dangerous, providing breeding grounds for
global terrorism or serving as pretexts for terrorists. It
would  be  irresponsible  if  we  —  the  international
community — did not engage in renewed efforts to find
solutions  to  these  regional  conflicts,  be  they  in  the
Middle  East,  in  Afghanistan,  in  Kashmir,  in  the
Caucasus  or  in  the  Balkans,  as  well  as  in  the  area
around the Great Lakes, for instance, which has seen so
much human suffering.
The  European  Union,  on  a  continent  marked  by
centuries  of  war,  has  developed  its  model  of  conflict
resolution.  It  is  held  in  three  words:  cooperation,
partnership, 
is
engaged in a welcome policy of extending this zone of
peace.  We  hope  that  the  enlarged  Union,  planned  to
integration.  The  European  Union 
become  a  Union  of  28  and  later  more,  will  be  able  to
contribute more effectively to peace and stability in the
world.
Under 
the  present  circumstances,  Austria’s
priorities  outside  Europe  are  the  Middle  East  and
Central Asia, not least because these areas have a direct
bearing  on  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  its  present
phase.
The Middle East conflict has been on our agenda
without  interruption  since  the  time  of  the  creation  of
the  United  Nations.  There  is  no  doubt  that  we  have  a
special  obligation  to  contribute  to  a  just  and  viable
solution.  A  heightened  sense  of  responsibility  is  felt
when,  on  the  one  hand,  violence  escalates,  but  when,
on  the  other  —  as  I  see  it  —  new  opportunities  have
emerged. Austria is therefore of the opinion that major
concerted  efforts  should  be  undertaken  so 
that
negotiations  can  resume  on  the  basis  of  Security
Council 
resolutions  without  delay.  Only  sincere
negotiations and a sincere renunciation of violence can
bring  a  rapprochement  of  the  two  parties  and,  finally,
peace.
Afghanistan is a reminder of what happens when
a  conflict  is  neglected  too  long.  Now,  there  is  a  new
dimension  unfolding.  We  are  forced  to  act.  The
humanitarian  tragedy  is  obvious.  In  this  context,
Central Asia deserves increased attention, for example,
in  view  of  assistance  in  the  maintenance  of  stability
and concertation aiming at the necessary reconstruction
of Afghanistan.
I  should  like  to  say  a  word  as  to  the  Balkans,  a
neighbouring  region  to  my  country.  It  must  not  be
neglected, although new dangers emerge elsewhere. In
the  western  Balkans,  there  is  progress,  especially  in
Zagreb,  in  Belgrade,  in  Tirana  and  in  Sarajevo,  but
overall  stability  and  economic  recovery  are  not  yet
assured. Extremists have not yet disarmed. We have to
keep up a high profile of international commitment.
regard.  This 
Combating  terrorism  is,  of  course,  not  a  one-
dimensional  task.  It  requires  cooperation  on  many
fronts. I see the United Nations as playing a key role in
this 
requires  a  clarification  and
coordination of tasks within the United Nations system
so  as  to  ensure  the  necessary  synergy.  There  is  also  a
role for regional cooperation. To provide an example, a
so  called  regional  security  partnership  has  been
established  between  Austria  and 
its
European  Union
neighbours, 
candidates 
some  of 
for 
A/56/PV.48
membership,  across  the  boundaries  that,  for  half  a
century, divided Europe.
Overall,  we  must  address  long-term  societal
development at the local, national and global levels and
the  capacities  required  to  build  a  universally  shared
political culture based on respect for human rights and
human  dignity,  including  for  the  plurality  of  identities
at all levels of society.
requires 
challenge 
intersectoral 
Let me elaborate now on the United Nations role.
The time has certainly come to significantly strengthen
the  United  Nations  capabilities  and  programmes  in
combating and preventing terrorism. The complexity of
inter-
the 
institutional  cooperation.  We  have 
the
principal  organs  of  the  Organization,  including  their
specialized  subsidiary  organs,  such  as  the  Security
Council’s  Committee  on 
the  General
Assembly’s  Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  Terrorism,  the
Economic and Social Council’s Commission on Crime
Prevention  and  Criminal  Justice  and  the  appropriate
Secretariat  units  to  perform  the  tasks  that  are  now
urgently needed.
to  enable 
terrorism, 
and 
The  Commission  on  Crime  Prevention  and
Criminal  Justice  will  hold  a  special  meeting  on
terrorism  in  the  context  of  the  Vienna  Declaration  on
Crime  and  Justice  on  15  November  2001.  Just  one
week  prior  to  the  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September,
plans  of  action  for  the  implementation  of  the  Vienna
Declaration were adopted. They will play an important
role  in  the  system-wide  response  to  international
terrorism, 
of
recommendations  for  both  national  and  international
action.  These  recommendations  stress  once  more  the
existing  relationship  between  terrorism,  on  the  one
hand,  and  crime,  including  transnational  organized
crime and illicit drug trafficking, on the other.
comprehensive 
including 
set 
a 
The  United  Nations  Centre  for  International
Crime Prevention and its Terrorism Prevention Branch
have  received  a  focused  mandate,  which  should  serve
as  a  solid  basis  for  enhancing  the  capabilities  of  the
United  Nations  in  the  prevention  of  terrorism.  To  this
end,  the  human  and  financial  resources  should  be
strengthened accordingly.
to  say, 
full 
terrorism
requires 
support  of  each  and  every
Government.  Ratification  of  the  various  international
legal 
the  conclusion  of
negotiations  concerning  a  comprehensive  international
instruments,  as  well  as 
the  challenge  of 
Needless 
the 
23
A/56/PV.48
convention  against 
terrorism,  are  of  fundamental
importance.  The  Terrorism  Prevention  Branch  of  the
United  Nations  should  also  get  immediately  active  in
providing,  where  requested,  concrete  assistance  to
Member  States  in  implementing  national  legislation
required  by  Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001),
as well as in national capacity-building.
institutions for human rights education and learning in
Africa,  South  Asia,  the  Far  East  and  the  Pacific,
Europe and Latin America. The proclamation of human
rights cities in all of these regions might merit specific
attention  by  the  appropriate  organs  of  the  United
Nations, 
the  Commission  on  Human
Settlements.
including 
Several 
items  on  our  global  agenda  have
reminded  us  of  the  fundamental  importance  of  the
individual  citizen  and  of  society  in  economic,  social,
cultural and institutional development. Increasingly, we
have  understood 
the  basic
principles  and  values  of  our  societies  upon  which  the
future  of  mankind  is  based.  Our  rejection  of  terrorism
must  be  absolute.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to
strengthen  our  networks  and  skills  in  dialogue,  cross-
identification and solidarity.
the  strategic  role  of 
We  do  need  a  globally  shared  political  culture
that  is  based  on  respect  for  global  diversity,  which
finds  its  only  limits  in  the  right  of  others  to  diversity.
We  must  never  allow 
fanaticism,  violence  and
terrorism  to  undermine  the  fabric  on  which  peace  and
security  are  built.  Now  more  than  ever,  we  have  to
redouble our efforts in the development of our societies
based  on  plurality  and  trust  among  peoples  and
cultures.
In this context, the Secretary-General’s efforts to
promote  dialogue  among  civilizations,  an  initiative  of
President  Khatami,  can  have  enormous  significance.
Austria  had  the  pleasure  of  inviting  the  Secretary-
General’s  Group  of  Eminent  Persons  for  its  first
meeting in Vienna and was honoured by the Secretary-
General’s  personal  participation 
last  summer’s
Salzburg  dialogue  among  civilizations.  Austria’s
commitment  to  dialogue  has  found  its  expression  in  a
series of inter-religious encounters, especially between
Christianity  and  Islam,  over  the  past  10  years.  These
encounters have served to identify common values and
to  project  them  into  the  wider  communities.  For  us,
such  dialogue  has  the  core  objective  of  developing
societies’ 
hatred,
disintegration  and  politically  motivated  violence
against fellow citizens.
preventing 
in 
capacities 
in 
Austria’s  efforts  have  also  focused  on  another
element  of  societal  development.  Long-term  strategies
of  terrorism  prevention  require  a  globally  shared
culture  of  human  rights.  Let  me  mention  briefly  the
growing  cooperation  between  qualified 
regional
24
its  effects  not  only 
We  are  aware  that  there  is  a  direct  relationship
between  the  internal  negation  of  human  rights,  on  the
one hand, and a culture of violence that may eventually
project 
internally  but  also
internationally  and  even  globally. 
In  view  of
accelerated  globalization  and  worldwide  economic,
cultural and information relations, we may have to take
proactive  measures  to  strengthen  our  shared  basic
beliefs  and  political  values  through  education  and
learning processes. The current United Nations Decade
for  Human  Rights  Education  might  also  offer
opportunities  for  appropriate  initiatives  in  response  to
the horrifying scenario of global terrorism.
In 
this  context,  we  have 
to  give  greater
recognition  to  the  role  of  women  in  providing  human
security  and  human  development  in  all  our  societies.
The  recognition  is  due  in  particular  in  crisis  areas
where  women  have  not  only  been  the  victims  of  most
of the intra-societal violence, but have also assured the
survival of the neediest.
to  bear 
A  case  in  point  is  Afghanistan  and  Afghan
society. Eighty-five per cent of refugees and internally
displaced  persons  are  women  and  children.  In  fact,
those who are often depicted as the weakest element in
society  had 
the  brunt  of  violence  and
repression.  As  we  design  our  programmes 
for
reconstructing  a  post-terrorist  Afghanistan,  we  must
conceive  of  programmes  by  which  women, 
in
particular  those  now  in  refugee  camps,  are  enabled  to
contribute their share in a governance of development,
peace  and  cooperation.  This  is  essential  for  a  society
that  wishes  to  overcome  the  scars  of  decades  of
conflict  and  war.  To  be  concrete,  I  therefore  suggest
that  education  and  training  programmes  aimed  at
empowering  women  —  in  particular,  those  in  refugee
camps  —  to  assume  public  responsibility  in  the
reconstruction  of 
immediately
implemented.
their  country  be 
The  media  bear  an 
important
responsibility in shaping societies’ value structures and
capabilities. As Austria’s Federal Chancellor Wolfgang
increasingly 
Schüssel  said  in  his  statement  on  the  United  Nations
Year  of  Dialogue  among  Civilizations  at  the  General
Assembly’s  42nd  meeting,  Austria 
taking  an
initiative, in the context of the partnership between the
European  Union  and  the  Mediterranean  countries,  that
will focus on the special role and responsibility of the
media 
the  societal
development towards accepting and benefiting from the
plurality of cultures and identities in this region.
this  partnership  and 
in 
in 
is 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  make  a  few
comments  on  other  very  important  developments  with
regard  to  items  on  our  global  agenda.  The  sustainable
use  of  the  local,  national,  regional  and  global  natural
resources  with  which  we  are  endowed  continues  to  be
of  foremost  importance.  The  recent  study  by  the
International  Institute  for  Applied  Systems  Analysis
(IIASA)  on 
the  projected  dramatic  reduction  of
agricultural productivity — between 45 and 55 per cent
in Africa, India, southern China and Latin America —
over  the  next  50  years  due  to  climate  change  reminds
us  that  the  processes  of  long-term  global  change  need
as  much  action  as  our  activities  in  coping  with  crises
and  combating  criminal  terrorism.  The  World  Summit
on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg will need
not  only  a  technical  but  also  a  political  focus  with  an
appropriate resolve for our shared global development.
One  specific  area  where  newly  shared  policies
and  institutional  support  may  be  required,  is  the
integration  of  energy  policies 
the  global
sustainable  development  agenda.  The  Commission  on
Sustainable  Development  at  its  ninth  session  and  the
third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least
Developed Countries recognized the strong connection
between  energy-policy 
interventions  and  poverty
reduction.  Energy  considerations  should  therefore  be
fully 
the
Millennium  Declaration.  Vienna,  which  hosts  four
prominent  international  organizations  in  the  field  of
global energy policies — the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization (UNIDO), the International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  the  Organization  of
the  Petroleum  Exporting  Countries 
(OPEC)  and
IIASA —  could  offer,  with  Austria’s  support,  a
framework  for  developing  an  innovative  platform  in
this  regard.  I  look  forward  to  exploring  this  issue
further with interested partners.
implementation  of 
integrated 
into 
into 
the 
With  many  developing  regions  having  to  cope
with  the  difficult  and  often  precarious  management  of
mountain  resources,  we  should  take  advantage  of  the
A/56/PV.48
International  Year  of  Mountains,  2002,  for  new
initiatives  in  exchanging  experience  and  for  new
programmes of cooperation.
Finally, we are still working on implementing our
resolve to strengthen the Economic and Social Council
of  the  United  Nations  for  accomplishing  its  important
tasks. The Economic  and  Social  Council  reform  paper
by  the  Secretariat’s  Department  of  Economic  and
Social  Affairs  contains, 
think,  very  valuable
contributions to our ongoing debate. As Austria already
suggested  years  ago,  coordination  and  integration  of
the United Nations system’s reporting in economic and
social  affairs  and  the  preparation  of  a  comprehensive
“state  of  the  world”  report  by  the  Secretary-General
would not  only  facilitate  but  significantly  enhance  the
role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  policy
formulation in this field.
I 
When  coping  with  the  dynamic  processes  of
global  change  in  the  economic  sector,  we  have  to  put
the  human  being  back  into  the  centre  of  our  policies.
New  efforts  have  to  be  undertaken  to  internalize  the
multiple dimensions and costs of globalization. In this
context,  let  me  especially  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  initiative  of  a  new  partnership  with  the
global  business  community,  inviting  it  to  share  in  the
responsibility  for  what  is  happening  in  the  global
public space.
All the concerns I am addressing in this statement
have a common focus: understanding the human being
as  an  actor,  a  perpetrator,  a  victim  and  a  partner,  in
other  words,  as 
the  basic  paradigm  of  global
development. This is why human development, human
rights and human security are the points from which we
have  to  address  both  the  current  crises  and  our  long-
term development objectives.
Mr.  El-Khatib  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Let
me  express  our  deep  sadness  at  the  human  loss
resulting  from  the  crash  this  morning  of  an  American
aircraft 
in  a  Queens  neighbourhood  and  our
condolences to the families of the victims.
I wish to congratulate Mr. Han Seung-soo and his
friendly  country  on  his  election  as  President  of  the
fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Let  me
also  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor  for  his  able
stewardship of the last session.
Furthermore,  I  extend  warm  congratulations  to
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on  his  re-
25
A/56/PV.48
the  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  That  was 
election  for  a  second  term  of  office,  as  well  as  on  his
well-deserved  award,  jointly  with  the  United  Nations,
of 
an
acknowledgement  of  Mr.  Annan’s  remarkable  track
record  in  serving  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
Charter  and  a  symbolic  token  of  recognition  of  the
centrality and relevance of the vital role of the United
Nations in the world community.
This  great 
city  which  hosts  our  world
Organization and the United States of America and its
people have been struck by a cowardly terrorist attack
that  targeted  innocent  civilians.  In  truth,  this  act  of
aggression  was  committed  not  just  against  the  United
States  but,  in  fact,  against  the  entire  international
community  and  humanity.  For  it  seems  that  the  larger
objective  of  the  evil  and  dark  forces  that  planned  and
executed  those  atrocities  was  the  terrorization  and
intimidation  of  all  of  us  and  the  precipitation  of  a
worldwide  cultural  and  religious  confrontation.  Their
aim was to undermine and shatter our sense of common
confidence and the bonds that unite us by stripping us
of our own sense of security and driving us to deal with
each  other  in  an  atmosphere  of  mistrust,  fear  and
hatred.
is 
the  demonstration  of 
One of the many painful impacts of those terrorist
attacks 
the  depth  of
interdependence in our modern life. The repercussions
went  beyond  the  United  States.  The  victims  belonged
to  dozens  of  nations,  including  Jordan,  and  all  of  us
almost instantly felt the negative economic effects.
Thus 
the  fight  against 
terrorism  should  be
comprehensive. This means forging a unity of purpose
and determination to win this war on all fronts. It also
means  exercising  care  and  caution  so  that  we  do  not
fall  into  the  trap  set  by  the  terrorists.  Indeed,  our  war
against terrorism is neither a religious war nor a clash
between  one  civilization  and  another  —  or  even
between one nation and another.
Last  11  September,  Jordan  reaffirmed  its  long-
standing  and  clear  position,  which  is  anchored  in  its
firm  policy  of  rejecting  the  use  of  terrorism  in
international  relations,  irrespective  of  any  argument
advanced,  pretext  invoked  or  label  given.  Thus,  His
Majesty King Abdullah II declared Jordan’s categorical
condemnation  of 
terrorist  attacks  perpetrated
against  the  United  States  and  Jordan’s  support  for  the
international effort against terrorism. In the same vein,
His Majesty expressed resolve to safeguard the sanctity
the 
26
of the Islamic faith from any abuse or distortion caused
by  terrorism  or  terrorists,  insisting  that  terrorists  must
be deprived of any opportunity to hijack religion and to
misuse  it  to  serve  their  purposes  or  advance  their
agenda.  In  particular,  terrorists  must  be  barred  from
provoking  a  confrontation  between  Islam  and  the  rest
of the world.
The  suppression  and  defeat  of  those  pernicious
schemes require, among other things, the enhancement
of  understanding  among  peoples  and  cultures.  They
also  demand  a  genuine  respect  for  cultural  diversity.
Human  pluralism  should, 
ideally,  be  a  force  of
enrichment  and  inspiration  for  the  community  of
nations.  The  world  is  perhaps  pressed  now  more  than
ever 
launch  a  meaningful  dialogue  among
civilizations  that  highlights  common  denominators
with a view to promoting tolerance and reinforcing our
ability  to  coexist  and  interact  in  peace  and  harmony.
The  United  Nations  system  remains  the  appropriate
framework and venue for such a dialogue.
to 
Islam  and  Muslims 
throughout  history  have
enriched  human  civilization.  The  contributions  of
Muslim  scholars  in  science,  literature  and  culture  in
general reached the heights they did due to a climate of
open-mindedness,  tolerance  and  pluralism  established
by Islam.
We  in  Jordan  take  pride  in  the  true  coexistence
and integration of our community life, which has been
fashioned  over  the  past  14  centuries.  Muslims  and
Christians  live  side  by  side  in  national  unity,  where
religious  pluralism  is  an  enriching  factor,  making
Jordanian  society  a  good  example  of  social  harmony
and interaction.
Terrorism  will  exploit  political,  economic  and
social imbalances and the absence of justice to advance
its  goals.  Therefore,  addressing  the  main  causes  of
despair,  frustration  and  sense  of  injustice  in  a  serious
manner  is  perhaps  the  most  effective  way  to  confront
terrorism and pre-empt its potential appeal and support.
We  recognize  that  a  truly  effective  international
effort to eradicate terrorism primarily requires, as far as
the  Middle  East  region  is  concerned,  a  just  and
acceptable  resolution  of  the  question  of  Palestine,
whose long-running implications on the ground remain
the chief source of pain and suffering across the region.
The  current  situation  of  constant  killings  and
destruction  as  a  result  of  Israel’s  practices  of  using
force  against  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  siege  of
their  towns  and  communities  constitute  a  constant
incitement that feeds escalation in a way that endangers
security and stability throughout the whole region.
Jordan  firmly  believes  that  the  resolution  of  this
conflict  will  not  be  possible  by  the  use  of  force  or  by
security  and  coercive  measures.  There  is  really  no
alternative  before  the  two  sides  but  to  return  to  the
negotiating  table  as  equal  partners  and  to  seek  a
settlement that ensures their legitimate rights and their
future.  This  option  will  remain  elusive  until  parallel
mutual  steps  are  adopted  on  the  basis  of  the  accords
and  obligations  agreed  upon  by  both  the  Palestinian
and Israeli sides.
His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  has  been  engaged
in enormous efforts to help the region break out of the
vicious  circle  engulfing  it  because  of  the  ongoing
confrontations  between  the  two  sides.  King  Abdullah
has  contributed  positively  to  the  intense  international
contacts  and  efforts  to  achieve  that  goal.  Those
endeavours  have  indeed  led  to  the  building  of  a  full
international  consensus  on  the  requirements  needed  to
break 
requirements
include, in the first place, ending the use of the Israeli
military machine against the Palestinian people, lifting
the  blockade  imposed  on  them  and  abandoning  the
policy of assassinations and incursions into areas under
the control of the Palestinian National Authority.
the  current  deadlock.  Those 
Implementing 
those  steps  would  set  out  an
appropriate  entry  to  start  the  implementation  of  the
recommendations  of  the  Mitchell  Commission,  the
thrust  of  which  is  to  create  favourable  conditions  that
allow return to the negotiating table.
Ten years after the Madrid Peace Conference, the
region  is  seething  with  frustration  over  the  failure  to
reach  the  long-awaited  peace.  People  there  are  no
longer  satisfied  by  the  mere  existence  of  a  peace
process. Therefore, the revival of the peace process in
itself is no longer tenable in the absence of a genuinely
meaningful effort that translates into concrete progress
on the road to peace.
Prolonged  confrontations  have  resulted  not  only
in  the  failure  to  carry  out  several  obligations  agreed
upon,  but  also  in  retreating  from  undertakings  that
were  already  in  place.  This  demonstrates  that  phased
and  interim  agreements  are  inadequate  and  ineffective
to  address  the  status  quo.  Therefore,  starting  the  final
status negotiations has become now a pressing priority
A/56/PV.48
in order to achieve the principal objective of the peace
process, namely, the fulfilment of the national rights of
the  Palestinian  people  and  the  establishment  of  their
viable independent State in their homeland, as well as
the guaranteeing of the security of Israel.
Peace that can be acceptable to the peoples of the
region must be comprehensive in terms of resolving, on
the  one  hand,  the  whole  array  of  major  issues:  the
occupied  territories,  Jerusalem,  the  refugees,  security
and  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  and  economic
cooperation; and including on the other, all tracks and
the States concerned.
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338
(1973)  remain  the  basis  of  the  peace  process.  Their
implementation  requires  putting  in  place  the  true
components of peace: primarily, the renunciation of the
settlement  policy  which  contradicts  the  “land  for
peace” principle and which is in itself a flagrant breach
of 
law.  Peace  and  settlements  are
mutually exclusive.
international 
therefrom  and  from 
Holy Jerusalem is key to peace. It is an occupied
Palestinian  territory  subject  to  the  application  of
resolution 242 (1967), which aims at achieving Israeli
withdrawal 
the
Palestinian  territories  —  occupied  in  1967  —  so  that
Jerusalem  will  become  the  capital  of  the  State  of
Palestine. In addition, an appropriate formula will have
to  be  worked  out  to  ensure  that  the  entire  city  of
Jerusalem will be open, freedom of worship for all will
be  safeguarded  and  the  city  will  be  a  factor  of  unity
and reconciliation among all believers in God.
the  rest  of 
in  order 
the  greatest  source  of 
the  Palestinian  refugees 
The issue of refugees represents the worst form of
injustice and frustration in the conflict. Justice must be
secured  for 
to
frustration  and
eliminate 
suffering  in  the  region.  Jordan,  time  and  again,  has
made clear its firm position in relation to the question
of  refugees  here  in  the  Assembly.  Let  me  emphasize
that  Jordan  will  accept  only  a  solution  to  the  question
of  refugees  that  takes  fully  into  account  its  rights  and
interests as a State, as well as the rights and interests of
its  citizens,  on  the  basis  of  international  law  and  all
relevant United Nations resolutions.
Lack  of  trust  between  the  two  sides  precludes
their  ability  to  achieve  any  progress  without  an  active
involvement  by  a 
third  party.  Jordan  welcomes
President George W. Bush’s announcement endorsing a
solution  that  ensures  the  existence  of  two  States,
27
A/56/PV.48
announcement 
the 
including  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  on
the Palestinian territory currently occupied by Israel, in
accordance with relevant Security Council resolutions.
This 
international
consensus  on 
for
achieving  peace  in  the  region.  It  is  our  hope  that  the
United  States  efforts  will  continue  with  support  from
the  countries  of  the  European  Union,  the  Russian
Federation and the international community as a whole
in order to reach that goal.
the 
requirement 
completes 
fundamental 
A  comprehensive  peace  must  include  Israeli
withdrawal  from  the  occupied  Syrian  territories  to  the
border  of  4  June  1967  and  the  completion  of  its
withdrawal  from  the  remaining  occupied  Lebanese
territories  on  the  basis  of  relevant  Security  Council
resolutions.
The  suffering  of  Iraq  and  its  people,  due  to  the
international  sanctions  imposed  against  them  for  more
than  11  years,  is  yet  another  source  of  frustration  and
tension  in  the  region.  Jordan  once  again  stresses  the
need  to  lift  those  sanctions  and  the  importance  of
creating  conditions  that  will  allow  Iraq  to  reclaim  its
active  regional  and  international  role.  Jordan  also
emphasizes 
the
Security  Council
implementation 
resolutions, 
to  Kuwaiti
prisoners and other missing persons.
importance  of 
of 
relevant 
those 
completing 
the 
including 
relating 
We  hope  to  see  an  end  soon  to  the  plight  of  the
people  of  Afghanistan  so  that  that  nation  and  its
political  forces  can  agree  on  a  form  of  government  to
represent  it.  We  also  hope  that  the  world  community
will  mount  a  genuine  effort  to  assist  the  people  of
Afghanistan  in  facing  the  tragic  economic  conditions
that have been afflicting them for many years.
Our relentless pursuit of a just peace in our region
has  not  disrupted  our  determined  efforts  to  seek
economic,  social  and  political  development.  To  the
contrary,  Jordan  is  now  poised  to  embark  on  a  new,
integrated enterprise that seeks more economic growth
in  order  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  its
population  and  to  open  up  new  vistas  of  hope  and
promise for our future generations. Indeed, the dignity
and  welfare  of  the  individual  must  always  remain  the
noblest  goal  of  our  national  and 
international
endeavours.
The  Acting  President: I  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr.  Manuel  Inocêncio  Sousa,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs, Cooperation and Communities of the Republic
of Cape Verde.
Mr.  Sousa  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
English text provided by the delegation): Allow me to
join the delegations that preceded me in congratulating
Mr. Han Seung-soo on his election to preside over the
proceedings  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  being  held  at  an  especially  complicated
moment  in  international  life.  His  long  and  brilliant
career  as  an  eminent  diplomat  and  distinguished
statesman  in  his  country  assures  us  that  his  term  as
President of the Assembly will be a productive one, as
has  been  clearly  evident  since 
this  session  was
convened.  I  assure  him  that  he  can  count  on  the  full
cooperation of the delegation of Cape Verde.
To his predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland,
I  wish  to  express  our  recognition  of  the  skill  and
efficiency  with  which  he  managed  the  major  global
issues  that  came  before  this  lofty  forum  during  the
previous  session,  particularly  during  the  Millennium
Summit.
At  this  juncture  in  human  history,  when  we  are
seeing  a  surge  in  global  challenges,  it  becomes  even
more imperative to rally around the United Nations and
to  comply  more  faithfully  with  the  purposes  and
principles of its Charter, especially those relating to the
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  on 
the  basis  of
international law.
My delegation is also pleased with the re-election
of Mr. Kofi Annan as Secretary-General of the United
Nations.  The  unanimity  of  his  re-election  reflects  the
tremendous  prestige  he  has  gained  in  the  international
community  because  of  his  vision,  as  well  as  the  trust
placed in him to pursue the reforms under way and to
consolidate the prestige of the United Nations.
in 
It is also important not to abandon our collective
terms  of  promoting  peace,  economic
goals 
development  and  respect  for  human  rights.  This
trilateral  platform  of  action 
represents  Jordan’s
domestic and foreign agenda.
Like the delegations that preceded me, I also wish
to take this opportunity to reiterate my congratulations
to the United Nations and its Secretary-General as joint
recipients  of  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  an  award  that
reinforces  their  moral  authority,  so  necessary  in  these
turbulent  times.  This  distinction,  both  well-deserved
and heartening, helps emphasize the importance of the
28
work  of  our  Organization,  under  the  enlightened
guidance  of  Mr.  Annan,  in  fostering  an  international
atmosphere  conducive  to  a  more  just,  tolerant  and
mutually supportive world.
This  is  a  gigantic  and  complex  task,  undertaken
in  the  midst  of  enormous  difficulties  and  risks  and
continually  posing  new  challenges  to  our  collective
mind  as  we  search  for  solutions  to  large  and  ever-
growing problems that humanity must solve.
Now,  when  international  peace  and  security  are
seriously  threatened,  that  recent  honour  not  only
constitutes  well-deserved  recognition  of  a  high  degree
of dedication to the cause of peace and the prevention
and  resolution  of  conflicts;  it  also  bears  a  message  of
hope  that  the  shining  ideals  of  justice,  democracy,
human  rights  and  development  for  all  will  shape  the
entire world to the benefit of future generations.
We  in  our  country  understand  and  properly
appreciate  the  role  and  the  importance  of  the  United
Nations.  It  was  partly  due  to  the  persistent  and
unconditional  support  of  the  United  Nations  that  our
struggle  for  national  liberation  culminated  in  success,
with  the  proclamation  of  our  independence.  It  was
certainly due to the support of the United Nations and
its specialized agencies that Cape Verde has been able
to take important steps on the road to development and
show encouraging signs of progress, year after year, as
documented in the Human Development Reports of the
United Nations Development Programme.
The tragedy that recently struck the homeland of
the  United  States  of  America,  causing  the  loss  of
thousands  of  innocent  lives  and  destroying  one  of  the
most prestigious landmarks in this city, can only be the
object of our most vehement and total condemnation.
The United States is home to the largest overseas
Cape Verdean community. That part of our diaspora has
also  felt  violated  by  the  barbarous  attacks  of  11
September,  and  along  with  them,  my  country  and,
indeed,  all  Cape  Verdeans  share  in  the  mourning  and
the  distress  experienced  by  the  American  people  and
families of so many other nationalities.
Cape  Verde  has  stood  ready  from  the  outset  to
support  actions  intended  to  combat  terrorism,  in  the
context  of  a  broad  international  coalition  under  the
auspices  of 
the  United  Nations.  Therefore,  my
Government  is  committed  to  implementing  Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) to combat this scourge.
A/56/PV.48
Important  steps  have  already  been  taken,  particularly
regarding 
international  anti-
terrorism instruments.
the  endorsement  of 
We  believe  that  all  States  have  a  moral  and
collective  obligation  to  fight  the  perversion  of  the
human  spirit  represented  by  this  phenomenon.  The
seriousness and the scope of the 11 September terrorist
acts  show  that,  from  now  on,  terrorism  must  be
confronted  resolutely,  with  appropriate  responses  and
preventive  action,  in  order  to  stem  the  criminal
violence  that  masquerades  as  being  prompted  by
political or religious motivations.
No  country  is  safe  from  similar  attacks  or  from
attempts to use its own territory for the perpetration of
terrorist  acts.  Therefore,  any  strategy  designed  to
permanently  eliminate 
to
international  peace  and  stability  must  be  a  common
one,  with  broad  participation,  in  which  the  United
Nations plays a crucial role.
this  dangerous 
threat 
In  participating  in  the  global  effort  to  eliminate
terrorism, the developing countries are, once again, at a
serious disadvantage. On the one hand, their scarcity of
resources  and  their  lack  of  sophisticated  means  of
detection  and  prevention  make  them  more  vulnerable
to  infiltration  by  terrorist  organizations  and  to  actions
launched within their own borders. On the other hand,
when  they  attempt  to  respond  to  demands  from  the
international  community,  they  are  forced  to  mobilize
resources  that  would  otherwise  be  dedicated  to  their
economic  and  social  development  and  to  meeting  the
basic needs of their peoples.
Added to this is the fact that, as was emphasized
some  days  ago  by  the  Secretary-General,  the  poorer
economies  are  the  ones  that  will  pay  most  dearly  for
the  direct  consequences  of  the  terrorist  attacks  on  the
world  economy.  My  own  country,  which  depends
heavily  on  tourism  revenues,  is  already  feeling  the
repercussions  of 
the
transportation and hospitality industries.
the  worldwide 
crisis 
in 
is 
There 
therefore  a  critical  need  for 
to  effectively  help 
the
international  community 
the
developing  countries,  particularly  the  least  developed
among  them,  to  bear  the  added  burden  that  the  battle
against  terrorism  is  placing  on  their  economies.  The
industrialized 
increased
solidarity  and  generosity 
in  assisting  developing
countries,  since  the  effort  that  developing  countries
have  agreed  to  make  and  the  sacrifices  imposed  on
countries  must  display 
29
A/56/PV.48
their  populations  will  also  benefit  the  industrialized
nations.
A  little  more  than  a  year  ago,  the  Millennium
Summit  was  held  in  this  Hall.  It  drew  approximately
150  heads  of  State  or  Government.  The  dialogue  was
active and innovative to an extent unprecedented in the
history  of  the  Organization.  A  tremendous  variety  of
sectors  of  civil  society  participated  directly.  Not  only
did  the  Summit  provide  a  succinct  overview  of  the
activities  of  the  United  Nations  since  its  founding,  it
also  constituted  a  unique  opportunity  to  present  an
integrated  picture  of  the  strategic  objectives  for  the
twenty-first  century,  thereby  opening  new  avenues  for
addressing the challenges of globalization.
The  conclusions  of  the  Summit  rekindled  the
flame  of  hope  among  the  peoples  of  the  world,  in
particular  among  those  who  believe  that  it  is  possible
to  find  effective  ways  of  giving  all  countries  real
opportunities  for  development  by  improving  their
institutional  and  productive 
infrastructure  and  by
creating  an  international  atmosphere  conducive  to
providing  them  with  access  to  the  means,  both  public
and private, to fund their development. The drafting of
the road map towards the implementation of the United
Nations  Millennium  Declaration  (A/56/326)  gives  the
international  community  a  powerful  tool  for  joining
forces in  the  implementation  of  the  major  policy  lines
adopted at the Summit.
the  special  session  of 
Important  events  have  taken  place  since  the
Millennium  Summit.  Of  particular  interest  were  the
Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least
Developed  Countries, 
the
General  Assembly  on  HIV/AIDS  and  the  Durban
World 
Racial
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance.
Now,  we  are  preparing  to  hold,  in  the  near  future,  the
International 
for
Development, a special Assembly session on children,
and  the  Johannesburg  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.
Conference  Against 
Conference 
Financing 
Racism, 
on 
The specific manner in which those  issues  affect
the  African  continent,  which  is  home  to  the  great
majority of the least developed countries, has certainly
helped  accelerate  the  decision-making  processes  with
regard  to  regional  integration,  leading  to  important
steps  that  may  open  the  way  to  a  more  promising
future,  despite 
the
international scene.
clouds  hanging  over 
the 
30
As  we  know,  a  complicated  combination  of
endogenous  and  exogenous  phenomena  has  left  the
African  continent  feeling  increasingly  marginalized.
The  pace  of  economic  growth  has  not  been  able  to
reduce  poverty  significantly.  Diseases  such  as  malaria
and  AIDS  continue  to  cut  lives  short  at  a  frightening
rate.  Several  countries  are  the  scene  of  instability;
many  of  them  are  engaged  in  armed  conflicts  and  are
experiencing  terrorist  activities  that  kill  thousands  of
innocents,  systematically  destroy  property,  disrupt  the
operations  of  Governments  and  displace  population
groups.  The  scanty  positive  results  from  the  many
plans  and  initiatives  conceived  and  implemented  to
deal  with  the  serious  problems  Africa  has  faced  over
the years have resulted in well known and widespread
dissatisfaction,  both  in  the  international  community
and among African leaders.
Yet,  despite  the  rather  discouraging  international
climate, Africa has taken important steps that may open
the  way  to  a  more  promising  future.  With  a  view  to
creating the instruments and mobilizing the will to face
up to an increasingly complex global situation, African
leaders  proclaimed  the  African  Union  with  a  new
vision  for  our  continent.  Moreover,  they  adopted  the
New  Initiative  for  Africa,  recently  designated  as  the
New Partnership for the Development of Africa, under
which  Africans 
for
eradicating  poverty  and  putting  their  countries  on  the
path of economic growth and development at the same
time  as  they  offer  a  partnership  that  is  mutually
beneficial  to  the  international  community  in  meeting
the challenges of the new millennium.
responsibility 
assume 
full 
The  adoption  of  those  two  instruments  and  the
firm  commitment  to  promote  transparent  stewardship
will surely open up new prospects for the establishment
of  peace,  stability,  democracy  and  development  that
can lead the continent to occupy the prominent place in
the  global  economy  that  is  justified  by  its  immense
potential.
Doubtless, there is a long road to travel before we
achieve  political 
integration  based  on  democratic
institutions  and  grounded  in  popular  participation,
good governance and action aimed at the promotion of
sustainable  development  on  the  economic,  social  and
cultural levels. But we believe that, with the emergence
of  new  leadership  dedicated  to  economic  rebirth,  with
the  consolidation  of  democracy  and  good  governance
and  with  the  anticipated  support  of  the  international
community,  conditions  will  be  present 
fundamental and historic turnaround in Africa.
for  a
the  right  to  live  in  peace  in  their  country  within
internationally recognized borders.
A/56/PV.48
Two  of  the  most  critical  problems  faced  by  the
Organization  and  by  the  African  continent,  whose
solution cannot be postponed, now loom larger because
of their interconnection and because of their bottleneck
effect.  I  refer  to  poverty  and  armed  conflicts.  All
available  data  reinforce  our  apprehensions  about  the
success of the battle against poverty in the world. This
makes it necessary to adopt a strategy to win that war,
since attaining the objective of a 50 per cent reduction
in the number of persons living in extreme poverty by
2015 appears ever more problematic. Without measures
that  can  effectively  reverse  the  process  of  socio-
economic degradation and, especially, without political
will  on  the  part  of  the  international  community  as  a
whole,  that  goal  of  the  Millennium  Summit  cannot  be
achieved.
It  is  an  undisputed  fact  that,  as  a  rule,  conflicts
occur  in  countries  that  are  marked  by  poverty.  This
cause-and-effect  relationship  has  become  a  vicious
circle  that  cannot  be  terminated  without  efficient
coordination  between  the  preventive  diplomacy  and
social action of the United Nations on the one hand and
more  effective  engagement  by 
industrialized
countries on the other.
the 
the 
efforts 
of 
the 
Despite 
international
community,  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-
General towards peace and stabilization in international
relations  and  towards  democracy  and  human  rights,
certain regions of the world continue to be the scene of
armed  conflicts  that  threaten  to  spread  and  endanger
peace and stability in those regions.
The  terrorist  acts  of  11  September  have  added  a
new  measure  of  instability,  provoking  an  anti-terrorist
military  intervention  in  Afghanistan  whose  duration
and consequences are difficult to assess.
The impasse in the search for a lasting solution to
the  Palestine  question,  which  is  primarily  a  result  of
the  intransigence  of  Israel  and  the  cycle  of  violence
that has been set in motion, has created one of the most
dangerous focal points of tension and a threat to world
peace.  The  implementation  of  the  Oslo  Agreement
must be resumed. Violence must be brought to an end
and 
the
Palestinians must be respected, including their right to
their  own  State,  while  guaranteeing  the  Israeli  people
internationally  recognized  rights  of 
the 
Africa, today the scene of the greatest number of
armed  conflicts,  has  taken  some  positive  steps  in  the
direction  of  peace,  with  the  active  involvement  of  the
United  Nations,  the  Organization  of  African  Unity,
many  friendly  countries  and  a  number  of  multilateral
actors,  non-governmental  organizations  and  elements
of  civil  society.  However  the  persistence  of  acts  of
violence,  namely  the  perpetration  of  criminal  acts
against civilian targets, bears evidence that the road to
political  and  social  stabilization  leading  in  turn  to  the
restoration of peace is still long and difficult.
In  Angola,  for  example,  we  have  seen  fresh
outbreaks of armed action by UNITA, which continues
to  spread  death  and  destruction.  The  Security  Council
once again strongly condemned the actions of the rebel
movement, while maintaining its sanctions against that
organization. But it is vital that all countries cooperate
without  reservation  by  denying  UNITA  the  means  to
carry  out  its  criminal  actions,  so  that  it  can  be
persuaded to lay down its weapons and fully abide by
the Lusaka Agreement.
Cape  Verde  is  pleased  at  the  success  represented
by the transition of East Timor towards independence,
a  process  that  constitutes  a  remarkable  and  exemplary
success  achieved  by  our  Organization  and  particularly
by  the  United  Nations  Transitional  Administration  in
East  Timor.  From  the  very  outset  and  in  the  most
difficult  moments,  the  Cape  Verdean  Government  and
people  have  always  been  on  the  side  of  the  people  of
East Timor in their struggle for independence. We will
celebrate this occasion together on 20 May 2002, when
East  Timor  takes  its  destiny  into  its  own  hands  and
joins our great family here in the United Nations.
I  conclude  by  expressing  the  hope  that  the
outcome  of 
this  session  may  make  an  effective
contribution to a better world, a more just and mutually
supportive  world  of  peace  and  cooperation  and,
especially, a world of tolerance and concord.
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Modibo  Sidibe,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Mali.
Mr.  Sidibe  (Mali)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  condolences  to  the
Governments  of  the  United  States  and  the  Dominican
31
A/56/PV.48
Republic,  and  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  this
morning’s tragic plane crash.
I express my warmest congratulations to Mr. Han
Seung-soo on his election as President of the fifty-sixth
session of the General Assembly. I wish to assure him
of my delegation’s complete support in the exercise of
his  difficult  and  lofty  mission.  I  am  convinced  that,
with his experience and talents as a seasoned diplomat,
he  will  guide  our  discussions  to  success.  To  his
predecessor, Mr. Harri Holkeri, I would like to express
my  sincerest  and  warmest  congratulations  on  the
competence,  dedication,  effectiveness  and  authority
that he displayed throughout his term of office, which
was  so  rich  in  important  events  for  the  life  of  our
Organization.
for  his 
May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate
Mr.  Kofi  Annan  on  his  re-election  to  the  post  of
Secretary-General  of  our  Organization,  and  I  would
like  once  again  to  express  to  him  Mali’s  deepest
appreciation 
steadfast  efforts  and  his
determination in the quest for a better world in the face
of  the  many  and  complex  challenges  of  the  world  of
today.  The  awarding  of  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  to  the
United  Nations  and  to  Mr.  Annan  reflects  the  work
accomplished  by  the  Secretary-General  over  the  past
five years and is a source of legitimate pride to me as
an African.
that  plunged 
the  American  nation 
Our fifty-sixth session is of particular importance,
being held as it is in the aftermath of the brutal terrorist
attacks 
into
mourning  on  11  September  2001.  The  Government  of
Mali  has  firmly  condemned  these  heinous  acts  and
expressed  its  solidarity  with  the  American  people  and
its  support  for  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its
forms  and  manifestations.  Mali  has  already  taken  the
measures necessary for the implementation of Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001), inter alia, through the
establishment  of  an  inter-ministerial  committee  in
charge of implementing and coordinating international
measures.  We  have  also  undertaken  to  ratify  various
conventions against terrorism in order to complete the
vital  legal  arsenal  that  we  need  to  make  a  complete
contribution to the collective international efforts under
the auspices of the United Nations, and also to regional
actions. In this respect, in addition to the Organization
of  the  Islamic  Conference  Convention  on  Combating
International  Terrorism,  we  appeal  for  the  entry  into
force  of  the  important  Organization  of  African  Unity
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Combating  of
32
Terrorism,  adopted  at  Algiers  in  July  1999.  We  also
call  for  an  effective  partnership  with  Africa 
to
strengthen its capacity to combat terrorism.
The  terrorist  acts  of  11  September,  incompatible
with  the  lofty  and  tolerant  message  of  Islam,  have
clearly  shown 
the  vulnerability  of  our  current
international system and have emphasized the need for
increased  international  cooperation  in  order  to  deal
with this situation. This is why the tragic events of 11
September  2001  call  for  the  action  now  being  taken
against  terrorism,  but  they  also  mean  that  we  must  in
the  medium  and  long  term  reflect  on  the  further  ways
of combating terrorism that we must devise. But above
all, 
that  we  must  endeavour
vigorously  to  implement  the  Millennium  Declaration
programme  of  action  in  order  to  ensure  prosperity  for
the largest possible number of people.
these  events  mean 
In 
this  context,  Mali  advocates 
integrated,
sustained  global  action  in  which  the  United  Nations
should play the primary role. While reiterating Africa’s
appeal for the holding of an international conference on
terrorism,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,
Mali intends to support the initiatives of the Secretary-
General and of his Special Representative, Mr. Lakhdar
Brahimi,  whom  we  congratulate  on  his  appointment.
Deeply  concerned  by  the  humanitarian  situation  in
Afghanistan,  we  call  for  increased  and  coordinated
emergency  humanitarian  assistance  for  the  Afghan
people.
to  support 
The  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  requires
strict  control  of  weapons.  Mali  will  actively  and
resolutely  continue 
international  and
regional  efforts  in  the  field  of  disarmament  and  the
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The  question  of  small
arms, as we see it, is another source of concern. In fact,
small  arms  contribute  to  the  breakdown  of  the  social
balance,  fuel  conflicts  and  destabilize  States,  thus
jeopardizing all development efforts.
Mali,  which  hosted 
the  African  preparatory
conference, will work towards the success of a follow-
up to the conclusions of the United Nations Conference
on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons
in All Its Aspects and towards the full implementation
of  the  Programme  of  Action  resulting  from  that
important Conference. The West African experience in
this  respect  constitutes  an  important  initiative  to  be
supported  through  the  declaration  of  an  Economic
(ECOWAS)
Community  of  West  African  States 
moratorium  on 
importation,  exportation  and
manufacture  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  the
Programme 
for
Security and Development in Africa.
for  Coordination  and  Assistance 
the 
African 
subregion 
The  West 
remains
characterized  by  the  persistence  of  conflict,  a  high
level  of  poverty,  illicit  trade  in  weapons  and  the
proliferation  of  armed  bands.  In  order  to  deal  with
these  conflicts,  ECOWAS  has  given  priority  to  a
regional  approach  for  the  prevention  and  management
of  conflicts  in  order  to  deal  with  the  root  causes  of
conflict  and 
its  humanitarian  consequences.  The
ECOWAS  protocol  on  the  Mechanism  for  Conflict
Prevention,  Management,  Resolution,  Peacekeeping
and  Security,  adopted  in  1999,  is  a  major  tool  for
regional  prevention  and  management  of  conflicts.  Its
innovations 
its  Mediation  and  Security
Council, its early warning system and the fact that it is
rooted 
the  consolidation  and  protection  of
democracy and human rights.
include 
in 
the  United  Nations, 
Mali  welcomes  and  encourages 
the  positive
developments in the peace process in Sierra Leone that
have  taken  place  since  the  second  meeting  of  the
Committee  of  Six  of  the  ECOWAS  Mediation  and
Security  Council  with 
the
Government  of  Sierra  Leone  and  the  Revolutionary
United Front (RUF) on 2 May 2001 in Abuja, Nigeria.
Progress, although still fragile, has been made in
the  Mano  River  Union  region.  As  evidence  of  this  we
can  cite  the  ministerial  meetings  among  the  three
countries, Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. ECOWAS
intends  to  continue  its  efforts  to  help  make  the  Mano
River Union a pillar of stability and development. The
recent  summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  of
ECOWAS on a global and comprehensive approach to
security questions stresses once again the will of West
Africa  to  shoulder  its  responsibilities,  helped  by  its
various partners.
require 
The implementation of these initiatives and West
to  conflict  prevention  and
African  approaches 
the
from 
management  will 
international  community, 
the  United
Nations.  In  this  respect,  it  is  gratifying  to  note  that  a
genuine  partnership  has  been  established  between  the
United  Nations  and  ECOWAS.  We  firmly  encourage
the establishment of the United Nations Office for West
Africa,  as  recommended  by 
inter-institutional
assistance 
in  particular 
the 
A/56/PV.48
mission  that  visited  the  region  from  6  to  27  March
2001.
The  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on
children  will  be  an  opportunity  to  build  a  progressive
and  universalist  vision  in  order  to  promote  a  “world
worthy  of  children”,  with  the  participation  of  all,
within  the  framework  of  a  world  movement  for
children.  ECOWAS,  which  has  prepared  for 
that
gathering,  is  continuing  its  efforts  to  implement  the
Accra  plan  of  action  on  the  situation  of  children  in
conflict  with  the  opening  of  a  special  office  entrusted
with this question, the Optional Protocol that will soon
be  adopted  on  the  sale  of  children  and  the  regional
initiative on joint vaccination days. In the near future, a
decade  for  the  culture  of  children’s  rights  will  be
examined.
The  creation  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
will  not  only  make  it  possible  to  bring  to  trial  the
perpetrators of the gravest crimes against the dignity of
the  human  person,  but  will  also  be  an  instrument  of
deterrence,  which  can 
the
maintenance of international peace and security. In this
regard, I recall that Mali has already ratified the Rome
Statute,  thus  expressing  its  support  for  the  struggle
against  impunity  and  for  the  full  respect  of  human
dignity.  We  appeal  to  others  to  help  make  the  court  a
reality as early as next year.
thus  contribute 
to 
In  the  field  of  human  security,  we  must  provide
an  appropriate  response  —  a  global  and  urgent
response — to the scourge of HIV/AIDS following the
special  session  of  June  2001,  while  at  the  same  time
increasing our potential to fight malaria.
Our  responsibility  is  great  indeed  with  regard  to
the  persistence  of  inequalities  and  the  increase  in
poverty. The peoples of the world aspire to education,
employment,  health  and  nutritional  self-sufficiency  —
in other words, they hope to attain more dignified and
humane  living  conditions.  In  this  context,  Africa,
which  intends  to  make  its  union  a  reality,  wants  to
become master of its own destiny. It needs solidarity to
help  it  strengthen  its  capacities  and  mobilize  its  own
development  resources.  We  will  work  hard  toward  the
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the
Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least
Developed Countries, held in Brussels in May 2001. As
was  stated  by  President  Konare,  that  Conference,  by
the  very  fact  that  it  was  being  convened,  signalled
progress
33
A/56/PV.48
to 
the 
following 
and  bolder  measures 
“...  and  it  is  also  a  test  of  the  international
community 
Millennium
Declaration. There will be success only if we see
a will to move to concrete action, if we envisage
stronger 
finance
development,  to  increase  the  effectiveness  of
foreign  aid  and  to  resolve  the  problems  that  are
hampering  the  sustainable  development  of  the
least developed countries.”
The  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development,  which  will  be  held  in  Monterrey  in
March  2002,  should  be  an  important  event  and  an
interface 
find  new  means  of
contributing  to  the  financing  of  development  and  to
reaffirm  the  political  will  for  concrete  development
objectives.  This 
the
Conference  will  have  to  lead  to  the  adoption  of  a
concise  political  declaration  —  a  declaration  with
precise  strategic  objectives  reflecting  the  collective
will  to  act  to  resolve  the  problem  of  financing
development and to lay the foundations for a real world
partnership.
is  why  Mali  believes 
for  dialogue 
that 
to 
Africa is pleased that the high-level debate of the
2001  substantive  session  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council (ECOSOC), which was held in Geneva in July,
had  as  its  theme  “The  role  of  the  United  Nations
system in supporting the efforts of African countries to
achieve  sustainable  development”,  and  awaits  the
realization  of  the  measures  envisaged  there.  This  role
must  not  be  merely  a  declared  one  —  it  must  lead  to
concrete  results.  This 
the
Ministerial  Meeting  of  the  World  Trade  Organization
(WTO),  which  is  now  under  way  in  Doha,  Qatar,  will
promote new progress and decisive initiatives to make
it possible for Africa to develop its assets.
is  why  we  hope 
that 
The entry into force of the African Union, whose
constituent  act  was  signed  in  Lomé  on  12  July  2000,
reflects  the  commitment  of  African  leaders  to  the
integration  of  our  continent.  In  fact,  the  establishment
of  the  African  Union  and  the  launching  of  the  New
Partnership 
for  African  Development,  aimed  at
eliminating  poverty  through  sustainable  development,
can help support the dynamics of regional integration.
In 
international
community to assist this African initiative, which is so
promising  for 
the  peoples  of  our
continent.
respect,  we  appeal 
the  future  of 
this 
the 
to 
34
Our  Organization  is,  more  than  ever  before,
called  to  act  to  promote  international  peace  and
security and to achieve development for all. Here in the
United  Nations,  we  must  act  as  full-fledged  Member
States,  shapers  of  our  shared  future.  We  say  this  in
order to recall our shared responsibility to bring about
peace  in  the  Middle  East,  the  Balkans  and  the  Great
Lakes region — to  mention just these  cases  —  and to
do justice to human nature. We share responsibility to
manifest  more  solidarity  and  to  provide  assistance  to
resolve the many humanitarian crises that exist.
In  the  Middle  East,  the  situation  remains  of
concern  because  of  the  persistence  of  violence  in  the
occupied Palestinian territories. Mali firmly condemns
the  violence  that  has  been  suffered  by  the  Palestinian
people,  and  we  believe 
that  Security  Council
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), the principle of
land for peace and the other relevant resolutions of the
United  Nations  must  serve  as  a  basis  for  negotiations
and  the  establishment  of  a  just,  global  and  lasting
peace. We call for the resumption of these negotiations
and reaffirm our unfailing attachment to the legitimate
rights of the fraternal Palestinian people, including the
right to the establishment of an independent State.
My  delegation  also  expresses  its  hope  that  there
will  be  a  definitive  lifting  of  sanctions  against  the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
On  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  region  from  which
you  come,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the  process  of
reconciliation  now  under  way  will  experience  further
progress, 
in  accordance  with  General  Assembly
resolution 
and
strengthened inter-Korean dialogue, and especially the
holding  of  a  second  summit  in  the  near  future.  In  this
spirit,  my  country  will  continue  its  action  for  the
reconciliation  and  peaceful  reunification  of  the  two
Koreas.
autonomous 
thanks 
55/11, 
to 
Adapting  the  United  Nations  to  the  demands  of
our world is an urgent need. Mali remains convinced of
the vital necessity of democratizing the United Nations
and  restructuring  its  main  organs,  making  them  more
representative  and  credible.  A  democratization  of  the
Security  Council,  whose 
longer
corresponds  to  the  realities  of  the  world,  will  help
reflect  the  shared  will  to  make  that  organ  more
effective,  representative  and  legitimate.  Along  these
lines,  we  reiterate  the  demands  of  Africa  for  an
equitable  allocation  of  the  two  categories  of  seats,  in
structure 
no 
accordance  with 
decisions  adopted  by 
Government of the Organization of African Unity.
the
the  heads  of  State  and
the  Harare  Declaration  and 
In  conclusion,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations
are watching us as we carry out the promises contained
in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We  must  build  a  new
world — a world that reflects our intelligence, a world
of justice, a world that embodies the essential values of
all humanity.
The  Acting  President: I  call  on  Her  Excellency
for  Foreign
Ms. Aïchatou  Mindaoudou,  Minister 
Affairs and Cooperation of Niger.
international  relations  and 
Ms. Mindaoudou (Niger) (spoke in French): The
fact that we are meeting under the presidency of one of
the  most  eminent  personalities  of  the  Republic  of
Korea bears eloquent testimony to the positive changes
in 
the
ideological bipolarization of the world.
the  outset 
the
condolences of the Republic of the Niger to the United
States of America and the Dominican Republic for the
tragedy that occurred this morning.
the  end  of 
to  convey 
I  would 
like  at 
to 
The  Niger  would  like  to  warmly  congratulate
Mr. Han  Seung-soo  on  his  election  as  President  of  the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth  session,  as  well  as
the  other  members  of  the  Bureau.  We  are  sure  that  he
will  demonstrate  the  same  dynamism,  energy  and
human  qualities  as  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Harri  Holkeri
of Finland, as he continues his outstanding work for the
benefit of humankind.
I would like to reaffirm the warm congratulations
of  the  Niger  to  our  brother,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the
Secretary-General,  for  his  re-election  to  a  post  whose
visibility,  prestige  and  effectiveness  he  has  done  so
much to enhance, as well as for the award of the 2001
Nobel  Peace  Prize,  which  is  a  testimony  —  if  further
evidence  were  needed  —  to  the  global  recognition  of
the  work  that  he  has  already  accomplished  in  the
service of humanity.
to 
This  serves  as  an  eloquent  rebuttal 
the
arguments of all those who claim to find, in the denial
of  the  fundamental  principles  of  dialogue  between
cultures  and  nations  —  principles  enshrined  in  the
Charter — the high road to salvation. In this regard, the
Niger  endorses  the  relevant  General  Assembly  and
Security  Council 
the
emergence of a general consensus on the need to wage
resolutions,  and  welcomes 
A/56/PV.48
war against terrorism on a collective and global basis,
within  the  framework  of  the  international  legality
embodied by the United Nations.
If  we  are  to  succeed,  the  fight  against  terrorism
must  be  based  on  a  programme  of  international
substantial
cooperation, 
financial  and 
the  most
disadvantaged  States  so  as  to  enable  them  to  make  a
significant contribution to that process.
in  particular, 
to 
technical  assistance 
including, 
Still on the subject of peace and security, I would
like to point out that, within the realm of disarmament
and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we are in
the  final  stages  of 
the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and  of
signing  a  safeguards  agreement  with  the  International
Atomic Energy Agency.
the  process  of  ratifying 
With 
regard 
fulfilled  one  of 
to  conventional  weapons, 
the
convening  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the
Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All
Its  Aspects 
the  commitments
undertaken by our heads of State or Government in the
historic  Millennium  Declaration.  The  Niger  welcomes
the  fact  that  the  Conference  was  able  to  adopt,  by
consensus,  a  Programme  of  Action  to  combat  that
scourge,  which  is  one  of  the  most  serious  threats  to
international  peace  and  security.  Furthermore,  the
Niger welcomes the fact that that Programme of Action
took  account  of  the  principal  concerns  expressed  by
the  Bamako  Declaration,  by
African  States 
providing, 
technical
assistance 
disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration of former combatants.
No  part  of  the  world  has  been  spared  the  illicit
trafficking  in  and  circulation  of  small  arms.  But  the
developing  countries, 
the
continent of Africa, are paying the highest price for the
proliferation of small arms from the standpoint of their
security, stability and development.
financial  and 
in  particular, 
in  particular 
those  on 
measures 
in 
for 
the 
That  is  why  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African States moratorium on the manufacture, import
and export of small arms, adopted in Abuja in October
1998, which was extended for three years on 5 July, as
well  as 
for  Coordination  and
Assistance  for  Security  and  Development,  should
receive 
the
international community.
the  Programme 
substantial 
financial 
support 
from 
35
A/56/PV.48
In this context, the Niger reaffirms its support for
the  proposal  of  the  United  Kingdom  to  create  an
international  fund,  to  be  managed  by  the  United
Nations Development Programme, for the collection of
small  arms.  If  it  is  effective,  that  fund  will  help  to
support regional and national projects for the collection
and  destruction  of  small  arms 
in  exchange  for
development  projects.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to
reaffirm  to the  Assembly  the  gratitude  of  the  Niger  to
the countries that participated in the work of the Group
of 
Interested  States  on  Practical  Disarmament
Measures.
Since  the  events  of  11  September,  the  entire
world  has  been  assessing  the  tragic  consequences  of
that  Manichaean 
ideology.  Terrorists  are,  without
doubt,  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  It
has been claimed that those events were committed in
the name of Islam. But as everyone knows, Islam is the
religion of the golden mean, and condemns suicide and
murder.  It  advocates  dialogue  and  persuasion  and  the
steadfast combating of any tendency towards individual
or  collective  nihilism.  That  is  one  of  the  reasons  why
the  Niger  fully  associates 
the  global
coalition against terrorism. That is also why, during the
recent 
eliminate
international  terrorism,  the  Niger  reiterated  its  firm
condemnation  of  all  forms  of  violence  and 
its
determination  to  commit  itself  to  all  subregional  and
international 
that
scourge.
initiatives  aimed  at  eradicating 
on  measures 
itself  with 
discussions 
to 
In  order 
reconstruction. 
In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  world  leaders
undertook  to  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  United
Nations  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  by  providing  it  with  the  necessary  tools  and
resources  to  better  prevent  conflict,  bring  about  the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  consolidate  peace
and  post-conflict 
to  be
effective,  a  preventive  conflict-management  strategy,
as  set  out  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,
requires the international community, working together
with  national  and 
to  adopt  a
comprehensive 
encompassing  political,
diplomatic,  humanitarian  and  institutional  measures,
and 
to  undertake  actions  aimed  at  economic
revitalization. As a follow-up to that report, last July in
Agadez my country, acting within the national dynamic
aimed  at  consolidating  peace  and  with  the  support  of
the  United  Nations,  organized  a  forum  on  conflict
prevention — the first of its kind in Africa. That forum
regional  actors, 
approach 
36
recommended  the  elaboration  of  a  national  conflict-
prevention  strategy, 
implementation  of  which
would be coordinated by the National Commission for
Social Dialogue, which brings together representatives
of the State and civil society.
the 
For 
too 
the 
long, 
international  community’s
attention  has  been  focused  on  the  Middle  East,  where
repeated  efforts  to  achieve  a  negotiated  settlement  of
the  Israeli-Arab  conflict  have  ended  in  deadlock.  The
support of the G-8 for the idea of sending international
observers  to  Palestinian  territory  is  an  important  step
forward;  such  action  would  guarantee  the  impartial
application  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Mitchell
report.
The  Niger  would  like  to  reaffirm,  here  in  the
Assembly,  that  a  lasting  settlement  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  cannot  be  achieved  without  the
realization  by 
their
inalienable  right  to  an  independent  sovereign  State.
The Niger wholeheartedly supports the position of the
United States of America in this regard.
the  Palestinian  people  of 
With regard to the conflict in Western Sahara, the
Niger  supports  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  in
particular  those  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his
Personal Envoy, to bring about a final settlement that is
acceptable to interested and concerned parties.
With  regard  to  Asia,  the  summit  meeting  that
took  place  last  July  in  India  between  the  President  of
Pakistan  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  India  raised  great
hopes  for  a  political  settlement  of  the  conflict  in
Kashmir.  Such  initiatives  must  be  supported  and
encouraged so as to allow for the self-determination of
the Kashmiri people as soon as possible in accordance
with the relevant Security Council resolutions.
By  according  highest  priority  to  the  specific
needs  of  Africa,  the  Millennium  Summit  recognized
the  full  magnitude  of  the  serious  problems  that  beset
our continent. Proof of this is that most African States
are  included  on  the  list  of  least  advanced  and  poorest
countries  and  have  been 
the
technological revolution. The ravages caused by armed
conflicts  and  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  have  affected
more than 26 million Africans and wiped out the hard-
won  progress  made  over  the  past  decade.  At  the  same
time,  the  flow  of  official  development  assistance  to
Africa has plummeted, while foreign direct investments
have  continued  to  stagnate.  Worse  yet,  between  1999
and  2000  those  investments  even  fell  from  $10.5
left  behind  by 
billion  to  $9.1  billion,  while  during  the  same  period
they rose in Asia and Central and Eastern Europe.
to 
improve 
initiatives, 
It  is  therefore  urgent  to  increase  the  volume  of
to  expand  debt-
official  development  assistance, 
cancellation 
the  access  of
African exports to international markets and to promote
investment.  These  measures  must  be  accompanied  by
appropriate  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  United
Nations  system  because  this  Organization  is  the  best
forum  for  promoting  new  partnerships  for  the  benefit
of Africa.
In  this  respect,  the  Niger  very  much  hopes  that
Africa’s  drive  to  reappropriate  its  own  development
will  be  encouraged.  That  drive  is  marked  by  the
proliferation  of  national  and  regional  initiatives,  the
most recent manifestation of which was the adoption at
the  Lusaka  summit  of  the  Organization  of  African
Unity  (OAU)  of  an  African  development  plan,  the
implementation  of  which  the  G-8  has  decided  to
support.
The  forthcoming  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  should  prove  to  be  a
decisive  turning  point  in  the  establishment  of  a  more
just  and  equitable  world  economic  order.  It  should,
inter  alia,  lead  to  the  adoption  of  a  clear  political
declaration  defining  strategic  priorities,  accompanied
by  a  precise 
the
strengthening  of  the  capacities  of  the  developing
countries, particularly the least developed among them,
and  their  integration  into  the  world  economy.  The
Conference should be the point of departure of a broad
world  partnership  to  channel  all  energies  towards  the
mobilization  of  resources  for  development  and  the
reform of international financial structures.
timetable,  with 
respect 
to 
In this regard, the 10-year Brussels Programme of
Action for the Least Developed Countries has made it
possible  to  lay  the  foundations  of  an  enhanced  world
partnership to achieve the economic growth essential to
reducing  poverty.  Following  the  firm  commitments
undertaken in Brussels, there are now grounds for hope
that, particularly with regard to trade, the current round
of World Trade Organization negotiations in Qatar will
take  fully  into  account  the  interests  of  the  least
developed  countries,  whose  630  million  inhabitants
have a legitimate aspiration to benefit from the positive
effects of globalization.
In  the  absence  of  an  appropriate  response  from
the  affluent  countries,  the  damage  caused  by  the
A/56/PV.48
HIV/AIDS epidemic may prove to be irreparable, given
that  some  specialists  estimate  that  there  will  be  100
million  dead  from  that  disease  by  the  year  2010  if
effective  measures  are  not  taken  immediately  to  stem
the scourge.
Need we recall, moreover, that malaria claims as
many human victims in Africa as AIDS, particularly in
West Africa? It is comforting to note, however, that the
international  community  has  finally  become  aware  of
the  signal  danger  posed  by  that  disease.  The  Niger
welcomes  the  decision  of  the  United  Nations  to
proclaim  the  period  2001-2010  the  Decade  to  Roll
Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in
Africa.  The  United  Nations  is  thus  in  step  with  the
various  initiatives  of  the  OAU  in  the  struggle  against
malaria,  led  by  Yahya  Jammeh  of  Gambia,  Olusegun
Obasanjo of Nigeria and Mamadou Tandja of the Niger.
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  struggle  against
major  diseases  calls  for  substantial  resources  and  a
strong  capacity  for  coordinated  action.  The  Niger
therefore 
Secretary-General’s
establishment  of  the  Global  AIDS  and  Health  Fund,
which  should  give  a  new  dynamic  to  the  struggle
against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which together
claim 5 million dead throughout the world every year.
welcomes 
the 
The  announcement  made  at  the  G-8  summit  in
Genoa  that  $1.8  billion  will  be  devoted  to  launching
the  Global  Fund  is  an  important  step  in  the  right
direction. In spite of everything, a great deal remains to
be  done.  According  to  United  Nations  estimates,
approximately  $3  billion  must  be  mobilized  before
2001 for AIDS alone and contributions of $7 billion to
$10 billion will be necessary every year thereafter until
2005.  Thus,  today  more  than  ever,  the  international
community must demonstrate active solidarity between
rich  and  poor  and  a  sense  of  unshakeable  collective
responsibility  —  in  a  word,  unfailing  political  will  —
if  it  wishes  to  translate  into  deeds  the  Declaration  of
Commitment  adopted  at 
the  special  session  on
HIV/AIDS.
The progress achieved in the Niger in its current
reform  programme  has  allowed  us  to  re-establish  and
consolidate  the  country’s  economic  bases,  to  revive
fruitful 
financial
institutions and thus to secure the Niger’s eligibility for
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative.
Furthermore,  the  Niger  recently  established  a  new
framework  for  the  implementation  of  its  own  national
relations  with 
international 
the 
37
A/56/PV.48
anti-poverty  policy.  A  strategy  for  reducing  poverty
defines  the  country’s  priorities  and  measures  and
actions to be undertaken in order to achieve the targets
set  in  various  spheres,  which  will  allow  us  to  make
serious inroads into poverty by 2015.
This struggle against poverty in the Niger enjoys
the  highest  political 
involvement.  A  programme
initiated  personally  by  the  President  of  the  Republic,
Mr. Mamadou Tandja, is designed to improve the living
standards of the people of our country. The first phase
of what is known as “The Programme of the President
of the Republic” has already led to the construction of
1,000  wells,  100  mini-dams,  100  schools  and  100
health  centres  for  rural  communities.  It  is  well  known
that  such  communities  in  the  Niger  suffer  intractable
illiteracy,  a  serious  lack  of  infrastructure  and  cyclical
food  shortages  caused  by 
irregular  rainfall.  The
Programme also stresses the link between poverty and
the  environment.  It  is  in  that  context  that  we  plan  to
plant  1  million  trees  throughout  our  national  territory
by the end of this year.
The Government is thus perfectly in step with the
deep-rooted aspirations of the people of the Niger, who
recognize in its actions their ancestral lore of personal
and  collective  effort  against  adversity,  and  with  its
bilateral  and  multilateral  partners,  whose  ongoing
concern  is  the  restoration  of  the  environment.  All  the
institutions  of  the  United  Nations  family  and  the
European  Union  —  in  particular  France,  Germany,
Italy and Great Britain — as well as Canada and Japan,
have 
the
ecological  system  and  to  combating  desertification  in
the Niger.
significantly 
contributed 
to 
reviving 
it 
In the Niger, we are fully aware that this fight is
primary  a  national  one.  We  wage 
through
volunteerism, the roots of which are deeply entrenched
in our traditions and extend beyond our frontiers. I take
this  opportunity  to  reiterate  the  profound  gratitude  of
the  Niger  to  all  the  bodies  of  the  United  Nations
system,  in  particular  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the
United  Nations  Children’s  Fund  and  our  other
development partners, for their precious support for the
efforts of the Government to promote the well-being of
our people.
implement  the  Millennium  Declaration.  It  is  therefore
necessary  to  give  unstinting  support  to  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  efforts  to  reform  the  Organization,
strengthen  its  role  and  secure  the  resources  that  will
allow  him  to  accomplish  his  task  effectively.  The
United  Nations  remains  indeed  the  only  institution
capable of bringing about the new world order to which
we all so deeply aspire.
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to
His Excellency Mr. Abdul Aziz Bin Nasser Al-Shamsi,
chairman  of 
the  United  Arab
Emirates.
the  delegation  of 
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  express  how  deeply
saddened  we  are  over  the  crash  of  the  American
Airlines  aircraft  a  few  hours  ago,  a  few  miles  away
from  this  Headquarters,  in  the  borough  of  Queens  in
New  York  City.  Let  me  express  our  deep  condolences
to the families of the victims and to our friends in this
country.
I  have  the  honour  to  convey  to  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo, on behalf of the United Arab Emirates, our sincere
congratulations on his election to the presidency of the
General  Assembly  at 
its  fifty-sixth  session.  His
election  to  this  high  office  shows  the  high  regard  the
international community has for him personally as well
as  for  his  friendly  country,  South  Korea,  with  which
my country maintains good relations. We are confident
that thanks to his experience in international affairs the
Assembly  will  achieve  positive  results,  and  we  wish
him and his staff every success.
Let me also extend my thanks to his predecessor,
Mr. Harri Holkeri, for the valuable efforts he exerted in
conducting the work of the previous session.
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  on  his  re-
election  for  a  second  term  to  this  high  office  and  on
being  awarded,  together  with  the  United  Nations
Organization, the Nobel Peace Prize. We would like to
convey  to  him  our  appreciation  for  his  persistent
efforts,  which  are  bound  to  contribute  to  enabling  the
to  accomplish 
Organization 
lofty  mission  of
maintaining 
international  peace  and  security  and
achieving sustainable international development.
its 
To  conclude,  I  would  say  that  the  international
community  needs  a  strong  United  Nations  to  achieve
the ambitious objectives set forth in the Charter and to
This session is being held at a very critical stage,
when the United States of America has been subjected
to the most horrific and dangerous forms of organized
38
terrorism  that  not  only  targeted  the  lives  of  thousands
of innocent civilian men, women and children, but also
the  moral  codes  and  values  underlying  the  human  and
cultural principles that are enshrined in the Charter, the
norms  of  international  law  and  the  foundations  and
concepts  of  the  legal,  political,  economic  and  social
institutions  that  shape  the  nature  of  our  international
relations as a whole.
today 
tracking  down 
The  United  Arab  Emirates,  which  was  deeply
shocked after this reprehensible, immoral and criminal
act,  reiterates 
its  strong  denunciation  and
condemnation of these savage acts and all other forms
of terrorism, wherever they may be. They constitute the
clearest  challenges  to  international  peace  and  security
in  the  twenty-first  century.  We  also  announce  our
complete  support  for  and  cooperation  with  the  United
States  Government  as  well  as  all  the  regional  and
international  efforts  aimed  at 
the
perpetrators  of  these  brutal  acts,  bringing  them  to
justice.  We  also  stress  our  readiness  to  contribute  to
any 
international  campaign  aimed  at  eliminating
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  At  the
same time, we call upon the international community to
strengthen  the  mechanisms  and  scope  of  relief  aid  for
the  Afghan  people,  who  have  been  afflicted  by  brutal
wars for over two decades and who presently face the
most horrible and unprecedented internal displacement.
The changes that we are witnessing in the nature
of international relations today, and the accompanying
accelerated 
the  fields  of  globalization,
technology,  modern  communications  and  economic
openness  have  not  only  had  a  positive  impact  on  the
lives  and  interests  of  certain  States  and  peoples  but
have  rather  contributed  to  widening  the  security,
economic,  social,  cultural  and  information  gap  and
differences  between  the  peoples  of  the  developed  and
the  developing  countries.  At  the  same  time,  they  have
helped  to  spawn  new  situations  of  conflict,  civil  and
ethnic  wars  and  transnational  problems.  Accordingly,
we  believe  that  the  first  steps  to  be  taken  to  confront
the 
these  problems  require,  primarily,
finding a clear, comprehensive and balanced strategy of
regional  and  international  cooperation  that  takes  into
consideration,  as  a  matter  of  priority,  the  extent  to
which  the  concept  of  international  security  and  peace,
on  the  one  hand,  and  the  problems  of  humanitarian
need  and  sustainable  development,  on  the  other,  are
linked.
totality  of 
trends 
in 
A/56/PV.48
In  this  context,  we  stress  the  importance  of  the
assumption  by  the  United  Nations,  in  cooperation  and
coordination  with  other  regional  organizations,  of  a
larger  role  in  international  affairs.  We  believe  in
dialogue and peaceful negotiations as an ideal approach
for resolving disputes.  We  therefore  look  forward  to  a
response  from  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  the  call
by  the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  find  a  peaceful
settlement  to  the  occupation  of  our  three  islands,
Greater  Tunb,  Lesser  Tunb  and  Abu  Moussa,  either
through  direct  negotiations  or  by  referring  the  dispute
to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to  be  resolved  on
the basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter
and the principles of international law.
We  also  hope  that  the  visit  to  Tehran  of  His
Excellency  Sheikh  Hamdan  Bin  Zayed  Al-Nahyan,
Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, on 23 July 2001,
and  that  of  Mr.  Mohamed  Ali  Abtahi,  the  Iranian
President’s  envoy,  to  Abu  Dhabi  on  6  August  2001,
will contribute to the serious efforts being made to find
a peaceful solution to the issue of Iran’s occupation of
our  three  islands,  promote  confidence-building  and
enhance  the  principle  of  peaceful  coexistence,  mutual
cooperation and good-neighbourliness.
Furthermore,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  would
like once again to welcome the acceptance by the two
fraternal States of Qatar and Bahrain of the decision of
the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  the  settlement  of
their previous disagreement over the disputed areas. It
also notes with satisfaction the arrangements made for
the  demarcation  of  the  boundaries  between  some
countries of the region and stresses that continuation of
such  an  approach  and  peaceful  trends  in  international
relations  will  strengthen  the  foundations  of  regional
and international peace and security.
The  question  of  Iraq  has  been  taken  up  by  the
United  Nations  for  11  years  and  the  Iraqi  people  are
still suffering from the continuation of the international
economic  sanctions  imposed  on  them.  Although  the
oil-for-food  programme  has  helped  alleviate 
the
suffering  of  certain  sectors  of  Iraqi  society,  it  clearly
does not constitute the practical mechanism required to
contain  and  deal  with  the  human  tragedies  and  far-
reaching  destructive  effects 
these  sanctions
continue  to  inflict,  not  only  on  the  infrastructure  and
institutions  of  the  basic  services  sectors  of  the  Iraqi
people,  but  also  with 
to  people’s  most
elementary  necessities,  including  nutritional,  medical,
educational  and  other  care.  We  therefore  call  for  a
regard 
that 
39
A/56/PV.48
political formula acceptable to all the parties concerned
that will ensure that the sanctions imposed on the Iraqi
people are lifted and, at the same time, the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of Iraq are maintained.
The re-establishment of normal ties between Iraq
and  Kuwait  requires  efforts  to  resolve  the  problems
that  have  arisen  as  a  result  of  Iraq’s  occupation  of
Kuwait  in  1990,  the  most  important  of  which  is  the
return of Kuwaiti nationals and others held hostage or
as  prisoners  of  war,  in  accordance  with  international
resolutions.
We welcome the Security Council resolution last
September  to  lift  the  international  sanctions  imposed
on our brother country Sudan. We also demand that the
Security Council follow the same procedures in regard
to the international sanctions imposed on our fraternal
country Libya, especially now that its Government has
completely fulfilled its commitments under the relevant
Council resolutions.
Since  28  September  of  last  year,  the  occupied
Palestinian  territories  have  seen  human  tragedies  and
acts of violence because of the policy of State terrorism
pursued  by  Israel  against 
the  Palestinian  people,
including  re-occupation  of  territories,  expansion  of
settlements,  escalation  of  bombing  and  destruction  of
economic and physical infrastructure in the Palestinian
territories,  in  addition  to  systematic  liquidation  and
massacres  that  have  claimed  the  lives  of  more  than
1,300 martyrs  and  tens  of  thousands  of  other  innocent
casualties, half of whom are children and women.
The United Arab Emirates warmly welcomes the
announcement made by President Bush three days ago
in which he committed his country to helping establish
peaceful  coexistence  between  two  States,  Israel  and
Palestine.  Once  again,  we  fully  support  the  right  of
Palestinians to self-determination and to establish their
own independent State with Jerusalem as its capital. In
addition,  we  strongly  condemn  all  flagrant  violations
by Israel against the brotherly Palestinian people.
We call upon the United Nations — especially the
Security  Council  and  its  permanent  members  —  in
particular  the  United  States,  and  European  Union
members  to  take  all  necessary  and  effective  measures
to  avoid  bias  and  double  standards  and  to  bring
pressure  to  bear  on  Israel  to  end  immediately  all  its
terrorist  acts  of  aggression  against  Palestinians,  their
towns and holy sites. In this connection, we call for the
international
establishment,  without  delay,  of  an 
40
mechanism to provide the necessary protection for the
Palestinian people.
security  and 
The  attainment  of 
just  and
comprehensive  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East
requires that Israel comply strictly with the agreements
and protocols it has concluded within the framework of
the  peace  process  and  relevant  resolutions  of  the
United  Nations.  Those  resolutions  all  call  upon  Israel
to  withdraw  completely  from  all  Palestinian  and  other
Arab  territories  it  has  occupied  since  1967,  including
the Holy City of Jerusalem, the Syrian Arab Golan and
the  Shab’a  farms  in  Lebanon.  They  also  call  for  the
removal  of  existing  settlements  and  the  return  of
Palestinian refugees to their homes.
the 
renew  our  call  on 
Israel’s  possession  of  prohibited  weapons,
especially  nuclear  weapons,  is  a  direct  threat  to
regional  and  international  peace  and  security.  We
therefore 
international
community  to  pressure  the  Israeli  Government  to
dismantle its dangerous arsenal of weapons. We would
also like to emphasize that comprehensive international
disarmament, 
including  nuclear  disarmament,  and
improving international mechanisms and arrangements
for  non-proliferation  have  top  priority  in  the  area  of
regional  and  international  security  concerns.  We  also
call  upon  nuclear  States  and  States  that  continue  to
pursue  the  acquisition  of  such  weapons  to  end  such
dangerous  policies,  which 
regional  and
international peace and security.
threaten 
We are following with deep concern the political
and military events that have erupted in many regions,
particularly  in  South  and  South-East  Asia,  certain
African countries and the Balkans. We therefore stress
the  need  for  the  parties  concerned  to  muster  the
necessary  political  will  and  to  try  to  resolve  their
problems  and  disputes  by  resorting  to  dialogue  and
peaceful  means,  and  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of
international law and United Nations resolutions.
and 
the 
Despite 
the  encouraging  rates  of  economic
growth and recovery achieved by some countries in the
last few years as a result of the information revolution,
globalization 
technological
developments in the fields of communications and free
markets, 
international  reports  and  statistics  have
recently  indicated  a  slow-down  in  global  economic
growth  due  to  the  lack  of  a  clear  strategy  for  regional
and  international  economic  cooperation.  That  slow-
down  has  in  turn  aggravated  the  economic  imbalance
formidable 
A/56/PV.48
the  countries  of 
between  the  countries  of  the  North  and  those  of  the
South.  While 
the  North  enjoy
prosperity,  those  of  the  South  continue  to  suffer  from
poverty,  unemployment,  disease  and  environmental
pollution.
to  extending 
Therefore  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  which  is
accustomed 
financial  development
investment  and  humanitarian  assistance 
to  many
developing  countries  and  countries  affected  by  natural
disasters  and  armed  conflicts,  calls  upon  developed
countries  and  international  specialized  agencies  to
increase both their official and unofficial assistance to
developing  countries.  It  is  equally  important  that
official  development  assistance  to  poor  countries  be
increased so as to alleviate the foreign debt burden, to
help those countries secure access to world markets for
their  domestic  products,  to  facilitate  the  transfer  of
peaceful technologies, and to assist them in containing
their  growing  domestic  problems  so  as  to  combat
poverty,  unemployment,  environmental  degradation
and the spread of disease.
In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  our  deliberations  on
the  items  on  the  agenda  at  this  session  will  produce
positive  results  that  will  enhance  confidence-building
measures and ensure security and stability in this world
of numerous and quickly changing variables.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
41
