United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
29th plenary meeting
Monday, 22 October 2001, 10 a.m.
New York

A/56/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Sharma
(Nepal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(b) Election of twenty-nine members of the
Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme
The  Acting  President: Pursuant 
the  election  of 
to  General
Assembly decision 43/406, the Assembly will proceed
to 
the
Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme,  to  replace  those  members  whose  term  of
office expires on 31 December 2001.
twenty-nine  members  of 
The  twenty-nine  outgoing  members  are:  Antigua
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Austria,  Belarus,  Belgium,
Botswana,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  Canada,  China,  the
Comoros, Cuba, France, Germany, Hungary, Indonesia,
Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Malawi, Nigeria, Norway,
the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Russian  Federation,  the
Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, the United States of
America, Venezuela and Zimbabwe.
Those  States  are  eligible  for 
election.
immediate  re-
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after  1
January  2002, 
the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Governing  Council:  the  Bahamas,
Benin,  Brazil,  Burkina  Faso,  Colombia,  Denmark,
Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,  the  Gambia,  India,  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  the  Libyan  Arab
Jamahiriya, 
Islands,  Mexico, 
the
Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Pakistan,  Poland, 
the
Republic  of  Moldova,  Samoa,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,
Slovakia, Suriname, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Therefore, those 29 States are not eligible in this
the  Marshall 
election.
As members know, in accordance with rule 92 of
the  rules  of  procedure,  all  elections  shall  be  held  by
secret ballot and there shall be no nominations.
However,  I  should  like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  whereby 
the
practice  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that
basis?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: Regarding candidatures, I
have  been  informed  by  the  Chairmen  of  the  regional
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-59279 (E)
*0159279*
A/56/PV.29
groups that for the eight seats from the African States,
the  eight  endorsed  candidates  are:  Chad,  the  Congo,
Kenya,  Namibia,  Nigeria,  the  Sudan,  Zambia  and
Zimbabwe.
For  the  six  seats  from  the  Asian  States,  the  six
endorsed  candidates  are:  China,  Indonesia,  Japan,
Myanmar,  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  Syrian  Arab
Republic.
For  the  three  seats  from  the  Eastern  European
States,  the  three  endorsed  candidates  are:  the  Czech
Republic, Romania and the Russian Federation.
For the Latin American and Caribbean States, the
five endorsed candidates for the five seats are Antigua
and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Cuba,  Nicaragua  and
Uruguay.
For  the  seven  seats  from  the  Western  European
and  other  States,  the  seven  endorsed  candidates  are
Belgium,  Canada, 
France,  Germany,  Greece,
Switzerland and the United States of America.
Since  the  number  of  candidates  endorsed  by  the
African States, the Asian States, the Eastern European
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and
the  Western  European  and  other  States  corresponds  to
the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled  in  each  region,  may  I
take it that the General Assembly decides to elect those
candidates as members of the Governing Council of the
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  for  a  four-
year term of office beginning on 1 January 2002?
of 
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  following  29  States
have  thus  been  elected  members  of  the  Governing
Council 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme for a four-year term of office beginning on
1  January  2002:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,
Belgium,  Canada,  Chad,  China,  the  Congo,  Cuba,  the
Czech  Republic,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Indonesia,
Japan, Kenya, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
the  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania, 
the  Russian
Federation,  the  Sudan,  Switzerland,  the  Syrian  Arab
Republic,  the  United  States  of  America,  Uruguay,
Zambia and Zimbabwe.
I congratulate the States which have been elected
members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United
Nations Environment Programme.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (b)
of agenda item 16.
2
(c) Election of seven members of the Committee for
Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/56/399)
The  Acting  President:  Pursuant 
to  General
Assembly  decision  42/450  of  17  December  1987,  the
Assembly  elects  the  members  of  the  Committee  for
Programme and Coordination upon their nomination by
the Economic and Social Council.
The  Assembly  has  before  it  document  A/56/399,
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration  on  31
December 2001 of the terms of office of Benin, China,
the Comoros, Egypt, Japan, the Republic of Korea and
Uruguay.
Those  States  are  eligible  for 
election.
immediate  re-
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after  1
January  2002, 
the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Committee:  Argentina,  the  Bahamas,
Bangladesh,  Botswana,  Brazil,  Cameroon,  Cuba,
France,  Gabon,  Germany,  Indonesia, 
the  Islamic
Republic  of  Iran,  Italy,  Mauritania,  Mexico,  Pakistan,
Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  the
Russian  Federation,  San  Marino,  Ukraine,  the  United
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  the
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  the  United  States  of
America and Zimbabwe.
Therefore, those 27 States are not eligible in this
election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the
following States have been nominated by the Economic
and Social Council. The three African States for three
vacancies are Ethiopia, Nigeria and Tunisia. The three
Asian States for three vacancies are: China, Japan and
the  Republic  of  Korea.  The  one  Latin  American  and
Caribbean State for one vacancy is Uruguay.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard,
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a
given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that
basis?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  number  of  States
nominated  from  among  the  African  States,  the  Asian
States and the Latin American and Caribbean States is
equal  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be  filled  in  each  of
those groups.
May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and
Social  Council  from  among  the  African  States,  the
Asian  States  and  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean
States  —  namely,  China,  Ethiopia,  Japan,  Nigeria,  the
Republic  of  Korea,  Tunisia  and  Uruguay  —  elected
members  of 
the  Committee  for  Programme  and
Coordination for a three-year term of office beginning
on 1 January 2002?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  congratulate  the  States
that  have  been  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for
Programme and Coordination.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
item (c) of agenda item 16.
Agenda item 17
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs
and other appointments
(h) Appointment of members of the Committee on
Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/56/108)
The Acting President: As indicated in document
A/56/108, since the terms of office of Algeria, Austria,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Nepal and the United States of
America  will  expire  on  31  December  2001,  it  is
necessary for the President of the General Assembly to
appoint,  during  the  current  session,  seven  members  to
fill the resulting vacancies. The members so appointed
will  serve  for  a  period  of  three  years  beginning  on  1
January 2002.
A/56/PV.29
After  consultations  with  the  Chairmen  of  the
Groups of African States, Asian States, Latin American
and Caribbean States and Western European and other
States,  the  President  has  appointed  Austria,  Ethiopia,
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Nepal,  Tunisia  and  the  United  States
of  America  as  members  of 
the  Committee  on
Conferences, with effect from 1 January 2002.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of
these appointments?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
wish  of 
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 17?
to  conclude 
It was so decided.
Agenda item 31
University for Peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/314)
Draft resolution (A/56/L.4)
The  Acting  President: 
representative  of  Costa  Rica 
resolution A/56/L.4.
I 
to 
on 
call 
the
introduce  draft
Mr. Niehaus (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): On
behalf  of 
the  Dominican  Republic,  El  Salvador,
Guatemala,  Honduras,  Nicaragua,  Panama  and  my
country, Costa Rica, I have the honour to introduce the
draft resolution on agenda item 31, entitled “University
for  Peace”.  This  draft  resolution  appears  in  document
A/56/L.4.  I  also  have  the  pleasure  to  state  that  the
following  delegations  have  decided  to  join  the  list  of
sponsors:  Argentina,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Bolivia,
Canada,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  Colombia,  the  Congo,
Croatia,  Greece,  Guyana, 
India,  Paraguay, 
the
Philippines, the Russian Federation and Venezuela.
On  5  December  1980,  the  General  Assembly
established the University for Peace as an institution of
higher  education  devoted  to  training  in  academic
disciplines  conducive  to  peaceful  relations  between
people  and  nations.  It  was  determined  that  its  main
purpose  would  be  the  promotion  of  peace  through  the
dissemination of the principles enshrined in the Charter
of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. The University therefore endeavours to
3
A/56/PV.29
promote  peace  and  prevent  conflicts  through  the
creation  of  an  atmosphere  of  mutual  respect  and
rejection of violence among all persons.
United Nations Institute for Training and Research, the
United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights.
The  founders  of  the  University  recognized,  with
vision, that the first step towards peace is the education
of children and youth, since only through education can
the excesses of destruction and conflict be replaced by
the  virtues  of  peace,  tolerance  and  cooperation.  The
programmatic  basis  of 
therefore
revolves  around  the  promotion  of  peace,  education,
communication, agreement and human rights. Its work
seeks  to  collaborate  with  the  United  Nations  in  the
fulfilment of its fundamental aims: the search for peace
and  security,  sustainable  development  and  respect  for
human rights.
the  University 
The  conceptual  framework  of  action  of  the
University recognizes that peace is threatened by many
factors  and  that  it  is  necessary  to  confront  the  deep
structural  causes  of  conflicts.  It  is  clear  that  real
sustainable  peace  can  be  attained  only  when  decent
living  conditions  for  all  people  are  guaranteed,  when
there  is  a  level  of  economic  development  that  is
adequate  to  allow  them  to  satisfy  their  basic  needs,
when  their  fundamental  rights  are  respected  and  when
social  and  political  differences  are  resolved  through
democratic  avenues,  dialogue  and  negotiation.  Thus,
the  University  teaches  that  respect  for  human  dignity
and the search for the common good are indispensable
requirements for peace.
regarding 
As the Secretary-General points out in his report,
the  University  is  currently  going  through  a  period  of
rehabilitation and reform with a view to fully carrying
out its mandate. In this effort, important advances have
been  made 
its
administration,  the  development  of  a  broad  academic
basis  and  the  design  of  educational,  training  and
research  programmes  in  areas  related  to  peace.  We
have also expanded its programmes to all regions of the
world,  thanks  to  association  agreements  with  other
educational 
in  both  developed  and
developing countries.
restructuring  of 
institutions 
the 
Further, the University is actively contributing to
the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  on  a
Culture  of  Peace.  It  has  strengthened  its  bonds  of
cooperation  with  other  United  Nations  organizations,
such  as  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner 
the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  the
for  Refugees, 
4
in 
that 
its  educational  efforts 
the  University  has  placed  on 
The  draft  resolution  reviews  the  University’s
work over the last two years. Its preamble underscores
the  various  programmes  of  the  University  aimed  at
creating a culture of peace in Central America and the
Caribbean  in  the  context  of  the  efforts  carried  out  by
the United Nations and the Declaration and Programme
of  Action  for  a  Culture  of  Peace.  It  indicates  the
emphasis 
the
prevention  and  peaceful  solution  of  conflicts.  It
recognizes 
training  for
democracy  and  consensus,  as  well  as  respect  for
techniques for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
resolution  also  emphasizes 
the
symposium on the International Year of Older Persons
held  in  1999  which  recognized  the  contribution  that
older  persons  can  make  to  the  promotion  of  peace,
solidarity and tolerance. In the operative part, the draft
resolution  takes  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report
and requests him to study the possibility of making use
of  the  University’s  services  in  his  conflict-resolution
and peace-building efforts. Similarly, he is requested to
make  use  of  the  University  in  his  work  in  the
dissemination  and  implementation  of  the  Declaration
and Programme of Action for a Culture of Peace.
The  draft 
The  draft  resolution 
bodies 
invites  Member  States,
intergovernmental 
non-governmental
and 
organizations  to  contribute  to  the  University  budget
and  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Peace.  In  addition,  Member
States  are  called  upon  to  accede  to  the  International
Agreement for the Establishment of the University for
Peace, 
the
institution.
thus  demonstrating 
their  support  for 
Finally, 
the  draft 
to
commemorate  One  Day  of  Peace  on  1  January  2002,
and every year thereafter.
calls  upon  States 
Peace  requires  firm  and  continuing  commitment.
The  University  for  Peace  makes  that  commitment
effective  through  concrete  and  effective  actions  in  the
building of a true culture of peace. For that reason, we
trust  that  this  draft  resolution  will  be  adopted  by  the
General Assembly without a vote.
The  Acting  President: Since  we  have  no
speakers  on  this  agenda  item,  the  General  Assembly
will now take a decision on draft resolution A/56/L.4.
Before  proceeding  to  take  action  on  the  draft
resolution,  I  should  like  to  announce  that,  since  the
introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following
countries  have  become  sponsors:  Andorra,  Belgium,
Cameroon,  Cyprus,  Ecuador,  Gabon,  Ireland,  Israel,
Madagascar,  Malawi,  Monaco, 
the  Republic  of
Moldova,  Senegal,  Spain,  Suriname,  Tajikistan,
Thailand  and  The  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
A/56/L.4?
Draft resolution A/56/L.4 was adopted (resolution
56/2).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 31?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 28
Culture of peace
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/349)
Draft resolution (A/56/L.5)
The  Acting  President:  In  connection  with
agenda  item  28,  the  Assembly  has  before  it  a  draft
resolution contained in document A/56/L.5.
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
representative  of
Bangladesh to introduce draft resolution A/56/L.5.
Mr. Ahsan (Bangladesh): It is with great pleasure
that I initiate the discussion on agenda item 28 entitled
“Culture of peace”.
We have in front of us the report of the Secretary-
General  on  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World,
which began last year.
I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  useful
report.  It  not  only  records  the  achievements  of  the
International Year for the Culture of Peace in 2000, but
also  provides  information  on  the  initiatives  that  are
being 
the
International  Decade.  Member  States, 
the  United
Nations,  regional  organizations  and  civil  society  are
involved through these efforts in building partnerships
launching  of 
relating 
taken 
the 
to 
A/56/PV.29
to further strengthen the global movement for a culture
of peace.
We  are  rediscovering 
the  values  of  peace,
tolerance, understanding and solidarity in the aftermath
of  the  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  2001.  The
international community is faced with a situation where
security can no longer be conceptualized in terms of a
country’s defence and intelligence capability — where
peace can no longer be understood as mere absence of
war.
Broader  concepts  are  necessary  to  explain  and
address the complex reality of the twenty-first century.
As  a  concept,  a  culture  of  peace  attempts  to  do  just
that. In a rapidly and deeply changing world, a culture
of peace, to use the Secretary-General’s words,
Educational, 
“provides future generations with values that can
help  to  shape  their  destiny  and  enable  them  to
participate  actively  in  constructing  a  more  just,
humane,  free  and  prosperous  society  and  a  more
peaceful world”.
It  is  therefore  significant  that  individuals  are
taking the message of a culture of peace to heart. Over
74  million  women  and  men  have  signed  Manifesto
2000, which translates the basic principles of a culture
of peace into the language and behaviours of everyday
life.  The  growing  commitment  of  individuals  to  the
universal  values  of  peace  reflects  what  the  United
and  Cultural
Nations 
Organization 
to
achieve — that is, to construct defences of peace in the
minds  of  future  generations.  This  widespread  public
awareness  campaign  initiated  during  the  International
Year should definitely be continued during the Decade.
The  Secretary-General  has  mentioned  that  in
order  to  meet  the  challenge  of  promoting  a  culture  of
peace  successfully,  it  must  become  a  priority  for  the
entire  United  Nations  system.  We  are  happy  that
admirable initiatives to promote a culture of peace have
been  taken  not  only  by  the  designated  lead  agency,
UNESCO, but also by other parts of the United Nations
system,  most  notably  the  United  Nations  Children’s
Fund (UNICEF) and the University for Peace.
constitution 
(UNESCO) 
Scientific 
strives 
UNESCO  has  recognized  the  promotion  of  a
culture  of  peace  as  the  expression  of  its  fundamental
mandate.  We  encourage  UNESCO  to  continue  its
important role throughout the Decade, as highlighted in
paragraph 32 of the Secretary-General’s report.
5
A/56/PV.29
At the national level, we need more initiatives to
promote  a  culture  of  peace.  We  agree  with  the  two
main aspects of the strategy, presented in the report of
the  Secretary-General,  for  increasing  the  engagement
of Member States: education for a culture of peace that
places “children at the centre” and the strengthening of
the global movement by stressing partnerships and new
information technologies.
A strong civil society involvement would have a
positive  impact  on  the  global  movement.  Indeed,
several  major  initiatives  involving  civil  society  during
the  previous  year  have  been  very  useful,  as  the
Secretary-General  mentions  in  his  report.  We  would
encourage civil society to undertake more activities to
complement  the  initiatives  of  Member  States,  the
United  Nations  and  other  global  and 
regional
organizations.
to 
introduce 
As in previous years, this year, too, on behalf of
Benin,  Chile,  El  Salvador,  Togo  and  my  country,
Bangladesh,  I  am  happy 
the  draft
resolution  entitled  “International  Decade  for  a  Culture
of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for  the  Children  of  the
World,  2001-2010”,  this  year  contained  in  document
A/56/L.5.  In  addition,  the  following  countries  have
joined  the  sponsors  this  morning:  Argentina,  Belarus,
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,
Cyprus,  Egypt,  Gabon,  Guyana,  India,  Madagascar,
Malawi,  Morocco,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic  of
Moldova, 
the  Russian
Federation,  Senegal,  Suriname,  Tajikistan,  Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
the  Republic  of  Korea, 
The  draft  aims  to  build  on  last  year’s  resolution,
resolution  55/47,  in  carrying  forward  the  work  of  the
Decade.  A  number  of  preambular  and  operative
paragraphs  have  been  updated  for  this  purpose,  and
there are four notable additions in this year’s draft.
First, in the preambular section, mention is made
of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  which  calls  for  the
active promotion of a culture of peace.
Secondly,  the  draft  resolution  takes  note  of  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General,  and  refers  to  its
paragraph 28, which indicates that each of the 10 years
of the Decade will be marked with a different priority
theme related to the Programme of Action on a Culture
of Peace.
Thirdly, in the operative section, the mass media
are  encouraged  to  be  involved  in  education  for  a
6
the  efforts  of 
culture  of  peace  and  non-violence,  with  particular
regard to children and young people, including through
the  planned  Culture  of  Peace  News  Network  (CPNN),
as a global network of Internet sites in many languages.
Finally,  again  in  the  operative  section,  there  is  a
welcome  for 
the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization
(UNESCO) 
the  communication  and
networking  arrangements  established  during 
the
International  Year  for  providing  an  instant  update  of
developments related to the observance of the Decade.
We hope that these and other elements contained
in  the  resolution  will  receive  the  support  of  the  entire
United  Nations  membership  and  that  the  draft  can  be
adopted without a vote.
to  continue 
We  would  request  that  the  President  keep  this
item open, so that the draft resolution may be adopted
with  the  widest  possible  support  to  reflect  the  global
solidarity in promoting a culture of peace.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform
Members  that,  in  a  letter  dated  8  October  2001
addressed to the President of the General Assembly, the
Permanent  Representative  of  Ireland  to  the  United
Nations,  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Western
European  and  other  States  Group  for  the  month  of
October,  requests  that  the  General  Assembly  hear  in
plenary  meeting  a  statement  by  the  Observer  of  the
Holy See in the debate on agenda item 28, “Culture of
peace”. Taking into account the importance attached to
the  issue  under  discussion,  it  is  proposed  that  the
General  Assembly  should  take  a  decision  on  that
request.
May  I  take  it  that  there  is  no  objection  to  the
proposal  to  hear  the  Observer  of  the  Holy  See  in  the
debate on agenda item 28, “Culture of peace”?
It was so decided.
Mr. Andino  Salazar  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  Allow  me  to  express  the  satisfaction  of  my
delegation  at  having  the  opportunity  to  participate  in
the  consideration  of  agenda  item  28,  “Culture  of
peace”.  The  Government  of  El  Salvador  believes  that
this  issue  is  fundamental  to  advancing  towards  the
construction of an international environment favouring
international  peace  and  security,  especially  at  this
moment,  when  the  international  community  faces  an
exceptional situation.
to  express 
I  also  wish 
the  El  Salvador
delegation’s  support  for,  and  complete  identification
with,  the  intervention  on  this  important  item  by  the
representative  of  Bangladesh. 
I  will  accordingly
confine  my  intervention  to  a  few  very  particular
aspects.
The  Government  of  El  Salvador  views  with
concern  the  rapid  deterioration  of  the  international
situation as a direct consequence of the negative effects
of  the  terrorist  attacks  in  the  United  States  on  11
September.  This  deterioration  is  also  reflected  at  the
regional and national levels, which demonstrates, in the
opinion of El Salvador, the enormous interdependency
of  all  the  countries  in  the  world  as  a  result  of
globalization.
is  now  urgent  and  obvious. 
In  this  respect,  it  is  important  to  stress  that  the
need to implement the commitments made by our heads
the  Millennium
of  State  and  Government 
Declaration 
is
complemented by the purposes, principles and goals set
forth in the Declaration and Programme of Action on a
Culture of Peace, including, in particular, those related
to  peace,  disarmament,  security,  the  eradication  of
poverty, 
good
government.
democracy 
and 
human 
rights, 
in 
It 
El Salvador also believes it important to dedicate
more  efforts  to  the  active  promotion  of  dialogue,
tolerance  and  mutual  respect  among  civilizations  and
peoples, respect for their beliefs and cultural diversity,
as  a  fundamental  base  for  building  a  culture  of  peace
and thus to reduce the active and potential conflicts in
which we are mired.
initiative 
In  this  context,  the  Government  of  El  Salvador
has  decided  to  promote  an  initiative  to  celebrate  the
values,  purposes and  principles  in  the  Declaration  and
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace,  with  a
week  of  a  culture  of  peace,  from  11  September  to  21
September.  This 
is  consistent  with  and
complementary  to  the  content  of  the  main  draft
resolution on the subject of the International Decade of
a Culture of Peace and Non-Violence for the Children
of 
the
representative  of  Bangladesh,  which  the  delegation  of
El  Salvador  is  honoured  to  co-sponsor.  A  copy  of  the
draft resolution on the week of a culture of peace was
distributed to all delegations on Friday, 18 October.
the  World,  2001-2010, 
introduced  by 
My delegation would therefore be grateful if item
28  on  a  culture  of  peace  could  be  kept  open  so  that
A/56/PV.29
interested  delegations  can  continue  to  offer  their
comments on the draft resolution before us and so that
the General Assembly can take a decision on it as soon
as possible.
To  conclude,  allow  me  to  reaffirm  the  political
will  and  commitment  of 
the  Government  of  El
Salvador  to  continue  making  the  necessary  efforts  at
the regional, national and international levels to ensure
that the purposes, principles and objectives established
in  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  on  a
Culture  of  Peace  become  an  integral  part  of  the
activities  of  our  Organization,  and  in  particular  of  its
efforts to maintain international peace and security.
Mr.  Roshdy  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  would
like  at  the  outset  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  International
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-Violence  for
the  Children  of  the  World,  containing  details  of  the
engagement  of  Member  States,  the  United  Nations
system  and  civil  society  during  the  International  Year
for the Culture of Peace.
The  world  has  never  been  in  greater  need  of  the
culture of peace than it is today. In a rapidly and deeply
changing  world,  a  culture  of  peace  provides  future
generations  with  values 
to  shape
children’s  destiny  and  enable  them  to  participate
actively in a more just, humane and prosperous society
and a more peaceful world in which the march of peace
goes on to the benefit of all children.
that  can  help 
With  respect  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  I
would  like  to  stress  and  fully  support  the  reference  to
the priority placed on education for a culture of peace
and  non-violence  at  all  levels.  We  believe  that  this
should be accompanied by teaching children and youth
the  principles  of  justice,  mutual  respect  and  tolerance
of  others,  regardless  of  their  colour,  sex,  race  or
religion.
is  a  momentous  decision 
We in Egypt have always believed that the option
of peace is much more difficult and courageous to take
than  the  option  of  war.  We  believe  that  the  option  of
peace 
that  determines
destinies.  Peace  is  a  state  of  mind  that  requires  an
honest will and good faith. Without such will and faith,
words and commitments are meaningless and cannot be
translated  into  deeds,  while  peace  treaties  cannot  be
implemented and will remain worthless.
7
A/56/PV.29
A great deal has happened since the establishment
of  the  United  Nations  56  years  ago.  At  times,  these
events  have  brought  the  world  peace  and  happiness,
while  at  others  they  have  brought  terrible  catastrophe.
Since  the  day  of  the  United  Nations  creation,  history
and  geography  have  continued  to  interact  and  change.
History has redrawn the geographical map of the world
by  adding  new  countries  and  erasing  others,  while
geography  has  rewritten  history  when  border  and
regional  disputes  have  erupted,  new  wars  have  been
fought and new lines drawn on the face of Earth. This
is 
that  history  draws
geography and geography writes history.
the  premise 
testimony 
to 
Throughout  all  those  changes  and  fluctuations,
only  the  pursuit  of  peace,  independence,  stability  and
development  has  remained  the  ultimate  goal  of  all
people.  Fate  has  been  merciful  to  some  peoples  who
have  managed  to  achieve  peace  and  stability,  while
other peoples still strive to do so and are forced to live
under  the  tyranny  of  ruthless  foreign  occupation  and
wars,  at  a  far  remove  from  the  culture  of  peace  and
tranquillity.
One  case  in  point  is  that  of  the  people  of
Palestine,  who  have  suffered  —  and  I  do  not  say
lived —  for  more  than  a  half  century  under  a  brutal
occupation that violates their basic human rights in an
unprecedented  policy  of  discrimination,  displacement
and starvation. The suffering of the people of Palestine
remains  a  shameful  insult  in  the  civilized  world  in
which we live today.
oppression, 
No community can claim to be an isolated island
of  democracy  in  the  dark  seas  of  dictatorship  while
practising 
targeted
assassinations  against  unarmed  civilians  who  have
committed  no  crime  other 
their
inherent rights to self-determination, the establishment
of  their  independent  State  and  a  life  in  peace  among
other nations.
than  cherishing 
torture 
and 
As  long  as  the  Israeli  occupation  continues  in
Palestine  and  as  long  as  the  Israeli  Government
remains  committed  to  its  fruitless  policy  of  seeking
security through oppression, combating occupation will
remain  an  essential  legitimate  right  of  the  people  of
Palestine. Neither they nor any other people can accept
living as hostages in their own land, prisoners in their
homes, deprived of their basic rights and subject daily
to 
random  destruction  and
collective punishment.
starvation,  closures, 
8
My  country,  Egypt,  was  the  first  to  extend  the
olive branch and to raise the voice of peace more than
a  quarter  of  a  century  ago  and  we  still  hope  that,  one
day,  the  people  and  the  Government  of  Israel  will  be
able  to  heed  the  voice  of  reason  and  conscience.  We
call  on  all  parties  to  cooperate  faithfully  and  justly,
abandon  the  agonies  and  misgivings  of  the  past  and
look forward to a better future for all. We call upon all
parties to have the courage to work hard to establish an
environment  that  is  safe  for  all  children,  Israeli  and
Palestinian  alike;  an  environment  of  peace  and
reconciliation,  not  of  war  and  hatred;  an  environment
in  which  the  giggles  of  children,  the  chats  of  the
elderly  and  the  sounds  of  construction  —  rather  than
the  sounds  of  war,  destruction,  war  planes  and  guns
and the occupation of cities and the punishment of their
inhabitants  —  would  resound.  That  is  the  invitation
which Egypt extends. Will anyone accept it?
Mr.  Andjaba
(Namibia):  The  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  item  under  discussion  is
entitled  “International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace
and Non-Violence for the Children of the World”. This,
indeed, is a fitting title, for it so ably encapsulates our
common yearning for peace. The children of the world
deserve no less than peace, but if they are to live in a
world  devoid  of  conflict,  insecurity  and  deprivation,
we  must  bequeath  them  a  world  with  a  culture  of
peace.
flaring  and 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  International
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace,  for  we  continue  to
witness  newly 
long-standing
conflicts,  which  claim  human  lives  every  day.  We  see
young  and  fragile  democracies  being  threatened  by
instability  and  we  live  through  hard-won  social  and
economic  gains  being  eroded  on  our  continent  by
armed conflict and its many-sided effects.
some 
In this context, the year 2000 — the International
Year  for  the  Culture  of  Peace  —  witnessed  not  a
consolidation  of  peace,  but  a  deepening  of 
the
economic and social strife of many more people in the
world at large. We cannot measure the enhancement of
world  peace  only  by  how  many  armed  conflicts  we
resolve; rather, we should do so in terms of how many
more  children  live  on  more  than  $1  a  day.  Only  then
will the culture of peace permeate human life.
In  our  view,  the  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace
should thus reflect a collective commitment by all of us
earnestly  to  uphold  the  values  of  freedom,  solidarity
and,  last  but  not  least,  tolerance.  We  should  thus
succeed  in  establishing  just  and  lasting  peace  all  over
the world. The eight areas of the Programme of Action
for the Decade and their interconnections are important
in  that  regard.  Those  areas  make  the  critical  link
between  peace  and  development  and  should  be  at  the
centre of implementation.
We are considering this item a few days after the
Secretary-General  and 
the  United  Nations  were
awarded  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  That  recognition
should serve as a challenge to us all to fully implement
the Programme of Action for the Decade for a Culture
of  Peace.  The  millions  of  signatures  collected
worldwide  are  an  indication  that  peace  is  a  common
aspiration.  The  slogan  “Peace  is  in  our  hands”  is  a
truism, for it is up to us all whether peace will reign or
lack  of  security  will  prevail.  Only  the  international
community,  acting  collectively,  can  make  world  peace
a reality.
The  Secretary-General’s  report  describes 
the
activities  undertaken  during  the  International  Year  for
the  Culture  of  Peace;  those  activities  were  inclusive,
and  we  note  the  involvement  of  youth.  Namibia  is
among  the  countries  in  which  case  studies  on  peace-
building  techniques  were  undertaken.  In  addition,  the
Secretary-General, in his report, proposes a strategy to
be followed during the implementation of the purposes
of 
the
proposed strategy. In our view, the United Nations Year
of Dialogue among Civilizations offered a broad theme
which,  inter  alia,  set  the  basis  and  the  context  for  the
annual 
themes:  sustainable  economic  and  social
development; planning  of  information  and  knowledge;
respect for human rights; and gender equality.
the  Decade.  My  delegation  concurs  with 
agree 
about 
Furthermore,  while  we 
the
participation  of  youth  as  proposed  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  it  is  Namibia’s  view  that  one  of  the
remaining  five  years  of  the  Decade  for  a  Culture  of
Peace  could  focus  on  youth.  We  strongly  believe  that
the  understanding  and  constant  participation  and
involvement  of  youth  in  the  Decade’s  activities  are
indispensable  to  its  successful  realization.  After  all,
they  are  the  youth  of  today,  but  the  leaders  of
tomorrow,  who  must  carry  forward  the  culture  of
peace.
Namibia expresses its thanks and appreciation to
the United Nations Educational, Cultural and Scientific
Organization  (UNESCO),  the  lead  agency  for  the
A/56/PV.29
Decade, for fostering a culture of peace in all its fields
of  competence.  Let  me  emphasize  that  UNESCO  will
need financial support from Member States to carry out
its important tasks. In that context, it is Namibia’s hope
that all other agencies will work with UNESCO. Here,
the role played by the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF) 
is
commendable.  We  also  support  the  work  of  the
University  for  Peace  and  call  for  more  financial
support for its activities. The contribution and support
of all United Nations agencies are indispensable for the
success of the Decade.
the  area  of  peace  education 
in 
Mr.  Angara
(Philippines):  The  Philippine
delegation  is  happy  to  be  participating  in  this  plenary
meeting on a culture of peace, particularly since we are
celebrating  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World.
The  Philippine  delegation  is  pleased  also  to
extend  a  word  of  congratulations  to  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and to the United Nations on
having been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
This is the first time I have returned to New York
since  11  September.  New  York  has  always  fascinated
me.  It  has  now  become  the  city  I  most  admire.  While
the terrorist attacks were devastating to New York, they
also dramatized its noble character and the indomitable
spirit  of  its  people.  I  find  it  fitting  that  the  General
Assembly  is  assembled  today  to  speak  on  a  culture  of
peace,  nearly  six  weeks  after  the  attacks  and  while
bombs  are  falling  in  Afghanistan.  These  past  few
weeks have shown us how vital peace can be and what
we must do to preserve it.
The  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace
and  Non-Violence  for  the  Children  of  the  World
reminds  us  that  we  are  fighting  for  peace  mainly  for
our  children’s  sake.  In  every  conflict,  children  are
always the first, the most innocent, victims. And that is
as true of wars fought with guns and arms as it is of the
war on global poverty.
In  the  Philippines,  many  of  our  children  have
never known peace. Our children wage war each day. It
is  a  silent  war  they  wage:  the  war  on  hunger  and
malnutrition.  And  it  is  a  war  our  children  are  losing.
For us in the Philippines, malnutrition continues to be a
serious  problem,  along  with  iron-deficiency  anaemia,
iodine  deficiency  and  vitamin-A  deficiency.  Nearly
half  of  all  Filipino  children  are  malnourished.  One  in
three  are  moderately  to  severely  underweight.  The
9
A/56/PV.29
silent  hunger  afflicting  those  children  affects  their
mental  development.  It  also  results  in  an  alarmingly
high school dropout rate. In my country, nearly four out
of 10 students who enrol in first grade do not reach the
sixth grade. Each year, seven out of 100 children drop
out.
Our children roam the streets day and night, rain
or  shine,  homeless.  They  rap  on  car  windows  and  lie
prostrate  on  sidewalks,  begging.  In  the  daytime,  we
find  them  in  mountains  of  garbage,  scavenging  for
food. At night, we see them selling just about anything
on the streets, including their bodies.
If children are the first victims of war, then their
innocence is the first casualty. In our villages and small
towns,  poor  children  are  just  as  miserable.  They  carry
sacks  of  rice  twice  their  weight.  They  fetch  water  for
their families from great distances. Some of them work
more  than  12  long  hours  each  day,  sometimes  abused,
always underpaid.
Child  malnutrition  reflects  my  country’s  high
levels of poverty and underdevelopment. Forty per cent
of  all  Filipinos  live  below  the  poverty  line.  A  total  of
28  million  Filipinos  —  more  than  one  in  three  of  the
nation’s  population  —  live  on  less  than  60  United
States cents a day.
and 
poverty,  malnutrition 
In  my  country,  there  is  a  strong  correlation
economic
between 
underdevelopment,  on  the  one  hand,  and  peace  and
order, on the other. Through the prism of decades-long
communist 
secessionist
movements,  we  Filipinos  have  learned  that  true  peace
can be attained only through economic well-being and
security.
insurgency 
and  Muslim 
It comes as no surprise, then, that the areas with
the highest levels of poverty and malnutrition are also
hotbeds  of  conflict  and  breeding  grounds  of  unrest  in
my country. Provinces in the southern Philippines have
prevalence  rates  of  malnutrition  and  poverty  higher
than  the  already  high  national  average.  In  the  Muslim
autonomous  region  of  Mindanao,  65  percent  of  the
people  are  poor.  In  central  Mindanao,  almost  60
percent are poor. These are the hotbeds of my country’s
insurgents and terrorist groups.
The children do not know peace because they live
in the midst of hostility. Peace is alien to them because
they are waging a parallel war against malnutrition and
poverty, and they are losing that war. The simple truth
10
is  that  the  transition  to  a  culture  of  peace  and  non-
violence  requires  sustainable  economic  and  social
development.  This  is  one  of  the  core  foundations  to
promote a culture of peace for our children. Economic
underdevelopment  —  and  this  includes  malnutrition
and poverty — remains the missing link towards peace.
The  United  Nations  must  address  the  alarming
rates  of  poverty  affecting  our  children 
the
developing world if it wants to attain a culture of peace
for them. It must forcefully articulate the need to bring
about  economic  development  —  and  proper  nutrition
for  our  children  —  as  an  essential  element  towards
peace-building. We know that peace-building begins at
home, in our own respective countries. We must remain
committed to peace through economic development.
in 
though  difficult 
To  the  Philippines,  the  steps  we  should  take  are
clear, 
to  accomplish.  We  must
modernize  our  agricultural  sector,  on  which  our
economy 
is  dependent.  We  must  make  quality
education  both  accessible  and  affordable.  We  must
stimulate  economic  growth  through  job  creation  and
investment  generation.  And  we  must  increase  the
package  of  social  benefits  for  disadvantaged  groups.
By  taking  these  measures,  we  acknowledge  that  the
only  true  peace  that  could  ever  be  attained  is  one
founded on economic development and growth.
To conclude, our children have been held hostage
by poverty for far too long. We must do right by them.
We  must  free  them  from  this  bondage.  May  all  our
children know peace in their time.
Mr.  Rivas  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
would like to begin by extending special thanks to the
Secretary-General  for  drawing  up  and  presenting
document  A/56/349,  which  contains  an  extensive
report  on  the  culture  of  peace.  Colombia  supports  the
draft resolution submitted on this issue.
The unanimous decision of the General Assembly
to proclaim 2000 the International Year for the Culture
of  Peace,  and  its  proclamation  of  this  decade  the
International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-
Violence  for  the  Children  of  the  World,  signalled  the
course  that  the  beginning  of  this  new  millennium
should take, in which the culture of peace and rejection
of  violence  makes  inroads  into  war  and  intolerance.
More  than  ever  in  the  history  of  humanity  —  which
today 
innumerable  armed  conflicts,
terrorism,  the  illicit  traffic  in  drugs  and  arms,  the
increasing  displacement  of  populations,  poverty  and
is  beset  by 
violence  against  children  and  women  —  the  world
needs  a  culture  of  peace  sustained  by  the  values  and
principles of freedom, justice, order and democracy.
We  must  therefore  have  a  culture  that  makes  it
possible  always  to  have  recourse  to  dialogue  and
peaceful negotiations to resolve conflicts; a culture that
permits us to learn to live together; and a culture based
on  respect  for  life  and  the  promotion  and  practice  of
non-violence 
through  dialogue,  cooperation  and
education. There is no doubt that progress towards the
full  flowering  of  a  culture  of  peace  can  be  achieved
only through values, attitudes, behaviour and lifestyles
conducive to the promotion of peace among people and
nations. By its ability to inculcate principles and values
in the minds of men and women of all races, education
constitutes  a  fundamental  pillar  for  the  building  of  a
culture  of  peace  on  the  basis  of  justice,  democracy,
equity, equality, solidarity and freedom.
the 
initiative,  and  with 
Permit  me  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  the  first
General Conference of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO),  held
in  1946,  stated 
that  education  constitutes  a  key
instrument for building lasting peace. It was through a
Colombian 
support  of
UNESCO,  that  in  October  1999  the  Organization  of
American  States  held  a  meeting  of  governmental
experts to draw up a programme on education for peace
in the western hemisphere, which recognized education
as one of the fundamental pillars for promoting peace,
preventing conflict, reducing violence and allowing for
the  development  and  well-being  of  our  peoples.  The
implementation  of  this  programme  entailed  beginning
to  inculcate  the  people  of  our  countries  with  values,
knowledge, beliefs, attitudes and behaviour that would
strengthen a political culture of peace and democracy.
the 
inclusion  of 
teachers  and 
In  order  to  achieve  the  objective  of  creating  a
solid and lasting culture of peace, we have to promote
an active campaign of education and shaping values —
a  campaign  that  entails  working  out  programmes  for
training 
themes
concerning  peace,  human  rights,  non-violence  and
values  like  democracy,  civic  education  and  tolerance,
among  others,  in  the  curricula  of  all  centres  of
elementary  and  higher  education.  Teachers,  parents,
politicians,  journalists,  religious  groups,  those  who
carry out scientific, philosophical, creative and artistic
activities, leading humanitarian and social workers, and
non-governmental organizations also play a key role in
this campaign of education for peace and promoting a
A/56/PV.29
culture of peace. All are called upon to do this work of
education for building a world where peace reigns.
To  create  a  culture  of  peace,  a  priority  task  that
this  Organization  must  undertake,  we  must  eliminate
all  forms  of  discrimination  and  intolerance;  promote
the  development  of  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms; strengthen democratic institutions; guarantee
full participation in the development process; eradicate
poverty  and  illiteracy;  reduce  inequality  among  and
within  nations;  promote  sustainable  economic  and
social  development;  respect,  promote  and  protect  the
rights  of  children;  eliminate  all  forms  of  racism;
promote  tolerance  and  solidarity  among  civilizations,
peoples and cultures; and promote total respect for the
right of all peoples to self-determination.
Colombia  welcomed  the  world  mobilization  of
UNESCO during the International Year for the Culture
of  Peace.  The  campaign  “Let  us  cultivate  peace”
yielded  innumerable  benefits,  as  did  the  cooperation
given  to  it  by  the  networks  of  institutions  associated
with  UNESCO,  organizations  within 
the  United
Nations family and other organizations.
Let this be the occasion to highlight the numerous
educational and social activities of my country to make
effective  the  mandate  for  peace  contained  in  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  particularly  to
create  a  true  understanding  among  Colombians  of  the
subject. Let us mobilize all citizens in order to achieve
a  mandate  to  put  an  end  to  violence  by  opting  for
peace.
Indeed,  three  years  ago,  10  million  citizens  gave
the  President  of  the  Republic  a  clear  and  precise
mandate to seek peace through a political resolution of
the internal conflict. In compliance with that mandate,
the Government of Colombia has committed itself to a
policy  of  sustained  peace,  convinced  that  a  negotiated
solution 
is  an  essential
prerequisite  to  establishing  a  solid  foundation  for
peace.
internal  conflict 
the 
to 
Similarly,  in  conjunction  with  the  University  for
Peace, my country’s Government has actively joined in
the  efforts  to  establish  a  global  training  and  research
centre  dedicated  to  the  solution  of  conflicts.  The
objective  of  the  centre  is  to  provide  a  forum  for  an
exchange  of  experiences  in  order  to  develop  new
initiatives  in  conflict  resolution  and  the  consolidation
of  peace,  as  well  as 
to  facilitate  a  continuous
interchange between the Governments and civil society
11
A/56/PV.29
of  other  countries  suffering  from  prolonged  violent
conflicts.
In  addition,  as  part  of  the  celebration  of  the
International  Year  for  the  Culture  of  Peace,  over  12
million  Colombians  signed  Manifesto  2000,  thereby
committing themselves to putting into practice in their
daily lives the principles of a culture of peace and non-
violence.  Moreover,  a  State  policy  has  been  drawn  up
through the “Make Peace” programme, which is headed
by the First Lady of Colombia. That policy is aimed at
rebuilding 
and
communities in order to prevent domestic violence and
to identify and treat its victims, and thus conforms with
the idea that peace begins in the home.
fabric  of 
families 
social 
the 
Our dream continues to be the end of violence in
Colombia. We want the voices of children to be heard
in  the  peace  process;  and  that  their  suffering  and
courage, along with that of all others who suffer from
the  effects  of  war,  contribute  to  the  building  of  a
country in which the culture of peace reigns supreme.
them 
that  will  help 
The essential task of the Organization to promote
a culture of peace in all spheres is more pertinent than
ever  today.  The  culture  of  peace  provides  future
generations  with  values 
to
determine their destiny and build a more just, humane,
free and prosperous society and a more peaceful world.
to  affirm  my  country’s
unequivocal commitment to peace. We reiterate the fact
that  peace  means  establishing  the  foundation  for  a
society  in  which  social  justice,  equality,  participation
and  democracy  prevail  —  a  society  in  which  the
institution of the family is restored and where the rights
and freedoms of citizens are observed.
In  closing,  I  wish 
In  order  to  consolidate  peace,  therefore,  it  is
necessary  to  incorporate  peace  into  our  own  realities
and  into  our  behaviour  as  human  beings.  As  stated  in
the UNESCO Constitution,
Scientific 
“since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the
minds of men that the defenses of peace must be
constructed.” (Constitution of the United Nations
Educational, 
Cultural
Organization, preamble)
Mr.  Kim  Chang  Guk  (Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea):  The  supreme  ideal  of  humankind
is  to  build  a  free  and  peaceful  world  in  which  people
can  live  an  independent  and  cultured  life.  Humankind
has  made  continuous  efforts  to  build  such  a  humane
and 
12
world,  but  the  world  humankind  hopes  to  see  still
remains  a  dream.  International  society  continues  to
witness manifestations of domination — which trample
underfoot the ideas and cultures of other countries and
violate 
the
ultranationalism  that  belittles,  and  even  antagonizes,
other  nations.  The  objective  of  the  culture  of  peace  is
to  create  a  culture  of  peaceful  coexistence  without
recourse  to  violence  between  or  among  States,  social
groups or individuals.
sovereignty  — 
as  well 
their 
as 
Man  is  the  master  of  everything  and  decides
everything.  All  cultures,  civilizations  and  material
wealth  have  been  created,  and  continue  to  be  created,
by man. What is important here is the kind of idea and
consciousness  man  possesses.  If  a  man  has  a  peace-
loving idea and a fair mind, he will strive and fight for
peace  and  justice;  whereas  if  he  has  a  mentality  of
hating  and  rejecting  others,  he  is  bound  to  resort  to
unjust  acts  and,  even,  violence.  In  this  regard,  my
delegation  would  like  to  underline  the  importance  of
education in fostering the idea of a culture of peace.
The  importance  of  education  in  promoting  the
culture  of  peace  is  well  illustrated  in  the  Constitution
of  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO), which states that
and 
Scientific 
“since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the
minds of men that the defences of peace must be
constructed”. (Constitution of the United Nations
Educational, 
Cultural
Organization, preamble)
Proper  education  guides  men  to  establish  correct
views  of  the  world  and  to  give  full  play  to  their
independent  ideas  and  creativity,  thus  contributing  to
the building of peace in the countries and regions of the
world. In this regard, my delegation would like to draw
the  Assembly’s  attention  to  an  emerging  attempt  to
inject  ideas  based  on  animosity  into  the  education  to
children,  which 
ideals  of
humankind.
is  against 
the  noble 
As  is  already  known,  the  Japanese  Government
last  May  approved  new  history  textbooks  for  middle
school  children.  These  history 
textbooks  can  be
characterized  as  distorting  and  negating  the  history  of
several  hundreds  of  years  of  Japan’s  aggression  and
exploitation  by  beautifying  and  embellishing  it  as  a
history of cooperation and assistance.
The textbooks have developed a theory of a threat
emanating  from  Korea.  That  theory  holds  that  the
Korean  peninsula  would  become  the  primary  base  for
an  attack  on  Japan  once  it  fell  under  domination  of  a
country  hostile  to  Japan  and  Japan  would  then  find  it
difficult 
therefore
conquer Korea in order to be comfortable.
itself.  Japan  should 
to  defend 
With  regard  to  Japan’s  imperialistic  rule  over
Korea, the textbooks state that the
“Japanese  government  thought  it  necessary  for
the safety of Japan to annex Korea”
and that
“after  the  annexation  of  Korea,  Japan  conducted
such  development  projects  as  setting  in  place
railways  and  irrigation  facilities  in  colonized
Korea”.
The textbooks thus distort the history of aggression and
exploitation as if it were a “history of development and
assistance”.
They  falsified  the  Pacific  war  as  if  it  were  a
“Great East Asian War” for achieving the “Greater East
Asia  Co-prosperity  Sphere”,  stating  that  its  objective
was for
“economic  development  and  abolition  of  racial
discrimination  through  cooperation  among  Asian
countries”.
textbooks  also 
The 
into  white  by
mentioning that the defeat of the Allied forces by Japan
in the early stages of the war gave
turned  black 
“courage  to  the  Asian  people,  who  had  been
under the colonial domination of Europe and the
United States for a long time”
and that
that  accelerated 
“the  southward  advance  of  the  Japanese  army
served  as  an  occasion 
the
independence of the Asian countries”.
The textbooks also described the Japanese people
as  having  experienced  the  same  pain  as  had  been
suffered  by  the  6  million  Koreans  forcibly  drafted  as
slaves  by  the  Japanese  army.  As  for  the  Japanese
attempt to eliminate the Korean nation by depriving the
Korean  people  of  their  language  and  names,  the
textbooks watered down the truth by simply stating that
Japan
A/56/PV.29
“demanded  that  the  Korean  people  give  their
names in Japanese”.
Worse  still,  they  covered  up  the  fact  of  having  forced
200,000  Korean  women  to  become  sex  slaves  and
referred to them as “comfort women”.
The  Japanese  authorities  continue  to  defy  the
demand for full recognition of, and official apology for,
their grave crimes against humanity, for punishment of
the criminals and for due compensation to the countries
and peoples that fell victim.
found 
in  history 
The  distortions 
textbooks
represent  an  extension  of  Japan’s  attempt  to  avoid
making  amends  for  past  crimes  and 
is  a  clear
expression of its desire to revive militarism.
Japanese  ultra-rightists  are  trying  to  introduce
into  schools  history  textbooks  whose  objective  is  to
instil ultra-nationalism and national nihilism in the new
generations,  in  order  to  realize  their  old  dream  of  an
aggressive  “Greater  East  Asia  co-prosperity  sphere”
and  to  cover  up  forever  the  massive  crimes  against
humanity committed by Japan in the past.
If  Japanese  children  are  imbued  with  the  idea  of
militarism  through  such  distorted  education,  they  will
once  again  come  to  disregard  other  nations,  resort  to
aggressive  actions  and  thereby  undermine  peace  and
security, inflicting tragic sufferings on humankind.
As  long  as  the  Japanese  authorities  do  not  make
amends,  through  practical  steps,  for  the  inhumane
crimes 
they  have  committed  against  other  Asian
peoples  in  the  past,  Japan  will  remain  the  greatest
source of instability in the Asia and Pacific region.
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea
desires  and  values  peace  more  highly  than  any  other
people, given its past and present experiences.
The  Korean  nation  suffered 
from  Japanese
occupation  and  exploitation  for  41  years,  followed  by
the pain of the artificial division of the country by the
United States, a division that endures to this day.
My  delegation  reaffirms  that  the  Democratic
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  address  with  great
resolve  any  and  all  challenges  to  peace  in  this  new
century and will fight for lasting peace on the Korean
peninsula and in the rest of the world.
13
A/56/PV.29
The  Acting  President: In  accordance  with  the
decision taken earlier, I now call on the observer of the
Holy See.
that 
today 
the  General  Assembly 
Archbiship  Martino  (Holy  See):  It  is  indeed
appropriate 
is
addressing  the  topic  of  a  culture  of  peace.  The
imperfect peace in which our world had been dwelling
has  suddenly  been  shattered  by  violent  and  senseless
attacks  against  innocent  human  beings.  An  initial
reaction  may  come  in  the  form  of  words  of  war,  and
not  in  the  language  of  peace,  understanding  and
reconciliation.  Yet  institutions  such  as  the  United
Nations are entrusted with very serious responsibilities.
Indeed,  according  to  Article  1,  paragraph  1,  of  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  one  of  the  purposes  of
the Organization is
“To maintain international peace and security, and
to  that  end:  to  take  effective  collective  measures
for  the  prevention  and  removal  of  threats  to  the
peace.”
Peace begins within the heart. It is not simply the
absence  of  war,  nor  is  it  sought  only  to  avoid
widespread  conflict.  Rather,  it  helps  to  direct  our
reasoning and thus our actions towards the good of all.
It  becomes  a  philosophy  of  action  that  makes  us  all
responsible  for  the  common  good  and  obliges  us  to
dedicate  all  our  efforts  to  its  cause.  If,  for  these
reasons, we are convinced that peace in itself is a good
thing, we must build a culture of peace.
Peace  is  first  known  and  recognized  in,  and
willed  and  loved  from,  the  heart.  Then,  in  order  for  a
culture of peace to be established, it must be expressed
and  impressed  on  humanity,  on  its  philosophy,  its
sociology, its politics and its traditions.
There  are  a  number  of  definitions  for  the  word
“culture” which my delegation believes provide us with
a good starting point for our discussion today. The first
speaks of culture as “the art or practice of cultivating”,
while another defines it as
“the  total  pattern  of  human  behaviour  and  its
products embodied in thought, speech, action and
artifacts,  and  dependent  upon  man’s  capacity  for
learning 
to
succeeding  generations  through  the  use  of  tools,
language and systems of abstract thought”.
Together,  both  of 
these  definitions  seem 
to
provide  a  foundation  for  a  clearer  understanding  of
knowledge 
and 
transmitting 
14
culture,  and,  when  placed  into  the  context  of  today’s
discussion, a culture of peace might be seen as
“that  pattern  of  human  behaviour  which  must  be
cultivated and transmitted to future generations”.
Once we have come to an understanding of what
a culture of peace is, we can begin to reflect upon ways
in which to communicate that understanding and help it
take root in the hearts and minds of humanity.
The establishment of a culture of peace and non-
violence  will  necessitate  a  new  language  and  new
gestures towards peace. In this search, we will not only
educate  a  new  generation;  we  will  also  educate
ourselves  about  peace  and  awaken  in  ourselves  firm
convictions and a new capacity for taking initiatives in
the service of the great cause of peace.
Education  for  peace  and  a  better  understanding
and  realization  of  peace  can  benefit  from  renewed
interest in the everyday examples of simple builders of
peace  at  all  levels  —  those  unsung  heroes  who  we
know  exist  all  over  the  world.  Our  eyes  and  those  of
the  next  generation  must  be  focused  on  a  vision  of
peace  which  will  nurture  the  aspiration  for  peace  and
non-violence, which is an essential part of every human
being.
All of this, of course, is the work that the United
Nations  and  the  peoples  of  the  world  have  been
engaged  in  for  many  years.  This  ongoing  process,
however,  is  hampered  by  many  obstacles,  which
continue  to  hinder  progress  towards  a  true  and  lasting
peace for all peoples.
Situations  of  conflict  exist  in  today’s  world  in
which  a  just  solution  may  have  been  refused  at  some
time  by  both  parties  involved.  This  fosters  feelings  of
frustration and hatred as well as the desire for revenge,
to which all must remain attentive. Those who honour
God  must  be  in  the  front  lines  of  those  who  fight
against all forms of terrorism. As stated by Pope John
Paul II when he met with religious leaders on 23 March
2000 in Jerusalem, at an inter-religious meeting at the
Notre Dame Pontifical Institute,
“If 
is  authentic,  devotion 
involves  attention 
to  God
it 
to  our  fellow
necessarily 
human  beings.  As  members  of  the  one  human
family  and  as  God’s  beloved  children,  we  have
duties  towards  one  another  which,  as  believers,
we cannot ignore.”
His  Holiness  touched  upon  that  same  idea  last
the
in  his  message  for 
January,  when  he  said, 
celebration of the World Day of Peace:
“We all know how hard it is to settle differences
between parties when ancient hatreds and serious
problems which admit of no easy solution create
an atmosphere of anger and exasperation. But no
less  dangerous  for  the  future  of  peace  would  be
the inability to confront intelligently the problems
posed  by  a  new  social  configuration  resulting  in
many  countries  from  accelerated  migration  and
the unprecedented situation of people of different
cultures and civilizations living side by side.”
Acts  of  revenge  will  not  cure  such  hatred.
Reprisals,  which 
the
innocent,  continue  the  spiral  of  violence  and  are
illusionary solutions that prevent the moral isolation of
terrorists.  We  must,  rather,  remove  the  most  obvious
elements  that  spawn  the  conditions  for  hatred  and
violence  and  that  are  contrary  to  any  movement
towards  peace.  Poverty,  along  with  other  situations  of
marginalization that engulf the lives of so many of the
world’s people, including the denial of human dignity,
lack  of  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental
social 
freedoms, 
refugee
situations, 
internal  and  external  displacement  and
physical  or  psychological  oppression,  are  breeding
grounds only waiting to be exploited by terrorists.
indiscriminately  at 
strike 
exclusion, 
intolerable 
Any  serious  campaign  against  terrorism  also
needs  to  address  the  social,  economic  and  political
conditions  that  nurture  the  emergence  of  terrorism,
violence and conflict.
In  the midst  of  this  current  tragedy  and  threat  to
the  culture  of  peace,  forms  of  systematic  terrorism
should  not  be  forgotten.  In  some  cases  it  is  almost
institutionalized,  possibly  based  on  systems  which
utterly  destroy  the  freedom  and  rights  of  individuals
“guilty” of not bringing their thought into line with the
triumphant  ideology.  Today  such  people  are  unable  to
attract the attention and support of international public
opinion, and they must not be forgotten or abandoned.
In this light, the world must recognize that there
is hope. Building a culture of peace is not preposterous;
nor  is  it  a  utopian  dream.  It  is,  rather,  an  attainable
reality, which, even though just beyond our realization,
is still a worthy and reachable goal.
A/56/PV.29
Pope John Paul II has always used the idea of this
search  for  peace  as  a  major  theme.  His  exhortations
have been repeated especially often during the past two
years, as part of the celebration of the Great Jubilee of
2000.  In  a  homily  during  his  visit  to  Jordan,  His
Holiness  called  upon  all  mothers  to  be  builders  of  a
new civilization of love. He said to them,
“Love your families. Teach them the dignity of all
life; teach them the ways of harmony and peace.”
More  recently,  His  Holiness  told  the  young
people of Kazakhstan:
“Know that you are called to be the builders of a
better  world.  Be  peacemakers,  because  a  society
solidly based on peace is a society with a future.”
Finally,  I  would  like  to  conclude  with  words  of
Pope John Paul II, spoken almost 20 years ago, which
seem so appropriate for our discussion today:
“I  present  to  you  this  message  on  the  theme,
Dialogue  for  peace,  a  challenge  for  our  time.  I
am addressing it to all those who are, on the one
hand,  people  responsible  for  peace:  those  who
preside over the destiny of peoples, international
officials,  politicians,  diplomats.  But  I  am  also
addressing the citizens of each country. All are in
fact  called  by  the  need  to  prepare  true  peace,  to
maintain it or to re-establish it, on solid and just
foundations.  Now  I  am  deeply  convinced  that
dialogue  —  true  dialogue  —  is  an  essential
condition  for  such  peace.  Yes,  this  dialogue  is
necessary,  not  only  opportune.  It  is  difficult,  but
it is possible, in spite of the obstacles that realism
obliges  us  to  consider.  It  therefore  represents  a
true challenge, which I invite you to take up. And
I  do  this  without  any  other  purpose  than  that  of
contributing,  myself  and  the  Holy  See,  to  peace,
by  taking  very  much  to  heart  the  destiny  of
humanity, as the heir of the message of Christ and
as  the  first  one  responsible  for  that  message,
which  is  above  all  a  message  of  peace  for  all
men.”
The Acting President: I shall now call on those
representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the
right of reply.
May  I  remind  members 
in
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the
that  statements 
15
A/56/PV.29
second 
intervention,  and 
delegations from their seats.
should  be  made  by
to 
inject 
Mr. Jacob (Israel): It is most unfortunate that the
debate  on  the  culture  of  peace  has  been  used  by  the
representative  of  Egypt 
the  rhetoric  of
violence  and  blind  anti-Israeli  hatred  into  this  Hall.  It
is  unfortunate,  in  particular,  because  Egypt  knows
better.  Egypt  knows  full  well  Israel’s  commitment  to
peace  and  its  far-reaching  compromises,  which  are
responded to by violence and terror. Egypt knows, too,
the  price  paid  in  Israeli  life  as  a  result  of  a  ruthless
terrorist  campaign,  which  the  representative  of  Egypt
conveniently avoided referring to in his statement.
Indeed,  the  culture  of  peace  in  our  region  would
be greatly advanced if Egypt abandoned its tendency to
apportion  blame  and  engage  in  false  accusations,  and
concentrated  more  on 
its  own  conduct  and  on
encouraging  democratization  and  respect  for  mutual
rights  and  compromise  in  its  society  and  among
neighbouring peoples and Governments.
Egypt’s  peace  with  Israel  was  indeed  a  historic
and  important  step  for  the  region  as  a  whole.  But  a
formal  peace  treaty  is  only  one  part  of  the  equation.
The  culture  of  peace,  as 
the
representative  of  Egypt  knows,  involves  much  more
than that.
I  would  hope 
Mr.  Roshdy  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank
the Israeli representative for his concern for democracy
in  Egyptian  society,  but  what  takes  place  in  Egyptian
society is an internal matter and is not the business of
any  delegation  just  as  what  takes  place  in  Israeli
society is an internal matter. What concerns us here are
the  violent  Israeli  policies  against  the  Palestinians.
That is not an internal matter.
The Israeli representative speaks about the causes
of hatred propagated by Egypt against Israel. But Egypt
does not need to promote such calls. Israeli policies are
self-evident 
to
delegations to judge if these policies will lead to peace.
The  Israeli  people  will  be  the  first  to  benefit  from
peace.
that  regard,  and  we 
leave 
in 
it 
Mr.  Jacob  (Israel):  The  Egyptian  representative
referred to Israel as a democratic State. Israel is indeed
a  democracy, 
and  undemocratic
neighbourhood.  It  continues  to  uphold  democratic
standards in the face of relentless violent assault on its
very  existence.  Rather 
the
than  attacking  Israel, 
a  hostile 
in 
16
Egyptian  representative  would  be  well  served  by
examining  his  own  country’s  human  rights  record  and
its  contribution  to  fostering  a  culture  of  peace.  The
official  Egyptian  press  spews  the  vilest  forms  of  anti-
Semitic  lies  and  anti-Jewish  stereotypes.  Such  anti-
Semitic  and  anti-western  propaganda  underscores  a
culture  of  hatred,  not  of  peace.  Peace  is  as  much  a
psychological  and  emotional  affair  as  a  political  one.
As a nation that first recognized that Israel, too, has the
right  to  live  in  peace,  Egypt  should  also  lead  the  way
towards reconciling the hearts and minds of its people
and  the  peoples  of  the  region  to  peace  with  Israel,
rather than stoking the flames of hatred.
Mr.  Roshdy  (Egypt):  I  am  sorry  to  prolong  a
discussion that seems fruitless.
Peace is not an expression of meaningless words,
treaties  to  be  signed  and  retracted  the  following  day,
ceremonial  pictures  to  be  taken  or  toasts  to  be
exchanged.  Rather,  peace  is  the  interpretation  and  the
implementation  of  honest  goodwill,  costly  sacrifices
courageously  exchanged  and  serious  commitment  to
striving  for  enduring  peace.  Peace  begins  deep  in  our
hearts.  If  our  hearts  and  intentions  are  in  the  right
place,  our  deeds  will  be  in  the  right  direction  and  our
actions will be honest and true.
The difference between peace and settlement is as
obvious  as 
the  difference  between  remedies  and
tranquillizers. We cannot promote the culture of peace
before  the  establishment  of  peace  itself.  How  can  we
establish peace if not all partners believe genuinely in
peace and the need for peace?
I  will  conclude  with  a  statement  that  I  am  sure
will come as news to the Israeli representative: Israeli
blood  is  not  more  precious  or  purer  than  Palestinian
blood.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform
members that, at the request of the sponsors, action on
draft  resolution  A/56/L.5  will  be  taken  at  a  later  date,
to be announced.
Programme of work
The Acting President: I should like to announce
some changes to the programme of work of the General
Assembly.
First,  I  should  like  to  inform  the  members  that
consideration  of  agenda  item  23,  entitled  “Building  a
A/56/PV.29
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the
Olympic  ideal”,  originally  scheduled  for  Thursday
afternoon,  25  October  2001,  is  postponed  to  Friday,  2
November 2001, in the morning.
I should also like to inform members of a matter
concerning  agenda  item  15  (b),  on  the  election  of
members  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
scheduled to take place on Friday, 26 October 2001.
In connection with this sub-item, I should like to
draw  the  attention  of  members  to  a  latter  dated  11
October  2001  from  the  Permanent  Representative  of
Portugal  addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General
Assembly.  The  letter  has  been  circulated  as  document
A/56/467.
In  his  letter,  the  Permanent  Representative  of
Portugal  announces  that  Portugal  will  relinquish  its
seat  on  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  the  year
2002,  in  favour  of  Spain.  Consequently,  it  will  be
necessary for the Assembly to conduct a by-election to
fill that one vacancy, in accordance with rule 140 of its
rules of procedure.
In  this  regard,  I  should  like  to  inform  members
that on Friday, 26 October, the General Assembly will
first conduct a by-election to fill this one vacancy, and
then  proceed  to  the  election  of  18  members  of  the
Economic and Social Council.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
17
