United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
22nd plenary meeting
Friday, 5 October 2001, 3 p.m.
New York

A/56/PV.22
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 166 (continued)
Measures to eliminate international terrorism
join  previous  speakers 
Report of the Secretary-General (A/56/160 and
Corr.1 and Add.1)
Mr.  Gounaris  (Greece):  I  would  like  to  align
myself  with  the  statement  of  the  Presidency  of  the
European  Union  and 
in
condemning  the  horrendous  terrorist  attacks,  of  an
unprecedented  scale, 
that  shook  New  York  City,
Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania on 11 September.
Our  deepest  sympathy  goes  to  the  families  of  those
who  perished,  are  missing  or  were  wounded  in  the
ground  zero  zone  and  the  Pentagon.  I  would  like  to
express our full solidarity with the Government of the
United  States  and  the  American  people  over  this
tragedy, which challenges all of humanity.
As  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs,  Mr.  George
Papandreou, declared on 11 September,
terrorist  attack  against 
“the  abhorrent 
the
American  people  was,  in  fact,  an  attack  against
free  society,  democracy  and  humanity  as  a
whole.”
The  Greek  people,  with  one  voice,  condemn  the
terrorist  attacks,  which  are  intended  to  create  a  new
scheme of warfare that is universally unacceptable. Our
painful experiences have made us even more sensitive
on  this  issue.  Greece  unequivocally  condemns  the
perpetrators  and  sponsors  of  such  acts  of  barbarism,
and  is  ready  to  offer  the  international  community  all
possible  assistance  required  in  order  to  punish  those
responsible.
The  carefully  planned  and  coordinated  attacks
were  directed  against  the  innocent  civilian  population
and  intended  to  cause  the  maximum  loss  of  life  of
thousands of defenceless working people of the United
States  as  well  as  numerous  other  nationals,  from  all
parts of the world.
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  international
nature  and  the  large  scale  of  the  attack  characterize  it
as  a  crime  against  humanity.  The  loss  of  human  life,
regardless  of  ethnicity  or  race,  demands  immediate,
effective  action  to  bring  those  responsible  to  justice
and  to  avert  any  possibility  of  such  crimes  being
committed  again.  The  United  Nations  should  spare  no
effort 
towards  achieving  our  common  goal  of
preventing  and  suppressing  terrorist  attacks  wherever
they might occur.
The United Nations, bearing prime responsibility
in this fight against terrorism, has acted with speed and
unity. On 12 September both the Security Council and
the  General  Assembly  adopted  strong  resolutions
condemning  the  attacks  and  calling  on  all  States  to
cooperate in bringing the perpetrators to justice. On 28
September  a  second  and  more  detailed  resolution  was
adopted by the Security Council, building on the first.
The  extensive  deliberations  of  the  plenary  of  the
General  Assembly  underline  our  willingness 
to
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-56609 (E)
*0156609*
A/56/PV.22
promote  cooperation  on  this  issue  and  pursue  the
implementation of these resolutions.
Our collective efforts, our global cooperation and
action,  are  now  needed,  more  than  ever,  on  all  levels,
both  nationally  and  internationally.  The  fight  against
terrorism  should  only  bring  the  Member  States  of  the
United Nations closer to our common goals: embracing
our  democratic  values;  cherishing  our  freedoms;  and
strengthening development.
However,  let  me  clarify  that  any  attempt  to
identify  this  fight  with  one  religion  or  equate  it  with
one  region  or  one  race,  or  even  to  single  out  one
country,  defeats  our  purpose  of  ensuring  peace  and
security,  building  more 
safeguarding
multiculturalism and avoiding fragmentation.
tolerance, 
We reaffirm our commitment to join forces in the
global  efforts  to  eliminate  the  horror  of  terrorism.
Greece,  as  a  State  Party  to  all  major  international
antiterrorism conventions, is currently promoting — as
an addition to existing legislation concerning weapons,
ammunition  and  explosives  that  fully  secures  the
criminal  prosecution  and  punishment  of 
those
responsible for terrorist acts — a draft law to deal with
specific  issues  of  organized  crime  and  terrorist  acts.
Moreover, with a series of other laws, the Greek State
ensures  the  moral  and  material  support  of  victims  of
terrorist  acts  and  their  families,  and  recognizes  the
right of the victims to be compensated by the State for
material damage that they have sustained by reason of
a terrorist act.
With our partners in the European Union, we will
take  all  necessary  steps  to  reinforce  our  efforts  and
pursue  collective  European  action  across  all  our
territories, as expressed in the conclusions and plan of
action  of  the  extraordinary  European  Council  meeting
of  21  September  2001. 
specific
legislation,  within  the  framework  of  the  Schengen
Convention,  has  been  adopted  on  the  fight  against
terrorism,  organized  crime  and  drug  smuggling  and
regarding  the  possession,  acquisition,  dealing  and
trafficking  in  general  of  firearms  and  ammunition  by
individuals  or  legal  entities  on  the  territory  of  the
European Union.
In  particular, 
lessen  our  efforts 
However,  our  struggle  to  eradicate  terrorism
should  not 
for  development,
democracy and human rights, especially in those parts
of  the  world  where  they  are  most  needed.  On  the
contrary, our universal efforts should go hand in hand.
2
Our  common  endeavours  should  focus  on  addressing
and  resolving  any  regional  crises,  thus  laying  a  solid
ground  for  good  neighbourly  relations,  peace  and
security.
In  Afghanistan,  at 
this  very  moment,  a
humanitarian crisis is unfolding. Greece has announced
its  humanitarian  contribution,  to  be  disbursed  both
bilaterally and multilaterally.
We  trust  that,  at  the  beginning  of  this  new
century,  the  guidelines  laid  out  by  our  heads  of  State
and Prime Ministers in the Millennium Declaration
“To  take  concerted  action  against  international
terrorism, and to accede as soon as possible to all
the 
conventions”
(resolution 55/2, para. 9)
international 
relevant 
will prevail.
Mr.  Lewis  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Thank  you,
Mr.  President,  for  your  correct  pronunciation  of
Antigua.
Since  this  is  the  first  time  that  I  have  had  the
honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
sixth  session,  permit  me  to  offer  congratulations  to
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  assumption  of  your  high
office.  Your  reputation  of  brilliance,  fairness  and
congeniality  has  preceded  you  to  the  office  that  you
hold.  My  delegation  is  confident  that,  under  your
guidance,  we  will  have  a  successful  and  progressive
fifty-sixth session.
On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  I  wish  to  associate  myself  with
the  statement  made  by  Mr.  Simon  Richards  of
Dominica  on  the  topic  under  discussion,  international
measures against terrorism. My country firmly supports
the points he emphasized, namely, the solidarity of the
Caribbean  Community 
the
international  community;  secondly,  the  nature  of  a
global  response;  and,  thirdly,  CARICOM’s  pledge  to
support 
agreed  measures.  He
emphasized that the United Nations strategy had to be
comprehensive  and  multifaceted,  with  the  overarching
goal of studying and eliminating the causes and sources
of  terrorism,  whether  they  be  social,  economic  or
political.
(CARICOM)  with 
internationally 
My  country 
the  Security
Council resolution of 12 September, which called upon
likewise  endorses 
“States  to  work  together  urgently  to  bring  to
justice the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors”
(Security  Council
(2001),
para. 3)
resolution  1368 
there  are  things  one  has  to  say.  There  are  things  that
can  make  someone  speak  up.  The  events  of  11
September  cannot  but  make  us  do  what  we  have  been
doing in this Hall this week.
A/56/PV.22
of the terrorist acts of 11 September. Likewise, Antigua
and Barbuda
“regards  such  acts,  like  any  act  of  international
terrorism,  as  a  threat  to  international  peace  and
security”. (ibid., para. 1)
It  is  even  more  distressing  to  learn  that  on
1 October  there  was  another  serious  terrorist  attack,
this time in Jammu and Kashmir, where 40 people have
so  far  died  —  among  them  women  and  children  —
while  a  large  number  of  individuals  remain  wounded,
some seriously.
Those  events,  and  particularly 
those  of  11
September,  manifested  the  international  dimensions  of
terrorism.  It  is,  as  stated  by  Mr.  Kamalesh  Sharma  of
India,
“an  organic  whole;  it  would  be  dangerous  to  try
to  cut  one  of  the  cells  out  ...  It  is  an  evil  that
metastasizes.  Terrorism  must  be  destroyed  root
and  branch.  It  is  the  anathema  of  the  new
century.” (A/56/PV.16)
In  conclusion,  I  must  state  that  it  is  imperative
that  we  address  in  a  more  meaningful  manner  the
underlying social, economic and political problems that
cause  human  misery;  for,  beyond  being  humanitarian,
this  would  help  to  remove  the  atmosphere  in  which
terrorism  prospers.  We  must  act  to  ensure  that  the
entire  global  society  lives  in  an  environment  of
freedom and that it is free from fear. The fight against
terrorism will be long; it will be arduous; but it is one
in  which  we  must  thoroughly  and  completely  engage
ourselves.
Mr.  Ecua  Miko  (Equatorial  Guinea)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  There  are  situations  and  things  that  demand
that everyone speak out.
In  a  corner  of  the  world,  villagers  used  a  deaf
mute,  because  of  his  physical  strength,  to  do  all  the
hard labour. On one occasion, he had been working for
a  week  at  cleaning  the  farm  of  a  villager  who  had
employed  him.  When  it  came  time  to  pay  him,  the
employer  paid  him  $1.  The  deaf  mute  exclaimed,  “Is
this what you are paying me?” To which the employer
responded,  “But  you  have  never  said  anything.”  So
to 
President  Han 
As  this  is  the  first  time  that  my  delegation  has
taken  part  in  debate  at  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the
General Assembly, allow me to convey my delegation’s
greetings 
and
congratulations on his election to the presidency of this
session and the excellent way in which he is presiding
over our work; to Mr. Harri Holkeri, on his impeccable
work  as  President  of  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
Assembly;  and  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on  his  well-
deserved re-election and his report on the work of the
Organization, which has elicited everyone’s praise.
Seung-soo, 
Judging  from  the  number  of  speakers  who  have
spoken before me from this podium — among whom I
should  mention  in  particular  Mayor  Rudolph  Giuliani
of  New  York,  who  honoured  us  with  his  presence  on
1 October  —  I  would  say  that  on  agenda  item  166,
entitled 
international
terrorism”, much has been said and much remains to be
said and done; for we, human beings, are the ones with
the potential to eradicate terrorism, as we are the ones
who have produced this virus.
“Measures 
to 
eliminate 
Terrorism is not a natural disaster; it is the result
of  the  minds  of  certain  people  who,  besides  lacking
self-esteem,  have  no 
lack
principles.
future  because 
they 
The  unthinkable  terrorist  acts  of  11  September
took place a few days before the United Nations special
session  devoted  to  children  was  due  to  begin.  It  had
been scheduled to be held in New York from 19 to 21
September 2001.
Equatorial Guinea supports and endorses without
reservation  the  sound  and  sensible  proposals  and
recommendations that have been made by the Security
Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  from  this  very
rostrum  —  I  am  referring  here  to  Security  Council
resolutions  1368  (2001)  and  1373  (2001)  and  General
Assembly  resolution  56/1,  as  well  as  to  previous
relevant resolutions — to help us advance on the long,
arduous  and  winding  path  that  is  the  combat  against
international 
its  full
eradication.
terrorism,  with 
the  goal  of 
In my country, we say that it is good to find and
bring  to  justice  the  perpetrator  of  a  crime,  but  it  is
3
A/56/PV.22
much better to resolve the problem that he has caused.
Indeed, the authorities of my country spoke along these
lines  following  the  sad  and  horrendous  events  of  11
September 2001.
On  12  September,  the  President  of  the  Republic,
Mr. Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who happened to be in
the  United  States  at  that  time,  sent  a  message  of
condolences  to  Mr.  George  Bush,  President  of  the
United  States  of  America.  At  the  same  time,  the
Government,  following  an  emergency  session  and
through an official declaration, condemned the terrorist
attacks as well as terrorism in general. Subsequently it
reaffirmed  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea’s  total
support  for,  and  solidarity  with,  the  people  and  the
Government  of  the  United  States  in  these  days  of
sadness and grief.
The  Government  declared  three  days  of  national
mourning  in  memory  of  the  victims  of  the  tragedy,
which, it noted, affected not only the United States but
all human societies that have aspirations for the future
based on peace, freedom, justice and democracy. Who,
in  one  way  or  another,  has  not  been  affected  by  the
destruction  and  the  disappearance  of  the  World  Trade
Center  —  not  to  mention  by  the  other  attacks?  The
Government  put  our  law  enforcement  and  security
forces on high alert in order to ensure vigilance and to
protect  all  United  States  nationals  and  interests  in  the
Republic of Equatorial Guinea.
This conflict is not one that pits the West against
Islam nor some nations against others because of their
faith.  Terrorism  is  the  enemy  of  all  peoples  and  of  all
civilizations  of  the  world,  and  therefore  it  deserves
universal condemnation and the adoption of individual
and  collective  measures 
its  entire
financing mechanism as well as support of any kind for
terrorist  operations.  As  a  result,  we  urgently  need
closer coordination and cooperation at the international
level,  which  would  consider,  among  other  things,  the
necessary  exchange  of  information  to  prevent  and
protect ourselves against these terrorist acts.
to  dismantle 
Equatorial  Guinea  understands  that  the  United
Nations must hold consultations at the highest level in
order to set up guidelines and to establish a programme
of  action  to  combat  terrorism  and  to  ensure  its
eradication, as well as safeguard the values of freedom
and the dignity of the human person in the face of the
barbaric, irrational and perverse nature of international
terrorism.
4
The  House  of  Representatives  of  the  People  of
Equatorial  Guinea,  when  it  met  at  its  second  session,
spoke  out  along  these  lines  through  an  institutional
declaration approved on 16 September that condemned
the  terrorist  acts  of  11  September  and  expressed
solidarity  with  the  people  of  the  United  States.  The
legislative  body  of  my  country  has  acknowledged  the
danger posed by these terrorist attacks for the stability
of  countries  and  for  world  peace,  and  that  efforts
should  be  deployed  to  put  an  end  to  international
terrorism, strictly abiding by the criteria of justice and
liberty.
The House of Representatives has also expressed
its  complete  willingness  to  support  the  Government’s
policies  in  the  fight  against  international  terrorism.
Accordingly, it is prepared to approve any legal orders
submitted to it through the proper channels.
As a corollary to all of these actions and events,
the  President  of  the  Republic  —  during  a  solemn
ecumenical  gathering  in  support  of  the  United  States
that  strongly  condemned  terrorism  and  which  took
place  at  Malabo  on  29  September,  with  broad
participation  on  the  part  of  political  leaders,  religious
representatives, representatives of the diplomatic corps,
of  the  public  and  private  sectors  and  of  society  at
large — made the following statement and asked that it
be  directed 
its
consideration  of  the  item  on  measures  to  eliminate
international terrorism.
the  General  Assembly  during 
to 
“Today all of the State authorities, political
groups,  religious  denominations,  private-sector
organizations  and  foreign  representatives  posted
in  our  country  have  joined  us  in  this  ecumenical
celebration,  through  which  we  highlight  once
again  the  resolute  support  of  the  people  and  the
Government of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
for the people and the Government of the United
States.  We  express  our  solidarity  with 
the
innocent  victims  of  the  terrorist  attacks  of  11
September  and  solemnly  reiterate  our  most  firm
and resolute condemnation of terrorism.
“Our personal — and painful — experience
as  a  result  of  these  tragic  events,  which  have
become a universal tragedy, and our proximity to
them  —  because  we  happened  to  be  visiting  the
United  States  with  an  important  Government
delegation at the time — makes it clear that these
attacks,  even  if  perpetrated  against  the  United
these 
“Furthermore, 
States,  are  without  a  doubt  a  serious  and
collective  affront  against  the  values  of  freedom,
peace, security and stability throughout the world.
attacks
constitute  an  unprecedented  threat  against  the
ideals  and  principles 
that  Equatorial  Guinea
shares  with  other  peoples  on  this  planet  that
devote  their  greatest  efforts  to  ensuring  dignity
and progress for human beings, who must benefit
from 
the  progress  of  modern  science  and
technology, not become its victims.
terrorist 
“Although  the  United  States  has  been  the
main  target  of  these  terrorist  attacks,  we  must
recall  nonetheless  that  among  its  victims  were
nationals  of  more  than  a  third  of  the  States
Members of the United Nations.
“As  a  result,  we  have  met  here  not  only  to
express our solidarity with the United States, but
also to reflect together and to become fully aware
of the fact that, with these terrorist attacks, what
is  at  stake  is  freedom  and  the  survival  of
humankind as a whole.
“In 
this 
time  of  veritable  upheaval 
in
international  peace  and  security,  Equatorial
Guinea  is  fully  aware  of  the  fact  that  —  at  the
beginning  of  this  twenty-first  century  —  for  the
world,  for  civilization  and  for  our  peoples,  these
terrorist  acts  represent  the  greatest  challenge  we
have  faced  since  the  end  of  the  two  world  wars
and the fall of the Berlin Wall. It brings home the
sad reality that if we do not act decisively and in
a  concerted  manner,  we  will  be  experiencing  the
beginning of global developments that could lead
the planet to its own self-destruction.
“As  a  result,  with  respect  to  what  was  said
by President Bush during his recent speech before
the  United  States  Congress  in  which  he  referred
to 
the  need  for  a  world  coalition  against
terrorism,  I  would  add  that,  in  the  face  of
terrorism,  either  all  of  the  peoples  of  the  world
come  together  within  the  framework  of  coherent
and  concerted  action,  or  we  will  all  inexorably
succumb  to  its  sadistic  and  inhuman  plan,  which
takes no account of races or borders.
“From  this  perspective  —  as  I  said  when  I
returned from the United States — I am in favour
of  a  large-scale  consultation  at  the  global  level
A/56/PV.22
and  of  a  vigorous  and  exemplary  response  to
terrorism, with a view to the global and definitive
defeat of that barbaric phenomenon and to freeing
ourselves from its scourge.
under 
“Beginning  on 
the  very  day  of  11
September,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
the
leadership  of  my  Government,  has  adopted  and
continues 
to  adopt  measures  and  strategies
requiring  its  cooperation  and  participation  in
contributing  to  the  efforts  of  the  international
community  in  the  long  and  difficult  battle  that
must  be  engaged  to  eradicate  terrorism  from  the
world,  within  the  framework  of  the  relevant
resolutions  and  mechanisms  of 
the  United
Nations,  the  African  Union  and  the  Economic
Community  of  Central  African  States,  as  well  as
all 
anti-terrorism
current 
conventions.”
international 
(spoke in French)
In  this  context  and  at  the  Central  African  level,
the  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Obiang  Nguema
Mbasogo,  addressed  a  message  to  his  counterparts  in
the subregion, in which he said:
“The  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  in
New York and Washington, D.C., have threatened
international peace and security.
“As  a  result,  Central  Africa,  which  is
devoted to the principles of solidarity, peace and
stability  and  is  concerned  by  these  disturbing
events, intends to contribute resolutely, through a
coordinated  strategy, 
the
international  community  in  the  fight  against
terrorism, above and beyond measures undertaken
by each State of the subregion.
the  efforts  of 
to 
“This  coordination,  which  could  lead  to  a
declaration  on  a  common  Central  African
position,  will  allow  the  current  Chairman  of  the
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States
(ECCAS)  to  express  his  support  and  that  of  the
heads  of  State  of  the  subregion  for  the  fight
against  terrorism,  as  well  as  their  devotion  to
peace  and  stability 
the  subregion  and
throughout  the  world,  in  accordance  with  the
relevant provisions of the Treaty establishing the
ECCAS  and  with  the  principles  of  the  African
Union on  terrorism, peace,  security  and  stability,
which  were  reiterated  at  the  summit  of  heads  of
in 
5
A/56/PV.22
State  in  Lomé  last  year  and  most  recently  in
Lusaka.”
(spoke in Spanish)
In  conclusion,  we  express  the  hope  that  our
discussions,  especially  on  this  matter,  will  continue
under  the  principle  of  the  force  of  argument,  rather
than that of the argument of force.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  the  decision
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  at  its  12th  plenary
meeting  on  1  October  2001,  I  call  on  the  observer  of
Switzerland.
Mr.  Staehelin  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):
As this is the first time that my country is speaking at
this  session,  allow  me,  Sir,  to  convey  the  heartfelt
congratulations  of  Switzerland  on  your  election  to  the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth
session.  I  can  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full
support throughout this session.
The attacks in the United States of America on 11
September  are  a 
transcends  human
understanding.  They  are  expressions  of  criminal
violence of unprecedented horror.
tragedy 
that 
On behalf of the Swiss Government and of all the
people  of  Switzerland,  I  wish  to  express  to  the
American people our most heartfelt sense of solidarity
and friendship in this tragic ordeal. Our thoughts go to
all  the  victims,  their  families  and  friends.  We  owe
esteem  and 
those  who  have
committed themselves so courageously and without the
least  hesitation  to  the  difficult  and  dangerous  rescue
operation.
recognition 
to  all 
This  tragedy  has  profoundly  shocked  the  Swiss
people.  It  has  intolerably  wounded  a  sister  republic
with which we share fundamental values. The events in
New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania affect
us  all.  Although  the  scourge  of  terrorism  may  seem
elusive, 
is  neither
powerless  nor  defenceless.  However,  the  effectiveness
of its response depends on our unity and determination,
because  terrorism  can  be  successfully  countered  only
through considered and collective action.
international  community 
the 
This  action  must  be  based  on  law  and  on  the
fundamental  principles  that  govern  our  democratic
societies. Terrorists want to use violence to destroy the
rule  of  law.  We  must  not  fall  into  the  trap  that  they
have  set  for  us.  With  vision  and  steadfastness,  our
6
societies  —  which  are  founded  on  tolerance  and
openness  —  must  commit  themselves  to  the  struggle
against  this  scourge.  This  effort  will  require  all  those
present in this Assembly to join forces. Because of its
universal character and its ability to respond to global
challenges, the United Nations is called upon to be the
driving  force  in  this  campaign  —  a  role  that  comes
naturally to it.
In  adopting  resolution  1373  (2001),  the  Security
Council  has  set  the  general  direction  of  action.  The
Swiss Government welcomes that resolution and takes
this  opportunity  to  express  its  strong  determination  to
join  in  the  shared  effort.  It  is  already  participating
fully.
Switzerland  has  long  been  concerned  with  the
fight against international terrorism. It has made action
in  this  area  a  priority  at  both  the  international  and
national  levels.  Switzerland  is  applying  the  sanctions
that  have  been  imposed  by  the  Security  Council  with
the  aim  of  combating  the  threat  to  peace  and  security
posed  by  terrorism.  In  particular,  it  has  fully  and
unconditionally  implemented  and  applied  resolutions
1267 (1999) and 1333 (2000).
is  party 
international
instruments on this issue that have been agreed within
both  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe.
Switzerland  has  signed  the  International  Convention
for  the  Suppression  of  the  Financing  of  Terrorism  in
June. Although that Convention has not yet come into
effect, we have started the ratification process with the
aim  of  bringing  it  into  effect  as  soon  as  possible.  We
also  intend  to  become  party  to  the  International
Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings
in the near future.
Switzerland 
the 
to 
Switzerland  has  also  contributed  actively 
to
discussions  within  the  United  Nations  on  the  drafting
of  a  comprehensive  convention  on 
international
terrorism. It will participate in all activities concerned
with future anti-terrorism instruments.
Finally, in addition to the specific multilateral and
regional  anti-terrorism  instruments  to  which  it  is
bound,  Switzerland  has  established  a  network  of
bilateral  treaties  on  mutual  assistance  in  judicial  and
extradition  matters  with  the  aim  of  increasing  our
ability  to  prevent  and  suppress  all  forms  of  crime,
including terrorism.
At  the  domestic  level,  we  have  a  range  of  laws
that serve actively to suppress terrorism. On 3 July, the
Secretary-General  published  a  report  on  measures
aimed at eradicating international terrorism, which was
compiled  on  the  basis  of  information  submitted  by  a
number  of  States.  It  describes  in  exhaustive  detail  the
measures  that  Switzerland  has  taken,  as  well  as  the
laws  and  regulations  which  it  has  adopted  concerning
the prevention and suppression of acts of international
terrorism.
It must be emphasized that Switzerland has a law
on  international  mutual  assistance  in  criminal  matters
which  permits  it  —  even  in  the  absence  of  treaty
agreements  —  to  cooperate  with  all  other  States.
Moreover, Switzerland is one of the few States to make
use of the “immediate transmission of information”. By
this  means,  information  obtained  in  investigations
conducted  in  Switzerland  can  be  transmitted  to  a
foreign authority and used in investigations conducted
abroad.  Finally,  Switzerland  is  able  to  take  very  rapid
provisional  measures.  For  example,  it  can  order  the
freezing  of  bank  accounts  as  soon  as  a  foreign
authority  requests  such  cooperation.  These  measures
are  critical  when  the  need  arises  to  block  financial
transactions  that  benefit  terrorist  organizations,  and
they  help  to  prevent  the  abuse  of  Swiss  financial
institutions by terrorist groups.
In  this  context,  please  allow  me  to  be  absolutely
clear  on  one  last  point:  Swiss  banking  secrecy  laws
have never protected and will never protect terrorists or
their  financial  transactions.  The  banks  are  bound  by
criminal law — and this, of course, covers terrorism —
to  provide  full  information  to  the  judicial  authorities.
prompt
Switzerland 
international  cooperation 
in
particular,  by  blocking  the  relevant  accounts  and
deposits.  Moreover,  Swiss  banks  are  obliged  to  report
to  the  authorities  any  justifiable  suspicions  they  have
concerning transactions related to organized crime and
terrorism.  There  is  no  banking  secrecy  when  it  comes
to the fight against terrorism.
effective 
in  criminal  matters, 
provides 
and 
It  is  of  fundamental  importance  that  we  work
together with the greatest determination to combat the
scourge of terrorism. Terrorism threatens all of us and
together we must make sure that it is defeated. There is
no  justification  whatsoever  for  acts  such  as  those
committed on 11 September. However, the recourse to
force  alone  will  not  suffice  to  eliminate  terrorism.  In
the  long  term,  there  exists  no  other  way  to  ensure
A/56/PV.22
international  security  and  to  prevent  such  despicable
acts  than  to  reinforce  international  cooperation  with  a
view  to  eradicating  poverty,  preventing  and  resolving
conflicts  and  effectively  promoting  human  rights  and
the  rule  of 
international
community must act more decisively than ever.
this  end, 
law.  To 
the 
The worldwide reaction to the abominable acts to
which  we  were  all  witness  must  prompt  us  to  pursue
the fight against terrorism without respite. We must do
so in memory of the victims. We must do so to preserve
the primacy of law over force, and for the blossoming
of our democratic societies.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly resolution 3369 (XXX), of 10 October 1975,
I now call on the observer for the Organization of the
Islamic Conference.
Mr.  Lamani
Islamic
Conference):  I  would  like  at  the  outset  to  extend  to
you,  Sir,  on  behalf  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  our  sincere
congratulations  on  your  election  as  President  of  the
General  Assembly  at  this  session.  We  have  full
confidence  that  the  work  of  this  Assembly  will  be
successful under your wise leadership.
(Organization  of 
the 
In  the  press  statements  made  by  its  Secretary-
General,  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference
(OIC)  has  condemned  the  criminal  terrorist  attacks
perpetrated against the United States on 11 September
2001. They were completely against all human values,
creeds and religions, prominent among which is Islam,
which values the sanctity of human life and holds that
whoever  unjustly  kills  one  soul  kills  all  people.  We
must emphasize here that Islam is innocent of all forms
of 
those  who
perpetrated  these  horrendous  crimes  in  the  name  of
Islam,  regardless  of  how  they  attempt  to  justify  their
acts.  The  OIC  has  continually  denounced  all  forms  of
terrorism  in  accordance  with  the  moral  and  human
principles  in  which  its  member  States  believe.  Those
principles have roots in the sublime religions, legacies
and  traditions  of  these  States,  all  of  which  call  for
eliminating  all  forms  of  injustice,  aggression  and
intolerance.
terrorism  and  strongly  condemns 
Terrorism  threatens  the  life  of  innocent  people
and  their  property,  violates  the  sovereignty  of  States
and constitutes a danger for the rights of people. On the
basis  of  the  international  consensus  to  fight  terrorism
in  all  its  forms  and  to  put  an  end  to  its  causes,  the
7
A/56/PV.22
the 
towards 
implementation  of 
Secretary-General  of  the  OIC  supports  the  relevant
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly, which were adopted unanimously, and urges
the  member  States  of  the  OIC  to  continue  to  work
positively 
those
resolutions.  The  emergency  ministerial  meeting  of  the
OIC,  to  be  held  in  Doha,  Qatar,  on  10  October,  is  a
form  of  support  for  international  efforts  to  combat
terrorism.  In  this  connection,  we  established  an  OIC
treaty  to  combat  international  terrorism,  which  was
adopted  by  the  Foreign  Ministers  of  OIC  member
States at their twenty-sixth session, in Burkina Faso, in
1999. That treaty calls upon member States, inter alia,
to  refrain  from  providing  any  form  of  assistance  or
support  to  terrorists,  including  shelter  or  financial
support.
to 
the  scourge  of 
The  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly
have  issued  a  number  of  important  resolutions  calling
for  an  end 
terrorism.  These
resolutions, in addition to the many resolutions adopted
by  regional  organizations  —  among  which  is  the
organization I have the honour of representing here —
attempt  to  establish  an  international  framework  under
the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  The  resolutions
take a united stance on international terrorism and are
conducive  to  respect  for  international  laws  and  the
purposes  and  principles  that  all  humanity  agreed  to  in
the Charter of the United Nations.
We all know that there are many problems at the
international  level.  The  spread  of  extremism  and
terrorist  acts  all  over  the  world  have  underscored  the
fact  that  all  forms  of  terrorism  are  one  and  the  same
and  therefore  should  not  be  tolerated.  We  have  to
emphasize here that extremism, violence and terrorism
are  international  phenomena;  they  are  not  limited  to  a
specific  people,  race  or  religion.  The  international
community 
on
multiculturalism,  multiple 
religions  and  multiple
ideologies.  This  pluralism  should  not  undermine  the
unity  of  the  international  community.  International
relations should be based on the positive coexistence of
States  and  on  a  joint  appreciation  of  the  different
contributions and achievements of different societies.
community, 
based 
is 
one 
Since the end of the cold war, some have spoken
about  conflict  between  civilizations.  Some  are  still
talking about that idea. The issue is one of significance
for the whole of humanity and its future. Convinced of
the  importance  of  a  dialogue  among  civilizations,
8
In  condemning 
Islamic  countries  were  the  first  to  present  a  draft
resolution on the subject to the Assembly.
terrorism,  we 
should  also
condemn  any  attempt  to  blur  the  distinction  between
terrorism  and  the  legitimate  struggle  of  peoples  under
colonial  rule  or  foreign  occupation.  The  struggle  of
such  people  to  achieve  national  liberation  and  self-
determination,  in  accordance  with  the  principles  of
international  law  and  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  of
the  United  Nations,  does  not  constitute  terrorism.  In
this context, we reaffirm our support for the holding of
an  international  conference,  under  the  auspices  of  the
United  Nations,  to  define  terrorism;  to  distinguish
between  terrorism  and  the  rights  of  people  to  resist
foreign occupation and achieve national liberation; and
to  take  all  measures  to  eradicate  terrorism  in  all  its
forms and manifestations.
As  members  of  the  international  community,  we
must  continue  with  this  effort  against  terrorism  and
ensure  that  we  do  not  approach  this  very  dangerous
phenomenon  with  double  standards.  We  should
the
continue  our  worthwhile  attempt 
dialogue  between 
should  be
responsible enough to face up to any attempt to create
discord,  disunity  and  hatred  between  peoples.  We
should all support coexistence and cooperation between
different  peoples  and  cultures  as  a  basis  of  that
dialogue.
civilizations.  We 
to  support 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly resolution 48/265 of 24 August 1994, I now
call  on  the  Observer  for  the  Sovereign  Military  Order
of Malta.
Mr.  Linati-Bosch  (Sovereign  Military  Order  of
Malta):  I  would  first  like  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.
President, on behalf of the Sovereign Military Order of
Malta,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly  during  its  fifty-sixth  session.  I  am  sure  that
your  excellent  qualifications  and  strong  commitment
will ensure the efficacy of our work at such a difficult
time.
The Order of Malta condemns terrorism in all its
manifestations.  We  felt  as  though  we  were  living  in  a
nightmare when, on the morning of 11 September, New
York  and  Washington  became  the  victims  of  criminal
acts.  It  is  true  that,  after  11  September,  no  one  feels
safe from terrorism. However, I would like to condemn
not  only  the  attack  of  11  September,  but  all  the
manifestations  of  terrorism,  violence  and  intolerance
that  convulse  our  world.  International  terrorism  defies
international 
the
international  community  has  the  right  to  defend  itself
in accordance with international public law.
in  consequence, 
security,  and, 
We cannot consider what happened in New York
and  Washington  as  isolated  incidents.  The  excellent
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the
Organization,  and  his  report  on  measures  to  eliminate
international  terrorism,  mentioned  many  geographical
areas  where  peace  and  human  rights  are  violated,  and
there is no need for me to list them all again. Security
Council resolution 1368 (2001) reaffirmed the right to
collective self-defence. That resolution, adopted on 12
September,  and 
the  General  Assembly  resolution
adopted  on  the  same  day,  constitute  the  starting  point
for 
terrorist
activities,  wherever  they  appear.  Effective  measures
must  be  adopted  if  we  are  not  to  succumb  to  terror,
intolerance, fanaticism and fear but, on the contrary, to
build a stable system of morals and civic honour.
the  prevention  and  suppression  of 
for 
and 
fear 
contempt 
international 
We  hear  the  word  “globalization”  every  day.  We
must be aware that terrorism signifies the globalization
of 
law,
humanitarian law and the law of conventions. This is a
transgression  that  cannot  remain  without  an  adequate
response, and it involves the responsibility of all of us.
We know that sovereignty signifies independence
from  any  other  subject  of  international  law  and,  in
consequence,  we  must  consider  that  it  is  the  duty  of
every  country  to  fight  terrorism  in  its  own  territory
and,  at  the  same  time,  to  participate  in  international
action  against  international  terrorism.  Let  there  be  no
more sanctuaries for terrorists.
to 
I  am 
referring 
terrorism. 
taking  part 
One  activity  of  the  Order  of  Malta  is  especially
its
disrupted  by 
humanitarian  activity  and  to  the  difficulties  that  its
humanitarian  personnel  face  in  the  accomplishment  of
their  mission  when 
in  peacekeeping
operations  —  difficulties  that,  on  some  occasions,
hinder  their  presence  even  when  this  presence  is
requested  by  national  Governments  or  international
entities. We are in favour of the protection of civilians
in  armed  conflicts,  but  it  must  be  acknowledged  that
duly  accredited  humanitarian  personnel  also  merit
effective  protection  when  their  presence  has  been
requested or authorized.
The  United  Nations  is  the  best  representation  of
the  international  community,  and  as  such  it  is  the
A/56/PV.22
responsibility  of  the  Organization,  working  together
with States, regional organizations, communities, other
entities  and  even  individuals,  to  lead  the  fight  against
all  transnational  crime.  In  this  regard,  the  Sovereign
Military  Order  of  Malta  expresses  its  commitment  to
collaborate  and  to  share  responsibility  in  the  struggle
against terrorism.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on agenda item 166.
We have had an unusually long, but important and
constructive,  debate  during  the  past  five  days.  It  was
unprecedented in the history of the United Nations for
167 Member States and 4 observers to participate in a
debate  on  a  single  agenda  item.  This  fact  alone
eloquently  demonstrates  how  seriously  all  Member
States,  and  the  whole  international  community,  regard
the  acts  of  terrorism  that  took  place  on  11  September.
We  did  so  because  we  all  believed  that  they  were  not
only  attacks  on  the  United  States,  but  assaults  on  the
whole civilized world.
As  we  all  know,  the  agenda  item  166,  entitled
“Measures  to  eliminate  international  terrorism”  has
long  been  on  the  agenda  of  the  Sixth  Committee.
However, in the light of the importance and urgency of
the  issue  in  the  aftermath  of  the  tragedy  of  11
September,  we  decided  that  the  debate  on  this  item
should be held in plenary meeting while consideration
of  the  technical  aspects  of  the  item  remain  within  the
purview of the Sixth Committee.
Before  our  debate  began,  we  had  an  invaluable
opportunity  to  listen  to  Mayor  Rudolph  Giuliani  of
New  York,  our  host  city,  who  gave  us  a  very  clear
perspective  on  the  terrorist  attacks  and  conveyed  the
expectations that United States citizens, particularly the
citizens  of  New  York,  have  of  the  United  Nations  at
this critical time. I would like to take this opportunity
to thank Mayor Giuliani once again and offer our very
best wishes for our host city’s speedy recovery.
During  our  deliberations,  all  participants  joined
wholeheartedly  in  condemning  the  terrorist  attacks  of
11  September,  reaffirming  resolution  56/1  of  12
September  2001,  in  which  the  General  Assembly
condemned  these  attacks  in  the  strongest  terms  and
called  for  international  cooperation  to  bring  to  justice
the  perpetrators,  organizers  and  sponsors  of 
the
outrages.
9
and Criminal Justice recently adopted the revised draft
action  plan  for  the  implementation  of  the  Vienna
Declaration  on  Crime  and  Justice.  Many  Member
States  also  expressed  their  intention  to  take  necessary
measures 
international  conventions
within their domestic jurisdiction.
implement 
to 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  urge
Member  States  to  accelerate  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly,  with  a  view  to  the  early  conclusion  of  the
pending  conventions  on  international  terrorism,  in
order  to  enhance  the  capacity  of  the  international
community  to  combat  terrorism.  As  President  of  the
General  Assembly,  I  also  kindly  request  the  Sixth
Committee to expedite its work and submit its report to
the  General  Assembly  as  early  as  possible,  preferably
by 15 November 2001.
Finally,  I  recall  that  during  our  debate  Member
States shared the view that the international community
should  resolve  to  fight  terrorism  as  a  phenomenon
separate  from  any  religion  or  ethnic  group.  In  this
regard,  the  necessity  for  dialogue  among  civilizations
was  stressed.  Also,  some  representatives  suggested  a
high-level conference on international terrorism, while
some others called upon the international community to
address the root causes of terrorism. At the same time,
the need for a clearer definition of terrorism was raised
for our further consideration.
Our  week-long  deliberation  was  instrumental  in
reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in
dealing  with  global,  high-profile 
issues  such  as
international  terrorism.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  the
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  will
take further necessary measures to combat international
terrorism,  building  on  the  deliberations  we  have  had
for the last five days.
We  have 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 166.
The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m.
this  stage  of  our
A/56/PV.22
Member States voiced the view that international
terrorism constitutes a threat to international peace and
security,  as  well  as  a  crime  against  humanity.
Undoubtedly,  international  terrorism  is  one  of  the
formidable  challenges  to  the  world  community  in  the
twenty-first  century,  and  the  United  Nations  should
play the key role in intensifying international efforts to
eliminate such terrorism.
the  Declaration  on  Measures 
In  this  regard,  I  wish  to  recall  that  the  General
Assembly  has  taken  important  steps,  by  adopting  in
to  Eliminate
1994 
and 
International  Terrorism 
adopting 
its
supplementary  Declaration 
in  1996.  The  Security
Council has also taken initiatives, such as the adoption
of  resolutions  1269  (1999)  of  19  October  1999,  1368
(2001)  of  12  September  2001  and  1373  (2001)  of  28
September 2001, which not only condemned all forms
of terrorism but also specified measures to be taken by
Member States to prevent and suppress terrorist acts.
by 
Member States recognized the urgency of dealing
with  all  forms  and  manifestations  of  international
terrorism  and  those  who  harbour  and  support  the
perpetrators,  organizers  and  sponsors  of  international
terrorism.  They 
to  enhance
international  cooperation  and  to  promptly  take  all
necessary  measures  to  prevent  and  suppress  terrorist
activities.
the  need 
stressed 
Member  States  concurred  in  the  view  that  a
primary  task  facing  the  international  community  at
present  is  to  ensure  that  an  effective  legal  framework
for  the  prevention  and  elimination  of  international
terrorism  is  in  place.  To  this  end,  I  call  upon  all
Member States that have not yet done so to become, as
a matter of priority, parties to the existing international
conventions  relating  to  terrorism.  In  this  context,  it  is
noteworthy  that  the  Commission  on  Crime  Prevention
10
