United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-sixth session
24th plenary meeting
Friday, 12 October 2001, 10 a.m.
New York

A/56/PV.24
Official Records
President:
Mr. Han Seung-soo  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Republic of Korea)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Sharma
(Nepal), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m.
Statements on the occasion of the awarding of the
Nobel Peace Prize to the United Nations and its
Secretary-General
The  Acting  President:  Today  is  a  momentous
day.  We  are  all  thrilled  that  our  Organization  and  the
Secretary-General  have  been  awarded  the  2001  Nobel
Peace Prize.
I now have the honour to read a message from the
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo,  who  is  currently  in  Seoul,  Korea.  His  message  is
addressed to the United Nations and Secretary-General
Kofi Annan on the occasion of the Nobel Committee’s
announcement  that  the  Nobel  Peace  Prize  will  be
awarded  to  the  United  Nations  and  Secretary-General
Kofi Annan. It reads:
“It  is  with  great  pleasure  that  I  extend  my
heartfelt  congratulations,  on  behalf  of  the  whole
United Nations membership, to our Organization,
the  United  Nations,  and  its  Secretary-General,
Kofi Annan, on their winning of the Nobel Peace
Prize this year. This is a well-deserved honour for
all  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  as
well as for the entire staff of the Secretariat.
“As members of the United Nations family,
we all feel proud that during the last half century
the  United  Nations  has  always  been  at  the
forefront of efforts to achieve peace and security
as  well  as  the  prosperity  and  development  of
mankind.  This  prize  is  a  recognition  of  not  only
the achievements of the United Nations in serving
the  world  community,  but  also  of  that  of  the
thousands of United Nations staff members led by
the  Secretary-General  who  work  with  such
dedication and often in perilous circumstances to
make  this  world  a  better  and  safer  place.  At  the
same  time,  I  believe  this  award  will  serve  to
encourage  all  of  us  to  make  further  efforts  to
accomplish our mandates for humanity.
“This  Nobel  Peace  Prize  awarded  to  the
United  Nations  and  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan 
facing
formidable challenges such as poverty, terrorism,
drug  abuse,  environmental  degradation  and
HIV/AIDS.
fitting,  as  we  are 
is  most 
“My special and warmest congratulations go
to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  in  particular.  I
truly  believe  that  all  of  us  in  the  United  Nations
owe  him  a  large  debt  of  gratitude  for  his
outstanding leadership and services at this critical
time in history, of which the Nobel Peace Prize is
a most fitting and timely recognition.
sincerely  hope 
the
international community will view this award not
just as recognition of past achievement but, more
importantly,  as  a  beacon  illuminating  the  way
“Finally, 
I 
that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
01-57703 (E)
*0157703*
A/56/PV.24
forward  for  the  United  Nations  as  it  rises  to
confront new challenges.”
Before  I  invite  the  Secretary-General  to  take  the
floor, may I also add my own voice. I am thrilled that
you,  Mr.  Secretary-General,  and  our  Organization,
which  you  lead,  have  been  awarded  the  prestigious
Nobel Peace Prize. It is a recognition of your personal
dedication  and  contribution 
to  promoting  peace,
development, justice and human rights, often in trying
circumstances, and of the United Nations ability to rise
to  the  challenges,  old  and  new,  to  make  the  world  a
better place to live in for every man and woman around
the  world.  Please  accept,  Mr.  Secretary-General,  my
hearty  congratulations  on  this  momentous  occasion  of
recognition  so  fittingly  awarded  to  you  and  to  the
United Nations under your leadership.
I  now  invite  the  Secretary-General  to  say  a  few
words.
The  Secretary-General:  The  decision  of  the
Nobel Peace Prize Committee is truly an honour for the
whole of the United Nations, which means of course all
of  its  Member  States  and  this  Assembly,  which
represents them. It is also an honour for all parts of the
Organization  and,  above  all,  for  its  dedicated  staff
around  the  world.  They  work  hard  every  day  to  make
the  world  a  more  just,  a  more  peaceful  and  a  happier
place.  Many  of  them  risk  their  lives,  and  they  richly
deserve this award.
A year ago, your heads of State and Government
reaffirmed at the Millennium Summit the indispensable
role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  common  house  of  the
entire  human  family.  Now  the  Nobel  Committee  has
used this prize, in its own words,
“to  proclaim  that  the  only  negotiable  route  to
global peace and cooperation goes by way of the
United Nations”.
In  a  world  that  is  growing  ever  closer  and  more
interconnected,  and  yet  is  still  torn  by  brutal  conflicts
and cruel injustice, it is more important than ever that
humanity travel that route and that all of us work hard
to pave the road ahead of it.
All of us who work at the United Nations should
feel  proud  today,  but  also  humble,  because  even  more
will  be  expected  of  us  in  the  future.  This  award  is  a
tribute, above all, to our colleagues who have made the
supreme sacrifice in the service of humanity. The only
true prize for them and for us will be peace itself.
2
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Sudan  to  say  a  few
words on behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr. Erwa (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): I am indeed
overwhelmed  to  be  standing  here  on  this  momentous
day to express, on behalf of my brothers in the Group
of  African  States,  our  sincere  congratulations  to  our
Organization  and  to  a  distinguished  son  of  Africa  —
and, indeed, of the world — Mr. Kofi Annan.
The  decision  on  this  award  has  come  at  a  very
opportune  time,  when  the  United  Nations  is  facing
considerable  challenges.  This  distinguished  son  of
Africa and of the world, Mr. Kofi Annan, assumed the
leadership of our Organization at a time when the ship
was sailing through rough seas. We have witnessed his
competence,  his  perspicacity  and  his  wisdom 
in
steering this ship during these critical times, which are
becoming  even  more  critical  and  more  challenging.
Therefore,  we  find  that  the  selection  of  the  United
Nations  and 
this  prize
represents a great moral support for and recognition of
each and every one of us in our pursuit of the right path
and the right choices.
the  Secretary-General  for 
Mr. Secretary-General, we congratulate ourselves
and  we  congratulate  you.  In  conclusion,  I  would  say
that  the  prize  itself  is  honoured  by  dint  of  its  having
been given to you, because, as you said, though we feel
proud we also feel humble. We have known you to be a
humble  person,  and  we  pray  to  God  Almighty  to  help
you in your future tasks.
The  Acting  President: 
the
Permanent  Representative  of  Sri  Lanka  to  make  a
statement on behalf of the Group of Asian States.
I  now 
invite 
Mr. De Saram (Sri Lanka): Today is for all of us
a most moving and profound occasion. On behalf of all
the  members  of  the  Asian  Group,  I  have  the  great
honour  to  convey  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, of whom we are all so deeply proud, and to the
United  Nations  and  its  Member  States,  the  most
profound  congratulations  on  this  unique  honour  that
has today been bestowed on all of us. It is indeed full
of hope, full of encouragement and full of promise for
the  long  years  ahead  when  we  shall  all  need  to  come
together and work together towards peace.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr.  Volski  (Georgia):  Mr.  Secretary-General,  I
present  the  congratulations  of  the  Group  of  Eastern
European  States.  This  is  an  honour,  a  great  pleasure
and an even greater responsibility at this moment when
the  world  is  praising  the  United  Nations  and  your
personal  input  in  bringing  peace  and  relief  to  those
who are suffering.
The  Nobel  Prize  should  encourage  all  of  us  to
serve  the  United  Nations  ideals  better  than  ever  and
with stronger commitment. Congratulations again.
The  Acting  President:  I  call  now  on 
the
Permanent  Representative  of  Haiti,  who  will  speak  on
behalf of the Group of Latin American and  Caribbean
States.
Mr.  Lelong  (Haiti)  (spoke 
in  French):  Mr.
Secretary-General, it is with particular emotion that, on
behalf  of  the  member  countries  of  the  Group  of  Latin
American  and  Caribbean  States,  I  express  to  you  our
congratulations  on  the  rare  honour  that  has  been
bestowed  on  you  this  morning  —  you  and  our
Organization as well.
I  cannot  fail  to  express  our  collective  view  that,
as  of  today,  the  history  of  the  world  could  not  be
written without constant references to the history of the
United  Nations  and  the  part  that  you  have  played  in
making  this  Organization  an  instrument  for  peace  and
development.
Once  again,  may 
congratulations.
I  express 
to  you  our
The  Acting  President:  I  call  now  on 
the
representative  of  Ireland,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of
the Group of Western European and other States.
to 
Mr.  Gardner  (Ireland):  It  is  a  great  honour  for
me,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Western  European  and
other  States,  to  extend  our  congratulations  to  the
United  Nations  and 
the  Secretary-General  on
winning the Nobel Prize for Peace. The prize is a clear
reflection  of  the  esteem  in  which  the  United  Nations
and  the  Secretary-General  are  held.  It  is  also  a  tribute
to the work of the Organization, which always faces a
range of formidable tasks. The prize should encourage
all of us to continue our efforts.
The  Acting  President:  I  call  now  on 
the
representative of the United States of America as host
country.
A/56/PV.24
Ms.  Marcus  (United  States  of  America):  I  am
most grateful for the opportunity to address the General
Assembly  for  the  first  time  on  this  historic  day.  On
behalf  of  the  host  nation,  I  want  to  express  heartiest
congratulations on the award of the Nobel Peace Prize
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  and  to  the
United  Nations.  That  award  is  richly  deserved  for  the
efficacious  role  the  United  Nations  has  played  in  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  for
more than 50 years.
The  events  of 
the  past  month  made 
that
indispensable  contribution  abundantly  clear.  I  want  to
tell  the  Secretary-General,  on  behalf  of  the  people  of
the  United  States,  how  very  grateful  we  are,  and  how
deeply  we  have  been  touched  by  his  words  and  his
deeds in these extraordinary times.
We  share  in  the  joy  of  this  House  today,  and
especially  want  to  recognize  the  Secretary-General’s
unique  and  invaluable  leadership.  He  has  made  us
deeply, deeply proud.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c) Election  of  a  member  of  the  International
Court of Justice
Memorandum  by 
(A/56/372)
the  Secretary-General
List of nominations (A/56/373 and Add.1)
to 
Curriculum vitae (A/56/374 and Corr.1 and 2)
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will
proceed 
the
International Court of Justice for the unexpired term of
office  of  Judge  and  former  President  Mohammed
Bedjaoui,  whose 
took  effect  on  30
September 2001.
the  election  of  a  member  of 
resignation 
In  connection  with  this  election,  I  should  like  to
bring  the  following  matters  to  the  attention  of  the
members of the General Assembly.
First, 
in  accordance  with  General  Assembly
resolution 264 (III) of 8 October 1948, a State which is
a  party  to  the  Statute  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice, but not a Member of the United Nations, shall
participate  in  the  General  Assembly  in  electing  the
3
Assembly are all 189 Member States, plus the one non-
Member  State  which  is  a  party  to  the  Statute  of  the
Court, namely Switzerland, for a total of 190 electors.
Accordingly, 
the  present  election,  96  votes
constitute an absolute majority in the General Assembly.
for 
The  General  Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  a
secret ballot. If in the first ballot no candidate obtains
an absolute majority, it will be necessary to proceed to
other ballots until a candidate has obtained the required
majority. Pursuant to the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its 915th meeting, on 16 November 1960,
these ballots shall be unrestricted.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  the
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  remind
the
to  rule  88  of 
representatives 
Assembly’s rules of procedure,
that,  pursuant 
“After  the  President  has  announced  the
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.”
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot
papers will now be distributed.
Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the
ballot  papers  that  are  now  being  distributed,  and  to
place a cross to the left of the name of the candidate for
whom they wish to vote. Votes may be cast only for the
candidate whose name appears on the ballot papers.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Bijou
(Costa  Rica),  Ms.  Vassallo  (Malta),  Ms.  Prokop
(Poland)  and  Ms.  Lim  (Singapore)  acted  as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  11.15  a.m.  and
resumed at 11.40 a.m.
A/56/PV.24
members of the Court in the same manner as the States
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Therefore,  on  this
occasion, 
representative  of  Switzerland  may
participate in the election.
the 
Secondly,  I  should  like  to  confirm  that,  at  this
time, 
the  Security  Council, 
the
General  Assembly,  is  also  proceeding  to  elect  one
member of the Court. This procedure is in accordance
with  article  8  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  which
provides that
independently  of 
“The  General  Assembly  and  the  Security
independently  of  one
Council  shall  proceed 
another to elect the members of the Court.”
Accordingly,  the  results  of  the  voting  in  the
General  Assembly  will  not  be  communicated  to  the
Security  Council  until  one  candidate  has  obtained  the
required majority in the Assembly.
Thirdly, I should like to draw the attention of the
Assembly  to  the  documents  relating  to  the  election.
The Assembly has before it document A/56/372, which
contains  a  memorandum  by  the  Secretary-General  on
the  present  composition  of  the  Court  and  on  the
procedure to be followed in the General Assembly and
in the Security Council with regard to the election; and
documents  A/56/373,  which  contains 
list  of
nominations  of  candidates  by  national  groups  within
the  required  time  for  submission,  that  is,  by  12
September  2001,  and  A/56/373/Add.1,  which  informs
of  the  withdrawal  of  one  candidate.  With  reference  to
the list of nominations of candidates by national groups
contained  in  document  A/56/373,  I  would  like  to
inform the Assembly that, subsequently, the Secretariat
was informed that the Italian national group nominated
Mr. Nabil Elaraby as a candidate.
the 
The  Assembly  also  has  before  it  documents
A/56/374,  A/56/374/Corr.1 
in  Arabic  only,  and
A/56/374/Corr.2,  which  contain  the  curricula  vitae  of
the candidates nominated by national groups.
In accordance with article 10, paragraph 1, of the
Statute  of  the  Court,  the  candidate  who  obtains  an
absolute  majority  of  votes 
the  General
Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  shall  be
in 
considered elected.
in  both 
The consistent practice of the United Nations has
been  to  interpret  the  words  “absolute  majority”  as
meaning a majority of all electors, whether or not they
vote or are allowed to vote. The electors in the General
4
The Acting President: The result of the voting is
as follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
  174
      0
  174
      0
  174
    96
  124
Mr. Nabil Elaraby (Egypt)
Mr. Francis Romain Wodie
(Côte d’Ivoire)
    50
Mr.  Nabil  Elaraby  has  obtained  an  absolute
majority in the General Assembly.
I  have  communicated  the  result  of  the  voting  to
the President of the Security Council.
I have received from the President of the Security
Council the following letter:
“I have the honour to inform you that at the
4389th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on
12  October  2001  for  the  purpose  of  electing  a
member of the International Court of Justice for a
term of office to expire on 5 February 2006, Mr.
Nabil  Elaraby  obtained  an  absolute  majority  of
votes.”
As  a  result  of  the  independent  voting  in  the
Security  Council  and  in  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.
Nabil  Elaraby  has  obtained  an  absolute  majority  in
both organs. He is therefore duly elected a member of
A/56/PV.24
the International Court of Justice, to serve for a term of
office commencing today, 12 October 2001, and ending
on 5 February 2006. I take this opportunity to extend to
him  the  congratulations  of  the  Assembly  on  his
election and to thank the tellers for their assistance.
We  have 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our
consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 15.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform
members  of  the  following  additions  to  the  programme
of work of the General Assembly.
On Monday, 15 October 2001, in the morning, the
General  Assembly  will  take  up,  as  the  first  item,
agenda  item  7,  “Notification  by  the  Secretary-General
under  Article  12,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Charter  of  the
United Nations”.
On Monday, 22 October 2001, in the morning, the
General  Assembly  will  take  up,  as  the  third  item,
agenda item 17 (h), “Appointments to fill vacancies in
subsidiary organs and other appointments: appointment
of members of the Committee on Conferences”.
On Thursday, 1 November 2001, in the morning,
the General Assembly will take up agenda item 17 (g),
“Appointments  to  fill  vacancies  in  subsidiary  organs
and  other  appointments:  appointment  of  members  of
the Joint Inspection Unit”.
The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.
5
