United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
7th plenary meeting
Saturday, 14 September 2002, 3 p.m.
New York

A/57/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by The Right Honourable Sir Tomasi
Puapua, Governor General of Tuvalu
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Governor General of Tuvalu.
Sir Tomasi Puapua, Governor General of Tuvalu,
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable  Sir
Tomasi  Puapua,  Governor  General  of  Tuvalu,  and  to
invite him to address the Assembly.
Sir  Tomasi  Puapua  (Tuvalu):  Proud  as  we  are
that  our  small  island  nation  of  Tuvalu  is  a  member  of
this  great  family  of  nations,  first  we  must  give  thanks
to God Almighty for his love and for allowing us all to
participate  in  this  general  debate.  Let  me  also  extend
my 
the
Government  of  our  host  country,  the  United  States  of
America, for its warm hospitality and support.
appreciation 
to 
delegation’s 
sincere 
Tuvalu  warmly  congratulates  you,  Sir,  on  your
election  to  the  high  office  and  commends  highly  the
outgoing President for his leadership, especially during
a  very  challenging  year  for  the  Organization.  Tuvalu
also  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  strong  confidence  in  the
Secretary-General. In addition, we warmly congratulate
Switzerland  on  its  entry  into  the  United  Nations,  and
we welcome membership of East Timor later on in this
session.
Tuvalu  sincerely  joins,  both  in  spirit  and  hearts,
in  the  remembrance  of  the  great  loss,  particularly  of
innocent human lives, following the terrorist attacks on
American  soil  last  year.  We  pray  for  the  victims’
families  and  for  full  recovery  in  restoring  their  lives.
Within our own Organization, we are proud that of this
turmoil the United Nations has come out ever stronger
with the resolve to combat international terrorism.
In  Tuvalu  and  many  island  countries  in  the
Pacific,  we  know  our own  unique  vulnerability  is  also
fertile  ground  to  forces  of  terror  that  threaten  the
security and survival of the islands. It is in this regard
that  Tuvalu  is  committed  to  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum
Declarations  on  regional  security,  highlighted  in  the
Forum  Communiqué,  which  is  circulated  as  a  United
Nations  paper.  In  the  same  spirit,  last  year  Tuvalu
pledged  its  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  anti-
terrorism resolutions, and we still do. But we also need
both 
the
international  community  to  enable  us  to  fulfil  our
international obligations.
technical  and  financial  assistance  from 
Joining  and  being  part  of  the  United  Nations  is
never  easy,  particularly  for  a  small  and  poorly
resourced island country such as Tuvalu. Asserting our
place  here  competes  with  the  many  other  priorities  of
nation-building. However, our presence here is proof of
our  belief  all  along  since  our  independence  that,
the  United  Nations  principle  of  equal
through 
participation,  our  voice  on  our 
and
development  concerns  will  be  advocated  and  better
heard.
security 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-59007 (E)
*0259007*
A/57/PV.7
Although new, Tuvalu supports the reforms being
undertaken  in  the  Organization  to  streamline  and
ensure  efficiency.  In  particular,  it  supports  initiatives
that  have  been  developed  on  reforms  in  the  Security
Council and in the work of the Secretariat, and it is our
strong view that they warrant proper support. It is also
our  view  that  equitable  representation  more  reflective
of  the  diversity  in  the  United  Nations  membership,
both in the staffing of United Nations Secretariat and in
its  various  working  committees,  needs  to  be  properly
considered.
As a peace-loving nation, Tuvalu believes that the
paramount  mission of  the  United  Nations  must  remain
the maintenance of peace and security for all nations of
the  world, as clearly articulated in the preamble to the
United  Nations  Charter.  However,  a  long  outstanding
issue  that  also  warrants  serious  consideration  is  the
question  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan.  This
country has a  population  of 23  million  people, a  well-
defined territory and an established  democratic  system
of Government, and is a responsible international actor
in world trade and relations. It is, therefore, our strong
opinion  that  the  right  to  self-determination  of  the
people of the Republic of China and to join the United
Nations  should  be  urgently  addressed.  The  United
Nations  cannot  be  said  to  be  universal,  nor  can  global
peace  be  assured,  until  the  Republic  of  China  issue  is
properly resolved.
As  we  progress  in  the  new  century,  however,  we
are  increasingly  challenged  by  the  many  changes  that
are  taking  place.  Never  before  has  the  human  race
faced  such  complex  challenges.  We  are  in  a  world
where  the  concept  of  globalization  is  in  the  media
every  day.  Yet  while  we  share  a  world  where  trade,
communications  and  travel  appear  to  have  made  us  a
single  global  community,  large  parts  of  the  world
continue  to  suffer  from  poverty,  marginalization  and
environmental  decline.  We  are  far  from  being  a
cohesive global community. Unfortunately, Tuvalu and
many  small 
in  a
particularly  weak position to participate  fully  and  take
advantage  of  the  opportunities  of  globalization.  There
is a genuine need for special assistance to enhance our
capacity in this regard.
island  developing  States  are 
On  the  issue  of  conflict  prevention,  Tuvalu,  like
other  vulnerable  small  island  nations,  is  particularly
weary of conflicts and wars. It is our humble view that,
all  too  often,  countries  seem  compelled  to  resort  to
military and violent action in order to resolve conflicts
2
rather than seek to understand the root causes of these
conflicts. We strongly  feel this  approach  needs careful
reconsideration.  The  build-up  of  arms  and  massive
expenditure 
completely
overshadow all efforts to resolve the underlying causes
of  poverty,  unrest  and  instability.  For  us  to  survive  as
an international community we must reverse this trend.
We must also learn to listen to each other.
so-called 
defence 
on 
instability  and 
In  this  respect,  Tuvalu  firmly  believes  that  we
must  place  greater  faith  in  the  United  Nations  as  the
forum  for  meaningfully  addressing  poverty,  conflicts
and 
the  effects  of  environmental
degradation.  It  is  here,  in  the  common  house  of  the
human family, where countries should come, put down
their  arms,  listen  to  each  other  and  resolve  their
differences  together.  We  believe  that  this  is  the  only
way  forward  to  ensuring  long-lasting  world  peace,
security and sustainable development.
international 
Tuvalu agrees  with the importance of sustainable
development  and  subscribes  to  the  goals  espoused  in
the  Millennium  Declaration,  particularly 
those  on
poverty  eradication.  It  also  welcomes  the  holding  of
the  United  Nations 
conferences,
including, those on the rights of the child, financing for
development  and  the  review  of  the  implementation  of
Agenda  21  through  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.  In  addition,  Tuvalu  also  appreciates
commitments  made  recently  to  replenish  the  Global
Environment  Facility  (GEF),  so  vitally  important  to
many countries, especially to Small Island  Developing
States.
Tuvalu 
appreciates 
However,  while 
that  we  can  cope  with 
the
considerations for small island developing States in the
various  processes,  we  appeal  for  more  concrete
recognition,  particularly  by  the  donor  community,  of
our  special  case  so 
the
challenges  that  we  face,  particularly  with  regards  to
capacity-building through quality education and health,
access 
energy,
infrastructures  and  sanitation.  Without  additional  and
adequate resources, partnership initiatives arising from
those  processes  will  have  no  real  meaning,  especially
for those groups that are most in need, such as women,
children and people in rural and outer island areas.
fresh  water 
affordable 
to 
and 
It  need  not  be 
for  Tuvalu,
development  aid  is  indispensable  to  development.  For
us,  official  development  assistance  (ODA) 
the
development budget. The maintenance of vital services
repeated,  but 
is 
to our  people through innovative partnerships,  such  as
the  Tuvalu  Trust  Fund,  for  example,  would  not  have
been  possible  without  ODA.  I  would  like  at  this
juncture  to  acknowledge  with  great  sincerity  Tuvalu’s
appreciation 
partners,
particularly our traditional donors, old and new, such as
Australia,  New  Zealand,  the  United  Kingdom,  Japan,
the  European  Union  and  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan.
development 
all 
its 
of 
For  our  part,  having  progressed  as  a  sovereign
nation  with  relative  peace  and  stability  over  the  past
twenty-four years, Tuvalu is strongly committed to the
United  Nations  principle  of  good  governance.  The
recently  elected  Government  of  Tuvalu 
fully
committed 
the  principles  of  good  governance,
democracy  and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  It  is  also
committed 
in
harmony  with  Christian  values  and  traditional  and
cultural  norms.  As  in  the  past,  we  are  also  committed
to  the  prudent  management  of  finances  and  to  further
work on reforms to improve our systems.
to  accountability  and 
transparency, 
to 
is 
Tuvalu  is  surrounded  by  the  huge  Pacific  Ocean
and is  well  aware,  both  of  its  rights  to  its  vast  marine
resources  and  also  of  its  responsibility  to  ensure  the
proper and sustainable management of the potentials of
the  ocean.  We  therefore  fully  associate  ourselves  with
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum’s  Regional  Ocean  Policy
recently adopted by our leaders.
sea 
three  meters  above 
Finally,  peace,  security  and  long-term  livelihood
for the  world  will have  no meaning to  us  in Tuvalu in
the  absence  of  serious  actions  to  address  the  adverse
and devastating effects of global warming. At no more
than 
is
particularly exposed to those effects. Indeed our people
are  already  migrating 
to  escape.  We  are  already
suffering 
the  consequences  of  what  world
authorities  on  climate  change  have  consistently  been
warning  us.  Only  two  weeks  ago,  a  period  when  the
weather  was  normal  and  calm  and  the  tide  was  low,
unusually  big  waves  suddenly  crashed  ashore  and
flooded most parts of the capital island.
level,  Tuvalu 
from 
In  the  event  that  the  situation  is  not  reversed,
where  does  the  international  community  think  the
Tuvalu people can hide from the onslaught of sea-level
rise?  Taking  us  in  as  environmental  refugees  is  not
what  Tuvalu  is  after  in  the  long  run.  We  want  the
islands of Tuvalu and our nation to remain permanently
and  not  to  be  submerged  as  a  result  of  the  greed  and
A/57/PV.7
to 
We  once  again  appeal 
uncontrolled  consumption  of  industrialized  countries.
We  want our children to grow  up the  way  we  grew  up
in our own islands and in our own culture.
the 
industrialized
countries,  particularly  those  who  have  not  done  so,  to
urgently  ratify  and  to  fully  implement  the  Kyoto
Protocol  and  to  provide  concrete  support  in  all  our
adaptation  efforts  to  cope  with  the  effects  of  climate
change  and  sea-level  rise.  Tuvalu,  having  little  or
nothing to do with the causes, cannot be left on its own
to pay the price. We  must all  work  together.  May  God
bless you all, and God bless the United Nations.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Governor-General  of
Tuvalu for the statement he has just made.
The  Right  Honourable  Sir  Tomasi  Puapua,
Governor-General  of  Tuvalu,  was  escorted  from
the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I give the floor to Her Excellency
Mrs. Lydie Polfer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs and External Trade of Luxembourg.
Mrs.  Polfer  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French):
The  current  Chairman  of 
the  European  Union,
Mr.  Anders  Fogh  Rasmussen,  has  already  had  an
opportunity to  state  to  the  Assembly the  priorities  and
positions of the European Union. Luxembourg, through
its  commitment  on  a  day-to-day  basis,  reaffirms  its
dedication  to  multilateral  cooperation  and  to  the  work
of this universal Organization.
President  Kavan,  you  assumed  your  important
post through a new procedure designed to revitalize the
work of the General Assembly and intensify its impact.
I  am  sure  that  under  your  guidance  we  will  achieve
other significant successes.
Mr.  Han  Seung-soo  guided  the  work  of  the
previous session during a period when the international
situation  was  difficult  and  beset  by  serious  problems.
Thanks 
and  his
understanding  of  international  issues,  a  calm  and
fraternal  message  of  cooperation  and  concerted  action
resulted from our debates. We all are deeply grateful to
him for that.
experience 
extensive 
to  his 
3
A/57/PV.7
Our  Organization  also  has  the  advantage  of
having  a  Secretary-General  whose  humanism  and
outstanding 
universally
acknowledged. He has begun  his  second term  with  his
characteristic dynamism, which we all admire.
diplomatic 
skills 
are 
We wholeheartedly support the Secretary-General
in  the  discharge  of  his  important  mission.  There  is  no
doubt that multilateralism and the support of the United
their  own  particular
Nations  system  for 
dynamic.  We  are  counting  on  him 
the
Organization in accordance with  the  guidelines  set out
in the important statement he made last Thursday.
to  guide 
it  have 
Regarding  Iraq,  we  believe  that  the  international
community  must  continue  to  work  through  the  United
Nations,  which  is  charged  with  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  Iraq  must  provide
unconditional  and  unimpeded  access  to  the  inspectors
as  well  as  the  necessary  cooperation.  It  must  fulfil  its
obligations immediately. We are determined to support
the efforts of the United Nations to achieve that goal.
International  law  was  strengthened  considerably
with  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  on  1  July  last.  This
represents  a  major  step  forward  in  the  process  of  the
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  in  the  fight  against
impunity.  This  young  institution  must  receive  our  full
support.  Indeed,  it  represents  a  guarantee  in  terms  of
the  desire  for  protection,  which  is  so  deeply  rooted  in
each  of  us.  The  broadest  possible  ratification  of  the
Statute  of  the  Court  must  remain  a  high-priority
objective  of 
community.  The
European  Union  is  actively  working  to  that  end  to
ensure that the Court is genuinely universal in nature.
international 
the 
In 
on 
the 
Summit 
context, 
same  multilateral 
the
Sustainable
Johannesburg  World 
Development  has  just  concluded  with  the  observation
that  our  planet’s  natural  reserves  and  resources  are
limited  and  that  only  solidarity  can  reconcile  the
legitimacy  of  development  and  the  preservation  of  an
environment 
is  humankind’s
responsibility to achieve a balance in these two cases.
that  respects 
life.  It 
The Summit charted a course through the Plan of
sets  out  objectives  and
Implementation,  which 
timetables.  Some  may  feel  that  they  are  not  ambitious
enough,  but  they  certainly  can  guide  us.  We  need  to
implement 
this  plan,  and  here  new  partnerships
between  the  United  Nations,  Governments,  companies
and  civil  society  are  an  important  tool.  Governments,
4
however, 
responsibilities.
still  must 
shoulder 
all 
of 
their
In Doha, the World Trade Organization decided to
link the opening of markets and technical assistance to
development. 
In  Monterrey,  a  global  consensus
emerged  regarding  financing  for  development.  In  the
wake  of  Johannesburg,  there  is  a  need  now  to  create
synergetic  relationships  between  public  assistance,
support  from  companies, 
the
commitment 
organizations.
Poverty, pollution, overexploitation and, unfortunately,
violence,  too,  will  continue  for  a  long  time  to  fuel
pessimism.
local  resources  and 
non-governmental 
of 
to  note 
However,  we  are  encouraged 
that  are  moving  forward  and 
that
democracy  and  good  governance  are  concepts  and
practices 
that  are
increasingly broadly accepted. In this context, I should
like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  young  African  Union,  which
specifically 
the
advancement  of  the  principles  of  democracy  and  its
corollary, the protection of human rights.
its  objectives 
included 
among 
Human 
rights,  democracy,  development  and
security  are  closely  linked.  The  Council  of  Europe,
whose  principal  mission  is  the  championing  of  human
rights, pluralist democracy and the rule of law, has, like
the  United  Nations,  had 
tremendous
challenge  following  the  events  of  11  September.  Like
this  universal  Organization,  the  Council  of  Europe,
whose  chairmanship  Luxembourg  has  held  since
May  —  its  tenure  is  for  a  six-month  period  —  has
taken a series of specific  measures  in  the international
campaign against terrorism.
to  face  an 
In  addition  to  advancing  the  process  of  the
signing  and  ratification  of  international  instruments,
the Council has devised guidelines for an international
campaign  that  includes  full  respect  for  human  rights.
Indeed, when security is threatened, respect for human
rights becomes all the more important. As statesmen, it
is  our  obligation  to  prevent  anti-terrorist  legislation
from  infringing  on,  or  even  destroying,  democracy  in
its  attempt  to  champion  the  fundamental  values  of
freedom and to safeguard human rights.
The  events  of  11  September  provided  a  new
impetus,  as  we  all  are  well  aware,  to  cooperation
between 
all,
emphasized  the  need  to  pursue  dialogue  between
cultures  and  religions  and  to  step  up  the  process  of
reflection on civilizations in order to promote tolerance
institutional  partners 
above 
and, 
and  universal  respect  for  human  rights  when  we  are
faced with barbarism. Like the United Nations and the
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization,  the  Council  of  Europe  is  committed  to
that policy.
the 
and 
rights; 
Coordination 
important  centres  of 
complementarity  between
regional and international organizations are,  moreover,
among those priorities that Luxembourg has  set  for its
chairmanship. It might thus be useful to establish links
here  with 
the  Council
of  Europe,  namely  the  European  Court  of  Human
Rights  —  a  unique  mechanism  for  the  protection  of
human 
the  European  Commission  against
Racism and Intolerance; and, finally, the Committee for
the Prevention of Torture. It is indeed my hope that the
important  work on norms and standards carried out  by
the  Committee  at  the  European  level  will  one  day  be
implemented  at  the  international  level,  and  that  the
Optional  Protocol  to  the  United  Nations  Convention
against  Torture  —  a  Protocol  that  the  Assembly  will
soon  be  called  on  to  endorse  —  will  enjoy  the  same
success as its European predecessor. The establishment
of the rule of law for all of us is an objective for which
the High Commissioner  for Human  Rights,  Mrs.  Mary
Robinson worked tirelessly. She deserves our gratitude
for her courage and her contribution to this vital cause.
Her  successor,  Mr.  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  can  also
count on our full cooperation and support.
The  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on
the  rights  of  children  in  May  2002  allowed  us,  once
again,  to  condemn  that  indifference  which  kills  and
causes great suffering to millions of disadvantaged and
defenceless  individuals.  While  the  Convention  on  the
Rights of the Child has made it possible to specifically
improve  the  lives  of  countless  individuals,  work  must
be stepped up and expanded in order to  guarantee that
there will be a real difference for generations to come.
We  view  action  in  favour  of  women,  which  falls
under the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Discrimination against Women, in the same context.
Luxembourg would like to reaffirm its dedication to the
significant  work  carried  out  by  the  United  Nations
funds and agencies in these areas. In particular I would
like  to  mention  the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund
(UNICEF), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA),
United  Nations  Development  Fund 
for  Women
the  United  Nations  Development
(UNIFEM)  and 
Programme 
for
reproductive  health  is at the  crux  of  their  programmes
International 
(UNDP). 
action 
A/57/PV.7
and  today  it  remains  indispensable.  It  requires  firm
support and the necessary budgetary resources. This is
why  Luxembourg  firmly  supports 
the  efforts  of
UNFPA.
a 
few 
quite 
Reducing  funding  for  women  in  difficulty  is
totally  unjust  and  considerably  increases  the  suffering
of  these  individuals.  To  be  sure,  the  work  of  those
dedicated  persons  who  inspire  these  programmes  —
including 
non-governmental
organizations — will not come to an end any more than
the  labours  of  Sisyphus.  But,  are  we  not  all  aware  of
the progress which has been made possible in the daily
life of individuals,  groups  and  peoples,  progress  made
through 
institutions  which  have  been  carefully
conceived,  democratically  established,  well  managed,
which  in  addition  benefit  from  the  moral  authority
provided them by the United Nations?
Bearing  in  mind  the  destiny  of  the  individuals
who are threatened here, international officials must be
provided with the means to detect at an early stage any
possible violation of peace and international security. A
heightened  awareness  of  our  responsibility  to  provide
for  the  protection  of  civilian  populations  is  in  fact
necessary  to  allow  for  preventive  action  and,  in
particular, for maintaining peace.
As  has  been  rightly  noted  by  the  Secretary-
General,  such  preventive  action  should  be  done  by
strengthening the capacity of operational and structural
prevention  on  all  levels:  local  as  well  as  national,
regional  and  international,  bilateral  and  multilateral.
Increased 
is
required  so  as  to  replace  a  culture  of  reaction  by  a
genuine  culture  of  prevention.  The  importance  of
investing  in  conflict  prevention  strategies,  which  may
only yield fruit much later, is not always obvious. Such
a choice requires a strong will of commitment by all of
its players.
interaction  between  all 
levels 
these 
For  its  part,  our  universal  Organization,  through
the  Security  Council  and  other  bodies  of  the  United
Nations  system,  is  dedicated  to  defining  an  outline  of
possible  international  action  for  prevention  to  make  it
more  systematic  and  effective.  The  pivotal  role  of  the
United  Nations  and  its  authority  are  essential  to
achieve  this  end.  It  will  be  up  to  the  fifty-seventh
session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  deal  with  this
question as well.
Increasingly,  the  need  to  focus  attention  on  the
destinies  and  tragedies  experienced  by  victims  and
5
A/57/PV.7
among 
claim  victims 
react  to  the  fact  that  conflicts  today  deliberately  and
increasingly 
civilian
population  can  be  given  priority  status,  because
international relations today are no longer hampered by
the 
ideological  battles  of  yesterday.  However,
antagonisms have not disappeared and may even cloak
themselves in new forms. We need to remain vigilant.
the 
One  year  ago,  the  international  community  was
deeply shaken by the terrorist attacks of 11  September
2001  against  the  civilian  populations  of  New  York,
Washington  and  Pennsylvania.  A  few  days  ago  we
visited  Ground  Zero  as  a  sign  of  our  grief  and  to
reaffirm  our  determination  to  act  against  barbarity.
While  we  can  indeed  note  that  the  efforts  made  since
that  tragic  day  to  combat  international  terrorism  have
achieved  some  specific  results, 
this  should  not,
however,  prompt  us  to  let  down  our  guard.  Other
tragedies are still open wounds, such as the particularly
obvious case of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
through  new 
since  Oslo,  has 
The  Middle  East, 
seen
extraordinary efforts at mediation. Faced with violence
and  hate,  non-intervention  and  keeping  one’s  distance
are  not  real  options.  Efforts  are  continuing,  aimed  at
creating  conditions  for  new  negotiations  that  might
make  it  possible  to  conclude  the  work  that  has  been
languishing  since  Taba.  The  European  Union 
is
actively  participating  in  this  process  and  is  making
efforts, 
the  Danish
presidency,  to  once  again  put  the  political  context  at
the  heart  of  our  concerns.  The  tireless  efforts  of  the
international community are required to emphasize the
need  for  moderation.  Moderates,  on  whatever  side,
have no easy task when faced  with extremism. But  we
support  them.  Peace  requires  all  of  us,  in  fact,  to  be
internally split, as noted by Mr. Shlomo Ben Ami, but,
I  would  add,  it  will  also  include  reconciliation.  And
this must be prepared with the new external partner and
also  with  those  reluctant  domestic  forces,  which  must
be reintegrated into the peace process.
initiatives  of 
in 
Sri 
Developments 
Lanka,  moreover,
demonstrate  that  hope  can  win  the  day  over  violence.
In  the  case  of  Timor-Leste,  it  is  also  thanks  to  the
United Nations that this hope has been fulfilled. And in
Africa,  several  hotbeds  of  tension  have  been  eased  in
2002,  in  Angola,  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo and in Burundi in particular. The effort made by
the  international  community  in  Afghanistan  must,  as
we  know,  be  continued  over 
the
establishment  and  functioning  of  a  stable  democratic
insure 
time 
to 
6
fully 
and 
representative  State.  The  process  of
normalization  under  way  in  the  Balkans  deserves
similar attention.
After  some  160  years  of  existence  as  an
independent  State,  Luxembourg  is  fully  aware  of  the
limits inherent in its size and the means available to it.
In foreign policy we are acting with the firm conviction
that the multilateral system of cooperation is one which
provides  a  place  and  a  role  for  everyone.  In  an
interdependent  world,  we  all  must  shoulder  our
responsibilities and make our contribution.  And that is
the  basis  of  our  commitment 
the  universal
Organization, as it is the basis of our action to support
development in the world. This is why we wish to raise
our  official  development  assistance  to  1  per  cent  of
GNP,  after  having  been, in 2001, in  the  position  to  go
beyond  the threshold  of  0.7  per  cent  recommended  by
the United Nations.
to 
Our Organization brings together the international
community.  It  is  the  unique  forum  which  allows  for
exchanges  and  allows  us  to  chart  the  path  for  totally
new  solutions.  And  I  am  gratified  to  see  that  during
this  session there  are two  new  Members  here  in  2002,
namely  Switzerland  and  Timor-Leste.  We  congratulate
them  on  having  taken  this  decision  and  we  extend  a
warm welcome to them to our Assembly.
The President: I now call on His Excellency the
Honourable  Datuk  Seri  Abdullah  Ahmad  Badawi,  the
Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia.
Mr.  Badawi  (Malaysia):  Let  me  begin  by
congratulating you on your election as President of the
fifty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am
confident 
that  given  your  vast  experience  and
diplomatic  skills  you  will  be  able  to  steer  this  session
to a successful conclusion.
like 
to  your
distinguished  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Han
Seung-soo  of 
the
outstanding manner in which he conducted the work of
the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
the  Republic  of  Korea, 
I  would  also 
to  pay 
tribute 
for 
In addition,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity
to  welcome  the  Swiss  Confederation  as  the  190th
Member of our family of nations. We are confident that
its membership, which formalizes its long involvement
with the United Nations, will contribute enormously to
the  work  of  the  Organization.  We  look  forward  to
welcoming  our  newly 
the
independent  neighbour, 
Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  as  the  191st
Member of the United Nations in the very near future.
Malaysia  would  also  like  to  congratulate  Africa
on  the  establishment  of  the  African  Union  and  on  its
bold  new  initiatives,  such  as  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development.
thank 
I  also 
the  Secretary  General  for  his
statement  before 
the  General  Assembly.  Malaysia
shares  his  concerns  over  the  four  issues  identified  as
threats to world peace.
A  year  has  passed  since  the  evil  and  cowardly
attacks  against  the  Organization’s  host  country.  As  a
result,  the  world  has  changed  fundamentally  in  many
ways.  The 
been
galvanized into fighting all forms of terrorism. There is
greater  recognition  that  terrorism  is  a  global  problem
that crosses borders and lurks in many of our countries,
often without our knowledge.
international 
community 
has 
The  Security  Council  has  taken  prompt  action
resulting  in  mandatory  measures  aimed  at  eliminating
all forms and manifestations of terrorism and requiring
Member  States  to  take  legal,  administrative,  financial
control and other law enforcement  measures. Malaysia
supports  that  action  and  reiterates  its  commitment  to
comprehensively  fighting  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  at
the domestic, regional and international levels.
terrorist  groups 
Domestically,  our  Government  has  acted  swiftly
and  decisively  against 
that  have
threatened  both  our  national  security  and  international
security.  We  have  cooperated  extensively  at 
the
bilateral  level  by  sharing  intelligence  information  and
by  implementing  measures  to  cripple  transnational
crime  networks  that  abet  terrorist  activities.  In  the
Southeast  Asian  region,  Malaysia  and  its  partners  in
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  have
embarked on a programme of collaboration to deal with
the  issue  at  the  regional  level.  At  the  international
level,  in  addition  to  our  support  of  United  Nations
actions  and  other  international  and  bilateral  efforts  to
fight 
the
member  States  of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic
Conference and of the Commonwealth.
terrorism,  Malaysia  works  closely  with 
terrorism, 
However,  Malaysia  believes  that  in  our  quest  to
combat 
the  norms  and  principles  of
international  law  should  not  be  set  aside.  We  also
believe that in dealing with the menace, it is important
for  the  international  community  to  forge  a  broad
A/57/PV.7
If 
the 
consensus  on  what  constitutes  terrorism.  Without  a
clear  and  common  definition,  certain  perpetrators  of
terrorist  acts  will  justify  their  actions  in  the  name  of
State security or national liberation.
the  collective  effort  of 
international
community  to  win  the  fight  against  terrorism  is  to
succeed,  we  must  start  looking  at  the  problem  in  a
comprehensive  manner  and  must  respond  with  a
comprehensive strategy. It seems that in our urgency to
address  the  problem,  we  overlook  and  continue  to
ignore  why  it  exists  in  the  first  place.  We  forget  that,
however  unjustified, 
in
political  and  economic  grievances  that  still  have  not
been adequately addressed. The fight against terrorism
is  not  merely  a  fight  against  the  perpetrators  and
conspirators  of  terrorist  acts;  it  is  also  a  fight  against
poverty,  injustice,  subjugation  and  illegal  occupation
that  breed  anger  and  hatred.  There  can  be  no
comprehensive  victory  against  terrorism  if  the  root
causes of terror are not eliminated.
is  often  rooted 
terrorism 
Malaysia also regrets the continued association in
certain  quarters  of  Islam  and  Muslims  with  terrorism,
as  if  one  were  synonymous  with  the  other.  We  would
like  to  reiterate  that  no  race  or  religion  should  be
condemned  or  discriminated  against  simply  because
some  misguided  people  from  that  community  are,  or
may have been, involved in terrorist activities.
Just  as  it  is  easy  and  convenient  to  hold  a
monolithic  view  of  the  Muslim  world  and  therefore
assume  the  worst  about  every  adherent  of  the  Islamic
faith,  it  is  also  easy  for  Muslims  to  have  a  similarly
monolithic  and 
incorrect  view  of  other
civilizations. If we continue to view each other in such
terms,  the  confidence  that  has  been  engendered  in  the
international  community  in  our  fight  against  terrorism
can be eroded.
therefore 
It  is  with  those  considerations  in  mind  that
Malaysia continues to call for the convening of a high-
level international conference under the auspices of the
United Nations to examine the terrorism issue in all its
forms  and  manifestations  and  to  formulate  a  joint
response to this global threat.
Malaysia  is  concerned  at  the  apparent  lack  of
urgency  in  addressing  the  underlying  factors  that  lead
to  cause  terrorism.  For  example,  most  of  the  Muslim
world  believes  that  one  of  the  key  outstanding  issues
that  continue  to  elicit  resentment  and  fury  is  the
territories.
situation 
the  Palestinian  occupied 
in 
7
A/57/PV.7
their 
in  particular 
the  destruction  of 
Malaysia  believes  that,  while  all  acts  of  violence
against  innocent  civilians  —  whether  inflicted  by
suicide  bombers  or  by  security  forces  —  must  be
condemned,  we  must  be  even-handed  in  our  approach
in  dealing  with  the  situation  in  the  region.  It  is
important  that  we  understand  the  root  causes  of
violence there. We must put it in its proper context: the
continued  occupation  of  Arab  lands  by  the  Israeli
occupying  forces, 
the  demolition  of
Palestinian  homes,  the  devastation  of  their  towns  and
cities, 
livelihood  and
institutions  and,  worst  of  all,  the  loss  of  thousands  of
civilian  lives  and  the  wounding  of  tens  of  thousands
more  over  the  decades,  which  can  only  result  in
reactions 
Israel’s
oppressive policies and practices have made life for the
Palestinians  unbearable  and  have  engendered  only
hatred  and  resentment  against  the  occupying  Power,
illegal  settlers and  those  who  are perceived  to  provide
support  to  them.  Israel  must  take  advantage  of  the
acceptance of the two-State solution and recognize that
political and security issues must be looked at together.
It  must 
the
establishment  of  an  international  protection  force  to
separate the two parties.
the  Palestinian  people. 
acknowledge 
the  need 
from 
also 
for 
The 
including 
international  community, 
the
United Nations, cannot afford to stand on the sidelines
indefinitely.  It  is  time  for  the  Security  Council  to
become  more  actively  involved  and  intervene  directly
in  the  situation,  beginning  with  the  dispatch  of  a
United  Nations  or  other  international  peacekeeping
force to the occupied territories. Failure to act will only
perpetuate  the  violence  and  exacerbate  the  resentment
felt by the Palestinians — and by the Muslim world in
general  —  towards  those  who  are  perceived  to  be
responsible  for  refusing  to  address  this  issue  in  a  fair
and just manner.
importantly, 
We  are  pleased  that  Afghanistan  is  now  on  the
threshold  of  becoming  a  viable,  progressive  and
democratic  State.  However,  many 
impediments  to
national  unity  and  cohesion  remain.  These  must  be
overcome  through  sustained  international  support  and,
more 
the  political  will  and
commitment  of  the  people  of  Afghanistan  themselves.
Such  support  should 
increased
infusion  of  development  funds  and  other  forms  of
assistance and, more urgently, the promotion of a more
secure environment in the whole country. We owe it to
the  long-suffering  Afghan  people  to  assist  in  the
the  form  of 
through 
take 
8
rehabilitation  of  their  country  and  to  ensure  that  the
circumstances that led to their  civil  strife are  removed
and 
the
immediate  task  of  removing  terrorist  elements  in
Afghanistan is completed.
they  will  not  be  abandoned  once 
that 
If the international community does  not  focus its
efforts  on  comprehensively  fighting 
terrorism  by
attempting  to  find  a  credible  settlement  between  the
Palestinians  and  the  Israelis,  and  on  nation-building
efforts  in  Afghanistan,  it  risks  being  dragged  into
opening  up  battle  fronts  that  could  result  in  greater
instability 
the  world  and  hamper  efforts  at
combating terrorism.
in 
In  particular,  we  remain  concerned  that  targeting
Iraq  outside  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  and
in contravention of international law would not only be
wrong, but result in a more volatile world order. In this
regard,  we  welcome  the  decision  of  the  United  States
to  work  with  the  United  Nations  to  address  this  issue
rather  than  pursue  a  unilateral  policy  of  military
intervention.
Malaysia agrees that the United Nations must not
be  cast  aside.  Engaging  the  international  community
through  the  United  Nations,  however,  must  not  be
merely  an  exercise 
in  public  diplomacy.  The
international  community  cannot  be  made  to  assume
that  military  intervention  against  Iraq,  in  pursuit  of
both disarmament and regime change, is inevitable and
that  the  United  Nations  is  being  engaged  only  as  a
matter of course.
The  strength  and  relevance  of  this  Organization
has never come from affirming the unilateral designs of
one  Member  nation;  rather,  it  rests  on  the  collective
will of the  international  community  that  emerges  from
a  multilateral  process.  Engaging 
international
community  means  initiating  this  consensual  approach,
concerns,  without
which 
can 
destabilizing 
the  norms  of
international law.
region,  within 
address 
the 
security 
the 
it 
is 
In 
that 
imperative 
this  effort, 
the
international  community  be  presented  with  clear  and
incontrovertible evidence of the perceived threat posed
by  Iraq  to  regional  and  international  security.  At  the
same time, every diplomatic and political effort should
be made to urge Iraq to fully cooperate with the United
Nations,  including  by  allowing  the  return  of  United
Nations  weapons 
to  comply  with
Security Council resolutions, as every State Member of
inspectors,  and 
this  Organization  must  do,  so  as 
resolution to this issue.
to  facilitate  a
the  West,  especially 
A  pre-emptive  attack  against  Iraq  without  any
credible  evidence  being  provided  to  the  international
community  of  the  threat  it  poses  will  have  serious
implications  for  the  international  campaign  against
terrorism.  Such  an  attack  may  produce  real  cleavages
and  draw  imaginary  battle  lines  between  the  Muslim
world  and 
the  continued
oppression  of  the  Palestinians  remains  unattended-to.
Such  an  attack  could  swell 
the
discontented  in  the  Muslim  world.  It  would  provide  a
pretext  for  depraved  extremist  groups  bent  on  stoking
the  flames  of  populist  radicalism  to  mobilize  and
multiply.  While  it  is  important,  therefore,  to  view  the
Iraq  issue  in  terms  of  regional  security,  it  is  equally
important to understand the broader  consequences  that
will follow.
ranks  of 
if 
the 
In  our 
interdependent  world, 
to
strengthen the  multilateral process is  now  more  urgent
than  ever  if  we  are  to  achieve  our  common  goal  of  a
just  and  humane 
international  order  based  on
international cooperation and solidarity.
the  need 
in  ensuring 
the  centrality  of 
The broader membership of this Organization has
a  vital  stake 
the
multilateral process as embodied by the United Nations
and  its  specialized  and  affiliated  agencies.  Through  it,
the  Members  of  the  Organization  can  articulate  their
concerns  and  exercise  their  collective  will  in  the
protection  and  promotion  of 
their  interests.  It  is
therefore important to ensure that the Organization and
all  that  it  stands  for  are  not  set  aside  on  the  basis  of
expediency  or  the  exigencies  of  the  moment.  In  this
context  we  are  reassured  by  the  Secretary-General’s
emphasis on the imperative of the multilateral process.
As  the  country  that  will  hold  the  forthcoming
chairmanship  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),
Malaysia will work together with other NAM members
to  ensure  the  continued  centrality  of  this  process,
including the promotion of their development agenda.
In  this  context,  we  must  continue  to  exert  our
combined efforts to ensure that globalization works for
the benefit of all. In order to achieve this, we will have
to  create  an  international  environment  that  is  more
conducive  to  satisfying  the  legitimate  development
priorities and needs of developing countries, as well as
to  addressing  the  economic  imbalances  prevailing  in
the world today.
A/57/PV.7
The  United  Nations  has  a  pivotal  role 
in
strengthening  the  multilateral  process.  It  is  ironic  that
in  an  era  of  enormous  economic,  financial  and
technological  resources  and  capabilities,  the  world  is
witnessing  a  dangerous  crisis  of  confidence  in  the
credibility  of  multilateralism  as  a  result  of  certain
negative trends in the international system.
This  challenge  must  be  squarely  and  urgently
addressed and remedial action taken here at the United
Nations and in other relevant international forums. It is
the expectation of States Members of the Organization
that the United Nations will play a crucial and leading
role  in  all  of  these  efforts.  Therein  lies  the  continued
relevance of the United Nations to its Member States.
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  Mohamed  Benaissa,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs
and Cooperation of Morocco.
Mr.  Benaissa  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
should  like  at  the  outset  to  express  to  you,  Sir,  on
behalf  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  our  sincere
congratulations  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of
the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session and to
assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  cooperation  with  a
view to achieving a fruitful outcome to the session.
to 
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
extend  greetings 
the  Swiss  Confederation  and
congratulations on its membership of the Organization.
Given 
intellectual
heritage  of  that  friendly  country,  its  contribution  will
enrich the work of the Organization.
the  cultural,  humanitarian  and 
We  also  wish  to  congratulate  Timor-Leste  on  its
forthcoming accession to the Organization, and to wish
that country every success.
Just  three  days  have  elapsed  since  the  first
anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September 2001.
Those events deeply wounded the people of the United
States  and  shook 
the  entire  world  with  horror.
International  relations  have  since  entered  a  new  phase
whose  dimensions  and  repercussions  we  are  still
the
assessing.  Those  events  brought 
focus 
cohesion  and  solidarity  of  all  segments  of 
the
American people in the face of such tragedy. They also
brought to  the  fore  the  effectiveness  and  usefulness  of
solidarity  and  cooperation  among  States  in  combating
terrorism. Indeed, as His Majesty King Mohammed VI
has  stated,  terrorism  has  no  religion  or  homeland.
Everyone  is  aware  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco’s  firm
into 
9
A/57/PV.7
stance and its renunciation of terrorism in all its forms,
as  well  as  its  vigorous  and  concrete  commitment  to
combating this scourge.
The  gradual  disappearance  of  economic  borders
and barriers to trade, the continued interdependence of
markets  and  societies, 
the  rapid  development  of
information  and  communication  technologies  and  the
relegation  of  certain  peoples  to  the  sidelines  of  the
world community have all added new challenges to the
burdens  already  carried  by  numerous  countries,  in
particular  those  in  Africa,  which  have  made  great
sacrifices in order to be integrated into the world trade
system.
The  African  continent,  unfortunately,  is  still  a
stage  of  tragic,  complicated  and  generally  fabricated
conflicts.  While  Africa  teems  with  huge  natural  and
human  resources,  those  very  resources  paradoxically
become  the  cause  and  the  fuel  of  many  conflicts.  Yet
the  international  community  remains  hesitant  to  take
decisive  and  necessary  measures  likely  to  create  a
climate  propitious  for  peace  and  stability  in  our
continent.
Seldom  are  the  underlying  reasons  for  conflict
and instability in Africa taken into account. Of special
importance  in  that  regard  are  poverty,  famine,  the
oppression of minorities, intolerance, control of natural
resources,  increased  flows  of  refugees  and  displaced
persons  and  health  problems 
including  endemic
diseases, in particular HIV/AIDS.
But  now,  to  face  up  to  all  these  challenges,  our
continent has established an integrated  framework:  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).
It will certainly give new impetus to the economic and
social  development  of 
the  continent.  Morocco,
expresses  its  hope  that  the  international  community
will  mobilize  all  its  efforts  within  the  framework  of
this  energetic  programme  in  order  to  reach  effective
and concrete solutions for solving the problems  of our
continent.  My  country  is  firmly  intent  on  making  an
effective contribution to this endeavour.
link  between  economic  growth  and 
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco,  convinced  of  the
organic 
the
maintenance  of  stability  and  security,  has  spared  no
effort to help in settling African conflicts. In this vein,
Morocco,  on 
initiative  of  His  Majesty  King
Mohammed  VI,  convened  a  summit  of  heads  of  State
of the Mano River Union,  which  was held at Rabat on
27 February 2002. At the summit, the Presidents of the
the 
10
sister  countries  of  Guinea,  Liberia  and  Sierra  Leone
achieved  practical  results  on  consolidating  regional
peace,  particularly  with  regard  to  laying  down  criteria
for 
and
revitalizing  the  work  of  the  general  secretariat  of  the
Mano River Union. Morocco will pursue the necessary
efforts to restore peace and stability in that region.
confidence-building, 
security 
border 
In  the  same  vein,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco
continues  its  support  for  and  contribution  to  the  work
of  the  United  Nations  Organization  Mission  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC),  with  a
view  to  putting  an  end  to  conflict  in  that  sisterly
country, conflict which threatens stability in the  whole
region.  In  that  context,  my  country,  the  Kingdom  of
Morocco,  welcomed  the  agreement  concluded  on  30
July 2002 between the Governments of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Rwanda.
The  Kingdom  of  Morocco  expresses  also  its
profound  satisfaction  at  the  restoration  of  peace  and
stability  in  the  sister  country  of  Angola,  which  will
enable that country to rebuild its economy and to fully
play 
role  at 
regional,  continental  and
international levels.
the 
its 
Concerning the issue of the Moroccan Sahara, the
Kingdom  of  Morocco  would  like  to  recall  its  constant
good will, and its sincere and genuine determination to
reach  a  final  political  solution  to  this  fabricated  issue.
Morocco  has  always  cooperated  with 
the  United
Nations in this regard, thus bearing testimony to its full
understanding  of  and  sense  of  responsibility  towards
the  Organization.  Morocco  would 
to
emphasize  its  readiness  to  continue  its  cooperation
with  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Personal  Envoy,
Mr. James Baker, with the Security Council, in order to
achieve  a  lasting  political  solution  to  the  issue  of  the
Sahara, in accordance with Security Council resolution
1429  (2002).  Such  an  approach  will  pave  the  way  for
the creation of propitious conditions for a new dynamic
in the region of the Arab Maghreb, which will enable it
to  become  a  stable  economic  partner  that  enjoys  the
trust of other regional groupings.
like  also 
In this context, Morocco has supported the option
of the framework agreement proposed by Mr. Baker to
the  Security  Council  as  a  basis  for  a  negotiated
political  solution  for  this  long-standing  conflict.  That
option  would  preserve  the  territorial  integrity  of  the
Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  its  historical  sovereignty
over  its  land,  and  would  ensure  for  the  population  of
the  Sahara  provinces 
the  exercise  of  expanded
competencies in the management of their affairs within
the  framework  of  regional  democratic  institutions.
Morocco accepted this option as a basis for negotiation
in order to reach a final and lasting political solution to
this regional conflict.
In  the  same  context,  Morocco  insists  on  the
enforcement  of  the  provisions  of  Security  Council
resolution  1429  (2002),  calling  for  the  immediate
release,  without  restriction  or  condition,  of  all  the
1,260 Moroccans detained in Algeria. Their release has
been  demanded  unanimously  by 
international
community  and  humanitarian  organizations,  in  the
forefront  of  which  is  the  International  Committee  of
the  Red  Cross  (ICRC).  Morocco  categorically  rejects
any political exploitation of humanitarian issues related
to  the  Sahara  problem,  especially  since  this  concerns
the fate of the longest-held detainees in the world.
the 
at 
the 
relations 
The Kingdom of Morocco is linked to Europe by
strong and diverse historic bonds. The strengthening of
these  bonds  with  all  European  countries  constitutes  a
central  tenet  of  our  foreign  policy.  The  Association
Agreement  which  has  been  concluded  with 
the
European Union, and the other initiatives to strengthen
Moroccan-European 
political,
economic, cultural and social levels, reflect Morocco’s
determination to enhance this relationship, particularly
at a time when the European Union is in the process of
expanding its  membership, something that  would open
new  opportunities  and  horizons 
for  Moroccan-
European partnership. This approach not only seeks to
achieve a bilateral strategic objective between Morocco
and  Europe,  but  it  is  also  a  valuable  contribution  to
nurturing  relations  in  the  Euro-Mediterranean  region,
whose  security  and  stability  have  become  paramount
for the world.
Morocco, by  virtue of its  Mediterranean identity,
plays  a  positive  role  in  the  strategic,  economic  and
cultural  formation  of  a  Euro-Mediterranean  space,  as
witnessed  by  its  active  participation  in  the  Barcelona
process  and  in  the  Agadir  initiative  announced  by  His
Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  for  building  a  free-trade
area among Arab Mediterranean countries.
In  that  spirit  of  open-mindedness,  responsibility
and  confidence  in  the  future,  Morocco  aspires  to
develop  its  relations  with  our  neighbouring  country,
Spain, with a view to building the Euro-Mediterranean
region  and  moving  forward.  Unfortunately,  however,
A/57/PV.7
recent  months  have  been  marked  by  events  that  are
inconsistent  with  the  maintenance  of  security  and
stability in the region and that are unlikely to serve the
interests of the two countries and their peoples.
Morocco  has  spared  no  efforts  in  avoiding  any
move likely to affect adversely the steady growth of its
relations  with  Spain,  hopes 
the  upcoming
Moroccan-Spanish  talks,  which  will  take  place  in
Madrid  this  month,  will  tackle  all  issues  and  conflicts
between  the  two  countries,  within  the  framework  of
responsible, calm and constructive dialogue.
that 
The  completion  of  Moroccan  territorial  integrity
is  an  absolute  priority 
for  His  Majesty  King
Mohammed  VI  and  for  the  entire  Moroccan  people.
Therefore,  Morocco  considers 
the
occupied  cities  of  Sebta  and  Melilia  and  of  the
neighbouring islands to be an anachronistic instance of
colonialism  that  has  no  place  at  the  beginning  of  the
twenty-first century.
the  status  of 
Morocco has never ceased, neither at the bilateral
level  nor  in  international  forums,  to  officially  demand
the recovery of these parts of its national territory that
are  occupied  by  Spain.  In  so  doing,  it  has  always
expressed  its  readiness  to  engage  in  dialogue  in  order
to arrive at a solution that  would  guarantee  Morocco’s
sovereign rights and secure the interests of the Spanish
community in the areas.
We  fervently  hope  that  the  two  neighbouring
kingdoms, Morocco and Spain, which are bound by ties
of  neighbourliness,  common  history  and  future,  will
build  strong,  stable  and  neutral  relations  to  meet  the
aspirations of both peoples. As they build  with  mutual
respect,  confidence  and  common  strategic  interests,
these  relations  will  take  into  account  the  need  for
preserving 
region,
particularly  at 
the
international  community 
is  confronting  formidable
security challenges.
and  peace 
specific 
stability 
this 
juncture  when 
in  our 
In  spite  of  continued  appeals  made  by 
the
international  community  to  bring  about  peace  in  the
Middle  East,  the  Palestinian  people  still  suffer  on  a
daily basis from the mad violence inflicted on them by
the Israeli occupation forces and practices that flout the
most 
international
humanitarian law. Notwithstanding successive Security
Council resolutions, Israel still persists in its repressive
policy,  paying  no  heed  to  any  international  covenant
elementary 
principles 
of 
11
A/57/PV.7
and  denying  the  very  agreements  into  which  it  has
entered.
In  contrast,  leaders  of  the  Arab  States  have
demonstrated  a  keen  sense  of  responsibility  and  a
continued pledge to embrace peace, culminating at the
Arab  summit  in  Beirut  in  March  2002  with  the
adoption of the  Arab  peace initiative presented by  His
Royal  Highness  Crown  Prince  Abdullah  ibn  Abdul-
Aziz  of  the  sister  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.  On  the
other hand, Morocco welcomes the vision advocated by
United  States  President  George  W.  Bush,  in  which  he
called  for  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  to
coexist side by side with Israel, as a lasting and viable
solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  one  likely  to
achieve peace and security for all peoples of the region
and  to  put  a  definite  end  to  violence  and  instability.
However, recent events and developments in the region
do not, unfortunately, give substance to this vision. The
spiral 
an
unprecedented escalation.
instead  witnessed 
violence 
has 
of 
For  decades,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  been
endeavouring to act as a bridge between the peoples of
the region, with a view to achieving a climate of peace
and  security  and  contributing  to  the  revitalization  of
the  peace  process,  the  creation  of  an  independent
Palestinian  State  with  Al-Quds  al-Sharif  as  its  capital
and  the  recovery  by  Syria  and  Lebanon  of  their
territories occupied since 1967.
In view of the importance of Al-Quds al-Sharif as
a  key  point  in  the  peace  process,  and  seeking  to
preserve the national and religious identity of this Holy
City  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security  Council
resolutions,  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI,
Chairman of the Al-Quds Committee, is continuing his
efforts, along with brother Kings, Emirs and Presidents
of  the  Muslim  member  States  of  the  Committee,  with
the  United  States  of  America  and 
the  Russian
Federation in their capacity as peace patrons, and  with
the  presidency  of  the  European  Union,  with  His
Holiness 
the  United  Nations
Secretary-General,  in  order  to  safeguard  the  Islamic
Arab character of  Al-Quds  al-Sharif and  to  preserve it
as a place of coexistence and tolerance among the three
revealed religions.
the  Pope  and  with 
to 
the 
the 
the 
that 
respond 
Iraqi  question,  hoping 
also  call  for  deep  reflection  and  patience  in  dealing
with 
Iraqi
Government  will 
international
community’s  request.  The  aim  would  be  to  avoid  the
infliction  of  further  suffering,  distress  and  misery  on
the  Iraqi  people.  At  any  rate,  the  United  Nations  is
required  to  act  within  the  framework  of  its  Charter’s
principles  and  purposes  in  order 
to  preserve  the
stability  and  security  of  all  countries  in  the  region.  In
this context, Morocco expresses its concern with regard
to  the  Kuwaiti  prisoners  of  war  and  missing  persons,
and the need to preserve the unity and independence of
the State of Kuwait. Morocco also emphasizes the need
to  preserve  Iraq’s  unity  and  sovereignty  over  all  its
territory.
The  same  region  is  witnessing  another  conflict
involving  two  sister  States  that  have  strong  bonds  of
friendship and cooperation with Morocco — that is, the
United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
My  country  is  hopeful  that  our  brothers  in  Iran  will
become  convinced  of  the  need  to  settle  the  conflict
over the islands of Abu Musa, the Greater Tunb and the
Lesser  Tunb,  by  peaceful  means,  in  accordance  with
the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the
rules  of  international  law.  This  will  affect  positively
their  bilateral  relations,  as  well  as  the  stability  and
cooperation in the region.
In  conclusion,  under 
leadership  of  His
the 
Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI, 
the  Kingdom  of
Morocco,  as  a  member  of  the  African,  Arab,  and
Muslim  family  and  given  its  position  in  the  Euro-
Mediterranean  region,  has  always  held  dear  the  basic
values  of  tolerance,  moderation,  open-mindedness  and
dialogue  in  dealing  with  the  international  community.
Morocco will always honour its obligations towards the
international  community  to  strengthen  the  foundations
of security and stability and to give impetus to the new
visions  charted  for  the  world  of  the 
twenty-first
century.  We  will  always  remain  ready  to  contribute
within the United Nations to finding the most efficient
means of improving conditions in the world.
The  President:  I  call  on  His  Excellency  The
Honourable Phil Goff, the Minister for Foreign Affairs
and Trade of New Zealand.
The Iraqi issue has become a major preoccupation
for the entire world, owing to the suffering of the Iraqi
people.  For  this  reason,  while  we  demand  that  Iraq
implement the relevant United Nations resolutions,  we
Mr.  Goff  (New  Zealand):  Mr.  President,  may  I
begin by congratulating you on your assumption of the
presidency  and  assure  you  of  New  Zealand’s
cooperation during your term of office.
12
The  opening  of  this,  the  fifty-seventh  session  of
the  General  Assembly,  came  just  one  day  after  the
anniversary  of  the  terrorist  attack  of  11  September
2001,  which  shocked  this  city  and  the  international
community. The premeditated and callous mass murder
of 3,000 people from 79 different countries was a sharp
warning  to  us  of  the  ongoing  threats  to  peace  and
stability  in  our  world.  It  was  to  protect  humanity
against such threats that the nations of the world came
together  in  1945  to  establish  this  Organization  in  the
belief that collective action was necessary to guarantee
global peace.
Today,  in  the  second  year  of  a  new  millennium,
the  need  to  act  multilaterally  is  greater  than  ever
before.  Terrorism,  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
environmental  degradation,  people-smuggling,  drug-
trafficking,  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS  and 
the
unsustainable depletion of our natural resources are all
global matters that require a collective response.
We can be proud that a year ago the response  by
the United Nations to a new and unprecedented level of
terrorism  was  immediate,  united  and  effective.  The
primary victim of the attack, the United States, sought
and secured international cooperation that achieved the
incapacitation  of  the  Al  Qaeda  terrorist  organization
and the removal of the Taliban  regime  that  had  hosted
it. It was a model for international unity of purpose and
multilateral  action.  It  was  a  lesson  that  should  not  be
forgotten  as  this  Organization  tackles  other  problems
confronting humanity.
New  Zealand  has  worked  wholeheartedly  under
the  mandate  provided  by  the  United  Nations  to  defeat
terrorism.  We  have  introduced  legislation  to  deny
terrorist  organizations  funding  and  resources  in  line
with Security Council resolution 1373 (2001). We have
sought to assist our neighbours in the Pacific to do the
same.  We  have  committed  peacekeeping  personnel  to
the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and
combat  forces  under  Operation  Enduring  Freedom  in
Afghanistan.  But  we  are  also  aware  that  actions  to
suppress  terrorism  must  be  accompanied  by  measures
to  tackle  the  causes  of  terrorism.  Injustice,  lack  of
opportunity,  hopelessness,  desperation  and  the  failure
of  legitimate  channels  to  redress  grievances  all  give
rise to resort to terrorist actions.
The failure to resolve differences between Israeli
and Palestinian people in the Middle East continues to
be  a  catalyst  for  recruitment  into  terrorism.  The
A/57/PV.7
Secretary-General,  in  opening  this  session,  spelled  out
the basis for resolving the dispute. He referred to land
for  peace,  an  end  to  terror  and  to  occupation,  and  to
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  with  secure  and
recognized  borders.  Both  peoples  are  destined  to  live
side by side. Both will benefit from an end to violence
and  a  negotiated  settlement.  But  agreement  requires
good  faith  from  each  side  and  a  determined  effort  by
the  international  community.  We  fully  endorse  the
Secretary-General’s  renewed  call  for  an  international
peace  conference.  Progress  on  this  issue  is  now  more
vital than ever.
this  Organization.  That 
The  situation  in  Iraq  is  also  a  threat  to  world
peace, but we must look for solutions that  will resolve
and  do  not  exacerbate  that  threat.  No  nation  can  be
exempt  from  the  requirement  to  comply  with  the
resolutions  passed  by 
is
necessary if the rule of law  is  to  apply internationally.
No  nation  can  be  allowed  to  commit  aggression  or  to
use  weapons  of  mass  destruction  against  its  own
to  comply  with  United
people.  The  requirement 
Nations  resolutions  is  not  the 
instruction  of  one
country  to  Iraq;  it  is  collective  instruction  that  should
have 
the  unanimous  endorsement  of  all  Member
countries.
Iraq’s  non-compliance  with  Security  Council
resolutions  is  a  challenge  to  the  entire  United  Nations
membership.  The  United  Nations  must  meet 
this
challenge.  How  the  situation  is  resolved  matters  to  us
all, not least the countries of the region itself.
Those  who  can  exercise  influence  over  Iraq
should  do  so  to  avoid  the  need  for  resort  to  other
actions.  The  response  chosen  by  the  Security  Council
must,  however,  take  into  account  the  need  not  to
impose further costs on ordinary Iraqi  people innocent
of  any  wrongdoing.  The  response  should  not  involve
actions that undermine, rather than strengthen, the  war
against terrorism.
The  United  Nations  has  shown  that  collective
action can save lives and help rebuild nations. We will
soon  welcome  the  world’s  newest  nation,  East  Timor,
into  the  United  Nations,  and  we  should  celebrate  the
success  of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  mission
and  Transitional  Administration  in  that  country.  I
congratulate  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  the  Secretary-
General’s  former  Special  Representative,  on  his  role,
and I thank those countries that contributed so much to
13
A/57/PV.7
giving hope and opportunity to the people of that small
country.
that 
they  have  performed 
New Zealand has had a battalion of peacekeepers
deployed in East Timor since September 1999, and also
has peacekeepers serving in 12 other countries. We are
proud 
their  role  with
professionalism  and  respect  for  the  people  in  whose
countries  they  operate.  Notwithstanding  the  small  size
of  our  population,  New  Zealand  currently  is  the
twenty-second-largest 
the  United
Nations peacekeeping personnel.
contributor 
to 
the 
action  by 
The  promotion  of  human  rights  is  another  area
where  multilateral 
international
community is essential. In the Universal Declaration of
Human  Rights  and  in  the  International  Covenant  on
Civil  and  Political  Rights,  the  United  Nations  has  set
out  universal  standards  for  the  observance  of  human
rights.  There  is  no  justification  for  any  country  to
deviate from those human rights standards. It is a mark
of  shame  that  States  Members  of  this  Organization
continue  to  breach  basic  human  rights  and  a  disgrace
that  other  countries  too  often  act  as  apologists  for  the
offending regimes.
by 
efforts 
An  important  landmark  in  the  last  year  has  been
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the
International  Criminal  Court.  As  the  culmination  of
non-governmental
longstanding 
organizations,  Governments  and 
the 
international
community  as  a  whole,  it  offers  the  prospect  of
bringing  justice  to  the  victims  of  the  most  horrific
crimes  known 
their
perpetrators to justice. It will serve as a deterrent where
none  has  existed before.  We  have  listened  carefully  to
those  who  argue  that  the  Court  is  not  necessary  and
that  it  unduly  jeopardizes  their  peacekeepers,  but  we
cannot  agree.  The  status  quo,  relying  on  domestic
jurisdiction  alone,  has  failed  humankind  throughout
history and has borne witness to appalling crimes. The
new regime has carefully built-in safeguards to protect
the innocent.
to  humankind  and  bringing 
We were dismayed by the actions of the Security
Council  in  July.  At  that  time,  we  challenged  both  the
legitimacy  and  the  substance  of  the  Council’s  action.
We do not believe that it was consistent with the Rome
Statute  or  that  the  Council  is  able  to  arrogate  to  itself
the power to change treaty relationships.
A further issue on which greater progress must be
made  is  that  of  disarmament.  The  fact  that  humanity
14
survived the nightmare of potential nuclear destruction
during  the  cold  war  cannot  be  allowed  to  make  us
complacent  about  ongoing  threats  from  weapons  of
mass destruction.
We  welcome  the  Treaty  of  Moscow  and  the
agreement between Russia and the United States to cut
the  number  of  strategic  nuclear  weapons  each  country
deploys.  These 
reductions,  however,  are  not  a
substitute  for 
total
elimination of, those weapons.
irreversible  cuts 
in,  and 
the 
In some respects even greater danger is posed by
short-range  tactical  nuclear  weapons.  There  is  a  real
risk  that  these  could  be  launched  by  accident  or  in
confusion,  with  no  time  available  for  communication
between opposing sides.
Over  the  last  year,  two  significant  events  have
made our world a most dangerous place. The first is the
emergence  of  international  terrorist  groups  that  have
shown  their  willingness  to  use  weapons  of  mass
destruction  —  biological,  chemical  or  nuclear  —
should they gain access to them.
The  second is  the  situation  in  South  Asia,  where
the  world  recently  came  close 
to  direct  conflict
between  two  countries  with  nuclear  capability.  The
international community has not done enough to reduce
those risks.
The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty  has
not  been  brought  into  effect.  Progress  towards  the
implementation  of  undertakings  made  by  nuclear-
weapon  States  at  the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  Review
Conference  has  stalled.  Nations  have  not 
taken
sufficient  steps 
the  production  of  fissile
material and to reduce stocks.
to  stop 
In this and in many other areas much more needs
to be  done  to  address  growing  problems  that  affect all
of  us.  The  awful  toll  of  HIV/AIDS,  slowness  in
response  to  global  warming  and  the  growth  in  the
smuggling  and  trafficking  of  people  are  but  three
further examples.
Mr. Tokaev (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
It  is  essential  that  we  renew  our  commitment  to
multilateralism  as  the  best  way  to  address  global
problems.  That  requires  not  simply  money  but,  must
importantly,  political  will.  It  is  not  a  case  of  putting
global  interests  ahead  of  national  interests.  Global
interests  are  national  interests.  The  United  Nations  is
our  most  valuable  international  organization,  but  we
need to do more to enhance its relevance, value and its
unique  authority.  All  of  us  are  stakeholders  in  its
success.
speaker, 
I 
like 
should 
regarding 
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to
the  next 
to  make  an
announcement 
the  high-level  plenary
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to  consider  how  to
support the New Partnership for  Africa’s Development
(NEPAD),  which,  as  you  know,  will  be  held  on
Monday,  16  September.  Draft  resolution  A/57/L.2,
entitled  “United  Nations  Declaration  on  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development”,  has  just  been
distributed in the General Assembly Hall.
Also,  in  view  of  the  really  very  high  number  of
speakers already inscribed on the list of speakers and in
order to comply with the decision of the Assembly that
the high-level plenary meeting on NEPAD should meet
from 9.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. and then from 3.00 p.m. to
7.00  p.m.  on  Monday,  I  would  like  to  ask  for  the
cooperation  of  speakers  in  the  debate  on  NEPAD  by
limiting  their  statements  to  five  minutes.  I,  therefore,
appeal  to  speakers  in  the  debate  on  NEPAD  to  keep
that five-minute limit in mind when they are preparing
their  statements  for  Monday.  Thank  you  for  your
understanding.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mrs.  Benita  Ferrero-
Waldner, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Austria.
Mrs.  Ferrero-Waldner  (Austria):  Let  me  begin
by welcoming Switzerland, our western neighbour, as a
full  member  of  the  United  Nations  and  her  first
the  General  Assembly  after  her
participation 
accession.  Without  our  Swiss  friends 
the  United
Nations  would  not  be  complete.  Expanding  the  global
reach  of  the  United  Nations  can  be  seen  as  a  positive
aspect of globalization.
in 
Having supported United Nations efforts to bring
about  a  solution  to  the  East  Timor  conflict  for  many
years, Austria also looks forward to 27 September and
wishes  to  congratulate  East  Timor  on  becoming  the
191st Member of the United Nations.
Austria fully aligns itself with the statement made
by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Denmark  on  behalf  of  the
European  Union. 
to  add  a 
few
observations to that very comprehensive statement.
I  should 
like 
A/57/PV.7
Let  me  reiterate  the  sympathy  of  the  Austrian
people  for  the  victims  of  11  September  2001.  Austria
has shown strong solidarity from the first hour after the
attacks  and  has  acted  in  unison  with  her  European
partners and the United Nations to combat terrorism —
a  resolve  that  remains  strong  and  will  continue  to  do
so.
As a former staff member of the United Nations, I
wish  to  convey  my  country’s  sincere  gratitude  to  the
many  dedicated  people  who  are  in  the  service  of  the
United  Nations 
the  other
headquarters  in  Vienna  and  Geneva,  as  well  as  out
there  in  the  field,  for  their  efforts  on  behalf  of  the
international community in its fight against terror.
in  New  York  and  at 
Combating  terrorism  requires  a  global  effort  and
a  comprehensive  approach:  prevention  and 
the
protection  of  the  security  of  our  countries  and  of  the
basic  values  of  freedom  and  human  rights,  as  well  as
coercive  measures  as  a  last  resort.  We  must,  however,
base  our  decisions  and  actions  on  international  law.
The  Security  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism  Committee
(CTC)  under  the  very  able  leadership  of  Sir  Jeremy
Greenstock,  Ambassador of the  United  Kingdom,  is  at
the core of the United Nations coordinating role.
We  must  ensure  that  all  States  join  and  can  join
those  efforts.  To  promote  that  goal,  Austria  hosted  a
symposium on combating international terrorism at the
Vienna International Centre in June of this year, which
highlighted  the  capacity  of  the  Vienna-based  United
Nations Office for Drug Control and Crime Prevention
(ODCCP)  to  provide  efficient  technical  assistance  to
Member States in their fight against terrorism.  Austria
will make an additional million euros available for the
strengthening of the ODCCP.
the  need 
I  am  glad  to  note  that  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  shares  our  view  on  the  importance  of  the
Vienna-based United Nations units, as expressed in his
report  on 
the  Terrorism
Prevention  Branch  of  the  Secretariat.  The  report  of
Policy  Working  Group  on  the  United  Nations  and
Terrorism  published  earlier  this  week  comes  to  the
same  conclusion.  I  therefore  call  upon  the  Member
States to support that position.
to  strengthen 
It  is  also  important  to  remind  ourselves  that  the
fight  against  terrorism  cannot  be  fought  with  soldiers
and  policemen  alone;  we  also  need  to  fight  the  root
causes: 
inequality,
levels  of  poverty, 
the  abject 
15
A/57/PV.7
injustice,  the  lack  of  sustainable  development  and  of
good governance.
When it  comes  to  dangers  for  world  security,  we
also have to focus on unresolved and perilous regional
conflicts, such as in the Middle East. What is needed is
an  effort  to  speedily  arrive  at  a  political  solution
providing  for  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  within
secure  and  recognized  borders.  Austria  seconds  the
idea  of  an  early  international  conference  with  the
support  of  the  Quartet  and  interested  countries  of  the
region aimed at finding solutions to the political issues
such  as  the  final  borders  of  the  two  States,  the  final
status  of  Jerusalem  and  the  question  of  refugees.
Austria  considers  the  newly  designed  road  map  of  the
European  Union  towards  the  establishment  of  an
independent and sovereign Palestinian State in the next
three years to be a good basis for achieving a final and
comprehensive settlement of the conflict in accordance
with  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338
(1973)  and  1397  (2002),  taking  into  consideration  the
Arab peace plan adopted in Beirut as well.
While continuing to respect the elected leadership
of  the  Palestinian  people  the  European  Union  has
expressed  its  readiness  to  give  all  necessary  and
possible  support 
the
Palestinian  Authority.  Austria  participates  actively  in
those  efforts.  Austria  is  also  deeply  concerned  that
human 
attained
unacceptable  levels,  be  it  as  a  result  of  terror  or  of
countermeasures.
reform  process  of 
conflict  has 
suffering 
the 
the 
to 
in 
The  Middle  East  has  also  garnered  the  attention
of  the  international  community  in  the  context  of  the
danger  of 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  The  growing  tensions  result  from  the
continued  non-compliance  with  United  Nations
Security  Council  resolutions  on  the  part  of  Iraq.  The
potential 
threat  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction
endangering  world peace  through  such  policies  should
not  and  cannot  be  tolerated.  For  that  reason  Austria
supports the tireless efforts of the Secretary-General to
bring  about  the  speedy,  unfettered  and  unconditional
return  of  United  Nations  weapons  inspectors  to  Iraq,
along  with  full  compliance  with 
the  obligations
contained in all relevant Security Council resolutions.
Austria  welcomes  the  statement  of  President
George  Bush 
and
multilateral  support  and  cooperation  with  the  Security
Council  on  the  issue  of  how  to  deal  with  the  threat
seeking  broad 
international 
16
emanating  from  regimes  that  support  terror  or  seek  to
acquire weapons of mass destruction. Only the Security
Council  can  provide  the  legitimacy  we  need.  At  the
same time, it is evident that the Security Council itself
has  to  take  responsibility  for  ensuring  full  compliance
with its resolutions in order to maintain world peace.
The conflict between India and Pakistan over the
issue  of  Kashmir  also  needs  an  urgent  political
solution.  The  consequences  of  an  escalation  could  be
catastrophic for the region and beyond.
the  assistance  of 
In  recent  weeks,  we  have  been  starkly  reminded
of  the  fact  that  Afghanistan,  which  has  been  wrested
from  Taliban  and  Al  Qaeda  rule  and  has  had  a
promising  new  start  with 
the
international  community,  has  yet  to  achieve  a  lasting
peace  and  stability.  The 
international  community
should  remain  committed  and  has  to  continue  its
support of the new Government of Afghanistan.
and 
violent
fundamentalism in Afghanistan has also highlighted the
importance of the whole region of Central Asia. During
its  chairmanship  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation  in  Europe  in  2000,  Austria  made  it  a
priority  to  draw  the  attention  of  world  opinion  to  the
unresolved 
the  very
impressive  potential  of  that  region  given  mutually
useful cooperation and good governance.
issues  and  problems  and 
terrorism 
against 
fight 
The 
to 
Turning  to  our  own  neighbourhood,  I  want  to
reiterate the  importance  Austria  attributes  to  European
Union  enlargement  and  our  firm  commitment 
to
finalizing the  ongoing  negotiating  process  towards  the
end  of  this  year.  Austria  looks  forward  to  welcoming
new  members  by  2004,  thus  turning  the  vision  of  a
united  Europe  into  reality  and extending  the  European
zone  of  peace,  stability  and  welfare  to  the  whole
continent and beyond.
I  am  glad  to  note  that  South-Eastern  Europe  has
made  substantial  progress  towards  stability  generated
by  various  multilateral  initiatives,  particularly 
the
Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe and the Zagreb
process.  As  an  additional  instrument  for  enhancing
development  in  that  region,  in  May  of  this  year  the
Danube  Cooperation  Project  was  launched  in  Vienna,
the aim of which is to make use of the Danube River as
an integrative factor connecting the 13 countries of the
whole Danube basin.
The  dialogue  among  civilizations,  which  Austria
has  strongly  supported  from  the  beginning,  is  a  new
and  important  tool  of  diplomacy  that  should  help  us
drain  the  breeding  grounds  of  terrorism.  In  order  to
take this dialogue from the elites to the general public,
we  need  to  cooperate  with  the  media.  To  that  end,  I
organized an expert seminar on the role of the media in
the  framework  of  the  Euro-Mediterranean  partnership
in  June  of  this  year.  This  effort  is  designed  to  lead,
hopefully, to a media code of conduct to emanate from
the  media 
to  create  better
understanding  between  the  cultures  and  commonly  to
project  messages  shedding  a  positive  light  on  cultural
diversity.
themselves 
in  order 
the  only 
As  of  July  of  this  year,  Austria  has  chaired  the
interregional
Human  Security  Network, 
grouping in the United Nations framework particularly
propelling issues of human security. In  my capacity as
Chairperson of that group, I have put the following two
issues at the top of our agenda: the needs for a globally
shared  acquisition  of  a  human  rights  culture  through
human  rights  education  and  for  effectively  addressing
the terrible plight suffered by an ever-growing number
of  children  in  the  world  exposed  to  the  horrors  of
armed conflict. The first “human rights city” in Europe,
the  Austrian  city  of  Graz,  will  also  host  next  year’s
ministerial meeting of the Human Security Network. In
this  context  I  should  also  like  to  express  Austria’s
strong support for the adoption of the draft protocol of
the  Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel,
Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
framework  of 
In  my  function  as  President  of  the  Human
Security  Network,  I  have  also  taken  the  initiative,  in
the 
foreign
ministers,  to  raise  the  issue  of  Amina  Lawal  in  a
common  letter  to  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Nigeria  in
order  to  remind  Nigeria  of  its  obligations  under
international human rights law.
the  group  of 
female 
In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  set  clear
targets  for  our  combined  development  efforts  as
Member  States.  We  all  did  this  in  recognition  of  the
priority  attached to the  fight  against  poverty  and  for  a
better  and  more  equitable  world.  Disastrous  floods  in
parts of Central Europe, including  my  own  country,  in
Asia  and  the  Americas,  as  well  as  droughts  in  other
parts  of  the  world  just  before  the  start  of  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Johannesburg,
were  a  painful 
rendering
sustainable  development  even  more  important.  The
indication  of  changes 
A/57/PV.7
Summit  brought  about  an  action  programme  and  a
political  declaration,  which  we  welcome,  although  we
would  have  wished  to  take  some  issues  even  further,
such  as  in  the  field  of  renewable  energy.  I  share  the
view  of  the  Secretary-General  that  the  Summit  has
instigated global action among a  wide range  of  actors.
It  has  highlighted  the  relationship  between  economy,
ecology,  social  issues  and  development.  It  has  also
reaffirmed the Doha and Monterrey compromises.
The  follow-up  will  have  to  cut  through  the
complexities  of  the  process  and  to  pursue  the  most
pressing  issues.  Implementation  is  the  key  word.  This
will  be  best  accomplished  by  sectoral  conferences  on
the  major issues  involved.  Austria  appreciates  that  the
Summit  has  helped  convince  some  major  countries  to
join  the  ranks  of  those,  such  as  Austria,  that  have
already ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
successful 
session  of 
Before closing, let me express my best wishes for
a 
the  Assembly  under
Mr.  Kavan’s  guidance  and  allow  me  also  to  thank  his
predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo, for his leadership and
his 
the  General
Assembly.
strengthening 
efforts 
towards 
Having  returned  deeply  impressed  from  South
Africa, let  me  close  by  quoting  a  real  hero  and  a  man
who  stands 
for  his  principles  while  promoting
reconciliation  —  Mr.  Nelson  Mandela.  The  following
quote is from the entrance to the Apartheid Museum in
Johannesburg,  which  I  just  visited:  “To  be  free  is  not
merely to put off one’s chains, but to live in a way that
respects and enhances the freedom of others.”
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Ukraine,  His
Minister 
Excellency Mr. Anatoliy Zlenko.
Mr.  Zlenko  (Ukraine):  It  is  a  great  honour  and
pleasure to congratulate the representative of the Group
of  Eastern  European  States  on  his  election  to  the  high
post  of  President of the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
seventh  session.  On  behalf  of 
the  delegation  of
Ukraine, let me wish him success and assure him of our
support.  I  would  like  to  address  words  of  respect  and
gratitude to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  convey
cordial  congratulations  to  a  new,  welcome  Member  of
the  United  Nations,  the  Swiss  Confederation.  We  look
forward also to welcoming the Democratic Republic of
East Timor as a Member of the United Nations shortly.
17
A/57/PV.7
We consider the joining of the United Nations by those
States  a  truly  historic  event  which  testifies  to  the
viability of our great family of nations.
The  first  days  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the
General Assembly began with a commemoration of the
victims  of  the  horrible  terrorist  acts  of  11  September
2001.  Over  the  past  year  we  have  repeatedly  reflected
on whether those events would remain a tragic moment
in history, or whether they would prove to be a turning
point.  We  have  been  searching  for  an  answer  to  a
question  representing  the  most  difficult  challenge  to
humankind:  how  to  preserve  the  fundamental  right  of
every person — the right to life.
For Ukraine, “terror” and “terrorism” are not just
words.  For  decades,  the  Ukrainian  people  lived  under
the  oppression  of  terror,  which  was  raised  to  the  rank
of  State  policy.  Next  year  Ukraine  will  commemorate
the seventieth anniversary of the induced famine which
in  1932  and  1933  took  the  lives  of  over  7  million
Ukrainians.  That  most  tragic  event  in  our  modern
history, caused by the totalitarian regime,  was  a brutal
act  of  genocide  against  the  Ukrainian  nation.  At  that
time the world failed to respond to our tragedy. Nor did
it  recognize  early  enough  the  face  of  fascism:  certain
politicians  and  certain  States  thought  that  that  evil
would bypass them. The consequences of that inaction
turned out to be enormous.
Today,  at  the  beginning  of  a  new  millennium,  I
am  confident  that  each  of  us  would  like  to  rely  upon
the encouraging momentum of change which has taken
place  in  the  international  arena,  and  to  rely  upon  the
unifying  force  with  which  the  world  responded  to  the
events  of  11  September  2001.  In  the  face  of  the
challenge  of  terrorism,  the  international  community
demonstrated  its  determination  and  resolve.  Tangible
results  have  been  achieved  by 
the  antiterrorism
coalition.
We regard the fight against terrorism as one of the
aspect  of  a  broad  and 
long-term  process  of
comprehensive international action aimed at abolishing
the  philosophy  of  hatred  and  intolerance,  which  is
exacerbated  by  conflicts  in  various  regions  of  the
world.
The  need  for  a  new  philosophy  is  particularly
acute on the security front: success of the international
presence 
the
peacekeeping mission in East Timor and normalization
in the Balkans  are taking  place  alongside  the  dramatic
the  completion  of 
in  Afghanistan, 
18
in 
developments  in  the  Middle  East,  the  so-called  frozen
conflicts 
the  post-Soviet  space,  which  remain
unresolved, and persistent security problems in Africa.
In this context, the United Nations has no right to limit
itself to passive observation and uninvolved analysis.
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  the  President  of
Ukraine,  Leonid  Kuchma,  put  forward  an  initiative  on
developing  a  comprehensive  United  Nations  strategy
that  ongoing
for  conflict  prevention.  We  hope 
discussions 
the
recommendations  made  by  the  Secretary-General  on
this  issue  will  contribute  to  a  real  shift  from  a  culture
of reaction to a culture of prevention.
the  United  Nations 
on 
in 
The  United  Nations  is  capable  of  utilizing  its
consolidating  force  to  strengthen  the  legal  basis  of
international  relations.  We  highly  value  the  United
Nations  contribution  to  this  process  that  brought  into
force the Rome Statute and led to the establishment of
the  International  Criminal  Court.  Today,  it  is  highly
important  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  Court  and
to preserve the integrity of its Statute.
to 
the 
for 
International  Convention 
Another priority task in this sphere is to conclude
the  elaboration  of  a  comprehensive  convention  on
international  terrorism.  This  year  Ukraine  became  a
party 
the
Suppression  of  Terrorist  Bombings  and  the  European
Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. Upon the
completion  of  relevant  domestic  procedures  on  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing  of  Terrorism,  Ukraine  will  be  a  party  to  all
12 universal instruments against terrorism.
the 
international
community  in  the  social  and  economic  spheres  are
further  defining  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a
unique forum for dialogue among developed countries,
countries  with  economies  in  transition  and  developing
nations.
A  number  of 
tasks  facing 
As  a  member  of 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council,  Ukraine  stresses  the  need  for  reform  of  the
Council  and  for  strengthening  its  coordinating  role.
That process  would, inter  alia,  significantly  strengthen
the  Organization’s  potential  to  ensure  consistent  and
effective  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the
Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and
the  outcome  of  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development, held in Johannesburg.
the 
formulation  of 
stimulation  mechanisms 
At  the  Johannesburg  Summit,  the  President  of
innovative
Ukraine  proposed 
financial 
for  developing
countries and countries with economies in transition, in
particular 
through  debt-for-sustainable-development
swaps.  In  our  view,  such  steps  would  have  a  positive
impact  on  nations’  rates  of  economic  growth  and
ecologically responsible development.
On  31  December  2001  Ukraine  concluded  its
two-year term  of  membership  of the  Security  Council.
As  a  member  of  the  Council,  our  country  strived  to
make  practical  contributions  towards  finding  solutions
to critical security problems in many regions of today’s
world.  Our  country’s  position  of  principle  is  still  that
the  Security  Council  is  the  only  organ  with  the
legitimate  right  to  decide  on  the  use  of  force,  in
accordance  with  the  United  Nations  Charter.  At  the
same 
increased
transparency  in  the  Council’s  work,  and  we  hope  that
progress  on  internal  changes  will  allow  the  process  of
comprehensive and long-awaited reform to start.
time  we  consistently  stand 
for 
by 
each 
to  be 
the  key 
peacekeeper 
its  contribution 
An  important  element  of  Ukraine’s  participation
in  United  Nations  efforts  in  the  sphere  of  peace  and
security  will  continue 
to
peacekeeping activities of the Organization. We believe
that 
role  played  by  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations  and  the  personal  contribution
made 
adequate
recognition  by  the  international  community.  I  am
confident that everybody present in this Hall will share
our  view.  At  the  current  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  Ukraine  will  present  a  draft  resolution
proposing annual observance of an International Day of
United Nations Peacekeepers as a way to pay tribute to
the  memory  of  fallen  peacekeepers  and  to  honour  the
participants in ongoing and past missions. We hope this
will be unanimously supported.
deserve 
Ukraine  views positively  the  advancement  of  the
stabilization  process  in  the  Balkans,  in  particular  in
Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Kosovo. Ukraine holds
to  a  consistent  position  concerning  the 
territorial
integrity and inviolability of the borders of the Balkan
States,  and  it  fully  supports  the  active  involvement  of
European  actors  in  an  effort  to  further  normalize  the
security situation in the region.
In  contrast  to  a  promising  assessment  of  the
situation in the Balkans, we are compelled to voice our
regret over the absence of progress in the settlement of
A/57/PV.7
other  problems  which  are  of  particular  interest  to
Ukraine. Among them is the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict.
The  absence  of  confidence  between  the  Georgian  and
the  Abkhaz  sides  stands  in  the  way  of  a  renewal  of
political dialogue. As host country to the third meeting
of  the  sides  on  confidence-building  measures,  which
was held in Yalta in March 2001, Ukraine stands ready
to  take  practical  steps,  in  cooperation  with  the  United
Nations  and  other  interested  States,  in  order  to  renew
the spirit of Yalta.
Speaking of the situation in Georgia, I cannot fail
to  mention  that  Ukraine  is  deeply  concerned  at  the
situation related to developments in the Pankisi valley.
Ukraine  believes  that  the  existing  misunderstandings
can  be  resolved  only  through  peaceful  means,  in
compliance  with 
the  norms  and  principles  of
international  law.  We  call  upon  the  parties  to  employ
all  available  political  and  diplomatic  mechanisms  to
arrive at a mutual understanding and to take advantage
of  every  opportunity  to  achieve  détente  in  the  current
situation.  Ukraine  unconditionally 
the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia.
supports 
the 
the  efforts  of 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  also  remains  a
source of deep concern for Ukraine. It is quite obvious
today that the parties have become trapped in a cycle of
violence, which contradicts the true aspirations of both
peoples  and  breeds  yet  more  hatred  and  desperation.
We  fully  support 
international
community, in particular the  Quartet  and  the  countries
of  the  region,  aimed  at  assisting  the  parties  in  finding
peaceful  ways  to  settle  the  conflict.  Ukraine,  for  its
part,  strives  to  contribute  in  every  possible  way  to  a
peaceful settlement. In April  this  year, during  his  visit
to  the  region,  President  Leonid  Kuchma  presented
Ukrainian  proposals  in  the  framework  of  international
diplomatic efforts aimed at a peaceful settlement of the
Middle East conflict; these envisage a range of parallel
steps in the  security,  economic and  political  spheres.  I
should 
to  confirm
Ukraine’s readiness to offer a venue on its territory and
to provide all appropriate conditions for the conduct of
talks on this issue. The achievement of a final, just and
durable  peace  in  the  Middle  East  is  not  possible
without  the  resumption  of  peace  negotiations  on  the
Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese tracks.
this  opportunity 
take 
like 
to 
Ms.  Jarbussynova  (Kazakhstan),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
19
A/57/PV.7
The development of the situation concerning Iraq
cannot  fail  to  cause  serious  concern.  We  rely  on  the
potential  of  the  United  Nations  to  solve  this  problem.
The resolutions of the Security Council should be fully
implemented.  We  expect 
the  new  round  of
negotiations between  the  United  Nations  and  Iraq  will
help to find ways to resolve this issue.
that 
Today, 
the  world 
to 
that 
looks  with  hope 
integration  process  on 
the  continent.  We  hope 
the
unprecedented 
the  African
continent. We hope that the birth of the African Union
will  strengthen  the  spirit  of  African  brotherhood  and
unity  in  responding  to  the  numerous  challenges  that
confront the continent: armed conflict, poverty and the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  Ukraine  welcomes  the  African
Union’s  establishment  and  its  far-reaching  plans  to
revitalize 
the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  will  unite  the
nations of the  world in a  global partnership  in  support
of  peace,  stability  and  development  on  the  African
continent. For its part,  Ukraine  is ready  to  continue to
strengthen its cooperation and expand its economic ties
with  the  countries  of  a  united  Africa,  including  in  the
framework  of  the  new  global  partnership  for  the
development of the continent.
the  proper 
the
principles  of  the  supremacy  of  law,  the  creation  of
conditions  for  economic  growth  and  the  effective
functioning  of  the  institutions  of  an  open  society  are
goals  that  remain  fundamental  in  Ukraine’s  national
policy.  The  President  of  Ukraine  has  launched  a
programme of political reforms to ensure a transition to
a  parliamentary-presidential  form  of  governance.  That
process should bring about the further democratization
of  our  society  and  should  lead  to  consolidation  of  all
domestic  resources  in  order  to  achieve  European
standards  and  to  strengthen  concord  in  Ukrainian
society.  Our  determined  strategic  goal  is  to  become  a
member  of  the  European  Union  and  of  the  North
Atlantic  Treaty  Organization,  which  should  finally
ensure  the  indivisibility  of  the  European  political,
economic  and  security  space.  Our  course  of  action  is
aimed  at  making  Ukraine  a  pillar  of  political  stability,
economic prosperity and cultural renaissance.
implementation  of 
Ensuring 
Here, I cannot fail to mention a tragic problem for
Ukraine  that  is  related  to  the  consequences  of  the
Chernobyl  disaster.  Our  country  must  address  —
virtually on its own — a complex set of technological,
social  and  economic  problems  connected 
the
mitigation of that disaster’s consequences as well as to
to 
20
the  closure  of  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  in
2000.  We  expect  that  our  efforts  will  be  supported  by
concrete  action  on 
international
community, in particular through the implementation of
the new United Nations strategy for Chernobyl.
the  part  of 
the 
Guided  by  the  aspiration  to  achieve  practical
results,  we are  also determined  to  solve  a  broad  range
of  other  problems  that  have  an  important  place  on  the
agenda  of  the  world  forum.  Undoubtedly,  the  fight
against  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  one  of  the  most
challenging  of  these.  I  should  like  to  inform  the
Assembly  that  a  regional  conference  for  the  countries
of  Eastern  Europe  and  Central  Asia  will  be  held  in
Ukraine in November this year with the support of the
United Nations and of other international partners.
I am confident that, a year after the 11 September
tragedy  in  the  United  States,  each  of  us  realizes  the
particular  significance  of  the  tasks  facing  the  United
Nations. Looking ahead to the new challenges, we hope
that, in the cause of protecting civilization’s values, we
shall be guided by our wisdom, which will allow us to
avoid tragic scenarios and to protect the rights of every
inhabitant  of  the  planet,  including  every  new  human
being  who  comes  into  the  world  even  as  we  speak  in
this  debate:  the  right  to  life,  the  right  to  dignity,  the
right to this world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Samuel  Rudolph
Insanally,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Guyana  and
former President of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Insanally  (Guyana):  Over  the  Assembly
hangs  a  cloud  of  uncertainty  —  indeed,  of  unease  —
about the future of multilateralism and of international
relations generally. The tragedy of 11 September 2001,
which  we  commemorated  just  three  days  ago,  has  so
numbed our minds that we have yet to fully understand
its consequences. Therefore, it is meet that, as a family
of  nations,  we  should  not  only  remember  the  disaster,
but  also  seek  to  learn  from it  how  we can  best  restore
to  mankind  some  measure  of  faith  and  hope  in  our
common humanity.
over 
the  Assembly, 
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  see  Mr.  Jan  Kavan
the
presiding 
representative  of  a  country  that  has  known  the  horror
of war, he  will undoubtedly inspire us to find our  way
forward.  In  wishing  his  presidency  well,  I  would  also
like to place on record our gratitude to His Excellency
Mr.  Han  Seung-soo  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  for
since, 
as 
guiding  us  through  a  most  difficult  and  challenging
time.  Our  appreciation and  thanks  must  also  extend  to
the  Secretary-General,  who,  throughout  these  past
months,  has  helped  to  sustain  our  commitment  to  the
purposes and principles of the United Nations.
We  are pleased to  welcome Switzerland  as  a  full
member of the family of nations, and we look forward
to doing the same for East Timor when it takes its place
among us.
The  international  system  is  now  plagued  by
dangerous  instability  which  threatens  to  undermine  —
if not to destroy — many of our States. Not only do we
face  terrorism,  with  its  horrific  violence,  but  we  must
also live with other manifestations of terror in the form
of  poverty,  hunger  and  disease,  which,  although  more
silent, are no less deadly.
Conflict,  both  within  and  among  States,  clearly
demonstrates  how  poorly  an  economy 
functions
without  political  and  social  cohesion.  Divisions  that
rend the fabric of our societies — divisions that derive
ultimately  from  ethnicity  and  race  —  are  not  only
severely counterproductive to our attempts to better the
commonweal,  but  preclude 
the
durable  peace  and  tranquillity  without  which  we  will
never be able to prosper.
the  emergence  of 
Recent  global  conferences  have  focused  our
attention on the importance of a rights-based approach
to social inclusion. However, commitment to inclusive
policies rests not only with States but with civil society
as  a  whole.  Poverty  and  underdevelopment  are  now
easily  exploited  by  some  elements  in  our  societies  to
undermine  the  authority  of  democratically  elected
Governments  and 
to  exacerbate  ethnic  and  other
tensions.
This  instability  is  further  compounded  by  the
rampant  trade  in  illegal  drugs  and  arms,  with  its
attendant corruption and violence, which daily tests the
legal, financial, security and governance capabilities of
most  small  States.  The  social  contract  between  the
State and its citizens has been seriously jeopardized by
these  new  political  developments.  Greater  national
endeavours  and 
international  solidarity  are  now
necessary  if  we  are  to  confront  these  challenges  and
ensure 
the  economic  and  social  progress  of  our
peoples.
Old  conflicts  persist,  denying  entire  populations
the  opportunity  to  live  in  peace  and  security.  The
A/57/PV.7
situation in the Middle East must be of special concern
to us all, since it threatens to become a  wider conflict.
The  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  national  self-
determination  —  a  right  guaranteed  by  international
law  —  must  be  upheld  if  there  is  to  be  a  just  and
lasting solution to the region’s problems.
in 
India-Pakistan
relations with regard to Kashmir should not be allowed
to persist, given the risk of calamitous nuclear conflict.
As  a  country  which  is  committed  to  the  pacific
settlement  of  disputes  and  as  a  friend  of  those  two
important  countries  of  Asia,  from  which  many  of  our
own ancestors originated, Guyana wishes to encourage
them to continue their search for a definitive solution.
tensions  which  exist 
The 
the 
of 
to  grasp 
fully 
cooperation 
implications 
an 
Global  instability results  also  from  our  failure  to
implement  the  Agenda  for  Development.  After  more
than  a  decade  of  development-related  conferences,  we
have  yet 
for
international 
increasingly
interdependent  world  and  a  globalized  economy.  The
recent  meetings in Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg
brought  the  international  community  full  circle  in
assessing  the  effectiveness  of  global  collective  action
aimed at the realization of the millennium development
goals and the eradication of poverty. We should now be
fully 
remains
indispensable to the development process.
persuaded 
that 
global 
action 
What  is  less  clear,  however,  is  the  relationship
that should underlie such action, which continues to be
a  daunting  challenge.  To  what  extent  can  equality  be
achieved in a system of skewed economic and military
power?  Will  sovereignty  ever  subject  itself  to  the
imperatives  of  the  global  good?  How  can  trustworthy
procedures  be  found  for  international  intervention  in
situations  characterized  by  the  threat  of  collapse  of
national  social  and  economic  structures?  What  more
can  be  done  so  that  the  current  international  trading
system is beneficial for all States, not for only a select
few?  How  can  the  policies  of  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  be  made  more  responsive  to  the  concerns
and needs of the developing countries in particular?
I  know  that  there  are  no  easy  answers  to  these
questions.  Indeed,  each  international  conference  and
every general debate that takes place in  this  Assembly
has made us more aware of how difficult it is to find a
consensual  approach  to  these  issues.  Dialogue  and
engagement  are  continuously  balanced  against  hasty
attempts 
the
short-term  goals.  Yet 
to  achieve 
21
A/57/PV.7
imperative  of  global  stability  —  both  political  and
economic  —  requires  a  greater  symbiotic  relationship
among  States.  The  increased  permeability  of  borders,
which  has  made  all  countries  vulnerable  to  contagion
from outside, is a reality which we cannot ignore.
in 
Meanwhile, 
improvement 
is  becoming 
the  debate  on 
their  own  best  efforts  at 
the  benefits  of
globalization 
increasingly  polarized.
Despite 
reform  and
restructuring,  many  developing  countries  have  not
really  seen  any  significant 
their
economic  and  social  condition.  The  growth  rate  of
most developing countries was 2 per cent  lower  in  the
1990s  than  it  was  in  the  oil  crisis  years  of  the  1970s.
Similarly,  although  the  number  of  people  living  in
extreme  poverty,  on  less  than  one  dollar  a  day,  has
reportedly decreased the past 15 years, those living on
less  than  two dollars a  day —  an insignificant  sum  —
has  increased.  Thus,  poverty  figures  have  in  effect
remained  high,  despite  an  improvement  in  world
income  over  the  past  decade  by  an  average  of  2.5  per
cent annually.
The  situation  has  been  especially  difficult  for
small  States.  Over  the  past  10  years,  the  States
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),
of  which  we  are  one,  have  been  pursuing  aggressive
socio-economic  reform  measures  designed  to  enhance
the region’s economic competitiveness so as to benefit
from  globalization.  The  results  have  generally  been
disappointing,  in  large  part  due  to  the  small  size,  and
the geographic location of the CARICOM countries, as
well  as  their  limited  natural  resource  base  and  high
dependence  on  international  trade,  all  of  which  make
their  economies  vulnerable  to  changes  in  the  global
economy.  The  situation  is  further  aggravated  by  the
high  incidence  of  HIV/AIDS  —  the  second  highest  in
the world.
Small States such as ours in the Caribbean require
development cooperation  that  is  based  on  mutual  trust
and the  fulfilment of  commitments.  One  major  step  in
this  direction  should  be  to  focus  on  new  ways  of
balancing  equity,  economics  and  ecology  in  order  to
create  opportunities  for  small  economies  without
inflicting  disillusionment  and  despair.  Every  effort
should also be  made to ensure  the  full  implementation
of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
so  as  to  liquidate  the  debt  burden  in  the  poorest
countries. To address the challenge of development, an
integrated  strategy  must  be  found  to  address  all  the
different elements of the problem.
22
if 
equity 
Indeed, 
partnership, 
founded  on 
Now  —  especially  since  Monterrey  —  it  is
fashionable  to  speak  of  partnership  for  sustainable
development. 
properly
conceived  and  implemented,  can  serve  to  eradicate
poverty  and  promote  economic  growth.  However,  as
the President of Guyana stated at the World Summit on
Sustainable  Development,  in  Johannesburg,  if  it  is  to
succeed, partnership between States  must be based not
on double standards but on mutual trust and respect and
on  the  interests  of  all  parties.  Public/private-sector
partnerships  must  be 
and
transparency,  with  full  regard  to  the  laws  of  our
countries.  Finally,  partnerships  with  multilateral
financial  institutions  must  be  informed  more  by  an
understanding of the situation in our countries and less
by  a  doctrinaire  approach  to  policy-making.  To  quote
the President directly, “Progress will only come if there
is an enlightened understanding of partnership.”
of 
past
development  models  and  the  trend  towards  leaving
development  matters  largely  to  market  forces,  Guyana
has  sought  to  promote  at  the  United  Nations  the
concept  of  a  new  global  human  order  based  on  a
genuine partnership for cooperation. By addressing the
problems  of  peace  and  development  in  a  holistic
manner,  this  “concordat”  would  provide  developing
countries  with  the  structural,  strategic  and  long-term
support  that  they  need.  Guyana  hopes  to  build  upon
resolution 55/48 in the coming months with the aim of
bringing  greater  predictability 
to
international development cooperation.
inadequacy 
Concerned 
stability 
by 
the 
and 
It  is  clear  that  the  period  ahead  of  us  is  fraught
with  difficulty,  and  that  some  of  the  challenges  are
historically unprecedented in scale. The instability and
uncertainty  by  which  so  many  societies  around  the
world  are  afflicted  must  be  attended  to  if  we  are  to
avoid  failure.  We  must  therefore  ready  the  United
Nations, the most important and most widely supported
international  governmental  organization  in  existence,
to  address  these  problems.  There  is  simply  nowhere
else to take them.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Zlatko  Lagumdzija,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr. Lagumdzija (Bosnia and Herzegovina): I am
grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  address  the  General
Assembly  at  its  fifty-seventh  session.  Allow  me  at  the
outset to extend my warmest congratulations to Mr. Jan
Kavan on his well-deserved election to the presidency.
The  tragic  events  of 11  September  have  made  us
reconsider our achievements, real values, and the links
between  poverty,  development,  sustainability,  respect
for  human  rights  and  real  progress.  Yet,  the  goals
envisioned  by  the  perpetrators  of  those  crimes  have
certainly  not  been  fulfilled.  The  world  has  become
more united and  more determined to fight terrorism as
a  global threat to the  values  of  civilization.  The  result
is  increased  cooperation  among  specialized  services
and  bodies  of  different  States,  as  well  as  international
organizations.  However,  we  must  be  prepared  for  a
long and exhausting confrontation with this evil of our
times.
Last  year  we  were  all  rightly 
focused  on
Afghanistan. Today we are concerned also about future
steps regarding Iraq as a great threat to  world stability
and a  shelter  for  terrorism.  Fortunately,  after  a  decade
of  being  in  focus  as  a  crisis  area,  that  South-Eastern
Europe, 
and
Herzegovina,  as  the  heart  of  the  region,  are  no  longer
“CNN-able”, given the present growing stability.
along  with  Bosnia 
the  Balkans, 
The time has come to salute the new image of my
country  and  to  start  re-branding  the  perception  of  the
region  as  a  whole,  which  no  longer  fits  anymore  the
“Balkan  ghosts”  stereotype.  Great  concerns  such  as
Iraq,  the  Middle  East  and  Kashmir  should  not  let  us
forget that the Balkan region is bearing good news. We
are all striving to finish the job of fully integrating the
region into European democratic structures and values.
Enormous  efforts  and  achievements  are  behind
us, but we have to be careful and patient until stability
becomes  self-sustainable  through  the  building  of  jobs,
justice  and  functioning  institutions,  which  will  hold
together new democracy.
In the light of last year’s terrorist attacks on New
York  and  Washington,  our  fragile  State  —  the  only
European  State  where  Muslims  represent  the  majority
religious  group  —  was  confronted  with  the  heavy
pressure  of  prejudice  regarding  a  “clash  between
civilizations”. But, as members may know, I come from
a  State  that  represented  a  crossroads  of  different
cultures  and  religions,  where  different  civilizations
lived for centuries in tolerance and mutual respect.
Today  we  are  even  more  convinced  that  all
problems can be solved only through dialogue based on
A/57/PV.7
good political  will.  From  that  position  we  have  joined
the  fight  against  terrorism  and  organized  crime  of  all
kinds.  We  have  heightened  our  struggle  against
corruption  by  upgrading  and  strengthening  our  State
institutions.  We  have  placed  the  rule  of  law  at  the  top
of the agenda. Good  work  has been  done, results  have
been  achieved  and  we  have  thus  proved  that  Bosnia
and Herzegovina is not a no-man’s land.
Building 
democratic 
institutions, 
economic
development  and  the  protection  and  promotion  of
human  rights  are  more  than  ever  at  the  top  of  our
priorities. Following the recent tragic events and all the
turbulent  changes  that  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has
experienced,  we  strongly  believe  in  the  paradigm  of
democracy,  development  and  peace  as  the  pillars  of
progress  and  stability  for  my  country,  but  also  for  the
immediate  neighbourhood  and  region  as  well.  Only
responsible  and  accountable  governance  can  bring
about necessary changes and progress for all.
Unfortunately,  we  are  still  confronted  with  the
heavy  legacy  of  the  past,  and  especially  with  the  fact
that  the  main  culprits  for  the  crimes  committed  in
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Radovan Karadzic and Ratko
Mladic,  are  at  large.  The  moment  they  are  brought  to
justice, it will be easier to reach our goals. That is why
I  would 
the
importance of cooperation  by  all  sides concerned  with
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  former
Yugoslavia in The Hague.
to  emphasize 
juncture 
like  at 
this 
At 
the 
are 
same 
aware 
time  we 
that
democratization  is  sometimes  a  long  process.  Post-
conflict peace-building is even more complex. But, we
have  set  the  vision  for  developing  a  safe,  peaceful,
stable  and  self-sustainable  country,  and  we  shall  not
stop  half  way.  Today,  we  are  a  full  member  of  the
Council  of  Europe.  More  refugees  and  displaced
persons  have  returned  in  recent  times  as  compared  to
any other post-war period. In other words, in the last 18
months almost three times more properties, homes and
apartments  were  given  back  to  refugees  and  displaced
persons  all  over  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  than  in  the
previous  five  years.  Many  roads,  many  villages,  many
roofs  were  built  or  repaired;  many  mosques  and
churches have also been built or repaired.
The contribution of the United Nations Mission in
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  (UNMIBH),  the  Stabilization
Force, 
Peace
Implementation  Council,  the  Office  of  the  United
the  High  Representative, 
the 
23
A/57/PV.7
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR),
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Co-operation  in
Europe  (OSCE)  and  others  in  the  family  of  the
international  community  present 
in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  has  been  substantial  in  achieving  the
present level of stability and reconstruction.
position of contributor to international efforts. The fact
that  we  are  in  a  position  to  consider  the  need  or  even
the  imperative  of  taking  a  more  active  and  creative
role, and thus a bigger share of responsibility, testifies
to  the  trend  of  normalization  of  the  situation  in  the
country.
institutional 
We  particularly  recognize  the  value  and  the  role
of  UNMIBH  which  is  completing  its  mandate  at  the
end  of  this  year.  The  police  reform  and  restructuring,
with  a  view  to  meeting  international  standards  of
organizational  capacity  and 
integrity,
represents a clear success. The United Nations Mission
in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  was  certainly  one  of  the
key  players  also  in  establishing  the  foundation  for
effective,  democratic  and  sustainable  law  enforcement
agencies,  a  fundamental  element  for 
the  further
development  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  as  a  multi-
ethnic, tolerant and democratic State. We  welcome  the
transfer  of  the  remaining  tasks  in  this  area  to  the
European  Union  Police  Mission,  and  especially  the
extension  of  the  European  Union  responsibility  in  the
area  of  juridical  reform  as  one  of  the  basic  pillars  of
self-sustainability, 
the
reform process.
future  democratization  and 
There should be no doubt that the United Nations
has the potential to fulfil its new tasks and thus respond
to  the  ever  increasing  challenges  of  the  fast-changing
world.  It  should  provide  leadership  in  building  a
prosperous  world,  founded  no  longer  on  force  and
threats, but on the rules of international law and respect
for all rights, and rights for all.
In  that  context  I  would  like  to  underline  that  we
support the  further  democratization  and  modernization
of  the  United  Nations.  New  tasks  and  challenges  call
increasing efficiency, cost rationalization and the equal
geographic  participation  of  States  and  peoples  in  the
United  Nations  system.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  also
supports  the  continuation  of  work  on  reforming  the
Security  Council, 
in
accordance with carefully designed criteria, taking into
account  equal  geographic 
representation  but  not
jeopardizing  the  efficiency  of  that  United  Nations
body.
its  membership 
adjusting 
Allow  me 
to  briefly  mention  some  of 
the
priorities  of  today’s  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  Bosnia
and  Herzegovina  has  in  the  past  two  years  proved  its
determination to move from the position of passive aid
recipient  from  the  international  community  to  the
24
Reconstruction  is  taking  place  and  results  are
visible  in  the  economy,  social  reforms,  education,
health  care  and  so  on.  Economic  reforms  are  directed
towards  the  establishment  of  a  single  economic  space
and  also  with  a  view  to  setting  up  conditions  for
upgraded education and thus to offering the choice for
in  Bosnia  and
our  young  generations 
Herzegovina  and  become 
its
development and future.
the  frontrunners  of 
to  remain 
We  have  almost  fully  completed  the  conditions
set  out  in  the  European  Union’s  road  map,  which  we
hope  will  soon  open  the  process  of  a  feasibility  study
for Bosnia and Herzegovina’s signing of a stabilization
and  association  agreement  with  the  European  Union.
We  have  gone  through  the  process  of  being  the  object
of  international  efforts  and  are  now  the  partner  in  the
process  of  making  an  economically  and  institutionally
self-sustainable State of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This
is only one phase in a process of finally becoming the
owner of the changes in our country.
In  partnership  with  the  international  community,
we  are  streamlining  a  common  strategy  for  political
stability, institution-building and an economic recovery
programme  as  the  precondition  of  overall  sustainable
development.  The  entire  region,  including  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina,  is  entering  a  new  stage  of  stability  and
the  European  integration  process,  but  we  still  have  to
be on the alert. The ghosts of the past, segregation and
wars are losing ground.
for 
In following the trials of war criminals before the
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
the  Former
Yugoslavia in The Hague, we are bearing witness to the
hope  that  justice  and  the  future  will  finally  bury
projects based on genocide. That is why we have to act
on  a  daily  basis  against  those  who  are  trying  to  open
the box  of drawing  new  maps  or  calling  for  new  wars
in the region.
So  much energy and so  many efforts  of the local
and  international  communities  have  been  invested  so
far  that  we  are  not  even  allowed  to  consider  anything
but a strategy for success. Any type of hypothetical exit
strategy  of  the  international  community  can  be  based
only on a success strategy in building one  multiethnic,
democratic  and  European  State  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina.  Once  again,  I  would  like  to  express  the
gratitude  of  my  Government 
international
community for its devoted support towards long-lasting
stability and development in the region.
the 
to 
in 
lived 
tolerance,  even 
If  the  four  million  people  of  my  country  —
Muslims,  Orthodox  Catholics,  Jews  and  others  who
historically 
in  a  non-
democratic  environment  —  cannot  now  live  in  a
democratic  and  open  society  in  the  middle  of  Europe,
then  the  logical  question  after  11  September  is:  How
we  can  be  consolidated  and  organized  among  the  six
billion people of our planet?
Coming  from  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  I  am
driven  by  the  force  of  optimism  and  the  strength  of
vision  shared  by  the  overall  majority  of  those  who  do
not  want  to  repeat  the  past,  but  are  ready  to  fight  for
the  future.  Jobs,  justice  for  all,  solidarity  and  Europe,
through  reforms  and  strong  state  institutions,  are  the
items  on  our  agenda  today.  We  are  determined  to  turn
these words into deeds.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
Minister 
International
Cooperation of Kenya, His Excellency The Honourable
Marsden Madoka, M.P.
for  Foreign  Affairs 
and 
Mr.  Madoka  (Kenya):  Allow  me  to  extend  to
Mr.  Kavan,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  sincere
congratulations  on  his  election  as  the  President  of  the
General Assembly at its fifty-seventh regular session.
May I also thank his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-
soo,  whose  tenure  of  office  coincided  with  one  of  the
most trying periods in modern history following the 11
September  terrorist  attacks  in  the  United  States.  We
appreciate  the  excellent  manner  in  which  he  handled
the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly. May I
also  commend  the  efforts,  courage  and  vision  of  the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, who has continued
to be a beacon of strength and hope. We salute him. In
addition,  we  also  wish  to  welcome  Switzerland  to  the
United  Nations  and  look  forward  to  the  admission  of
East Timor.
Coming  from  a  continent  plagued  with  many
obstacles,  we  believe  that  the  fifty-seventh  session  of
the  General  Assembly  affords  us  yet  another
opportunity 
promises
enumerated  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  to  take
critically 
revisit 
the 
to 
A/57/PV.7
stock of progress made so far. Two years down the line,
we  should  give  an  account  of  our  commitment  to  the
Declaration. In many instances, I am afraid, we shall be
found  wanting.  We  have  not  lived  up  to  our  promises
and, as a result,  many in the  world are  more desperate
today  than  they  were  two  years  ago.  They  had  placed
their hope in our vision, our sincerity, our commitment
and our sense of urgency and purpose.
the  1990s 
Various United Nations conferences and meetings
the
have  been  held  since 
to  address 
challenges  confronting  developing  countries.  It 
is
therefore  regrettable  that  there  has  been  insufficient
political  will 
the  decisions  arising
therefrom.  Meagre  resources  have  been  committed  to
debt  reduction, 
improving  market  access,  human
resource  development  and  tackling  the  HIV/AIDS
pandemic and other diseases.
implement 
to 
its 
inadequacy 
in  dealing  with 
The  current  global  financial  framework  has
demonstrated 
the
problems  facing  developing  countries.  The  decline  in
official  development  assistance  flows  and  foreign
direct investment is an issue of concern. Despite efforts
to  achieve  sustained  economic  growth  and
made 
sustainable 
the
international 
adequately
supportive.  For  a  start,  my  delegation  calls  for  greater
emphasis  to  be  placed  on  concessionary  lending  and
greater use of grants.
development, 
have 
arena 
conditions 
been 
not 
in 
Moreover, global trade arrangements have tended
to  benefit  industrialized  countries.  Africa’s  present
share  of  global  trade  is  less  than  2  per  cent.  While
industrialized countries continue to provide substantial
subsidies  for 
their  agricultural  sector,  developing
countries  have  been  forced  to  cease  similar  support.
This,  combined  with  tariff  and  non-tariff  barriers  to
trade,  has  meant  that  our  products  stand  no  chance  of
competing  with the  products  from  the  North.  We  must
therefore build on the  momentum achieved at  Doha as
well  as  encourage  initiatives,  such  as  the  African
Growth and Opportunity  Act and the European Union/
African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  Group  of  States  trade
arrangements,  to  enable  our  countries  take  advantage
of the opportunities in international trade.
Many developing countries, including Kenya, are
experiencing a net outflow of resources, mainly due to
debt  service  obligations.  As  a  result,  there  are  fewer
resources  targeted  towards  basic  social  services,  thus
compounding  the  poverty  situation.  We  therefore  call
25
A/57/PV.7
for an overhaul of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
Debt  Initiative  eligibility  criteria  so  that  countries
facing  high  levels  of  poverty  and  debt  burden  qualify
for debt relief.
Mr. Panou (Togo), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The launching of the African Union and the New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  have
rekindled  great  hopes  in  the  African  continent.  These
initiatives  have  made 
the  primary
responsibility for the development of Africa lies in the
hands of the  Africans themselves. The  decision  by  the
United Nations General Assembly to hold a high-level
plenary  meeting  on  NEPAD  on  16  September  2002
recognizes  the  importance  of  that  initiative,  which
emphasizes  the  twin  principles  of  ownership  and
partnership.
it  clear 
that 
to 
in 
renew 
an  opportunity 
Kenya  calls  for  genuine  partnership 
the
implementation  of 
resolutions,  commitments  and,
especially,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Outcome  of  the  just
concluded World Summit on Sustainable Development.
The  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on
children,  held  in  May  2002, provided  the international
community  with 
its
commitment to the rights-based  approach  to  children’s
programmes and  activities.  The  Government  of  Kenya
has  made  continued  efforts  to  improve  the  welfare  of
children.  Kenya  has  ratified  the  Convention  on  the
Rights  of  the  Child  and  has  signed  the  Optional
Protocol on the  sale  of  children,  child prostitution and
child pornography. Kenya has also ratified instruments
prohibiting  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed
conflict.  A  comprehensive  Children’s  Statute  was
enacted  in  parliament  and  became  operational  on  1
March  2002.  Kenya  also  has 
in  place  an  early
childhood  development  policy,  safeguarding  children
from birth until the age of six.
that 
My  delegation  notes  with  concern 
the
reduction  in  funding  to  the  United  Nations  Population
Fund  (UNFPA)  by  a  major  contributor  will  have  a
negative  impact  on  ongoing  programmes  in  many
developing  countries.  The  UNFPA  continues  to  play
a  critical  role  in  assisting  the  most  vulnerable  in
society  —  namely,  women  and  adolescents.  It  is  our
hope  that  voluntary  contributions  to  the  organization
will  be  restored  to  their  former  level  and  further
increased as a matter of urgency.
26
With  regard  to  the  United  Nations  Centre  in
Nairobi,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  improvement  in
the level of  utilization of the  conference  facilities.  We
encourage  the  Secretary-General  to  take  the  necessary
measures  to  ensure  that  all  meetings  and  activities  on
environment  and  matters  related  to  human  settlements
are  held  at  the  United  Nations  Office  at  Nairobi
(UNON)  so  as  to  utilize  the  excellent  facilities  there
and to further strengthen the role of the Organization in
all  matters  charged  to  it  in  conformity  with  the
headquarters rule.
My  delegation  would  like  to  commend  the  fifty-
sixth session of the General Assembly for elevating the
Commission  on  Human  Settlements  to  a  fully  fledged
programme  now  known  as  the  Governing  Council  of
the  United  Nations  Human  Settlements  Programme
(UN-Habitat),  and 
the  United  Nations  Centre  for
Human  Settlements  (Habitat)  to  be  its  secretariat.  We
have  no  doubt  that  the  upgrading  will  facilitate  the
implementation  of 
the
Declaration on Cities and Other Human Settlements in
the New Millennium.
the  Habitat  Agenda  and 
The  Secretary-General’s  programme  budget  for
the  biennium  2002-2003  shows  that  the  activities
the  United  Nations  Environment
undertaken  by 
Programme  (UNEP)  and  UN-Habitat  continue 
to
depend  heavily  on  extrabudgetary  resources.  This  has
severely constrained the ability of both organizations to
play  their  roles  effectively  due  to  an  unpredictable
financial  resource  base  and  under-provision.  We  urge
the  Secretary-General 
and
funding  UNEP  and  UN-Habitat
predictability 
through the United Nations regular budget.
stability 
ensure 
to 
in 
My  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  the
newly  appointed  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights, His Excellency Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello. We
would  like  to  assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation,  and
we look forward to  working very closely  with him. At
the  same  time,  we  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  outgoing
High  Commissioner,  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Mary
Robinson, for her able leadership.
Kenya  wishes  to  underscore  the  importance  of
treating human rights issues in a balanced manner. This
very Assembly has consistently reaffirmed:
“that  all  human  rights  are  universal,  indivisible,
interdependent  and 
the
international  community  must  treat  human  rights
globally  in  a  fair  and  equal  manner,  on  the  same
interrelated  and 
that 
footing and with the same emphasis”. (resolution
56/165, seventh preambular paragraph)
There 
is  a  genuine  concern 
I am afraid that this has not always been so.
that 
too  much
emphasis  has  been  given  to  political  rights  at  the
expense of economic and social rights, such as the right
to  development.  These  are  vital 
the
international  community  can  no  longer  afford  to  take
lightly  as  it  endeavours  to  eliminate  hunger  and
poverty  and  ensure  a  just  standard  of  living  for  all
people.
issues 
that 
Kenya holds the view that the General  Assembly
should play a leading role in spearheading development
initiatives,  as  envisaged  in  the  Charter.  We  welcome
the  progress  already  made  in  the  reorganization  and
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  This  organ
should now reclaim its leadership role in  focusing  and
shaping debate on issues of global interest.
On  issues  of  world  security,  Kenya  has  a  long
record  of  participation  in  peacekeeping  operations.
Today,  Kenya  is  the  sixth  largest  troop  contributor  to
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  in  different
parts  of  the  world.  We  are  particularly  happy  to  be
associated  with 
the  success  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations  in  East  Timor,  Sierra  Leone,
and on the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Greater 
emphasis 
the
deployment  of  adequate  force  levels  to  missions  in
Africa.  In  particular,  we  would  like  to  see  greater
support in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
should  be  put  on 
the 
some  of 
recent  progress 
these  conflicts 
Africa  is  a  continent  ravaged  by  conflicts  and
in 
the
instability.  However, 
resolution  of 
is  very
encouraging.  In  particular,  the  signing  of  a  protocol
between  the  Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudan
People’s  Liberation  Movement/Army  (SPLM/A)  in
Machakos, Kenya on 20 July 2002 was a very welcome
development.  Other  positive  developments  towards
lasting  peace  in  Africa  include  the  signing  of  an
agreement between the Democratic Republic of Congo
and  the  Rwandese  Republic,  the  holding  of  peaceful
elections in Sierra Leone after years of bitter civil war,
and  continuing  efforts  towards  reconciliation  of  the
warring  factions  in  Somalia.  We  also  welcome  the
recent  positive  developments  in  Angola.  Kenya  will
continue with its mediation efforts in the region and in
the continent as a whole.
A/57/PV.7
the 
at 
for 
aimed 
On  the  important  question  of  reform  of  the
speedy
Security  Council,  Kenya  calls 
conclusion  of  negotiations 
equitable
representation  and  an  increase  in  membership  in  the
Security  Council.  With  the  establishment  of  the  Peace
and Security Council as an important organ of the new
African Union, Africa must now play its rightful role in
matters  of  international  peace  and  security.  It  is  time
Africa  was  accorded  the  elevated  status  it  deserves  in
the Security Council.
Kenya believes in the rule of law and will support
all genuine efforts to this end. We subscribe to peaceful
settlement  of  disputes  through  regional  efforts,  the
International  Tribunals  and  the  International  Court  of
Justice.  Kenya  fully  supports  the  historic  milestone  of
the adoption of the Rome Statute in 1998 and its entry
into  force  on  1  July  2002.  Impunity  for  serious  war
crimes  is  indeed  a  denial  of  justice,  which  must  be
brought to an end.
In 2001, we witnessed the most devastating form
of  international  terrorism  in  the  multiple  terrorist
attacks  of  11  September.  As  a  country  that  faced  a
similar  attack  in  1998,  Kenya  strongly  believes  that
terrorism 
any
circumstances. We fully support the implementation of
Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  and  have
already  ratified  the  12  anti-terrorism  conventions.  The
process of domesticating them is already under way.
justified 
under 
never 
can 
be 
In  conclusion,  Kenya  looks  forward  to  greater
commitment  to  build  a  secure  and  more  prosperous
world  for  all.  The  destiny  of  mankind  is  inextricably
intertwined  in  spite  of  national  boundaries.  Events  in
the  global  arena  have  clearly  demonstrated  that  the
effects of ignorance, poverty, disease and insecurity in
one region or another country can impact negatively on
the  well-being  of  the  rest  of  the  world.  Let  us  get
together and build a  world where all  can  live  in  peace
and prosperity.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call  on  Her  Excellency  The  Honourable  Lilian  Patel,
Minister 
International
and 
Cooperation of the Republic of Malawi.
for  Foreign  Affairs 
Ms.  Patel
(Malawi):  On  behalf  of 
the
Government of the Republic of Malawi and on my own
behalf,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  President  Kavan
most warmly on his unanimous election as President of
the 
the  General
that  under  his  able
Assembly. 
fifty-seventh  regular  session  of 
I  am  confident 
27
A/57/PV.7
leadership,  buttressed  by  a  pragmatic  approach  to  the
proceedings  of  the  session,  we  will  be  able  to  further
consolidate  past  gains  on  a  variety  of  issues,  and  also
mobilize  renewed  international  resolve  and  political
will  to  reinvigorate  our  continued  search  for  viable
the  many  pressing
responses  and 
challenges 
that 
survival  of
humankind.
to 
the  very 
solutions 
threaten 
I take this  opportunity  also to pay  special  tribute
to his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo of the Republic
of Korea, for the able manner in which he handled the
work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  his  tenure  of
office.
Further, I would like to register my country’s vote
of thanks for and  special recognition of the  invaluable
contribution  made  by  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  in  injecting  fresh  impetus  and  a  sharper  sense
of  purpose  and  direction  into  the  work  of  the  United
Nations.  His  informative  and  insightful  annual  reports
on  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  clearly  point  to  an
organization  that  is  moving  in  the  direction  that  it
should  and  is  much  more  focused  on  the  quest  for
accelerated growth and socio-economic progress of the
disadvantaged poor nations.
A  number  of  developments  have  taken  place
around  the  world  since  the  last  general  debate.  While
some of these are relatively positive and are, thus far, a
cause for optimism, yet others, a majority, are, at best,
disheartening  and  tend  to  cast  a  long  shadow  on
prospects for long term progress, especially in our part
of the world.
As I speak now, for example, six southern Africa
countries,  including  Malawi,  are  in  the  throes  of  a
severe  and  life-threatening  food  crisis  brought  on  by
drought-related  deficits  in  grain  harvests.  Up  to  13
million  people 
in  Lesotho,  Malawi,  Mozambique,
Swaziland,  Zambia  and  Zimbabwe  are  facing  severe
food shortage, which has already given rise to a threat
of  widespread  famine  and  a  rise  in  famine-related
health  problems.  What  we  are  clearly  seeing  here  is  a
further  deterioration  in  the  general  poverty  situation
and the humanitarian plight of the rural masses in these
countries.  Chances  of  the  food  insecurity  translating
into  a 
security  and  health
catastrophe  cannot  be  over-emphasized,  especially
given  that  southern  Africa  is  already  the  epicentre  of
the global implosion caused by HIV/AIDS. The current
food crisis in the sub-region stands out  as the  severest
region-wide 
serious 
28
in  many  years.  It  is  poised  to  inflict  incalculable
damage  on  the  social,  economic  and  cultural  fabric  of
whole  communities,  and  it  endangers  the  efficacy  of
the  financial  and  economic  sustainability  of 
the
for
institutional  and  public  policy 
frameworks 
sustainable 
under
implementation.
development 
currently 
is 
Indeed,  southern  Africa 
facing  uniquely
different  multifaceted  humanitarian  crises  arising  not
only  from  civil  wars,  but  also  from  social  and
economic factors and other natural disasters. The crisis
is  certain  to  roll  back  numerous  past  gains  in  many
sectors,  particularly  because  of 
the  centrality  of
agricultural  production  to  the  gross  domestic  product
and rural employment of most of the affected countries.
The  food  shortage  has  placed  further  serious
strains on the already low revenue collection capacities
of  the  affected  countries,  especially  to  the  extent  that
budgetary  allocations  are  having  to  be  appropriated
from  critical  social  sector  services  to  fund  massive
grain imports necessary to supplement inadequate local
grain stocks, thereby financially starving other  equally
urgent sectoral needs. Sadly, however, the next harvest,
due  in  eight  months,  may  not  hold  much  promise
either,  unless  the  drought  cycle,  which  is  the  major
contributing factor, does not recur.
Initially, Malawi faced  a  grain  deficit of  600,000
tons caused by two years of a paradoxical combination
of  drought  and  devastating  torrential  rains  and  floods.
This  tonnage  was  urgently  required  to  stave  off  a
rapidly  deteriorating  famine  situation  that  is  expected
to  affect  3.2  million  people.  The  President,  His
Excellency Dr. Bakili Muluzi, declared the current food
shortages a national disaster on 28 February 2002, and
a  vigorous  national  appeal  for  emergency  relief  has
been under way since then.
to 
The  response 
this  appeal  by 
the  donor
community, both local and international, has been very
encouraging. On behalf of the Government of Malawi,
I take this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude
and  deep  appreciation  to  the  local  and  international
humanitarian  organizations  and  Governments,  such  as
those of the European Union, the Governments of Italy,
the United Kingdom and the United States of America,
and  other  friendly  Governments,  which  together  have
financed  nearly  75  per  cent  of  the  emergency  relief
supplies  received  so  far  in  Malawi.  We  also  wish  to
thank  the  United  Nations  funds  and  programmes  for
their  timely  assistance,  in  particular  the  Food  and
Agricultural  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,  the
World  Food  Programme  and 
the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), as well
as  resident  United  Nations  agencies,  for  providing
relief  coordination  and  procurement  services  during
this critical hour of need.
the  Office  for 
In  a  special  way,  and  on  behalf  of  the  six
Southern  African  Development  Community  (SADC)
countries  affected  by  the  famine,  the  Government  of
Malawi  wishes to thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the
United  Nations  family  for  successfully  organizing  the
Consolidated  National  Appeals  for  the  Humanitarian
Crisis in Southern Africa, which took place on 18 July
2002,  here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters.  We  are
grateful  for  the  outcome  of  the  appeal,  and  we  would
like  to  extend similar  sentiments  of  appreciation  to  all
that  made
Governments  and  donor  organizations 
pledges  and  commitments 
funding
requirements of the appeal.
towards 
the 
timely 
appointment 
In  addition,  we  welcome  and  applaud 
of 
the
Secretary-General’s 
the
Executive  Director  of  the  World  Food  Programme,
Mr.  James  Morris,  as  his  Special  Envoy  for  the
southern  African  humanitarian  crisis.  Mr.  Morris’s
personal meetings and consultations  with the Heads of
State  and  Government  of  the  six  southern  African
countries  and  his  tour  of  the  subregion  have  led  to
useful high-level exchanges that will form an important
basis  for  tackling  the  problem  of  food  insecurity  in
future. We undertake to work with him and give him all
the 
the
fulfilment of his mandate.
support  and  cooperation  necessary 
for 
in 
The  high  levels  of  poverty  and  the  deepening
scourge  of 
the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  and  other
transmissible diseases afflicting our people continue to
ravage  populations 
the  developing  countries,
particularly those of Africa. We take no relief from the
annual  reports  for  the  year  2002  released  by  United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the
World  Health  Organization,  whose  graphic  statistical
data  and  hard  facts  portray  an  unabating,  vicious  and
complex  interplay  between  structural  poverty  and  a
startlingly  high  HIV/AIDS  prevalence 
in  poor
countries.  The  resulting  humanitarian  crisis  threatens
millions more lives over the next few years.
A/57/PV.7
resource  commitments  by 
Africa  needs  closer  attention  and  concrete  actions,  as
well  as  deeper 
the
international  community,  to  help  build  sustainable
capacity  to  address  the  critical  poverty  issues  and
excessive  mortality 
from  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,
tuberculosis  and  other  diseases.  These  are  extremely
sensitive issues, and the international donor community
should  consider,  on  an  emergency  basis,  the  difficult
moral issues and the choices involved.
suddenly 
institutions  have 
It is extremely troubling that some Member States
and  donor 
taken  a
minimalist  approach  to  the  central  role  played  by
United  Nations  funds  and  programmes  in  tackling
health  problems  in  the  developing  countries.  It  is
needless to remind  this  Assembly  that the  work  of the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  in  tackling
the HIV/AIDS pandemic, in the implementation of the
Programme  of  Action  adopted  at  the  International
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)
and in preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV/
AIDS  is  very  crucial.  We  call  upon  donors  and
multinational  institutions  to  reconsider  their  decision
and to restore funding to UNFPA.
relief 
and 
forgiveness. 
Further,  we 
call  upon  multilateral  donor
institutions and industrialized countries to grant deeper
debt 
Transnational
organizations,  which  extract  huge  profits  from  their
business  operations  in  poor  countries,  have  the  moral
responsibility to  invest  in  HIV/AIDS  prevention,  care,
support  and  treatment.  International  pharmaceutical
corporations,  too,  ought  to  show  more  compassion  by
expanding access to antiretroviral drugs and other life-
sustaining 
meaningful
medicines, 
concessions  on  price 
and  voluntary
donations.  We  note  with  gratitude  the  positive  steps
taken  by  some  pharmaceutical  companies 
that
direction.
including 
reduction 
in 
My Government acknowledges the important role
played by the United Nations in mobilizing support and
resources  for  the  development  process  in  the  poor
countries.  It  is  not  enough,  however,  to  hold  one
conference  after  another  without  effective  follow-up
and  implementation  mechanisms.  There  is  therefore  a
need for supportive global processes that would ensure
shorter time lags between the adoption of programmes
of action and their implementation.
As home to one of the largest numbers of victims
of  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  in  the  world,  southern
It is our hope that the establishment of the Office
of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least  Developed
29
A/57/PV.7
in 
include 
Countries 
the  United  Nations  Secretariat  will
promote  regular  consultations  and  closer  follow-up  of
agreed programmes of action to ensure their fulfilment.
Such  programmes  of  action 
the  Brussels
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed
Countries,  the  International  Conference  on  Financing
for Development and other commitments flowing from
the recent  General  Assembly  special  sessions  on  HIV/
AIDS and children.  An earnest attempt is necessary  to
link  up  the  commitments  and  agreed  outcomes  of  the
Brussels  Programme  of  Action  and  the  Monterrey
Consensus  in  order  to  create  a  rich  resource  base  for
the implementation of the Johannesburg Plan of Action
for sustainable development.
Other  major  problems  and  challenges  that  are
faced  by  poor  countries  and  stifle  their  progress  have
previously been extensively covered and debated in the
Assembly  and  in  various  other  international  forums.
But  some  of  them  need  to  be  mentioned  again.  The
transition of poor countries from continued dependence
on international charity to self-reliance is contingent on
certain factors such as free and open trade. Agricultural
and other commodities from developing countries need
to gain access to Western markets without unnecessary
barriers.  It  is  ironic  and  morally  unacceptable  that
products  from  the  West  are  freely  offloaded  onto  our
markets  but  not  the  other  way  round.  Fair  trade  is  a
two-way  transaction,  and  every  endeavour  must  be
made to ensure that it remains so.
On  an  optimistic  note,  we  welcome 
the
commendable  progress  that  has  been  achieved  in  an
effort  to  bring  some  conflicts  in  Africa  to  resolution.
This engenders the hope for the eventual restoration of
stability  and  a  chance  for  decisive  peace  on  the
continent. The  ceasefire  agreement reached on 4  April
this year in Angola and the peace agreement signed on
30 July between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic
of  the  Congo  represent  notable  historic  milestones  in
bringing  to  an  end  the  conflicts  in  the  Great  Lakes
region. I am confident that the United Nations will use
that  opening  to  step  forward,  as  it  always  has,  to
strengthen its involvement and that of the international
community to consolidate those agreements and closely
monitor their implementation.
I take this opportunity  to  congratulate  the  people
and the Government of East Timor on their attainment
of  independence  after  many  decades  of  dehumanizing
30
subjugation.  My  Government  also  welcomes  East
Timor’s coming membership in the United Nations.
In  the  same  vein,  I  congratulate  Switzerland  on
its admission to the membership of the United Nations.
The  significance  of  this  historic  development  to  the
world  body  cannot  be  over-emphasized,  especially
given  the  invaluable  contribution  the  Government  and
people of Switzerland have made over the years to the
progressive  development  of  international  humanitarian
and human rights affairs.
in 
the  Middle  East,  particularly 
My  Government  is  concerned  at  the  unrelenting
the
bloodletting 
innocent  civilians.  We
senseless  carnage  among 
encourage  both 
the
Palestinian  Authority  to  give  peace  a  chance  through
dialogue.  We  call,  in  particular,  for  the  cessation  of
hostilities,  provocation  and  incitement,  which  only
serve to inflame the delicate conflict situation.
Israeli  Government  and 
the 
Malawi believes in the principle of universality of
human  rights.  One  of  the  basic  rights  that  every
member of the global community can expect to enjoy is
the right to freedom of association. It is on the basis of
that,  and  in  a  spirit  of  reconciliation,  that  Malawi
believes  that  the  United  Nations  should  seriously
reconsider  the  question  of  the  readmission  of  the
Republic of China. The more than 21 million people of
Taiwan  should  be  allowed  to  freely  participate  in  the
affairs of the United Nations without any hindrance, as
that  is  what  this  Organization  stands  for.  After  all,
Taiwan,  through  its  rapid  growth  in  the  economic,
political and social sectors has demonstrated that it has
a  lot  to  offer  for  the  good  of  humanity  through  the
United Nations.
for  Africa’s  Development 
Africa  is  on  the  threshold  of  a  new  beginning
aimed  at  making  a  lasting  clean  break  with  the  errors
and  political  missteps  of  the  last  five  decades.  The
promulgation  of  a  development  blueprint,  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD),
provides a very comprehensive, clear focused road map
for  economic  revitalization  of  the  African  continent.
NEPAD,  as  a  framework  for  development,  contains
broad-ranging  measures  and  actions  that  are  reflective
of 
long-term  development
requirements,  as  well  as  constructive  and  beneficial
international  and  other
participation 
multilateral  processes  for  effective 
integration  of
Africa into the global political and economic order.
a  new  vision 
regional, 
for 
in 
It  is  gratifying,  therefore,  that  the  international
community  is  willing  to  support  this  newly  emerging
pragmatic framework for partnership and ownership of
development on the continent. I would like, once again,
to  encourage  our  development  partners  to  join  in  and
support Africa’s new  quest  for economic recovery  and
sustainable development.
terrorism  remains  today  one  of  the  greatest  threats  to
human  security.  The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica
therefore  once  again  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the
fight  against  international  terrorism  and  to  ensuring
that 
terrorist-related
activities  and 
international  crime  are  permanently
disabled.
the  channels  for  funding  of 
A/57/PV.7
In  conclusion,  Malawi,  along  with  other  African
countries,  would  like  to  express  deep  gratitude  to  the
leaders  of  the  Group  of  8  countries  for  voicing
unequivocal  support  for  NEPAD.  We  are  thankful  for
the  creation  of  the  Group  of  8  Africa  Action  Plan
adopted at the recent Summit in Kananaskis in Canada,
which  will  operate  as  the  platform  for  enhanced
cooperation  and  partnership  between  Africa  and  the
industrialized  Group  of  8  countries.  We  are  confident
that  strong  international  networking  and  support  for
NEPAD  will  provide  a  solid  basis  for  growth  and
progress,  as  well  as  decisive  peace  and  political
stability in Africa.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call  on  His  excellency  Mr.  Osborne  Riviere,  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Commonwealth of Dominica.
Mr.  Riviere  (Dominica):  The  Commonwealth  of
Dominica joins other delegations in congratulating you
on  your  election  to  chair  the  proceedings  of  the  fifty-
seventh  session  of 
the  United  Nations  General
Assembly. We are confident that  you  will preside over
this  Assembly  with  the  efficiency  and  dedication
required  to  take  us  through  the  agenda  of  the  fifty-
seventh session.
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  to  your
predecessor  our  sincere  appreciation  for  the  excellent
manner in  which he steered the  work of  the  fifty-sixth
session of this General Assembly.
One year ago we convened in a city reeling from
a  terrible  tragedy  which  spurred  the  international
community  to  unite  in  the  fight  against  international
terrorism.  The  world’s  response  to  the  events  of  11
September  2001  was  one  of  total  condemnation  of
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  a  firm  undertaking  to
uphold  the  principles  of  freedom  and  democracy
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
The  United  Nations  Security  Council  was  swift
and decisive in its adoption of a resolution focused on
suppressing  the  financing  of  terrorism  and  denying
terrorists  any  safe  haven  in  which  to  operate.  Sadly,
My  Government  is  making  every  effort  towards
the  successful 
implementation  of  United  Nations
Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  in  spite  of
limited  human  and  financial  resources.  Legislative
measures  which  have  been  put  in  place  include  an
Exchange of Information Act, which addresses some of
the  concerns  of 
international  community  as
expressed  in  resolution  1373  (2001).  This  Act  was
passed  in  the  Dominica  Parliament  in  January  2002,
while  a  bill  for  the  suppression  of  financing  of
terrorism will be tabled before Parliament shortly.
the 
My  delegation  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity  to
express its appreciation for the initiatives taken by  the
Counter-Terrorism Committee, the Commonwealth, the
European  Union  and other  countries  and  organizations
to  assist  developing  countries  in  their  implementation
of resolution 1373 (2001).
The historic entry into force of the Rome  Statute
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) takes us one
step further in the fight against impunity of war crimes
and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  Commonwealth  of
Dominica’s  accession  to  the  Statute  of  the  ICC  in
January  2001  is  indicative  of  our  support  for  the
establishment  of  a  permanent  international  court  that
will  bring 
the  most  serious
international  crimes  to  justice.  In  this  regard,  the  ICC
must  seek 
terrorist-related
crimes which may be localized in action, but may have
severe global consequences.
to  prevent  or  penalize 
the  perpetrators  of 
The international situation, notably developments
in  the  world  economy,  has  not  been  favourable  to  the
growth  prospects  of  small  States  such  as 
the
Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  which  remains  a  small,
open and largely agriculture-based economy, extremely
vulnerable  to  external  economic  shocks.  While  the
events  of  11  September  2001  are  behind  us,  the
irreparable  damage 
small
Caribbean countries is still evident. Hardest hit was the
tourism  sector,  one  of  the  areas  with  the  greatest
potential 
to  Dominica’s  social  and
economic development.
the  economies  of 
to 
to  contribute 
31
A/57/PV.7
to  our 
contributor 
The  growth  of  our  offshore  financial  sector,
another  potential 
economic
diversification,  has  been  adversely  affected  by  our
country’s  inclusion  in  the  list  of  non-cooperative
countries and territories put out by the Organization for
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD)’s
Financial  Action  Task  Force.  All  attempts  thus  far  to
have  our  country  removed  from  that  list  have  proved
futile,  in  spite  of  the  implementation  of  the  measures
necessary  to  ensure  best  industry  practices  in  the
financial services sector.
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  nevertheless
commits  itself  to  the  global  combat  against  money-
laundering  and  stands  ready  to  cooperate  with  the
international  community  in  its  anti-money-laundering
initiative. A number of new laws have been enacted by
Parliament 
its  anti-money-laundering
policies.  The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  has  also
established a Financial Intelligence Unit and a Money-
Laundering  Supervisory  Authority  to  ensure  that  our
financial-services  sector  remains  free  from  money-
laundering.
legislate 
to 
As I address you, my country is facing one of the
most  challenging  periods  in  its  history.  The  slowdown
in  the  global  economy,  the  impact  of  the  events  of  11
September  2001  on  an  already  deteriorating  fiscal
situation,  the  continued  difficulties  of  integrating  into
the  multilateral  trading  system  in  a  globalized  world
and 
in  overseas  development
assistance  have  undoubtedly  affected  our  economic
performance in an appallingly negative way.
rapid  decline 
the 
We  have  been  left  with  no  other  option  but  to
pursue  a  stabilization  and  adjustment  programme,
International
which,  although  approved  by 
the 
Monetary  Fund,  has  not  succeeded 
in  keeping
detractors,  including  the  public  service  union,  off  the
streets.
for 
the 
The  success  of  this  programme  should  lay  the
sustained  higher  growth  output  and
basis 
reduction.  We
employment,  as  well  as  poverty 
recognize, 
of
implementing  this  programme.  The  Dominican  people
have  been  asked 
temporary,  but  heavy
sacrifices  in  order  to  place  our  country  on  the  road  to
recovery.
to  make 
attendant 
however, 
costs 
We  wish  to  recognize,  in  this  forum,  the  support
given in these difficult  times  to  the  Commonwealth  of
Dominica  at  the  Caribbean  regional  level,  and  look
32
forward  to  the  timely  support  of  the  international
community.
Last  year, as the  world turned its  attention  to  the
events  of  11  September, 
the  Secretary-General
reminded us that none of the issues that faced us on 10
September had become less urgent. Indeed, the  United
Nations  calendar  for  the  past  year  has  been  crowded
with special conferences and summits, all convened to
address  problems  and  issues  of  global  concern  that
affect  the  everyday  lives  of  the  peoples  of  the  United
Nations.  While  it  is  true  that  those  issues  are  current
and of interest to the smaller members of this body it is
unfortunate that many of us do not have the capacity or
wherewithal  to  ensure 
they  receive  effective
representation,  not  only  at  the  conferences  but,  more
significantly, 
that
precede  the  conferences.  It  is  no  accident,  therefore,
that  most  often  the  States  that  least  benefit  are  the
smallest and least influential.
the  preparatory  committees 
that 
in 
The  Second  World  Assembly  on  Ageing  and  the
special  session  on  children  attempted  to  deal  with
issues which affect the most vulnerable members of our
societies. The World Assembly concluded in April with
a  Plan  of  Action 
the
international  community.  In  small  countries  like  the
Commonwealth  of  Dominica, 
implementation
must,  of  necessity,  include  the  recognition  of  older
persons  as  the  pillars  of  our  societies  —  people  who
make  a  significant  contribution 
to  our  economic
development.
implementation  by 
this 
for 
tenth  annual 
My  Government  has  developed  a  national  policy
on ageing which seeks to ensure that older persons are
provided with protective care and given an opportunity
to  continue  to  participate  in  the  development  of  our
nation.  A  few  weeks  ago,  we  were  privileged  to  host
the 
regional  meeting  of  HelpAge
International — a happy coincidence, given that among
our  population  of  75,000,  we  have  22  centenarians.  I
want  to  make  specific  mention  of  the  world’s  oldest
living  person  —  a  Dominican  woman,  Mrs.  Elizabeth
Israel,  affectionately  known  as  Ma  Pampo  —  who  is
allegedly 127.
Civil society organizations like HelpAge must be
recognized  for  their  vigorous  attempts  to  deal  with
issues  affecting  older  persons.  As  a  family  of  nations,
we  established  set  goals,  strategies  and  actions  in
pursuit  of  a  better  life  for  children  at  the  special
session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  children.  As  a
signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
the Commonwealth of Dominica remains committed to
ensuring 
that  children’s  rights  are  protected  and
respected.  Children  are  one  of  our  most  valuable
resources.
cooperation” 
The  Monterrey  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  was  convened  in  March  this  year,  and
was  hailed  as  a  “turning  point  in  the  approach  to
development 
international
community. It  was  widely acknowledged  at  Monterrey
that, 
to  be
effective,  both  the  donors  and  the  recipients  had  to
share  the  same  goals  of  sustainable  development  and
the alleviation and eventual eradication of poverty.
in  order  for  development  assistance 
the 
by 
We  applaud  the  commitment  expressed  by  the
major donor Governments to the Monterrey Consensus.
What  we  desire,  however,  is  an  equitable  distribution
of  the  increased  official  development  assistance  funds
pledged  by  the  heads  of  State  or  Government  of  the
European Union in March 2002. The same can be said
of the “new compact for global development” proposed
by  President  George  W.  Bush  on  14  March  2002,  by
which  the  United  States  pledged  to  increase  its  core
assistance to  developing  countries  by  50  per  cent  over
the next three years.
We are still confident that global conferences can
work,  because  it  has  been  proved  that  they  serve  as
forums  where  new  proposals  can  be  debated  and
consensus  sought  on  topical  issues.  At  the  recently
concluded  Johannesburg  Summit,  world  Governments
agreed to halve by  2015  the number  of  people  lacking
clean water and basic sanitation.
to 
The 
stated 
their  willingness 
My  Government  was  particularly  pleased  that  at
the  conclusion  of  the  Johannesburg  Summit  the  richer
countries 
reach  an
agreement,  by  January  2005,  within  the  World  Trade
Organization,  for  “substantial improvements  in  market
access” for food exports from developing countries.
Johannesburg  Summit  underlined 
the
necessary  linkage  between  environmental  protection
and  natural  resources  management  and  the  issues  of
poverty,  underdevelopment  and  social  justice.  The
Summit  demonstrated  the  interdependence  of  social,
environmental and economic factors, which must work
in unison if long-term sustainable development is to be
achieved.  Empirical  evidence  exists  to  show  that  poor
and weak national economies impact negatively on the
environment,  while environmental  degradation  and the
A/57/PV.7
over-utilization of natural resources result in declining
economies and impoverished communities.
The  Government  of  Dominica  remains  fully
committed to Agenda 21 and the Barbados Programme
of  Action  for  Small  Island  Developing  States.  We
reiterate  our  unwavering  support  for  the  Johannesburg
Plan  of  Action  and  urge  all  Member  States  to  make
good  on 
successful
implementation 
development
conventions.
their  commitments 
sustainable 
the 
for 
of 
all 
in 
the 
the  context  of 
The  increase  in  levels  of  official  development
assistance, to which I alluded earlier, is essential when
viewed 
implementation  of
development  strategies  by  small  island  developing
States. It is recognized that the small, open economies
of these small States require effective means, including
financial  resources,  to  counteract  the  negative  effects
of  globalization  and  trade  liberalization  and  to  foster
sustainable development.
The Commonwealth of Dominica is acutely aware
of the magnitude of the challenges facing our pursuit of
sustainable  development.  Ours  is  a  country  with  a
history of  consistently  seeking  a  national development
path guided by sustainable development. An integrated
development plan, undertaken with the participation of
a diversity  of  stakeholders  and  sectors,  will  shortly  be
completed and will provide us with a framework within
which  we  can  address  physical,  economic  and  social
vulnerabilities in an integrated manner.
At this time,  my  Government  wishes  to  place  on
record its appreciation of the continued commitment of
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  to  the  social,
economic  and  infrastructural  development  of  small,
vulnerable  economies  very  much  like  its  own.  As  the
fourteenth  largest  economy  in  the  world,  the  Republic
of  China  on  Taiwan  has  demonstrated  the  benefits  of
having  a  global  perspective  on  development.  We
welcomed 
the  World  Trade
Organization, in November 2001, to admit the Republic
of  China  on  Taiwan  as  a  full  member  of 
that
organization.  We  look  forward  to  a  similar  occasion
when  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  will  take  its
place  in  these  halls  as  a  full  member  of  the  United
Nations family.
decision 
the 
of 
The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  joins  other
delegations  in  congratulating  the  African  nations  for
two  important  developments.  First,  the  transformation
of  the  Organization  of  African  Unity  into  the  African
33
advancing  the  goals  of  peace,  democracy,  prosperity
and sustainable development.
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker
inscribed  for  this  afternoon’s  meeting.  But  I  wish  to
point out that a representative has requested to exercise
his  right  of  reply.  I  now  call  on  the  representative  of
Spain.
Mr.  Flores  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the
Kingdom of Morocco, in his statement, made reference
to the Spanish cities of Sebta and Melilla, as well as to
other  Spanish  territories.  In  the  framework  of  the
relations  of 
friendship  and  good  neighbourliness
between  Spain  and  Morocco,  based  on  mutual  respect
and  a  shared  history,  I  wish  to  underscore  that  Sebta
and  Melilla,  as  well  as  the  adjacent  islands  and  rocks,
are an integral part of the territory of Spain, and those
citizens are represented in the Spanish Parliament, with
the  same  rights  and  the  same  conditions  as  their
compatriots,  enjoying  the  same  rights  and  freedoms,
and protected by the same legal order.
The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
A/57/PV.7
have 
for 
Union,  which  we  are  confident  will  be  a  strong
institution  committed  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and
stability,  democracy  and  human  rights,  cooperation,
development,  prosperity  and  human  dignity.  Second,
socio-economic
we 
the 
revitalization  of 
the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  The
United  Nations  has  a  central  role  to  play  in  ensuring
the success of this bold initiative of the  African States
to eradicate poverty and underdevelopment. These two
development  provide  great 
that  our
Caribbean region can emulate.
programme 
the  African  continent, 
examples 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  resolve  of
the Millennium Declaration that
“the  central  challenge  we  face  today  is  to  ensure
that globalization becomes a positive force for all
the world’s people.” (A/54/2000, para. 5)
We  must  ensure,  through  the  global  and  regional
programmes,  that  globalization  truly  contributes  to
sustainable  development  and  prosperity  for  all.  We
wish  the  57th  General  Assembly  every  success  in
34
