United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
39th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 October 2002, 3 p.m.
New York

A/57/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 52 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/387 and
Corr.1)
of 
of 
and 
reform 
revitalization 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  Pakistan  supports  the
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to  strengthen  the
United Nations. His resolve to enhance the centrality of
the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs  reflects  the
aspirations  of  the  world’s  peoples.  The  continuing
process 
our
Organization is  essential  to enable it to respond  to  the
challenges  and  opportunities  of  the  new  world  that  is
emerging at the dawn of the twenty-first century.
the  Secretary-General’s 
report
entitled  “Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an
agenda  for  further  change”.  We  hope  that  this  debate
will  help  to  shape  an  agreed  and  effective  response  to
the 
recommendations
presented in the report.
We  welcome 
important 
proposals 
and 
Broadly,  the  report  addresses  three  categories  of
issues. First, there are proposals that seek to streamline
the  functioning  of  the  Secretariat  and  strengthen  the
work  of 
intergovernmental  machinery.  Such
proposals should generally receive strong support from
the  Assembly.  A  second  category  are  those  proposals
which have an impact on intergovernmental processes.
the 
On these, the Assembly should provide guidance to the
Secretary-General, inter alia, through this debate. Then
there is  a third  category  of issues  which require  either
adequate
clarification 
from 
intergovernmental 
the
evolution of broadly acceptable decisions.
the  Secretariat  or 
consideration 
enable 
to 
Let  me  explain  Pakistan’s  views  on  some  of  the
major issues covered in the Secretary-General’s report.
We  agree  that  United  Nations  programmes  and
actions  should  reflect 
the  current  and  emerging
priorities  of 
the  Organization.  The  Millennium
Declaration  presents  an  overarching  vision  which
broadly 
is
inevitable that in a rapidly globalizing world, problems
and priorities will continue to change and evolve.
these  priorities.  However, 
reflects 
it 
that 
We  are  glad 
the  Secretary-General  has
clarified  that  the  priorities  mentioned  in  his  report
reflect  only  an  illustrative  and  not  an  exhaustive  list.
We believe that a broader and balanced list of priorities
should  be  identified  through  this  debate  and  the
ensuing 
appropriate
reflection in our decisions.
consultations 
informal 
for 
the  Office  of 
There  is  an  obvious  need  to  rationalize  and
streamline  the  human  rights  machinery  of  the  United
Nations.  Action  is  required  at  least  at  three  levels.
First, 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner 
to  be
considerably  overhauled.  We  need  to  ensure  that  the
funding of various human rights activities of the Office
reflect 
the  priorities  set  by  Member  States,  and
for  Human  Rights  needs 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-66756 (E)
*0266756*
A/57/PV.39
the 
numerous 
especially  by  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights.
United  Nations  human  rights  programmes  should
normally  all  be  financed  through  the  regular  budget.
The  balance  between  the  promotion  of  civil  and
political and  economic and social rights,  including the
right  to  development,  needs  to  be  promoted  and
maintained. Balance also needs to be introduced in the
composition of the personnel of the Office of the High
Commissioner.
Secondly, 
rights
mechanisms  also  need  to  be  streamlined.  At  present
there 
and
representatives  established  by  the  Commission.  The
mandates  of  many  of  those  mechanisms  overlap,  and
every  special  rapporteur  apparently  seeks  to  cover
every  nook  and  cranny  of  the  mandate  he  is  assigned.
Lengthy  reports  by  the  special  rapporteurs  are  not
subjected  to  any  in-depth  examination;  nor  do  they
evoke  genuine  dialogue.  The  Commission  on  Human
Rights  should  be  asked  to  recommend  how  these
special  mechanisms,  which  have  proliferated,  can  be
reduced  in  number  and  enhanced  in  efficiency  and
relevance.
rapporteurs 
special 
human 
about 
are 
30 
Thirdly,  the  promotion  of  human  rights  at  the
country level needs to be pursued in a  well-considered
way.  The  introduction  of  human  rights  officers  into
United  Nations  country  offices  is  not  the  best  way  to
do that.  Since  such country  offices  exist  mostly  in  the
developing  countries,  it  will  reinforce  the  impression
that  human 
the
developing world.
rights  problems  exist  only 
in 
We support the restructuring of the Department of
Public  Information  (DPI).  The  priority  themes,  from
which  will  emerge  the  key  United  Nations  messages,
should  be  determined  by 
the  Committee  on
Information,  not  by  DPI.  We  are  not  convinced  of  the
viability  of  creating  regional  hubs  —  at  least,  not  in
some  regions.  In  the  first  instance,  the  Committee  on
Information  should  formulate  broad  guidelines  and
criteria,  to  be  applied  in  each  region,  bearing  in  mind
the region’s particularities.
We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  in
section  III  to  reduce  the  number  of  reports  and
meetings. The  vast proliferation  of  both  has  overtaken
the absorptive  capabilities  of  small  and  even  medium-
sized 
the
representational  value  of  our  deliberations  and
decisions.  We  trust  that  the  production  of  concise
undermining 
delegations 
and 
is 
2
reports  will  not  take  place  at  the  cost  of  ensuring
political  balance  or  excluding 
in  areas  of
importance to the developing countries.
issues 
We  support,  in  principle,  the  steps  proposed  in
section  IV  to  improve  field  coordination.  For  the
common programming suggested in action 14, it would
be  advisable  to  seek  the  views  of  the  relevant  United
Nations agencies  and  countries  concerned.  We  support
the enhanced responsibility being given to the  Adviser
for Special Assignments in Africa.
the  preparation 
We  would  welcome 
and
submission  to  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  of  a
document  clarifying  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of
various  United  Nations 
assistance
programmes, with a view to their rationalization.
technical 
on 
the 
Committee 
through  which 
their  contributions 
the  number  of  civil 
The  Secretary-General’s proposal  to  organize  the
relationship of the United Nations  with civil society is
a  timely  and  important  initiative.  Civil  society  is
playing an increasingly important role in economic and
social development, governance and peace and security
issues.  However, 
society
organizations  has  increased  exponentially  in  recent
years. Not all organizations are of the same quality and
credibility.  To  avail  itself  of  their  contribution,  the
United  Nations  needs  to  evaluate  in  greater  depth  the
strengths and expertise of each organization and create
mechanisms 
in
relevant  areas  can  be  best  obtained.  We  recommend
that 
Non-governmental
Organizations  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
meeting  at  the  level  of  permanent  representative,
should propose guidelines and actions for this purpose.
We  share  the  Secretary-General’s  dissatisfaction
with the planning and budgetary process of the United
Nations. We are not fully convinced, however, that the
solution  proposed  in  the  report  is  the  best  one.  The
present  planning  and  budgetary  process  has  worked
fairly  well  for  many  years.  The  Committee  for
Programme  and  Coordination  (CPC),  which 
is  a
subsidiary body of both the General Assembly and the
Economic  and  Social  Council,  looks  at  the  medium-
term  plan  (MTP)  from  a  programmatic  perspective  so
as to ensure that the proposed programmes  correspond
to  the  mandates  given  by  intergovernmental  bodies.
This  is  an  extremely  important  role  and  serves  as  a
check 
of
intergovernmental  mandates.  The  weakness  is  not  the
result  of  the  process.  It  arises  from  the  fact  that
possible  misinterpretation 
the 
on 
representation  on  the  CPC  has  not  been  of  a  level
conducive  to  examination  of  the  MTP  from  a  policy
perspective.  The  MTP  has  also,  traditionally,  been  a
long  document,  and  tedious  to  read  and  absorb.  If  we
can ensure a  more concise and  strategic  MTP,  coupled
with  higher  level  participation  in  the  CPC  —  for
example,  at  the  level  of  senior  officials  or  permanent
representatives  —  we  would  not  need  to  overturn  a
tried  and  tested  system  in  favour  of  a  new  and  as  yet
unclear arrangement.
There  may  be  other  options  that  could  serve  the
purpose, for example,  making the CPC an expert body
along  the  same  lines  as  the  Advisory  Committee  on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions. The Pakistani
delegation  proposes  that  this  issue  be  discussed  by  an
open-ended  working  group,  meeting  at  the  level  of
permanent  representatives,  assisted  by  experts,  during
the  course  of  the  fifty-seventh  session,  with  a  view  to
taking  a  decision  at  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  With  regard  to  human  resource
management,  discussed  in  section  VI  of  the  report,
Pakistan  supports, 
in  principle,  measures  which
promote efficiency in the Secretariat and help to create
a  versatile  and  well-managed  workforce  employed  on
the basis of merit and competence and with due regard
to geographical balance.
from 
to  be  adopted  at 
We  understand  that  following  this  debate,  Mr.
President,  you  intend  to  hold  informal  discussions  to
draw  up  a  draft  resolution  which  will  provide  the
Secretary-General  with  the  strategic  guidance  he  has
the  General  Assembly.  The  draft
sought 
resolution 
should
incorporate  the  Assembly’s  responses  to  the  different
kinds  of  actions  proposed  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report. We look forward to your  suggestion,  Sir, about
the  mechanism  you  wish  to  use  in  proceeding  to
elaborate the decision of the General Assembly. We are
confident that under your able leadership the process of
negotiation  will  be  transparent  and  inclusive,  and
ensure appropriate reflection of the views expressed by
Member States in this debate.
this 
stage 
Mr.  Nguyen  Thanh  Chau  (Viet  Nam):  My
delegation  would  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-
General  very  highly  for  initiating  the  debate  on  this
important  item,  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the  United
Nations system”. We also thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General  for  his  role  in  respect  of  the  report  entitled
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
in  document
further  change”,  which  is  contained 
A/57/PV.39
A/57/387.  In  that  relatively  short  but  concise  report,
which  has  helped  to  save  a  great  deal  in  financial
terms, she and her team have presented to the  General
Assembly  a  series  of  suggestions  with  the  aim  of
making  this  Organization  stronger  and  more  effective
so  that  it  can  achieve  the  goals  set  forth  in  the
Millennium  Declaration.  Our  delegation  welcomes  the
report  and  wishes  to  make  some  observations  on
certain aspects of it.
The  need  for  a  strong  and  effective  United
Nations  is  becoming  increasingly  imperative  in  this
century.  It  is  obvious  that  the  goals  set  out  in  the
Millennium Declaration cannot be successfully pursued
without  strengthening  the  Organization.  The  reform
process  aimed  at  further  rationalizing  the  structure  of
the United Nations, therefore, should be continued and
accelerated. My delegation pledges its total support for
the  enhancement  of 
the  Organization’s  backbone
organs,  especially  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security
Council and the Economic and Social Council.
As far as the General Assembly is concerned, we
support  recent  steps  aimed  at  improving  its  working
methods, such as the decision to elect the President and
the  Vice-Presidents  of  the  Assembly,  as  well  as  the
officers  of  the  Main  Committees,  three  months  before
the beginning of the regular session, or the practice of
discussing  interlinked  items  together  during  plenary
meetings and meetings of the Main Committees.
to 
With  regard  to  the  Security  Council,  we  fully
agree  with  the  report  that  no  reform  of  the  United
Nations  would  be  complete  without  reform  of  the
Council. It is no secret that  that  organ  should be  more
accountable 
the  General  Assembly,  more
representative  to  reflect  today’s  reality  —  through  the
expansion  of  both  the  non-permanent  and  permanent
categories  of  its  membership  —  and  more  democratic
and  more  transparent  in  its  working  methods.  While
taking  note  of  the  improvements  in  the  Council’s
working  methods,  such  as  the  increased  number  of
open  meetings  with  the  participation  of  non-Council
members,  we  regret  that  the  Open-ended  Working
Group on Security Council Reform has been unable to
make any progress after a decade of discussion, leaving
the painful impression that it is beating a dead horse.
Two  years  ago,  the  leaders  of  United  Nations
Member States defined the following as our priorities:
3
A/57/PV.39
“the  fight  for  development  for  all  the  peoples  of
the  world,  the  fight  against  poverty,  ignorance
and  disease;  the  fight  against  injustice;  the  fight
against  violence,  terror  and  crime;  and  the  fight
against the degradation ... of our common home.”
(A/RES/55/2, para. 29)
Undoubtedly, those priorities should be at the top of the
United  Nations  agenda  and  our  principal  activities.
Although  the  International  Conference  on  Financing
for  Development,  held  at  Monterrey,  and  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  held 
at
Johannesburg,  have 
to  our
expectations,  we  need  more  concrete  actions  and
measures.  We  also  need  a  mechanism  to  coordinate
development  efforts  on  a  global  scale 
to  enable
developing  countries  to  take  advantage  of  all  the
opportunities  that  globalization  offers,  especially  with
regard  to  trade  and  investment,  and  to  ensure  their
greater involvement in the decision-making process.
lived  up 
somehow 
In  that  context,  we  find  that  section  II  of  the
report,  entitled  “Doing  what  matters”,  appears
somewhat unbalanced, since many vital issues — such
as  those  of  development  and  poverty  eradication  —
have  not  been  given  the  attention  envisaged  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  while  certain  other  issues
have  been  singled  out  and  addressed  through  very
specific and concrete actions.
Concerning  the  organization  of  work  of  the
Secretariat,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  Secretary-
General  has  proposed  a  large  number  of  measures  to
that effect, such as streamlining reports, improving the
planning of meetings, coordinating the activities of the
Secretaries  of  the  Main  Committees,  restructuring
United Nations Information Centres, improving United
Nations 
document
management.  My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  any
reform  in  the  direction  of  streamlining,  rooting  out
redundancies and duplications, is to be encouraged and
supported,  provided  that  it  does  not  involve  financial
implications  and  that  concerns  raised  by  Member
States are adequately addressed.
improving 
libraries 
and 
Lastly  but  not  least,  my  delegation  shares  the
Secretary-General’s  view  that  the  competence  of  staff
ensures  their  vital  contributions  to  the  success  of  the
Organization.  We  note  with  satisfaction 
the
Secretary-  General  is  committed  to  the  recruitment  of
qualified 
or
underrepresented  countries.  In  that  respect,  we  should
unrepresented 
candidates 
from 
that 
4
like  to  see  concrete  measures  to  rectify  the  existing
unbalanced recruiting mechanism.
In  conclusion,  I  should 
like  to  express  my
delegation’s  highest  appreciation  of  the  Secretary-
General’s efforts to make the United Nations a stronger
and  more  effective  instrument  in  the  service  of  people
around the  world. I assure him  of  my  delegation’s  full
cooperation  and  support,  and  I  sincerely  hope  to
warmly welcome him to Viet Nam sometime next year.
Mr.  Kasemsarn  (Thailand):  I  should  like  to
begin by adding my voice to all those who have spoken
before  me 
the
Secretary-General for sharing with us his thoughts and
plans  in  his  report  on  strengthening  of  the  United
Nations  system  (A/57/387).  I  also  wish  to  thank  Ms.
Louise Fréchette, Deputy Secretary-General, for giving
Member countries further details on the issues raised in
the report.
in  expressing  our  appreciation 
to 
to 
regard 
improvement  with 
The report provides  us  with  a  broad  overview  of
how  the  Secretary-General  intends  to  bring  about
changes  and 
the
Secretariat  so  that  it  can  better  serve  the  Organization
and its Member States. It also raises some challenging
questions regarding the revitalization of United Nations
intergovernmental bodies with respect not only to their
working  methods  but  also  to  their  relevance  and
effectiveness  in  dealing  with  the  myriad  challenges  of
the  globalized  world.  Those  thoughts  and  plans  will
certainly serve us well as we review the reform process
of  the  entire  Organization.  Our  debate  today  on  this
item  is  thus  timely  and  significant,  and  it  should  also
be  viewed  in  the  wider  context  of  the  reform  of  the
Security Council and of the General Assembly.
took  office  as  chief  executive  of 
My  delegation  commends  the  Secretary-General
for  pursuing  this  matter  as  one  of  his  top  priorities
when  he 
the
Organization  in  1997.  Indeed,  he  has  initiated  many
valuable 
the  performance  and
functioning  of 
the  United  Nations  by  reshaping,
reorganizing 
the  Secretariat.
Thailand  welcomes  those  initiatives  and  will  continue
to 
further
improvements at the United Nations.
support  his  efforts 
to  bring  about 
improvements 
consolidating 
and 
in 
We  believe 
that,  as  a  universal  multilateral
institution, the United Nations needs to evolve with the
changing  times  and  landscape  in  order  to  remain
effective  and  relevant.  The  Organization’s  reform
process should be implemented  with full consideration
of  the  aspirations  and  expectations  of  Member  States,
as well as of the various levels of development among
them.  My  delegation  should  therefore  like  to  offer
some of our thoughts and ideas on ways to improve the
functioning of the Organization.
it 
that 
First, 
to  ensure 
is  needed 
is  my  delegation’s  view 
the
Millennium  Declaration  and  the  major  international
Conferences of the past decade should serve as the road
map  for  the  United  Nations  in  the  elaboration  of  its
programme  of  work.  A  thorough  review  of  United
Nations  activities 
the
Organization  is  properly  focused  on  tackling  urgent
issues,  such  as  globalization  and 
impact  on
development,  poverty  eradication,  HIV/AIDS,  human
rights,  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  drug  trafficking,
and  conflict  prevention,  and  that  it  is  able  to  produce
tangible results. My delegation therefore hopes that the
Secretary-General  can  offer  a  more  comprehensive
review  of  the  Organization,  taking  into  account  these
priority issues, so that its strengths and weaknesses can
be assessed.
that 
its 
Secondly,  Thailand  welcomes 
the  Secretary-
General’s  plan 
to  bring  about  greater  coherence,
efficiency  and  effectiveness  among  the  various  United
Nations  agencies  and  programmes  in  host  countries.
We  support  the  idea  of  developing  a  common  pooling
of  resources,  joint  programming,  common  databases
and  knowledge  networks  among  the  agencies  and
programmes without significant impact on the existing
budget allocations. This approach is similar to the Thai
Government’s concept of chief executive officer for the
administration  of 
its  public  organizations  abroad,
which  involves, 
inter  alia,  pooling  resources  and
encouraging  teamwork  under  a  unified  structure  and
command.
Thirdly,  Thailand  is  of  the  opinion  that  the
Secretary-General’s  plan  to  increase  resources  in  real
terms,  aside  from  adjustments  arising  from  inflation
and  currency  changes,  for  the  revised  programme
budget starting from the period 2002-2003, may not be
feasible at this time. A number of developing and least-
developed  countries  are  still 
the  process  of
recovering  from  the  financial  crises  of  the  late  1990s
and,  indeed,  a  few  others  are  experiencing  financial
and economic difficulties at the moment. The principle
of  the  capacity  to  pay  of  developing  and 
least-
developed countries, which make up the majority of the
Members  of  this  Organization,  must  be  taken  into
account  in  all  the  deliberations  on  this  issue.  The
in 
A/57/PV.39
approach  we  should  be  taking  on  this  issue  is  to
examine  how 
increase  budget  savings  through
reforms  so  that  they  can  be  used  to  maintain  future
programme budgets at the current level.
to 
and 
systems 
planning 
Fourthly, 
budgeting 
the  Secretary-General’s  proposal 
to
improve 
by
synchronizing the  medium-term  plan  with  the  biennial
proposed programme budget to  cover two  years  seems
pragmatic  and  sensible.  This  is  also  the  case  with
regard  to  the  Secretary-General’s  request  for  more
flexibility  in  the  reallocation  of  resources  between
programmes  of  up  to  10  per  cent  within  a  single
budgetary  period.  Thailand  hopes  that  such  measures
will 
the
Organization.  We  also  support  the  proposed  plan  to
improve  and  simplify  the  planning  and  budgeting
systems  of  regular  and  peacekeeping  budgets,  as  well
as  voluntary trust  funds,  which  are the  main  resources
in  implementing  the  Organization’s  programme  of
work.
to  better  financial  management  of 
lead 
Lastly,  the  issue  of  the  human  resources  of  the
Organization  is  a  matter  of  great  interest  and  concern
to  all  delegations.  We  fully  support  the  mechanisms
and  incentives  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  human
resources,  particularly  in  the  recruitment,  promotion
and  remuneration  processes.  We  also  support 
the
suggestion to abolish the restrictions on the number of
General  Service  staff  eligible  for  promotion  to  the
Professional  category  and  to  raise  the  annual  quota  of
P-2  posts  available 
for  successful  G-to-P  exam
candidates  to  25  per  cent.  My  delegation  hopes  to  see
these 
earliest
opportunity  without 
or
on 
discrimination  among  any  qualified  General  Service
staff.
implemented 
suggestions 
restriction 
any 
the 
at 
of 
At 
the 
period 
crucial 
changes 
and
this 
uncertainties, 
the  United  Nations,  as  a  universal
multilateral  institution,  represents  the  best  hope  of
humanity  for  a  more  peaceful,  caring  and  prosperous
world. The ability of the Organization to live up to the
expectations  of 
international  community  will
depend on two important ingredients. One is the ability
and readiness of the Secretariat, with its body of highly
competent professional staff, to change and adapt to the
ever-increasing demands placed on it. The other  is the
firm  commitment  of  Member  countries  to  support  and
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  Organization,  which
should  be  practical  and  commensurate  with 
their
ingredients  must
limited 
resources.  These 
two 
5
A/57/PV.39
complement  one  another  in  order  for  the  United
Nations  to  remain  relevant  in  these  challenging  times
and  to  become  an  agent  for  more  effective  change  in
the  service  of  humanity.  Thailand  remains  steadfast  in
its  support  for  a  more  effective  and  relevant  United
Nations  and  will  continue  to  play  its  part  to  achieve
this end.
Mr. Rivas (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish):  Allow
me  at  the  outset  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for
introducing his report. No item among those before the
United  Nations  will  be  successful  if  we  do  not  seek
daily  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations.  That  is  why
Colombia  welcomes the report,  which proposes  a  path
to  be  followed  and  establishes  a  series  of  measures  to
be  undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  and  by  the
main  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
and the Security Council.
My  delegation  recognizes 
the  Organization’s
achievements  in  recent  years  on  a  broad  spectrum  of
items.  The  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  has  been
essential  in  making  progress  on  such  goals  as  the
eradication  of  poverty  and 
the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  as  well  as  for  the  success  of
some  peacekeeping  operations,  such  as  those  in  Sierra
Leone, Kosovo and Timor-Leste.
the  fight  against 
However,  in  order  to  make definitive  progress  in
all areas of concern to the Organization and effectively
to  solve  all  the  problems  confronting  the  international
community today, we need a greater commitment from
the  Member  States  to  the  United  Nations.  We  must
consider  and  apply  such  bold  and  ambitious  ideas  as
those  put 
to
strengthen  the  Organization.  We  need  to  revitalize  its
main  organs  and  to  make  them  more  efficient  by
aligning them with the realities of our peoples.
the  Secretary-General 
forward  by 
While the United  Nations  faces  serious  problems
today, such as the weakening of multilateralism and the
administrative and bureaucratic difficulties typical of a
truly  global  Organization,  there  is  no  doubt  that  our
peoples  see 
the  United  Nations  as  a  solid  and
respectable  institution  that  responds,  within  its  means,
to the challenges it faces and that has incorporated into
its 
the  contribution  of  various
international State actors. Their views greatly revitalize
and  enrich  the  discussions  on  and  search  for  solutions
to  the  sensitive  problems  and  issues  on  the  global
agenda.
field  of  action 
6
in 
actively 
informal 
However, a great deal remains to be done. That is
why  Colombia  is  participating  and  will  continue  to
participate 
open-ended
consultations  and  groups  to  consider  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposals.  We  will  study  the  means  put
forward  by  the  Secretary-General  within  his  field  of
competence.  We  will  promote  the  measures  suggested
by the Secretary-General and others that we consider to
be useful to the revitalization of the General Assembly.
the  General  Assembly,  whose
A  forum  such  as 
universality  and  membership  make 
it  extremely
important,  must  overcome  the  difficulties  afflicting  it
today:  the overlapping  of items,  repetitious  and  sterile
debates  and  the  negotiation  of  resolutions  with  little
political impact, among others.
its  methods  of  work  and 
Another  fundamental  aspect  that  Member  States
must address in the process of strengthening the United
Nations  is  reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  terms  of
both 
its  membership.
Colombia will continue to promote this process  with a
view 
the  Security  Council  more
representative  in  its  membership  and  more  flexible  in
its working methods.
to  making 
In his report, the Secretary-General has presented
a list of 36 actions or measures aimed at addressing the
challenges  arising  from  the  shortcomings  detected  in
the  functioning  of  the  Organization.  The  informal
consultations that have begun on this item will provide
the  opportunity  to  refer  to  each  of  these  actions  in
greater detail. Allow me for the time being to reiterate
my  delegation’s  willingness  to  consider  and  promote
the  reforms  required  by  the  United  Nations,  to  which
our  peoples  and  Governments  have  assigned 
the
difficult task of maintaining peace and security, solving
international  agenda,
the  major  problems  on 
preserving 
the
economic and social development of humankind.
the  environment  and  promoting 
the 
the  outstanding  efforts 
Mr.  Abulhasan  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At
the outset, I would like to say how much we in Kuwait
appreciate 
that  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan is making to strengthen the role of
the United Nations, to ensure its effectiveness, to make
it  dynamic  and  flexible  in  dealing  with  international
changes  and  challenges  and  to  enhance  its  ability  to
face  up 
the
in 
expectations of people the world over.
studied 
My  delegation  has 
those  challenges, 
line  with 
to 
the  Secretary-
item  under
the 
General’s 
report 
(A/57/387)  on 
consideration,  “Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations
System”. The report sets out actions that constitute the
second phase of the reform strategy that the Secretary-
General initiated  when  he  assumed  office in 1997.  We
also  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  interest  in  the
views  of  States  on  the  issue.  This  important  issue
includes  matters 
at
Headquarters.  It  must  be  considered  carefully  and
appropriate  agreed  action  should  be  taken  in  order  to
implement the measures proposed in the report.
affecting  our  daily  work 
Let  me  say,  before  discussing  in  detail  the
Secretary-General’s  report  on  reform,  that  Kuwait
believes  that  it  is  important  for  us  to  reach  agreement
on  the  general  principles  to  guide  our  approach  in
dealing  with  this  issue.  First,  the  reform  process  must
be  continuous  and  uninterrupted.  It  must  take  into
consideration the principle of flexibility in formulating
and  implementing  reform  measures.  Secondly,  the
viewpoints of all Member States must be considered on
an  equal  footing.  Actions  ought  to  be  debated  in
keeping with the principle of transparency.
Thirdly,  we  believe  that  the  reform  process  is  a
collective  responsibility  to  be  shared  between  the
Secretariat and Member States. Here, we underline the
Secretariat’s  principal  role  in  drawing  the  attention  of
States 
issues  and  questions  on  which  reform
measures  would  be  to  everyone’s  benefit.  We  believe
that 
the
Secretariat and Member States ought to be the  method
for approaching this issue.
interaction  and  dialogue  between 
frank 
to 
Fourthly,  the  key  factor  to  success  in  reform
efforts is to take quick measures to implement  without
delay  agreed reform  proposals,  and  to  postpone  action
on those issues not yet agreed upon.
the 
reform  process  must 
The  fifth  principle  is  renewed  belief  that  the
United  Nations  is  an  intergovernmental  Organization
whose  objective  is  to  serve  the  peoples  of  the  world.
Therefore, 
into
consideration the political dimensions of all issues. We
believe that the reform process must be in line with the
political reality of the positions of Member States. We
do not believe that the corporate profit-making method
can  succeed  in  reforming  an  Organization  such  as  the
United Nations.
take 
If  we  were  to  agree  on  those  general  principles,
we could then base our work on them when we debate
the technical details of the reform process proposed in
the  Secretary-General’s  report  under  consideration.
A/57/PV.39
Here,  I  propose  that  the  President  of  the  General
Assembly  concentrate  first  and  foremost  on  action  to
be  taken  and  on  the  approach  to  be  adopted  for
consultations.  Allow  me  to  propose  the  following
points  in  that  regard:  informal  consultations  could  be
held  during  which  all  the  proposals  contained  in  the
Secretary-General’s  report  would  be  debated  under  an
agenda set up for each  meeting. Actions to  be  debated
would  be  organized  under  the  main  headings  of  the
report.  Member  States  would  be  allowed  to  express
their views on the technical aspects of each action. We
would  thus  see  which  proposals  enjoy  the  general
agreement of Member States.
Secondly,  Mr.  President,  you  could  follow  up
those  meetings  and  debates  through  representatives
whom  you  would  appoint  to  assist  you  and  pinpoint
those  measures  and  proposals 
that  enjoy  general
agreement  among  Member  States.  These  could
subsequently be incorporated into a draft resolution for
adoption and implementation as soon as Member States
had completed their consultations on them.
Thirdly,  I  would  propose  that  once  the  positions
of  States  as  expressed  during  the  debate  on  the  item
have  been  analyzed,  the  proposals  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  should  be  catogorized  and  listed  to
make  it  easier  to  deal  with  them  through  the  draft
resolution and subsequent action on the proposals.
he 
can 
ones 
Following  a  quick  examination  of  the  nature  of
the proposals in the report, my delegation believes that
they  can  be  divided  as  follows.  The  first  category
includes  actions  related  to  the  prerogatives  of  the
Secretary-General: 
take  without
ascertaining the views of Member States. Nevertheless,
it  is  important  for  such  actions  to  be  included  in  any
draft resolution  to  be  adopted  so  that  they  can  receive
the  blessing  of  Member  States.  The  second  category
includes  proposals  related  to  urgent  issues  on  which
general  agreement  has  been  expressed  by  Member
States  in  the  debate.  These  include  issues  related  to
streamlining the work of the General Assembly, and to
decreasing  the  number  of  reports  and  meetings  by
United  Nations  bodies.  The  third  category  includes
technical  proposals  to  be  debated  in  the  relevant
technical  bodies  by  members  of  those  bodies  and  by
other  concerned  Member  States.  The  fourth  category
includes measures which, for the time being, have been
set aside, and on  which no urgent action can be taken.
These  include  strategic  issues  and  those  related  to  the
philosophy  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  These
7
A/57/PV.39
require  in-depth  study  and  Member  States  must  be
given sufficient time to consider them without adopting
any action on them. Some examples are the role of civil
society, partnership with the private sector, how to deal
with  United  Nations  staff  members  suffering  from
HIV/AIDS,  measures  regarding  the  Department  of
Public Information and other measures of great interest
to  all  Member  States.  My  delegation  will  contribute
effectively  and  positively  to  the  consultations  to  be
held soon on the item. That will  be  an  opportunity  for
us  to  clearly  express  our  position  on  all  measures
proposed, particularly the ones my delegation supports
and  agrees  with.  First,  we  support  the  Secretary-
General’s ideas on a comprehensive approach to taking
up 
the  United  Nations.
Secondly,  we  fully  support all  measures  and proposals
to  alleviate  the  burden  on  Member  States  with  small
delegations and on the Secretariat, namely by reducing
the number of meetings and reports and simplifying the
working  methods  of  all  United  Nations  bodies,
particularly  the  General  Assembly.  I  call  on 
the
Assembly to adopt measures on those issues in a timely
manner.  Thirdly,  we 
the
efficiency  and  capabilities  of  the  United  Nations  staff
without  discrimination,  considering 
they  are
international  civil 
servants,  particularly  General
Service staff.
the  agenda  of 
strengthening 
items  on 
support 
that 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the
Secretariat  for  measures  taken  in  cooperation  with
Member  States  to  streamline  the  activities  of  the
General  Assembly.  The  fruits  of  those  efforts  are
already being  enjoyed  at  this  very  session.  We  believe
they are an example to be followed when taking up the
Secretary-General’s  proposals  contained  in  the  report
under consideration today.
At  the  same  time,  we  must  stress  that  our  main
objective is  to  continue consolidating the concept  of  a
United  Nations  culture,  which  we  have  included  in  all
school  curricula  in  Kuwait.  It  is  a  concept  that  drives
us — Member States or Secretariat employees, the true
face of the Organization in the eyes of the peoples and
Governments of the  world —  to achieve reform in the
service of all.
Mr.  Pradhan  (Bhutan):  We  must  be  sensitive  to
the  fact  that  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first
century 
the
fulfilment  of  this  most  crucial  role  and  its  Charter
obligations,  the  United  Nations  is  called  upon  to  deal
with  multifarious  issues.  Those  relate  to  peace  and
truly  universal  organization.  In 
is  a 
8
security,  social  welfare,  the  environment,  sustainable
economic  development,  poverty  alleviation  and  a  host
of  other  issues  that  will  impact  our  planet  and  the
future  of  humankind  for  generations  to  come.  That  is
indeed  an  onerous  undertaking  and  responsibility.  As
diverse as the  membership of this  world body is, so  is
the agenda with which it is compelled to deal.
changing 
We  need  a  United  Nations  that  is  inherently
dynamic  in  its  functioning.  After  all,  the  international
issues  that  it  is  required  to  consider  and  deal  with  are
ever 
such
circumstances,  an  outdated  structure  cannot  cope  with
the  challenges  of  the  times,  and  the  bodies  of  the
United Nations need reforms from time to time to face
those new situations.
evolving. 
ever 
and 
In 
those 
As  mentioned  by  speakers  before  me,  small
delegations,  especially 
that  have  difficult
manpower and financial positions, find it impossible to
cope with the large number of meetings and the piles of
documents that emanate from the United Nations. That
matter has been noted in the Secretary-General’s report
in  paragraphs  23  and  88.  While  meetings  and
documents are essential features of our work, the sheer
volume  of  reports  and  the  number  of  meetings  are
simply overwhelming. The question that we  must pose
is,  have  those  reports  and  meetings  served  their
legitimate  and  intended  purposes?  There  is  a  need  to
closely  and  objectively  look  into  that  matter,  and  see
how that untenable situation  has  come  about and  what
the  Member  States  and  the  Secretariat  need  to  do  to
rectify the situation.
In paragraph 24, the Secretary-General stated that
“Summit fatigue has set in”, and, in a way, that is true.
In  the  past,  my  delegation  has  cautioned  against
convening  summit  level  meetings  on  too  many  issues
or  on  matters  on  which  the  international  community
has  not  reached  the  stage  when  a  summit  becomes
justified.  In  addition,  summit  decisions  are  not  fully
and  properly  implemented,  making  the  credibility  of
summits  questionable  in  the  eyes  of  Governments  and
the  general  public.  Any  proposal  for  a  summit  should
be carefully considered. Guidelines and criteria need to
be established and an adequate period of time  must be
taken  to  access  the  requirement  for  a  summit.  There
should be sound and credible reasons for involving the
highest  levels  of  our  Governments.  The  Secretary-
General might like to give his recommendations on the
criteria for calling summits. I am sure that this  will be
helpful to Member States in taking suitable decisions.
An  issue  of  critical  importance  in  strengthening
the United Nations system is the reform of the Security
Council,  which  is  long  overdue.  The  Council  must  be
made  inclusive  and  democratic,  and  must  also  reflect
the  aspirations  of  the  Member  countries  that  were  not
there and not involved in setting up the Organization in
1945,  over  half  a  century  ago.  Many  debates  have
taken  place  for  nearly  a  decade  on  the  need  to  reform
this  major  organ,  and  yet  proposals  for  substantive
change  have  met  with  adamant 
resistance.  The
permanent, as  well  as  the  non-permanent,  membership
has  to  be  expanded  to  reflect  the  universality  of  the
United  Nations.  The  issue  of  continuing  with  the  veto
power also deserves further and careful consideration.
The  matter  of  financing  the  activities  of  the
United  Nations  has  been  of  great  concern  to  Member
States.  On the  one  hand,  Member  States,  whether  it  is
in the Fifth Committee and the General Assembly or in
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and
Budgetary  Questions  and  other  concerned  bodies,  still
do not seem to be able to exercise the degree of control
felt necessary on the part of financial experts. That has
resulted 
and
misunderstandings  between  the  Secretariat  and  the
Member  States,  but  this  situation  is  a  serious  problem
that  needs  to  be  addressed  more  realistically.  The
current system of control, review, checks and balances
will  have  to  be  reformed  in  a  manner  that  will  give
greater  confidence  to  Member  States  and,  at  the  same
time,  will  enable  the  Secretary-General  to  function
better financially.
in  many  differences  of  opinion 
The other point concerns the regular contributions
of  Member  States  based  on  their  respective  gross
national  product.  In  view  of  the  diverse  nature  of  the
Organization’s  membership,  there  is  no  option  but  to
maintain  the  current  methods  of  financing  for  the
regular  budget.  But  all  Member  States  must live  up  to
their  expectations  and  not  create  problems  to  pressure
the international Organization.
That 
situation  notwithstanding, 
the  greatest
problem  is  voluntary  contributions  needed  to  finance
the activities of  the  United  Nations.  From  a  long-term
perspective,  it  would  be  good  to  look  seriously  at  the
prospects  for  increasing,  even  if  gradually,  forms  of
independent financing for the United Nations in  which
national  decisions  become  less  relevant.  There  have
already been some proposals on this.  A  more vigorous
pursuit  in  this  direction  would  serve  the  international
community well. The Secretariat needs to look into this
A/57/PV.39
and advise Member States on the course of action that
needs to be initiated.
As several speakers before me have expressed, in
the  reform  process  to  be  carried  out  by  the  Secretary-
General,  the  question  of  representation  of  all  Member
States in the recruitment process has to be given added
emphasis. Where they cannot put forward candidates or
have  no  interest  in  doing  so,  then  it  is  a  different
matter.  But  we  must  bear  in  mind  that  this  is  an
international Organization, composed of 191 Members,
and the character of the United Nations Secretariat and
its  bodies  must  and  should 
reality.
Unfortunately,  proposals  such  as  these  are  usually
countered by arguments that this results in recruitment
of mediocre third world personnel. Yes, there would be
cultural  differences,  varied  methods  of  working,  and
linguistic  and  other  issues.  But  the  United  Nations
recruitment  process  should  be  such  that,  leaving  aside
cultural and linguistic differences, which are obvious in
a  universal  multilateral  setting,  only  qualified  persons
are  recruited  whether  from  developed  or  developing
countries.
reflect 
this 
I  have  taken  the  opportunity  to  address  a  few  of
the  many  points  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report.  My
delegation takes this opportunity to commend Mr. Kofi
Annan for the initiatives that he has taken in the reform
of  the  United  Nations.  We  thank  him  for  the  positive
suggestions made and are confident that the report will
be  a  most  useful  input  in  our  efforts  to  bring  about
necessary reforms in this universal Organization.
Mr.  Valdés  (Chile)(spoke  in  Spanish):  I  wish  to
begin by expressing our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General and his colleagues for the report on the reform
of  the  United  Nations  that  we  are  discussing  today.  I
also  wish  to  express  at  the  outset  our  resolute  support
to  the  proposals  submitted  to  us.  We  wish  also  to
express our intention to contribute as far as possible to
the promotion of vast support for the agenda for change
proposed  by 
the  Secretary-General  and  make  a
contribution to the debate by introducing new ideas and
improvements that will add to its success.
In our opinion  there  are  many  reasons  that  make
it  necessary  to  give  unrestricted  support  for  the  effort
that the Secretariat is proposing to us. First of all, there
is the quality and the very contents of the report, which
respond,  as  pointed  out  in  its  introduction,  to  a  new
way  of  working  within  the  United  Nations.  Of  equal
importance,  we  feel,  is  the  fact  that  the  report  reflects
9
A/57/PV.39
requirements  and  agreements  which  are  of 
long
standing  for  Member  States.  This  is  an  excellent
example  of  the  possibility  for  cooperation  between
Governments  and  the  Secretariat,  with  a  view  to
revitalizing the Organization.
a  great 
We  also  believe  that  the  proposals  come  from  a
Secretary-General  who  has  demonstrated,  through  his
outstanding  management, 
for
capacity 
administration;  conducting  with  singular  skill 
the
implementation  of  his  proposals  agreed  to  in  1997.
This  ensures 
the  process  of
implementing  this  report  as  a  joint  effort,  it  will  be
possible  to  make  the  Organization  capable  of  dealing
with the international challenges of today — challenges
which  are  probably  the  most  difficult  faced  by  the
Organization since it was created.
in  observing 
that, 
The  proposal  to  carry  out  at  the  United  Nations
the tasks that are truly important — by providing better
service  to  Member  States,  by  making  progress  at  the
same time in joint efforts and by investing resources in
priorities  —  reflects  a  fortunate  combination  of
substantive,  practical  and  procedural  issues,  which
surely  makes  the  report  commensurate  with  today’s
requirements.
It is true that the existence of the United Nations
has  rarely  seemed  more  necessary  than  today,  in  view
of the great tasks being faced by a globalized humanity.
From  combating  poverty,  achieving  at  least  some
degree of development for a vast majority of the planet,
caring  for  the  environment  and  fighting  HIV/AIDS  to
preserving international peace  and  security, the  United
Nations seems more necessary every day.
However,  we  cannot  disregard  the  fact  that  only
rarely have the voices from different parts of the world,
supported  at  times  by  powerful  media,  been  heard  as
loudly as now, spreading a picture of multilateralism as
a  futile  and  wasteful  undertaking;  only  rarely  have
these  voices  been  so  determined  to  disregard  the
legitimacy  of  miltilateralism,  denying  the  need  to  see
mankind  as  a  whole, denying  the  urgent  need  to  make
progress  through  new  institutions,  in  the  task  of
creating  greater  cooperation 
international
system. Chile understands that supporting the reform of
the system is one way, perhaps the most effective way,
of  providing  a  clear  response  to  those  who  believe  or
act in that way.
the 
in 
We  are  not  disregarding  the  difficulties  involved
in  promoting  processes  of  change  in  international
10
institutions.  We  know  that  frequently  such  attempts  at
change run up against political realities that express the
legitimate  interests  of  many  of  their  proponents.  In
reality, this has been a recurrent situation in the United
Nations  where,  frequently,  concrete  results  achieved
are  not  commensurate  with  the  true  needs  of  the
Organization, although they are presented as such.
Therefore,  we  feel  it  is  urgent  to  appeal  for  a
constructive  spirit.  We  believe  that  nothing  is  more
legitimate  than  to  explore  the  consequences  of  the
proposals  made  by  the  Secretary-General,  to  seek  to
provide  information  to  the  whole  membership,  to
suggest  alternatives  or  indicate  objections.  However,
we believe that any criticism should be introduced with
a  constructive  spirit,  with  full  respect  for  the  powers
that  are  given  to  the  Secretary-General  under  the
Charter.
to 
We  wish 
recognize  before  all  else 
the
importance  of  the  fact  that  the  report  begins  by
stressing  that 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
constitute  the  highest  task  of  the  Organization.  For
developing countries, it is extremely important that the
Secretary-General  persist  in  the  road  map  and  in  the
reports 
the
limitations and failures being  experienced  on  this path
towards overcoming poverty, ignorance and disease.
that  measure  both 
the  progress  and 
We  also  recognize  the  importance  of  analyzing
the  impact  of  globalization  on  development.  Reducing
the risks that it entails for the developing countries is a
fundamental  task,  not  only  in  economic  and  social
terms, but also for ensuring the maintenance, if not the
survival, of the values of human rights and democracy,
as  well  as  international  security.  In  this  area  it  is
necessary  that  there  be  a  well-informed,  frank  debate
among Member States, and to which the Secretariat can
make a relevant contribution. In this connection and in
other 
economic  development,
interaction  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  is  a
necessity that the report rightly recognizes.
related 
areas 
to 
We  also  feel  that  of  particular  interest  are  the
proposals  intended  to  improve  various  aspects  of  the
relationship  between  Governments  and  the  United
Nations system in the field of human rights. Here, it is
very  important  to  call  for  the  maintenance  of  the  true
purposes  of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  which
in  recent  years  has  been  the  subject  of  political
manipulation.  Such  manipulation  is  not  beneficial  in
any  way  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human
rights.
We  acknowledge  and  appreciate  the  proposals
aimed  at  improving  the  system  of  human  rights  in  the
United  Nations  and  support  for  human  rights  in  every
country.  We  agree  with  the  idea  that  the  Office  of  the
High  Commissioner  should  be  strengthened.  We  also
propose that it prepare an annual report on the situation
of human rights worldwide. Such a report would make
it  possible 
the
Commission and help to facilitate bilateral dialogue on
human rights in a more objective framework. Similarly,
we  believe  that  the  initiatives  proposed  to  reposition
the  Department  of  Public  Information  are  relevant
because, as the report indicates,  public  opinion  should
be 
the
Organization.
the  debate  within 
to  depoliticize 
strengthening 
essential 
basis 
for 
an 
A/57/PV.39
current agenda. However, we believe that much ground
remains  to  be  covered.  In  that  connection,  while  the
efficient  treatment  of  the  agenda  has  been  improved
through  the  convening  of  various  segments,  we  feel
that  the  relationship  between  the  results  achieved  by
the  Council  and  the  work  of  the  Second  and  Third
Committees remains weak.
in 
the 
it  would 
Furthermore, 
seem  necessary 
relationship  between 
to
strengthen  coordination  within  the  Council,  not  only
with  the  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  but
also 
the
subsidiary bodies  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
itself. The report rightly  notes  that it is  also  necessary
for the General  Assembly to  clarify  its responsibilities
to the Economic and Social Council in connection with
the  integrated  follow-up  of  major  conferences  of  the
United Nations.
them  and 
to 
reform 
for  enhancing  efforts 
We  attach  great  value  to  the  Secretary-General’s
suggestions 
the
working  methods of the General  Assembly. The report
indicates  the  need  to  pursue  the  process  of  reform  of
the  intergovernmental  organs,  deeming  it  to  be  a
principal  aspect  of  any  process  to  strengthen  the
Organization.  The  Secretary-General’s 
comments
reiterate  many  of  the  points  raised  in  the  debates  held
on  this  item  in  the  past  two  sessions  of  the  General
Assembly.  It  is  to  be  recalled  that  the  efforts  to
revitalize the General Assembly were relaunched at the
fifty-first  session  with  the  adoption  of  resolution
51/241, which contains a set of measures to modernize
this principal organ of the United Nations.
However,  the  process  of  implementing  some  of
those  commitments,  which  was  intensified  during  Mr.
Harri  Holkeri’s  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly
and  continued  with  the  greater  participation  of  the
membership  during  the  presidency  of  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo,  is  still  incomplete  in  many  aspects.  Particularly
noteworthy  among  those  aspects  are  the  overloaded
agenda,  the  reduction  or  elimination  of  duplication  of
work,  and  coordination  among  organs  that  deal  with
similar  items  from  different  perspectives.  We  fully
support  the  efforts  that  you,  Sir,  are  currently  making
to promote new steps on the path of General Assembly
reform  and  we  trust  that  they  are  supported  by  the
entire membership.
On  a  different  point,  the  Economic  and  Social
Council has made progress in the search for functional
norms  appropriate  to  the  goals  and  objectives  of  its
At  the  same  time,  we  fully  endorse  the  idea  that
any  reform  of  the  United  Nations  will  be  incomplete
without  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  are  ready
to  participate  in  efforts  to  resume  exploring  this  issue
and 
three  main
intergovernmental organs of the Organization.
relationship  between 
the 
the 
in 
I cannot conclude without referring briefly to the
question  of  the  budget.  We  feel  that  the  affirmations
made 
the  report  are  basically  accurate.  The
duplication of tasks and the use of wasteful procedures
that  seriously  hamper  the  consideration  of  priorities
guiding  the  preparation  of  the  budget  are  severe
limitations on the  functioning  of  the  Organization.  We
understand  that  there  are  possible  alternatives  to  the
Secretariat’s  proposals,  but  we  are 
in
pursuing 
the  promotion  of  a  medium-term  plan
covering  a  shorter  period;  a  budget  that  has  clear
strategic  objectives;  and  an  enhanced  assessment
system.  We  are  prepared  to  consider  in  detail  the
proposals  for  flexibility  in  budget  management,  which
we feel would be most constructive since they respond
to a modern and updated approach to administration.
interested 
The  report  contains  many  other  proposals  that
would  require  a  great  deal  of  commentary  here.  We
understand that, with this debate, we are opening up an
agenda  of  work 
that  will  require  more  detailed
application.  We  advocate  a  resolution  that  will  allow
Member  States  to  fully  support  the  efforts  of  the
Secretary-General.  We  could  thus  make  more  tangible
our  oft-stated  intentions  of  creating  an  Organization
that is adequate to the challenges of the new century.
11
A/57/PV.39
Mr. Rosenthal (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): I
wish  at 
the
statement  made  this  morning  by  the  representative  of
Venezuela on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
to  associate  myself  with 
the  outset 
We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his
submission of the report in document A/57/387, and for
its style, its formal features and its substance. As to the
style,  the  document  follows  in  the  tradition  launched
by  the  landmark  document  entitled  “We  the  peoples:
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first
century”,  prepared  on  the  occasion  of  the  Millennium
Summit.  Its  language  is  crisp,  precise  and,  at  times,
even  eloquent,  and  the  actions  proposed  are  easy  to
understand.  As  to  the  content,  we  endorse  the  general
thrust  of  the  report,  which  builds  on  the  reform
proposal  produced  in  1997  in  document  A/51/950  and
welcomed  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its  resolution
52/12.
In  this  respect,  the  Secretary-General  reminds  us
once  again  that,  in  his  opinion,  “reform  is  a  process,
not an event” (A/57/387, para. 196). True to this  idea,
we  find  a  package  of  proposals  that  point,  in  an
incremental fashion, towards a  more relevant, efficient
and  effective  Organization  with  a  clear  sense  of
direction  in  terms  of  fulfilling  the  major  objectives
contained in the Charter. For those who believe in this
gradualist  but  cumulative  philosophy,  the  document
will be found to be balanced, totally consistent with the
actions  undertaken  since  1997,  and  endowed  with
additional  proposals 
the  process
forward,  perhaps  slowly,  but  surely.  For  those  who
prefer bolder changes, the document will no doubt be a
disappointment.
that  will  move 
important 
and 
identifies, 
My  own  delegation 
in  a  general
manner, with the first group. In other words, we accept
that  we  are  embarked  on  a  process  that  has  already
yielded 
some
shortcomings, and  that  the majority of  the  actions  that
are  now  being  proposed  to  us  are  reasonable  and
consistent  with  the logic  of  reform  initiated  five  years
ago. In consequence, we subscribe to the actions being
proposed,  with  some  nuances  that  I  will  refer  to
presently.
achievements 
Our  only  reservation  to  what  was  stated,  and  on
which  we  would  have  preferred  more  outspokenness,
relates  to  the  inevitable  need  to  reform  the  United
Nations  system  of  governance  in  tandem  with  reform
of  the  Secretariat.  For  understandable  reasons,  the
12
Secretary-General  focuses  his  proposals  on  his  own
sphere of competence, limiting himself to “[venturing]
some  suggestions”  (para.  14)  on  reform  of 
the
intergovernmental bodies. However, if we truly wanted
to  strengthen  our  Organization,  we  would  have  had  to
add  a  sixth  section  to  the  report,  with  more  detailed
proposals 
the  General
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and,
especially, the Security Council to a renewed vision of
the  United  Nations  for  the  twenty-first  century.  After
all, nothing prevents the Secretary-General from taking
the  initiative  to  make  proposals;  it  will  be  up  to
Governments whether or not to accept them.
regarding  how 
to  adapt 
I  will  comment  briefly  on  the  specific  actions
proposed,  following  the  sequence  of  the  report.  To
begin  with,  we  agree  that  it  is  necessary  to  focus  our
efforts  on  priority  items.  Despite  the  extremely  broad
mandate  of  its  Charter,  the  United  Nations  is  no
exception to the rule that every organization and every
human  activity  must  prioritize  its  activities.  We  share
the  view 
the
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation  provide  guidelines.  The  difficulty  lies
in  the  fact  that  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,
looked at individually, result in a wide thematic spread.
In other words, if a particular intergovernmental forum
wishes  to  address  a  specific  topic  it  will  undoubtedly
be  able  to  relate  that  topic  to  an  element  in  the
Millennium Development Goals.
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
that 
But 
report 
the  Secretary-General’s 
offers
modalities on which to base our priorities. The first set
of  modalities  relates  to  our  working  methods,  and  are
intended to ensure that  we do not spend time on items
whose  inclusion  in  our  agenda  is  based  not  on  actual
need, but on mere inertia.
The  second  is  in  the  area  of  the  allocation  of
resources. This is why we eagerly await what is offered
in  connection  with  action  1:  a  revised  programme
budget  that  better  reflects  the  link  between  priorities
and the activities to be undertaken.
Another  point  relating  to  section  II  is  that  it
singles  out  two  thematic  areas  —  human  rights  and
public information — for specific attention. Many will
wonder  why  those  particular  activities  were  selected.
But  we  must  recognize  that  many  delegations  have
long criticized productivity in these two thematic areas
as being less than optimal. In that connection, we await
the  implementation  of  actions  2  to  5,  consisting  of
to  be 
taken  by 
the  United  Nations  High
steps 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  share 
the
Secretary-General’s  view  that  we  can  do  much  at  the
intergovernmental  level  to  strengthen  the  functioning
and  credibility  of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights.
We  take  note  of  the  measures  under  actions  6  to  10,
which,  in  our  view,  fall  within  the  mandate  of  the
Secretary-General.
With  regard  to  section  III,  which  deals  with  the
provision  of  Secretariat  services  to  intergovernmental
bodies,  my  points  are  the  following.  It  is  difficult  to
disagree  with  the  substance  of  the  measures  proposed
under  actions  11  and  12,  regarding  reports.  These
measures  nevertheless  give  rise  to  two  questions.  The
first has to do with the criteria to be applied in order to
“consolidate and regroup recurrent reports” (para. 92),
who will define them and how they will be applied.
The  second  query  raises  the  invariably  delicate
question of the limits of the authority of the Secretary-
General vis-à-vis that of the intergovernmental bodies,
since  the  consolidation  and  reorganization  of  reports
could also affect the manner in which the agenda of the
General  Assembly  is  structured.  All  this  calls  for
careful  interaction  between  the  Secretariat  and  the
General Assembly.
it 
is  difficult 
to  disagree  with 
In  the  same  vein,  and  subject  to  the  same
reservations, 
the
observations in paragraphs 100 to 108,  which are, in a
sense summarized in action 13, and all of which, again,
fall  within  the  purview  of  the  Secretary-General.  The
only  possible  ingredient  missing  from  the  approach  to
programming  and  conferences 
the
Department  of  General  Assembly  and  Conference
Management  with 
flexibility
required to ensure that a debate is not interrupted in its
climactic  phase  by  lack  of  services,  for  example,  by
withdrawing the interpreters  at  the  very  moment  when
a consensus is about to be reached at 6 p.m.
the  discretion  and 
is  providing 
Regarding  section  IV,  which  aims  for  better
coordination and coherence within the system, most of
the  measures  are  nothing  more  than  an  extension  of
policies  initiated  in  1997,  nearly  all  of  which,  again,
fall  within  the  purview  of  the  Secretary-General.  We
recognize  that  defining  who  does  what  within  an
organization  as  wide-ranging  and  complex  as  the
United Nations is a challenge of the highest  order.  We
also  recognize  that,  as  the  Secretary-General  points
out,  the  steps  taken  during  the  past  five  years,  while
A/57/PV.39
going in the right direction, are insufficient. Thus, there
can certainly be no objection to carrying forward  what
has been initiated.
We  would  add  four  brief  observations.  First,
paragraph  115  underestimates  the  potential  of  the
regional commissions to contribute to the strengthening
of the United Nations. In fact, the few lines devoted to
the  regional  approach  add  nothing  to  what  has  been
said  in  prior  reports.  We  would  have  wished  to  see  in
the  report,  at  least,  the  intention  to  give  the  regional
commissions a more significant role in the provision of
technical  cooperation,  since  their  presence  in  the  field
grants  them  a  certain  comparative  advantage  in  doing
this,  as  the  Secretary-General  himself  recognizes  in
paragraph 123. We therefore look forward with interest
to the outcome of action 15.
the  Organization  provides 
Secondly,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s
idea that coordination at the level of each country is the
most  important  factor  in  introducing  coherence  to  the
support 
its  Member
countries.  The  establishment  of  the  United  Nations
Development  Group  was  certainly  a  very  important
step  in  the  right  direction.  We  look  forward  with
interest  to  the  proposal  enunciated  in  action  14  to
strengthen 
in
developing countries.
the  Organization’s 
effectiveness 
(Ecuador),  Vice-
Mr.  Gallegos  Chiriboga 
President took the Chair.
Thirdly, we agree with the creation of a new post
at  the  level  of  Assistant  Secretary-General  to  support
policy  coherence  and  management  in  the  Department
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs.  We  believe  that  the
consolidation  of  the  three  economic  departments  in
existence  prior  to  1997  into  a  single  entity  brought
together  too  many  responsibilities  —  in  terms  of  both
volume  and  variety  —  in  a  single  administrative  unit.
Enhancing  the  Department’s  capacity  to  organize  its
work  around  specific 
therefore  makes
considerable sense. The same goes for action 17, which
we also support.
functions 
Finally  in  this  area,  we  endorse  the  idea  of
pursuing  the  recent  trend  to  further  involve  civil
society  and  the  business  sector  in  the  work  of  the
United  Nations.  At  the  same  time,  we  appreciate  the
practical  difficulties  that  this  involves,  as  well  as  the
resistance  it  has  encountered  in  some  quarters.  We
therefore  support  the  establishment  of  the  panel  of
eminent persons referred to in action 19.
13
A/57/PV.39
that  we  generally  support 
As  to  section  V,  which  deals  with  the  planning
and  budgeting  process,  this  contains  the  potentially
most far-reaching proposals of the entire report. I must
say  right  away 
those
proposals.  It  is  essential  that  we  continue  and  expand
the  reforms  already  initiated  in  this  field,  both  in  the
areas  of results-based budgeting  and  human  resources.
We  endorse  the  Secretary-General’s  observation  that
“The  goal  we  should  pursue  is  to  make  planning  and
budgeting  real  strategic  instruments  in  the  service  of
the  priorities  and  the  programme  of  work  of  the
Organization”  (A/57/387,  para.  154).  We  also  endorse
the evaluation put forth in paragraphs 155 to 165.
Accordingly, we feel that the proposals contained
in actions 21 and 22 deserve our support, although the
details require  further  clarification.  Moreover, I  would
venture  to  propose  that  those  proposals  should  be
considered at the highest level of representation of our
missions,  given  that  their  implications  extend  well
beyond  the  jurisdiction  of  any  of  the  specialized
commissions.
Turning quickly to the last section, I do not  wish
to extend my remarks any further. Suffice it to say that
we agree with the Secretary-General on the need for us
to  be  able  to  rely  on  an  excellent  staff.  Many  of  the
measures  proposed  in  this  regard  fall  within  the
purview  of  the  Secretary-General.  We  have  no  major
objections  to  the  steps  announced.  On  the  other  hand,
with  regard  to  the  recommendations  that  require  the
approval of  Governments,  we  have  some doubts  about
action 26. We shall indicate the nature of those doubts
in due course. We also support the Secretary-General’s
proposal for an independent review of the International
Civil Service Commission.
I  wish to conclude  with a general observation on
the entire report. The report tends to underestimate the
enormous force exerted by inertia as a factor hindering
progress towards translating the report’s proposals into
reality. That inertia exists within the Secretariat and, in
a  similar  or  even  more  pronounced  way,  in  our
intergovernmental  forums.  That 
to
intangible  elements  that  are  difficult  to  overcome:
habit,  vested  interests,  natural  resistance  to  change,
personal  and  group  agendas  and  many  more  such
elements.  This 
in  any  human
endeavour and  should  not  surprise  us.  But  the point  is
that  the  reforms  sought  require  not  only  changes  in
norms, rules and provisions; they also require changing
attitudes.  It  is  therefore  up  to  all  of  us  whether  or  not
is  present 
is  due 
inertia 
factor 
14
the  forward-looking  vision  that  the  Secretary-General
presents in his report becomes a reality.
Mr.  Wang  Yingfan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further  change”  (A/57/387).  We  commend  him  on  his
tireless  efforts  to  reform  the  Organization.  Our  thanks
also  go  to  the  President  for  arranging  this  timely
plenary debate on such an important question.
China  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made
by  the  Ambassador  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the
Group  of  77  and  China.  In  addition,  I  would  like  to
make  the  following  observations  with  regard  to  the
Secretary-General’s report.
First,  United  Nations  reform  should  attach  equal
importance  to  questions  pertaining  to  the  maintenance
of peace and security and those related to development,
the  eradication  of  poverty  and 
the  promotion  of
sustainable  development.  We  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposal  to  align  United  Nations  activities
with  such  priorities  as  implementing  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  providing  an  effective
response  to  the  challenges  of  globalization  and  its
impact on development. This is in line with the desires
of  the  Organization’s  membership,  and  in  particular
with  those  of  developing  countries.  We  hope  that  the
Secretary-General  will  now  formulate  practical  and
feasible recommendations, and take effective measures,
aimed at the reaching the Goals. That includes, among
other  things, devoting  more resources  to  development,
mobilizing  developed  countries  to  increase  official
development  assistance,  further  opening  up  markets,
eliminating  certain  trade  barriers  and  ensuring  that
globalization  benefits  all  countries.  All  this  should  be
reflected 
operational
arrangements, programmes and resource allocation.
the  United  Nations 
in 
Secondly, China supports reducing the number of
Secretariat  reports  and  imposing  page  limits,  while
improving  their  quality,  namely,  by  placing  greater
emphasis  on  analysis  and  recommendations.  We  also
support  a  reduction  in  the  number  of  meetings  and
improving the quality of conference services. We hope
that  the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations  will  be
taken  fully 
the
revitalization of the General Assembly is taken up. We
also endorse many other recommendations contained in
the report, such as those related to the restructuring of
the  Department  of  Public  Information,  the  improved
into  account  when 
item  of 
the 
management  of  United  Nations  libraries  and  enhanced
coordination among United Nations bodies.
Thirdly,  the  financial  planning  and  budgetary
process  of  the  United  Nations  needs  streamlining  in
order to be more in line with reality and real needs and
to  improve  the  effectiveness  of  its  work.  At  the  same
time,  we  believe  that  the  Committee  for  Programme
and Coordination should continue to play a special role
in  the  financial  planning  and  budgetary  process  of  the
United  Nations.  When  considering  that  item,  we  must
make  sure  that  decision-making  on  financial  matters
ultimately rests with Member States and that the views
of the developing Member States are valued.
Fourthly,  the  proposed  inclusion  of  the  human
rights  question 
in  United  Nations  development
assistance programmes at the  country  level  has  caused
serious  concern  among 
the  developing  countries.
Human rights questions are distinct from those relating
to  development  assistance  programmes.  We  are  not  in
favour  of  lumping  the  two  together.  China  supports
United  Nations  activities  that  promote  and  protect
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  But  human
rights  programmes  must  be  suited  to  the  specific
conditions of the countries concerned. Full importance
must  be  attached  to  the  realization  of  the  right  to
development and the views of Governments concerned
must be respected.
Fifthly,  we  support  the  establishment  of  a  panel
of eminent  persons  to  review  the  relationship  between
the  United  Nations  and  civil  society  and  to  offer
practical  recommendations  for  improved  modalities  of
interaction.  In  conducting  such  a  review,  the  panel
should  bear  in  mind  the  need  to  support  and  improve
relations between civil society and the United Nations,
squarely  face  the  problems  that  have  emerged  and
widely solicit the views of the membership.
in 
Sixthly,  all  States  have  a  vital  stake  in  United
Nations  reform  and  they  should  be  assured  of  equal
participation 
reform-related  deliberations  and
consultations.  The  General  Assembly  could  consider
adoption at this session of a draft resolution containing
elements acceptable to  all,  with  a  view  to  maintaining
the momentum of reforms now under way.
Mr.  Mbanefo  (Nigeria):  At 
the  Millennium
Summit,  our  leaders  pledged  to  make  the  United
Nations  a  more  effective  institution  for  the  promotion
of  world  peace  and  sustainable  development.  They
were  conscious of the  potential  and  weaknesses of  the
A/57/PV.39
they 
issued 
Organization  when 
solemn
Declaration.  In  essence,  the  Millennium  Declaration
was a reaffirmation of our leaders’ faith in the efficacy
and  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  in  protecting
humanity from self-destruction.
their 
In an ever-changing  world full  of  challenges,  the
United  Nations  remains  the  only  credible  multilateral
institution  that  guarantees  universality,  equality,  peace
and  the  prosperity  of  States.  Some  of  the  challenges
that  confront  us  today,  complex  yet  urgent,  were
inconceivable 50 years ago. The challenges can only be
met  through  a  revitalized  and  strengthened  United
Nations.
bodies.  Accountability, 
It  was  for  that  reason  that,  five  years  ago,  our
Organization  embarked  on  a  process  of  reform.  Since
then,  the  world  community  has  come  to  expect  more
far-reaching changes within the United Nations and its
constituent 
transparency,
consistency and inclusiveness, as well as efficiency and
effectiveness,  remain  the  focal  principles  behind  the
reforms. As the United Nations continues on that track,
it  should  place  the  needs  of  its  Member  States  above
everything  else,  while  the  quality  of  its  services,
provided  through  the  Secretariat,  should  be  of  a
professional standard comparable to none.
My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  views
expressed  earlier  by  the  chairs  of  the  African  Group,
the  Movement  of  the  Non-Aligned  Countries  and  the
African  Union, as  well as  the  Group  of  77  and  China,
but  it  would,  nonetheless,  like  to  specifically  address
the following issues contained in the report.
has 
resulted 
in 
Regarding peacekeeping efforts, Nigeria notes the
determined efforts of the Secretary-General to press on
with  the  revitalization  of  the  United  Nations.  His
efforts  are  beginning 
to  yield  dividends.  The
reorganization  and  enhancement  of  the  Department  of
Peacekeeping  Operations 
the
improvement  of  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to
deploy  and  manage  complex  peacekeeping  and  peace-
building  operations.  In  that  regard,  Sierra  Leone  is  a
success  story,  where  the  United  Nations  effectively
took 
the
Monitoring  Group  of  the  Economic  Community  of
West African States and succeeded in the restoration of
normalcy after a bitter conflict and civil war. The peace
processes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and
Angola  are  further  proof  of  the  results  and  benefits  of
the 
those  modest
reforms.  While  acknowledging 
peacekeeping 
operations 
from 
over 
15
A/57/PV.39
achievements, we must not forget the painful lessons of
Rwanda  in  1994,  when  the  United  Nations  developed
cold  feet  and  allowed  mindless  acts  of  the  most
grotesque form of genocide to go unchallenged.
in 
reform, 
Concerning  General  Assembly 
the
Assembly, as the highest legislative organ of the United
Nations, needs to maintain its universality. Any reform
in  the  United  Nations  must  seek  to  strengthen  that
unique  organ,  rather  than  weaken  it.  Nigeria  applauds
the  modest  achievements  recorded  so  far 
the
revitalization process. It is  our  view  that, although the
streamlining  of  the  activities  of  the  Assembly  —
especially  with  respect  to  meetings,  clustering  of
agenda items, early election of the Assembly President
and Main Committee Chairmen — has proven useful, a
lot still needs to be done, particularly with regard to the
implementation  of  resolutions  and  decisions  of  the
Assembly.  As  we  all  know,  the  Assembly  is  the  main
deliberative  and 
the  United
Nations.  For  that  reason,  it  should  be  strengthened  in
order  for  it  to  assume  a  greater  decision-making  role
within the Organization, to give its Members more say
and to preserve multilateralism.
legislative  organ  of 
the  view  of 
With  regard  to  enhancing  the  Economic  and
Social  Council,  we  agree  with 
the
Secretary-General  on  globalization.  It  poses  serious
challenges  to  mankind.  While  we  do  not  doubt  the
potentials  inherent  in  globalization,  we  are  gravely
concerned  about  its  effects  and  consequences.  We  are
witnesses to the ever-widening divide between the rich
and poor countries and between different regions in an
ever-shrinking  world.  Living  as  we  do  in  a  world
governed by  cyber-technology,  there is an  urgent  need
to find ways to make globalization more beneficial for
the  greater  majority  of  humanity.  We  believe  that  the
United Nations can play a leading role in that direction.
The  Organization  must  also  show  more  leadership  in
helping 
to  developmental
problems  such  as  external  debt,  market  access,
technology transfer, human development and capacity-
building  for  developing  countries.  It  is  necessary  to
keep  those  issues  on  the  priority  list  of  a  revitalized
and strengthened United Nations system.
find  durable  solutions 
Another  area  where  the  United  Nations  can  be
and  is  already  playing  a  commendable  role  is  in
building  strong  partnerships.  We  note  the  partnership
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  sub-
regional organizations, as well as non-State actors such
as  civil  society  organizations,  voluntary  agencies,
16
and 
groups 
philanthropic 
interest 
foundations,
universities  and  individuals.  This  deliberate  outreach
strategy  has  sensitized  the  peoples  of  the  world  to  the
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  and  has,  in  turn,
contributed 
international
peace and security.
in  monitoring 
to  success 
the 
strategies 
implementation 
In  the  wake  of  the  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development,  partnership  initiatives  would  form  part
of 
national
Governments in fulfilling their commitments. Thus, the
United Nations should position itself to monitor and to
follow up on the partnerships as they unfold around the
world.  In  particular,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
must  elaborate  an  effective  strategy  to  follow  up  on
international conferences  without  necessarily  whittling
away at the role of its subsidiary bodies.
of 
With  respect  to  human  rights,  Nigeria  endorses
the  view  that  the  United  Nations  provides  a  unique
institutional framework to develop and promote human
rights,  norms  and  practices,  while  respecting  national
and cultural diversities.  We believe that the  promotion
and  protection  of  human  rights  is  necessary  for  the
realization  of  the  United  Nations  vision  of  a  just  and
peaceful  world.  Nigeria 
the
Secretary-General’s  view  that  the  building  of  strong
human  rights  institutions  at  the  national  level  is  the
only  way to ensure  the protection  and advancement of
basic human rights.
therefore 
supports 
through 
With  respect  to  the  special  needs  of  Africa,  we
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  keeping  alive  the
spirit of the Millennium Declaration, which recognizes
Africa’s  special  needs.  In  this  regard,  we  note  the
proposal  to  assign  to  the  Secretary-General’s  Advisor
for  Special  Assignments  in  Africa  the  responsibilities
of  coordinating  and  guiding  reports  and  input  on
Africa-related  matters  and  on  Least  Developed
Countries 
the  Special
Coordinator for  Africa and Least Developed  Countries
(OSCAL).  However,  we  would  expect  the  Secretary-
General to elaborate further on how the United Nations
would  sensitize  and  mobilize  system-wide  support,  as
well  as  mobilize  resources  for  the  implementation  of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD).  In  our  opinion,  the  success  and  sustenance
of  NEPAD  should  be  given  full  and  unequivocal
attention by the United Nations system, especially now
that NEPAD has become the overall policy  framework
the  Office  of 
within  which  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community will channel support for Africa.
for  creating 
real  strategic 
With  respect  to  allocating  resources,  Nigeria
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  aimed  at
streamlining  the  planning  and  budgeting  system.  The
need 
instruments  and
achieving  greater  effectiveness  should,  however,  not
preclude  the  retention  of  priorities  contained  in  the
Millennium  Assembly  Goals,  enunciated 
the
medium-term  plan  and  other  legislative  mandates.
Furthermore, adequate programme planning, evaluation
and  implementation  monitoring  should  be  enhanced
through  a  well-articulated  intergovernmental  process.
In  that  regard,  the  Committee  for  Programme  and
Coordination  should  be  encouraged  to  fine-tune  its
working methods to enhance its performance.
in 
We  also  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  bold
initiative  on  planning,  managing  meetings  and
documentation,  provided 
not
undermine  the  ability  of  Member  States  to  take  well-
informed  decisions  and  that  hard  copies  will  remain
available to all Member States, as not all countries are
able to take full advantage of electronic technology.
actions  do 
such 
Nigeria is not adverse to the desirability of giving
the  Secretary-General  the  necessary  prerogative  to
reallocate  human  and  material  resources  of  the  United
Nations  as  he  deems  appropriate.  To  do  otherwise
would  undermine  his  capacity 
to  deliver  results.
However, we believe that such authorization should be
done in relation to the allocation of funds and resources
for  social  and  economic  programmes  and  projects,  in
accordance  with 
of
accountability and monitoring.
proper  mechanisms 
the 
On  human 
resource  management,  Nigeria
supports  the  idea  of  deserving  staff  being  encouraged
to  attain  their  career  objectives.  We  therefore  support
the  promotion  of  General  Service  staff 
the
Professional category, and we  call  upon  the  Secretary-
General to fully explore ways to increase the number of
General  Service  or  eligible  posts  among  those  not
subject to geographical distribution.
to 
the  Security  Council  needs 
With  respect  to  Security  Council  reform,  as  we
have  stated  on  previous  occasions,  Nigeria  believes
that 
to  be  reformed,
expanded  and  made  more  representative.  While  we
note  some  improvement  in  its  working  methods  and
regular  consultations  with  non-members,  external
actors  and  troop-contributing  countries,  we  still  hold
A/57/PV.39
the view that the Council needs to be expanded in both
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories.  We
commend  the  Council’s  role  in  conflict  prevention,
resolution  and  peace-building,  and  we  pledge  our
support in those efforts.
Finally,  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report,  especially  the  strategies  articulated  in  it  for
revitalizing  the  Organization.  Nigeria  will  continue  to
support all efforts to enable the United Nations to live
up to the expectation of its Member States.
Mr.  Stagno  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Allow  me  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the
Deputy  Secretary-General  for 
the  preparation  and
presentation  of  the  report  on  the  strengthening  of  the
United Nations (A/57/387 and Corr.1).
requires 
thorough 
its  Charter. 
It  has  developed 
Without any doubt, 57 years after its creation, the
United  Nations 
reform.  The
Organization  has  grown  enormously  over  that  long
period of time. Its functions have been expanded. It has
explored to the fullest extent the possibilities enshrined
in 
innumerable
programmes  and  new  mandates.  It  has  undertaken
additional  obligations,  and  numerous 
institutional
mechanisms  have  been  created  to  respond  to  the  new
demands.  Similarly,  many  programmes  have  been
abandoned or have lost their relevance. Many mandates
have  been  overtaken  by  the  quick  pace  of  history.
Many  departments  have  lost  their  raison  d’être,  while
others  that  are  still  necessary  have  lost  the  political
support of the international community.
For  more  than  half  a  century,  the  Organization
has  been  the  sounding  board  for  various  conflicts  and
the  events  of  international  politics.  Its  organizational
structure and budget reflect the scars of recent history.
Some of its functions and tasks no longer correspond to
the  current  needs  of  humankind,  while  others  reflect
the ideological struggles and political concepts of times
gone by.
The Organization’s growth has been disorderly. It
has  lacked  a  strategic  vision  and  a  unified  conceptual
framework to guide that growth. The Organization has
survived, and it has adapted. But  we cannot say that it
has  learned  or  that  it  has  evolved.  In  this  sense,  my
delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative
to  launch  a  review  process  in  order  to  increase  the
Organization’s efficiency and give a new impetus to its
activities.
17
A/57/PV.39
the  service  of 
the  political  demands  on 
When  we  consider  the  reform  and  strengthening
process, we must keep in mind the particular nature of
the  Organization.  The  United  Nations  is  not  a  private
corporation  seeking  financial  gains,  but  a  public
institution  at 
the  Member  States
composing it and the people those Members represent.
Unquestionably,  some  reforms  that  would  make  sense
from  a  purely  administrative  point  of  view  are  not
compatible  with 
the
Organization. Any reform of the Organization  must  be
designed to improve the quality of services provided to
the  Member  States  and  to  implement  faithfully  their
legislative  mandates.  In  this  context,  my  delegation
welcomes  the  proposals  embodied  in  the  Secretary
General’s  report  as  a  first  step  in  a  process  of  dialog
between  the  Secretariat  and  Member  States  to  decide,
in  due  time,  which  measures  it  will  be  appropriate  to
implement  in  order  to  strengthen  the  Organization.
However, we are fully aware that this process requires
a  detailed  and  careful  consideration  of  the  proposals
embodied 
the  competent
intergovernmental bodies.
report  by  all 
the 
in 
all 
their  operational 
For  this  reason  we  do  not  think  it  appropriate  to
endorse  any  of  the  proposals  without  having  first
considered 
and  budgetary
implications. Similarly,  we would be concerned by the
unilateral  implementation  of  these  measures  by  the
Secretariat  without  having  an  express  mandate  from
Member  States.  Furthermore,  we  wonder  what  the
impact  of  these  measures  will  be  on  the  existing
legislative  mandates  duly  adopted  by  the  Member
States.
those  activities 
Clearly,  we  welcome 
to  give  priority 
the  Secretary-General’s
intention 
to 
that
promote  the  attainment  of  the  goals  enshrined  in  the
Millennium  Declaration  and  in  the  plans  of  action  of
the most recent global summits. However, the adoption
of a new list of priorities should not lead the Secretariat
automatically  to  discard  the  mandates  adopted  by  the
principal intergovernmental bodies of the Organization.
From 
the  General
Assembly  must  approve,  expressly  and  in  a  detailed
fashion,  the  new  priorities  and  the  changes  to  the
existing  mandates.  The  possible  adoption  of  limits  or
sunset  provisions,  suggested  in  paragraph  44  of  the
report  (document  A/57/387),  is  a  prerogative  that  the
intergovernmental bodies have yet to exercise.
constitutional 
standpoint, 
a 
My  delegation  finds  that  some  of  the  proposed
measures  are  timely.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-
18
General  that  it  is  necessary  to  improve  the  working
mechanisms  of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  to
make  it  more  effective.  Similarly,  we  welcome  his
intention  to  study  ways  to  rationalize  the  presentation
of  national  reports  to  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies.
We  value  his  intention  to  improve  the  coordination
among the various organs within the system as well as
his efforts to give more incentives and to rejuvenate the
Organization’s  staff  with  a  view  to  providing  better
service to the Member States.
and 
oversight 
these  measures  would 
the  mandates 
Nevertheless,  we  have  some  doubts  regarding
other  recommendations.  The  proposals  to  make  more
flexible the transfer of resources and staff, up to 10 per
cent  of  the  budget,  and  to  give  greater  authority  to
programme  managers  to  oversee  the  funds  assigned  to
them  seem  contrary  to  the  best  practices  in  the
management  of  public  funds  and  would  require
evaluation  measures.
substantial 
jeopardize 
Moreover, 
the
implementation  of 
approved  by
intergovernmental  bodies.  It  could  be  asked,  for
instance,  what  is  currently  happening  to  the  funds
assigned to the preparation of the Repertory of Practice
of  United  Nations  Organs.  We  have  heard  that  those
funds  are  informally  reassigned  to  other  programmes,
ignoring  the  express  mandate  of  Member  States  to
update  it.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that  there  are
delays  in  its  publication.  My  delegation  supports  the
strengthening  of  the  Committee  for  Programme  and
Coordination,  as  well  as  the  Advisory  Committee  on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ).
to 
the 
requirements 
The suggestion to reduce the number of meetings
and  reports  is  somewhat  simplistic.  The  meetings
currently  held  and  the  reports  currently  produced
various
respond 
of 
intergovernmental  organs.  Therefore, 
in
question must approve any reduction, after considering
each  particular  case.  As  a  consequence,  we  cannot
accept 
in
paragraph 96 of the report. True reform should, in fact,
ensure  that  the  reports  provide  the  most  updated  data
and contain greater substantive analysis.
the  concept  of  discretion  as  proposed 
the 
the  organ 
The  suggestion  to  combine  the  management  of
the
conferences  and  Secretariat 
Department  of  General  Assembly  and  Conference
Management ignores the operational and technical need
of  the  various  bodies.  Nobody  has  proposed,  for
instance,  to  unify  the  Secretariat  of  the  Security
Council  with  that  of  the  General  Assembly  because  it
services  under 
the 
technical  secretariat  of 
would  jeopardize  the  quality  of  the  services  provided.
Similarly, 
the  various
committees  should  not  be  combined  under  the  same
Department  without  guaranteeing  the  continuity  and
quality of the services provided.
this 
We  view  with  interest  the  proposal  to  create  an
alliance  with  non-governmental  organizations  and  the
private  sector.  However, 
task  requires  great
caution.  The  Organization  should  be  open  to  all  such
entities,  allowing  the  expression  of  various  positions
and  viewpoints.  We  should  not,  however,  allow  the
private  agenda  of  any  individual  non-governmental
organization to usurp the agenda of the United Nations.
Moreover,  we  should  emphasize  that  those  entities
cannot  be  substitutes 
for  democratically  elected
Governments. Only representative Governments with a
clear  democratic  mandate  represent 
their  peoples
legitimately.
From a procedural standpoint my delegation is in
favor  of  the  creation  of  an  open-ended  working  group
to consider the  main proposals of the report,  while the
Main  Committees  of  the  General  Assembly  consider
those 
their
competence.  In  particular,  we  would  like  to  receive  a
detailed  analysis  of  these  proposals  from  the  ACABQ
and to know the budgetary impact of each of them.
recommendations 
fall  within 
that 
The  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now  invite
the representative of the Russian Federation to take the
floor.
the 
Secretary-General’s 
Mr.  Gatilov  (Russia)(spoke  in  Russian):  Russia
report,
welcomes 
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further change” (A/57/387) which, based on the recent
progress in past years, offers a package to enhance the
efficiency of the United Nations. We share those views
and recommendations that provide for practical steps to
further  reform  the  United  Nations  and  enhance  its
capacity to respond to global challenges.
In 
this  regard,  we  support 
the  concept  of
strengthened  coordination  within  the  United  Nations
system  and interaction  among its  key  components.  We
believe  that  the  efforts  to  achieve  this  goal  should
focus  on  formulating  a  consolidated  response  to  new
challenges  and  threats,  primarily  those  posed  by  the
international 
and
manifestations. The recent tragic events, particularly in
Indonesia and Moscow, demonstrated once again to the
world  the  unprecedented  cruelty  of  terrorists  who  sow
terrorism 
forms 
all 
its 
in 
A/57/PV.39
death  and  destruction  and  their  readiness  to  sacrifice
lives  of  innocent  people.  Effective  counter-terrorism
cannot  be  successful  without  concerted  efforts  of  the
entire  international  community  and  a  special  role  in
this  respect  that  should  be  played  by  the  United
Nations.
We 
the  Secretary-General’s  positive
assessment  of  the  efforts  within  the  United  Nations  to
improve 
the
Organization,  his  desire  to  put  particular  emphasis  on
developing  United  Nations  anti-crisis  mechanisms  to
conduct  multifunctional  peacekeeping  operations  and
effective division of labour between the United Nations
and regional organizations.
peacekeeping 
activities 
share 
the 
of 
We  acknowledge  the  need  to  strengthen  the  role
of the General Assembly, in particular by rationalizing
its  agenda.  We  share  the  view  that  the  reform  of  the
Security Council should not lead just to an increase in
its  membership,  since  the  success  of  the  Security
Council’s  work  depends,  to  no  small  degree,  on  its
ability  to  take  prompt  and  effective  decisions.  In  any
case,  the  broadest  possible  agreement  on  Security
Council  reform  should  be  sought  without  counter-
productive haste.
We believe that it would be more logical to codify
the  measures  taken  by  the  Council  to  improve  its
working methods and procedures within the framework
of  the  overall  Security  Council  reform  package  at  a
more  advanced  stage  in  this  process.  Referring  to
conflict  prevention  and  settlement, 
the  Secretary-
General is right to highlight the need to coordinate,  as
needed,  interaction  between  the  Security  Council,  the
the  Economic  and  Social
General  Assembly  and 
Council,  and 
the
Departments  of  Political  Affairs  and  Peacekeeping
Operations of the United Nations Secretariat.
to  clearly  define 
the  roles  of 
The  improvement  of  the  United  Nations  human
rights-related activities identified in the report  is a  top
priority. The actions proposed in this area are balanced
and  realistic,  especially  those  aimed  at  streamlining
procedures for reporting on the part of Governments on
the  implementation  of  all  international  human-rights
treaties  and  at  improving  special  procedures  with
regard to human rights.
We  commend  the  Secretary-General’s  appeal  to
depoliticize  and  make  more  effective  the  work  of  the
Commission  on  Human  Rights.  We  believe  that  the
fulfilment  of  the  tasks  assigned  to  the  United  Nations
19
A/57/PV.39
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  will  lead  to
enhanced  effectiveness  of  the  bodies  established  by
human-rights treaties and system of special procedures
on human rights. It is important to ensure that relevant
recommendations  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  are  made  in
close  cooperation  with  all  States  concerned,  fully
taking  into  account  their  remarks  and  proposals,  and
that  the  programmes  on  strengthening  the  human
rights-related  actions  at the  country  level  are  aimed  at
helping 
capabilities,
particularly in the protection of human rights.
countries 
develop 
their 
In the economic field, we support the proposal to
single out globalization as a key area, so as to seize the
opportunities  it  offers  in  international  trade  and  in
attracting  foreign 
the
measures  to  re-enforce  the  role  of  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  and  deepen  its  dialogue  with  the
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
the  format  of  annual
Organization, 
meetings between them and the United Nations.
investment.  We  approve  of 
institutions  and 
including 
in 
responsibilities  among 
We believe it would make sense to have a clearer
division  of 
the  General
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its
functional  commissions  in  the  social  and  economic
area  with  a  view  to  coordinating  efforts  to  implement
decisions  of 
the  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits.  We  support  the  optimization  of  the  agenda
and  working  methods  of  the  Second  Committee,  as
well as measures to consolidate the reporting on social
and  economic  issues,  including  the  identification  of
crosscutting  themes  relevant  to  both  the  Second  and
Third Committees of the General Assembly.
to 
the 
to  create 
strengthened 
We  welcome 
cooperation
between 
the  United  Nations  and  private  sector,
including 
the  proposal 
this  end  a
Partnerships  Office.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  not
absolutely sure whether it is necessary to strengthen the
Secretariat’s  planning  machinery  in  the  social  and
economic  sectors.  We  think  that  the  existing  divisions
in the Department of Economic and Social Affairs cope
with these issues quite well. We also wish to point out
that the report says nothing about supporting countries
with  economies  in  transition,  although  this  subject  is
important  given  the  specific  nature  of  the  social  and
economic problems these countries face.
As  regards  the  interaction  between  the  United
Nations  and  non-governmental  organizations,  we
20
welcome the  Secretary-General’s  intention  to  establish
a  panel  of  eminent  persons  to  review  the  relationship
between the United Nations and civil society and offer
practical  recommendations  in  this  regard.  We  wish  to
state that Russia is ready to nominate a highly qualified
candidate to work on this panel.
We  also  took  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s
proposal  to  reform  the  public  information  system  in
several  ways  simultaneously:  organizational  change  in
the  Department  of  the  Secretariat,  optimization  of
United  Nations  publications, 
restructuring  United
Nations 
their
consolidation into regional hubs, starting with Western
European countries.
Information 
through 
Centres 
However,  we  have  serious  doubts  about  the  idea
of  integrating  the  United  Nations  libraries  under  the
umbrella  of  the  Dag  Hammarskjöld  Library  in  New
York and assigning it the function of policy setting and
coordinating the work in this area of the Organization’s
activities.  To  be  perfectly  frank,  this  kind  of  rigid
centralization  will  only  harm  the  efficiency  of  library
services designed for the benefit of the Member States
and weaken the United Nations role in providing these
services 
international  organizations,  non-
governmental 
the  public.  Local
specificity,  which  is  important  for  the  fruitful  use  of
these  libraries,  would  be  lost.  Therefore,  we  deem  it
necessary to study this proposal in all its aspects and in
detail, 
the
consequences implied in these changes.
the  standpoint  of 
institutions  and 
first  of  all 
to  other 
from 
As 
for 
the 
report’s  section  on 
improving
conference  services,  our  assumption  is  that  the  set  of
action  proposed  will  be  considered  during 
the
discussion  of  the  annual  resolution  of  the  General
Assembly  on  the  pattern  of  conferences.  At  this  stage
we  wish  to  stress  the  importance  of  preserving  and
strengthening the existing United Nations principles of
conference  services  and  the  division  of  authority  and
functions  between  the  corresponding  departments  in
New  York  and  the  United  Nations  offices  in  Vienna,
Geneva and Nairobi in this area.
It was somewhat unexpected for us to see in some
sections  of  the  new  Secretary-General’s  report  on
reforms a trend towards centralizing functions, powers
and  lines  of  authority  in  the  areas  of  conference
services  and  public  information.  Furthermore,  Action
32  and  the  section  on  further  efforts  to  improve
management  speak  of  developing,  not  curtailing,  the
concept  of  the  delegation  of  authority.  Besides  that,
“the  premise  that  giving  managers  more  authority  and
responsibility for decision-making is essential ... to the
improvement  of 
the  management  of  human  and
financial resources” (A/55/270, para.  1)  was  used  as  a
basis  for  the  1997  reform  proposals  —  this  is  a
quotation  from  the  2000  Secretary-General’s  report
“Accountability  and  responsibility”  (A/55/270).  We
believe  that  the  reforms  conducted  in  the  United
Nations should be consistent here too.
We  welcome  the  intention  of  the  Secretary-
General  to  submit  a  carefully  revised  programme
budget  for  the  biennium  2004-2005  to  reflect  new
priorities  of  the  Organization.  It  is  important  that  its
limited  resources  be  apportioned  in  such  a  way  as  to
make  it  possible  to  identify  outdated  and  ineffective
programmes  and  activities.  In  this  regard,  we  look
forward  to  specific  proposals  from  the  Secretary-
General.
in 
We  would  also  like  to  note  that  the  problem  of
shortcomings 
the  programming  and  budgeting
process has been correctly identified in the report and,
indeed, specific steps should be  worked out to remove
them. In this context, the Secretary-General proposes a
number  of  drastic  changes  —  more  strategic  budget
with 
separately;
medium-term plans covering two rather than four years
combined with the budget outline; and concentration of
intergovernmental  review  of  plans  and  budgets  in  the
Fifth  Committee.  All  of  this  need  to  be  carefully
studied,  along  with  the  proposal  to  give  him  authority
to reallocate up to ten percent of budget resources.
supplementary  details  provided 
In  this  connection,  we  believe  it  is  important  to
submit  additional  and  more  detailed  material  on  these
issues  to  the  Fifth  Committee  through  the  Advisory
Committee 
and  Budgetary
Questions (ACABQ).
for  Administrative 
We  regret  to  note  that  the  part  of  the  report
dedicated to personnel questions does not contain long-
awaited  proposals  for  radical  reform  of  the  United
Nations  contractual  system  and  improvement  of  the
performance  evaluation  system.  We  reaffirm  that  the
key 
resources
management  lies  in  complete  abandonment  of  the
system  of  permanent  contracts  and  a  switch  to  non-
career  service,  which  would  make  it  possible  to  shift
human resources flexibly and efficiently.
reform  of  human 
effective 
to 
A/57/PV.39
to 
approaches 
The ideas contained in the report of the Secretary-
General on transforming human resources policy — for
example,  developing  new 
staff
recruitment  and  compensation  in  field  locations  and
increasing  departure  packages  and  resources  for  staff
retraining — should be viewed from the perspective of
their additional financial implications. We cannot agree
with  the  conclusion  that  the  United  Nations  needs  a
more  competitive  system  of  pay  and  benefits.  We
regard the review of the system being conducted by the
International  Civil  Service  Commission  (ICSC)  as  a
purely  creative  quest  for  possibilities  to  enhance  the
efficiency of work of the Secretariat.
consultations  of 
In  order  to  enable  Member  States  to  take  a
decision on  the  proposed  reform  package,  an  effective
working  mechanism  should  be  established,  such  as
informal  plenary 
the  General
Assembly  conducted  by  its  President.  Within  such  a
mechanism  it  would  be  possible  to  agree  upon  a  draft
resolution on the Secretary-General’s reform proposals
that  would  provide  significant  impetus  to  further
reform  of  the  Organization.  Russia,  for  its  part,  is
prepared  to  participate  actively  and  constructively  in
such consultations.
Mr.  Effah-Apenteng  (Ghana):  Permit  me  to
begin by associating my delegation with the statements
made on behalf of the African Group by the Permanent
Representative  of  Egypt, 
its
Chairman  for  the  month  of  October,  and  by  the
representative  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of
77 and China.
in  his  capacity  as 
We  welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report
(A/57/387),  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
the  United
Nations:  an  agenda  for  further  change,”  containing  36
actions. We hope that the outcome of the consideration
of  these  second-generation  reform  initiatives,  at  this
high 
level,  will  help  unleash  a  new  burst  of
improvements to the management culture of the United
Nations  and  enhance  the  effectiveness  with  which  the
Organization implements  mandates.  I  also  hope  it  will
help  free  the  Secretary-General  from  the  tired  notion
that additional budgetary resources cannot be provided
by  Member  States  for  the  increasing  mandates,  as
capacity exists for further efficiency gains.
In  this  regard,  we  note  that  while  some  of  the
actions  are  exploratory  in  nature  and  will  require
further  study  before  consideration  at  a  later  stage,  a
number of  them  have immediate  effect  upon approval.
21
A/57/PV.39
We  also  distinguish  between  proposals  that  lie  well
within the purview  of the  Secretary-General  and  those
for which intergovernmental approval is required.
I  intend  during  this  intervention  to  speak  to
various  actions  that  have  been  recommended  by  the
Secretary-General.  However,  before  doing  that,  let  me
indicate  that  my  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the
Secretary-General’s  observations  on 
the  additional
work required on issues such as the revitalization of the
General  Assembly,  the  enhancement  of  the  Economic
and Social Council and the process of Security Council
reform. We recognize  that those  matters lie  within  our
purview  as  Member  States,  and  my  delegation
accordingly  commits  itself  to  work  in  concert  with
other delegations to that end also.
In respect of action 1,  which is intended to bring
the current programme budget in line with the priorities
agreed to at the Millennium Assembly, let  me  indicate
that Ghana affirms its support for that proposed action.
In our view, the intention is consistent with the results-
based  budgeting  system,  which  is  results-oriented  and
should  reflect the priorities of  the  United  Nations.  My
delegation further believes that since the  medium-term
plan,  which  forms  a  set  of  priority  issues  over  the
medium term, is not supposed to be static and is indeed
subject  to  review  every  two  years,  the  action  being
contemplated should be undertaken  within the existing
mechanism, and should be aimed at reflecting not only
the priorities agreed to in the  Millennium  Declaration,
but  also  the  implementation  mechanisms  derived  from
follow-up meetings, such as the Monterrey Consensus,
the  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development, the Programme of Action of
the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least
Developed Countries, and others.
The proposals of the Secretary-General in actions
2  to  5,  concerning  measures  to  strengthen  human
rights, are laudable, and my delegation is in a position
to  endorse  the  proposals  for  implementation.  It  is  our
belief that universal principles of human rights require
effective  national  action.  Thus,  countries  that  need
assistance  should  be  supported  in  developing  national
capacities 
of
internationally  agreed  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms.  My  delegation  is,  however,  uncomfortable
with the suggestion that human rights be integrated into
the  country  programmes  of  the  World  Bank,  as  this
could  shift  focus  away  from 
issue  of
standards 
the  core 
norms 
and 
the 
on 
22
development  financing.  In  any  event,  such  an  action
would require further study and assessment.
My delegation welcomes the intention of action 3
to streamline the reporting procedures under the treaty
bodies  on  human  rights.  The  dearth  of  reports
submitted  by  Member  States  reflects  the  burden  of
reporting  and  undermines  efforts  towards  the  effective
promotion  of  human  rights.  We  look  forward  to  the
consultations 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights would carry out  with
treaty  bodies  in  that  regard,  and  to  his  subsequent
report.
that 
Ghana has always viewed as important the role of
the special procedures in the promotion and protection
of  international  human  rights.  We  therefore  support
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of that mechanism,
in  ways  that  would  cause  the  current  controversies
about the outcome of the work of special procedures to
abate,  by  avoiding  actions 
that  are  perceived  as
arbitrary and by the formulation of  uniform  guidelines
or rules of procedure.
to 
therefore 
the  report  of 
long-term  planning.  We 
In  all  this,  and  with  an  eye  for  the  effective
management  of  programme  activities,  we  note  that  a
reliable  source  of  funding  establishes  a  predictable
basis  for 
look
forward 
the  Office  of  Internal
Oversight Services, which we hope will focus on ways
of  strengthening  the  fund-raising  activities  of  the
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
restrictive
Human  Rights, 
conditionalities 
to  funding
activities,  which,  in  some  measure,  has  led  to  the
fragmentation of programme activities.
of 
that  some  donors 
freeing 
the 
tie 
it 
The 
the  public 
importance  of 
information
function  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  is  better
appreciated  when  one  realizes  that  the  United  Nations
has  a  relationship  not  merely  with  Governments  of
Member  States,  but  with  all  the  peoples  of  the  world,
most  of  whom  look  up to this  Organization  with  great
expectations. My delegation is therefore able to support
the  Secretary-General’s  intention  to  restructure  the
Department  of  Pubic  Information  in  ways  that  can
increase  its  effectiveness  as  the  mouthpiece  of  the
United Nations. We also support the evaluation activity
to  be  carried  out  by  the  Office  of  Internal  Oversight
Services over a three-year period, as this can provide a
scientific  and  objective  basis  for  ascertaining  the
impact  and  cost-effectiveness  of  various  United
Nations  media  outputs.  We,  however,  urge  that  the
impact  analysis  of  the  output  of  the  Department  of
Public Information  should cover  all  relevant  concerns,
including the needs of societies and peoples in all their
wide diversity, and their capacities to access the media
outputs.
Ghana  supports  the  concept  of  regional  hubs,
starting  with  the  consolidation  of  the  13  information
centres  in  Western  Europe,  as  it  holds  the  potential  to
free resources from high-cost but low-impact areas for
allocation  to  other  strategic  locations.  We  caution,
however, that in Africa, for instance, the wide expanse
of  the  region  and  the  particular  subregional  concerns
may  require  subregional  hubs  to  be  considered  as  an
alternative option.
My  delegation  can  also  endorse  implementation
of  action  9,  aimed  at  improving  the  management  of
United  Nations  libraries,  and  stressing  the  need  to
adhere  to  the  stated  pledge  that  further  movement
towards 
electronic
documentation  and  distribution  system  would  not  in
any way constrain the access of less capable end users,
including permanent missions, to hard-copy versions of
documents and collections.
enhanced 
use 
the 
of 
an 
to 
that 
Regarding 
improvements 
publications,
however,  my  delegation  is  in  a  position  to  endorse
implementation  of  action  10,  except  sub-action  (d),
which  calls  for  the  cessation  of  the  publication  by  the
United  Nations  of the  Repertory  of  Practice  of  United
Nations  Organs.  My  delegation  believes 
the
difficulties  associated  with  clearing  the  backlog  of
volumes  of  the  Repertory  and  the  problems  related  to
the  internal  capacity  to  publish  should  not  excuse  the
existing obligation in that regard. Ghana commends the
efforts of the Office of Legal Affairs to establish a web
site for an electronic version of the Repertory. We call
for equal treatment of the Repertory and the Repertoire
of  the  Practice  of  the  Security  Council,  and  we  urge
that  exhaustive  consideration  be  given  to  all  options,
including a previous proposal of the Office of Internal
Oversight  Services  for  a  central  Repertory  section  as
well  as  the  establishment  and  maintenance  of  a  trust
fund to provide dedicated resources that can fund posts
on  a  long-term  basis  to  facilitate  the  preparation  of
volumes for publication.
The  Secretary-General’s  proposals  relating 
to
actions 11 to 13 are interesting but will require further
consideration,  as  they  have  more  direct  impact  on  the
A/57/PV.39
negotiating  capacity  of  Member  States.  Ghana  could,
however,  endorse  implementation  of  action  11,  which
aims  to  improve  reporting,  subject  to  the  approval  by
the  General  Assembly,  of  clearly  defined  criteria  to
guide  the  process.  It  is  our  view  that  the  drive  for
brevity  should  not  obscure  our  clear  need 
for
information  based  on  all  the  available  and  relevant
facts  concerning  a  particular  matter.  In  addition,  even
as  my  delegation  notes  the  challenges posed  by  action
12,  we  can  commit  to  working  with  other  delegations
on  the  establishment  of  a  mechanism  to  review  the
continuing  need  and 
recurring
reporting requirements.
frequency  of 
the 
With  regard  to  action  13,  Ghana  can  support  the
Secretary-General’s intention to strengthen the capacity
of  the  Department  of  General  Assembly  Affairs  and
Conference  Management 
to  deliver  cost-effective
meetings  and  conference  services,  through,  inter  alia,
enhanced  utilization  of  globally  available  United
Nations  resources.  My  delegation,  however,  notes  the
relationship  between  the  proposals  contained  in  the
report under discussion and the additional  measures of
document  A/57/289.  It  is  not  our  expectation  that
approval  granted  with  respect  to  the  current  action
would necessarily extend to the  measures  contained  in
that document.
An  indication  of  the  effectiveness  of  the  United
Nations  is,  more  often  than  not,  reflected  by  the
manner  in  which  it  is  able  to  galvanize  its  rich
reservoir of knowledge and skills and to bring them to
bear  on  any  given  issue.  Today,  the  range  of  issues  of
concern  to  Member  States  has  increased,  and  their
resolution  is  ever  so  critical  to  the  well-being  of  so
further
many. 
therefore, 
implementation  of  measures 
the
effectiveness  of  the  presence  of  the  United  Nations  in
developing  countries  through  enhanced  coordination
mechanisms,  which  must  embrace  country  ownership
and leadership.  We also  look  forward  to  the  document
to be published in September 2003 clarifying roles and
responsibilities in the area of technical cooperation.
supports 
to 
strengthen 
Ghana, 
Actions  16  and  17,  concerning  the  envisaged
restructuring  of  the  Department  of  Economic  and
Social  Affairs,  are  welcome,  and  we  look  forward  to
additional 
role
anticipated  by  the  proposed  post  of  a  third  Assistant
Secretary-General.  Ghana  endorses  implementation  of
action  17  and  advocates  that  the  policy  planning  unit
be  an  adjunct  to  the  Office  of  the  Under-Secretary-
the  value-added 
information  on 
23
A/57/PV.39
General, which should lead policy development  within
the  Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  in  a
consistent and coherent manner.
the  Secretariat.  Its  development  should 
and 
thus
originate  from  and  be  endorsed  by  the  relevant  Main
Committees.
in  Africa 
for  Special  Assignments 
The  proposed  restructuring  of  the  Office  of  the
Adviser 
is
significant, as it seeks to consolidate into a single high-
profile  office  the  currently  scattered  units  dealing
solely with issues related to Africa. We trust that such a
restructuring, which would reflect the priority of Africa
in  the  medium-term  plan,  would  assume  the  required
permanency  in  so  far  as  Africa  continues  to  be  a
priority consideration of the Assembly. In that respect,
we envisage that the funding mechanism for that office
may  require  an  adjustment  of  its  current  allocation
under  special  political  missions.  Furthermore,  my
delegation  hopes  that  the  wording  of  action  18,  which
defines  the  scope  of  the  functions  of  the  Office  of  the
Adviser  solely  in  terms  of  the  General  Assembly  and
its subsidiary bodies, was merely inadvertent and not a
deliberate  decision  to  restrict  its  role  to  the  General
Assembly while excluding the Security Council. Other
forums, such as the Economic and Social Council, exist
and are important to the interests of Africa.
In  the  light  of  the  important  contributions  that
civil society groups and the private sector can make to
the  achievement  of  some  of  the  core  objectives  of  the
United  Nations,  Ghana  is  in  a  position  to  endorse
actions  19  and  20  for 
the
understanding that such implementation would proceed
in  conformity  with  existing  legislative  requirements
and that substantive proposals to that end would bear in
mind the  international  character  of  the  United  Nations
and  would  be  consistent  with 
the  purposes  and
principles of the Charter.
implementation,  with 
With  regard  to  actions  21  to  23,  my  delegation
views  as  positive  the  commitment  to  review  on  a
continuous  basis  the  process  for  allocating  resources.
We  are  ready  to  consider  each  proposed  action  on  its
own  merit.  We  believe  it  is  necessary,  however,  to
affirm  our  support  for  the  medium-term  plan  as  it
currently  exists  and  to  express  our  doubts  as  to  the
usefulness of replacing it with a short-term plan, which
the  strategic
the  biennial  budget 
document 
the
Organization, we believe that the medium-term plan —
which  guides  the  focus  of  implementation  of  the
prioritized  objectives  that  are  translated  into  biennial
budgets  —  should  be  driven  by  all  stakeholders,
including  the  relevant  substantive  Main  Committees
the  objectives  of 
for  envisioning 
represents.  As 
24
that 
to  reflect 
is  prepared 
My  delegation  can,  however,  support  a  budget
outline 
the  four-year
medium-term  plan,  but  only  with  the  understanding
that, whereas the first two years would be firm outlines
and  subject  to  approval  by  the  General  Assembly,  the
remaining  two  years  would  serve  only  as  indicative
outlines  of  future  resource  requirements.  Ghana  could
also  consider  supporting  a  shorter,  but  adequate  and
more  strategic,  budget  if  the  supplementary  details  to
be  provided  separately  were  easily  accessible  and  did
not  detract  from  our  capacity  to  take  well-informed
decisions.
Regarding  the  strengthening  of  the  system  of
evaluation  and  monitoring,  my  delegation  sees  that  as
an  integral  part  of  the  results-based  budgeting  system
and  understands  that,  in  order  to  operate  a  flexible
system  up  front,  accountability  mechanisms  would
have  to  be  strong  downstream.  We  therefore  look
forward  to  the  proposals  concerning  evaluation  and
monitoring, particularly an evaluation system in  which
financial  performance  and  programme  implementation
would  be  reviewed  in  an  integrated  manner,  to  gain  a
better  appreciation  of  what  results  are  being  achieved
and at what cost, and to help answer questions such as
whether  a  lack  of  funding  accounts  for  the  non-
achievement of a set objective.
intend 
We  look  forward  to  further  clarifications  on
action  22,  and  we 
to  discuss  with  other
delegations how the objective to consolidate within the
Fifth  Committee  all  aspects  of  the  budget  decision-
making  process  will  be  pursued,  if  its  merits  warrant
that.  We  equally  look  forward  to  the  new  format  for
peacekeeping  budgets 
the  Secretary-General
intends  to  develop,  consistent,  we  hope,  with  the
legislative  requirement  for  a  more  results-oriented
budgeting  format  that  better  justifies  the  allocation  of
resources.
that 
Ghana  supports  action  25,  aimed  at  enhancing
staff  mobility  across  the  United  Nations  system.  We
would,  however,  like  to  stress  that  mobility  should  be
promoted,  not  merely  as  a  solution 
to  staffing
constraints in some duty stations, but also, among other
things,  as  a  means  to  developing  the  experience
necessary  to  shape  the  views  of  senior  professionals.
We  can  also  support  action  26,  which  proposes  lifting
the restrictions on the numbers of General Service staff
eligible  for  promotion  to  the  Professional  category,
with  the  understanding  that  the  proposed  increase  of
the  annual  quota  of  P-2  posts  available  for  successful
General  Service  examinations  candidates  would  not  in
any  way  distort  the  prime  consideration  that  the
composition  of  the  Professional  grades  of  staff  of  the
fairly 
United  Nations 
the  broad
geographical distribution of Member States.
should 
reflect 
Ghana could be in a position to support action 27,
concerning  proposed  changes  to  the  functions  and  the
career  prospects  of  the  General  Service  staff,  and
action  28,  which  would  change  the  status  of  all
employees  of 
to
international  civil  servants.  However,  we  seek  further
clarification  as  to  how  they  would  affect  the  Fleming
principle and its cost-saving elements.
the  United  Nations  Secretariat 
My delegation is also in a position to support the
flexible  working  arrangements  proposed  in  action  29,
insofar as  it relates only  to existing  staff  and  does  not
become a consideration in the decision to employ  new
staff.  The  United  Nations  is  a  universal  Organization
and,  as  a  result,  nationals  of  all  countries,  developing
and developed, should have equal  opportunity  to  work
for it.
Finally, my delegation is in a position to endorse
actions  30  to  36,  subject  to  a  few  clarifications  which
we will pursue during the informal consultations on the
matter. Let me, however, indicate that we look forward
to  the  active  engagement  of  the  Ombudsman  in  the
resolution  of  disputes  between  management  and  staff.
We  hope  that  the  Office  will  be  given  the  necessary
support to enable it fulfil its intended purpose.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  my
delegation’s support for these actions submitted by the
Secretary-General  and  to  indicate  our  commitment  to
working with other delegations on them.
in 
resulted 
Mr.  Takahashi  (Japan):  The  advancement  of
unprecedented
has 
globalization 
opportunities 
for  exchanges  and  greater  mutual
understanding  among  people  of  different  cultures.
Indeed, globalization has brought benefits to  many.  At
the same time, we recognize that there are many people
who have not benefited from globalization and who are
leading  unfulfilling  lives.  Under  these  circumstances,
there  are  many  situations  in  which  existing  rules
governing  human  activities  that  cross  national  borders
are  inadequate.  The  States  Members  of  the  United
A/57/PV.39
Nations  must  summon  the  wisdom  to  revitalize  the
functions of the Organization and ensure that it is able
to respond to the challenges of the present era. The first
step towards this goal is to ensure the accountability of
the  United  Nations  itself  and  to  reform  it  by  setting
clear  agendas.  The  Government  of  Japan  expresses  its
appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his
initiative in promoting United Nations reform.
Let  me  begin  by  offering  Japan’s  views  and
expectations  with  respect  to  the  Secretary-General’s
reform proposal.
First, if a General Assembly resolution is adopted
at  an  early  stage  to  provide  guidance  and  momentum
for reform as a whole, as recommended in the report of
the  Secretary-General,  Japan  would  support  such  a
resolution.  Secondly,  Japan  encourages  the  Secretary-
General  to  expeditiously  implement  those  elements  of
reform  that  are  solely  under  his  authority  and  in
accordance  with the  relevant resolutions and  decisions
already  adopted.  Thirdly,  once  a  reform  is  introduced,
we, 
the
implementation  process  in  an  appropriate  and  timely
manner and verify the results.
the  Member  States,  should 
follow  up 
Now,  I  would  like  to  convey  Japan’s  views  on
several areas covered in the Secretary-General’s report.
The  Government  of 
particular
importance to the following four points.
attaches 
Japan 
through 
First,  Japan  considers  that  it  is  crucial  for  the
United Nations to realign its programmes according to
the  new  agenda  defined 
the  Millennium
Declaration  and  through  major  global  conferences.
This  programme  review  should  be  reflected  in  the
2004-2005 regular budget of the United Nations. Clear
priority-setting  and  the  identification  of  offset  savings
should  be  undertaken  in  reviewing  the  budgeting  and
planning  process 
and
effectiveness. The  explanation  of  this point by  Deputy
Secretary-General 
was
encouraging.
flexibility 
enhanced 
Fréchette 
for 
last 
week 
We believe it is essential in this regard to allocate
resources  to  high-priority  activities  by  redeploying
resources from low-priority and obsolete activities. The
Government  of  Japan  fully  expects  that  the  Secretary-
General  will  identify  and  propose  activities  that  could
be discontinued or terminated. This would have further
importance  in  light  of  the  possible  increase  in  the
current budget. If these efforts do not succeed and, as a
result, the size of the United Nations budget continues
25
A/57/PV.39
to  expand,  Japan,  which  contributes  one  fifth  of  the
regular  budget,  will  be  in  a  difficult  position  in  terms
of its accountability to its taxpayers.
structure  of  the  Secretariat  to  a  structure  that  is  more
pyramid-shaped, as mentioned in resolution 51/241 and
reaffirmed in resolution 56/253.
Let  me  explain  the  budgetary  process  of  the
Japanese  Government.  In  this  process,  the  director  of
each  section  of  Japan’s  ministries  plays  an  important
role in setting priorities  and specifying  activities  to  be
scrapped  due 
to  budgetary  constraints.  Japanese
taxpayers  certainly  expect  a  similar  course  to  be
followed  in  the  budgetary  process  of  the  United
Nations.  We  therefore  support  the  initiative  for  sunset
provisions  proposed  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General.
Secondly,  the  Government  of  Japan  wishes  to
underline the importance of improving the management
of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights (OHCHR)  and  looks  forward  to  a  concrete  and
effective proposal from the High Commissioner to this
end. The OHCHR should make every effort to promote
collaboration  with  other  United  Nations  organs,
institutes  and  specialized  agencies,  while  ensuring
consistency in their respective mandates and upholding
the  fundamental  concepts  of  human  rights  in  the
international community.
the  principle  of 
Thirdly,  Japan  attaches  particular  importance  to
the 
realization  of 
equitable
geographical distribution with regard to the Secretariat
staff. In order to resolve the issue of non-representation
or  under-representation,  Japan  expects  the  Secretary-
General  to  develop  a  programme  and  set  specific
targets 
geographical
distribution,  as  requested  by  resolution  55/258.  The
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  human  resources
management  reform,  in  document  A/57/293,  does  not
fully address this request, and we look forward to a full
report  during  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
achieving 
equitable 
for 
to 
lifting 
With  regard 
the  proposal  for 
the
restrictions  on  the  number  of  General  Service  staff
eligible  for  promotion  to  the  Professional  category,
Japan  does  not  think  that  opportunities  for  such
promotions should be ensured by increasing the ratio of
recruitment 
the
Professional  category.  Rather,  Japan  considers 
it
appropriate to increase opportunities for recruitment to
the  Professional  level  through  national  competitive
examinations  and  the  General  Service-to-Professional
category examinations by  changing  the top-heavy  post
the  General  Service 
from 
to 
Fourthly,  from  the  viewpoint  of  increasing  the
efficiency and effectiveness of the United Nations,  the
Government  of  Japan  expects  further  coordination  in
the  field  among  the  United  Nations  system  and  other
players, and the streamlining of reports and conference
management.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  focus  on
United Nations efforts in the field of development. The
Government  of  Japan  hopes  to  deepen  the  discussion
regarding the integrated and coordinated follow-up of a
series of major international conferences in the field of
development,  including  the  International  Conference
on  Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit
on Sustainable Development, and on how to realize the
goals  of  such  conferences.  The  Government  of  Japan
expects  that  the  deliberations  which  are  taking  place
under other agenda items  will contribute to  the reform
of the United Nations as a whole.
Last but not least, I would like to comment on the
reform of the Security Council. The present report does
not  cover  the  necessary  changes  within  international
intergovernmental  organs,  such  as  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council,  that  a  Working  Group  has  been
examining.  This  is,  however,  a  very  important  task  in
strengthening  the  United  Nations.  As  the  Secretary-
General noted in paragraph 20 of his report (document
A/57/387), “no reform of the United Nations would be
complete without reform of the Security Council”.
It  is  both  possible  and  necessary  to  enlarge  the
Security Council without diminishing its effectiveness.
Next  year,  the  debate  on  Security  Council  reform  will
enter its tenth year. The Government of Japan believes
that,  as  the  first  practical  step,  we  should  now  focus
our discussion on such questions as the number of seats
on an enlarged Security Council. Japan intends to work
hard in this regard.
We anticipate that the present report  will provide
further  momentum  to  the  discussions  and  we  look
forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s  active  engagement
in this matter.
The  Government  of  Japan  is  confident  that  our
efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations  will  result  in  a
more  effective  and  efficient  Organization.  Japan  is
26
determined  to  work  together  with  the  United  Nations
and its Member States to realize this goal.
Mr. 
Yuchengco 
(Philippines): 
Today’s
environment  tells  us  that  many  of  the  challenges  we
face  as  nations  are  actually  collective  concerns  which
require collective responses. We believe that the United
Nations remains the  most important international body
for generating the necessary multilateral and collective
action to address the myriad of international challenges
before  us.  The  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  is,
therefore, an essential aspect of our work.
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  address  the  General
Assembly on this agenda item and to acknowledge the
Secretary-General’s 
in  his  unrelenting
pursuit of an Organization that is united in purpose and
exemplary in performance.
initiatives 
to 
in 
and 
areas 
problem 
its  system  of  accomplishing 
The  quick  tempo  of  world  events  requires  the
United  Nations  to  maintain  its  step,  to  be  quick  in
identifying 
institute
improvements 
its
objectives.  There  is  scope  for  simplifying  procedures
and  processes,  for  developing  a  good  pool  of  talented
and trained  personnel  and  for  maximizing  the  benefits
of  information  technology.  In  this  regard,  we  have
elected to keep an open mind and welcome many of the
actions proposed by the Secretary-General in his report
entitled,  “Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an
agenda for further change” (document A/57/387).
In particular, we welcome the measures proposed
by  the  Secretary-General  to  improve  coordination  in
the  United  Nations  system  so  as  to  minimize  or
eliminate  duplication,  be  they  in  activities,  reports  or
publications.  Better  coordination  should  redound  not
only to the  streamlining of the  work of the  Secretariat
and  of 
intergovernmental  bodies,  but  more
importantly,  to  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of  the
Organization.  We 
better
coordination  will  improve  policy  development  and
planning.
recognize 
also 
that 
the 
My  delegation  concurs  with 
the  Secretary-
General  that  there  is  scope  for  coordinating  and
rationalizing  work  programmes  and  reports.  We  have
taken  note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to
achieve this and would be interested to see how related
subjects could be consolidated.
Likewise, 
there 
processes,  and  we 
is 
scope 
look  forward 
for 
simplifying
to  reviewing  a
A/57/PV.39
programme budget that will better reflect the priorities
of  the  United  Nations  in  a  streamlined  format  that  is
accessible to readers other than experts. We expect that
the  new 
tedious
deliberation  of  the  budget  and  yet  allow  for  a  more
substantive debate on its programmatic content.
format  will  allow 
for  a 
less 
My  delegation  believes  that  the  Organization
must  have  the  human  resource  capacity  to  implement
the  proposed  changes.  There  is  a  constant  need  for
upgrading 
this  capacity  by  providing  appropriate
incentives and opportunities to enable the Organization
to  maintain  the  best  pool  of  talent  and  to  take  the
necessary measures to continue the upgrading of skills.
My  delegation  also  appreciates  the  need  for
effective  communication  of 
the  United  Nations
message  to  sustain  the  support  of  the  international
community  for  the  noble  work  of  our  Organization.
While millions of people in the world may know of the
existence  of  the  United  Nations,  few  have  a  full
awareness  of  the  critical  role  it  plays  in  our  lives  and
the activities it undertakes to promote development and
maintain  international  peace  and  security.  There  is  a
need to support its work by getting the correct message
out 
and
through 
communications.
publications 
appropriate 
like 
to  see 
Reform  may  have  different  connotations.  My
delegation  would 
it  as  a  continuing
improvement  of  a  system,  rather  than  just  change  for
the sake of change or as a cost-cutting measure. At the
same  time,  providing  clear  goals  and  processes  is
necessary  in  order  to  eliminate  any  anxieties  we  may
have  in  instituting  new  approaches.  We  have  followed
the  reform  process  throughout  the  past  decade  and
believe  that  transparency,  accountability  and  universal
participation  have  proven  to  be  the  best  way  of
achieving  concrete  results  and  ensuring  support  for
reform.  We 
the
consideration of the  Secretary-General’s report  will be
undertaken  through  a  more  informal  and  open-ended
process of dialogue and exchange of views.
therefore, 
pleased 
that 
are, 
this  regard, 
My  delegation  supports  the  Secretary-General’s
efforts  at  reform  and  will  participate  constructively  in
the  work  ahead.  In 
there  are  some
preliminary  views  we  wish to  express.  First of all,  the
decision-making  process  on  the  Secretary-General’s
further  change  should  be  open  and
agenda  for 
transparent  so  as 
the  widest  possible
participation.
to  ensure 
27
A/57/PV.39
Secondly,  through  a  process  of  open  dialogue,
delegations  should  be  able  to  distinguish  between  the
actions that are within the Secretary-General’s mandate
and thus ready  for  immediate  implementation,  and  the
actions requiring endorsement or action by the General
Assembly.
Thirdly,  we  should  try  to  conclude  our  work  on
this item as expeditiously as possible, but we must also
bear  in  mind  that  reform  is  an  ongoing  process;  some
actions  may  need  time  to  develop  or  study.  Hasty
decisions must be avoided.
And finally, although my delegation is open to the
content of any resolution  on  this item,  we  believe  that
it  should  aim  more  at  providing  broad  and  strategic
direction for further  work on  certain actions  at  a  more
detailed  level,  rather  than  aim  at  specificity  at  this
time,  although  specifics  may  be  necessary  in  some
cases. Such an outcome would be in line with our view
that United Nations reform is an ongoing process.
Two  years  ago  during  the  Millennium  Summit,
our leaders gathered in this Assembly to reaffirm their
faith  in  the  ability  of  the  Organization  and  its  Charter
to  create  a  prosperous,  peaceful  and  just  world.  The
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  each  have
important roles to play in this regard. This is especially
true of the only universal organ, the General Assembly.
It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  seek  to  revitalize  the
General  Assembly  so  that  it  can  reaffirm  its  central
position as the chief policy-making organ of the United
Nations.
My  delegation  further  believes  that  the  General
Assembly  remains  the  only  principal  United  Nations
organ  in  which  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality
among  States  is  respected  and  observed.  It  is  the  only
principal organ in  which all Member States participate
equally  and  democratically  in  the  decision-making
process.  Moreover,  the  General  Assembly’s  mandate
covers 
cooperation,
especially  promoting  and  sustaining  economic  growth
and  development  and  maintaining  international  peace
and  security.  It  must  therefore  continuously  be  in  a
position to assert these roles.
aspects  of  multilateral 
all 
It  is  timely  and  appropriate  that  the  issue  of  the
revitalization  of the  General  Assembly  be  placed  once
again  on  the  United  Nations  agenda  of  priorities.  It  is
also  linked  in  many  ways  to  the  proposed  agenda  for
further change of the Secretary-General.
28
While  a  number  of  United  Nations  reform  and
strengthening  exercises  have  been  undertaken  and
concluded  over  the  past  10  years,  the  work  of  the
General  Assembly  needs  to  be  further  enhanced,  both
internally and in terms of  more  meaningful  interaction
with the other United Nations  organs,  in  particular the
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council.
The  Philippines  remains  committed  to  pursuing  the
many  agreed  but  yet  to  be  implemented  measures
towards  achieving  this  goal.  In  particular,  we  would
like  to  see  implementation  of  the  salient  features  of
resolutions 51/241 and 55/285, especially paragraph 14
of  55/285,  which  mandates  further  action  to  be  taken
on the basis of the debate on the report on the work of
the  Organization;  and  paragraphs  18  and  19  of
resolution  55/285,  which  deal,  respectively,  with  the
preparation  of  reports  and  scheduling  of  meetings  and
with  the  greater  use  by  the  President  of  facilitators,
where appropriate.
informal  consultations  under 
It  is  also  important  to  consider  ways  and  means
of  implementing  paragraph  12  of  resolution  51/241,
which  mandates 
the
President  or  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents  to  discuss  the
content  of  any  action  by  the  Assembly  based  on  the
debate on the  annual report of the  Security  Council  to
the  General  Assembly.  Revitalizing  and  improving  the
efficiency of the General Assembly should therefore be
based on or take off from previously agreed resolutions
on revitalization in order to determine whether they are
being  implemented  or  to  consider  the  extent  to  which
they  have  been  implemented  with  a  view  to  possible
further  action.  New  and  innovative  measures  should
also be considered. We also view  the  non-paper of  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  fifty-sixth
session, dated 6 June 2002, as  an  additional input into
the  exercise  on  revitalizing  and  strengthening  the
United Nations at this session.
leaders  during 
Revitalizing the General Assembly, as envisioned
by  the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  and  as
resonated  by  our 
the  Millennium
Summit two years ago,  would reaffirm our faith in the
to  promoting
Organization  and  our  commitment 
democracy 
and 
international
cooperation  as  the  main  vehicle  for  addressing  the
global challenges of our time.
among 
nations 
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  Over  the  past
decades,  the  United  Nations  international  and  global
agendas  have 
expanded  many-fold.  The  great
conferences  of  the  1990s  added  to  this  unprecedented
scale and dimension. The United Nations needed to be
restructured,  revitalized  and  retooled  to  discharge  its
burgeoning responsibilities. It was therefore apt for the
Secretary-General 
these  needs  by
presenting  his  reform  proposals.  Through  this,  he  has
demonstrated wisdom, vision and commitment. He has
also thereby vindicated the confidence reposed by us in
him.  We  thank  him  for  the  initiative  and  also  for  his
succinct presentation of his report this morning.
to  respond 
to 
of 
for 
We  see  these  proposals  as  part  of  the  process
initiated  in  1997.  An  immediate  concern  was  the
establishment  of  managerial  efficiency.  It  is  hence
natural  that  we  focus  attention  on  rationalization  of
structures, optimal utilization of resources, elimination
of  duplication,  reinforcement  of  coordination  and
introduction 
performance
evaluation,  but  there  are  other  concerns  as  well.  We
believe 
forth
improvement  in  the  Organization’s  capacity  to  deliver
more effectively. They  should  also  enhance  the  ability
of  the  United  Nations  to  reflect  the  aspirations  of
nations  and  peoples.  This  should,  as  the  Secretary-
General  has  said,  be  a  process,  rather  than  a  one-off
event.
should  bring 
benchmarks 
changes 
that 
the 
The  statement  made  by  the  representative  of
Venezuela,  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  77,  reflected  our
broad  views  on  and  expectations  of  the  report.  May  I
now  take  this  opportunity  to  make  a  few  additional
comments on the report.
institutions  and 
Human rights is  one  area  where Bangladesh  sees
merit in the proposed measures, particularly when they
relate to supporting countries in building strong human
rights 
the  special
procedures  and  those  of  the  treaty  bodies.  While  the
United Nations High Commissioner prepares his report
next year, we would expect that the Member States will
be appropriately consulted.
reviewing 
to 
We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  proposals  to
have  closer  collaboration  with  civil  society.  The
proposed  creation  of  a  panel  of  eminent  persons  is
commendable.  We  welcome  the  measures  proposed  in
the  area  of  public  information  and  documentation.  In
our  view, 
these  aim  at  creating  a  culture  of
communications in the Organization. We recognize the
need for focused, well-clarified reporting. We are ready
to  work  on  the  improvements  in  this  area  involving
new  techniques  and  technologies.  One  cannot  turn
away  from  so  many  improved  tools  and  methods
A/57/PV.39
available to us, which are far more numerous than they
were even a decade back.
to 
related 
involve  questions 
At the same time,  we also need to recognize that
an  intergovernmental  organization  such  as  the  United
Nations has Member States with  diverse requirements.
It  is  therefore  necessary  to  factor  in  the  diverse
requirements  of  the  Members  the  Organization  serves.
We  endorse  the  proposals  to  have  focused  reports.
Indeed,  that  is  needed  for  the  reports  to  be  more
imaginative and analytical in addressing issues. This is
particularly  true  for  reports  in  the  areas  of  social
development and economic development,  which cross-
cut  each  other.  But  proposed  consolidated  reports
might 
timing  and
sequencing  with  the  work  of  various  Committees  and
bodies.  We  would  appreciate  a  further  elaboration  on
this  aspect.  Economic  and  social  development  is  one
area  to  which  my  delegation  obviously  attaches  great
importance.  We  welcome  the  proposal  for  greater
coherence aimed at better service delivery in that broad
sector.  The  proposed  modalities, 
joint
programming  and  resource-pooling,  are  noteworthy.
to  better  support
We  expect  such 
development 
programmes,
particularly  at  the  country  level.  I  would,  in  this
connection,  draw  attention  to  the  Brussels  Programme
of  Action  adopted  at 
the  Third  United  Nations
Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDCs).
That  Programme  of  Action  is  quite  elaborate  and
clearly delineates actions to be taken by the LDCs and
the international community. We are at the initial stage
of its implementation and hope the proposed  measures
will also contribute to the efforts undertaken within the
parameters of the Brussels Programme of Action.
improvements 
humanitarian 
such  as 
and 
A detailed report on technical cooperation  is due
next year. Still, while outlining the broad principles for
defining  roles  and  responsibilities  among  United
Nations  entities,  the  current  report  mentions 
that
“... technical cooperation should be delivered ... by the
entities  that  have  an  established  field  presence  and
experience”. (A/57/387, para. 124 (d))
funds  and  programmes, 
At  this  stage,  let  me  underline  that  there  are  a
number  of 
instance
UNCTAD,  that  lack  a  field  presence.  We  greatly
benefit from their activities and value their work. That
is why, I would stress, in any re-orientation of support
to  Member  States,  the  programmatic  impact  on  most
developing countries should be appropriately weighed.
for 
29
to  be 
Goals  are 
the  central  set  of  goals,  some
elaboration will be needed as to how to reconcile them
with the medium-term plan priorities.
There are thousands of unseen hands that provide
the  backup  support  to  our  work.  Their  welfare  is  of
critical  concern  to  us.  The  Secretary-General’s  report
has  proposed  a  number  of  measures  to  create  a  more
versatile, competent and well-managed workforce. This
is welcome.
requested 
The  Secretary-General  has 
clear
guidance in the form of a resolution by this Assembly.
We  owe  him  this.  President  Kavan  has  elaborated  a
procedure  whereby  he  aims  to  achieve  this  objective,
through transparent consultations and the help of a few
facilitators  under  his  stewardship.  We  endorse  that
approach.  We  commend  his  commitment.  We  have
every  confidence  that  our  combined  endeavours  will
bring this task to fruition.
The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m.
A/57/PV.39
I  would also  stress that,  on many  occasions,  it  is
difficult  to  measure  the  stage  of  accomplishment
reached by a programme activity. This is particularly so
in  the  social  and  economic  areas.  This  must  be
considered when deciding on programme closures.
In this Organization, the role of the planning and
budgetary process cannot be over emphasized.
Currently, the four-year medium-term plan serves
as the principal policy directive for the United Nations.
After  meticulous  examination  by  the  Committee  for
Programme  and  Coordination  (CPC), 
is
adopted  and  reviewed  by  the  General  Assembly.  In
doing so, all relevant mandates are taken into account.
For  example,  just  this  summer,  as  CPC  reviewed  the
current  plan,  it  incorporated  the  relevant  Millennium
Development  Goals.  We  are  ready  to  see  how  CPC’s
working methods could be further improved.
the  plan 
Related  to  CPC  is  the  issue  of  the  medium-term
plan and its priorities. If  the  Millennium  Development
30
