United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
35th plenary meeting
Monday, 21 October 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.35
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(c) Election of five members of the International
Court of Justice
Memorandum by the Secretary-General
(A/57/305)
List of candidates (A/57/306)
Curricula vitae (A/57/307)
The  President:  This  morning, 
the  General
Assembly will proceed to the election of five members
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  a  nine-year
term  commencing  on  6  February  2003.  The  terms  of
office  of  the  following  judges  expire  on  5  February
2003:  Mr.  Shi  Jiuyong  (China),  Mr.  Shigeru  Oda
(Japan),  Mr.  GØza  Herczegh  (Hungary),  Mr.  Carl-
August  Fleischhauer  (Germany)  and  Mr.  Abdul  G.
Koroma (Sierra Leone).
In  connection  with  the  election,  I  should  like  to
bring  the  following  matters  to  the  attention  of  the
members of the General Assembly.
I  should  like  to  confirm  that,  at  this  time,  the
Security  Council, 
the  General
Assembly, is also proceeding to elect five members of
independently  of 
the Court. This procedure is in accordance with Article
8 of the Statute of the Court, which provides that
(cid:147)The  General  Assembly  and  the  Security
independently  of  one
Council  shall  proceed 
another to elect the members of the Court(cid:148).
Accordingly,  the  results  of  the  voting  in  the  General
Assembly  will  not  be  communicated  to  the  Security
Council  until  five  candidates  have  obtained 
the
required majority in the Assembly.
I  should  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the
Assembly  to  the  documents  relating  to  the  election.
The  list  of  candidates  who  have  been  nominated  by
national  groups  is  to  be  found  in  document  A/57/306.
The curricula vitae of the candidates are to be found in
document  A/57/307.  The  Assembly  also  has  before  it
document A/57/305, containing a memorandum by the
Secretary-General  on  the  present  composition  of  the
Court  and  on  the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  the
Assembly  and  in  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to
the election.
In accordance with article 10, paragraph 1, of the
Statute  of  the  Court,  those  candidates  who  obtain  an
absolute  majority  of  votes  both 
the  General
Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  shall  be
considered as elected.
in 
in 
The consistent practice of the United Nations has
been  to  interpret  the  words  (cid:147)absolute  majority(cid:148)  as
meaning a majority of all electors whether or not they
vote or are allowed to vote. The electors in the General
Assembly are all 191 Member States. Accordingly, for
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-65143 (E)
*0265143*
A/57/PV.35
the  present  election,  96  votes  constitute  an  absolute
majority in the General Assembly.
If  in  the  first  ballot  fewer  than  five  candidates
obtain  an  absolute  majority,  it  will  be  necessary  to
proceed  to  further  ballots  until  five  candidates  have
obtained  that  majority.  Pursuant  to  the  decision  taken
by the General Assembly at its 915th meeting, held on
16 November 1960, those ballots shall be unrestricted.
I  should  like  to  remind  representatives  that,
pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  rules  of
procedure,
(cid:147)After  the  President  has  announced  the
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in
connection with the actual conduct of the voting(cid:148).
Therefore,  any  announcements,  such  as  those
concerning  withdrawals  of  candidatures,  should  be
made prior to the commencement of the voting process,
that is to say before the announcement of the beginning
of the voting process.
I  should  like  to  bring  another  matter  to  the
attention of the General Assembly. Cases have arisen in
the  Security  Council  in  which  more  than  the  required
number  of  candidates  have  obtained  an  absolute
majority on the same ballet. The same also occurred in
the  General  Assembly  at  the  45th  plenary  meeting  of
the  fifty-fourth  session,  on  3  November  1999.  The
practice  followed  by  the  Security  Council  has  been  to
hold a new vote on all the candidates, and the President
of the Council made no notification to the President of
the  General  Assembly  until  only  the  required  number
of candidates, and no  more,  had  obtained  the  absolute
majority in the Security Council.
Similarly,  at 
the  fifty-fourth  session  of 
the
General  Assembly  more  than  the  required  number  of
candidates  obtained  an  absolute  majority  on  the  same
ballot.  The  General  Assembly  decided  to  hold  a  new
ballot  on  all  the  candidates,  and  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly  made  no  notification 
the
President  of  the  Security  Council  until  only  the
required  number  of  candidates,  and  no  more,  had
obtained an absolute majority.
to 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to  the
procedures I have just outlined?
It was so decided.
2
The  President: 
representative of Zimbabwe.
I  give 
the 
floor 
to 
the
Mr.  Muchetwa  (Zimbabwe):  I  would  like  to
inform the General Assembly that Mr. Walter J. Kamba
and  Mr.  Arthur  J.  Manase  have  withdrawn  from  the
race.
The  President:  Members  have  heard 
the
statement  by  the  representative  of  Zimbabwe  that
Mr. Walter  J.  Kamba  and  Mr.  Arthur  J.  Manase  no
longer  wish 
candidates.
Accordingly,  the  names  of  Mr.  Walter  J.  Kamba  and
Mr. Arthur J. Manase have been deleted from the ballot
papers that will be distributed.
considered 
to  be 
as 
I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of
representatives  during  the  conduct  of  the  election.
Please  be  reminded  that  during  the  voting  process  all
campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General  Assembly
Hall. This means in particular that once the election has
begun  no  more  campaign  material  can  be  distributed
inside  the  Hall.  All  representatives  are  also  requested
to  remain  at  their  seats  so  that  the  voting  process  can
proceed  in  an  orderly  manner.  I  thank  representatives
in advance for their cooperation.
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot
papers will now be distributed.
Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the
ballot  papers  now  being  distributed.  Only 
those
candidates whose names appear on the ballot papers are
eligible.  Representatives  will 
five
candidates  for  whom  they  wish  to  vote  by  placing
crosses to the left of their names on the ballot papers.
Ballot  papers  on  which  more  than  five  names  are
marked  will  be  considered  invalid.  Votes  may  be  cast
only  for  those  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot
papers.
indicate 
the 
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Ms.  Baaziz
(Algeria),  Ms.  Davtyan  (Armenia),  Mr.  Psiachas
(Greece),  Mr.  Francis  (Jamaica),  Mr.  Al-Ojaili
(Oman)  and  Ms.  Matti  (Switzerland)  acted  as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.30  a.m.  and
resumed at 11.35 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as
follows:
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required absolute majority:
Number of votes obtained:
183
0
183
0
183
96
Mr. Hisashi Owada (Japan)
169
Mr. Shi Jiuyong (China)
167
Mr. Peter Tomka (Slovakia)
149
Mr. Abdul G. Koroma (Sierra Leone) 134
123
Mr. Bruno Simma (Germany)
94
Mr. Hans Corell (Sweden)
Mr. John Dugard (South Africa)
43
25
Mr. Vojin Dimitrijević (Yugoslavia)
The  following  five  candidates  have  obtained  an
absolute majority in the General Assembly: Mr. Abdul
G.  Koroma,  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  Mr.  Shi  Jiuyong,
Mr. Bruno Simma and Mr. Peter Tomka.
I  have  communicated  the  result  of  the  voting  to
the President of the Security Council.
I have received a letter from the President of the
Security  Council.  I  call  on  the  representative  of  the
Secretariat to read out that letter.
Mr.  Perfiliev  (Director,  General  Assembly  and
Economic and Social Council Affairs Division) (spoke
in French):
A/57/PV.35
(cid:147)I have the honour to inform you that at the
4629th  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on
21 October 2002, for the purpose of electing five
members of the International Court of Justice for
a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February  2003,
Mr. Abdul Koroma, Mr. Hisashi Owada,  Mr.  Shi
Jiuyong, Mr. Bruno Simma and Mr. Peter Tomka
obtained an absolute majority of votes.(cid:148)
The  President:  As  a  result  of  the  independent
voting  in  the  Security  Council  and  in  the  General
Assembly, the following five candidates have obtained
an  absolute  majority  in  both  organs:  Mr.  Abdul  G.
Koroma,  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  Mr.  Shi  Jiuyong,
Mr. Bruno  Simma  and  Mr.  Peter  Tomka.  They  are
therefore  duly  elected  members  of  the  International
Court  of  Justice 
term
commencing  on  6  February  2003. 
this
opportunity 
the  Assembly(cid:146)s
congratulations  on  their  election  and  to  thank  the
tellers for their assistance.
to  serve  for  a  nine-year 
take 
to  extend 
them 
I 
to 
We  have 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our
consideration of sub-item (c) of agenda item 15.
Programme of work
The President: I should like to inform  members
that  document  A/INF/57/3/Rev.1,  containing  a  revised
programme  of  work  and  schedule  of  plenary  meetings
for  the  main  part  of  the  fifty-seventh  session,  was
issued  this  morning.  I  should  also  like  to  remind
members  that  the  lists  of  speakers  for  items  listed  in
document A/INF/57/3/Rev.1 are open.
The meeting rose at 11.40 a.m.
3
