United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
27th plenary meeting
Monday, 14 October 2002, 10.00 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In the absence of the President, Ms. Clarke
(Barbados), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/57/440/Add.2)
In 
the 
letter  contained 
the  General  Assembly 
The Acting President: I  should  like  to  draw  the
to  document
attention  of 
A/57/440/Add.2. 
that
document, the Secretary-General informs the President
of the General Assembly that since the issuance of his
communications contained in documents A/57/440 and
A/57/440/Add.1,  Kyrgyzstan  has  made  the  necessary
payment  to  reduce  its  arrears  below 
the  amount
specified in article 19 of the Charter.
in 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  duly
that
information  contained 
the 
in 
takes  note  of 
document?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 7
Notification by the Secretary-General under Article
12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/57/392)
The Acting President: As members are aware, in
accordance  with 
the  provisions  of  Article  12,
paragraph 2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and
with the consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-
General is mandated to notify the General Assembly of
matters  relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the
Security Council and of matters with which the Council
has ceased to deal.
In  that  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as
document A/57/392.
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of that
document?
It was so decided.
Agenda items 11 and 40
Report of the Security Council (A/57/2 and Corr.1)
Question of equitable representation on and
increase in the membership of the Security
Council and related matters: Report of the
Open-ended Working Group
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the
President of the Security Council, Mr. Martin Belinga-
Eboutou  of  Cameroon,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the
Security Council.
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
in
French): I  have  the  privilege,  in  my  capacity  as
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-63581 (E)
*0263581*
A/57/PV.27
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of
October  2002, 
report
(A/57/Corr.1)  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General
Assembly.
the  annual 
introduce 
to 
At  this  stage,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the
Council, to express my congratulations to you, Mr. Jan
Kavan, on his election as President of the fifty-seventh
session of the General Assembly. I have no doubt that,
during  his  mandate,  the  relations  between  our  two
organs  will  be  further  strengthened 
to  encourage
optimal promotion of the purposes and principles of the
Charter.  We  are  also  aware  that,  since  Mr.  Kavan
assumed office, he  has  engaged  Council  members in  a
constructive and encouraging dialogue with a particular
view  to  increasing  the  fluidity  of  exchanges  between
the two organs.
The  report  under  consideration  covers  the  period
from  16  June  2001  to  31  July  2002.  I  should  like  to
draw members’ attention to the note by the President of
the Security Council dated 22 May  2002,  published  as
document  S/2002/199.  That  document  sets  out  the
changes  introduced  to  the  format  of  the  Council’s
report  and  the  improvements  made  to  it.  I  shall  return
to this later.
to 
As  members  will  have  noted, 
the  Security
Council  was  very  active  between  June  2001  and  July
2002. It was able to consider in detail some issues that
have  been  on  its  agenda  for  many  years,  and  in  some
cases  it  was  able  to  sharply  reduce  difficulties  related
to  those  items.  Thanks 
the  determination  and
imagination  of  Council  members,  other,  more  recent,
issues  have  been  dealt  with  appropriately,  with
convincing  results.  Thus,  specifically  with  respect  to
Africa,  the  Security  Council,  with  its  characteristic
seriousness,  has  addressed  the  crisis  situations  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  in  Ethiopia  and
Eritrea,  in  Burundi,  in  Somalia,  in  Western  Sahara,  in
Liberia,  in  Sierra  Leone,  in  Guinea-Bissau  and  in  the
Central  African  Republic.  I  should  like  to  emphasize
and  to  welcome  the  fact  that  some  of  those  crises  are
on the way to being resolved.
States member of the Assembly are aware that the
Council has created its own Ad Hoc Working Group on
Conflict  Prevention  and  Resolution  in  Africa.  That
Working  Group,  which  is  chaired  by  Ambassador
Jagdish Koonjul of Mauritius, to whom I should like to
pay  tribute,  has  done  remarkable  work  in  the  few
months of its existence.
2
Also, with regard to the African part of the  work
of the Security Council, I should like to emphasize two
steps that have had a significant impact on the way the
Council  addresses  African  issues,  whether  they  relate
to conflict management or to post-crisis situations. The
Council’s  mission  in  May  2002  to  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  to  other  countries  of  the
region  gave  it  first-hand  experience  of  the  reality  on
the  ground.  Likewise,  the  workshop  organized  in  July
2002  on  the  situation  in  the  Mano  River  Union
countries  helped  us 
the
implications  underlying  certain
complexities  and 
conflicts in West Africa.
to  understand  better 
Other  important  matters  before  the  Council  are
being addressed assiduously and with a commitment to
progress:  the  Balkans,  Cyprus,  Iraq  and  the  Middle
East. Some of these have seen developments that have
the  entire  United  Nations
been  welcomed  by 
community, 
and
Afghanistan.
Timor-Leste 
particular, 
in 
As  members  are  aware,  the  Security  Council,  in
its  work,  goes  well  beyond  the  strictly  conflictual
aspects  of  the  crises  of  which  it  is  seized;  when
necessary,  it  also  deals  with  them  in  a  cross-cutting
manner  from  a  thematic  perspective,  as  in  the  case  of
women or children in armed conflict, the protection of
civilians 
and  peacekeeping
operations.  Furthermore,  on  14  February  2002,  the
Council  agreed  on  a  new  mechanism  aimed  at
improving 
troop-contributing
countries.  It  also  adopted  by  consensus,  after  difficult
negotiations, 
(2002),  concerning
matters  including  the  legal  situation  of  peacekeeping
contingents.
cooperation  with 
resolution  1422 
conflict, 
in 
armed 
Another threat to international peace and security
that  has  mobilized  the  Security  Council  is  terrorism.
Faced  with  that  scourge,  the  Council  undertook  to  go
beyond  its  specific  areas  of  work  and  decided  to  take
the  bull  by  the  horns.  It  set  up  a  Counter-Terrorism
Committee,  which  has  become  authoritative  thanks  to
the  dynamism  of  its  Chairman,  Ambassador  Jeremy
Greenstock,  and  to  the  fortunate  involvement  of  all
States members of the Organization.
The  Council  devotes  much  time  to  following  up
on the implementation of sanctions that it is obliged to
impose  on  certain  States.  At  the  same  time,  it  has
continued to consider — under my presidency and after
the  excellent  work  done  earlier  by  Bangladesh  —  the
best  possible  way  to  improve  the  effectiveness  of
sanctions  and  to  minimize  their  adverse  consequences
on  civilian  populations  or  on  third  States.  That  very
delicate  exercise  also 
the
mechanisms  for 
lifting
sanctions.
imposing,  suspending  and 
to  evaluate 
leads  us 
All the issues that I have mentioned are merely a
glimpse  of  the  colossal  amount  of  work  done  by  the
Security Council during the period under consideration.
I  should  also  like  to  stress  the  approach  that  the
Council  has  chosen  to  renew  its  relations  with  non-
States  members  not  of 
the  Council  and  with
international public opinion.
It  will be recalled  that,  during  the  debate  on  this
agenda  item  during  the  fifty-sixth  session,  Assembly
members put forward a number of ideas with regard to
a  better  presentation  of  the  Security  Council’s  annual
report to the General Assembly. The Council has taken
account  of  them,  and  I  should  like  to  stress  here  that
the  credit  for  that  goes  in  large  part  to  the  Mission  of
Singapore. In that regard, I should like to express once
again  our  deep  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Kishore
Mahbubani  and  his  team,  whose  commitment  made  it
possible  to  properly  focus  the  innovations  included  in
the  present  report.  Thus,  the  report  is  more  than  300
pages  shorter  than  last  year’s  report,  while  containing
more  statistics  on  the  deliberations  and  results  of
Security  Council  activities.  The  reduced  format  in
which 
the
Organization approximately $300,000.
submitted  has 
report 
saved 
this 
is 
to 
With 
regard 
those  statistics,  we  should
emphasize  that  the  Security  Council  held  264  official
meetings,  91  more  than  during  last  year’s  reporting
period;  it  adopted  75  resolutions,  23  more  than  last
year;  it  adopted  47  official  presidential  statements,  12
more  than  last  year;  and  it  published  61  official
communiqués  and  held  26  meetings  with 
troop-
contributing countries.
The holding of a  large  number of  public, as  well
as  Arria-formula  meetings  demonstrates  the  Security
its  work  more
Council’s  clear  desire 
transparent  and  effective,  with 
the  objective  of
promoting  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security.
to  make 
Another  important  improvement  is  the  inclusion
in  the  introduction  of  the  report  of  an  analytical
overview of the Council’s activities.
A/57/PV.27
I  would  like  to  invite  members  of  the  General
Assembly  requiring  further  information  to  refer  to
document S/2002/603 of 6 June 2002, drawn up by the
Secretariat  and  circulated  as  a  document  of 
the
Council;  the  note  from  the  President  of  the  Security
Council contained in document  S/2002/199 of  22  May
2002;  and  the  record  of  the  4616th  meeting  of  the
Council  held  on  26  September  2002  (S/PV.4616).
Members of the Assembly will find in those documents
an  exhaustive  record  of  all  of  the  innovations  that  I
have just summarized.
Next  week 
the  Council  plans 
to  hold  an
interactive  debate  on  the  outcome  of  the  Assembly’s
work  today  and  tomorrow.  This  demonstrates  the
interest  and  expectations  of  the  Security  Council  with
respect to the judgements and useful proposals that are
submitted  to  it  by  the  General  Assembly.  We  are
particularly  interested  in  the  response  of  members  to
our  working  methods  and  our  work,  which  is  always
sensitive in nature and often complex.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  solemnly  to  express
my  appreciation  to  all  the  members  of  the  Council
without  exception  for  their  commitment  and  their
dedication  to  the  cause  of  peace  and  security.  I  would
also 
the  Secretary-General  for  his
enlightened vision and the Security Council secretariat
for its professionalism and invaluable daily support.
thank 
like 
to 
Sir Jeremy Greenstock (United Kingdom): I am
grateful to the  Permanent  Representative of  Cameroon
for  introducing  this  year’s  report  (A/57/2  and  Corr.1)
of  the  Security  Council  so  comprehensively  and  ably,
and I echo his expression of gratitude to the Secretary-
General and  the  Secretariat for  supporting  the  Council
so effectively.
I  am  delighted  that  this  debate  concerns  a  report
of 
is  much
the  Security  Council  whose  format 
improved in comparison with those of previous years. I
pay tribute to the initiative  and energy  of  Ambassador
Mahbubani and the  delegation of  Singapore in leading
the  Council  in  the  production  of  a  slimmer  and  more
informative  report.  The  United  Kingdom  was  pleased
to  contribute to  the  new  format  by  providing  the  draft
of  the  introductory  section,  in  which  for  the  first  time
the Council has laid out a description of its substantive
business over the year.
I  believe  that  this  innovation  goes  some  way
the  General
towards  responding 
Assembly to  have  a  fuller and  more interactive  debate
the  wish  of 
to 
3
A/57/PV.27
with  the  Security  Council  on  the  business  on  the
Council’s  agenda,  virtually  all  of  which  is  of  great
importance  to  the  United  Nations  membership  as  a
whole. I believe that the two institutions are beginning
to  understand  each  other  better  in  this  area.  The
Council  is  making  a  genuine  attempt  to  be  more  open
and  transparent  in  its  business.  The  period  under
review  —  mid-June  2001  to  the  end  of  July  2002  —
was  an  exceptionally  busy  one.  The  Council  has
nevertheless taken care to hold as many open meetings
as  possible  to  encourage  the  wider  membership  to
remain in touch with its business. The United Kingdom
presidency in July this year, for instance, scheduled 29
open  meetings  —  a  record  to  date.  I  wonder  whether
that record will last for long.
The  Council’s  output  in  resolutions,  presidential
statements  and  statements  to  the  press  continues  to
increase  at  a  rate  which  challenges  our  capacity  to
manage  all  of  the  requirements  put  upon  us.  We  must
continue changing in order to keep up.
of 
I  hope  that  members  of  the  General  Assembly
recognize that  we  have tried to be  more transparent in
quality as well as in quantity. In that context, I wish to
place  on  record  my  gratitude  to  members  of  the
General Assembly for their exceptional response to the
overtures 
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee
established  pursuant  to  Security  Council  resolution
1373  (2001).  Their  cooperation  has  been  vital  to  that
exercise,  and  I  hope  that  the  Committee’s  willingness
to explain its work programme, its methods of business
and its  general  approach to the  implementation  of that
resolution  has  been  one  of  the  features  behind  the
excellent  work  we  and  the  members  of  the  Assembly
have done together since October 2001.
On the subject of combating terrorism, of course,
we  have  only  just  begun,  as  the  ghastly  attack  this
weekend  in  Bali  demonstrates.  I  express  my  sincere
condolences  to  the  Indonesian  authorities  and  to  the
families of all the victims of that dreadful attack.
The  opening  up  of  the  Council  goes  beyond  the
work  of 
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  Many
elected  members  of  the  Council  have  been  exemplary
in  living  up  to  their  campaign  promises  to  keep  the
wider  membership informed. I  welcome that,  provided
that  necessary  confidences  are  kept.  I  hope 
that
permanent  members, 
too,  have  been  marked  for
progress  in  that  area.  The  United  Kingdom  has  no
illusions: it needs — and it has — a constituency in the
4
wider  membership  as  a  whole.  We  look  for,  and  we
must  earn,  the  support  of  the  Assembly  and  its
constructive contributions to Council business, whether
in the area of troop contributions or general ideas, and
we  will  continue  to  be  as  open  as  possible,  beyond
formal  meetings,  in  our  exchanges  with  Member
States, individually and collectively.
The  Security  Council  has  also  become  more
operational  and  more  targeted  in  its  handling  of  the
peace  and  security  agenda.  Since  September  1999,  we
have  developed  —  to  an  extraordinary  degree,  I
think —  the  practice  of  sending  missions  to  troubled
regions  of  the  world  that  are  on  our  agenda.  The
improvements  —  relative,  perhaps,  but  improvements
nonetheless — in the situations in East Timor, which is
now  our  glorious  new  Member,  Timor-Leste;  in  the
Balkans;  and  in  Sierra  Leone  are  evident.  Our  four
missions  in  successive  years  to  the  Great  Lakes  area,
under  able  United  States  and  French leadership, are  at
last  beginning  to  bear  fruit.  In  New  York  we  have
begun  to  develop  resolutions  and  mandates  that  are
better tailored to, and  more carefully  aligned  with, the
realities. While there is still room for improvement and
for more productive exchanges  with troop contributors
in particular, I believe that we are heading in the right
direction.  We  have  to  remember  that  Security  Council
members,  primarily 
for
maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  are  not
the  only  actors  in  any  particular  situation.  The  parties
on  the  ground  in  a  conflict  or  post-conflict  situation
have  a  greater  responsibility,  and  usually  a  greater
opportunity, to  make constructive  progress than do  we
in New York. But the Security Council has to show the
responsibility,  the  power  and  the  authority  of  the
United Nations; and we have to demonstrate leadership
if it is lacking in the situation on the ground. I believe
that  there  are  many  instances  where  the  Council  has
done these things over the past year.
responsible  as  we  are 
Before  I  touch  on  one  or  two  specific  issues,  let
me  also  comment  on  the  Council’s  practice  of  taking
up  generic  themes  in  our  debates.  We  believe  that
progress has been made, and significant encouragement
given  in  the  right  quarters,  in  our  debates  on  gender
issues, on the protection of civilians in armed conflict,
on  children  and  armed  conflict,  and  on  human  rights
within the rubric of peace and security.
Again, like  so  many  parts  of the  United  Nations,
we  are  struggling  to  move  from  the  general  to  the
particular,  to  produce  results  that  really  matter  on  the
ground.  But  I  am  pleased  that,  during  the  United
Kingdom  presidency  of  the  Council  in  July,  we  were
able  to  conduct  a  forward-looking  debate  on  gender
issues,  which  now  need  to  be  mainstreamed  into  the
work  of  the  Security  Council,  and  that  in  addition  we
managed  to  hold  an  interesting  workshop  on  the
lessons  learnt  in  Sierra  Leone  and  on  how  to  apply
them  to  accelerate  the  process  of  bringing  peace  and
the  beginnings  of  prosperity  to  the  West  African
subregion  as  a  whole.  Every  operational  organ  or  the
United  Nations,  not  excluding  the  General  Assembly,
should  conduct  self-assessments  of  its  performance
now and again.
I  want  to  make  a  personal  comment  about  the
nature of our political work at the United Nations. The
Security Council  maintains a high profile  and receives
broad  media  attention,  because  it  deals  with  political
and security situations of a high intensity, at least in the
short  term.  But  the  United  Nations  was  never  really
constructed for — and  has  only rarely  been  very  good
at  —  resolving  political  and  security  issues  in  short
order.  The  great  power,  and  the  great  utility,  of  the
United Nations is in setting longer-term trends across a
whole  range  of  global  issues  —  economic,  social,
environmental,  cultural  and,  of  course,  political,
because all these elements have to evolve in a political
context.
to  promote 
The  commanding  underlying  theme  of  the  work
of the United Nations is development, which means the
more  equal  distribution  of  the  world’s  opportunities
among  the  world’s  peoples.  Conflict  prevention  and
conflict  resolution  are,  in  that  sense,  a  subcategory  of
our  work 
sustainable  development.
Members  of  the  Security  Council  need  from  time  to
time to reflect that, important as they may regard their
efforts  in  that  Chamber,  the  results  must  contribute  to
the  wider  success  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.
Mutual cooperation and respect between all the organs
and  institutions  of  the  United  Nations  are  essential,  if
we  are  collectively 
to  be  assessed  as  operating
successfully.
Against  that  background,  it  remains  significant
that  the  lion’s  share  of  the  Council’s  work  —  about
two-thirds,  in  fact  —  continues  to  be  on  African
conflicts.  The  scorecard  is  mixed.  The  situation  in
Sierra  Leone  is  much  improved  over  two  years  ago,
thanks in part to prompt  and courageous  action by the
Council  and  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra
Leone  (UNAMSIL),  backed  up  by  significant  other
A/57/PV.27
input,  during  2000  and  2001.  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea
peacekeeping  and  peacemaking  efforts  continue  to  be
modestly  encouraging,  and  I  believe  that  the  progress
now  developing  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo has, for the first time, the potential to offer the
prospect of peace for that troubled country.
But  on  all  three  of  those  issues,  much  more
remains to be done. The situation in Angola has taken a
turn for the better this year, and I hope that Angola will
benefit from an upgraded United Nations presence and
from  the  engagement  of  a  new  Special  Representative
of  the  Secretary-General.  The  news  is  less  good  on
Burundi,  where  the  Council  has  not  yet  found  it
possible to become fully engaged. And Somalia and the
Sudan continue to present the international community
with  seemingly  intractable  problems.  Africa  remains
the biggest challenge for the Council’s agenda. Britain
and France  will  work in increasingly  close  partnership
to meet it.
and 
to 
Secretary-General 
The  Council  did  some  excellent  work  on
Afghanistan  during  the  period  under  review.  Much  of
the credit for the change in the situation there is due to
the 
Special
Representative,  Lakhdar  Brahimi.  But  the  Council
moved  swiftly  to  set  in  place  the  framework  for  the
International Security Assistance Force and to establish
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan
(UNAMA).  Afghanistan  is  an  excellent  example  of
where  the  United  Nations  adds  value  with  a  light
footprint. But the story there is certainly not finished.
his 
The  Middle  East  peace  process  remains  an  issue
with  respect  to  which  the  Council  continues  to  have
difficulties.  Perhaps  it  is  the  most  troubled  of  all  the
issues before  the  Council.  But  we  have  made progress
in some respects: monthly briefings from the Secretary-
General  or  the  Secretariat;  and  a  greater  degree  of
consensus,  or  near-consensus,  on  the  decisions  of  the
Council  in  the  period  under  review  than  in  the  period
before  that.  Perhaps  we  should  have  been  ready  to
accept that on occasion a rapid press statement may be
more effective than a long wrangle leading to failure on
more  ambitious  propositions.  The  Council  needs  to
focus  on  where,  within  the  political  realities,  it  can
make  a  difference  and  add  value.  I  am  particularly
pleased  that  the  European  Union  members  of  the
Council  have  worked  well  together  on  this  vital  issue.
More of that will be seen in future.
5
A/57/PV.27
Another  issue  in  that  neighbourhood  has  risen
fast  on  our  agenda  recently.  Member  States  will  be
generally aware of the latest state of play on Iraq. The
issue  will  shortly  come  to  the  Security  Council  as  a
whole,  but  in  recent  days  not  even  the  permanent
members have been in a position to do any negotiation
in  New  York.  The  United  Kingdom  believes  that  the
United  Nations  must  rise  to  the  challenge  on  Iraq’s
repeated  violations  of  international  law.  Disarmament
under United Nations arrangements is the objective. To
achieve  this,  we  have  to  give  the  United  Nations
inspectors  the  strongest  powers  possible  to  ensure
successful disarmament  and  to  make  it  crystal-clear  to
Iraq  that,  this  time,  it  is  complete  disarmament  or
serious  consequences.  It  is  important  that  the  Council
should  consult  the  membership  as  a  whole  before
taking  action,  and  the  United  Kingdom  is  pleased  that
the  open  debate  on  Wednesday  will  allow 
full
discussion of the issue.
I  should  comment,  finally,  on  Security  Council
reform.  The  United  Kingdom  remains  committed  to
achieving  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security
Council  in  all  its  aspects.  Our  approach  at  the  fifty-
sixth  session  continued  to  be  one  of  narrowing  the
areas  of  disagreement.  The  United  Kingdom  regrets
that  there  has  been  little  progress  so  far  this  year.
Despite  all  the  frustration  that  is  understandably  felt,
the United Kingdom remains committed to making real
progress  on  Security  Council  reform  during  this  new
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  and  we  will  support
the  President  of 
in  any
constructive initiative which he takes to this end.
the  General  Assembly 
to 
relates 
transparent  and  which 
But  reform  does  not  mean  just  change  in  the
membership. Continuing improvements in our working
methods  are  equally  important.  As  I  have  made  clear,
the United Kingdom supports a Security Council which
is 
the  wider
membership. I  would add only that the  membership of
the General Assembly has to play its part too. General
Assembly reform is itself essential, and we must try in
our  debates  to  get  away  from  prepared  speeches  and
predictable statements of national position. The United
Nations  has  work  to  do  and  results  to  achieve  which
make  a  difference  for  people  riven  by  conflict  and
poverty. The  way  in  which we  debate  and interact  can
make a significant difference.
Perhaps the constant emphasis from the British on
pragmatism,  results  and  cooperation  brings  smiles  to
the  faces  of  our  colleagues.  But  does  not  the  United
6
Nations, and do not the billions of people dependent on
our  effectiveness,  now  need  those  things  more  than
ever before?
in 
the  Membership  of 
Mrs.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow
me  at  the  outset  to  thank  the  Open-ended  Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation  on
and  Increase 
the  Security
Council  and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security
Council,  under  the  leadership  of  the  Ambassador
Mahbubani,  for  its  ongoing  work  in  the  framework  of
reforming the Security Council in order to increase its
membership, achieve equitable representation  within it
and  address  related  matters.  We  also 
the
Ambassador  of  Cameroon  for  introducing  the  report
under consideration.
thank 
to  call  attention 
My  delegation  wishes 
the  Secretary-General’s 
to
paragraph  20  of 
report
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  An  agenda  for
further change,” in which the Secretary-General asserts
that  no  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  work  of  the
the  Question  of
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
Related  to  the  Security  Council.  Despite  the  fact  that
the  General  Assembly  established  the  Working  Group
over  10  years  ago,  there  is  no  clear  understanding  on
how  to  improve  the  Council’s  working  methods  or
increase  its  membership.  This  failing  will  have  a
negative impact on the general concept of international
peace and security.
in 
The  process  of  reforming  and  strengthening  the
Organization cannot be completed if it does not include
one  of  its  most  important  organs,  entrusted  with
allaying  threats  to  international  peace  and  security,  as
provided for in Article 24 of the Charter, which assigns
the  Council 
the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  on
behalf of the entire membership of the Organization.
responsibility 
the  primary 
for 
the  need 
The reform  of the  Security Council  is  one  of  the
main challenges facing the United Nations at the dawn
of  this  millennium,  despite  the  fact  that  States  are
agreed  on 
the  Council’s
composition.  Regrettably,  however,  there  has  been  no
clear agreement on the form which such changes are to
take.  It  is  now  up  to  the  General  Assembly,  the
supreme  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  to  present
practical  proposals  and  in-depth  analyses  and  to  make
to  change 
recommendations  on  matters  related  to  international
peace and security.
that 
it  engage 
to  earlier  proposals 
The  improvement  that  has  been  made  to  the
Security  Council’s  work  by  increasing  the  number  of
its  plenary  and  open  meetings,  thus  making  it  more
open,  effective  and  transparent,  is  insufficient.  In  this
context, we urge the Council to open all of its meetings
and to eschew secrecy. This will bring further integrity
and  transparency  into  its  work.  The  Council  must
respond 
in
consultations  with  the  General  Assembly  and  other
bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  such  as  the  Economic
and Social Council, and that it present periodic reports
to the  Assembly,  as  necessary. It is truly essential that
the  Council’s  decision-making  process  be  improved  in
order to promote even more openness and transparency.
The  principle  of  equitable  representation  is  set
down  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  It  is  imperative
that  this  principle  be  taken  into  account  in  all  matters
relating  to  recruitment,  appointment  and  election  to
various  seats  in  various  bodies.  In  this  context,  we
would  emphasize  the  African  position,  defined  at  the
meeting  of  African  leaders  during  the  Millennium
Summit and at other African summits on this issue, on
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  increase  in  its
membership. This position calls for the continent to be
assigned  two  permanent  and  non-permanent  seats.  In
this  context,  we  point  to  the  large  increase  in  the
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  which  now  stands
at 191 States, most of them developing countries.
resolutions 
The  use  of  the  veto  is  incompatible  with  the
concept  of  justice  and  equality  that  is  called  for  in
relations among States and highlighted  by  the  Charter.
Adopting  Security  Council 
through
dialogue  and  consensus  is  the  best  way  to  ensure
transparency,  integrity  and  justice.  We  therefore  join
others who share the opinion that the right of veto, as a
contravention  of  established  principles,  should  be
abolished and that the arbitrary use of this right should
be  limited  until  that  comes  about.  This  will  help  to
secure more equitable representation within the United
Nations,  in  accordance  with the principle  of  sovereign
equality among nations and other relevant provisions of
the United Nations Charter. The comprehensive reform
of  the  Security  Council  to  which  we  all  look  forward
cannot  be  achieved  if  some  States  continue  to  uphold
their  narrow  interests  at  the  expense  of  the  reform
process.
A/57/PV.27
the  General  Assembly  and 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  stress  the  importance  of
establishing  a  balance  and  of  activating  cooperation
between 
the  Security
Council.  This  will  preserve  the  genuine  expression  of
the  will  of  the  international  community,  represented
most  fully  by  the  General  Assembly,  including  in  the
search  for  solutions  to  problems  which  the  Security
Council  has  hitherto  failed  to  solve.  Prominent  among
these issues is the situation in the Middle East and the
need  to  put  an  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation  of
Palestinian and other occupied Arab territories.
Mr.  Mahbubani  (Singapore):  As  I  look  around
the  Hall,  I  must  confess  that  I  regret  the  poor  turnout
we have this morning. When we walk in the corridors,
the  most  frequent  complaint  we  hear  is  that  the
Security Council is not open and transparent. Here, at a
time  when  we  have  an  opportunity  to  discuss  the
Security  Council,  there  is  such  a  low  turnout.  I  hope
that, in the course of the day, the turnout will improve.
two  and  a  half  months,  Singapore  will
In 
complete 
the  Security  Council.  The
its 
question  we  are  most  frequently  asked  is  this:  “Well,
how has the experience been?” Clearly, it is not easy to
summarize  what  has  been  a 
rich  and  complex
experience,  but  we  have  found  a  helpful  analogy,
which, like all analogies, is necessarily imperfect.
term  on 
Joining  the  Security  Council,  especially  for  the
first  time,  as  it  was  for  Singapore,  is  like  suddenly
jumping  on  a  moving  train.  We  scramble  into  the  last
compartment. The train keeps moving on rapidly, often
at  a  quickening  pace.  We  move  from  compartment  to
compartment,  trying  to  understand  the  inner  workings
of  one  of  the  most  important  vehicles  of  international
peace  and  security,  but  in  two  years  we  do  not  quite
make it into the engine room. Certainly, we never make
it into the driver’s seat.
When the two years are up, we will be thrown off
this moving train. It will keep on moving with five new
passengers. We are not giving away any great secret if
we  reveal  that  the  main  directions  of  this  train  are  set
by  the  five  permanent  occupants.  How  could  it  be
otherwise?  I  want  to  add,  however,  that  even  the
permanent occupants have found the need to adjust to a
rapidly changing international landscape.
Over  time,  we  have  found  that  it  has  become
easier  to  look  into  the  compartments  of  the  train,
whether you are inside or outside. More open meetings
have been held; more wrap-up sessions have been held;
7
A/57/PV.27
more  briefings  have  been  provided;  and  certainly  the
Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  under  the  leadership  of
Sir  Jeremy  Greenstock,  has  been  a  model  of  openness
and 
for  Security  Council
transparency.
set  new 
standards 
In  that  regard,  let  me  mention  that  the  latest
terrorist attack, in Bali, only reinforces the importance
of  the  battle  we  are  fighting  against  terrorism.  We
condemn that attack. We also offer our condolences to
the families that lost their loved ones.
This  year’s  annual  report  clearly  signals  a
significant effort by the Security Council to respond to
the  concerns  expressed  by  Member  States  at  the
Assembly’s  annual  debate  on  this  item.  I  will  not  go
into the details of the changes, because the President of
the  Security  Council,  Ambassador  Martin  Belinga-
Eboutou, already spelled out the changes in a statement
he made earlier today. But I would like to point out that
it is nice to see the report go from  its  size last  year  to
its  present  size  —  I  think  it  is  about  half  the  size  of
what  it  was  last  year.  I  also  want  to  thank  those  who
have commended Singapore for its contributions in that
regard.
But  the  most  significant  innovation  is  not  found
in the report. Instead it can be found in the provisional
verbatim  record  of  the  Security  Council  meeting  that
took  place  when  the  report  was  adopted,  on  26
September 2002. That record is contained in document
S/PV.4616.  As  the  President  of  the  Security  Council
said earlier, we should also refer to this document when
we  participate  in  the  debate  today.  We  hope  that  this
document will be read carefully by all participants. Let
me  explain 
that  provisional
verbatim record. Last year, when the Council met on 18
September  2001  to  adopt  its  annual  report  (A/56/2),
both  Ambassador  Valdivieso  of  Colombia  and  I  were
surprised that the report was being adopted without any
discussion. As Ambassador Valdivieso said last year,
the  significance  of 
“we  should  not  limit  ourselves  to  hearing  an
explanatory  statement  from  the  Secretariat  —
from  Mr.  Fall  — but  …  members  of  the  Council
should  also  make  comments  on  the  subject.”
(S/PV.4375, p. 3)
Fortunately,  this  year  Ambassador  Valdivieso’s
wish  has  came  true.  This  year,  for  the  first  time  ever,
all  15  members  of  the  Council  made  comments,  both
on  the  report  and  the  work  of  the  Council.  Many
incisive and insightful comments were made. In the full
8
text  of  my  statement  I  cite  the  comment  made  by
Ambassador  Gerard  Corr  of  Ireland.  I  will  not  read  it
out,  but  members  will  notice 
that  he  makes  an
important point, namely, that the world that the Council
deals  with  in  the  issues  on  its  agenda  is  inherently
untidy  in  many  respects.  I  want  to  add  that  the  same
untidiness  and  complexity  about  which  Ambassador
Corr spoke bedevilled our efforts to try to improve the
annual  report.  We  thought  last  year  that  reducing  the
size  of  the  report  should  have  been  an  open  and  shut
case.  Unfortunately,  we  met  heavy  resistance,  for
reasons  we do  not  yet  fully understand.  Of  course,  we
discovered 
is  a  conservative
institution.  But  I  also  want  to  add  here  the  comment
made by Ambassador Levitte on 26 September 2002:
the  Council 
that 
“If  we  take  a  look  at  the  development  of  the
Security  Council’s  working  methods  since  its
creation  more than 50  years ago,  we can see that
we  have  gone  from  a  period  of  hibernation  to  a
period  of 
rapid  development.”
(S/PV.4616, p. 7)
increasingly 
I  noticed  that  he  was  quite  honest  in  talking  about
hibernation.  He  then  added  that  “If  we  compare  the
Council to the General Assembly, we could say that in
this  friendly  competition,  the  Council  has  taken  the
lead.” (ibid.)
One question that we need to ask in assessing this
year’s annual report is clear: have the innovations gone
far enough? The simple answer is obviously not. Some
manifest absurdities remain in the present report. Look,
for  example,  at  page  191  of  the  report,  where,  as
Ambassador  Valdivieso  has  said,  there  is  a  laughable
description of the Council’s consideration of the Nobel
Peace  Prize.  Pages  like  that  can  clearly  be  removed
from  the  report.  We  hope  that  next  year’s  report  will
again  be  half  as  thin  as  this  year’s  report.  We  think  it
can be done. Unfortunately, we  will not be there to do
it.
Despite the enormous time and effort we have put
into  trying  to  transform  the  report,  one  key  point  we
would like to  make is  that the  General  Assembly does
not  need  to  rely  solely  on  this  report  to  assess  the
performance of the Security Council. Certainly, it helps
to  get  the  perspective  of  the  passengers  on  the  train.
But  often  those  watching  from  outside  can  see  the
direction  of  the  train  more  clearly  than  the  passengers
in  the  train.  In  the  case  of  the  Council,  the  results  of
the  Council’s  work  —  both 
its  successes  and
failures —  are  clearly  visible  and  tangible.  In  our
statement  today  we  will  not  do  what  several  other
delegations  will  be  doing:  looking  at  specific  items
regarding the Council’s performance, its successes and
failures. In a statement we made in December 2001 we
gave  an  assessment  of  the  successes  and  failures  for
that  year.  In  that  regard,  I  urge  members  to  look  at
document S/PV.4445, of 21 December 2001.
We  also  stated  our  views  in  connection  with  the
successes  and  failures  over  the  past  year  in  our
statement  in  the  Council  on  26  September  2002  (see
document  S/PV.4616),  so  we  will  not  repeat  what  we
said then. But we want to suggest that as we assess the
performance of the Council, it may be useful if all of us
could try to  arrive  at  some  agreed  criteria  for  how  we
should  assess  the  performance  of  the  Council.  In  this
regard, when we spoke in the Council on 26 September
2002,  we  suggested  four  questions.  They  are  on  the
record, but let me just mention them quickly.
The  first  question  is  an  obvious  one:  has  the
Council  successfully  managed  the  issues  under  its
purview?  Have  lives  been  saved  or  improved  by  the
Council’s  work?  Secondly,  has  the  Council  improved
its procedures and working methods to generate greater
efficiency  and  effectiveness  in  its  work?  Thirdly,  has
the  Council  become  more  transparent  and  open  in  its
work  and  in  its  relationship  with  the  wider  United
Nations  membership?  Fourthly,  has 
the  Council
enhanced  or  diminished  its  credibility  and  prestige  in
the international community? At the Council debate on
26 September 2002, Ambassador Greenstock suggested
an additional question. He asked “whether the Council
has  responded  adequately  to  the  greater  demands  put
upon  it  by  the  process  of  globalization”  (S/PV.4616,
p. 11).  He  added  that  we  have  to  recognize  that  the
world is moving faster than the Council.
That indeed is the central challenge of our times.
The  world  is  certainly  racing  ahead.  The  multilateral
institutions  are  either  standing  still  or  moving  slowly.
Each  institution  should  evaluate  what  it  has  to  do  to
catch  up.  Hence,  as  one  of  the  two  suggestions  we
provided  on  26  September  2002 
the
performance  of  the  Council,  we  said  that  the  Council
should  do  more  strategic  reviews  of  its  work,  more
often than the one time we do so when we meet in the
annual retreat  with the  Secretary-General. Indeed, it is
surprising  for  a  body  as  important  as  the  Security
Council not to meet more often to engage in an overall
strategic review of its work.
improve 
to 
A/57/PV.27
That is, again, why we are glad that the President
of  the  Assembly  has  decided  to  cluster  the  two  items
today. Items 11 and 40 go hand in hand. The expansion
of  the  Council  —  on  which  there  is  no  longer  any
debate; we all agree that it should be expanded — goes
hand in hand with its performance. The purpose of the
expansion  is  to  enhance  performance,  not  to  diminish
it.
that 
to 
namely 
achieve 
For  the  record,  I  should  say  that  we  have
expressed  our  well-known  views  on  Security  Council
expansion.  We  will  not  repeat  them  today,  as  they  are
in our  past  statements.  But  we  want  to  emphasize  one
dimension, 
enhanced
performance  we  have  to  address  squarely  the  question
of the veto. Again, the full of this statement includes an
extended  quotation  from  Inis  Claude’s  classic  book
entitled  Swords  Into  Ploughshares.  In  that  book  the
author  talks  about  the  understanding  that  was  reached
when  the  veto  was  created.  Perhaps  one  of  the  key
points he makes is that that the third objective was “to
gain assurance that the  most powerful  members  would
initiate  and  support  positive  collective  action  within
and on behalf of the organization in times of crisis”.
The point here is simple and clear: the purpose of
the veto is to promote collective, not national, interests.
There was, I guess, from the beginning, and even now,
an  implicit  social  contract. The  power of  the  veto  was
conferred  by  the  Members  that  ratified  the  Charter  of
the United Nations. In return they expected the veto to
be used to promote collective security.
Herein  lies  the  nub  of  the  problem  we  face.  All
Members  of the  United  Nations, both the  veto-bearing
and  non-veto-bearing  Members,  have  made 
a
commitment  to  promote  the  principles  of  the  United
Nations Charter. Yet each time we cast a vote, whether
in the General Assembly or the Security Council, more
often  than  not  we  put our  short-term  national  interests
ahead  of  our  long-term  collective  interests.  This  is  a
deep 
the
performance  of  both  the  Security  Council  and  the
General Assembly.
undermines 
structural 
problem 
that 
I  want to conclude by  citing  one  simple  example
of  how  this  deep  structural  problem  seriously  cripples
efforts  to  improve  the  performance  of  the  Security
Council,  a  goal  that  we  all  ostensibly  share.  The  only
effective  way  to  improve  the  performance  of  any
organization,  whether  it  is  in  business  —  certainly  in
the  last  few  months  we  have  seen  how  confidence  in
9
A/57/PV.27
this  sphere  can  be  dramatically  eroded  —  or  in
government  or  non-governmental  organizations  is  to
hold the organization accountable. So, too, the Security
Council has to be held accountable. The only question
is, who is going to hold the Council accountable?
The  only  effective  way  to  hold  the  Council
accountable  is  to  commit  a  large  amount  of  resources
to monitoring its work. It is important to recognize that
the  growth  of  that  work  has  exploded  in  recent  years,
both 
in  quantity  and  complexity,  and  hence  a
significant  amount  of  resources,  both  material  and
intellectual,  will  be  needed  to  adequately  monitor  and
assess  the  performance  of  the  Council.  I  can  say  this
having served as a member of the Council for the past
22  months.  Even  as  one  serves  as  a  member,  it  is
almost impossible to follow everything that the Council
does because of its different working groups, sanctions
committees  and  the  other  sub-bodies  of  the  United
Nations.  Therefore  a  tremendous  amount  of  resources
will be required in order to really monitor the Council.
The question here is, who will do the job? One obvious
candidate 
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on
Security Council Reform.
is 
the 
emphasize 
importance 
While  we 
of
accountability,  I  want  to  stress  that  the  pursuit  of
accountability  will  serve  the  interests  of  both  the
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  For  the
Security Council, greater accountability will inevitably
lead  to  an  even  better  performance  and,  consequently,
to greater prestige and standing on the world stage.
the 
legitimacy 
that  ensures 
The  General  Assembly,  on 
the  other  hand,
provides 
international
compliance  with  Security  Council  decisions.  Without
the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  would  be
essentially  half  a  body.  Hence  there  is  an  essential
symbiotic  relationship  between  the  Council  and  the
Assembly.  Each  needs  the  other.  The  greater  the  trust
and  confidence  between  these  two  vital  organs  of  the
United Nations, the better the international system will
be.  Therefore  it  serves  the  interest  of  both  to  equally
promote the pursuit of accountability.
Finally,  as  we  did  last  year,  under  the  Irish
presidency  of  the  Council,  this  year  the  Council  will,
under  Cameroon’s  presidency,  discuss  the  comments
and suggestions raised at this Assembly general debate,
reflect  on  the  key  points  made  and  consider  further
improvements  to  the  Council’s  working  methods,  its
work and future reports.
10
Last  year  the  Singapore  delegation  rendered  a
small  service  to  the  Council  by  compiling  all  the
summaries of the statements that were made during this
debate  and  distributing 
the
Security  Council.  We  will  be  happy  to  provide  the
same service this year.
to  members  of 
them 
to 
to  contribute 
We  will  do  our  best 
the  relationship  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the
discussions  in  the  Security  Council  to  maintain  and
trust  and  confidence
improve 
between 
the  Security
Council.  As  I  said  earlier,  the  President  has  made  a
major  contribution  by  clustering  these  two  agenda
items  together.  Both  in  symbolic  and  in  substantive
terms,  the  Council  has  sent  a  clear  message  that  the
Security  Council  and  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
need to cooperate closely. We hope this will happen in
the coming years.
to 
the 
Mr. Siv (United  States of  America):  Let  me  first
express  our  condolences 
Indonesian  and
Australian  delegations,  as  well  as  many  others  for  the
hundreds of innocents killed in the brutal attack in Bali
over the weekend. We mourn for those killed and pray
for the injured of every nationality. Nothing can justify
this terrorist act. The United States will stand with you
in  ensuring  that  those  who  committed this  are brought
to justice.
to  help 
it  perform 
The  United  States  is  committed  to  strengthening
the  Security  Council  and 
its
important  functions  more  effectively.  Enlarging  the
Council is a means to that end, not the end in itself. A
reformed  Council,  with  Japan  and  Germany  assuming
permanent  seats  and  with  an  expanded  number  of
rotating  seats,  would  better  enable  the  Council  to
exercise its primary responsibility  for  the  maintenance
of international peace and security under the Charter.
is  entering 
The  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security
Council  Reform 
its  ninth  year  of
deliberations.  This  is  indicative  of  the  complexity  of
the  issues  that  remain  to  be  resolved.  They  include  a
balancing  representation  between  the  developed  and
developing  countries,  achieving  appropriate  and
equitable  representation  among  regions  and  ensuring
that  Council  enlargement  does  not  curtail its  ability  to
act promptly and decisively.
Despite  these  challenges,  we  want  the  Open-
ended Working Group to succeed in building as broad a
consensus as possible. To move forward, it is necessary
for  an
to  seriously  analyse 
the  various  models 
to  determine  how 
expanded  Council, 
to  make  it
stronger  and  more  effective.  This  will  require  genuine
and broad support. To get there, we cannot divorce the
discussion  from  issues  of  the  expanded  Council’s
ultimate  size  and  composition.  Doing  so  merely
ensures more delay.
It  will come  as  no  surprise  that  we  will  continue
to  oppose  efforts  to  limit  or  eliminate  the  veto.  These
initiatives only serve to stifle progress on the important
task ahead of us. The veto remains an essential element
of the Council’s ability to maintain international peace
and security.
through 
In bolstering the effectiveness of the Council, the
United  States  will  work 
the  Open-ended
Working  Group  and  in  any  discussions  to  ensure  that
the  Council  continues 
lynchpin  of
international peace and security. We will also join with
others  in  making  the  Council  more  transparent  and
representative  of 
is
important  work,  and  we  are  fully  engaged.  We  hope
that  we  can  make  real  progress  on  all  these  issues  in
the coming session.
the  entire  membership.  That 
to  be 
the 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
representative of Costa Rica.
Mr. Stagno (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): The
pursuit of security poses a dilemma.  As  the  Secretary-
General wisely noted, no State can increase its level of
security  to  the  detriment  of  others.  Inevitably,  other
States  construe  as  a  veiled  threat  any  unilateral  action
aimed  at  acquiring  greater  guarantees  of  security.
Absolute  security  for  one  State  necessarily  means
absolute insecurity for others.
the  expense  of 
joint  action  will  enable  us 
This  dilemma  can  only  be  solved 
through
multilateral  action.  It  is  impossible  to  ensure  the
sovereignty  of  one  State  at 
the
sovereignty of others. All nations have an equal right to
in  a  climate  of  mutual  respect  and
sovereignty, 
cooperation.  Only 
to
attain — jointly — greater security, peace and freedom.
In  this  context,  the  Security  Council  is  the  only
universal mechanism that makes it possible for all of us
collectively  to  enjoy  true  security.  We  must  not  allow
the  Council  to  be  weakened  by  unilateral  action.  We
cannot  accept  the  Council’s  exclusion  from  the  most
important decisions of international peace and security,
thus  eroding  its  authority.  We  cannot  consent  to  it
becoming  an  instrument  of  a  small  group  of  States,
A/57/PV.27
thus  losing  its  legitimacy.  We  cannot  accept 
the
concession  of  additional  privileges  to  the  permanent
members or the exclusion of the elected members from
the  decision-making  process,  who  thus 
lose  their
representation.
The  world  expects  greater  leadership  from  the
United  Nations.  The  people  demand  firm  and  decisive
action of the international community. For that reason,
we  must  support  and  strengthen  the  Security  Council.
All  States  must  scrupulously  observe  the  absolute
prohibition  of  the  use  of  force.  The  Security  Council
must  never  transfer,  abandon  or  renounce  its  primary
responsibility  to  maintain  peace  and  security.  The
members  of  the  Security  Council  must  always  act  in
the  spirit  of  the  principles  embodied  in  the  United
Nations  Charter.  Their  actions  should  never  be
motivated by internal political considerations.
In  previous  years,  my  delegation  was  highly
critical  of  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.  We
questioned,  in  particular,  the  creation  of  peacekeeping
operations  without  the  necessary  human  and  financial
resources  as  well  as 
the  imposition  of  sanctions
regimes  that  harmed  the  innocent  civilian  population.
The 
situation  has  changed.  Recently,  we  have
witnessed  the  adoption  of  more  realistic  mandates  in
keeping with the resources available. Undoubtedly, the
Security Council has learned from its mistakes.
However,  we  fear  that  this  newly  found  caution
might  have  led  the  Security  Council  to  shirk  from  its
primary  responsibility  of  facing  firmly,  decisively  and
courageously  all  threats  to  international  peace  and
security. We believe that the Council did not do all that
it could have done to solve the most recent crises in the
Middle  Fast, 
in
Afghanistan.
the  Indian  subcontinent  and 
in 
It  is  essential  that  the  Security  Council  today
assume  all  its  responsibilities.  It  cannot  continue
reacting  to  political  and  military  crises  with  feeble
declarations 
continue
condemning  massive  violations  of  human  rights  with
empty  declarations  and  ephemeral  commitments.  This
organ  must  take  up  again  the  leading  role  in  the
maintenance of international peace and security.
the  press. 
cannot 
to 
It 
The  adoption  of  resolution  1373  (2001)  gave  us
new hope. It is evidence of  the capacity of the Security
Council to face new challenges as long as the necessary
political  will  exists.  We  would  like  to  see  the  same
readiness and commitment in the implementation of all
11
A/57/PV.27
the  other  resolutions  adopted  by  this  organ,  including
those on the various arms and diamonds embargoes.
efforts have yet to bear fruit. We believe it is necessary
to reconsider the process in depth.
In the long run, increasing the Security Council’s
legitimacy  and  its  capacity  for  action  is  vital.  In  this
context, the process of the reform and revitalization of
the  Council  plays  a  central  role  in  the  design  of  the
future structure of the international community.
The  work  of  the  Security  Council  must  be
genuinely  transparent.  We  have  noted  the  efforts  to
hold  a  greater  number  of  public  meetings.  However,
most  of  them  are  devoted  to  the  consideration  of
general  topics,  which,  by  their  nature,  correspond  to
the  General  Assembly,  the  main  deliberative  body  of
the  Organization.  True  transparency  will  be  attained
only  when  the  consultations  among  the  Council’s
members  and  the  periodic  presentation  of  reports  by
the Secretary-General or his representatives are held in
public meetings.
The 
reform  of 
the  Security  Council  must
transform it into a  more representative  and democratic
organ.  Unfortunately,  its  efficacy  has  been  limited  by
the most serious injustices in its composition,  working
methods  and  decision-making  process.  The  current
structure of the Security Council does not reflect either
the current composition of the international community
or the  present  distribution  of  power among  nations.  In
particular,  it  is  essential  that  the  Security  Council
reflect  not  only  the  military  capability  of  the  various
actors  in  the  international  community  but  also  their
economic 
their  moral
authority.
influence  and,  above  all, 
Costa Rica favours an increase in the membership
of  the  Security  Council  to  make  possible  the  greater
representation  of  developing  countries  in  that  organ.
However,  an  increase  in  the  Council’s  membership  is
only  a  secondary  and  subsidiary  aspect  of  the  reform
and  revitalization  process.  The  regulation,  limitation
and eventual  elimination of the  veto  must be the  main
goal  of  the  reform  process.  The  existence  of  the  veto
right  as  a  unilateral  privilege  is  in  itself  an  affront  to
the  basic  principles  of  justice.  That  unjustifiable  and
anti-democratic  privilege  has  paralyzed  the  Council
and  has  contributed  substantially  to  the  erosion  of  its
legitimacy.
We  cannot  talk  of  a  genuine  reform  of  the
Security Council unless those imbalances are corrected.
Regrettably,  after  nine  years  of  negotiations  reform
12
I wish to conclude by expressing the condolences
of the Government and the people of Costa Rica to the
people  of  Indonesia  and  to  the  families  of  all  the
victims of the abominable terrorist attack in Bali.
Mr.  Rivero  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  thank
Ambassador  Martin  Belinga-Eboutou,  Permanent
Representative  of  Cameroon  and  current  President  of
the  Security  Council,  for  his  presentation  of  the
Council’s annual report.
presentation.  My 
Peru  is  thankful  for  the  efforts  to  improve  the
report’s 
delegation  welcomes
especially  the  introductory  chapter  as  a  good  starting
point  for  reflection  and  analysis  of  the  Council’s
treatment of the issues before it.
However,  while  this  year’s  report  has  a  more
adequate  logical  order,  it  still  fails  to  present  a  clear
and  integral  vision  of  international  peace  and  security
at the present time.
the  reader  agrees  or  disagrees  with 
If  a  person  reads  a  report  of  the  International
Monetary  Fund  or  the  World  Bank,  for  example,
whether 
its
assessments,  he  or  she  will  gain  a  clear  picture  of  the
international  economic  and  financial  situation.  That  is
not  true  in  the  case  of  the  report  of  the  Security
Council.
While  it  is  true  that  the  report  of  the  Security
Council  is  intended  for  the  Member  States  of  the
General Assembly, it is no less true that it provides an
excellent  opportunity  to  offer  the  collective  society  of
the  world  —  investors,  the  academic  sector,  civil
society,  students  and the  general public  —  a  clear  and
transparent  message  illustrating  the  difficulties  and
lessons learned with respect to the challenges presented
to international peace and security.
For  example,  a  student  of  international  relations
who  would  like  to  obtain  an  overall  view  of  world
security  from  the  report  of  the  principal  organ  of  the
United  Nations,  the  Security  Council,  would  become
lost in interminable lists of documents, written in near-
cryptic jargon or intended for the few who are familiar
with such subjects, as we diplomats are.
It  is  certain  that,  in  this  globalized  world,  the
Security  Council’s  intensive  work  and  its  principal
efforts  are  not  well  communicated,  are  mostly
unrecognized  and/or  are  poorly  understood.  In  that
context, it runs the risk — as do other organizations or
international  bodies  —  of  becoming  merely  a
suspicious  entity,  lacking  real  significance,  that  says
nothing  to  the  international  community  and  might  be
overlooked  or  superseded  by  unilateral  actions  or
measures taken by regional bodies.
My country is making these comments because it
supports the work of the Security Council and wants to
see  a  Council  that  is  more  efficient,  more  successful,
more  open  to  cooperation,  more  transparent  and  more
understanding  of 
international
community. Peru believes firmly in multilateralism and
in  collective  security  as  fundamental  mechanisms  for
the maintenance of international peace and security.
the  needs  of 
the 
terrorism 
through  an 
Last  year,  the  Security  Council  began  the  fight
against 
interactive  process
between  that  body  and  the  rest  of  the  Member  States
that  has  been  very  positive.  The  Council’s  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee,  led  by  Ambassador  Greenstock
of  the  United  Kingdom,  promoted  an  ongoing  and
open-ended debate with non-Council members. That is
an  advance  to  which  my  country  has  contributed
through 
the
Committee.  We  should  also  like  these  open-ended
meetings to continue in the future.
the  participation  of  an  expert 
in 
This process can be seen as part of the increase in
open Security  Council  meetings,  held both to consider
individual  topics  and  to  present  Secretariat  reports  on
the  various  items  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  That  is
another  encouraging  fact,  as  is  the  continuation  of  the
wrap-up  sessions,  which  Peru  firmly  supports  because
they offer all States the opportunity to contribute to the
development 
and 
collective
international security.
consolidation 
of 
However,  that  positive  aspect  has  its  negative
side, which is that the proposals and ideas presented in
open meetings do not go beyond the Council Chamber.
Why  not  include  a  summary  of  such  meetings  in  the
report of the Security Council? That would be valuable
information clarifying the status of a particular topic at
a  particular  time.  The  country  presiding  over  the
Council  could  summarize  open  meetings.  Because  of
their factual character, including them in the reports of
the  presidency  or  of  the  Council  should  not  pose  a
major problem.
My country also believes that the Council’s report
the
the  arguments  presented  by 
include 
should 
A/57/PV.27
the  Security  Council 
permanent  members  of 
that
exercise  the  veto  power,  in  addition  to  information  on
that  have  not  been  complied
Council  resolutions 
with —  all  as  part  of  complete  and 
transparent
information about the Council, not only for the General
Assembly,  as  I  have  said,  but  for  the  entire  world.
Otherwise,  I  reiterate,  the  international  community
outside the United Nations will not have a clear idea of
what is happening in the Council. Such a complete lack
of  information  clearly  runs  counter  to  the  culture  of
global  access  to  information  in  which  we  live  as  a
result  of  the  advances  in  telecommunications  and  in
democracy.  If  good  information  is  to  exist,  there  must
also  be  transparency  within  the  Council  itself,  where
some  areas  of  debate  and  decision-making  seem  to  be
the permanent members’ private domain.
I  conclude  by  pointing  out  that  these  ideas  and
proposals  have  been  presented  mainly  with 
the
objective  of  strengthening  the  image  of  the  Security
Council,  as  part  of  the  current  process  of  fostering
transparency 
spreading
throughout  the  world  as  the  new  global  culture  of  the
twenty-first century.
and  democracy 
that 
is 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
in
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  our
sincerest condolences to the Government and people of
Indonesia  and  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the
terrorist attack that occurred in Bali.
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
This  is  the  first  time  we  are  discussing  together
two priority items on the Assembly’s agenda: the report
of  the  Security  Council  and  reform  of  that  body.  The
results  of  this  first  experience  will  demonstrate  in
practice whether we should do the same in the future or
whether  it  would  be  more  convenient  to  return  to  the
practice of two separate debates.
We  welcome  the  new  format  of  the  report  of  the
Security Council, particularly the inclusion for the first
time  of  a  brief  analytical  summary.  That  constitutes  a
step  forward  towards  the  objective  of  having  truly
substantive  reports  on  the  work  of  the  Council.  The
Council’s report should reflect not only  what  has been
done,  but  also  what  it  has  been  impossible  to  do  and
why.  As  Member  States,  we  have  the  legitimate  right
and  the  duty  to  consider  in  depth  the  Council’s  work
and  to  determine  if  the  Council  is  really  acting  on
behalf  of  all  and  fulfilling,  as  it  should,  the  lofty
responsibilities conferred on it by the Charter.
13
A/57/PV.27
There  is  no  logical  reason  why  the  rules  of
procedure of the Council continue to be provisional 57
years after the  establishment of  that body or  why  they
have not been amended in 20 years. Any changes to the
rules  adopted  by  the  Council  or  to  those  that  apply  in
practice should be set out in the rules of procedure.
It  is  true  that  the  number  of  open  meetings  has
increased  —  that  is  a  positive  development.  But  the
closed  informal  consultations,  which  are  not  even
provided  for  in  the  provisional  rules  of  procedure,
continue to be the rule rather than the exception.
Not  only  must  the  number  of  open  meetings  be
increased,  but  such  meetings  should  provide  a  real
opportunity  for the opinions  and  contributions  of  non-
members to be properly taken into account.
briefings 
Unless  there  are  exceptional  circumstances,  the
informative 
and
representatives  of  the  Secretary-General  should  take
place  in  public  meetings  of  the  Council,  not  behind
closed doors, as almost always happens.
Secretariat 
the 
by 
The  wrap-up  meetings  at  the  end  of  each  month
should  become  an  established  practice  and  be  open  to
non-members  of  the  Council  in  order  to  permit  a
genuine interactive exchange.
We  consider  the  open  debate  on  the  work  of  the
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  Africa  to  have  been
positive.  At  the  same  time,  we  wonder  why  such
discussions  are  not  extended  to  the  work  of  other
groups  and  subsidiary  bodies  of  the  Council,  such  as
the  Working  Groups  established  to  consider  sanctions
and peacekeeping operations.
We  raised  concerns  in  a  number  of  Security
Council  debates  about  the  increasing  tendency  of  that
body  to  assume  functions  outside  its  purview.  One
particularly  dangerous  example  of  action  by 
the
Council  in  an  area  outside  its  mandate  occurred  this
year  with  the  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution
1422 (2002)  on  the  International  Criminal  Court.  That
resolution  extended  to  an  unacceptable  extent  the
authority  of 
amend
international  treaties  —  the  exclusive  right  of  the
States parties to such treaties.
the  Security  Council 
to 
The Security Council is not the appropriate body
in  which  to  debate  treaty  law  or  the  International
Criminal  Court,  for  the  simple  reason  that  the  Charter
does not authorize it to do so.
14
While  the  Security  Council  goes  beyond  its
authority  on  some  subjects,  we  are  concerned  by  its
lack  of  action  in  other  areas,  such  as  the  occupied
Palestinian  territories.  It  is  unacceptable  for  that  body
to  continue  to  turn  its  back  on  the  suffering  of  the
Palestinian 
serious
consideration  to  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to
establish  a  multinational  protection  force 
the
occupied territories.
people 
give 
in 
and 
fail 
to 
We are convinced that many of the problems that
currently affect the work of the Security Council can be
resolved  only  by  a  far-reaching  reform  of  that  body.
Council  reform  is  certainly  the  most  urgent  priority
task  of  the  general  United  Nations  reform  effort,  and
the outcome  will to a great extent dictate the future of
the  Organization.  The  Security  Council  is  not,  and
cannot  be,  effective  given  its  current  composition  and
methods  of  work.  It 
is  neither  democratic,  nor
equitable,  nor  representative.  It  does  not  reflect  the
it  represent 
current  global  realities  nor  does 
the
interests of the membership of the United Nations.
Even non-permanent members of the Council are
effectively ignored  when  — as  we have  seen  in recent
weeks  —  permanent  members  make  decisions  with
regard  to  questions  that  are  of  key  importance  to  the
international  community  and  the  future  of  the  United
Nations.
Nine  years  after  the  establishment  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  reform  of  the  Council,  very
little progress has been made on the key issues of such
reform. Today, the membership of the Security Council
represents  scarcely  8  per  cent  of  the  total  number  of
States  Members  of 
the  Organization,  which  has
increased almost fourfold since 1945.
How  can 
the  Security  Council 
its
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security  without  appropriate  representation
within that body of two thirds of the world’s population
living in the developing countries?
fulfil 
It  is  inexplicable  that  Africa  does  not  have  a
single representative among the permanent members of
the  Council,  given  that  most  of  the  items  on  the
Council’s  agenda  relate  to  conflicts  on  that  continent,
and that there  are  no  permanent  members  from  such  a
turbulent region as the Middle East.
With a  view  to  rectifying  the inadequate  level  of
representation  of  developing  countries,  we  should
ensure  the  inclusion  as  permanent  members,  with  the
same  privileges  as  the  current  permanent  members,  of
at  least two  countries  from Africa  and  two  from  Latin
America and the Caribbean, as well as two developing
countries from Asia.
The anachronistic privilege of the veto should be
done  away  with.  No  one  can  seriously  argue  that  the
almost 300 times that the veto has been used was in the
interests of the international community, to say nothing
of the even greater number of so-called silent vetoes or
threats  of  veto,  which  have  frequently  determined  the
course of action in meetings behind closed doors.
We  cannot  expect  real  leadership  from  a  body
some  of  whose  permanent  members,  sheltering  behind
the  veto  privilege,  practise  on  a  daily  basis  double
standards  and  selective  policies  that  give  priority  to
narrow national interests instead of to the aspirations of
the international community.
If  the  use  of  the  veto  is  not  restricted  at  least  to
actions under Chapter VII of the Charter, before being
finally  eliminated;  if  we  do  not  do  away  with  the
practice  of  so-called  informal  consultations  by  re-
establishing open meetings as the main way of holding
discussions  and  taking  decisions;  if  the  provisional
rules  of  procedure  are  not  given  final  shape;  if  the
opinions  of  non-members  of  the  Council  are  not
properly taken into account; if there is no transparency
and  democracy;  and  if  we  do  not  put  an  end  to
hegemony, there will be no true reform of the Security
Council.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  expressing  our
sincere  congratulations  to  all  the  countries  that  have
been  elected  as  members  of  the  Security  Council  for
next  year,  and  to  wish  them  every  success  in  their
important work.
Mr. Aguilar Zinser (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish):
I  should  like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  gratitude  for
the decision  to  convene  this joint  debate  on  two  items
of great interest to Members of the United Nations. As
we  all  know,  the  question  of  Security  Council  reform
involves more than a mere increase in membership, and
is directly related to the working methods of that body
and its  methods of  reporting  to  the  General  Assembly,
including  the  annual  report  on  its  work,  which  is
currently before us.
We  therefore  thank  Ambassador  Martin  Belinga-
Eboutou,  Permanent  Representative  of  Cameroon  and
A/57/PV.27
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  for
introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council.
For  the  first  time,  the  report  includes  an  analytical
section on the work of the Council containing elements
of interest to all States Members of the United Nations.
This year, the members of the Security Council agreed
on  guidelines  regarding  the  preparation  of  the  annual
report.  This  is  an  innovation.  We  believe  that  the
format  has  been  improved,  but  the  report  is  still  far
from  being  the  substantive,  useful  document  required
by  Member  States  if  they  are  to  evaluate  the  work  of
that  body.  Mexico  will  try  to  ensure  that  in  future  the
analytical  section  of  the  report 
includes  progress
indicators regarding the work of the Council, as well as
a  section  containing  proposals  for  the  improvement  of
its work.
they  are 
improving 
the  Council 
In  recent  years,  a  significant  number  of  the
members of the Security Council have tried to improve
its interaction with all Members of the United Nations,
as well as to enhance the transparency of that body. In
order  to  limit  the  confidential  nature  of  the  Council’s
work, 
the  dissemination  of
information regarding its activities and promoting more
informative  public  meetings  so  as  to  enable  non-
members  of 
the
information  that  the  Secretariat  provides  on  various
subjects and to offer their opinions. That would make it
possible  for  them  to  offer  their  opinions  regarding  the
Council’s  decisions.  The  dissemination  of  information
to 
through 
informational
documents  and 
Internet,  as  well  as  greater
interaction  between  some  members  of  the  Security
Council  and  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly,
have 
the  Council’s
transparency.
statements 
the 
to  gain  access 
the  press, 
to 
contributed 
to 
enhancing 
Mexico, in the context of its work in the Security
Council  since  January  2002  as  a  non-permanent
member,  has  promoted  greater  transparency  in  the
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as
greater democratization in its decision-making process.
Mexico  has  thereby  endeavoured  to  abide  by  the
provisions  of  article  48  of  the  provisional  rules  of
procedure,  which  states  that  the  Council  shall  meet  in
public. We hope that the resistance to change shown by
some  members  of  the  Council  is  easing  and  that  this
will  lead  to  a  greater  rapprochement  between  the
members of this body and of the General Assembly.
Wrap-up  meetings  of  the  Security  Council,  at
interactive  dialogue  between
is  an 
there 
which 
15
A/57/PV.27
members and non-members of  the  Council,  are  further
proof  of  increased  openness.  This  has  been  supported
by some countries, but others who do not believe in the
usefulness or the validity of such meetings continue to
have reservations on the subject. For this reason, these
meetings  have  not  been  held  as  regularly  as  my
delegation would have wished.
We would like to take this opportunity to express
our  appreciation  to the  Secretariat,  whose  contribution
made  possible  the  publication  in  June  2002  of  a
document  regarding  procedural  developments  in  the
Security Council in 2001, and of an index to notes and
statements  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council
relating  to  documentation  and  procedure.  Mexico  will
work to ensure the institutionalization of  the rules  and
working  methods,  which  have  been  provisional  for
more than 50 years.
In  connection  with 
the  subject  of  working
methods,  the  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
on  the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council
and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  is
contributing to the elaboration of  measures to enhance
the methods of work of the Council. This is one of the
key aspects of the reform package.
In  recent  years,  it  has  been  noted  that  the
positions  of  a  large  majority  of  delegations  in  the
Working Group have led to major improvements in the
working  methods  of  the  Council.  These  improvements
have  been  the  result  of  initiatives  by  non-permanent
members wishing to be in the vanguard of change.
As 
regards 
the  Council’s  decision-making
process,  the  Working  Group  has  stated,  as  have  the
majority  of  delegations,  that  the  use  of  the  veto
privilege  should  be  limited  to  decisions  taken  under
Chapter VII of the Charter. We hope that we will have
the support of all permanent members of the Council in
this connection.
As we all know, with respect to so-called cluster I
items, which relate to an increase in the membership of
the Security Council, the Working Group  has before it
a  broad  range  of  proposals.  The  formulas  proposed
vary  with  respect  to  the  number  of  new  members  and
the  categories  of  new  members.  Mexico  has  made  a
constructive  contribution  to  this  process.  We  are  in
favour of  an increase  in  the number  of  non-permanent
members, which would also lead to better geographical
representation.
16
Discussions  on  this  aspect  of  reform  have  been
intensive  and  prolonged,  but  not  very  successful.  This
is due primarily to the fact that the numerous positions
that  have  been 
in
membership are very varied, and, in the majority of the
cases, irreconcilable.
taken  regarding 
increase 
the 
Member States are convinced that there is a need
to agree on a broad reform in the Security Council and
have been working very hard towards that end. Like the
majority of States, the Government of Mexico believes
that  any  decision  regarding 
the  reform  must  be
comprehensive and address the issues of an increase in
membership, the decision-making process, the question
of  the  veto  and  an  improvement  in  the  working
methods of the Council.
In the quest to achieve this goal, we must bear in
mind the following questions.
First, 
rapid  or  partial 
the
establishment  of  deadlines  or  set  periods  for  reaching
agreement, must be avoided.
solutions,  or 
Secondly,  the  goal  of  the  reform  is  for  the
Council  to  become  more  representative,  transparent
and democratic. It must be capable of dealing with the
challenges of our era.
Thirdly, any reform whose primary goal would be
to  increase  the  number  of  permanent  members  would
only 
the
membership  of  the  “club  of  the  privileged”,  currently
made up of five members.
inequalities 
exacerbate 
enlarge 
and 
Fourthly,  in  assigning  new  seats,  new  realities
must  be  borne  in  mind,  including  the  consolidation  of
the European Union, which is an important protagonist
in  the  international  arena;  the  principle  of  equitable
geographical  distribution;  and 
is
unjustifiable  to  give  special  privileges  to  even  more
countries.
the  fact 
that 
it 
Fifthly, the real use of  the  veto  and the  so-called
“hidden”  use  of  the  veto  by  permanent  members  in
most  cases  has  a  negative  impact  on  the  decision-
making  process  in  the  Council.  The  restriction  or
elimination  of  this  anachronistic  privilege  must  be
firmly and decisively promoted.
Negotiations  in  the  Working  Group  are  at  an
impasse. Nine years of work in the Group have shown
that  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  a  highly
sensitive  subject  politically, and  for that reason  only  a
plan  leading  to  a  general  agreement,  as  requested  by
the  General  Assembly  in  resolution  48/26,  would  be
legitimate.  The  reform  of  the  Council  must  lead  to
greater  representativity  of  the  various  regions  as  well
as  to  changes  in  its  working  methods,  including,  as  I
said  earlier,  the  limitation  or  elimination  of  the  veto
privilege. The veto must no longer be something that is
untouchable.
to  be, 
It  is  a  fact  that  the  pace  of  negotiations  in  the
Working Group is far from ideal. It must be made clear,
however, that this is due to the positions taken and the
complexity  of  the  subject  material  and  not  to  the
Group’s  methods of  work. The  Working  Group is,  and
must  continue 
the  appropriate  forum  for
negotiations  to  achieve  an  overall  reform,  in  keeping
with  the  General  Assembly’s  mandate.  To  disband  the
Group would set a dangerous precedent: it would mean
ignoring  not  only  the  work  that  has  already  done  but
also  its  importance  as  a  representative  and  democratic
body  of  the  General  Assembly  in  which  participation
by  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  is
guaranteed.
We  believe 
that  one  way  of  advancing 
the
Group’s  work  would  be  to  agree  to  work  on  the
increase  in  non-permanent  membership  in  order  to
encourage negotiation on the package of reforms and to
enable  agreements 
the  various
elements of the package.
to  be  reached  on 
The  Working  Group  has 
find
imaginative and innovative formulas for expansion that
would  lead  to  an  increase  in  membership,  taking  into
account 
the
membership  of  the  Organization  as  a  whole.  This
would ensure greater representativeness in the Council
and greater legitimacy for its decisions.
that  has  occurred 
increase 
the 
sought 
to 
in 
However, in this exercise we must not ignore the
fact  that  Article  23  of  the  Charter  clearly  defines  the
criteria  for  the  election  of  Council  members.  On  that
basis, the Working Group must make a greater effort to
determine  the  membership  profile  of  an  expanded
Council  and  should  not  focus  solely  on  mathematical
formulas,  the  contents  of  which  might  be  subjective.
From this perspective, we also believe that the work of
the  Working  Group  will  be  incomplete  if  we  do  not
know  the  opinions  of  the  five  permanent  members  of
the Council, since they hold the power of veto over any
reform  and  over  the  terms  that  they  are  willing  to
accept if membership is to increase.
A/57/PV.27
that 
We  are  confident 
the  Assembly  will
appreciate the work of the Group next year to advance
the  negotiations  on  comprehensive  Security  Council
reform,  in  which  all  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations will participate.
Before concluding, I should like, on behalf of the
delegation  of  Mexico, 
join  others  who  have
expressed  condolences  for  the  victims  of  the  terrorist
attack in Bali.
to 
Mr.  Baali  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I  should
like to begin by thanking the President of the Security
Council  for  October,  Ambassador  Belinga-Eboutou  of
Cameroon, 
the
Council’s report, submitted to the General Assembly in
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  United
Nations Charter.
for  his  detailed 
introduction  of 
On behalf of Algeria, I also take this opportunity
once  again  to  congratulate  Angola,  Chile,  Germany,
Pakistan and Spain on their election as  non-permanent
members of  the  Security  Council. I  am  convinced  that
those  countries  will  not  fail  to  make  a  constructive
contribution to the Council’s work.
Consideration  of  the  Security  Council’s  report  is
the  major  mechanism  whereby  the  General  Assembly,
under  paragraph  3  of  Article  24  of  our  Organization’s
Charter,  evaluates  action  by  the  Security  Council
throughout the period covered by the report. Thus,  the
exercise in which we are engaging today should be not
a  mere  formality,  but  a  precious  opportunity  for  our
Assembly  to  consider  the  Council’s  activities  in  depth
and  to  identify  measures  to  be  taken  to  improve  its
working  methods.  Such  interaction  is,  indeed,  in  the
interests  of  the  Council  itself,  which  should  exploit  it
by  co-opting  and  making  appropriate  use  of  the  ideas
and innovative and constructive proposals  which, I am
sure, this debate cannot fail to generate. Following this
debate,  the  Assembly  could  take  any  action  it  may
deem necessary, as is its prerogative.
With regard to the format of the document before
us,  I  pay  particular  tribute  to  my  friend  Ambassador
Mahbubani  and  the  entire  team  from  the  Singapore
mission  for  their  efforts  to  give  the  report  its  current
format,  in  response  largely  to  the  comments  and
criticisms  made  by  Member  States  on  the  debate  we
held here on this subject last year. The brief, analytical
and  precise  document  before  us  today  is  indeed  a
considerable 
reports  of
preceding  years.  It  is  considerably  shorter,  which  has
improvement  over 
the 
17
A/57/PV.27
permitted  substantial  savings  for  the  Organization  and
facilitated our reading and understanding.
As  to  the  functioning  of  the  Council,  we  note
that, during the period under consideration, the Council
held  a  greater  number  of  public  meetings,  in  which  a
greater  number  of  States  participated.  We  also  note  a
net  increase  in  public  briefings  organized  by  the
Secretariat,  allowing  non-member  States  to  be  better
informed  on  the  development  of  certain  issues  dealt
with by that body. Algeria nevertheless believes that it
would  be  appropriate  for  the  consultations  following
those  meetings  to  be  open  on  a  systematic  basis  to
parties  interested  or  concerned  with  a  view  to  hearing
their  opinions.  This  would  give  the  Council  a  better
understanding  of  subjects  and  thus  help  it  take  more
informed decisions.
We would also note our conviction that the wrap-
up meetings, open to non-members following the work
of  the  Council  at  the  end  of  each  month,  offer  an
opportunity  for  views  to  be  expressed  on  subjects  of
interest  in  an  analytical,  synthetic,  candid  and  open
manner.  We  believe 
that 
this  practice  should  be
maintained and encouraged.
that, 
the 
over 
shows 
period 
With  regard  to  substance,  the  Security  Council’s
report 
under
consideration — June 2001 to July 2002 — the Council
not only reacted to threats to international and regional
peace and security, but also acted directly in addressing
a  large  number  of  problems  affecting  the  world.
Following  the  attacks  of  11  September  2001,  it  firmly
and  promptly  addressed  the  global  threat  of  terrorism
by  adopting resolutions  1363  (2001),  1368  (2001)  and
1373  (2001).  It  also  showed  resolve  and  pugnacity  in
dealing  with  the  issues  of  Afghanistan,  Kosovo,  East
Timor,  Sierra  Leone,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  the  conflict  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,
Angola and Burundi.
In  our  view,  the  Security  Council  missions  to
various  conflict  zones  or  to  post-conflict  areas  were
very  useful  in  going  to  the  very  heart  of  the  problem
and  in  seeking  the  support  and  cooperation  of  the
parties  concerned.  In  the  Great  Lakes  region  as  in
Ethiopia/Eritrea,  these  missions  had  a  positive  impact
on  local  actors.  In  the  light  of  such  success,  we
encourage this type of initiative and action and call for
them  to  be  formalized  and  extended  to  other  conflict
areas.
18
However,  we  regret  to  note  that,  in  some  cases,
the  Council  has  been  hesitant  to  deal  with  certain
issues  with  the  same  political  will  and  has  not  shown
the same resolve. More serious yet, we have even noted
an implicit sanctioning of non-respect of resolutions by
certain  Members,  which  has  seriously  undermined  the
Council’s  authority.  We  regret  in  this  respect  that
certain  important  Council  resolutions  have  remained
dead letter and not been followed up. This situation has
often  encouraged the  recalcitrant party to  a conflict  or
any  given  situation  to  continue  to  defy  the  Council’s
wishes and to undermine its credibility.
resolutions, 
In  the  Middle  East,  where  the  Council  has  a
manifest  responsibility,  it  has  been  unable,  despite  the
adoption  of  numerous 
to  make  any
significant  progress  in  encouraging  or  facilitating  the
peace  process  or,  indeed,  in  protecting  the  Palestinian
population  in  the  occupied  territories.  The  case  of
resolution  1435  (2002),  which  was  painstakingly
negotiated  and  adopted  just  two  weeks  ago,  attests  to
the  Council’s  powerlessness  to  ensure  respect  for  its
own  resolutions.  As  soon  as  the  text  was  adopted,
Israel  effectively  rejected 
in  all
impunity and with its customary arrogance towards the
international  community,  that  it  would  not  take  it  into
consideration.
it  and  declared, 
It  is  therefore  the  credibility  of  the  Security
Council  itself  that  is  at  stake.  This  will  be  further
eroded,  if  the  Council  does  not  manage  to  reverse  the
trend  and  show  the  whole  world  that  it  is  capable  of
assuming  its  responsibilities  in  managing  and  solving
the various conflicts that have been on its agenda for a
long 
therefore  have  a
comprehensive  policy  based  on  equity  and  justice.  It
should  adopt  a  clear  and  coherent  approach  to  dealing
with 
the  Charter,
particularly  those  related  to  international  peace  and
security. In other words, there is a need for deep-rooted
reform.
time.  The  Council  should 
issues  entrusted 
it  by 
the 
to 
It is not just a matter of abstract theory to say that
our  Organization  unfortunately  continues  to  be  caught
up  in  the  criteria  of,  and  subscribe  to,  the  logic  of  an
agelong  gone,  despite  the  fact  that  the  world  order
established  by  the  Second  World  War  has  undergone
serious  changes,  not  only  in  terms  of  geopolitical
structure  but  also  because  of  the  major  changes  that
have taken place in inter-State relations. In the wake of
the upheavals in international relations, nine years ago
the  General  Assembly  placed  the  question  of  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council  on  its  agenda  and
established an Open-ended Working Group to consider
all  aspects  of  that  issue,  with  a  view  to  strengthening
the  Council’s  effectiveness  and  reforming  its  working
methods.
issues 
While 
substantive 
the  blockage,  on 
the  Working  Group  has  made  some
progress  with regard to addressing issues pertaining to
the Council’s methods of work, the Group continues to
experience  great  difficulty  as  a  result  of  major
differences  of  opinion  with  regard  to  reaching  a
consensus  on  the  more  substantial  issues,  in  particular
in  connection  with  Council  expansion  and  the  use  of
the veto. It should be noted that the lack of progress, or
indeed 
is
essentially due to the  lack  of  political  will  on  the  part
of  various  countries  that  have  raised  further  obstacles
and  pretexts  to  delay,  or  even  prevent,  the  emergence
of  the  desired  consensus.  Proposals  and  suggestions
designed to convince us to give up the ambition of full
and  comprehensive  reform  or  to  try  to  get  us  to  be
satisfied  with  partial  reform  for  the  time  being  have
been  advanced  at  various  times.  Should  we  give  in  to
pessimism  and  accept  the  status  quo  or  should  we
redouble  our  efforts  to  bring  about  genuine  reform  in
both  the  Security  Council,  so  it  can  better  fulfil  its
mandate, and the General Assembly, so that it  may re-
assume  its  prerogatives  as  the  principal  representative
deliberative body of the United Nations?
My  delegation  is  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  we
should not prolong discussions indefinitely on  such  an
important  and  sensitive  issue.  We  believe  that  giving
up the momentous and noble undertaking of completely
reforming the Council would mean a sort of abdication
in the face of the difficult nature of the task. We should
instead  continue  our  efforts  with  perseverance  and
determination  to  arrive  at  an  acceptable  solution  that
will  not  compromise  the  prospects  for  comprehensive
reform.
in 
the  prevention 
With  regard  to  improving  the  functioning  and
working  methods  of  the  Council,  my  delegation  is
pleased  to  note  the  increasingly  active  role  of  the
Council 
resolution  of
international  crises  and  conflicts.  We  also  note  with
satisfaction the introduction by the Council of positive
measures  aimed  at  creating  greater  transparency  in  its
work,  particularly  by  opening  its  briefings  by  the
Secretariat to all Member States.  However,  we believe
that  it  is  necessary  for  the  Council  to  finally  take  a
to
decision  regarding 
its  rules  of  procedure  and 
and 
A/57/PV.27
institutionalize  arrangements  regarding  a  number  of
measures  already 
its  working
methods and transparency, so that the positive changes
are  not  subject  to  the  goodwill  of  any  particular
President or member of the Council.
improve 
taken 
to 
Despite the increasing number of public meetings
held by the Council, which we believe in fact increase
its  effectiveness,  we  note  with  regret  that  closed
meetings,  in  which  all  important  issues  are  dealt  with
and  during  which  decisions  affecting  Member  States
are  taken,  remain  the  customary  practice.  In  fact,
closed meetings should be held on an exceptional basis.
We  also  note  that  those  who  exercise  exorbitant  veto
power  determine  the  final  outcome  of  the  Council’s
deliberations in advance among them.
My  delegation  also  believes  that  it  is  necessary
for the Council to consult on a regular and  continuous
basis  with  the  States  and  regional  and  subregional
organizations  directly  or  indirectly  concerned  by  the
situations discussed by the Council. In this regard,  the
Security  Council  should  take  steps  to  more  effectively
implement  Article  50  of  the  Charter,  concerning  the
right  of  every  State  to  consult  the  Council  if  it  faces
difficulty  in 
implementation  of  preventive  or
coercive  measures  ordered  by  the  Council.  Similarly,
and  in  addition  to  the  new  spirit  of  partnership  and
cooperation,  further  efforts  should  also  be  made  with
regard  to  troop-contributing  countries  in  order  to
involve them in drawing up the mandate for the forces
dispatched by the United Nations.
the 
The  Gordian  knot  of  our  exercise,  which  for  my
delegation 
is  a  greater  source  of  concern  and
frustration,  is the  total  lack  of  progress  on  substantive
issues. Whether with regard to the size or composition
of  the  Council,  the  criteria  for  the  selection  of  new
permanent  members  or  even  the  issue  of  the  veto,  to
mention  just  a  few  issues,  the  gap  separating  the
positions  of  different  countries,  far  from  converging
upon  desirable  compromises,  has  in  fact  grown  and
become more pronounced, with each State maintaining
its  own  position  and  no  one  demonstrating  any
willingness to give in or be flexible.
On  the  issue  of  the  veto,  my  delegation  believes
that this matter is intrinsically linked to the question of
enlargement,  whose  consideration  is  at  the  very  heart
of  the  issue  of  Council  reform.  My  delegation  fully
supports  the  idea  advanced  by  almost  all  delegations
that  the  right  of  veto  is  anachronistic,  discriminatory
19
A/57/PV.27
and  anti-democratic.  We  would  therefore  like  to  see
progressive  restriction  of  this  privilege,  which  should
be  limited  solely  to  matters  falling  under  Chapter  VII
of the Charter, until such time as it is eliminated. Until
this  privilege  of  a  by-gone  era  is  better  regulated  and
eventually  abolished,  we  would  hope  —  although  we
do  not  harbour  many  illusions  —  that,  in  the  face  of
urgent  pressure  from  the  rest  of  the  world,  those  who
hold 
the  veto  will  demonstrate
pragmatism  and  utilize  the  veto  only  in  exceptional
circumstances.
the  power  of 
and 
geo-political 
representation 
With  regard  to  the  expansion  of  the  Council,  we
believe  that  it  is  urgent  and  necessary  to  correct  the
current  imbalance  by  ensuring  more  balanced  and
equitable 
by
strengthening the participation of developing countries.
In  this  connection,  my  delegation  would 
to
reiterate its support for the specific proposals  made by
the  member  States  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,
particularly those concerning an increase in the number
of  Council  members.  The  proposals  of  the  Non-
the  wish 
Aligned  Movement  all  demonstrate 
to
strengthen 
effectiveness 
and 
representative
character of this important body.
like 
the 
In addition, my delegation would like to highlight
the fact that any enlargement in the composition of the
Council  should  take  into  consideration  the  desire
expressed  by  Africa  at  the  Organization  of  African
Unity  (OAU)  Summit  held  in  Harare  in  1997.  In
accordance  with  that  position,  the  Council  should  be
enlarged by 11 seats. As a matter of fairness, and given
that  Africa  is  the  Council’s  main  priority  and  that  the
continent  is  home  to  the  largest  number  of  Member
States in the Organization, Africa should be given two
permanent rotating seats having the same privileges as
other permanent members and two non-permanent seats
to  be  shared  in  accordance  with  the  OAU  criteria  and
any  future  new  elements or refinements  to  be  made  to
those  criteria.  We  consider  that  an  increase  in  the
membership  of  the  Council  to  at  least  26  members
would 
legitimacy,
representation  and  credibility  without  reducing  its
effectiveness in any way.
the  Council 
greater 
give 
Mr.  Schumacher  (Germany):  I  would  like  to
begin  by  thanking  all  delegations  for  their  strong
support  for  Germany  in  the  elections  to  the  Security
Council.  We  take  this  as  an  overwhelming  vote  of
confidence  for  German  foreign  and  United  Nations
that  our
policy.  Let  me  assure  you  once  again 
20
membership  on  the  Council  will  be  guided  by  the
principles 
and
reconciliation of interests.
accountability 
transparency, 
of 
in 
Germany  welcomes  the  progress  achieved  in
streamlining the Security Council’s annual report to the
General Assembly. The report before us is the result of
a  considerable  effort  undertaken 
the  Security
Council  Working  Group  on  Documentation  and
Procedures.  The  cost  of 
the  annual  report  was
significantly  reduced,  which  in  itself  is  an  important
achievement  in  times  of  overall  budgetary  constraints.
Most  importantly,  the  report  offers  a  more  analytical
introduction,  highlighting  areas  where  the  Council
needs  to  remain  engaged  and  where  its  decisions
remain to be  implemented.  We  encourage  the  Security
Council  to  continue  to  pursue  that  approach  in  its
future  reports.  The  degree  to  which  the  Security
Council  has  become  more  operational  and  effective  in
its  approach  to  questions  of  international  peace  and
stability needs to be positively highlighted. As a future
member  of  the  Council  we  will  contribute  to  those
endeavours.
On Security Council reform, I am afraid I can be
rather brief. Our position is well known. In this year’s
general debate, we heard a great number of delegations
reiterate  their  feeling  that  the  composition  of  the
Council no longer reflects the realities of today. It is an
overwhelming perception here and outside this Hall, in
the academic and the political world, that this Security
Council no longer reflects the new geopolitical order of
the world. It lacks legitimacy. We fully share that view.
Kishore  Mahbubani  of  Singapore  had  a  much
nicer image of a moving train which he jumped on and
will have to jump off in two months’ time. I hope that
this  train  will  stop  to  reconsider  its  schedule,  together
with  the  railway  company.  That  company  is,  as  I
understand  it,  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  and
the General Assembly.
At  the  beginning  of  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  we  admitted  two  new  Members  to  the
United  Nations.  That  very  happy  occasion  highlighted
once  again  how  rapidly  United  Nations  membership
has  grown  over  the  past  57  years.  Membership  during
that period has almost quadrupled. Neither the changes
the
in  contributions 
increasing  stake  of  all  regions  of 
in
international affairs is presently reflected adequately in
the composition of the Council. We reiterate our belief
to  peace  and  security  nor 
the  world 
that this has to change if the United Nations system as
a whole wishes to maintain and increase its authority.
Germany  therefore  supports  an  increase  in  the
number of seats in both categories, a review process to
assess  that  reform  after  a  given  period  of  time,  a  first
step  towards  a  veto  reform  as  suggested  by  Foreign
Minister Fischer, and further progress in reforming the
Council’s  working  methods,  a  process  which  has
already gained very positive momentum.
We  can  only  warn  against  proposals  apparently
aiming at interim solutions, such as increasing only the
number of non-permanent seats and thereby restricting
the  great  regions  of  Africa,  Latin  America  and  the
Caribbean  —  and  to  a  certain  extent  even  Asia  —  to
non-permanent  seats  forever.  Interim  solutions  are
makeshift  solutions,  and  makeshift  solutions  are  bad
solutions. They run counter to the expressed will of our
heads  of  State  and  Government  in  the  Millennium
Declaration: “to achieve a comprehensive reform of the
Security Council in all its aspects”.
While  we  understand  the  desire  to  breathe  life
into a rather deadlocked reform debate, we believe that
heading in the wrong direction would, in the end, only
cement  forever  the  present  state  of  affairs.  Germany
would,  therefore,  not  be  able  to  support  such  a
proposal.
We  continue 
to  believe 
that  narrowing  and
consolidating  the  various  reform  options  contained  in
the report of the Open-ended Working Group might be
a  first  step 
towards  embarking  on  a  meaningful
Security  Council  reform.  In  addition,  the  question
should  be  raised  of  whether,  after  ten  years  of  work,
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  has  not  exhausted  its
means  and  strength  and  should  receive  a  new,  more
focused  political 
the
General Assembly.
impetus  and  mandate  from 
Mr. Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
As have all other delegations, we would like to express
our  shock  at  the  bombing  incident  in  Bali  resulting  in
numerous  deaths  and  casualties  among 
innocent
people.  We  strongly  condemn  those  acts,  and  we  wish
to  extend  our  condolences  to  the  Government  of
Indonesia  and  to  the  families  of  all  those  killed  or
injured in the incident.
Allow me to express my appreciation to the Chair
of  the  Working  Group  on  Council  reform  established
during  the  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly,
A/57/PV.27
Mr. Han  Seung-soo,  and  the  two  Vice-Chairpersons,
Ambassador  Ingolfsson  and  Ambassador  Durrant,  for
their  tireless  efforts  to  ensure  the  smooth  functioning
of the work of the Working Group. We believe that the
newly  elected  Chair  of 
the  Working  Group  will
certainly  guide  the  work  to  a  positive  conclusion.  We
would also like to thank the Ambassador of Cameroon
for his presentation of the annual report of the Security
Council.
The Chinese delegation has already  expressed its
views  on  the  annual  report.  I  wish  to  stress  that  this
year’s  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General  Assembly  makes  use  of  a  new  format  that
highlights  the  main  points  and  reduces  the  report’s
volume.  That  is  in  keeping  with  the  demands  and
desires of  the  Member  States. It is  also  a  result  of  the
cooperative efforts of the Council members.
the  primary  organ 
In  the  past  year,  the  working  method  of  the
Security Council has been improved through increased
transparency and enhanced efficiency. That momentum
must  be  maintained.  In  the  past  year,  the  Security
for  maintaining
Council,  as 
international  peace  and  security,  has  adapted 
to
situations,  given  prompt  consideration  to  major  issues
and  taken  actions  at  the  right  time.  In  particular,  after
the terrorist acts of 11 September, the Security Council
swiftly  passed  resolution  1373  (2001)  and  established
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  thus  providing  an
indispensable  avenue  for  international  cooperation  on
counter-terrorism.
At this critical  moment,  when  major  changes  are
taking  place  in  Afghanistan,  the  Security  Council  has
to  act  in  solidarity  for  important  decisions,  in  playing
the major role towards full implementation of the Bonn
Agreement  and  for  the  elimination  of  the  Taliban  and
the Al Qaeda base.
Moved  by  the  Security  Council,  and  with  the
effort of all sides, positive changes have taken place in
some  of  the  areas  of  conflict  in  Africa.  However,  the
work  of  the  Council  is  still  far  from  meeting  the
aspirations  of  the  African  countries.  The  Council
should  grasp  the  right  time  to  work  harder  and  give
positive  support 
the  African  Union  and  other
regional  organizations  to  work  for  concrete  results  in
the resolution of disputes in Africa.
to 
At the same time, we would like to point out that
the  role  played  by  the  Security  Council  in  the  Middle
East on the Palestinian question is still not satisfactory,
21
A/57/PV.27
the 
fact 
despite 
the  Council  has  adopted
resolutions and declarations. Nevertheless, the situation
in the Middle East has not improved.
that 
In 
the 
Furthermore, the security situation in Afghanistan
is  still  a  matter  of  concern.  This  remains  an  issue  that
the Security Council must face.
final  analysis, 
issue  of
international  peace  and  security  —  how  and  when  the
Security  Council  should  effectively  assume  the  role
and  responsibilities  entrusted  to  it  by  the  United
Nations  Charter  —  is  still  an  issue  that  deserves  our
deep and continuing consideration.
the  major 
Allow me now to make some observations on the
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  In  the  more  than  50
years since its inception, the number of Members of the
Organization have grown from 51 to 191, the  majority
being  developing  countries.  As  humankind  steps  into
the  twenty-first  century,  the  challenges  it  faces  have
become  ever  more  complex.  While  undertaking  the
sacred  mission  of  maintaining  international  peace  and
security, adapting to new situations to better  meet new
challenges,  the  Council  should  keep  pace  with  the
progress  of 
time  and  carry  out  appropriate  and
necessary reforms.
in 
The  primary  task  of  reform  should  be  to  redress
the 
lack  of  balance 
the  Council’s  present
composition,  so  that  representation  of  the  developing
countries  could  be  increased  on  a  priority  basis,  in
accordance with the principle of equitable geographical
distribution.  This  is  the  aspiration  of  many  Member
States,  as  well  as  the  common  understanding  of  the
majority of Member States.
Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council is an important part of its reform. The Council
has  our  support  in  its  efforts  to  improve  its  working
methods, to increase the participation  of  non-members
and 
its
efficiency and authority.
transparency,  while  ensuring 
to  enhance 
In recent years, the Council has  made  significant
efforts,  with  widely recognized results. The  Secretary-
General’s  report  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the  United
Nations: an agenda for further change”, states that
“The  Security  Council  has  significantly
improved  its  working  methods  over  the  past  few
years 
...  The  Council  has  become  more
transparent, offering  greater opportunities  for  the
wider  membership  of  the  United  Nations  to
22
in 
participate 
its  work.  There  has  been  an
increased  number  of  open  meetings  with
participation  by  non-members  of  the  Security
Council,  briefings  for  the  wider  membership  of
the Organization, and improved arrangements for
consultations  with  troop-contributing  countries”.
(A/57/387, para. 21)
Our delegation believes that, with the common effort of
Member  States,  more  progress  will  be  made  in  this
respect by the Council.
The  reform  of  the  Council  affects  the  direct
interests of all States. The complexity of contradicting
interests requires a gradual process of reaching a broad
consensus,  based  on  serious  study  and 
in-depth
deliberations.  There  cannot  be  any  ‘quick  fix’.  In
dealing with this important issue, it is necessary for us
to have not only a sense of urgency but also, and even
more  so,  patience  and  wisdom.  At  present,  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  remains  the  appropriate  forum
for this discussion.
China  is  prepared  to  participate  actively  in  the
discussion  on  Security  Council  reform  and  to  work
with  all others  for the  further  enhancement  of  the  role
of  the  Council,  so  that  it  can  better  assume  its
responsibilities  in  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security,  entrusted  to  it  by  the  United
Nations Charter.
Mr. Jacob (Israel):  At  the  outset  I  would  like  to
extend our deepest condolences to the Government and
people  of  Indonesia,  and  to  the  victims  and  their
families  for  the  heinous  terrorist  attack  that  was
perpetrated on the island of Bali last Saturday. We offer
special  condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of
Australia,  who  have  sustained  the  largest  number  of
deaths  and  injuries.  As  a  people  and  a  country  which
has  been  targeted  by  terrorism  for  so  many  years,  we
share the pain and agony of those who were affected by
this latest manifestation of international terrorism.
The  State  of  Israel  joins  with  other  Member
States  in  support  of  reform  of  the  Security  Council,
both  in  its  structure  and  its  working  methods,  with  a
view  to  more  equitable  representation  and  greater
transparency  that  would  increase  the  effectiveness  and
credibility of this body.
The  past  57  years  have  shown  that  the  world
changes,  often  at  an  incredible  pace,  but  that  the
wheels  of  change  revolve  much  more  slowly  inside
these  halls.  Since  the  last  expansion  of  the  Security
Council in 1965, more than 70 new States have become
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations;  the  global
structure  has  been  drastically  transformed;  and  the
agenda  of  the  international  community  is  far  different
from that envisaged by the authors of the Charter.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my
delegation’s  belief  that  the  key  to  greater  credibility
and  effectiveness  lies  in  the  Council’s  ability 
to
embody  the  broadest  range  of  cultures  and  opinions
while  retaining  its  ability  to  function  coherently  and
effectively.
A/57/PV.27
to 
responsibility 
the  maintenance 
All  these  changes,  when  taken  together,  have
influenced the Security Council’s capability to fulfil its
primary 
of
international  peace  and  security.  The  end  of  the  cold
war,  the advances  made  in  the  field  of  decolonization,
and the challenges of globalization have all contributed
towards  the  advancement  of  humanity  as  a  whole.  At
the same time, new threats and unseen enemies, such as
international terrorism, rampant disease and increasing
disparity  between  the  developed  and  the  developing
countries, pose a new sort of challenge to international
peace and security.
The United Nations must adapt itself to these new
realities, and, in the process, the Security Council must
change  as  well.  At  the  same  time,  we  must  exercise
great care to maintain the effectiveness of the Council.
Israel  believes  that  expansion  of  the  Security
Council is important, in light of the marked increase in
membership  in  the  United  Nations,  and  in  order  to
more faithfully reflect the vast multiplicity of interests
of  Member  States.  What  is  needed,  however,  is  to
strike  a  proper  balance  between  ensuring  that  the
Council reflects the larger will of the Organization and
the  need  to  preserve  the  Council’s  ability  to  meet  its
responsibilities under the Charter.
Israel  further  believes  that  improved  access  to
Council proceedings can only serve the interests of the
Organization.  Greater  reliance  on  open  meetings  and
more  efficient  and  reliable  methods  of  conveying
information 
to  Member  States  will  undoubtedly
increase  transparency  and  confidence  in  the  work  of
the  Council.  This  will  not  only  bring  Member  States
closer  to  the  work  of  the  Council,  but  also  provide
greater  understanding  for 
the  Council’s  decisions
among the international community as a whole.
Israel  supports  such  change  insofar  as  it  will
advance  the  Organization  towards  the  ultimate  goal  of
increased  efficiency  and  effectiveness.  Such  change
must 
reflect  general  agreement  among
Member  States  so  as  to  foster  cooperation  rather  than
increase divisiveness.
therefore 
first  of  all, 
Mr.  Tayeb  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
Allow  me 
the
consideration of the report on the work of the Security
Council  submitted  to  the  Assembly,  to  pay  tribute  to
the  Council  for  its  efforts  last  year  to  maintain
international peace and security.
the  context  of 
in 
Likewise,  we  would  like  to  affirm  the  crucial
importance  we  attach  to  the  fact  that  the  Security
Council is fully discharging its mandate and playing its
role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  in  an  effective  manner  throughout  the  world.
Indeed, we believe that we cannot dissociate the active
and  effective  role  of  the  Security  Council  from  the
implementation  of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
Charter of the United Nations and the re-establishment
of  peace  and  security  throughout  the  world.  The
Security  Council’s  clear  determination  to  preserve
international  peace  and  security  is  pivotal  in  the
process  of  bringing  about  peace  and  prosperity
throughout the world.
We deeply appreciate the interest that the Security
Council has shown in the question of the Middle East,
as reflected in its adoption of four resolutions, most of
them unanimously, over the period under consideration.
However, we must express our concern at the fact that
most  of  those  resolutions  have  not  been  implemented,
as the report itself shows.
Indeed, 
territories. 
the  State  of  Israel  has  refused 
the  deployment  of  a  fact-finding 
to
implement  the  resolutions  calling  for  an  immediate
ceasefire and for the  withdrawal of Israeli  forces  from
Israel  has
the  occupied  Palestinian 
prevented 
team
concerning  the  atrocities  perpetrated  by  the  Israeli
forces  in  the  Jenin  refugee  camp.  This  refusal  to
implement  Security  Council  resolutions  demonstrates
once  again  that  State’s  scorn  for  the  decisions  of  the
United  Nations, 
the
international  community.  This  is  a  matter  of  great
concern  in  the  context  of  international  relations,  as  it
could undermine the Council’s work, effectiveness and
legitimacy.
the  Security  Council  and 
23
A/57/PV.27
Israel’s  persistent  refusal  to  implement  Security
Council resolutions shows its determination to continue
occupying Palestinian and other Arab territories and to
undermine efforts towards peace in the Middle East.
The  Arab  side,  for  its  part,  has  shown  a  sincere
determination  to  establish  peace.  This  was  made  clear
in  particular  at  the  Arab  Summit  held  in  Beirut  last
March, which adopted the initiative put forward by His
Highness Prince Abdullah Bin Abdul-Aziz to establish
a  comprehensive  and  just  peace  in  accordance  with
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338
(1973),  and  to  make  possible  the  signing  of  a  peace
agreement  leading  to  Israel’s  full  withdrawal  from
occupied  Palestinian 
the
establishment of an independent Palestinian State, with
Al-Quds  as 
its  capital;  and  the  establishment  of
peaceful,  normal  relations  between  Israel  and  Arab
States.
and  Arab 
territories; 
The  day  after  that  decision  was  taken,  Israel
perpetrated  the  worst  possible  crimes  and  massacres
against  innocent,  unarmed  Palestinian  civilians  and
besieged the legitimate Palestinian Authority.
Given Israel’s failure to comply with the Security
Council’s  resolutions  and  efforts  to  promote  peace  in
the  region,  the  international  community  must  take  the
necessary  measures  in  order  to  maintain  the  prestige
and credibility of the Council. Such action should have
the  same  weight and  force  as  other  measures  taken  by
the  Council  vis-à-vis  other  States  that  have  failed  to
comply  with  its  resolutions.  Israel  must  submit  to  the
will  of  the  international  community  and  accept  the
implementation  of 
the
Security  Council.  This  alone  will  be  a  guarantee  of
peace, security and stability in the Middle East.
relevant  decisions  of 
the 
the  Security  Council 
My  country  has  noted  with  great  satisfaction  the
the
role  played  by 
strengthening  of  stability  and 
the  settlement  of
conflicts in a number of regions of the world, including
Africa, the Balkans and Cyprus. The Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia  fully  supports  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the
Council and the  Secretary-General  to  strengthen peace
and security in those regions.
in 
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  fully  supports
international efforts to combat terrorism, in accordance
with  Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001).  My
country will spare no effort in pursuing the perpetrators
of such acts, as it believes that terrorism poses a threat
to all humankind.
24
terrorism 
However, in this respect we should make clear the
following  points.  First, 
a  global
phenomenon  that  does  not  relate  to  any  single  nation,
religion or race. We should therefore not attribute it to
any people or religion. Secondly, occupation by foreign
forces  is  the  worst  form  of  terrorism  and  should  be
eliminated  just  like  other  forms  of  terrorism.  Thirdly,
resistance against foreign occupation is a legitimate act
under 
relevant
decisions  of  the  United  Nations.  Fourthly,  in  the
context  of  the  combat  against  terrorism,  it  is  not
permissible to strike against innocent peoples.
instruments  and 
international 
is 
the 
to  agenda 
With  regard 
item  40,  concerning
equitable  representation  in  the  Security  Council  and
other  related  issues,  my  country’s  delegation  fully
agrees  with  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the
implementation  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration  as
concerns the need for continual change, adaptation and
learning  in  the  Organization,  in  order  to  ensure  the
continued importance of its role. No reform within this
Organization  can  be  comprehensive  and  complete
unless  it  involves  the  long-awaited  expansion  of  the
Council.
Growing appeals for reform in the functioning of
the  United  Nations,  in  particular  of  the  Security
Council,  reflect  the  feelings  of  a  number  of  Member
States.  Indeed,  we  are  still  far  from  attaining  the
purposes  set  out  in  the  Charter,  and  in  particular  the
very  raison  d’être  whereby  it  was  established,  namely
to preserve succeeding generations from the scourge of
war and to promote peace, security, social development
and prosperity for all.
The  establishment  in  1993  of  the  Open-ended
Working  Group  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council
reflected agreement among Member States on the need
to  increase  the  membership  of  the  Council  so  as  to
ensure  equitable  geographical  representation  and  to
enhance  transparency  of  its  activities.  However,  we
deplore the fact that so much time has elapsed without
agreement  being  reached  in  the  Working  Group  on
several  issues,  including  the  number  of  new  Council
members, 
the
question of the veto.
including  permanent  members,  and 
In the context of reforming the Council’s working
methods  and increasing  its membership,  several issues
should  be  taken  into  account.  First,  any  reform  effort
should  seek  to  ensure  that  the  effectiveness  of  the
Council  and 
to
to  deal  with 
its  ability 
threats 
international  peace  and  security  are  not  put  at  risk.
Secondly, the role of the Council should not be limited
to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security
but  should  include  conflict  prevention  and  peace-
building  in  the  aftermath  of  conflicts.  Thirdly,  all
Member States throughout the world must comply with
Council  resolutions,  without  any  selectivity.  Fourthly,
the  transparency  of  the  Council’s  working  methods
must be increased.
Mr. Hasmy (Malaysia): I should like at the outset
to  express,  on  behalf  of  my  Government,  profound
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of
Indonesia,  to  Australia  and  to  the  other  countries
whose  nationals  were  lost,  as  well  as  to  the  bereaved
families of the victims of the terrorist bombing in Bali.
We  condemn  the  bombing  in  the  strongest  terms,  and
express the hope that the perpetrator or perpetrators of
that heinous act will not escape punishment.
My delegation welcomes the clustering of the two
items  under  consideration  in  an  effort  to  improve  the
efficiency  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  We
also wish to thank the President of the Security Council
for the month of October, Ambassador Martin Belinga-
Eboutou of Cameroon, for introducing the fifty-seventh
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General
Assembly.  We  consider  the  annual  reporting  by  the
Council to the General  Assembly  on  its  work to be  an
important  occasion  for  the  larger  membership  of  the
Organization  in  order  to  be  better  acquainted  with  the
work  of  the  Council  during  the  reporting  period.  It
reinforces  the  institutional  relationship  between  the
Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  as  provided  for  in
Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter.  In  this  regard,  we
welcome  the  Council’s  decision  to  hold  an  open
meeting  last  month  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  the
report  before  submitting  it  to  the  General  Assembly.
This  reflects  the  seriousness  with  which  the  Council
undertakes this annual reporting exercise, as well as the
Council’s  sense  of  accountability 
larger
membership of the Organization, in whose name it acts.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  new  and  improved
format  of 
the
Council’s  willingness  to  improve  its  method  of  work
and  ensure  that  it  evolves  in  response  to  the  many
comments  made  by  the  larger  membership  over  the
years.  We  welcome  the  attempt  that  has  been  made  to
provide  an  analysis  of  the  work  of  the  Council  during
the  reporting  period  —  an  analysis  which  many
delegations  had  called  for  in  the  past.  My  delegation
this  year’s  report,  which  reflects 
the 
to 
A/57/PV.27
commends Council members, including the delegations
of Singapore, the United Kingdom and others, for their
serious effort to improve the format and quality  of  the
report.
the 
enlighten 
We  look  forward  to  further  improvements  in
future  reports,  particularly  in  the  analytical  part,  with
the inclusion of  more  details  of  Council  decisions  and
actions, leading to a better understanding of the  issues
dealt  with  in  the  Council.  The  Council  could,  for
instance, 
larger  membership  on
circumstances  that  have  had  an  impact  on  its  final
decision  on  a  particular 
issue.  A  more  detailed
description  of  the  public  and  private  meetings  of  the
Council  — 
listing  of  such
meetings —  would  certainly  be  more  helpful  to  the
larger  membership.  We  consider  the  permanent  web
site  of  the  presidency  of  the  Security  Council  to  be
extremely  useful  in  enabling  us  to  follow  the  work  of
the Council.
instead  of  a  mere 
On the substantive aspects of its  work, it is clear
that  there  has  been  a  tremendous  increase  in  the
workload  of  the  Council  during  the  reporting  period.
As  in  recent  years,  a  major  focus  of  the  work  of  the
Council  was  on  Africa,  which  still  demands  the  full
attention  of  the  Council.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome
the  establishment  of  the  ad  hoc  working  group  on
Africa, under the chairmanship of Ambassador Koonjul
of  Mauritius.  The  Council  can  certainly  claim  its  fair
share of the prestigious  Nobel  Peace  Prize,  which  was
awarded  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the  United
Nations  as  a  whole  for  their  contribution  to  the
maintenance of international peace and security.
The  successful  establishment  of  the  Transitional
Administration  in  Afghanistan,  peaceful  elections  in
Sierra Leone and the independence of Timor-Leste are
among  the  outstanding  achievements  of  the  Council
during  the  period  under  review.  We  congratulate  the
Council,  as  well  as  the  men  and  women  from  many
nations who serve in United Nations missions, for their
contribution  in  maintaining  international  peace  and
security.
However,  my  delegation  is  disappointed  that  on
the issue of the Middle East and Palestine, the Council
has  not  been  able  to  play  the  role  expected  of  it.  We
welcome  the  fact  that  the  Council  has  discussed  the
issue  of  Palestine  with  greater  frequency,  holding
several  open  debates  and regular  monthly  briefings  on
the situation on the  ground. We  note that  a total  of 21
25
A/57/PV.27
Council  meetings  were  held  on  that  question,  and  that
four  resolutions  were  passed  and  two  presidential
statements issued.
Unfortunately,  the  increase  in  the  number  of
meetings on the subject did not have  an  impact  on  the
situation  on  the  ground.  Either  Israel  continued  to
ignore  or  manipulate  the  Council’s  resolutions  or  —
more often than not — the Council  was not able to do
anything  meaningful  because  it  was  prevented  from
doing  so.  We  strongly  believe  that  had  the  Council
approved  the  establishment  of  a  United  Nations  or
international  monitoring  presence 
the  occupied
territories,  much  of  the  violence  that  has  occurred
could have been avoided and the situation today would
be more conducive to a negotiated settlement.
in 
The  question  of  Palestine  is  one  of  the  oldest
items on the agenda of the Council, yet resolving it has
not  been  possible.  The  failure  of  the  Council  to  exert
its  authority  on  this issue  undermines its credibility. It
is  time  for  the  Council  to  play  a  more  active  role  on
this  issue  and  to  contribute  to  the  amelioration  of  the
situation on the ground.
Another  issue on  which the Council  continues  to
be  at  an  impasse  relates  to  the  situation  in  Iraq.  The
unresolved question of Iraq’s alleged weapons of  mass
destruction  has  stood  in  the  way  of  the  lifting  of  the
sanctions  imposed  on  that  country.  The  matter  is
currently  being  actively  discussed  once  again  in  the
Council  —  or  more  accurately,  among  the  Council’s
permanent  members.  In  dealing  with  this  issue,  the
Council is  facing  one  of the most difficult  and  critical
moments  in  its  history.  Upon  its  decision  may  hinge
war or peace; this is a decision that will affect not only
the  people  of  Iraq,  but  also  the  entire  international
community.  Clearly,  it  is  the  hope  and  expectation  of
all peace-loving  nations  that  the  issue  can  be  resolved
peacefully 
through
military action, as is being actively advocated in some
circles.
through  diplomacy  rather 
than 
On  an  issue  as  important  as  this,  it  is  imperative
that the views of all of the members of the Council be
brought  to  bear  on  its  final  decision.  It  is  dismaying
that, at a time when the Council is opening itself up to
the  larger  membership  through  its  open  debates  and
briefings,  the  10  non-permanent,  or,  more  accurately,
the  10  elected  members  of  the  Council  continue  to  be
kept  in  the  dark,  according  to  many  of  them,  as  the
permanent  members 
private
engaged 
have 
in 
26
consultations  among  themselves  for  the  past  several
weeks.
The  sidelining  of  the  elected  members  of  the
Council  is  against  the  very  spirit  and  letter  of  the
United Nations Charter. While it distinguishes between
the  two  categories  of  membership  of  the  Council,  the
Charter  does  not  otherwise  discriminate  between  the
permanent  and  non-permanent,  or  elected  members,
each  of  which  is  entitled  to  the  same  right  to  be
consulted on all issues before the Council, even if they
do not enjoy the right of veto.
In  addressing  the  question  of  Iraq,  the  Council
should  heed  the  words  of  the  Secretary-General,  who,
in  his  statement  to  the  General  Assembly  on  12
September  2002,  urged  us  to  rededicate  ourselves  to
the principles and purposes of this Organization and to
the  centrality  of  the  multilateral  process.  Equally
resonant  are  the  remarks  made  by  the  Permanent
Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom,  a  permanent
member,  at 
the  Council’s  open  meeting  on  26
September  2002, 
the
Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly,  when  he
said that:
the  report  of 
in  discussing 
the  collective  objectives  of 
“States cannot play a unilateral role in the modern
world, but they  must play  a role that  adds power
to 
the  United
Nations.” (See S/PV.4616)
Both  of  these  statements  are  extremely  pertinent
at  a  time  when  the  Council  is  trying  to  exert  its  own
authority and that of the United Nations in the process
of the resolution of the question of Iraq.
Malaysia  strongly  supports  the  call  made  by  the
Secretary-General  and  by  other  world  leaders  for
restraint and for the peaceful resolution of the issue, so
as to spare the Iraqi people further suffering.  We  hope
that  all  diplomatic  avenues  will  be  explored  and
cooperation extended  by  all  the  parties  concerned.  We
urge  Iraq  to  allow  the  unconditional  return  of  United
Nations  arms  inspectors  and  to  comply  with  all  the
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  Council
must  act  with  courage  and  wisdom  and  consider  all
aspects and implications of its action. Its very prestige
and credibility hinges on this.
The  Security  Council  should  also  listen  to  the
views of the larger membership of the Organization. In
this regard, my delegation welcomes the decision of the
Council  to  convene  an  open  meeting  on  this  issue  on
Wednesday  16  October.  We 
participating in that important debate.
look 
forward 
to
leadership  and 
to  congratulate 
My  delegation  wishes 
of 
for  his  dynamic 
the
the  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism
Chairman 
the
Committee 
Committee’s  other  members  for 
their  contribution
towards  the  effectiveness  of  the  Committee.  We  also
wish  to  commend  all  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations  for  their  cooperation  in  the implementation of
resolution 1373 (2001). This is an excellent illustration
of  the  effectiveness  of  the  multilateral  approach  when
all  Member 
the
implementation of Council resolutions.
cooperate 
States 
fully 
in 
We  would  have  hoped  that  the  same  level  of
cooperation  would  have  been  extended  by  all  Member
States  in  the  implementation  of  all  resolutions  of  the
Council. Regrettably, this has not been the case. There
has  been,  unfortunately,  selectivity  in  the  approach
taken to the implementation of Council resolutions and
in  enforcing  compliance  without  discrimination  —  a
fact 
the  Secretary-General  has  himself
alluded. My delegation hopes that in view of the efforts
being made to enhance the credibility of the Council —
about which much has been said these days — this fact
will not be lost on Council members.
to  which 
My  delegation  wholeheartedly  supports  the  call
made by some members of the Council for the adoption
of clear  and  precise  indicators to  measure  the  work  of
the Council. We believe that one such indicator, which
would  also  reflect  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council,
would be the level of compliance by Member States in
implementing the resolutions of the Council.
My  delegation  regrets  that,  despite  the  efforts  of
Mr.  Kavan’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo  of  the
Republic  of  Korea,  and  the  two  Vice-Chairmen  of  the
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council
reform, there has been no breakthrough in the Group’s
work.  While 
the  Working  Group  has  contributed
significantly  to  the  reform  of  the  Council  over  the
years,  particularly  in  improving  its  working  methods,
there  has  been  no  progress  with  regard  to  the  major
issues,  namely,  the  expansion  of  the  Council  and  the
question of the veto.
The debate on these important issues continues to
be  contentious,  circular  and  repetitive,  even  as  we  are
approaching a full decade of  these deliberations in the
Working Group next year. It is therefore not surprising
that the level of interest has declined in recent years. It
A/57/PV.27
to 
alia, 
inter 
efforts 
achieve 
intensify 
has  been  two  years  since  our  heads  of  State  or
Government,  resolved  in  the  Millennium  Declaration
to, 
a
comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all its
aspects. Unless there is greater political will on the part
of those concerned to  move the process forward, these
deliberations  might  well  end  up  as  an  exercise  in
futility.  The  tenth  anniversary  of  these  deliberations
would  be  a  good  occasion  for  us  to  take  stock  of  the
work  of  the  Working  Group  and  to  ponder  where  we
should go from here.
We  hope  that  under  the  leadership  of  the  current
President  of  the  Assembly,  a  new  momentum  will  be
generated  in  the  Working  Group,  so  that  something
more tangible  could be achieved  as  we  enter  the  tenth
year  of  these  deliberations.  In  the  meantime,  the
progress  made  thus  far  in  respect  of  the  Council’s
working  methods  should  be  codified  —  as  suggested
by 
the
agreements reached on these issues remain a permanent
feature  of  the  Council.  This  is  important  for  purposes
of  marking  the  progress  made  so  far  and  for  purposes
of  continuity,  as,  aside  from  the  permanent  members,
other  Council  members  come  and  go,  once  they  have
served their very brief term.
the  Secretary-General  — 
to  ensure 
that 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  take  this
opportunity  to  congratulate  the  delegations  of  Angola,
Chile,  Germany,  Pakistan  and  Spain  on  their  recent
election  as  the  new  non-permanent  members  of  the
Security  Council  beginning  1  January  2003.  We  are
confident  that  they  will  not  only  serve  the  United
Nations  and 
in
discharging  their  responsibilities  as  members  of  the
Council  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security,  but  also  enrich 
the  deliberations  of  the
Council.
international  community  well 
the 
Mr. Fadaifard (Islamic Republic of Iran): Let me
begin  by  offering  my  delegation’s  condolences  to  the
people  and  the  Government  of  Indonesia  and  to  the
families of those  who lost their lives as a result of  the
recent brutal terrorist attack in Bali.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador
Belinga-Eboutou  of  Cameron,  the  President  of  the
Security  Council,  for  having  introduced  the  annual
report of the Council to the General Assembly.
Having  carefully  considered  the  report  submitted
by the  Council,  we recognize and  welcome  the  visible
improvements  made  in  both  its  content  and  format.  In
27
A/57/PV.27
general,  instead  of  simply  compiling  or  quantitatively
describing  its  activities,  the  Council,  this  time,  has
submitted  a  document  that  is  more  analytical  and  has
taken  into  account  basic  criticisms  levelled  at  it  for
many  years  by  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly.
What  has  been  done 
the
improvement  of  the  Council’s  reporting  method.  We
commend  all  members  of  the  Council,  especially
Ambassador Mahbubani of Singapore and his team, for
pressing forward and accomplishing this outcome.
is  a  contribution 
to 
We  note  that  the  report  has  a  new  format.  It  is
streamlined,  more  focused  and  concise  and  shorter,
avoiding  overlapping  and  repetition, 
thereby  also
reducing  the  cost  of  its  production.  Thus,  we  believe
that,  to  some  extent,  the  present  report  has  rectified  a
defect  in  the  way  the  Council  previously  reported  to
the Assembly. While it is dramatically reduced in size,
it  also  provides  more  statistical  information  on  the
Council’s activities.
As to the content of the report, we are pleased to
note  an  analytical  overview  in  the  introduction  to  the
report.  This  is  the  most  important  innovation  in  the
report  and  represents  an  effort  made  this  year  to
address  the  main  criticism  repeated  year  after  year  in
the General Assembly’s debate on the Council’s report.
This  section  for  the  first  time  focuses  on  areas  of
Council  activities  which  are  of  interest  to  the  entire
membership of the United Nations.
in 
its  work  and 
As  the report indicates,  a record  number  of  open
meetings  of  the  Council  was  held  in  the  period  under
review. Apparently, the Council has never in its history
held  so  many  public  meetings.  This  is  a  fact  that  has
had  a  positive  impact  on  the  Council  in  the  area  of
transparency  and  openness 
its
relationship  with 
the  wider  United  Nations
membership.  It  has  enabled  the  Council  to  provide
greater  opportunity  to  non-members  of  the  Council  to
participate in its  work. It is important that the Council
build  upon  this  achievement  and  enhance  closer  links
between  the  members  of  the  Council  and  those  of  the
General Assembly. The record shows that, in the period
under  consideration,  the  Council  also  opened  up  to
civil  society  through  Arria-formula  meetings,  which
enable the  Council  to  meet  with  the  representatives  of
non-governmental  organizations.  There  should  be  no
doubt that the Council is still at the beginning of a long
road  and  that  a  lot  has  yet  to  be  done  with  a  view  to
democratizing its work.
28
In  general,  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,
too, have noticeably improved over the past few years.
Undoubtedly, the ideas expressed and progress made in
the  course  of  the  deliberations  in  the  Open-ended
Working Group on the reform of the Council played an
important  part  in  this  respect.  Better  procedures  and
working  methods  can  generate  more  efficiency  and
effectiveness  and  bring  the  Council  into  tune  with  the
general  membership.  We  believe  that  the  Council
missions  to  regions  affected  by  conflicts  are  valuable
instruments.  Monthly  wrap-up  meetings  also  provide
an  opportunity  for  an  interactive  discussion  among
members  and  non-members,  even  though  there  are
members who have reservations about such meetings.
We  acknowledge  that  the  period  under  review
was extraordinary for the Council in a number of ways
and uniquely busy. The events of 11 September set the
tone and overshadowed the work of the Council for the
whole  period.  Thus,  the  Council  was  expected  to  play
an important role in coordinating the international fight
against terrorism. It also needed to deal with the chaos
created  by  the  Taliban  and  Al  Qaeda  in  Afghanistan.
The  swift  action  of  the  Security  Council  in  adopting
resolution 1373 (2001) and in establishing the Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  was  its  main  achievement  with
respect to combating terrorism, and a united Council at
a critical  moment in the history of  Afghanistan played
an important role through its swift decision in pushing
for  comprehensive 
the  Bonn
Agreement.  From  now  on,  it  is  important  that  the
Council continue to contribute both to the fight against
terrorism,  thus  enhancing  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  in  this  area,  and  to  upholding  the  effective
engagement  of 
in
Afghanistan.
international  community 
implementation  of 
the 
The  Council  has  had  its  share  of  successes  and
failures. While it has thus far been effective in dealing
with  terrorism  and  the  situations  in  Afghanistan,  East
Timor  and  Sierra  Leone,  some  issues  on  its  agenda
clearly  need  more  attention.  The  Council  has  had  a
serious  level  of  engagement  with  issues  related  to
Africa 
positive
developments  in  African  conflicts.  However,  there  is
still  a  gap  between  the  work  of  the  Council  and  the
expectations of African States and people.
some 
been 
and 
there 
have 
The Middle East is the area in which the Council
has  achieved  the  least  and  clearly  fallen  short  of
expectations. While we appreciate the fact that there is
now  a  monthly  briefing  of  the  Council  on  the  Middle
East,  we  note  that  the  record  of  the  Council  on  this
issue  has  yet  to  improve.  It  has  yet  to  take  measures
with  a  view  to  implementing  its  resolutions,  the  latest
of  which  is  resolution  1435  (2002).  There  is  no  doubt
that the credibility of the Council will erode over time
if  it  is  habitually  seen  to  be  unable  to  meet  its
responsibilities with regard to outstanding issues on its
agenda.
Allow  me  to  briefly  touch  upon  the  important
issue of the reform of the Security Council. Nine years
have  elapsed  since  the  establishment  of  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  reform  of  the  Security
Council. The debate in the course of the last session of
the  Working  Group  has  in  fact  proved  that  significant
differences  remain  on  such  substantive  matters  as  the
size  and  composition  of 
the  Security  Council,
especially  an  increase  in  the  permanent  membership,
and the power of veto. In other words, the fundamental
question  as  to  how  to  advance  from  the  Security
Council that we have now to a more representative and
democratic,  but  no  less  efficient,  organ  has  yet  to  be
answered.
Nevertheless,  the  impasse  or  lack  of  progress  in
the  expansion  of  the  permanent  membership  of  the
Council  should  be  viewed  as  a  direct  product  of  the
enormous  importance  of  the  issue  and  the  diversity  of
views and interests. Despite the lack of progress on the
main  issues,  we  still  believe  that  the  process  of  the
reform  of  the  Council  should  not  be  subject  to  any
predetermined  and  superficial  timetable.  Any  attempt
to  impose  a  premature,  hasty  decision  would  run  the
risk of doing harm to that very delicate process, which
is  so  important  to  all  the  States  Members  of  our
Organization.
We are of the view that, due to the importance of
the Council’s reform and while respecting the principle
of the equality of all Member States, all efforts should
be  made  to  reach  the  broadest  possible  agreement
among the Member States.
As to the objectives of the reform of the Council,
we continue to believe that the objective of the reform
A/57/PV.27
process is  and  must  remain  to  make  the  Council  more
representative,  more  democratic,  more  transparent  and
more  accountable,  thereby  helping  to  strengthen  its
efficiency  and  to  increase  its  authority  and  that  of  the
United  Nations  as  a  whole.  We  believe  that  the
attainment  of  these  objectives  requires,  inter  alia,  that
the membership of the Council be expanded to at least
that 
26  so 
the  developing  world  can  be  better
represented.
Moreover, the opinion of the vast majority of the
States Members of the United Nations that continue to
express their dissatisfaction about the use of the veto as
an  undemocratic  instrument  in  the  decision-making
process of the Security Council should be heeded. The
general  support  for  limiting  and  curtailing  the  use  of
the  veto  with  a  view  to  its  eventual  elimination  needs
to  be  explicitly  reflected  in  the  final  outcome  of  the
Working Group.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform
members  that,  in  a  letter  dated  27  September  2002
addressed to the President of the General Assembly, the
Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal  to  the  United
Nations,  in  his  capacity  as  chairman  of  the  Group  of
Western  European  and  other  States  for  the  month  of
September, requests that the General Assembly hear in
plenary  meeting  a  statement  by  the  Observer  of  the
Holy See in the debate on agenda item 31, “Elimination
of 
economic
measures  as  a  means  of  political  and  economic
compulsion”.
extraterritorial 
unilateral 
coercive 
May  I  take  it  that  there  is  no  objection  to  the
proposal  to  hear  a  statement  by  the  Observer  of  the
Holy See in the debate on agenda item 31?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
29
