United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
50th plenary meeting
Thursday, 14 November 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Hussein
(Ethiopia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 38 (continued)
The situation in Central America: procedures for the
establishment of a firm and lasting peace and
progress in fashioning a region of peace, freedom,
democracy and development
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/57/384,
A/57/584)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/57/336)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.20)
Mr.  Stagno  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
have the honour to speak in my capacity as the Acting
President  of  the  Central  American  Integration  System
(SICA).  I  would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the
Secretary-General for the presentation of the report we
are now considering.
The recent history of Central America is a living
example  of  the  timeliness  and  soundness  of  the
fundamental  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  Twenty
years ago, when the General Assembly considered this
item  for  the  first  time,  our  region  had  plunged  into  a
deep  political,  economic  and  military  crisis.  Some
countries had domestic strife. Large Powers were vying
for control of the region. Various armed groups tried to
seize  power.  There  were  hundreds  of  thousands  of
refugees and internally displaced persons. Innumerable
violations  of  human  rights  were  committed.  Illicit
trafficking in arms endangered the entire region.
At that time, the main concern of the international
community  was  to  stop  the  armed  conflict.  Twenty
years  later,  the  situation  could  not  be  more  different.
The  region  is  at  peace  now.  Democracy  has  been
consolidated. Only last year, free elections were held in
Honduras,  Nicaragua  and  Costa  Rica.  All  of  our
nations  have  undergone  very  deep-rooted  political
transformations,  as  well  as  economic  and  social
changes,  with  a  view 
to  promoting  economic
development  and  building  more  democratic,  more  just
and  more  equitable  societies.  Fundamental  rights  are
being fully observed.
Today,  each  one  of  our  countries  has  a  human
rights defender. This radical improvement is due, above
all, to the very strong commitment of our peoples and
Governments  to  peace,  democracy  and  respect  for
human dignity.
The  progress  achieved,  however,  would  have
been  impossible  without  the  continuous  political  and
economic  support  of  the  international  community  in
general  and  of  this  Organization  in  particular.  In  the
last  two  decades,  all  of  the  human  development
indices —  life  span,  literacy  rate,  level  of  education
and  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  per  capita  —  have
systematically  improved.  At  the  current  time,  our
Governments  are  committed  to  continually  improving
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-69281 (E)
*0269281*
A/57/PV.50
at 
aimed 
improving 
alleviating  poverty 
these  indices  through  the  implementation  of  social
and
programmes 
unemployment, 
security,
strengthening the judicial system, consolidating public
administration 
corruption.  Our
Governments are, inter alia, making renewed efforts to
combat  common  crime  and  transnational  organized
crime, which in recent years have menaced the security
of our citizens.
fighting 
public 
and 
Over the last two decades, our region has enjoyed
some periods of economic growth. However, in the past
year  our  economies  have  deteriorated  due  to  an
unfavourable  international  economic  climate  and  to  a
fall in exports. Regrettably, our economies continue to
be  highly  sensitive  to  fluctuations  in  world  markets.
For  that  reason  and  to  ensure  sustainable  economic
development 
region,  our  countries  are
negotiating  a  series  of  trade  agreements  with  our
counterparts outside the region. As well, our countries
are making significant efforts to adapt, strengthen and
further  boost 
the  process  of  Central  American
integration, especially in the economic, social, cultural
and tourism sectors.
the 
in 
Our  Governments  have  committed  themselves  to
combating  the  availability  of,  and  traffic  in,  small
arms.  A  regional  meeting  was  recently  held  in  San
José,  Costa  Rica,  to  coordinate  implementation  of  the
Programme  of  Action  adopted  at  the  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and
Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. At the conclusion of
the San José meeting, a plan was adopted for national
and  regional  implementation  of  that  Programme  of
Action.
In the area of the environment, our countries are
carrying out efforts to consolidate the Meso-American
Biological Corridor. The Corridor consists of a system
of natural areas under special administration, multiple-
use  areas  and  interconnecting  areas;  its  purpose  is  to
protect biodiversity and to contribute to the quality  of
life of the inhabitants.
Unfortunately,  Central  America 
is  highly
vulnerable to natural disasters. In recent years, we have
been  the  victim  of  the  devastating  hurricanes  Mitch,
Keith  and  Michelle,  the  earthquakes  in  El  Salvador  in
January  2001  and  a  drought  that  afflicted  the  entire
region. Those natural disasters caused the loss of many
human 
In
response to those disasters, our Governments adopted a
lives  and  substantial  material 
losses. 
2
series of measures to reduce risks and to minimize the
effects  of  natural  disasters.  Among  them  are  the
adoption of the Strategic Framework for the Reduction
of  Vulnerability  and  Disasters  in  Central  America  and
the Central American Five-Year Plan for the Reduction
of  Vulnerability  to  and  the  Impact  of  Disasters,  2000-
2004.
Without  doubt,  the  situation  in  Central  America
has  improved  substantially  in  the  last  two  decades.
However, the process has not yet  been  completed.  We
must now consolidate the achievements made and must
continue  to  make  progress  in  the  building  of  societies
that  are  more  just,  democratic  and  peaceful.  We  trust
that,  on  this  new  path,  we  will  be  able  to  continue  to
count  on  the  support  of  the  international  community,
including the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  refer  to  the  draft
resolution  on  this  subject,  issued  today  in  document
A/57/L.20.  As  the  principal  sponsor,  my  delegation
welcomes any suggestions for the improvement of this
text and invites all other delegations to join the list of
sponsors. If necessary, we will request  the  publication
of a revised version.
has 
systematically 
Mr. Aguilar Zinser (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish):
Mexico  shares  solid  historic,  cultural  and  geographic
links  with  the  Central  American  countries  and  gives
high priority to its bilateral relations with each of them,
as well as with the region as a whole. The Government
of  Mexico 
the
Governments  and  the  peoples  of  Central  America  in
their 
efforts 
and  national
reconciliation, 
democratic
institutions  and  to  achieve  post-conflict  social  and
economic development. That support is reflected in the
great  number  of  concrete  bilateral  and  regional
cooperation  activities  in  the  political,  scientific  and
technical, cultural and educational and economic areas,
as well as in emergency humanitarian assistance.
achieve  peace 
strengthen 
supported 
to 
to 
their 
to 
With 
respect 
regional  cooperation,  my
delegation  wishes  to  mention  the  fifth  summit  of  the
Tuxtla  dialogue  and  coordination  mechanism,  held  in
June of this year in Mérida, Mexico. On that occasion,
heads of State or Government of Central America and
Mexico  adopted  the  Mérida  Declaration,  whose  main
goal  is  to  create  a  Meso-American  community  of
nations as a means of achieving greater levels of well-
being  and  sustainable  development  in  the  region,
within  a  framework  of  democracy,  respect  for  human
rights and sustained and permanent peace. The leaders,
inter alia, affirmed their support for the Puebla-Panama
Plan,  a  proposal  by  Mexico  to  promote  economic
development,  with  a  sustainable  regional  vision  for
strengthening communication links in Central America,
in particular the southern part of my country. As well,
Mexico  has  actively  participated  in  regional  efforts  to
create the Meso-American Biological Corridor.
The armed conflicts in Central America have now
been  overcome.  However,  a  sustained  effort  is  still
required of the Governments and the peoples of Central
America, with the sustained support of the international
community, to fully meet the commitments of the peace
agreements  and  so  that  the  root  causes  of  those
conflicts can be dealt with effectively. In that context,
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  has  been  —  and  must
continue to be — fundamental.
in  Guatemala 
We have carefully studied the latest report of the
Secretary-General  on  the  situation  in  Central  America
(A/57/384)  and  the  specific  reports  on  Guatemala
(A/57/584)  and  on  the  work  of  the  United  Nations
Verification  Mission 
(MINUGUA)
(A/57/336).  One  can  see  from  the  latter  two  reports
that, although there has been some progress in meeting
the  commitments  entered 
the  peace
agreements,  much  remains  to  be  done  to  achieve  a
solid,  lasting  and  irreversible  peace  in  Guatemala.  In
particular,  we  are  concerned  at  the  increase  in  human
rights  violations,  a  situation 
that  without  doubt
diminishes Guatemalans’ hopes for the peace process.
into  under 
Mexico 
that 
the 
presence 
to 
and 
certainty 
considers 
reliability 
of
MINUGUA in Guatemala has been very positive; it has
contributed 
the
implementation of the peace agreements. This function
has been broadly recognized by all political parties and
by  civil  society  and  the  people  of  Guatemala.  This  is
why my Government, which has been fully committed
to the peace process in Guatemala from the very outset,
supports  the  request  of  the  Government  of  Guatemala
that  the  Mission  continue  as  part  of  this  process  until
the  end  of  2004,  bearing  in  mind  the  election  period
that  is  approaching  and  the  governmental  transition
that  is  scheduled  for  2004.  In  this  respect,  my
delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  renewal  of  the  mandate  of  the
United  Nations  Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala
(MINUGUA),  which 
that
mandate  until  31  December  2003,  pursuant  to  a
previous  agreement.  It  also  mentions  the  intention  of
recommends  extending 
A/57/PV.50
the  Secretary-General  to  begin  consultations  with
Member  States  of  the  Organization  concerning  the
request from Guatemala.
My  delegation  believes  that  an  extension  of  the
mandate of the Mission beyond 2003 should be agreed
on,  while  we  clearly  establish  which 
the
Government  of  Guatemala  needs  to  carry  out  in  order
to consolidate the peace process.
tasks 
We  are  in  consultation  with  Member  States,
especially  with  friends  of  the  peace  process,  with
respect  to  the  draft  resolution  on  the  renewal  of  the
mandate  of  MINUGUA,  which  traditionally  has  been
introduced by my delegation. I am confident that in the
coming  days  we  will  be  able  to  distribute  and  submit
the  text  and  we  hope  that  text  will  be  adopted  by
consensus.
Concerning  consolidation  of  peace 
in  El
Salvador, my Government acknowledges the efforts of
the  Government  of  El  Salvador  in  fulfilling  the  final
commitments  under  the  peace  agreement  so  that  the
United Nations might conclude its work of verification
of  that  process  before  the  end  of  this  year.  In  this
regard, Mexico welcomes the measures adopted by the
Government  of  El  Salvador  in  order  that  the  fund  for
the  war  victims  is  adequately  established.  As  the
headquarters of the peace agreement a decade ago and
a  friend  of  the  peace  process,  Mexico  supports  the
aspiration of the Government of El Salvador to end this
period in a successful way and as quickly as possible.
the  Government  of  Mexico 
the  efforts  undertaken  by 
is
Likewise, 
the
encouraged  by 
Governments  of  Guatemala  and  Belize  within  the
Organization  of  American  States  to  find  a  solution  to
the territorial dispute between those two countries. This
is  an  example  for  the  region  and  shows  again  that
differences  of  this  nature  can  be  solved  through
negotiation.
To  conclude,  let  me  reiterate  the  commitment
made  by  my  Government  to  work  actively  with  each
one of the brother countries of the region for the sake
of long-lasting peace and sustainable development.
Mr. Valdivieso (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): It
is  my  honour  to  express  the  appreciation  of  my
delegation to the Secretary-General for the presentation
of  the  report  on  the  situation  in  Central  America,  as
well  as  the  thirteenth  report  on  human  rights  of  the
United  Nations  Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala
3
A/57/PV.50
(MINUGUA).  The  contribution  made  by  the  United
Nations in Central America during the last decade has
led to important achievements that are reflected in the
growing strength of the democratic institutions and the
consolidation  of  peace,  as  well  as  the  promotion  and
respect  for  human  rights  in  Central  America.  The
report on the situation in Central America mentions all
of  this  and  this  is  why  I  would  like  to  point  out  that
these  results  have  led  to  a  visible  improvement  in  the
living  conditions  in  large  areas  of  Central  America
previously afflicted by long years of armed conflict and
whose current and future populations, especially those
who  belong  to  the  most  vulnerable  sectors,  can  now
look to the future with promise.
their 
Two decades have already passed since we began
the peace process in Central America and indeed from
the very outset Colombia was permanently attentive to
the unfolding of that process, not as a passive observer
but  as  a  friendly  country  profoundly  interested  in
stimulating  and  supporting  a  firm  and  long  lasting
peace.  It  might  seem  paradoxical  that  a  nation  like
mine,  which  has  been  confronting  a  domestic  conflict
for over four decades now, is trying at the same time to
find  solutions  to  achieve  peace  in  other  areas.  But
reality  has  shown  that  accompanying  others  during  a
peace  process  enriches  one’s  own  vision  of  peace  and
allows  us  to  complement  the  efforts  of  others  and  the
application  of  models  that  have  some  elements  in
common  within 
individual  conditions  and
realities. So please allow me to reiterate the very strong
commitment  of  my  country  to  the  consolidation  of  a
long-lasting  peace  in  Central  America,  faced  with  the
need  to  promote  profound  transformations  that  will
lead to economic and social development in the region.
Colombia, as a member of the group of friends of
Guatemala, recognizes the very strong efforts made by
our  brother  country,  Guatemala, 
the
conditions  of  the  peace  agreement,  as  well  as  the
preponderant  role  that  MINUGUA  has  played  in  this.
Continuing  the  presence  of  MINUGUA  in  Guatemala
means  an  essential  guarantee  to  reach  the  objectives
that  have  been  proposed  since  the  peace  was  signed.
Colombia  believes  in  the  commitment  of  the  people
and  Government  of  Guatemala  to  fulfil  the  peace
agreement  conditions.  This  is  why  we  support  the
request to extend the mandate of MINUGUA beginning
1 January 2003.
in  fulfilling 
Concerning  El  Salvador,  we  would  highlight  the
efforts  that  have  led  the  Government  to  conclude  its
4
fulfilment of the peace agreement, which means a true
advance toward new stages of coexistence and progress
in this country. As a member of the group of friends of
the Secretary-General, we would likewise reiterate the
need to have the Secretary-General formalize the final
moment  of  verification  here.  If  we  do  not  have  this
final  touch,  we  will  be  maintaining  a  situation  of
uncertainty for no good reason.
Mr.  Flores  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The
representative  of  Denmark  spoke  earlier  on  behalf  of
the European Union, and my delegation fully supports
his  statement.  Nevertheless,  in  the  light  of  the  very
close  ties  that  bind  my  country  to  the  region,  and
because  Spain  belongs  to  the  Group  of  Friends  of
Central America and Guatemala, I should like to make
some additional remarks.
Spain  is  pleased  that  the  political  and  economic
dialogue  between  the  European  Union  and  Central
America  is  continuing  to  make  headway,  as  was
confirmed by the Ministerial Conference held last May
at  Madrid  under  the  presidency  of  Spain.  At  that
Conference,  the  countries  of  the  region  made  a
commitment to consolidate integration, democracy and
social  and  economic  advances.  Spain  will  continue,
both within the European Union and in other forums, to
make every effort to support those objectives.
The  progress  made  in  the  negotiations  on  the
territorial  dispute  between  Guatemala  and  Belize,  the
efforts undertaken by President Bolaños of Nicaragua,
and,  above  all,  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of
the  El  Salvador  peace  agreements,  which  we  will
commemorate  this  year,  give  us  considerable  grounds
for hope in this respect. However, a great deal remains
to be done.
Spain  would  like  at  the  outset  to  thank  the
Secretary-General for the quality and timeliness of the
reports  submitted  by  the  United  Nations  Verification
Mission  in  Guatemala  (MINUGUA),  whose  regional
deployment  is  playing  an  especially  effective  role  in
the  follow-up  to  the  implementation  of  the  peace
agreements in Guatemala.
In this respect, however, we  note  with  regret  the
overall deterioration of the situation in the country this
past year, especially in the area of human rights, as was
noted  by  the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General, Mrs. Hilani.
Our  country  views  with  deep  concern 
the
continuing 
threats  and  extortion  attempts  against
persons  and  institutions  working  for  the  defence  of
human  rights;  the  lack  of  progress  made  on  the
Agreement  on  the  Identity  and  Rights  of  Indigenous
Peoples; and the re-emergence of civil defence patrols.
We are particularly concerned at the growing climate of
impunity,  as  was  evidenced  by  the  overturning  of  the
Gerardi  convictions  and  the  legal  problems  related  to
the  application  of  the  death  penalty,  the  promised
moratorium on which has not yet been implemented.
that 
Spain 
confident 
is  nevertheless 
implementation  of  all  aspects  of 
the
commitment  undertaken  by  President  Portillo  before
the  General  Assembly  last  September  with  respect  to
the 
the  peace
agreements will become a reality. Our country is aware
of  the  efforts  made  by  President  Portillo  to  promote
national  reconciliation,  which  have  led  to  recent
in  specific  areas,  such  as
legislative  advances 
decentralization 
and 
racial  discrimination.  Our
Government supports those fully.
Throughout 
invaluable  assistance.  Spain  deems 
this  process,  MINUGUA  has
provided 
it
advisable  that  next  year  the  Mission  draw  up  a
transition  plan  identifying  the  Guatemalan  institutions
and  organizations  that  would  take  over  MINUGUA’s
functions.  Given  this  necessary  transition  and  the  fact
that general elections will be held in the country at the
end of the next year, Spain would suggest an extension
of  MINUGUA’s  mandate  beyond  the  end  of  2003,
along with a gradual reduction of its staff, with a view
to  facilitating  the  transition  process  and  ensuring  the
initial stability of the incoming Government.
to 
led 
Mr.  Lagos  Pizzati  (El  Salvador)  (spoke 
in
Spanish): The item on the situation in Central America
has been under consideration by the General Assembly
since 1983, at a time when the region was in the throes
of  a  political  crisis.  Internal  conflicts  in  certain
countries  had  not  only 
instability  and
confrontation  within  and  among  the  countries  of  the
region, but had also become a factor for confrontation
within  the  context  of  the  cold  war  —  a  situation  that
was  in  turn  negatively  affecting  the  economic  and
social development of the peoples of Central America.
Today, nearly two decades later, we are pleased at
the positive outcome of the efforts deployed to address
the  situation:  the  decision  of  the  Central  American
Governments to shoulder their responsibilities towards
A/57/PV.50
solidarity, 
their peoples; the assistance of the United Nations; and
the 
the
international  community,  in  particular  that  of  friendly
countries, all of which have an interest in seeing peace
and stability take root in Central America.
support  and  cooperation  of 
The positive evolution of the situation in Central
America  has  been  reflected  annually  in  the  reports
submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  on  that  item,  in
particular  since  1987,  when  the  General  Assembly
expressed its support for the agreement on “Procedure
for  the  establishment  of  a  firm  and  lasting  peace  in
Central  America”,  signed  on  7  August  1987,  and
requested the Secretary-General to provide his support
and  good  offices  to  the  Governments  of  the  region  to
achieve  those  objectives  —  a  mandate  that  was  fully
reaffirmed  and  supported  by  the  Security  Council  in
1989. Those resolutions became the basis for a greater
involvement  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
quest to resolve Central American problems.
and 
The 
process 
difficult 
complex 
of
peacemaking in Central America has led to substantive
changes that have benefited  the  peoples  of  the  region,
which today enjoy greater freedom and democracy and
whose  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  are
better  safeguarded.  In  the  economic  and  social  fields,
Governments are working to expand opportunities from
the perspective of human-centred national development
programmes.
However,  as  the  Secretary-General  stated  in  his
most recent report on the situation in Central America,
it must be noted that the peoples and the Governments
of  the  region  continue  to  face  serious  challenges,
which, although they are not exclusive to our countries,
must be addressed with the same intensity and priority
that  were  accorded  to  the  resolution  of  the  Central
American crisis and of the internal conflicts. This will
enable us to avoid any delay in achieving our goals and
to take advantage of our resources and our potential, in
order  to  continue  to  promote  the  development  and
consolidation  of  the  democratic  institutions  —  those
resulting  from  the  peace  process  as  well  as  others  —
that are necessary to enhance the quality of life of our
peoples.
The  support  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  the
international community will be pivotal in this respect,
because  while  we  must  continue  to  combat  those
structural  factors  that  led  to  the  political  and  military
crisis,  we  are  doing  so  with  limited  financial  and
5
A/57/PV.50
natural  resources,  dealing  all  the  while  with  the
consequences  of  natural  disasters.  It  will  always  be
helpful  for  our  own  efforts  to  be  complemented  by
assistance,  in  order  to  minimize  not  only  the  region’s
vulnerability  to  the  forces  of  nature  but  also  the
negative  conditions  resulting  from  an  international
economic  environment  that  is  affecting  the  primary
economies of the countries of the region, and in order
to  consolidate 
the  objectives  of  peace,  freedom,
democracy and development.
I  should  like  to  refer  to  a  specific  aspect  of  the
the
situation  of  my  country 
implementation of the Peace Agreements.
that 
is 
linked 
to 
During the 1980s — a period that could be called
the “lost decade”, as far as the political, economic and
social  development  of  our  people  is  concerned  —  El
Salvador  was  involved  in  an  internal  armed  conflict
that fortunately came to an end with the signing of the
El  Salvador  Peace  Agreements  on  16  January  1992.
The 
those
Agreements was verified and monitored by the United
Nations  —  a  process  that  began  even  earlier,  in  1991,
when  the  United  Nations  began  a  limited  operation  to
verify  the  San  José  Agreement  on  Human  Rights,
which  was  subsequently  incorporated  into  the  Peace
Agreements.
the  provisions  of 
implementation  of 
the  Salvadoran  people.  During 
The  transition  from  war  to  peace  provided  a
stimulus  for 
that
transition period they had to fully implement all of the
commitments undertaken in the Peace Agreements and
set  out  again  on  the  path  towards  normal  living
conditions,  free  from  the  fear  and  violence  that  had
profoundly affected all elements of society.
We firmly believe — and our conviction is shared
by  friendly  countries  that  directly  participated  in  or
closely followed the development of the peace process
in  El  Salvador  —  that  by  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the
signing  of  the  Peace  Agreements,  on  16  January  this
year, the commitments and obligations set out in those
Agreements had been fully discharged.
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  comments  that  we  have  reached  the  final
stage  of  the  United  Nations  verification  process  in  El
Salvador.  This  can  now  be  formalized  with 
the
confirmation  of  the  commitment  to  the  efficient  and
effective functioning of the Fund for the Wounded and
War-Disabled — the final outstanding issue relating to
the verification process.
6
It is important to reaffirm the political will shown
by  the  Government  of  El  Salvador  during  the  entire
process of implementing of the Peace Agreements and
to provide information about the measures taken in this
respect, with the approval by the Republic of a law and
the  consequent  allocation  of  financial  resources  from
the national budget for the adequate functioning of the
Fund  for  the  Wounded  and  War-Disabled,  which  will
provide assistance to the beneficiaries.
this 
It  should  be  pointed  out  —  and 
is
encouraging — that the report of the Secretary-General
is  able  to  conclude  that  the  situation  in  El  Salvador
continues to evolve positively. Although not all of our
problems  have  been  resolved,  there  is  no  doubt  that  a
very  profound  transformation  has  taken  place  within
Salvadoran society itself, in particular as a result of the
will and efforts of the people and the Government of El
Salvador, as well as the interested political forces that
want  to  establish  a  peaceful,  democratic,  just  and
equitable society.
We would like to stress that we have been able to
rely  on  the  unconditional  support  of  the  international
community  and  the  United  Nations,  and  we  express
heartfelt thanks to them. We would like in particular to
express our gratitude to the Secretary-General, as well
as to his predecessors, and to all of the personnel of the
United Nations who in one way or another participated
in  the  verification  effort.  We  are  confident  that  they
will be able to continue their excellent work where it is
required in other parts of the world.
In  conclusion,  my  Government  would  like  to
reaffirm its steadfast commitment and determination to
continue along the road towards the consolidation of a
society in harmony — one that works for the economic
and  social  progress  not  only  of  all  the  people  of  El
Salvador, but also of the whole of Central America.
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
My  colleague,  Ambassador  Bruno  Stagno  of  Costa
Rica,  has  already  spoken  on  behalf  of  all  of  the
countries members of the Central American Integration
System  and,  of  course,  we  fully  associate  ourselves
with  his  statement.  I  will  therefore  limit  myself  to
speaking  exclusively  about  the  situation  of  Guatemala
and,  in  particular,  the  extension  of  the  mandate  of  the
United  Nations  Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala
(MINUGUA).
In  this  respect,  I  would  like  first  of  all  to  thank
the Secretary-General for having submitted the reports
contained  in  documents  A/57/384  and  A/57/584.  I
should  also  like  to  thank  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the
peace process in Guatemala, who, as the representative
of  Mexico  stated  earlier,  are  preparing  a  draft
resolution  to  be  introduced  shortly  at  this  meeting.  I
should  like  in  particular  to  acknowledge  the  work  of
the  Permanent  Mission  of  Mexico  to  the  United
Nations,  whose  officials 
the
consultations on that draft resolution.
coordinating 
are 
In  recent  years,  at  about  this  time,  we  have
considered the situation in Central America in general
and  the  situation  in  Guatemala  in  particular.  As  the
Assembly  is  aware,  MINUGUA  has  been  operating  in
my  country  since  1994.  Its  original  objective  was  to
verify compliance with an agreement on human rights,
but its mandate was widened in 1997 to include support
for  parties  that  had  signed  the  Peace  Agreements  in
December  1996  by  carrying  out  tasks  in  the  areas  of
verification,  facilitation,  public  information  and  good
offices.
Those  Agreements  are  a  work 
in  progress,
characterized by advances, as well as by shortcomings
and  even  by  setbacks.  The  presence  of  MINUGUA  in
Guatemala  has  been  a  vital  element  in  that  process.
Speaking  in  this  Hall  in  September  during  the  third
plenary meeting, President Alfonso Portillo paid tribute
to  the  role  of  the  Mission,  calling  it  the  “critical
conscience of the State”.
Given  the  delay  in  the  implementation  of  the
Peace  Agreements  that  became  apparent  during  2000,
as  a  result  of  a  number  of  factors  whose  origin  and
scope  are  described  in  the  reports  that  the  Secretary-
General  has  periodically  submitted  to  us,  it  was
decided  that  the  mandate  of  MINUGUA  should  be
extended until the end of 2003, with its functions being
progressively  transferred  to  national  entities  or,  where
possible, to other United Nations bodies. That process
is now under way, and the size of the Mission has been
progressively  reduced  year  by  year  with  a  view  to  its
final withdrawal.
We  have  before  us  a  number  of  reports  of  the
Secretary-General  that  provide  an  account  of  the
current  status  of  the  implementation  of  the  Peace
Agreements. Among them, I should like to mention the
seventh  report  on  the  verification  of  compliance  with
the peace agreements (A/56/1003); the thirteenth report
on  human  rights  (A/57/336); 
the
Secretary-General on the situation in Central America,
the  report  of 
A/57/PV.50
already  cited;  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on
the renewal of the mandate of MINUGUA (A/57/584);
and the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of Olara Otunnu, his Special Representative for
Children  and  Armed  Conflict  (A/57/402),  which
contains an account of Mr. Otunnu’s visit to Guatemala
from 24 to 28 February this year.
Together, those reports present a mixed picture of
progress  in  some  areas  and  of  stagnation  and  even
setbacks in others. Although we think that some of the
reports  —  especially  that  concerning  the  situation  in
Central  America  —  underestimate  the  progress,  we
recognize  that  shortfalls  in  compliance  with  the  peace
agreements  have  been  accumulating  and  that  many  of
the  objectives  originally  pursued  are  far  from  being
attained.  Some  of  the  areas  in  which  setbacks  have
been  observed  relate  precisely  to  sensitive  matters,
such as respect for human rights and the strengthening
of civil society.
This  is  not  the  time  to  apportion  blame  for  the
less  than  satisfactory  picture  before  us.  Certainly,  the
Government  led  by  President  Alfonso  Portillo  has
acknowledged  its  share  of  blame,  related  less  to
intentions than to the implementation of commitments.
It  must  also  be  pointed  out  that  the  dynamic  of  the
process  has  persistently  generated  resistance  on  the
part  of  various  pressure  groups 
felt
themselves  to  be  adversely  affected  by  particular
in  certain  circles,  recalcitrant
actions.  Moreover, 
attitudes  persist  with 
to  much-needed
reconciliation. Equally noteworthy are the surrounding
circumstances: an economy very adversely affected by
external factors — particularly by the falling prices of
basic commodities — that result in high unemployment
and  in  pressures  on  public-sector  finances.  Such
pressures  make  it  difficult  to  meet  the  financial
implications of the commitments undertaken.
that  have 
regard 
the  fact 
been 
organized 
is 
have 
that  many 
At  any  rate,  although  all  participants  in  the
process  have  reaffirmed  their  full  alignment  with  the
agreements, 
tasks  remain
outstanding.  They 
and
rescheduled  by  the  parties  signatory  to  the  process,  in
broad  consultation  with  civil  society.  The  tasks  to  be
accomplished 
and
subsequently  envisaged  for  the  period  2001-2003,
apparently  will  not  be  completed.  But  at  least  it  is
intended  that  they  be  reinvigorated,  as  agreed  during
the  most  recent  meeting  of  the  Consultative  Group,
held  at  Washington  in  February,  whose  work  is
1997-2000, 
in 
the 
period 
7
A/57/PV.50
summarized  in  two  recent  reports  on  progress  with
regard  to  follow-up.  For  all  of  those  reasons,  it  is
essential  to  extend  the  presence  of  the  Verification
Mission.
But there is  more:  under  the  current  scheme,  the
Mission  would  be  withdrawn  just  as  the  current
Administration  concludes  its  term  at  the  end  of  2003,
in  a  transitional  period  during  which  it  would  be
desirable  to  maintain  a  United  Nations  presence  in
Guatemala  for  an  additional  year  —  that  is,  through
2004  — 
to  ensure  that  the  logic  of  the  peace
agreements  continues  into  the  future.  That  is  why,
when  President  Alfonso  Portillo  addressed 
the
Assembly on 12 September, during the general debate,
he pointed out:
“My  Government’s 
term  of  office  will
expire  in  a  little  over  a  year,  by  which  time  the
United Nations Verification Mission in Guatemala
(MINUGUA)  will  be  planning  to  withdraw.  The
Mission  has  played  a  fundamental  role  as  the
critical  conscience  of  the  State  and  has  actively
supported  the  fundamental  changes  that  have
taken  place.  We  appreciate  the  work  that  it  has
done  and  we  would  like  here  to  request  the
extension  of  its  mandate  to  the  end  of  2004  so
that  it  may  accompany  us  as  we  make  the
transition  to  a  new  Administration.  Our  hope  is
that MINUGUA will hand over its functions in an
orderly  manner  to  national  bodies  and,  where
appropriate,  to  the  programmes  and  agencies  of
the United Nations.” (A/57/PV.3, p. 8)
Moreover, not only the Government is requesting
a  United  Nations  presence  for  a  limited  additional
period.  For  example,  at  last  month’s  intersectoral
roundtable  on  dialogue,  the  culture  of  peace  and
reconciliation, chaired by the Archbishop of Guatemala
and attended by more than 200 representatives of civil
society  organizations,  many  statements  to  that  effect
were  heard.  Along 
lines,  Special
Representative Olara Otunnu, states in his report, after
noting what he describes as the very positive effects of
MINUGUA, 
is  “widespread  concern,
particularly within civil society, about the plans not to
extend MINUGUA beyond the end of 2003” (A/57/402,
para. 20).
same 
the 
that 
there 
Finally, we are aware of the practical and, above
all,  budgetary  difficulties 
the  extension  of
MINUGUA  would  entail.  But,  I  must  emphasize  that
that 
8
we  are  proposing  to  extend,  not  to  perpetuate,  its
presence.  As  we  have  previously  pointed  out,  we
accept the idea of a gradual and progressive reduction
of  the  Mission’s  personnel,  followed  by  its  final
withdrawal.  We  do  not  think  it  would  be  inconsistent
with  that  policy  to  envisage  withdrawal  at  the  end  of
2004  rather  than  of  2003,  particularly  if  we  take  into
account the fact that we would be contemplating a very
reduced  presence  in  the  final  year  compared  with  the
previous  years.  Therefore,  we  trust  that  the  States
members of the Assembly will join us in our aspiration,
which will enable us to capitalize on the Organization’s
considerable  investment  in  effort  and  resources  to
support  Guatemalans  in  the  consolidation  of  their
process of peace, democracy and development.
Mr. Brown (United States): Today we are here to
address  an  important  item,  “The  Situation  in  Central
America:  procedures  for  the  establishment  of  a  firm
and  lasting  peace  and  progress  in  fashioning  a  region
of  peace,  freedom,  democracy  and  development.”  The
situations  are  different  in  each  of  the  countries  of  the
region,  but  all  are  of  vital  importance  to  the  United
States,  as  Central  America  is  tied  intimately  to  our
country  by  geography,  history  and,  most  importantly,
people.  We  have  welcomed  large  numbers  of  Central
Americans  into  the  United  States  and  we  value  the
productive contributions  they  make  to  our  society  and
the  ties  of  kinship  they  have  forged  between  our
nations.
In  the  past  year,  the  nations  of  the  region  have
made  significant  progress  on  a  set  of  objectives  that
serves  to  bind  them  together.  Economic  integration  is
deepening,  bringing  with  it  a  series  of  important
benefits. The United States has announced its intention
to embark upon free trade agreement negotiations with
the region. This agreement, when concluded, will have
an enormous positive impact on the region’s economic
growth and development.
We  applaud  the  completion  of  the  facilitation
process  between  Belize  and  Guatemala,  under  the
auspices  of  the  Organization  of  American  States  and
with a significant contribution from Honduras, on their
centuries-old  border  dispute.  We  note  with  concern,
however,  remaining  border  disputes  in  the  region  and
urge Central American nations to resolve border issues
for the greater good of the region and its inhabitants.
Central  America  is  an  example  to  the  world  of
what  can  be  accomplished  when  nations  unite  in
to  professionalize  and 
common  goals.  Not  many  years  ago,  the  region  was
rife  with  bloody  civil  wars.  Today,  civilian  authorities
are firmly in control of all of the armed forces, which
continue 
find  more
constructive roles in society, such as disaster relief and
assisting  with  border  security.  The  Salvadoran  peace
accords of 1992 have come to a successful conclusion
and  we  urge 
formally
recognize that fact.
the  Secretary-General 
to 
to 
In  Guatemala,  though  there  has  been  progress  in
the  peace  process  that  began  in  1996,  much  more
remains  to  be  accomplished,  especially  in  the  human
rights  and  military  reform  areas.  We  endorse  the
recommendation  that  the  United  Nations  Verification
Mission  in  Guatemala  remain  to  monitor  progress
through 2004.
Despite the many advances, the region still has a
great deal of work to do. The Governments realize that
corruption is a cancer that affects the entire society and
literally  takes  food  out  of  the  mouths  of  hungry
children. Intimately tied to corruption is the emergence
of  transnational  criminals  in  the  region.  We  urge  the
nations  to  participate  fully  in  the  Inter-American
Convention 
Follow-Up
Mechanism, reduce impunity and go after corruption in
their  ranks.  We  ask  each  nation  to  redouble  its  efforts
in the fight against international criminal organizations
and the illegal, illicit transfer of arms, drugs and human
beings.  Each  country  should  sign  and  ratify  the
remaining international anti-terrorism treaties.
Corruption’s 
Against 
We are pleased with the successes of the past and
look  forward  to  the  new  millennium  with  great  hope,
pledging  to  work  hand  in  hand  with  the  countries  of
Central America on all issues of mutual interest.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on this item.
I  should  like  to  inform  members  that  action  on
draft resolution A/57/L.20 will be taken at a later date.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this
stage of its consideration of agenda item 38.
Agenda item 30 (continued)
The role of the United Nations in promoting a new
global human order
A/57/PV.50
Draft resolution (A/57/L.10)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that
the General Assembly held the debate on agenda  item
30  at  its  forty-third  plenary  meeting  on  Monday,  4
November 2002.
I  should 
the
the
introduction  of  draft 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Benin,
Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, the
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,
the Gambia, Jordan, Lebanon, Mali and Zimbabwe.
that,  since 
resolution  A/57/L.10, 
to  announce 
like 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft
resolution A/57/L.10. May I take it that the  Assembly
decides to adopt the draft resolution?
resolution  A/57/L.10  was 
Draft 
(resolution 57/12).
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
adopted
wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 30?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 167
South American zone of peace and cooperation
Draft resolution (A/57/L.7)
Mr. De Rivero (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): On 27
July  2002,  the  South  American  presidents,  meeting  in
Guayaquil,  Ecuador,  decided  to  declare  the  South
American subregion a zone of peace and cooperation.
The  South  American  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation is not similar to the zones of peace that the
non-aligned  countries  declared  during  the  cold  war  to
free  some  regions  from  the  East-West  conflict.  The
zones  of  peace  of  that  time  were  directed  towards
rejecting  the  rivalries  among  the  super-Powers  and
their  blocs.  Even  better,  the  South  American  Zone  of
Peace  and  Cooperation  is  oriented  to  reject  any
hypothesis  of  war-like  conflict  among  the  South
American democracies.
The  empirical  experience  of  contemporary
international  relations  shows  that  democracies  do  not
promote  armed  conflicts  among  themselves.  In  this
context,  the  South  American  democracies  want  to
consolidate  this  tendency  by  means  of  the  South
American Zone of Peace and Cooperation.
9
A/57/PV.50
In 
its  first  stage, 
the  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation would be aimed at promoting transparency
and fostering confidence-building measures relating to
defence  and  security  among  the  South  American
countries, including the eradication of weapons of mass
destruction, of anti-personnel mines and the illicit trade
in  small  and  light  weapons.  Later  on,  in  Peru’s  view,
the zone of peace and cooperation would proceed to an
effective 
defence
expenditures  and  then  to  a  further  complex  stage —
that being, disarmament.
limitation 
gradual 
and 
of 
This zone of peace is not a geopolitical objective
in itself. Its ultimate goal should be to release resources
with  the  aim  of  reducing  poverty  in  South  America,
since 
democratic
Governments of our countries.
imperilling 
poverty 
the 
is 
The  South  American  zone  of  peace  would  also
serve to create a favourable atmosphere for cooperation
and  to  confront  jointly  the  evils  of  terrorism,  drug
trafficking,  organized  crime  and  subversion  against
democracy,  all  of  which  are  today’s  main  threats  to
sub-regional security.
like 
Since  the  General  Assembly  has  already  been
informed about the objectives of this zone of peace and
cooperation,  I  would  now 
to  present  draft
resolution A/57/L.7, entitled “South American zone of
peace  and  cooperation”.  In  its  preambular  paragraphs,
the draft mentions the regional and subregional efforts
that  are  the  basis  for  the  proposed  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation. It recognizes the firm intent of the States
of  South  America,  taking  into  account  the  security
needs of each country, to adopt measures to contribute
to  an  effective  and  gradual  limitation  of  defence
expenditures in the region, with the aim of having more
resources  available  for 
the  economic  and  social
development of their peoples.
This  is  a  very  important  issue,  because  by
fostering trust, transparency and the control of military
expenditure,  we  are  seeking  to  prevent  the  risk  of  a
new  arms  race  in  the  subcontinent.  Furthermore,  the
cost  of  the  latest  generation  of  technological  weapons
and  equipment  is  nearly  inaccessible  and  —  why  not
say so — even immoral, in light of the social demands
of our countries. This goal, far from being utopian, is a
realistic and sensible approach.
In  the  first  operative  paragraph,  the  General
Assembly  welcomes  the  declaration  of  the  South
American  region  as  a  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation.
10
This aspect is important, because the declaration shows
the  praiseworthy  effort  that  seeks  to  contribute  to
reinforcing  international  peace  and  security  at  this
critical  moment  when  the  international  community  is
threatened  by 
the
proliferation  and  development  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.
terrorism  and  by 
international 
in 
included 
the  commitments 
The  subsequent  operative  paragraphs  commend
and  welcome 
the
declaration of the zone of peace, such as the decision to
ban the use, or threat of use of force among the South
American  States,  the  proscription  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  the  eradication  of  anti-personnel  mines  in
the  region,  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light
Weapons, the fostering of transparency and the gradual
limitation on arms purchases.
Finally,  the  last  operative  paragraph  calls  upon
the States of the international community to contribute
to  and  cooperate  with  the  objectives  set  forth  in  the
declaration regarding a South American zone of peace
and cooperation.
The South American countries hope that this draft
resolution,  which  is  a  subregional  contribution  to
international  peace  and  security,  will  be  approved  by
consensus by this Assembly.
Mr.  Gallegos  Chiriboga  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  My  delegation  takes  special  pleasure  in
expressing  its  full  support  for  the  draft  resolution
contained  in  document  A/57/L.7  under  agenda  item
167, “South American zone of peace and cooperation”.
Ecuador and the other countries of South America
base their international relations on the strictest respect
for  the  norms  and  principles  that  are  part  of  the  legal
tradition  and,  among  others,  those  set  forth  in  the
United  Nations  Charter  and 
the  Organization  of
American  States  (OAS).  Hence,  the  strengthening  of
peace and security and peaceful settlement of disputes,
the  defence  and  promotion  of  human  rights,  non-
intervention 
in  domestic  affairs  of  other  States,
regional  integration  and  harmonious  development  of
our  peoples  are  genuine  pillars  of  our  legal  tradition
and our role in the international community.
Over  30  years  ago,  the  Andean  countries  began
the  first  subregional  integration  process  in  Latin
America.  To  date  we  have  substantially  moved
forward,  and  today  Andean  integration  covers  all
aspects  of  life  in  the  society  —  trade  in  goods  and
services;  free  circulation  of  people  and  capital;
harmonization  of  macro-economic  policies;  physical
integration;  migration;  the  social  dimension;  and,
naturally, a common foreign policy.
In this respect, the Andean Commitment to Peace,
Security and Cooperation contained in the Declaration
of  Galapagos  of  17  December  1989,  as  well  as  the
Lima  Commitment  and  Andean  Charter  for  Peace  and
Security,  adopted  in  June  2002,  are  instruments  that
guide  our  external  policies  and  which  underscore  our
decision  to  live  in  peace.  Our  vision  is  shared  by  the
international community and our unequivocal decision
to  cooperate  in  the  benefit  of  development  and  the
well-being of our peoples.
as  well 
(MERCOSUR), 
As  regards  South  American  regional  issues,  we
have  sponsored  the  setting  up  of  a  free  trade  zone
between the Andean community and the Southern Cone
Common  Market 
as
strengthening and deepening relations between the two
subregional  associations.  In  that  context,  the  Brasilia
Communiqué,  endorsed  at  the  first  meeting  of  the
Presidents  of  South  America 
the
conclusions  of  the  first  meeting  of  Ministers  for
Foreign  Affairs 
the  Andean  Community,
MERCOSUR  and  Chile,  held  in  La  Paz  last  year,  are
particularly relevant to defining  a  common  vision  that
establishes  the  foundation  and  actions  for  creating  a
South American zone of peace and cooperation.
in  2000,  and 
of 
Threats to international peace and security and to
democratic  stability  and  the  monitoring  of  human
rights by their very nature are different at the beginning
of  the  twenty-first  century.  Armed  conflicts  between
States  and  regular  armies  occur  less  frequently  today,
but  terrorism,  organized  crime,  drug-trafficking  and
ethnic  and 
religious  violence,  underdevelopment,
poverty and extreme inequality and social injustice are
serious  dangers  that  must  be  confronted  jointly  by  all
members  of  the  international  community  in  order  to
make  progress  in  building  a  more  secure,  just  and
united world.
During  the  second  meeting  of  the  Presidents  of
South  America,  held  in  Guayaquil  on  27  July  2002,  a
Declaration  on  a  South  American  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation  was  adopted.  It  is  undoubtedly  a  historic
event  that  reflects  the  best  traditions  of  understanding
and  peaceful  coexistence  between  the  peoples  of  the
A/57/PV.50
region.  The  South  American  peace  zone,  whose  basis,
mechanisms and guidelines are clearly reflected in the
draft  resolution  before  us  today,  is  the  expression  of
our  firm  decision  to  live  in  peace,  confront  threats  to
international peace jointly and cooperate effectively for
the  harmonious  development  of  our  peoples  within  a
framework of democracy and social justice.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  refer  to  an  issue  of
special  interest  and  significance  to  my  country  that
rightly illustrates the positive direction of the relations
and  effective  cooperation  between  the  peoples  of  our
region.  Four  years  ago,  through  a  long  process  of
peaceful  negotiation,  with 
the  participation  of
Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States, Ecuador
and  Peru  resolved  the  territorial  dispute  that  had
divided them since independence. Today, our countries
are  experiencing  a  period  of  mutual  cooperation.
Increased 
and
diplomatic  links,  a  common  view  of  problems  of  the
contemporary  world,  faith  in  law,  commitment  to
regional integration and the fostering of confidence are
singularly  strong  in  our  bilateral  relations  at  the
beginning of the twenty-first century. The real benefits
of peace, security and cooperation are limitless.
closer  political, 
cultural 
trade, 
Mr.  Moura  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Brazil
welcomes  Peru’s 
the  Declaration
regarding  a  South  American  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation,  adopted  by 
the  Presidents  of  South
America.
introduction  of 
Meeting at Guayaquil in July 2002, the Presidents
reaffirmed  our  belief 
in  democratic  values  and
principles and in the defence of human rights, essential
to advancing the structuring process, and in a common
South  American  space.  They  also  reaffirmed  the
necessary  commitment  to  the  main  principles  of  this
Organization:  the  search  for  peaceful  solutions  to
conflicts and the prohibition of the use or threat of use
of force.
the 
in  2000, 
recognizes 
The  Guayaquil  Consensus,  a  corollary  to  a
process  begun  by  the  Presidents  of  South  America  at
Brasilia 
importance  of
expanding and strengthening the regional infrastructure
as a basic factor in the integration of the economic area
of  South  America  and  in  the  development  of  its
countries.  In  that  context,  the  Presidents  recognized
that  the  interrelationship  between  infrastructure  and
development must be explored within the context of the
principle  of  open  regionalism,  based  on  the  results  of
11
A/57/PV.50
the  analysis  of  five  basic  principles:  a  geo-economic
perspective,  social  sustainability,  economic  efficiency,
environmental 
institutional
development.
sustainability 
and 
region’s 
immense 
Convinced  that  the  physical  integration  of  the
South American area will optimize the mobilization of
the 
the
Presidents  agreed  to  strengthen  and  expand  South
American integration processes through active policies
to accelerate economic growth in a sustainable manner,
reduce  external  vulnerability,  improve  the  distribution
of wealth and reduce poverty levels in the region.
economic  potential, 
The  Declaration  regarding  a  South  American
zone  of  peace  and  cooperation,  which  we  are
considering  today,  is  framed  within  that  context.  It
expresses the dedication and  aspiration  of  our  peoples
to  achieve  a  fruitful  future  of  peaceful  coexistence,
lasting cooperation and well-being.
The  Declaration  regarding  a  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation  in  South  America  places  into  context  our
political willingness to continue to carry out actions of
coordination and cooperation with a view to shaping a
joint South American area.
in 
The  basic  postulates  that  mark  our  region’s
trajectory 
the  area  of  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation, which were already part of many regional
initiatives  and  subregional  documents,  are  reaffirmed
in  that  document:  the  prohibition  of  all  weapons  of
mass  destruction, 
the
commitment to establish a regime for the gradual total
eradication  of  anti-personnel 
the
decisive  effort  to  implement  the  recommendations  of
the  United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  on  Small
Arms and Light Weapons.
including  nuclear  ones, 
landmines  and 
The  Guayaquil  Declaration  is  the  fruit  of  a
lengthy  and  ongoing  process  of  dialogue  between  our
countries  on  bilateral  and  subregional  bases  that  has
enabled us to build an atmosphere of trust and stability.
Examples  of  that  process  are  the  Declaration  of
MERCOSUR,  Bolivia  and  Chile  as  a  Zone  of  Peace,
adopted  at  Ushuaia 
the  Declaration  of
Galapagos of 1989 and the Lima Commitment of 2002,
which created the Andean region zone of peace.
in  1998, 
Brazil  is  proud  to  belong  to  a  region  that  is  free
of international conflicts and has also consistently had
one of the lowest levels of military expenditure, which
is basically directed at replacing obsolete equipment.
12
Mr.  Cappagli  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  express  my  delegation’s
appreciation  for  the  fact  that  the  General  Assembly  is
taking up the Declaration regarding a South American
zone  of  peace  and  cooperation,  adopted  at  Guayaquil,
Ecuador, on 27 July 2002.
This  Declaration  is  an  annex  to  the  Guayaquil
Consensus, by which the Presidents of South America
drew  up  an  ambitious  plan  of  physical  integration,
modernization 
subregional
infrastructure  in  an  area  where  weapon  expenditures
are among the lowest in the world.
and  development  of 
The  countries  of 
the  subregion  have  been
developing  an  intensive  effort  aimed  at  consolidating,
through  confidence-building  measures,  a  very  friendly
and productive relationship. That is part of the change
in our concept of international security, which has been
taking  place  since  our  countries 
their
democratic institutions.
regained 
In that regard, we understand security to represent
that which allows for the consolidation of basic values,
such  as  representative  democracy,  respect  for  human
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  the  rule  of  law  and
trade  liberalization.  This  new  concept  of  security,
together  with 
regional  and
subregional  integration,  have  changed  the  security
framework and have enabled us to see a neighbour no
longer  as  a  potential  enemy  or  competitor  but  as  a
friend and partner, eliminating possible conflicts.
the  processes 
for 
Argentina was a pioneer in the promotion of that
kind of initiative, whose objective is to establish in the
region a new dialogue with a cooperative focus. There
is  no  doubt  about  the  importance  of  peace  in  the
process  of  physical,  economic  and  trade  integration.
The zone of peace of MERCOSUR, Bolivia and Chile,
adopted  in  Ushuaia,  Argentina  in  1998,  represents  an
especially  significant  precedent  in  the  creation  of  an
environment of peaceful and cooperative security in the
Southern Cone.
The  declaration  of  a  South  American  Zone  of
Peace  and  Cooperation  reflects  once  more,  this  time
comprehensively  and  in  a  political  document,  the
various commitments already assumed by the countries
in  the  subregion  through  legal  instruments.  It  is  our
intention to continue working on the consolidation and
promotion  of  those  commitments  in  the  framework  of
dialogue in the Committee on Hemispheric Security of
is
the  Organization  of  American  States,  which 
responsible  for  the  analysis  and  consideration  of  all
issues related to security in the hemisphere.
the overall well-being of our peoples and of the region
as a whole.
A/57/PV.50
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  Guyana  is  pleased  to  join
sister South American republics in co-sponsoring draft
resolution  A/57/L.7,  on  the  South  American  zone  of
peace  and  cooperation.  We  welcome  and  support  the
timely  initiative  of  the  delegation  of  Peru  to  include
this  item  on  the  agenda  of  the  present  session  of  the
General Assembly.
At Guayaquil, on 27 July of this year, the leaders
of our continent,  recalling the commitment  adopted  in
the  Brasilia  Communiqué  of  1  September  2000  to
create a South American zone of peace, declared South
America  to  be  a  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation.  They
further declared, inter alia, that
in  keeping  with 
“in  South  America  the  use  of,  or  the  threat
of  the  use  of,  force  between  States  shall  be
banned, 
the  principles  and
provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  of
the  Charter  of  the  Organization  of  American
States.”
The  adoption  of  that  Declaration  represents  an
important milestone in the relations of the countries of
South  America.  It  is  a  historical  decision  in  the  best
tradition  of  understanding  and  peaceful  coexistence
among the peoples of the region.
is 
least  of  which 
In  its  implementation,  our  countries  face  many
the
common  challenges,  not 
deleterious 
impact  on  our  societies  of  persistent
poverty  and  inequality,  transnational  crime,  the  illicit
trade in drugs and in small arms and light weapons and
the threat of international terrorism. These all threaten
to  nullify  the  hard-won  freedoms  and  most  cherished
values  of  our  peoples.  They  must  be  confronted  with
determination and resolve.
I 
to  which 
The  challenges 
refer  will  be
surmounted only through the fullest and most effective
cooperation of all concerned. Through declaring South
America  as  a  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation,  the
leaders  of  our  continent  have  made  a  solemn
commitment to create conditions necessary for success
in addressing these challenges.
My Government subscribes fully to the objectives
set forth in the Guayaquil Declaration. We stand ready
to  cooperate  fully  with  all  countries  in  the  region  and
beyond  to  promote  peace,  security,  development  and
We therefore look forward to the contribution and
cooperation  of  States  of  other 
the
achievement  of  the  objectives  of  the  declaration  on  a
South American zone of peace and cooperation.
regions 
in 
Mr. Valdés (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): The draft
resolution before the General Assembly today, entitled
“South  American  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation”,  is
directly  and  closely 
fundamental
concepts  underlying  the  very  existence  and  reason  for
being of the United Nations.
related 
to 
the 
The  Preamble  to  the  Charter  of  the  Organization
states that one of its purposes is “to practice tolerance
and  live  together  in  peace  with  one  another  as  good
neighbours,  and  to  unite  our  strength  to  maintain
international  peace  and  security”.  It  then  adds  as  a
fundamental  purpose  “the  promotion  of  the  economic
and social advancement of all peoples”.
At  the  second  meeting  of  Presidents  of  South
America,  held  in  Guayaquil,  Ecuador,  on  26  and  27
July  2002,  devoted  to  the  approval  of  the  Guayaquil
Consensus  on  Integration,  Security  and  Infrastructure
for  Development,  the  South  American  heads  of  State,
in accordance with the aforementioned purposes of the
Charter, issued a formal declaration establishing South
America  as  a  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation.  As  the
declaration of the Presidents states, this is a historic act
reflecting  the  best  tradition  of  understanding  and
peaceful  coexistence  among  the  peoples  of  the  region
and is intended to become an integral part of a concrete
reality in South America.
Cooperation  for  peace  and  the  development  of
common actions in the area of security are necessary to
ensure  and  to  maintain  the  pace  of  progress  towards
political,  economic  and  social  integration  among  the
countries  of  South  America  and 
the
development and well-being of the peoples.
to  further 
bilateral 
Ongoing 
dialogue,  whether 
or
multilateral,  has  been  fundamental  for  creating,  on
solid bases, a climate of growing transparency and trust
that preserves and ensures peace and friendship among
our  peoples.  That  was  made  especially  clear  in  those
moments when our democratic institutions were put to
the  test  as  a  result  of  the  economic  crises  that  have
afflicted many countries in our region.
13
A/57/PV.50
The regions of Latin America and  the  Caribbean
in  general,  and  South  America  in  particular,  have
persevered in their commitment to  peace  and  security,
as  demonstrated  by 
the  multiple  bilateral  and
subregional  initiatives  of  trust  and  cooperation.  Some
of  those  experiences  are  truly  unprecedented,  such  as
the  work  of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean,  at  the  request  of  the
Governments of Argentina and Chile, on a standardized
common methodology for the measurement of defence
spending of the two countries.
We  note  with  satisfaction  that  this  programme,
also known as a standardizing methodology for defence
expenditures,  has  been  received  with  interest  by  other
countries  in  our  region,  leading  to  conversations  for
developing similar efforts. Based on the existence and
implementation  of  common  methodologies  for  the
accounting  of  defence  spending,  it  is  possible  to
optimize the common efforts aimed at rationalizing and
reducing  expenses  of  this  type,  generating  greater
confidence 
the  bilateral,
subregional and regional levels.
transparency 
and 
at 
and 
Security 
Infrastructure 
Peace  and  development  are  two  notions  that  are
indissolubly  linked.  The  South  American  Presidents,
upon  subscribing  to  the  Guayaquil  Consensus  on
Integration, 
for
Development  and,  in  that  context,  declaring  South
America  to  be  a  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation,  did
nothing  more  than  to  recognize  that  the  threats,
concerns and other challenges to the peace and security
of nations are of a varied nature and multidimensional
scope, including political, economic, social, health and
environmental  aspects,  among  others,  that  go  far
beyond the traditional military aspect of the question.
From  this  multidimensional  perspective,  military
institutions,  in  conjunction  with  civil  society,  have  an
important role to play in building a continent of peace
that, united and in solidarity, plays an active role in the
international system.
South  America  is  a  region  in  which  peaceful
coexistence  has  been  the  norm.  Dialogue  and  the
privilege  of  choosing  peaceful  options 
the
settlement of conflicts have been the rule.
for 
For  years,  the  States  of  South  America  have
assumed and rigorously adhered to the commitment to
entirely  prohibit  from  the  region  weapons  of  mass
destruction. More recently, we have done the same with
regard  to  the  prohibition  of  anti-personnel  mines  and
14
have assumed the commitment to achieve as quickly as
possible their eradication,  as well  as to implement  the
recommendations  of  the  Programme  of  Action  to
Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects.
Accordingly,  the  Government  of  Chile  has  given
these  policies,  which  involve  both  disarmament  and
humanitarian issues, its vigorous and resolute support.
For more than a decade, it has steadfastly supported the
development  of  numerous  initiatives  in  confidence-
building and transparency at the regional, sub-regional
and  bilateral  levels.  Naturally,  it  was  with  great
satisfaction  that  Chile  subscribed  to  the  Guayaquil
Consensus  on  Integration,  Security  and  Infrastructure
for  Development  and  to  the  declaration  of  South
America as a zone of peace and cooperation.
We  acknowledge  the  different  circumstances  and
situations that exist in other regions of the world in the
area of peace and cooperation for development, and we
hope  that  this  initiative  will  be  an  additional  and
constructive asset for the international community as a
whole  in  its  ongoing  search  for  ways  to  promote
peaceful  co-existence  and  the  development  and  well-
being of peoples.
Ms.  Rivero  (Uruguay)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):
Perhaps  we  do  not  have  much  to  add  to  what  has
already  been  said  by  the  preceding  speakers.  But  we
understand  that  in  the  dynamics  of  the  processes  that
exist in every region of the world, what matters is the
vision that the countries of the region have. This is why
Uruguay  would  like  to  express  in  this  debate  its  firm
support for the declaration of the South American Zone
of Peace and Cooperation, endorsed during the second
meeting of the Presidents of South America last July in
Guayaquil.
For  Uruguay,  this  declaration  of  peace  and
cooperation is not and end in itself. Rather, it contains
a broader commitment, like that originally expressed in
the  Brasilia  Communiqué  of  2000.  It  is  clear  that  the
development  and 
implementation  of  confidence-
building  measures,  full  observance  of  international
instruments 
to  nuclear  and  conventional
disarmament,  and  non-use  of  the  threat  of  force  all
naturally point to the creation of an area of peace that
extends beyond the borders of individual countries. But
it must also be obvious that an area of peace cannot be
the  final  objective,  but  rather 
the  beginning  of
something more ambitious.
related 
The  geographical  contiguity  of  our  countries,
which in other times fuelled conflict, has today become
a  factor  that  promotes  unity  and  cooperation.  Indeed,
our  region  is  distinguished  in  the  international  scene
for  having  once  and  for  all  overcome  territorial
disputes in a peaceful and negotiated way, showing our
spirit of compromise and our adhesion to international
law.  This  spirit,  though  it  shows  that  there  is  a  firm
determination to bolster security in the region, is even
more  important  in  that  it  allows  us  to  have  active
cooperative  processes,  many  of  which  are  currently
being implemented.
national 
to
strengthening  democracy  and  respect  for  and  defence
of  human  rights,  individual  and  collective,  are  several
of  the  common  elements  of  what  could  be  called  the
“South  American  agenda”.  They  are  common  not
because they are called common, but because they are
considered to be indispensable in order to reach a state
of  security  in  which  the  process  of  developing  our
countries can be accelerated.
priorities  with 
respect 
The 
These  actions,  aimed  at  consolidating  peace,
security,  cooperation  and  development,  are 
the
foundations  of  this  broader  commitment  that  we
mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  our  intervention.  Our
countries  have  undertaken  a  dialogue  on  regional
security that takes into account the humanitarian, social
and  economic  aspects  of 
the  question.  Uruguay
believes  that  that  dialogue  is  the  natural  process
towards a true regional integration. The declaration of
South America peace and cooperation, which we hope
will  receive  the  international  community’s  recognition
today, is a step in this direction.
Uruguay does not see peace solely as an absence
of conflict. We see it as a situation that includes other
positive  elements  such  as  security  and  freedom.  They
form the sole context that will allow our Governments,
which are responsible for providing for the well-being
and  prosperity  of 
the
commitment  that  has  been  given  to  them  and  is
expected of them.
their  peoples, 
to  meet 
Mr. Valdivieso (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): It
is an honour for me to speak on behalf of Colombia in
the plenary of the fifty-seventh session of the General
Assembly on item 167, whose inclusion in the  agenda
was requested by the Permanent Mission of Peru.
My  country,  along  with  other  South  American
sister  nations,  sponsored  draft  resolution  A/57/L.7,
A/57/PV.50
which  welcomes  the  declaration  of  our  Presidents  in
which  they  declared  South  America  to  be  a  zone  of
peace  and  cooperation.  This  declaration,  adopted  in
Guayaquil, Ecuador, on 27 July, is one of the results of
the Brasilia Communiqué of 1 September 2000. In that
document,  the  Presidents  of  South  America  —  in
developing  the  spirit  of  harmony  and  understanding
between  our  countries,  with  our  geographic  proximity
and our shared values — agreed to a wider and deeper
regional  cooperation  and  solidarity  in  order  to  deal
with  fundamental  issues  such  as  democracy,  trade,
infrastructure 
illicit  drugs  and
connected  crimes,  and  information,  knowledge  and
technology.
integration, 
for 
In  the  declaration,  which  we  hope  that  the
General  Assembly  will  welcome  today,  our  countries
propose to form the South American Zone of Peace and
Cooperation  on 
the  basis  of  strengthening  our
cooperation and consultation mechanisms in the area of
defence and security. For the Government of Colombia,
committed  to  implement  a  democratic  security  and
defence  strategy  to  confront  terrorism  and  the  global
problem  of  illicit  drugs  that  finances  it,  cooperation
from the entire international community and the South
American region is fundamental.
in,  and 
Our region must strengthen its cooperation in the
areas  of  intelligence;  police  operations;  control  of
trafficking 
the  diversion  of,  chemical
precursors;  control  of 
in  arms,
munitions and explosives; and the fight against money-
laundering,  as  agreed  in  the  Brasilia  communiqué,
where  our  Presidents  decided 
joint
mechanism 
among
institutions  in  charge  of  the  combat  against  drug
trafficking and related crimes.
to  create  a 
consultations 
periodic 
illicit 
for 
the 
trade 
We  must  undertake  a  major  regional  effort  to
overcome illicit drug trafficking, because, as President
Uribe  of  Colombia  stated  recently  before  the  General
Assembly, “We have only managed to seize 20 per cent
of  the  drugs  that  are  shipped  from  our  country.”  We
should  fully  acknowledge  the  shared  responsibility  of
producing,  transit  and  consuming  countries  —  a
that  our  Presidents,  several  years  ago,
principle 
determined 
relations  and
cooperation among States.
fundamental 
to  be 
in 
Colombia  welcomes  the  definitive  solution  that
has  been  found  to  territorial  disputes  among  the
countries  of  our  region,  which  has  made  possible  the
15
A/57/PV.50
Declaration on South  America  as  a  zone  of  peace  and
cooperation. Nevertheless, our democratic stability and
the  integrity  of  the  political,  economic  and  social
structures of our countries still face grave threats, such
as  terrorism,  corruption  and  extreme  poverty.  That  is
why, like other countries of the region, we believe that
democracy  in  Latin  America  should  be  strengthened
through the ongoing promotion and safeguarding of the
rule of law and human rights.
The  democratic  security  and  defence  strategy
adopted  by  Colombia  to  fight  the  violence  in  the
country  aims  to  consolidate  the  rule  of  law  and  to
guarantee  human  rights  for  all  Colombians:  our
farmers, so that they are not displaced from their land;
our  businessmen,  so  that  they  are  not  victims  of
kidnapping;  our  journalists,  so  that  they  are  not
threatened; our labour leaders, so that they can exercise
their duties freely; and our human rights defenders, so
that they can work without intimidation.
Democratic security, as President Uribe has said,
is aimed at protecting all citizens of a pluralistic nation
that is open to fraternal and creative debate — a nation
that can count on the solidarity of its South American
brothers in its fight against violence and terrorism.
For  this  reason,  we  welcome  today  the  South
American  zone  of  peace  and  cooperation,  because  we
see  it  as  a  resolute  commitment  in  the  fight  against
threats to the security of our States — a commitment to
coordinated action and concerted common strategies to
confront together these serious threats to the security of
our countries and to the stability of our region.
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now
take a decision on draft resolution A/57/L.7.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/57/L.7?
Draft resolution A/57/L.7 was adopted (resolution
57/13).
The Acting President: May I also take  it  that  it
is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its
consideration of agenda item 167?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 11.55 a.m.
16
