United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
4th plenary meeting
Friday, 13 September 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.4
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 119 (continued)
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the United Nations (A/57/390/Add.1)
In  a 
letter  contained 
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of the General Assembly to document A/57/390/Add.1.
the
Secretary-General informs the President of the General
the 
Assembly 
his
since 
communication  contained 
in  document  A/57/390,
Mauritania  has  made  the  necessary  payment  to  reduce
its arrears below the amount specified in  Article 19 of
the Charter.
that  document, 
issuance 
that, 
in 
of 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  duly
this
information  contained 
the 
in 
takes  note  of 
document?
It was so decided.
Address by Mr. Milan Kučan, President of the
Republic of Slovenia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Slovenia.
Mr.  Milan  Kučan,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Slovenia, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations His Excellency Mr. Milan Kučan, President of
the  Republic  of  Slovenia,  and to invite  him  to  address
the Assembly.
President  Kučan (spoke  in  Slovenian;  English
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  was  10  years  ago,
immediately  following 
the  admission  of  newborn
Slovenia  to  the  United  Nations,  that  I  addressed  the
Assembly  for  the  first  time.  I  did  so  with  great  pride,
with faith in the United Nations and  with gratitude for
the  chance  given  to  my  country  to  present  to  the
international  community  its  own  views  on  current
world  affairs,  with  a  sense  of  responsibility  for  its
actions  not  only  towards  its  own  citizens,  but  also
towards the entire international democratic community.
Looking  back  at  the  past  decade,  I  can  say
without  the  slightest  reservation  that,  without  the
United Nations, life on our planet would be even more
uncertain,  social 
injustice  would  be  even  more
widespread  and  global  disparities  in  prosperity  even
more  marked.  There  would  be  even  more  systematic
violations  of  human  rights  in  many  States  and  even
more wars.
that, 
throughout 
In  spite  of  its  acknowledged  weaknesses  and
inefficiencies,  this  world  Organization  has  done  great
work.  I  daresay 
its  membership,
Slovenia,  too,  has  contributed  to  this  through  its  own
active pursuit of the principles of the United Nations. It
received  widespread  recognition  for 
it
accomplished  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the
Security  Council;  this  is  something  of  which  we  are
particularly proud.
the  work 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-58836 (E)
*0258836*
A/57/PV.4
have 
placed 
already 
The  United  Nations  decisions  at  the  historic
Millennium  Summit 
the
Organization  in  the  future  realm  of  our  global  world.
The  violence  committed  by  States  against  their  own
peoples is now faced with a new force: the ethic of the
democratic  world.  This  ethic  does  not  recognize
absolute State sovereignty or absolute non-interference
in  internal  affairs  when  systematic  mass  violations  of
human rights, through State terror, occur.
The  principle  of  humanitarian  intervention  is  the
beginning  of  an  important  process  of  implementing
global  ethics  in  the  governance  of  this  globalized  and
increasingly  interdependent  world.  It  is  also  a  clear
message  to  the  authors  of  international  law  and  to
international judicial institutions. It is one of the pillars
of  the  next  phase  of  international  law,  as  is  the
International  Criminal  Court.  No  one  any  longer  has
responsibility 
State
sovereignty  is  no  longer  untouchable.  Everyone,  in
their  actions,  also  has  a  responsibility  towards  global
society,  for  in  an  increasingly  integrated  world,  the
actions of one easily affect others.
themselves. 
towards 
only 
Certain  measures  of  the  global  community  of
States in response to the challenges of  the twenty-first
century,  such  as  the  special  session  on  the  future  of
children,  the  World  Summit  Sustainable  Development
and  the  forthcoming  meetings  on  a  better  future  for
Africa  are  signs  that  the  United  Nations  is  gaining  in
political and moral clout as an Organization common to
all States and as an organization capable of finding the
strength to carry out the announced internal reforms.
In 
that 
context, 
supports 
Slovenia 
reforms.  That 
the
implementation of the Millennium  Declaration and the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  proposed 
these
efforts  are  urgently  needed  became  particularly
apparent  last  year  on  11  September,  a  day  of  tragedy
not  only  for  New  York,  Washington  and  the  United
States  in  general,  but  for  all  humanity.  The  entire
democratic  world 
against
international terrorism. Slovenia also did so  with great
resolve.  No  one  who  cared  for  humanity  just  stood
aside.
joined 
fight 
in 
the 
But  as  time  passed,  it  became  increasingly  clear
that  even  the  best  military  weaponry  of  the  anti-
terrorist  coalition  could  not  reach  down  to  the  social
roots of this horrendous evil. This evil is craftily taking
advantage  of  the  apathy  and  the  anger  of  people  and
States without a future. This evil is trying to regain its
2
strength  by  playing  on 
religious,  cultural  and
civilizational  differences,  intertwined  with  the  great
social rifts in our global world. Evil, understood in this
way (cid:151) an evil that threatens to use the most atrocious
weapons of mass destruction (cid:151) can be eradicated only
through  concerted  action  by  democratic  States  under
the umbrella of the United Nations.
It  is  precisely  in  this  context  that  the  authority
and  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  are  on  trial.  The
Organization  has  proven  itself  capable  of  reaching
common  positions  and  decisions  even  on  the  most
demanding issues. We are capable of defining common
positions, even concerning the actions of those who do
not  respect 
these  common  decisions.  The  United
Nations now must have the ability not only to speak of
those  positions,  but  also  to  implement  them  through
concerted action. That is the responsibility that all of us
face today.
Globalization, with all of its positive and negative
aspects,  is  a  given  fact.  Let  us  do  more  to  transform
that  fact  into  something  that  is  in  keeping  with  the
needs  of  the  people  and  the  rule  of  individual  and
collective  human  rights.  Certainly,  this  cannot  be
achieved  by  trying  to  drive  peoples,  States,  cultures,
religions  and  civilizations  away  from 
their  own
identities,  by  trying  to  place  them  under  the  common
denominator  of  a  single  global  identity.  That  would
signify  the  collapse  of  our  human  world,  bearing
disastrous consequences. Today(cid:146)s world, where borders
between 
between
civilizations (cid:151) are growing less rigid, is a world full of
plural 
identities  and  of  clearly  defined  national,
cultural  and  religious  entities  that  are  beginning  to
open up to one another.
States  (cid:151) 
particularly 
and 
This plurality calls for a unique integrating factor.
That  factor  can  only  be  a  global  ethic  based  on  the
ancient  principle  of  reciprocity  among  human  beings:
do  unto others  as  you  would have  others  do  unto  you.
In times of interdependence among each and every one
of  us,  such  values  are  particularly  important.  The
global  ethic  should  be  developed  based  on  this  value,
for it is a value  with deep roots in the world(cid:146)s age-old
great  religions  and  civilizations.  Based  on  this  value,
we  will  be  able  to  strengthen  universal  human  rights
and  global  social  justice,  and  without  that  justice,  one
cannot expect the world to be a safe and peaceful place
offering people justified hope that our planet belongs to
all of humanity.
International  terrorism  has  unveiled  the  negative
aspects  of  interdependence  among  our  societies.  We
must  now  do  more  to  strengthen  the  positive  aspects
and  to  create  new  ones.  The  environmental,  economic
and ethical challenges humanity is facing today require
a  radical  rethinking  of  global  governance  and  the
establishment of global responsibility. This  is  so  much
more  so  since  we  are  faced  with  the  breakdown  of
trade,  with  an
regulation  and  control 
inequitable 
that
generates misery and humiliation, and that  manifests a
relentless  preference  for  economic  and  financial  logic
over ecological, social and human demands. A positive
alternative  must  be  found  to  these  negative  aspects  of
our interdependence.
global  development  machinery 
in  global 
Present  generations  of  statesmen,  politicians,
academicians and civil society all have a duty to lay the
foundations of a global ethic and a United Nations that
offers stronger guarantees for a world that is no longer
so  fiercely  divided  into  peoples,  nations  and  States
with the right to a  future  and those  who  are robbed of
that future by the technological  and  social  gaps of  our
planet.
I am convinced that  there  will be  a  kinder  future
for our world and a more creative future for the United
Nations.  It  is  with  this  in  mind  that  I  most  warmly
welcome our new Member, Switzerland, and soon also,
Timor-Leste.  These  two  new  Members  illustrate  very
clearly  all  the  disparities  in  our  globalized  world.  I
firmly  believe  that  their  work  in  this  Assembly  will
help  transform  the  United  Nations  into  a  community
for the entire world.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Slovenia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Milan  Kučan,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Slovenia,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. John Agyekum Kufuor, President of
the Republic of Ghana
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Ghana.
Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,  President  of 
the
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
A/57/PV.4
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,
President  of  the  Republic  of  Ghana,  and  to  invite  him
to address the Assembly.
President  Kufuor:  A  year  ago  the  entire  world
watched in horror as terror was visited on the city that
plays  host  to  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a  city  that  has
welcomed  people  from  all  corners  of  the  world  for
hundreds  of  years  and  that  still  remains  for  many  an
irresistible magnet as a place of opportunity.
We watched (cid:151) all of us, from our different parts
of the world (cid:151) as the terrible events unfolded. If there
had  been  any  doubt  before,  that  experience  convinced
all  of  us  that  our  world  had  indeed  become  a  global
village.  Modern 
technology  enabled  all  of  us
simultaneously  to  watch  the  events  as  they  unfolded.
The  devastation  and  drama  of  those  events  have  since
forcefully brought grief to our individual hearts, across
continents,  races,  religions  and  political  ideologies.  If
ever  there  was  any  doubt  about  mankind(cid:146)s  shared
humanity, that catastrophe conclusively dispelled it.
A  year  on,  we  still  bear  the  deep  scars;  we  have
not  forgotten,  and  we  dare  not  forget,  because  what
happened  was  not  directed  exclusively  against  New
York and the people of the United States. Nationals of
many  countries,  including  Ghanaians,  perished  in  that
tragedy.  What  happened  was  indeed  an  affront  to
civilization itself.
Throughout  the  ages,  whenever  humanity  has
found itself confronted with great danger, it is the sense
of  unity  and  common  purpose  that  has  pulled  us
through. This is no exception. Indeed, the resilience of
New  York  and  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  has
brought  about a spirit of  solidarity and  generosity that
is just as awesome to behold as the tragic event itself.
organizations, 
It is for that reason that I am optimistic about the
future.  The  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  of  non-
governmental 
growing
acceptance  of  the  principles  of  good  governance,
human rights, tolerance for a diversity of views and the
rule of law around the globe make me optimistic. In my
mind(cid:146)s  eye,  I  can  already  see,  in  the  near  future,  a
world 
is  more  openness,  more
forbearance and less categorization of mankind.
and 
the 
in  which 
there 
Our  nations  have  been  brought 
together  by
science,  technology  and  conscience,  as  well  as  by
3
A/57/PV.4
the 
and 
acknowledgement 
adversity, 
of
interdependence  among  peoples  has  become  a  reality.
Now  we  are  moving  from  the  concept  of  (cid:147)beggar  thy
neighbour(cid:148)  to  one  of  (cid:147)prosper  thy  neighbour(cid:148),  which
should become the hallmark of the global village.
Sadly, the continent of  Africa still lags behind in
many  spheres,  as  poverty  and  disease  plague  the
continent.  But  there  is  a  new  spirit  abroad  among  the
African  countries.  Africa  has  never  wanted  to  be
perceived as the (cid:147)scar on the conscience of the world(cid:148).
We do not want to be the object of pity and charity, and
we  do  not  want  to  provide  the  grisly  images  of  war,
disease, ignorance, famine and poverty for the  world(cid:146)s
television  screens.  It  was  largely  as  a  result  of  our
determination  to  shed  that  unacceptable  image  that
many  a  country  on 
the  continent,  on  attaining
independence,  desperately  rushed  into  one  or  another
untried ideology or economic model that tended only to
worsen  the  woes of  self-doubt  left  by  exploitative  and
unconscionable colonialism.
Today,  under  the  auspices  of  the  African  Union,
the  rejuvenated  continental  grouping,  our  countries
have  resolved  to  tackle  the  continent(cid:146)s  problems  to
enable  us  join  the  mainstream  of  world  development.
We  have pledged to endeavour  to  be  honest  with  each
other, and under the Peer Review Mechanism there will
be  no  hiding  behind  claims  of  sovereignty  in  order  to
tolerate abuses of human rights in individual countries.
We  are  determined  to  strive  for  democracy  and
good  governance,  not  because  those  are  fashionable
buzzwords but because  we are convinced that they  are
the surest (cid:151) if not always the most rapid (cid:151) path to the
development that we require to uplift the conditions of
life of our peoples.
The  technology  exists  and  the  human  expertise
abounds in the world to end the degrading poverty and
debilitating  diseases  that  sap  the  confidence  of  the
peoples  of  Africa.  This  world  Assembly  must  rally  to
help  Africa  in  its  genuine  efforts  to  tap  into  the
intellectual, financial and moral resources of the globe,
to  be  a  worthy  partner  within  it.  The  concept  of  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development  (NEPAD)
provides the framework within which African countries
can  be  assisted  to  become  part  of  the  mainstream.  It
provides a great opportunity for world leaders to move
from rhetoric to purposeful action.
Education has served as a route out of poverty for
people  throughout  the  ages,  and  it  should  be  the  way
4
information 
out  for  us  in  Africa  as  well.  We  have  an  essentially
young  population  that  is  ready  and  anxious  to  learn.
Fortunately, 
communications
technology provides the means to help Africa leap-frog
into  the  modern  world.  Let  the  world  community
therefore  assist  Africa  to  join  in  the  mastery  of  this
powerful tool.
and 
Ours 
is  a  well-endowed  continent.  Our  raw
materials keep the  manufacturing engines of the  world
running. The reasons for investing in Africa, therefore,
need  not  be  charitable;  investment  can  be  based  on
sound  economic  considerations.  The  market  potential
of  a  thriving  and  economically  viable  Africa  will  do
wonders  not  only  for  Africa  but  also  for  the  world
economy at large.
I  am  optimistic,  because  I  think  of  what  Ghana
and  the  African  continent  have  contributed  to  the
development  of  the  world.  We  have  provided,  and
continue  to  provide,  personnel  in  various  fields  to  all
kinds of institutions in the world. Ghanaian academics
and citizens from many other African countries can be
found  in  many  top  universities  and  companies  around
the  world, 
the
development  of  cutting-edge  enterprises.  Africans  are
in  various 
jobs  and  are  making  a  considerable
contribution to the  running  of  organizations,  including
the  United  Nations. 
this
opportunity  to  express  Ghana(cid:146)s  (cid:151)  and  Africa(cid:146)s  (cid:151)
deepest  gratitude  to  the  international  community  for
the  confidence  it  showed  in  re-electing  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, the Secretary-General, to a second term.
significantly 
contributing 
I  would 
take 
to 
like 
to 
to  support 
for  good  governance 
In all these endeavours, however, the missing link
the  solid  and  sustainable
for  Africa  has  been 
framework 
the
purposeful  evolution  of  prosperous  and  stable  nations
on  the  continent.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  Ghana,  like
other African nations, is trying to put its house in order
to  take  advantage  of  emerging  prospects.  We  are
nurturing  our  infant  democracy,  and  the  citizens  are
passionately  committed 
the
Constitution.  We  are  putting  in  place  mechanisms  to
support  good  governance.  The  institutional  framework
is being created to ensure an efficient public sector that
can  interface  effectively  with  an  enterprising  private
sector to create wealth and eliminate poverty.
the  defence  of 
to 
But  Ghana, 
like  other  developing  countries,
cannot alone achieve the dramatic rate of growth that is
required; there must be significant injections of outside
investment  into  our  economy.  We  need  affordable  and
sustainable  sources  of  energy  to  be  able  to  achieve
rapid  development.  We  need  the  partnership,  markets
and  support  of  the  international  community  to  sustain
our  development.  That  is  the  message  of  NEPAD.  We
are  working 
economic
environment  to  receive  and  integrate  foreign  direct
investment as  a tool  for regional development. That  is
the sure path for Africa to connect effectively with the
global markets.
to  develop 
a  positive 
Ghana acknowledges its share of responsibility to
protect the resources that Nature has given our country
as the heritage of all humankind. The world cannot and
must  not  operate  on  the  basis  of  the  survival  of  the
fittest. Weaknesses caused by history and other factors
must be taken into account and, above all, our common
humanity must inform all our international dealings.
Ghana sees a lot of potential in globalization. We
wish to recommend, however, that an organization such
as  the  United  Nations  should  provide  the  regulatory
framework  to  ensure  that  the  benefits  of  globalization
are  more  equitably  distributed.  The  opportunities  are
enormous  for  those  who  can  take  advantage  of  the
move  to  more  liberalized  markets  and  increased  flows
of  investment  capital.  But  nature  did  not  make  all
people  equally  competitive.  That  global  organization
must,  therefore,  evolve  systems  of  safety  nets  to
guarantee all humanity an acceptable  minimum  degree
of dignity and respectability. The United Nations must
rise up to this challenge.
For  the  pure  and  proper  development  of  the
global  village,  certain  initiatives  by  this  Organization
must  be  commended  and  encouraged.  Ghana  is  in  full
support of United Nations effort to curb the illicit trade
in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  We  urge  Member
States  to  join  in  the  early  implementation  of  the
Programme of Action that was adopted in 2001 to stop
this trade, from which most of the instability in Africa
stems.
and 
Secondly,  women 
children  need  our
protection.  It  is  for  that  very  reason  that  in  Ghana  we
have  created  a  Ministry  for  Women  and  Children(cid:145)s
Affairs to enable  us tackle  issues that  affect those two
groups.  We  have  embarked  on  a  vibrant  educational
campaign  and  are  pursuing  policy  initiatives  that  will
create  awareness  and 
incidence  of
discrimination  against  women  and  help  improve  their
livelihoods.  We  are  also  striving  to  ban  child  labour
reduce 
the 
A/57/PV.4
and  enforce  free  and  compulsory  education  for  all
children  up  to  the  junior  secondary  school  level  as
enjoined by Ghana(cid:145)s national Constitution.
Thirdly, I must mention the HIV/AIDS pandemic,
which is threatening the survival of our countries. The
spread  of  the  disease  is  compounding  our  difficulties
even  further.  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  interest,  and  for  the  setting  up  of  the
Global  Fund  to  help  us  fight  the  menace.  The  Ghana
AIDS  Commission  is  constantly  seeking  new  ways  to
change  attitudes  at  all  levels  towards  the  disease,  and
we  seek  to  learn  from  the  experience  of  others  in
combating it. We support the efforts of the international
community  to  provide  more  affordable  antiretroviral
drugs for the most needy.
At 
this 
stage,  permit  me 
to  congratulate
Switzerland  on  its  accession  to  membership,  and  East
Timor  on  its  forthcoming  accession.  That  Switzerland
has  at  long  last  joined  the  Organization  confirms  its
universality. They are welcome.
The tragedy of 11 September has certainly made a
difference  to  the  world.  It  has  shocked  the  world  into
uniting  to  condemn  it.  Let  those  of  us  who  have
accepted the honour and privilege to speak on behalf of
our  peoples  determine  that  we  must  strive  for  a  world
of  greater  tolerance  and  of  more  justice,  a  more
humane  world  in  which  law  and  order  are  fully
respected  both  within  nations  and  in  the  international
community.  Eleven  September  must  be  used 
to
underpin  the  vital  communal  spirit  that  must  motivate
the  global  village.  We  would  then  be  able  to  say  that
we had left the world a better place than we found it.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Ghana for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,  President  of 
the
Republic of Ghana was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Pierre Buyoya, President of the
Republic of Burundi
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Burundi.
Mr.  Pierre  Buyoya,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Burundi  was escorted  into  the  General  Assembly
Hall.
5
A/57/PV.4
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Buyoya,  President
of  the  Republic  of  Burundi,  and  to  invite  him  to
address the Assembly.
President  Buyoya  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  an
honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its
fifty-seventh session. Let me first of all, Sir, discharge
a pleasant duty on behalf of my  delegation and  on  my
own  account,  and  extend 
to  you  my  warmest
congratulations  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of
the Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. You may rest
assured  of 
the
delegation  of  Burundi  towards  the  success  of  your
difficult  and  important  mission.  I  also  pay  tribute  to
your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,
for  the  able  manner  in  which  he  led  the  work  of  the
fifty-sixth session.
the  support  and  cooperation  of 
Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity
to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  United  Nations,  and  to
pay  tribute  to  its  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,
for his support to the people of Burundi.
Nor can I fail to thank the Security Council for its
tireless efforts to find a lasting solution to the crisis in
Burundi.  Through  its  two  visits  to  Burundi,  the  latest
on 5 and 6 May 2002, the Security Council has shown
its solidarity with the people of Burundi in its quest for
peace.
During  my  address,  I  shall  inform  the  Assembly
of the political situation in Burundi, and of how far we
have  come  in  the  peace  process;  I  will  then  go  on  to
speak of the challenges we still face and will conclude
my  statement  with  some  comments  on  international
issues.
Following 
the  establishment  of 
transitional
institutions  beginning  1  November  2001,  the  political
climate in Burundi has greatly improved. The political
forces  that  had  taken  part  in  the  Arusha  negotiations
and  signed 
the
institutions  of  the  Republic:  the  Government,  the
National Assembly and the transitional Senate.
the  Peace  Agreement  now  form 
Advocating  dialogue  in  an  armed  conflict  is  not
always an easy task, but a sense of responsibility gives
us  no  alternative.  We  are  pleased  to  recall  from  this
rostrum  that  we  have  chosen  the  option  of  peace
through  dialogue  and  the  procrastinations  of  others
involved in no way shake our conviction.
6
Since  we  are  on  the  right  path,  we  request  the
Secretary-General,  the  Security  Council,  the  African
Union  and  the  countries  of  our  subregion  to  maintain
their  support  for  our  quest  for  peace  by  assisting  the
mediation activities (cid:151) led by Nelson Mandela, assisted
by  Presidents  El  Hadj  Omar  Bongo  and  Benjamin
Mkapa  and  Vice-President  Jacob  Zuma  (cid:151)  in  order  to
persuade the protagonists to sign a ceasefire agreement
without further delay. Indeed, certain provisions of the
Arusha  Agreement  are  not  being  applied  precisely
because  of  the  ongoing  violence.  That  is  why  the
negotiation and signing of a ceasefire is a crucial stage
in  hastening  and  ensuring  the  success  of  the  many
reforms to be undertaken.
The  task  ahead  is  enormous,  but  it  can  be
accomplished. The smooth functioning of institutions is
a  guarantee  of  success,  while  daily  experience
demonstrates  the  serious  commitment  of  the  political
partners and is the basis of our optimism.
While it is true that there are reasons for hope, it
is equally true that the challenges to the peace process
are genuine and could compromise our path to peace if
they  are  not  satisfactorily  met  in  the  short  term.  The
violence  which  the  rebels  continue  to  force  on  the
Burundian  people  is  a  major  challenge  not  only  to  us,
but to the United Nations, whose primary mission is to
maintain peace throughout the world.
to 
led 
rebels 
renounce  violence. 
We  take  this  solemn  opportunity  to  reiterate  our
request to the entire international community to compel
the  Burundian 
If
diplomacy  does  not  succeed,  all  other  means  must  be
used  in  order  to  prevent  this  rebellion  from  taking
hostage  a  peace  process  being 
today  by  a
Government  formed  on  the  basis  of  negotiations  and
which  now  enjoys  international  legitimacy.  Peace  will
come  to  the  Great  Lakes  region  when  every  country
there is living in peace. To that end, the effort must be
both individual and collective. That is why my country
is  prepared  to  continue  making  its  contribution  to
creating  a  better  climate  with  all  neighbouring
countries.
The second  major challenge is the reconstruction
effort.  After  nine  years  of  crisis, 
the  Burundian
economy  has  been  sorely  tried.  The  population  has
become further impoverished, all economic parameters
have  been  destabilized,  and  our  external  indebtedness
prevents us from resorting, as we have done in the past,
to  the  international  financial  marketplace.  Here  again,
of 
the 
As  members 
we  ask  our  traditional  partners  to  give  substantial
support to our peace efforts. Promises have been made
that we hope will be kept in the near future. Indeed, the
repatriation  of  refugees,  the  resettlement  of  displaced
persons  and  the  rebuilding  of  damaged  infrastructure
will require substantial financial resources.
human 
community,
Burundians  are  also  following  the  concerns  of  the
world,  which,  sadly,  are  many  and  to  which  we  are
constantly seeking solutions. To cite but a few, Burundi
welcomes  the  creation  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight
AIDS  and,  like  other  countries  that  have  been  deeply
affected by the  pandemic,  has requested  that  access  to
affordable  medicine  be  improved  until  such  time  as
researchers  are  able  to  develop  a  vaccine  against  this
scourge,  which  threatens  all  humankind,  especially  in
Africa.  In  the  same  vein,  my  delegation  supports  the
idea of creating a world fund to fight poverty and also
welcomes the proposal to establish a world fund for the
environment.
Even  closer  to  home,  our  peoples  await  the
concrete  results  of 
the  recent  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development  in  Johannesburg,  at  which
the community of  nations reaffirmed  the  need  to  work
together towards equitable and  viable development  for
current  and  future  generations.  We  also  welcome  the
establishment of the Office of the High Representative
for 
the  Least  Developed  Countries,  Landlocked
Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing
States. This testifies to the unequivocal commitment of
the  United  Nations  to  enhancing  and  focusing  efforts
on behalf of the most vulnerable groups of countries.
On the African continent, the New Partnership for
Africa(cid:146)s Development is a major source of hope and, as
such, deserves the support of the international financial
institutions and of the community of donors.
Along  with  the  poverty  that  is  affecting  millions
of  human  beings,  another  fearful  danger  is  that  of
terrorism.  A  year  after  the  terrorist  attacks  of  11
September  2001  in  New  York,  Washington,  D.C.,  and
Pennsylvania, the world remains in a state of shock and
is  seeking  ways  to  stem  the  scourge  of  international
terrorism.  To  that  end,  Burundi 
to
implementing 
the  provisions  of  Security  Council
resolution  1373  (2001),  which  provides  the  blueprint
for a collective fight against terrorism.
is  committed 
The  great  challenges  of  poverty,  environmental
degradation, international terrorism, armed conflict and
A/57/PV.4
incurable  disease  require  all  nations,  rich  and  poor,  to
recognize  international  solidarity  as 
the  necessary
means  of  survival  for  us  all.  The  United  Nations  is
therefore called on to meet this challenge, especially by
carrying  out  the  necessary  reform  of  its  organs  (cid:151)  the
Security  Council, 
the
Economic and Social Council (cid:151) in order to make them
more complementary and effective in the interest of all.
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Burundi for the statement he has just made.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
Mr.  Pierre  Buyoya,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Burundi, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Address by Mr. Alvaro Uribe VØlez, President of the
Republic of Colombia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
the  Republic  of
the  President  of 
statement  by 
Colombia.
Mr. Alvaro Uribe VØlez, President of the Republic
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alvaro  Uribe  VØlez,
President  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  and  to  invite
him to address the Assembly.
Mr. Uribe (Colombia) (spoke in Spanish): I greet
you,  Your  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  of  the  Czech
Republic,  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  I
address for the first time.
A short distance from here, on the fateful day 11
September,  2,801  citizens  of 
the  world  died.  In
Colombia, violence claims the same number of victims
every  month.  Forty  three  million  Colombians,  peace-
loving  people,  are  experiencing  one  of  the  world(cid:146)s
worst humanitarian crises. Every year Colombia buries
34,000 of its own, victims of violence. We have lost 10
per cent of our youth. Last  year the  country  registered
the highest homicide rate in the world: 63 per 100,000
inhabitants.
During  the  past  five  years,  we  have  experienced
8,000  acts  of  collective  destruction,  more  than  those
recorded  for  any  other  cases  of  violence  in  the  world;
280  villages  were 
the  object  of  guerrilla  and
7
A/57/PV.4
paramilitary  attacks  with  serious  consequences  for
local  civilians  and  the  armed  forces.  The  terrorist
attack carried out during my inaugural ceremony killed
21 ordinary people. Two million people, 40 per cent of
them  children,  have  been  forcibly  displaced  under
pressure from violent groups. That is the equivalent of
the  simultaneous  displacement  of  the  communities  of
Washington and Manhattan. During the past five years,
16,500 people have been kidnap victims. Yesterday, six
children were kidnapped and one of them is still being
held.
Just  as  the  11  September  terrorist  attacks  moved
the  entire  world  and  triggered  justified  and  universal
condemnation,  mankind  should  be  shaken  by  attacks
such  as  the  one  carried  out  by  guerrillas  on  2  May
2002,  in  BojayÆ,  a  village  of  1,000  inhabitants.  They
killed 117 civilians who had taken refuge in the church.
Such  violence  makes  our  people  poorer  every
day,  discourages 
investments,  hampers  economic
growth,  diverts  valuable  resources  and  prevents  us
from 
social
backwardness.  Violence  absorbs  four  per  cent  of  my
country(cid:146)s 
product.  Hijackings,
kidnappings  and  assaults  are  daily  occurrences  on  our
main  highways,  including  the  one  that  joins  our  two
largest  cities.  Imagine  a  similar  situation  between
Brussels and Paris, or New York and Boston.
overcoming 
economic 
domestic 
gross 
and 
our 
Today,  Colombians  are  making  a  great  effort  to
address  the  problem  with  public  order  policies,  State
reform  aimed  at  defeating  corruption  and  political
chicanery  and  greater  economic  growth  and  social
investment.  The  main  objective  of  our  democratic
security policy is to restore the rule of law. Security is
not  for  persecuting  real  or 
ideological
enemies or maintaining a one-party regime. The aim of
democratic  security  is  to  protect  all  citizens  in  a
pluralist nation, open to fraternal and creative debate.
imagined 
their 
land; 
that  members  of 
Democratic  security  is  for  all  Colombians  and  is
intended  to  ensure  that  peasant  farmers  are  not  driven
from 
the  business
community  are  not  kidnapped;  that  journalists  are  not
threatened;  and  that  the  missions  of  bishops,  priests,
nuns,  preachers  and  educators  are  respected.  It  is  also
intended 
leaders  can  freely
exercise their actions; political leaders can move about
without fear; and that human rights advocates can work
without threats.
to  ensure  that  union 
8
to  appeasement,  but 
As  civilian  commander-in-chief  of  the  armed
forces,  I  am  committed  to  rigorously  observing  and
respecting  human  rights.  Failure  in  this  regard  may
lead 
it  would  never  bring
reconciliation. Our emergency measures do not restrict
human  rights,  but  rather  demand  the  observance  of
rules,  for  example  with  regard  to  the  mobilization  of
citizens,  in  the  name  of  freedom  of  movement,  to
prevent explosives from continuing to be transported to
assassinate people.
We  respect  debate.  The  security  policy  that  is
being implemented  is  not  aimed at  silencing  criticism,
but  rather  at  confronting  violence.  That  policy  is
irreversible.
The  number  of  military  and  police  personnel  in
Colombia is low: 3.9 per  1,000  inhabitants.  New  York
has  42,000  police  officers,  while  all  of  Colombia  has
75,000. We must strengthen our armed forces. We have
decreed  a  wealth tax that  will  be  paid  by  high-income
businesses  and  citizens.  The  additional  tax  revenue
should amount approximately to 1 per cent of the gross
domestic product.
its 
to 
legitimate 
institutions. 
for 
individual(cid:146)s  commitment 
As  part  of  the  implementation  of  the  democratic
security  policy,  our  Government  has  called  on  the
solidarity of a million citizens to cooperate voluntarily
with the armed forces and justice officials. An essential
element  of  a  socially  oriented  constitutional  State  is
citizen  support 
It
constitutes 
the
the 
community,  without  which  the  State  loses  its  social
nature. We must break citizen fear of the guerrillas and
paramilitaries,  and  we  must  create  community-based
links with democratic institutions. To a large extent, the
efficacy  and  transparency  of  the  armed  forces  depend
on citizen cooperation.
The  Colombian 
the
democratic stability of the region. We need the world(cid:146)s
assistance  to  resolve  it.  I  ask  for  the  world(cid:146)s  help
because  my  Government  has  made  the  decision  to
defeat terror and to ensure that these four years do not
end in a renewed victory for crime or in new evidence
of State and societal vacillation before the arrogance of
the violent.
is 
terror
financing be eliminated. That is  why  we  must conquer
drugs and kidnapping.
the  sources  of 
jeopardizes 
imperative 
problem 
that 
It 
There 
is  concern  about  weapons  of  mass
destruction  within  the  United  Nations,  and  we  share
that anguish. But we must understand that drugs have a
massive  capacity  for  destruction,  equivalent  to  that  of
the most feared chemical weapons.
We are determined to eliminate them. We request
the  same  level  of  commitment  from  the  world.  We
cannot continue with timid half-actions and decisions.
Miss Clarke (Barbados), Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
While  we  delay  action,  more  drugs  are  produced
and  traded  by  terrorism.  I  call  on  fellow  members:  do
not  send  us  your  weapons. Eliminate  your  markets  for
drugs  and  chemical  precursors.  Help  us  with  aerial
interdiction and drug seizures in the Pacific and in the
Caribbean.  We  need  resources  to  pay  our  farmers  to
destroy drugs and work to restore our forests.
Last  week,  Carlos  Enrique  Arenas,  a  29-year-old
pilot  serving  with  the  Colombian  navy  (cid:151)  father  of  a
2-year-old  daughter  and  a  second  child  on  the  way  (cid:151)
and his co-pilot, Roberto Enrique Guardo (cid:151) the father
of  three  young  children  (cid:151)  disappeared  in  the  ocean.
The  helicopter 
they  were  piloting  crashed  after
intercepting  a  speedboat  carrying  more  than  two  tons
of cocaine.  Sacrifices  such  as this  demand  the  support
of  all  nations  to  defeat  drugs,  especially  since  until
now we have only managed to seize 20 per cent of the
drugs that are shipped from our country.
A  United  Nations  resolution  (cid:151)  Security  Council
resolution  1373  (2001)  (cid:151)  orders  the  seizure  of  bank
accounts,  investments  and  other  assets  of  individuals
who  commit 
resolution  has
remained  a  dead  letter  in  those  countries  where  the
resources 
in  Colombia
circulate.
terrorist  acts.  That 
terrorist  acts 
that  finance 
My  Administration(cid:146)s  commitment  to  security  is
not  opposed  to  dialogue.  Quite  the  contrary,  we  want
dialogue.  This  is  why  we  have  requested  the  good
offices of the United Nations through a special adviser
of  the  Secretary-General.  That  is  the  way  to  begin  a
serious peace process, one that starts with the cessation
of violence.
A/57/PV.4
Ingrid  Betancourt;  several  members  of  Congress;
members of state assemblies; the Governor of my own
state,  a  former  minister  and  tireless  worker  for  peace;
members of the armed forces, and hundreds of ordinary
people  (cid:151)  demonstrates  that  we  need  humanitarian
action  that  does  not  fuel  violence  but  that  leads  us
along the path of reconciliation.
The  world  has  plenty  of  analysts  of  Colombian
problems,  and  plenty  of  critics  of  our  society  and  our
successive  Governments.  We  need  less  rhetoric  and
more action (cid:151) that is, real contributions to solving the
problem. We call for effective cooperation, because the
violence  is  financed  through  the  international  drug
trade  and 
in
Colombia.
is  waged  with  weapons  not  made 
Like  other  nations,  we  suffer  dire  poverty,
injustice,  low  investor  confidence,  high  debt  and  a
budget  deficit.  We  have  always  honoured  and  will
continue  always  to  honour  our  international  financial
commitments. We are  making unprecedented efforts to
freeze  operating  expenditures  and  to  increase  taxes.
But  we  need  significant  bilateral  and  multilateral
economic 
expand
employment  (cid:151)  to  begin  to  pay  the  social  debt.  A
victory over violence will trigger economic growth and
create  resources  for  social development,  which  in  turn
will consolidate peace.
support 
invest 
to 
and 
to 
One  thought:  the  price  of  a  pound  of  Colombian
coffee  was  once  more  than  $3;  it  is  now  around  60
cents.  International  banks  and  cooperation  agencies
should  redouble  their  commitment  and  resources  in
Colombia. The money  will not to be used for  wasteful
expenditures or to salvage bankruptcies, but will rather
be  invested,  in  the  interest  of  the  poor,  to  ensure
governability.
The people of Colombia are proud, hard-working,
democratic and sensible; their spontaneity has not been
stifled by their suffering. The nation has the most solid
democratic 
long-term
economic  performance,  a  highly  diversified  industrial
base,  a  productive  structure 
increasingly  geared
towards 
international  markets,  and  an  enormous
potential for small democratic enterprises.
tradition,  widely  recognized 
The United Nations Charter tells us that dialogue
with those who commit acts of terror is possible only if
those  acts  are  halted.  The  pain  of 
thousands  of
Colombians  caused  by  the  kidnapping  of  their  loved
ones  (cid:151)  the  list  includes  former  presidential  candidate
Representatives of the peoples of the world: with
your  commitment  and  support,  and  with  our  own
determination, Colombia will be freed from the slavery
of  violence  and  will  be  more  prosperous,  with  greater
justice.
9
A/57/PV.4
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Colombia for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Alvaro Uribe VØlez, President of the Republic
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the  General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Denis Sassou-Nguesso, President of
the Congo
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
hear an address by the President of the Republic of the
Congo.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou-Nguesso,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denis  Sassou-Nguesso,
President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite
him to address the Assembly.
President  Nguesso  (spoke 
in  French):  This
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  beginning  in  a
context  that  is  still  deeply  affected  by  the  memory  of
the  painful  events  that  struck  the  United  States,  and
especially  our  host  city,  just  a  year  ago.  So  I  shall
begin by paying tribute to the memory of the victims of
the  attacks  of  11  September  2001.  This  sacrifice  is  a
cruel  reminder  of  how  fragile  our  world  remains,
exposed  to  the  most  unimaginable  threats.  Humankind
needs  solidarity,  and  the  Congolese  people  reaffirms
here,  through  me,  its  solidarity  with  the  people  of  the
United States.
The election of Mr. Jan Kavan to preside over the
work  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  is  a  tribute  to  his
beautiful  country,  the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  his
reputation 
statesman  whose
experience  and  knowledge  will  inspire  and  guide  our
work.
an  outstanding 
as 
To Mr. Han Seung-soo, President of the Assembly
at its fifty-sixth session, we express our earnest thanks
for  his  excellent  work.  Likewise,  we  express  to  the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  our  profound
gratitude  and  our  wishes  for  success  in  the  noble
mission that he is brilliantly carrying out at the head of
the  Organization. 
and
congratulate  the  Swiss  Confederation  on  the  occasion
of its admission to the Organization. Undoubtedly, that
Finally,  we  welcome 
10
is a major event for the United Nations, which thereby
continues to increase its effectiveness.
Two  years  ago,  during  the  Millennium  Summit,
held in this Hall, the international expressed its wish to
see established throughout the world a climate of peace
and security favouring broad prospects for international
cooperation,  with 
sustained  world
development. During that historic meeting, the world(cid:146)s
leaders  adopted  a  Declaration  whose  ambitions  were
commensurate  with  the  high  stakes.  In  particular,  they
committed  themselves  to  reducing  by  half  by  the  year
2015 the proportion of the world(cid:146)s population living in
conditions of extreme poverty.
a  view 
to 
Since  the  Millennium  Summit,  the  international
community has convened a number of meetings whose
objective  was  to  improve  the  lives  of  our  peoples
through  policies  of  shared  management,  of  solidarity
and of preserving the future in various areas involving
the responsibility of our States. We should periodically
evaluate our progress, and the current session offers us
that opportunity.
The absence of peace (cid:151) war and insecurity (cid:151) is
gravely  undermining  humanity.  Unfortunately,  no
region  in  the  world  has  been  spared.  Because  of
irrationality,  the  Middle  East,  a  veritable  powder  keg,
is  unravelling  before  us.  The  international  community
must  become  further  involved  in  the  talks  between
Palestinian  and  Israelis  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  the
cycle of violence that has ravaged that part of the world
for so long.
Our  own  subregion,  which  covers  the  Economic
Community of Central African States (cid:151) over which we
preside  (cid:151) 
longs  for  peace  and  security.  Having
suffered years of war and instability, Central Africa has
only  one  desire:  to  emerge  quickly  from  this  infernal
cycle. In that connection, we should firmly seize every
opportunity  available  to  us  in  order  permanently  to
reverse old trends.
In  Angola, 
the  4  April  2002  signing  of  a
Memorandum of Understanding as an addendum to the
Lusaka Protocol offers a glimmer of hope. We welcome
the  signing  of  that  agreement  and,  in  the  same  spirit,
make an earnest appeal to the international community
to  give  its  full  support  to  the  populations  of  those
countries faced with dire poverty.
The  situation  in  Burundi  remains  worrisome
despite  the  formation  of  a  Government  of  national
unity.  We  ask  the  parties  to  go  even  further  and  to
begin honest negotiations that could give South African
mediation,  which  we  encourage,  every  chance  of
success.
With  regard  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  we  welcome  the  peace  Agreement  of  30  July
2002, signed in Pretoria between  the  heads  of  State of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of Rwanda.
We  also  see  as  a  positive  development  the  agreement
reached  a  few  days  ago  in  Luanda  between  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda. By the
same  token,  we  encourage  the  efforts  of  the  Special
Representative  of 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo aimed at concluding
an  inclusive  agreement  involving  all  the  sons  and
daughters of that brotherly country.
the  Secretary-General 
for 
In the light of the foregoing,  I  should  like  to  ask
the  Assembly  to  devote  all  necessary  attention  to  the
activities  of  the  United  Nations  Standing  Advisory
Committee  on  Security  Questions  in  Central  Africa.
That  Committee  has  just  held  its  18th  ministerial
meeting, in Bangui, Central African Republic, and will
report  to  the  Assembly  during  the  current  session.  Its
recommendations  deserve  broad  support  from 
the
international  community.  Central  Africa  needs 
to
regain  peace  and  stability  in  order  to  play  the  major
role warranted by its immense potential.
in 
the  extreme  poverty 
Most  of  the  conflicts  that  afflict  our  planet  have
their 
from  which
roots 
populations  (cid:151)  especially  in  developing  countries  (cid:151)
are 
by
underdevelopment,  with  all  its  evil  effects,  which
prevent  them  from  adapting  to  the  new  context  of  the
international economy.
suffering.  Their 
is  marked 
poverty 
It  is  with  the  goal  of  stopping  the  cycle  of  dire
poverty that Africa has established, along with the new
African  Union,  an  original  plan  for  its  development:
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development
(NEPAD). NEPAD is Africa(cid:146)s contribution to assisting
in  its  own  development.  This  development  choice
shares  the  spirit  of  the  new  partnership  defined  in
March 2002 by the Monterrey Consensus and the goals
the
of 
Johannesburg  World 
Sustainable
Development.
the  Rome  World  Food  Summit  and  of 
Summit 
on 
Since  15  October  1997,  when  the  transition
period  in  Congo  began,  my  country  has  been  facing
major challenges.
A/57/PV.4
The  first  of  these  challenges  (cid:151)  to  conclude  the
transition  and  the  electoral  process  (cid:151)  has  been  met.
This political development, in spite of the setbacks and
difficulties  encountered,  has 
the
determination  of 
the
establishment  this  year  of  new  democratic  institutions
following free and fair general elections.
thanks 
the  Congolese  people, 
to 
to 
led, 
The achievement of that first objective has  given
us  ample  opportunity  better  to  take  up  the  other
challenges  and  priorities  ahead  of  us,  namely  the
strengthening  of  peace  and  security,  the  consolidation
of  national  unity  and  democracy,  the  promotion  of
human 
the
revitalization of international cooperation.
reconstruction,  and 
rights,  economic 
Our  determination 
to  engage 
international  cooperation 
in  active  and
dynamic 
is  reflected 
in
particular  in  our  effective  participation  in  Central
African activities through the Economic and  Monetary
Community  of  Central  African  States  and 
the
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  of
which  Congo  holds  the  presidency;  in  our  vision  of  a
common future for the peoples of the subregion; and in
our resolute commitment to the Partnership for Africa(cid:146)s
Development.
It  is  with  great  pleasure  and  conviction  that  I
convey  to  the  Assembly  the  optimism  and  high  hopes
of the Congo (cid:151) a State that has reclaimed its place in
the  community  of  nations  and  intends  to  keep  it.  It
wishes  to  serve  as  a  genuine  haven  of  peace,  well-
being, prosperity and  modernity  for  current  and  future
generations.
It 
is  with  current  and, 
in  particular,  future
generations in  mind that  we have resolved,  along  with
five other Central African States, to wage a widespread
campaign 
life  and
biodiversity in the Congo River Basin.
forests,  animal 
to  preserve 
We  welcome  the  determination  of  the  United
States  of  America,  France,  Germany,  Great  Britain,
Japan  and  South  Africa,  as  well  as  that  of  major
international 
non-
governmental  organizations  and  forestry  companies  to
take  an  active  part  in  what  we  call  the  Congo  Basin
Initiative.
organizations, 
specialized 
It  is  also  with  the  goal  of  speeding  up  the
implementation  of 
sustainable
development  and  of  a  healthy  environment  that  my
the  objectives  of 
11
A/57/PV.4
country  is  committed  to  acceding,  in  the  coming
months, to the Kyoto Protocol.
the  fifty-sixth  session 
through dedication and skilful leadership.
to  a  successful  conclusion
The  Congo  hopes  to  be  a  State that  unreservedly
abides by the universal principles and values of human
rights,  peace, 
and  good
governance.
fundamental 
freedoms 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  vision  is  shared
by all of our States. It is the basis our of Organization,
whose  principal  objective  is  to  work  for  peace  and
freedom throughout the world.
The United Nations must tirelessly and resolutely
work  daily  for  the  triumph  of  peace  and  freedom.  Let
us  not  forget  this.  We  cannot  forget  that  the  United
Nations  was  create  to  (cid:147)save  succeeding  generations
from the scourge of war(cid:148). It was created essentially for
peace.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of the Congo for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Denis  Sassou-Nguesso,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  the  Congo,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Marc Ravalomanana, President of
the Republic of Madagascar
The  Acting  President: The  Assembly  will  now
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of
Madagascar.
Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,
President of the Republic of Madagascar, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
President  Ravalomanana (spoke  in  French):
The  Madagascar  delegation,  which  I  have  the  honour
of  leading  for  the  first  time  at  this  session  of  the
General Assembly, is delighted to congratulate Mr. Jan
Kavan on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency
of this session, and we wish him every success.
To  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  we
express  our  most  sincere  appreciation  for  having  led
12
The 
dedication 
our  Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi  Annan, to the attainment of the  objectives  of
the  United  Nations  deserves  our  full  appreciation  and
gratitude.
of 
in 
the 
Here 
today, 
The  admission  of  the  Swiss  Confederation  as  a
new Member of the United Nations is for Madagascar a
source  of  profound  satisfaction.  This  friendly  country
is  a  living  example  of  a  peaceful  and  multicultural
society based on values of democracy and freedom.
of 
the
commemoration  of  the  tragic  events  of  11  September
2001, we wish to express our solidarity with the people
and the Government of the United  States.  We reiterate
our  condemnation  of  such 
terrorist  acts,  whose
consequences  are  incalculable.  A  global  phenomenon
without borders, terrorism is considered to be the most
dangerous  enemy  of  the  new  millennium.  It  can  be
eradicated  only 
international
cooperation.
through  harmonious 
framework 
In this regard,  we  wish to pay  tribute  here to the
efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  acting  through  the
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  created  by  the  Security
Council,  for  the  implementation  of  Council  resolution
1373  (2001),  and  we  commend  all  other  regional
initiatives  adopted  to  combat  this  plague.  To  fight
terrorism,  countries  such  as  ours  will  need  special
technical  assistance 
this
resolution  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  other
international treaties.
implement 
in  order 
to 
The  persistence  of  areas  of  tension  and  conflict
around the world, especially the Middle East, demands
the  reinvigoration  of  the  United  Nations  to  make  it
more  effective  in  responding  to  the  needs  of  the
international  community,  particularly  in  maintaining
international peace and security. To pursue this critical
objective, we must now  more than ever strengthen our
efforts to  make the Security Council  more democratic,
more representative and more transparent.
that 
There 
is  no  doubt 
the  United  Nations
provides  us  with  the  ideal  framework  for  creating
conditions that encourage States and peoples to choose
peace  over  war.  In  this  regard,  Madagascar  wishes  to
congratulate  Timor-Leste  on  its  independence  after  a
valiant  and  heroic  struggle  by  the  people  of  that
country and successful efforts by the United Nations to
re-establish peace there.
encourages 
Furthermore,  Madagascar 
the
mediation efforts undertaken by the United Nations for
the  settlement  of  conflicts  in  a  number  of  countries
throughout  Africa.  In  this  context,  I  wish  to  reiterate
the  profound  gratitude  of  the  Malagasy  people  for  the
role the United Nations agreed to play in resolving the
post-election  dispute  that  threatened  Madagascar.  This
crisis is now over and Madagascar is now experiencing
a new era full of hope.
We  are  convinced  that  sustainable  development
requires  the  consolidation  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the
establishment  of  good  governance.  Towards  this  end,
the new Government is taking all appropriate measures
for  the  sound  and  rational  management  of  public
finances  and  of  international  assistance.  Madagascar
has  given the  fight against  corruption  the  very  highest
priority. We have also taken the initiative to insure that
an effective policy is developed and applied in order to
tackle  this  evil  on  all  fronts.  Madagascar  supports
General Assembly resolution 55/61, through which our
General  Assembly  decided 
to  create  an  ad  hoc
committee  entrusted  with  negotiating  a  future  legal
instrument  against  corruption.  Our  country  is  awaiting
the conclusion of such an instrument in the near future,
in  order  to  fill  the  gaps  in  its  own  legal  system.  We
look  forward  with  considerable  interest  to  the  high-
level  Conference  in  Mexico  in  2003  for  signing  a
convention against corruption.
The 
rapid  and  sustainable  development  of
Madagascar is the  major and  fundamental objective of
the present Government, in order to extract the country
from the scourge of poverty, a source of instability that
erodes  democratic  values.  In  this  context,  Madagascar
is  committed  to  a  pro-active  policy  aimed  at  recovery
for  rapid  and  sustainable  growth  of  its  economy,  in
which the private sector will be the driving force.
it, 
the  key 
As  we  see 
to  development 
is
partnership  between  the  public  sector  and  the  private
sector,  in  which  the  Government  works  together  with
private companies and non-governmental organizations
solely  for  the  benefit  of  the  people.  We  invite  private
businesses  to  invest  in  Madagascar.  The  returns  on
those  investments  will  be  beneficial  both  to  them  and
to the Malagasy people.
As an essential component of development and of
peace, education is our priority of priorities. Malagasy
A/57/PV.4
is 
by 
characterized 
children  will live fully in the  world of the twenty-first
century,  which 
advanced
technology  of  information  and  communications.  Thus,
Madagascar  welcomes 
the  adoption  of  Assembly
resolution  56/258  calling  for  a  World  Summit  on  the
Information  Society  to  be  held  in  2003  and  in  2005.
The  world  community  will 
then  have  a  unique
opportunity  to  discuss  information  and  develop  the
technologies, 
opportunities  offered  by  digital 
in
particular 
the 
least  developed
countries.
in  Africa  and 
in 
The  Republic  of  Madagascar  is  ready  to  do
everything in its power  to  put the country back  on  the
path  of  development.  This  will  be  done  with  the
support  of 
in 
the
framework of mutually advantageous cooperation.
international  community 
the 
appreciation 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude
and  our 
all  of  Madagascar(cid:146)s
development  partners,  bilateral,  regional  and  multi-
lateral,  for  their  valuable  contribution 
the  re-
to 
launching of economic activity in our country.
to 
by 
and 
poverty 
Faced with multiple challenges in our era, a time
underdevelopment,
dominated 
international cooperation is no longer a choice; it is an
absolute  necessity  for  the  survival  of  humanity.  Those
factors  that  diminish  us  as  human  beings:  poverty,
HIV/AIDS, famine and illiteracy, cannot be eliminated
without a true spirit of solidarity, guaranteeing a better
future  for  all  people.  Let  us  not  forget  that  the
preamble  of  our  Charter  announces  a  new  humanity
with  peoples  and  human  beings  living  in  dignity  and
security.  Towards  that  end,  they  must  have  access  to
fundamental human rights, the right to health care, the
right  to  education  and  to  culture,  and  the  right  to  a
decent 
reduce  poverty
everywhere  in  the  world,  has  become  today  more
important and more urgent than ever before.
income.  Our  mission, 
to 
The  slowdown  in  economic  activity,  on  a  global
scale, following the attacks of 11 September 2001, has
worsened  impoverishment  and  plunged  millions  of
individuals  into  a  state  of  dire  need.  In  this  grim
context,  globalization  could  play  a  vital  role  in  the
fight  against  poverty,  as  long  as  the  countries  of  the
north  and the  south are  offered the  same opportunities
of development.
In  order 
truly  benefit
humankind, it must take into consideration the interests
for  globalization 
to 
13
A/57/PV.4
of  all  countries  the  world  over,  in  an  international
economy of sharing.
to  obtain 
the  objectives  of 
Global  interdependence  and  better  international
economic cooperation must be entirely accepted, if  we
are 
the  Millennium
Declaration.  A  collective  awareness  to  develop  a  real
partnership  for  development  is  indispensable  in  order
to  make  a  reality  of  that  objective.  In  this  spirit,
Madagascar  welcomes  the  consensus  reached  at  the
International 
For
Development, which was held in Monterrey.
Conference  On 
Financing 
to 
In 
the  New  Partnership 
the  same  context,  Madagascar  urges 
the
international  community  to  give  firm  and  concrete
support 
for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development  (NEPAD),  and  to  give  that  support  both
bilaterally  and  multilaterally.  With  the  objective  of
giving  an  important  role  to  the  private  sector  in
development,  Madagascar  fully  and  without  reserve
supports 
the  principles  and  objectives  underlying
NEPAD.  In  the  coming  months,  I  intend  to  make
Madagascar  one  of  the  leading  countries  of  NEPAD,
because I am sincerely committed to good governance,
the  development  of 
infrastructures  and  energy,
education,  new  technologies,  access  to  the  markets  of
developed  countries  and 
the
environment.
the  protection  of 
report  entitled 
The  alarming  conclusions  of  a  United  Nations
Environment  Programme 
(cid:147)Africa
Environment  Outlook(cid:148),  as  well  as  the  recent  weather-
related  disasters  in  Central  Europe  and  Asia,  require
the international  community  to  develop  a  new  code  of
ethics  for  the  conservation  and  effective  protection  of
the  environment.  Our  Government  will  make 
the
protection of our precious environment one of our main
priorities.  Furthermore,  Madagascar  hopes  that  the
Summit 
in
Johannesburg a few days ago will give new impetus to
our  collective  determination  to  offer  all  countries  an
opportunity  to  develop  in  a  way  that  benefits  their
inhabitants, their environment and our shared heritage,
the Earth.
on  Sustainable  Development 
held 
By some standards, Madagascar is a poor country.
However,  it  is  rich  in  unique  natural  resources  and  in
educated human resources. Above all, its population is
attached  to  democracy,  family  values  and  belief  in
God.
We  would  like  today  to  express  our  desire  to
cooperate  with the  United  Nations as  a  partner  for  the
14
reconstruction  of  Madagascar.  By  working 
in
partnership,  we  will ensure for our country  a  future  of
hope.  The  entire  world  will  come  to  know  us  by  our
strengths, not our weaknesses.
Working together with the United Nations family,
Madagascar  is  ready  to  make  its  own  contribution  to
building a global village in which all countries receive
equal  treatment  and  have  equal  opportunities  for  full
development  (cid:151)  an  indispensable  condition  for  the
establishment of lasting peace.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of
Madagascar for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Atal Behari Vajpayee, Prime
Minister of the Republic of India
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Republic
of India.
Mr.  Atal  Behari  Vajpayee,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of India, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in
welcoming  Mr.  Atal  Behari  Vajpayee,  Prime  Minister
of  the  Republic  of  India,  and  inviting  him  to  address
the Assembly.
provided 
Mr.  Vajpayee  (India)  (spoke  in  Hindi;  English
interpretation 
I
congratulate Mr. Kavan on his election as President of
the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. I also
extend  my  best  wishes  to  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan in this first year of his second term in office.
delegation): 
the 
by 
terrible  event 
consciousness  on 
Two  days  ago,  we  commemorated 
the  first
the
anniversary  of  a 
collective  global 
international
terrorism.  Terrorism  did  not  start  on  11  September.  It
was on that day that it brazenly announced itself on the
global  stage,  flaunting its immunity  from  distance  and
power.
that  focused 
As  a  country  exposed  to  the  depredations  of
terrorism  for  decades,  India  empathized  with  the  pain
of  the  American  people,  admired  their  resilience  in
coming  to  terms  with  the  consequences  and  supported
the bold decision to counter-attack terrorism at its very
source.
The  international  community  has  taken  some
collective  decisions  in  the  global  effort  to  combat
terrorism  and  to  choke  off  its  lifelines.  Security
Council resolution 1373 (2001) contains the essence of
these  decisions.  The  Council(cid:146)s  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  should  now  move  beyond 
information
compilation 
enforcing
to 
compliance  by  States  known 
to  be  sponsoring,
sheltering, funding, arming and training terrorists.
assistance 
legal 
and 
In our South Asian region, nuclear blackmail has
emerged  over  the  past  few  months  as  a  new  arrow  in
the  quiver  of  State-sponsored  terrorism.  Dark  threats
were held out that actions by India to stamp out cross-
border  terrorism  could  provoke  a  nuclear  war.  To
succumb to such blatant nuclear terrorism would mean
forgetting  the  bitter  lessons  of  the  11  September
tragedy.
the  cross-border 
As  far as  India is  concerned,  we  have  repeatedly
clarified  that  no  one  in  our  country  wants  a  war,
conventional  or  otherwise.  Nor  are  we  seeking  any
territory. But absolutely everyone in India wants an end
to 
terrorism  which  has  claimed
thousands  of 
lives  and  denied  entire
generations  their  right  to  a  peaceful  existence  with
normal  economic  and 
social  activity.  We  are
determined  to  end  it  with  all  the  means  at  our
command.  Let  there  be  no  doubt  about  that  in  any
quarter.
innocent 
Yesterday  we  heard  the  extraordinary  claim  in
this  Assembly  that  the  brutal  murder  of  innocent
civilians  in  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  actually  a  freedom
struggle and that the forthcoming elections in that state
are  a  farce,  since  they  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  a
plebiscite  demanded  over  50  years  ago.  It  requires  an
effort  of  acrobatic  logic  to  believe  that  the  carnage
among innocents is an instrument for freedom and that
elections  are  a  symbol  of  deception  and  repression.  If
the elections are a mere fraud, why are terrorists being
trained  and  infiltrating  India  at  the  command  of  the
Inter-Services  Intelligence  Agency  of  Pakistan  to  kill
election candidates and to intimidate voters?
A/57/PV.4
If  Pakistan  claims  to  be  a  crucial  partner  in  the
international  coalition  against  terrorism,  how  can  it
continue  to  use  terrorism  as  an  instrument  of  State
policy against India?
Mr.  Nguyen  Dy  Nien  (Viet  Nam),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
How  can  the  international  coalition  condone
Pakistan-directed  killings  of  thousands  of  innocent
civilians  (cid:151)  women  and  children  included  (cid:151) 
to
promote a bizarre version of self-determination? Those
who  speak  of  underlying  or  root  causes  of  terrorism
offer  alibis  to  the  terrorists  and  absolve  them  of
responsibility  for their  heinous  actions,  such  as  the  11
September  attacks  on  the  United  States  or  the  13
December attack on our Parliament.
Yesterday we heard yet another patently false and
self-serving  claim  that  in  India  Muslims  and  other
minorities are the target of Hindu extremists. With 150
million  Muslims,  India  has  the  second  largest  Muslim
population  in  the  world;  greater  than  that  of  Pakistan.
We  are  proud  of  the  multi-religious  character  of  our
society.  Equal 
faiths  and  non-
discrimination on the basis of religion are not just part
of  our  Constitutional  obligations,  but,  as  the  whole
world  knows,  they  are  the  signature  theme  of  India(cid:146)s
civilization and culture.
for  all 
respect 
We  have  to  recognize  that  the  developmental
divide  between  the  North  and  the  South  is  becoming
wider  and  deeper  by  the  day.  The  challenges  that  face
us  are  stark,  and  there  is  no  alternative  to  having  all
countries of the world join hands to face them together.
Over the last decade, 10 million people have been
joining the ranks of the poor each year. A quarter of the
world(cid:146)s population lives in extreme poverty.
We  have  to  find  US$  24  billion  annually  for
investment  in  poor  countries,  if  we  are  to  achieve  the
World Food Summit goal of halving hunger by 2015.
The continuation of widespread poverty, at a time
when  unimaginable  wealth  is  concentrated  in  a  small
social  layer,  is  totally  unacceptable.  The  twenty-first
century has all the means to end this sad legacy of the
past  centuries.  What  is  lacking  is  the  political  will
among 
to  sincerely  and
speedily address the legitimate developmental needs of
the developing countries, especially the least developed
ones.
the  developed  countries 
15
A/57/PV.4
though 
the  poor  will  most  suffer, 
Casting  an  even  longer  shadow  over  this  grim
developmental  canvas  is  global  climate  change,  from
which 
they
contributed least to it. The recent floods and forest fires
in Europe are  a  forewarning  that the  countries  of  Asia
and  Africa  are  not  the  only  victims  of  the  fury  of  a
degraded  environment.  The  Earth(cid:146)s  atmosphere  and
biosphere  know  no  national  boundaries.  The  choice
before  the  global  community  is  stark:  Either  we  take
urgent steps to protect the  environment  or  be  prepared
for far worse natural calamities.
poverty, 
Early  this  month,  the  Johannesburg  Summit  for
Sustainable Development debated some of the linkages
between 
national,
international  and  corporate  governance  and  global
financial  flows.  We  emerged  from  the  Summit  with
some  encouraging  outcomes,  but  these  fell  well  short
of the demands of our time.
environment, 
trade, 
imperative 
totality,  and  not 
It  has  become  a  categorical 
to
understand  and  address  man(cid:146)s  developmental  needs  in
their 
is
disconcerting  that  the  highways  of  development  are
jammed  with 
traffic  of
materialism and its brash cousin, consumerism. Human
values have become mute bystanders in  most political,
economic and social activities.
the  noisy  and  unruly 
isolated  parts. 
in 
It 
The result of this imbalance between our material
and  non-material  needs  can  never  be  happy  for
mankind.  On 
if  we  are  guided  by
compassion, care, feeling for our fellow human beings,
cooperation  and  other  human  values,  we  are  bound  to
get the right solutions to every problem on our planet.
the  contrary, 
social, 
dimensions 
is  crying  out 
economic, 
the 
and 
spiritual 
for  a  harmonious
Humanity 
political,
integration  of 
of
environmental 
development.  This  task  calls  for  the  closest  possible
cooperation  among  nations  and  communities,  with  a
readiness  to  accept  the  best  from  every  cultural  and
spiritual tradition around the globe. The United Nations
needs  to  take  up  newer  and  bigger  initiatives  in  this
direction.
In this Assembly, less than a year ago, and in the
United States Congress the year before, I had extended
India(cid:146)s  offer  to  coordinate  a  comprehensive  global
development dialogue. I reiterate that offer today. If we
are to achieve the development goals we have promised
ourselves by 2015, we need such a dialogue urgently.
16
As  we  come  together  once  again  at  the  United
Nations,  at  a  time  of  new  and  diverse  challenges,  we
should  reflect  on  our  collective  commitment  to  the
Charter, its purposes and principles. There is a growing
perception,  particularly  among  the  weaker  and  poorer
countries,  that  responses  to  issues  of  far-reaching
impact often seem arbitrary and contradictory.
A  common  destiny  is  at  stake.  The  world  needs
collective multilateralism. It needs the United Nations,
the  coming  together  and  working  together  of  all  its
nations in the development of a common and collective
perspective.
there 
Conflicts  arise  when 
is  no  spirit  of
democracy  within  and  among  nations.  A  genuinely
democratic framework enables us to respect alternative
points  of  view,  to  value  diversity  and  to  fashion
solutions responsive to the aspirations of people.
India(cid:146)s own experience as a hugely populated and
diverse  nation  shows  how  complex  problems  can  be
addressed  within  a  constitutional  and  democratic
framework.
These  values  need  to  be  assiduously  nurtured  in
our  societies,  so that  at  least  a  future  generation  is  rid
of  the  scourge  of  poverty,  intolerance,  obscurantism
and religious extremism.
far 
less  prone 
Democratic  societies  are 
to
ideologies  based  on  violence  or  militarist  yearnings,
since they do not have their fingers permanently on the
trigger of a gun. We have to be vigilant against threats
to  democracy  worldwide  arising  from  forces  that  are
opposed to it, be they rooted in fundamentalist political
ideologies or extremist religious dogmas.
All of us are aware of the challenges. Most of us
are agreed that  a  stable  global order has to rest  on  the
four  strong  pillars  of  peace,  security,  sustainable
development  and  democracy.  We  have  to  ensure  that
each of these pillars is strong and resilient.
We are conscious of our collective responsibility.
It is  the leap  from  this  theoretical  understanding  to  its
practical  realization  that  we  have  often  failed  to
execute.  We  should  not 
future
generations will not forgive us if we do.
fail  again.  Our 
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of India for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Atal  Behari  Vajpayee,  Prime  Minister  of
India,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly
Hall.
Address by Mr. Junichiro Koizumi, Prime Minister
of Japan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear
an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Junichiro  Koizumi,
Prime Minister of Japan.
Mr. Junichiro  Koizumi,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,
was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Junichiro  Koizumi,
Prime  Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address
the General Assembly.
Mr. Koizumi (Japan): First of all, I would like to
congratulate  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  on  his  assumption  of  the
Presidency  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  At  the  same  time,  I  pay  high  tribute  to
Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  former  President  of  the  General
Assembly, for his leadership.
I  am  pleased  on  this  occasion  to  congratulate
Switzerland  on  becoming  a  United  Nations  Member
State.  My  congratulations  also  go  to  the  Democratic
Republic 
its
independence  on  20  May.  Japan  heartily  supports  its
admission to the membership of the United Nations.
of  Timor-Leste,  which 
declared 
The  Peace  Bell  in  the  garden  of  United  Nations
Headquarters  was  presented  to  the  United  Nations  in
1954  by  the  Japanese  people  with  a  prayer  for  world
peace. It has been rung every year for world peace. The
beautiful sound of the bell, which was made from coins
collected  from  all  over  the  world,  reminds  us  of  what
the United Nations represents.
In order to ensure world peace and prosperity, we
need to harmonize a range of efforts which encompass
not  only  military  measures,  but  also  initiatives  for  the
solution  of  poverty  problems  and  the  establishment  of
social  infrastructures  that  will  put  an  end  to  human
rights  violations.  The  United  Nations  should  be  a
forum where the contributions of each and every State
are consolidated and implemented in the most efficient
manner. No single State or organization can accomplish
this. Only the United Nations is capable of carrying out
such a lofty task.
A/57/PV.4
allow 
immediate 
In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the
issue  of  Iraq,  which  is  of  grave  concern  to  the
international community. Iraq must comply with all the
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  In  particular,
Iraq  must 
and  unconditional
inspections  and  dispose  of  all  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  It 
international
community to continue to work together and to engage
more  strenuously  in  diplomatic  efforts  through  the
United  Nations.  In  doing  so,  we  must  pursue  the
adoption of necessary and appropriate Security Council
resolutions as soon as possible.
is 
important 
for 
the 
Terrorism  remains  a  critical  issue  this  year.
Today, in addition to terrorism, I would like to take up
other  major challenges  which the United Nations  must
address  and  to  describe  Japan(cid:146)s  contributions  in  those
areas,  namely,  the  consolidation  of  peace  and  nation-
building, 
the  environment  and  development,  and
nuclear  disarmament.  I  will  also  touch  upon  my  ideas
for  the  realization  of  United  Nations  reform,  which  is
essential  in  order  for  this  Organization  to  tackle  these
challenges successfully.
The  first  challenge  is  the  fight  against  terrorism.
Just  after  the  terrorist  attacks  on  11  September,  I
visited  ground  zero.  Seeing  with  my  own  eyes  the
magnitude  of  the  destruction,  I  was  speechless  at  the
enormity  of  the  terrorist  attack.  11  September  is  a
challenge not only to the  United  States,  but also  to  all
humankind.  The  prevention  and  eradication  of
terrorism  are an important task  for  the  United  Nations
and, indeed, for all Member States.
to  accede 
Japan  calls  upon  all  States 
to
international  conventions  related  to  terrorism.  It  is
important  to  develop  international  norms  in  this  area,
such  as  a  comprehensive  convention  on  international
terrorism  and  an  international  convention  for  the
suppression  of  acts  of  nuclear  terrorism.  Safe  havens
for  terrorists  cannot  be  allowed.  Japan  will  further
strengthen  its  domestic  counter-terrorism  measures.
Consulting 
the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  of  the  Security  Council,  it  will  share  its
knowledge and expertise in counter-terrorism measures
with  those  States  that  are  in  need  of  it.  Japan  will
respond  to  threats  where  weapons  of  mass  destruction
might  be  used  in  acts  of  terrorism  by  actively  joining
the  efforts  of  the  international  community  to  prevent
the proliferation of these weapons.
closely  with 
17
A/57/PV.4
The  second  challenge  is  the  consolidation  of
peace  and  nation-building. 
Japan  attaches  great
importance to extending post-conflict assistance for the
consolidation  of  peace  and  nation-building  to  prevent
the  recurrence  of  conflicts.  Having  developed  a
mechanism  to  enable  it  to  cooperate  effectively  in
broader  areas,  Japan  has  entered  a  new  stage  in  its
cooperation  with  peacekeeping  operations.  This
positive  posture  is  manifested  in  its  deployment  since
February of 690 Self-Defence Force personnel,  mainly
as an engineer group, to the peacekeeping operation in
East Timor. Japan will enhance its cooperation in other
areas  as  well,  such  as  demining,  rehabilitation  of
infrastructure,  elections  and 
the  establishment  of
systems for internal security.
The President returned to the Chair.
Concerning  Afghanistan,  at 
on  Reconstruction  Assistance 
the  International
Conference 
to
Afghanistan  held  in  Tokyo  in  January,  Japan  strove  to
solidify the resolve of the international community. We
are  now  preparing  a  programme 
the
demobilization and reintegration of former combatants,
which  will  give  form  to  our  proposed  Register  for
Peace.  My  country  is  also  contributing  to  regional
reconstruction  by  developing  an  assistance  project  for
the  resettlement  of  refugees  and  displaced  people  in
such areas as Kandahar.
to  assist 
In the Middle East, it is crucial that the vision of
the  peaceful  coexistence  of  Israel  and  an  independent
Palestinian State materialize as early as possible. Japan
will  assist  the  reform  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,
which is  aimed  at  the establishment  of  a  new  State  by
the  Palestinian  people.  We  will  do  so  particularly  by
providing 
technical  assistance  for  democratization.
Elections by the  Palestinians are  the  first  step  towards
nation-building  and  I  believe  that  the  international
community  should  extend  assistance  to  ensure  their
success.  However,  putting  an  end  to  the  vicious  circle
of  violence  remains  our  most  urgent  task.  Japan
resolutely  condemns 
terrorist  acts  by  Palestinian
extremists  and  strongly  urges  Israel  to  immediately
withdraw its troops to the line of September 2000, halt
its military operations and lift the economic closures in
the autonomous areas.
In Africa, peace and stability are prerequisites for
development.  We  are  encouraged  by 
the  positive
movements in that continent, such as the realization of
peace in Angola and a partial ceasefire in Sudan. Japan
18
will  actively  support  the  efforts  of  African  States  for
conflict resolution and the consolidation of peace.
is 
the 
The 
third 
of 
protection 
it 
challenge 
environmental 
that  end, 
simultaneous
and
achievement 
development.  Towards 
is  of  course
important to utilize all available financial resources and
to  develop  human  resources,  which  are  the  engine  of
nation-building.  However,  ownership  by  developing
countries  and  their  partnership  with  the  international
community,  which  supports  their  ownership,  are  also
essential.
In  this  respect,  we  welcome  the  development  of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development
(NEPAD)  and  the  establishment  of  the  African  Union
as manifestations of ownership by African countries. In
order  to  help  strengthen  both  African  ownership  and
the  partnership  with  the  international  community,  and
building on the results of the successful World Summit
on  Sustainable  Development 
in
Johannesburg,  Japan  will  convene  the  third  Tokyo
International  Conference  on  African  Development
(TICAD  III)  in  October  2003.  Also,  in  pursuit  of
sustainable  development,  it  will  host  an  international
ministerial-level  conference  on  water  in  Kyoto  in
March 2003. Japan will continue to participate actively
in  worldwide actions for environmental protection and
development  by  providing  expertise  and 
taking
concrete action.
took  place 
that 
Fourthly,  I  would  like  to  touch  upon  the  nuclear
disarmament  issue.  I  believe  that  Japan,  as  the  only
country  in  human  history  to  have  suffered  nuclear
devastation,  has  a  significant  role  to  play  in  nuclear
disarmament and non-proliferation. Japan will continue
its  efforts to realize a  peaceful and  safe  world,  free  of
nuclear  weapons, as early  as  possible. To that  end,  we
will  propose  a  draft  resolution  entitled  (cid:147)A  path  to  the
total elimination of nuclear weapons(cid:148) at this session of
the General Assembly, and we will redouble our efforts
to  achieve 
the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
the  early  entry 
force  of 
into 
When  addressing 
these  challenges,  we  must
ensure  that  the  variety  of  measures  taken  by  Member
States are  effectively  coordinated.  The  United  Nations
must exercise its leadership in this endeavour. We, that
is  all  Member  States,  must  breathe  new  life  into  the
United  Nations  by  strengthening  its  functions  through
reforms. Next  year,  the  debate  on  Security  Council
reform will enter its tenth year. I believe that we should
now  focus  our  discussion  on  such  questions  as  the
number of seats on an enlarged Security Council. Japan
intends  to  work  hard  to  that  end.  In  this  connection,  I
would remind all Member States of the question of the
(cid:147)enemy  State(cid:148)  clauses,  meaningless  legacies  of  the
twentieth  century,  that  remain  in  the  United  Nations
Charter.
Since assuming office as Prime  Minister in  April
2001,  I  have  proceeded  with  a  series  of  reforms  to
enable  Japan  to  respond  appropriately  to  the  new  era.
The United Nations also must continue to reform itself
so  as  to  respond  to  new  situations  in  the  world  by
constantly  reviewing  its  organization  and  functions.
The  prescription  for  reform  is  already  shown  in  the
Millennium  Declaration.  In  order  to  achieve  the  goals
contained in the Declaration and build a more peaceful,
prosperous and just world, every Member State should
renew its determination to achieve reform in the United
Nations  and  take  actions  toward  that  end.  Japan  will
make  its  utmost  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  United
Nations  is  able  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-
first century.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan
for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Junichiro  Koizumi,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan,
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by The Right Honourable Sir Anerood
Jugnauth, Prime Minister of the Republic
of Mauritius
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of
Mauritius.
The  Right  Honourable  Sir  Anerood  Jugnauth,
Prime Minister of Mauritius,  was escorted  to  the
rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable  Sir
Anerood  Jugnauth,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of
Mauritius,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General
Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
Sir  Anerood  Jugnauth  (Mauritius):  It  gives  me
immense  pleasure  to  address  the  fifty-seventh  session
of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  under  your
able leadership. Allow me, on behalf of my delegation,
to  extend  to  you  our  wholehearted  congratulations  on
A/57/PV.4
your election  as the President  of  the present  session.  I
wish  to  assure  you  of  my  delegation(cid:146)s  support  and
cooperation throughout your tenure of office.
for 
the 
thanks 
I  also  wish 
to  convey  my 
remarkable  manner 
to  His
Excellency  Dr.  Han  Seung-soo  of  the  Republic  of
Korea 
in  which  he
conducted  the  work  of  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  fifty-sixth
session. United Nations Secretary-General Kofi  Annan
also  deserves  our  gratitude  for  his  inspiring  and
commendable initiatives in furthering the objectives of
our Organization.
We  are  happy  that  the  Swiss  Confederation  and
Timor-Leste  have  joined  us  as  the  newest  members  of
the United Nations family. Timor-Leste stands out as a
shining  accomplishment  of  the  United  Nations  system
to  uphold  the  right  to  independence  of  a  nation  in
adverse conditions.
The terrorist atrocities of 11 September will never
fade  from  our collective  consciousness,  and  the  agony
and  the  pain  of  the  day  are  still  with  us.  The
terrorist
sophisticated 
organizations 
that
monstrosity must be dismantled at any cost. We owe it
to ourselves and to the generations that will come after
us to  mobilize all  our energies and  efforts  to  never  let
that happen again, anywhere.
infrastructure 
of 
that  was  utilized 
inflict 
the 
to 
together  with  other  States, 
Mauritius  is  committed  to  remain  fully  engaged
in  the  global  coalition  against  terrorism,  and  we  shall
continue, 
take  all
measures  (cid:151) nationally, regionally  and  internationally  (cid:151)
so  that  the  scourge  of  terrorism  is  never  inflicted  on
unsuspecting  civilians  and  countries.  We  are  alive  to
the  chilling  reality  that  no  country  is  or  ever  will  be
safe  until  the  war  against  terrorism  is  finally  and
completely won. We condemn cross-border infiltration;
it must stop and must be made to stop.
to 
The threats posed by international terrorism have
heightened  the  need  for  collective  action  to  preserve
world  peace  and  security.  While  we  combine  our
efforts  to  wage  a  war  on  terrorism,  we  should,  at  the
same 
towards  global
disarmament and a complete elimination of weapons of
mass  destruction  within  a  specified  time  frame.  My
delegation reiterates its appeal  for  the  early convening
of a conference on nuclear disarmament.
to  work 
continue 
time, 
The 
term  of  Mauritius  as  an  elected  non-
permanent member of the Security Council will end in
19
A/57/PV.4
December  this  year.  During  its  tenure  on  the  Council,
Mauritius  was  instrumental  in  the  establishment  of  an
ad  hoc  working  group  on  conflict  prevention  and
resolution 
It  has  made  positive  and
constructive recommendations that have been endorsed
by the Security Council.
in  Africa. 
In  contrast  to  previous  years,  when  the  General
Assembly  listened  to  a  litany  of  horror  stories  out  of
Africa, I am happy to note that substantial and positive
developments are  taking  place  on  the  continent.  There
is a  new  dawn  in  Africa  and the  stark  realization  that,
without  enduring  peace  and  stability,  there  will  be  no
sustainable development.
We  congratulate  the  African  leaders  who  have
spared  no  effort  in  the  search  for  African  solutions  to
African  conflicts  and  crises.  The  Pretoria  Agreement
between  Presidents  Kabila  and  Kagame  represents  a
major  breakthrough  for  the  peace  process  in  the  Great
Lakes  region.  We  are  aware  that  the  implementation
will  be  difficult.  We  are,  however,  confident  that  the
international  community  will  provide  all  necessary
assistance  to  the  leaders  in  the  region  for  a  smooth
implementation.
in  Sierra  Leone, 
With  the  positive  developments  in  Angola,  the
successful  general  elections 
the
settlement  of  the  boundary  problem  between  Eritrea
and  Ethiopia 
the
implementation of the Arusha Peace and Reconciliation
Agreement  for  Burundi,  there  are  clear  signals  that
some  of  the  major  conflicts  in  Africa  are  being
successfully resolved.
the  progress  made 
and 
in 
the  crucial 
As Africa embarks on the road of peace, we wish
the
to  underscore 
role  played  by 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development, 
the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  and  the
Southern  African  Development  Community  in  their
relentless  search  for  negotiated  settlement  of 
the
conflicts  in  our  respective  subregions.  There  is  cause
for optimism, and it is gratifying that the days of doom
and gloom for Africa are on their way to extinction.
the 
Our 
region, 
Indian  Ocean,  which  has
witnessed  some  turbulent  times  recently,  is  again
poised  for  stability  and  development.  We  applaud  the
return  to  constitutional  rule  in  the  Comoros  and  the
consolidation of democratic institutions in that country.
We  also  welcome  the  formation  of  a  Government  of
national  reconciliation  in  Madagascar  and  the  efforts
under  way  to  undo  the  damage  caused  by  the  recent
20
crisis  there.  Mauritius  will  be  closely  associated  with
the countries of our region to further enhance  regional
cooperation.
of 
disease 
hunger, 
poverty, 
The  launching  of  the  African  Union  in  Durban,
South  Africa,  in  July  this  year  was  indeed  a  historic
and  emotionally  charged  occasion.  The  birth  of  the
African Union heralds a new era of political, economic
and  social 
transformation  for  our  continent.  The
continent  is  more  than  ever  determined  to  shape  its
destiny  and  to  tackle  comprehensively  the  burning
problems 
and
underdevelopment  that  have  debilitated  millions  of
Africans over the  years. The  African  Union  has raised
expectations  that  we,  as  leaders,  are  committed  to
honour. The African Union will be able to respond in a
positive  manner  to  the  challenges  confronting  it,  as
well  as  maximizing 
the
improvement of the lives of peoples of the continent. In
that  context,  the  decision  of  African  countries  to  take
responsibility  for peacekeeping  on the  continent  needs
to  be  encouraged.  Since  the  burden  of  peacekeeping
must  be  equitably  shared,  I  am  pleased  to  announce
that  Mauritius  will  contribute  to  the  United  Nations
civilian police for service in post-conflict operations.
the  opportunities 
for 
is  another  chapter 
Along  with  the  launching  of  the  African  Union,
for  Africa(cid:146)s
the  home-grown  New  Partnership 
Development  (NEPAD) 
the
unfolding of the success story of the African continent.
NEPAD  commits  Africa  to  building  a  strong  and
enduring  culture  of  democracy,  respect  for  human
rights and accountability for the  continent. Indeed, the
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
is  a  credible
mechanism to promote the prospects  of  internationally
recognized norms and standards of good governance.
in 
The  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal
Court  (ICC)  marks  a  watershed  in  mankind(cid:146)s  quest  to
put  an  end  to  impunity  and  to  bring  to  justice  those
responsible  for  crimes  against  humanity,  for  genocide
and for international crimes. The ICC is the single most
important  institution  of  this  millennium,  and  it  is  the
duty of the international community to fully support it.
In  May  this  year,  during  the  special  session  on
children,  Mauritius  had  the  opportunity  to  join  the
international  efforts  to  pave  the  way  for  effective
protection  for  every  child  in  every  part  of  the  world.
The  children  who  addressed  the  gathering  uttered
words of great significance that no one can, or should,
ever forget. The future is theirs, and it is for them that
we ought to ensure the sustainable development of our
one  and  only  planet.  My  country  will  ensure  that  the
principles,  goals  and  actions  discussed  during  the
special  session  are  integrated  in  our  various  child
welfare programmes.
the  Israelis  and 
The  Middle  East  is  still  not  at  peace.  The  death
toll  rises  every  day,  but  we  are  encouraged  by  the
signals  being  sent  by  both 
the
Palestinian leadership. Our vision of the Middle East is
to  see  the  early  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State
living  side  by  side  with  Israel  on  the  basis  of  agreed
and  secure  boundaries.  The  Palestinians  also  need  to
have  State  machinery  that  observes  the  fundamental
norms  of  a democratic  system,  with  responsibility  and
accountability  on  the  part  of  the  leaders.  They  alone
have  the  absolute  right  to  elect  their  leaders  when
elections are held in January 2003.
We appeal to the Iraqi authorities to comply fully
and  unconditionally  with  Security  Council  resolutions
with  respect  to  allowing  the  arms  inspectors  to  fulfil
their mandate.
Development, 
held 
recently 
the  Commonwealth; 
Small  island  developing  States  are  a  particularly
their
vulnerable  group  of  countries  by  virtue  of 
inherent  natural  and  structural  constraints.  The  World
Bank; 
the  United  Nations
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in
Monterrey,  Mexico;  and 
the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable 
in
Johannesburg,  South  Africa,  have  all  recognized  that
those  constraints,  if  not  addressed  effectively,  could
undermine  the  trade  and  development  prospects  of
these 
further
marginalization.  We  look  forward  to  specific  and
concrete  recommendations  for  action  in  this  regard  at
the  Fifth  Ministerial  Conference  of  the  World  Trade
Organization  scheduled  to  be  held  next  September  in
Mexico.
countries, 
leading 
to 
their 
The  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development
addressed  the  fundamental  question  of  what  kind  of
world  we  want  for  ourselves  and  for  generations  that
are yet unborn. The recent devastating floods in Europe
and  Asia,  as  well  as  the  droughts  in  many  parts  of
Africa (cid:151) particularly Southern Africa, where there are
more than 13 million people in danger of famine (cid:151) are
a  stark  reminder  of  the  fragility  of  our  planet(cid:146)s
ecosystem.  The  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  has  made  the  whole  world  conscious  of
the  havoc 
that  nature  may  cause  unless  drastic
A/57/PV.4
immediately 
to 
redress 
the
measures  are 
taken 
ecological imbalance.
(spoke in French)
The  Ninth  Summit  of  La  Francophonie,  which
Lebanon  will  host  next  month  and  which  will  be  held
on  the  topic  (cid:147)dialogue  of  cultures(cid:148),  will  undoubtedly
enable 
foster
sharing  among  various  cultures  with  a  view 
to
maintaining peace, security and democracy.
(spoke in English)
the  French-speaking  community 
to 
Mauritius  reaffirms 
the  United  Kingdom  prior 
its  legitimate  sovereignty
over  the  Chagos  Archipelago,  including  the  island  of
Diego Garcia, which was detached from the territory of
Mauritius  by 
to  our
independence. We renew our call to the former colonial
Power,  the  United  Kingdom,  to  accelerate  discussions
with  us  for  an  early  settlement  of  this  issue.  The
persons  of  Mauritian  origin  who  were  displaced  from
the  Chagos  Archipelago  continue  to  claim  redress  for
the  serious  human  rights  violations  that  they  endured.
We support their efforts to seek redress.
the  resolution  of 
We  also  call  on  the  French  Government  to  work
towards 
the  dispute  concerning
Tromelin Island, over which Mauritius has sovereignty.
In  conclusion,  Mauritius  reiterates  its  conviction
that  the  United  Nations  system  remains  the  best
guarantee for international peace and security.
The  framework  within  which  the  United  Nations
organizes  the  collective  security  of  States  may  not  be
perfect,  but  it  is  at  least  one  that  is  tested  and  has
served  us  relatively  well  for  more  than  50  years.
Working  on  the  basis  of  the  neutrality  of  rules  and
principles  is  far  preferable  to  the  haphazardness  of
expediency.  We  also  should  not  be  unmindful  of  the
linkages  which  exist  between  different  situations,  and
that  is  why  we  urge  the  international  community  to
observe  the  principle  of  equality  of  treatment  in  all
cases.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic  of  Mauritius  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
The  Right  Honourable  Sir  Anerood  Jugnauth,
Prime Minister of the Republic of Mauritius, was
escorted from the rostrum.
21
A/57/PV.4
Address by Mr. Silvio Berlusconi, Prime Minister of
the Italian Republic
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Silvio  Berlusconi,
Prime Minister of the Italian Republic.
Mr.  Silvio  Berlusconi,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Italian Republic, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President:
I  have  great  pleasure 
in
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Silvio  Berlusconi,
Prime  Minister  of  the  Italian  Republic,  and  inviting
him to address the General Assembly.
today.  By  striking 
Mr.  Berlusconi  (Italy):  One  year  has  gone  by
since  the  terrorist  attack  on  the  United  States,  which
inflicted  such  deep  wounds  on  the  city  that  welcomes
us 
this
democracy, the terrorists intended to strike at the heart
of  the  whole  community  of  nations  and  peoples  that
embraces the United  Nations and  the  values  for  which
it stands.
this  nation, 
this  city, 
But  they  failed  in  their  purpose.  Instead,  their
barbarous  acts  roused  in  all  of  us  a  common  will  to
respond.  Rather  than  divide  us,  they  united  us.  And
united  we  intend  to  respond  to  every  new  threat  to
world security.
The 
is 
fight  against 
the  crucial
challenge we must face today in order to defend human
values  (cid:151)  the  values  of  freedom,  peace,  justice  and
development which we all share.
terrorism 
The  United  Nations  is  at  the  forefront  of  this
struggle. We know that it will be a long and hard battle,
and  we  must  therefore  maintain  the  cohesion  and
determination that we have shown so far.
But  we  are  firmly  convinced  that  this  battle  can
be  won.  Yesterday  President  Bush 
the
responsibilities that we all share in this fight to defend
freedom,  which  is  the  greatest  good  and  that  from
which all other goods flow. Terrorism finds a breeding
ground wherever there is no freedom, wherever there is
no  democracy,  but  where  there  is  hunger,  misery  and
despair.
recalled 
In  order  to  defeat  terrorism,  we  must  globalize
freedom  and  democracy. 
to  eradicate
terrorism,  we  must promote an  economic  development
without borders (cid:151) a lasting development for all.
In  order 
22
My  country  has  played  a  role  in  this  struggle
from  the  start  and  will  continue  to  do  so  to  the  end,
enhancing  the  military,  financial,  judicial,  police  and
intelligence  cooperation  that  has  already  achieved
important results. But we are also working to eradicate
poverty  and  disease.  We  are  committed  to  pledging
0.39  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product  to  less
developed  countries,  and  we  intend  to  reach  the  level
of 0.7 per cent.
The African continent is crucial to our effort. It is
a  challenge  to  our  conscience  and  represents  a  test  of
our  ability to  help its  countries  to  participate  in  a  true
development without borders.
The  Group  of  Eight(cid:146)s  action  plan  for  Africa,
launched 
in  Genoa  under  Italy(cid:146)s  presidency  and
approved  in  Canada,  responds  to  the  need  for  a  new
form  of  solidarity  between  the  most  industrialized
countries and those which intend to become the owners
of their future.
But  an  increase  in  financial  aid  is  no  longer
enough.  At  the  Kananaskis  summit,  we  presented  an
action  plan  aimed  at  achieving  common  standards  of
good  governance,  starting  with  our  (cid:147)e-government(cid:148)
initiative,  a  completely  computerized  and  digitalized
universal  model  of  public  accounting  and  of  public
administration and its primary functions.
The  adoption  of  this  universal  model,  which
respects  the  identity,  traditions  and  culture  of  each
country,  could  produce  several  positive  effects:  clear
and  transparent  public  accounting;  clear  laws  and
regulations  befitting  the  rule  of  law;  more  efficient
services  for  citizens  and  businesses;  greater  efficiency
in  public  administration;  and,  above  all,  greater
democracy. This will spark a virtuous circle, and donor
countries  will  finally  have  the  certainty  that  their
assistance is truly delivered to needy populations.
In  this  respect,  three  phases  were  outlined  at  the
Group  of  Eight  meeting.  In  the  first  trial  stage,  the
necessary  assistance  will  be  provided  to  the  countries
that wish to adopt this system. At the end of this phase,
which  might  last  three  or  four  years,  we  can  move  on
to  a  second  phase  in  which  the  adoption  of  the
universal  system  becomes  a  requirement 
for  all
countries that apply for development assistance.
Finally, there could be a third phase in which we
could  ask  the  most  industrialized  countries  to  forge  a
special  partnership  with  specific  countries,  taking  it
upon themselves to implement specific projects.
We  are  likewise  convinced  that  public  assistance
should  be  supplemented  by  private  assistance.  At
Kananaskis,  we  submitted  an 
innovative  proposal
called (cid:147)de-tax(cid:148), whereby private citizens would be able
to  allocate  between  1  and  2  per  cent  of  the  price  of
what  they  buy  to  the  implementation  of  specific
projects,  such  as  schools,  hospitals  or  water-supply
facilities in poor countries.
At  Genoa  we  also  launched  the  (cid:147)Education  for
All(cid:148)  plan  and 
to  Fight  AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, to which Italy has pledged a
substantial contribution.
the  Global  Fund 
But the poorer  countries  also  need  to  be relieved
of  the  burden  of  their  debt  so  as  to  free  up  the
resources they need for their growth. That is why Italy
has  already  cancelled  $1  billion  of  debt  and  will  soon
cancel  another  $4  billion,  until  the  complete  write-off
of all its credits.
Our commitment to the United Nations is clear on
all  fronts.  Italy  is  the  sixth-largest  contributor  to  the
Organization(cid:146)s  regular  budget  and  one  of  the  largest
troop  contributors.  About  10,000  Italian  soldiers  are
deployed  throughout  the  world,  from  the  Balkans  to
Afghanistan,  to  preserve  and  maintain  peace  and
security.  We  will  continue along  that  road,  in  our  firm
belief  that  there is  no  problem  that  we  cannot  solve  if
we are united in our determination.
As  we  speak  today,  the  main  challenge  to  the
United  Nations  and  our  system  of  values  is  posed  by
the regime that governs Iraq,  which has systematically
ignored  all  the  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations.  A
response is indispensable to safeguard the international
community from the danger posed by a massive build-
up of weapons of mass destruction.
the  United  Nations  and  of 
As  President  Bush  so  clearly  stated,  what  we
must  address  today  is  precisely  this  repeated  defiance
of 
the
international community.  We  must  make  use  of  all  the
diplomatic and political means available to address this
situation.  But  if  things  do  not  change  substantially,  it
will  be  necessary  to  act  within  the  framework  of  the
United  Nations  in  order  to  safeguard  global  security
from a real threat.
the  will  of 
The  lesson  we  must  draw  from  the  events  of  11
September  is  that  haste  can  lead  to  carelessness,  but
A/57/PV.4
delay  in  taking  the  necessary  action  can  have  terrible
consequences.  When  terrorist  attacks  or  threats  to
peace  are  carried  out by  networks  or  regimes  that  aim
at  destroying  our  way  of 
liberal
democracies, then democracies have not only the  right
but also the duty to defend themselves.
life  and  our 
Let me now turn our attention to the Middle East.
Italy supports the road map drawn up by the European
Union,  as  well  as  the  action  of  the  (cid:147)quartet(cid:148)  and  the
rapid  convening  of  an  international  conference  to
ensure  the  peaceful  coexistence  of  two  independent
States within safe and secure borders.
First of all, the spiral of violence must come to an
end  through  the  cessation  of  terrorist  attacks.  The
holding  of  free  and  fair  elections  will  advance  the
process  of  democratic  reform  of 
the  Palestinian
National  Authority.  But  a  lasting  peace  cannot  be
envisaged unless we narrow the economic gap between
the Israelis and the Palestinians, giving the Palestinians
realistic hope for jobs and development. With this goal
in  mind,  Italy  has  presented  a  plan  to  rebuild  and
support  the  Palestinian  economy.  Italy  has  already
offered 
the  peace
conference.
the  negotiations  and 
to  host 
We  are  men  and  women  of  peace.  We  are
convinced  that  this  new  century  cannot  be  left  at  the
mercy  of  criminal  folly  and  fanaticism.  We  are
committed  to  the  fight  against  terrorism,  and  we  will
do everything in our power to eradicate that evil and to
defend  our  security  and  our  future.  We  will  lend  our
efforts to the building of a true and just peace, the only
kind of peace for the just and the free.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Italian
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Silvio  Berlusconi,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Italian Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  The  Honourable  Alexander  Downer,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia.
Mr.  Downer  (Australia):  Let  me  begin  by
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-seventh  session.  I
am  also  pleased  to  welcome  Switzerland  as  a  new
Member of the United Nations.
23
A/57/PV.4
Let  me  acknowledge  also  two  other  significant
developments: the establishment of the African Union,
and  the  creation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development.  Both  raise  real  hope  for  a  new  era  of
political stability and economic growth for Africa.
We meet at this General Assembly in the shadow
of the  terrorist attacks  on  this  great  city  one  year  ago.
Those  chilling  events  were  an  attack  on  the  values  of
the  great  civilizations  represented  here  today,  values
that  are central  to  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  this
Organization.
We  can  take  some  comfort  in  knowing  that  the
international  community  has  responded,  deliberately
and resolutely, to international terrorism. The coalition
in the war against terrorism (cid:151) led by the United States
and  joined  by  others,  including  Australia  (cid:151)  has
accomplished  a  great  deal.  The  Al  Qaeda  network  in
Afghanistan has been disabled. The Taliban regime has
been  defeated.  Now  the  world  is  a  safer  and  more
humane place.
But  terrorism  cannot  be  stamped  out  by  military
effort  alone.  Together  we  must  choke  off  support  (cid:151)
financial and otherwise (cid:151) for terrorism. We must stop
the  patrons  and  bankrollers  of  the  trade  in  terror,  and
together  face 
threat.  The  decisive
response  of  the  United  Nations  after  11  September,
embodied  in  Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001),
created  a  framework  for  Member  States  to  join  forces
in suppressing, prosecuting and punishing terrorist acts
and terrorist financing.
insidious 
this 
in 
implement 
strengthened 
resolution  1373 
All  Member  States  must 
the
(2001).
commitments  made 
Australia  has 
counter-terrorism
legislative  and  law  enforcement  framework.  We  are
party  to  10  of  the  12  anti-terrorism  instruments  and
will  ratify  another  later  this  month.  Australia  is  also
assisting  other  countries  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region  to
implement their obligations.
its 
We  face  another  grave  threat  to  international
peace and security, one that tests  the  very  authority  of
the United Nations. For over a decade, Iraq has flouted
legally binding obligations to disclose and eradicate its
programmes for weapons of mass destruction. Iraq has
defied  United  Nations  resolutions,  United  Nations
inspections  and  United  Nations  sanctions,  and  it  has
ignored  some  23  of  the  27  United  Nations  obligations
imposed  on  it  under  16  Security  Council  resolutions.
The  Secretary-General  has  been  patient,  flexible  and
24
assiduous  in  his  efforts  to  get  Iraq  to  comply  with
Council resolutions. But Iraq has refused to  work  with
the  United  Nations 
its
programmes for weapons of mass destruction.
to  dismantle 
in  efforts 
Until  this  occurs,  Iraq  is  a  grave  threat  to  its
neighbours  and  to  the  world.  Iraq(cid:146)s  well  documented
aggression  towards  its  neighbours  and  its  past  use  of
chemical weapons underline the potency of the threat it
poses.  Grave  concerns  remain  about  Iraq(cid:146)s  present
capabilities.
Up until 1998 United Nations weapons inspectors
did  much  good  work  in  finding  and  destroying  Iraq(cid:146)s
weapons of mass destruction program. But the work of
the  United  Nations  Special  Commission  (UNSCOM)
was  never  finished,  because  in  1998  the  inspectors
were  effectively  thrown  out  of  Iraq.  Four  years  later,
there is little doubt that Iraq has been  working hard to
rebuild 
biological  weapons
programmes.  Moreover,  serious  questions  also  remain
about Iraq(cid:146)s nuclear weapons programme.
chemical 
and 
its 
give 
immediate, 
unconditional 
This  state  of  affairs  cannot  be  left  unresolved.
Iraq  must 
and
unrestricted access to inspectors to  all areas,  facilities,
equipment,  records  and  Iraqi  officials.  In  short,  Iraq
must  fulfil  the  requirements  of  all  relevant  Security
Council resolutions. If Iraq has nothing to hide, then it
has nothing to fear. Indeed, by meeting these demands,
Iraq and its people have everything to gain.
Let  us  also  be  very  clear:  Iraq(cid:146)s  flagrant  and
persistent  defiance  is  a  direct  challenge  to  the  United
Nations,  to  the  authority  of  the  Security  Council,  to
international  law,  and  to  the  will  of  the  international
community.
We  cannot  stand  by  and  allow  ourselves  to  be
ignored.  Nor  must  protracted  negotiations  be  allowed
to weaken and eventually paralyse efforts to allay fears
about Iraq(cid:146)s weapons of mass destruction. We all  must
demonstrate a clear, collective determination to uphold
the authority of the Security Council, and to ensure that
its  resolutions  on  Iraq  are 
in  full.
Otherwise, if Iraq(cid:146)s pursuit of these abhorrent weapons
is  allowed  to  continue,  we  may  shortly  be  asking
ourselves why we failed to act.
implemented 
The terrorist threat has given new urgency to our
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  goals,  and  puts
demands  on  us  for a  renewed  effort to  stop  the  spread
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  (cid:151)  both  to  non-state
and state actors. We have to be alive to the willingness
of  terrorist  groups  to  develop  and  use  chemical,
biological or nuclear weapons.
Australia,  for its part, intends  to  pursue  practical
international  non-
and  effective  measures  through 
proliferation 
export-control
arrangements.  These  regimes  and  arrangements  have
delivered  tangible  security  benefits,  and  should  be
supported strongly.
regimes 
treaty 
and 
We  also  need  to  deal  with  other  transnational
challenges:  not  just  terrorism  but  other  transnational
crimes,  including  the  smuggling  of  arms,  drugs  and
people.
Transnational  crimes  threaten  all  countries.  They
require  us  to  cooperate  further  in  law  enforcement,
intelligence and financial controls (cid:151) much like the war
on terrorism.
truly 
trafficking 
in  persons 
transnational  problem.  This 
People-smuggling  and  trafficking,  in  particular,
lucrative
are  a 
the 
international
criminal  enterprise  undermines 
refugee  protection 
legal  migration
system,  and 
programs, that have enabled  millions to build new and
prosperous lives in countries like Australia. Combating
people-smuggling  and 
is
particularly  important  to  Australia  and  to  the  Asia-
Pacific  region.  This  year,  Australia  co-hosted  a
regional  ministerial 
Indonesia.
Ministers 
committed
themselves  to  stopping  the  people  who  deal  cold-
heartedly  in  human  cargo.  We  agreed  that,  in  the  first
instance,  people-smuggling  must  be  legislated  against
as a serious crime. There is much more we need to do,
and  Australia  welcomes  international  discussion  and
action  on 
the  United
Nations system itself.
conference  with 
countries 
issue,  including  within 
thirty-eight 
from 
the 
the 
addition 
Australia  welcomes 
the
International  Criminal  Court  to  the  international  legal
framework.  It  is  an  example  of  positive  international
cooperation  which  will  complement  the  efforts  of
States  to  end  impunity  for  the  worst  violations  of
international humanitarian law.
of 
United  Nations  work  in  East  Timor  is  another
outstanding  example  of  how  the  organization  can,  and
does, make a difference (cid:151) in this case in response to a
humanitarian crisis. In May we celebrated East Timor(cid:146)s
independence.  We  are  now  about  to  welcome  East
Timor as a new member of the United Nations. That we
A/57/PV.4
have arrived at this point owes much to the resolve and
courage of the East Timorese. It owes much also to the
United Nations and United Nations authorized missions
that  brought  stability  and  order  and  renewed  hope  for
the future.
I  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  and 
the
Security  Council  for  providing  the  United  Nations
Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET) with the
necessary  support,  not  just  for  peacekeeping  and
policing,  but  also  for  developing  stable  governance  in
East Timor. Sustained United Nations and international
support will be critical in East Timor(cid:146)s formative years.
Australia  is  determined  to  provide  such  support.  I
would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello(cid:146)s
efforts in  East  Timor,  and  to  congratulate  him  warmly
on  his 
as  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
appointment 
to  Member  States 
home 
to  marshal  national  and 
HIV/AIDS is a global issue that tears at the fabric
of our society, and threatens the economic development
of  entire  continents.  The  United  Nations  General
Assembly  Special  Session  on  HIV/AIDS  in  June  last
their
year 
brought 
responsibilities 
regional
responses  to  HIV/AIDS.  Australia  hosted  a  regional
ministerial  meeting  in  Melbourne  in  October  2001.
Ministers  agreed  on  the  need  to  develop  strategies  to
fight HIV/AIDS,  and  on  the  need  to  share  lessons  and
cooperate  in  priority  areas.  We  helped  establish  the
Asia-Pacific  Leadership  Forum  on  HIV/AIDS  and
Development  to  engender  greater  cooperation  in  the
region,  and  we  applaud  the  appointment  of  a  United
Nations regional envoy for HIV/AIDS.
the  Monterrey 
The  United  Nations  has  a  heavy  agenda.  But  it
cannot  (cid:151)  and  should  not  (cid:151)  try  to  do  everything.  To
make  a  difference  it  must  be  selective  and  focused,
matching  its  activities  to  its  capabilities  and  to  the
priorities  that  we,  the  Member  States,  set  for  it.  The
agreed
Millennium  Declaration  gave  us 
priorities.  And 
for
Johannesburg
Development  Conference 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  have  built  on
these,  giving  us  a  framework  to  shape  and  direct  our
work. We also need to revitalize and reform the way in
which  the  key  organs  of  the  Organization  (cid:151)  the
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
the  Security  Council  (cid:151) 
function.  The  Security
Council, in particular, should be reformed, including by
expanding its membership.
clear, 
Financing 
and 
the 
25
A/57/PV.4
We also need to think again about the relationship
between these organs and the Secretariat: time is not a
free  good,  nor  are  meeting  services,  nor  are  the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  reports,  and  nor  is  the  capacity  or
will  of  Member  States  to  provide  resources  without
limits. We need to look at how we can more effectively
use existing Unite Nations mechanisms (cid:151) particularly
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  United  Nations
Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) (cid:151) as bodies
of review. And we are especially concerned that  major
United  Nations  conferences  have  become  so  large  and
unwieldy  that  their  fundamental  purposes  have  been
obscured.
Australia strongly supports the process of reform
proposed by the Secretary-General for his second term.
This  provides  a  unique  opportunity  to  address  these
questions  and  to  (cid:147)re-tool(cid:148)  the  Organization  so  as  to
build  on  its  strengths.  As  Member  States,  we  are  the
United Nations. The Organization is there to serve our
collective interests.
In  order  to  address  new  threats  and  challenges,
the  United  Nations  must  be  focused  and  responsive,
and  its  key  organs  must  function  efficiently  and
effectively.  We  must  continue  to  work  together  to
enable  it  to  meet  our  expectations.  I  am  confident
that (cid:151) together (cid:151) we can achieve success.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Joseph  Deiss,  the  Federal  Councillor and  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Switzerland.
Mr.  Deiss  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is
imperative,  now  more  than  ever  before,  that  all  the
peoples  of  the  world  act  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity.  The
United  Nations  embodies  this  spirit.  In  joining  the
United  Nations,  Switzerland  sends  you  a  message  of
solidarity. This makes me proud and happy.
I would like to add my thanks to those expressed
last  Tuesday  by  Kaspar  Villiger,  the  President  of  the
Swiss  Confederation, on the occasion of  Switzerland(cid:146)s
formal  admission  to  the  United  Nations.  I  would  also
like to thank all the Members of the United Nations for
the  warm  welcome  they  have  given  my  country.
Switzerland feels welcomed. We feel that we are where
we belong.
I  would  also  like  to  give  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  my  profound  thanks.  His  sincerity  and  wisdom
contributed  greatly 
the  people  of
Switzerland of the need to join the United Nations.
to  convincing 
26
I  would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
election.  I  already  know  and  value  your  qualities  and
talents  and  I  know  that  you  will  put  them  to  the  best
service of the United Nations. Switzerland is pleased to
be  working  with  you  towards  the  success  of  this
session of the General Assembly.
The Swiss people have decided to join the United
Nations. They have said (cid:147)yes(cid:148) to increased cooperation
with  the  United  Nations.  They  have  said  (cid:147)yes(cid:148)  to  a
stronger  international  commitment.  They  have  said
(cid:147)yes(cid:148)  to  taking  greater  responsibility  for  meeting  the
challenges that face humankind.
the 
The 
facing 
challenges 
international
community at the beginning of the twenty-first century
are immense. A number of regions suffer from terrible
poverty.  Crises  and  wars  are  rife  on  all  continents.
There are millions of refugees. We see the hideous face
of  terrorism.  Criminal  networks  exploit  human  beings
and traffic shamefully in drugs and arms. New diseases
are emerging and, day after day, we continue to destroy
the Earth(cid:146)s ecological balance.
There  are  no  simple  answers  to  any  of  these
problems, but there is a place where we can all meet to
find  solutions:  the  United  Nations.  The  world  needs  a
strong  United  Nations,  as  it  is  the  only  universal
Organization  working  at  the  global  level.  It  alone  can
analyse problems at the world level. It alone can create
a consensus between States on common goals. Finally,
as  stressed  by  the  Secretary-General,  there  is  no
substitute  for 
legitimacy
provided  to  principles  and  choices  of  action  by  the
United Nations.
international 
the  unique 
Switzerland  has  joined  the  United  Nations  as  a
neutral  country  and  we  intend  to  remain  neutral.  Our
neutral  status,  however,  in  no  way  diminishes  our
desire  for  cooperation.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  an
advantage for our peace activities. Our  membership of
the United Nations is not a change in direction, but the
logical consequence of our foreign policy.
To 
(cid:147)the 
quote 
our  Constitution, 
Swiss
Confederation  is  committed  (cid:133)  to  a  just  and  peaceful
international  order(cid:148).  The  principal  aim  of  the  United
Nations is to maintain international peace and security.
For us, therefore, the United Nations is the ideal place
to  carry  out  this  vital  mission.  As  a  Member  of  the
United  Nations,  Switzerland  will  devote 
itself
resolutely  to  international  peace  and  security.  That
commitment  will  be  focused,  above  all,  on  armed
conflicts. The  logic of armed  conflicts today  forces  us
to  adopt  a  multidimensional  approach 
to  peace
processes.  If  we  are  to  succeed,  we  must  work  in
several different areas in parallel:  military, diplomatic,
humanitarian  and  economic.  We  must  also  involve  all
interested  players  in  the  process.  All  this  demands  a
major  effort  of  coordination,  and  Switzerland  will
contribute to that.
Security  problems,  moreover,  must  be  addressed
from  a  broader  angle  (cid:151)  that  of  human  security.  The
inhabitants  of  this  world  must  be  able  to  live  without
fear of war, starvation and despotism. In particular, we
must  protect  vulnerable 
individuals  and  groups.
Switzerland  will  therefore  pursue  its  efforts  in  favour
of  human 
the
soldiers,  eliminating  anti-
recruitment  of  child 
personnel  mines  and  halting  the  proliferation  of  small
arms.
security.  This 
stopping 
includes 
In 
I  welcome 
this  context, 
the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  appeal  to  make  full  use  of  multilateral
institutions.  This 
the
maintenance of international peace and security. There
is  only  one  source  of  legitimacy  for  the  use  of  force:
the United Nations.
especially  valid 
for 
is 
Switzerland 
Iraq  has  been  discussed  on  several  occasions
during  these  past  days.  There  is  undeniably  a  need  to
act,  and  to  act  with  determination,  in  order  to  ensure
the  implementation  of  United  Nations  resolutions,  but
action  must  be  taken  together,  within  the  United
Nations.  Only 
the  United  Nations  can  confer
international legitimacy to any action against Iraq.
that  peace 
and
development  can  be  sustained  only  if  they  go  hand  in
hand  with freedom, democracy, and respect  for  human
rights.  Human  dignity  is  our  most  precious  asset.  It
must be defended at all times and in all places. We will
champion  this  conviction  at  the  United  Nations  to  the
full  and  without  concessions.  For  as  long  as  men  and
women  are  exploited,  children  are  mistreated  and  the
death  penalty  is  carried  out,  Switzerland  will  do
everything within its power to defend human dignity.
convinced 
is 
At the General Assembly this year, we will strive
in  particular  to  promote  the  adoption  of  the  draft
optional  protocol  to  the  United  Nations  Convention
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment  or  Punishment.  This  protocol  is  needed  to
give  better  protection  to  people  in  detention  against
A/57/PV.4
torture  and  mistreatment.  That  is  why  we  have  been
supporting this initiative for years.
In 
its 
as 
capacity 
the  Depositary  State,
Switzerland  feels  a  special  responsibility  to  promote
awareness  of  and  respect  for  the  Geneva  Conventions
and their  Additional Protocols.  At  the  United  Nations,
we will continue tirelessly to defend these instruments.
In this area, Switzerland has submitted to a number of
countries  involved  in  the  Middle  East  conflict  a
proposal  which 
better
implementation  of  international  humanitarian  law.  We
advocate two mechanisms: one for promoting dialogue
to  allow  the  parties  to  settle  problems  concerning  the
the
application  of 
second, 
for
humanitarian law.
international  humanitarian 
law; 
respect 
a  mechanism 
to  monitor 
ensure 
aims 
the 
to 
We  are  also  convinced  that  the  International
Criminal  Court  will  ensure  the  better  application  of
international  humanitarian  law.  This  new  Court  is  an
essential tool for dealing with serious violations of the
fundamental  human 
therefore
remain  on  our  guard  to  ensure  that  it  can  function
efficiently  and  we  will  pursue  our  efforts  to  convince
those States that have not yet signed the Rome Statute
of the need for such a Court.
freedoms.  We  will 
Two  days  ago,  we  commemorated  the  tragic
events that  shook the  United  States  and  the  world  one
year ago. The causes of terrorism must be eradicated. I
am  thinking,  inter  alia,  of  injustice,  disregard  for  the
rights  of  minorities,  and  poverty.  That  is  one  of  the
objectives  of  our  development  cooperation  and  of  our
human rights policy.
Sustainable  development  and  the  elimination  of
poverty  remain  mankind(cid:146)s  main  challenges  today.  We
saw  that  again  at  Johannesburg.  They  are  global
challenges  that  require  a  global  strategy  and  global
solidarity.  In  other  words,  they  require  coordinated
action  by  the  United  Nations  institutions,  as  well  as
greater  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations,  the
development banks, civil society and the private sector.
coordinated.
Development 
Switzerland  will  contribute 
the
coordination efforts vital to ensuring that our activities
enjoy the success they merit.
cooperation  must  be 
to  strengthening 
The struggle against poverty also requires greater
exchange of expertise and better transfer of technology.
Switzerland  is  closely  involved  in  the  preparation  of
the World Summit on the Information Society, the first
27
the 
concerned  about  these  issues.  However,  that  also
involves 
responsibility  of  offering
international  organizations  optimum  working  and
living conditions. You can also count on Switzerland in
that area.
special 
Before Switzerland became a Member, the United
Nations was already a universal Organization, but with
Switzerland  (cid:151)  and  soon  Timor-Leste  (cid:151)  the  United
Nations  will  be  even  more  universal.  The  United
Nations  is  the  greatest  world  forum.  Switzerland  will
provide  it  its  full  support  in  the  interests  of  humanity
and  the  interests  of  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United
Nations.
The meeting rose at 1.25 p.m.
A/57/PV.4
phase of which will take place in Geneva in 2003. The
main challenge of that Summit is the very gap between
North and South in terms of access to new information
technologies.  Therefore,  I  call  on  all  to  contribute
actively to the success of that conference.
These  thoughts  lead  me  to  refer  to  Geneva,  the
international  city  that  is  a  close  and  longstanding  link
between  my  country  and 
the  United  Nations.
Switzerland is proud and grateful to be able to host the
European  Headquarters  of  the  United  Nations  and
many  specialized  agencies.  Geneva 
the  main
international  hub  of  disarmament,  humanitarian  aid,
social development, the promotion of human rights and
environmental  protection.  That  gives  me  great
pleasure,  because  Swiss  citizens  are  particularly
is 
28
