United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
38th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 30 October 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.38
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda item 52
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/387 and
Corr.1)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Secretary-General 
report,  entitled
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further change”.
to  present  his 
The  Secretary-General: I  am  grateful  for  this
opportunity to present my report, “Strengthening of the
United Nations: an agenda for further change”.
As  this  Assembly  well  knows,  one  of  my  chief
aims ever since I became Secretary-General has been to
make  the  United  Nations  more  useful  to  its  Member
States  and  to  the  peoples  of  the  world  by  making  it
more  effective  and  efficient.  I  have  consistently  said
that, in order to do this, we must be prepared to change
with the  times,  constantly  adjusting  to  new  conditions
and new needs.
That  was  the  object  of  the  reform  report  that  I
introduced  in  my  first  year  and  of  other  initiatives  I
have taken since then. It is equally the aim of this new
report. The report sets out a package of very pragmatic
improvements.  It  builds  on  all  that  we  have  achieved
together in the past five years. And it is guided by what
the  Member  States  have  decided  should  be 
Organization’s priorities.
the
the  outcomes  of 
the 
I  am  proposing  a 
thorough  review  of  our
programme of work to make sure we are concentrating
our efforts on what matters to Member States and to the
peoples  of  the  world.  The  Millennium  Declaration,
along  with 
International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  and  other  major
conferences  of  the  past  decade,  have  outlined  a
comprehensive  vision  of  what  Member  States  seek  to
accomplish.  We  must  now  ensure  that  our  programme
of  work  is  adjusted  and  aligned  to  support  this
ambitious  agenda  —  especially 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  other  imperatives  in  the
economic  and  social  areas.  Our  goals  will  not  be  met
unless we put all our efforts behind them.
In  response  to  specific  requests  made  by  this
Assembly,  the  report  contains  a  number  of  proposals
for  improving  our  performance  in  the  areas  of  human
rights  and  public  information.  Some  have  suggested
that  the  attention  given  to  these  two  areas  implies  a
downgrading  of  the  priority  given  to  development.
Nothing  could  be  further  from  the  truth.  We  have
looked  at  human  rights  and  public  information  in
response  to  Members’  specific  requests  and  the  report
is  driven  by  our  overriding  ambition  and  mission  to
meet the development goals set for the world’s people.
Also,  in  response  to  the  Assembly’s  request,  the
report  identifies  major  improvements  in  the  planning
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-66750 (E)
*0266750*
A/57/PV.38
and servicing of meetings, including a more integrated
approach and greater use of information technology.
move  between 
between organizations.
locations,  between 
functions  and
I  have  put  forward  a  variety  of 
ideas  for
improving  the  reports  that  the  Secretariat  prepares.
This  is  not  simply  a  question  of  reducing  the  number
and  length  of  reports,  although  that  certainly  is
necessary.  It  is  also  a  question  of  strengthening  their
quality  to  permit  a  more  comprehensive  and  holistic
consideration  of  complex,  interconnected  issues  with
which we must grapple. This is particularly relevant for
the  consideration  of  economic  and  social  issues.  The
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and
subsidiary  organs  need  high-quality  analysis  based  on
thematic  coherence.  Better
rigorous  research  and 
reporting  will  help  enhance 
the  Organization’s
development  voice  and  strengthen  the  role  of  the
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in
leading the international agenda in this area.
The report also identifies further steps required to
reinforce  coordination  among  United  Nations  entities,
particularly  in  the  delivery  of  programmes  at  the
country  level.  We  are  all  better  off  when  the  United
Nations works well as a team.
The  report  proposes  some  important  changes  in
our  budget  and  planning  system.  At  the  moment,  we
have  three  different  processes  covering  different  time
scales,  and  there  are  three  different  oversight  review
mechanisms.  This 
is  unnecessarily  complex  and
labour-intensive, and makes it nearly impossible for the
vast  majority  of  Member  States 
to  participate
meaningfully in the deliberations of this Assembly.
I am establishing a high-level panel to take stock
of  the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and
civil society. The intensity of this interaction has grown
tremendously in the past 15 years or so. Much good has
come from these contacts. At the same time, some real
challenges have come to the fore, and we can all sense
that  it  may  well  be  time  to  look  closely  at  what  is
working  well  and  what  is  not.  The  panel  will  be
composed  of  people  from  different  backgrounds  —
Governments, 
organizations,
research institutions, parliaments and so on  — as well
as from different regions of the world, and will suggest
ways to enhance this crucial relationship.
non-governmental 
Finally,  the  report  contains  proposals  aimed  at
making life better and more rewarding for our staff, as
well 
and
performance,  notably  by  making  it  easier  for  them  to
their  quality 
improving 
further 
as 
2
This  report  provides  broad  direction  for  the
future. It sets goals and provides an indication of how
to reach those goals. The whole package hangs together
as a coherent whole, and I urge the Assembly to treat it
as  such.  What  I  need  to  know  now  is  whether  the
Assembly  agrees  with  the  broad  direction.  I  hope  we
can all  agree  that  the  programme  of  work  needs  to  be
updated; that reports can better serve the membership’s
difficult  policy-making  decisions;  and  that  the  system
of planning and budgeting needs to be simplified. And
I  hope  that  once  the  Assembly  debates  the  report  in
plenary meeting, it will adopt a single resolution giving
me clear guidance on the way forward.
seem  modest, 
My  proposals  may 
taken
individually. But taken together, they amount to a new
way  of  doing  business.  Most  important,  they  are
achievable steps, with real potential to make the United
Nations  a  more  effective  instrument  in  pursuit  of  the
priorities of its Members.
In closing, let me stress that as we move ahead, I
would  want  there  to  be  an  open  process,  with  real
dialogue  between  Member  States  and  the  Secretariat,
based on mutual trust and confidence. That is the only
way for our Organization to meet the diverse and many
demands placed on it. Let us, then, in the words of the
Millennium  Declaration,  “spare  no  effort  to  make  the
United  Nations 
instrument”
(resolution 55/2, para. 29).
a  more 
effective 
The  President: First  of  all,  let  me  thank  the
Secretary-General  for  his  introductory  statement,  in
which  he  touched  upon  the  essential  aspects  of  his
reform  proposal,  contained  in  the  document  entitled
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further change” (A/57/387). I particularly welcome the
fact  that  the  Secretary-General  clearly  dispelled  any
anxiety that reform could lead to the curtailment of the
development agenda of the United Nations.
the 
Today,  we  have 
report  before  us 
for
consideration. In my view, the report of the Secretary-
General  is  very  good,  comprehensive,  timely  and
extremely  useful.  It  was  initiated  by  the  Secretary-
General  and  resulted  from  a  thorough  review  of  the
work  of 
its
programmes. The report has been widely welcomed by
the membership and deserves great credit.
its  mandates  and 
the  Secretariat, 
We all know that the United Nations has already
undergone changes in recent years. Its performance has
improved, and it is now able to respond better to a wide
range  of  new  challenges.  But  the  United  Nations
reform of  1997  has  not  yet  been  fully  completed.  The
United  Nations  still  has  many  areas  that  need  to  be
rationalized with a view to refining its functioning.
United  Nations  reform  is  a  continuing  process,
and,  therefore,  I  see  the  report  as  a  stepping  stone
towards further  improvements  in  the  work  of  both  the
Secretariat  and  the  General  Assembly.  That  is  why
many of the Secretary-General’s proposals could bring
fresh  ideas  into  the  process  of  revitalization  of  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  our  presidency
fully supports.
The  initial  informal  response  to  the  Secretary-
General’s proposals has been very positive. The report
suggests  a  number  of  diverse 
improvements  and
innovative  changes  that  would  make  the  work  of  the
United Nations more productive and efficient. I see the
report  as  an  important  stimulus,  to  which  we,  the
Member  States,  should  react  in  a  constructive  way.
United  Nations  reform  is  not  and  cannot  be  perceived
as a unilateral action. It is a process in which the joint
effort  of 
is
absolutely  crucial  for  getting  the  second  phase  of
reforms started and agreed actions implemented.
the  membership  and 
the  Secretariat 
in  order 
As members all know, the report was issued more
than  a  month  ago,  and  subsequently  many  regional
briefings  and  one  session  of  informal  consultations
have  been  held 
to  provide  additional
information.  Given  the  complexity  of  the  issues,  it  is
not surprising that  many proposed actions still require
further clarification. On the basis of consultations with
a number of Member States, I have suggested that the
Secretariat prepare a conference room paper that would
provide written answers and explanations on all major
issues  raised  by  various  groups  or  individual  Member
States,  as  well  as  on  questions  that  I  expect  to  arise
during  these  important  plenary  meetings.  We  have
agreed  with  the  Secretary-General  that  such  a  paper
will  be  prepared  as  a  one-off  exercise  soon  after  this
debate, so that it can be taken into  account during the
first  round  of  the  informal  consultations.  We  believe
that  this  approach  will  accommodate  delegations’
concerns  and  create  an  atmosphere  of  trust  for  further
deliberations.
A/57/PV.38
I  recognize  that  what  the  Secretary-General  has
mapped  out  is  an  ongoing  process.  There  are  some
actions within the purview of the Secretary-General for
immediate implementation, and there are other actions
that  might  need  additional  reports  and/or  further
consideration  by  the  relevant  Committees  next  year.
Many  of  the  proposed  actions  call  for  measures  to  be
taken  by  the  Secretary-General  with  the  endorsement
and/or  guidance  of  Member  States.  Our  deliberations
should  result  in  formulating  general  directions  for
achieving agreed actions.
in  which  all 
Let me now briefly inform Members how I intend
to handle the  process  that  will  lead  to  the  adoption  of
the resolution mentioned by the Secretary-General. Let
me  stress  that  this  is  going  to  be  an  open  and  very
transparent  process, 
interested  and
concerned  delegations  will  be  involved.  After  this
plenary  debate,  I  will  launch  open-ended  informal
consultations as soon as possible, preferably on Friday
morning, 1 November. I have already asked one Vice-
President of the General Committee to help me lead the
process  and  chair  the  informal  consultations  in  my
absence. 
I  have  also  approached  a  number  of
Ambassadors with a request to assist the Vice-President
and me in facilitating the process, and I shall announce
their names before the end of the debate on this item.
I will carefully listen to the views, proposals and
concerns  of  Members  both  at  this  plenary  and  during
the  informal  consultations.  After  the  debate  and  after
the  first  round  of  the  informal  consultations,  during
which  further  clarification  will  be  provided  by  the
Secretariat,  I  will  introduce  the  draft  resolution,  in
which I will reflect those views. I hope that I can count
on  the  constructive  and  active  support  of  Members.  I
believe  that,  given  good  political  will,  the  dedicated
time and energy of concerned delegations and  a bit of
luck,  we  will  have  a  workable,  endorsed  resolution
before Christmas.
I now give the floor to the representative of South
Africa,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Movement  of
the Non-Aligned Countries and the African Union.
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  Allow  me  to  recall
these noble words:
“We  will  spare  no  effort  to  make  the  United
Nations a more effective instrument for pursuing
all  of  these  priorities:  the  fight  for  development
for all the peoples of the world; the fight against
poverty,  ignorance  and  disease;  the  fight  against
3
A/57/PV.38
injustice;  the  fight  against  violence,  terror  and
crime;  and  the  fight  against  the  degradation  and
destruction  of  our  common  home.”  (A/RES/55/2,
para. 29)
That  is  a  quotation  from  the  Millennium  Declaration,
endorsed  by  more 
than  160  heads  of  State  or
Government,  who  attended  the  Millennium  Summit
held in New York in September, 2000.
the  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
The  Secretary-General  has  presented  us  with
report 
the  United
Nations: an  agenda  for  further  change”.  The  emphasis
on  this  being  an  agenda  for  further  change  is  indeed
deliberate  and  very  necessary.  We  wish  to  state  from
the  outset  that  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s
report.  We  support  his  efforts  to  strengthen  our
Organization,  and  believe  that  a  strong  and  effective
United Nations can play a pivotal  role  in  carrying  out
the  core  Charter  mission  which  was  reaffirmed  in  the
Millennium Declaration.
on 
dialogue 
strengthening 
You, Sir, have invited Member States to engage in
the 
strategic 
this
Organization.  My  delegation  accepts  your  challenge
and remains ready to assist you in any manner we can.
We are troubled, however, by the suspicions and fears
that  the  reform  process  seems  to  have  provoked.
Therefore,  we  resist  the  temptation  to  engage  in
detailed  questioning  of  the  intentions  of  our  joint
efforts.  Instead,  we  choose  to  trust  that  the  invitation
for us to become part of an agenda for further change is
in  recognition  of  our  joint  responsibility  to  try  to
achieve  the  best  for  the  good  and  welfare  of  our
beloved United Nations.
In  Africa  we  have  come  to  recognize  that  there
are  dynamic  linkages  between  development  in  our
continent and the agenda of the United Nations General
Assembly. The establishment of the African Union and
the  adoption  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD)  is  an  acknowledgement  by
Africa that we need new institutions that are equipped
to  deal  with  the  challenges  of  the  new  millennium.  In
our contribution to streamlining the African agenda in
the  General  Assembly,  we  have  already  decided  to
cluster  the  three  items  on  development  in  Africa.
Already,  the  development  issues  on  Africa  —  the
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace
and sustainable development in Africa, the final review
and  appraisal  of  the  United  Nations  New  Agenda  for
the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s  and  the
4
implementation  of  the  Second  Industrial  Decade  for
Africa  —  were  addressed  in  a  joint  debate  in  this
Assembly.
to 
improve 
We  intend  to  take  this  process  of  streamlining
African  agenda  items  even  further.  The  Secretary-
General  makes  good  proposals 
the
efficiency and the effectiveness of the United Nations.
They  should  be  guided  by  decisions  contained  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  the  Durban  Declaration,  as
well  as  the  outcomes  of  the  Monterrey  International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
Johannesburg  World 
Sustainable
Development. The mandates of those Conferences form
the  basis  of  the  task  this  Assembly  must  carry  out
collectively.  A 
follow-up
mechanism  and  a  revised  programme  budget  should
integrate  the  follow-up  processes.  However,  reform  is
an  ongoing  process,  and  should  not  become  an  end  in
itself.
spelled  out 
Summit 
clearly 
on 
in 
of 
plan 
intensive  discussion  on 
We note, for example, that the Second Committee
is  engaged 
reforms,
including  considering  the  possibility  of  plastering
macroeconomic  issues  on  the  agenda.  We  hope  that
will  continue  in  a  holistic  and  comprehensive  manner
and will inspire other Committees to do the same. That
will avoid creating an impression that reform is limited
to issues of development that are important to those of
us from the developing world. We look forward to the
implementation 
the  United  Nations
Development  Group  by  September  2003,  aimed  at
strengthening  the  effectiveness  of  the  Organization’s
presence  in  developing  countries.  We  recognize  the
importance  of  joint  programming  at  the  country  level,
and
pooling  of 
common  databases 
for 
knowledge  networks,  dedicated  support 
the
Resident  Coordinator 
planning,
budgeting and resource mobilization tools for countries
emerging  from  conflict.  However,  we  believe  that  all
developing  countries  can  benefit  from  this  reform;  it
should  not  be  limited  to  those  countries  that  are
emerging from conflict. While the proposed actions can
contribute  to  strengthening  the  effectiveness  of  the
United  Nations  at  field  level,  the  critical  element  of
core  resources  must  also  be  addressed.  We  would  like
to see included in this action proposed methods for the
mobilization  of  additional  resources  for  the  United
Nations.  Additional,  predictable  resources  help  drive
development  in  Africa.  The  current  trend  is  towards  a
diminishing  of  core  resources  for  the  United  Nations,
resources, 
integrated 
and 
and Africa bears the brunt of the resultant cutbacks in
United Nations activities.
is 
this  post 
The creation of an additional position of Assistant
Secretary-General  is  welcome,  especially  if  a  purpose
of 
to  support  policy  coherence  as
emphasized in the Monterrey Consensus. Such a person
will also be valuable in monitoring the implementation
and  follow-up  efforts 
the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development, held at Johannesburg. It will
be  important  for  the  post  incumbent  to  interact  with
institutional  and  other  stakeholders  such  as  the  World
Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World
Trade Organization. When the post is filled, we assume
that  the  issue  of  equitable  geographical  representation
will be kept in mind.
to 
The  appointment  of  an  Adviser  for  Special
Assignments  in  Africa  was  of  particular  interest  to
Africans. It is important for that official to have access
to  the  Secretary-General,  since  his  Office  is  to  be
entrusted  with  an  already  agreed  special  mandate  on
Africa  which,  as  described  in  the  report,  is  open  to
different  interpretations.  We  believe  that  the  Office
should  have  a  particular  mandate  on  NEPAD,  and  we
urge  the  Secretary-General  to  continue  to  review  it.
The  Assembly  recently  adopted  resolution  57/2  on
NEPAD.  In  that  connection,  the  Office  of  the  Adviser
must review and report on United Nations system  and
other  international  support  for  NEPAD  and  on  the
coordination  and 
implementation  of  summit  and
conference outcomes as they pertain to Africa.
We welcome the aim of supporting human rights
at the country level, rationalizing and streamlining the
work of the human rights treaty bodies, improving the
working  methods  of  the  system  of  special  procedures,
and  streamlining  management  and 
the
financial  situation  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  look
forward to the engagement of Member States in future
plans,  including  the  expanding  of  the  mandates  of
Resident Representatives.
improving 
Regarding  the  budget,  my  delegation  supports
and is ready to engage in all efforts aimed at improving
the  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as
streamlining the budgetary and administrative activities
the
of 
Secretary-General 
resources
between  sub-programmes  to  meet  the  challenges  our
Organization may face. We look forward to the General
the  Organization.  These 
flexibility 
include  giving 
to  deploy 
A/57/PV.38
Assembly  receiving  the  revised  programme  budget  in
2003  and  believe  that  it  should  reflect  the  priorities
contained 
the  medium-term  plan  and  other
legislative  mandates,  incorporating  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
in 
We  urge  the  Secretary-General  to  present  an
improved  planning  and  budgeting  system  and 
to
provide  a  more  detailed  proposal  on  the  benefits  and
implications  of  the  shorter  medium-term  plan  as  well
as on the accountability and monitoring  measures.  We
reaffirms the role of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination in the planning and programmatic aspects
of  the  budget  cycle,  and  request  that  we  jointly
continue to look into measures to improve the working
methods of the Committee.
There is probably no delegation that would not be
proud to have its citizens serving as international civil
servants  in  this  Organization.  Therefore,  we  urge  the
Secretary-General  to  take  any  steps  that  will  improve
the  working  conditions  of  Secretariat  employees.  We
want our international servants to be proud to serve the
United  Nations,  and  this  can  be  only  if  we  ourselves
feel proud to be part of a strengthened Organization.
Mr.  Vallenilla  (Venezuela):  On  behalf  of  the
Group  of  77  and  China,  I  express  our  appreciation  to
the Secretary-General for the presentation of his report
on the strengthening of the United Nations (A/57/387).
At the outset, allow me to say that the Group wants to
convey  to  him  its  full  support  for  the  intentions
outlined in the report:
that 
that 
the  Member  States,  and 
“The  present  report  suggests  a  number  of
improvements  aimed  at  ensuring 
the
Organization devotes its attention to the priorities
fixed  by 
the
Secretariat gives better service”. (A/57/387, p. 2)
That  is  a  very  clear  statement,  and  is  in  line  with  our
concerns  for  more  efficient  work  from  this  universal
institution.  We  must  clarify  that  our  remarks  are
basically 
social,
information  and  budgetary  issues  on  which  the  Group
takes a position.
the  economic  and 
related 
to 
We are prepared to engage in any action oriented
towards those high aims. Our framework in that regard
will  be  defined  by  two  considerations:  First,  none  of
the  actions  for  change  must  have  a  negative  effect  on
the capacity of developing countries to negotiate. That
is particularly important with regard to the provision of
5
A/57/PV.38
services  for  meetings  of  the  Group  and  in  relation  to
publications  supplying  important  elements  for  the
decision-making  of  developing  countries.  The  second
consideration is that none of these actions should limit
the  capacity  of  the  Secretariat  to  deliver  its  full
potential 
the  development  of
developing countries.
contribution 
to 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  presents  a
comprehensive  set  of  ideas,  based  on  what  has  been
achieved since 1997 in strengthening this strong world
body. In today’s globalizing world, we can truly expect
that the wishes and priorities of Member States, as well
as  the  aspirations  of  civil  society  to  a  fully  efficient
Organization, will be pursued.
The  report  deserves  comprehensive  and  holistic
consideration  by  Member  States  in  order  to  ensure  a
transparent  and  fully  participatory  approach  to  the
reform  of  the  Organization.  As  the  Secretary-General
may be aware, the Group has made a thorough reading
of  his  proposals.  As  a  consequence,  we  have  found  a
number  of  issues  on  which  we  would  like  further
clarification  in  order  to  assess  the  implications  of  the
related actions. To that end, we  formulated a series of
questions and presented them to the Secretariat on the
occasion  of  the  informal  consultations  convened  by
you, Mr. President. These underline the keen interest of
the  Group  in  grasping  the  scope  of  the  proposed
reforms.  Having 
is
indispensable  if  we  are  to  make  a  just  and  proper
evaluation of these outstanding issues. We are pleased
to  know  that  a  document  is  being  prepared  in  that
regard, as just announced.
questions 
answered 
our 
field,  with 
The reform process must strengthen the ability of
the United Nations to fulfil its role and functions in the
development 
the  General  Assembly
providing the leadership to ensure the fulfilment of the
social  and  economic  goals  enunciated  in  the  Charter.
Many challenges remain for developing countries. As a
result  of 
those
challenges  present  themselves  in  a  new  domestic  and
international framework.
the  dynamics  of  global  change, 
The  process  should  be  carried  out  with  the
primary  goal  of  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the
Organization  to  address  development  issues  and  to
respond  effectively  to  the  development  needs  and
priorities  of  developing  countries.  Reform  proposals
and  measures  must  be  fully  consistent  with 
the
medium-term  plan,  which  constitutes  the  principal
6
policy  directive  of 
the  Organization.  The  main
objective of the reform measures and proposals should
be to enable the United Nations to implement fully all
mandated  programmes  and  activities.  This  is  not  a
matter  of  downsizing  or  an  effort  to  achieve  savings.
The  developmental  tasks  of  the  United  Nations  are  of
fundamental  importance  and  may  not  be  treated  as
secondary to other functions.
The 
financial 
implications  of  any 
reform
proposals  on  which  the  General  Assembly  shall  take
action  should  be  assessed  carefully.  Any  proposal  for
change  in  the  financial  and  staff  rules  and  regulations
required  as  a  result  of  the  implementation  of  reform
measures  and  proposals  should  be  submitted  to  the
Assembly for its consideration and approval.
Once  again,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  would
like to stress its full support for the need to reform our
Organization.  In  that  spirit,  we  would  like  to  reiterate
our  positive  and  constructive  approach  to  engage  in
further consultations on this issue.
At 
Declaration” 
this  century,  at 
the  beginning  of 
the
Millennium  Assembly,  Member  States  “decided  to
make  the  United  Nations  a  more  effective  instrument
for  pursuing  the  priorities  adopted  in  the  United
(A/57/387,
Nations  Millennium 
summary). Now, two years later, we have gone through
very important political processes in the economic and
social  fields.  In  addition,  a  number  of  very  important
commitments  have  been  made  in  the  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development,  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development,  the  Conference  on  Ageing
and  at  the  special  General  Assembly  session  on
children, among others. We have created a network of
commitments.  The  Organization  has  to  respond  to  the
challenges  posed  by  the  full  implementation  of  those
commitments.  The  world  has  gone  through  enormous
political  changes  in  the  last  decade.  The  United
Nations  must  finally  tackle  its  own  restructuring  in
order to respond to the demands of the new times.
Ms.  Løj  (Denmark):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  countries  of
Central  and  Eastern  Europe  associated  with 
the
European  Union  —  Bulgaria,  the  Czech  Republic,
Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia and Slovenia — and the Associated countries
of Cyprus, Malta and Turkey, as well as the European
Free  Trade  Association  country  of 
the  European
Economic  Area,  Iceland,  align  themselves  with  this
statement.
to 
for  his 
initiatives 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the
Secretary-General 
further
strengthen  the  Organization.  Under  his  leadership,  we
have come a long way towards modernizing the United
Nations.  The  European  Union  fully  supports 
the
process set in motion by the Secretary-General’s report.
Together  we 
improved  United  Nations
effectiveness and stature, both here in New York and in
the field.
have 
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  be  able  to  meet  the
continuing new challenges of this millennium, there is
much  more  to  do.  Above  all,  consensus  around  the
development  agenda  must  become  a  reality.  That
development agenda took significant steps forward as a
result  of  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,
the  decisions 
in  Rome,  Monterrey  and
Johannesburg  and  the  increased  focus  on  the  African
continent  enshrined  in  the  membership’s  unanimous
support 
for  Africa’s
for 
Development.
the  New  Partnership 
taken 
We  welcome  the  attention  that  these  issues,
among others, have received in the Secretary-General’s
report. That shows that strengthening the Organization
is not an abstract activity pursued for its own purposes,
but that this exercise provides the means to change the
lives and well-being of the world’s poor. It  underlines
the fact that the ultimate aim of our work in the United
Nations is to make the world a better place for the poor
people of this planet.
the  Secretary-General 
Two  years  ago,  heads  of  State  and  Government
set the goals and priorities of the Organization. Having
adopted the blueprint, now is the time to ensure that the
Organization is well equipped to implement these goals
and  priorities.  The  agenda  we  have  before  us,  and  the
specific actions contained in it, constitute an invitation
to
by 
strengthen 
the
Organization.  In  that  way,  the  United  Nations  can
better  assist  Member  States  in  implementing  the
Millennium Declaration  and  other  crucial  mandates  of
the  Organization, 
the
Monterrey  and  Johannesburg  summits.  The  European
Union  would  like  to  accept  that  invitation,  and  move
swiftly to the hard work that will commence once this
report has been endorsed by the General Assembly.
to  Member  States 
implementation  capacity  of 
the  follow-up 
including 
the 
to 
A/57/PV.38
in 
improvements 
The  Secretary-General’s  proposed  actions  focus
on  implementation.  They  are  practical  and  down-to-
earth.  They  should,  within  the  coming  years,  produce
substantial 
the  Organization.  A
clearer  sense  of  the  Organization’s  priorities  means
better  and  more  efficient  resource  allocation,  not
budget  cuts.  The  Secretary-General  should  do  some
things  right  away.  Others  have  to  be  endorsed  by  us,
the  Member  States,  while  still  others  will  have  to  be
discussed further by the General Assembly in the years
to  come,  based  upon,  inter  alia,  further  reports  or  in
connection  with  next  year’s  proposed  budget  for  the
2004-2005  biennium.  This  process  will  generate
tangible  advantages  for  the  entire  United  Nations
membership,  as  well  as  for  the  Secretariat  and  its
valuable staff, in terms of improved programme quality
and delivery, transparency, accountability and value for
money.
Let  me  give  a  few  examples  of  where  the
European  Union  believes  that  the  Member  States  and
the  Secretary-General,  working  together  in  a  spirit  of
partnership, can deliver those tangible benefits.
The  Secretary-General  proposes  to  review  some
specific  programme  activities  so  as  to  improve  the
work  of  the  United  Nations  —  for  instance,  on
important issues such as human rights and information
and  in  the  economic  and  social  area.  The  European
Union would like to stress the importance it attaches to
strengthening the economic and social areas of activity
in  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  in  relation  to
Africa.
the 
and 
Johannesburg 
The  world  community  has  signed  on  to  a  new
partnership  for  development,  based  on  the  Monterrey
of
Consensus 
Implementation.  In  order  for  us 
the
commitments  of  the  Millennium  Summit  and  the
results  of  major  United  Nations  conferences,  and  to
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  thereby
lifting  more  people  out  of  poverty,  implementation
through  this  partnership  for  development  has  to  be
successful.
Plan 
to  realize 
We  attach  special  importance  to  giving  high
priority  to  Africa  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.
The birth of the African Union, the consolidation of the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  and  the
recent  positive  prospects  of  ending  some  of  Africa’s
protracted  conflicts  —  in  Angola,  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea,  Sierra
7
A/57/PV.38
Leone,  Sudan  and  Somalia  —  are  notable  political
developments  that  call  for  continued,  strong  and
focused  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations
system and Member States.
We  see 
the  proposed  strengthening  of 
the
economic  and  social  areas  of  activity  in  the  United
Nations against this overall background.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the
Organization’s  presence  in  developing  countries  must
be  strengthened  by  improving  its  effectiveness.  We
welcome 
the  United  Nations
Development Group should draw up an implementation
plan to that effect. We also welcome the steps towards
clarifying  the  roles  and  responsibilities  in  the  area  of
technical cooperation.
the  proposal 
that 
responsibilities, 
The managerial capabilities of the Department of
Economic  and  Social  Affairs  must  be  strengthened,
given the burden it carries. There is a need for a clearer
definition  of 
including  a  better
division  of  labour  between  Headquarters  and  the
United  Nations  field  stations,  as  well  as  improved
coordination between Headquarters and regional levels,
including  regional  commissions.  We  support 
the
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Adviser  for  Special
Assignments 
the
Organization’s stronger policy focus on Africa.
a  means 
sustaining 
of 
as 
In  this  regard,  we  also  emphasize  the  need  to
consolidate  and  strengthen  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions.
The  European  Union  remains  supportive  of
involving  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in  the
work  of  the  Organization.  We  look  forward  to  the
recommendations  on  improving  modalities  for  United
Nations interaction with civil society.
On human rights, the proposals of the Secretary-
General identify the key areas where activities need to
be reviewed and possibly strengthened. This is an area
of  work  on  which  the  European  Union  has  always
placed a high priority. And it is a matter of importance
and  concern  for  the  General  Assembly  as  a  whole.
There  must  be,  therefore,  the  necessary  degree  of
consultation  with 
inter-governmental
bodies in the implementation of the proposed changes.
The proposals for further improvement of United
Nations  information  work  are  also  very  important.
Strengthening  the  Organization  in  this  field  is  crucial
for  securing  continued  popular  support  for  the  United
relevant 
the 
8
Nations  as  the  world’s  primary  inter-governmental
organization. Information work is constantly changing,
driven by technological advance. That in turn requires
a  constant  process  of  appraisal  to  make  sure  that  the
United  Nations  is  reaching  its  target  audiences  and
getting  its  message  across  with  the  most  effective
means  possible.  Reviewing  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  Information  Centres  should  be  seen  in  that
context  and  deserves  serious  consideration.  The
European Union stands ready in principle to take up the
challenge in the Secretary-General’s proposal aimed at
making the information work in Europe more efficient,
and looks forward to participating in discussions about
its  practical 
into  account
regional needs.
implementation, 
taking 
The  budget  cycle  of  the  United  Nations  clearly
needs  modernization,  so  it  can  better  serve  a  modern
and efficient Organization such as the United Nations.
The  important  first  step  is  a  more  transparent  and
strategic  budget  document  which  clearly  sets  out  the
Organization’s  priorities  and  consequent 
resource
requirements.
Therefore, 
the  measures  proposed  by 
the
Secretary-General on how best to present the budget to
us — such as presentation of our priorities, briefer and
more strategic documentation, fewer and more focused
meetings  and  strengthening  of 
the  oversight  and
evaluation services — are very helpful.
We  agree  that  the  programme  budget  for  the
biennium 2004-2005, which will be submitted to us in
2003,  should  be  thoroughly  revised,  so  that  it  better
reflects  the  priorities  agreed  to  at  the  Millennium
Assembly.  Obviously,  this  must  be  done  within  the
overall framework of the medium-term plan.
Similarly,  our  daily  work  will  become  more
transparent and focused when we have streamlined the
jungle of reports and meetings. Documents that are on
time  and  more  to  the  point  and  better  management  of
the General Assembly and Conference Services means
greater 
this  will  give  better
opportunities  for  all  to  play  a  more  significant  role  in
our work.
efficiency.  And 
We  support 
the  continuing 
improvement  of
human resources management in the coming years. An
Organization’s  most  valuable  asset  is  its  staff,  and  an
agenda  for  streamlining  the  United  Nations  must  also
address 
the
competence of United Nations personnel.
to  continue 
to  enhance 
the  need 
It  is  also  crucial  that  Member  States  shoulder
their  responsibilities  and  find  ways  to  streamline  the
inter-governmental  process. 
Important  work  has
already  begun  on  ways  to  revitalize  the  General
Assembly.
that 
We  have  noted 
the  Secretary-General’s
proposed  actions  regarding  the  budget  generally  build
on  the  framework  already  established  by  the  General
Assembly,  for  the  budget  cycle  in  general,  for  the
introduction  of  results-based  budgeting  and  for  the
Financial  Rules  and  Regulations.  We  believe  that  the
United  Nations  membership  should  endorse  this  road
map  for  streamlining  the  implementation  of  these
existing  mandates.  We  recognize  that  concerns  among
the membership have to be addressed. In our view, we
should  allow  ourselves  sufficient  time  to  deal  with
those  concerns.  But  we  should  also,  at  this  session  of
the  General  Assembly,  agree  on  the  goal  to  be
achieved — a  more  transparent,  results-oriented  and
strategic budget for our Organization.
In  response  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report,
Member  States  must  now  show  the  leadership  needed
and  give  a  renewed  mandate  to  the  Secretary-General
in  order  to  strengthen  the  Organization.  We  must
formulate  our  joint  vision  of  new  and  more  modern
ways of doing business in the United  Nations  and  ask
the Secretary-General to start implementation.
cannot 
At  the  same  time,  we  must  all  be  aware  that  the
proposed  measures 
implemented
automatically or overnight. We the Member States will
come  back  to  these  issues,  in  close  dialogue  with  the
Secretary-General,  as  part  of 
inter-
governmental 
detailed
consultation, 
implementation gets under way.
regular 
the 
the 
once 
be 
Achieving  that  calls  for  deliberations  at  a  high
level.  Permanent  Representatives,  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly, 
the
Deputy  Secretary-General  have  an  important  task  to
perform in the coming days and weeks.
the  Secretary-General  and 
We  all  look  to  you,  Mr.  President,  to  lead  us
towards  taking  this  first  important  step  over  the  next
few weeks. Please be reassured of the full cooperation
of the United Nations to that end.
Mr.  Naidu  (Fiji):  It  is  an  honour  to  address  the
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum
Group  in  New  York:  Australia,  the  Marshall  Islands,
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Nauru,  New  Zealand,
A/57/PV.38
Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Samoa,  Solomon  Islands,
Tonga,  Tuvalu,  Vanuatu,  as  well  as  my  own  country,
Fiji.
May  I  begin  by  offering  our  sincere  gratitude  to
the  Secretary-General 
report
(A/57/387)  to  the  Assembly.  Under  his  exemplary
leadership,  the  United  Nations  has  already  taken
important 
the
Organization.
for  submitting 
strengthening 
towards 
steps 
this 
The  report  before  us  constitutes  a  serious
programme  for  continuing  reform,  stretching  across
numerous  areas  of  United  Nations  activity.  During
discussion  of  the  Secretary-General’s  reform  initiative
during  his  first  term,  much  was  made  of  the  idea  that
reform was not an event but a process. Indeed, reform
has  been  one  of  the  hallmarks  of  the  Secretary-
General’s tenure. This report contains further practical
proposals  for  improving  the  United  Nations  work.
More  importantly,  it  also  promises  systemic  reform
which would make the Organization more flexible and
responsive in meeting the priorities of Member States.
Improving  the  way  in  which  the  United  Nations
operates requires the membership and the Secretariat to
move  jointly  towards  shared  objectives.  It  will  be
necessary  for  us  to  distinguish  between  proposals
solely  within  the  Secretary-General’s  purview  and
those  which  require  inter-governmental  decision.  But
we  should  not  dwell  on  this  too  long.  The  more
important point is that we should all be moving in the
same direction.
For  our  part,  we  think  the  direction  indicated  by
the Secretary-General is the right one. We believe that
the  Assembly  should  endorse  that  direction  and  take
action  where  it  can  now.  While  we  need  to  delve  into
details to form judgement on some of the proposals, we
should  keep  our  focus  during  this  session  on  the
strategic direction the Secretary-General has proposed.
A  few  weeks  ago,  in  the  plenary  debate  on  the
Millennium  Declaration  Goals  and  the  work  of  the
Organization, many speakers expressed a desire to see
the  United  Nations  move  from  setting  objectives  to  a
new 
them.  Without
implementation, the Millennium Declaration Goals and
the objectives set at Monterrey and Johannesburg could
become hollow promises.
implementing 
phase 
of 
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  there
are  areas  in  which  the  United  Nations  needs  to  do
9
A/57/PV.38
more.  In  particular,  we  agree  that  the  United  Nations
needs to take a more comprehensive look at migration
issues,  as  proposed  in  paragraph  39  of  the  report,  and
to  strengthen  its  capacities  to  combat  terrorism,  drug
trafficking and international crime.
Action  1  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  is,
therefore, very timely. The United Nations needs to be
more flexible in adapting what it does to what we want
to  achieve.  At  present,  the  Organization’s  capacity  to
respond  to  new  priorities  set  by  Member  States  is
seriously  constrained  by  the  rigidity  of  the  program
budget.  It  is  only  sensible  that  less  relevant  activities
give  way  to  higher  priorities  over  time.  All  of  our
Governments do this. The existing budget rules already
provide  for  it  to  happen  here.  The  time  has  certainly
arrived for the United Nations to begin to do likewise.
long  agendas  of  many  committees,  and 
I  speak  today  on  behalf  of  a  group  composed
mostly  of  very  small  delegations.  The  avalanche  of
documentation,  the  tremendous  number  of  meetings,
the 
the
sprawling budget process reduce the  capacity of small
delegations  to  affect  the  decisions  in  the  General
Assembly.  And,  not  only  do 
the
Assembly’s 
effectively
disenfranchising small delegations, they also render the
Assembly less effective than it ought to be.
they  diminish 
democratic 
quality 
by 
There is clearly only so much the Secretariat can
do  to  improve  the  operation  of  the  inter-governmental
machinery.  In  Actions  11  and  13,  by  which  the
Department  of  General  Assembly  Affairs  and
Conference Management will play a more active role in
managing documentation and meetings, the Secretariat
is  doing  what  it  can.  I  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific
Islands Forum on this topic in the Fifth Committee last
week.
Our  delegations  believe 
that  Member  States
should do more on this front, both under the rubric of
reform and within the ambit of the revitalization of the
General Assembly.
Action 12, proposing that the Assembly establish
a  review  mechanism  for  reports,  is  worth  developing.
We could start that at this session.
We should consider renewed efforts to streamline
agendas  and  shorten  meetings.  Despite  some  changes,
the  Assembly’s  agenda  remains  overloaded  with  the
detritus of the past. Some judicious culling would make
our work more manageable with little loss.
10
And,  Action  3,  recommending  that  the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  should  consult  with
the  human  rights  treaty  bodies  with  the  aim  of
streamlining  reporting  procedures,  should 
to
improvements in a vital, but unduly cumbersome, area
of United Nations activity.
lead 
We look forward to discuss these ideas and others
in our informal meetings.
Actions  21  and  22,  which  suggest  principles  for
modifying 
the  budget  process,  warrant  careful
consideration. The Secretary-General’s diagnosis of the
malaise  in  the  budget  process  is  compelling.  The
process takes far too long. There is too much wrangling
over inconsequential issues. There is little capacity for
Member  States  to  provide  strategic  direction.  And,
despite enormous expenditure of resources by Member
States and the Secretariat, the budget shows negligible
change  from  biennium 
the
disconnect  between  evaluation  and  planning  remains
too wide, inhibiting more responsive planning based on
results.
to  biennium.  Further, 
In  short,  the  process  disadvantages  small  States
and  serves  the  United  Nations  poorly.  Given  the
complexity of the issues involved, it is unlikely that we
could  agree  on  the  specifics  of  a  remedy  during  this
session.  But,  we  should  begin  the  discussion  now  and
we may be able to reach agreement on some principles
as a first step.
The  countries  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  fully
support  the  Secretary-General’s  continuing  efforts  to
strengthen  the  United  Nations.  We  hope  that  other
delegations  are  also  ready  to  move  in  the  direction
outlined  by  the  Secretary-General.  It  is  our  belief  that
joint action by the membership and the Secretariat can
produce a more responsive United Nations and a more
participative  and  productive  General  Assembly,  which
will better serve the priorities of the Member States.
Mr.  Mackay  (New  Zealand):  I  have  the  honour
today  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  delegations  of
Australia, Canada and New Zealand.
Our  delegations  strongly  support  reform.  We  do
so,  not  for  the  sake  of  change  itself  or  because  we
equate  change  with  savings.  We  support  change
this  Organization  must  be
because  we  believe 
strengthened 
to  meet  Member  States’
expectations.  Change  in  the  way  the  United  Nations
goes  about  implementing  its  mandates  is  essential  for
in  order 
improving  not  only  its  effectiveness,  but  also  its
credibility and visibility.
The  Secretary-General  has  mapped  out  a  way
forward  for  the  Organization,  focusing  on  some  key
messages:  doing  what  matters,  serving  Member  States
better,  working 
to
priorities,  and  investing  in  excellence  through  United
Nations staff. We endorse the purpose of the report —
to  make  the  Organization  more  effective,  modern  and
outcome-oriented.
together,  allocating 
resources 
Collectively  these  changes  will  better  equip  the
Organization  to  meet  our  common  aspirations  for  a
more  peaceful,  prosperous  and 
just  world.  The
Millennium  Declaration 
is  a  valuable  organizing
concept  to  help  us  focus  on  urgent  and  current
priorities. Agreed at the highest level as a road map for
our  Organization,  it  addresses  the  full  spectrum  of
United  Nations  activity,  from  peace  and  security,  to
human rights, to sustainable development. It articulates
shared,  ambitious  and  concrete  development  goals.
These  reforms  will  therefore  help  the  United  Nations
better  to  reflect  the  collective  will  of  Member  States.
The  constraints  on  our  ability  to  do  so  are  clearly  set
out  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  —  a  cluttered
agenda  dominated  by  meetings  and  documents  rather
than  by  results.  The  36,000  outputs  currently  on  the
United  Nations  books  make  it  harder  for  the  United
Nations  to  respond  to  new  demands.  We  therefore
welcome  the  intention  of  the  Secretary-General  to
propose 
the  closest  possible
alignment  of  resources  and  activities  with  current
priorities.
the  next  budget 
in 
At the heart of the Secretary-General’s proposals
is  the  need  for  a  functioning  and  effective  General
Assembly. This is the only organ of the United Nations
where we all have a voice.
But 
that  voice 
is  weakened  by  systemic
inefficiency and by an overloaded agenda. The General
Assembly  must  focus  on  key  issues  that  require
international  action.  As  well  as  being  the  best  use  of
resources,  this  would  also  make  the  workload  more
targeted and manageable for small delegations. I can do
no  better  in  this  respect  than  to  refer  to  the  eloquent
and 
Permanent
Representative  of  Fiji,  who  spoke  just  before  me,  in
this respect.
comments 
articulate 
of 
the 
A/57/PV.38
Special  conferences  can  play  an  important  role,
but we should ensure that they do not take over the role
of our Charter organs.
The measures suggested by the Secretary-General
offer  an  opportunity  for  us  all  to  strengthen  our
participation in the United Nations. The legislative role
of the intergovernmental process is very important. We
think that a stronger and better-functioning Secretariat
will  not  dilute  that  role,  but,  on  the  contrary,  will
strengthen  it  by  enabling  us  better  to  exercise  our
decision-making responsibility.
this 
take 
We  also  welcome 
and  New  Zealand 
the  proposals  relating 
to
conference management and documentation. While this
section is entitled “Serving Member States better”, we
see it more as a collaborative exercise. We delegations
need to be more disciplined in our use of meeting time
and  in  the  organization  of  our  work.  Member  States
also have a parallel obligation to reform the Assembly
and  other  key  organs.  The  delegations  of  Australia,
Canada 
shared
responsibility  seriously.  We 
the
Secretary-General’s  suggestion  that  we  consider  a
mechanism to look at recurring reporting requirements.
Our delegations see a pressing need for reform of
the budget and planning machinery. The Organization’s
recent  introduction  of  results-based  budgeting  is  ill
served  by  existing  processes.  We  share  the  Secretary-
General’s  logic  that  focusing  on  outcomes  requires  a
realignment of resources against priorities. This should
be  supported  by  budgeting  and  planning  mechanisms
that  can  adapt  to  change,  that  are  integrated  and  that
encourage  a  more  efficient  and  strategic  approach  to
decision-making.
therefore  support 
We have said before that we do not view change
as  a  cost-cutting  exercise.  But  we  must  acknowledge
that  the  Organization  faces  a  problem  with  resources.
We must make the best use of the resources available.
If  we  can  streamline  the  process  of  planning  and
allocating  budgets,  this  will  free  up  resources  to
redirect  to  substantive  mandates  of  the  Organization.
We do not have the exact details yet of how actions 21
and 22 will be implemented,  but  we  are  ready  now  to
sign  on  to  the  key  principles:  the  budget  presentation
should  be  more  strategic;  the  planning  and  budget
processes  must  be  streamlined;  and  the  budget  and
planning cycles should be aligned.
Many other elements in this report relate to work
in  progress  that  will  produce  results  in  future.  The
11
A/57/PV.38
Secretary-General’s  commitment 
to  a  process  of
incremental change is reinforced by the tasking he has
initiated within the Secretariat to look again at the way
programmes and systems work in the areas of technical
cooperation,  human  rights,  public  information  and
human resources management. We welcome the across-
the-board  review  of  the  information  activities  and
human rights machinery of the United Nations. We see
a  need  for  a  global,  integrated  approach  to  these
activities. We look forward to seeing the results of the
various reviews in due course.
We  have  before  us  a  political  document  that
requires  a  political  response.  The  Secretary-General
has prepared a comprehensive package that signals the
future  direction  of  his  ongoing  reform  efforts.  In  his
own words, “they cannot be implemented automatically
or overnight”. We have been asked to provide a strong
endorsement for the report. We are happy to do so and
would,  in  fact,  have  gone  further.  In  the  light  of  the
challenges 
international
community,  we  see  an  urgent  need  to  revitalize  this
most important of multilateral institutions. We need to
act  now.  We  need  an  Organization  that  can  adapt  and
respond 
the  myriad  challenges  facing  us  —
including  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals and responding to HIV/AIDS, globalization and
terrorism  —  many  of  which  myriad  challenges  were
not  conceived  of  when 
the  Organization  was
established more than 50 years ago.
currently 
facing 
the 
to 
We  endorse  an  incremental  approach,  but  would
urge  that  this  not  be  so  subtly  incremental  as  to
produce  little  discernible  improvement  in  the  near
future. Obviously our decisions must be well informed
and well considered. But at this juncture the Secretary-
General asks us to sign on to the overall principle and
direction — broad direction, as he said earlier — in his
report. We are ready to do so.
Mr.  Aboul  Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  African
Group on item 52 of the agenda, “Strengthening of the
United Nations system”, an item to which  the  African
Group attaches great importance, given its concern for
the strengthening of the Organization and its desire to
contribute to its efficiency in a manner that will enable
it to deal with new challenges and opportunities.
The  African  Group  wishes  to  express  to  the
Secretary-General 
its  sincere  appreciation  for  his
important  report  under  consideration  today,  entitled
12
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further  change”.  We  believe  that  that  report  includes
many  positive  proposals  that  would  improve  the
efficiency  and  increase  the  impact  of  the  United
Nations.  I  would  like  to  apologize  in  advance  for  the
detailed  manner  in  which  I  shall  address  those  issues
on behalf of my Group. We would also like to endorse
the  statement  made  by  Venezuela,  on  behalf  of  the
Group of 77 and China.
that 
believes 
The  African  Group 
the
strengthening of the United Nations is an uninterrupted
sequence and an ongoing process that will not come to
an  end.  It  should  be  comprehensive,  determining  the
long-term  strategic  direction  of  the  Organization  as
well as the steps that are to be taken in the medium and
short  terms.  Experts  from  the  Group  have  carefully
considered the report in various committees, as well as
within the group of African ambassadors at the United
Nations. The African Group has reached a preliminary
position  with  regard  to  the  content  of  the  report,  and
has  prepared  a  number  of  more  detailed  questions  for
the  Secretariat  with  regard  to  the  actions  proposed  in
the report. A list of those questions is  available at the
side of the General Assembly Hall. The African Group
looks  forward  to  receiving  clarifications  from  the
Secretariat  that  will  enable  the  Group  to  take  a  final
position on the proposals and to participate effectively
with States and groups of States in the consultations to
be  conducted  in  the  coming  weeks  on  the  draft
resolution  to  be  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on
this issue.
In considering the proposals set out in the report,
the  African  Group  took  into  account  not  only  the
degree  to  which  such  proposals  can  be  implemented,
but also the consequences of their implementation. We
therefore  ask  that  a  distinction  be  made  between  the
the
proposals 
Secretary-General  and 
require
intergovernmental  approval,  or  that  might  lead  to
conflict  with  mandates  that  have  been  established  by
the intergovernmental machinery, as those will require
further careful consideration.
the  purview  of 
that  would 
fall  within 
those 
that 
a 
of 
harmonious 
The  African  Group  would  also  like  to  stress  the
complete
importance 
consideration  of  all  efforts  to  strengthen  the  United
Nations, to  introduce  innovations  in  the  way  in  which
the  General  Assembly  works  and  to  promote  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its  substantive
to
committees.  We  also  accord  great 
importance 
and 
following  up  the  implementation  of  the  resolutions
adopted  at  the  Millennium  Summit  and  at  other
important 
international  conferences  and  summits.
Given the strong link between all those objectives, they
cannot be considered in isolation from one another.
The development agenda of the United Nations is
of particular importance to the African Group. We have
therefore always stressed the  central  role  to  be  played
by  the  Organization  in  formulating  environmental,
social and economic policies at the international level.
The  Group  has  repeatedly  called  for  increasing  the
effectiveness of United Nations operational activities in
the 
required
coordination among all those activities in a manner that
would  help  avoid  any  additional  institutional  burdens
on  developing  countries  and  on  African  countries  in
particular.
for  bringing  about 
field  and 
the 
in 
support  of 
further,  more 
The  Group  has  also  called  for  a  more  effective
response  by  the  United  Nations  to  the  sharp  decrease
that  we  have  witnessed  over  many  years  in  the  basic
resources  of  various  programmes  and  funds,  which  is
hindering  the  Organization’s  efforts  to  implement  its
programmes 
the  capabilities  of
developing  countries.  We  therefore  believe  that  action
14 should refer to the steps that will have to be taken in
ensuring 
resource
mobilization. While we welcome the contents of action
15  relating  to  the  drafting  of  a  document  by  2003  to
determine  roles  and  responsibilities  in  the  area  of
technical  cooperation,  the  Group  believes  that  the
objective of such a document should do more than just
assist  donor  countries  to  take  decisions.  Such  a
a
document 
comprehensive 
that
would  allow  for  guidelines  to  be  drawn  up  to  govern
the Secretariat’s work in that very important field.
considered  within 
intergovernmental 
predictable 
framework 
should 
be 
The African Group also attaches great importance
to the implementation of the Millennium Declaration of
September  2000.  That  Declaration  included  many
international  objectives  to  which  heads  of  State  or
Government  committed  themselves  within  specific
time frames. Given our strong belief in the importance
of 
and  while
welcoming the efforts of the Secretary-General and the
Secretariat  to  promote  those  objectives  and  mobilize
the necessary financial and institutional capabilities for
their  implementation,  we  would  like  to  stress  that  it
should  not  lead  to  any  reduction  in  the  importance  of
other  development  goals.  Such  goals  were  adopted  by
those  objectives, 
implementing 
A/57/PV.38
at 
community 
international 
that  preceded 
the 
international
conferences  and  summits  and  special  sessions  of  the
General  Assembly 
the  Millennium
Summit, as well as those conferences that followed the
Summit,  such  as  the  World  Summit  for  Sustainable
Development, the Third United Nations Conference on
the  Least  Developed  Countries  and 
the  World
Conference against racism.
The African Group believes that all the objectives
set  out  and  the  decisions  taken  at  summits  and
international  conferences  should  be  reflected  in  the
proposed programme budget for 2004-2005.
In that regard, the African Group requests that the
Secretariat,  in  the  context  of  updating  its  approach  to
the implementation of Action 1 contained in the report
of the Secretary-General, to present to the Assembly its
views  on  the  steps  that  can  be  taken  to  expedite  the
implementation  of  all  African  development  goals,
taking  into  account  the  fact  that  the  African  continent
has not experienced the degree of progress enjoyed by
other geographical areas.
The African Group emphasizes the importance of
strengthening the Secretariat’s work with regard to the
African continent. The Group notes the decision of the
Secretary-General, mentioned in the context of Action
18, to  transfer  the  resources  allocated  to  the  Office  of
the  Special  Coordinator  for  Africa  and  the  Least
Developed  Countries  to  the  Office  of  the  Adviser  for
Special Assignments in Africa. The Group stresses the
need for further clarification with regard to the details
of the mission of the Adviser for Special Assignments
and it requests that he present his reports directly to the
Secretary-General, taking into account the international
consensus that particular priority be given to Africa in
the coming phase.
concerning  how 
The  Group  also  looks  forward  to  receiving  the
Secretary-General’s  views 
the
institutional  capabilities  of  the  United  Nations  will  be
strengthened  in  order  to  address,  in  a  coordinated  and
effective way, the African continent’s needs in the light
of  the  General  Assembly’s  decisions  and  of  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD)
initiative,  as  the  new  framework  within  which  the
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  will
provide  assistance  to  Africa.  The  African  Group  also
requests,  within  that  new  institutional  framework,  the
monitoring  and  follow-up  of  the  fulfilment  of  the
commitment  of 
the
for  Africa’s  Development 
the  United  Nations 
and 
13
A/57/PV.38
international  community  in  the  implementation  of
and
NEPAD 
the  needed  harmony 
coordination  among  various  departments  of 
the
Secretariat.
ensure 
to 
The  African  Group  believes  in  the  positive  role
played  by  the  institutions  of  civil  society  and  of  the
private  sector  as  partners  with  Governments 
in
formulating and implementing policies at the national,
regional and international levels. We note with interest
Action 19 contained in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,
with regard to the interaction between civil society and
the United Nations, as well as the Secretary-General’s
proposal to establish a panel of eminent personalities to
consider  the  matter.  In  that  regard,  we  should  like  to
request that the guidelines for the panel be formulated
within 
into
account  the  importance  of  equitable  representation  of
developing  countries  and  that  the  report  and  its
recommendations  be  considered  within  the  framework
of the intergovernmental mechanism.
intergovernmental  context, 
taking 
the 
like 
to 
the 
role 
stress 
interest 
following 
to  promote 
the  Organization’s 
We  note  with  great 
the  proposed
measures  to  promote  the  work  of  the  United  Nations
system in the field of human rights. We should like to
emphasize  that  the  African  Group  fully  endorses  all
efforts 
in
guaranteeing  and  protecting  human  rights.  We  should
also 
important
considerations:  First,  it  is  necessary  that  the  general
membership of the Organization debate and adopt  any
new  approaches  before  their  implementation  and  that
linkages  between  human  rights  and  development  be
avoided,  including  conditions  in  the  Organization’s
operational  activities  that  run  counter  to  established
practice and to the principles of universality, neutrality
and  multilateralism.  Secondly,  it  is  important  that
resident  representatives  of  the  United  Nations  limit
themselves to their established mandates and that they
not  attempt  to  expand  or  exchange  those  mandates
without  the  approval  of  the  States  concerned.  Thirdly,
while  we  welcome  all  efforts  aimed  at  improving  the
reporting  system  for  United  Nations  machinery,  it  is
important to consider all aspects of that issue with the
States  concerned  in  a  way  that  ensures  effectiveness
and  applicability.  Fourthly,  in  the  implementation  of
human rights measures, it is important to be committed
to  established  mandates,  particularly  in  the  case  of
Special  Rapporteurs,  some  of  whom  have  exceeded
their  mandates  in  a  way  that  could  undermine  their
neutrality.
14
strengthening 
information  and  at 
The  African  Group  supports  all  efforts  aimed  at
the  development  of  United  Nations  activities  in  the
field  of 
the
effectiveness of the Department of Public Information.
Therefore,  we  believe  that  the  Department’s  proposed
restructuring  should  be  initiated  by  consulting  with
Member States and should start with the Committee on
Information.  With 
to  United  Nations
Information  Centres,  the  African  Group  believes  that
the establishment of regional information offices would
be  beneficial  only  in  areas  that  are  advanced  in
communication and information technologies. Member
States should establish guidelines for the application of
such  a  proposal  in  a  way  that  allows  for  separate
consideration  of  each  case  and  through  consultations
with host States.
regard 
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposals  to  develop,  plan  and  coordinate
publications  in  order  to  improve  them  and  to  make
their  contents  more  focused.  The  Group  believes  that
any  decision  concerning  the  financial  feasibility  of
publications  should  be  taken  in  consultation  with  the
United  Nations  intergovernmental  bodies  responsible
for administrative and financial issues.
the  rationalizing  of 
The African Group supports all efforts to enhance
the  efficiency  and  the  impact  of  the  United  Nations,
including 
the  Organization’s
administrative  and  financial  activities.  The  Group
would  like  to  reaffirm  once  again  the  importance  of
rules  and  regulations  governing  programme  planning
and  the  programmatic  aspects  of  the  budget  in  the
monitoring,  implementation  and  evaluation  process.
The  application  of  Article  105/6 
those
regulations should take into account the understanding
that  the  adoption  of  the  medium-term  plan  and  of  the
programme budget constitute a reaffirmation of all the
mandates that they include.
(a)  of 
the  African  Group  welcomes 
In  conclusion,  with  regard  to  the  Organization
and 
its  staff, 
the
Secretary-General’s  proposals  on  mechanisms  and
incentives  to  encourage  United  Nations  personnel  to
become  more  mobile  within  the  Organization.  We
reiterate  the  relevant  paragraphs  of  resolution  55/258
on  human  resources  management,  particularly  with
regard to the promotion of General Service staff to the
Professional level. The Secretary-General may wish to
consider an increase in the number of posts allocated to
General  Service  staff,  particularly  those  that  are  not
subject to geographical distribution.
The African Group also welcomes the Secretary-
General’s intention to conduct a review of the internal
justice system in order to enhance its effectiveness and
to  guarantee  the  equitable  and  legal  treatment  of  all
staff members.
for 
initiating 
the  new 
Mr. Khoshroo (Islamic Republic of Iran): At the
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the
Secretary-General 
reform
proposals  aimed  at  transforming  the  United  Nations
into  an  effective  universal  Organization  prepared  to
address  global  challenges.  I  should  also  praise  the
Deputy  Secretary-General  and  her  colleagues  for
preparing  the  report  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the
United  Nations:  an  agenda  for  further  change”,  which
inspires new ideas and provides inputs for the Member
States in their future deliberations on the topic.
Let  me  also  associate  myself  with  the  statement
made  by  the  representative  of  Venezuela  on  behalf  of
the Group of 77 and China.
the  capacities  and 
in  setting  up  a  dynamic 
Reform  is  not  only  a  necessity,  but  also  an
obligation 
international
institution  in  the  age  of  globalization.  Although  there
have been some improvements so far as a result of the
implementation  of  reform  measures  introduced  and
adopted  in  1997,  more  changes  have  yet  to  be
effectuated.  The  principal  challenge  ahead  will  be  to
enhance 
the
capabilities  of  the  multilateral  machinery  towards
collective  action  in  response  to  global  demands  and
concerns.  Hence,  any  reform  proposal  should  refrain
from  offering  selective  approaches  and  rather  present
solutions  on  how  to  enable  the  United  Nations  to
implement  the  priorities  identified  by  its  Member
States, particularly during such recent global meetings
as 
International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
World Summit on Sustainable Development.
the  Millennium  Summit, 
strengthen 
the 
to 
A more vibrant General Assembly requires proper
and  necessary  changes  in  its  agenda  and  methods  of
work. Even more, its reform process should hinge upon
the  acknowledgement  of  the  fundamental  role  of  the
General  Assembly  as  the  unique  forum  in  which  all
States have an equal voice through the establishment of
concrete 
the
implementation of its resolutions.
reliable  mechanisms 
and 
for 
The  same  approach  may  be  chosen  in  respect  of
the  proposed  reform  for  the  Economic  and  Social
Council.  Meanwhile,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-
A/57/PV.38
General  that  making  the  Council  a  privileged  global
forum  for shaping development policies and  strategies
entails 
innovative  measures,  such  as  conducting
dialogues  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the
World  Trade  Organization  annually  to  better  inform
them of the sensitivities involved in their deliberations
and  policies  vis-à-vis  the  composite  difficulties  which
developing countries face. In this connection, reform of
the  Security  Council  should  also  be  designed  to
promote  an  appropriate  environment  that  upholds  the
imperatives  of  the  balanced  economic  development  of
all  regions  in  maintaining  international  peace  and
security.
We  welcome  the  assertion  of  the  Secretary-
General  of  the  importance  of  the  development  aspects
of the work of the United Nations. However, there is no
proposed  concrete  action  in  the  report  to  ensure  its
adequacy  and  its  success  in  practice.  Among  major
priorities  that  have  been  identified  in  the  outcomes  of
recently  held  conferences,  only  one  or  two  areas  have
been addressed, while there are other numerous issues
and priorities that have been left behind. In none of the
sections  of  the  report  can  a  reference  be  found
concerning 
agreements
undertaken  at 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development in chapter X of the Johannesburg Plan of
Implementation, which has brought new changes to the
work  of  the  different  parts  of  the  United  Nations
system.
institutional 
recent 
the 
With  regard  to  coordination  at  the  country  level
and  the  proposed  new  functions  for  the  resident
coordinator  system,  it  is  absolutely  clear  that,  in
addition to budgetary implications, any modification in
the  already  agreed  mandates  of  the  United  Nations
funds  and  programmes  requires  the  prior  approval  of
the Member States. Moreover, any proposal which puts
forward  new  functions  as  a  conditionality  for  the
maintenance of development activities at the field level
would  substantially  distort  the  scope,  nature  and
mandate of the United Nations funds and programmes,
as  well  as  those  of  the  resident  coordinator  system,
thus  jeopardizing  their  development-based  agenda  and
counteracting  genuine  efforts 
improve  overall
efficiency.
to 
It is precisely in this context that my delegation is
of the view that broadening the scope of the activities
of the resident coordinator system in order
15
A/57/PV.38
“to ensure that human rights are incorporated into
country  level  analysis,  planning  and  programme
implementation” (A/57/387, para. 51)
and 
through 
frameworks 
needs  to  be  carefully  discussed  within  the  relevant
intergovernmental 
the
procedures  designated  by 
the  United  Nations.
Benefiting  from 
the  ultimate  support  of  partner
institutions  is  highly  recommendable,  yet  it  should  be
done within the mandates of each and every component
of  the  United  Nations  system.  Any  step  beyond  the
mandate  must  come  about  through  the  established
procedures of the United Nations. This basic assertion
holds true for the reforms proposed in the area of treaty
bodies  and  reporting  obligations  of  the  States  parties,
as  well  as  for  setting  criteria  for  human  rights  special
procedures.  While  we  believe 
the
reporting  obligations  and  related  burdens  of  States
parties  to  the  different  treaty  bodies  is  of  crucial
importance  to  them,  the  effort  to  remove  ambiguities
and  the  elaboration  of  best  practices  through  the  full
participation  of  Member  States 
relevant
processes are also highly required.
that  reducing 
in 
the 
Mr.  Al-Nasser  (Qatar),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
The  restructuring  and  review  of  the  activities  of
the  Department  of  Public  Information  should  aim  at
strengthening the role and activities of the Department
and not at its gradual diminution. Since some functions
currently  undertaken  by  the  Department  may  not  be
consonant  with  its  core  mission,  we  think  the  review
could be considered as an opportunity to focus more on
relevant  mandated  activities.  As  regards  the  proposed
rationalization  of  the  network  of  United  Nations
Information  Centres,  the  idea  of  regional  hubs  is  a
positive  initiative  for  developed  regions,  but  the  issue
is  much  more  complex  in  the  case  of  developing
countries.  We  believe  the  role  of  United  Nations
in
Information  Centres 
strengthened 
developing  countries.  The  Centres  also  need 
to
continue  developing  their  own  web  pages  in  local
languages.
should  be 
My  delegation  has  noted  the  concerns  expressed
here  regarding  the  number,  coherence  and  impact  of
United  Nations  reports,  as  well  as  the  planning  and
management  of  meetings.  We  believe  that  it  is  the
prerogative  of  Member  States  to  discuss  and  propose
remedial  measures  within  intergovernmental  bodies
and establish criteria for consolidating identical reports
16
on  cross-cutting  subjects,  while  maintaining  balance
among various issues.
We  welcome  the  idea  of  simplification  and
improvement in the planning and budgetary process of
the  United  Nations.  To  better  reflect  priorities  in
planning, we need to ensure that all intergovernmental
mandates  —  aside  from  the  Millennium  Declaration
priorities, which are long-term in nature, but including
those  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  outcomes  of
recent international Conferences — are incorporated in
the  medium-term  plan  as  the  basic  strategic  guidance
underpinning  the  work  of  the  Organization.  This
programme planning, updated by the required revision
at  the  mid-point  of  its  term,  should  continue  to  be
based on political mandates. Hence, budget allocations
should serve as the basis of decisions with regard to the
planning  of  exercises  or  the  possible  termination  of
programmes,  as  in  the  case  of  sunset  provisions.
Efforts  to  improve  the  existing  coherence  between
planning and budgeting exercises should not jeopardize
the rationality and credibility of this process, which is
imperative  of  allocating
based  primarily  on 
resources 
the
mandates  given  by  Member  States.  To  this  end,  the
effective  involvement  of  separate  intergovernmental
bodies  —  namely,  the  Fifth  Committee  and 
the
Committee for Programme and Coordination (CPC) —
to perform these functions is fairly justified, taking into
account that these bodies are rather complementary and
mutually reinforcing.
implementation  of 
to  achieve  full 
the 
the  Organization 
the  excellence  of 
We share the well-crafted vision of the Secretary-
General  concerning  the  reform  of  human  resources
development and management. The impact and vitality
rests  upon  having  capable
of 
international  staff,  who 
represent  a  variety  of
dedicated,  talented  potential  from  all  over  the  world.
Promoting 
the  United  Nations
workplace  needs  to  be  pursued,  but  realization  of  the
principle  of  equitable  geographical  distribution  should
be one of the main objectives of the reform in this area.
As regards the delegation of authority, we are of
the view that, along with any delegation of authority, a
clear  mechanism  of  accountability  should  be  in  place.
This  provision,  as  well  as  many  other  issues,  were
discussed  and  decided 
the  General
Assembly.  The  results  of  those  deliberations  were
enlightening  and  continue 
to  be  a  basis 
for
consolidating diverse views in examining proposals.
last  year  by 
In  conclusion,  Sir,  I  wish  to  assure  you  once
again of my delegation’s full cooperation in proceeding
with  the  debates  and  deliberations  on  this  subject  in
informal consultations.
to 
the  Secretary-General 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):
Permit  me  first  of  all,  Sir,  to  convey  my  sincere
congratulations 
for  his
initiative  in  submitting  a  new  series  of  proposals  for
reform  in  his  report  entitled  “Strengthening  of  the
United  Nations:  an  agenda 
further  change”
(A/57/387).  This  is  a  praiseworthy  initiative  that
confirms  yet  again  his  determination  to  give  new
impetus to the process of reform in our Organization.
for 
This  initiative  seeks  to  deepen  the  process  of
reform that was launched in 1997, the essential goal of
which was the adaptation of internal structures and the
culture  of  the  United  Nations  to  the  new  challenges
facing it.
My  delegation  also  associates  itself  with  the
statements made by South Africa on behalf of the Non-
Aligned  Movement,  by  Venezuela  on  behalf  of  the
Group  of  77  and  by  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  African
Group.  At  this  preliminary  stage  of  our  consideration
of the report, I would like to share with the Assembly
some  comments  and  views  on  some  aspects  of  the
proposed  reform  that  are  of  vital  importance  to  my
delegation.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly  anticipated  our  expectations  by
informing  us  of  his  intention  to  organize  informal
consultations to examine concrete proposals for which
the  Secretary-General 
the  approval  of
Member  States.  In  this  context  and  in  light  of  the
importance  of 
the  question,  perhaps  Permanent
Representatives themselves should become involved in
the process of negotiation and support the efforts of the
experts,  with  a  view  to  reaching  agreement  on  this
aspect of the formula.
is  asking 
On questions of substance, the report contains 35
proposals  relating  to  such  important  areas  as  human
rights, 
information,  administrative  and  budgetary
aspects  and  economic  cooperation.  We  share  the
Secretary-General’s view on the need to continue with
reform,  with  a  view  to  meeting  the  challenge  of
strengthening  our  collective  capacity,  thus  forging  a
common  destiny  in  a  world  of  increasingly  rapid
change.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for
having  given  us  a  succinct  account  of  what  has  been
A/57/PV.38
accomplished in the realm of reform before suggesting
to us what still remains to be done in this long process.
Some  of  the  actions  contemplated  are  within  the
competence  of  the  Secretary-General,  and  we  thank
him for having reported to Member States on it. Others
are within the competence of intergovernmental bodies,
which 
and
transparency,  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  possible  the
participation  of  all  delegations  in  the  process  of
examination and decision-making.
them  with 
examine 
should 
care 
laid  down  during 
As  to  the  idea  of  re-focusing  the  activity  of  the
Organization  on  priorities 
the
Millennium  Assembly,  my  delegation,  repeating  its
commitment to the Millennium goals, would point out
that  these  priorities  are  already  an  integral  part  of  the
medium-term  plan  for  2002-2005.  In  other  words,  the
priorities  laid  down  in  the  Millennium  Declaration
should  not  be  allowed  to  replace  the  other  legislative
mandates,  which  should  also  be  reflected  in  the
medium-term plan.
its 
inclusion 
We  also  wish  to  reaffirm  the  positive  role  of  the
Committee  for  Programme  and  Coordination  as  the
consultative  body  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Economic and Social Council in the planning process.
We  believe  that,  in  spite  of  certain  shortcomings  that
are  not  specific  to  that  body,  the  Committee  is
satisfactorily  discharging 
functions,  such  as
verifying the existence of mandates for all the activities
for 
in,  or  omission  from,  programmes
contained  in  the  medium-term  plan  and  ruling  on  the
conformity of the interpretation of these mandates with
the  decisions  of 
the  deliberative  bodies.  The
Committee also has the task of verifying the technical
correctness  of  the  presentation  of  programmes  and  to
ensure compliance with the priorities laid down in the
medium-term plan. In that regard, I wish to stress that
the  most  recent  substantive  session  of  the  Committee
for  Programme  and  Coordination,  held  last  July,  was
exemplary  in  terms  of  its  success  and  effectiveness,
given  that  the  Committee  completed  its  work  in  four
weeks instead of the six weeks initially scheduled.
The  medium-term  plan  is  the  cornerstone  of  the
cycle  of  programme  planning,  budgeting,  monitoring
and  evaluation  of  the  United  Nations.  Because  it
reflects  in  terms  of  programmes  and  sub-programmes
the  directives  given  by  the  deliberative  bodies,  the
medium-term  plan  determines  the  general  direction  of
the  United  Nations  and  is  a  framework  for  the
preparation  of  biennial  programme  budgets  for  the
17
A/57/PV.38
period  covered  by  the  plan.  Thus,  while  noting  the
Secretary-General’s  proposal 
to  submit  a  shorter
medium-term  plan,  we  would  like  to  understand  the
advantages and implications that will be entailed in the
implementation of that measure.
aspects 
With  regard  to  programme  evaluation,  it  is
important to continue to abide by rule 105.6 (a) of the
regulations  and  rules  governing  programme  planning,
budgetary 
connected  with  programmes,
performance  monitoring  and  evaluation  methods.  We
belief  that  the  lack  of  will  or  any  other  subjective
reason  which  may  have 
ineffective
implementation  of  a  mandated  activity  should  not
automatically 
of
obsolescence. That is the main reason why, throughout
the  past  few  years,  we  have  been  opposed  to  the
concept  of  sunset  clauses,  and  we  continue  to  be
committed  to  the  strict  application  of  rule  105.6  (a),
cited earlier.
because 
ending 
lead 
to 
led 
to 
the 
it 
Regarding  human 
rights,  we  welcome 
the
Secretary-General’s initiatives to strengthen the United
Nations system in the area of promoting and protecting
human  rights.  Nevertheless,  we  would  like  a  reform
process affecting an issue as sensitive as human rights
to take place in  the  spirit  of  the  World  Conference  on
Human  Rights,  held  at  Vienna  in  1993,  taking  into
account the indivisible and interdependent character of
human rights and the principles of  non-selectivity  and
impartiality,  which  should  guide  this  very  delicate
reform exercise. This exercise is necessary, particularly
in terms of rationalizing the procedures for drawing up
reports  by  treaty  bodies  and  for  the  management
methods  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the  Secretary-
General’s commitment to strengthening information as
a key element of reforming and revitalizing the United
Nations system. However, reform of the Department of
Public  Information  should  not  depend  solely  on
financial  criteria.  In  our  view  any  reorientation  of  the
Department  should  have  the  effect  of  maintaining  and
improving 
interest  for
developing  countries  and  should  be  aimed  at  bridging
the  gap  between  the  developing  countries  and  the
developed  countries  in  that  critical  area.  We  urge  the
Secretariat  to  continue  its  consultations  with  the
Committee  on 
restructuring  or
reorienting  the  activities  of  the  Department  of  Public
Information.
its  activities  of  particular 
Information  on 
18
With  regard  to  the  proposal  to  create  regional
information  centres,  we  note  that  many  regional  hubs
are  located  in  regions  where  costs  are  very  high
and  where 
telecommunication
infrastructures  are  well  developed.  In  less  favoured
regions, that operation should be undertaken on a case-
by-case  basis,  in  consultation  with  the  host  countries
concerned.
information 
and 
The recent International Conference on Financing
for  Development,  held  at  Monterrey,  and  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  held 
at
Johannesburg, are critically important to strengthening
international economic  cooperation. In that  regard, we
believe that it is timely to integrate the follow-up of the
fulfilment  of  commitments 
the  process  of
following  up  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Declaration,  which  would  make  possible  the  adoption
of  a  comprehensive,  coherent  and  integrated  approach
in attaining development goals.
into 
The African continent, whose specific needs were
a  priority  of  the  Millennium  Summit,  should  continue
to  receive  special  attention.  The  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  enjoys  the
solid support of the international community, deserves
its  ambitions,
substantial  support  consistent  with 
particularly 
strengthening 
the 
relevant
Secretariat  structure  so  that  it  can  effectively  take
charge  of 
international  community’s  support
activities for the implementation of NEPAD.
through 
the 
Those  are  a  few  comments  on  the  Secretary-
General’s proposals for reform; and I wish to assure the
Assembly  of  the  wholehearted  cooperation  of  my
delegation  and  of 
to  contribute
constructively 
the  successful  outcome  of  our
deliberations on this important question.
readiness 
its 
to 
Mr. Bennouna (Morocco) (spoke in French): The
Kingdom of Morocco is genuinely pleased to take part
in this debate and to make a modest contribution to the
Assembly’s  collective  reflection  on  reforming  the
United  Nations.  We  wish 
the
Secretary-General  for  having  introduced  to  us  this
morning  a  very  useful  and  stimulating  report  on
strengthening the Organization (A/57/387).
to  warmly 
thank 
A strong, credible and effective United Nations is
in  the  interest  of  all  Member  States,  whatever  their
status, 
the  means
available to them. That is why the objectives of which
Mr. Kofi Annan reminded us this morning deserve our
level  of  development  or 
their 
it.  Those 
support and, undoubtedly, that of the entire Assembly.
It  is  in  everyone’s  clear  interest  to  further  rationalize
our work, to make better use of the resources available
to us, to avoid duplication and overlapping and, finally,
to  endow  the  executive  branch  with  the  most  modern
tools, so that it can carry out the tasks with which we
have  entrusted 
tasks  are  becoming
increasingly  complex;  they  are  in  keeping  with  the
phenomenon  of  globalization,  which  imposes  on  the
international community the duty of turning the United
Nations  into  a  credible  and  efficient  regulatory  body,
because,  as  has  been  said,  if  the  market  is  becoming
global,  then  the  rules  must  also  become  global.  The
regulatory  activity  that  is  expected  of  us  ranges  from
international  trade,  financing  for  development  and
protecting  the  environment  to  combating  crime  and
terrorism.  As  we  all  know  and  we  unfortunately  see
today,  terrorists  have  formed  an  international  network
and  it  is  only  through  prosecution  at  the  same  level,
that  we  can  effectively  combat  their  activities.  We
welcome the 9 September 2002 report. It is part of the
reform  activity  initiated  in  1997.  However,  reform  is
not  an  overnight  phenomenon,  nor  a  miracle.  As  Mr.
Kofi Annan reminded  us,  it  is  a  continuous  effort  and
we must be in it for the long run.
It is no exaggeration to say that the very survival
of  the  Organization  probably  depends  on  successful
reform. In a world undergoing fundamental change, we
can  no  longer  expect  to  succeed  through  the  use  of
methods  and  responses  from  the  second  half  of  the
twentieth century, from a bygone world.
We  also  know  that  we  cannot  simply  tear  down
our  own  house,  which  is  why  we  completely  support
the  Secretary-General’s  method.  He  begins  by  asking
us  to  focus  on  the  indispensable  tools  for  change,
planning  goals  and  establishing  what  means  would  be
suitable to attain the goals. The planning and budgeting
must  go  hand  in  hand  and  must  be  envisaged  and
carried  out  within  a  reasonable  period  of  time,  for
example two years as the Secretary-General suggested.
We support wholeheartedly his proposal, although
we believe that during implementation, we will have to
make  planning  and  budgeting  less  bureaucratic.  We
should not be ashamed, but must adapt to the world as
it is. Envisaging the plan and budget will be based on
technical  information  provided  by  the  administration,
but it must be carried out at the higher political level,
the level of the Secretary-General.
A/57/PV.38
terms  of  managing 
We are also convinced that the Secretary-General
must enjoy, as he has requested, a degree of flexibility
in 
the  overall  budget.  This
flexibility  we  are  entrusting  to  the  highest  official  of
the  Organization  and  will  have  to  include  evaluations
and  reports  to  the  governmental  bodies,  that  will,  in
turn,  evaluate  the  initiatives  taken  and  make  the
necessary  recommendations.  These  bodies  include  the
Fifth  Committee  as  well  as 
the  Committee  for
Programme and Coordination (CPC).
Nowadays,  no  efficient  institution  will  succeed
without  good  management,  or  good  governance.  The
Secretary-General  must  be  sure 
to  achieve  his
objectives  at  the  least  possible  cost  and  will  have  to
reallocate resources according to new developments on
the  international  scene.  He  will  have  to  keep  up  a
dialogue with the main organs of the United Nations, in
particular 
the  General
Assembly.  In  other  words,  when  he  is  allocating
resources  he  will  have  to  do  so  on  the  basis  of  a
dialogue held through proper channels.
the  Security  Council  and 
The General Assembly has universal status, but it
will  have  to  restructure  itself  if  it  wishes  to  face  the
new challenges before the Organization and new work
methods. Today we hear about revitalizing the General
Assembly,  as  if  it  was  an  ill  patient  requiring  more
energy.  In  fact  what  is  necessary  is  just  to  bring  our
General  Assembly  and  its  methods  in  line  with  the
increased  number  of  Members,  the  nature  of  the
questions it addresses, and evolution and developments
in  modern 
and
information.
techniques  of 
communication 
These  tasks  I  have  described  must  take  place  at
the same time as the reform of the Secretariat, for this
is the only way to ensure that reform will have the best
impact. We are happy to see that the Presidency, aware
of  this  link  between  reforming  the  Secretariat  and
revitalizing the General Assembly intends to emphasize
revitalization  at  the  very  moment  when  reform  of  the
Secretariat is under way.
We  hope  this  activity  of  general  interest  will  be
carried  out  without  reference  to  any  special  interests,
and  with  the  desire  to  ensure  that  those  who  are  most
ready  to  serve  the  reform  and  are  best  qualified  will
place themselves at the service of the Organization.
The  United  Nations  is  based  on  the  sovereign
equality  of  its  Member  States.  But  when  we  refer  to
States,  as  well  as  individuals,  as  we  know  some  are
19
A/57/PV.38
more  equal  than  others.  Africa  is  the  continent  that  is
least  well  endowed,  and  has  suffered  the  most  from
developments that have occurred throughout the world
over  the  last  quarter  century.  It  is  therefore  almost
natural  for  everyone 
to  display  active  solidarity
towards  the  African  countries,  and  this  solidarity
should  be  reflected  by  the  Secretariat  through  a  focal
point, a special adviser to Mr. Kofi Annan, as has been
proposed,  who  will  coordinate  and  centralize  the
executive  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
direction  of  Africa,  because  today’s  activities  are  too
scattered.  This  activity  will  include  something  my
country values highly, attention to the New Partnership
for Africa’s Development.
try 
information. 
its  environment  and 
In  order  for  an  organization  to  exist,  it  must  act
it  must  disseminate 
It  must
and 
communicate  with 
receive
feedback  so  it  may  permanently  regenerate.  However,
should  we 
to  communicate  as  we  were
communicating  during  the  post-war  period  in  the  last
the
quarter  century?  This 
Secretary-General’s  proposals 
the
Department of Public Information (DPI) to enable it to
perform better and cost less. In undertaking this reform
of DPI, the needs of the developed countries and their
concerns  are  not  the  same  as  those  of  the  less  well-
endowed  countries, 
in  Africa  as  I
mentioned earlier.
is  why  we  approved 
to  modernize 
in  particular 
It  goes  without  saying  that  any  reform  process
must be careful not to lose sight of the fact that its final
objective  is  the  human  being.  The  United  Nations  has
played  an  indispensable  part  in  promoting  human
rights,  in  making  them  acceptable  and  habituating  the
most  diverse  cultural  sensitivities  to  their  importance.
These  past  efforts,  these  geological  layers,  as  it  were,
should  today  be  evaluated  globally  in  order  to  find
more  appropriate  oversight  mechanisms 
the
preservation of human rights.
for 
It is obvious that the multiplication of committees
of  experts  depending  on  this  or  that  convention  is  a
method that can be faulted, because it compels even the
least  well  endowed  countries  to  prepare  multiple
overlapping reports that require the services of experts.
We believe this assessment process should be entrusted
to  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights  in  Geneva  and  he  should  propose  the  most
appropriate manner of simplifying these processes from
the legal and technical points of view.
20
The Kingdom of Morocco supports the efforts to
reform  the  United  Nations  undertaken  by  Mr.  Kofi
Annan. We believe we must move forward by adopting
the  areas  of  reform  on  which  a  consensus  has  formed
within  the  Assembly.  The  remaining  areas  can  be
remitted to a follow-up group that could begin working
next year. Through that group, which could be an open-
ended  working  group,  States  could  continue  their
dialogue with the Secretariat.
Increasingly,  in  a  troubled  world,  people  look
anxiously to the United Nations in the hope of finding
comfort.  We  must  act.  We  have  no  right  to  disappoint
them.  We  must  act.  We  must 
the
expectations of those who look to us.
respond 
to 
Mr.  Mejdoub  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  One
week  has  passed  since  we  celebrated  United  Nations
Day. A retrospective analysis of our Organization’s 57
years  of  existence  enables  us 
the
following.
to  conclude 
in 
to  restore  order 
the  global  village, 
The  United  Nations  has  not  lost  any  of  its
relevance. The world needs the Organization more than
ever 
in
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
United  Nations  Charter.  The  multilateralism  that  our
Organization  embodies  has  proved  vital  for 
the
establishment  of  international  relations  founded  on
democracy,  inclusion,  equality,  justice  and  the  equal
sovereignty of States.
But the system we inherited following the Second
World War needs to be brought up to date. During the
past two decades, the world has experienced profound
changes, in particular globalization, with all its positive
and  negative  effects.  Those  changes  need  to  be
reflected in the structural and operational apparatus of
the  United  Nations  system,  which  now  has  the  dual
responsibility of adapting to the needs of our time and
of  shaping  the  course  of  future  events  to  avoid
directionlessness.
However, 
the  United  Nations 
is  not  an
autonomous  entity  with  its  own  sovereign  decision-
making  power.  Its  action  or  inaction  depends  on  the
collective  decisions  of 
its  Member  States.  The
Organization’s effectiveness is dependent on the means
and  resources  that  we,  the  Member  States,  put  at  its
disposal. Its effectiveness also depends on our capacity
to reconcile and even to restrain  our  national  interests
in the interest of the larger community.
It  is  on  the  basis  of  these  observations  that  my
delegation  would  today  like  to  assess  the  series  of
reforms  presented  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his
report  (A/57/387).  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  pay
tribute  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  a  far-sighted  man  who  has
been  able  to  perceive  the  virtue  of  change  in  a  world
where  change  is  the  only  constant.  He  has  made  the
strengthening of the United Nations his personal cause.
Through his actions he has shown himself to be much
wiser than we are, and history will undoubtedly prove
him right.
like 
to  salute 
I  would  also 
the  efforts  of
Ms. Louise Fréchette aimed at clarifying the proposed
reforms  for  the  benefit  of  the  Member  States  and  to
express to the President our gratitude for the initiatives
that  he  has 
the  process
of 
Secretary-General’s
recommendations  so  as  to  bring  the  process  to  a
successful and prompt conclusion.
consideration 
facilitate 
taken 
to 
of 
the 
My delegation associates itself with the common
African  position  on  the  Secretary-General’s  measures
and  proposals  for  reform.  I  will  thus  limit  myself  to
making the following comments and observations.
The  Secretary-General’s 
report,  which  we
welcome,  is  part  of  a  larger  agenda  and  continuous
process  of  reforming  our  Organization.  It  therefore
goes  without  saying  that  the  structural,  administrative
and  budgetary  reforms  presented  by  the  Secretary-
General  are  not  in  themselves  a  sufficient  response  to
the need to adapt our Organization to the requirements
of today’s world. In fact, as the Secretary-General has
rightly indicated, the reform of the United Nations will
not  be  complete  until  the  composition  of  the  Security
Council  is  modified  and  its  efficiency  and  credibility
are  strengthened  by  improving  its  working  methods
and 
I  am
specifically referring to the veto power.
its  decision-making  process.  Here, 
the  General  Assembly 
It  is  equally  obvious  that  the  reforms  presented
cannot  succeed  unless 
is
revitalized. For that to happen, more than just cosmetic
changes are required. It is imperative that we restore to
the  General  Assembly, 
truly  universal  and
democratic organ of the Organization, its genuine  role
as  described  in  the  Charter.  Its  prerogatives  should  be
maintained and respected by the other principal organs
of  the  Organization,  and  its  authority  vis-à-vis  those
organs  should  be  fully  exercised  in  the  area  of  the
the 
A/57/PV.38
maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  with
regard to economic, social and governance issues.
in 
the  goals  contained 
The  reform  process  initiated  by  the  Secretary-
General, if we make good use of it, is likely to give our
Organization a strategy for achieving concrete, tangible
results. The United Nations programme of work needs,
as  a  matter  of  fact,  to  be  rationalized.  It  should  be
organized  around 
the
Millennium  Declaration  and  around  the  outcomes  of
the  major  conferences,  particularly  the  International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development.  These
goals  should  be  reflected 
the  Organization’s
medium-term plan and its programme budget in a way
that  is  coherent  and  which  allows  us  to  measure  the
effective  implementation  of  those  goals  by  means  of
results indicators. However, those objectives should not
replace  other  existing  mandates.  Rather,  they  should
complement 
framework  of  an
integrated strategy based on the priorities identified by
the Member States.
them  within 
the 
in 
in  his 
those  factors  combined  diminish 
Such  a  strategy  should  allow  us  to  avoid  the
overlapping  within  our  Organization,  which 
the
Secretary-General  describes 
report.  That
overlapping results in a waste of energy and resources,
considerable  loss  of  time  and,  to  a  certain  degree,
inconsistency  among  the  decisions  of  the  legislative
bodies.  All 
the
efficiency  of  our  Organization.  We  therefore  support
the  Secretary-  General’s  proposals  to  regroup  certain
agenda  items,  to  present  consolidated  reports  on
closely  related  questions, 
to  make  use  of  new
technologies and to end activities that are deemed to be
useless.  In 
that  such  a
rationalization, which we support in principle, must be
carried out in consultation with Member States.
that  regard,  we  believe 
to 
In 
the  Organization’s  concerns. 
Development  in  all  its  dimensions  should  be
central 
fact,
development should be the Organization’s top priority.
Every debate we have had has illustrated beyond doubt
that  the  threats  confronting  our  world  cannot  be
alleviated or eliminated until people are freed from the
yoke of poverty that usurps their right to basic human
dignity. The right to development should be considered
equal to other fundamental human rights and should be
promoted  through  all  of  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations system.
21
A/57/PV.38
In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  with  the  attention
that the Secretary-General has given to activities aimed
at  benefiting  Africa,  as  well  as  with  his  decision  to
designate an adviser for special assignments in Africa.
We  hope  that  the  mandate  to  be  given  to  that  adviser
will  measure  up 
the  expectations  of  African
countries,  in  particular  as  they  relate  to  the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development.
to 
Reform  should  not  be  motivated  by  budgetary
concerns.  The  Secretary-General  has  clearly  indicated
that  his  goal  is  neither  to  reduce  the  budget  nor  to
respond  to  conditions  imposed  from  outside.  That  is
reassuring to us, and the Secretary-General has our full
confidence.  Nevertheless,  we  hope  that  the  Member
States  will  not  impose  financial  considerations  as
determining 
reform
programme.
in  drawing  up  our 
factors 
The  set  of  reforms  put  forth  by  the  Secretary-
General should be put into effect gradually and should
be subject to systematic evaluation. We note that some
aspects  of  the  reform  —  particularly  those  associated
with  human  rights  and  information  —  will  be  the
subjects of further  recommendations by the  Secretary-
General that will be based on studies to be submitted to
him. We also note that some proposals, especially those
related  to  the  administrative  and  budgetary  areas,  still
require further clarification. The issue of accountability
also  needs  to  be  examined  in  more  depth,  and  an
adequate system of responsibility and control needs to
be  established.  We  also  believe  that  the  competent
bodies  of  the  General  Assembly  should  also  look  at
various  technical  issues  further  before  the  General
Assembly takes a decision.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  our
appreciation  for  the  new  reforms  proposed  by  the
Secretary-General and by assuring the President of my
delegation’s 
the  process  of
negotiation  that  he  will  initiate  following  our  debate.
We  rely  on  him  to  preserve  the  transparency  of  that
process and to ensure its openness.
full  cooperation 
in 
Mr. Negroponte (United States): I am pleased to
address the General Assembly today on the Secretary-
General’s  latest  initiative  aimed  at  strengthening  this
indispensable  Organization.  I  join  others  in  thanking
the  Secretary-General  for  his  dedicated  stewardship.
We  also  wish  to  offer  our  compliments  to  President
Kavan  for  providing  the  opportunity  to  discuss  this
highly important issue.
22
Last  Thursday,  President  Bush,  in  proclaiming
United  Nations  Day  in  the  United  States,  said  that
America  joined  the  world  in  commemorating  the
founding  of  the  Organization  and  in  recognizing  the
profound  impact  it  has  had  on  our  world.  He  also
reaffirmed  the  dedication  of  the  United  States,  as  a
founding Member, to advancing human rights, security
and education throughout the world through the works
of  the  United  Nations.  Many  other  nations  have  made
similar  proclamations.  It  is  therefore  most  appropriate
that  we  gather  here,  just  a  week  later,  to  discuss  and
agree on how the United Nations is to fulfil its critical
role  in  the  years  ahead.  The  United  States  has  always
believed  that  a  strong,  well-managed  Organization
focused  on  its  most  important  priorities  is  essential  to
ensuring that the needs of Member States are fulfilled.
With  the  issuance  of  his  latest  report  on  reform,
entitled  “Strengthening  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda
for  further  change”  (A/57/387),  the  Secretary-General
has  provided  a  new  and  valuable  framework  for
pursuing  a  programme  of  continuous  improvement  in
the  Organization.  While  the  United  States  has  always
endorsed the Secretary-General’s concept that reform is
a process, and not an event, we also believe in the need
to  quicken  or  re-enforce 
the  process.  Achieving
modernization,  effective  oversight  and  the  elimination
of  redundant  and  obsolete  functions  are  integral  steps
in that process. For this reason, “An agenda for further
change”  is  timely  in  providing  a  road  map  for
improving 
the  Organization’s  many  programmes,
structures and operations.
been 
resources  management; 
updated; 
have 
In  recent  years,  considerable  progress  has  been
made in improving the working methods of the United
Nations. The staff and structure of the Secretariat have
been  streamlined;  important  changes  have  been  made
in  human 
the  scales  of
assessment 
peacekeeping
management  has  become  more  efficient  and  effective
and United Nations budgeting has become increasingly
focused  on  results.  The  Secretary-General’s  latest
report  builds  on  those  improvements  to  maximize  the
use  of  valuable  resources  and  to  ensure  that  the
Organization’s  work 
the
Millennium  Declaration  Goals.  We  endorse  his
approach and his package of actions in their entirety. I
would  like  to  comment,  however,  on  a  few  key
elements.
We 
revised
programme  budget  for  2004  and  2005  that  will  better
is  aligned  closely  with 
thoroughly 
look 
forward 
to  a 
reflect  the  priorities  of  Member  States.  In  the  same
vein, we are encouraged by the steps listed in the report
to  improve  the  budget  process,  including  the  critical
function of programme evaluation.
aimed 
coordination 
intergovernmental 
duplication are long overdue and also most welcome.
improving
avoiding
measures 
The 
at 
and 
In the important field of human rights, actions to
strengthen  United  Nations  activities  at  the  country
level  and  to  improve  the  overall  management  of  the
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights
deserve  priority  attention.  We  warmly  welcome  the
Secretary-General’s selection of Sergio Vieira de Mello
as the new High Commissioner.
important  contributions 
Repositioning  public  information  and  conference
services  is  an  essential  component  of  a  continuous
improvement  programme  for  the  Organization,  since
they use an inordinate share of the overall budget and
can  make 
to  substantive
programmes  and  activities.  We  support 
the  bold
approach  taken  to  rationalize  conference  services,  to
reduce the number and volume of reports produced and
to address the question of the number of meetings held.
We would expect a similarly innovative and aggressive
approach  to  be  followed  for  the  public  information
function  that  could  be  implemented  in  less  than  three
years.
Because  people  are  the  United  Nations  most
important  resource,  we  are  especially  attracted  to  the
measures in the field of human resources. Accelerating
recruitment, 
the  retention  of  qualified
increasing 
people  and 
improving  mobility  are  all  welcome
components of the initiative, while bearing in mind the
standards of Article 101 of the United Nations Charter.
Without  exception,  the  actions  laid  out  by  the
Secretary-General to maintain the United Nations as  a
relevant  and  responsive  institution  are  excellent  ones.
They  are  fully  consistent  with  the  authorities  and
responsibilities  given  to  him  as  chief  administrative
officer by Member States. As he implements his plan,
we  pledge  our  support.  We  stand  ready  to  assist  in
whatever way we can. We join with other members in
the  Hall  in  committing  to  making  the  Organization
better and more responsive to the needs of the twenty-
first century.
Mr.  Mahbubani  (Singapore):  To  avoid  any
misunderstanding  at  any  point  in  time  about  my
A/57/PV.38
report 
the  Secretary-General’s 
remarks,  let  me  stress  at  the  outset  that  we  fully
support 
entitled
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an  agenda  for
further  change”  (A/57/387).  We  also  support  his  call
for a strategic decision on this matter and, at the same
time,  we  also  support 
transparent
procedures  that  the  President  has  suggested  for  the
implementation of, and follow-up to, the report. I will
comment  on  the  report  specifically  a  little  later  in  my
remarks. I thought that, in the first half of my remarks,
it  would  be  useful  to  encourage  a  discussion  at  the
strategic level on the issue of United Nations reform, as
we  have  been  called  upon  to  provide  a  strategic
decision.
the  open  and 
Before doing that, I would like to mention a small
personal anecdote.  I  might possibly  be  one  of  the  few
veterans  of  United  Nations  reform  present  here.  In
1986 I was invited by the then President of the General
Assembly to serve as a member of the Group of High-
level  Intergovernmental  Experts  set  up  to  reform  the
United Nations, which was known as the Group of 18.
And one little story taught me a valuable lesson. When
I served on the Group of 18, we looked very hard to try
to find parts of the United Nations system that could be
trimmed,  cut  off  or  shut  down.  We  had  great
difficulties  but,  in  the  end,  we  managed  to  find  one
little-known United Nations committee that we thought
was  no  longer  necessary.  If  I  remember  correctly,  I
think 
the  United  Nations  Committee  on
Taxation. We all agreed that that Committee was really
not central to the work of the United Nations and that it
could  be  shut  down.  On  the  last  day  of  our  meetings,
just as we were about to adopt our report, the delegate
of  the  United  States  walked  in  to  say  that  he  was
terribly  sorry  but  the  United  States  Treasury  had
informed  his  delegation  that  they  saw  value  in  the
continuation of the Committee on Taxation, and would
we not mind if it were not shut down.
it  was 
The moral of the story here is that United Nations
reform  is  inherently  difficult  if  we  try  to  go  for  the
specific  items  to  be  removed,  because  each  Member
State  has  a  vested  interest  in  one  or  another  part  of
United  Nations  programmes.  Therefore,  before  we  go
into the details, we need to do a strategic review from a
sort of  “helicopter perspective” to see how the United
Nations looks in the world today and to look at its role.
Against  that  backdrop,  I  hope  that  the  key
question  that  we  will  try  to  address  in  this  debate  is
23
A/57/PV.38
that of why we need to reform. I believe there may be
five possible answers.
The  first  might  be  that  we  are  trying  to  reform
because  the  United  Nations  is  too  big  or  huge.  That
cannot  be  so  because,  as  an  Organization,  the  United
Nations actually has a light footprint. If my memory is
correct, the world’s gross national product (GNP) today
is about $30 trillion. The annual United Nations budget
is $1.5 billion. If my quick calculation is also correct,
that comes to 0.005 per cent of the global GNP. That is
literally and metaphorically a drop in the ocean. So if it
is  merely  a  drop  in  the  ocean,  is  the  purpose  of  our
reform to make that drop even smaller, or is it to make
that drop a little bigger, given the increasing demands
made upon the United Nations?
The second possibility may be that we are trying
to  reform  the  United  Nations  because  it  is  too
inefficient.  Certainly,  the  United  Nations  bureaucracy
must have its share of inefficiencies, and so forth. But
as we try to reform the United Nations, are we clear in
our  minds  about  the  benchmarks  for  progress?  To
which  civil  service  in  the  world  are  we  trying  to
compare  the  United  Nations  civil  service?  If  it  is
inefficient,  to  which  standards  are  we  comparing  it?
Having  worked  quite  closely  in  the  Security  Council
with  at  least  two  departments  —  the  Department  for
Public  Information  (DPI)  and  the  Department  for
Peacekeeping Operations  —  I would say that,  frankly,
from  my  personal  experience,  those  two  Departments
are  possibly  already  world-class  operations  and
perhaps  could  teach  the  rest  of  the  world’s  civil
services  how  to  operate.  So  if  we  say  that  the  United
Nations  is  inefficient  and  needs  to  be  improved,  we
need  also  to  establish  the  standards  necessary  to  be
able to say that.
The  third  possible  reason  to  reform  may  be  that
we  are  fundamentally  going  in  the  wrong  direction  as
an Organization. If that were so, if the United Nations
were  fundamentally  headed  in  the  wrong  direction,
then why is it that every time we hold a summit all the
heads of State and Government turn up here to fill the
Hall with their presence? The reason they come here is
that  the  United  Nations  serves  very  effectively  as  the
spiritual  centre  of 
intergovernmental  process.
Indeed, I would also say that, in one of the most crucial
roles it plays, the United Nations is the leading temple
of legitimacy to which all agendas have to be brought
and legitimized. Whether in the areas of development,
terrorism,
the  environment  or 
fight  against 
the 
the 
24
whatever one’s agenda, it must be brought to this Hall
to  have  it  legitimized  before  the  global  community
cooperates. The fact that the world comes here to wrap
its agendas in the mantle of United Nations legitimacy
suggests 
the  United  Nations  may  not  be
fundamentally going in the wrong direction.
that 
The fourth possibility is that the priorities may be
wrong, that the United Nations might, in a sense, have
wrongly allocated its priorities. Frankly, this is an area
in  which  we  can  have  a  real  discussion  to  address,  as
Ambassador  Kumalo  said  earlier  in  this  meeting,  “the
suspicions  and  fears  that  the  reform  process  seem  to
have  provoked”.  But  to  address  that  we  have  to  ask
ourselves what the real priorities of the United Nations
system are. In that regard, if we had to identify the first
priority we could not state it better than the way it was
stated in the intervention earlier today on behalf of the
European Union: “The ultimate aim of our work in the
United Nations is to make the world a better place for
the poor people of the planet.”
We endorse that call by the European Union. We
also  agree  that  the  primary  goal  should  be  to  ensure
that the United Nations helps to make life better for the
poor people of the planet. But if that is the case, we can
indeed ask ourselves a very simple question: at present,
are  our  priorities  designed  to  achieve  that?  Of  course,
if  we  study  the  United  Nations  budget  in  detail,  we
might be able to get a sense of how much money really
goes, or does not go, to helping the poor. One concrete
suggestion  I  would  like  to  make  in  this  regard  is  to
produce  a  pie  chart  that  shows  the  percentage  of  the
United  Nations  budget  that  goes  to  reducing  global
poverty  and  promoting  development.  That  might
clarify  the  picture  and  enable  us  to  assess  whether  or
not there are sufficient resources going to development
activities.
The  fifth  possible  reason  for  reform,  one  that  I
know  is  a  delicate  issue,  may  be  that  the  major
contributors  are  unhappy  with  the  direction  of  the
Organization. Unfortunately, there is more than a grain
of  truth  in  this  observation.  In  the  past  few  years,  the
reform  process  has  been  driven  by 
the  major
contributors,  who  feel  troubled  by  several  different
dimensions of the work of the United Nations. Indeed,
as we heard in the statements  made  just  this  morning,
there  is  a  troubling  North-South  differentiation  on  the
issue of United Nations reform. In our view, that need
not be the case. It need not be the case that the North
should  be  supporting  reform  and  the  South  should  be
suspicious.  In  our  view,  both  the  North  and  the  South
can  be  equally  enthusiastic  about  supporting  reform.
But to achieve that, both the North and the South must
develop  a  common  mental  framework  of  what  the
reform  process  is  all  about.  We  have  got  to  be  clear
about  what  the  goals  are  and  what  we  are  trying  to
achieve.  We  must  also  be  clear  about  how  reform
serves  the  interests  of  everyone  in  the  United  Nations
community  —  how  it  serves  the  North  and  how  it
serves the South. We hope that this will be one of the
outcomes of this debate.
the  effectiveness  of 
By  the  way,  in  that  regard  I  would  also  like  to
mention  and  reinforce  the  point  that  was  made  in  this
debate  by  the  Ambassador  of  Tunisia,  Noureddine
Mejdoub.  About 
the  United
Nations he said that it “is also conditioned by capacity
to know how to reconcile, or sometimes to restrain, our
national  interests  with,  and  for  the  sake  of,  the  larger
community’s interest.” That is our challenge in today’s
debate.  Can  we,  in  an  effort  to  strengthen  the  United
Nations, sometimes put aside our national interests for
the sake of strengthening collective interests? We hope
that this can be done.
to 
turning  specifically 
There is one other point that I would like to touch
on  before 
the  Secretary-
General’s report. In one of our earlier statements in the
Hall  regarding  the  revitalization  of  the  Organization,
we  said  that  the  United  Nations  rests  on  the  tripod
comprised of the Secretariat, the General Assembly and
the  Security  Council.  The  report  before  us  today
frankly  addresses  in  great  detail  the  areas  of  reform
pertinent  to  the  Secretariat.  It  also  addresses  in  great
detail  the  areas  of  reform  concerning  the  General
Assembly.  But  there  is  little  or  no  mention  of  the
Security  Council,  even  though  the  Council  is  today
probably  the  single  most  important  member  of  the
United Nations family.
After  having  served  almost  two  years  on  the
Security Council, it is our observation that the Council
can also do with administrative reforms. I think that, as
many here have observed, we have tried to do that with
the  Security  Council’s  annual  report  to  the  General
Assembly, in an effort to try to trim its length. In fact,
we  succeeded  in  cutting  the  report  almost  in  half,
saving  the  United  Nations  a  few  hundred  thousand
dollars in the process.
But let me be candid. While we expected that all
members  of  the  Council  would  have  supported  us,  we
A/57/PV.38
that 
to  find 
were  actually  surprised 
there  was
resistance.  I  can  tell  the  Assembly  that  some  of  my
colleagues  almost  literally  had  to  sweat  blood  to  get
support  to  do  something  that  we  thought  was  very
obvious,  namely,  trimming  the  report.  The  tragedy  is
that  some  of  the  States  here  supporting  reform  in  the
General Assembly and the Secretariat were resistant to
reform  in  the  Security  Council.  We  think  that  if  that
becomes  known,  it  would  undermine  the  process  of
reform.
It  is  important  that  all  three  elements  of  the
United  Nations  family  —  the  Secretariat,  the  General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  —  show  an  equal
commitment  to  reform.  By  the  way,  that  is  why  we
support paragraph 21 of the Secretary-General’s report,
which  concerns  the  need  for  the  Security  Council  to
codify  its  practices.  We  also  support  paragraphs  168
and  169,  which  deal  with  streamlining  and 
the
peacekeeping operations budget. Incidentally, we must
remember that the budgets for peacekeeping operations
are  much  larger  than  the  regular  budget.  They,  too,
should be scrutinized.
Let me now turn to the report itself. We do want
to  commend  the  Secretary-General  and,  of  course,  the
Deputy Secretary-General, for producing a concise and
well-written  report.  I  also  want  to  say  that  it  is
eminently readable, as I read it over a weekend.
that 
item  concerning 
the  revitalization  of 
I  will  state  upfront  that  our  delegation  is  in
agreement with the analysis presented and with most, if
not  all,  of  its  36  recommendations.  Judging  from  the
interventions  made  during  the  discussions  on  the
agenda 
the
General  Assembly,  no  one  would  disagree  with  the
Secretary-General’s  observation 
the  General
Assembly  remains  weak.  Frankly,  the  only  question
that  we  cannot  answer  in  this  debate  is  where  the
leadership  will  come  from  in  terms  of  improving  the
General  Assembly.  The  Secretary-General  cannot
provide  that  leadership.  After  all,  he  is  a  civil  servant
serving the Organization. If the General Assembly is to
be improved and revitalized, that leadership must come
from Member States. If it does not come from Member
States,  we  then  have  to  produce  the  leaders  from  the
intergovernmental body to do so. We indeed hope that
some will emerge. But in terms of making suggestions
about  how  to  make  the  Secretariat  of  the  United
Nations a more efficient organization, there is no doubt
that  the  Secretary-General  has  come  forward  with
many important suggestions.
25
A/57/PV.38
We  would  like  to  add  that  in  this  process  the
Secretariat  and  Member  States  should  see  themselves
as being in a symbiotic partnership. There must be trust
on  both  sides.  The  Secretary-General  is  seeking  more
flexibility  in  implementing  the  mandates  that  we  set.
For  our  part,  Member  States  must  take  a  pragmatic
approach  and  resist  the  urge  to  micromanage  the
Secretariat. In other words, I believe that we should all
welcome 
the  Secretary-General’s
proposals  and  not  take  issue  with  too  many  details.
While there are bound to be some specific concerns, we
should  not  let  this  override  the  broader  need  for
authorizing  the  Secretary-General  to  take  expeditious
action  with  regard  to  continuing  the  reform  effort  he
started in 1997.
thrust  of 
the 
Certainly,  there  are  several  areas  highlighted  in
the report — particularly the sections on reforming the
budget  process,  human  resources  reform  and  the
strengthening  human  rights  —  that  will  require  more
detailed  information  and  further  consideration  by  the
General  Assembly.  We  trust  that,  as  he  did  during
1997,  the  Secretary-General  will  come  up  with  an
implementation  plan 
issues
comprehensively.
that  addresses 
those 
as 
that 
those 
authority 
Secretary-General’s 
In deciding how to proceed we must first be clear
in our minds about which recommendations fall under
the 
chief
administrative officer and which areas require General
Assembly  approval.  We  support  him  in  immediately
implementing 
fall  strictly  within  his
mandate. As we will soon say in a speech at the Fourth
Committee,  those  include,  for  example,  the  efforts
made to  revitalize DPI. In our view, there are perhaps
only  four  or  five  actions  —  particularly  those  dealing
with the budget — that will require action on our part.
Having said that, I hope that we in the Assembly
will take a strategic decision on the report, as requested
by  the  Secretary-General.  That  would  be  the  correct
approach,  which  is  not  to  say  that  the  details  are
unimportant.  However,  they  can  be  dealt  with  in  due
course at  a later  stage.  We  believe  that  our  immediate
priority right now should be to send a clear message of
support to the Secretary-General.
In conclusion, let me quote the Italian Statesman
Niccolò  Machiavelli.  I  know  that  Machiavelli  is  not
necessarily quoted  positively,  but  this  is  something  he
said  that  was  positive:  “Whoever  desires  constant
success  must  change  his  conduct  with  the  times”.  We
26
hope  that  all  three  members  of  the  United  Nations
tripod — the Secretariat, the General Assembly and the
Security  Council  —  will  change  with  the  times  to
ensure  that  the  United  Nations  remains  relevant  and
strong.
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla 
in
Spanish): The future of the United Nations is uncertain.
Its  very  existence  is  threatened  by  unilateralism.  We
must  save  the  United  Nations.  At  the  same,  we  must
carry  out  a  thorough  reform  of  the  Organization  that
makes  a  daily  reality  of  the  sovereign  equality  of
States,  which  today  is  no  more  than  a  mirage.  In  our
opinion, 
the
democratization  of  the  United  Nations,  based  on  the
full respect of the Charter.
the  essential  goal  of 
reform 
is 
However, as aptly stated by the Secretary-General
in his valuable report (A/57/387), there has hardly been
any progress in the reform  and  democratization  of  the
Security Council, after a sterile decade of negotiations
and  despite  an  overwhelming  majority  that  is  in  what
one  representative  called  “general  agreement”  on  the
need to increase the Council’s membership in order to
remedy  the  under-representation  of  the  developing
countries,  on  the  urgency  of  eliminating  or  least
temporarily  restricting  the  use  of  the  anti-democratic
and  obsolete  veto  power  and  on 
the  need  for
transparency in the Council’s functioning, on behalf of
all  Member  States,  by 
secret
confabulations  known  as  informal  consultations  and
finally  adopting  its  eternally  provisional  rules  of
procedure.
replacing 
the 
The  most  necessary  and  urgent  element  of  the
reform of the United Nations is the democratization of
the  Security  Council,  whose  lack  of  legitimacy  and
effectiveness,  loss  of  credibility  and  double  standards
endanger the very existence of the Organization.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is
also a decisive element of genuine reform of the United
Nations.  The  United  Nations  will  become  more
democratic  and  effective  only  when 
the  General
Assembly fully exercises its powers under the Charter.
The  vast  majority  of  the  Member  States  demand  this.
But, under the exclusionary, inequitable and untenable
international  order  with  which  we  are  burdened,  it  is
difficult  for  the  Assembly  to  formulate  thorough  and
effective action based on our common goals and on the
shared 
those  of  us  who  champion
interests  of 
multilateralism  and  who  possess  the  strength  of  the
great majority of votes.
Cuba  also  agrees  that  is  necessary  to  create  a
United  Nations  that  is  more  efficient  and  dynamic  in
carrying out the purposes and principles of the Charter,
in  effectively  carrying  out  the  priorities  of  the  United
Nations  established  by  Member  States  and 
in
responding  to  the  various  challenges  that  today’s
international situation imposes on Member States.
The 
reform  of 
the  Organization  must  be
comprehensive  and  not  be  fundamentally  confined  to
the  administrative  and  managerial  structure  of  the
Secretariat.  The  reform  must  include  all  principal  and
subsidiary  organs  and  must  democratize  them.  It  must
take  as  its  fundamental  pillar  the  preservation  of  the
universal,  democratic  and  intergovernmental  nature  of
the Organization.
The  delegation  of  Cuba  considers  that  the  report
the  Secretary-General,  complemented  by 
the
of 
proposals  from  Member  States  upon  consideration  of
the  report,  is  an  appropriate  basis  for  advancing  that
process.
implementing 
the  priorities  of 
Our  delegation  believes  that  the  new  measures
must  aim  at 
the
Millennium  Declaration,  as  well  as  the  outcome  of
other,  equally  important  United  Nations  summits  and
conferences. In our opinion, the proposals put forward
must  be  complemented  by  other  initiatives  aimed  at
promoting  other  priorities  agreed  upon 
the
Millennium  Declaration  and  at  other  conferences.
Some such proposals are discussed in the report, while
others, lacking implementation measures, are not. Such
is  the  case  of  the  priorities  related  to  the  search  for
peace, security and disarmament; development and the
eradication  of  poverty; 
the
environment  and 
sustainable
development;  and  attention  to  the  special  needs  of
Africa.
the  promotion  of 
the  protection  of 
in 
We  hope  that  the  reform  measures  will  lead  to
progress in promoting and strengthening the structures
and  activities  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  funds  and
programmes 
social
development, which have unfortunately been weakened
and whose ever-limited resources have been reduced or
reallocated towards other goals in recent years.
to  promote 
economic 
and 
A/57/PV.38
support 
measures  are  within  the  competence  of  the  Secretary-
General  —  and  must 
immediate
implementation of those measures through the relevant
mandates,  decisions  and  resolutions  of  the  General
Assembly.  The  delegation  of  Cuba  reiterates 
its
confidence  in  the  Secretary-General  and  wishes  him
success in this endeavour.
the 
the 
intergovernmental  process, 
As was aptly suggested by the Secretary-General,
it  is  the  General  Assembly’s  task  to  decide  which
issues  are  within  its  competence  and  which  belong  to
the other principal and subsidiary organs. With respect
to 
the
Assembly’s 
effective
parameters  for  the  careful  study  of  proposals  and  for
taking  decisions  on  them  without  unnecessary  delays.
The  strengthening  of  the  Assembly  should  begin
precisely  with  the  effective  and  complete  exercise  of
the powers belong to it and to its subsidiary organs in
deciding on the reform proposals.
establish 
is  also 
task 
to 
rapidly 
it 
The new reform proposals reflect and deepen the
varied  measures  some  of  which  were  outlined  or
considered  in  1997  and  which  reflect  a  delicate
balance. Some of them have been the subject of recent
decisions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  other  organs,
while agreement could not be reached on others. In that
last category are,  among  others,  setting  time  limits  on
mandates  by  means  of  the  budgetary  process  and  the
rationalization  of  intergovernmental  consideration  of
programme and budgetary questions, the promotion of
a universal presence and the strengthening of activities
on the ground of the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the  integration  of
mechanisms  for  financing  and  planning  operational
in  publishing  reports  and
activities,  selectiveness 
electronic  access 
that
because  of  their  implications,  these  questions  require
careful  study  by  the  Assembly  and  other  relevant
organs before decision is taken.
to  documents.  We  believe 
In  our  opinion,  the  General  Assembly  and  its
subsidiary  bodies  must  work  carefully,  together  with
the  Secretary-General,  to  clarify  and  to  decide  on  the
scope  and  form  of  the  implementation  of  some  of  the
measures,  whose  overall  appearance  may  appear
attractive  but  whose  real  effects  will  depend  on  the
interpretation  given  to  them  and  the  actual  context  in
which they are implemented.
The General Assembly must identify measures to
the  efficiency  of  management  —  such
improve 
For  example,  the  proposals  for  shortening  the
time  period  of  the  medium-term  plan,  for  suppressing
27
A/57/PV.38
the  Committee  for  Programme  and  Coordination,  for
modifying  and  simplifying  the  budgetary  process  and
for  creating  more  flexibility  for  reallocating  resources
among  programmes  and  expenditure  items  are  all
measures  that,  due  to  their  complexity  and  technical
nature,  must  necessarily  be  studied  by  the  relevant
intergovernmental bodies.
Secretariat with a view to simplifying and rationalizing
this  machinery  and  its  procedures  within  existing
capacities  and  resources.  It  would  be  premature,  for
example,  to  take  a  position  with  regard  to  action  5
before  the  report  of  the  Office  of  Internal  Oversight
Services  has  been  duly  considered  by  the  General
Assembly.
As  well,  it  seems  that  there  is  an  attempt  to
redefine  the  priorities  of  the  United  Nations  through
preparing 
the  upcoming  budget  based  on  one
interpretation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  without
taking into account other relevant mandates such as the
outcomes 
and
conferences.  Our  delegation  believes  that  this  process
must maintain and reaffirm the validity and usefulness
of principal instruments such as the medium-term plan
and its revisions.
important 
summits 
of 
equally 
Another essential idea, in  the  view  of  the  Cuban
delegation,  is  that  of  universality  in  the  approach  of
recommended  actions,  which  must  be  implemented  in
their entirety, with a system-wide vision, by all organs
or all Member States according to the specific case. For
example,  with  respect  to  the  scope  and  system-wide
perspective of actions 2, 4 and 5, perhaps we all agree
on  the  appropriateness  mentioned  in  the  report  of
strengthening the capacity of Member States in the area
of  human  rights.  However,  doubts  arise  when  that  is
related  to  strengthening  of  United  Nations  actions  at
the country level. And when those actions interact with
operational  activities 
their
corresponding funds and programmes, it seems that the
implementation  of  such  measures  becomes  limited  to
developing  countries  and  does  not  extend 
to
industrialized  countries,  where  much  remains  to  be
done  at  the  national  level  to  ensure  the  universal
enjoyment  of  human  rights.  Furthermore,  we  should
define more closely how the principle of consent would
be applied in mixing actions of different natures when
there  are  components  of  the  Office  of  the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  mixed  with  the
offices  and  funds  which  are  of  a  distinct  and
intergovernmental nature.
for  development  and 
With  regard  to  the  integrated  approach  of  these
measures,  the  question  arises  of  how  to  reconcile  the
proposed  strengthening  of  the  management  and  of  the
capacities of the High Commissioner’s Office — which
would appear to presuppose an increase of resources —
with  the  goal  entrusted  to  the  Secretary-General  of
reviewing  the  management  of  this  component  of  the
28
The delegation of Cuba agrees with our President
on the importance of the process of intergovernmental
consideration  of  this  report,  that  it  be  transparent  and
participative.  Cuba  repeats  its  readiness  to  participate
in it dynamically, flexibly and constructively.
Mr.  Kjørven  (Norway):  I  am  honoured  to  be
speaking to the Assembly on such an important matter
as  strengthening  the  United  Nations.  The  United
Nations  is  a  cornerstone  of  Norwegian  foreign  and
development  policy.  Experience  has  taught  us  that  the
best  way  to  promote  peace  and  security,  human  rights
and  sustainable  development  is  through  multilateral
cooperation. Effective multilateralism calls for a strong
United Nations. Norway is therefore firmly committed
to  the  efforts  being  undertaken  by  the  Secretary-
General to strengthen the United Nations.
in  meeting 
Two years ago, the leaders of the world agreed on
a  common  vision  for  the  new  century  and  a  set  of
priorities to be achieved by 2015. It is of great concern
to  us  that  we  are  already  falling  behind  in  meeting
these objectives, not least poverty reduction. It is also
of  concern  to  us  that  insufficient  progress  is  being
made 
the
Millennium Declaration in areas such as human rights,
democracy,  good  governance,  conflict  resolution  and
the  special  needs  of  Africa.  We  need  to  heed  the
Secretary-General’s  warning  that  unless  we  make
progress on a broader front, “the  ringing words of  the
Declaration  will  serve  only  as  grim  reminders  of  the
human  needs  neglected 
and  promises  unmet”
(A/57/270, para. 113).
the  broader  objectives  of 
Our  common  objective  is  to  make  the  United
Nations  a  more  effective  multilateral  instrument  for
pursuing  the  priorities  set  out  in  the  Millennium
Declaration.  If  we  are  to  succeed  in  meeting  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  we  must  realize  that
we  are  all  responsible  for  their  implementation.  This
responsibility  includes  supporting  and  strengthening
the  United  Nations  capability  to  move  the  process
forward.
Throughout his tenure, the Secretary-General has
proven  that  he  is  committed  to  improving  the  United
Nations. We see his proposals as a logical follow-up to
the  first  reform  process,  started  in  1997.  We  support
the  proposal  to  focus  the  Organization’s  attention  on
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
following up the recent world conferences.
truly 
Norway  welcomes  the  emphasis  in  the  report  on
the need to further strengthen the work on human rights
within  the  United  Nations,  and  we  give  this  objective
our  full  support.  The  promotion  and  protection  of
human rights worldwide are a fundamental task of this
Organization.  However,  even  though  much  progress
has been made, a lot still remains to be done before we
can 
rights  have  been
mainstreamed  into  the  activities  of  the  Organization.
This  includes  areas  such  as  humanitarian  affairs,
conflict prevention and peacekeeping. It is not enough
to pay lip service to an abstract idea of full integration.
We must continue to work on this, both in terms of our
attitudes  and  in  terms  of  our  practical  efforts.  We  are
confident 
the  Secretary-General’s  proposed
reforms will help us to achieve this aim.
that  human 
that 
say 
the 
improving 
importance  of 
Norway strongly supports the Secretary-General’s
emphasis  on 
the
coordination of United Nations activities at the country
level. This should come as no surprise. These are ideas
that have long been supported by Norway, and we think
it  is  important  that  all  United  Nations  activities  are
integrated,  particularly  in  countries  emerging  from
conflict.
We  look  forward  to  the  completion  of  the
implementation  plan  for  the  effective  coordination
among the various United Nations entities working in a
given country by 2003. We see it as essential that that
the  United  Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes
working  in  each  country  are  able  to  pool  their
resources  and  undertake 
joint  programming.  We
welcome  the  proposed  strengthening  of  the  role  and
capacity  of  the  Resident  Coordinator,  which  in  turn
should  facilitate  such  an  enhanced  effort  to  achieve  a
truly integrated United Nations country team.
However,  successful  coordination  in  the  field
must  also  include  the  major  financial  development
institutions, mainly the IMF and the World Bank. There
has been an increase in cooperation between the United
Nations  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  in  recent
years  as  regards  the  development  of  national  poverty
A/57/PV.38
reduction  strategies.  We  strongly  encourage  and
support  the  continuation  and  strengthening  of  this
cooperation.
the  Secretary-General’s  proposals 
Public outreach is important for any organization,
and  no  less  so  for  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore
welcome 
for
strengthening  the  United  Nations  public  information
activities and believe that this will both enhance public
support  for 
the
Organization’s 
legitimacy  and  authority  as  our
foremost multilateral institution.
the  United  Nations  and  further 
report 
includes  proposals 
In  recent  years,  the  United  Nations  has  also
strengthened its relationship with civil society and the
private sector, recognizing the need to work together to
achieve  our  common  goals.  We  are  pleased  that  the
Secretary-General’s 
to
strengthen  and  organize  the  relationship  between  the
United Nations and civil society and the private sector.
Reform  is  not  about  doing  more  with  less  or
saving money. It is about being able to live up to great
expectations  by  being  efficient  and  focused,  and  with
resources  sufficient  to  do  the  job.  The  people  of  the
world  look  to  the  United  Nations  to  help  solve  their
problems. We are responsible for providing the United
Nations with the capacity to do so.
the 
Since 
1997, 
Secretary-General 
has
successfully  implemented  reforms  that  were  under  his
competence.  However,  we,  the  Member  States,  have
not done our share. We must reform the way we work
in the General Assembly and the Economic and Social
Council in order to strengthen the United Nations as a
whole.  We  should  all  take  note  of  the  Secretary-
General’s proposals in this regard.
The  United  Nations  can  only  be  as  strong  and
assertive  as  Governments  make  it.  Norway  is  fully
committed to giving its full support to the proposals set
out in the Secretary-General’s report. We look forward
to  seeing  them  put  into  operation  in  the  revised
programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2004-2005.  We
urge  all  Member  States 
the
Secretary-General’s Reform Initiative.
to  strongly  endorse 
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
29
