United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
13th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 17 September 2002, 3 p.m.
New York

A/57/PV.13
Official Records
President: Mr. Kavan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Annadif
(Chad), Vice-President, took the Chair.
must  maintain  its  unity  and  remain  vigilant  so  as  to
ensure that such acts of terror never happen again.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Festus Mogae, President of the
Republic of Botswana
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of
the Republic of Botswana.
into 
Mr.  Festus  Mogae,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Botswana,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.
Festus Mogae, President of the Republic of Botswana,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mogae:  Let  me  begin  by  stating  that
our  thoughts  and  prayers  are  with  the  people  of  the
United  States  as 
first
anniversary of the 11 September 2001 terror attacks in
New  York  and  Washington.  The  events  of  that  day
compel  us  to  unite  and  adopt  effective  measures  to
eradicate the scourge of terrorism.
they  commemorate 
the 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  Botswana(cid:146)s
strong  support  for  the  work  of  the  Security  Council
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  established  to  monitor
the  effective 
implementation  of  Security  Council
resolution  1373  (2001).  The  international  community
It  is  my  pleasure  to  extend  to  you,  Sir,  and  to
your  country,  Chad,  the  warm  congratulations  of
Botswana on your election to a vice-presidency of the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-seventh  session,  and  to
wish  you  every  success.  I  assure  you  of  the  full
cooperation of my delegation.
If  we  had  started  this  meeting  on  time,  I  would
not have minded at all. I have greater respect for time
than for hordes of latecomers. I am also grateful for the
fact that after other heads of State or Government left
New York, nobody removed the chairs in the Assembly
Hall.
I wish to pay tribute to Mr. Han Seung-Soo of the
Republic of Korea, President of the General Assembly
at  the  fifty-seventh  session,  for  the  skilful  manner  in
which he conducted the work of that session.
Let  me  also  place  on  record  that  we  appreciate
the  good  work  which  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan, is doing to reform the United Nations funds and
programmes. The reform process is contributing to the
strengthening  of 
those  special
institutions to deliver assistance to Member States in a
more coherent and efficient manner.
the  capacity  of 
I  join  others  in  congratulating  and  welcoming
into  the  United  Nations  family  Switzerland,  a  new
Member  State,  and  East  Timor,  which  is  soon  to
become one.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-59330 (E)
*0259330*
A/57/PV.13
I am delighted that Switzerland has now taken its
rightful  place  in  this  world  body.  The  United  Nations
has 
indeed  been  strengthened,  and 
its  universal
character has undoubtedly been enhanced.
In  East  Timor  the  United  Nations  demonstrated
its  commitment  to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the
Charter  by  playing  a  pivotal  and  decisive  role  in
ensuring that the people of East  Timor  can,  at 
long
last, exercise their right to national self-determination.
We  live  in  a  world  of  diverse  cultures  and
traditions, yet we are united by our common humanity.
There  is  no  alternative  to  coming  together  to  address
the  many  dangers  that  threaten  humanity.  No  one
country can hope to successfully confront, on its own,
those global challenges (cid:151) whether underdevelopment,
poverty,  insecurity  or  threats  to  peace.  They  are
challenges 
the
participation  of  all  global  stakeholders  to  confront
them.  It  is  for  those  reasons  that  the  United  Nations
remains  an  important  unifying  institution  for  all  of
humanity.  It  is  the  only  institution  that  can  play  the
important role of fostering partnership, cooperation and
multilateralism.
that  require  global  solutions  and 
States  (cid:151)  especially  those,  like  ours,  that  our
small (cid:151)  have  high  expectations  of  what  multilateral
cooperation can do for them, and how it can change for
the  better  the  lives  and  destiny  of  the  peoples  of  the
United Nations.
In  this  regard,  we  cannot  fail  to  speak  about  the
varied  and  complex  challenges  developing  countries
continue to face, particularly in the continent of Africa.
Despite  consistent  efforts  in  the  past  to  assist  Africa,
there  are  still  widening  disparities  in  development
between the continent and the rest of the world. Africa
continues to experience high levels of poverty, which is
aggravated  by,  among  other  things,  the  unfavourable
global  economic  environment  and  conflicts.  These
challenges  are  further  compounded  by  the  HIV/AIDS
pandemic.
Let  me  hasten  to  state  that  to  acknowledge  the
existence of problems does not mean that the future is
entirely  bleak.  There  are  positive  developments  that
give  reason  for  hope  for 
the
aspirations  of  our  people.  Africa  has  committed  itself
to  creating  an  environment  conducive  to  economic
growth and development. We have taken concrete steps
to  ensure  that  Africa  is  united  and  better  prepared  to
face up to its problems.
the  realization  of 
2
for  building 
real  partnerships  within 
We  have  taken  the  first  step  in  a  broad  and
comprehensive process to bring our countries  together
through  the  establishment  of  the  African  Union.  The
New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development  (NEPAD),
which  was  considered  by  this  Assembly  this  week,  is
one  of  the  major  initiatives  of  the  African  Union.
Botswana  is  convinced  that  NEPAD  provides  a  sound
basis 
the
continent,  as  well  as  with  the  rest  of  the  international
community.
is 
reiterate  Africa(cid:146)s  deep
appreciation of the support and assistance that we have
received and continue to receive from the international
community.  We  particularly  welcome  the  resolution
that  has  just  been  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly
mandating  the  United  Nations  funds  and  programmes
to support the implementation of NEPAD. Botswana is
also happy with the decision of the G8 countries to join
hands  with  us  to  ensure  the  success  of  this  initiative.
We  stand  ready  to  make  our  contribution  so  that  the
noble objectives of NEPAD can be attained.
important 
to 
It 
to 
Central 
implement 
achievement 
is  a  commitment  by 
of  Africa(cid:146)s
the 
development  objectives 
the
international community to implement the decisions of
the  United  Nations  world  conferences.  We  need  to
work  assiduously 
the  Monterrey
Consensus, which identifies sources that can be used to
finance  the  development  goals  that  we  have  set  for
ourselves. Potential sources include the mobilization of
the  mobilization  of  external
domestic  resources; 
resources, 
including 
investment;
increased  financial  and  technical  cooperation;  and  the
resolution of the debt crisis. The Monterrey Consensus
also  recognizes  trade  as  an  engine  of  growth  and
development.  The  international  community  therefore
has a responsibility to ensure that developing countries
can participate in world trade. In this  regard, we view
partnership 
the  Cotonou
Agreement  and  the  African  Growth  and  Opportunity
Act,  as  important  steps  towards  fulfilling  some  of  the
objectives of the Monterrey Consensus.
foreign  direct 
agreements, 
to 
such 
as 
HIV/AIDS 
remains,  undoubtedly, 
the  most
serious  threat  to  the  economic  and  social  progress  of
the  world.  Its  devastating  impact  on  the  African
continent is well documented. There is no doubt that no
one country has the capacity to deal with the problems
associated with this epidemic  on  its  own.  If  we  are  to
conquer  it,  we  will  need  a  strategy  that  combines
efforts on a broad front. Those who think that they are
still  free  from  the  epidemic  and  that  it  is  an  African
problem had better wake up, because next time it will
be on their own doorstep.
Botswana is immensely grateful for the support it
has  received  from  the  United  Nations  and  other
cooperating partners in its efforts to fight the epidemic.
I  also  wish  to  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his
tireless 
international
community to support our efforts. I am sure that, with
the  help  of  the  international  community,  we  in  Africa
will still be standing when the dust settles.
in  mobilizing 
efforts 
the 
Botswana  is  pleased  to  note  the  commendable
efforts that the United Nations continues to make in the
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  various  parts  of
the world. With the continued assistance of the United
Nations and the rest of the international community, we
have  reason  to  be  optimistic  and  hope  that  the
continent of Africa will soon find peace.
the  areas  of 
repatriation, 
We  have  closely  followed  the  Organization(cid:146)s
initiative  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
the  disarmament,
particularly 
in 
demobilization, 
resettlement 
and
reintegration  of  the  former  combatants  into  civil
society.  We  welcome 
the  ongoing  consultations
between  the  various  parties  to  the  conflict.  We  are
anxious, however, to see  full-fledged  negotiations  that
can lead to a lasting political settlement. The people of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo yearn for peace
and  national  reconciliation,  as  well  as  the  social  and
economic development of their country.
We therefore call upon all parties to demonstrate
greater  determination  and  a  sense  of  urgency  in  the
search  for  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict  in  that
country.  Peace  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  is  possible  and  necessary,  but  in  the  final
analysis,  it  depends  on  the  political  will  of  the
signatories to the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement.
I wish to salute the efforts and indomitable spirit
of my immediate predecessor, Sir Ketumile Masire. He
has  been  tireless  and  unwavering  in  his  mission  of
facilitating  the  inter-Congolese  dialogue,  convincing
the people of that country that peace can come only if
they  are  willing  to  talk  to  each  other.  Nobody  will
come  from  heaven  or  hell  to  create  peace  for  them.  I
also  wish  to  place  on  record  Botswana(cid:146)s  appreciation
of the efforts and determination of President Mbeki of
South Africa. He has invested substantial time, energy
A/57/PV.13
and  resources  to  find  solutions  to  the  conflict  in  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Botswana  welcomes  and  commends  the  historic
step taken by the Government of Angola and UNITA in
signing the Memorandum of Understanding of 4 April
2002  as  an  addendum  to  the  Lusaka  Protocol.  The
people  of  Angola  have  opted  for  peace.  They  expect
the  international  community  to  help  them  consolidate
this peace. Let us not fail them. I ask the ambassadors
and foreign ministers who happen to be present here to
take the message to my fellow heads of State in Africa
that  we  should  not  let  down  the  people  of  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and, above all, the
people of Angola. They have suffered enough.
Conflicts  and  instability  in  other  parts  of  the
world, such as the Middle East and Afghanistan, are of
serious  concern  to  us.  We  look  to  the  international
community,  within 
the  United
Nations, 
the  peaceful
resolution of those conflicts.
to  play  a  greater  role 
the  framework  of 
in 
Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  Botswana(cid:146)s
continued  support  for  the  United  Nations  and  express
my delegation(cid:146)s appreciation to the Secretary-General,
whose visionary leadership has continued to guide our
Organization.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
President  of 
the
statement he has just made.
the  Republic  of  Botswana  for 
Mr.  Festus  Mogae,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Botswana,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address  by  The  Honourable  Sir  Allan  Kemakeza,
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
The  Honourable  Sir  Allan  Kemakeza,  Prime  Minister
of Solomon Islands.
The  Honourable  Sir  Allan  Kemakeza,  Prime
Minister  of  Solomon  Islands,  was  escorted  to  the
rostrum.
Sir  Allan  Kemakeza  (Solomon  Islands): On
behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  Solomon
Islands,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  fifty-seventh  session
3
A/57/PV.13
of the General Assembly. I am confident that, under his
experience  and  skilful 
leadership,  we  will  reach
positive  results  for  this  Organization  and  for  all
peoples of the world.
I also thank His Excellency Mr. Han Seung-Soo,
Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the Republic
of  Korea,  for  his  distinguished  service  in  presiding
over the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
In  the  same  manner,  I  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.
Kofi  Annan,  Secretary-General,  for  his  good  and
untiring  efforts  and  his  dedication  aimed  at  realizing
the principles and purposes of the United Nations.
Like  others  who  have  spoken  before  me,  I  also
wish  to  congratulate  East  Timor,  our  close  Pacific
neighbour  that  is  soon  to  be  a  member  of  the  United
Nations,  and  Switzerland  as  a  new  member  of  the
United  Nations.  Solomon  Islands  looks  forward  to
developing 
those 
two
countries through bilateral and multilateral means.
relationships  with 
further 
into 
journey 
As  we 
this  new  millennium,
challenges facing the international community are more
daunting. Human ingenuity and technological advances
complicate  those  challenges.  Acts  of  terrorism  and
armed conflicts proliferate in many parts of the world.
Prospects for progressive economic and social services
and security, and improved living standards for the vast
majority  of  the  world(cid:146)s  population  have  become  mere
unrealized dreams.
Nonetheless,  as  an  international  instrument  for
the  promotion  and  the  betterment  of  human  life,  the
United Nations has considerable ability and experience
in  pursuing  what  is  best  for  the  common  good  of  all
peoples  around  the  world,  including  guaranteeing
world peace and security through the Security Council.
Today  I  reaffirm  the  commitment  of  Solomon
Islands  to  the  principles  of  the  Charter.  I  also  wish  to
place on record the appreciation of Solomon Islands for
the worthy assistance from other United Nations organs
and  agencies,  including  the  Economic  and  Social
Council,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme
(UNDP), the International Labour Organization (ILO),
the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  the  United
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural
Organization  (UNESCO)  and 
the  Commission  on
Human Rights.
Scientific 
Solomon  Islands  also  upholds  its  faith  in  the
Security Council and acknowledge its important role in
4
in 
the 
the  maintenance  and  promotion  of  international  peace
and  security.  At  the  same  time,  we  recognize  the
changing  scene 
international  political  and
security environment. Those changes must be reflected
in our Organization as well. The reform of the Security
Council  must  continue,  including  a  review  on  the
relevance of the provisions of  veto  power  accorded  to
permanent  members.  Moreover,  Solomon 
Islands
supports  the  expansion  of  the  permanent  membership
of  the  Council  to  include  Japan  and  Germany.  Those
two  countries  have  so  much  influence  in  the  global
political  and  economic  arena  and  therefore  they  are
better placed to contribute constructively and positively
to world peace and security.
For  a  small  island  nation  like  Solomon  Islands,
the United Nations is the foremost institution to turn to
in time of trouble and need. My predecessor stated that
from this rostrum last year. At that time, he elaborated
on the circumstances of the conflict that had erupted in
Solomon Islands between November 1998 and October
2000.
Today, we are still struggling with the outcome of
that devastating conflict. We have lost much. We have
to do much more to reconstruct the destroyed fabric of
our  country.  That  is  the  course  my  Government  has
charted,  in  order  to  maintain  our  sovereignty  with
dignity and to show integrity and respect as a Member
of the United Nations family.
The  mandate  to  lead  the  country  was  clearly
given  to  me  through  the  democratic  process  when
Solomon Islands held its post-conflict general election
on  5  December  2001.  The  polls  returned  a  new
Parliament of 50 duly elected members, charged with a
clear  working  majority  of  29  out  of  the  50  members.
The national coalition Government for peace, unity and
reconstruction  assumed  office  and  undertook 
the
challenging task of rebuilding Solomon Islands.
The  foremost  strategy  that  my  Government  has
adopted  is  to  pursue  four  policy  areas:  first,  the
restoration of peace and security; secondly, education;
thirdly,  health  and  medial  services;  and,  fourthly,
productive sectors.
We began this important work during the first 100
days  of  entering 
since
consolidated  our  efforts,  notwithstanding  practical
difficulties that emanate from the lack of financial and
the absence of other relevant resources.
into  office.  We  have 
Our  second  strategy  is  the  formulation  of  a
national economic recovery plan. That plan focuses on
strengthening  agriculture,  fisheries,  forestry,  mining,
manufacturing, tourism and infrastructure development
sectors.  Besides  giving  closer  attention 
the
promotion  of  health  and  education  services,  the  plan
also  addresses  population  growth  and  ensures
promotion of responsible environmental management.
to 
I  am  happy  to  state  that,  at  present,  we  are  also
working  on  a  sustainable  development  plan  for  our
country.  An  integrated  financial  package  for  this
strategy  has  been  submitted 
to  our  development
partners.  Thus  far,  the  responses  received,  while
encouraging,  still  raise  questions  that  require  serious
and  genuine  consideration  in  view  of  our  present
circumstances.  It  is  here  that  we  sincerely  look  to  the
United  Nations  for  assistance  in  facilitating  closer
consultation  and  constructive  engagement  with  the
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the
Asian Development Bank.
The  huge  amount  of  debt  that  burdens  poor
countries is real, and it continues to afflict most third-
world  countries, 
including  small  States  such  as
Solomon  Islands.  This  is  a  real  challenge  that  my
people  and  country  face  as  we  make  our  best  efforts
and endeavours to rebuild our nation and maintain our
independence  and  sovereignty  with  dignity,  integrity
and  respect  during  these  difficult  times  and  in  the
future.  On  this  important  point,  the  United  Nations
should  consider  supporting  debt 
for
countries  that  are  debt-strapped.  Solomon  Islands  can
be included in this category.
forgiveness 
tributes 
A  few  days  ago,  the  people  of  the  City  of  New
York, the United States of America and the rest of the
world  paid  moving 
thousands  of
innocent lives tragically lost through the cowardly and
senseless acts of terrorism committed on 11 September
2001. The heroic men and women who perished at that
sad time now deserve a special place in our hearts and
in the annals of history.
the 
to 
international  conventions 
My  Government  is  taking  steps  to  accede  to  a
number  of 
to
counter-terrorist  activities.  We  have  communicated
these  important  measures  to  the  United  Nations.  We
seek the assistance of the United Nations and members
of the international community to enhance our efforts.
relating 
The  increase  in  armed  conflicts  and  the  illegal
trade of small arms are directly linked. Armed conflicts
A/57/PV.13
the  availability  of 
have  increased  in  most  parts  of  the  world.  They  are
fuelled  mainly  by 
illegal
manufacture, official sale or supply of small arms, and
this  has  resulted  in  the  loss  of  innocent  life.  Over  the
past  50  years,  small  weapons  and  landmines  have
killed more people than weapons of mass destruction.
the 
and 
sociocultural 
cohesiveness 
Small  arms  have  also  found  their  way  into
Solomon Islands, and they have been used in the three-
year  conflict  which  has  adversely  affected  my
country(cid:146)s 
good
governance.  In  no  uncertain  manner,  this  has  crippled
the economy. The continuing presence of small arms in
communities  has  posed  a  major  threat  to  the  peace,
security  and  stability  of  my  nation.  Any  hope  of
economic 
threatened  by
lawlessness.  Notwithstanding  this,  the  Government
remains  committed,  within  its  limited  resources,  to
retrieving arms and restoring confidence to our people
in  the  communities.  However,  we  believe  that  the
international  community,  through  the  United  Nations,
has a pivotal role to play in assisting the country to rid
itself of armed threats by taking more ambitious action
to  curb  the  arms  culture  that  is  taking  root  in  our
country.
is  constantly 
recovery 
Peace  of  mind  and  safety  from  danger  are  not
achieved by the mere absence of war. Rather, they are
the product of a nation(cid:146)s ability to achieve sustainable
economic  prosperity,  better  education,  and  health  and
social services for all its people. Peace and security for
every  human  soul  comes  down  simply  to  meeting  the
most basic needs.
Even  with  the  successful  outcome  of  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  which  included
promises  of  economic  growth  and  protection  of  our
environment, Solomon Islands remains sceptical about
the  practical  outcome  of  action  plans  for  developing
and  least  developed  countries.  We  have  committed
ourselves 
to  similar  action  plans  for  sustainable
development  in  the  past.  Agenda  21  of  1992  and  the
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for  small 
island
developing  States,  among  others,  are  valid  policy
blueprints  for  sustainable  development.  Unfortunately,
we have not lived up to our commitments. We all have
failed.  That  is  why  world  leaders  again  assembled,  in
South  Africa,  to  take  stock  of  our  failures  and  make
new  commitments.  And  indeed,  new  commitments
have  been  made.  Now 
the 
the
commitments made in South Africa.
time 
test 
to 
is 
5
A/57/PV.13
As  The  Honourable  Laisenia  Qarase,  Prime
Minister  of  Fiji  and  Chairman  of  the  Pacific  Islands
Forum, aptly said in his address at the World Summit,
let us turn our words into deeds. Solomon Islands can
only hope that, this time around, there is a will to lead
us  eventually  to  the  goals  and  objectives  set  at  the
World Summit in South Africa.
Decade  2001-2010,  adopted  at 
the  Third  United
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries,
is  a  timely  action  by  all  international  organizations  to
refocus  attention  and  global  resources  on  the  neediest
and  poorest  countries.  We  support  the  immediate
implementation  of  the  Programme  and  note  with
satisfaction the progress that has been made so far.
Solomon  Islands  is  very  much  aware  of  its
vulnerability  to  natural  and  man-induced  disasters.
Like  other  small  island  developing  countries,  we
continue  to  seek  of  the  international  community  not
only  to  recognize  the  uniqueness  of  our  vulnerability
but  also  to  take  concerted  action  towards  achieving
many  of  our  goals  and  objectives  for  sustainable
development,  collectively  as  a  group  and  individually
as nations.
the  political, 
The  communiquØ  issued  by  the  recent  Pacific
Islands  Forum  summit  held  last  August  in  Suva,  Fiji,
reflects 
and
environmental  issues  that  are  important  to  the  region.
These  need  our  collective  resolve,  as  well  as  the
attention  and  cooperation  of  the  wider  international
community.
economic, 
security 
The adverse impact of sea-level rise is a threat to
the  economies  and  survival  of  small  and  low-lying
island  countries,  in  particular  in  the  Pacific,  the
Caribbean  and  the  Indian  Ocean.  Scientific  research
and reports, including the Third Assessment Report of
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, issued
in 2001, have given us all the more reason to be deeply
concerned.  Solomon  Islands  joins  other  small  island
States in calling again on the countries that have yet to
become  parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework
Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol
to  do  so,  and  seriously  to  commit  to  reducing  their
greenhouse gas emissions.
The  least  developed  countries  still  grapple  with
the  harsh  realities  of  poverty,  vulnerability  to  external
economic shocks, debt burden, poor infrastructure, and
poor  or  limited  access  to  better  education,  health,
social  services  (cid:151)  and  the  list  goes  on.  Even  with  an
increasing  commitment  to  globalization,  the  situation
of  many  least  developed  countries  and  nation-States
has neither improved nor stabilized. In many instances,
conditions have worsened.
Solomon  Islands  believes 
the  renewed
the  Brussels  Programme  of
commitment 
Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the
through 
that 
6
to 
in 
respect 
the  expressed  wish  of 
Solomon Islands once again calls upon the United
Nations 
the
Government and the people of the Republic of China to
be  readmitted  as  a  full  and  equal  member  of  this
Organization.  The  world  has  marvelled  at  Taiwan(cid:146)s
economic transformation. Within a short span of time,
it  has  not  only  established  a  stable  and  vibrant
domestic  economy,  but  also  has  become  one  of  the
world(cid:146)s  most 
terms  of
international 
and
information technology. Taiwan is a sovereign country
in full control of its own  affairs and with influence in
the world economy, and it is unjust to deny its people
the right to stand tall and be counted among the many
nations represented in international institutions.
influential  economies 
trade, 
investment 
outflows 
Taiwan  is  a  willing  and  able  country,  ready  to
shoulder  the  obligations  of  the  United  Nations  and
other  international  organizations.  Taiwan  has  proved
itself  through  its  international  economic  cooperation
with  many  developing  and  least  developed  countries.
Solomon  Islands  is  convinced  that  that  there  are  no
legal  barriers  to  Taiwan(cid:146)s  membership  in  the  United
Nations,  only  political  obstacles.  Let  us  therefore  cast
aside  those  political  obstacles  and  take  a  positive
approach by according the Government and the people
of the Republic of China the membership they deserve
and the opportunity to fully participate in the affairs of
the United Nations under its Charter.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
Prime Minister of Solomon Islands for the statement he
has just made.
Mr.  Allan  Kemakeza,  Prime  Minister  of  Solomon
Islands, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Serene Highness Crown Prince
Albert, Crown Prince of the Principality of
Monaco
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by the Crown Prince
of the Principality of Monaco.
Crown  Prince  Albert,  Crown  Prince  of 
the
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  to  the
rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Serene  Highness
Crown Prince  Albert, Crown Prince of the  Principality
of  Monaco,  and  I  invite  him  to  address  the  General
Assembly.
Crown  Prince  Albert  (Monaco)  (spoke 
in
French): First of all I wish to thank the President of the
fifty-sixth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  His
Excellency  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  for  the  masterful  way
in  which  he  accomplished  his  work.  I  would  also  like
to  thank  the  members  of  his  Bureau.  Significant
progress  was  made  during  the  session  we  recently
finished.  One  item  in  particular  concerns  us  as  it
involves 
revitalization  of  our
proceedings.
the  conduct  and 
Secondly, I would like to take this opportunity to
welcome  the  decision  of  the  Secretary-General  to
appoint, as of 12 September 2002, Mr. Sergio Vieira de
Mello to succeed Her Excellency Mrs. Mary Robinson
as  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights.  My  Government  has  always  appreciated  Mrs.
Robinson(cid:146)s  wholehearted  commitment  and  knows  it
can count on Mr. Vieira de Mello, who has many times
shown  his  competence  and  his  dedication  to  the
Organization,  to  show  just  as  much  commitment  in
promoting and protecting human rights.
session  of 
the  General  Assembly 
I  am  very  pleased  at  the  outset  of  the  fifty-
seventh 
to
congratulate  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  on  his  election  to  the
presidency  both  on  my  own  account  and  on  behalf  of
the  highest  authorities  of  my  country,  as  well  as  to
congratulate  all  the  members  of  the  Bureau.  I  pledge
the  full  support  and  cooperation  of  the  delegation  of
Monaco to help them complete their important work.
One  year  ago,  an  attack,  as  vile  as  it  was
cowardly,  struck  the  United  States  of  America.  That
day  its  instigators  and  perpetrators  placed  themselves
not  only  outside  of  the  law,  but  outside  humanity,
outside  of 
the  universal  fundamental  values  and
principles that inspire our nations and guide the ethical,
political, economic and social progress of States. That
A/57/PV.13
wanton  act  provoked  an  unprecedented  reaction  from
the  international  community.  It  unanimously  gave  the
members  of  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly sophisticated means to fight terrorism in all
its  forms, 
its  financial
resources.
including  by  cutting  off 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  participated  in  this
fight with determination in response to requests by the
Security Council and its Counter-Terrorism Committee.
In broadening information exchange with other States,
both  bilaterally  and  multilaterally,  we  established  or
strengthened  monitoring  and  surveillance  measures
which  were  necessary  in  the  of  legislative,  regulatory,
and judicial spheres.
On  10  November  2001  I  personally  signed  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  the
Financing  of  Terrorism,  which  entered  into  force  in
Monaco  on  8  April  2002,  and  our  Permanent
Representative  to  the  United  Nations,  on  instructions
from  my  father,  the  Sovereign  Prince,  signed  on  24
June 2002 Protocol Against the Illicit Manufacturing of
Trafficking  in  Firearms,  Their  Parts  and  Components
and  Ammunition,  supplementing  the  United  Nations
Convention against Transnational Organized Crime.
The Principality of Monaco, in fact, is or will be
a party to all major universal and regional instruments
designed  to  strengthen  cooperation  among  nations  to
fight  against  terrorism.  This  has  greatly  enhanced  our
cooperation with other States.
In  that  regard  I  must  make  reference  to  a  law
which  was  adopted  unanimously  last  June  by  our
National  Council,  the  parliament  of  Monaco,  and
which  entered  into  force  on  8  August  2002.  This  law
amends,  strengthens  and  supplements  the  existing  law
on  the  involvement  of  financial  entities  in  the  fight
against money-laundering and financing terrorism. The
text  takes  into  account  Monaco(cid:146)s  undertakings  as  a
United  Nations  Member  State  as  well  as  measures
anticipated  by  competent  bodies  such  as  the  Financial
Action Task Force.
Also  on  8  August  2002,  the  authorities  of  my
country  were  happy  to  have  implemented  the  Council
of  Europe  Convention  on  Laundering,  Search,  Seizure
and  Confiscation  of  the  Proceeds  from  Crime,  even
though  the  Principality  of  Monaco,  while  fervently
hoping  to  be  so,  is  not  yet  a  member  of  that  noble
European institution. I also wish to note the speed and
relevance  of  my  country(cid:146)s  response,  especially  since
7
A/57/PV.13
our  country  is  sometimes  subjected  to  unjustified  and
incorrect criticism in this area.
While  terrorist  threats  persist  and  while  civilian
populations continue, unfortunately, to be subjected to
the  yoke  of  terror,  the  origin  and  form  of  this  plague
seem  now  to  be  better  understood  and  under  greater
control.  Measures,  both  national  and  international,
have  been  implemented  with  the  help  of  the  Security
Council  and  its  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  (CTC)
and  seem  to  be  yielding  encouraging  results.  The
strengthening  and  broadening  of  the  mandate  of  the
Terrorism Prevention Branch, as the Secretary-General
has proposed in the report requested by our Assembly,
seems to meet all of the conditions we need to upgrade
the fight against terrorism, not  only  by  allowing  us  to
bolster  cooperation  among  United  Nations  Member
States,  but  also  by  providing  enhanced  technical
assistance to countries that ask for it.
its 
regained 
freedom. 
Thanks  to  a  prompt  and  effective  international
reaction, Afghanistan, for too long a home to terrorists,
Its  new  provisional
has 
Government,  which  emerged  from 
traditional
assembly,  the  Loya  Jerga,  last  June,  has  endeavoured,
particularly  with  the  help  of  our  Organization,  to
rebuild  the  country  and  to  establish  a  democratic
political regime. We wish it full success.
the 
Another  area  of  satisfaction  on  the  part  of  the
international  community  is  the  nuclear  disarmament
agreement that was adopted last May by the two great
Powers, the United States of America and the Russian
Federation. Other events in the world are also hopeful.
The  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  and  the  Republic  of
Angola are taking steps towards recovery in a peaceful
and  democratic  spirit.  Encouraging  signs  of  hope  are
seen  everywhere.  In  Africa,  we  again  fervently  hope
for the success of the peace initiatives in Burundi and
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (DRC).  A
calming  of  the  situation  in  the  Sudan  is  also  of  great
interest to us.
in 
role 
The Organization of African Unity (OAU), which
became  the  African  Union  last  July,  has  played  an
invaluable 
reinforcing  harmony  between
African  peoples.  We  are  following  this  undertaking
with intense interest, as it took on a new dimension this
year.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  address  to  His
Excellency,  Mr.  Amara  Essy,  Interim  Chairperson  of
the  Commission  of  the  African  Union,  our  sincere
congratulations and encouragements.
8
In  Latin  America,  we  see  with  hope  that  some
countries,  whose  economic  and  financial  conditions
were once in bad shape, are in the process of recovery,
in  particular 
thanks 
international
financial institutions.
the  help  of 
to 
In  Asia,  finally,  the  prudence  shown  by  the
leaders  of  India  and  Pakistan  over  the  border  disputes
has led to the reduction of tension in Kashmir. We are
sincerely  grateful  for  this.  This  is  an  excellent  step,
similarly  to  the  one  taken  by  Sri  Lanka,  which  has
renewed the dialogue with the Tamil separatists so as to
put an end to too much suffering.
to 
Another  source  of  satisfaction  is  Timor-Leste,
which  with  the  effective  and  valuable  help  of  our
Organization  was  able 
successfully  achieve
independence  and  acquire  political  and  financial
structures  that  are  crucial  to  its  development.  We  are
therefore happy to welcome very soon, the Democratic
Republic of Timor-Leste to the United Nations. We are
also  quite  happy  to  welcome  the  admission  of  the
Swiss Confederation as a Member State.
Switzerland  has  always  been,  particularly  since
the  creation  of  the  League  of  Nations  in  Geneva,  a
steadfast  participant  in  the  international  promotion  of
peace,  human  rights  and  humanitarian  protection.  Our
congratulations  and  wishes  for  success  and  prosperity
are formulated to those two States, to their leaders and
to their people.
The  United  Nations  needs  them  more  than  ever
now,  and  also  needs  all  the  good  will  and  talent
possible  to  meet  the  high  ambitions  that  we  set  for
the  Organization  was  created,
ourselves  when 
ambitions 
the
Millennium  Summit,  as  well  as  during  the  large
international meetings that followed.
firmly  and  solemnly  at 
renewed 
My  country  is  committed  to  implementing  the
action  plans  adopted  during 
those  exceptional
meetings.  Our  special  session  on  children  and  the
second  World  Assembly  on  Ageing  have  tangibly
changed 
international
community  had  of  children  and  seniors.  Both  must
become  actors  who  are  more  integrated  and  active
within our societies.
the  perception 
that 
the 
While  deciding 
its  voluntary
contributions  to  the  large  programmes  of  the  United
Nations aimed at development and the protection of the
environment,  the  Government  of  Monaco  has  at  the
increase 
to 
through 
same time decided to concentrate its efforts on specific
areas and specific regions. The Mediterranean region is
an  example  of  our  fight  against  marine  pollution  that
aims to save regional flora and fauna. My Government,
whether 
International
Cooperation for Development and the Environment, or
(NGOs),
through  non-governmental  organizations 
which  are  numerous  and  active 
is
encouraging  the  implementation  of  specific  projects,
projects  that  are  essentially  ecological  in  nature,
depending often on the availability of micro-credits.
in  Monaco, 
its  Office 
for 
the 
As  regards  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  next  10
December  we  will  be  celebrating 
twentieth
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the
Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  It  was  indeed  on  10
December 1982 that that text was open for ratification
by States at Montego Bay in Jamaica. It was the result
of  almost  15  years  of  negotiations,  which  we  will
solemnly celebrate on this coming occasion.
There are particularly difficult times, such as the
present  moment,  when  the  status  quo  is  not  good
enough,  times  when  we  must  show  determination  in
order to bring innovative ideas to meet the fundamental
changes going on throughout the world. The Secretary-
General,  whose  dynamic  nature  and  wisdom  we
appreciate, mentions this in his report on the follow-up
to  the  major  conferences  organized  by  the  United
Nations at different summits, including the Millennium
Summit. The report is important and timely.
the 
The  substantive  session  of  the  Economic  and
Social Council in July also confirmed the need for such
steps.  The  Ministerial  Declaration,  adopted  on  that
occasion,  focuses  usefully  on 
importance  of
developing  human  resources,  protecting  health,  and
providing  education,  particularly  for  young  girls,  and
focuses on their contributions to development.

I  would  like  to  commend  the  President  and  the
Bureau  of  the  Council.  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivan
Simonović, 
the  Permanent
Representative  of  Croatia,  and  the  other  Members  of
the  Bureau  have  all  toiled  with  competence  and  great
skill in order to guarantee the success of the Council(cid:146)s
work.
its  President 
and 
During 
the  high-level  debates,  some 
trends
emerged  that  our  Government  believes  are  essential.
For  example,  there  is  the  choice  of  a  governance  that
allows  us  to  establish  true  partnerships  that  depend
A/57/PV.13
mostly on the human resources of developing countries
themselves, as well as on businesses and civil society.
the 
imperatives  of 
Yesterday(cid:146)s  high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the
General  Assembly  produced  solemn  and  excellent
results and enabled us to gain a better understanding of
the  character  and 
the  New
Partnership for Africa(cid:146)s Development (NEPAD), which
undoubtedly  offers  real  prospects  for  mobilizing
resources  for  Africa  and  integrating  it  into  the  world
economy.  The  establishment  by  the  Economic  and
Social Council of an ad hoc advisory group for African
countries  emerging  from  conflict  is  a  step  that  we  are
also following. Without political stability, there can be
no guaranteed sustainable development.
The concept of a (cid:147)culture of protection(cid:148) advanced
by 
the  Secretary-General,  with  regard 
to  special
economic  assistance,  humanitarian  aid,  and  help  in
natural disasters, provides the advantage of associating
in  a  single  thrust  preventive  action  and  priority
assistance  to  the  communities  affected.  We  appreciate
the principle and the scope of this activity.
action 
humanitarian 
In  the  aftermath  of  conflicts  and  crises,  the  link
long-term
between 
developments is crucial for the success of any national
reconstruction  programme.  Public  meetings  of  the
Security Council dedicated to such  matters provide an
opportunity  to  emphasize,  with  the  necessary  impact,
the importance of such measures.
and 
The  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development
(WSSD),  which  has  just  finished  in  Johannesburg  and
in  which  I  participated,  reminded  us  of  the  essential
concerns for the future. The Monterrey consensus was
confirmed, stressing the fact that there  can now be  no
stable  and  balanced  development  without  serious
interdisciplinary thought and innovative ideas based on
a  genuine  will  to  protect  our  environment  and  to
respect  the  natural  resources  of  our  planet,  including
sea resources and non-renewable natural resources, by
ensuring that we share them fairly and reasonably.
The  Summit  confirmed  and  strengthened  the
principles  proclaimed  10  years  ago  during  the  United
Nations Conference on Environment and Development,
held at Rio.
I  will  not  reiterate  my  country(cid:146)s  positions  and
initiatives  on  these  questions,  as  I  discussed  them  at
length  at  Johannesburg.  I  should  like  to  reaffirm,
however,  that  the  Government  of  the  Principality  of
9
A/57/PV.13
Monaco  is  determined  to  respect  the  commitments  it
undertook on that occasion.
The  international  community  must  continue  to
work tirelessly in the combat against AIDS and in the
fight  against  many  endemic  diseases,  which,  in  some
parts of the world, are major obstacles to development
and progress. In response to the appeal launched by our
Secretary-General,  my  Government  has  decided  this
year  and  for  the  next  two  years  to  make  a  substantial
exceptional  contribution  to  the  Joint  United  Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS.
If  we  want  globalization,  in  particular  economic
globalization, to be of benefit to all, it will have to be
rooted  to  a  greater  extent  (cid:151)  and  we  all  are  aware  of
this  (cid:151)  in  a  type  of  development  that  ignores  neither
the  basic  needs  of  human  beings  nor  the  values  of
justice,  morality  and  equity,  to  which  we  all  attach
particular value.
In  speaking  of  the  fundamental  principle  of
justice and of the moral values which have inspired our
Organization  so  profoundly,  I  should  like  to  reiterate
how  warmly  we  welcomed  the  recent  entry  into  force
of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal
Court. The first Assembly of States Parties to the Rome
Statute  has 
the  eminent
presidency  of  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Zeid  Ra(cid:146)ad
Zeid  Al-Hussein,  Permanent  Representative  of  the
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan.  Decisive  and  specific
steps were taken on that occasion.
just  been  held,  under 
I should like to close by appealing to the peoples
of Israel and Palestine to put an end to the violence and
to  overcome  their  rancour  and  resentments.  A  shared
heritage  and  the  belief  in  a  future  of  coexistence
represent  the  underpinnings  of  a  dialogue  leading  to
peace.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
Crown  Prince  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco  for  the
statement he has just made.
His Serene Highness Prince Albert, Crown Prince
of the Principality of Monaco, was escorted from
the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  John
Briceæo,  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of
Natural  Resources, 
the  Environment,  Trade  and
Industry of Belize.
10
joined 
Mr.  Briceño  (Belize):  On  21  September  1981
Belize 
the  community  of  nations  as  an
independent  country,  and  we  the  people  of  Belize
enthusiastically  embraced  our  role  as  a  partner  in  the
community of nations.
The  United  Nations  played  a  pivotal  role  in
securing  Belize(cid:146)s  right  to  self-determination,  and,  as
we  commemorate  our  independence,  we  express  our
appreciation and continued support for the work of the
Organization.
Since  its  inception  in  1945  our  United  Nations
has,  like  all  of  us,  been  grappling  with  the  constant
changes in our world. In its imperfection it has endured
the problems of infancy, puberty and adolescence. Each
adjustment  provided  occasions 
learning  and
opportunities  for  growth.  No,  we  have  not  always
grown for the better; and we have suffered the cost of
our mistakes.
for 
Still 
the  United  Nations  endured, 
the
principles  of  the  Charter  will  reverberate  as  loudly
tomorrow as they do today and did yesterday. Our right
to live peaceful and dignified lives holds as true today
as it did in 1945.
for 
Two  years  ago  world  leaders  assembled  here  in
New York in an effort to rejuvenate the United Nations.
This  resulted  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  and
brought forth the Millennium Development Goals.
instruments  we  acknowledged 
the
growing  abyss  between  the  few  with  plenty  and  the
many  with  nothing.  We  made  new  commitments  and
reaffirmed old ones. We renewed yet again our ultimate
goal of the improvement of humanity, a goal which we
undoubtedly hold as sacred.
these 
In 
Since  then  we  have  held  many  meetings  and
conferences where we have merely recycled ideas and
visions.  Now  we  must  aim  for  higher  standards  and
make  the  case  that,  as  a  global  community,  we  are
obligated  to  account  for  how  we  have  chosen  to
implement the many commitments we have made.
For us implementation is a function of resources;
good  governance,  both  locally  and  globally;  shared
responsibility; and partnerships. The implementation of
the  Millennium  Declaration  can  be  effective  only
through 
the  participation  and  cooperation  of  all
relevant stakeholders.
that 
In  order 
act  with 
to  ensure 
accountable,  we  must 
the  process  of
implementation  is  democratized,  inclusive,  transparent
and 
shared
responsibility and in partnerships of mutual respect and
equality.  As  we  follow 
the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  our
deliberations and, even more so, our commitment to the
Monterrey  Consensus 
of
Implementation  of  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  should  result  in  meaningful  change  that
will improve the lives of our poorest peoples.
the  road  map 
the  Plan 
and 
for 
to 
In 
the 
joint  declaration 
On 5 February 2002, Belize hosted the first-ever
Caribbean Community (CARICOM), System of Central
American Integration (SICA) and Dominican Republic
summit. 
the
conclusion  of  the  summit,  the  Caribbean  and  Central
American 
their
cooperation and to  coordinate actions in  areas such as
education,  health,  poverty  elimination,  environment,
trade  and  investment.  Shortly  our  Foreign  Ministers
shall conclude a Plan of Action to implement the goals
set out in the declaration.
strengthen 
issued  at 
leaders 
agreed 
to 
The  present  development  paradigm 
requires
dynamic partnerships. Belize intends to play its part in
encouraging  closer  collaboration  and  cooperation
between Central America and the Caribbean.
A  major  hindrance  to  development  is  conflict;  it
is  costly  and  causes  unnecessary  pain  and  suffering,
often  to  innocent  victims.  My  delegation  is  concerned
about  any  notion  that  violence  could  be  a  solution  to
conflict.  History  has  taught  us  that  lasting  peace  can
never be constructed in a climate of vengeance.
In this regard we express our grave concern over
the  continuing  deterioration  of  relations  in  the  Middle
East, especially with respect to the Palestinian people.
The  escalation  of  violence  in  the  region  demonstrates
the  urgent  need  for  the  parties  to  resume  peace
negotiations.
The  universally  endorsed  vision  of  two  States,
Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace within
secure  and  recognized  borders,  as  called  for  by  the
Security  Council  in  resolution  1397  (2002),  should  be
realized as soon as possible.
We encourage the efforts of the United Nations in
facilitating  a  peaceful  resolution  to  the  question  of
Western  Sahara  and  support  the  Settlement  Plan  as  a
viable political solution to the dispute.
A/57/PV.13
Conflict  in  its  many  manifestations  finds  its
breeding  ground  in  human  desperation,  frailty  and
ignorance.  If  we  can  address 
the
disaffected  and  the  vulnerable,  then  we  can  stamp  out
the  embers  of  conflict  and  increase  the  potential  for
international peace and security. Yes, we must address
those conditions according to our national capacity, but
we  cannot  go  it  alone.  A  multilateral  approach  is
imperative.
the  needs  of 
into 
force  of 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
Belize continues to look to the United Nations for
the global enforcement of human rights standards. On 1
July  2002,  the  international  community  witnessed  the
entry 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  As  a  State  Party  to  the
Statute,  my  Government  will  abide  by 
legal
obligations thereunder and will uphold the integrity of
the Court. It is our hope that all peace-loving and law-
abiding nations of the world will become parties to the
Rome  Statute  so  that  the  universal  jurisdiction  of  the
Court can be realized. The Court presents the hope that
there will be an end to impunity for the perpetrators of
genocide, of other crimes against humanity and of war
crimes.  We  see  this  as  the  start  of  a  new  system  of
international justice.
its 
At this session of the General Assembly, we will
be  witnessing  the  expansion  of  the  representative
character  of  the  United  Nations.  We  recognize  the
tremendous  contribution  that  the  Swiss  Confederation
has  made  in  international  relations,  particularly  with
respect  to  human  rights  and  humanitarian  issues.  Its
decision  to  become  a  full  member  of  the  United
Nations will greatly enhance our work.
Likewise,  we  are  pleased 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste  to  our  family  of
nations. Its struggle has been long and arduous, and its
admission  is  a  testament  to  the  indispensable  role  of
the United Nations.
to  welcome 
It  is  our  wish  that  the  United  Nations  be  the
forum for the representation of all peoples of the world,
including  the  23  million  people  of  the  Republic  of
China  on  Taiwan.  We  must  give  true  meaning  to  the
principle  of  universality  set  forth  in  the  Charter  and,
more specifically, to the affirmation therein of our faith
in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of  the  human  person,  in  the  equal  rights  of  men  and
women and of nations large and small.
With  the  support  of  the  United  Nations,  Belize
became  an  independent  nation.  Before  and  after  that
11
A/57/PV.13
time,  we  made  every  effort  to  resolve  the  territorial
dispute  between  Belize  and  Guatemala,  which  we  had
inherited  from  colonial  times.  All  previous  attempts
had proved futile, but in March 2000, at the start of this
millennium, Guatemala and Belize agreed  to  initiate  a
unique  process  to  resolve  the  dispute.  Each  of  us
appointed  a  Facilitator  and  asked 
the  Secretary-
General of the Organization of American States (OAS)
to be honour witness to the process.
I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  announce  that,  just
yesterday,  at  OAS  headquarters, 
the  Facilitators
presented  their  proposals  for  a  peaceful  and  definitive
resolution of the territorial dispute. The proposals must
be  submitted  by  referenda  to  the  peoples  of  both
countries,  and  only  if  accepted  by  both  countries  will
they  be  translated  into  treaties  of  settlement  that  will
bring  this  age-old  dispute  to  an  end  and  create  better
conditions for harmonious cooperation between the two
countries  (cid:151)  something  for  which  both  our  peoples
yearn. We fervently hope that that will indeed come to
pass.
An  essential  aspect  of  the  proposal  involves  a
development  trust  fund,  and  we  wish  to  thank  all  the
countries  that  will  generously  contribute  to  making
possible the peaceful settlement of a territorial dispute
that  has  adversely  affected  relations  not  only  between
the  countries  involved,  but  also  between  the  two
subregions  to  which  Belize  belongs  (cid:151)  the  Caribbean
and Central America.
Four  days  from  today,  our  people  will  assemble
and  re-enact  the  events  of  our  Independence  Day.  It
will  also  be  a  time  to  renew  our  commitment  to  the
principles of justice and liberty, to the right of a people
to  self-determination,  to  the  right  to  development  and
to our continued commitment to live in peace with our
neighbours.  That  is  the  legacy  of  the  United  Nations;
that is our just objective.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Blas  Ople,
Secretary of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines.
Mr.  Ople  (Philippines):  As  we  welcome  our
newest  members,  Switzerland  and  East  Timor,  we
reaffirm  our  faith  in  the  United  Nations  and  in  the
principles of the Charter.
Today, the United Nations faces more challenges
and must respond to far more demands than were ever
contemplated  by  its  founders.  Yet  the  Organization
12
remains the single most important universal and viable
forum  for  States  to  interact,  for  nations  to  work
together  and  for  countries  to  cooperate  in  preserving
peace, in avoiding conflict and in promoting stability.
We  believe  that  Iraq  took  a  step  in  the  right
direction when it agreed yesterday to the unconditional
return  of  United  Nations  weapons  inspectors.  But  the
immediate  challenge  facing  the  Organization  and  our
world  is  the  looming  confrontation  that  could  be
brought  about  by  the  need  for  Iraq  to  comply,  totally
and unconditionally, with the relevant Security Council
resolutions.  We  credit  the  diplomatic  skills  and  the
sheer  determination  of  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan
and  of  the  members  of  the  Arab  League  with  this
welcome  development.  We  will,  therefore,  await  clear
proof of sincerity in action.
But  this  is  just  a  beginning.  We  believe  that  we
are  far  from  a  true  resolution  of  this  issue.  We  must
remain vigilant and must continue to have faith in the
Security  Council.  The  Philippines  has  full  confidence
in  the  Council  process.  We  believe  that  the  Council
will  act  in  accordance  with  the  imperatives  of  world
peace  and  security  and  that  it  will  find  the  most
expeditious  and  effective  way 
those
imperatives.
serve 
to 
Consistent  with  its  national  interest,  and  in
accordance  with  its  Constitution,  the  Philippines  is
prepared to extend political, security and humanitarian
assistance to the United States and to the international
community  in  the  pursuit  of  their  most  vital  interest,
which coincides with our own vital interests: to defeat
terrorism. The case for compliance is compelling. The
charges  are  highly  credible  and  have 
serious
implications  for  global  security.  The  Security  Council
should  give 
the  most  urgent  and
profound  consideration.  The  international  community
has  put  the  onus  on  Iraq  to  comply  with  the  relevant
Council  resolutions,  especially  with  regard  to  the
elimination of weapons of mass destruction.
those  charges 
Yet we certainly live in a world of consequences
that can be avoided. Poverty, intolerance and inequality
provide the breeding ground for terrorism. But we need
not  make  terrorism  an  unavoidable  consequence  of
those factors.  We  have  learned  that  in  the  one  year
since  the  shocking  and  tragic  events  of  11  September.
In  that  short  span  of  time,  we  have  learned  that
terrorism cannot defeat us and that it cannot overcome
our  resolve  to  fight  it,  and  we  have  learned  the  full
measure  of  the  bravery  of  the  men  and  women  who
stand on the front lines in the war against terror. In that
short  span  of  time,  we  have  established  new  strategic
partnerships  and  have  retooled  and  rearmed  existing
strategic partnerships. Those partnerships are based on
the  belief  that  the  world  will  never  be  secure  unless
terrorist  lairs  are  exposed  and  destroyed  and  unless
terrorist supporters are brought to justice.
that  globalization  can  contribute 
In  the  realm  of  what  is  just  and  what  is  fair,  we
know 
the
comprehensive  and  sustainable  development  of  the
developing world. Indeed, in some cases it has done so.
But  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  poor  countries
continues to widen.
to 
Let us again remind ourselves of the stark reality
that  1.2  billion  people  live  on  less  than  $1  a  day;  1.1
billion  people  lack  access  to  safe  and  affordable
drinking  water;  and  130  million  school-age  children,
the majority of whom are girls, lack the means to stay
in school.
The  uneven  spread  of  opportunities  for  the
creation  of  wealth,  and 
income
inequality  within  and  between  countries,  have  pushed
larger numbers of people to the margins of existence.
increasing 
the 
We  in  the  Philippines  are  building  an  open
economy. We are taking concrete measures to create an
open  trade  and  investment  environment  in  our  own
country  and  in  our  region.  We  have  adapted  to  the
realities  of  globalization, 
the
concomitant  risks,  particularly  those  that  impinge  on
the  well-being  of  our  vulnerable  and  disadvantaged
groups.
fully  aware  of 
We  firmly  believe  that,  in  general,  developing
countries accept the need for good governance in their
public  and  corporate  sectors.  We  are  continuing  our
institutional  reform,  guided  by  our  national  priorities,
requirements  and  capabilities.  We  are  taking  great
pains to restructure our economy, often at high political
cost.
Capital is what developing countries lack most in
their pursuit of sustainable development. The Food and
Agriculture  Organization  has  estimated 
that  an
additional annual public investment of $24 billion must
be made in poor countries in order to halve the number
of  hungry  people  by  the  United  Nations  millennium
target date of 2015.
A/57/PV.13
Developing  countries  need  more  foreign  direct
investment,  particularly  in  areas  that  will  promote  the
sustainable  use  of  the  environment  and  sustained
growth.  We  also  need  improved  access  to  foreign
markets.
Many  developing  countries  must  also  effectively
compete in areas where their comparative advantage is
great,  such  as  agriculture.  However,  developing
countries  do  not  have  the  resources  to  match  the
subsidies  that  agricultural  producers  receive  in  rich
countries,  such  as  the  40  billion  euros  that  European
Union farmers receive each year or the additional $170
billion that United States farmers will receive over the
next 10 years. We can only wonder what the liberating
impact would be on development if the subsidies of 23
cents per dollar for farm goods in the United States or
the 36 cents per dollar on farm goods in the European
Union were instead invested in developing countries.
We  need 
to  reverse 
the  decline 
in  official
development  assistance,  which  remains  below  the
target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product. But we
should  also  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that,  aside  from
increased funding sources for developing countries, the
flip  side  of  the  development  coin  should  be  greater
restraint,  care  and 
the  use  of
conditionalities.  Enhanced  and  effective  debt  relief,
including for middle-income countries, is also needed.
international  financial
architecture  and 
the  development
dimension  of  the  global  trade  and  investment  regime
should be sustained.
to  strengthen 
to  reform 
flexibility 
in 
Efforts 
the 
Globalization  has  provided  more  opportunities
and  greater  choices  for  people  who  want  to  travel  the
world in search of a livelihood. Some 10 per cent of the
people  of  the  Philippines  are  outside  its  border.  Their
safety  and  welfare  is  of  paramount  importance  to  us,
particularly in times of actual or potential conflict. The
welfare of migrant workers should be placed higher on
the  United  Nations  agenda  now,  before  the  migrant
issue  turns  into  a  serious  humanitarian  problem.  We
can  start  by  becoming  States  parties  to  the  United
Nations Convention on the Protection of the Rights of
All  Migrant  Workers  and  Members  of  Their  Families.
It is also important for developed nations to support the
important  work  of  humanitarian  assistance  agencies
like the International Organization for Migration.
Despite  the  unprecedented  wealth  created  in  the
last  decade  of  the  twentieth  century,  one  out  of  every
13
A/57/PV.13
five people lives on less than $1 a day. The 32 poorest
African  countries  do  not  earn  much  more  than  the
richest  man  on  earth,  the  title  unofficially  bestowed
upon  Bill  Gates,  the  Chairman  of  Microsoft,  in  the
United  States.  Despite  the  grinding  poverty  in  which
billions  of  people  live,  the  world  spends  incredible
sums for military purposes (cid:151) for armies and weapons
of mass annihilation.
the  dispossessed  and 
Those  bent  on  fomenting  hate  and  violence  will
find willing adherents, particularly among the helpless,
and  hopeless  poor, 
the
disenfranchised. The hungry, the young people who do
not  go  to  school  and  those  living  in  the  margins  of
society  can  become  easy  prey  to  the  siren  songs  of
terrorists  and  the  perpetrators  of  violence.  Poverty
alleviation  and  development  are 
therefore  key
strategies in preventing conflict and fighting terrorism.
Terrorism  has  become  a  major  cause  of  violence
and  instability  in  our  world.  But  this  is  not  the  only
menace  to  our  collective  security.  Organized  crime,
environmental  degradation  and  contagious  diseases
continue  to  threaten  international  peace  and  security.
The proliferation of conventional and non-conventional
weapons,  including  small  arms,  is  continuing.  Civil
wars  and  inter-State  conflicts  remain  major  causes  of
instability  and  underdevelopment.  The  United  Nations
must 
important
peacekeeping and peacemaking role.
therefore  continue 
to  play 
its 
Durable peace and progress with freedom can be
achieved only through international partnerships and a
renewed  faith  in  the  United  Nations,  which  should
guarantee  meaningful  participation  by  developing
countries in global decision-making. The challenges of
the  world  today  (cid:151)  potential  and  actual  conflict,
terrorism, 
degradation,
organized  crime  and  contagious  diseases  (cid:151)  recognize
no boundaries and affect all.
environmental 
violence, 
In  the  eloquent  language  of  the  Philadelphia
Declaration  of  the  International  Labour  Organization,
(cid:147)poverty  anywhere  constitutes  a  danger  to  prosperity
everywhere(cid:148). That is the case because humanity (cid:151) and
human  destiny  (cid:151)  has  become  a  seamless  whole.  No
man is an island, and the bell tolls for us, too. This is
the timeless vision of the United Nations, validated by
all who have spoken here at the fifty-seventh session of
the  General  Assembly.  It  is  a  vision  and  a  bond  that
should unite all nations as we face new dangers and the
unmarked frontiers of our collective life on this small,
14
endangered  planet. 
continues to be the last best hope of mankind.
Indeed, 
the  United  Nations
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  The  Honourable
Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs
and  International  Cooperation  of  the  United  Republic
of Tanzania.
Mr.  Kikwete  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I
should  like  to  begin  by  congratulating  Mr.  Kavan  on
his  well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-seventh  session  and  to
assure  him  of  my  delegation(cid:146)s  full  support  and
cooperation.
I  would  also  like  to  commend  his  predecessor,
Mr. Han Seung-soo, for having skilfully presided over
the  work  of  the  fifty-sixth  session.  Similarly,  I  would
like to express my delegation(cid:146)s sincere appreciation to
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the  Secretary-General,  for  the  able
manner in which he has continued to manage the day-
to-day  affairs  of  our  Organization  in  the  face  of
numerous and daunting challenges.
My delegation wishes to join others in welcoming
the  admission  to  the  United  Nations  of  Switzerland,  a
country  that  has  done  so  much  for  the  Organization
over  the  years.  I  would  also  like  to  welcome  East
Timor  to  the  community  of  nations,  following  the
successful tutelage of the United Nations.
like 
to 
take 
this  opportunity 
As  we  commemorate  the  first  anniversary  of  the
tragic  events  of  the  11  September  terrorist  attacks,  I
would 
to  reiterate
Tanzania(cid:146)s  solidarity  and  support  for  international
efforts  to  fight  terrorism.  Coming  from  a  country  that
experienced  a  similar 
tragedy  four  years  ago,  I
understand  the  continued  pain  and  suffering  of  those
who  lost  their  loved  ones  as  they  come  to  terms  with
the  aftermath  of  those  tragic  events.  We  have  every
confidence that, through our collective efforts, the war
on terrorism will ultimately be won.
It is a welcome coincidence that the fifty-seventh
session should be held so soon after the World Summit
on  Sustainable  Development.  Tanzania  is  glad  that
poverty  eradication  was  underscored  as  humanity(cid:146)s
critical challenge and an indispensable requirement for
sustainable development, particularly in the developing
countries.
It  was  very  gratifying,  indeed,  to  note  that  due
regard  was  also  given  to  the  burning  issues  of
from  all 
indeed.  However,  many 
education, health, energy, shelter, water and sanitation,
as  well  as  agriculture,  in  particular  food  security.  The
abundance  of  pledges 
speakers  and
participants  to  fight  poverty,  promote  social  and
economic  development  and  enhance  measures  to  deal
with  pollution  and  protect  the  environment  was  very
reassuring 
stakeholders,
including those from my country, are anxiously waiting
to see how we move beyond rhetoric to concrete action.
Those of us from the developing countries  know
too well in this regard that our biggest  challenge is to
get  our  act  together  by  practicing  and  observing  good
governance,  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  human
rights. We  have  to  institute  sound  political,  social  and
economic  policies,  as  well  as  to  fight  corruption  and
graft.  We  have  to  create  conditions  conducive  to
investment  flows  and  trade.  Fortunately,  this  is  no
longer  wanting,  because  most  of  our  countries  have
made  serious  efforts 
ideals  with
reasonable  success.  However,  it  is  frustrating  to  note
that  there  is  little  appreciation  of  these  achievements.
Instead, there is amplification of the little that is yet to
be  overcome.  Many  of  us  feel  that  we  deserve  to  be
treated better.
to  meet 
these 
It is surprising also to note the temptation in some
quarters  to  evolve  a  new  paradigm  in  international
relations  (cid:151)  that  of  assigning  collective  responsibility,
condemnation and punishment to a region or continent
for  the  mistakes  of  one  country  in  that  part  of  the
world.  A  crisis  in  an  African  country,  for  example,  is
meant to be left to African countries to fix and they are
threatened with being held responsible and accountable
if  that  is  not  done.  Several  times,  we  have  been
reminded  to  sort  out  the  problem  in  some  crisis-
stricken  African  countries  or  else 
losing
cooperation  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development (NEPAD) from the developed countries.
risk 
Tanzania considers such tendencies not only to be
strange, but also dangerous, unfair, discriminatory and
totally  unacceptable.  Let  all  of  us  continue  to  work
together  to  resolve  problems  facing  our  countries  and
peoples wherever they may occur.
We 
to  seeing 
look  forward 
the  developed
countries of the North play their part, as is expected of
them,  as  expressed  in  the  millennium  development
goals,  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  the  Brussels  Plan  of
Action  for  the  least  developed  countries,  the  Doha
agreement and the Johannesburg Plan of Action and at
A/57/PV.13
yesterday(cid:146)s  historic  high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the
General Assembly on support for NEPAD. We consider
the role of the developed countries to be very critical to
success  in  the  war  against  poverty  and  the  attainment
of sustainable development. We look forward to seeing
the 
increase  official
development assistance to the countries of the South.
countries  of 
the  North 
At  Monterrey,  Kananaskis  and  Johannesburg,
there  were  good  signs  that  this  is  now  possible.
However,  when  one  looks  at  the  resource  requirement
of  the  millennium  goals  and  the  time  frame  for
implementation,  the  promises  made  are  far  below
target. At Monterrey and Kananaskis, some $12 billion
were  pledged  over  a  period  of  three  to  four  years,
whereas  the  requirement  is  $50  billion  annually  until
2015. We appeal to the developed countries to commit
more  resources  and  within  the  time  frames  set  out  in
the millennium development goals.
Another important area where the intervention of
the developed countries is essential is debt relief. Debt
servicing is crippling the economies and Governments
of  the  poor  developing  countries.  Debt  relief  releases
resources which can be used to finance priority sectors
and activities, such as education, health, energy, water,
rural roads and microfinance schemes.
Let me take the example of my country, Tanzania.
After  reaching  the  completion  point  for  the  Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  and 
the
cancellation  of  a  portion  of 
the  external  debt,
Government  expenditure  on  basic  social  services  has
increased to unprecedented levels. We will now be able
to give clean water to more people than we could have
done  in  the  past.  We  are  now  able  to  hire  more
teachers,  build  more  classrooms,  take  more  students
into  schools  and  buy  more  textbooks  and  teaching
materials.  We  have  improved  health-care  delivery
systems.  We  have  hired  more  medical  practitioners  in
rural  dispensaries  and  health  centres  and  we  have
provided  more  equipment  and  medicines.  There  are
more rural roads maintained now than before and new
ones  are  being  opened  up.  The  list  of  benefits  is  long
and  we  could  have  done  much  more  if  we  had  got  a
bigger  debt-cancellation  package.  That  is  why  we
continue  to  appeal  for  deeper  debt  cancellation  for
Tanzania and the rest of the least developed countries.
Moreover,  the  amount  of  debt  that  has  not  been
forgiven to my country is not payable, given our level
of poverty.
15
A/57/PV.13
Debt  cancellation  or  relief  on  its  own  cannot
solve  the  resource  needs  of  developing  countries.
Measures  to  make  capital  and  financial  resources
available  for  investments  and  trade  in  the  developing
countries  are  very  important.  To  date,  not  much  has
come to our part of the world, despite our having put in
place the most competitive investment incentives. May
I  once  again  appeal  to  the  Governments  of  the
developed countries to intervene in the most judicious
way  possible  to  encourage  investment  flows  to  Africa
and the developing countries. I believe that their words
of  encouragement  and  support  will  have  a  positive
impact.
Market  access  is  another  very  important  matter
for  us.  We  highly  appreciate  and  thank  the  United
States  and  the  European  Union  for  granting  duty-free
and  quota-free  access  for  goods  from  Africa  and  the
African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific  Group  of  States
respectively. This has acted as an important stimulus to
increased production and investments in our countries.
We welcome similar decisions taken by Japan, Canada
and  China,  thus  further  expanding  Africa(cid:146)s  market
access.  However,  agricultural 
the
developed  countries  remain  an  obstacle  to  which  we
again  appeal  to  the  developed  countries  to  give  due
consideration.
subsidies 
in 
As we all know, it is in agriculture that we have
the  best  of  the  comparative  advantage.  Unhindered
access  to  the  markets  of  the  developed  countries,
therefore,  could  have  immeasurable  benefits.  I  am  of
the  view  that  the  developed  countries  can  afford  to
dispense  with  subsidies  to  agriculture.  Instead,  the  $1
billion  spent  on  such  subsidies  daily  could  be  used  to
fund  the  implementation  of  millennium  development
goals.
the 
respective 
the 
regions  and 
Among today(cid:146)s daunting global challenges are the
conflict  situations  in  Africa  and  the  escalation  of
violence  in  the  Middle  East.  We  highly  appreciate  the
proactive role played by the United Nations, countries
of 
international
community  in  trying  to  mediate  and  end  the  conflicts.
We  pray  for 
the
international community in putting an end to conflicts.
The framework for the resumption of negotiations
between  Israel  and 
the  Government  of  Palestine
already  exists.  Both  sides  must  create  an  environment
conducive  to  negotiations.  There  has  to  be  an  end  to
Israeli  occupation  of  Arab 
lands  and  significant
involvement  of 
the  continued 
16
movement towards the creation of a viable Palestinian
State living side by side with Israel as an imperative to
lasting peace in the Middle East. The security concerns
of Israel should be addressed and encoded properly in
any  agreement.  In  this  regard,  all  relevant  Security
Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions  must  be
adhered to.
It  is  our  conviction  that,  without  the  active
involvement of a third party, not much can be achieved.
Tanzania  is  convinced  that  the  Security  Council,  as
well  as  the  United  States,  the  Russian  Federation,  the
European  Union  and  the  Arab  League,  can  play  a
pivotal  role  in  getting  to  a  sustainable  solution.
Fortunately, all of these are now actively involved. We
appeal to them to remain seized of the problem and to
continue to work together.
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  and  Burundi  remains  a  major  concern  and
preoccupation  of  Tanzania  and  other  countries  in  the
region.  I  want  to  reaffirm  the  continued  commitment
and  readiness  of  my  Government  to  contribute  in  any
way  possible  towards  building  a  peaceful,  secure  and
stable Great Lakes region.
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  it  is
encouraging  to  note  that  there  are  some  positive
developments  following  the  recent  agreement  and
understanding  reached  between  that  country,  Rwanda
and Uganda. It is our hope that the implementation of
the agreements and understanding will be scrupulously
observed.  We  welcome  the  undertaking  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  Republic  of  South  Africa  to  help  the
parties.
The  security  situation  in  Burundi  is  fragile.  The
new transitional Government installed on 1 November
2001  is  functioning,  but  the  continuation  of  the  civil
war  seems  to  be  undermining  its  base.  Tanzania
underscores  the  significance  of  getting  a  ceasefire
agreement  for  the  sake  of  the  people  of  Burundi  and
the  success  of  the  transitional  Government.  It  was  in
appreciation  of  that  imperative  that  my  President
accepted  the  request  of  the  facilitator  and  that  of
President  Pierre  Buyoya  of  Burundi  for  Tanzania  to
help urge the rebels to come to the negotiating table.
Mr.  Mamba  (Swaziland),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
We  tried  our  best  and,  as  a  result,  the  Burundi
Government and the rebels started direct talks in Dar es
Salaam on 12 August. The negotiations are continuing.
They are not easy,  but  we  are  confident  that  they  will
be  crowned  with  success.  Tanzania  will  continue  to
assist  in  and  work  for  the  success  of  the  negotiations.
We  do  so  on  the  clear  understanding  that  we  stand  to
gain  more  from  a  peaceful  and  stable  Burundi  and  to
lose if there is war and lack of stability. The end of the
refugee problem, as well as the end of mistrust between
our two Governments and the free flow of trade across
our  common  borders,  are  the  obvious  benefits  which
we long to see realized.
One  of  the  serious  consequences  of  the  conflicts
in  the  Great  Lakes  region  has  been  the  massive
displacement  of  people  and  the  influx  of  refugees,
which  constitute  a  huge  burden  for  Tanzania.  At
present, Tanzania is hosting close to a million refugees
from Rwanda, Burundi and the Democratic Republic of
the  Congo.  While  we  appreciate  the  work  being  done
by 
for
Refugees (UNHCR) and other humanitarian agencies to
protect the refugees, much remains to be done to offset
the  burden  which  these  refugees  place  upon  my
country.  We  would  like  to  see  more  being  done  to
facilitate repatriation of the refugees.
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
Unfortunately,  the  1951  Convention  is  not  as
elaborate  concerning  the  responsibilities  of  refugee-
generating  countries  or  those  of  the  international
community  as  it  is  on  the  responsibilities  of  the
refugee-receiving countries. This is probably due to the
context  in  which  the  Convention  was  conceived.  The
situation  has  changed.  Tanzania  feels  strongly  that
there is a need to review the 1951 Convention to keep
it in step with changing times and circumstances.
The long and protracted war in Angola appears to
have ended. However, Angola still needs the continued
support of the international community to deal with the
reconstruction and the huge humanitarian crisis facing
the  country.  Tanzania  welcomes 
the  decision  on
continued United Nations involvement.
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  Tanzania  firmly
believes that the United Nations cannot, and must not,
retreat from this unfinished agenda. Tanzania wishes to
reiterate its longstanding support for the  efforts  of  the
United Nations,  which  will  enable  the  Sahrawi  people
to exercise their right to self-determination.
While  we  appreciate  the  progress  made  in  the
reform of the working methods of the Security Council,
we  remain  concerned  that  no  movement  has  been
A/57/PV.13
recorded  in  the  area  of  expansion  of  membership.
Tanzania would like to reiterate its support for Africa(cid:146)s
quest for two permanent seats.
In  his  address  to  the  Assembly  on  4  October
1996, my President, Mr. Benjamin Mkapa, said:
(cid:147)The founding of the United Nations was inspired
by  the  human  solidarity  which  the  world  sought
to  promote  five  decades  ago...  What  holds  our
nations  together,  despite  their  diversity,  is  the
common  bond  and  solidarity  we  feel  for  each
other  as  human  beings.  Today,  more  than  ever
before,  we  need  that  solidarity  in  order  to  deal
with  the  myriad  problems  we  all  face  together(cid:148).
(A/51/PV.22, p. 5)
These words were relevant then, and they are still
relevant today.
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency Mr. Slobodan Casule, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr.  Casule  (The  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate
Mr.  Jan  Kavan  on  his  election  to  the  most  prestigious
post  of  President  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  My  delegation  is  fully  confident
that  his  skilful  leadership  will  bring  success  to  this
session.
I wish to avail myself of this opportunity also to
congratulate  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  for  his  tireless  efforts
and dedication in performing his duties.
The  United  Nations  community  has  recently
become richer with the admission to its membership of
the  Swiss  Confederation.  Though 
the  valuable
contribution of that country to the goals of the United
Nations  was  undisputed  even  before 
formal
membership,  I  congratulate  the  Swiss  Federation  on
this  decision.  We  are  also  looking  forward  to  East
Timor(cid:146)s joining the Organization, which will take place
soon.
its 
The  heinous  acts  of  11  September  2001,  which
struck  New  York,  Washington  and  Pennsylvania,  have
brought  the  international  community  to  a  critical
juncture, where it is  faced with an  ultimate  challenge:
how  to  find  a  way  to  successfully  cope  with  the
indiscriminate effects and devastating consequences of
acts of international terrorism.
17
A/57/PV.13
The promptness with which the world reacted and
the solidarity expressed  through  the  broadest  coalition
ever  against  terrorism  was  exemplary.  The  United
Nations  took  the  lead  in  combating  international
terrorism.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia,  itself  a  victim
of  terrorist  aggression,  has  joined  the  international
coalition and is making its contribution to this end.
Two  days  ago,  on  Sunday,  15  September,  my
country  held,  for  the  fourth  time,  free  and  democratic
elections. They marked the progress achieved over the
past  year,  and  the  fact  that  they  went  smoothly
reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  democracy  and  to  the
rule  of  law.  They  also  reaffirmed  the  maturity  of
Macedonian  society,  its  Government  and  its  citizens,
thus  once  again  establishing  its  position  as  an  equal
and respected member of the European family.
Our  elections  (cid:151)  an  outstanding  democratic
achievement  (cid:151)  are  clear  proof 
that  all  along
Macedonia  has  been  seeking  political  and  democratic
solutions.  They  represent  an  outstanding  example  of
the fact that democracy, elections and political freedom
are the most effective mechanisms for a society and its
needs, and the most efficient answer to violence as an
instrument for achieving political goals.
Terrorism  has  more  than  once  proved  itself  not
only  an  unworthy  ally,  but  also  a  dangerous
bedfellow (cid:151)  one  that  always  turns  against  those  who
use it in their pursuit of social change or justice.
Therefore,  there  must  be  no  double  standards
when  dealing  with  political  extremism  and  terrorism,
because, as we have proved, there is not one issue that
cannot be dealt with politically, or, better yet, through
elections and dialogue, as we have done.
The  crises  in  recent  history  have  shown  more
clearly  than  ever  the  importance  of  cooperation  and
solidarity among the countries of our region, as well as
importance  of  developing  regional  collective
the 
security  mechanisms 
in  South-eastern  Europe.
Macedonia, for its part, is making every effort to make
its  contribution  to  strengthening  cooperation  within
various  regional  organizations  and  initiatives.  Further
improvement  of  good-neighbourly  relations  remains
one  of  the  priorities  of  the  foreign  policy  of  the
Republic of Macedonia.
Allow  me  in  this  context  to  reiterate  our  firm
stance  as  to  the  need  for  the  full  implementation  of
Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  concerning
18
Kosovo.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  provided
continuous  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  international
community  and  has  always  met  the  requests  of  the
United  Nations  Interim  Administration  Mission  in
Kosovo  (UNMIK)  and  KFOR 
the
successful fulfilment of their mandate. We support the
UNMIK  policy  of  (cid:147)benchmarks(cid:148)  and  believe  that  it
will facilitate the building of a democratic, multi-ethnic
society and strengthen the rule of law in Kosovo.
in  regard 
to 
Let  me  recall  here  the  agreement  on  delineation
and demarcation of the border between the Republic of
Macedonia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia,
whose implementation on the ground is to start soon.
At  this  point,  let  me  stress  that  efforts  aimed  at
undermining the validity of the Agreement, such as the
ones  we  witnessed  early  this  year  by  the  local  self-
government  and  Assembly  of  Kosovo,  should  be
definitively  rejected  and  nullified.  In  that  sense,  we
support  the  reaction  of  the  Security  Council,  which
determined that this action was null and void.
There are still many challenges ahead of us in the
region.  All  of  our  goodwill  and  efforts  to  provide
sustainable  stability  will  not  yield  results  unless  we
seriously  address  the  real  problems  present  in  the
region  as  a  consequence  of  10  years  of  wars  and
instability.  Organized  crime,  various 
forms  of
trafficking  in  drugs,  arms,  human  beings  and  so  on,
which  most  often  spur  extremism  and  terrorism,  have
not  been  adequately  taken  into  account.  National
measures do not suffice to eliminate these phenomena.
Strong  involvement  and  support  on  the  part  of  the
international community is also indispensable.
Allow  me  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the
Republic  of  Macedonia  will  once  again  this  year
submit  a  draft  resolution  on  the  maintenance  of
international  security,  good-neighbourliness,  stability
and  development  in  South-eastern  Europe.  The  draft
resolution addresses the complexity of the problems of
disarmament, stability and development in this region.
The combat against terrorism must not distract us
from  other  important  issues  on  the  United  Nations
agenda.  The  Millennium  Summit  and  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s road map towards the implementation of the
United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration  have  both
the  direction  of  future  United  Nations
identified 
activities, 
to  which  we  commit  ourselves: 
the
eradication  of  poverty,  the  struggle  against  AIDS,
conflict prevention and protection  of  the  environment.
The draft resolution will address the complexity of the
problems of disarmament, stability and development in
this region.
The  struggle  against  terrorism  must  not  detract
from  other  important  issues  on  the  United  Nations
agenda.  The  Millennium  Summit  and  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s road map towards the implementation of the
United Nations Millennium Declaration (A/56/326) go
hand  in  hand  in  identifying  the  direction  of  future
United  Nations  activities, 
to  which  we  commit
ourselves:  the  eradication  of  poverty,  the  struggle
against  HIV/AIDS,  conflict  prevention  and 
the
protection of the environment.
Globalization  remains  one  of  the  most  important
issues  on  the  international  agenda.  It  is  obvious  that
there  are  some  essential  problems  that  need  to  be
addressed  immediately.  In  the  new  millennium,  it  is
crucial  that  the  international  community  address  the
development agenda in a more comprehensive way and
improve the status of the protection of and respect for
other  fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms.  In  that
context,  the  implementation  of  the  goals  set  at  the
International 
for
Development and at the World Summit on Sustainable
Development  (cid:151)  together  with  the  special  session  on
children,  the  most  important  events  of  the  United
Nations  this  year  (cid:151)  require  the  strong  political  will
and  commitment  of  Member  States  during 
the
forthcoming review period. In that regard, I wish to use
to  welcome 
this  opportunity 
the  United  Nations
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
Declaration  on 
Development  adopted  yesterday  by 
the  General
Assembly as resolution 57/2.
Conference 
Financing 
on 
the  World  Bank  and 
There  is  a  need  to  build  stronger  partnerships
with  other  relevant  organizations  beyond  the  United
Nations system, such as the World Trade Organization
International
(WTO), 
the 
the  business
Monetary  Fund,  as  well  as  with 
community,  non-governmental  organizations 
and
others,  in  order  for  them  to  be  closely  engaged  in  the
process. The fact that every fourth State Member of our
Organization 
is
certainly no credit to any of us. That is why this issue
must be given the highest priority.
is  classified  as 
least  developed 
On  disarmament  matters,  while 
the  United
Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms
and Light Weapons in All its Aspects and the adopted
Programme of Action marked a significant first step at
A/57/PV.13
the  global  level  towards  preventing,  combating  and
eradicating  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light
weapons,  we  believe  that  there  is  a  need  for  an
enhanced  follow-up  process.  The  problem  of  small
arms and proliferation has been a particular concern of
the  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  broader  region.  It
poses a serious threat not only to my country(cid:146)s security
and stability, but also to the region at large. Therefore,
it is necessary to take strong action to combat the illicit
flow of small arms and light weapons.
Strengthening  the  role  and  relevance  of  our
Organization  should  remain  a  topical  issue  on  the
United  Nations  agenda.  Additional  efforts  should  be
made  particularly 
to  strengthen  United  Nations
preventive and peacekeeping capacities.
issues  of 
looking  forward 
important.  We  are 
Making  progress  on 
equitable
representation and reform of the Security Council is no
less 
the
deliberations  this  year  of  the  Open-ended  Working
Group,  aimed  at  achieving  meaningful  progress
towards  making 
the  Security  Council  more
representative  and  transparent,  while  preserving  and
improving  its  effectiveness  for  the  maintenance  of
international peace and stability.
to 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  has  from  the  very
beginning been a strong supporter of the establishment
of the International Criminal Court (ICC) and was one
of the first 60 States to ratify the Rome Statute, which
entered  into  force  on  1  July  2002.  We  support  the
efforts  of  the  ICC  to  become  truly  universal,  while
believing  that  the  concerns  expressed  regarding  the
possibility of politically motivated prosecutions can be
addressed in a way that will not compromise the spirit
of the Court.
today 
faces  new 
The  world 
challenges.
Undoubtedly, the most important is the  redefinition of
the  very  essence  of  international  relations.  That  effort
to instil new values is questioned by regimes and rogue
leaders who belong to the past and who, contradicting
progress, have survived.
We  are,  at  this  moment,  all  mesmerized  by  the
development of events surrounding Iraq and the Middle
East as a whole. Problems like these demand solutions.
Many  measures  are  being  considered  today,  but  they
must  be  based  on  a  common  conviction  that  our  main
task  is  to  construct  a  new  and  better  world  and  that
these extraordinary steps are not our primary goal.
19
A/57/PV.13
it 
is 
Therefore, 
the  firm  conviction  of 
the
Republic  of  Macedonia  that  our  most  important  tools
must be dialogue and mutual understanding. We know
that very well. The Republic of Macedonia (cid:151) being at
the heart of the Balkans and of South-Eastern Europe,
where over centuries various cultures and civilizations
have  left  many  traces,  where  Christianity  and  Islam
have  struggled  for  dominance  and  where  ethnicities
have  become  interwoven  (cid:151)  had  every  reason  to
support the proclamation of 2001 as the United Nations
Year of Dialogue among Civilizations. As a  follow-up
and  a  practical  contribution  implementing  the  Global
Agenda 
the
Republic  of  Macedonia  will  host  in  November  of  this
year,  in  Ohrid  (cid:151)  a  World  Heritage  city  of  the  United
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural
Organization  (cid:151)  a  regional  forum  on  dialogue  among
civilizations,  the  first  gathering  of  that  kind  in  the
region of South-Eastern Europe.
for  Dialogue  among  Civilizations, 
Scientific 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His Excellency Mr. Didier Opertti, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Uruguay and former President of the General
Assembly.
the  acceleration  of 
Mr.  Opertti  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The
profound  and  dizzying  change  that  took  place  in  the
world during the last decade, with the end of the cold
the  process  of
war  and 
globalization,  did  not  bring  with 
ideal
international  society  for  which  we  had  hoped,  and
world peace now seems as elusive as ever. That is the
great challenge the Organization must face as we begin
another  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  whose
relevance  as  a  coordinating  body  for  the  international
community is again being put to the test.
the 
it 
The events of September 2001 radically changed
the perception of security in the world. The main threat
to  international  peace  and  stability  now  comes  in  the
form  of  organized  multinational  clandestine  groups
which,  having  wide  access  to  weapons  and  financial
resources, seek to sow terror with a total lack of basic
human feeling.
Despite its cultural and religious diversity and the
diversity  of  its  political  systems,  and  notwithstanding
the  marked  differences  in  levels  of  development,  the
international  community  reacted  to  terrorism  with  a
deep and resolute sense of solidarity, which is reflected
in  its  decision  to  combat  it  vigorously  within  the
framework  of  international  law,  through  the  relevant
20
conventions and fulfilment of the obligations stemming
from  the  Security  Council,  based  on  the  principles  of
the Charter and on respect for human rights. In facing
that scourge, we must not forget what the President of
Uruguay,  Jorge  Batlle,  said  in  his  address  to  the
General Assembly last year in reference to terrorism:
(cid:147)to  fight  it,  it  will  also  be  necessary  to  move
against  other  enemies  of  peace,  such  as  poverty
and  underdevelopment,  to  give  to  every  person
good  reason  to  live  and  to  make  all  of  us
guardians  of  humankind,  which  is  a  common
good from which no one must feel excluded, and
for  which  we  must 
fight  unwaveringly(cid:148).
(A/56/PV.44, p. 19)
It must also be borne in mind that that ubiquitous
and  anonymous  enemy  (cid:151) 
invokes
political pretexts related to unresolved conflicts. In that
regard,  Uruguay  reiterates  its  confidence  that  the
Palestinian authorities will show proof of their peaceful
aspirations through their acts. At the same time, we call
on  the  Government  of  Israel  to  make  all  the  efforts
necessary to return to the negotiating table, as the only
way to achieve lasting peace.
terrorism  (cid:151) 
to  highlight 
We  retain  our  optimism  in  the  face  of  all  those
challenges.  We  wish 
two  positive
developments  that  demonstrate  that  the  international
community is moving in the right direction: the first is
the  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC),  which  will  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of
peace by preventing, deterring and punishing the most
serious 
individuals  can
commit.
international  crimes 
that 
indicated 
Secondly, 
the  world  has 
its  willingness 
My  country,  Uruguay,  by  signing  and  ratifying
the  Rome  Statute, 
to
contribute to the important process of the development
and  strengthening  of  international  law  through  the
establishment of permanent legal institutions.
this  year 
the
groundwork for the management of the broad spectrum
of  the  positive  and  negative  effects  of  globalization.
The  recent  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development
represents 
that
complements  the  results  of  the  Monterrey  Summit  on
Financing 
the  Ministerial
Conference  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO),
held  at  Doha,  which  will  enable  the  international
community to coordinate its efforts to eradicate poverty
and  to  promote  global  development  by  increasing
for  Development  and 
the  culmination  of 
a  process 
laid 
development  assistance  and  liberalizing  trade  in  a
sustainable manner.
The  overall  conclusion  to  be  drawn  from  these
conferences is clear. If the developing countries are not
given  equal  opportunities  and  conditions,  both  with
respect to the elimination of subsidies and unfair trade
practices and with respect to market access, then those
countries  (cid:151)  the  particularly  small  and  developing
countries (cid:151) will continue to suffer the negative effects
of  globalization  without  enjoying  its  benefits,  thereby
aggravating the political, social and economic situation
in  the  vast  majority  of  States  in  the  international
community. This is the path to deadlock.
its 
firm 
commitment 
Uruguay,  with 
to
multilateralism,  belongs,  at  the  regional  level,  to  the
Southern  Common  Market  (MERCOSUR),  together
with Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, as well as Bolivia
and Chile. MERCOSUR, which is now a decade old (cid:151)
it  has  been  in  existence  since  the  Asunci(cid:243)n  Treaty  of
1991  (cid:151)  has  established  itself  as  an  effective  actor
within  the  international  community,  going  beyond  the
dimension of an economic project to play an active role
as  a  stabilizer  of  democracy  in  the  region,  thus
consolidating  the  rule  of  law  and  full  respect  for
fundamental freedoms and human rights.
It  is  therefore  as  a  member  of  MERCOSUR  that
Uruguay  has  opted  for  an  ambitious  policy  of  trade
liberalization  characterized  by 
the  principle  of
transparency. It hopes that the other trading blocs in the
developed  world  will  apply  the  same  principles  and
avoid  the  duplicity  inherent  in  advocating  the  need  to
promote free trade on the one hand, while at the same
time  protecting  one(cid:146)s  markets  with  discriminatory
practices.  We  therefore  ask  for  reciprocity  from  our
trading partners.
We must not forget that this is the reason why we
are  now  facing  increasing  difficulty  in  achieving  our
development goals. Uruguay, like many other countries
in  other  regions  of  the  world,  is  experiencing  an
economic  and  financial  crisis  that  was  completely
unavoidable  as  a  result  of  the  severe  impact  of
regional,  extra-regional  and  external  factors.  This  was
attributable  to  our  increasing  dependency  on  foreign
trade,  to  the  fall  in  the  international  prices  of  our
products,  to  the  implementation  of  subsidies  and  to
other  protectionist  measures  by 
the  developed
countries,  and  to  the  rapid  spread  of  the  crisis  in  the
financial systems of the main exporting markets.
A/57/PV.13
To  this  we  must  add  another  tragic  irony.  Our
export products, which are mainly agricultural, cannot
compete  with  similar  goods  from  other  countries
because of their higher cost, which results from the fact
that  Uruguay  fulfils  all  of  its  international  obligations
in the labour and social fields, particularly with regard
to  child  labour,  the  work  of  women,  the  minimum
wage, 
social  benefits  and  working  conditions.
Nevertheless,  the  developed  countries  preach  respect
for  human  rights,  the  strengthening  of  social  security
and  the  fulfilment  of  those  obligations,  while  at  the
same  time  purchasing  products  that  are  produced  at
lower  cost, 
legal
obligations.
in  violation  of 
international 
The  phenomenon  of  globalization,  which  has
thus  far  without  a  proper  cooperation
developed 
framework,  appears  to  be  the  cause  of  many  of  these
problems.  We continue to believe that it is within  this
Organization  that  we  must  continue  to  explore  ways
that  will  lead  to  a  political  solution  to  the  principal
problems that we all face.
information  society  (cid:151)  we  recognize 
On  the  one  hand  the  United  Nations  is  the
obvious body to manage the impact of globalization. In
this process of constant change (cid:151) which is accelerated,
no  doubt,  by  the  technological  advances  of  the  so-
called 
the
potential that information technology innovations have
for the development of democracy and the economy as
well as social progress, and we note with great interest
that the World Summit on the Information Society will
be held next year.
Furthermore, we must bring to life once again the
true  purpose  and  meaning  of  international  economic
cooperation. True solidarity is reflected not only in the
undertaking  of  commitments  at  international  summits
and  conferences.  It  is  expressed  above  all  in  the
faithful discharge of these commitments by each State,
in particular developed countries. This is the only way
in  which  developing  countries  can  move  beyond  their
low 
levels  of  progress  and  achieve  sustainable
development.
All of this requires the introduction of changes in
the organs and in the procedures of the United Nations
in order to ensure better representativity in its structure
and  to  enhance  the  efficiency  of  its  functioning.  The
reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of
the  General  Assembly  are  tasks  that  are  still  pending
and which we must continue to pursue.
21
A/57/PV.13
has 
Uruguay 
confidence 
in  multilateral
mechanisms  for  preserving  and  building  international
peace  and  security.  It  is  a  signatory  to  the  San
Francisco  Charter  and  since  1952  has  contributed
troops  to  13  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.
We  take  pride  in  the  fact  that  the  more  than  1,500
members  of  our  military  and  police  forces  currently
participating in peacekeeping operations represent this
firm commitment and our belief in this Organization.
Therefore  Uruguay  shares  in  its  entirety  the
eloquent  and  passionate  advocacy  of  multilateralism
reflected in the Secretary-General(cid:146)s statement last week
in this very Hall. Like Mr. Kofi Annan, the people and
the  Government  of  Uruguay  reaffirm  their  genuine
commitment  to  multilateralism,  deeply  rooted  in  our
spirit  and  based  on  principle,  on  tradition  and  on
conviction.
The most recent political developments, in terms
of the crisis posed by Iraq, is in our view proof of the
need for balance which can be achieved only within the
framework of mutilateralism.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  warmly  and
sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on the manner in which
you  have  been  accomplishing  your  work,  which  we
know will be successful. We also welcome the two new
Members  who  are  joining  the  Organization  (cid:151)  the
Swiss  Confederation  and  Timor-Leste.  We  know  that
under  your  leadership,  this  will  be  a  fruitful  and
successful session of the Assembly.
The  Acting  President: I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Cheikh  Tidiane  Gadio,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs, African Union and Senegalese Living
Abroad of Senegal.
Mr.  Gadio  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  My
delegation is particularly pleased to convey to Mr. Jan
Kavan  its  heartfelt  congratulations  and  fervent  hopes
for  success  in  the  lofty  and  important  task  ahead  of
him.  His  well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of
the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly is a
fitting tribute to the spirit of the Czech people as well
as to his outstanding intellectual and moral qualities.
I am pleased to take this opportunity to say how
much we appreciated the courtesy, the commitment and
the competence of his predecessor, Mr. Han Seung-soo,
who  guided  our  discussions  in  such  an  outstanding
manner.  We  express  to  him  our  sincere  and  deep
gratitude  for  his  many  relevant  initiatives,  including
22
working visits to West  Africa,  particularly  to Senegal,
which  are  testimony  of  friendship  for  my  country  and
support 
for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development (NEPAD).
the  New  Partnership 
for 
I  should  like  also  like  to  express  once  again  to
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  our  admiration  for  his
steadfast determination in serving the ideals and causes
of  our  Organization.  Thanks  to  his  wisdom  and  far-
sightedness, the  United  Nations  has  found  new  vigour
with  which 
to  meet 
tremendous  challenges
confronting humankind.
the 
It  is  therefore  fitting  that  our  Organization  (cid:151)
which  more than ever needs the widest support  for its
plans  and  projects  for  a  better  management  of  the
affairs  of  our  globalized  world  (cid:151)  is  gaining  two  new
Members:  Switzerland  and,  soon,  East  Timor.  To  the
delegations  of  those  two  friendly  countries,  I  would
like  to  express  Senegal(cid:146)s  warmest  congratulations  and
our conviction that their contribution will undoubtedly
be  enriching  for  our  Organization,  whose  universal
character will thereby be reinforced.
the  United  Nations 
in  our  Organization  and 
It is precisely in the name of the principle of the
that  Senegal
universality  of 
reiterates its fervent wish to see the Republic of China
on  Taiwan  join  the  concert  of  nations  and  assume  its
full  responsibilities 
its
specialized  agencies.  Granting  that  request,  following
the  good  precedent  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,
would bring justice to the 23 million inhabitants of the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  who  through  their
exemplary  conduct  on  the  world  stage  have  already
given  proof  of  Taipei(cid:146)s  attachment  to  the  noble
objectives of the San Francisco Charter.
to 
the 
community 
Last  week, 
commemorated 
the  United  Nations  and 
the
the
international 
anniversary of the tragic events of 11 September 2001.
We  express  once  again  our  sincere  sentiments  of
sympathy  and  compassion 
thousands  of
American and other families in mourning. Senegal, its
head  of  State  and  its  Government  strongly  reiterate
their  steadfast  determination  to  fight  against  terrorism
in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  whatever  its
motivations and whoever its perpetrators and sponsors.
Senegal  proclaims  loudly  and  clearly  that  there  is  no
reason  or  cause  sufficiently  just  or  sufficiently  good
that it could justify an act of terrorism against pregnant
women and other innocent civilians.
The Dakar Declaration against Terrorism, adopted
on  17  October  2001  at  the  initiative  of  President
Abdoulaye  Wade  of  Senegal,  gives  full  expression  to
our fervent wish to strengthen regional and subregional
cooperation  in  order  to  dismantle  the  menace  of
terrorist  activities  on  our  continent.  Let  us  remember
the heinous and unrepentant terrorist strikes against the
African  people  in  Kenya  and  Tanzania.  Nor  do  we
forget the heroic daily resistance of the Algerian people
in  the  face  of  repeated  assaults  by  killers  blinded  by
their hatred and not by their faith in God, at least not in
the  God  of  love  and  compassion  that  we  Muslims
proudly call Allah.
To that end, Senegal submitted some months ago
to the African Union a draft additional protocol to the
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Combating  of
Terrorism of the Organization of African Unity and the
African  Union.  The  draft  protocol  aims  to  strengthen
the  Algiers  Convention  and  to  adapt  it  to  the  post-11-
September context. Also,  my delegation welcomes the
fine initiative of the Commission of the African Union,
which 
a  high-level
intergovernmental  meeting  on  terrorism  in  Africa.  In
other  words,  we  have  the  common  responsibility  to
international
maintain 
to 
mobilization  against 
their
financing.
strengthen 
terrorist  networks  and 
recently  held 
in  Algiers 
and 
the 
My  Government  welcomes  the  excellent  work
already  carried  out  by  the  Security  Council  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  pursuant  to  Security  Council
resolution  1373 
the
Committee  to  pursue  its  efforts  and  requests  the
Working  Group  of  the  General  Assembly(cid:146)s  Sixth
Committee to do everything to hasten the adoption of a
comprehensive 
against
terrorism.
(2001).  Senegal  encourages 
international 
convention 
It is a truism that the  fight against terrorism is  a
part  of  the  international  community(cid:146)s  struggle  to
promote  international  peace  and  security.  That  is  the
objective that over the past months has not escaped our
Organization,  which  has  strived 
lasting
solutions  to  conflicts  that  destroy  the  social  and
economic  fabric  of  numerous  countries,  especially  in
Africa.
find 
to 
In  that  regard,  Senegal  keenly  appreciates  the
determined  commitment  of 
the  Security  Council,
which,  more  conscious  than  ever  of  its  role  of
guarantor  of  international  peace  and  security,  has
A/57/PV.13
devoted a large portion of its work this year to conflicts
and  tensions  afflicting  the  African  continent.  Among
the  numerous  praiseworthy  initiatives  of  the  Security
Council,  I  would  like  to  mention  the  convening  of
special  meetings  devoted  to  the  situation  of  Africa,
brilliantly  presided  over  by  the  Ministers  for  Foreign
Affairs  of  Mauritius  and  Singapore  during 
their
respective presidencies.
On  behalf  of  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African States (ECOWAS), of which Senegal currently
holds  the  chairmanship,  I  would  like  to  nurture  the
hope  that  the  United  Nations  will  stay  the  course  in
order  to  forever  stave  off  violence  and  wars,  which
take  a  serious  financial  toll  on  the  future  of  many
African countries. I am thinking of Sierra Leone, where
the  current  exemplary  normalization  of  the  political
and  economic  situation  has  largely  been  facilitated  by
the  holding  of  free, 
transparent,  democratic  and
peaceful elections.
It  is  urgent  that  the  bells  of  peace,  which  have
sounded in Freetown, also be heard in Monrovia, where
the  absence  of  political  dialogue  led  the  way  to  grave
socio-economic  instability,  whose  contagious  effect
could  turn  out  to  be  disastrous  for  the  Mano  River
Union  area.  Senegal,  as  Chairman  of  ECOWAS,  is
working tirelessly and hopes to be able to report to the
Assembly  on  its  many  initiatives  under  way,  which
could  very  shortly  lay  the  foundations  of  peace  in
Liberia.
trying  civil  war, 
In Sierra Leone and Liberia, as in Guinea-Bissau,
where  the  Government  of  President  Kumba  YalÆ  is
attempting  with  courage  and  abnegation  to  lift  the
country  out  of  a  financial  and  economic  crisis
following  a 
international
community  has  the  duty  to  continue  more  steadfastly
its  valuable  assistance.  In  that  regard,  I  welcome  the
strong  signal  sent  by  the  Security  Council  under  the
United  States  presidency  to  financial  backers  with
respect to granting Guinea-Bissau substantial financial
aid so that it can firmly return to the path of peace and
prosperity.
the 
The  interest  in  that  neighbour  of  Senegal  and  in
our  subregion  recalls  the  wise  and  timely  decision  to
establish  at  Dakar  an  Office  of 
the  Special
Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General  for  West
Africa. That Office should promote better coordination
among  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  our
subregion and their greater impact on the ground. I am
23
A/57/PV.13
pleased  to  sincerely  congratulate  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  on  that  clear-sighted  initiative.  It  goes
without  saying 
the
enthusiastic  support  and  complete  cooperation  of  the
Government of Senegal.
the  Office  will  enjoy 
that 
Allow  me  to  recall  the  activities  of  President
Abdoulaye Wade in benefit of the great African people
of  Madagascar.  His  personal  and  total  involvement  in
mediating a solution to the Madagascar crisis has, as a
great  international  statesman  said,  surely  spared  the
people of that great island a drift towards a civil war of
incalculable  consequences.  He  and  his  African
colleagues  who  have  taken  up  that  issue  have  shown
the  world 
the
international  community  Africans  will  prove  that  they
are also and above all peacemakers.
the  strong  support  of 
that  with 
Elsewhere,  beyond  the  African  continent  but  so
close to our hearts, we observe a growing danger in the
Middle East. This year again, the world has witnessed
unheard-of violence in the Palestinian territories, where
the  occupying  military  Power,  Israel,  has  decidedly
opted  for  State  violence,  which  leads  to  concepts  as
dangerous  as  the  so-called  targeted  assassinations  and
other preventive operations.
On the Palestinian side, that situation has caused
an  increase  in  terrorist  cells  (cid:151)  specialists  in  suicide
belts  (cid:151)  groups  that  we  unequivocally  and  resolutely
condemn.  That  network  has  produced  an  erosion  of
trust  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians  (cid:151)  trust  that
must  be  restored  as  swiftly  as  possible  through  frank
and  constructive  dialogue  that  leads  to  a  just  and
lasting solution.
In  order  to  achieve  that,  it  is  imperative  that  Tel
Aviv  comply  with 
the  relevant  Security  Council
resolutions (cid:151) in particular resolutions 242 (1967), 338
(1973) and 1397 (2002) (cid:151) and that it also adhere to the
peace  plan  proposed  by  Saudi  Arabia  and  to  the
initiatives  of  the  Quartet,  which  set  out  the  basic
principles  of  land  for  peace  and  withdrawal  for
normalization.  The 
in
particular the Security Council and the Quartet, has the
critical  duty  to  formulate  a  bold  plan  to  realize  the
vision  of  two  States  within  the  1967  borders  and  to
hasten  what  Senegal  has  continued  to  call  for  in  all
international  forums:  the  immediate  convening  of  an
international  conference  on  Palestine,  leading  to  a
specific  mechanism 
that  would  address  political,
economic and security issues and having as its starting
international 
community, 
24
point the creation of a sovereign Palestinian State side
by  side  an  Israeli  State,  living  in  peace  and  harmony
with its neighbours.
Over  the  past  12  months,  the  international  scene
has  been  dominated  by  the  holding  of  three  major
conferences  that  were  crucial  events  in  humanity(cid:146)s
collective march towards a more just and more unified
world: the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the World
the
Trade  Organization,  held  at  Doha,  Qatar; 
International 
Financing 
for
Development,  held  at  Monterrey,  Mexico;  and  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  held  at
Johannesburg,  South  Africa.  Those  world  conferences
and  the  strong  alliances  that  they  created  will  allow
humanity  to  enter  the  third  millennium  on  a  positive
note.
Conference 
on 
seems 
to 
have 
caused 
to  now,  despite 
investment  flows 
I  should  like  to  note  here  that,  in  the  light  of
those statements of good intentions, the time for action
has come. We must act swiftly so that globalization, a
phenomenon that affects us all, will ultimately benefit
its  certain  virtues,
us  all.  Up 
globalization 
greater
marginalization  of  the  vast  majority  of  the  peoples  of
the  South.  As  a  consequence,  it  is  urgent  that  we
innovative  mechanisms  of  development
identify 
financing.  In  fact,  even 
if  official  development
assistance  is  still  valuable  for  the  States  of  the  South,
its effectiveness will be limited without the addition of
concrete  measures  such  as  access  for  products  of  the
South  to  markets  of  the  North,  an  increase  in  foreign
direct 
to  developing  countries,
particularly those in Africa, and the initiating role that,
we  must  recognize,  belongs  to  the  international  and
African  private  sectors.  Indeed,  Senegal  is  convinced
that  no  country  in  the  world  has  ever  developed
through  official  development  assistance.  The  private
sector,  infrastructure  and  education  are  universally
acknowledged  as  the  tripod  of  genuine  sustainable
development. It is no less urgent, following the much-
appreciated  appointment  of  a  High  Representative  of
the  Secretary-General 
the  Least  Developed
Countries, 
to
commit  ourselves 
that  we 
implementing  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action,  in
conformity  with  the  consensus  of  the  12th  Ministerial
Meeting of the Group of 49, held at Cotonou from 5 to
7 August 2002.
for 
all 
The success of such initiatives cannot depend on
Governments alone. We need to build firm partnerships
with local communities, with civil society actors, with
with 
sector, 
private 
the 
non-governmental
organizations and with international organizations. It is
fitting that humanity(cid:146)s oldest continent should be proud
of  the  adoption  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development  (NEPAD),  a  double  partnership  (cid:151)
internal and international (cid:151) and a linkage, on the one
hand,  among  Africans  and,  on  the  other,  between
Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  international  community,
which  has  already  shown  its  full  support  for  that  new
initiative. As evidence, I cite the Group of Eight Africa
Action  Plan  and  the  holding  of  the  high-level  plenary
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to  consider  how  to
support NEPAD.
the 
that 
Through NEPAD, which has the merit of defining
the  prerequisites 
for  African  development,  of
identifying  sectoral  priorities  and  of  developing  a
resource  mobilization  strategy,  African  leaders  (cid:151)
among  them  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdoulaye  Wade,
President  of  the  Republic  of  Senegal  (cid:151)  intend  to
demonstrate 
for  Africa(cid:146)s
development  is  essentially  theirs.  In  that  context,  I
must  mention  the  launching  of  the  African  Union  in
July  at  Durban,  South  Africa.  We  hope  that  its  Peace
and  Security  Council,  coupled  with  NEPAD(cid:146)s  Peer
Review  Mechanism,  will  lead  to  strong  commitments
by our heads of State, first for our people and then for
our  partners,  which  are  very  concerned  by  the  central
questions  of  good  governance  and  conflict  prevention
and resolution.
responsibility 
to 
importance 
Our  development  concerns  do  not  preclude  our
demands  for  human  rights.  That  is  why  my  country
attaches  great 
the  promotion  and
protection of the rights of women and children. At the
initiative  of  the  Government,  a  major  programme  is
under  way  to  combat,  in  particular,  violence  against
women  and  the  trafficking  and  exploitation  of  women
and  children  for  commercial  and  sexual  purposes.  In
those  areas,  the  strategy  formulated  and  implemented
by  Senegal  is  based  on  action  plans  adopted  at  the
special session of the General Assembly on Beijing +5
and on the follow-up to the World Summit on Children.
As  is  its  custom,  Senegal  wishes  to  honour  and
praise  the  great  role  of  women  in  the  world,  in
particular  their  African  sisters,  as  the  foundation  and
the  powerful  engine  of  African  renewal.  History  will
take note that it is  Senegal  that,  through  its  President,
has  demanded  and  ensured  that  each  of  the  five
subregions  of  Africa  elect  at  least  one  woman  in  its
quota of two Commissioners to the Commission of the
A/57/PV.13
African  Union.  Africa  is  thus  teaching  the  rest  of  the
world a lesson in unprecedented parity, which is more
proof (cid:151) if it were needed (cid:151) that, if we seek competent
women, we will find them.
At  the  initiative  of  its  President,  Senegal  will
organize, on 10 October at Dakar, a special summit of
heads  of  State  or  Government  of  ECOWAS  to  follow
up the results of the twenty-sixth special session of the
General Assembly, devoted to children.
to 
the  principles  of 
The  rights  of  women  and  children  are  integral
elements of human rights, and my country reaffirms its
attachment 
the  universality,
interdependence  and  indivisibility  of  human  rights,  of
good economic and political governance and of the rule
of  law.  It  is  that  democratic  imperative  that  has
prompted the head of State of Senegal to strengthen our
institutional  arsenal  by  creating 
the  position  of
Commissioner  of  Human  Rights,  to  which  a  woman
has been appointed.
As  members  are  aware,  Senegal  was  the  first
country in the world to ratify the Rome Statute for the
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC),  whose  entry  into  force  on  1  July  2002  my
country  welcomed.  That  commitment  resulted  in  my
Government(cid:146)s decision to present a candidate for judge
on  the  ICC  (cid:151)  one  of  our  finest  magistrates  and  a
specialist in criminal law.
of 
humanity(cid:146)s 
confronting 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like,  in  recalling  the
urgency 
numerous
challenges,  to  express  the  earnest  hope  that  the
Organization  will  bolster  its  ability  to  better  serve  the
legitimate  hopes  of  the  world(cid:146)s  peoples.  Undoubtedly,
that  path  will  anchor  the  future  of  a  world  reconciled
with 
freedom,  peace  and
prosperity  will  be  jealously  preserved  in  justice  and
freedom, in peace and prosperity, and in the dignity of
human beings (cid:151) all human beings.
itself,  where 
justice, 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Souef  Mohamed  El-Amine,
Minister  of  State  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,
Cooperation, la Francophonie, the Environment and in
charge of Comorians Living Abroad of the Comoros.
Mr.  El-Amine  (Comoros)  (spoke  in  French):  A
year  has  gone  by  since  the  entire  world  mourned  the
victims  of 
tragedy  and
condemned  the  barbaric  acts  most  formally.  Today,
from  this  rostrum,  on  behalf  of  the  Union  of  the
the  World  Trade  Center 
25
A/57/PV.13
Comoros and the Comorian people, I wish to evoke the
memory  of  all  those  who  in  the  United  States  and
elsewhere have suffered injustice at the hands of those
who  have  acted  outside  faith  or  law.  We  condemn
terrorism in all its forms.
Allow  me 
to  congratulate  President  Kavan
warmly on behalf of the delegation of the Union of the
Comoros, which I have the honour to head. I also wish
to convey the trust and confidence that we have in him
to  lead  the  work  of  this  session,  based  on  his
experience, personal qualities and diplomatic expertise.
Permit  me  also  to  convey  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Han
Seung-soo  our  great  pleasure  and  admiration  by
recognizing the outstanding work he did as President of
the previous session. I wish to convey a strong tribute
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  our  Secretary-
General, for his constant devotion in the service of our
Organization.
The  Union  of  the  Comoros  heartily  welcomes
Switzerland  and  Timor-Leste  as  new  Members  of  our
Organization.  The  United  Nations  is  an  organization
whose duty it is to assure humankind the conditions of
living  in  peace,  dignity  and  prosperity.  This  is  an
enormous and large-scale task that surely poses certain
daunting  difficulties  that  we  will  need  to  overcome.
This must be so, because in no way must we or should
we  shrink  away  from  obstacles  and  challenges.  This
institution  must  be  the  true  guarantor  of  the  hopes  of
present and future generations.
This requires a true awareness of its universality,
which  calls  for  reforming  its  main  organs.  These
organs must be in a position to reflect and adapt to the
reality of the present world.
Furthermore, and in a different context, this new
political  framework  must  go  hand  in  hand  with
development, a development that takes into account the
inequalities,  but  also  the  specificities  of  each  place.
There  are  many  evils  gnawing  at  our  planet,  but  they
affect  us  in  different  degrees.  The  advances  of  the
technological  world  of  the  North  contrast  with  the
fierce  struggle  of  the  South,  even  now  in  the  twenty-
first  century, 
living
conditions.  The  extreme  poverty  of  the  South,  AIDS,
tuberculosis  and  malaria  are  all  offensive  to  human
dignity. The South(cid:146)s struggle for survival is meaningful
only  if  it  finds  some  response  in  the  North.  This
presupposes recognition of the equality of rights and of
inequality of means to guarantee these rights.
the  most  basic 
to  achieve 
26
In Africa, initiatives such as the New Partnership
for Africa(cid:146)s Development (NEPAD) have been devised
to address and remedy a socio-economic situation that
has  led  to  the  most  atrocious  effects.  But  we  must
recognize  that  NEPAD(cid:146)s  viability  also  depends  on  the
North(cid:146)s  good  will 
finding  an
appropriate  solution  to  the  main  problems  of  the
African continent.
to  contribute 
to 
recently 
Development 
Our  countries,  on  the  other  hand,  place  their
hopes in the recommendations of the World Summit on
Sustainable 
in
Johannesburg. This world forum took into account the
human  being  and  all  the  dimensions  of  life  and
survival.  In  other  words,  we  hope  that,  by  the  year
2015,  we  will  actually  see  a  reduction  in  poverty  by
half,  so  that  we  may  address  priorities  other  than
hunger, disease and war, among others.
held 
The  time  has  come  for  our  countries  to  save  our
peoples  from  the  many  agonies  of  war  and  from
traumatic  effects  on  our  children  and  to  put  an  end  to
the  unprecedented  losses  suffered  by  our  economies
due  to  the  exorbitant  cost  of  weapons  that  harm  our
lives  and  those  of  our  children.  It  is  time  to  become
aware of our heavy responsibility to ensure that future
generations are not sacrificed to history.
The President took the Chair.
From another standpoint, war seeks only to prove
one(cid:146)s  force  to  another,  and  prove  one(cid:146)s  capacity  to
destroy. From that perspective, it can only be nefarious.
This  has  led  Comorians  to  banish  any  attempt  to  do
anything  that  would  lead  us  to  confrontation.  We
reinforce  our  internal  forces,  which,  together  with  our
wisdom  and  the  culture  of  the  Comoros,  lead  us  to
forgive.  We  base  this  on  our  religion,  Islam,  which
advocates tolerance, peace and love of neighbour.
found 
itself, 
finally 
sphere, 
Guided  by  these  sacred  principles,  the  people  of
Comoros,  after  four  years  of  upheaval  in  its  socio-
political 
found
reconciliation  and  decided  to  heal  its  old  wounds.
Thus,  on  the  initiative  of  President  Azali,  the  various
parties  of  the  Comoros  came  to  an  agreement  of
national 
the
Organization  of  African  Unity  and  the  International
Organization of la Francophonie.
reconciliation,  with 
the  support  of 
Following this agreement and after establishing a
Transitional  Government  of  national  unity,  pluralistic,
transparent  and  democratic  presidential  elections  for
the  Union  of  the  Comoros  and  for  the  islands  took
place. The contest was run in a legitimate way and the
winner  was  the  outgoing  President,  Colonel  Azali
Assoumani.  Following  the  elections,  every  island  was
given  its  own  president,  with  full  responsibility  for
self-management. Toward the end of this year, we will
hold legislative elections intended to establish national
to  provide 
institutions  and 
the  country  with  a
parliament.  This  next  stage 
is  also  of  crucial
importance.  In  fact,  with  the  establishment  of  the
parliaments, we will be able to address and settle many
outstanding  issues  not  settled  by  the  constitutions  of
the  islands  and  the  Constitution  of  the  Union.  These
constitutions have often referred to organic laws, which
must be enacted by the parliaments.
We must recognize that this silence, this absence
of  legislation,  may  have  led  to  misunderstanding,  but
this  has  not  interfered  with  the  regular  functioning  of
the  administration.  Furthermore,  commissions  have
been established to review modalities that are to enable
the progressive transfer of powers to the authorities of
the autonomous islands subject to the provisions of the
various constitutions. It is obvious that beginnings are
often difficult. In these circumstances, this transfer, as
well  as  the  procedures  for  the  distribution  of  State
property, have sometimes met with disagreement  from
one  quarter  or  another.  This  is  understandable  in  a
country  that  had  formerly  been  managed  under  a
different system.
This  situation  can  be  explained,  in  our  view,  by
the  absence  of  organic  laws  that  would  determine
details  of  essential  aspects  currently  subject  to  protest
by various parties. We trust that with the establishment
of  the  Parliament,  these  misunderstandings  will  be
allayed  and  will  yield  to  the  harmony  needed  to
manage the political life of the autonomous islands and
of the Union.
I  wish  to  convey  the  deep  appreciation  of  the
people  and  the  Government  of  the  Comoros  to  all  the
brotherly  and  friendly  countries  and  all  the  regional
and  international  institutions  which  have  to  date
supported  us  in  every  respect.  Their  cooperation  has
been  indispensable,  and,  together  with  the  wisdom  of
the people of the Comoros, has enabled us to avoid the
worst  in  a  small  country  where  we  are  all  one  family.
We pay enthusiastic tribute to their actions. Equally, it
is our wish that crises in other parts of the world  will
have  a  satisfactory  conclusion.  We  appeal  to  all
A/57/PV.13
partners  of  the  Comoros  to  continue  supporting  our
country as it pursues its socio-economic development.
Without minimizing the question of the Comorian
island of Mayotte, I wish to refer to that subject last of
all. This is a matter of great concern to the people and
the Government of my country. In fact, this is a matter
of  sovereignty,  and  thus  of  dignity  and  patriotic
conscience,  which  we  cannot  abandon,  because  by
doing  so  we  would  be  abandoning  our  identity,  our
culture, our civilization, our history and our geography.
In  our  quest  for  a  solution  to  this  problem,  a  single
principle  guides  us  and  a  single  will  moves  us  to
resolve 
for
international  law  and  in  accordance  with  the  relevant
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations,  while  at  the  same
time  preserving  the  benefits  we  enjoy  within  the
framework of our relations with France. In that respect,
speaking on behalf of the Government of the Union of
the  Comoros,  I  fervently  appeal  to  France  to  ensure
that a dialogue begins.
this  painful  dispute  with 
respect 
The  strategy  we  advocate  has  the  advantage  of
insuring  that  the  Comorian  Island  of  Mayotte  will  not
remain  in  isolation,  that  it  will  be  incorporated  into  a
regional  framework  which  will  bring  it  closer  to  its
sister  islands  as  well  as  to  its  neighbours  in  the
subregion.  We  therefore  hope  the  same  considerations
will prevail on the French side so that together we can
reach  an agreement which will guarantee  greater  calm
and  better  understanding  within  our  long-standing
relationship.
Whenever I address this question I recall the great
Tunisian poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabbi, who invites us
not to despair and to rely on reason.
(spoke in Arabic):

(cid:147)If people ever want life
Then time must respond,
Night must dissipate and shackles
Must be shattered.(cid:148)
The President: I now call on His Excellency Mr.
Choe  Su  Hon,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Choe  Su  Hon 
(Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text
furnished  by 
to
congratulate you, Sir, on your  election  as  President  of
the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. It is
our expectation that your able stewardship will enable
the  delegation): 
I  would 
like 
27
A/57/PV.13
the work of this session to result in tangible progress. I
also  appreciate  the  efforts  of  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  towards  international  peace  and  sustainable
development.
I  am  going  to  contribute  to  the  work  of  the
General  Assembly  by  presenting  a  perspective  on  the
situation  of  the  Korean  peninsula,  which  remains  a
major concern in terms of world peace and security.
More than 50 years have passed since the division
of  Korea  by  outside  forces.  As  the  Korean  people
undergo  immeasurable  pain  and  misfortune  due  to  the
division  of  the  country  and  the  nation,  the  world
realizes  that,  as  long  as  the  homogeneous  Korean
nation remains artificially divided, Korea will never be
peaceful, nor will peace and security be possible there.
The  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea
made reunification the supreme national task  from the
first  day  of  the  division,  and  has  since  adhered  to  its
stand  with 
reunification
independently, 
through  dialogue  and  negotiation
between the North and South of Korea.
achieving 
respect 
to 
long  ago  set  forth 
The fatherly leader of our people, President Kim
Il  Sung, 
the  principles  and
programmes  for  reunifying  the  country  independently
through peaceful national unity. He proposed achieving
reunification  by  means  of  a  federation  system  where
different ideas  and systems would  continue  to  exist  in
the  North  and  the  South.  He  devoted  all  his  efforts  to
national reunification up until the moment he died.
The  respected  General  Kim  Jong  Il  has  defined
three  main  charters  for  national  reunification  as:  the
three  principles  of  national  reunification;  the  10-Point
Programme  for  the  Great  Unity  of  the  Whole  Nation;
and  the  proposal  on  founding  the  Democratic  Federal
Republic  of  Koryo  put  forward  by  the  fatherly  leader.
These provide a basis for the country(cid:146)s reunification.
It is thanks to the ideas of national independence
and national unity of the respected General Kim Jong Il
that  the  historic  inter-Korean  summit  meeting  took
place  in  Pyongyang  in  June  2000  and  that  the  North-
South  Joint  Declaration  was  adopted;  this  served  as  a
turning point in the efforts of the Korean people for the
country(cid:146)s reunification. The 15 June 2000 North-South
Joint  Declaration 
is  a  declaration  of  national
independence  and  peaceful  reunification  calling  for
opposing 
achieving
reunification  by  the  concerted  efforts  of  the  Korean
interference 
foreign 
and 
28
nation.  After  the  publication  of  the  North-South  Joint
Declaration,  the  North  and  the  South  held  talks  and
engaged in contacts in various fields, seeking ways and
means 
to  achieve  reconciliation  and  unity.  They
discussed  measures  for  cooperation,  exchanges  and
relaxation  of  tension  in  Korea;  thus  the  spirit  of
reunification  on 
the  Korean  peninsula  gained
momentum.
However,  the  positive  development  of  inter-
Korean  relations  was  frustrated  by  the  interference  of
external  forces, and the  North-South  Joint  Declaration
thus faced major obstacles.
the 
in  recent  months  at 
It  is  fortunate  indeed  that  inter-Korean  relations
have now been put back on track through the dialogue
and  contacts  on  implementing  the  Joint  Declaration,
held 
the
Government  of  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of
Korea.  The  ministerial-level 
talks  were  resumed.
Dialogue  and  contacts  in  other  fields  are  under  way,
and  a  national  reunification  meeting  of  compatriots
from  the  North,  the  South  and  overseas  was  held
successfully on  the  occasion  of  the  15  August  Korean
restoration day.
initiative  of 
item  entitled  (cid:147)Peace, 
The North and the South have jointly introduced
an  agenda 
security  and
reunification  on  the  Korean  Peninsula(cid:148)  at  the  current
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  have  agreed  to
draw up and submit a draft resolution under that item.
Governments  and  peoples  of  many  countries  are
supporting and welcoming the emerging dØtente on the
Korean  peninsula  as  well  as 
towards
reconciliation  and  cooperation  between  the  North  and
the South.
trend 
the 
lesson 
for  all  Korean  people. 
The history of division for more than 50 years is a
serious 
the
reunification of the country is to be achieved, the North
and 
the  South  should,  above  all,  reject  foreign
interference, which is a main obstacle to reunification,
and should join efforts on the basis of ideas of national
independence and great national unity.
If 
The  modern  history  of  Korea  serves  as  a  clear
illustration  of  the  high  price  paid  and  the  great
sacrifices  made  in  succumbing  to  foreign  intervention
and  relying  on  outside  forces.  The  division  of  Korea
was imposed by outside forces after the Second World
War.  It  was  neither  the  will  nor  a  requirement  of  the
Korean people. It is none other than those same foreign
forces that continue to shadow inter-Korean relations at
every  stage  of  their  favourable  development  and  that
undermine the interests of the Korean nation. Recourse
to  foreign  forces  and  complicit  action  with  them
against  fellow  countrymen  are  inevitably  destined  to
lead  to  mistrust  and  confrontation  in  inter-Korean
relations.
We  are  firmly  convinced  that  we  can  resolve  all
problems  in  the  interests  of  the  Korean  nation  by
transcending the differences in ideologies and systems
existing between the North and the South, if the North
and  the  South  sit  together  in  the  spirit  of  national
independence and the love of country and people.
The Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea will,
in the future, make every effort to achieve independent
reunification  through  a  federation  system  that  unites
the strength of the entire Korean nation in the spirit of
the North-South Joint Declaration.
In  order  to  ensure  peace  and  security  on  the
Korean  peninsula  and  realize  reunification,  the  hostile
policy  of  the  United  States  against  the  Democratic
People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea should be terminated.
The  United  States  defines 
the  Democratic
People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  as  its  (cid:147)prime  enemy(cid:148)  that
poses a (cid:147)threat(cid:148) to it. It also designates us as the (cid:147)axis
of evil(cid:148) and (cid:147)target of a pre-emptive nuclear strike(cid:148) on
the pretext of (cid:147)anti-terrorism,(cid:148) thus further aggravating
the situation.
It  is  quite  unreasonable  that  the  United  States
antagonizes  and  threatens  us  with  the  use  of  force  for
the  sole  reason  that  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic
of  Korea  firmly  adheres  to  an  independent  policy  and
holds different values and ideas. This also contravenes
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
the  norms  of
international  relations.  It  is  entirely  as  a  result  of  the
consistent  peace-loving  policy  and  efforts  of  the
Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  that  peace  is
maintained on the Korean peninsula.
Our position on relations between the Democratic
People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  is
ever  principled  and  consistent.  If  the  United  States
respects  our  system  and  sovereignty  and  takes  an
attitude  of  goodwill  towards  us,  we  can  develop
relations with the United States based on the principles
of  equality  and  mutual  benefit.  The  Democratic
People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  considers  that  it  is  most
A/57/PV.13
reasonable  to  solve  pending  issues  between  itself  and
the United States through dialogue and negotiations.
We  had  therefore  already  agreed  to  the  United
States  suggestion  that  it  send  a  special  envoy  with  a
view  to  presenting  its  position  on  the  resumption  of
dialogue.  Furthermore,  during 
conversation
between  our  Foreign  Minister  and  United  States
Secretary of State at the 9th meeting of the Association
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Regional Forum
in  July,  we  again  welcomed 
the  United  States
willingness to send its special envoy to Pyongyang.
the 
The point is that trustful dialogue can be resumed
only  when  the  United  States  refrains  from  its  hostile
policy  against  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of
Korea and maintains a position of equality with us.
If the United States intends to have a substantial
dialogue with us on the principle of sovereign equality,
we  will  respond  accordingly.  This  will  facilitate
confidence-building  between  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea  and  the  United  States  and  open  up
the  prospect  for  hammering  out  a  fair  solution  to  the
pending issues.
that 
The United Nations should also do its due part for
the peace and security of Korea. In this regard, I wish
to  remind  you 
immeasurable  suffering  and
misfortune  were  imposed  on  the  Korean  peninsula
under  the  name  and  flag  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is
highly expected that the United Nations will soon seek
to redress the abnormal circumstances under which its
name has been misused for over 50 years.
We take pride in contributing positively to peace
and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  the  Northeast
Asian region and the world in general, even under the
constant threats  and  confrontations  that  have  persisted
for more than 50 years.
Our great leader, General Kim Jong Il, leads our
people  wisely  with  his  army-based  policies  aimed  at
defending  the  country,  building  a  powerful  nation  and
providing  for  a  favourable  environment  for  peace  and
reunification  in  Korea,  thanks  to  his  energetic  and
untiring external activities.
The respected General Kim Jong Il had a meeting
with  President  Putin  in  the  Far  East  region  of  the
Russian Federation in August this year, and is holding
talks  with  Prime  Minister  Junichiro  Koizumi  of  Japan
in  Pyongyang  today,  17  September.  These  contacts
serve as turning points in the development of relations
29
A/57/PV.13
between  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea
and Russia, the normalization of relations between the
Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea and Japan, and
also  serve  as  a  great  contribution  to  world  peace,
security  and  the  creation  of  a  new  and  just  world
structure.
and 
achieve  peace 
and 
the  Korean  peninsula  under 
Our people will,  in  the  future,  firmly  defend  our
the
socialist 
system 
reunification  of 
the
outstanding  army-based  leadership  of  the  respected
General  Kim  Jong  Il,  thus  fulfilling  our  mission  for
peace and security in the world.
Radical  changes  have 
the
international  arena  since  the  (cid:147)11  September  incident.(cid:148)
Attempts to expand the (cid:147)war against terrorism(cid:148) without
justifiable  reasons  continue  and  the  policy  of  power
supremacy has emerged, openly advocating a theory of
pre-emptive  nuclear  attack  beyond  the  doctrine  of
nuclear  deterrence,  thus  further  challenging  world
peace and security.
taken  place 
in 
Hunger, poverty and external debts have become
worse,  while  the  inequality  in  international  economic
and trade relations and the gap between the rich and the
poor have widened further. All these actions and events
in  international  relations  entirely  contravene  the  spirit
of the United Nations Charter.
My  delegation  considers  that  the  most  pressing
task before United Nations Members today is to respect
and  uphold  the  spirit  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations
Charter. Above all, the sovereignty and equality of all
countries  should  be  respected.  The  use  of  force,  the
application  of  coercive  measures  and,  in  particular,
unilateral  acts  should  not  be  allowed  in  international
relations.
To  this  end,  the  power  of  the  United  Nations
General Assembly should be decisively enhanced. The
General Assembly should be empowered to review the
issues concerning international peace and security and
to  approve  major  decisions  of  the  Security  Council  in
this  regard.  At  present,  the  General  Assembly  is  not
even  properly  carrying  out  its  intrinsic  power  as
stipulated in the United Nations Charter.
International  issues,  such  as  conflict  resolution,
disarmament,  terrorism  and  sustainable  development,
the  full
should  be  discussed  and  decided  with 
participation  of  all  United  Nations  Members, 
in
30
conformity  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
United Nations.
It 
is  also 
important 
that  democracy  and
impartiality be ensured in all United Nations activities
and  the  work  of  reforming  the  Security  Council,  in
particular,  is  undertaken  to  make  it  true  to  its  main
purpose.  The  Security  Council  should  be  reformed  in
such a way as to properly reflect present reality, where
almost  all  countries  have  become  United  Nations
Members, and fully ensure impartiality and democracy.
In  order  to  achieve  the  purposes  of  the  United
Nations, fair international economic and trade relations
should  be  established  and  the  right  to  development
respected.  Unless 
international
economic  system  is  redressed,  poverty  cannot  be
eliminated,  nor  can  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the
poor  be  removed,  nor  sustainable  development  for  all
be ensured.
the  present  unfair 
The Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea will,
as  ever,  make  all  efforts  to  uphold  and  achieve  the
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  on  the
basis  of 
independence,  peace  and
friendship.
ideas  of 
the 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolutions  3237  XXIX  of  22  November
1974,  43/177  of  15  December  1988,  and  52/250  of  7
July 1998, I now give the floor to the chairman of the
observer  delegation  of  Palestine,  His  Excellency  Mr.
Farouk Kaddoumi.
Mr.  Kaddoumi  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the
presidency  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the  General
Assembly of the United Nations. We are confident that
you  will  conduct  the  proceedings  of  this  session  with
great competence, thanks to your outstanding skills and
qualities.
I  should 
to  your
predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  who  presided  ably
over the fifty-sixth session of the General Assembly.
tribute  also 
to  pay 
like 
the  Secretary-General 
Let me also express my deep appreciation for the
efforts  of 
to  harmonize
international  relations  and  to  ensure  respect  for  the
principles  of  the  Charter  with  a  view  to  strengthening
international peace and security.
I  wish  also  to  welcome  Switzerland  and  Timor-
Leste to the United Nations.
We  have  agreed 
to 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
the  American  political
initiative that was put forward in 1991. At the Madrid
Conference,  several  agreements  were  entered  into  by
the 
(PLO),
representing the Palestinian people, and Israel. The aim
of 
the  commencement  of
negotiations between the two parties with a view to the
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  242
(1967)  and  338  (1973).  They  also  called  on  Israel  to
withdraw  from  the  Arab  territories  occupied  since
1967.
those  agreements  was 
A  deadline  of  five  years  was  set  for  those
negotiations.  The  clock  began  to  run  after  the  signing
of the Oslo Accords in 1993 in Washington, under the
auspices  of  the  previous  United  States  President  (cid:151)
President Clinton.
However,  successive  Israeli  Governments  have
refused  to  withdraw  from  the  occupied  Palestinian
territories  and  have  continued  to  deploy  Israeli  forces
there. This intransigence on the part of Israel highlights
its  goal:  the  continued  occupation  of  Palestinian
territories.
During  the  course  of  those  negotiations,  new
settlements  were  built,  187  altogether,  inhabited  by
some  370,000  settlers,  most  of  them  armed.  Recently,
Israel began building a wall along the line of the 1967
truce.  Israel  is  continuing  its  cruel  and  barbaric  acts
and carrying out its scorched-earth policy, with a view
to depriving the Palestinian people of their income and
means  of  subsistence.  During  the  past  two  years  of
conflict, agricultural production has dropped by 80 per
cent  and 
industrial  production  by  60  per  cent.
Unemployment  has  reached  65  per  cent,  and  63  per
cent of the population is living in poverty.
Israel  has  destroyed  public  institutions,  police
stations,  ports  and  airports.  More  than  1,350  houses
have been torn down, and  more than 3,000  businesses
and  industrial  concerns  in  the  occupied  territories  and
in Gaza have been demolished, an area of 5,800 square
kilometres.
The taxes that Israel collects, about $850 million,
which  should  have  been  paid  to  the  Palestinian
Authority,  have  been  kept  by  the  Israelis.  A  total  of
90,000 olive trees, out of 300,000, have been uprooted,
and the Palestinian infrastructure has been demolished.
The occupied territories were divided into 227 separate
cantons.  Trade  was  halted,  measures  were  taken  to
curtail  the  freedom  of  movement  of  people  and  of
A/57/PV.13
goods, and borders with Arab countries were closed. In
addition,  the  Israeli  authorities  have  placed  President
Arafat under house arrest.
These  arbitrary  measures  have  prompted  the
Palestinian people to pursue their heroic  resistance,  in
the  face  of  Israel(cid:146)s  various  lethal  weapons,  which  are
used to enforce the separation between the cantons. In
Bethlehem, in Gaza and in other cities, residential areas
have been bombed. Moreover,  many Palestinians have
been thrown into jail.
The  fact-finding  team  set  up  by  the  Security
Council  was  prevented  from  going  into  the  field  to
witness firsthand the suffering of the Palestinian people
at the hands of the Nazi Israeli occupation.
The  United  States  is  a  great  Power  and  bears  an
important  responsibility  vis-(cid:224)-vis  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  and  the  prevention  of
regional  conflict.  Moreover,  the  United  States  has
committed  itself  to  working  with  the  former  Soviet
Union, through the United Nations, to resolve conflicts
by  peaceful  means  and  to  eliminate  their  arsenals  of
weapons of mass destruction.
fruitful 
to  enhance 
This is a very important approach that enables the
United  Nations 
international
cooperation  among  States.  Should  that  approach  be
abandoned,  the  United  Nations  will  fail  to  develop
international cooperation and to  maintain international
peace  and  security.  The  use  of  force  in  the  context  of
intra-State  relations to resolve problems does not help
us in any way to uphold the purposes and principles of
the United Nations. On the contrary; it only gives rise
to  fear  and  doubt  among  the  States  Members  of  the
United Nations, especially developing countries, which
have always turned to the Organization to protect them.
The  peoples  of  the  world  are  looking  to  the
United  States  in  the  hope  that  that  major  Power  will
play  a  positive  and  neutral  role  in  international
relations and in the hope that it will always be a source
of technological and economic assistance.
It goes without saying that the commitment of the
United  States  to  the  strict  implementation  of  United
Nations  resolutions  (cid:151)  in  particular  those  of  the
Security  Council  (cid:151)  without  the  use  of  a  double
standard  strengthens  our  trust  in  the  United  Nations
and  reinforces  its  credibility  as  a  forum  for  the
resolution of international problems.
31
A/57/PV.13
Thus we are justified in asking ourselves whether
these  humanitarian  and  political  responsibilities  are
incumbent  on 
this  era  of
globalization. We  might ask ourselves why the United
States  is  threatening  to  use  force  against  Iraq,  when
sanctions have been imposed on that country for more
than 10 years.
the  United  States 
in 
Why  does  the  United  States  not  speak  of  the
elimination  of 
the  weapons  of  mass  destruction
possessed by Israel, which threaten the Arab States, as
was  noted  previously? 
the
Egyptian  high  dam,  even  though  a  peace  agreement
was  signed  between  Israel  and  Egypt  more  than  24
years  ago.  Mr.  Hans  Blix  has  stated  that  he  had  no
evidence 
Iraq  had  any  weapons  of  mass
destruction.
Israel  could  destroy 
that 
took  a  neutral  position. 
When  the  political  negotiations  began,  the  Arab
countries 
Israeli  Prime
Ministers  Rabin  and  Peres  visited  certain  Arab  States
and  an  attempt  was  made  to  normalize  Israeli-Arab
relations. When Yitzhak Rabin was killed in 1995 and
authority was handed over to Mr. Netanyahu, progress
towards peace was impeded. The Arab countries halted
the  process  of  normalizing  relations  with  Israel.
Nevertheless,  at  the  1996  Arab  Summit  they  said  that
peace  was  an  Arab  strategy 
that  would  not  be
abandoned. Despite five years of negotiations between
Israelis  and  Palestinians,  however,  expectations  were
not fulfilled.
Great  sacrifices  were  made  on  our  part.  During
the  Camp  David  summit,  an  aide  to  President  Clinton
denied  that  Barak  wanted  to  give  the  Palestinians  a
large part of Palestinian territory. Israel was to keep 10
per  cent  of  the  territory  along  the  Jordanian  border,
with three early-warning systems in the West Bank and
the establishment of a mutilated Palestinian State with
no sovereignty.
The  events  of  11  September  2001  led  to  a
humanitarian  catastrophe  that  shook  the  conscience  of
the  world.  All  countries  of  the  world,  including  Arab
and  Muslim  countries,  stood  in  solidarity  with  the
American  people  and  expressed  their  intention  to
combat  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  We  were  surprised,
however, that the United States Administration refused
to  acknowledge  that  the  Sharon  Government  was
perpetrating  acts  of  State  terrorism.  The  Arabs  put
forward  a  political  initiative  at  the  Arab  Summit  in
March, in the hope that they would be able to make an
32
to  ending 
effective  contribution 
the  Arab-Israeli
conflict  with  a  view  to  ratifying  a  peace  agreement
with Israel. This  Arab  initiative,  which  provided  for  a
withdrawal  by  Israel  from  lands  occupied  since  1967
and  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  with  Al-
Quds as its capital, was endorsed and welcomed by the
United States and the European States. It is not enough,
however, to merely welcome the initiative. We believe
that implementing it would make a political settlement
possible. Expressions of compassion and sympathy are
welcome  but  they  must  be  supported  by  concrete
actions  if  a  settlement  is  to  be  achieved.  The  Arab
initiative includes all the essential principles necessary
for  a  settlement,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the  Madrid  Agreement  and  the  principle  of  land  for
peace.
Security  Council  resolution  1397  (2002)  went
even  further  in  supporting  the  establishment  of  a
Palestinian  State  that  would  be  recognized  by  Israel.
This  was  accompanied  by  an  American  proposal.  If
Israel  rejects  this  comprehensive  and  fair  proposal,
how  much  longer  can  it  expect  to  continue  in  this
climate  of  animosity  towards  Arabs  and  constant
threats to their security? How long can Israel continue
to  occupy  Arab  territory  and  prevent  Palestinian
refugees  from  returning  home?  The  question  of
Palestine cannot be separated from the situation of the
Arab States, given all that the issue represents for them
and for their future.
Israel  must  end  the  acts  of  aggression  that  it
continues  to  perpetrate  against  Palestinians  and  their
towns.  The  Israeli  army  is  continuing  to  assassinate
civilians  and  police  and  security  officers.  Sharon  has
been described as a man of peace, and it has been said
that  Israel  has  a  right  to  self-defence,  even  as  it
continues  to  occupy  Arab  territories  and  commit
massacres.  The  situation  on  the  ground  defies  the
imagination; it is very difficult to find a way to justify
the  American  policy.  If  the  threat  of  terrorism  is
allowed  to  rule  our  lives,  the  world  will  become  a
battlefield.
In  conclusion,  we  and  the  other  Arab  countries
welcomed the American statement on the establishment
of  a  Palestinian  State.  We  reaffirm,  however,  that  the
borders  of 
the
demarcation  line  of  4  June  1967,  in  accordance  with
Council  resolutions.  Its  sovereignty  must  be  assured,
and  Israeli  forces  must  be  withdrawn  from  all  the
territory.  We  cannot  agree  to  any  temporary  borders.
that  State  should  be  based  on 
We want a lasting settlement in keeping with the Arab
initiative  put  forward  by  Prince  Abdullah  of  Saudi
Arabia (cid:151) an initiative that is in keeping with relevant
Security Council resolutions and with the principles of
the peace process.
We appreciate the role that the Quartet is playing
in  the  peace  process.  No  party  should  call  upon  the
Palestinians  alone  to  meet  their  demands.  The  Israeli
forces must be called upon to revise their strategy and
the Israeli side must end its assassinations and attacks
against  citizens  and  refrain  from  using  collective
economic sanctions, occupation and terrorism as a tool.
Israel must halt its ongoing assault, lift the siege
that has been imposed upon the Palestinian people and
withdraw  completely  from  the  occupied  territories  so
that  the  Palestinian  Authority  can  implement  the
promised reforms and hold elections in the West Bank
and  Gaza,  as  well  as  in  Al-Quds,  under  international
auspices. There should be  an international presence to
guarantee the protection of the Palestinian people. This
is  a  matter  of  urgency;  the  siege  that  is  impeding  the
daily life of our citizens must be lifted.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate for this meeting.
One delegation has asked to speak in exercise of
the right of reply. I remind members that statements in
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the
second intervention and should be made by delegations
from their seats.
Mr.  Eldon  (United  Kingdom):  I  should  like  to
take up two statements made in the general debate this
morning.  First,  I  would  like  to  respond  briefly  to  the
remarks about Gibraltar made today by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Spain. The long-standing position of
the  British  Government  on  this  matter  is  well  known.
We  will  continue  to  stand  by  the  commitment  to  the
people of Gibraltar set out in the preamble to the 1969
Constitution of Gibraltar, which enshrines the principle
of consent of the people of Gibraltar to any change in
sovereignty.  The  British  Government  shares  Spain(cid:146)s
view  that  issues  relating  to  Gibraltar  can  be  resolved
only through dialogue, such as that which we resumed
last year with Spain. Our aim remains to build a better
future for the people of Gibraltar.
A/57/PV.13
Secondly,  with  respect  to  the  statement  made  by
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  International  Trade
and  Worship  of  Argentina,  the  British  Government
welcomes the resolve of the Argentine Government to
engage in positive bilateral exchanges with the United
Kingdom concerning practical cooperation in the South
Atlantic.  My  Government  shares  this  resolve.  We
believe  that  such  exchanges  contribute  further  to  the
mutual  understanding  embodied  in  the  1999  Anglo-
Argentine  Joint  Statement.  Implementation  of  this
Statement,  which  covers  a  range  of  issues  concerning
the  South  Atlantic,  including  air  access,  fisheries
conservation  and  other  confidence-building  measures,
shows  that  the  United  Kingdom  and  Argentina  can
manage  our  differences  whilst  developing  cooperation
on  matters  of  common  interest.  We  have  continued  to
make steady progress in the past year.
However,  we  wish  to  recall  that  there  is  nothing
in  the  1999  Joint  Statement  that  compromises  the
position  of  the  United  Kingdom  in  relation  to  its
sovereignty  over  the  Falkland  Islands,  South  Georgia
and 
Islands.  The  British
Government  has  no  doubt  about  its  sovereignty  over
these territories and their surrounding maritime areas.
the  South  Sandwich 
The  elected  representatives  of  the  Islands  once
again  expressed  their  own  views  clearly  when  they
visited the United Nations for this year(cid:146)s debate in the
United  Nations  Committee  of  24  on  19  June.  They
asked  the  Committee  to  recognize  that  they,  like  any
other people, were entitled to exercise the right of self-
determination.  They  reiterated  that  the  people  of  the
Falkland  Islands  did  not  wish  for  any  change  in  the
status of the Islands. We fully support the right of self-
determination, as set out in paragraph 2 of Article 1 of
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  paragraph  4  of
the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration,  and  we
remain  committed  to  the  right  of  the  people  of  the
Falkland  Islands  to  determine  their  own  future.  There
will  be  no  change  in  the  sovereignty  of  the  Falkland
Islands unless the islanders wish it.
the 
This  year,  we  commemorate 
twentieth
anniversary of the 1982 South Atlantic conflict and we
are  confident  that  our  relations  with  Argentina  will
continue to develop in the spirit of reconciliation which
marks  this  occasion.  We  believe  that  cooperation  with
Argentina on matters of mutual interest will enable us
to  manage  our  differences,  whilst  assisting  in  the
development  of  confidence  and  trust  in  the  South
Atlantic.
33
A/57/PV.13
Mr.  Cappagli  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
The  Argentine  Republic  listened  attentively  to  the
statement just made by the representative of the United
Kingdom  and  wishes  to  affirm  the  concepts  expressed
by our Minister for Foreign Affairs, International Trade
and Worship in the statement he made this morning in
the course of the general debate.
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
34
