United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
8th plenary meeting
Sunday, 15 September 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hussein
(Ethiopia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
guided  the  affairs  of  the  fifty-sixth  session  with  great
skill and commitment.
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo,
President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
hear  an  address  by  the  President  and  Commander-in-
Chief of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  Federal  Republic  of
Nigeria.
President 
Mr.  Olusegun  Obasanjo, 
and
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the
Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted  into
the General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Olusegun  Obasanjo,
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of 
the  Armed
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
of 
behalf 
President  Obasanjo:  On 
the
Government  and  people  of  Nigeria,  I 
join  other
delegations in congratulating Mr. Kavan on his election
as  president  of  the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the  United
Nations General Assembly. I have no doubt that, under
his  able  leadership,  the  work  of  this  session  will  be
guided 
to  a  successful  conclusion.  Let  me  also
acknowledge  the  work  done  by  his  predecessor,  who
The  tireless  efforts  of  our  Secretary-General,
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on  behalf  of  our  Organization  must
not 
profuse
appreciation.
unnoticed.  He 
deserves 
our 
go 
the 
I  welcome 
newest  member 
of  our
organization,  Switzerland.  I  have  no  doubt  that  this
nation will bring unique perspectives to the work of the
United  Nations,  which  will  enhance  the  attainment  of
its objectives.
It 
is 
that 
regrettable 
international 
terrorism
continues  to  pose  a  threat  to  international  peace  and
security.  There  is  a  need  for  reviewed  and  concerted
efforts  on  our  part  to  confront  the  menace  until  the
threat  is  halted.  The  various  international  instruments
aimed at combating terrorism deserve our full support.
Nigeria  remains  deeply  committed  to  the  fight  against
terrorism. We are committed to the early elaboration of
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
Despite  the  best  intentions  and  efforts  of  the
international community, a scourge of a different nature
continues  to  threaten  many  parts  of  the  world.  I  refer
here  to  the  numerous  theatres  of  conflict  around  the
world. People continue to expend valuable energies and
resources  in  fighting  each  other,  often  for  causes  that
are  unproductive.  The  international  community  has  a
responsibility, not only to design appropriate strategies
for  a  measured  and  early  response  to  snuff  out  these
conflicts,  but  also 
to  find  ways  and  means  of
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-178. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-59013 (E)
*0259013*
A/57/PV.8
addressing  their  root  causes,  and  managing  them  to  a
peaceful  conclusion.  Only  then  will  true  peace  and
stability reign in the world.
While it is true that many of these conflicts have
their  root  causes  in  poverty,  ignorance,  real  and
perceived injustice and the  absence  of basic  freedoms,
it  is  equally  evident  that  they  are  often  exacerbated,
especially in the case of African conflicts, by the influx
of  small  arms  into  the  continent.  Illicit  trade  in  small
arms  and  light  weapons  has  continued  unabated,  with
disastrous 
developing
countries. We are deeply concerned that manufacturing
countries  are  not  doing  enough 
the
proliferation  of  these  weapons  through  appropriate
safeguards.  We,  therefore,  call  on  the  international
community  to  consider  elaborating  a  legally  binding
international  instrument  to  control  the  supply  of  these
weapons to non-State actors.
consequences 
for  many 
limit 
to 
The  United  Nations  peacekeeping  role  is  an
invaluable  one  in  the  global effort to  help  contain  and
resolve  conflicts  around  the  world.  It  deserves  to  be
sustained  and  strengthened.  Nigeria  is  proud  to  be  an
active 
and
peacemaking  effort.  We  remain  committed  to  this
responsibility 
that  we  are  our
brother’s keeper and in the knowledge that there can be
no development without peace and stability.
the  conviction 
peacekeeping 
participant 
this 
in 
in 
The situation in the Middle East continues to pose
a serious threat to international peace and security. We
reaffirm our commitment to the right of the Palestinian
people  to  their own  independence,  as  well  as the  right
of  the  State  of  Israel  to  exist  within  safe  and  secure
international borders,  consistent  with  Security  Council
resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973).  We  therefore
welcome the vision and the engagement of the Quartet,
as  well  as  other  sponsors  of  the  Middle  East  peace
process. I urge the parties in the Middle East conflict to
cooperate  with  the  international  community  and  give
the  ongoing  peace  process  a  chance.  That  becomes
imperative  because  we  cannot  afford  a  situation  of
protracted conflict in the subregion.
Nigeria  notes  with  concern  the  threat  that  the
situation  in  Iraq  poses  to  international  peace  and
security.  We  hold  the  view  that  any  further  escalation
of  tension  would  lead  to  very  serious  consequences.
Nigeria,  therefore,  urges  the  parties  concerned  to
exercise  caution  and  restraint  and  that  the  matter  be
2
resolved  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Charter of the United Nations.
There  is  no  shortage  of  international  good  will
and  commitment  to  development.  Various  declarations
and programmes eloquently address the need for rapid,
durable  and  sustainable  development,  as  well  as  the
desire  for  the  equitable  distribution  of  the  world’s
wealth.  In  spite  of  this  good  will  and  good  intentions
on  the  part  of  the  international  community,  more  than
half of humanity lives in abject poverty and ignorance.
For  many  countries  in  Africa,  hunger  and  disease
remain 
rooted.  Human
development indices  for  some  of  the poorest  countries
are, indeed, unflattering for a  world that is  so rich but
with resources so unevenly distributed.
pervasive 
deeply 
and 
It is our conviction that urgent, concrete action is
required, if the lofty goals we have set for ourselves in
the Millennium Declaration to make the world a better
place  are  to  be  realized.  Many  developing  countries
require assistance from the international community in
the  form  of  increased  official  development  assistance
and  foreign  direct  investment  flows  and  efforts  to
alleviate  their  excruciating  debt  burden  and  enable
them  to  develop  their  human  and  material  resource
base.
Africa remains committed to the attainment of the
goals  of  the  Millennium  Declaration.  In  that  regard,  I
am  pleased  to  state  that  Africa  is  seeking  to  lift  itself
by its own bootstraps, through the New Partnership for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  As  members  are
aware,  NEPAD  is  designed  to  address,  in  a  sustained
and  coordinated  way,  many  of  the  developmental
problems associated with Africa’s underdevelopment.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  support  that  NEPAD
has  so  far  received  from  the  international  community.
The  latest  evidence  of  this  support  is  the  outcome  of
the  recent  meeting  of  the  Group  of  8  in  Kananaskis,
Canada,  towards  the  implementation  of  the  Action
Plan.  It  is  hoped  that  the  United  Nations  high-level
segment  on  NEPAD  would  record greater  successes in
the much expected endorsement of that initiative by the
international community.
This  and  other  programmes  designed  to  improve
the  living  conditions  of  the  majority  of  humanity  may
not  yield  the  desired  results  if  one  of  the  greatest
dangers  facing  humanity  today  is  not  addressed  with
the commitment and urgency it deserves. I am speaking
here of the HIV/AIDS pandemic that continues to bring
havoc,  misery 
and  hopelessness  on  humanity,
especially in Africa where the pandemic is threatening
to  wipe  out  entire  generations.  For  example,  it  is
estimated that out of the 36 million people living  with
HIV/AIDS worldwide, 75 per cent of them are in sub-
Saharan Africa. The consequent toll on the human and
material  resources  of  one  of  the  most  impoverished
regions  of  the  world  cannot  be  overemphasized.  Not
only  is  the  productive  population  of  Africa  being
systematically  decimated  by  HIV/AIDS,  but  efforts  to
combat  this  and  other  diseases,  such  as  malaria,
tuberculosis  and  other  infectious  diseases,  are  also
diverting  scarce  resources  away  from  development
programmes  and  projects.  Massive  assistance 
is
therefore required from the international community to
complement the efforts of individual countries.
Nigeria  will  spare  no  effort  to  combat  these
scourges.  While  we  are  fully  aware  of  the  insidious
nature  of  all  of  these  pestilences,  the  spread  of  HIV/
AIDS constitutes by far our greatest source of concern.
For that reason, Nigeria is active in contribution to and
management of the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS.
to 
We  have  also  established  a  national  agency  for
the prevention and  control of  HIV/AIDS  to coordinate
the  Government’s  multisectoral  approach 
the
prevention,  control  and  management  of  the  pandemic.
We  pledge  to  continue  to  do  our  best  in  this  human
struggle  against 
force,
especially  by  generating  awareness  in  the  country
about its prevention and spread. We continue, however,
to  count  on  the  international  community  to  find  cures
for these diseases, as well as to give assistance to many
of our  countries in these  efforts. The  leadership of the
United  Nations  is  critical  to  the  success  of  these
efforts.
this  powerful,  destructive 
the 
to  draw 
international 
I  wish  once  again 
the  Assembly’s
attention  to  the  pernicious  issue  of  corruption  and  its
manifestation  at 
level.  We  have
always  maintained  that  it  takes  two  to  tango  and  that
the  instances  of  corruption  in  developing  countries
have  often  been  supported  by  encouragement,  and
inducements  and  the  provision  of  safe  havens  by  the
industrialized  countries.  Thus,  we  are 
strongly
advocating that efforts to establish a convention against
corruption  need  to  be  expedited,  so  that  we  can  have
global action against corruption.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations  has
served humanity well. It has come a long way since its
A/57/PV.8
in  1945.  It  remains 
humble  beginnings 
the  only
organization  to  which  all  nations,  in  varying  degrees
and  ways,  are  associated  and  committed.  Humanity  is
the better for the existence of the  United  Nations. The
Organization  provides  the  basis  for  our  collective
security, international cooperation and solidarity, which
are essential for human coexistence. We must therefore
continue  to  fine-tune  its  implementations  to  make  it
more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  times  and  to
prepare  it  for  the  challenges  of  the  future,  some  of
which  could  not  have  been  envisaged  by  the  founding
Members.
that 
there 
I  am  pleased  to  note 
is  general
agreement  among  us  on  the  need  to  reform  the
Organization  so  as  to  make  it  more  democratic  in
structure,  more  efficient  in  management  and  more
manageable in size. Nigeria is a major proponent of the
envisaged  reforms,  especially 
the
structure and working methods of the Security Council.
Nigeria  envisages  a  new  Security  Council  in  which  it
will  play 
its  geopolitical
circumstances  and  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first
century.  In  this  regard,  we  are  willing  to  contribute  to
efforts  and  stand  ready  to  support  others  of  like  mind
and circumstances in this endeavour.
role  destined  by 
those  regarding 
the 
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly, 
the  President  and
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the
Federal Republic of Nigeria for his statement.
I  wish 
thank 
to 
Mr.  Olusegun  Obasanjo, 
and
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the
Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted  from
the General Assembly Hall.
President 
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by the Right Honourable Pakalitha Bethuel
Mosisili, Prime Minister and Minister for Defence
and Public Service of the Kingdom of Lesotho
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency 
the  Right
Honourable Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the
Kingdom of Lesotho.
The  Right  Honourable  Pakalitha  Bethuel
for
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
3
A/57/PV.8
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in
welcoming  His  Excellency 
the  Right  Honourable
Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  the  Prime  Minister  and
Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of 
the
Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  and  invite  him  to  address  the
General Assembly.
Mr. Mosisili (Lesotho): My delegation associates
itself  with  compliments  extended  to  the  President
following his election to the presidency of this session,
to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  and  to  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan.
the  Swiss  Confederation 
The  admissions  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of
East  Timor  and  of 
to
membership of the Organization are a joyous occasion
for  my  delegation.  We  welcome 
indeed
congratulate  those  two  countries  and  nations  as  they
join our family of nations.
and 
As  we  meet  here  today,  Lesotho  and  some  other
countries  of  the  southern  African  subregion  are  in  the
grip  of  a  most  devastating  and  unprecedented  food
shortage,  as  a  result  of  a  combination  of  floods,
unseasonable  frost  and  drought,  consequent  upon
climatic  changes  that  have  hit  the  region  in  the  recent
past.
On 19 April of this year, when the Government of
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  declared  a  state  of  famine,  it
was  evident  that  over  half  a  million  people,  out  of  a
total  of  2.2  million,  faced  a  severe  food  crisis.  Since
then,  efforts  have  been  made  at  the  national  level  to
address the problem.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity,  on  behalf  of  the
Government and the people of the Kingdom of Lesotho
and, indeed, on my own behalf, to express our gratitude
for  the  rapid  response  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
specialized  agencies  and  programmes  and  that  of  the
donor community to the crisis facing my country.
HIV/AIDS, which has emerged as a  major health
and  development  threat,  continues  to  be  a  source  of
grave  concern  in  my  country.  Most  of  those  who  are
infected  are  between  the  ages  of  15  and  45  and
constitute 
in
Lesotho.
the  potential  and  active  workforce 
4
Of  equally  great  concern  is  the  corrosive  effect
that  HIV/AIDS  has on  the  family  structure  and  on  the
social  fabric  of  our  society.  We  now  have  a  large
number of orphans and child-headed households. Those
who  are  sick  not  only  lack  adequate  counselling  and
medicine but also lack care and support.
My delegation therefore makes a special appeal to
the 
international  community 
to  provide  adequate
financial  support  for  the  African  countries,  in  order  to
arrest and, indeed, to redress the spread of HIV/AIDS.
In  this  regard,  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  of
the  United  Nations  in  establishing  the  Global  Fund  to
tuberculosis  and  malaria  are  most
fight  AIDS, 
welcome. 
needs
unconditional support in many other areas, particularly
in  the  sectors  of  agriculture,  health,  nutrition,  water
and  sanitation  and  education.  Undoubtedly,  there  is  a
strong  link  between  poverty  and  the  scourge  of  HIV/
AIDS.
Indeed,  Africa 
a  whole 
as 
and 
in 
and 
The  Monterrey  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development,  the  Doha  Ministerial  Conference  on
trade 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  provided  useful  forums  for  discussing
steps  that  must  be  taken  to  remove  obstacles  to
economic  growth 
sustainable  development,
particularly 
the  developing  countries.  We  are
hopeful  that  commitments  made  by  our  cooperating
partners mark a beginning of the process of helping the
least developed countries (LDCs) to translate goals and
targets  of  major  global  conferences  and  summits  into
concrete  actions.  My  delegation  reiterates  that  the
marginalization of LDCs can be ended only if they are
assisted 
the  global
economy.
integrating  profitably 
into 
in 
Africa took a very bold and decisive step recently
in  Durban,  South  Africa,  in  launching  the  African
Union. There is no doubt, as many may have observed,
that while the road to this Union was strewn with many
obstacles,  there  is  now  some  light  at  the  end  of  the
tunnel.  This  hope  is  premised  on  the  principles  that
have  guided  us  in  the  last  thirty-nine  years  of  the
Organization  of  African  Unity  (OAU).  The  Africa  of
today  is  committed  to  the  principles  of  democracy,
stability, peace, security, good governance and the rule
of law. Above all, modern Africa is committed to good
economic  management  because 
the
mismanagement of our economies that has often led to
conflicts on the continent.
indeed, 
is, 
it 
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD)  is  a  home-grown  African  strategy  and  an
African Union programme for Africa’s development. It
is  a  commitment  by  African  leaders  to  eradicate
poverty and to place the continent on a path of  lasting
growth  and  development.  My  delegation,  therefore,
appeals for more international support for NEPAD. We
believe 
international
community  in  supporting  NEPAD,  and  the  role  of  the
United Nations in the coordination and synchronization
of  activities  related  to  ensuring  its  success,  would
indeed  provide 
for  Africa’s
development.
the  role  of 
the  entire 
impetus 
that 
a 
fresh 
The  right  of  a  people  to  self-determination  is  a
human  right  and  a  fundamental  principle  enshrined  in
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  peoples  of
Western  Sahara  and  Palestine,  therefore,  deserve  no
less.  Hence,  my  delegation  urges 
to
emancipate  these  nations  be  strengthened  and  speeded
up.
that  efforts 
Lesotho  is  gratified  that  one  of  the  oldest  and
longest running conflicts in Africa has finally come to
an  end  with  the  signing  of  the  ceasefire  in  Luanda,
Angola,  early  this  year,  by  the  representatives  of  the
National  Union  for  the  Total  Independence  of  Angola
(UNITA)  and  the  Government  of  Angola.  However,
Lesotho  and  other  Southern  African  Development
Community 
the
international  community  at  large,  are  alarmed  by  the
harsh  social  and  economic  conditions  that  confront
internally displaced persons and refugees who return to
their homes in Angola.
(SADC)  countries,  as  well  as 
We  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  entire  United
Nations system to address this situation. We are of the
view  that  a  lot  more  still  needs  to  be  done  for  the
Angolan  people,  including  the  provision  of  significant
additional resources as called for by the United Nations
Secretary-General, in order to address the humanitarian
needs of the people of Angola.
Despite the temporary disruption  of the  ceasefire
negotiations,  my  delegation  is  convinced  that  the
Machakos Protocol signed between the Government of
the  Sudan  and 
the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation
Movement  and  Army,  remains  a  viable  framework  for
the realization of durable peace in the Sudan. We urge
the warring parties to return to the negotiation table in
earnest and in good faith.
A/57/PV.8
to  congratulate 
the  Governments  of 
The  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
Congo has also been a source of concern to us all. We
wish 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo,  Rwanda  and  Uganda
for the  signing  of  the peace  agreements,  which  should
pave  the  way  for  the  withdrawal  of  troops  from  the
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo.  We  believe  that  this
will  also  ensure  that  the  security  concerns  of  the
neighbouring  countries  are  adequately  addressed,
whilst  at  the  same  time  creating  conditions  that  are
conducive for the Congolese people to live in peace in
their own country.
Terrorism  has  become  one  of  the  most  pressing
concerns  of  the  international  community  in  recent
times.  The  Government  of  Lesotho  has  joined  other
peace-loving  members  of  the  international  community
in waging war against this heinous crime.
The  Government  of  Lesotho  is  committed  to  the
full  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution
1373  (2001),  and,  despite  financial  and  technical
constraints,  we  will  continue 
to  discharge  our
obligations, as stipulated in that resolution.
The  shocking  images  of  atrocities  perpetrated  in
Rwanda  and  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  will  forever  be
embedded in our minds. They have served as a painful
reminder  to  the  international  community  that  such
crimes  should  never  go  unaccounted  for  and  their
perpetrators  unpunished.  In  that  spirit  we  hail  the
landmark  agreement  reached  between 
the  United
Nations  and  the  Government  of  Sierra  Leone  to
establish  an 
the
prosecution of those responsible for the serious decade-
long  crimes  against  humanity  committed 
the
territory of Sierra Leone. We  hope that  the creation of
this special court will contribute greatly to the process
of national reconciliation and healing, as well as to the
restoration and maintenance of peace in Sierra Leone.
special  court 
independent 
for 
in 
The  Government  of  Lesotho  reveres  the  coming
into  force  of  the  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal
Court,  a  momentous  period  when  the  countries  of  the
world  affirmed  their  intolerance  of  those  who  commit
crimes  against  humanity  with  impunity.  We  therefore
invite those States that have not yet done so, to become
party  to  the  Statute,  so  that  we  may  embark  on  this
noble but difficult pursuit in solidarity.
I  should  not  conclude  this  statement  without
making  reference  to  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council.  The  process  of  democratization  is,
5
A/57/PV.8
indeed,  very  difficult, and  yet  inevitable.  It  essentially
involves a lot of compromise and understanding on the
part of those who cherish and uphold the basic tenets of
democracy  and  equality  of  States.  My  delegation
therefore wishes to reiterate its concern that this organ
of  the  United  Nations,  which  is  charged  with  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  has
itself  not  yet  moved  to  be  more  inclusive  and  more
representative. Here again, efforts need to be redoubled
and the pace accelerated.
The Acting President: On behalf of  the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and
Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of 
the
Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  was  escorted  from  the
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Koffi  Panou,  the  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs and Cooperation of Togo.
Mr.  Panou  (Togo)  (spoke 
in  French):  The
preservation  of  international  peace  and  security,  the
fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,  the  eradication
of  poverty  throughout  the  world,  the  promotion  of
sustainable  development  and  the  establishment  of  a
more  just  and  more  human  international  order  are  the
challenges  that  we  must  strive  to  meet,  primarily
through  the  irreplaceable  framework  of  the  United
Nations.  We  are  meeting  once  again  to  find  new
perspectives  in  the  light  of  the  evolving  international
situation in order to provide new impetus to our actions
by coming together around common objectives.
Before  continuing  my  statement,  allow  me,  on
behalf of the delegation of Togo and on my own behalf,
to  address  our  warmest  congratulations  to  Mr.  Kavan
on his election as President of the General Assembly at
its  fifty-seventh  session.  His  election  to  that  high  post
is  a  tribute  not  only  to  him  personally,  but  also  to  his
great and  beautiful country. I assure  him  of  the  fullest
cooperation  of  my  country  towards  the  success  of  his
mission.
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  to  his
predecessor  our  full  gratitude  for  the  effective  way  in
which he led the work of the previous session.
6
To  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  works
tirelessly  to  strengthen  peace  and  security  throughout
the  world,  we  reiterate  our  high  appreciation  of  his
commitment and dedication.
I  congratulate  Switzerland  and  Timor-Leste  on
their admission into the great United Nations family.
Democracy,  respect  for  fundamental  freedoms
and  human  rights  and  good  governance  are  factors  in
development  and  peace  and  values  to  which  Togo  has
long adhered and to which we are deeply attached. It is
in the spirit that we must consider the political reforms
that were launched 15 years ago at the initiative of our
Head  of  State.  These  reforms  seek  to  build  a  peaceful
democracy  based  on  the  widest  possible  national
consensus  and  rooted  in  the  historical  and  socio-
cultural realities of our country.
Today,  our  efforts  have  led  to  the  establishment
and  effective  operation  of  almost  all  the  institutions
called for in the Constitution of the Fourth Republic, to
the restoration of State authority and security and to the
revitalization  of 
the  national  economy.  We  have
achieved  these  results  despite  the  difficulties  that
hindered the process of democratization as a result of a
poorly  begun  transition,  and  despite  all  kinds  of
manoeuvres  and  obstacles  constantly  set  up  by  an
unhelpful  opposition.  Priority  has  been  placed  above
all  on  the  continuation  of  political  reforms  to  ensure
that  they  are  undertaken  in  a  climate  of  restored  calm
and ongoing concertation among all the political forces
of our nation.
It  was in this context  that,  at the  initiative of  the
Head of  State,  Mr.  Gnassingbé Eyadema,  we  launched
an  inter-Togolese  dialogue  among  all  the  country’s
principal  political  actors  that  led  to  the  signing  of  a
framework 
The
implementation  of 
the
establishment  of  a  dialogue  between  the  Government
and the opposition on such essential political questions
as  the  organizational  modalities  of  early  legislative
elections.
July 
in 
agreement 
1999. 
allowed 
agreement 
that 
It  was  the  will  of  the  Head  of  State  and  of  the
Government  to  ensure  that  these  elections,  open  to  all
political groups without exception, should take place in
a  climate  of  peace  and  security,  with  the  necessary
guarantees  of  transparency  and  legality.  It  is  also  our
aim  that,  at  the  completion  of  this  electoral  process,  a
new  phase  should  begin  in  our  country’s  political  life
with the revitalization of a National Assembly in which
political groups that wish to be represented can be so.
All  of 
these  achievements,  which  strengthen
political  pluralism  in  Togo,  deserve  the  support  and
encouragement  of  our  partners,  particularly  those  in
Europe,  with  a  view  to  normalizing  our  relations  of
cooperation. Unfortunately, that has  not  been  the  case.
As  I  stressed  a  year  ago  from  this  very  rostrum,  the
people of Togo do not deserve the treatment they have
received.  It  is  now  clear  that  the  rash  imposition  of
sanctions as a means of political pressure entails limits
beyond  which  such  measures  become  ineffective  and
run counter to morality and to the duty of international
solidarity.
I  wish once  again to  launch  an  urgent  appeal  for
the resumption of the cooperation that Togo has a right
to expect from the international community as an act of
and 
solidarity, 
support 
the
indisputable  efforts 
that  have  been  made  by  my
Government  towards  the  development  of  the  country
and the consolidation of the bases of our democracy in
a climate of peace, stability and national harmony.
encouragement 
for 
Mrs.  Ferrero-Waldner  (Austria),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
It is well known that we in Togo have made peace
that  no
and  national  security  our  credo,  given 
for  sustainable  development  can  be
undertaking 
successfully  carried  out  if  the  recourse  to  violence
prevails over dialogue, concertation and mutual respect
and if the world continues to face such terrorist acts as
the  tragedy  of  11  September  2001.  Those  terrible
events,  which  are  still  vivid  in  our  minds,  require  us,
individually  and  collectively,  to  respond  appropriately
to the threats represented by terrorism. Togo, which has
been  a 
terrorist  aggression,
understands the importance of the challenge and spares
no  effort  in  assuming  its  share  of  the  responsibility  in
this struggle.
repeated  victim  of 
to 
We  must here  welcome the speed  with  which the
United  Nations  has  reacted 
this  problem  and
contributed to the emergence of an acute awareness  of
the  phenomenon  and  the  dangers  it  entails  for  all
mankind.  Today,  as  was  the  case  a  year  ago,  it  is
imperative  that  we  recognize  the  urgency  and  need  to
pursue  this  campaign.  It  is  clear  that  we  must  seek
together the  factors  that  will  contribute  to  maintaining
peace in all its dimensions.
A/57/PV.8
Yes,  crises  and  armed  conflicts  still  afflict  the
world, unfortunately, in Africa and elsewhere. While it
may be true that some glimmers of hope have emerged
in  Africa  with  the  resolution  of  the  conflict  between
Ethiopia and Eritrea and with respect to the settlement
of  other  crises,  the  situation  remains  alarming.  It  is
alarming in the Great Lakes region and the Mano River
region,  which is again experiencing a genuine security
problem, with major humanitarian consequences.
Whether  we  are  talking  about  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Mano  river  region,  the
Sudan, Somalia or any other country affected by crises,
we reaffirm that only dialogue and negotiation can lead
to  peace  and  ensure  the  lasting  settlement  of  disputes.
We therefore urge the parties to such crises and armed
conflicts  to  be  more  courageous  and  demonstrate
greater  political  will  so  as  to  give  peace  a  chance
through  negotiating  processes  already  under  way  and
by 
the
that  have  already  been
provisions  of  agreements 
signed.
In 
recent
announcement of the withdrawal, beginning next week,
of  Rwandan  troops  from  the  eastern  part  of  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  we  hope  that
the implementation of this decision will strengthen the
process under way.
respecting  and  effectively 
implementing 
this 
respect,  we  welcome 
the 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  also  remains
worrying. We must find a solution to the vicious circle
of  violence  —  violence  breeding  violence.  Togo  has
always stressed that violence can lead only to bitterness
and resentment and that it further perpetuates violence.
This  cannot  be  said  enough:  dialogue  and  negotiation
are  the  only  means  that  should  be  used  to  settle
disputes.  We  therefore  strongly  urge  both  Palestinians
and  Israelis  to  end  the  vicious  circle  of  violence  and
immediately  take  up  negotiations  with  a  view  to
achieving a just, comprehensive and final settlement of
the  question  of  Palestine,  which  is  at  the  heart  of  the
conflict 
the  Middle  East.  Of  course,  such  a
settlement  would  require  recognition  of  the  legitimate
rights of the Palestinian people, including their right to
a  viable  Palestinian  State.  But  it  would  also  entail  the
recognition  of  the  equally  legitimate  rights  of  the
Israeli  people  to  live  in  peace  and  complete  security
within internationally recognized borders.
in 
This  session  began  just  a  few  days  after  the
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
conclusion  of 
7
A/57/PV.8
Development,  at  which  the  international  community
stressed  more  than  ever  before  the  need  to  protect
humankind and the natural world. Now more than ever
we  must  protect  humankind 
its  multifaceted
character and the environment in all of its variety.
in 
I am pleased to note, too, that this session  of  the
General Assembly is taking place during a historic time
for  our  continent  of  Africa.  Indeed,  two  years  ago,  on
12 July 2000, at Lomé, Togo, African countries laid the
groundwork  for  a  new  Africa  by  adopting,  before  the
whole  world,  the  Constitutive  Act  of  the  African
Union.  The  African  heads  of  State  or  Government
solemnly 
continent-wide
organization at Durban in July, thereby translating into
reality  their  determination  to  shape  a  new  destiny  for
Africa.
launched 
new 
the 
Some  might  be  tempted  to  say  that,  despite  the
establishment  of  the  African  Union,  nothing  decisive
will  be  done  and  that  the  continent  will  still  be  trying
to  find  itself  while  stagnating  in  underdevelopment.  It
is  true  that,  given  the  current  economic  and  social
situation,  such  pessimism  could  be  warranted.  Indeed,
our continent of Africa is still the principal victim of an
economic order that is out of balance and unfair — one
that  all  too  often  deprives  it  of  the  fruits  of  its  own
labour.
that  benefit 
Unstable  commodity  prices,  yearly  increases  in
the  price  of  crucial  capital  goods,  debt,  limited  access
to  the  markets  of  industrialized  countries  for  our
finished  and  semi-finished  goods  and  the  competition
with which our products have to contend as a result of
the export subsidy policies of certain rich countries —
policies 
industries  —  are
seriously hampering the development of our countries.
Today more than ever it is vital to ask how Africa
can  reconcile  the  repayment  of  its  debt  with  the
implementation 
and
development  goals.  Turning 
the  current  situation
around  is  a  task  that  we  must  undertake  through
reflection and action.
their  own 
economic 
growth 
its 
of 
The  establishment  of  a  new  structure  —  the
African Union — marks a decisive turning point in the
history of our continent, which, more than ever before,
international
needs 
the 
community 
development
programmes.  We  are  aware  that  Africa  cannot  rise  to
the  challenge  of  growth  and  development  unless  it
becomes  organized  to  mobilize  and  make  the  best  use
invaluable  support  of 
carrying 
the 
its 
out 
in 
8
its 
of 
resources  using  external  aid  only  as  a
complement to  its  own  efforts.  We earnestly  hope  that
the  consolidation  of  various  subregional  organizations
for  economic  integration, together  with  the  synergistic
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development,  will  provide  Africa  with  the  means  to
achieve its ambitions.
In conclusion, I should like to stress that the new
international  context  and  the  multidimensional  nature
of  the  problems  to  be  faced  mean  that  we  must  work
with  greater  determination  and  solidarity  within  the
United  Nations  in  order  to  push  back  insecurity,
poverty  and  misery.  In  this  regard,  we  must  consider
providing 
the
wherewithal and the increased resources to enable it to
achieve  peace  and  economic  and  social  development
for our peoples.
shared  Organization  with 
this 
That  is  the  price  to  be  paid  for  the  future  of
humankind.  I  earnestly  hope  that  the  United  Nations
will,  more  than  ever  before,  become  the  ideal  tool  to
implement  our  ideals  of  peace,  justice,  progress  and
liberty for the benefit of our peoples.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Shaikh  Mohammed  Bin  Mubarak  Al-
Khalifa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bahrain.
Shaikh  Mohammed  Bin  Mubarak  Al-Khalifa
(Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic): I should like at the outset
to sincerely congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his election
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
seventh  session. I  should  also like  to  express  my  deep
appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,
Foreign  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Korea,  for  his
tireless  efforts  in  conducting  the  proceedings  of  the
fifty-sixth  session,  as  well  as  of  the  twenty-seventh
special session of the Assembly, on children.
I should also like to express our deep appreciation
to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  continued
efforts to enhance the role of the United Nations and to
enable  it  to  achieve  the  noble  and  lofty  objectives  for
which it was created.
Furthermore, 
I  am  pleased 
to  extend  my
congratulations  to  the  Swiss  Confederation  on  its
having  joined  the  Organization.  I  would  like  also  to
congratulate East Timor on attaining its independence.
It is also my pleasure to welcome the establishment of
the African Union, the successor to the Organization of
African Unity.
This 
session  was 
convened  on 
first
anniversary of 11 September, an event that terrified the
international 
human
conscience  and  unified  international  efforts  to  face  up
to  an  enemy  that  has  no  religion,  ethnicity,  race  or
nationality. That enemy is terrorism.
community, 
shocked 
the 
the 
On this painful anniversary, it is incumbent upon
us  to  again  extend  our  condolences  and  sympathy  to
the  United  States  of  America  and  its  friendly  people,
and  to  the  families  of  the  victims  everywhere,  and  to
condemn terrorism  in all  its forms  and  manifestations.
We  affirm  our  support  for  all  international  efforts  that
seek to combat its elements and to uproot it.
In  line  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
United  Nations  Charter  and  with  international  efforts,
the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  has  sought,  since  attaining
independence,  to  build  a  modern  State  and  a  civil
society  in  which  the  human  being  is  the  focal  point.
Such  a  human  being  would  be  prepared  and  qualified
to  cope  with 
the  political,  economic  and  social
requirements of modern life.
Moreover,  taking  firm  and  confident  steps,  the
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  affirms  its  commitment  to  the
development  and  modernization  process  taking  place
under the leadership of His Majesty Shaikh Hamad Bin
Isa  Al-Khalifa,  King  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain.  My
country  was  proclaimed  a  constitutional  monarchy
following  a plebiscite  on  our  National  Action  Charter,
designed to promote democratic and constitutional  life
in  Bahrain.  The  municipal  elections  in  May  2002,  in
which  women  participated  both  as  voters  and  as
candidates, were a success; preparations are now under
way  for  parliamentary  elections,  which  are  to  take
place in October.
The  Government  and  the  people  have  made  a
concerted  effort  to  ensure  success  in  the  democratic
and developmental process, as set out in the Kingdom’s
Constitution  and  in  its  policies  and  programmes  in  all
fields.  In  this  regard,  the  Kingdom  has  acceded  to  the
Convention  on 
the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination  against  Women.  Civic  activities  have
been  enhanced  and  the  number  of  non-governmental
organizations  has  risen.  These  have  been  promoted  so
that  all  the  people  of  Bahrain  may  participate  in
expanding  national  efforts  to  ensure  the  well-being  of
the  people  and  respect  for  human  rights  in  all  civil,
political, economic, social and cultural areas.
A/57/PV.8
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  takes  pride  in  these
achievements,  which  have  been  recognized  by  the
United  Nations  Human  Development  Report  for  2002,
which ranked the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  high  among  all
countries  of  the  world  and,  for  the  sixth  time,  first
among  sisterly  Arab  States.  Furthermore,  the  Arab
Human  Development  Report  2002  has  also  mentioned
our  achievements,  showing  once  again  the  success  of
the Kingdom’s democratic and development strategy in
all areas.
Moreover,  the  leadership  and  the  people  of  the
Kingdom of Bahrain are proud that, in a report recently
published 
Industrial
Development  Organization,  Bahrain  was  ranked  42nd
among the 87 countries included in the report, and first
in the Arab world.
the  United  Nations 
by 
to 
sought 
consolidate 
The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
attaches  great
importance to the question of regional security, because
of the repercussions it has on the security and stability
of  States  and  peoples.  Accordingly,  Bahrain  has
consistently 
neighbourly
relations  and  mutual  respect  with  its  neighbouring
States. Bahrain looks forward to the peaceful resolution
of  the  question  of  the  three  Emirates  islands,  in
rules  of
accordance  with 
international 
spirit  of
recent  positive
understanding,  on 
developments  in  the  relations  between 
the  States
members  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and  the
Islamic  Republic  of Iran, and  in the  light of  the  direct
contacts  that  have  taken  place  recently,  in  particular
those between the United Arab Emirates and Iran.
and 
in  a  brotherly 
the  principles 
the  basis  of 
law  and 
the 
to  complete 
Furthermore, the Arab Summit, held in Beirut last
March,  confirmed  the  necessity  and  importance  of
security and stability in the Gulf region and of creating
a  propitious  atmosphere  for  the  restoration  of  normal
relations among the States of the region. It called upon
Iraq 
implementation  of  relevant
Security  Council  resolutions  on  the  situation  between
Iraq  and  Kuwait,  especially  those  relating  to  Kuwaiti
and  third-country  prisoners  of  war;  to  cooperate  with
the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to  alleviating  the
suffering  of  the  people  of  Iraq;  and  to  avoid  any
confrontation 
the  States  and
peoples  of  the  region  or  the  unity  and  territorial
integrity of Iraq, and that might be used as a pretext for
interfering in Iraq’s internal affairs.
that  might 
threaten 
9
A/57/PV.8
the  Palestinian  people, 
The  Middle  East  is  currently  facing  great  danger
as a result of Israel’s policy in the occupied Palestinian
territories  and  of  its  perpetration  of  the  most  heinous
crimes  against 
such  as
assassinations,  blockades  and  the  destruction  of  the
infrastructure  and  the  economy.  The  events  that  took
place in the Jenin refugee camp and in the Gaza Strip,
along  with  the  daily  events  that  occur  in  all  other
Palestinian  cities,  are  clear  indications  of  the  Israeli
Government’s aggression and violation of international
law and norms and of its unwillingness to accept peace
or  comply  with  the  international  agreements  it  has
signed.
Furthermore, 
the  Palestinian  people  are  still
resisting  this  ferocious  assault  with  great  courage  and
determination,  thus  asserting  their  right  to  fight  the
occupation  and  emphasizing  their  belief  in  their  just
cause,  while  upholding  their  legitimate  leadership  and
defending  their  national  rights,  as  endorsed  by  the
international  community,  in  accordance  with  Security
Council resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  and  other
relevant resolutions, the latest being Council resolution
1397  (2002).  They  are  also  upholding  the  principle  of
land for peace and the establishment of an independent
Palestinian State on their national land, with Jerusalem
as its capital.
On  the  basis  of  its  principles  and  in  support  of
justice,  Bahrain  has  always  stood  by  the  brotherly
people  of  Palestine.  It  affirms  its  full  support  for  the
Arab peace initiative adopted at the Arab Summit held
at  Beirut  in  March  2002  on  the  basis  of  the  vision
offered  by  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Abdullah  Bin
Abdul-Aziz Al-Saud, Crown Prince of the Kingdom of
Saudi  Arabia.  That  vision  provides  for  an  end  to  the
Middle  East  conflict,  the  establishment  of  normal
relations  with  Israel  in  exchange  for  its  withdrawal
from all the occupied Arab territories to the borders of
4  June  1967,  including  withdrawal  from  the  Syrian
Arab  Golan  Heights  and  the  remaining  Lebanese
occupied  territories,  and  a  just  settlement  of  the
question  of  Palestinian  refugees  in  accordance  with
General Assembly resolution 194 (III) of 1948.
The  oppression  to  which  the  Palestinian  people
are  subjected  and  the  ongoing  situation  that  threatens
security  and  peace  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  world
require immediate intervention by the Security Council
Israeli
and 
practices  against 
to
reactivate the  Arab peace initiative at the  regional  and
the  Palestinian  people  and 
international  community 
to  stop 
the 
10
international levels. That initiative is a viable basis for
any  move  towards  the  achievement  of  a  just  and
comprehensive peace in the region.
Bahrain has welcomed the initiative of the United
States  Secretary  of  State  with  respect  to  convening  a
peace  conference  on  the  Middle  East,  on  the  basis  of
ideas and principles put forward by the Arab Summit in
the  Arab  peace 
relevant
international  resolutions.  It  hopes  that  a  just  and
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East  will  thus  be
achieved,  leading  to  stability  and  security,  ending  the
cycle  of  conflict  and  violence,  and  bringing  instead  a
cycle of fruitful cooperation among the countries of the
region.
initiative  and  of 
the 
Bahrain  has  also  reaffirmed  this  position  by
welcoming  the  positive  ideas  in  President  Bush’s  24
June  2002  statement  on  the  Middle  East.  Those  ideas
were  reiterated  in  his  statement  before  the  General
Assembly last Thursday and related to the settlement of
the  Middle  East  conflict  within  the  framework  of  the
resolutions of international legitimacy, and with a view
to  establishing  a  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side
with Israel in peace and security.
its 
The  Arab  side,  through  the  Arab  peace  initiative
and by accepting the ideas that President Bush has put
forward,  has  clearly  demonstrated 
in
security and stability in the region. The Israeli side has
yet  to  detail  what  plans  it  has  for  peace  and  what
position it has taken vis-à-vis the Arab peace initiative
and  the  ideas  put  forward  by  President  Bush.  What  is
needed  now  is  to  translate  those  ideas  and  initiatives
into plans and practical steps that benefit peace and put
an end to the present deteriorating situation.
interest 
In  the  light  of  Bahrain’s  religious  and  cultural
traditions, as reflected in our Constitution and national
laws and as reaffirmed by our policies that focus, inter
alia, on the right to life, security and peace,  we  would
like  to  reaffirm  our  strong  rejection  of  all  forms  and
manifestations  of  terrorism.  We  would  also  welcome
the  convening  under  United  Nations  auspices  of  an
international  conference  on  terrorism,  with  a  view  to
internationally  agreed  definition  of
reaching  an 
terrorism 
that  differentiates  between  unacceptable
terrorist  acts  and  legitimate  struggle  and  resistance  by
people  against  foreign  occupation  to  achieve  national
liberation  and  self-determination,  and 
to  defend
themselves  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations
Charter, to which we adhere in word and deed.
The Kingdom of Bahrain has followed with great
interest  the  developments  in  Afghanistan,  a  country
that has lacked stability and has suffered the ravages of
war  for  many  years.  We  welcome  the  measures  taken
by  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  with  a  view  to
promoting  security  and  stability  and  restoring  normal
life  for its people.  We  have also cooperated  fully  with
the Committee established pursuant to Security Council
resolution  1373  (2001)  on  financial  and  logistical
measures  against  terrorist  activities,  in  line  with  the
concept of collective action within the United Nations.
Bahrain  has  supported  all  initiatives  to  establish
nuclear-weapon-free  zones  and  has  supported  other
confidence-building  measures  in  regions  such  as  the
Middle East, where we have supported the creation of a
zone 
free  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
especially  nuclear  weapons,  in  accordance  with  the
relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions.  We  call  upon
all  our  neighbours  to  support  this  idea  in  order  to
release  resources  that  could  be  used  for  the  prosperity
and  development  of  peoples.  We  call  on  the  United
Nations  to  exert  pressure  on  Israel  to  accede  to  the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
and 
the
comprehensive  safeguards  system  of  the  International
Atomic Energy Agency.
its  nuclear 
facilities 
subject 
to 
to 
Dialogue and tolerance among States and peoples
contribute  to  the  promotion  of  understanding  and  the
maintenance of international peace and security. Based
on that conviction, and emphasizing the importance we
attach  to  General  Assembly  resolution  53/22  of  16
November 1998 concerning the United Nations Year of
Dialogue among Civilizations, the Kingdom of Bahrain
has hosted a seminar organized in cooperation with the
Government  of  Japan.  A  number  of  internationally
known  intellectuals  from  the  Arab  and  Islamic  worlds
and from Japan participated in the seminar,  which  was
convened  last  March  and  was  entitled  “The  Dialogue
among  Civilizations:  The  Islamic  World  and  Japan”.
The seminar sought to promote dialogue between Arab-
Islamic  civilizations  and  other  civilizations  so  that
different cultures may grow closer to one another.
In  furtherance  of  this  approach,  the  Kingdom  of
Bahrain will also host the tenth session of the Islamic-
Christian  Dialogue  Conference,  to  be  held  from  28  to
30  October  2002.  The  objective  is  to  promote  better
understanding  between  world  religions  and  cultures,
and  to  enhance  interaction  and  exchange  in  order  to
preserve  the  progress  that  has  been  made  and  to
A/57/PV.8
invigorate an informed outlook  for the  future,  wherein
cooperation  in  the  interest  of  the  entire  human  race,
without discrimination, can take place.
In conclusion, I would like to state that, thanks to
cooperative  efforts,  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development, recently  held in  Johannesburg,  provided
a favourable opportunity for the review and evaluation
of  achievements  made  over  the  past  10  years,  the
identification  of 
the
development  of  strategies  and  the  identification  of
objectives and priorities for joint action. It is our hope
that  all  States  will  implement  the  outcome  of  the
Johannesburg  Summit  and  will  address  the  challenges
facing us all, especially the developing States.
impediments  and  challenges, 
implementation  of 
In  that  context,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  would
like  once  again  to  affirm  the  importance  of  practical
and  effective 
the  Millennium
Declaration with regard to development and the role of
the 
international
organizations  in  supporting  national  efforts  in  that
field.
international 
community 
and 
We  are  confident  that  the  United  Nations,  with
the  determination,  political  will  and  hard  work  of  its
Member  States,  is  capable  of  efforts  that  will  help  us
achieve  our  shared  goals  of  just  peace,  economic
prosperity and social justice throughout the world. It is
in  our  interest  to  cooperate  with  one  another  to  make
the United Nations the main engine of our activities, in
order to achieve a better world: one of peace, security,
prosperity and justice for all peoples and all States.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs  of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  His  Excellency
Mr. Farouk Al-Shara’.
Mr. Al-Shara’ (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  congratulate
Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the presidency of the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-seventh  session.  I  am
confident  that  the  many  posts  he  has  occupied  will
facilitate  his  task  in  leading  the  deliberations  of  the
General  Assembly  to  their  desired  objectives.  I  also
express  our  appreciation  to  his  predecessor  for  the
efforts  he  made  to  bring  the  deliberations  of  the  fifty-
sixth session to a successful conclusion.
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to  express  our
appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his
efforts  to  preserve  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the
11
A/57/PV.8
United  Nations  Charter.  I  wish  him  success  as  he
strives to contribute successfully to the just solution of
the problems that the international community faces.
I  would  also  like  wholeheartedly  to  welcome
Switzerland as the long-awaited newest Member of the
Organization.  We  look  forward  to  cooperating  with  it
in  promoting  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  and
safeguarding its Charter.
remained 
awaiting 
unresolved, 
This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  has  been
convened  one  year  after  the  11  September  attacks,
which  had  an  impact  on  the  current  international
situation.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  attacks,  many  grave
issues 
effective
solutions,  and  many  questions  went  unanswered.  The
state  of  confusion,  incertitude  and  tension  on  the
international  scene  results  from  the  feeling  of  the
majority of the world’s people that they have lost their
orientation. This results from a tendency on the part of
some to use practices that can be best characterized as
unilateral,  expressing  an  appetite  for  hegemony  and
monopoly over the wealth of others.
The  Middle  East  region  is  a  case  in  point.  After
decades of struggle  waged by the  people of  the region
to  liberate  themselves  from  colonialism  and  foreign
domination  and  to  try  to  eliminate  injustices  resulting
from  the  redrawing  of  maps  and  the  enforcement  of
artificial  borders  between  them,  the  people  of  the
region are facing a more vicious attack today than they
faced during earlier colonial periods.
The  Arab  countries  have  condemned  the  attacks
against  the  United  States  of  America.  They  have
expressed  sympathy  for  the  families  of  the  victims.
Nonetheless,  a  year  after  the  event  that  was  officially
linked  to  the  Al  Qaeda  organization  and  the  Taliban
movement,  the  world  wonders  how  those  accusations
were  re-channelled  so  as  to  be  levelled  against  the
Arab countries to such a degree that some of them are
being  threatened,  while  none  of  them  had  anything  to
do with the attacks.
The  irony  is  starker  since  justification  for  the
accusation is usually linked to the presence of some Al
Qaeda  elements  in  those  countries  or  to  the  fact  that
such elements are nationals of those countries, while it
is  public  knowledge  that  elements  of  the  Al  Qaeda
organization  are  present  in  more  than  60  countries
around  the  world,  including  the  United  States  of
America, according to official American statements.
12
Since  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War,  our
region has witnessed a series of wars and destruction as
a  result  of  an  Israeli  approach  based  on  occupation,
settlement  building  and  the  uprooting  of  hundreds  of
thousands  of  Palestinians  from  their  homeland.  The
United Nations has made efforts to find a just solution
for  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  To  that  end,  the  United
Nations has adopted hundreds of resolutions that Israel
has  refused  to  implement,  in  a  stark  challenge  to  the
will of the international community. Israel continues to
occupy the Golan, the West Bank and Gaza and parts of
Lebanese territory.
When  the  Arab  countries  unanimously  launched
their  peace  initiative  at  the  Beirut  summit  in  March
2002,  Israel  responded  by 
launching  a  widescale
military  attack  against  Palestinian  cities,  villages  and
camps 
Israel’s  defiance  of
international legitimacy assumed proportions that have
been  condemned  by 
international  public  opinion,
particularly  when  the  Israeli  Government  refused  to
receive  the  fact-finding  mission  to  investigate  the
details of the massacre at the Jenin refugee camp.
the  West  Bank. 
in 
Israel  has  claimed  that  the  crimes  it  has  carried
against  the  Palestinian  people  under  occupation  have
been carried out in self-defence and in the  war against
terrorism.  We  see  how  Israel  has  manipulated  the  war
against  the  Taliban  and  Al  Qaeda  in  Afghanistan.  In
that context, it is important to stress that silence in the
face  of  such  manipulation  amounts  to  total  disregard
for  human  values,  as  much  as  it  is  disregard  for
defenceless Palestinian souls.
Without  going  into  details  of  the  Israeli  attacks
and violations in  which American  weapons  were used,
the  only  way  out  of  the  crisis  faced  by  the  peoples  of
the  region  is  by  making  Israel  abide  by  relevant
Security  Council  resolutions,  which  thus  far  are  28  in
number. Is it reasonable for the world to request Iraq to
implement  Security  Council  resolutions,  while  some
help Israel remain above international law? It is indeed
legitimate  for  us  to  ask  the  United  States  to  distance
itself from the aggressive Israeli practices and to apply
to  Israel  the  American  law  that  prohibits  the  use  of
American  weapons  against  a  third  party.  It  is  indeed
odd that the United States considers Israel to be acting
in  self-defence  in  occupied  territories,  which  is  not  in
keeping  with  Security  Council  resolutions  in  whose
drafting  and  adoption  the  United  States  itself  has
participated since the founding of the United Nations.
the 
through 
Just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  our  region  can
be  achieved  only 
implementation  of
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  that  stress  the
need for Israel to withdraw from all the Arab territories
occupied  since  June  1967  and 
the
legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  including
the  right  to  establish  their  independent  State  with
Jerusalem as its capital.
to  safeguard 
that 
international 
Much  has been  said recently  about the  danger  of
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and
the  possibility 
terrorists  might
acquire such weapons. As is well known, that danger is
not  limited  to  one  region.  Rather,  it  exists  in  many
regions  of  the  world.  It  is  regrettable  that  certain
parties focus only on some Arab and Muslim countries,
and  not  on  others,  ignoring  in  the  meantime  Israel’s
nuclear  arsenal.  All  the  countries  of  the  region  have
expressed,  year  after  year,  their  readiness  to  make  the
Middle East region a zone free of all weapons of mass
destruction — nuclear, chemical and biological.
Today  more  than  ever  before,  we  call  for  urgent
and  serious  efforts  to  make  our  region  free  of  all
weapons of  mass  destruction,  under  the  supervision  of
the  United  Nations.  We  declare  from  this  rostrum  that
all the  Arab  countries  are  prepared  to  establish  such  a
zone, provided that Israel will agree to establish such a
zone  and  to  submit  all  its  nuclear  facilities  to  the
safeguards  system  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency  (IAEA),  as  have  the  other  Middle  East,  Arab
and Muslim countries of the region.
The majority vote that Syria won upon submitting
its  candidacy  for  membership  to  the  Security  Council
highlights 
these  countries  for
Syria’s  constructive  role  in  supporting  the  United
Nations.
the  appreciation  of 
Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Austria),  Vice-President, took  the
Chair.
It is well known that Syria has always been in the
forefront  of  countries  whose  respect  for  international
legitimacy  constitutes  a  principled  position  in  their
foreign  policy.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General
about the necessity of avoiding unilateral measures and
resorting  instead  to  working  within  the  framework  of
the  United  Nations,  which  represents  international
legitimacy.
In that light, we see no justification for igniting a
new  war  in  the  Middle  East.  We  strongly  believe  that
A/57/PV.8
striking  Iraq,  which  no  longer  occupies  the  land  of
others,  while  keeping 
Israeli
occupation of the Arab territories occupied since 1967,
represents  blind  bias  and  a  distorted  vision  of  the  real
situation in the Middle East.
silent  about 
the 
to 
commit 
to 
The international community  is  committed to the
unity,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Iraq.  We
cannot  recall  anyone  doubting  that  commitment.  We
also  stress  that  it  is the  right of  the  Iraqi  people  alone
to decide their  future  without  any  interference  in  their
internal  affairs.  It  is  the  duty  of  all  Members  of  our
Organization 
the
implementation  of  United  Nations  resolutions.  In
keeping  with  that  commitment,  Syria  supports  the
resumption of dialogue between Iraq and the Secretary-
General  with  the  objective  of  reaching  a  political
solution  that  meets  the  requirements  of  the  Security
Council  and  that  grants  Iraq  hope  of  peace,  security
and 
it,
especially as Iraq has officially recognized the State of
Kuwait and its international borders.
the  sanctions 
imposed  on 
themselves 
lifting  of 
the 
in 
Syria  has  expressed  its  satisfaction  at  positive
developments 
the  African  continent.  We  are
confident  that  the  establishment  of  the  African  Union
will have a positive impact on the present and future of
that  continent  and  on  solving  the  urgent  problems  it
faces. In that regard, we look forward with true hope to
the  implementation  of  agreements  recently  signed  by
the  parties  concerned  to  end  the  fighting  in  Angola,
Congo and the Great Lakes region.
Syria  also  expresses 
the
increasing  international  support  to  end  the  embargo
against Cuba.
its  satisfaction  at 
the  high-level 
Syria  further  welcomes 
talks
between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea
and the Republic of Korea and expresses the hope that
this  rapprochement  between  the  two  Koreas  will  help
achieve  the  aspirations  of  the  people  of  the  Korean
peninsula by peaceful means.
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  hopes  that  peace  and
stability  will  prevail  in  Afghanistan  in  the  interest  of
the  Afghan  people,  who  have 
the
scourges of war and internal strife.
long  suffered 
Syria  supports  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of
the Sudan to preserve the unity and territorial integrity
of the Sudanese people and calls  for a  ceasefire in the
13
A/57/PV.8
south  of  Sudan  as  a  prelude  to  the  resumption  of
dialogue.
Syria  supports  the  Artah  agreement  reached  by
the  Somalis  and  deems  it  the  most  viable  solution  for
achieving national reconciliation in Somalia.
The  world’s  peoples  are  passing 
through  a
difficult  test  at  this  critical  juncture;  the  choices  of
even big and influential countries, are getting narrower
rather  than  broader  due  to  the  absence  of  a  just  world
order. It is to be regretted that the voices of those who
call for war rise above the voices of those who call for
peace and that those who usurp the rights of people and
encroach  on  their  dignity  are  drowning  out  the  voices
of  those  who  defend  the  rights  of  people  regarding
their territory and freedom.
reading  of 
But  despite  this  grim  picture,  right  will,  in  the
final  analysis,  triumph  over  injustice.  That  is  the
correct 
the  history  of  nations  and
civilizations;  there  is  no  going  back.  Arab  Syria’s
belief in its rights and the rights of other nations cannot
the
be  shaken  or  undermined  by  hegemony  and 
arrogance  of  power.  We  are  convinced  of 
the
possibility  of  building  a  world  in  which  all  coexist  in
peace  and  security,  a  world  free  of  occupation  and
hegemony,  a  world  in  which  all  peoples  equally  share
the resources of our globe and the fruits of science and
technology in order to achieve prosperity for all.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to
His  Excellency  Mr.  Joap  de  Hoop  Scheffer,  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands.
Mr. De Hoop Scheffer (Netherlands): The smoke
at ground zero, only a few blocks away from here, has
cleared.  But  the  empty  space  where  the  twin  towers
once  stood  continues  to  send  shivers  throughout  the
world. The unspeakable events that occurred a year ago
have become engraved in our collective memory. What
occurred  here  was  an  unprecedented  and  direct  attack
on  universal  values:  values  such  as  mutual  respect,
such as tolerance, such as the rule of law — values that
form the very basis of the United Nations.
Over  the  past  year,  the  world  community  has
proven  its  determination  to  defy  terrorism.  Today,  the
Netherlands  not  only  reiterates  its  attachment  to  these
values  but  also  underlines  a  responsibility,  both
individual and collective, for upholding and protecting
them.  And 
real
commitment.
responsibility  calls 
for  a 
that 
14
Religions,  races  and  traditions  make  our  world
colourful  and  diverse.  But  underneath  our  different
feathers,  we  share  a  common  skin:  principles  we  all
adhere  to  —  or  should  adhere  to  —  regardless  of  our
religious  beliefs  or  race.  Mutual  respect,  the  rule  of
law,  freedom  of  speech  and  religion  are  among  the
most important ones.
We cannot, however, confine ourselves to  merely
restating  these  principles.  Without  real  commitment
they  would  quickly  evaporate  and  thus  become  empty
words.
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  Netherlands  is
fully committed: it is a dedicated international partner,
both  out  of  choice  and  out  of  necessity,  in  the  United
Nations, 
the  European  Union,  NATO  and  other
organizations,  or  in  common  endeavours  such  as  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development.  The
Netherlands will continue to dedicate 0.8 per cent of its
annual  gross  domestic  product 
to  development
cooperation and urges others to do the same.
Behind that commitment is the unshakeable belief
that  no  country  can  hope  to  succeed  on  its  own  in
whatever  policy  area.  In  this  respect  we  take  to  heart
the  wise  words  of  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan:
“Even the most powerful countries know that they need
to  work  with  others,  in  multilateral  institutions,  to
achieve  their  aims”  (A/57/PV.2).  We  therefore  also
welcome  the  United  States  decision,  announced  from
this rostrum by President Bush, to return to the United
Nations 
and  Cultural
Organization  (UNESCO).  The  Netherlands  not  only
feels  an  individual  responsibility  for  the  defence  of
universal  values,  but  a  shared  responsibility  as  well.
Let  me  elaborate  on  this  today  in  relation  to  four  key
areas  of  concern:  the  development  of  the  African
continent, uncontrolled migration, the continuing threat
of terrorism and the situation in the Middle East.
Educational, 
Scientific 
Africa 
its 
continues 
towards
development and prosperity. It cannot and must not do
so  all  by  itself.  We  all  share  a  responsibility  for
eradicating  poverty  and  enhancing  Africa’s  global
integration.
struggle 
Too often the African continent is associated only
with  misery  and  instability.  In  reality  the  number  of
conflicts 
in  or  between  African  countries  has
decreased.  The  creation  of  the  African  Union,  and  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  testify  to
the continent’s own commitment. The Netherlands very
much  welcomes  this  acknowledgement  by  African
leaders  of  their  own  responsibility  for  building  a
prosperous  and  peaceful  continent.  For  us,  this  is
essential  for  adding  our  own  efforts  and  resources  to
achieve  that  objective.  It  also  means  that  African
leaders, like all of us, can be held accountable for their
governance and policies, their performance in the field
of human rights and their respect for the rule of law.
In  partnership  with  African  countries 
the
Netherlands  will  continue  to  do  its  share  in  providing
the  necessary 
resources.  For  us,  development
cooperation  is  not  just  providing  money,  but  also  a
policy  integrating  the  promotion  of  good  governance,
security  and  stability.  Is 
in
alleviating the effects of natural disasters  when  in  fact
they are, at least in part, man-made?
the  world 
to  assist 
Responsibility  also  extends  to  the  private  sector,
particularly  when  it  comes  to  fighting  the  disease  that
undermines  all  efforts  at  development:  HIV/AIDS.
However, for the fight against AIDS to be successful, it
needs  to  be  fully  endorsed  by  African  Governments.
That  means:  acknowledgement  of  the  problem  and  its
causes,  an  open  discussion  of  possible  strategies  and
addressing its consequences for society.
Africa concerns us all. Its  problems affect  us all.
Poverty,  conflict  and  violations  of  human  rights
contribute 
to  an  ever-increasing  migration.  This
phenomenon  is,  however,  by  no  means  unique  for  the
African  continent.  We  need  to  deal  with  it  effectively,
regardless of whether we represent countries of origin,
countries of transit or those of destination. Migration is
robbing  countries  of  origin  of  a  vitally  important
resource: human capital. For neighbouring countries or
countries of transit it can be a source of instability. For
countries  of  destination,  it  often  creates  problems  of
integration.
Here  again,  common  values  are  at  stake.
Governments  should  do  everything  in  their  power  to
avoid people having no other choice than fleeing home.
The  number  one  priority  is  addressing  the  underlying
causes of uncontrolled migration.
In the meantime, we need to support the Office of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees
(UNHCR), which is stretched to its limits dealing with
a  problem 
it  was  not  devised.  The
Netherlands  welcomes  UNHCR’s  efforts  to  establish
and  implement  an  integrated  policy  aimed  at  the
re-
repatriation  of 
refugees,  coupled  with 
for  which 
their 
A/57/PV.8
rehabilitation 
integration, 
reconstruction.
Obviously,  these  efforts  have  to  be  dovetailed  with
those  of other  United  Nations  agencies  active  in  those
areas.
and 
It 
to  achieve 
is  precisely 
the  Netherlands 
through  such  an 
that  we  can  hope 
integrated
approach 
results.
UNHCR’s  mix  of  policy  areas  obviously  has  to  be
complemented  by  that  of  security.  That  is  one  of  the
reasons  why 
in
peacekeeping  or  similar  operations  in  Bosnia,  the
Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  (FYROM)
and  Afghanistan.  Security 
the  quintessential
consideration  for  those  who  are  to  return  to  their
homes.  Without  security,  resettlement  and  recovery
remain  pious  wishes.  Money  spent  on  security  is
money well spent.
involved 
is 
is 
taken 
In  the  year  following  11  September  2001  the
its
international  community  has  effectively 
responsibility.  Its 
joint  efforts  have  focussed  on
bringing about more security and increased stability in
Afghanistan.  Much  has  been  accomplished:  a  regime
hostile both to the Afghan people and to our commonly
shared  values  has  been  ousted.  Subsequently,  our
collective  efforts  have  helped  establish  an  elected
Government  and  begin 
reconstruction  of  a
disrupted society.
the 
There  can  be  no  leniency  towards  countries  that
reject  universal  values,  because  a  country  that  rejects
tolerance, endorses intolerance. A country that does not
guarantee the rule of law invites anarchy and injustice.
The  international  community  must  help  countries  that
are unable to do so themselves. It must try to persuade
those  that  are  uncooperative  and  it  must  be  ready,  if
necessary, to act against those that are unwilling.
The 
terrorist  attacks  have  also  shown 
that
religion,  for  some,  unfortunately, 
is  a  source  of
inspiration  not  for  good,  but  for  destructive  purposes.
The  hijacking  of  planes  should  not  result  in  the
hijacking  of  an  entire  religion.  Proper  education,
freedom 
or
representative  government  can  help  contain  religious
extremism. Here again, we have a collective as well as
an 
and
protecting common values.
for  upholding 
responsibility 
individual 
opinion 
speech, 
secular 
of 
and 
What  we  need  is  a  dialogue  between  countries,
civilizations  and  religions.  But  we  also  need  action  to
go after the sources of religious extremism.
15
A/57/PV.8
That same commitment leaves us no choice but to
continue  to  work  towards  peace  in  the  Middle  East.
The  instability  there,  the  lurking  dangers  of  religious
extremism  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  require
our joint dedication.
their  citizens  can 
The  many  different  actors  in  the  Middle  East
share a duty to restrain violence and curtail extremism.
Stability  in  the  region  is  an  indivisible  interest,  not
only for the region itself but far beyond. The countries
in  the  region  have  prime  responsibility  for  ensuring
that 
in  freedom  and  an
environment  of 
the
international  community  has  a  role  to  play  as  well.
Here  in  particular,  we  expect  the  Security  Council  to
take  its  responsibilities  to  end  the  Iraqi  regime’s
systematic  non-compliance  with  a  range  of  earlier
resolutions. The inspectors should be allowed to return,
yesterday  rather  than  tomorrow.  The  credibility  of  the
United Nations system is at stake.
tolerance  and 
live 
respect.  But 
The  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  cannot  be  dealt
with  solely  by  concentrating  on  the  fight  against
terrorism. Terrorism must stop, not only because of the
human suffering it causes, but also because it is utterly
counterproductive.  The  Palestinian  people  should  ask
themselves  where  this  violence  has  got  them.  On  the
other  hand,  Israel  cannot  defer  indefinitely  answering
the  question  as  to  when  and  how  it  is  to  live  side  by
side  with  a  Palestinian  neighbour.  Finding  a  solution
again  requires 
true  commitment  from  all  parties
concerned and a dialogue across regional, religious and
other borders. That involves us all.
them.  That 
for  upholding 
In  conclusion,  since  we  share  values,  we  share
responsibility 
should
determine our commitment to addressing  the problems
that  I  mentioned.  Our  commonly  held  values  should
guide  our  dealings  with  each  other  —  between
individuals  as  well  as  between  countries.  It  is  only
when  we  acknowledge  what  we  have  in  common  that
we can find the strength to overcome our differences. If
there is one thing that our presence here, one year after
11 September 2001, makes clear, it is this: our belief in
freedom  and  tolerance  is  unshakeable,  and  so  is  our
commitment to uphold them.
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
Minister 
and
Francophonie of Gabon, His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping.
Mr.  Ping  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French):  Gabon  is
pleased  to  see  Mr.  Kavan  presiding  over  the  work  of
16
the  fifty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly,
which  is  being  held  at  a  time  when  the  need  to
strengthen  international  cooperation  to  resolve  the
world’s  problems  is  indeed  vital.  His  election  is  a
recognition by the international community of the role
that  his  country,  the  Czech  Republic,  plays  in  the
promotion of freedom and peace.
To  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-soo,  we
express  our  satisfaction  at  the  excellent  job  he  did  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  previous
session.
To Secretary-General Kofi Annan, we convey our
gratitude and support for his forceful work on behalf of
international peace and security.
Gabon  welcomes  the  admission  of  the  Swiss
Confederation  and  the  imminent  accession  of  the
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste to membership of
the  United  Nations.  They  swell  the  ranks  of  our
illustrious  United  Nations 
its
universality.
family,  confirming 
I  should  like  to  pursue  my  statement  by  evoking
the metaphor of the river. Each wave lapping the banks
has  its  own  character,  but  they  all  call  from  the  same
river.  They  express  multiplicity  in  consistency.  The
same can be said of our annual sessions. This session is
a new wave in the mighty river of the United Nations, a
new  cycle  in  the  global  rhythm  of  the  world.  Today,
many of us feel hope tinged with scepticism.
Two  years  ago,  in  September  2000,  we  held  the
Millennium  Summit  in  this  very  Hall.  It  was  certainly
the  point  of  departure  of  a  new  global  movement
towards more peace, prosperity, justice and humanism.
At  the  very  moment  when  we  imagined  ourselves  to
have taken a great step forward towards the building of
a  better  world  for  all,  we  were  stunned  on  11
September  2001  by 
terrorist  attacks
perpetrated  here  on  American  soil.  Those  attacks  of
violence,  which  we  all  condemned,  eclipsed  our
dreams  and  reminded  us  of  the  beast  lurking  within
each of us.
the  ghastly 
implementing 
Gabon was one of the very first nations to commit
itself 
to 
the  provisions  of  Security
Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  by  taking  legal  action
to prevent and combat terrorism.  Although  significant,
progress  made  since  then  under  the  auspices  of  the
Security  Council in the  campaign against international
terrorism  needs  to  be  strengthened.  That  is  why
negotiations  on  a  draft  general  convention  on
international  terrorism  must  go  on  with  a  view  to  its
speedy  adoption.  In  the  same  spirit,  the  conclusion  of
ongoing  discussions  on 
the
terrorism  will
suppression  of  acts  of  nuclear 
supplement 
legal
framework.
international  anti-terrorism 
convention  on 
the 
a 
The  cloud  of  uncertainty 
looming  over  our
collective security is darkened by the Israel-Palestinian
crisis. It is regrettable to note that renewed violence in
the  Middle  East  is  calling  all  previous  efforts  into
question.  The  international  community  must  mobilize
to rekindle the flame of peace in that region, which has
been  beset  by  ceaseless  violence  for  decades.  Gabon
encourages  both  sides 
resume  dialogue  and
negotiation  with  a  view  to  implementing  the  relevant
resolutions  of 
in  particular
resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), which stress the
need  for  the  coexistence  of  the  Palestinian  State  with
the  State  of  Israel,  with  respect  for  secure  and
internationally recognized borders.
the  Security  Council, 
to 
Similarly,  Gabon  hopes  that  the  current  talks
between  the  two  Koreas  will  help  allay  tensions
between the two countries.
Positive  developments  in  the  overall  situation  in
Africa  attest  to  the  continent’s  gradual  return  to  the
path  of  peace,  stability  and  unity.  Fratricidal  conflicts
are  increasingly  giving  way  to  the  emergence  of  an
African awareness  marked by  the determination  to  see
the  ideals  of  peace  prevail  and  to  devote  ourselves  to
development. This  wave  of  hope  has  been  justified  by
recent  developments,  particularly  in  the  Great  Lakes
region.  We  are  convinced  that  this  progress  will  give
impetus 
region.
Accordingly,  we  believe  that  it  is  time  to  convene  an
international  conference  on  the  region  in  order  to
consolidate peace there.
the  peace  process 
that 
to 
in 
However,  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in
resolving conflicts in Africa should not blind us to the
situations  in  Angola,  Liberia,  the  Central  African
Republic  and  Guinea-Bissau,  which,  having  been
destabilized  by  years  of  conflict,  are  now  facing
enormous  difficulties,  particularly  in  the  humanitarian
area,  in  restoring  domestic  peace  and  security.  The
international  community  must  lend  its  support  to  the
economic and social recovery efforts of those countries
so as to prevent them from being caught up yet again in
the spiral of violence.
A/57/PV.8
The  world’s  economic  and  social  situation  is
disquieting. The commitments that we undertook at the
Millennium  Summit,  and  which  were  reiterated  at  the
Monterrey  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development,  have  yet  to  bear  fruit.  Globalization,
the  harmonious
which  we 
integration  of  all  countries 
the 
international
community  through  the process  of  trade  liberalization,
has  not  yet  attained  the  hoped-for  results.  On  the
contrary,  we  see  that  there  has  been  an  increase  in
social 
inequality  and  a  widening  gap  between
industrialized and developing countries.
thought  would  permit 
into 
protection 
and  management 
Efforts  by  developing  countries,  particularly  in
the  areas  of  consolidating  democracy,  the  rule  of  law,
good  governance,  the  fight  against  poverty  and  the
of 
rational 
the
environment,  are  still  not  being  matched  by 
the
developed  countries,  as  attested  to  by  the  continued
diminution  of  external  resources  for  development  and
the  drop  in  foreign  investment.  One  must  add  to  that
the  growth  of  conditionalities  and  other  barriers  that
could  keep  those  countries  in  a  state  of  permanent
economic and social stagnation.
Among  the  elements  contributing  to  that  state  of
affairs  is  the  heavy  burden  of  debt.  In  fact,  several
developing  countries,  including  Gabon,  devote  almost
half of their budgetary resources to repayment of debt,
while at the  same  time  they must  find  solutions  to  the
many problems that inhibit their development. We have
the  firm  conviction  that,  by  reducing  the  indebtedness
of our countries to a sustainable level,  we can allocate
more resources to priorities such as universal education
and 
and
environmental  management.  We  hope  that  the  promise
made  by 
the  International
Monetary  Fund  to  extend  the  current  debt  relief
mechanisms to other developing countries — including
those  with  intermediate  incomes,  such  as  Gabon  —
will quickly become reality.
the  World  Bank  and 
reduction 
housing, 
poverty 
health, 
the  New  Partnership 
In order to respond to those concerns, Africa has
established 
for  Africa’s
Development (NEPAD). NEPAD is a true development
programme  based  on  good  governance,  respect  for
human  rights  and  the  strengthening  of  democracy,
peace  and  security,  which  are  preconditions  for  the
economic  recovery  of  the  continent.  That  programme
calls  on  the  international  community  for  effective
support.  Members  can  easily  understand  why  the
African  countries  place  much  hope  in  the  debate  that
17
A/57/PV.8
the  General  Assembly  will  devote 
to  NEPAD
tomorrow,  16  September,  in  which  the  President  of
Gabon will take part.
the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  called 
Malaria  and,  above  all,  HIV/AIDS  are  major
obstacles to Africa’s development that could ultimately
deprive  the  continent  of  much  of  its  human  potential.
We  are  pleased  that  the  First  Ladies  of  Africa  have
understood  the  gravity  of  this  problem  by  creating,  in
partnership  with  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme
on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  an  organization  to  combat
malaria  and 
the
Organization of the First Ladies of Africa against HIV/
AIDS.  We 
new
structure  —  headed  by  the  First  Lady  of  Gabon,
Ms.  Edith  Lucie  Bongo,  whose  self-sacrifice  and
dynamism  are  well  known  —  will  complement  the
efforts of African States in combating this scourge. We
also  expect  strong  action  from 
international
community  to  accompany  our  efforts  in  the  fight
against the pandemic.
convinced 
that 
this 
the 
are 
The  preservation  of  global  ecosystems  is  another
subject  of  concern  for  the  world.  Only  a  few  weeks
ago,  heads  of  State  or  Government  met 
at
Johannesburg,  South  Africa,  for  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development.  Despite  the  momentum  it
generated,  the  Summit  did  not  reduce  the  risks  that
weigh  on  our  environment.  We  think  that,  in  view  of
the 
the
conferences
recommendations 
organized  over 
is  becoming
increasingly  urgent  that  States  implement  Agenda  21
and the other relevant international instruments.
environmental 
it 
the  past  decade, 
implementing 
progress 
lack 
in 
of 
of 
to 
Gabon,  for  its  part,  has  just  created  a  zone  of
national  parks  that  covers  10  per  cent  of  our  national
territory.  Those  protected  areas  are  proof  of  our
contribution 
the  process  of  preserving  global
ecological  balance  in  general  and  to  the  management
and conservation of  Africa’s  massive tropical  forest in
particular.  That  is  why  we  welcome  the  launching  in
Johannesburg,  by  United  States  Secretary  of  State
Colin Powell, of the initiative to preserve the flora and
fauna of the countries of the Congo river basin.
Positive  trends  in  the  world  can  be  guaranteed
only in an institutional environment bearing the seal of
universality.  The  United  Nations, 
in  our  view,
embodies  such  an  environment,  where  there  must  be
true multilateral cooperation, based on justice, equality,
solidarity and the participation of all. It is evident that,
18
in order to be a global centre for interaction and debate,
the  United  Nations  needs  reforms.  Those  reforms,  for
which  we  have  been  calling  for  several  years,  are
unavoidable  if  we  wish  to  see  the  continued  existence
of 
the  United  Nations,  whose  membership  has
increased constantly since its creation in 1945. Reform
of the Organization must be based on a reaffirmation of
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  primary
among which are international peace and security.
The  International  Court  of  Justice,  in  a  1949
advisory  opinion  concerning  certain  expenditures  of
the  United  Nations,  stated  that  it  was  natural  to  give
top priority to international peace and security, because
the  other  purposes  could  not  be  attained  unless  that
fundamental  condition  were  met.  International  peace
and  security  are  the  preconditions  for  development,
which in turn is a way to create the stability and  well-
being  that  are  necessary  to  guarantee  peaceful  and
friendly relations among nations.
The United Nations is the property of humanity. It
was born out of awareness of the horrors of the Second
World War, in which all peoples participated, including
Africans. We wish to see Africa play a more important
role  in  the  Organization,  particularly  in  the  Security
Council,  by  being  given  at  least  one  permanent  seat
with the same privileges as the other members with the
same  status.  Furthermore,  Africa  has  been  recognized
by  the  United  Nations  as  a  top  priority,  and  we  are
convinced  that  the  creation  of  a  Secretariat  office
issues  would
concerned  exclusively  with  African 
remedy 
the
implementation  of  previous  programmes  devoted  to
Africa,  such as  the  United  Nations  Programme  for  the
Economic  Redressing  and  Development  of  Africa  and
the  United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development
of Africa in the 1990s.
the  shortcomings  we  have  seen 
in 
Our collective action for development will not be
truly effective unless  we  use dialogue  and cooperation
as tools for global solidarity based on the promotion of
partnerships. Today or never, we must reaffirm that we
all  belong  to  the  one  and  only  human  race  and  define
the new contours of our collective destiny. We can thus
draw  from  our  shared  river,  the  United  Nations,  the
resources  that  will  enable  us  to  build,  with  hope  and
confidence, a better world for everyone.
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Portugal,  His
Minister 
Excellency Mr. Antonio Martins da Cruz.
Mr.  Da  Cruz
(Portugal):  The 
international
agenda  was  forever  changed  by  the  events  of  11
September  2001.  The  challenge  created  for  the  United
Nations  was,  and  is,  the  same  as  that  for  each  of  its
Members:  how  best  to  react  to  those  changes.  The
international fight against terrorism has thus become a
top  priority  for  all  of  us.  It  is  not  only  a  fight  against
individuals  who  conspire  to  kill  innocent  people;  it  is
also,  in  itself,  a  fight  for  respect  for  human  life  and
human  dignity,  for  the  values  of  liberty,  tolerance  and
democracy and for the peaceful solution of conflicts.
The  United  Nations 
immediately  pledged  its
Members to the struggle through a swift reaction by the
General Assembly and  by  the  Security  Council,  which
stated that the terrorist attacks of 11 September were a
threat  to  international  peace  and  security  and  which
adopted  a  resolution,  sending  out  a  remarkable  signal
of  strength,  quickly  followed  by  other  international
organizations,  such  as  the  European  Union  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE).
As  members  are  aware,  Portugal  currently  holds
the chairmanship of the OSCE. We have made the fight
against  terrorism  a  priority on  the  OSCE’s  agenda.  As
Chairman-in-Office,  I  have  been  working  towards  a
European charter on preventing and fighting terrorism,
to  be  adopted  at  the  ministerial  meeting  to  be  held  in
Portugal next December.
Mr. Maher El Sayed (Egypt), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
But the United Nations is in a unique position to
coordinate and invigorate the  international response to
terrorism.  We  are  called  upon  to  demonstrate  that  a
world in which humanity can live free from fear is not
only a common aspiration but also an achievable goal.
We  trust  that  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly  will  live  up  to  their  responsibilities  in  that
regard.  Failure  to  do  so  would  seriously  compromise
the credibility of the Organization.
(spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text  furnished  by  the
delegation)
At  the  same  time  that  the  world  faces  the  new
challenge  of  terrorism,  old  challenges  persist.  The
Middle  East  demands  a  new  peace  dynamic.  The
evolution of the Iraqi issue must entail absolute respect
for  Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  unconditional
return  of  United  Nations 
inspectors.  Indeed,  we
A/57/PV.8
consider  the  problem  concerning  Iraq  often  to  be
wrongfully  presented:  Iraq  is  a  threat  to  international
security, and thus pressure must be exerted on Iraq, not
on the United Nations or on one particular country. It is
Iraq  that  is  failing  to  comply  with  United  Nations
resolutions.  Our  goal  is  to  put  an  end  to  the  threat
represented  by  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The
United  Nations  and  its  Members  cannot  and  must  not
continue 
the  continuous  violation  of
Security  Council  resolutions.  Thus,  the  international
community must know how to act effectively and must
be particularly demanding on this issue.
tolerate 
to 
The  Security  Council  should  promptly  make  a
statement  on  Iraq’s  lack  of  compliance  with  Council
resolutions  and on its obligations. It is  now  up to  Iraq
to  seize  this  opportunity  and  to  cooperate  with  the
United  Nations.  But,  should  Iraq  persist 
in  not
complying  fully  with  the  Organization  within  a  time
frame  to  be  determined,  the  international  community
should not exclude any alternative or option.
On  the  other  hand,  two  success  stories  from  the
past year deserve a special reference. First, in  Angola,
peace  was  achieved  and  seems  irreversible.  Portugal
will  continue  to  work  with  the  Angola’s  Government
and political forces towards the full implementation of
the  Lusaka  Protocol.  The  United  Nations  must
contribute  to  that  process.  Humanitarian  assistance  is
vital  for the  consolidation  of  the peace  process. Those
steps, along with free elections and a modern economic
framework,  will 
surely 
and
democracy in that country.
strengthen 
peace 
touches 
proclamation 
Secondly,  East  Timor’s 
of
independence  on  20  May  represents  a  success  for  the
people  of  East  Timor,  for  the  United  Nations  and  for
those  who  fought  for  it.  The  General  Assembly  will
soon  proclaim  East  Timor  a  new  Member.  An
independent  East  Timor  within  the  United  Nations
deeply 
the  Portuguese  people,  who  have
always  believed  in  the  rights  of  East  Timor’s  people
and  in  the  justice  of  their  cause.  East  Timor  started
from  scratch.  It 
international
community to maintain its support, lest it squander the
opportunity to meet the challenges of that new country.
I  turn  now  to  a  number  of  other  noteworthy
matters.  As  a  founding  party  to  the  Statute  of  the
International Criminal Court, Portugal believes that the
election of a first team of judges will be a crucial step
towards 
and
the  Court’s 
is  now  up 
functioning 
to 
the 
effective 
19
A/57/PV.8
credibility.  That  institution  and  its  regular  functioning
must become a fixture of the international scene.
once  again 
highest appreciation and to assure him of my support.
to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  my
the 
continent’s 
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD)  underlines  the  preoccupation  of  African
countries  with  the  values  of  democracy  and  human
rights,  as  well  as  sustainable  economic  development
and 
economic
globalization. Bearing such concerns in mind, Portugal
will  organize 
the
European  Union  and  Africa,  to  be  held  in  April  2003.
Africa  is  a  priority  for  us.  Therefore,  we  support
initiatives  to  energize  the  development  policies  and
economies of that forgotten continent.
the  next  conference  between 
integration 
into 
Finally,  we  welcome  Switzerland’s  accession  to
membership of the United Nations. The presence of the
Swiss  Confederation  will  certainly  benefit  United
Nations action.
(spoke in English)
terms  or  solely 
longer  be  conceived 
The  way  in  which  the  world  embraces  the  new
challenges  it  faces  will  be  the  best  indication  that  the
events  of  one  year  ago  resulted  in  a  triumph  for  the
international  community.  A  safer  world  is  founded  on
secure countries representing all their people and living
in  peace.  That  is  how  terrorism  will  eventually  be
defeated,  and  out  of  that  the  new  international  order
should gradually emerge.
Security  can  no 
in
exclusively  military 
terms  of
territorial  defence.  Several  factors  must  be  taken  into
consideration: the widespread development of weapons
of  mass  destruction;  the  proliferation  of  other  threats,
such  as  environmental  degradation,  diseases  such  as
HIV/AIDS,  famine  and  migration,  which  transcend
State borders; and factors affecting the ability of many
States  to  face  the  challenge  of  globalization.  Thus,  no
nation,  however  powerful,  is  self-sufficient;  not  even
the greatest of countries can do everything on its own.
Multilateral cooperation is the key to the future. One of
the  basic  goals  of  the  United  Nations  should  be  to
implement  such  cooperation 
in  a  practical  and
consistent manner.
in 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): I  now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Władzimierz
Cimoszewicz, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Poland.
Mr.  Cimoszewicz
I  convey  my
congratulations to Mr. Jan Kavan on his election to the
presidency  of  this  body.  I  should  also  like  to  express
(Poland): 
20
It is with satisfaction that Poland welcomes in our
midst  the  newest  Member  of  the  United  Nations,
Switzerland, and looks forward to welcoming soon the
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste.
Wisława  Szymborska,  the  Polish  poet  and  Nobel
Prize  winner,  wrote  the  following  words  dedicated  to
the victims of 11 September:
“They plunged down from heights ablaze ...
For them, I can do but two things — depict their
flight and leave the last sentence unfinished ...”
I  believe  that  every  one  of  us  travelling  to  this
brave city shared similar thoughts. All of us must have
asked ourselves what is being expected of us, where we
are  today  and  what  obligations  we  are  to  fulfil  to
ensure that such horror never happens again. No doubt,
11 September  was  a  wake-up call  for  all of  us. It  may
have  not  changed  the  world,  but  it  certainly  has
fundamentally changed the way we perceive it. History
has  yet  again  given  us  the  responsibility  to  face  the
challenge  and  to  leave  a  better  and  safer  world  for
future  generations.  But then, after  all,  is  that  not  what
we are really here for?
Many  of  my  colleague  representatives  touched
upon that issue in recent days. The messages delivered
here  just  four  days  ago  by  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  and  President  George  W.  Bush  are  especially
significant.  In  that  regard,  we  also  share  the  opinions
expressed by a number  of other  speakers, in particular
by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Denmark,  Mr.  Anders  Fogh
Rasmussen, speaking in his capacity as the President of
the European Union.
Today  the  United  Nations  stands  at  a  crossroads,
facing  a  choice  that  needs  to  be  made.  Either  we  will
find  internal  strength  to  stand  up  to  the  challenge  and
prove  that  the  United  Nations  is  more  than  a  mere
discussion  forum  or  we  will  lose  credibility  forever.
Once  again,  as  was  the  case  at  the  inception  of  the
Organization over half a century ago, we must take the
issue  of  security  seriously,  especially  as  terrorism  has
given it a new dimension.
As  a  founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations,
Poland  will  continue  to  support  all  efforts  aimed  at
preserving the Organization’s unique position. We fully
agree with what the Secretary-General said, that we can
only  succeed  if  we  make  full  use  of  multilateral
institutions.  We  share  the  position  of  President  Bush
that 
the  United  Nations  must  be  effective  and
successful  and  that  its  resolutions  must  be  enforced.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Security  Council  must  find
enough  strength  in  the  nearest  future  to  set  the  course
for  a  decision-making  process  in  the  United  Nations
aimed at concrete action. This time,  we are left  with  a
very  small  margin.  This  is  a  test  that  international
community has to pass.  Failure  would  undermine both
the integrity of the  United  Nations  and  the  security  of
the whole world.
I think the most appropriate motto for my further
reflections  on  the  future  of  the  United  Nations  is
contained 
the  Secretary-General’s  millennium
report. He wrote that
in 
“If  the  international  community  were  to
create a new United Nations tomorrow, its make-
up  would  surely  be  different  from  the  one  we
have.” (A/54/2000, para. 352)
It  would  be  highly  unfortunate  if  the  millennium
report,  and  especially  its  conclusions  relating  to  the
role  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  reform  of  the
Organization,  were  to  fade  into  oblivion.  Only  the
United  Nations,  given 
legitimacy
stemming  from  the  universal  character  of  both  its
membership and its mandate can — and, indeed, ought
to  —  rise  to  the  challenges  posed  to  the  international
community.  But  for  that  to  happen  its  prerogatives,
rules  and  instruments  would  have  to  be  geared  to  the
needs of today and the threats of tomorrow.
its  exceptional 
We should consider the elaboration of a document
that would be neither a draft revision of the Charter nor
a supplement to it. What I would like to suggest is that
we  make  an  attempt  to  acknowledge  the  new  reality
and try a new road. I am by no means being original or
precedent-setting  in  calling  for  this.  The  Atlantic
Charter  and 
the  1975
Helsinki Final  Act and the 1990 Charter of Paris  for  a
New Europe have all been there before. In other words,
adapting an organization’s mandate to make it relevant
to new needs without actually revising its founding act
has already been tested.
the  New  Atlantic  Charter, 
There is a widespread sense that some provisions
of the United Nations Charter having actually become a
dead letter. That applies to both the substance of those
provisions  and  to  the  procedural  solutions  they  offer.
Some  of  the  Charter’s  provisions  and  organs  have
completed  the  tasks  assigned  to  them  and  are  now
A/57/PV.8
redundant.  But 
the  Organization  does  need  new
mechanisms  to  run  peacekeeping  operations.  It  is
impossible  to  comprehend  why  we  still  keep  in  place
clauses  on  “enemy  States”  while  the  United  Nations
has  no  regulations  to  properly  address  the  problems
related  to  its  humanitarian  interventions.  There  is  a
general  acceptance  of  the  need  for  clear  lines  to  be
drawn to mark new areas of responsibility for a number
of important United Nations organs.
The values, purposes and principles of the United
Nations,  enshrined  in  the  Preamble  and  in  Articles  1
and  2  of  the  Charter,  have  not  lost  their  relevance.
They  have  stood  the  test  of  time.  A  document  that
could  be  considered  as  a  new  act  for  the  United
Nations  at  the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century  could
give  fresh  impetus  to  the  principles,  organs  and
mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  and  make  them
more responsive to the needs and challenges that today
dominate  the  life  of  the  international  community.  Let
me  point  out  four  groups  of  problems  that  should  be
tackled, starting with new threats to security.
reference 
to 
The  Charter  makes 
threats
traditionally raised by States. The Charter’s provisions
concerning  the  Security  Council  and  its  composition
and instruments, as  well  as  the  other  Chapters  dealing
with  security,  are  now  insufficient.  That  fact  is  borne
out  by  the  numerous  developments  of  recent  years,
including 
its
consequences.
the  attack  of  11  September  and 
Then  there  is  acute  poverty,  which  is  evident  in
many  parts  of  the  world;  chronic  underdevelopment;
pandemic disease; lack of  education and  medical  care;
and  deepening  differences  in  living  conditions  and
developmental standards. All of these are unacceptable
politically and morally.
Human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  democracy,  good
governance  and  civil  society  make  up  the  third  group
of problems that I have been thinking about.
The fourth group is made up of themes related to
sustainable  development.  The  focus  on  the  protection
of  the  human  habitat,  which  is  indispensable  to  the
survival  of  the  human  race,  and  on  the  common
heritage of mankind.
Moreover,  existing  United  Nations  principles
must be expanded, or new ones developed, in order for
the  Organization 
the
following  three  dimensions,  namely,  in  manifestations
its  actions  along 
to  pursue 
21
A/57/PV.8
in 
the 
effectiveness; 
subsidiarity  of 
of  multilateralism  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations
while reconciling broad representation and collectivism
with 
the
Organization’s  work  to  better  utilize  the  means  and
resources available to Member States, specifically with
regard  to  United  Nations  regional  arrangements;  and,
finally, in  getting  non-governmental  entities, including
private  capital,  involved  in  United  Nations  work  in  a
way that will not detract from the democratic nature of
the  Organization  nor  erode  its  governmental  character
and  efficiency  while  increasing 
its  resources  and
effectiveness.
I  dare  say  that  no  country,  group  of  countries  or
regional  agencies  meeting  the  Organization’s  criteria
would be capable of taking up the totality of problems
such an undertaking would have to address. Subject to
appropriate consultations involving  the  membership  of
the  Organization  and  the  Secretary-General,  we  might
wish  to  establish  a  “group  of  sages”  made  up  of
outstanding  personalities.  The  group  would  draft  an
appropriate document that would then be reviewed and
approved by Member States. That document should be
politically  binding  in  nature,  which  would  make  it
complementary to the legal grounding contained in the
Charter and  provide a  platform  for the  United  Nations
actions over the coming decades.
We should think about the future and work on its
foundations,  but  without  losing  sight  of  present-day
achievements.  The  enactment  of  the  Statute  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  is  one  such  achievement.
It  turns  a  new  page  in  both  international  relations  and
international  law.  It  is  Poland’s  desire  for  the  treaty
establishing  the  Court  to  become  one  of  the  most
universal  documents  of  its  kind.  We  trust  that  the
existing  divergences  between  respective  stands  and
views 
and
compromise, according to international law. We have to
act  so  as  not  to  disappoint  the  hopes  and  expectations
that  the  international  community  has  placed  in  the
Court.
through  dialogue 
resolved 
can  be 
A year ago, the whole world joined together in an
unprecedented  demonstration  of  solidarity.  Today  we
are  more  aware  of  the  source  and  the  character  of  the
threat.  We  are  also  more  capable  of  dealing  with  it.
Poland  has  joined  the  ongoing  anti-terrorist  operation.
Our  soldiers  are  now  deployed 
in  Afghanistan,
alongside their colleagues from other countries, and are
doing  their  utmost  to  strengthen  security  there  and  to
22
help raise the country from the rubble and ruin inflicted
upon it by two decades of war and internal strife.
For us that is natural, but we cannot avoid asking
ourselves  the  question  of  whether  we  are  any  closer
today to fulfilling the ideals towards which  we set sail
half  a  century  ago.  We  now  have  another  chance  to
revitalize  solidarity  and  work  together  for  values  that
are priceless both to us and to generations to come. Let
us  all  create  an  axis  of  good  that  will  bring  back  the
proper  meaning  to  the  term  we  are  so  proud  of,  the
United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Luvsangiin Erdenechuluun,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Mongolia.
Mr.  Erdenechuluun
(Mongolia):  Mongolia
welcomes  wholeheartedly  the  newest  member  of  the
United Nations family, Switzerland, a country that  has
a long-standing association with the United Nations as
its  second  largest  headquarters.  We  also  look  forward
to welcoming East Timor, the youngest  member of the
international community.
the  United  Nations 
A  little  over  two  years  ago,  at  the  historic
Millennium Summit held here in New York, our leaders
reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  the  purposes  and
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  pledged
their  unequivocal  support  for  a  more  efficient  and
reinvigorated United Nations so that this unique  world
body can effectively address the formidable challenges
of the new century and, indeed, of the new millennium.
Some  important  steps  have  been  taken  to  reform
and  adapt 
the  evolving
international  realities,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  its
efficient  functioning 
the  era  of  globalization.
However,  the  reform  process,  particularly  that  of  the
Security Council, tends to slow down and hence, there
is an apparent need to take proper measures to speed it
just  and  equitable
up.  Mongolia 
enlargement  of 
for
democratization of international relations by enhancing
the  openness  and  transparency  of  the  work  of  the
Security  Council  and  by  increasing  the  role  of  the
General  Assembly,  as  envisaged  in  the  Charter  of  the
United Nations.
the  Security  Council 
for  a 
stands 
and 
to 
in 
The  United  Nations  has  been  instrumental  in
intensifying the efforts of  the  world  community  aimed
at  developing  a  collective  response  to  global  terror,  at
helping reach national reconciliation and build a peace
process in post-Taliban Afghanistan, at assisting in the
emergence of an independent East Timor and at helping
to bring about the entry into force of the Statute of the
International  Criminal  Court. 
It  has  also  been
indispensable  in  paving  the  way  towards  reaching
consensus 
and
Johannesburg,  which  were  important  steps  along  the
road  towards  meeting  the  millennium  development
goals.
at  Doha,  Monterrey,  Rome 
Yet,  much  still  remains  to  be  done  to  sustain  the
progress  achieved,  to  honour  commitments  made  and
to  redress  setbacks  to  international  peace  and  security
in today’s volatile environment. The tragic events of 11
September  have  shown  that  there  is  a  need  for  a
fundamental change in our perception of security. More
weapons  and  allocating  more  resources  to  the  military
do  not  necessarily  translate  into  increased  security.
Security can no longer be confined to the boundaries of
a  single  State,  or  even  a  group  of  States.  This
indivisibility  of  global  security  makes  multilateralism
the  order  of  the  day.  To  paraphrase  the  Secretary-
General, let us  all recognize  that today  global  security
is  our  national  security.  Let  us  also  recognize  that
ensuring  the  security  of  the  human  person  must  be  at
the  heart  of  our  concerns.  The  concept  of  human
security is increasingly making a case for itself.
The  outgoing  year  has  witnessed  serious  threats
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  remnants  of
those 
the
threats  continue 
international community.
to  pose  a  menace 
to 
In Afghanistan, the United Nations is helping the
Afghan  Government 
towards
rehabilitation,  reconstruction  and  development.  Those
objectives  can  only  be  achieved  if  the  Government  of
President  Karzai  exercises  effective  control  over  the
entire country.
efforts 
its 
in 
The  prevailing  explosive  situation  in  the  Middle
East is of special concern. It calls for sustained efforts
aimed at reaching a just and comprehensive solution to
the  problem.  Mongolia  supports  the  efforts  of  the
Quartet and of the countries of the region to find ways
to  peacefully  settle  that  long-festering  conflict.  The
convening  of  an  international  conference  to  consider
effective measures for such a solution will undoubtedly
be a step in the right direction.
My Government shares the view that the Security
Council should make every effort to impress upon Iraq
the  need  to  comply  with  Council  resolutions  and,  as  a
A/57/PV.8
first  step,  accept  weapons  inspections  unconditionally.
The  world  community  cannot  afford  to  sit  idle  in  the
face  of  open  defiance  of  mandatory  resolutions  of  the
Security Council.
the 
from 
threatened  by 
the 
increasing  human 
failure  of 
The  world  has  not  only  been  threatened  by  the
escalation  of  tension  in  various  regions,  it  has  also
been 
insecurity
resulting 
international
community  to  deliver  on  the  crucial  commitments  it
made  during  the  1990s.  In  his  address  to  the  General
Assembly last year, my Prime Minister appealed to the
international  community  to  make  the  first  decade  of
this  new  century  a  decade  of  implementation  and
cooperation  towards  a  safer  and  better  world,  as  we
cannot  afford  to  fail  during  yet  another  decade  if  we
are  serious  about  ensuring  human  security.  We  cannot
afford  to  fail  to  implement  the  far-reaching,  yet
achievable, targets set by our leaders at the Millennium
Summit.  That  is  all  the  more  so  as  our  failure  or
inaction  could  be  used  as  justification  for  deadly  acts
by  those  who  threaten  peace,  stability  and  social
progress.
That  appeal  is  even  more  relevant  today.  The
2002  Human  Development  Report  indicates  that  if
current  trends  continue,  a  significant  portion  of  the
world’s  States  are  unlikely  to  achieve  the  millennium
development goals, including the overarching target of
halving  extreme  poverty  by  2015.  If  global  progress
continues at such a snail’s pace, it  will take  more than
130 years to rid the world of hunger.
to  share  responsibility 
A  legitimate  question  arises,  namely  what  has  to
be done by the international community to redress that
situation? The short answer could be to display genuine
solidarity  and  for  all 
in
honouring  the  commitments  made  without  delay.  But
the people of our countries, in whose service this world
body  was  conceived,  have  waited  through  dozens  of
conferences  and  their  five-year  reviews  while  the
implementation  of  agreed  targets  continues  to  be
stalled  at  levels  far  from  those  desired.  Under  these
circumstances  it  is  our  considered  view  that  it  is
incumbent upon the international community to closely
look into the existing  imbalance  in  global  governance,
especially in the economic and social areas.
Mongolia  believes  that  with  its  impartiality  and
universal  legitimacy,  as  well  as  its  Charter-based
prevalence over  any  other  international  agreement, the
United Nations is uniquely placed to provide for global
23
A/57/PV.8
governance 
in  economic  and  social  areas  while
allowing  equal  participation  by  the  South  in  the
decision-making process. We therefore believe that it is
high  time  to  engage  in  an  earnest  dialogue  about  an
entirely  new  framework  of  development  cooperation
that is more responsive to the emerging imperatives of
global human security.
As  we  see  it,  the  new  development  partnership
between  the  North  and  the  South  should  be  based  on
justice,  not  on  charity;  on  equitable  sharing  of  global
market  opportunities,  not  on  protectionism  or  aid;  and
on mutual cooperation, not on unilateral conditionality
or confrontation. The Economic and Social Council has
an  important  role  to  play  in  initiating  and  promoting
that  dialogue,  in  line  with  the  objectives  set  forth  in
Article 55 of the Charter.
Furthermore, transnational organized crime, illicit
drugs,  money-laundering,  the  illegal  arms  trade,  the
spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  global  pollution,  climate  change
and other  negative  phenomena  pose  a  persistent  threat
to  rich  and  poor  nations  alike.  They  call  for  a  new
cooperation  framework  to  be  developed  to  defend  the
new  frontiers  of  global  human  security  and  to  fill
critical gaps in the existing system of global economic
governance.  At  a  time  of  increasing  globalization,  the
formidable challenges facing the human family require
an  adequate  response.  It  would  be  a  fallacy  to  replace
fundamental  reform  with  a  piecemeal  approach  or
marginal  remedies.  If  there  is  strong  political  will  on
the part of  the international  community  to  collectively
stand up to these challenges, then why not engage in a
common  quest  for  an  adequate  architecture  of  global
governance for human security?
the  New  Partnership 
Mongolia  expresses  its  firm  support  for  the
creation  of 
for  Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD).  NEPAD  is  a  comprehensive
blueprint  and  a  broad  vision  for  Africa’s  future
economic  and  social  development.  It  is  Africa-owned,
and  based  on  the  lessons  of  the  past  decade.  We  hope
that  that  important  initiative  will  receive  the  generous
support of  the  international community  with a  view  to
attaining the ambitious goal of an African renaissance.
the
inherent  development  handicap  of  being  landlocked
and  is  very  susceptible  to  natural  disasters,  is  not
immune from many of the threats to human security to
which I have referred. In addition to the persistence of
poverty and unemployment and the disruption of basic
My  own  country,  Mongolia,  which  has 
24
health and social services, human security in Mongolia
is  affected  by  the  increasing  recurrence  of  natural
disasters and the  spread of environmental  degradation,
including  desertification,  water  and  air  pollution.
Efforts 
further
hampered by extremely low population density, a weak
infrastructure  and  a  small,  non-diversified  economy
that is very vulnerable to external shocks.
improve  human 
security  are 
to 
Capitalizing  on 
its  valuable  assets  of  well-
educated human resources and accumulated experience
of  reform  in  both  the  political  and  economic  areas,
Mongolia is endeavouring to ensure the human security
of 
through  both  national  action  and
international cooperation.
its  people 
improving 
the  capacity 
Nationally,  my  Government  launched,  in  late
the  Good  Governance  for  Human  Security
2000, 
programme,  aimed  at 
to
formulate  and  implement  policies  to  ensure  human
security.  Thus  far,  we  have  succeeded  in  securing  a
national commitment to its implementation on the part
of  all  the  branches  of  the  State;  institutionalizing  the
programme’s  implementation  mechanism;  and  laying
the  groundwork  for 
involvement  and
participation  of  civil  society,  the  private  sector  and
academia.
the  greater 
At  the  international  level,  Mongolia,  for  its  part,
has  been  endeavouring  to  contribute,  where  it  can,  to
the  common  efforts  of  the  world  community,  while
drawing attention to issues of particular concern to it.
particular 
importance 
to 
cooperation 
As  a  landlocked  developing  country,  Mongolia
enhancing
attaches 
inherent
international 
development  challenges 
that  group  of
countries.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  looks  forward
to the forthcoming International Ministerial Meeting on
transit  transport  cooperation,  to  be  held  in  2003  in
Kazakhstan.
ease 
faced  by 
the 
to 
In  recognition  of  the  crucial  role  of  education  in
ensuring  sustainable  human  development  and  human
security, my delegation is pleased to note that at its last
session  the  General  Assembly  proclaimed  —  as  the
result  of  an  initiative  of  Mongolia  —  the  10-year
period  starting  1  January  2003  as  the  United  Nations
Literacy  Decade.  We  look  forward  to  the  unanimous
adoption  of  the  Decade’s  draft  plan  of  action  at  this
session of the General Assembly.
Ten years ago Mongolia declared itself a nuclear-
weapon-free  zone.  Since  then,  it  has  adopted  national
legislation  defining  and  regulating  that  status.  At
present,  consultations  are  under  way  with  our
immediate  neighbours  and  other  States  concerned  on
ways  to  institutionalize  our  status  internationally.  I
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  five
nuclear-weapon  States 
their  cooperation,  and
United  Nations  bodies  for  their  invaluable  support  in
translating the initiative into reality.
for 
In  recent  years,  Mongolia  has  been  actively
engaged  in  establishing  and  strengthening  institutions
and  processes  of  democratic  governance,  protecting
human rights and promoting  democratic  consolidation.
Its  efforts  have  been  similar  to  those  of  many  other
States 
that  are  promoting  democratic  values  and
developing democratic institutions. We believe that the
Fifth  International  Conference  of  New  or  Restored
Democracies,  to  be  held  from  18  to  20  June  2003  in
Mongolia,  could  provide  an  important  opportunity  for
the  international  community  to  exchange  information
and  experience  and  search  for  practical  ways  of
promoting and strengthening democracy nationally and
internationally. I would like to take this opportunity to
express  my  Government’s  heartfelt  gratitude  to  this
body  for  graciously  accepting  our  offer  and  setting  in
motion  the  preparations  for  the  Conference.  The  main
theme  of 
is  democracy,  good
governance and civil society.
the  Conference 
Mongolia believes that the International Criminal
Court,  established  on  1  July,  could  be  instrumental  in
ending impunity and upholding justice, deterring future
crimes and further strengthening international criminal
law.  As  one  of  its  founding  members,  Mongolia  also
believes that the widest possible accession to the Court
will  broaden  the  geographic  scope  of  the  Court’s
jurisdiction and thus end impunity for acts of genocide,
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  Court’s
jurisdiction  should  eventually  cover  the  crime  of
aggression.
In  conclusion,  may  I  reiterate  my  Government’s
resolve  to  work  with  other  Member  States  towards
making our world Organization better equipped to meet
the global challenges lying ahead.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Vilayat  Guliyev,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Azerbaijan.
A/57/PV.8
Mr.  Guliyev  (Azerbaijan):  I  should  like  first  of
all to congratulate Mr. Jan Kavan on his assumption of
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
seventh  session,  and  to  express  gratitude  to  Mr.  Han
Seung-soo for his efforts as President during  the  fifty-
sixth session.
I also have pleasure in congratulating Switzerland
on becoming a Member State.
The United Nations, which is called upon to play
a  leading  role  in  ensuring  international  peace  and
security, is currently undertaking a serious examination
of its ability to unify the efforts of Member States and
to  organize  efficient 
in
confronting 
that  have  a  global
dimension.
international  cooperation 
threats  and  risks 
the  global 
interdependence  of 
The tragic events that occurred in  New  York one
year ago made all of us look at the world in a new way
and  recognize 
the
challenges  of the  new  era. We  must recognize  that the
world  itself  has  enabled  the  monster  of  terrorism  to
develop  by  ignoring  problems,  turning  a  blind  eye  to
violations of  the  norms  of  international  law,  tolerating
aggression  and  failing  to  respond  to  threats  caused  by
the illegal actions of some States, by separatism and by
the  proliferation  of  weapons.  It  is  necessary  for  us  to
learn  lessons  from  the  mistakes  made  and  to  launch  a
broad  offensive  against  terrorism  on  the  basis  of
common approaches.
Respect  for  a  universal  approach  that  does  not
permit inconsistency, selectiveness or double standards
is  an  indispensable  condition  for  global  solidarity  in
confronting  terrorism.  The  legal  basis  of  such  an
approach  must  be  set  out 
in  a  comprehensive
convention  to  combat  terrorism.  No  political,  social,
ideological, religious or other reason can justify any of
the acts,  methods or practices of terrorism. Effectively
counteracting 
total
eradication  demand  the  use  of  the  broadest,  most
complex  approach, 
into  consideration 
the
various aspects of the problem and its root causes.
terrorism  and  achieving 
taking 
its 
It  is  obvious  that  terrorist  groups  recruit  new
members  and  flourish  most  easily  in  an  environment
characterized  by  economic  and  social  degradation,
armed  conflict,  poverty,  illiteracy  and  self-isolation.
The  necessary  resources  should  be  mobilized  to  open
up  new  programmes  of  assistance  to  the  developing
and  less  developed  countries,  and  to  expand  existing
programmes.  The  implementation  of  United  Nations
25
A/57/PV.8
decisions on assistance for the sustainable development
and relaunching of economic growth in those countries
plays a major role. We need to take special note of the
need 
to
Afghanistan.
international  assistance 
to  render  urgent 
is 
the  avoidance  of 
Another  important  aspect  in  the  eradication  of
terrorism 
inter-civilizational
tensions  and  the  creation  of  a  spirit  of  mutual  respect
among  religions  and  cultures.  We  support  the  trend
towards continuing and deepening the  dialogue  among
civilizations, and  we stress its  multifaceted nature.  We
believe  that  the  implementation  of  programmes  in  the
fields  of  education,  information  and  cultural  dialogue
among  civilizations  will  facilitate  the  creation  of
relations  of  mutual  understanding  and  trust,  which  are
so  greatly  needed  in  order  to  resolve  the  common
problems faced by both the West and the East.
In this context, I would like to stress in particular
the importance of the international conference initiated
by Azerbaijan on “The Role of Religion and Belief in a
Democratic  Society:  Searching  for  Ways  to  Combat
Terrorism  and  Extremism”,  to  be  held  in  cooperation
with  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in
Europe (OSCE) on 10 and 11 October 2002 in Baku.
In  the  combat  against  international  terrorism,
priority  should  be  given 
to  addressing  militant
nationalism  and  aggressive  separatism.  Very  often
terrorist  groups  of  separatists  and  nationalists  of
various kinds maintain close ties among each other and
are  directly  sponsored  by  States.  The  fight  against
terrorism  represents  an  extremely  complex  problem  in
the so-called uncontrolled territories that have emerged
as a result of armed separatism and foreign aggression.
For  10  years  now  such  an  uncontrolled  zone  has
existed  in  that  part  of  the  territory  of  Azerbaijan
occupied  by  Armenia.  Elevating 
ideology  of
aggressive nationalism, terrorism and territorial claims
to neighbours to the rank of State policy, the Republic
of  Armenia,  through  direct  interference  in  the  internal
affairs  of  Azerbaijan,  formed  an  armed  separatist
terrorist group  within the Nagorno-Karabakh region of
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan.  This  was  followed  by
open, 
against
Azerbaijan.
by  Armenia 
the 
armed 
aggression 
Armenia,  which  perpetrated  ethnic  cleansing
against the Azerbaijani people in their own territory in
1987  and  1988,  in  1992  and  1993  occupied  the  entire
Nagorno-Karabakh  region,  expelling  60,000  native
26
Azerbaijani people. It  has  also  occupied  the  territories
of another seven regions of the Republic of Azerbaijan,
thus bringing the total number of  Azerbaijani refugees
to  1  million.  Armenia  now  intends  to  consolidate  the
results  of  its  aggression  and  ethnic  cleansing  and  to
tear 
away 
from
Azerbaijan.
the  Nagorno-Karabakh 
region 
Armenia has tried to camouflage its annexationist
policy  by  appealing  to  the  principle  of  the  right  of
peoples  to  self-determination.  However,  according  to
international law, this principle can be realized only in
a peaceful way and in accordance with the principle of
territorial  integrity.  The  right  to  self-determination
does  not  imply  the  unilateral  right  of  secession  and
should not lead to the disintegration of a sovereign and
independent State.
the
Furthermore, 
Nagorno-Karabakh 
the  Republic  of
Azerbaijan  can  in  no  way  be  regarded  as  independent
subjects with the right to self-determination.
the  Armenians  residing 
region  of 
in 
The  assertion  of  the  Armenian  side  that  the
Nagorno-Karabakh  region  has  never  belonged 
to
Azerbaijan  is  equally  groundless, as  is  its  reference  to
international law. Aside from the fact that appealing to
history  in  the  context  of  the  settlement  of  inter-State
conflicts  is  wrong,  extremely  dangerous  and  calls  into
question 
the
international law, it must be noted that these statements
by Armenia are refuted by numerous historical official
documents.
the  universality  of 
the  norms  of 
Armenia,  which  often  refers  to  the  League  of
Nations to justify its territorial claims,  must remember
that,  in  its  official  documents,  the  League  of  Nations
expressed  doubt  as 
the  existence  of  a  stable
government capable of representing Armenia and, what
is  most  important,  certified  Armenia’s  lack  of  clearly
defined borders.
to 
and  on 
the  non-recognition  of 
The  decisions  of  Armenia’s  Parliament  on  the
reunification  of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  with
Armenia 
any
international  document  which  mentions  this  region  as
an integral part of Azerbaijan are illegal. Likewise, the
decisions  taken  by  the  illegal  separatist  regime  in  the
Nagorno-Karabakh  region,  the  so-called  referendums
and  elections  it  held  in  a  situation  of  war  and  the
forcible expulsion of  the  entire  Azerbaijani  population
cannot have any international legal validity.
the 
universally 
Furthermore, Armenia itself has violated the right
of  the  Azerbaijani  people  to  self-determination.  In
accordance  with 
recognized
international  legal  doctrine  uti  possidetis  juris,  former
Union  republics  are  recognized  as  new  independent
States  within  borders  previously  existing  within  the
federations. These were the exact borders within which
the  United  Nations  recognized  Azerbaijan  in  March
1992,  when  it  accepted  our  country  as  a  fully  fledged
Member of this universal Organization.
The 
supported 
against  Azerbaijan. 
In 1993 the Security Council  adopted resolutions
822 (1993), 853 (1993), 874 (1993) and 884 (1993) on
the  Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict.  These  resolutions
were  adopted  following  each  new  stage  of  Armenian
Council
aggression 
unambiguously 
and
territorial  integrity  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,
confirmed  its  recognition  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  as  an
integral  part  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  and
resolutely 
and
unconditional withdrawal of the Armenian forces from
the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan  and  the  creation
of  conditions  for  the  return  of  refugees  and  displaced
persons.  However,  these  demands  by  the  Security
Council have so far not been implemented.
sovereignty 
immediate, 
demanded 
the 
the 
full 
the  mandate  for 
Those resolutions  also contained a  request  to  the
Secretary-General,  the  OSCE  Chairman-in-Office  and
the  Chairman  of  the  Minsk  Group,  to  submit,  in
implementing 
the  settlement  of
Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict, reports on the situation
in the region to the Security Council. The last decision
stressed  the  request  to  provide  information  on  the
process  of  the  implementation  of  all  four  resolutions.
Regrettably,  this  request  still  remains  on  paper  only.
Such  a  state  of  affairs  cannot  be  beneficial  for  us;  it
leads  to  the  “discharging”  of  the  settlement  process
and,  eventually,  to  a  freezing  of  the  situation  at  a
dangerous point of fait accompli of the occupation. The
non-implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions
undermines  its  authority  as  well  as  people’s  belief  in
justice  and  in  the  possibility  of  a  peaceful  political
settlement.
As is well known, in the annual resolution of the
General  Assembly  on  cooperation  with  the  OSCE,  the
United  Nations  expresses  its  support  for  the  efforts  of
the  regional  organization  and  its  Minsk  Group,  which
mediates  the  settlement  of  the  conflict  in  and  around
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  of  the  Republic  of
Azerbaijan.
A/57/PV.8
How  can  we  evaluate  these  decade-long  efforts,
which have been under way since the establishment of
the  Minsk  Group  at  the  Conference  on  Security  and
Cooperation  (CSCE)  Ministerial  Council  held 
in
Helsinki  in  March  1992?  While  at  the  early  stages  of
the  mediation  the  Minsk  Group  was  putting  forward
proposals on the elimination of the consequences of the
conflict,  its  present  activities  can  be  characterized  as
following 
the
background  of  the  negotiations,  until  the  victimized
party accepts the conditions of the aggressor.
“wait-and-see”  policy 
against 
a 
Such  a  position  on  the  part  of  the  mediators  can
be regarded only as passive support for Armenia’s fait-
accompli policy, which is unacceptable to us.
Azerbaijan,  which 
remains  committed 
to  a
peaceful  settlement  of  the  conflict  and  to  interaction
with  the  OSCE  and  its  Minsk  Group,  sees  an  urgent
need  for  a  new  and  resolute  intervention  by  the
Security  Council,  which  so  far  has  not  used  its
potential  effectively  to  contribute  to  the  settlement  of
the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict.
is  explosive.  Yes, 
The  current  situation 
the
ceasefire  has  been  observed  for  eight  years  and
mediation  activity  is  being  maintained,  but  a  real
peaceful  settlement  of  the  conflict  has  not  occurred.
Azerbaijan  will  never  agree  to  the  legalization  of
territorial  seizures.  Azerbaijan  will  never  accept  the
loss  of  a  single  inch  of  its  territory  and  preserves  its
right to undertake all the necessary measures stipulated
by the United Nations Charter to protect its sovereignty
and territorial integrity.
to  make  Armenia 
We  call  upon  the  Security  Council  to  review  the
existing  situation, 
immediately
withdraw its armed forces from the occupied territories
of Azerbaijan and to engage in negotiations on defining
the  status  of  the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  within
Azerbaijan on the basis of the norms and principles of
international 
the  Republic  of
Armenia  to  heed  the  voice  of  reason  and  abandon  its
pernicious  policy  of 
against
Azerbaijan.  The  continuation  of  the  occupation  of
Azerbaijani  lands  and  confrontation  with  Azerbaijan
will yield the Armenian people nothing but  misfortune
and suffering.
law.  We  call  upon 
territorial 
claims 
The  conflict  not  only  substantially  undermines
security 
the  South  Caucasus  region,  but  also
constitutes  a  major  obstacle  to  establishing  bilateral
and regional cooperation. This cooperation would have
in 
27
A/57/PV.8
provided benefits to all States in the region and played
a  crucial  role  in  strengthening  their  positions  and
prestige in the international arena.
its  natural 
Making  use  of 
resources  and
favourable geographic location,  Azerbaijan contributes
immensely  to  the  development  of  the  South  Caucasus
region  and  in  fact  plays  the  role  of  engine  in  its
integration  into  the  world  system.  According  to  data
released  last  year  by  the  Statistical  Office  of  the
European  Communities,  52  per  cent  of  the  gross
product  of  the  countries  of  the  South  Caucasus  was
produced  in  Azerbaijan.  A  significant  event,  reaching
far beyond the South Caucasus borders, will take place
in  three  days:  the  ground-breaking  ceremony  of  the
Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  pipeline, 
the  construction  of
which  will give rise to a vast investment flow into the
economies of the countries.
in 
itself  from  participation 
Armenia,  by  its  actions  against  Azerbaijan,  has
isolated 
this  kind  of
economic project. Yes, at every level Armenia declares
its  willingness  to  cooperate  with  Azerbaijan,  but  in
Armenia’s understanding, Azerbaijan must turn a blind
eye  to  the  occupation  of  its  territories  and  establish
economic relations with Armenia. I think members will
agree 
that  hardly  anyone  could  accept  such  a
suggestion, which in fact would represent appeasement
of the aggressor.
Seeking  ways  out  of  the  present  situation  and  to
unblock the  process  of  conflict  resolution,  Azerbaijan,
demonstrating a constructive approach, has proposed to
Armenia that it withdraw its occupation forces from the
four  occupied districts  and that it  subsequently  restore
the main-line railway interlinking Azerbaijan, Armenia
and  other  countries  of  the  region.  Conceived  as  a
gesture  of  goodwill,  this  unique  package  of  measures
for  the  partial  elimination  of  the  consequences  of  the
conflict and for the revitalization of cooperation would
significantly  improve  the  negotiating  environment  and
public  opinion  in  both  countries.  This  proposal  of
Azerbaijan,  promising  benefits  for  both  parties  to  the
conflict  and  other  countries  of  the  region,  enjoyed  the
widest  support  of  the  OSCE  and  its  Minsk  Group,  the
European  Union  and the  Council  of  Europe.  However,
when  it  came  to  taking  practical  measures,  Armenia,
diligently  demonstrating  its  commitment  to  peace  and
cooperation, rejected this step towards confidence.
The  situation  of  “no  peace,  no  war”  in  the
Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict  is  a  time  bomb  and  a
28
the  consequences  of 
cause  of  despair  for  the  people,  first  and  foremost
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  who  have
been violently deprived of their homes, left to bear the
most  heavy  burden  of 
the
aggression  and  are  now  losing  patience  and  hope  for
the  restoration  of  their  legal  rights.  As  a  result  of
Armenia’s  aggressive  actions,  Azerbaijan  currently
gives  shelter  to  more  than  1  million  refugees  and
internally  displaced  persons.  In  years  past,  great  work
has  been  carried  out  to  solve  the  refugees’  problems,
with 
international  humanitarian
organizations,  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) above all.
the  assistance  of 
the 
necessary  medical 
At present, we feel that the urgent necessities for
targeted  assistance  are  to  provide  medical  institutions
with 
and
equipment,  to  implement  agricultural  programmes,  to
create 
small-scale
entrepreneurship.  We  call  upon  UNHCR,  other
international institutions and donor States to respond to
our problems and to mobilize resources for facilitating
their solution on the required scale.
preparations 
develop 
jobs 
and 
to 
Let  me  briefly  touch  upon  the  issue  of  United
Nations  reform  aimed  at  increasing  the  effectiveness
and  practical  results  of  the  Organization’s  activities.
We  have  to  determine  a  number  of  possible  reforms,
among  which  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council
deserves particular mention. I would like to express the
hope  that  the  broadest  possible  consensus  on  every
aspect  of  this  issue  will  be  reached.  Greater  balance
within  the  Council  could  have  been  provided  with  the
inclusion  in  its  composition  of  influential  developing
countries  along  with  the  developed  ones.  An  increase
in  representation  within  one  of  the  United  Nations
leading bodies — within rational limits — would have
reflected the realities of the time and the consideration
of  broader  interests  in  the  solution  of  crucial  issues
related  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security.  With  regard  to  the  reform,  we  would  wish
more  democracy,  action  and  compatibility  with  the
challenges of change.
I  would  like  to  believe  that  the  reforms  will
enable  the  United  Nations  to  confirm  its  role  as  a
universal  Organization 
of  maintaining
international  peace  and  security,  preventing  and
resolving  regional  conflicts,  and  confronting  global
threats  and 
the  new  conditions  of
globalization.
risks  under 
capable 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
call on the Chairman of the delegation of Trinidad and
Tobago, Mr. Philip Sealy.
Mr.  Sealy  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  Please  allow
me  to  preface  my  indication  by  indicating  to  this
Assembly the regret of my Head of Government and of
my  Foreign  Minister,  who  could  not  join  us  on  this
occasion 
electoral
commitments.
domestic 
pressing 
due 
to 
I  would  wish,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and
people  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  to
extend  to  Mr.  Kavan  our  most  sincere  congratulations
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General
Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. We are convinced
that,  under  his  enlightened  guidance,  we  will  address
with determination and courage the issues that confront
the international community.
We  would  also  wish  to  express  at  this  time  our
deep  appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo, President of the Assembly at its fifty-sixth session,
for  the  courageous  leadership  which  he  displayed  in
bringing  that  session  to  a  successful  conclusion  under
difficult and trying circumstances.
To  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  we
wish  to  place  on  record  our  appreciation  for  his
relentless  commitment  to  the  cause  of  peace,  security
and  development  and  for  his 
in
achieving the goals of this world body.
tireless  efforts 
The delegation of Trinidad and Tobago extends a
warm  welcome  to  Switzerland  on  its  becoming  the
190th  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  and  looks
forward  in  the  not-too-distant  future  to  the  admission
of Timor-Leste into our United Nations family.
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and
security,  together  with  the  promotion  of  economic
progress  and  the  achievement  of  social  justice  for
peoples all over the globe, are the pillars on which this
Organization  was  founded  more  than  half  a  century
ago. These goals remain as valid today, and even more
so,  as  when  our 
this
Organization.
fathers  created 
founding 
As  Governments, 
therefore,  and  as  Member
States  of  the  United  Nations,  it  is  incumbent  upon  us,
the  international  community  as  a  whole,  to  reaffirm
in  and
constantly,  by  word  and  deed,  our  faith 
commitment 
and
principles  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  in  the
fundamental  purposes 
the 
to 
A/57/PV.8
area  of  international  peace  and  security.  In  this  field,
the  Security  Council,  charged  as  it  is  with  primary
responsibility under the Charter for the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security,  must  be  allowed  to
fully play its fundamental role, as it did in confronting
the challenge posed to the international  community  by
the  terrorist  acts  committed  in  this  very  city  on  11
September 2001.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  committed 
to
working  with 
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee
established by Security Council resolution 1373 (2001)
in  order  to  do  our  part  to  eradicate  the  scourge  of
terrorism from our world.
On 31 August 1962, some 40 years ago, Trinidad
and  Tobago  became  an 
independent  State  and
immediately  thereafter  joined  this  universal  body.  We
in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  recognize  and  appreciate  the
role  that  the  United  Nations  has  played  in  promoting
fundamental 
the
international  rule  of  law,  the  peaceful  settlement  of
the
disputes, 
sovereign 
proper
observance by all States, large and small, of these basic
principles, the world would most certainly have been a
more challenging place for us all.
to  self-determination  and 
of  States.  Without 
the  right 
equality 
freedoms, 
human 
rights 
and 
It  is  in  that  context  that  Trinidad  and  Tobago
views with increasing concern the continued absence of
a  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  It  is  clear
that peace  will continue to elude that region  unless all
parties  concerned  demonstrate  unequivocally  the  will
to  collaborate  with  a  view  to  achieving  the  vision  set
out in Security Council resolution 1397 (2002).
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and
security  is  a  sine  qua  non  for  the  achievement  of  our
economic  and  social  development  goals.  It  is  against
this  background  that  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  as  a  small
State  and  as  a  developing  country,  supports  all  efforts
made through the international conferences and special
sessions  held  within  the  framework  of  the  United
Nations  to  address  the  international  social  agenda  in
pursuit  of  integral  human  development  worldwide.
Some  of  those  include  the  special  session  on  HIV/
AIDS,  the  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development, the Second World Assembly on Ageing,
the  special  session  on  children  and  the  just  concluded
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  all  of
which  have  not  only  recognized  the  concerns  of  the
more  vulnerable  groups  within  our  societies,  but  have
29
A/57/PV.8
also  identified  various  policy  alternatives 
which those concerns can be addressed.
through
There can, in fact, be no meaningful development
if  significant  segments  of  our  populations  are  allowed
to  remain  in  a  state  of  increasing  vulnerability.  As  a
result,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  participated  fully  in  the
work  of  the  Second  World  Assembly  on  Ageing,  the
special  session  on  children  and  the  special  session  on
HIV/AIDS.
It  is  our  hope  that  the  adoption  of  the  Political
Declaration  and  the  Madrid  International  Plan  of
Action on Ageing, as  well as the Declaration and Plan
of Action emerging from this year’s special session on
children, will serve as the basis for the development of
policies at the national level to deal  with the problems
faced  by  these  two  vulnerable  groups  in  our  societies.
For  its  part,  the  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago
has  recently  completed  a  draft  national  policy  on
ageing  that  will  address  the  principal  concerns  of  our
ageing population.
The HIV/AIDS pandemic continues to hamper the
economic  and  social  development  of  our  Caribbean
region,  affecting  as  it  does  the  most  economically
active  and  productive  segments  of  our  societies.  My
Government  has  sought  to  incorporate  this  issue  as  a
matter  of  priority  into  its  national  strategic  planning
process. It is virtually impossible, however, for any one
country unilaterally to deal effectively with this public
health  issue.  For  that  reason,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is
committed to participating fully in all relevant regional
and international initiatives.
In  that  regard,  member  States  of  the  Caribbean
Community  (CARICOM)  were  among  the  first  to
translate  the  global  commitments  undertaken  at  the
special  session  on  HIV/AIDS  into  regional  targets
when,  in  2001,  our  Governments  adopted  the  Nassau
Declaration  on  Health,  which  identified  priorities  for
action  and  partnership  in  addressing  this  global  health
issue.  However,  assistance  is  urgently  needed  to  boost
these  national  and  regional  initiatives.  We  consider
timely the launching of the Global Fund to Fight HIV/
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. We hope that through
this  Fund,  Governments  will  be  further  empowered  in
their  efforts  to  implement  measures  aimed  at  the
eventual eradication of these diseases.
As  a  country  which  falls  within  the  category  of
small  island  developing  States,  Trinidad  and  Tobago
feels  obliged  to  make  reference  to  the  tendency  in  the
30
to 
community 
underestimate 
international 
the
phenomenon  of  vulnerability,  both  as  a  condition  of
size and stage of development. Small island developing
economies are by definition vulnerable, and in a global
village,  where  negative  occurrences  in  one  sphere  can
have a ripple effect in others, the implications for us all
are  as  real  as  they  are  apparent.  The  lack  of  inherent
capacity, technology and technical know-how limits the
adaptive  capacity  of  small  island  developing  States  to
cope  with  the  challenges  that  they  face,  including
global environmental problems such as climate change,
biodiversity and land degradation.
light  of 
record 
sound 
environmentally 
As  we engage in efforts at the international  level
to 
achieve 
economic
development, Trinidad and Tobago remains cautious in
the 
the
implementation  of  commitments  made  at  the  Rio
Summit, 10 years ago. That Summit concluded with the
signing of two conventions, one on climate change and
the other on biodiversity, together with the adoption of
Agenda 21.
the  dismal 
regarding 
It  continues  to  concern  us  that  emissions  of
greenhouse  gases  have  increased  worldwide  and  that
climate  change  is  occurring  at  a  faster  rate  than
previously  estimated,  especially  since  small  island
developing  States  are  disproportionately  vulnerable  to
the  impact  of  climate  change,  while  being  responsible
for a minuscule proportion of such emissions. Trinidad
and  Tobago  therefore  urges  that  decisive  action  be
taken  to  ensure  that  the  Kyoto  Protocol  comes  into
force  as  early  as  possible,  as  that  is  the  only  existing
international instrument that addresses these problems.
We  therefore  welcome  the  political  commitment  given
by  the  leaders  of  some  key  industrialized  countries  to
ratify this Protocol in the near future.
in 
the  gap  between 
It  would  seem,  however,  that  progress  under
Agenda  21  has  been  limited  primarily  by  lack  of
funding  and  capacity,  which  has  resulted 
the
widening  of 
the  attainment  of
sustainable development and the alleviation of poverty.
Trinidad  and  Tobago  is  therefore  pleased  that  the
recently  concluded  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development,  held  in  Johannesburg,  South  Africa,
agreed  to  specific  targets  in  areas  such  as  water  and
sanitation,  health,  biodiversity 
loss,  restoration  of
depleted fish stocks and chemicals.
The  fact  that  the  Johannesburg  Summit  achieved
a  greater  synthesis  and  integration  of  the  three  pillars
the 
sustainable  development,  namely, 
social,
of 
is  also  a  welcome
economic  and  environmental, 
development.  The  enormous  challenges 
these
issues collectively pose provide a profound insight into
the  magnitude  of 
task  faced  by  developing
countries  in  their  quest  for  sustainable  development.
The  real  test  of  whether  Johannesburg  was  a  success
will,  however,  come  in  the months  and  years  ahead  as
we  seek  to  implement  the  commitments  made  by
Member States.
that 
the 
this  respect 
We  must  build  on  the  momentum  of  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  and  ensure  that
our  future  course  of  action  guarantees  the  outcomes
envisaged  in  the  Plan  of  Implementation  and  the
Political Declaration emanating from that Summit. It is
in 
that  Trinidad  and  Tobago  would
therefore expect that a priority of this Assembly would
be a decision to convene an international conference in
2004  to  review  the  implementation  of  the  Barbados
Plan  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of
Small Island Developing States, and more so in view of
the 
international
community  of  the  special  and  vulnerable  situation  of
these countries.
recognition 
growing 
the 
by 
Additionally, the Assembly may wish to note that
some  of  these  smaller  economies  continue  to  be  faced
by  circumstances  such  as  onerous  debt-servicing
schedules, lack of access to new finance and obstacles
in penetrating non-traditional markets, which negate all
their efforts aimed at economic advancement.
their 
It  is  for  this  reason  that  Trinidad  and  Tobago
looks  forward  to  the  early  implementation  of  the
enhanced  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt
Initiative and other United Nations initiatives aimed at
alleviating  the  economic  burdens  faced  by  many  low-
and  middle-income  countries.  These  countries  are
being  asked  to  service  debts  and  at  the  same  time  to
fulfil 
the  Millennium
development  agenda.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the
recent appointment by the Secretary-General of a High
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries,
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island
Developing States. Trinidad and Tobago looks forward
to  working  with the High  Representative to  ensure the
effective  discharge  of  his  mandate,  particularly  as  it
relates to small island developing States.
commitments 
to 
Another  noble  attempt  conceptualized  within  the
International
framework  was 
United  Nations 
the 
A/57/PV.8
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development,  held  in
Monterrey  earlier  this  year.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is
heartened  by  the  outcome  of  that  Conference  that
defined  the  necessary  actions  for  addressing  some  of
the  more  pressing  problems  faced  by  developing
countries  in  the  areas  of  mobilizing  domestic  and
international  resources  for  development,  international
trade, 
for
development  and  external  debt.  My  delegation
therefore urges this Assembly to endorse the Monterrey
Consensus as adopted by that Conference.
cooperation 
technical 
financial 
and 
held 
that 
leaders  mandated 
fund  should  be  created  within 
At  the  regional  level,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is
engaged in joint efforts with its Caribbean Community
(CARICOM)  partners  to  assume  responsibility  for  the
management  of  our  developing  economies.  At  a
Special  CARICOM  Summit 
last  month,
regional
CARICOM 
a 
stabilization 
the
framework  of  a  long-term  economic  transformation
programme. The purpose of the fund will be to provide
financial
regional  economies  with 
long-term
resources 
economic 
financial
to  augment
cooperation  programme 
budgetary  resources  available  to  member  States  of  the
Community 
and
multilateral institutions.
the  necessary 
to  current  and 
regional 
to 
difficulties.  This 
domestic 
intended 
respond 
sources 
from 
both 
is 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  committed  to  the
international rule of law and to justice for all. Our role
in  the  reintroduction  into  the  international  agenda  of
the  idea  of  the  creation  of  a  permanent  International
Criminal Court in 1989 is well known. And, since that
time,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  not  ceased  to  promote
support 
and
internationally.  It  continues  to  be  the  hope  of  my
Government  that  at  the  Review  Conference  of  2009,
the  crimes  of  drug-trafficking  and  terrorism  will  also
be included within the jurisdiction of the Court.
that  Court, 
regionally 
both 
for 
It  is  noteworthy  that  many  States  regard  the
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as the
single  most  important  international  instrument  since
the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The
successful  conclusion  of  the  first  meeting  of  the
Assembly of States Parties to the Statute last week was
a  positive  step  towards  the  operational  phase  of  the
Court,  which  now  stands  as  a  permanent  warning  to
would-be  perpetrators  of 
its
jurisdiction that impunity will no longer be tolerated by
the  international  community  and  that  justice  will  be
the  crimes  within 
31
to 
and 
to 
an 
to 
the  resolution  of 
that  currently  confront  our 
In  conclusion,  the  issues  which  I  have  raised  in
this forum today point to the need for the globalization
of  genuine  commitment 
the
international
problems 
community.  What  is  required  therefore  is  a  greater
sense  of  shared  commitment 
the  fundamental
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
face  of  new  and  ominous  threats  to  global  peace  and
security;  to  the  vision  of  a  world  free  from  poverty,
hunger 
international
organization  fully  charged  by  its  Member  States  with
the  political  will  to  tackle  frontally  all  the  challenges
that  pose  threats  to  the  very  survival  of  mankind.
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  forty  years  after  joining  the
United  Nations,  renews  before  the  Assembly  its  firm
commitment 
the  purposes  and
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  to  make
its contribution to the economic and social progress of
peoples the world over.
to  abide  fully  by 
and  disease; 
The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
A/57/PV.8
assured  to  their  victims.  In  the  election  of  judges  to
that  Court,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  would,  as  a  small
State, consider it an honour to have one of its nationals
elected in order to continue its contribution to the cause
of international criminal justice.
But  justice  for  all  victims  of  the  most  heinous
crimes  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against
humanity will only be assured when this most recently
created  International  Criminal  Tribunal  gains 
the
widest  possible  acceptance.  We  therefore  encourage
those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify  or
accede to the Statute.
In  order  to  ensure  that  the  Court  will  truly
achieve  the  goals  for  which  it  was  established,  the
States  Parties  must  stand  together  in  their  efforts  to
preserve the integrity of the Statute to which they have
committed  themselves  and  must,  with  one  accord,
resist  any  attempts  to  undermine  the  effectiveness  and
independence of the Court.
32
