United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
36th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 October 2002, 3 p.m.
New York

A/57/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 45
the  International  Tribunal 
Report  of 
the
Prosecution  of  Persons  Responsible  for  Serious
Violations  of 
International  Humanitarian  Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia
since 1991
for 
Note  by  the  Secretary-General  transmitting
the  ninth  annual  report  of  the  International
Tribunal (A/57/379)
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly
the
takes  note  of 
report  of 
International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia?
the  ninth  annual 
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Claude  Jorda,
President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former
Yugoslavia.
Mr. Jorda (spoke in French): It is a great honour
for me to address this Assembly once again as I present
the  ninth  annual  report  of  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal for the former  Yugoslavia,  over  which I  have
the honour to preside.
Allow  me  first,  on  behalf  of  all  my  colleagues
and of the Tribunal as a whole, to express my profound
gratitude  for  the  support  the  Assembly  has  always
afforded  our  institution.  When  I  had  the  honour  of
to 
the  Assembly  last  year,  I  shared 
presenting the eighth annual report of the International
Tribunal 
in
particular my concerns regarding the need to adapt the
achievement  of  the  International  Tribunal(cid:146)s  mission  to
the political changes in the former Yugoslavia. In fact,
I  shared  some  thoughts  on  the  future  priorities  of  the
judicial  institution  over  which  I  preside,  describing  in
particular  the  need  to  direct  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  activity
more 
the  prosecution  of  crimes  which
constitute  the  most  serious  breaches  of  international
public  order,  and  setting  out  new  ways  in  which  to
promote the trial of certain cases by courts in the States
of the former Yugoslavia.
towards 
This process of reflection, initiated in 2000-2001,
has since brought about a vast movement of reform, the
foundations  and  main  characteristics  of  which  I  will
attempt  to  present  at  a  later  stage.  For  the  moment,  I
will just say that 2001-2002 will have been marked not
only  by  the  effective  implementation  of  the  structural
changes  adopted 
in  2000  but  also,  and  more
particularly,  by  the  setting  out  of  a  plan  of  action
identifying  the  future  directions  of  the  International
Tribunal.
The drafting of the plan of action is one outcome
of  an  overall  process  of  reflection,  undertaken  by  the
Tribunal  in  early  2000,  on  its  judicial  status  and  the
means  by  which  to  accomplish  its  mission  in  the
shortest  possible  time.  I  take  the  liberty  of  recalling
that, in January 2000, the Tribunal began a large-scale
reform  of  its  structure  and  operation  resulting,  inter
alia, 
the  adoption  on  30  November  2000  of
in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-66312 (E)
*0266312*
A/57/PV.36
resolution 1329 (2000), by which the Security Council
approved the creation of a pool of ad litem judges and
the  appointment  of  two  additional 
the
Appeals Chamber. The aim of  these  reforms  was  to
implement  practical  and  flexible  solutions  that  would
allow the judges to deal with a considerable increase in
their workload and thus respond more effectively to the
needs  of  the  accused  and  the  expectations  of  the
victims.
judges 
to 
Today, I will attempt to present a summary of the
Tribunal(cid:146)s activity and the main aspects of this plan of
action.  To  begin,  I  would  recall  that  the  Tribunal  is
seeing  a  considerable  increase  in  its  activity  at  this
time. I would also emphasize that, despite the increase
in  its  activity,  the  Tribunal  cannot  try  on  its  own  all
those  accused  of  war  crimes  and  crimes  against
humanity. At any rate, it must be said that, were it to do
so, it could not honour its commitments to the Security
Council. We therefore had to implement an appropriate
and  realistic  strategy  at  The  Hague  that  would  allow
those presumed responsible for crimes  constituting the
most  serious  breaches  of  international  public  order  in
the  former  Yugoslavia  to  be  prosecuted  as  a  priority.
Finally, I will describe the effective implementation of
the programme, which is far from being accomplished.
the  commitments  and
concrete  measures  undertaken.  The  Tribunal  is  today
functioning  at  full  capacity.  It 
the
commitments  it  made  to  the  Security  Council  and  is
currently  holding  six  simultaneous  trials  daily,  as
opposed  to  three  in  previous  years.  There  is  a  total  of
25 judges at the Tribunal. In 2001-2002, nine ad  litem
judges  were  appointed  by  the  Secretary-General  and
served  alongside  the  permanent  judges.  Consequently,
as  was  to  be  expected,  the  number  of  trials  has
increased  significantly.  This  increased  activity  has  led
to  a  significant  rise  in  the  number  of  decisions
rendered.  In  fact,  in  the  past  year,  the  Trial  Chambers
examined  over  20  cases  and  rendered  five  judgements
on the merits.
let  me  address 
is  honouring 
First, 
In  November  2001,  pursuant  to  the  resolution  to
which I referred earlier, two additional judges from the
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  joined  the
Appeals  Chamber  of  the  Tribunal  for  the  former
Yugoslavia.  I  recall  that  the  Appeals  Chamber  serves
both  Tribunals.  It  pronounced  20  or  so  interlocutory
decisions, two  appeals  on  the  merits  and  ruled  on  two
review applications. I would add that the structure and
working methods of the Appeals Chamber were subject
2
to  reforms.  Moreover,  we  established  an  international
bar  for  defence  counsel  and  to  amend  the  Code  of
Professional  Ethics.  I  anticipate  greater  efficiency  of
the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  functioning  to  result  from  improved
training  for  defence  counsel,  a  stricter  Code  and,
ultimately,  better  participation  of  defence  counsel  in
the Tribunal(cid:146)s effectiveness and efficiency.
report  should  not  conceal 
At the same time, now is not the moment for self-
satisfaction.  This 
the
difficulties  encountered,  particularly  concerning  the
length of trials. The rate at which the Tribunal tries its
accused is  still  too  slow.  Need  I  remind  the  Assembly
that, as  matters stand, some of the accused  will not  be
tried  within  the  next  two  years,  a  period  which  will
only  increase  if  no  effective  measure  is  taken  to
expedite proceedings?
The  Tribunal  must  therefore  continue  striving  to
ensure  further  improvements  in  our  current  judiciary
processes.  We 
improve  and
discuss them. In that respect, a new working group will
submit its conclusions to me in the next few weeks.
judges  must  deepen, 
This being so, the reforms undertaken will not on
their  own  suffice  for  the  Tribunal  to  honour  its
commitments to the Security Council, including an end
to  investigations  in  2004,  the  end  of  trial  proceedings
by 2008-2010 and the  end  of  appeals  proceedings in a
final four-year mandate.
I  wish  now  to  discuss  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  future
directions,  which I set out to the  Security  Council and
about which the General Assembly should be informed.
A  series  of  steps  have  been  initiated  by  the
Prosecutor,  who  is  present  in  the  Hall  and  whom  I
commend, and by the Registrar. The three organs of the
Tribunal  work  hand  in  hand  in  exercising  this  entirely
new form of international justice. In January 2002,  we
gave  these  issues  some  thought  and  decided  to  move
towards  a  possible  referral  process  of  certain  cases  to
the  national  courts  of 
the  former
Yugoslavia. The Prosecutor, the Registrar and I drafted
a  report  on  the  judicial  status  of  the  International
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  the
prospects for referring certain cases to national courts.
This reflection also benefited from a certain number of
meetings, 
in  particular  with  a  group  of  experts
mandated  by  the  High  Representative  for  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina,  and  from  visits  and  meetings  with  all
involved  parties  in  Sarajevo  and  in  the  two  entities  of
the
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
the  Federation  and 
the  States  of 
Republika  Srpska.  I  discussed  all  this  at  the  plenary
meeting  of  a  Security  Council  in  July  2002,  and  the
Council  has  been  giving 
its
consideration.
information 
this 
This  strategy  comprises 
two  main  aspects:
realigning Tribunal activity on the  trial of  the  highest-
ranking  military,  paramilitary  and  civilian 
leaders
for  war  crimes  and  crimes  against
responsible 
humanity;  and 
lesser
importance to the national courts. In July 2002, having
reviewed the ongoing  investigations,  the Prosecutor  of
the  Tribunal  considered  that  a  certain  number  of
intermediary  or  lower-level  accused  could,  in  fact,  be
tried by the courts of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
refering  certain  cases  of 
On  23  July,  Ms.  Del  Ponte  and  I  had  the  honour
of  presenting  the  aforesaid  directions  to  the  Security
Council. I  wished to ascertain, on behalf of the judges
of the Tribunal, that we were, in fact, duly mandated by
the  Statute  before  undertaking  all 
the  measures
necessary to implement the referral process. Following
this  discussion,  the  President  of  the  Security  Council
issued a statement on behalf of the Council endorsing
involving 
intermediary  and 
(cid:147)the  report(cid:146)s  broad  strategy  for  the  transfer  of
cases 
lower-level
accused  to  competent  national  jurisdictions  as(cid:133)
the best way of allowing the ICTY to achieve its
current objective of completing all trial activities
at first instance by 2008(cid:148). (S/PRST/2002/21)
The Security Council also
(cid:147)invites  States  and  relevant  international  and
regional 
as
appropriate 
the  strengthening  of  national
judicial  systems  of  the  States  of  the  former
Yugoslavia 
the
implementation of this policy(cid:148). (ibid)
organizations 
contribute 
order 
to 
facilitate 
to 
to 
in 
The  essential  question  remains  as  to  how  the  reform
may be effectively implemented.
It  bears  emphasizing  that  this  goal  does  not
depend  solely  upon  the  work  of  the  International
Tribunal. Since the strategy seeks, among other things,
to  refer  a  number  of  cases  to  the  domestic  courts,  it
involves  a  large  number  of  players,  and  not  only  the
Judges  and the Prosecutor. I  will  try  to  explain.  These
players  are,  first  of  all,  of  course,  the  International
Tribunal, followed by those officials responsible at the
national level, and finally, the international community
itself, which you are and which you represent.
A/57/PV.36
First of all, the International Tribunal: What must
it do in order to meet the objectives set by the Security
Council, in agreement with the Tribunal itself? Several
approaches have already been undertaken in just a few
weeks. The Judges, first of all, are empowered to create
provisions  allowing  for  the  referral  of  certain  cases  to
the  national  courts.  And this  is  why  I  appeared  before
the Security Council.
From a constitutional standpoint, does our statute
make  it  possible  for  us  to  refer  a  certain  number  of
cases?  The  answer  is  yes.  And  so,  we  the  Judges,  in
consultation  with  the  Prosecutor,  went  ahead  and
modified  our  own  rules  of  procedure  and  evidence,
making it possible for this referral process to be carried
out. So, from that standpoint, the Tribunal is ready.
I also  met  with  the  presiding  Judges  of  the  three
Trial  Chambers  and  began  to  examine  with  each  of
them  the  cases  which  could  be  referred  to  national
courts, if need be.
And, 
lastly, 
the  Prosecutor  continued  her
evaluation  of  investigations  that  have  been  ongoing
since  the  beginning  of  the  year  in  order  to  determine
how  many 
the
International  Tribunal  and  how  many  by  the  national
courts. I will, of course, specify which ones.
individuals  should  be 
tried  by 
In  the  final  analysis,  the  referral  of  certain
cases (cid:151) and you, representatives of the Assembly, will
agree  with  me  (cid:151)  will  be  possible  only  if  the  national
courts have all of the resources required for trying war
criminals.  When  I  talk  about  resources,  I  am  not
talking  about  financial  resources;  I  am  also  talking
about  legal  resources.  Furthermore,  we  must  be  sure
that if we refer cases to the national courts, we must do
so  knowing  that  the  mission  entrusted  to  us  by  the
Security  Council  will  not  give  flea  market  value  (cid:151)
forgive  me  for  using  that  crude  expression  (cid:151)  to  our
cases  if  we  are  not  absolutely  convinced  that  those
accused will be judged by the international standards to
which  we in this  forum  are all  committed,  and  no  one
more  so  than  you  yourselves,  Member  States  of  the
Assembly.
Now  who  are  the  other  involved  players  in  this
strategy? It is the competent authorities on the national
level.
I wish to remind you (cid:151) and this is the opinion of
the Prosecutor as well (cid:151) that only courts in Bosnia and
Herzegovina  should  for  the  time  being  be  involved  in
3
A/57/PV.36
the  referral  of  cases.  That  said,  while  we  were  in
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Madam  del  Ponte  and  I
myself  observed  that,  despite  the  return  to  peace  and
the  gradual  re-establishment  of  democratic  institutions
in  that  country,  the  local  courts  were  faced  with
substantial structural difficulties. Moreover, it will take
several years before the far-reaching efforts undertaken
by the Office of the High Representative to reform the
State(cid:146)s judicial system can be completed.
to 
jurisdiction 
In  order  to  enable  the  Tribunal  to  implement  its
programme  at  the  earliest  possible  opportunity  (cid:151)  by
which  I  mean,  to  commence  the  referral  of  certain
cases  by  2003  (cid:151)  an 
interim  solution  has  been
identified.  This  solution  consists  of  establishing  a
chamber  with  special 
try  serious
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  within  a
national  court  already  in  place,  in  this  instance,  the
State Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In other words,
at  the  time  of  putting  a  State  or  national  court  into
place,  there  would  be  a  special  section  or  chamber
dealing  with  war  crimes.  In  order  to  guarantee  the
impartiality  and  independence  of  that  chamber,  it
would  be  provisionally  (cid:151)  and  I  do  emphasize
provisionally  (cid:151)-  composed  of  international  judges
who  would  assist  the  local  judges.  This  solution  has
many advantages. For one thing, it has the advantage of
avoiding  the  inconveniences  of  referring  our  cases  to
jurisdictions  that  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  try  these
cases, whether it be the Croat-Muslim Federation or the
Republika  Srpska.  This  is  our  current  view.  I  say  this
outright.
and  Herzegovina.  They 
It  goes  without  saying  that,  in  order  to  set  the
specialized  chamber  in  place,  concerted  action  is
required on the part of all the competent authorities in
Bosnia 
the  High
Representative for  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  who  must
already  bear 
the  heavy  responsibility  of  fighting
organized crime and stabilizing the country(cid:146)s economy;
the  local  judicial  authorities,  who  are  the  primary
players;  and  also  the  international  community,  whose
financial, logistical and legal support are vital.
are 
The Tribunal is aware that this is not an easy task.
Nevertheless  (cid:151)  and  I  reiterate  this  here  before  the
Assembly (cid:151) such concerted action is the sine qua non
for the effective implementation of the referral process
and,  as  such,  for  the  accomplishment  of  our  mandate
within  the  prescribed  time  frames.  Very  recently,  the
Office of the High Representative confirmed to me that
the  goal  of  establishing  this  specialized  chamber  by
4
2003  was  still  on  track,  provided,  inter  alia,  that  the
necessary financial support was forthcoming.
I, 
this 
May 
rostrum,  express 
from 
some
confusion,  because 
the  High  Representative  came
before the Security Council last week and was not very
explicit  on  this  question.  We  will  be  discussing  this
again. I believe there is a need for there to be clear and
unambiguous  discussions  in  this  regard.  It  is  my  firm
belief that the establishment within the State Court of a
specialized  chamber  for  jurisdiction  over  violations  of
international humanitarian law must be supported. And
I ask you to support it. All means must be provided so
that the chamber can function effectively.
The  establishment  of  a  deep-rooted  and  lasting
peace  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  will  become  a  reality
only once all the war criminals that are accused before
that jurisdiction are brought to trial. In any event, such
is the  meaning of the International Tribunal(cid:146)s  mission,
under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter.
I have spoken to you of the responsibilities of the
Tribunal  and  of  the  responsibilities  of  the  competent
authorities  at  the  national  level.  I  would  like  to
conclude  by  referring  to  the  responsibilities  of  the
international community towards this Tribunal.
I would like to recall that the Tribunal will not be
able  to  accomplish  its  mandate  within  the  anticipated
time  frames  unless  the  Member  States,  and  especially
those  created  out  of  the  former  Yugoslavia,  arrest  and
bring  before  the  International  Tribunal  the  accused  in
their  territory  and,  further,  hand  over  all  of  the
evidence in their possession. As I indicated previously,
the Tribunal has taken all of the measures necessary for
the  practical  implementation  of  its  programme  of
action.  However,  the  Tribunal  is  not  alone  in  this
important  endeavour.  For  the  Tribunal  to  be  able  to
concentrate its work on the prosecution and trial of the
main political,  military  and  civilian  leaders,  the  States
of the former Yugoslavia must also actively participate
in their arrest and transfer to The Hague, as it is in this
way  (cid:151)  and  this  way  alone  (cid:151)  that  we  will  be  able  to
accomplish  our  mandate  within  the  anticipated  time
frame.
The  cooperation  of  the  States  (cid:151)  and  those
particular States (cid:151) is, therefore, essential and remains
one of my major concerns. Henceforth (cid:151) and I want to
be very clear about this (cid:151) I will not hesitate to refer to
the  competent  authorities  the  failure  of  any  State  to
meet  its  international  obligations.  My  predecessors
have done this, and as you know, I myself have done so
very recently.
In  conclusion,  it  must  be  noted  that  the  Tribunal
will enter its tenth year of existence in 2003. We  must
thus  examine  the  results  of  this  institution(cid:146)s  activities
more than ever, and do so uncompromisingly. I am not
speaking  in  terms  of  an  anniversary,  but  in  terms  of  a
time  to  assess  our  work.  I  have  endeavoured  today  to
demonstrate to the Assembly that international criminal
justice is possible. Yet, for such justice to flourish, it is
also  important  to  underscore  the  vital  character  of  the
collective action that must be taken by the international
community,  which  is  represented  here,  while  never
forgetting the voice of the victims and the ultimate goal
of reconciliation among peoples.
I  give 
the
representative of Denmark, who will speak on behalf of
the European Union.
The  President: 
floor 
the 
to 
Ms.  Lłj  (Denmark):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  Central  and
Eastern  European  countries  associated  with 
the
European  Union  (cid:151)  Bulgaria,  the  Czech  Republic,
Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania,
Slovakia  and  Slovenia  (cid:151)  and  the  associated  countries
Cyprus,  Malta  and  Turkey,  as  well  as  the  European
Free  Trade  Association  countries  members  of  the
European  Economic  Area,  Iceland  and  Liechtenstein,
align themselves with this statement.
in 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  once  again
express its strong support for the International Criminal
Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  The
Tribunal(cid:146)s  establishment  in  1993  marked  a  significant
step  forward 
the  progressive  development  of
international  criminal  law  and  opened  up  an  entirely
new  field  of  United  Nations  action.  The  Tribunal  has
been  and  remains  an 
the
international community(cid:146)s strategy for restoring peace,
security and the rule of law in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Croatia  and  the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
important  element 
in 
ideas  on  how 
The impact of the Tribunal will go far beyond the
region  of  the  Balkans.  By  providing  innovative  and
constructive 
international
criminal  justice  work,  the  Tribunal  paved  the  way  for
the  International  Criminal  Court,  the  first  permanent
international structure to combat impunity for the most
serious  crimes  that  are  of  concern  to  the  international
community as a whole.
to  make 
A/57/PV.36
The  Tribunal  and  the  Court  serve  as  eloquent
examples  of  the  determination  of  the  international
community 
no
circumstances  shall  perpetrators  of  serious  violations
of  international  humanitarian  law  enjoy  impunity,  no
matter their rank, position or citizenship.
impunity.  Under 
combat 
to 
The  European  Union 
takes  note  with  great
satisfaction  of  the  efforts  of  the  Tribunal  to  continue
the  process  of  structural  and  operational  reforms
initiated  in  2001  to  seek  the  expeditious  resolution  of
the  cases  before  it  in  order  to  be  able  to  finish  its
remaining tasks by 2010.
Internally, 
the  Appeals  Chamber  has  been
reorganized  over  the  last  year  by  strengthening  the
structural  ties  with the International  Criminal Tribunal
for  Rwanda.  The  introduction  of  ad  litem  judges  has
been  particularly  worthwhile.  Their  services  have
allowed the Tribunal to conduct more trials in parallel.
Externally, the  Tribunal  has  focused  on  its  completion
strategy  with  the  intention  of  finishing  investigations
by 2004, completing trial activities  at  first instance by
2008 and bringing to an end all Appeals cases by 2010,
thus  fulfilling 
its  mandate.  The  European  Union
supports  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  ongoing  efforts  to  concentrate
its  work  on  the  prosecution  and  trial  of  civilian,
military and paramilitary leaders, who bear the greatest
responsibility.
accused 
competent 
We  have  noted  with  interest  the  strategy  of  the
Tribunal  to  transfer  cases  involving  intermediary  and
lower-level 
national
jurisdictions,  as  endorsed by  the  Security  Council.  We
encourage  the  States  in  the  region  to  make  efforts  to
facilitate  such  transfers,  inter  alia,  by  providing  the
necessary 
to  be
conducted  in  a  fair  manner.  The  Tribunal  will  wish  to
satisfy  itself  that  the  national  jurisdictions,  which  will
receive 
the
competence 
to  properly
investigate  such  cases  within  an  acceptable  timeframe
and  that  the  interests  of  victims  and  witnesses  will  be
properly safeguarded.
transferred  cases,  have 
the  capacity, 
independence 
framework 
legal 
and 
for 
the 
trials 
to 
the 
The reforms demonstrate the Tribunal(cid:146)s ability to
cope  with  and  adjust  to  the  challenges  before  it.  But
despite  the remarkable  work  carried  out  thus  far,  a  lot
remains  to  be  done:  persons  on  remand  are  awaiting
trial,  investigations  have  yet  to  be  conducted  and
arrests  need  to  be  made.  The  Tribunal  must  spare  no
5
A/57/PV.36
efforts  in  seeking  to  complete  its  task  as  soon  as
possible.
those  matters  and  continue  to  closely  follow  the
developments.
that 
there 
The  European  Union  notes  that  the  successes  of
the  Tribunal  have  been  achieved  at  significantly
increasing cost. The report of the auditors in respect of
the  biennium  2000/2001  suggests 
is
considerable  room  for  improvement  in  management
control  and  enhanced  budgetary  efficiency.  We  look
forward  to  learning  more  on  how  the  Tribunal  has
addressed the auditors(cid:146) recommendations.
Full  cooperation  of  all  States 
is  a  vital
precondition for the ability of the Tribunal to adhere to
the  goals  set  out  in  its  completion  strategy.  The
European  Union  urges  all  Governments  to  live  up  to
their international obligation to cooperate fully with the
Tribunal, regardless of their domestic legislation.
Full cooperation on all aspects of the work of the
Tribunal  constitutes  a  non-negotiable  requirement  of
international  law,  whether  it  is  required  in  relation  to
the  location,  arrest  and  transfer  of  indictees  or  to
securing  access  to  witnesses,  documents,  archives  or
other evidence.
remains 
in 
cooperation  with 
problematic.  Many 
Nevertheless,  States(cid:146) 
the  former  Yugoslavia  continue 
the
national
Tribunal 
authorities 
to
provide only the minimum in terms of cooperation. The
continuing  impunity  of  Radovan  Karadzic  and  Ratko
Mladic, indicted on counts of genocide, crimes against
humanity and war crimes, must be brought to an end. It
is  also  high  time  that  Ante  Gotovina  and  Janko
Bobetko, indicted on counts of crimes against humanity
and  war  crimes,  are  arrested  and  transferred  to  the
Tribunal  by  the  Croatian  authorities.  Finally,  the  lack
of  cooperation  on  the  part  of  the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia  with  regard  to  witnesses  and  archives,  and
its  failure  to  track  down,  arrest  and  transfer  indictees,
are  totally  unacceptable,  and  has  led  the  Tribunal  to
report  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to  the
Security Council for continued non-cooperation.
The  European  Union  urges  the  Governments  and
other  relevant  authorities  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,
Croatia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  to
cooperate  immediately  and  fully  with  the  Tribunal.
Failure  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  Tribunal  would
seriously 
those
countries  towards  the  European  Union.  The  European
Union  will  keep  close  contact  with  the  Tribunal  on
further  movement  of 
jeopardize 
6
I should not wish to end  without thanking all the
branches of the Tribunal (cid:151) the Chambers, the Registry
and the Office of the Prosecutor (cid:151) for their continuing
endeavours.  They  provide  essential  contributions  to
peace and security in the region by  ushering  in justice
and  facilitating  reconciliation,  and 
they  can  rest
assured  of  the  full  support  and  cooperation  of  the
European Union.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of
Norway.
Mr. Kolby (Norway): Let me begin by expressing
our  full  recognition  of  the  achievements  and  the  high
standards of the International Criminal Tribunal for the
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  as  reflected  in  various
judgements,  as  well  as  in  the  report  before  us.  We
would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Tribunal  for
the detailed annual report.
The  work  of  the  Tribunal  has  become  a  widely
recognized  contribution to  the  search  for  truth  and  the
fight  against  impunity  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of
international concern. Thus, it can assist in the process
of  rebuilding  civil  society  under  the  rule  of  law.  The
period  under  consideration  coincides  with  the  historic
establishment 
permanent
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  That  marks  yet
another  milestone  in  the  essential  process  of  making
international  criminal  justice  work,  thus  motivating
States  to  fulfil  their  duty  to  bring  those  who  have
committed atrocities to justice.
the  world(cid:146)s 
first 
of 
In  that  regard,  the  judgements  of  the  Tribunal
represent  essential  contributions 
international
jurisprudence  with  regard  to  the  prosecution  of  the
most serious international crimes. The continuing work
of  the  ad  hoc  Tribunals  also  paves  the  way  for  the
future work of the International Criminal Court.
to 
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Tribunal  now  is
operating  at  full  capacity,  and  that  both  internal  and
external  reforms  have  been  successfully  implemented,
leading to a remarkable increase in its judicial activity,
not  least  thanks  to  the  arrival  of  nine  ad  litem  judges.
Bearing in mind the need to prepare for the foreseeable
rise  in  the  number  of  cases  on  appeal,  we  especially
welcome  the  arrival  of  two  additional  judges  in  the
Appeals  Chamber,  as  well  as  the  implementation  of
means  to  strengthen  the  structural  links  between  the
Appeals Chambers of the International Tribunal and the
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. The latter
measure will guarantee that the case law of the Appeals
Chambers is consistent, and it will simplify the work of
the judges and staff in the Chambers.
However,  certain 
financial  and  management
issues, mainly related to defence counsel and legal aid,
are  still  a  cause  of  concern  for  us.  We  note,  however,
the Tribunal(cid:146)s efforts to deal  with those problems,  and
we  would  welcome  in  that  regard  the  creation  of  an
international criminal  bar. The  bar  would  have powers
to  enforce,  inter  alia,  the  substantive  amendments  and
additions  to  the  code  of  professional  conduct  for
defence  counsel,  including  an  explicit  prohibition  of
fee-splitting  and  more  detailed  rules  on  conflicts  of
interest. In addition, the changes made to the Directive
on  Assignment  of  Defence  Counsel,  including  the
simplification of the legal aid payment system  and  the
prohibition  of  the  assignment  as  member  of  a  defence
team  of  relatives  and  friends  of  the  accused  or  of
counsel,  are  also  important  in  that  regard.  Both  as  a
further  preventive  measure  against  potential 
fee-
splitting  and  for  cost-saving  purposes,  we  urge  the
Tribunal  to  thoroughly  consider  the  recommendations
of  the  Board  of  Auditors  to  lower  the  indigence
threshold  and  to  establish  a  limit  on  the  amount  of
legal  aid  that  may  be  provided  for  the  duration  of  the
proceedings.
It is evident that the ICTY alone cannot carry out
all  the  work  required  to  restore  and  to  maintain  peace
in the former Yugoslavia. The Tribunal will not be able
to  try  all  the  perpetrators  of  serious  violations  of
humanitarian  law  committed  during  a  conflict  that
lasted more than five years. The Tribunal(cid:146)s completion
strategy, as endorsed by the Security Council, seems in
practice to be the best way of enabling the Tribunal to
achieve  its  objective  of  completing  all  first  instance
trials by 2008.
Transferring  cases  involving  intermediary-level
accused  to  the  competent  national  jurisdictions  paves
the  way  for  the  ICTY  to  fully  concentrate  on  trying
those  who  bear  the  greatest  responsibility  for  the
crimes committed. Leaving it to domestic courts to try
the  subordinates  who  carried  out  the  orders  would
further  help  to  reconstruct  a  national  identity  in  the
region.  In  that  process,  we  must  allow  for  sufficient
flexibility  in  order  to  ensure  that  no  perpetrator  can
gamble on impunity based on the provisional nature of
the Tribunal.
A/57/PV.36
three 
times 
in 
that  problems 
the  number  for 
To  a  large  extent,  the  success  of  the  Tribunal  in
the  discharge  of  its  mandate  lies  in  the  hands  of
Member  States.  It  is  encouraging  that  23  accused,
almost 
the  previous
reporting period, either surrendered voluntarily or were
arrested  during  the  period  under  consideration.  We
regret,  however, 
international
cooperation remain a major obstacle for the Tribunal in
accomplishing  the  reforms  that  have  already  been
implemented and those under consideration, and thus in
completing  its  mandate.  The  arrest  and  subsequent
transfer of former President Slobodan Milosevic to The
Hague  were  a  landmark  in  the  field  of  international
criminal  justice.  The  transfer  makes  clear  that  no
individual  is  above  the  law,  regardless  of  his  or  her
position.  All  authorities 
throughout 
former
the 
Yugoslavia  must  now  recognize  that 
the  duty  to
cooperate  with  the  Tribunal  in  accordance  with  the
binding  decisions  of  the  Security  Council  is  non-
negotiable.
It is critical to the success of the Tribunal that the
people  of  the  region  be  informed  about  its  work  and
understand  its  significance.  It  is  our  hope  and  belief
that  this  is  happening,  albeit  gradually.  An  important
initiative  taken  by  the  Tribunal  in  this  regard  is  the
Outreach  Programme,  which  provides  accurate  and
topical information on the ICTY and its activities to the
people  of  the  former  Yugoslavia.  In  the  light  of  the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  completion  strategy,  the  role  played  by  the
Programme  in  tracking  developments  and  reforms  in
domestic  criminal  justice  systems  is  also  becoming
increasingly relevant.  Norway  welcomes  the  expanded
activities and continuous  development of the  Outreach
Programme.  During  the  period  under  review,  Norway
has  donated  almost  100,000  euros  to  the  Outreach
Programme.  We  encourage  all  States 
to  support
actively  the  continued  work  of  bringing  the  judicial
process closer to the public in order to promote greater
insight, which may be an important factor in achieving
long-term peace and reconciliation in the area.
We  appeal  to  all  States  to  demonstrate,  not  only
in  words  but  also  in  practice,  their  fullest  cooperation
with  the  Tribunal  by  surrendering  indictees,  providing
full  and  effective  assistance  with  regard  to  witnesses,
giving  financial  and  material  support  and,  not  least,
providing  practical  assistance  in  the  enforcement  of
sentences. 
has
demonstrated  its  willingness  to  consider  applications
from  the  Tribunal  concerning  the  enforcement  of
The  Norwegian  Government 
7
A/57/PV.36
subsequently, 
sentences  and 
in  conformity  with
national laws, to receive a limited number of convicted
in  Norway.  We
persons 
encourage  other  States 
their  continued
commitment  to  the  work  of  the  Tribunal  through
concrete action in this crucial field.
their  sentences 
to  prove 
to  serve 
As we are convinced of the need to ensure that no
one gambles on enjoying impunity for acts of genocide,
other  crimes  against  humanity  or  serious  war  crimes,
the  Assembly  may  rest  assured  that  we  will  stand  by
our long-term commitment to the successful fulfilment
of the mandate of the ICTY.
Mr. Cheah  (Malaysia): I  would  first  like  to  join
other  delegations  in  expressing  appreciation  to  Judge
Claude  Jorda,  President  of  the  International  Tribunal
for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), for introducing  the
report  of  the  Tribunal  (A/57/379)  to  the  General
Assembly.
Malaysia is gratified that the process of reform of
the Tribunal, started in 2000 in all of its three organs, is
well under way. We are pleased to note that the number
of judges has increased from 22 to 25 since last year (cid:151)
with  16  permanent  judges,  including  2  from 
the
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)
who are serving in the Tribunal(cid:146)s Appeal Chambers and
with  9  ad  litem  judges  on  the  roster.  The  Tribunal  is
now  operating  at  full  capacity  by  optimally  utilizing
the Three Trial chambers, conducting six simultaneous
first  instance  trials  daily.  These  positive  developments
will  certainly  further  enhance  the  capability  of  the
Tribunal.
endorsed 
the 
broad 
Council 
My  delegation  also  noted  that  on  23  July  this
year, at a closed meeting of the Security Council, Judge
Jorda  presented  for  the  consideration  of  the  Council  a
broad  programme  of  action  with  regard  to  the  future
direction  of  the  Tribunal  in  order  to  fulfil  its  mandate
of completing all first instance trial activities by 2008.
The 
strategy
recommendations  presented  by  Judge  Jorda  including
the recommendation to  transfer  intermediary-level  and
lower-level  criminal  cases 
to  competent  national
jurisdictions.  Malaysia  welcomes  this  development  as
well  as  the  observation  made  by  the  Council  on  the
need to further study the proposal to establish a special
chamber in the State Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
We are of the view that the broad  strategy  will  further
facilitate 
the
mandate  of  the  Tribunal.  Nevertheless,  it  is  important
implementation  of 
their  expeditious 
8
to  ensure  that  the  local  courts  are  well  prepared  and
equipped to handle such cases.
The  Tribunal  was  established  to,  among  other
reasons,  bring  to  justice  persons  allegedly  responsible
for violations of  international  humanitarian law  and to
contribute  to  the  restoration  of  peace  by  promoting
reconciliation in the former Yugoslavia.
the  reform  process 
that 
the  expense  of  achieving 
The  Council  and  the  Tribunal  must  exercise  the
is  not
utmost  care  so 
implemented  at 
these
important  objectives.  It  is  also  pertinent  to  seek  the
views of the countries concerned. Malaysia is confident
that,  together,  the  Council  and  the  Tribunal  are  taking
the correct approach on this matter.
It  has  been  almost  a  decade  since  the  Tribunal
was  established.  Malaysia  is  pleased  to  learn  that  a
total of 78 cases have appeared before the Tribunal, of
which 30 cases have been completed. However, we are
very  concerned  that  20  publicly  indicted  persons  still
remain  at  large,  including  the  major  indicted  war
criminals,  particularly,  Radovan  Karadzic  and  Ratko
Mladic.  We  strongly  hope  that  this  matter  will  be
addressed as expeditiously as possible.
The  continued  freedom  with  impunity  of  such
major  characters  will  not  only  preclude  the  Tribunal
from  concluding  its  work  within  the  allotted  time
frame,  but  also  impede  the  meting  out  of  justice  and
the  reconciliation  process  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.
Malaysia  reiterates  that  the  mandate  of  the  Tribunal
would  not  be  considered  complete  without 
the
apprehension  and  the  trial  of  major  indicted  war
criminals,  most  of  whom  are  believed  to  be  hiding  in
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  Republika
Srpska.
In  this  regard,  Malaysia  views  with  concern  the
letter addressed to the President of the Security Council
by  Judge  Jorda  regarding  the  failure  of  the  Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia to cooperate with the Tribunal.
We  commend  Judge  Jorda(cid:146)s  letter  and  reiterate  the
importance  of  the  Tribunal  receiving  the  necessary
support and cooperation of all the parties concerned in
the  implementation  of  its  mandate.  We  also  urge  the
authorities in Republika Srpska to cooperate fully with
the Tribunal in this regard.
While  we  acknowledge  that  the  political  will  of
States  is  needed  in  apprehending  these  indicted  war
criminals,  the  international  community,  especially  the
the  United  Nations  Mission 
Security  Council,  must  also  show  determination  in
rendering full assistance to the Tribunal. In this regard,
we  note  with  concern  the  comment  made  by  the  Head
of 
in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  at  the  Council  meeting  on  23  October
2002, 
the
Stabilization  Force  on  this  issue.  We  hope  therefore
that  the  Council  and  all  parties  concerned  would  give
serious  thought  to  this  matter  in  order  to  assist  the
Tribunal in carrying out its work of rendering justice to
the  victims of  war and  crimes  against  humanity  in  the
former Yugoslavia.
limited  mandate 
regarding 
the 
of 
We  wish  also  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
our  profound  appreciation  to  the  outgoing  Judges  for
their  outstanding  service  to  the  Tribunal  on  behalf  of
the  international  community  and  humanity  in  general.
In  reiterating  its  fullest  support  for  the  Tribunal,
Malaysia  calls  once  again  on 
international
community to give all-out and sustained support to the
Tribunal in carrying out its mandate.
the 
into 
force  of 
the  permanent 
Mr.  (cid:138)imonović  (Croatia):  As  we  welcome  the
entry 
International
Criminal Court less than ten years since the adoption of
Security Council resolution 827 (1993), there can be no
doubt  that  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  together  with  the  Rwanda
Tribunal,  played  a  crucial  role  in  this  evolution  of
international criminal justice. Over the last  nine  years,
the  two  ad  hoc  Tribunals  have  significantly  advanced
international
the  development  and  enforcement  of 
criminal 
standards,
strengthening the rule of law and bringing justice to the
victims.
shaping  new 
law  by 
legal 
However,  as  we  are  rightly  reminded  in  the
report(cid:146)s  conclusions, there  is  yet  another  dimension  to
the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  role  (cid:151)  that  of  establishing  a  reliable
record  of  the  past  events.  For  the  countries  in  the
region  and  for  their  future,  the  political  and  historical
account 
Tribunal(cid:146)s
jurisprudence is equally as important as the punishment
of the perpetrators.
established 
through 
the 
Because  of  its  legal,  political,  historical  and
educational importance, the trial of Slobodan Milosevic
is central to the ICTY. It is an opportunity to establish a
framework  and  identify  a  context  within  which  all
individual  crimes  in  the  former  Yugoslavia  have  been
committed. 
non-chronological
sequencing  of  the  trial  (cid:151)  which  began  with  charges
Regretfully, 
the 
A/57/PV.36
related  to  Kosovo,  rather  than  Croatia  and  Bosnia  (cid:151)
creates  problems  with  respect  to  the  reconstruction  of
the  logic  of  the  events  related  to  the  charges,  thus
failing  to  establish  a  coherent  political  and  historical
record.
to 
The  Republic  of  Croatia 
the  successful  completion  of 
attaches  utmost
importance 
the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  mandate. We support the  work of the  ICTY
and  we  closely  cooperate  with  it.  As  the  report
correctly  notes,  the  Prosecutor  maintains  constant
dialogue  with  the  Croatian  authorities,  which  have
opened its archives and handed over more than 10,000
documents,  and  ensured  access  to  all  witnesses.  Only
in recent weeks Croatia has received and fulfilled half-
a-dozen requests related to various investigations.
telling 
example 
The  most 
of  Croatia(cid:146)s
commitment is undoubtedly the recent testimony of the
President  of  Croatia  before  the  ICTY  in  the  trial
against  Milosevic.  As  the  first  head  of  State  ever  to
appear  before  the  Trial  Chamber  of  an  international
war crimes tribunal in a case against a former president
of  another  State,  President  Mesić  helped  to  create
another  important  precedent  in  international  criminal
adjudication.
factually  and 
forces.  As  certain 
In  this  spirit  of  co-operation,  Croatia  was  also
very  open  in  expressing  its  concerns  with  regard  to
some  elements  of  the  indictment  against  General
Bobetko,  the  former  Chief  of  Staff  of  the  Croatian
armed 
legally
unfounded  qualifications  in  that  indictment  risk  some
undesirable implications for the historical record of the
events  that  took  place  during  the  liberation  war  in
Croatia,  the  Government  decided  to  explore  the  legal
avenues  available  under  the  ICTY(cid:146)s  Statute  and  the
Rules of Procedure and Evidence in order to challenge
respective  parts  of 
therefore
submitted  two  interlocutory  legal  remedies,  based  on
the interpretation of relevant provisions of the Rules of
Procedure  and  Evidence.  The  ICTY  has  already
established an Appeals Chamber that will decide on the
interlocutory  appeals.  The  Government  of  Croatia  has
made it very clear that it will comply with the ruling of
the  Appeals  Chamber,  which 
the
following weeks.
is  expected 
indictment. 
the 
in 
It 
A  year  ago  the  President  and  the  Prosecutor  of
the  ICTY  presented  a  plausible  exit  strategy  for  the
Tribunal.  Various 
procedural
improvements undertaken over the past  year should be
institutional 
and 
9
A/57/PV.36
continued,  to  ensure  that  the  Prosecutor  will  finish  its
investigations by  2004,  and that  the Trial and  Appeals
Chambers  will  finish  their  cases  by  2008  and  2010.
Taking  into  account  the  limited  capacity  of  the  ICTY
and the need for national mechanisms to strengthen and
ensure  respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  we  welcome  these
efforts, 
in  particular  models  of  complementarity
justice,  relying  on  domestic  courts  elaborated  before
the Security Council in July this year.
In  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the  new  State  Court
can  take  over  specific  cases,  while  the  local  courts
continue  to  operate  under  the  (cid:147)Rules  of  the  Road(cid:148)
procedures. The Croatian judiciary, which is not bound
by these rules, has independently initiated a number of
proceedings  against  perpetrators  of  individual  war
crimes  against  Croatian  citizens,  irrespective  of  their
nationality.
Mr. Grey-Johnson (Gambia), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
We  recognize  that  concentrating  on  the  highest-
level  perpetrators  is  a  cornerstone  of  the  exit  strategy,
and we support this approach. However, any attempt to
create  an  artificial  balance  between  all  parties  to  the
conflict 
sake  of
establishing  a  reliable  historical  record.  The  work  of
the  Tribunal  should  accurately  reflect  the  extent  and
level  of  involvement  in  war  crimes  of  individuals  on
different sides of the conflict.
should  be  prevented 
the 
for 
The  command  responsibility  introduced  by  the
Tribunal should be applied to the highest level actively
involved 
in  planning  and  commanding  genocide,
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes,  without
turning  it  into  objective  responsibility,  which  could
generally  be  attached  to  the  leadership  of  any  country
involved in armed conflict.
Regarding the importance  of  the apprehension  of
the  highest-level  war  crimes  perpetrators,  we  are
encouraged by the statement made by Mr. Jacques Paul
Klein  in  the  Security  Council  last  week  calling  for  a
clear  Stabilization  Force  (SFOR)  mandate  to  find  and
apprehend  Radovan  Karadzic.  We  sincerely  hope  that
the Security Council will act accordingly.
Mr. (cid:138)ahović (Yugoslavia): Allow me at the outset
to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  for  his
presentation of  the Tribunal(cid:146)s annual report,  which  we
have  studied  carefully.  The  report  testifies  to  the  very
10
active  work  of  the  Tribunal  over  the  past  year,  both
within  the  Trial  and  Appeals  Chambers  but  also  in
other  aspects  of  its  activities.  In  this  regard,  I  would
like to make a few comments.
We  welcome  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  structural  reforms,
including its exit strategy, which should ensure that the
first-instance  trials  are  completed  by  2008  and  the
remaining workload finished two years later. Indeed, as
an  ad  hoc  institution, the Tribunal  has  to  have  a  time-
frame  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  The  ICTY(cid:146)s  intention  to
focus  on  the  most  serious  crimes  and  to  refer  other
cases  to  the  national  courts  is,  we  believe,  a  good
approach.
In this connection, I  would like to emphasize the
importance  of  the  establishment  of  a  special  Chamber
to try war crimes within the State Court of Bosnia and
Herzegovina  as  part  of  a  policy  to  improve  the
capabilities  of  national  jurisdictions  to  take  over  such
cases.  However,  we  consider  that  this  concept  of
referral  of  cases  should  in  future  apply  to  all  States
under ICTY jurisdiction. We in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia  are  making  efforts  to  reform  our  judiciary
in order to strengthen its capabilities to deal with these
complex and serious cases.
On another issue of a  more general nature,  allow
me  to  draw  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  attention  to  the  fact  that
neither  the  Statute  nor  the  Rules  of  Procedure  and
Evidence  of  the  ICTY  provides  for  compensation  for
persons  held  in  the  custody  of  the  Tribunal  and
subsequently  acquitted.  My  Government  believes  that
it  would  be  appropriate  and  fair  to  offer  the  remedy
provided for in the national legislation of many States,
including  our  own.  If  compensation  were  provided  to
individuals held in custody and later acquitted, it would
greatly  contribute  to  the  fairness  of  the  treatment  of
indictees.
for  peoples 
I  would  also  like  to  touch  upon  the  work  of  one
specific program of the ICTY (cid:151) the Outreach Program
designed 
former
Yugoslavia.  In  order  to  successfully  fulfil  its  mandate,
the  ICTY  should  make  additional  efforts 
to  be
perceived  and recognized  as a just, impartial  and  non-
political  body  that  applies  equal  standards  to  all  who
fall within its jurisdiction.
regions  of 
in 
the 
As  indicated  in  the  report  before  us,  cooperation
between  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and  the
ICTY  is  a  complicated  and  complex  process.  In  this
context,  we  would  recall  that  the  present  Government
of  Yugoslavia  took  office  less  than  two  years  ago.
During  that  period,  cooperation  with  the  Tribunal,
which  had  been  virtually  non-existent,  constantly
improved and intensified.  Allow  me to give just  a  few
concrete examples.
the 
territory  of 
As  many  as  14  indicted persons  were  transferred
from 
the  Federal  Republic  of
Yugoslavia into the custody of the ICTY, nine of them
within  the  reporting  period.  Besides  former  President
Slobodan  Milosevic,  whose  trial  marked  the  work  of
the  ICTY  in  the  past  year,  those  persons  included  the
former  Chief  of  General  Staff  of 
the  Army  of
Yugoslavia  and  the  Federal  Minister  of  Defence,  the
former  Federal  Deputy  Prime  Minister,  several  high-
ranking military officers and a number of suspects from
Republika  Srpska.  The  Yugoslav  courts  have  issued
warrants  for  an  additional  17  accused  persons  whose
arrest has been sought by the ICTY.
In  early  April  this  year,  the  Federal  Parliament
passed  a  law  on  cooperation  with  the  Tribunal.  A
National  Council  for  Cooperation  with  the  ICTY  has
been  established,  headed  by 
the  Federal  Foreign
Minister.  We  are  aware  that  some  of  the  provisions  of
this  law  need  improvement,  and  we  are  currently
issue.  However,  my
seeking 
Government  would 
those
provisions have not in practice so far been an obstacle
to cooperation.
to  deal  with 
like 
this 
to  emphasize 
that 
Thus far, the Federal Republic of  Yugoslavia  has
responded to 34 requests  to provide  documents  sought
by the ICTY Prosecutor, including full reports from 17
sessions of the Supreme Defence Council and from the
Commander-in-Chief of the Army of Yugoslavia.
As  far  as  access  to  witnesses  is  concerned,  the
Governments  of  Yugoslavia  and  Serbia  have  provided
the requested information on as many as 100 witnesses
and  suspects.  More  than  30  former  and  current  State
officials  and  employees  were  authorized  to  testify,
including  on  matters  that  constitute  military  and  State
secrets.  Among  them  were  the  former President of  the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the former Chief of
the General Staff of the Army of Yugoslavia.
The  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  itself  has  recently
pointed that the Government of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia  increased  the  number  of  its  responses  to
requests for documents and access to witnesses.
A/57/PV.36
In  conclusion,  let  me  emphasize  that  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  believes  that  all  individuals
responsible  for  international  crimes  should  be  brought
to justice, either before international courts such as the
ICTY  or  before  national  courts.  My  Government
recognizes  its  obligation  to  cooperate  with  the  ICTY
and will continue to do so. I am confident that the trend
of  improvement  and  strengthening  in  the  cooperation
between  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and  the
ICTY  that  we  have  witnessed  over  the  past  two  years
will continue in future.
Mr.  Kusljugić (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina):  The
Government of  Bosnia  and Herzegovina  welcomes the
report  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the
former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  presented  to  the  General
Assembly  by  the  President  of  the  Tribunal,  Judge
Claude 
the  achievements
registered by the Tribunal over the past year.
Jorda,  and  commends 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  both
President  Jorda  and  Chief  Prosecutor  Mrs.  Del  Ponte
for  their  clear  and  straightforward  statements  on  the
Tribunal(cid:146)s current  efforts  and  future  plans,  which  they
have articulated in their reports.
The  presidency  and  Government  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  fully  support  the  activities  of  the  ICTY,
not  only  by  words  but  also  by  deeds.  We  believe  that
the  ICTY  plays  a  substantial  role  in  the  processes  of
reconciliation  and  of  the  maintenance  of  stability  and
peace, both in my country and in South-eastern Europe.
We  also  underline  the  role  of  the  Tribunal  in  the
individualization  of  war  crimes  as  a  precondition  for
sustainable inter-ethnic reconciliation in the region as a
whole.
one 
of 
Plavsic, 
Recently,  Biljana 
the
highest-ranking  persons  indicted  for  crimes  against
humanity  by  the  United  Nations  Tribunal,  not  only
pleaded  guilty,  but  also  expressed  remorse  to  the
victims  for  her role  in  the persecution  and  deportation
of  countless  Muslims  and  Croats.  Such  a  gesture
should  be  considered  a  milestone  in  the  reconciliation
process.  We  also  agree  that  the  apprehension  and  trial
of high-level perpetrators should be the primary role of
the Tribunal.
Citizens,  especially  war  crime  victims  and
witnesses  in  my  country,  have  carefully  followed  the
work  of  the  ICTY,  reflecting  the  impact  it  has  had  on
their  everyday  lives.  Many  families,  in  all  ethnic
in  Bosnia  and
groups 
the  region,  especially 
in 
11
A/57/PV.36
Herzegovina, suffered during the 1991-1995 war. In the
past  year  numerous  new  mass  graves  have  been
discovered,  bearing  witness  to  the  scale  of  the  crimes
committed.  Each  verdict  of  the  Tribunal  helps  to
alleviate the pain and suffering of the victims and their
families.  For  many  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  the
ICTY(cid:146)s  activities  represent  the  only  hope  that  justice
will  eventually  be  done.  The  trial  against  Slobodan
Milosevic,  whose  indictment  includes  the  crime  of
genocide  committed  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  is
being  followed  with  special  attention,  since  it  is
expected  that  new,  substantial  evidence  about  the  root
causes of the conflict in the region will be unveiled.
War criminals are symbols for the use of violence
in  achieving  political  goals.  Hence,  they  present  a
source  of  continued  instability  in  the  region.  That  is
why we are very disappointed and seriously concerned
by the fact that 20 publicly indicted war criminals still
remain  at  large.  Last  year,  when  I  addressed  this
Assembly, there were 26 indicted persons at large. The
fact that today there are 20 indicted persons at large is
not  a  sign  of  success.  The  fact  that  publicly  indicted
war criminals, especially Radovan Karadzic and Ratko
Mladic, remain not only at large, but also in a position
to  influence  the  political  situation  in  my  country,  is  a
sign  that  their  political  programmes,  based  on  the
theory of (cid:147)ethnically clean(cid:148) territories, are still alive.
The  evidence  of  public  unrest  with  regard  to  the
work of the ICTY, which has recently been recorded, as
well  as  the  well-known  fact  that  some  indicted  war
criminals  are  considered 
to  be  heroes  among  a
substantial part of the population in all countries in the
region,  clearly  shows 
the  nationalists,  who
strongly oppose ICTY activities, are still operational.
that 
We  agree  that  a  lasting  and  stable  peace  in  the
Balkans will not be achieved unless the Tribunal brings
to  justice  all  indicted  high-level  individuals.  We  also
consider  that  the  leading  role  of  the  international
community regarding the arrests of these individuals is
of  crucial  importance.  It  has  already  been  shown  that
local political parties and Governments fully cooperate
with  the  Tribunal  only  when  they  are  forced  to  do  so
under 
The
commitment of the international community to support
the  work  of 
financially  and
politically, will be proof of its credibility in the region.
Its  readiness  to  give  the  utmost  priority  to  making
arrests  of  indicted  war  criminals  will  be  proof  of  its
the  Tribunal,  both 
international 
consistent 
pressure. 
12
commitment  to  universally  accepted  ethics  and  moral
values.
We in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  have  experienced
crimes  against  humanity  that  should  not,  and  never
could, be forgotten. Mass murder, detention camps, the
humiliation  and  torture  of  civilians,  systematic  mass
rape,  ethnic  cleansing  and  even  genocide  were  the
Bosnian reality for more than three years at the end of
the twentieth century. As a result of those experiences,
Bosnia and Herzegovina made a special commitment to
the  establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC). Our hope is  that,  in  addition  to carrying  out its
primary  function  (cid:151)  bringing  to  justice  individuals
responsible for the most serious crimes (cid:151) the ICC will
be able to act preventively in order to deter future war
crimes.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  ICC  will  create  greater
awareness in the international  community  with respect
to  the  principles  of  international  criminal  justice,  as
well as accountability, which can play a significant role
in  the  consolidation  of  peace  and  global  stability.
However, the ICC will use the same instruments as the
ICTY  to  bring  to  justice  indicted  persons.  The  ICTY
has  so  far  not  received  the  necessary  support  in  the
apprehension  of  the  high-level  leaders  and  notorious
offenders responsible  for  the  most  serious crimes. The
ineffectiveness  of  this  process  therefore  is  threatening
to  diminish  the  credibility  of  the  ICC  itself,  even
before it becomes operational.
in 
the 
We  are  aware  that  many  more  suspected  war
criminals 
region  must  be  prosecuted.
Considering the intention of the ICTY to try only high-
level  perpetrators,  the  Government  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  welcomes  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  initiative  for
some  cases  to  be  tried  by  the  Court  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  under 
the  Tribunal.
However,  we  expect that  the apprehension  and  trial  of
the  most  notorious  offenders  will 
the
responsibility  of  the  international  community  and  the
United Nations, even after the conclusion of the current
mandate  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina.
the  auspices  of 
remain 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on agenda item 45.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this
stage of its consideration of agenda item 45.
Agenda item 46
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal for
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Genocide
and Other Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of
Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in
the Territory of Neighbouring States between 1
January 1994 and 31 December 1994
Note  by  the  Secretary-General  transmitting
the seventh annual report of the International
Criminal Tribunal (A/57/163)
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the
Assembly takes note of the seventh annual report of the
International 
Rwanda
(A/57/163)?
Criminal 
Tribunal 
for 
It was so decided.
The Acting President: I call on Ms. Navanethem
Pillay, President of the International Criminal Tribunal
for Rwanda.
Ms.  Pillay:  It  is  my  honour  to  present  to  the
Assembly a report on the activities of the International
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  for  the  year
2001-2002.
The  year  has  been  marked  by  both  progress  and
crisis.  To  quote  Charles  Dickens,  (cid:147)It  was  the  best  of
times, it was the worst of times.(cid:148) (A Tale of Two Cities)
During the year under review, the ICTR has been
actively  engaged  in  nine  trials  of  22  accused.  Each  of
the  three  Trial  Chambers  is  conducting  three  trials
contemporaneously  in  shifts  of  two  to  six  weeks  for
each  trial.  The  system  of  conducting  multiple  trials  is
onerous  for  the  judges,  and  entails  elaborate  planning
and  scheduling, 
in  consultation  with  all  parties
concerned,  including  some  60  defence  counsel  from
various countries. Nevertheless, in the light of the large
number  of  accused  persons  in  custody,  the  lengthy
period  of  their  detention  and  the  need  to  advance  the
date  of  completion  of  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  mandate,  the
judges  have  been  compelled  to  undertake  many  cases.
It  must  be  observed  that,  while  trials  by  shift  allow
trials 
the
consequence  is  that  the  delivery  of  judgement  in
completed  trials  is  prolonged,  as  judges  spend  more
for  a  maximum  number  of  accused, 
A/57/PV.36
time in the courtroom and have less time to concentrate
on the preparation of judgements.
In 
the 
two 
five 
trials, 
trials  of 
following 
three  accused  persons  (cid:151) 
I  am  happy  to  report  that  we  are  now  seeing  the
fruits  of  two  years  of  pretrial  preparation.  Judgements
in 
the
Ntakirutimana and Semanza trials (cid:151)  will be delivered
before  the  end  of  this  year  and  early  next  year,
respectively. 
the
prosecution  has  completed  testimony  and  the  Courts
are  hearing  the  defence  case:  in  the  Media  trial,  the
prosecution  called  47  witnesses  over  a  period  of  163
days,  the  defence  commenced  in  September  and  we
have  just  heard  three  witnesses;  in  the  Kajelijeli  trial,
there  were  15  prosecution  witnesses  and  11  defence
witnesses  have testified;  in  the  Kamuhanda trial, there
were  28  prosecution  witnesses  and  seven  defence
witnesses  have  testified;  in  the  Cyangugu  trial,  40
witnesses  testified  for  the  prosecution  and  37  defence
witnesses have testified; and, in the Niyitigeka trial, 13
prosecution  witnesses 
the  defence
commenced its case in October. In the Military case of
Bagosora and in the Butare trial (cid:151) totalling 10 accused
persons (cid:151) the prosecution case is being heard.
testified  and 
The 
that  regard,  I  note 
judges  have  continued 
From  the  foregoing,  it  will  be  observed  that,  at
the  end  of  our  second  term  of  service,  the  number  of
completed  trials  will  be  significantly  higher.  The  pace
of  the  proceedings  is  slow,  but  the  judges  must  be
scrupulous in their observance of international fair-trial
norms,  with  full  respect  for  the  rights  of  accused
persons.  In 
that  all  of  our
judgements have survived the test of appeal.
to 
implement
measures to enhance judicial functions and to expedite
trials.  At  plenary  meetings  of  judges  held  in  May  and
July  this  year,  the  progress  of  trials  was  reviewed  and
new  rules  were  adopted  to  further  expedite  trials  and
appeals. Some of those rules include rule 11 bis, which
to  national
facilitates 
jurisdictions 
rule  65  bis,  which
authorizes  the  Trial  Chamber  or  a  judge  to  supervise
exchanges  between  the  parties  to  ensure  expeditious
trial;  rule  92  bis,  which  permits  the  admission  of
written  statements  as  evidence 
lieu  of  oral
testimony;  and  article 5  bis,  which  explicitly  prohibits
fee-splitting arrangements between counsel and client.
The  judges  have  implemented  measures  for  the
exercise  of  greater  judicial  control  over  proceedings.
They  have  held  pretrial  and  status  conferences  to
transfer  of  accused 
to  stand 
trial; 
the 
in 
13
A/57/PV.36
streamline  trial  proceedings,  to  determine  the  number
of  witnesses  and  documents  to  be 
introduced  as
exhibits,  and  to  place  stipulations  on  the  length  of
witness  testimony.  The  judges  have  ordered  the  non-
payment  of  costs  to  assigned  counsel  as  a  way  of
discouraging  frivolous  motions  and  abuses  of  due
process.  Motions  have  been  disposed  of  more
expeditiously  by  assigning  motions  to  single  judges
instead  of  to  a  full  Chamber;  by  considering  motions
on  brief,  instead  of  holding  court  hearings;  and  by
rendering  oral  decisions  on  motions  during  trial  and
thereby limiting interruptions of testimony.
and 
and 
into 
three 
nuances 
linguistic 
languages  (cid:151) 
Despite  the  best  efforts  of  the  judges  and  of  all
support  sections,  trials  continue  to  be  drawn  out  and
often  defy  our  plans  to  expedite  proceedings.  Let  me
share  with  the  Assembly  some  of  the  reasons  for  that.
The  issues  that  emerge  during  a  trial  are  legally  and
factually very complex, often much more so than at the
national 
level.  The  accused  are  charged  with
conspiracy  and  with  command  responsibility;  hence,
their  trials  may  involve as many  as  100  witnesses  and
may  last  several  years.  The  interpretation  of  trial
proceedings 
namely,
Kinyarwanda,  French  and  English  (cid:151)  together  with
cultural 
unique
characteristics associated with understanding questions
in  Kinyarwanda,  cause  trial  proceedings  to  double  or
treble  the  time  required  compared  with  that  required
for trials conducted in one language. In addition, there
is a large volume of court documents, and delays occur
in the translation and disclosure of such documents into
the  three  languages.  Additional  time  is  required  for
defence  counsel  to  investigate  and  prepare,  to  search
for  and  locate  witnesses  in  many  countries  and  in
refugee  camps,  and  to  accommodate  their  respective
schedules  accordingly.  Counsel  travel  to  Arusha  from
many parts of the world. Delays are encountered in the
appearance of witnesses (cid:151) and, in some instances, the
non-appearance  of  witnesses  (cid:151)  from  Rwanda.  Many
States have assisted the ICTR in arranging contact with
and facilitating the travel of witnesses, even those who
have  no  travel  documents.  However,  this  year,  the
ICTR  has  experienced  difficulties  with  regard  to  the
flow  of  witnesses  from  Rwanda.  The  non-appearance
of  witnesses  from  Rwanda  has  disrupted  the  careful
planning  of  the  judicial  calendar  and  is  a  severe
setback to judicial work.
In  June  2002,  Trial  Chambers  I  and  II  drew  the
attention  of  the  Rwandan  authorities  to  their  statutory
14
changes  made  by 
obligation to cooperate with the ICTR and to facilitate
the  travel  of  witnesses  so  that  trials  could  continue.
Despite  such  requests,  witnesses  were  not  sent,  with
the result that the two trials had to be adjourned and 15
trial days were lost. On 26 July, I reported that lack of
cooperation  to  the  Security  Council.  I  noted  that  the
administrative 
the  Rwandan
authorities had led to the non-issue or the delayed issue
of  travel  documents  for  Rwandan  witnesses  and  that
the  Rwandan  Government  was  not  observing 
its
obligation  to  facilitate  the  appearance  of  prosecution
and  defence  witnesses.  The  Rwandan  Government
appeared  to  have  suspended  its  cooperation  with  the
ICTR,  and  I  urged  the  Council  to  prevail  upon  the
Government  of  Rwanda  to  restore  the  previous  good
cooperation  that  it  had  accorded  to  the  ICTR  over  the
past seven and-a-half years.
it 
At  present, 
trials  are  proceeding,  but 
is
pertinent to note that in  five trials,  the defence case is
being  presented  and  most  of  the  defence  witnesses
come  from  outside  Rwanda.  Of  the  122  defence
witnesses  who  came  before  the  ICTR  this  year,  20
came  from  Rwanda.  The 
travel  of
witnesses from Rwanda  must be resolved so that trials
hearing prosecution testimony may resume on time.
issue  of 
the 
invited 
I  have 
the  Minister  of  Justice  and
Institutional Relations in Rwanda, the Honourable Jean
de  Dieu  Mucyo,  as  well  as  the  President  of  the
Supreme Court and the Prosecutor  General of  Rwanda
to  visit  the  Tribunal  in  order  to  observe  the  judicial
proceedings first-hand and to meet with us. I was very
glad  to  learn  this  morning  that  the  invitation  will  be
accepted,  and 
the  Rwandan
Government for that.
I  wish 
thank 
to 
I  shall  now  give  a  brief  overview  of  our  cases.
The  ICTR  has  indicted  81  persons;  62  persons  are  in
custody  and  18  persons  are  still  at  large.  Of  the  62
people already arrested, eight have been sentenced, one
has  been  acquitted,  22  are  involved  in  ongoing  trials
and 31  are  in  custody,  awaiting  the  commencement  of
their  trials.  The  Prosecutor  has  indicated  that  she  is
ready  for  trial  in  seven  cases,  involving  13  of  the  31
persons  in  custody.  However,  the  Trial  Chambers  are
currently fully engaged and will be engaged in ongoing
trials  of  22  accused  persons  until  and  beyond  the
expiration  of  the  judges(cid:146)  term  on  23  May  2003  and
therefore  cannot  undertake  any  new  trials,  including
the seven cases ready for trial. The accused are entitled
to expeditious trials. The present lengthy period of pre-
trial detention is a matter of grave concern and does not
bode  well  for  the  interests  of  justice.  How  are  we
addressing this concern?
investigation  programme. 
Firstly,  the  Prosecutor  has  revised  her  future
investigation programme from  the originally estimated
number  of  136  new  suspects  to  16  new  suspects,
together  with  10  ongoing  investigations.  The  resulting
26  new  indictments,  which  the  Prosecutor  intends  to
submit  for  confirmation  by  the  end  of  the  year  2004,
will  conclude  her 
In
addition,  the  Prosecutor  has  identified  40  suspects
whose  prosecution  she  intends  to  defer  to  national
jurisdictions  for  trial.  Fifteen  of  these  suspects  are  in
countries  that  have  already  adopted  the  principle  of
universal jurisdiction and these individuals could stand
trial in those countries. The cases of 25 other  suspects
whom  the  Prosecutor  has  determined  did  not  occupy
high positions of responsibility could  be transferred to
the Rwandan authorities.
to 
Secondly,  a  pool  of  ad  litem  judges  has  been
created.  In  anticipation  of  a  heavy  workload  for  the
Tribunal,  I  submitted  a  proposal 
the  Security
Council on 9 July 2001 for ad litem judges to increase
the judicial capacity of the ICTR. The Security Council
adopted  resolution  1431  (2002)  on  14  August  2002,
authorizing  a  pool  of 18  ad  litem judges  for  the  ICTR
and  the  use  of  four  ad  litem  judges  at  any  one  time.
Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our
appreciation to the  Security Council  for providing this
resource.
The four ad litem judges  will, upon taking office
sometime  in June  2003,  be  assigned  to  sections  of  the
Trial  Chambers  composed  of  both  permanent  and  ad
litem  judges.  They  will  work  in  shifts.  The  precise
manner  in  which  the  shift  schedule  will  operate  will
depend on the progress of  the respective trials  and the
availability  of  parties.  Currently,  the  Trial  Chambers
hold  morning  sessions  from  9  a.m.  to  1  p.m.  and
afternoon  sessions  from  2.30  p.m.  or  3  p.m.  to  5.30
p.m.  to  6  p.m.  When  the  ad  litem  judges  join  us,  we
will  work  in  two  shifts,  with  some  Trial  Chamber
sections  sitting  from  8  a.m.  to  1  p.m.  and  the  other
sections  sitting  from  1.30  p.m.  to  6.30  p.m.,  thus
dispensing  with 
additional
courtrooms.
the  need 
to  build 
In  the  month  of  October,  Trial  Chamber  I  has
conducted two  trials in a  shift  system. The  media  trial
was  conducted  from  8  a.m. 
the
to  1  p.m.  and 
A/57/PV.36
Niyitegeka  trial  from  2  p.m.  to  6.30  p.m.  Sitting  on
both trials, the Vice-President and I were consequently
in  court  for  10  hours  each  day.  Nevertheless,  this
schedule  served  as  a  trial  run  for  the  ad  litem  shift
system,  which  will  have  two  shifts  with  different
judges.  I  therefore  envisage  no  difficulties  over  the
integration of the ad litem judges.
My  original  proposal  to  the  Security  Council,
however, was for nine ad litem judges to take office at
any  one  time,  which  is  the  number  of  ad  litem  judges
that was granted to the International Criminal Tribunal
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY).  I  also  requested
flexibility to form trial chamber sections comprising ad
litem  judges  alone.  These  proposals  were  made  to
enable  us  to  complete  the  ICTR  mandate  by  the  years
2007  and  2008.  It  is  of  utmost  importance  that,  when
the  matter  is  again  reviewed,  the  additional  ad  litem
judges we requested be authorized if the projected date
of the years 2007-2008 for the completion of the ICTR
mandate is to be maintained.
With  regard  to  the  Registry,  the  Registrar  took
office  in  March  2001  and  the  Deputy  Registrar  was
appointed  in  October  2001.  The  appointment  of  the
Deputy  Registrar,  who  has  the  responsibility  for  the
Registry(cid:146)s  Judicial  and  Legal  Services  Division,  has
strengthened 
to  provide
judicial  and  administrative  support  to  the  Chambers,
the Prosecution and the Defence. Regular meetings are
held  between  the  President,  the  Registrar  and  the
Prosecutor to coordinate management of the Tribunal. I
note, however, that the Office of the Deputy Prosecutor
has remained vacant for more than one year.
the  Registrar(cid:146)s  capacity 
With regard to the arrests of suspects, 18 accused
are still at large and warrants have been issued for their
arrest.  The  cooperation  of  Member  States  is  sought  to
secure  their  arrest  and  transfer.  For  this  year,  six
persons have been arrested, with the most recent arrest
being that of Colonel Tharcisse Renzaho. Renzaho was
arrested  on  29  September  2002  in  Kinshasa,  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  This  was  the  first
arrest of an ICTR suspect by the Democratic  Republic
of  the  Congo  and  is  the  third  since  the  announcement
of  the  United  States(cid:146)  reward  for  justice  campaign,
which identified nine high-profile suspects.
With regard  to  the  enforcement  of  sentences,  the
French  and  Italian  Governments  are  due 
to  sign
agreements shortly with the ICTR to enforce sentences
of ICTR convicts. Other countries that have concluded
15
A/57/PV.36
similar  agreements  are  the  Republic  of  Mali,  the
Republic of Benin and the Kingdom of  Swaziland.  On
23 November 2001 and 3 December 2001, I designated
the Republic of Mali for the purposes of enforcing the
sentences  of  six  convicted  prisoners,  including  the
former  Prime  Minister  of  Rwanda,  Jean  Kambanda,
who 
life
imprisonment.  I  wish  to  thank  those  Governments  for
their  support 
the  enforcement  of
sentences.
is  presently 
sentence  of 
respect  of 
serving 
in 
a 
During  the  period  under  review,  the  Appeals
Chamber delivered one appeal judgment on the merits,
10 
interlocutory  appeal  decisions  and  25  other
decisions  and  orders.  In  two  appeals  on  the  merits,
hearings were held from 2 to 5 July in Arusha and the
Appeals Chamber is now deliberating over judgment.
The  current  mandate  of  the  judges  expires  on  23
May  2003  and  elections  are  expected  to  take  place
this,  my  final
early  next  year.  I  will  conclude 
appearance  before 
this  body,  with 
the  following
comments.
I  wish  to  place  on  record  the  commitment  and
industry  of  the  staff  at  the  ICTR.  They  have  worked
unstintingly 
as
hardship C (cid:151)  not  without  accidents,  illness  and  even
deaths  (cid:151)  to  ensure  the  successful  functioning  of  the
ICTR.
classified 
station 
duty 
in 
a 
When  setting  up  the  ICTR,  the  Security  Council
was  convinced  that  the  Tribunal  would  contribute  to
the  process  of  national 
the
restoration  and  maintenance  of  peace.  Much  that  the
ICTR does will, in due course, contribute to that long-
term  end.  However,  compensation  for  victims 
is
essential  if  Rwanda  is  to  recover  from  the  genocidal
experience.
reconciliation  and 
to 
referred 
On  9  November  2000,  I  submitted  a  proposal  to
the  Secretary-General  that  victims  of  genocide  should
be  compensated.  My  proposal 
the
Declaration  of  Basic  Principles  of  Justice  for  Victims
of  Crime  and  Abuse  of  Power,  which  was  adopted  by
the  General  Assembly 
in  1985.  This  Declaration
reminds  the  world  that  victims  of  crime  should  be
treated  with  compassion  and  respect,  and  states  that
they  are  entitled  to  receive  justice,  should  be  treated
fairly  and  obtain  redress  in  the  form  of  restitution,
compensation and other assistance for the injuries they
have suffered.
16
Many  Rwandans  have  questioned  the  ICTR(cid:146)s
value  and  its  role  in  promoting  reconciliation  where
claim  for  compensation  is  not  addressed.  For  every
hour  of  every  day  for  the  past  seven  and-a-half  years,
we  have  lived  with  the  voices  of  the  survivors  of
genocide; and, so, we strongly urge the United Nations
to provide compensation for Rwanda(cid:146)s victims.
for 
It would be true to say that the last 10 years have
seen more rapid growth in the international rule of law
than in any time since the inception and planning of the
Nuremberg  and  Tokyo  Tribunals.  The  ICTR  and  the
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former
Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  have  contributed  significantly  to
international  criminal  justice.  The  world  has  forever
been  altered  by  the  establishment  of  the  ICTR,  ICTY
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  Together,
these institutions have made it possible to contemplate
a  time  when  political  leaders  can  no  longer  act  with
impunity, depriving groups of their own citizens of the
right to life, the right to be free from physical harm or
sexual violence or political or religious persecution.
the 
As I come to the end of my eight years of service,
looking  back  to  my  first  days  when  there  were  no
premises, virtually no staff and little more than an idea
and a Statute, I recall confirming the first indictment of
the  ICTR  out  of  a  hotel  room  in  Arusha.  While
progress may seem slow, it has been steady and strong.
We  are  engaged 
in  a  new  undertaking  without
precedent,  and  there  have  been  many  peaks  and
valleys.  Over  time,  though,  we  have  grown  from  the
weeping  (cid:147)mille  collines(cid:148),  or  a  thousand  hills,  of
Rwanda, to the heights of Mount Kilimanjaro, and our
judgments will occupy a place in history.
through  you, 
this
opportunity  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude  to  the
President  and  Members  of  the  General  Assembly  for
their support, and hope that support for the work of the
ICTR will continue. I also wish to thank the Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his
assistance.
Allow  me,  Sir, 
take 
to 
The  Acting  President:  I  thank  the  President  of
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  and
wish her well in her future endeavours.
Ms. Dissing (Denmark): I  am  honoured to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The  countries
of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe  associated  with  the
European Union (cid:151) Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Estonia,
Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia
and  Slovenia  (cid:151)  and  the  associated  countries  of
Cyprus, Malta, Turkey, as well as the EFTA (European
Free  Trade  Association)  countries  of  the  European
Economic  Area,  Iceland  and  Liechtenstein,  align
themselves with this statement.
for  Rwanda 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  once  again
express its strong support for the International Criminal
Tribunal 
(ICTR).  The  Tribunal  has
continued  its  work  to  ensure  that  crimes  against
international  humanitarian  law,  and  in  particular  the
crime  of  genocide,  will  not  go  unpunished.  Together
with  the  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),
the  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  serves  as  an  example  of  the
determination  of 
to
impunity.  Under  no  circumstances  shall
combat 
perpetrators  of  serious  violations  of 
international
humanitarian law enjoy impunity, no matter their rank,
position or citizenship.
international  community 
the 
The  impact  of  the  Tribunals  will  go  far  beyond
the  cases  under  their  jurisdiction.  Their  pioneering
work, not least in prosecuting individuals for the crime
of  genocide,  and  the  decision  that  crimes  of  sexual
violence  are  war  crimes  within  their  jurisdiction,  has
paved  the  way  for  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC),  the  first  permanent  international  structure  to
combat impunity for the most serious crimes that are of
concern to the international community as a whole.
The  European  Union  thanks  the  President  of  the
Tribunal for her annual report. The report illustrates the
progress  made  and  draws  to  our  attention  ways  and
means to further improve the work of the Tribunal. The
fact 
judgments  have  been
rendered since we last discussed this agenda item in the
General  Assembly 
the
necessity of these improvements.
is  a  painful  reminder  of 
that  no  first 
instance 
The  European  Union  notes  with  interest  the
introduction of a multiple trials system, by which each
Trial Chamber conducts three trials at the same time in
phases  of  two  to  six  weeks  per  trial.  This  system  is
only  one  of  a  number  of  initiatives  taken  on  first
instance  and  appeals  level  in  order  to  speed  up  and
improve  the  work  of  the  Tribunal.  We  support  the
Chambers  in  their  continued  dedicated  work  in  this
respect.
The  adoption  by 
the  Security  Council  of
resolution  1431  (2002)  two  months  ago  is  yet  another
step on the path towards a more efficient Tribunal. The
resolution enables the creation of a pool of 18 ad litem
A/57/PV.36
judges  and  will  significantly  enhance  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s
capacity to decide  within reasonable time on the cases
before  it.  The  European  Union  is,  however,  deeply
concerned  that  the  Security  Council  has  found  it
necessary  to  extend  the  deadline  for  nominations  for
replacement  or  re-election  of  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  full-time
judges  by  an  additional  two  months  in  an  attempt  to
reach the minimum requirement of 22 nominations. We
urge  all  Member  States 
to  consider  nominating
qualified  candidates  in  order  to  reach  the  mandated
minimum.
the 
intends 
to 
interest 
As  regards  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  the
revised
European  Union  notes  with 
the  estimated
investigation  programme  by  which 
number  of  new 
investigations  has  been  reduced
dramatically from 136 to 16 individuals. This reduction
brings  the  number  of  outstanding  indictments  to  26,
which 
for
confirmation by 2004. A further 40 cases are envisaged
as  being 
jurisdictions.  We
appreciate 
realistic
programme,  enabling  the Tribunal  to  complete  its  first
instance trials by 2008.
to  other 
represents  a  more 
transferred 
this 
that 
the  Prosecutor 
submit 
in  March  2001, 
Since  assuming  office 
the  defence  counsel  and 
the
Registrar has given priority to a reform of the legal aid
programme  and  taken  much-desired  steps  to  avert
the  system,  most  notably  fee-splitting
abuses  of 
between 
the  accused.
However,  the  European  Union  remains  concerned  at
the absence of checks on the size of defence teams and
of  the  extravagant  fees  paid,  highlighted  in  the  recent
Auditors(cid:146)  report.  The  European  Union  commends  the
Registrar  for  improved  disciplines  introduced  to  date
and urges him to continue in this spirit.
the  Tribunal  and 
The  cooperation  of  States  with  the  Tribunal  has
generally  been  good.  The  European  Union  encourages
all States concerned to continue along these lines. The
recent  divergences  between 
the
Rwandan  Government  are  a  source  of  deep  concern.
We strongly urge the Rwandan Government to comply
fully  with  its  international  obligations  to  cooperate
with  the  Tribunal  and  to  deliver  all  information  asked
by 
institutions
concerned.
Since 
the  Tribunal  has
encountered  significant  difficulties.  The  European
Union has voiced its concern on many occasions in that
regard.  We  are  pleased  to  see  the  Tribunal  showing
its  establishment, 
the  persons  or 
regardless  of 
it, 
17
A/57/PV.36
signs  of  improvement.  It  is  our  sincere  hope  that  the
various  measures  taken  will  enhance  its  work  so  that
substantial  progress  will  be  seen  in  the  next  annual
report.  We  thank  all  the  members  of  the  Tribunal  for
resolutely  pursuing  that  objective.  Their  action  to
further  the  causes  of  justice,  peace  and  national
reconciliation  is  essential.  We  wish  to  conclude  this
statement  by  ensuring  them  of  the  European  Union(cid:146)s
wholehearted support.
(ICTR),  as 
Mr. Kolby (Norway): Let me begin by expressing
our  full  recognition  of  the  achievements  and  the  high
standards  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for
Rwanda 
in  various
judgements and in the report before us (A/57/163). We
would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Tribunal  for
the  detailed  annual 
in  our  view,
accurately reflects the progress made during the period
under review.
reflected  both 
report  which, 
is  utilized 
The  measures  implemented  by  the  Tribunal  to
better  streamline  the  conduct  of  business  so  that
capacity 
to  a  maximum  have  yielded
tangible results. We recognize the Tribunal(cid:146)s persistent
efforts to identify  areas  for improvement, in particular
measures  to  enhance  efficiency  and  judicial  economy,
and to take necessary steps.
judgements  of 
the  Tribunal  constitute
essential  contributions  to  international  jurisprudence
with  regard  to  the  prosecution  of  the  most  serious
international  crimes.  The  continuing  work  of  the  Ad
Hoc Tribunals and their activities also pave the way for
the  future  work  of  the  newly  established  International
Criminal Court.
The 
The success of the Tribunal will to a large degree
be  judged  by  the  manner  in  which  the  investigation,
prosecution  and  proceedings  are  managed. 
is
imperative  that  the  Tribunal  carries  out  those  tasks  in
an efficient manner so that detainees are not subject to
undue delays in the completion of their trials.
It 
We,  therefore,  regret  that  certain  proceedings
continue  to  be  long  drawn  out.  At  the  same  time,  we
are aware of the immense resources required to try the
most  serious  international  crimes.  The  number  of
witnesses,  the  demanding  nature  and  complexity  of
cases,  the  frequency  of  various  kinds  of  appeals  on
issues of law and the need for interpretation into three
languages, 
linguistic
nuances,  all  contribute  to  explaining  why  the  turnover
of  cases  is  not  comparable  to  that  in  our  national
together  with  cultural  and 
18
systems  when  dealing  with  ordinary  crimes.  We  have
followed  with  close  attention  the  efforts  of  ICTR
judges  to  progressively  improve  trial  procedures  in
order  to  speed  up  cases.  We  are  confident  that  such
streamlining  of  internal  court  management  procedures
has  in  no  way jeopardized the  right of  the  parties  to  a
fair trial.
the  Appeals  Chamber,  as  well  as  efforts 
Bearing  in  mind  the  need  to  prepare  for  the
foreseeable  rise  in  the  number  of  cases  on  appeal,  we
especially welcome the arrival of two additional judges
in 
to
strengthen  the  structural  links  between  the  Appeals
Chambers  of  the  ICTR  and  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. The establishment
of  a  system  for  the  more  frequent  dissemination  of
information  and  the  setting  up  of  a  common  database
will be important contributions to make the case law of
the  Appeals  Chambers  consistent  and  simplify  the
work of the judges and staff in Chambers.
revision  of  her 
As  we  are  committed  to  the  timely  fulfilment  of
the  mandate  entrusted  to  the  ICTR,  we  welcome  the
Prosecutor(cid:146)s 
investigation
programme.  The  reduction  in  the  estimated  number  of
new  indictments,  combined  with  the  identification  of
40  suspects  whose prosecution is  intended  for deferral
to  national  jurisdictions,  makes  completion  of  the
Tribunal(cid:146)s mandate possible by the years 2007-2008.
future 
that 
the  Security  Council 
However, the timely completion of the mandate is
also  dependent  on  added  resources.  We  are,  therefore,
very  pleased 
reached
agreement on resolution 1431 on 14 August 2002, with
a view to creating a pool of 18 ad litem judges,  which
will hopefully significantly enhance the capacity of the
Tribunal  to  dispose of the  cases  pending before it.  We
look  foreword 
the
resolution.
implementation  of 
to  a  swift 
Certain  financial  and  management  issues,  mainly
related  to  defence  counsel  and  legal  aid,  are  still  a
cause  for  concern  to  us.  We  note,  however,  the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  efforts  to  deal  with  those  problems,  and
welcome in this regard the new provision in the code of
professional conduct for defence counsel that explicitly
prohibits  fee-splitting.  According  to  that  provision,
when  a  counsel  is  found  to  have  engaged  in  fee-
splitting,  the  Registrar  will  take  action  in  accordance
with 
the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  Directive  on  Assignment  of
Defence Counsel.
Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  a
panel  to  improve  the  legal  aid  programme  in  order  to
ensure the efficient use of resources and the protection
of  the  integrity  of  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  judicial  process.  We
trust that  the  Board  of  Auditors(cid:146)  recommendations  for
improving  the  legal  aid  system  will  be  thoroughly
considered in that connection. Those recommendations
include measures for establishing clear and quantitative
criteria  to  determine  whether  a  person  qualifies  for
legal  aid,  as  well  as  reliable  working  relationships,  to
ensure  that  Member  States  provide  the  assistance
needed to verify the financial position of the accused.
In 
that 
respect, 
its  significance. 
It is critical to the success of the Tribunal that the
people  of  the  region  are  informed  about  its  work  and
understand 
the
proactive  profile  of  the  Outreach  Programme  is  an
essential  complement  to  the  main  public  information
activities  of  the  Tribunal.  During  the  period  under
review, Norway has donated almost 100,000 Euros to a
project  for  training  African  journalists  from  the  Great
Lakes  region  in  legal  reporting.  We  encourage  all
States  to  actively  support  the  continued  work  of
bringing  the  judicial  process  closer  to  the  public  in
order  to  promote  greater  insight  and  feedback,  which
may be an essential factor in achieving long-term peace
and reconciliation in the area.
the  Tribunal.  We  note 
We further appeal to all States to demonstrate, not
their  fullest
only  in  words  but  also  in  practice, 
cooperation  with  the  Tribunal.  Facilitating  access  of
witnesses  to  the  Tribunal  is  paramount.  Moreover,
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  should  take  all  the
legislative  steps  necessary  to  ensure  effective  State
cooperation  with 
the
Tribunal has  received  valuable  assistance  from  several
States,  enabling  the  arrest  of  several  indictees.  In
addition 
the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  requests  for  assistance,  concrete  support  to
the  Tribunal  should  be  shown  through  financial  and
material  contributions.  The  Tribunal  must  be  provided
with the necessary resources to carry out investigations
and prosecution in a proper and expedient  manner  and
to increase its activity. The Tribunal deserves political,
practical  and  financial  support.  Normative  structures
alone are far from sufficient.
legislation  and  compliance  with 
that 
to 
As we are convinced of the need to ensure that no
one  gambles  on  impunity  for  acts  of  genocide,  other
crimes  against  humanity  or  serious  war  crimes,  the
Assembly  may  rest  assured  that  we  will  stand  by  our
A/57/PV.36
long-term  commitment  to  the  successful  fulfilment  of
the ICTR.
Mr.  Ng  Lip  Yong  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to
thank  Judge  Navanethem  Pillay,  President  of 
the
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),
for  her  lucid  presentation  of  the  seventh  annual  report
of  the  Tribunal,  contained  in  document  A/57/163  -
S/2002/733.  The  report  provides  a  comprehensive
overview of the progress of the work of the Tribunal as
well as the difficulties encountered by it. We commend
the  President  and  her  fellow  judges  as  well  as  the
Prosecutor and her team for the progress achieved thus
far.
Malaysia  continues  to  believe  strongly  in  the
importance  of  upholding  the  principles  of  justice  and
equality  which  international  humanitarian  law  stands
for.  We  regard  adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  as  a
necessary  basis  in  upholding  these  principles.  The
Tribunal 
clearly
demonstrating 
serious
violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  cannot  be
tolerated.  The  Tribunal  is  there  to  ensure  that  the
perpetrators of genocide and other serious violations of
international  humanitarian  law  will  not  get  away  with
impunity.
in 
and  other 
that  genocide 
significant 
plays 
role 
a 
that 
the  work  of 
My  delegation  deems 
the
Tribunal  is  of  immense  importance  in  bringing  to
justice perpetrators of atrocities and in the development
of  international  justice  and  international  humanitarian
law.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  decisions  of  the
Tribunal,  as  well  as  that  of  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  have
contributed 
the  progressive  and  constructive
development  of  case  law  in  the  spheres  of  general
international law and international humanitarian law, in
respect  of  different  questions  of  procedure  and
competence  and  also  on 
issues  of
considerable 
importance.  The  experience  of  both
Tribunals  would  undoubtedly  be  helpful  to  assist  the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  the  Special
Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL) in their work.
substantive 
to 
Further, my delegation notes that the Tribunal has
led to pioneering advocacy methods for victim oriented
restitutive  justice  in  international  criminal  law  (cid:151)  a
concept  which  has been  included  in the  Rome  Statute.
As reflected in the report, this involves providing legal
guidance,  psychological  counselling  and  medical
19
A/57/PV.36
assistance 
welcome this move.
to  victims  and  witnesses.  We  warmly
We  are  pleased  to  note  from  the  report  that  the
Tribunal  has  undertaken  further  measures  to  improve
its  performance  in  expediting  proceedings  towards  the
completion of its mandate within a reasonable time. We
believe  that  such  measures,  including  practices  to
ensure  the  exercise  of  greater  judicial  control  over
proceedings and to streamline them, assigning motions
to  respective  judges  rather 
than  a  full  Chamber,
consideration  of  motions  on  brief,  and  resort  to  oral
rulings  instead  of  written  decisions,  are  practical.  We
recognize  that  in  resorting  to  such  measures,  the
Tribunal  is  mindful  of  the  need  to  ensure  that  the
conduct of fair trial is not compromised.
We  are  pleased  to  learn  from  the  report  that  a
number of proposals for amendments to the rules of the
Tribunal,  including  for  fair  trial  and  expediting  trials
and  appeals,  are  under  consideration.  We  would
encourage the Tribunal, which is constantly striving to
improve its working methods, to continue deliberations
on  such  proposals.  We  note  the  President(cid:146)s  remarks
regarding  lengthy  trials  and  the  reasons  for  them.  We
think  that  many  lessons  can  be  drawn  from  the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  experience  in  this  particular  instance,  in
order to improve the Tribunal(cid:146)s future  work as  well as
the work of other similar tribunals.
the  Tribunal  and 
the  need  for  cases 
During  the  fifty-sixth  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  my  delegation  supported  the  proposal  to
create a pool of ad litem judges to serve in the Tribunal
in  order  to  enhance  its  judicial  productivity.  We
believed  this  was  necessary,  considering  the  workload
of 
to  be
expeditiously dealt with. In this regard, we are satisfied
that 
the  Security  Council  on  14  August  2002
unanimously  adopted  resolution  1431  to  establish  a
pool  of  18  ad  litem  judges.  Their  appointment  would
definitely  assist  in  expediting  cases  that  the  Trial
Chambers 
undertake,
particularly the seven cases ready for trial and the cases
of  the  remaining  16  detainees  awaiting  trial.  We  look
forward to the election of the ad litem judges to enable
the Tribunal to conclude its mandate.
currently 
unable 
are 
to 
My delegation shares the President(cid:146)s concern that
the  post  of  the  Deputy  Prosecutor  has  been  vacant  for
over  a  year.  We  think  that  the  absence  of  such  an
important  official  to  assume  responsibility  of  the
activities  of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  in  Kigali  is
20
likely  to  adversely  affect  the  quality  and  pace  of
investigations  and 
the  Prosecutor(cid:146)s  preparation  of
trials. We hope that efforts would be intensified to find
a  suitable  candidate  to  fill  this  vacancy  as  soon  as
possible.
We  note  that  the  Prosecutor  has  revised  her
strategy for conducting investigations and preparations
of  trials  and  will  now  only  conduct  investigations
against  14  new  individuals,  together  with  10  ongoing
investigations.  We  also  note  that  she  has  identified  40
suspects  whose  prosecutions  she  intends  to  defer  to
competent  national  jurisdictions  and  is  seeking  the
introduction of  a  new  rule 11 bis,  to  facilitate  deferral
of  cases  to  Rwanda  where  indictments  have  already
been  confirmed,  provided  the  death  penalty  is  not
imposed.  While  we  understand  the  need  for  such
measures,  we  hope  that  this  arrangement  would  not
prejudice the right of the victim to justice and the right
of the accused to a fair trial.
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Registrar  of  the
Tribunal in improving the visibility of the Tribunal and
support  for 
its  work,  particularly  his  efforts  at
establishing and strengthening institutional cooperation
between  the  Tribunal  and  African  States.  We  are
pleased  to  note  that  the  Outreach  Programme  of  the
ICTR  remains  popular  and  important  to  the  national
reconciliation of Rwanda. We welcome the publication
of 
increases  public
understanding of the work of the Tribunal.
Journal  which 
the  Daily 
We support the measures taken by the Tribunal to
deal  with  the  abuse  of  the  legal  aid  system.  The
establishment  of  a  panel  to  improve  the  legal  aid
programme,  ensure  the  efficient  use  of  resources  and
protect  the  integrity  of  the  Tribunal(cid:146)s  judicial  process,
is most appropriate.
Towards 
improving 
the  efficient  use  of 
the
Tribunal(cid:146)s  time,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  use  of
simultaneous interpretation during proceedings and the
employment  of  a  video-satellite  link 
the
testimony  of  witnesses  unable  to  travel  to  Arusha.  We
note the problems faced in ensuring  the availability  of
witnesses.  We  hope  that  all  States  concerned  with
facilitating  their  travel  for  trials  would  continue  to
assist the Tribunal in this respect.
take 
to 
Malaysia  continues  to  support  the  role  of  the
Tribunal not only in upholding justice, and but also as a
tool to facilitate national reconciliation in Rwanda. We
hope  it  will  continue  to  have  the  strong  and  sustained
support  of 
completion of its work.
the 
international  community  until 
the
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on Agenda item 46. The General Assembly
A/57/PV.36
 has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of
Agenda item 46.
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
21
