United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
53rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 November 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.53
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
African Industrialization Day
The President: Before turning to the item on the
agenda,  I  would  like  to  remind  the  General  Assembly
that  today,  20  November,  is  Africa  Industrialization
Day. Today, the United Nations family observes Africa
Industrialization  Day  with  the  collective  spirit  of
supporting  and  promoting  the  development  of  the
African  continent.  It  is  also  an  occasion  to  remind
ourselves  that  more  than  30  of  the  world’s  48  least
developed countries are located in Africa.
information  and  communication  technologies  will  be
key to rapid sustainable development.
This  year,  the  special  theme  for  this  Day  is  new
information and communication technologies (NICTs).
It is not a coincidence that through NICT — one of the
most visible development tools — opportunities for the
industrialization of Africa have expanded. We find that
NICTs  are  at  the  heart  of  mechanisms  linked  to
developing  new  markets  and  improving  existing  ones
and  that  they  have  the  capability  of  bringing  villages
and  nations  closer  together  by  facilitating  electronic
access 
an
environment for learning.
to  global  knowledge 
creating 
and 
The  programme  of  action  envisaged  in  the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which
was  conceived  and  finalized  more  than  a  year  ago
under  the  auspices  of  Africa’s  leaders,  set  itself  the
goals of promoting accelerated growth and sustainable
development,  eradicating  widespread  and 
severe
poverty and halting the marginalization of the continent
in  the  globalization  process.  NICTs  are  an  important
tool  for  achieving  those  objectives:  NICTs  would
facilitate  human  development,  accelerate  intra-Africa
trade  and  improve  access  to  markets  of  developed
countries.  Furthermore,  NEPAD  foresees  the  crucial
role  of  NICTs  in  the  context  of  Africa’s  recovery  and
calls  for  concrete  and  practical  steps  to  develop  a
proper information and technology infrastructure.
The  United  Nations  family,  including  UNIDO,
the United Nations Development Programme, the Food
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations
We  are  at  the  end  of  the  Second  Industrial
Development Decade for Africa. The Decade, covering
the period  1993  to  2002,  was  declared  by  the  General
Assembly  in  order  to  focus  on  promoting  sustainable
industrial  growth  in  the  region.  The  United  Nations
Industrial  Development  Organization  (UNIDO),  the
lead  agency  for  this  programme,  has  just  released  the
Industrial  Development  Report  2000/2003.  The  report
industrial  performance
provides  an  analysis  of 
an
rankings. 
relevant 
worldwide 
acknowledged 
that 
basic 
and
fact 
manufacturing 
are
in 
industries 
indispensable  to  economic  growth.  A  skilled  work
force including managerial cadres, access to capital and
technology,  good  governance  and  peace  and  security
are  only  some  of  the  preconditions  for  industry  to
flourish. It is expected that by the year 2025 more than
50  per  cent  of  Africa’s  population  will  be  living  in
cities. 
the  harnessing  of  new
is 
industry, 
particular, 
that  context, 
and 
It 
In 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-70103 (E)
*0270103*
A/57/PV.53
for 
removing 
their  support 
and  the  International  Labour  Organization,  should
continue 
the  many
constraints that industry faces on using NICTs, through
awareness  creation  and  building  capacity  for  national
information 
through
facilitating public-private partnerships in the context of
lessons  learned  from  the  United  Nations  New  Agenda
for the Development of Africa in the 1990s and the two
Industrial Development Decades.
networking 
activities 
and 
This  is  a  day  to  renew  the  commitment  of  all
parties  —  including  the  African  Union,  the  Economic
Commission  for  Africa,  the  Conference  of  African
Ministers of Industry and the country-specific bilateral
public  and  private  partnerships  —  to  the  sustainable
development of Africa.
Agenda item 22
Cooperation between the United Nations and
regional and other organizations
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Asian-African Legal Consultative
Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/122)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.18)
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/87)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.11)
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Caribbean Community
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/254)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.26)
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Council of Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/225)
2
Draft resolution (A/57/L.23)
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Economic Community of Central
African States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/266 and
A/57/266/Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.25)
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Economic Cooperation Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/119)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.22)
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the International Organization of
la Francophonie
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/358)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.29)
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/375)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.38)
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Latin American Economic System
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/128)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.24)
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the League of Arab States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/386)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.32)
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Organization for the Prohibition
of Chemical Weapons (A/57/576)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.31)
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Southern African Development Community
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/94 and
A/57/94/Add.1)
A/57/PV.53
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/217)
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the African Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/351)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.39)
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of American States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/267)
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of the Islamic Conference
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/405)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.28)
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Pacific Islands Forum
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/475)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.21)
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Preparatory Commission for the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
Organization
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Executive Secretary of the
Preparatory Commission (A/57/255)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.40)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.30)
Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Association of South-East Asian Nations
Draft resolution (A/57/L.16)
The  President: This  morning, 
the  General
Assembly will begin a joint debate on sub-items (a) to
(s) of agenda item 22.
I give the floor to the Executive Secretary of the
Preparatory  Commission 
the  Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization,  Mr.  Wolfgang
Hoffmann,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the  Preparatory
Commission.
for 
Mr.  Hoffmann  (Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  Organization):  I  am  pleased  to  be  here
today  to  report  on  the  activities  of  the  Preparatory
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty Organization. The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  is  one  of  the  cornerstones  of  the
international 
disarmament
regime. Its total  ban  on  any  nuclear  test  explosions  in
any  environment  will  help  in  ending  the  development
of ever more sophisticated nuclear weapons, as well as
in arresting the proliferation of these weapons.
non-proliferation 
and 
To date, the Treaty has been signed by a total of
166  States  and  ratified  by  97.  Thirty-one  of  those
ratifications  are  by  annex  2  States  —  the  44  States
listed  in  the  Treaty  whose  ratification  is  required  for
entry  into  force.  The  level  and  pace  of  signatures  and
ratifications 
the
international community for the Treaty. The conference
on facilitating entry into force of the CTBT, which was
held in New York in 2001, led to a significant increase
in signatures and ratifications.
support  of 
indicates 
firm 
the 
for 
The 
Preparatory 
Commission 
the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization
was established six years ago to carry out the necessary
preparations  for  the  effective  implementation  of  the
CTBT  and  to  prepare  for  the  first  session  of  the
Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  Treaty.  The
main  activity  of  the  Commission  and  its  Provisional
3
A/57/PV.53
Technical  Secretariat  during  recent  years  was  the
establishment  of  the  verification  regime  to  monitor
Treaty compliance.
The  global  verification  regime  needs 
to  be
operational  at  the  Treaty’s  entry  into  force.  It  will  be
capable  of  detecting  nuclear  explosions  underground,
in water and in the atmosphere.
The 
uses 
IMS 
explosion.  The 
International  Monitoring  System 
(IMS)
consists of 321 monitoring stations and 16 radionuclide
laboratories  that  monitor  the  Earth  for  evidence  of  a
nuclear 
seismic,
hydroacoustic  and  infrasound  monitoring  technologies
to  detect  possible  nuclear  explosions.  Radionuclide
monitoring 
technologies  collect  and  analyse  air
samples  for  evidence  of  the  physical  products  created
by  nuclear  explosions.  Progress  in  establishing  these
facilities  has  been  good,  considering  the  engineering
challenges  that  face  the  establishment  of  this  first
worldwide  monitoring  network.  Currently,  43  per  cent
of the monitoring system is operational.
Good  progress  in  establishing  the  IMS  was  in
great  part  made  possible  by  those  States  hosting
facilities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank
States  for  their  help  and  flexibility,  and  express  my
hope  that  the  good  cooperation  will  continue  for  the
remainder of the build-up process and beyond.
A  Global  Communications  Infrastructure  carries
the seismic, hydroacoustic, infrasound and radionuclide
data  from  IMS  facilities  to  the  International  Data
Centre.  This  global  satellite  communications  network
is  also  used  to  distribute  data  and  reports  relevant  to
Treaty verification to the States signatories.
The  International  Data  Centre  supports 
the
verification  responsibilities  of  States  signatories  by
providing 
the  products  and  services  needed  for
effective  Treaty  monitoring.  The  Centre  receives  raw
data from monitoring stations around the world, which
it  processes,  analyses  and  transmits  to  States  for  final
analysis.  Improved  software  is  enhancing  precision  in
locating 
seismic,
hydroacoustic,  infrasound  and  radionuclide  data,  and
the  verification 
is  being
continuously developed and refined.
system  as  a  whole 
events  which 
produce 
the 
On-site inspections (OSIs) are provided for in the
Treaty  as  a  final  verification  measure,  and 
the
development of a draft OSI operational manual is a key
task for the Preparatory Commission. The Commission
4
is also acquiring inspection equipment and building up
a  pool  of  potential 
inspectors.  A  realistic  field
experiment  was  conducted  in  Kazakhstan  in  October
2002.  The  results  of  this  experiment  will  facilitate
preparations for real on-site inspections.
While 
the  primary  purpose  of 
the  CTBT
verification  regime  is  to  verify  compliance  with  the
Treaty  effectively,  the  verification  technologies,  data
and  products  have  the  potential  to  offer  a  range  of
useful  civil  and  scientific  applications  for  sustainable
development  and  the  betterment  of  human  welfare.  In
this  regard,  the  Commission  organized,  at  London  in
May 
the
Government of the United Kingdom, a Senior Experts’
Discussion  on  Civil  and  Scientific  Applications  of
CTBT Verification Technologies.
the  strong  support  of 
this  year,  with 
in  minimizing 
Seismic,  hydroacoustic  and  infrasound  data  can
be  used  in  studies  of  the  Earth’s  structure  and  for
research on earthquakes, volcanic eruption forecasting,
tsunami  warnings,  underwater  event  location  and  sea
temperature  and  climate  change  monitoring.  The  data
can  assist 
the  effect  of  volcanic
eruptions on civil aviation and can be used for oceanic
swell  research  and  atmospheric  and  meteorological
studies.  Radionuclide  technologies  offer  opportunities
for  detecting 
radionuclide  dispersion,  monitoring
radiation  levels  and  studying  natural  radioactivity,  as
well  as  for  supporting  atmospheric  studies,  biological
research and environmental change tracking. Follow-up
meetings and seminars are already taking place among
policy-makers and scientists in support of the work of
the Commission.
for 
in  all 
IMS  station  operators 
The  Commission  organizes  training  programmes
and  workshops  in  support  of  States  signatories  in  the
enhancement  of  national  technical  capability  for  the
implementation  of  the  Treaty.  They  include  training
courses 
four
verification  technologies,  training  courses  for  data
analysis,  storage  and  management,  on-site  inspection
technologies,  workshops  for  global  communications
infrastructure 
international
cooperation and national implementation of the Treaty.
promotes
international  cooperation  among  States  signatories  for
them  to  participate  in  the  fullest  possible  exchange
relating  to  these  verification  technologies  and  the
establishment  and  operation  of  national  data  centres.
Since  my 
the  General  Assembly,
the  Commission 
and  workshops 
last  report 
addition, 
In 
on 
to 
international  cooperation  workshops  were  hosted  by
Senegal and Kenya. Next week I will open a workshop
for  the  Caribbean  region  in  Jamaica  and  for  2003
workshops  are  scheduled  in  Azerbaijan,  Fiji  and
Malaysia.
lines, 
Along 
the  same 
the  Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization’s  Preparatory
Commission  and  the  Agency  for  the  Prohibition  of
Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean,
same  objective  of  enhancing
which 
international  peace 
a
Relationship  Agreement  in  Vienna  on  18  September.
This  is  the  first  agreement  concluded  between  the
Preparatory  Commission  and  a  regional  nuclear-
weapon-free zone organization.
concluded 
security, 
share 
the 
and 
On 15 June 2000, the General Assembly adopted
the  Agreement  to  Regulate  the  Relationship  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission
for 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty
Organization, 
the  Preparatory
Commission  as  a  new  member  of  the  United  Nations
family.  The  Commission  remains  an 
independent
international  organization,  but  has  been  given  formal
status  by  which  it  can  contribute  to  the  goals  of  the
United Nations.
thereby  accepting 
Under  this  Agreement,  the  Commission’s  links
and  interactions  with  the  United  Nations  and  its
programmes,  funds  and  specialized  agencies  are
developing even further. In order to fully contribute to
the work of the United Nations family, the Preparatory
Commission  has  requested  full  membership  in  the
United  Nations  system’s  Chief  Executives  Board  for
Coordination  (CEB).  The  Preparatory  Commission
already  participates  in  the  work  of  the  High  Level
Committees  of  the  CEB.  In  light  of  the  disarmament
related issues in the Millennium Declaration, we feel it
particularly important that the Preparatory Commission
should  be  able  to  contribute  fully  to  the  work  of  the
United Nations family.
We believe that it would be of great significance
for  the  General  Assembly  to  be  kept  abreast  of  the
rapid  development  of  our  new 
and  growing
organization  on  a  closer  basis.  In  times  of  increasing
concern  about  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  the  reports  of  organizations  specialized  in
this  field  should  be  of  particular  relevance  to  the
deliberations  of  the  General  Assembly.  However,  we
understand  that  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the
A/57/PV.53
General Assembly is of utmost importance and that the
clustering  and  biannualization  of  the  agenda  item  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and  other  organizations  was  an  important  part  of  the
endeavours  in  this  respect.  We  will  therefore  look  for
alternative ways to inform the General Assembly about
the outcome of the next conference on facilitating entry
into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty, to be held in 2003.
I  am  grateful  to  Ambassador  Bota  of  Romania,
the  current  Chairman  of  the  Preparatory  Commission,
for  the  excellent  work  he  has  performed  in  Vienna.  I
also  want  to  thank  Romania  for  introducing  the  draft
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and the Preparatory Commission this year.
its 
for 
after 
opening 
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  six
the
years 
signature, 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  has 
the
confirmed support of the  international  community  and
is  recognized  as  playing  an  important  role  in  nuclear
disarmament  and  in  preventing  the  proliferation  of
nuclear  weapons.  By  signing  and 
the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  States
confirm their commitment to these shared goals.
ratifying 
Mr.  Pfirter  (Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons):  It  is  a  great  privilege  for  me  to
address  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  for  the
first time since my appointment as Director-General of
the  Technical  Secretariat  of  the  Organization  for  the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).
I would like also to extend to you, Mr President,
my  most  sincere  congratulations  for  your  election  to
this  position, 
to  which  you  bring  experience,
diplomatic skills and the respected voice of a country,
the  Czech  Republic,  whose  contribution 
the
objectives  and  purposes  of  the  Chemical  Weapons
Convention (CWC) are well known.
to 
The  presence  of  a  Director-General  of  an
organization such  as the OPCW  at  the  United  Nations
universal body, the General Assembly, is as natural as
it  is  necessary.  It  is  natural  because  our  Convention,
and  the  organization  it  brought  to  life,  are  legitimate
expressions  of  multilateralism 
field  —
disarmament  and  international  security  —  where  the
central role of the United Nations is widely recognized.
It is necessary because the CWC and the OPCW have a
message to convey: this year and in fact every day, our
work, like yours, simply cannot stop.
in 
a 
5
A/57/PV.53
The United Nations has recognized the OPCW as
the  organization  responsible  for  activities  to  achieve
the comprehensive prohibition of chemical weapons in
accordance with the Convention. At the same time, the
OPCW,  as  stated  by  the  Relationship  Agreement
between  the  two  organizations,  recognizes  the  central
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  peace  and
security.
Close  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and the OPCW seems self-evident. We are determined
to  work  jointly  to  achieve  mutual  objectives  —  by
maintaining a close working relationship at all relevant
levels and by making sure that effective coordination is
achieved in the various areas where the United Nations
Charter  and  our  mandate  can  converge  for  the  benefit
of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of
mass destruction.
The  organization 
the  single
international institution providing at the same time for
disarmament,  non-proliferation 
international
cooperation and assistance.
and 
I 
represent 
is 
We  verify  the  destruction  of  the  huge  existing
arsenals  of  chemical  weapons.  We  monitor  chemical
industry and trade related activities in listed chemicals
to make sure they are consistent with the provisions of
the Convention. We assist and remain ready to provide
help  for  member  States  in  need  of  reinforcing  or
creating their own protective capacities and, in cases of
attacks or threats of attacks with chemical weapons, we
will stand beside those in need.
These  three  unique  elements  —  disarmament,
non-proliferation  and  international  cooperation  and
assistance — find in the CWC, through the OPCW, the
indispensable articulation to become integral parts of a
single  effort.  In  this  sense,  the  CWC  stands  as  an
example  of  what  can  be  achieved  when  the  political
will  exists  to  tackle  questions  of  global  concern
through  the  formidable  power  of  an  internationally
agreed instrument.
As  I  explained  in  my  address  to  the  First
Committee last month, member States of the CWC are
making substantive progress in the achievement of the
goals set out by the Treaty.
Destruction of chemical weapons continues. And
this  is  indeed  crucial,  as  we  are  not  talking  here  of  a
mere  clean-up  operation  of  the  remnants  of  the  cold
war. We are dealing with weapons of mass destruction,
6
tens of thousands of munitions, seas of deadly chemical
agents  —  all  weapons  of  choice  for  terrorist  groups,
weapons  that  have  been  used  in  recent  inter-State
conflicts  and  that  unfortunately  remain  within  the
inventories of some States.
OPCW 
inspectors  are  active 
in  checking
destruction  activities  in  all  the  declared  possessor
State’s  facilities.  On  this  front,  the  task  is  Herculean,
but progress is being made on a continuing basis.
In the United States, the goal of the destruction of
20  per  cent  of  stockpiles  of  category  1  weapons  has
been  completed.  India  has  also  met  this  crucial
threshold.  Another  State  party  is  making  progress
towards 
the
Conference of States Parties for it to meet this target by
April 2003.
that  goal,  with  approval  given  by 
In  Russia,  where  the  largest  stockpile  of  about
40,000  metric  tonnes  of  warfare  agents  remain  to  be
destroyed,  agreements  have  been  reached  within  the
OPCW.  A  number  of  decisions  have  been  taken  that
will  hopefully  enable  the  Russian  Federation  to  meet
its  obligations  to  destroy  chemical  weapons  and  to
convert some facilities to permitted purposes.
In  that  respect,  we  are  greatly  heartened,  and
warmly welcome, the 10 plus 10 over 10 initiative for
these  and  related  purposes  over  the  next  10  years
approved  by  the  G-8  countries  at  the  Kananaskis
Summit.
Slowly  but  surely,  the  OPCW,  together  with  its
member  States,  is  creating  the  conditions  for  a  world
actually  free  from  these  weapons  of  mass  destruction.
From a technological  and  scientific  point  of  view,  our
work  is  very  demanding,  as  it  deals  with  listed
chemicals  that,  in  most  cases,  do  have  legitimate
civilian  applications.  The  same  can  be  said  about  the
technologies  involved,  which  fall  under  the  well-
known label of dual use. That is why we have to make
sure  that  the  Technical  Secretariat  is  in  a  position  to
uphold  the  core  provisions  of  the  Convention  in  the
light  of  the  breathtaking  pace  of  progress  in  the
chemical industry worldwide. This is an area where we
are  currently  concentrating  our  efforts  in  order  to
ensure  the  future  relevance  of  the  CWC  to  all  States
parties.
While  we  continue  our  relentless  efforts  at
oversight  and  our  activities 
to  destroy  chemical
weapons,  we  must  note  that  this  undertaking  will
demand  ever-greater  efforts  from  the  organization  in
the  very  near  future.  Possessor  States  are  announcing
that new destruction facilities are coming on-line. This
will  have  a  considerable  impact  on  our  verification
plan, which will grow accordingly.
increase 
the  quantitative 
The anticipated steep rise in verification activities
is  a  clear  indication  of  the  challenges  ahead  for  the
organization.  But 
in
verification activities is not everything that is involved,
because the Chemical Weapons Convention is not only
an  instrument  of  multilateral  disarmament.  In  parallel
with  the  monitoring  functions  at  chemical  weapons
related  facilities,  the  CWC  addresses  the  equally
complex,  and  certainly  more  elusive,  problem  of  the
proliferation of instruments of chemical warfare. Given
the  vast  scope  of  the  chemical  industry  worldwide,
efficient control of chemical proliferation is an arduous
task  that  the  Technical  Secretariat  has  to  face  within
the margins of its limited resources, especially against
the backdrop of the growing number of facilities to be
monitored.
The  number  of  inspections  will  rise,  but  the
nature  of  the  exercise  will  also  be  altered  by  the
combined  influence  of  new  technologies,  evolving
industrial  methods  and  the  lessons  learned  in  the  past
few years by our inspectors. While facilities producing
schedule 1 and 2 chemicals will permanently focus the
priority attention of the OPCW, we shall also widen the
scope  of  active 
in
general terms. This process will be gradual, and it will
be  defined  in  consultation  with  member  States  and  be
fully in line with the Convention.
industry  monitoring  activities 
International cooperation and assistance are much
more  than  good  intentions  under  the  CWC.  Our
activities in the field of international cooperation allow
our  member  States  to  become  full  partners  in  the
discharge  of  their  Treaty  obligations.  As  it  is  often
said,  the  CWC  is  not  a  self-executing  document.  It
requires 
an  ongoing
interrelationship between the Technical Secretariat and
member  States  through  their  national  authorities.  This
is indispensable both for verification purposes  and for
the  enactment  of 
legislation  and
chemical exports controls at the national level.
implementing 
interaction 
constant 
and 
Article  X  of  the  CWC  mandates  us  to  provide
assistance  in  the  case  of  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of
chemical  weapons.  In  the  light  of  the  importance  of
that commitment of the OPCW, we have been actively
A/57/PV.53
working  to  improve  our  preparedness  and  availability,
not only in actual emergencies, but also in the area of
capacity-building.  Two  months  ago  in  Croatia,  we
conducted our first large-scale exercise, which allowed
us  to  test  our  preparedness  for  chemical  attacks  and
emergencies  in  real  life  conditions.  We  intend  to
continue  with  similar  efforts  in  the  near  future,
hopefully  with  the  support  and  contribution  of  other
international  organizations,  starting  with  the  United
Nations,  as  there  are  many  areas  where  synergetic
efforts can and must be found in this area.
Threat-perception  and  a  new  sense  of  urgency
have  become  apparent  after  the  tragic  attacks  in  the
United States in September 2001. Assistance has been
finally  understood  as  a  necessity,  especially  for  States
lacking the resources to protect themselves against the
possibility  of  an  attack  with  chemical  agents.
Following the terrorist attacks on the United States on
11  September  2001  and  the  global  realization  of  the
possibility  that  terrorists  might  use  weapons  of  mass
destruction,  an  increasing  number  of  States  parties
have  invoked  the  Treaty  provisions  that  request  the
Technical  Secretariat  to  provide  expert  advice  and  to
help strengthen their protective capacity. An increasing
number  of  protection  courses  have  therefore  been
presented  by  the  OPCW  in  2002,  and  some  additional
courses  have  already  been  scheduled  for  2003  for  the
benefit of member States in Central Asia and Africa.
The OPCW is not a counter-terrorism agency, but
it  is  clear  that  active  implementation  of  the  Treaty
provisions  can  help  against  this  looming  menace.
Doing  that  through  a  multilateral  instrument  like  the
CWC  has  the  additional  advantage  of  rallying  forces
that  would  otherwise  remain  unconnected  at  a  time
when  the  struggle  for  already-scarce  resources  is
becoming acute.
enactment 
In December 2001, States parties and the OPCW
Technical  Secretariat  jointly  identified  a  number  of
areas where useful contributions could be made to the
struggle  against  international  terrorism.  Those  include
to 
the  promotion  of  universal  adherence 
the
national
Convention, 
adequate 
implementing 
penal
legislation —  full  and  effective  implementation  of  the
provisions  related  to  the  destruction  of  chemical
weapons capabilities, full and effective implementation
of the provisions related to inspections in the chemical
industry  and  transfers  of  scheduled  chemicals  to  non-
State  parties,  and  the  further  development  of  the
legislation  — 
including 
of 
7
A/57/PV.53
OPCW’s  capabilities 
to  requests  for
assistance in cases of use or threat of use of chemical
weapons.
to  respond 
the  universality  of 
In addressing the General Assembly, I cannot fail
to mention the high priority we attach to the principle
of 
the  Chemical  Weapons
Convention.  With  147  States  parties,  the  Chemical
Weapons  Convention  already  embodies  a  significant
number  of  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations.  But
the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  is  an  international
agreement open to all States without exception. It is for
that reason that we have consistently called upon States
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  ratify  or  accede  to  the
Treaty. I repeat that invitation here today. To that end,
we  have  also  designed  several  programmes  and
outreach  initiatives  to  ensure  that  all  States  willing  to
join  the  family  of  nations  opposing  chemical  warfare
can do so easily.
For  a  global  agreement  like  this,  which  entails
security implications for all Member States, ratification
by  all  is  our  permanent  objective,  and  we  continue  to
work  towards  that  end.  We  must  acknowledge  that
some  States  outside  the  purview  of  the  CWC  are  of
clear  proliferation  concern.  But  for  others  the  overall
security scenario prevailing in their respective  regions
could be a determining, and perhaps a deterring, factor.
All those elements have to be borne in mind when
we  tackle  the  issue  of  universality.  The  overriding
notion remains, however, that this is a Treaty where all
States, possessors and non-possessors alike, can benefit
in  terms  of  their  own  security,  first  and  foremost,  and
also  in  other  important  areas  relating  to  the  peaceful
uses of chemistry.
from 
the 
legal  and 
In  a  few  months, 
in  accordance  with 
the
provisions  of  the  CWC,  we  will  conduct  the  first
Review  Conference  since  the  Convention  entered  into
force. The principal purpose of the exercise will be to
conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the operation of
the  Convention 
technical
standpoints.  The  Review  Conference  will  allow  us  to
look  into  the  past,  to  see  what  has  been  done  and
achieved in the first five years of the Treaty’s operation
and,  perhaps  more  importantly,  to  identify  the  most
urgent tasks we will have to face in the next five years.
States  parties  will  also  be  able 
the
implementation of the verification regime to date,  and
provide  direction  to  the  organization  to  continue  its
monitoring  of 
the  destruction  process  and  of
to  assess 
8
compliance.  During  the  Review  Conference,  Member
States  will  also  have  an  opportunity  to  consider  any
scientific and technological developments affecting the
CWC.  Above  all,  this  first  retrospective  and,  at  the
same  time,  forward-looking  exercise  will  be  an  ideal
opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  validity  and  importance  of
the Chemical Weapons Convention.
If any lesson can be learned from recent events, it
will  confirm  the  continued  urgency  and  validity  of
concerns  over  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  That  is
why  we  expect  the  widest  participation  of  Member
States at the highest possible level, as well as the active
presence  of 
international  organizations  and  civil
society,  next  April  in  The  Hague.  I  do  hope  that  the
United  Nations,  as  the  principal  Organization  dealing
with  matters  related  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and
security,  will  signal  through  its  presence  the  high
priority  we  all  attach  to  efforts  aimed  at  eliminating
weapons of mass destruction.
In  conclusion,  let  us  remember  that  chemical
weapons  happen  to  be  those  which  the  international
community  has  agreed  to  dispose  of  completely,
without  exception  and  in  a  verifiable  manner.  Let  us
never forget that the Chemical Weapons Convention is
our  common  contract  to  achieve  this  lofty  goal.  Last
but not least, let us always support the Organisation for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons,  which  is  no
more and no less than the guarantor of that process.
Mr.  Abelian  (Armenia):  In  my  capacity  as
Chairman-in-Office  of 
the  Black  Sea  Economic
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC)  for  the  six-month
term  starting  1  November  2002,  I  have  the  honour  on
behalf of the sponsors listed in document A/57/L.11, as
well as of Ukraine and The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, to introduce the draft resolution entitled
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”.
In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  express  our
gratitude to the Albanian chairmanship of BSEC for the
successful  conduct  and  conclusion  of  its  term  and  the
preparation  of  this  comprehensive  draft  resolution.  I
should also like to extend our thanks and appreciation
to the Secretary-General  of  BSEC,  Ambassador  Valeri
Chechelashvili, who is joining us today in this Hall, for
the  leadership  that  he  provides  in  running  the  day-to-
day  business  of  the  organization.  We  very  much  look
forward to continuing to work with him in his efforts to
the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
build 
organization.
the
organized crime, terrorism, illegal migration and illicit
trafficking of drugs and weapons.
A/57/PV.53
This  year,  we  have  been  celebrating  the  10-year
anniversary of BSEC. When it was established in 1992,
no one could assure that this intergovernmental  forum
would  survive.  Yet,  10  years  later,  have  we  not  only
managed  to  stay  together,  but  also  to  build  on  our
experience  and  achievements  to  evolve  into  a  viable
regional  organization.  This  spirit  has  been  marked  by
the  enhancement  of  BSEC’s  effectiveness  and  the
expansion  of  the  scope  of  its  activities.  BSEC  has
brought 
together  11  member  States  with  varied
resources,  histories  and  economic  conditions,  as  well
as  with  some  major  political  problems  among  certain
member States. What we have in common is the shared
goal  to  promote  economic  development,  stability  and
prosperity for our countries and around the Black Sea.
We  realized  that,  by  combining  and  maximizing
our  resources,  we  would  be  better  able  to  compete  in
and benefit from the modern globalized economy. One
of  the  major  goals  of  BSEC  has  always  been  the
promotion  of 
the
development  of  effective  partnership  with  other
regional  and  international  organizations,  particularly
the European Union and the United Nations system.
intra-regional  cooperation  and 
The  adoption  of  BSEC’s  charter  in  1998  and  its
transformation  into  a  regional  organization  in  1999
were key qualitative steps forward in ensuring its  role
as  an  important  tool  for  regional  cooperation.  Its
granting  of  observer  status  in  the  United  Nations  in
1999 provided an international legal identity and thus a
further positive spur to continue pursuing its goals and
principles. In this spirit, BSEC has gained tremendous
institutional growth and has successfully completed its
formative  stage.  The  creation  of  a  system  of  related
bodies  and 
its
transformation 
international
organization and enhanced its effectiveness.
subsidiary  organs  has  ensured 
full-fledged 
into 
a 
today 
result-oriented  document. 
The  draft  resolution  before  us 
is  a
comprehensive  and 
It
incorporates  and  reflects  the  major  goals,  principles
and objectives laid down in the BSEC  charter  and  the
declarations  adopted  at  its  summit  meetings  in  1999
and  2002.  The  draft 
the
strengthening of regional cooperation in various fields,
transport,
such 
care,
communications, 
environmental 
combating
resolution  emphasizes 
finance, 
agriculture, 
protection, 
science, 
energy, 
as 
trade, 
health 
also 
resolution 
The  draft 
attaches  great
importance  to  the  enhancement  of  relations  with  the
European  Union  and  the  United  Nations  system.  It
welcomes 
the  signing  of  cooperation  agreements
between  BSEC  and  the  Economic  Commission  for
Europe  and  between  BSEC  and  the  United  Nations
Environment  Programme,  while  the  cooperation  of
BSEC  with  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of
the United Nations, the United Nations Conference on
Trade  and  Development  and 
the  World  Trade
Organization  are  considered  to  be  priority  issues.  The
draft  resolution  highly  encourages  the  cooperation
between  BSCE  and  other  regional  organizations  and
initiatives.
The  text  we  have  before  us  was  subject  to
extensive  consultations  both  here  in  New  York  and  in
Tirana,  Albania,  during  the  seventh  meeting  of  the
Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
I should like to draw the Assembly’s attention to
the  following  minor  editorial  changes  that  have  been
made to the document since it was submitted.
In  the  second  line  of  paragraph  5,  the  word
the  word
inserted  after 
“particularly”  has  been 
“initiatives”.
In  paragraphs  11  and  12,  the  words  “Secretary-
General  of  the  Black  Sea  Economic  Cooperation
Organization”  have  been  replaced  by  the  words  “the
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization”.
The  objectives  of  BSEC  remain  clear  and
understandable: to develop equal partnership, to strive
for  a  better  life  for  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  to
achieve  stability  and  prosperity  around  the  Black  Sea
through  regional  cooperation  in  various  fields.  The
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  will  undoubtedly
further enhance BSEC’s international image.
I should like to conclude by expressing the hope
that  the  General  Assembly  will,  as  in  previous  years,
give  its  unanimous  support  to  the  draft  resolution
before us.
Mr.  Ouch  (Cambodia):  I  have  the  honour,  on
behalf of the 10 States members of the Association of
South-East  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  —  Brunei
Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s
Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines,
9
A/57/PV.53
Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam — to introduce draft
resolution  A/57/L.16  on  cooperation  between 
the
United Nations and ASEAN. May I thank all the other
co-sponsors for their support to this draft resolution.
ASEAN, which was established on 8 August 1967
in  Bangkok,  is  an  expression  of  the  collective  will  of
the nations in the region to bind themselves together in
friendship  and  cooperation  to  secure  for  their  peoples
the blessings of peace, freedom and prosperity. ASEAN
and 
the  United  Nations  have  been  development
partners  almost  from  its  establishment  in  1967,  when
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)
and ASEAN started their long-standing and productive
relationship.
On  29  July  2002,  on  the  occasion  of  the  35th
ASEAN Ministerial Meeting in Brunei Darussalam, the
ASEAN  Foreign  Ministers  agreed  on  the  need  to
enhance cooperation with the United Nations as a pre-
eminent  multilateral institution. It is  as  a  follow-up  to
this  declaration  that  we  are  submitting  the  draft
resolution  calling  for  closer  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and ASEAN. Such cooperation is vital
to  the  realization  of  the  basic  objectives  of  ASEAN,
which include, among others, accelerating the region’s
economic  growth, 
social  progress  and  cultural
development and promoting stability and peace.
the 
to  economic  growth  and 
In  the  light  of  the  many  facets  of  globalization,
two  organizations  will
cooperation  between 
contribute 
sustainable
development  in  the  region  so  that  we  could  maximize
the benefits of globalization while reducing its negative
effects, 
least
developed countries, which thus far have not been fully
integrated into the new realities of a globalized world.
There  is  no  doubt  that  ASEAN  has  contributed  to
building  a  culture  of  peace  and  cooperation  in  the
region  through  enhancing  habitual  cooperation  and
maintaining regional peace, stability and security.
in  particular  among 
the 
region’s 
We  have  just  successfully  concluded  the  eighth
ASEAN  Summit,  held  at  Phnom  Penh,  Cambodia,
which  attracted  worldwide  attention,  followed  by  the
sixth ASEAN plus  Three  summit  meeting  with  China,
Japan  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  and  a  separate
ASEAN-India  summit.  China  signed  a  framework
agreement for a free-trade pact with ASEAN, as well as
a  Declaration  on  the  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  South
China Sea. Japan concluded an agreement focusing on
human  resources  and  investment,  with  the  possibility
10
for a free-trade agreement in the future. And, in a very
positive  move,  India,  at  its  first  summit-level  meeting
with  the  group,  offered  to  negotiate  a  free-trade  area
with  ASEAN.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  Summit
also  saw  the  strengthening  of  collaboration  between
ASEAN  and  Africa,  represented  by  the  President  of
South Africa in his capacity as Chairman of the newly
established  African  Union.  He  spoke  about  the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which
we fully support. Finally, ASEAN will also strengthen
its cooperation with the Greater Mekong Subregion. On
3  November  2002,  Cambodia  hosted  the  first  Greater
Mekong Subregion Summit, held at Phnom Penh.
In the area of peace and security, the Phnom Penh
Summit  focused  on  strengthening  cooperation 
to
combat  terrorism  in  the  wake  of  the  heinous  terrorist
attacks  on  11  September  last  year  and  of  the  attack
carried  out  more  recently  in  Bali,  which  struck  at  the
heart  of  ASEAN.  It  adopted  a  Declaration  on
Terrorism, which expresses ASEAN’s determination to
build  on  measures  announced 
the
Declaration  on  Joint  Action  to  Counter  Terrorism  by
ASEAN  leaders  in  Brunei  Darussalam  to  intensify  its
efforts  to  prevent,  counter  and  suppress 
terrorist
activities  in  the  region,  while  urging  the  international
community  to  support  its  efforts.  Also  last  year  in
Brunei  Darussalam,  ASEAN  and  the  United  States
signed  a  Joint  Declaration  for  Cooperation  to  Combat
International Terrorism.
last  year 
in 
At  the  same  time,  ASEAN  believes  that  the
United  Nations  is  the  proper  forum  for  international
cooperation and therefore cooperates, both individually
and  collectively,  with  the  United  Nations  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee.  The  ASEAN  Regional  Forum
and  the  ASEAN  plus  Three  process  are  viable  and
increasingly  significant  forums  for  peace  and  stability
in the region.
In  the  area  of  technical  cooperation,  productive
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme (UNDP) was underscored when the UNDP
was officially designated an ASEAN Dialogue Partner.
Ties  between  ASEAN  and  the  UNDP  were  further
strengthened  by  the  launching  of  the  ASEAN-UNDP
subregional  programmes,  aimed  at  better  assisting
ASEAN  in  its  regional  cooperation  and  integration
efforts. ASEAN cooperation has evolved over the years
with such United Nations funds and programmes as the
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the
Pacific  (ESCAP),  the  United  Nations  Conference  on
Trade  and  Development  and  international  agencies  of
the  United  Nations  family,  in  particular  the  United
Nations  Industrial  Development  Organization; 
the
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization;  the  United  Nations  International  Drug
Control  Programme;  the  United  Nations  Children’s
the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on
Fund; 
HIV/AIDS; 
the
International  Labour  Organization;  the  International
Maritime  Organization;  and  the  International  Atomic
Energy Agency.
the  World  Health  Organization; 
For the reasons that I have cited, we feel that the
resolution  under  consideration  will  be  beneficial  for
both the United Nations and ASEAN.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative  of  Fiji,  who,  in  the  course  of  his
statement, will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.21.
Mr. Naidu (Fiji): Imagine, if you can, a region so
diverse  in  its  culture,  history  and  geography  that  its
people  speak  some  1,200  languages  —  a  region  of
islands  large  and  small,  numbering  in  the  thousands
and  isolated  by  vast  distances,  where  pervasive  socio-
economic  change  and  environmental  adversity  have
had powerful influences on the way in which its widely
dispersed  communities  have  developed.  Picture  that
scenario,  and  then  ask  yourselves  how  any  of  its
inhabitants could possibly attain greater economic and
social viability in today’s world. The simple answer is,
of course, through regional cooperation.
The people of the Pacific have long been guided
by a strong sense of community and are able to interact
with  the  world  around  them  by  working  together  and
by sharing resources. Today, we boast an extensive and
highly  effective  regional  institutional  network  that
serves  us  particularly  well.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  I
am  proud  and  honoured  to  be  addressing  this  session
on  regional  cooperation  on  behalf  of  the  members  of
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  Our  diverse  members
include  the  metropolitan  countries  of  Australia  and
New  Zealand;  the  Melanesian  States  of  Papua  New
Guinea,  Fiji,  Vanuatu  and  the  Solomon  Islands,  in  the
Western  Pacific;  the  ancient  Polynesian  cultures  of
Samoa  and  Tonga,  in  the  South  Pacific;  the  remote
micro-States  of  Nauru,  Tuvalu  and  Kiribati,  in  the
Central  Pacific;  and  the  Northern  Pacific  States  of
Palau, the Marshall Islands and Micronesia.
Today, our region is intrinsically linked through a
network of organizations. Member States work closely
A/57/PV.53
together  through  our  regional  organizations  on  a
diverse  array  of  issues,  ranging  from  peace  and
security to environmental protection, from aviation law
to education, and from information and communication
technologies  to  health.  The  Pacific  Islands  Forum
Secretariat,  our  main  policy-making  body,  oversees  a
central council of regional organizations of the Pacific
that 
technical
organizations, 
environmental
agencies and think tanks.
regional  universities, 
includes  our 
development 
and 
the  Forum  enjoys  a 
the  United  Nations 
As  the  Forum  celebrates  three  decades  as  the
principal  multilateral  body  in  the  Pacific  region,  the
demands of our members and those of the international
community  have  also  increased,  thus  shaping  the
interventions  required  by  our  regional  organizations.
The  confidence  we  have  in  our  organizations  is
demonstrated  through  the  many  initiatives  and  policy
decisions in various declarations of the Pacific Islands
Forum,  the  most  recent  being  the  communiqué  of  the
thirty-third  meeting  of  Forum  leaders,  annexed  to
document A/57/331.
special
At  present, 
relationship  with 
its
observer  status  in  the  General  Assembly  and  through
the  strong  presence  of  a  number  of  United  Nations
funds  and  programmes  operating  in  the  region.  That
relationship  has  matured  over  recent  years  and  has
broadened  cooperation  in  new  areas  such  as  fisheries,
small  business  enterprise, 
rights,
democracy,  peace-building  and  oceans  management.
While we are proud of the fact that the Forum  and its
membership  have  themselves  provided  the  bulk  of
resources  for  most  of  the  programmes  in  the  region,
what the United Nations and its agencies can bring —
indeed,  have  brought  —  to  the  table  in  terms  of
development  cooperation 
that  we
recognize and very much welcome.
trade,  human 
something 
through 
is 
As  summarized  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report
on  cooperation  with 
the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,
contained  in  document  A/57/475,  the  United  Nations
has  provided  meaningful  assistance  in  peace-building
through consultations and field visits to countries in the
region  and  by  participation  in  the  Forum  Regional
Security  Committee.  Since  establishing  a  United
Nations  Political  Office  in  Bougainville,  it  has  also
contributed 
to  peace  monitoring  efforts  and  has
provided  electoral  assistance  in  Fiji  and  the  Solomon
Islands.
11
A/57/PV.53
Other  United  Nations  agencies  have  also
established  a  strong  presence  in  the  region,  with  field
offices  for  the  United  Nations  Development  Fund,  the
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization,  the  International
Labour  Organization,  the  World  Health  Organization,
the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, the
United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations
Educational,  Cultural  and  Scientific  Organization
providing direct technical and training assistance to the
countries and the organizations of the Pacific. We urge
those  specialized  agencies,  along  with  our  bilateral
partners, 
the
Secretary-General 
the  coordination  of
United Nations-related activities in the Pacific.
to  work  closely  with 
to  continue 
to  enhance 
Our  members  very  much  appreciate  what  the
United  Nations  has  done  for  our  region.  As  we  begin
the  process  of  carrying  out  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation,  and  particularly  as  we  move  towards
the  10-year  review  of  the  Barbados  Programme  of
Action,  it  is  important  that  those  efforts  be  further
strengthened  and  expanded.  We,  therefore,  welcome
the 
that
consultations be undertaken between our organizations
to  explore  where  further  cooperation  can  be  gainfully
implemented.
Secretary-General’s 
recommendation 
To that end, Fiji has the honour to introduce draft
resolution  A/57/L.21,  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum”.
Through  that  draft  resolution,  we,  the  members  of  the
Pacific  Islands  Forum,  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  a
partnership  of  cooperation  and  friendship  and  offer
some guidance to the United Nations, as well as to our
international partners, on where such cooperation  may
indeed be strengthened and expanded.
Finally, in keeping with the theme of cooperation,
I would like to express my group’s sincere gratitude to
the countries that have joined us in sponsoring the draft
resolution. I am pleased to announce that the following
countries  have  also  joined  as  sponsors:  Chile,  Cuba,
Greece, 
the
Philippines, Sudan and Thailand.
Israel,  Kiribati,  Kuwait,  Malaysia, 
With  these  short  comments,  draft  resolution
A/57/L.21  is  hereby  introduced  for  consideration  by
the  General  Assembly,  and  we  look  forward  to  its
adoption on a consensus basis.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of
Turkey, who will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.22.
12
Mr.  Cengizer  (Turkey):  On  12  October  2002,  at
the Twelfth Meeting of the Council of Ministers of the
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO),  held  in
Istanbul,  Turkey  assumed  the  chairmanship  of  the
ECO.  It  is  my  country’s  honour,  in  that  capacity,  to
introduce  today  draft  resolution  A/57/L.22,  entitled
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Economic Cooperation Organization.”
is 
the 
Next  week 
tenth  anniversary  of 
the
expansion  of  ECO.  It  was  on  28  November  1992  that
ECO  welcomed  Afghanistan,  Azerbaijan,  Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan,  Tajikistan,  Turkmenistan  and  Uzbekistan
as its new members.
The seventh Summit of ECO, held in Istanbul on
14 October 2002, provided an opportunity to take stock
of  the  decade-long  performance  of  the  expanded
organization.  In  a  time-span  of  10  years,  the  basic
documents of ECO were concluded, major agreements
and  plans  of  action  were  adopted  and  an  impressive
restructuring  process  was  embarked  upon.  In  1996,  a
comprehensive  economic  cooperation  strategy  was
prepared, 
and
communications, trade and investment and energy were
outlined  as  priority  areas  for  ECO.  Today, 
the
development  and  successful  implementation  of  joint
projects  on  energy,  trade,  transportation,  agriculture,
drug control and capacity-building can be cited among
the leading achievements of ECO.
to  which 
according 
transport 
The  founding  document  of  ECO,  the  Treaty  of
Izmir,  envisages  the  promotion  of  mutually  beneficial
interaction  and  cooperation  between  ECO  and  other
regional  and  international  organizations,  as  well  as
financial  institutions.  We  welcome  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  (A/57/119)  on  cooperation  between
the United Nations and ECO, wherein the status of that
cooperation 
the
Secretary-General’s  recommendation  in  the  report  that
specialized  agencies,  as  well  as  organizations  and
programmes of the United Nations system and relevant
financial institutions, should join in efforts towards the
implementation  of  economic  programmes  and  projects
of ECO.
is  elucidated.  We  also  support 
It  is  becoming  increasingly  apparent  that  the
success of the globalization process requires enhanced
cooperation  between  international  organizations  and,
especially,  a  better  division  of  labour  aimed  at  more
efficient  and  results-oriented  collaboration.  Only  in
that manner can regional development be strengthened
and  our  shared  commitment  to  meet  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  achieved. 
that
understanding  that  we  have  been  encouraging  the
deepening of relations between the ECO and the United
Nations system, as well as relations with other relevant
international and regional organizations.
is  with 
It 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  today,  which  is
sponsored by all ECO members, is designed to further
promote  the  existing  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and ECO in the spirit that I tried to describe a
while ago.
Having assumed the chairmanship of ECO for the
next  two  years,  Turkey  is  determined  to  contribute  to
this  common  endeavour.  No  doubt,  the  technical
experience  and  financial  assistance  of  international  and
regional organizations will bring substantial added value
to the activities of ECO in previously mentioned areas, as
well as in the important  fields of health, environment,
food  security,  management,  transfer  of  technology,
rural poverty alleviation and energy efficiency.
Among 
the  new  member  States  of 
the
organization,  Afghanistan  deserves  special  attention.
Turkey  is  keen  to  see  that  ECO  makes  a  concrete
contribution  to  reconstruction  efforts  in  Afghanistan.
As a matter of fact, ECO is preparing a plan of action,
taking due note of the proposals of the member States.
This  plan  will  be  forwarded  to  the  relevant  regional
and international organizations so as to raise additional
funds for proposed reconstruction projects.
ECO  has  the  potential  to  initiate  reconstruction
projects  for  Afghanistan,  modest  as  they  may  be,
particularly in areas where it has accumulated experience.
Contributions  by  Member  States  to  the  ECO  Fund
would greatly facilitate efforts in this regard.
Turkey  will  demonstrate  every  effort  to  make
ECO a dynamic organization, one that will live up the
expectations  and  aspirations  of  its  members.  The
Seventh  ECO  Summit  meeting  has  indeed  given
impetus  to  efforts  geared  at  increasing  the  efficiency
and  effectiveness  of 
the  organization.  Further
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  will  undoubtedly
help ECO to reach its goals.
The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the
next  speaker,  the  representative  of  Malta,  let  me  give
the floor to the representative of the Secretariat.
Mr.  Perfiliev  (Director,  General  Assembly  and
Economic  and  Social  Council  Affairs  Division  of  the
A/57/PV.53
Department  of  General  Assembly  Affairs  and
Conference  Management  Services):  I  should  like  to
inform  Members,  with  regard  to  draft  resolution
A/57/L.23,  that  operative  paragraph  16,  as  submitted
by the sponsors, should read as follows:
“Commends the role of the Council of Europe
with  regard  to  the  electoral  process  in  Kosovo,
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in preparation for
the municipal elections on 26 October 2002”.
I  should  like  to  inform  delegations  that  draft
tomorrow
resolution  A/57/L.23  will  be  re-issued 
morning to reflect this correction.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative  of  Malta  who,  in  the  course  of  his
statement, will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.23.
Mr. 
Balzan
As 
(Malta): 
Permanent
Representative of Malta and the current Chair-in-Office
of  the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of
Europe,  I  am  deeply  honoured  and  proud  to  introduce
this agenda item which, for the third consecutive time,
features  on  the  programme  of  work  of  the  General
Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  avail  myself  of  this
opportunity to welcome high officials from the Council
of  Europe  and  delegations  from  the  parliamentary
assembly  who  have  come  to  New  York  specifically  to
follow the proceedings of this item in the Assembly.
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my
country’s  deepest  gratitude  to  the  Government  of
Luxembourg  for  having  worked  indefatigably,  under
the  wise  and  able  leadership  of  Madam  Lydie  Polfer,
Vice-Prime  Minister  and  Foreign  Minister,  throughout
the  past  six  months,  towards  the  attainment  of  the
Council  of  Europe’s  tenets  and  principles  and  for
having  striven  hard  to  further  the  achievement  of
European integration.
It is also my pleasure to announce that, since the
tabling  of  draft  resolution  A/57/L.23,  the  following
countries  have  joined  the  list  of  sponsors:  Belgium,
Colombia,  Croatia,  Dominican  Republic,  Germany,
Greece,  Norway,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  former
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  I  would  like  to  thank  all
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  for  their  contributions
and strong support.
Since its inception in 1949, the Council of Europe
has  fully  recognized  its  noble  mission  to  create  an
organization  that  would  bring  European  States  into
13
A/57/PV.53
closer  unity  and  association.  Today,  one  can  overtly
confirm  that  the  “Pan-Europeanization”  dream,  as
enshrined  in  The  Hague  Congress  of  7  May  1948,  is
not far from being accomplished.
The  Council  of  Europe  was  founded  on  a  given
belief,  shared  by  the  peoples  of  post-war  Europe,  to
actively search for economic prosperity, social progress
and  harmony  between  and  among  European  nations.
The  objectives  and  ideals  of  this  organization,  which
are  built  on  democracy,  human  rights,  fundamental
freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law,  have  developed  firmly
throughout  these  past  five  decades.  This  is  the  direct
result of the work of the Council, focusing initially on
the  re-building  of  Europe,  and  in  recent  years,  on
becoming  a  veritable  “pan-European”  organization  by
expanding  eastwards.  In  embracing  the  Central  and
Eastern  European  countries  within  its  fold,  including
the  Russian  Federation,  the  Council  of  Europe  has
succeeded 
in  building  a  greater  Europe,  without
dividing lines, benefiting people worldwide.
The  Council,  which  is  considered  a  beacon  of
hope  and  a  benchmark  for  human  rights,  has  grown
from a mere 10 member States in 1949 to 23 in 1989.
Today it boasts of 44 member States, representing 800
million  people.  This  emerging  European  architecture
evolved pursuant to the political changes at the end of
the  1990s,  following  the  fall  of  the  Berlin  wall,  the
demise of Communism and the burial of the cold war.
When  Malta  joined  the  Council  of  Europe  in
1965,  Prime  Minister  Giorgio  Borg  Olivier  declared,
“Membership of the Council of Europe has been for my
country  like  returning  home  after  a  long  absence”.  As
Malta  takes  up  the  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of
Ministers  for  the  third  time,  it  notes  with  satisfaction
that  most  of  the  countries  of  Europe  have  today
returned home.
However,  in  this  vein  —  and  here  I  quote  from
the  statement  of  our  Foreign  Minister,  Dr.  Joe  Borg,
made  during  the  Committee  of  Ministers  session  on  7
November in Strasbourg:  “We  believe that, in view of
the political changes within Europe in recent years, it is
essential  that  the  Council  of  Europe  reposition  itself
and, in so doing, reassert its value”.
My  country  is  wholly  committed  to  building
further  on  the  recent  achievements  made  by  previous
Chairmanships. Our ultimate objective is to concentrate
our efforts on two primordial goals.
14
First, aware of the Council’s future role in a fast
emerging  European  structure,  my  Government  intends
to  pursue  the  process  of  the  political  unification  of
greater Europe, on the basis of the cooperation structures
made  available  by  the  Council  of  Europe,  and  interact
with the major partners on the European scene.
in 
Secondly,  given  that  social  cohesion  is  most
important 
the  promotion  and  protection  of
fundamental  political  rights,  we  will  intensify  our
efforts  to  strengthen  further  the  social  and  cultural
dimensions  of  European  integration  on  a  continent-
wide  scale.  In  this  respect,  I  would  like  to  underscore
that  only  a  week  ago  the  Maltese  Chairmanship
successfully organized a conference on access to social
rights. Experts on a pan-European level participated in
this 
the  fundamental
questions  concerning  the  process  of  access  to  social
rights.  The  conference  also  gave  participants  the
opportunity to propose tangible and concrete solutions
to 
the  multiple  and  often  overlapping  problems
inhibiting such access.
important  event 
to  discuss 
One  of  the  major  scourges  afflicting  humankind
in this day and age is international terrorism. The tragic
events  of  11  September  2001  and  other  events  that
followed  have  clearly  placed  the  brutal  realities  of
terrorism  before  the  entire  world.  It  is  our  firm  belief
that  the  most  effective  manner  to  view  those  heinous
attacks is as part of an unfolding historical process. It
is  for  this  reason  that  the  international  community  is
duty-bound, compelled and committed to  fight against
that undefined and faceless enemy.
has 
openly 
My  Government 
condemned
international  terrorism,  not  only  in  the  Assembly  but
also in many international conferences and forums. We
maintain  that  closer  and  sounder  cooperation  at  the
global, regional and bilateral levels is indispensable for
the successful eradication of modern-day terrorism.
Combating  terrorism  is  our 
inviolable  right.
Henceforth,  a  strong  Europe  in  a  better-organized
international  community  is  becoming  more  and  more
vital.  In  the  wake  of  such  uncertainty  and  instability,
we  must  be  highly  vigilant  with  regard  to  this  new,
emerging  plague, 
life,
annihilates  democracy,  rejects  all  legal  orders  and
negates  human  rights.  At  this  juncture,  my  delegation
commends 
the
guidelines  to  help  its  Member  States  to  safeguard
fundamental  values  in  addressing  terrorism.  Those
the  Council’s  recent  adoption  of 
terrorism  destroys 
since 
guidelines  reiterate  the  responsibility  of  States  to
protect each human being  from  acts  of  terrorism,  and,
therefore, to recognize that the struggle against terrorism
may require the adoption of specific measures,  while  at
the  same  time  outlining  the  limits  that  States  shall
impose upon themselves in this respect.
to 
this 
My  Government  remains  firm  in  its  unwavering
and  steadfast  commitment 
fight,  which
continues to be ever more imperative, especially within
the context of the negative impact of terrorist activities
on the lives of ordinary and innocent people. We must
form  a  common  front  to  fight  this  scourge  while
simultaneously finding ways and means of dealing with
its root causes.
In this connection, allow me to praise the Council
of Europe for having assumed its full responsibilities in
the fight against global terrorism by working in tandem
with the United Nations on various fronts, most notably
in  the  sphere  of  legal  cooperation,  the  protection  of
fundamental 
the  promotion  of
intercultural and interreligious dialogue.
rights 
and 
in 
Synonymous with humane values, the Council of
Europe,  in  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  Protocol
No.  6  of  the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights,
prohibits  recourse  to  the  death  penalty  in  peacetime.
One notes with satisfaction that the Council has put the
abolition of the death penalty high on its agenda, and in
this  regard,  one  is  pleased  to  report  that  no  execution
has  taken  place  in  the  Council’s  member  States  since
1997.  With  Protocol  No.  13,  which  was  opened  for
signature on 3 May 2002 in Vilnius, the scope of Protocol
No. 6 was extended even further as it opened the way for
abolishing capital punishment in all circumstances.
the  context  of  globalization, 
is
becoming  more  and  more  important  for  the  United
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  to  promulgate
cooperation by exchanging information and by seeking
further  coordination  in  their  work,  while  at  the  same
time encouraging the streamlining of activities with the
aim of ensuring the proper utilization of resources.
Within 
it 
Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  dates  back  to  1951.  However,  one
must  not  be  oblivious  to  the  accelerated  and  steady
pace  with  which  these  two  organizations  have,  in
recent  years,  moved  forward  together.  Testimony  of
this 
the
the  Secretary-General
comprehensive 
(A/57/225).  Suffice  it  to  mention  the  involvement  of
is  well  documented 
cooperation 
report  of 
in 
A/57/PV.53
both the Council of Europe and the  United  Nations  in
the  process  of  conflict-prevention,  post-conflict
rehabilitation  and  peace-building  in  South  Eastern
Europe, most particularly, in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  —  Serbia  and
Montenegro —  and, further afield, in Georgia.  At  this
stage,  I  would  also  like  to  add  that  the  active
contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  concerning  the
electoral  process  in  Kosovo  in  preparation  for  the
recent municipal elections has also been remarkable.
In view of the above, I would like to mention the
fruitful  contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to  the
International  Conference  on  Human  Rights  and
Democratization  in  Europe,  Central  Asia  and  the
Caucasus,  which  was  held  in  Dubrovnik,  Croatia,
towards  the  end  of  last  year.  The  Conference  was  co-
organized  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR).  In  the
Conference, 
the
European  Commission  offered  Governments,  regional
organizations,  national  institutions  and  representatives
of 
reviewing
developments  in  the  field  of  human  rights  in  Europe,
Central Asia and the Caucasus.
the  Government  of  Croatia  and 
the  possibility  of 
society 
civil 
Let me underscore that we are living today in an
era which is indeed as interesting as it is difficult. The
challenges,  old  and  new,  that  lie  ahead  are  enormous,
yet  not  totally  insurmountable.  Having  said  that,  I
would consider it propitious for the General Assembly
to  call  upon  the  Secretary-General  to  explore  every
avenue  to  further  consolidate  the  already  sound  ties
that exist between the United Nations and the Council
of Europe in order to meet these challenges.
In conclusion, may I appeal to all Member States
of  the  Assembly  to  support  the  level  of  cooperation
existing  between  the  two  bodies  and  contribute  to  its
further enhancement.
The  President: I  now  call  on  the  representative
of  Uruguay,  who  in  the  course  of  his  statement  will
introduce draft resolution A/57/L.24.
Mr. Paolillo (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): I have
the honour of speaking on behalf of the Group of Latin
American  and  Caribbean  States  to  introduce  draft
resolution A/57/L.24 entitled “Cooperation between the
United  Nations  and  the  Latin  American  Economic
System”.  This  draft 
resolution,  which  updates
resolution 56/98 adopted by consensus by the  General
Assembly on 14 December 2001, is based on the most
15
A/57/PV.53
recent  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  this  subject,
which is contained in document A/57/128.
We  are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report,  which  clearly  demonstrates  that,  since  the
Agreement  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Latin
American  Economic  System  (SELA)  on  27  December
1991,  cooperation  between  them  has  evolved  and
expanded  in  a  way  that  is  very  satisfactory  and
productive  for  both  entities.  In  this  connection,  we
would like to point out that the Summary section of the
Secretary-General’s report (A/57/128) states:
the  areas  of  cooperation  and 
“Such  cooperation  has  evolved  over  the
years  and  has  become  more  diversified  in  terms
of  both 
the
organizations concerned”.
The  diversification  referred  to  in  the  report
demonstrates  that  regional  affairs,  both  economic  and
social, are closely interlinked, and that in providing an
impetus for greater cooperation and integration among
the  countries  of  the  region  —  one  of  the  principal
objectives  of  SELA  —  coordination  is  required  with
regard  to  issues  that  are  increasingly  complex  and
diverse.  That  is  why  it  is  essential  to  strengthen  and
expand channels of cooperation between our universal
Organization  and  the  regional  system  with  a  view  to
achieving  a  greater  exchange  of  information  and
experience  with  regard  to  public  policy  and  the
formulation and implementation of projects.
The  idea  of  strengthening  cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  SELA  is  referred  to  in  the
preambular  part  of  the  draft  resolution  and  is  stated
again in the operative part, where references are made
to  some  of  the  specialized  agencies,  organizations,
funds and programmes of the United Nations that have
successfully  carried  out  cooperative  programmes  with
SELA. They are invited to continue and to deepen that
cooperation. But such a process is not an end in itself;
it  must  be  directed  at  identifying  the  best  way  to
improve  our  ability  to  attract  resources,  bring  about
greater  coordination  and  make  better  use  of  technical
cooperation,  with  the  goal  of  contributing  —  in  the
words of paragraph 4 of the draft resolution — “to joint
actions to achieve the Millennium goals”.
In  view  of  the  positive  developments  in  the
cooperation that exists between the United Nations and
SELA  and  given  that  we  will  continue  to  work  along
these lines, the draft resolution reiterates its request to
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
16
to  assess,  at 
time, 
the  appropriate 
Permanent  Secretary  of  the  Latin  American  Economic
System, 
the
implementation  of  the  Agreement  between  the  two
entities, and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at  its  fifty-ninth  session.  Finally,  the  draft  resolution
requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General
Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session  a  report  on  the
implementation of the draft resolution.
The  members  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American
and  Caribbean  States  hope  that,  as  in  the  past  when
similar  drafts  were  presented,  draft 
resolution
A/57/L.24 will be adopted by consensus.
The President: I call on the representative of the
Congo,  who  in  the  course  of  his  statement  will
introduce draft resolution A/57/L.25.
Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
the  honour  of  speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Economic
Community  of  Central  African  States  —  Angola,
Burundi,  Cameroon,  the  Congo,  Gabon,  Equatorial
Guinea,  the  Central  African  Republic,  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Rwanda,  Sao  Tome  and
Principe and Chad — all of which have sponsored draft
resolution A/57/L.25, which is currently the subject of
broad consultations. Any revisions that might be made
to  it  will  be  communicated  to  you,  Mr.  President,
before the end of the debate.
About  two  years  ago  —  on  10  November  2000
and  on  12  December  2000  —  the  General  Assembly
adopted resolutions 55/22 and 55/161, respectively, on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States.
Through  those  resolutions,  the  United  Nations  sought
to  support  the  efforts  and  initiatives  of  the  Central
African  States  in  meeting  the  challenges  facing  them,
in  particular  those  relating  to  crises,  armed  conflict,
reconstruction and development.
This year the draft resolution has been drawn up
within a new context, and thus has a special character.
First of all, on 22 October 2002, the Security Council,
at  the  initiative  of  the  then  President,  Mr.  Martin
Belinga-Eboutou,  the  Permanent  Representative  of
Cameroon, convened a public meeting on strengthening
cooperation between the United Nations system and the
Central African region in the maintenance of peace and
security.  During  that  meeting  a  very  constructive
exchange  of  views  took  place  between  the  States  of
Central  Africa  and  their  bilateral  and  multilateral
partners  on  the  situation  in  the  region  with  regard  to
security  and  economic 
peace, 
integration.  The
representatives  of  the  Central  African  States  and  the
members  of  the  Security  Council  also  discussed  ways
and  means  of  strengthening  existing  partnerships
between  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  Economic
Community  of  Central  African  States.  Most  speakers
said that economic reconstruction, the strengthening of
human and institutional capacities and the promotion of
the  rule  of  law  were  crucial  elements  for  peace-
building in Central Africa. Likewise, several members
of  the  Council  recommended  that  special  attention  be
given to the development of the subregion, particularly
with  regard  to  making  the  international  community
aware of the need for immediate action to stabilize the
situation in that particularly sensitive area.
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  thank  our
bilateral and multilateral partners for having reiterated,
during  the  course  of  that  debate,  their  interest  in  and
commitment to helping Central Africa to strengthen its
capacities 
and
reconstruction.
in  maintaining  peace, 
security 
The statement by the President of the Council of
31  October  2002,  following  the  public  meeting  of  22
October,  now  serves  as  a  reference  text  for  relations
between  the  United  Nations  and  Central  Africa.  The
draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  stresses  how
crucial that is.
Secondly,  I  would  like  to  refer  to  the  regional
development effort undertaken by Africa in elaborating
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD),  which  places  Central  Africa  in  a  key
position  with  regard 
the
continent  and  provides  the  region  with  an  opportunity
to develop its enormous potential.
the  development  of 
to 
This new challenge is huge, just as our region is
huge — a point made so well by the Gabonese Minister
for Foreign Affairs, His Excellency Jean Ping:
“Central Africa is evolving at the pace of a two-
fold  destiny.  First  of  all, 
the  destiny  of
abundance,  characterized  by  a  sort  of  divine
providence  that  has  bestowed  upon  our  immense
subregion  vast  natural  resources  —  diamonds,
leather,  manganese,  oil,  and  rich  forests  —
necessary  not  only  for  its  own  development  but
also 
the  world.”
(S/PV.4630, p.16)
that  of 
for 
the 
rest  of 
A/57/PV.53
Today,  with  the  gradual  return  of  peace  to  most
countries  of  the  subregion,  Central  Africa,  now  more
than ever before, has to try to live up to its enormous
potential  and  to  play  a  major  role  in  the  international
arena.
As  everyone  knows,  Central  Africa  has  for
several  years  been  facing  a  serious  situation  of  armed
conflicts, destabilization, insecurity and, consequently,
impoverishment. But, finally, there are some glimmers
of  hope  on  the  horizon.  Witness  the  political  will  of
heads of State concerned, who are seriously concerned
by the worsening situation and have given new impetus
to the development of the region by taking initiatives to
meet  these  challenges  and  by  becoming  personally
involved in the quest for negotiated solutions. Witness
the Libreville Summit on the crisis between the Central
African Republic and Chad. Witness also the goodwill
of parties to the conflict and the growing awareness of
most  actors,  who 
to  give  peace,
reconstruction  and  development  a  chance.  I  refer  also
to  the  tireless  support  given  by  the  international
community,  which  has  constantly  accompanied  the
efforts  of  the  subregion,  as  shown  by  the  presence  in
Central  Africa  of  6  out  of  the  total  16  Special
Representatives  and  Special  Envoys  of  the  Secretary-
General in the African continent.
finally  want 
An  assessment  of  the  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and ECCAS, even if it has not lived up
to all of our expectations, nevertheless gives us reason
for  hope.  The  report  submitted  by  the  Secretary-
General,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Economic  Community  of  Central
African States” (A/57/266), reinforces this impression.
This cooperation has been reflected in many initiatives
to  implement  confidence-building  measures,  security
and development in the region.
Suffice it to recall the efforts made by the United
Nations  in  the  framework  of  the  work  done  by  the
United  Nations  Standing  Advisory  Committee  on
Security  Questions  in  Central  Africa,  the  creation  of
which is part of this political determination to establish
a subregional mechanism for preventive diplomacy and
collective  security,  and  which  is  a  special  forum  for
effective  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the Central African States in a very sensitive area.
Several  mechanisms  for  conflict  prevention,
management  and  resolution  are  being  developed,  and
the  many  recommendations  and  decisions  adopted
17
A/57/PV.53
reinforce the image of a geopolitical space that is in the
process  of  normalization.  The  efforts  of  the  countries
of  the  region  are  also  shown  through  many  actions  to
reinforce  human 
and  good
governance.
rights,  democracy 
In  addition  to  these  initiatives,  we  have  given
new momentum to subregional integration by reviving
the  functioning  of  ECCAS  itself,  whose  powers  since
1999 have been extended to peace and security and by
re-launching,  within  the  context  of  the  Economic  and
Monetary  Community  of  Central  African  States,  joint
programmes for economic and social development.
A  lot  remains  to  be  done;  the  situation  remains
fragile.  That  is  why  we  stress  the  urgent  need  for
concrete  measures  to  reinforce  these  various  peace
processes.  This 
the
recommendation  contained  in  the  Statement  by  the
President  of  the  Security  Council,  dated  31  October
2002, for
is  also  why  we  welcome 
“the  inclusion,  where  appropriate,  of  support  for
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration in
the mandates of peacekeeping and peace-building
operations”. (S/PRST/2002/31, p.3)
This  is  key,  because,  whether  we  are  talking
about the Lusaka, Sun City or Pretoria Agreements on
the conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
in  Angola  or 
the  Libreville
Agreements — just to refer to these instruments — the
continuation  and  stepping  up  of  cooperation  between
the United Nations and ECCAS remain decisive for our
efforts to bring about stability in the subregion and  to
promote its development.
in  Burundi,  or 
Draft resolution A/57/L.25 meets these concerns.
It  reiterates  the  texts  adopted  in  2000  and  2001  and
stresses  the  conclusions  reached  at  the  public  meeting
of the Security Council on 22 October 2002, which was
a  milestone.  We  cannot  over-emphasize  the  urgent
importance, in a context marked by the need for post-
conflict  peace-building,  of  supporting  the  process  of
conflict  prevention  and  settlement,  as  well  as  the
implementation  of  disarmament,  demobilization  and
reintegration programmes.
Accordingly, 
the  countries  of 
the  subregion
reiterate  their  commitment  to  strengthen  all  existing
mechanisms  available  for  preventive  diplomacy  and
collective  security  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  whole
18
subregion  enjoys  social  and  economic  development
commensurate with its enormous assets.
In  order  to  attain  these  two  goals,  peace  and
development,  the  Central  African  States  place  real
hopes on cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the ECCAS.
for 
the  consideration  of 
is  before 
Mr.  Neil  (Jamaica):  I  have 
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative  of  Jamaica  who,  in  the  course  of  his
statement, will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.26.
the  honour 
to
introduce, 
the  General
Assembly,  the  draft  resolution  entitled,  “Cooperation
the  Caribbean
between 
Community”,  which 
the  Assembly  as
document A/57/L.26. I do so on behalf of the following
sponsors:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Bahamas,  Barbados,
Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada,  Guyana,  Haiti,  St.  Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines,
Suriname,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  my  own  country,
Jamaica.
the  United  Nations  and 
Activities  pertaining  to  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and 
the  Caribbean  Community
(CARICOM) have been dealt with in the report of the
Secretary-General 
in  document  A/57/254  prepared
pursuant  to  paragraph  8  of  resolution  55/17  of  7
November 2000. The report outlines various aspects of
cooperation  between  the  secretariats  of  the  United
Nations  and  CARICOM,  which  involves  an  active
process of consultation and exchange of information.
This  cooperation  has  been  growing  in  areas
critical to the economic and social development of the
Caribbean  subregion  including  disaster  preparedness
and  risk  reduction,  follow-up  action,  in  relation  to
major  international  conferences,  drug  control,  health,
the environment and marine affairs.
Cooperation  has  been  strengthened  through  the
involvement  of  various  United  Nations  bodies  and
agencies,  including  the  Economic  Commission  for
Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC), the United
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development
(UNCTAD),  the  United  Nations  International  Drug
Control  Programme 
the  Joint  United
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS),  the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
Nations  (FAO)  and  the  United  Nations  Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).
(UNDCP), 
(Ecuador),  Vice-
Mr.  Gallegos  Chiriboga 
President, took the Chair.
In  its  preambular  section,  the  draft  resolution
before  the  Assembly  reaffirms  the  importance  of
regional  organizations  in  furthering  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  in  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security, within the context of Chapter VIII
of  the  Charter.  It  also  notes  the  fruitful  results  of
meetings  held  between  representatives  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  Caribbean  Community.  It  draws
attention  to  two  initiatives  of  particular  interest  to
Caribbean  Community:  first,  the  importance  of  the
adoption of an integrated management approach to the
Caribbean  Sea 
sustainable
development  and,  secondly,  the  necessity  for  the
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action
on  Small  Island  Developing  States.  It  notes  relevant
proposals 
international
conferences, 
the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development,  held  in  Johannesburg,  and
the  United  Nations  special  session  on  HIV/AIDS,  in
which special recognition was given to the situation in
the  Caribbean  region.  It  also  reaffirms  the  need  to
strengthen  existing  cooperation 
the  areas  of
economic  and  social  development,  as  well  as  in
political and humanitarian affairs.
in  particular 
context  of 
emanating 
recent 
from 
the 
in 
in 
the  report  of 
In its operative section, the draft resolution takes
the  Secretary-General  on
note  of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Caribbean  Community,  as  well  as  of  efforts 
to
strengthen that cooperation. It calls upon the Secretary-
General,  in  association  with  the  Secretary-General  of
CARICOM,  to  continue  to  assist  in  furthering  the
development  and  maintenance  of  peace  and  security
within the Caribbean. It urges specialized agencies and
other  organizations  and  programmes  of  the  United
Nations  system  to  cooperate  in  order  to  initiate,
maintain  and  increase  consultations  and  programmes
with  the  Caribbean  Community  and  its  associated
institutions in the attainment of their objectives, giving
special attention to the areas and issues identified at the
second general meeting, held in March 2000. The draft
resolution  also  welcomes  the  initiatives  of  Member
States  to  assist  the  cooperation  between  the  two
secretariats,  and  recommends  that  a  third  meeting
between  representatives  of  the  two  organizations  be
held  in  New  York  in  March  2003,  in  order  to  review
and  appraise  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the
agreed  areas  and  issues  and  to  hold  consultations  on
A/57/PV.53
to 
such  additional  measures  and  procedures  as  may  be
required 
facilitate  and  strengthen  cooperation
between  the  two  organizations.  Finally,  it  requests  a
report  by 
the  General
Assembly  during 
the
inclusion in the provisional agenda of that session of an
item on the subject for its consideration.
the  fifty-ninth  session  and 
the  Secretary-General 
to 
like 
I  should 
to  announce 
the
publication  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following
countries have become sponsors: Canada, Chile, Cuba,
Ecuador and Japan.
that  since 
The contents of the draft resolution basically seek
to  further  develop  the  process  of  cooperation  and
collaboration  between  the  United  Nations  system  and
the  Caribbean  Community.  Its  provisions,  we  believe,
will receive wide support within the Assembly. It is the
hope  of  the  sponsors  that,  as  in  previous  years,  this
draft resolution can be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call  on  the  representative  of  Sudan  to  introduce  draft
resolution A/57/L.28.
Mr. Erwa  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  a
pleasure and an honour to submit to the Assembly the
draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/57/L.28,
which 
is  sponsored  by  Algeria,  Gambia,  Mali,
Malaysia,  Pakistan,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Sudan,
Syria  and  Turkey.  I  will  read  out  additional  sponsors
later on.
The  draft  resolution  relates  to  agenda  item  22,
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
regional  and  other  organizations”,  and  specifically  to
sub-item (o), entitled “Cooperation between the United
Nations  and 
Islamic
Conference”.
the  Organization  of 
the 
At  the  outset,  we  would  like  to  commend  the
annual  report  submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  in
document  A/57/405,  in  which  the  Secretary-General
gives  a  detailed  accounting  of  the  consultations  that
have taken place in the course of the year between the
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic
Conference 
social,
humanitarian and other spheres.
the  political, 
economic, 
in 
In its preambular part, the draft resolution recalls
resolution 3369 (XXX), of 10 October 1975, by which
the  General  Assembly  decided 
the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  to  participate
as  an  observer  in  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly
invite 
to 
19
A/57/PV.53
and  its  subsidiary  bodies.  The  draft  resolution  also
welcomes  the  results  of  the  meetings  held  at  Vienna
from  11  to  13  July  2002  between  the  agencies  and
the  United  Nations  and 
bodies  of 
the
Organization of the Islamic Conference.
those  of 
notes  with 
satisfaction 
the  Organization  of 
In  its  operative  part,  the  draft  resolution  deals
with  the  following  salient  issues.  First,  the  draft
the 
resolution 
active
participation  of 
the  Islamic
Conference  in  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in
realizing the purposes and principles of the Charter.
the  draft  resolution  welcomes 
the  United  Nations  and 
the
efforts  made  by 
the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  to  promote
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  in  areas  of
common  interest  and  to  consider  ways  and  means  of
enhancing the actual mechanisms of that cooperation.
Secondly, 
Thirdly, 
the  draft 
the
resolution  welcomes 
the
periodic  high-level  meetings  held  between 
Secretaries-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  of 
and
encourages  their  joint  participation  in  the  important
meetings held by both organizations.
Islamic  Conference, 
the 
Fourthly,  the  draft  resolution  urges  the  entire
United Nations system, and especially donor agencies,
to  increase  their  technical  and  other  support  to  the
Organization  of 
its
subsidiary  bodies  and  specialized  and  associated
agencies to enhance and strengthen cooperation.
the  Islamic  Conference  and 
the 
draft 
Fifthly, 
resolution 
for  his  continued  efforts 
expresses
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United
to  strengthen
Nations 
the  United
cooperation  and  coordination  between 
Nations  and 
the 
Islamic
Conference  in  the  political,  economic,  social,  cultural
and scientific spheres.
the  Organization  of 
Sixthly, 
the  draft 
resolution  calls  on 
the
Secretary-General  to  submit  to  the  General  Assembly
at  its  fifty-ninth  session  a  report  on  the  state  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference.  It  also  calls
for 
item  entitled
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  of 
the
provisional  agenda  of 
the  Assembly’s  fifty-ninth
session.
inclusion  of  an  agenda 
the  Islamic  Conference” 
the 
in 
20
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call on the representative of Lebanon to introduce draft
resolutions A/57/L.29 and A/57/L.32.
in  conveying  profound  gratitude 
Mr.  Diab  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the
outset,  allow  me  to  associate  myself  with  previous
speakers 
the
Secretary-General for the high quality and precision of
his  report  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and 
la
Francophonie”.
the  International  Organization  of 
to 
I 
to 
take 
to  congratulate 
this  opportunity 
the  post  of  Secretary-General  of 
the
Government  of  Senegal  on  the  election  of  Mr.  Abdou
Diouf 
the
International Organization of la Francophonie (OIF) at
the ninth summit, held at Beirut in October. We assure
him of our full support as he undertakes his important
duties.  I  also  thank  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Boutros
Boutros-Ghali,  for  his  work  in  office  to  promote  the
role of OIF and to develop its relations with the United
Nations.
It is a great honour for me to introduce, on behalf
of the 68 sponsors, the draft resolution on cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International
Organization  of 
in
document  A/57/L.29.  Turkey  and  San  Marino  have
joined the list of sponsors of the draft resolution.
la  Francophonie,  contained 
The  current  draft  resolution  is  an  update  of
resolution  56/45  and  deals  with  the  same  subject.  It
includes a preambular part consisting of 10 paragraphs,
which  is  the  draft  resolution’s  legal  basis  for  the
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  OIF  in
the
promoting 
the  purposes  and  principles  of 
Organization.  The  preambular  part  addresses 
in
particular  the  crucial  commitments  adopted  in  the
Beirut  plan  of  action  by  the  heads  of  State  and
Government of countries that use French as a common
language.  Those  commitments  are  the  guidelines  for
action  in  which  Francophonie  can  and  must  play  a
major  role  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and  the
establishment of a more equitable globalization that is
conducive  to  progress,  peace,  democracy  and  human
rights  and  is  respectful  of  cultural  and  linguistic
diversity  to  the  benefit  of  the  most  vulnerable  people
and for the development of all countries.
The operative part of the draft resolution consists
of  17  paragraphs  that  identify  previous  international
and 
to
consolidate,  develop  and  strengthen  existing  links
regional  attempts  and  subsequent  steps 
between  the  United  Nations  and  OIF  in  the  political,
economic, social and cultural areas.
cooperation  within 
The operative part stresses the increasingly close
and  fruitful  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  OIF.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  indicates
progress made in the number and quality of cooperative
activities  cited  in  the  operative  part  of  the  draft
resolution and jointly conducted by both organizations.
This  cooperation  has  several  aspects, 
including
political 
secretariats;
cooperation in the economic, social and cultural fields;
and  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  funds,
through
programmes 
participation 
the
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  OIF.  Such
cooperation  is  designed  to  pool  efforts  in  the  areas  of
preventive  diplomacy,  the  promotion  of  democracy,
peacemaking, peace-building, the promotion of human
rights 
cultural
development,  and  participation  in  strengthening  the
dialogue between cultures and civilizations.
and 
in  conferences  organized  under 
specialized 
agencies 
the 
and  of 
economic, 
social 
and 
to  stress 
In  conclusion,  I  am  pleased 
Lebanon  keenly  hopes  that  cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  OIF  will  be  strengthened  and
extended to a growing and more diversified number of
fields. That is why my delegation calls on the General
Assembly to give its full support to the draft resolution.
the
importance of the solidarity expressed in favour of the
Arabic  language  and  culture  at  the  most  recent  OIF
summit  —  held  for  the  first  time  in  an  Arab  country,
Lebanon  —  by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of
countries  that  use  French  as  a  common  language.  The
summit offered the heads of State and Government an
opportunity to support, through the Beirut Declaration,
the  Arab  peace  initiative  unanimously  adopted  at  the
Arab summit held in Beirut in March.
(spoke in Arabic)
On behalf of the delegations of Arab members of
the  League  of  Arab  States,  and  in  Lebanon’s  capacity
as Chairman of the Group of Arab States at the United
Nations for this month, I have the honour to submit the
draft  resolution  contained  in  document  A/57/L.32,
entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the League of Arab States”.
The current links between the United Nations and
the  League  of  Arab  States  reflect  the  cooperation  and
integration  envisioned  under  Chapter  VIII  of  the
A/57/PV.53
the 
two  organizations 
in 
the  United  Nations.  The  relationship
Charter  of 
is  built  on  firm
between 
foundations,  as  enshrined 
the  purposes  and
principles  of  their  two  charters.  This  relationship  has
evolved  over  the  years  in  many  areas,  including  the
promotion  of 
security,
decolonization, disarmament and economic, social and
cultural development.
international  peace  and 
The new international political realities of today’s
world  are  undergoing  enormous  changes  that  affect
regional and international relations. These new realities
have  led  to  increased  responsibilities  for  the  United
Nations  in  its  efforts  to  find  solutions  to  problems
affecting world peace and security. The League of Arab
States has been eager to cooperate with the Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  strengthen
the  Organization’s  role  in  establishing  peace  on  the
basis  of 
justice  and  United  Nations  resolutions,
especially  in  our  Arab  region.  In  this  regard,  the
presence  of 
the  United
Nations  at  the  League  of  Arab  States  Summit  held  in
Beirut last March reflected that cooperation and helped
to  increase  international  support  for  the  Arab  peace
initiative adopted at the Beirut Summit  and  welcomed
by the Security Council in its resolutions 1397 (2002)
and 1435 (2002).
the  Secretary-General  of 
We consider that, in view of current events in the
occupied  Palestinian  territories,  it  is  necessary  to
intensify  that  cooperation  and  to  ensure  a  greater
United  Nations  contribution 
Israel’s
occupation of Arab territories and the Israeli occupying
forces’  continued  aggression  against  the  Palestinian
people.
to  ending 
In  the  same  context,  there  is  a  pressing  need  to
enhance  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  League  of  Arab  States  in  economic,  social  and
developmental areas. This would accelerate the pace of
development in the Arab world and fulfil the common
goals of the two organizations.
There are many examples of practical cooperation
between  the  United  Nations,  which  is  an  international
organization, and the League of Arab States, which is a
regional  organization, 
the  areas  of  conflict
prevention  and  peace-building.  In  this  regard,  we
would  like  to  refer  to  the  appeal  launched  by  the
Secretary-General of the United Nations and the States
members of the League of Arab States that resulted in
the letter addressed by the Iraqi Foreign Minister to the
in 
21
A/57/PV.53
step 
first 
towards 
represented 
a 
solution 
that  would  ensure 
Secretary-General  of 
the  United  Nations  on  16
September  2002  (S/2002/1034,  annex).  That  letter
stated  Iraq’s  response  to  the  international  will  and  its
agreement  to  the  return  of  the  international  weapons
inspectors  without  restrictions  or  conditions.  Iraq’s
a
response 
comprehensive 
the
implementation  of  the  remaining  Security  Council
resolutions and would bring about, inter alia, the lifting
sovereignty,
of 
independence  and 
the
conversion  of  the  Middle  East  into  a  region  free  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  In  the  report  before  the
Assembly (A/57/386), the Secretary-General highlights
the  role  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  facilitating
Iraq’s agreement to return documents belonging to the
Kuwaiti archives.
Iraq’s 
integrity;  and 
for 
territorial 
sanctions; 
respect 
report, 
The  preamble  of  draft  resolution  A/57/L.32
underscores  the  desire  of  the  two  organizations  to
further  consolidate  existing  ties  in  all  areas  and  to
continue  their  cooperation  in  order  to  enhance  their
common  goals  and  to  promote  the  purposes  and
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The
operative  part  takes  note  with  satisfaction  of  the
Secretary-General’s 
its
appreciation to the Secretary-General for the follow-up
action  taken  by  him  to  implement  the  proposals
adopted at the meetings between the secretariats of the
United  Nations  and  other  organizations  of  the  United
Nations  system  and  the  General  Secretariat  of  the
League 
specialized
organizations, including the sectoral meeting on the use
of  information  technology  in  development  held  at  the
headquarters  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  in  Cairo,
from 18 to 20 June 2002.
of  Arab  States 
expresses 
and 
and 
its 
in 
the  political,  economic, 
Also,  the  operative  part  calls  for  intensified
cooperation 
social,
humanitarian, cultural and administrative fields. In line
with  that  approach,  paragraph  10  recommends  that
representatives from both organizations meet every two
years  and  that  joint  inter-agency  sectoral  meetings
should also be convened on a biennial basis to address
priority areas of  major importance to the development
of the Arab States.
Finally,  on  behalf  of  the  Arab  Group,  I  wish  to
invite  the  General  Assembly,  which  represents  the
international  community, 
support  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab
to 
22
States. Our group hopes that the draft resolution before
us will be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give the floor to the representative of Angola, who, in
the  course  of  her  statement,  will  introduce  draft
resolution A/57/L.30.
the  honour 
include  Botswana, 
Ms.  Izata  (Angola):  I  have 
to
introduce  draft  resolution  A/57/L.30,  on  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Southern  African
Development Community (SADC) on behalf of SADC
member  countries,  which 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Lesotho,  Malawi,
Mauritius,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Seychelles,
Swaziland, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe
and my own country, Angola. The Secretary-General’s
report,  document  A/57/94,  indicates  that  the  United
Nations  stands  ready  to  increase  its  cooperation  with
the  Southern  African  Development  Community
that  can  promote  sustainable
(SADC) 
in  areas 
development  and 
regional 
integration.  The  draft
resolution  strongly  emphasizes  the  need  for  United
Nations  bodies, 
the
private sector and civil society to continue to assist and
participate in the development of the Southern African
region.
international  community, 
the 
is 
The  purpose  of 
the  draft  resolution 
to
strengthen  and 
increase  cooperation  and  support
between the United Nations and countries in the region,
particularly  in  areas  of  major  concern  to  the  region,
such  as 
the  consolidation  and  maintenance  of
democracy,  peace  and  security,  peace-building  and
sustainable development. The draft resolution has been
updated 
developments,
particularly  the  adoption  of  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development 
the  movement
towards peace in Angola and the Democratic Republic
of 
in
Southern Africa. The continued high prevalence in the
region of HIV/AIDS and other communicable diseases,
such  as  malaria  and  tuberculosis,  has  also  influenced
the content of the draft resolution.
the  humanitarian  situation 
the  Congo  and 
incorporate 
(NEPAD), 
recent 
to 
In its preambular part, the draft resolution, having
recalled  all  General  Assembly 
resolutions  and
decisions on the promotion of cooperation between the
United  Nations  and  SADC,  welcomes  the  adoption  of
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  by  the
African  Union  and  its  endorsement  by  the  Assembly.
The  preambular  part  of  the  draft  resolution  also
in 
the  countries 
expresses  concern  about  the  difficult  humanitarian
situation  facing 
the  region  and
expresses  its  appreciation  for  valuable  and  effective
support  demonstrated  by  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community.  Furthermore,  in  its  operative
part, the draft resolution calls upon the United Nations
and  the  international  community  to  support  with
appropriate resources SADC’s efforts to implement the
outcomes of the Millennium Assembly and other major
United Nations conferences and summits. It appeals to
the international community to continue to support the
measures taken by SADC in addressing HIV/AIDS and
to  extend  much-needed  assistance  to  SADC  countries
the  process  of  national
that  are  engaged 
reconstruction, 
economic  policies,  good
governance  and  the  rule  of  law  to  enhance  the
implementation 
economic
programmes.
in 
sound 
national 
of 
their 
The draft resolution also  expresses its support to
the  economic  reforms  being  implemented  by  SADC
member  States  in  pursuance  of  their  shared  vision  of
creating  a  regional  economic  community 
through
deeper  integration,  and  calls  upon  the  international
community to support their efforts in capacity-building
and  in  addressing  the  new  challenges  presented  to  the
economies  of  the  region  arising  from  the  process  of
globalization and liberalization.
Finally, in paragraph 21, the Secretary-General is
requested to submit a  report on  the  implementation  of
the  draft  resolution  to  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General Assembly.
Besides  members  of 
the  Southern  African
Development  Community,  countries  that  have  joined
the list of sponsors include Gabon, Morocco, the Sudan
and  Uganda.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  the
delegations  that  provided  their  support  during  the
elaboration of this draft resolution — namely, those of
Brazil,  Mexico,  Morocco,  the  Russian  Federation,
Thailand and the United States, as well as the European
Union.  It  is  my  wish  that  the  draft  resolution  be
adopted  by  consensus.  We  would  also  welcome  the
inclusion of other countries that wish to join the list of
sponsors.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give the floor to the representative of the Netherlands,
who, in the course of his statement, will introduce draft
resolution A/57/L.31.
A/57/PV.53
Mr.  Hamburger  (Netherlands):  I  will  be  brief.
First of all, I should like to thank Mr. Rogelio Pfirter,
the
Director-General  of 
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons 
for
presenting the report of the OPCW.
the  Organization 
for 
(OPCW), 
the  sponsors, 
Secondly,  my  delegation  has  the  pleasure  to
introduce,  on  behalf  of 
the  draft
resolution  regarding  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of
Chemical  Weapons,  as  contained 
in  document
A/57/L.31.  I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that
the following countries have joined the list of sponsors:
Belgium,  Canada,  Costa  Rica,  Cuba,  the  Dominican
Republic,  Germany,  Monaco, 
the
Republic  of  Korea,  Slovenia,  Thailand,  the  United
Kingdom  and  Yugoslavia.  This  procedural  draft
resolution,  once  adopted,  will  enable  the  General
Assembly  to  include  in  the  agenda  of  its  fifty-ninth
session  an  item  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and 
the
Prohibition of Chemical Weapons”.
the  Organization 
the  Philippines, 
for 
I should like to take this opportunity to thank all
those  countries 
this  draft
resolution,  and  I  warmly  recommend  that  the  draft
resolution be adopted by consensus.
that  have  sponsored 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give the floor to the representative of Chile, who, in the
course of his statement, will introduce draft resolution
A/57/L.38.
the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  contained 
Mr. Valdés (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): I have the
honour to introduce to the General Assembly the draft
resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and 
in
document A/57/L.38. I should like to add the following
countries  to  the  list  of  sponsors:  Armenia,  Australia,
Bangladesh,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,
Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Cameroon,  Canada, 
the
Central  African  Republic,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  the
Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Estonia,
Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Germany,  Guinea,  Iceland,
Indonesia, Iraq, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
the  Libyan  Arab 
the
Netherlands, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Slovenia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, the former Yugoslav Republic
of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Uzbekistan  and
Viet Nam.
Jamahiriya,  Morocco, 
The  draft  resolution  that  I  have  the  honour  to
introduce is of great importance for the Organization. It
23
A/57/PV.53
represents  the  culmination  of  several  years  of  joint
work by the United Nations, its Member States and the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  to  add  a  parliamentary
dimension  to  the  structure  of  multilateral  cooperation.
The  scope  and  the  quality  of  that  cooperation  are
detailed  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary Union, contained in document A/57/375.
Our world is experiencing an era of great changes
that  entail  an  important  evolution  in  international
relations.  That  in  turn  requires  our  peoples  and
multilateral  organizations 
to  work  more  closely
together.  It  also  gives  rise  to  the  need  for  national
parliaments  to  contribute  to  international  cooperation.
It  is  national  parliaments  that  have  the  constitutional
duty  to  represent  their  peoples.  In  addition,  they  have
an  important  role  in  transforming  United  Nations
agreements  into  national  policies.  That  is  why,  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  our  heads  of  State  or
Government 
strengthen  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  national  parliaments
through 
Inter-
Parliamentary Union.
their  world 
organization, 
resolved 
to 
the 
The  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  brings  together
more  than  140  parliaments  of  the  world  and  can  be  a
channel  for  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  national  parliaments.  For 
type  of
cooperation  to  be  effective,  we  have  recognized  the
need  to  change  the  Statutes  of  the  world  organization
of  parliaments.  At  our  request,  the  IPU  Secretary
General prepared a report last year in which he made a
series  of  recommendations  as  to  the  contents  of  new
Statutes.
this  new 
The  draft  resolution  that  I  have  the  honour  to
introduce  is  the  result  of  broad  consultations  among
Member States on the basis of the Secretary-General’s
recommendations.  Accordingly,  the  draft  resolution
takes  up,  first  of  all,  a  very  important  development
with  respect  to  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  that  has
long  been  an  aspiration  of  many  Member  States:  the
granting  of  United  Nations  observer  status  to  the
Union.  That  recognition  is  bestowed  by  virtue  of  the
Union’s unique character as an inter-State organization
whose  essential  functions  are  focused  on 
inter-
parliamentary  activity.  In  consideration  of  that  aspect,
the  draft  resolution  authorizes  the  Inter-Parliamentary
Union  to  circulate  its  official  documents  at  no  cost  to
the organization.
24
In turn, the draft resolution invites the specialized
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  consider
adopting  similar  modalities  with  respect  to  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union.  It  calls  upon  the  Secretary-
General to adopt the necessary measures to strengthen
the cooperation and the relationship between the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  and 
the  General  Assembly.
Finally,  the  draft  resolution  places  this  item  on  the
agenda  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
The  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  express  the
hope that it can be adopted by consensus.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  South  Africa,
who, in the course of his statement, will introduce draft
resolution A/57/L.39.
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  On  behalf  of  the
African Group, it gives my delegation pleasure to stand
before  this  body  to  introduce  the  draft  resolution  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
African Union, contained in document A/57/L.39. I am
pleased  to  announce  that  the  following  countries  have
joined  as  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Algeria,
Angola,  Belgium,  Benin,  Botswana,  Burkina  Faso,
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape  Verde,
the  Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Colombia,  the
Comoros, the Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  the
Dominican  Republic,  Egypt,  Equatorial  Guinea,
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Kenya,  Lesotho,
Liberia,  the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  Madagascar,
Malawi,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mozambique,
Namibia,  Nigeria,  the  Philippines,  Rwanda,  Senegal,
the  Sudan,  Swaziland,
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone, 
Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Uganda, 
the  United
Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
took  decisions 
When  the  African  Union  held  its  summit  in
Durban,  South  Africa, 
the  heads  of  State  and
Government 
that  were  aimed  at
accelerating  sustainable  development  in  the  continent.
for  Africa’s
In  adopting 
Development  (NEPAD),  Africa 
took  steps  which
coincided  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
contained  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  adopted  by
this body two years ago.
the  New  Partnership 
My  delegation  wishes 
the
elaborate  and  incisive  report  of  Secretary-General  on
take  note  of 
to 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
African Union. In particular, we welcome the creation
of  an  Office  that  will  coordinate  issues  related  to
Africa  within  the  United  Nations  system.  This,  we
believe,  will  facilitate  and  consolidate  the  work  of  all
United Nations agencies with a view to enhancing their
effectiveness.
The  draft  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the African Union lays a very solid
foundation  upon  which  the  relationship  between  the
two  organizations  will  be  built  and  determines  the
future of Africa and our commitment to the Millennium
Development Goals. The relationship between the two
organizations  is  rightly  being  reviewed  to  reflect  the
establishment of the African Union. In this regard, the
draft  resolution  highlights  new  institutions  of  the
African Union aimed at establishing peace and security
in the continent. These structures are the African Union
Peace  Fund,  the  Panel  of  the  Wise,  a  military  staff
committee and an African standby force.
Any  assistance  —  technical,  financial  and/or
otherwise — aimed at facilitating the establishment of
these structures by the African Union will enhance the
capability  of  the  continent  and  its  member  States  in
matters related to conflict management, prevention and
resolution.  The  African  Union  has  adopted  and  is
currently 
of
Understanding on Security, Stability, Development and
Cooperation to enhance and stabilize the continent.
a  Memorandum 
implementing 
the 
The  African  Union  and 
international
community  are  focused  in  their  commitment  to  fight
terrorism. The continent believes that this fight against
terrorism  can  be  successful  only  if  it  is  based  on
international  cooperation.  At  the  continental  level,
African States have adopted the Algiers Convention on
the  Prevention  and  Combating  of  Terrorism  and  the
Plan of Action that was adopted in Algiers, Algeria, on
14 September 2002. I am pleased that this Convention
has been ratified by sufficient African States and is due
to  enter  into  force  on  6  December  2002.  We  believe
that these efforts complement the determination of the
United  Nations  as  a  collective 
to  fight  against
terrorism.
In  Africa,  the  common  and  most  vivid  terror
committed  against  civilian  populations  is  through  the
use  of  small  arms.  These  small  arms  are  on  many
occasions  bartered  in  exchange  for  illicit  drugs.  We
therefore  have  an  interest  in  enhancing  cooperation
A/57/PV.53
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union  in
the fight against illicit trafficking in drugs, small arms
and light weapons.
Globalization  presents  a  special  challenge  to
Africa,  especially  in  relation  to  matters  of  trade.  We
look  forward  to  the  start  of  the  Doha  Development
Round,  especially  as  it  shall  address  the  improvement
of  market  access  for  African  products  in  order  to
promote sustainable growth in Africa.
The draft resolution urges the United Nations and
its  Member  States  to  increase  their  support  for  Africa
in  its  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria
and  other,  related  infectious  diseases.  Critical  to  these
efforts is the need to address the plight of children who
may  be  left  orphans  due  to  such  communicable
diseases. To this end, Member States are further called
upon to implement the Plan of Action on a world fit for
children.
Africa  has  further  committed  itself  to  improving
human rights by adopting the Protocol Establishing an
African  Court  of  Human  and  Peoples’  Rights.  It  is
anticipated that the process towards establishing such a
court will be finalized soon. Human rights will not be
fully enjoyed in the continent as long as a large number
of  its  people  are  refugees  and  internally  displaced.  In
an  attempt  to  complement  Africa’s  efforts,  the  United
Nations is called upon to support the African countries
in  efforts 
refugees,
returnees and internally displaced persons into national
and regional development plans.
incorporate  problems  of 
to 
Africa 
institutions 
is  establishing 
that  will
enhance  a  culture  of  democracy,  good  governance,
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  in  an
attempt  to  enhance  popular  participation  in  matters  of
governance.  These  structures  —  such  as  the  Pan-
African  Parliament,  the  African  Court  of  Justice,  the
Economic,  Social  and  Cultural  Council  and 
the
Financial  Institutions  —  will  strengthen  and  entrench
democratic  institutions  and  accountability  in  Africa.
The  draft  resolution  rightfully  calls  upon  the  United
Nations  system  and 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions to assist as appropriate in the establishment
of such institutions.
invites 
Finally,  my  delegation  would  like  to  propose  a
slight  amendment  to  the  fourth  preambular  paragraph
of  the  draft  resolution  before  us.  We  would  like  to
correct 
the  G8  summit  at
the  date  on  which 
25
A/57/PV.53
Kananaskis,  Canada,  was  held.  The  date  “28  June
2002” should be replaced by “27 June 2002”.
My  delegation  hopes  that  the  General  Assembly
will adopt this draft resolution by acclamation.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the
representative  of  Romania,  who,  in  the  course  of  his
statement, will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.40.
Mr. Niculescu (Romania): It is a privilege for me
to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  agenda  item  22,
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and other organizations”, and, more specifically, on its
sub-item  (q)  on  cooperation  between 
the  United
Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
I  should  like  to  commend  the  presentation  made
this  morning  by  Mr.  Wolfgang  Hoffman,  Executive
Secretary of the Preparatory Commission, which to our
mind  illustrates  the  efficient  work  carried  by  the
Commission in Vienna.
As  a  State  party  to  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT),  Romania  is  fully  committed
to its early entry into force and implementation. In our
view,  a  good  relationship  between  the  United  Nations
and 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty
Organization  (CTBTO)  is  instrumental  to  building  a
more  peaceful  and  secure  world  through  disarmament
and  non-proliferation.  From 
that  perspective,  we
believe that reports delivered to the General Assembly
on  a  regular  basis  by  the  Executive  Secretary  of  the
Preparatory  Commission  on 
the
Organization are useful and welcome.
the  activities  of 
In  its  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Preparatory
Commission  for  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty  Organization,  the  Romanian  delegation  has  the
honour  and  the  pleasure  to  introduce  to  the  Assembly
for adoption the draft resolution contained in document
A/57/L.40,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the
Comprehensive 
Treaty
Organization”.  The  draft  resolution  is  based  on  the
consultations held in Vienna and New York.
Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Like similar texts in the past, the draft resolution
is basically a procedural one and is meant to serve as a
basis for the CTBTO  to  inform  the  General  Assembly
on  its  activities  at  its  fifty-ninth  session.  In  its
preambular part, the draft resolution takes note of both
the  note  by  the  Secretary-General  on  the  cooperation
26
between  the  two  organizations  and  the  report  of  the
Executive  Secretary.  In  its  operative  paragraph,  it
decides  to  include  in  the  provisional  agenda  of  the
fifty-ninth session the same sub-item.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  hope
that this draft resolution will be adopted by the General
Assembly with the broadest support possible.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call  on  Mr.  Kanu  Agabi,  Attorney-General  and
Minister of Justice of Nigeria, who, in the course of his
statement, will introduce draft resolution A/57/L.18.
Mr.  Agabi  (Nigeria):  I  take  this  opportunity  as
the  current  President  of  the  Asian-African  Legal
Consultative  Organization  (AALCO)  to  introduce  the
draft  resolution  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations 
the  Asian-African  Legal
Consultative  Organization”  (A/57/L.18).  I  will  also
speak briefly on behalf of my Government, the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, on the activities of AALCO.
and 
recall 
The  role  of  AALCO  in  the  field  of  international
law  as  an  intergovernmental  organization  comprising
45  countries  from  Asia  and  Africa  is  well  known.
Members  will 
significant
vividly 
contributions  AALCO  has  made 
the
international legal regime relating to the law of the sea,
the law of treaties and arbitration. There is virtually no
field of international law that AALCO has not taken up
at  one  time  or  another  during  the  46  years  of  its
existence.
the 
in  shaping 
The  organization’s  current  programme  includes
several  issues  of  great  importance  for  our  member
States, which are discussed at our annual sessions, and
at  meetings  and  seminars.  My  Government,  Nigeria,
hosted  the  forty-first  session  of  AALCO  in  Abuja  in
July this year. It was a session memorable not only for
its  high-level  participation,  but  also  for  its  in-depth
consideration  of  issues  such  as  human  rights,  the
protection  of  migrant  workers,  trafficking  in  women
and  children,  international  terrorism,  the  environment,
sustainable  development,  the  establishment  of  the
International  Criminal  Court,  ongoing  negotiations  on
the  World  Trade  Organization  and  issues  related  to
globalization.
The success recorded during that session was due
to 
the  cooperation  of  all 
that
participated  and  of  the  AALCO  secretariat.  I  am,
therefore,  pleased  to  extend  the  appreciation  of  the
the  delegations 
Government  of  Nigeria  to  all  the  delegations  that
participated and that contributed to the success of that
meeting.  In  particular,  I  wish  to  acknowledge  the
tireless  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General,  Ambassador
Wafik Kamil, and the secretariat.
our 
organization 
Since  the  last  time  this  item  was  considered  by
the  General  Assembly, 
has
accomplished  a  number  of  tasks.  With  a  view  to
expanding  our  knowledge  base,  AALCO  has  signed
cooperation  agreements  with  the  World  Intellectual
Property Organization, the Office of the United Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the  Office  of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,
the  United  Nations  University  and  the  International
Organization for Migration.
Under  the  able  leadership  of  our  Secretary-
to
General,  Ambassador  Kamil, 
trafficking 
in  women  and  children,  migration,
corruption  and  intellectual  property  rights,  matters
hitherto  considered  peripheral,  have  been  accorded  a
place  of  priority  and  have  received  substantial  focus
within the work programme.
relating 
issues 
the 
Given 
transnational 
character  of 
increasingly  difficult 
the
globalization process, we are conscious of the fact that
it  will  be 
to  deal  with
international  law  in  isolation  and  divorced  from  the
political and social realities that dictate the response of
States  to  these  issues.  The  historic,  cultural  and
developmental 
have
obviously  to  be  taken  into  account  in  creating  norms
for a global society.
among  States 
differences 
Globalization  should  not  be  confined  to  the
opening of borders for the free passage of goods. In our
thinking, borders must also be open for the passage of
men  and  women  whose  motives  are 
legitimate.
Globalization  must  lead  to  the  realization  of  the  ideal
of one humanity and one world without boundaries. It
should mean that no nation should be a safe haven for
the  proceeds  of  corruption.  It  should  mean  that  the
proceeds  of  corruption  should  be  surrendered  to  the
nations  that  are  the  victims  of  corruption.  It  should
mean that corrupt officials from Africa and Asia can be
tried and punished wherever they take refuge. That will
go a long way towards reducing crimes associated with
money laundering, terrorism and corruption.
It is against that backdrop that AALCO, as a body
of  mostly  developing  and  least  developed  countries,
flexible  and  responsible
strives  for  a  balanced, 
A/57/PV.53
approach  to  international  law.  The  resolutions  and
studies of AALCO on the elimination of terrorism and
its  root  causes,  the  responsibility  of  States  to  halt  the
emission of greenhouse gases and the use of trade as a
tool  for  promoting  environmental  goals  attest  to  this
unique approach.
As  regards  technical  assistance  and  capacity-
building,  AALCO  plans  to  reinvigorate  its  training
programme for officials of its member States under its
Centre for Research and Training. It has also embarked
upon a programme for dissemination of information on
international  law  matters  and  proposes  to  publish  an
annual  publication:  the  Asian-African  Yearbook  on
International Law.
in  meeting 
Time  does  not  permit  me  to  elaborate  on  the
specific activities of AALCO. I would like to say that
over the past 46 years, AALCO has provided  a  useful
forum  for  exchanging  views  and  for  arriving  at
common  positions  on  crucial  issues  of  international
law.  It  has  great  potential 
the  new
challenges posed in the context of the development of
new rules and a new framework of international law in
the  twenty-first  century.  The  comprehensive  work
programme on its agenda demonstrates member States’
interest  in  further  strengthening  its  activities.  Its
resolve  to  make  concerted  efforts  together  with  the
United 
other
intergovernmental organizations deserves full support.
With  that  objective  in  view,  I  would  like  to
commend  to  the  Assembly  for  adoption  of  the  draft
resolution  contained 
in  document  A/57/L.18,  on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization.
agencies 
Nations, 
and 
its 
The  draft  resolution  very  appropriately  makes
reference  to  the  close  cooperation  between  AALCO
and United Nations agencies. The draft resolution also
notes  with  appreciation  AALCO’s  work  aimed  at
aiding and facilitating the efforts of the United Nations
on issues relating to combating corruption, eliminating
international terrorism and human and drug trafficking,
and the promotion of human rights.
In  the  light  of  the  legal  work  undertaken  by
AALCO,  it  is  necessary  to  promote  close  interaction
between  AALCO  and  the  Sixth  Committee  of  the
General  Assembly.  By  the  unanimous  agreement  of
AALCO and in order to reduce the problems that might
arise,  we  have  deleted  paragraph  6  of  the  draft
27
A/57/PV.53
resolution.  The  operative  part  of  the  draft  resolution
therefore reads as follows.
“[The  General  Assembly]  [t]akes  note  with
appreciation  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General;
“Notes  with  satisfaction 
the  continuing
efforts  of  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative
Organization  towards  strengthening  the  role  of
the  United  Nations  and  its  various  organs  in
enhancing the rule of law and wider adherence to
related international instruments;
“Also 
progress 
achieved 
satisfaction 
notes  with 
the
towards
commendable 
enhancing  cooperation  between 
the  United
Nations,  its  organizations,  other  international
organizations and the Consultative Organization;
“Notes  with  appreciation  the  work  of  the
Consultative 
at
strengthening the efforts of the United Nations in
Organization 
aiming 
respect  of  issues  such  as  combating  corruption,
international  terrorism  and  trafficking  as  well  as
drugs and human rights issues;
“Also  notes  with  appreciation  the  initiative
and  efforts  the  Consultative  Organization  has
the  objectives  and
undertaken 
the  United  Nations
principles 
Millennium  Declaration, 
including  wider
acceptance  of 
the
Secretary-General;
to  promote 
set  out 
in 
treaties  deposited  with 
“Requests  the  Secretary-General  to  submit
to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session
a  report  on  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and the Consultative Organization;
in 
to 
include 
“Decides 
the  provisional
agenda of its fifty-ninth session the item entitled
‘Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization’.”
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
28
