United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
55th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 November 2002, 10 a.m.
New York

A/57/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hidayat
(Indonesia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Council of Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/225)
Agenda item 22 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and
regional and other organizations
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Asian-African Legal Consultative
Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/122)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.18)
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation
Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/87)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.11)
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Caribbean Community
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/254)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.26)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.23)
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Economic Community of Central African
States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/266 and
A/57/266/Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.25)
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Economic Cooperation Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/119)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.22)
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the International Organization of
la Francophonie
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/358)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.29)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-70344 (E)
*0270344*
A/57/PV.55
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of the Islamic Conference
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/375)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/405)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.38)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.28)
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Latin American Economic System
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Pacific Islands Forum
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/128)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/475)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.24)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.21)
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the League of Arab States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/386)
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Preparatory Commission for the
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
Organization
Draft resolution (A/57/L.32)
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Organization for the Prohibition
of Chemical Weapons (A/57/576)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.31)
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/217)
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the African Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/351,
A/57/351/Corr.1)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.39)
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of American States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/57/267)
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the
report of the Executive Secretary of the
Preparatory Commission (A/57/255)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.40)
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Southern African Development Community
Report of the Secretary-General(A/57/94,
A/57/94/Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/57/L.30)
(s) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Association of South-East Asian Nations
the  great 
Draft resolution (A/57/L.16)
Mr.  Cappagli  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Bearing in mind the suggested time limit on statements,
and  notwithstanding 
importance  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  each  of
the  19  entities  we  are  considering  under  this  agenda
item, I shall on this occasion confine my comments to
cooperation  with  the  Organization  of  American  States
(OAS),  with  the  Latin  American  Economic  System
(SELA), with the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and
with  the  Organization  for  the  Prohibition  of  Chemical
Weapons (OPCW).
2
like 
I  would 
to  express  my  delegation’s
satisfaction  with  the  continued  cooperation  that  exists
between  this  Organization  and  the  Organization  of
American  States.  The  information  provided  by  the
Secretary-General  in  his  report  (document  A/57/267)
indicates that in Haiti the United Nations has continued
to  provide  support  for  the  OAS  Special  Mission  for
Strengthening Democracy in Haiti, and to participate in
meetings  of  the  Group  of  Friends.  Similarly,  in
Guatemala,  cooperation  has  continued  between  the
United  Nations  Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala
(MINUGUA) and various representatives of the OAS.
The  exchange  of  information  between  the  two
organizations  concerning  the  general  trend  on  the
continent has also been substantial and has covered the
recent  crises  in  various  countries  of  the  region,
including  my  own.  We  understand 
that  existing
dialogue  and  cooperation  need  to  be  strengthened  and
broadened.  The  OAS  plays  a  vital  role 
the
hemisphere  in  defending  democracy  and  protecting
human rights. Its knowledge of regional problems puts
it  in  the  best  position  to  enable  the  United  Nations  to
benefit  by  its  experience  and  capacity  on  issues  of
common interest.
in 
The  Inter-American  Commission  on  Human
Rights, which has a very good reputation in the region,
needs to achieve better coordination with the universal
human rights treaty bodies. It is also desirable for that
cooperation to be extended to the special rapporteurs of
the  United  Nations  Commission  of  Human  Rights.
Such  coordination  and  harmonization  of 
their
respective  activities,  which  is  beginning  to  happen
through the channel of the Office of the United Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  will  always
redound  to  the  benefit  of  strengthening  the  protection
of human rights in the region.
Another  propitious  area  for  cooperation,  in  our
view,  is  the  economic  and  social  sphere.  The  report
notes  the  existence  of  various  levels  of  exchange
between  the  OAS  and  the  United  Nations  Conference
on  Trade  and  Development  (UNCTAD)  and  the  OAS
and the Economic Commission  for Latin  America  and
the  Caribbean  (ECLAC).  Such  cooperation  could  be
expanded to other areas in order to unify the efforts of
the various organizations to promote the attainment of
the Millennium Goals on the continent, in particular in
the areas of development and poverty eradication.
A/57/PV.55
My country also values the diversification of the
cooperation  between  the  Latin  American  Economic
System  and  the  United  Nations.  We  hope  that  these
activities,  and  particularly  those  involving  the  United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the United
Nations  Children’s  Fund  (UNICEF),  UNCTAD,  the
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization 
the  World  Health
Organization 
and
be 
strengthened,  which  would  also  benefit  the  region’s
development.
(UNESCO)  and 
(WHO)  will 
deepened 
The Argentine delegation welcomes the adoption
by  this  General  Assembly  of  resolution  57/32,  which
invites  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  to  participate  in
the work of the General Assembly as an observer. We
take  the  view  that  this  historic  event  is  a  rightful
recognition  of 
Inter-
Parliamentary  Union,  which  aims  at  ensuring  that
parliamentarians the world over commit themselves to
the  activities  of  the  international  community  in  areas
such as peace and security, human rights, economic and
social development, democracy and gender issues.
the  work  done  by 
the 
We  wish  to  express  our  profound  satisfaction  at
the election of Senator Sergio Páez Verdugo of Chile as
President of the Inter-Parliamentary Council. Argentina
takes genuine pride in seeing Senator Páez conducting
the work of the Union, and we wish him every success.
In the course of the past year, we have noted the
growing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union.  Parliamentarians  from
all around the world have participated in parallel events
during 
important  United  Nations  meetings.  Also,
through  the  IPU,  parliamentarians  have  shown  greater
interest in  attending  the  general  debate  of  the  General
Assembly and the deliberations of the Commission on
Human  Rights  in  Geneva.  Here,  the  annual  meetings
between  parliamentarians  attending  the  general  debate
and  senior  United  Nations  officials  have  the  dual
purpose 
of
parliamentarians  on  the  questions  under  debate  in  the
United Nations and establishing open and constructive
dialogue with the Organization.
heightening 
awareness 
of 
the 
We  also  deem  noteworthy  the  discussions  that
take place during IPU conferences on issues relating to
peace  and  security,  as  well  as  to  economic  and  social
development. These debates have engendered a greater
commitment by parliamentarians to forge legislation in
keeping  with 
the  commitments  undertaken  by
3
A/57/PV.55
Governments  in  the  international  arena.  In  order  to
support  these  efforts,  a  collection  of  handbooks  for
parliamentarians is being published jointly by the IPU
and several United Nations agencies. We hope that the
United  Nations  Secretariat  will  ensure  more  efficient
cooperation in the preparation  and  publishing  of  these
very useful tools for legislative action. At this point, I
would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not  pay  tribute  to  the
Secretary-General  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union,
Mr.  Anders  B.  Johnsson,  for  his  tireless  efforts  to
relaunch  cooperation  between  the  IPU  and  the  United
Nations.  As  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/57/L.38,
the  Argentine  Republic  hopes 
the  General
Assembly will adopt it by consensus.
that 
Argentina  wishes,  above  all,  to  reaffirm  its  firm
commitment to disarmament and international security,
which  form  an  essential  basis  for  building  a  peaceful
and  constructive  relationship  among  nations  and  for
promoting their development.
In this context, the role of the Chemical Weapons
Convention, which it is the duty of the Organization for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW)  to
implement, is of particular importance. However, it is a
difficult  task  involving  the  destruction  of  immense
arsenals,  which  will  require  substantial  financial
contributions.  Moreover,  the  political  will  of  the
international community is required to achieve the vital
objective of making the Convention universal.
The  OPCW  also  has  to  ensure  the  fulfilment  of
another  of 
the  Convention’s  goals,  namely,  non-
proliferation. In many instances, the task is to prevent
widely  available  chemical  substances  that  might  be
needed for the  agricultural and industrial development
of our countries from being manufactured and used for
non-peaceful  purposes.  This 
is  especially
important  at  a  time  when  the  international  community
is  threatened  by  the  phenomenon  of  terrorism,  which
has demonstrated its willingness to use any weapon of
mass destruction to spread hatred and destruction.
task 
Likewise, the Convention’s preamble makes clear
that advances in the field of chemistry should be used
exclusively for the benefit of humankind. We therefore
emphasize  the  importance  of  the  organization’s  task
and  underline  once  more 
importance  of
international cooperation in order to make available for
developing  countries  the  human  and  technological
resources for activities in the field of chemistry whose
purposes are not prohibited by the Convention.
the 
4
One of the numerous important tasks imposed by
the Chemical Weapons Convention  is  the  need  for  the
implementation of the Convention at the national level
through 
legislation
facilitating 
the  monitoring  and  prosecution  of
violations of the Convention.
adoption  of  domestic 
the 
During  the  current  year,  the  organization  has
suffered a crisis affecting its activities and threatening
its  future.  Fortunately,  with  the  cooperation  of  all
States  Parties  to  the  Convention,  we  have  managed  to
overcome  that  difficult  situation  and  to  restore  the
climate  of  harmony  and  cooperation  that  must  reign
among  all  members  of  the  organization,  as  well  as
between  members  and  the  Technical  Secretariat,  in
order to achieve the goals of the organization.
We  are  pleased  that  the  States  Parties  to  the
Convention  have  entrusted  a  distinguished  Argentine
diplomat, Ambassador Rogelio Pfirter, with leading the
Technical  Secretariat  in  the  new  stage  that  we  are
beginning.  We  are  confident  that  the  new  Director-
General,  who  has  demonstrated  his  personal  and
professional  talents  throughout  his  long  career  in  the
area  of  peace  and  security,  will  bring  a  renewed
dynamism to the organization and will work to ensure
that the Technical Secretariat carries out its activities in
ongoing  consultation  and  understanding  with  all
member  States.  We  wish  the  Director-General  and  all
the personnel of the Technical Secretariat every success
in their important task.
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  our  hope  that
progress will continue in all areas of the Convention on
the  Prohibition  of 
the  Development,  Production,
Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their
Destruction until the time when we can be certain that
the threat to the maintenance of international peace and
security  caused  by  those  terrible  weapons  of  mass
destruction has forever been overcome.
Mr.  Sun  Joun-yung  (Republic  of  Korea):  My
delegation  is  pleased  to  take  the  floor  on  agenda  item
22 in the light of the increased necessity of intensifying
cooperation and interaction between the United Nations
and regional and other organizations in order to address
the  challenges  facing  the  international  community
today.
We  will  limit  our  comments  to  a  few  areas  of
cooperation that are of interest to us. The Republic of
Korea accords special attention to cooperation between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union
(IPU).  We  believe 
that  enhancing  such  a  close,
cooperative relationship will have a salutary impact on
the  future  of  the  Organization.  That  is  because  the
members  of  the  IPU  bring  with  them  vast  experience
and  expertise 
the  globalization  of
democracy,  human  rights  and  economic  and  social
development.
in  promoting 
We  are  therefore  pleased  to  note,  as  outlined  in
the Secretary-General’s report (A/57/375), that this has
been  a  productive  year  for  cooperation  between  the
IPU  and 
the  United  Nations.  Areas  of  fruitful
cooperation  have  included  the  IPU’s  participation  in
the  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on
Children, 
on  Sustainable
Development  and  the  follow-up  to  the  World  Food
Summit.
the  World  Summit 
While  acknowledging  the  endeavours  of  the  IPU
in  carrying  out  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  at  the
national  level,  through  its  legislative  activities,  there
are still ample opportunities for the IPU and the United
Nations  to  cultivate  substantive  relations  by  going
beyond  mere  declarations.  Hence,  my  delegation  is
pleased once again to be a sponsor the draft resolution
on this item.
As  a  full  dialogue  partner  of  the  Association  of
South-East  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  Republic  of
Korea  welcomes  the  inclusion  of  the  sub-item  on  the
General  Assembly’s  agenda  entitled  “Cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Association  of
South-East  Asian  Nations”,  In  our  view,  enhanced
cooperation  between  the  two  bodies  will  contribute  to
promoting  peace  and  stability  and  socio-economic
development 
the
formalization  of  the  relationship  between  the  two
bodies,  which  already  has  a 
long  history  of
development partnership, will be expanded in the years
to come.
region.  We  hope 
that 
in 
the 
international 
With  respect  to  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations 
and  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative
Organization (AALCO), the two bodies have enjoyed a
in  promoting  and
long,  constructive  relationship 
developing 
take  note  with
satisfaction of the contributions of AALCO, especially
in  serving  as  a  major  forum  of  cooperation  on  legal
issues  and  as  an  essential  organization  for  Asian  and
African  countries  in  the  development  of  international
law.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  thus  honoured  to  host
the  forty-second  session  of  AALCO  in  June  2003  and
law.  We 
A/57/PV.55
remains  confident  that  this  meeting  will  become  a
cornerstone in ensuring the vital role of this body in the
coming years.
Let  me  now  address  the  issue  of  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
the  Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons  (OPCW).  My
delegation has always attached particular importance to
the activities of the OPCW, and that body has become
even  more  relevant  considering  the  current  climate  of
threats to international security, including potential acts
of chemical terrorism.
Since the adoption of  the  agreement  on  relations
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  OPCW  in  May
2001,  progress  has  been  accomplished  in  the  area  of
mutually  beneficial  cooperation  between 
two
bodies.
the 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  OPCW  has
expressed  its  readiness  to  cooperate  with  the  Security
Council’s  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  by  providing
information  and  assistance 
line  with  Security
Council  resolution  1373  (2001).  As  the  threats  of
weapons of mass destruction grow, the OPCW deserves
the  unreserved  support  of  its  member  States  and  the
international  community  at  large,  to  strengthen  its
verification regime.
in 
In conclusion, my delegation would like to say a
few  words  on  the  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and 
for  Security  and
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
the  Organization 
During  the  past  year,  the  shared  interests  and
concerns of the United Nations and the OSCE have led
to  expanded  cooperation  in  a  number  of  important
areas,  including  counter-terrorism,  peacekeeping  and
peace-building 
and
preventive  diplomacy,  refugees  and  promoting  the
rights  of  children.  Having  already  acquired  a  solid
record in those and other areas, the OSCE is uniquely
placed  to  collaborate  in  close  partnership  with  the
United Nations.
early  warning 
initiatives, 
As a partner for cooperation with the OSCE, the
Republic  of  Korea  is  supportive  of  its  activities  and
welcomes  the  specific  efforts  directed  to  improve
consultation  and  cooperation  between  the  respective
headquarters of the two organizations.
Mr. Iwiński (Poland): I would like to express my
appreciation to the Secretary-General for presenting his
comprehensive  report  on  cooperation  between  the
5
A/57/PV.55
cooperation  between 
United Nations and the Council of Europe. The  report
highlights the progress made during the past year in the
area  of 
two  meaningful
international organizations. This cooperation, although
sometimes  underestimated,  constitutes  an  invaluable
contribution to the promotion of peace, democracy and
human rights on the European continent.
The  Council  of  Europe  is  the  oldest  European
integration organization. It emerged 53 years ago from
the pre-war ideas and concepts of a unified Europe.  It
was  also  the  first  organization  made  up  of  democratic
States  which  included  during  the  1990s  almost  all
Central and Eastern European countries — among them
Poland — giving  them  a  sense  of  return  to  their  own
principles  and  values,  as  well  as  providing  them  with
the means to implement and consolidate their political,
legal  and  administrative  reforms.  After  almost  half  a
century,  the  Former  Council  of  Western  Europe  has
taken  steps  over  the  past  decade  towards  changing  its
shape,  its  name  and  its  mission.  Thus,  the  Council  of
Europe  plays  a  key  role  in  ensuring  respect  for,  and
compliance with, human rights, on behalf of  hundreds
of millions of European citizens.
various 
international 
In  an  increasingly  globalized  world,  cooperation
between 
organizations,
complementing cooperation among independent States,
is  urgent.  In  order  to  promote  and  implement  the
principles and values shared by their members, as well
as  to  tackle  the  most  important  global  issues —
discussed  recently  at  United  Nations  conferences  held
at such venues as Monterrey and Johannesburg — like-
minded  international  institutions  need  to  cooperate
further  within,  and  sometimes  even  beyond,  their
respective  mandates.  The  dialogue  and  cooperation
between the United Nations system and the Council of
Europe can serve as an example of such an endeavour.
The  Council  of  Europe  shares  with  the  United
Nations long and outstanding experience in promoting
peace,  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights,
contributing 
to  conflict  prevention,  confidence-
building  and  long-term  post-conflict  peace-building  in
many  countries.  Both  organizations  are  particularly
involved 
the  Balkans,  where  United  Nations
Missions  in  Kosovo  and  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,
together  with  the  Council  of  Europe,  collaborate  to
lend 
legislation,
providing judicial and legal training and developing the
institutions of civil society and local governments.
invaluable  support 
in  preparing 
in 
6
and 
local 
legislation 
institutions, 
stable 
democratic 
The  engagement  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  has  already  contributed  to  the
the
consolidation  of 
introduction 
of 
a
reinforcement of the private sector, in order to prevent
another terrible war from engulfing that part of Europe.
Further development of close cooperation between the
United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  is  required
in  peace-building  and  the  establishment  of  political
stability  in  South-Eastern  Europe.  Such  cooperation
should include the training of human  rights observers,
human 
the
promotion  of  dialogue  among  civilizations.  Of  course
dialogue among civilizations refers to other continents,
as well as Europe.
rights  educational  programmes  and 
The  wide  range  of  activities  of  the  Council  of
Europe gives it an opportunity to work in the field with
various  United  Nations  specialized  organizations  and
programmes, such as the Offices of the United Nations
High  Commissioners  for  Human  Rights  and  for
Refugees, 
the  United  Nations  Development
Programme, the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and  Cultural  Organization, 
the  United  Nations
Environmental  Program  and  the  International  Labour
Organization,  to  name  a  few.  While  working  together
they  can  learn  from  one  another  and  undertake  new
challenges,  which  concern  almost  all  aspects  of
political  and  social  life,  including  such  important
issues  as  the  prevention  of  terrorism,  transnational
organized 
corruption,  money-laundering,
trafficking in human beings, the return of refugees and
internally displaced persons to their countries of origin
and racial discrimination.
crime, 
The tragic events of 11 September taught us that
in  order  to  prevent  threats  to  peace,  security  and
prosperity,  all  global  issues  have  to  be  resolved  in  a
comprehensive and sustainable manner by joint action.
The United Nations and the Council of Europe can play
a role in these endeavours. As Chair of the Committee
on  Migration,  Refugees  and  Demography  of 
the
Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  I
must  stress  the  need  for  joint  action  in  this  context  to
resolve  the  worsening  problem  of  refugees  and  illegal
migrants.
Poland highly appreciates the role of the Council
of  Europe  in  promoting  and  implementing  values  and
principles  such  as  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  We
are  also  in  favour  of  further  enhancing  the  close
cooperation  and  coordination  of  work  between  the
Council  for  Europe  and  the  United  Nations  family,
encouraging  further  exchanges  of  views,  experiences
and  expertise  on  many  other  subjects  of  common
interest.  Despite  concentrating  our  current  efforts  on
the  final  phase  of  accession  negotiations  with  the
European  Union,  we  attach  special  importance  to  the
activities  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  especially  those
which  contribute  to  promoting  peace,  stability  and
democracy across the continent. We are of the opinion
that the Council of Europe has contributed over all the
decades of its existence to the practical implementation
of  the  values  embodied  in  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations  in  many  parts  of  Europe.  The  Council  of
Europe  is  perhaps  the  only  international  institution
which conceived  and implemented a system  of  human
rights  protection,  including  the  European  Court  of
Human  Rights,  which  is  available  to  every  person
originating  from  a  State  party 
the  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights  and  Fundamental
Freedoms. This is just one example of how the values
shared  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of
Europe can be mutually defended and promoted.
to 
Let me say in conclusion that I am convinced that
the forthcoming meetings of the Council of Europe will
provide  an  opportunity  to  further  discuss  the  issue  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council of Europe. We should particularly focus on the
new challenges of the 21st century. To face them in an
effective  way,  we  undoubtedly  need  new  thoughts,
projects  and  activities,  together  with  new  mechanisms
for cooperation.
I  would  like  to  confirm  my  country’s  readiness,
expressed a few months ago during the last visit by the
Secretary General of the Council of Europe to Warsaw,
to  organize  the  third  Council  of  Europe  Summit  in
Poland.  The  final  modalities  of  this  event  would  be
discussed  in  May  2003  during  the  next  session  of  the
Committee of Ministers of the Council.
Finally, I would like to give my full support to the
suggestion  by  the  United  Nations  Secretary-General
that  he 
the
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  on  an
every-other-year basis.
report  more  comprehensively  on 
Mr.  Malofeev  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The
twenty-first  century,  the  state  of  world  affairs  and  the
needs  of  United  Nations  Member  States  have
challenged  the  Organization  with  more  complex  and
massive  tasks.  The  most  important  components  of
A/57/PV.55
including  overcoming
international  development, 
economic 
poverty 
eradication,
backwardness, 
elimination  of  crime,  measures  to  maintain  peace  and
security, 
the  environment  and
combating  terrorism  are  constantly  at  the  centre  of
attention at the United Nations.
the  protection  of 
through  strengthening 
The United Nations is increasing its influence  in
these  and  other  areas 
the
Organization’s  potential  by  means  of  comprehensive
reform.  The  Republic  of  Belarus  is  interested  in
enhancing and increasing the authority and influence of
the United Nations, not only because our country is one
of the founding Member States of the United Nations.
In the United Nations, we see support for all countries,
regardless  of  their  size,  economic  and  political  power
and  geographical  area.  Within  the  United  Nations,  all
countries  can  hold  an  equal  dialogue  and  are  not
dependent  on  the  passing  moods  of  the  major  world
Powers.
international 
parliamentarians. 
The United Nations is involved in the solution of
the  most  current  and  acute  international  problems,  as
are 
National
parliaments are in a good position to do a great deal of
wise  and  productive  work,  to  improve  the  lives  of
people throughout the world. It is no accident that the
agenda of the current session of the General Assembly
includes the subject of cooperation between the United
Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations.  The
United Nations is, therefore, one of the most important
places 
the
interrelationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).
for 
this 
discussion 
concerning 
In  expressing 
the  position  of 
the  Belarus
Parliament,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the  IPU  is  an
authoritative and influential body bringing together 144
parliaments of the world. The leadership of the IPU is
interested  in  developing  fruitful  relations  with  the
United  Nations  and  is  doing  everything  possible  to
strengthen  these  contacts.  Mr.  Anders  Johnsson,  the
Secretary General of the IPU, is making every effort to
develop such cooperation.
Over the past few years, the IPU has adopted and
implemented  several  resolutions,  as  well  as  other
measures,  to  support  the  United  Nations,  a  topic  that
arises  frequently  at  major  United  Nations  conferences
and  meetings  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Belarus
delegation  greatly  appreciates  the  activities  of  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi
7
A/57/PV.55
Annan, who greatly supports developing relations with
the IPU.
in  September  2000  with 
The  Millennium  General  Assembly,  held  at  the
United  Nations 
the
participation of heads of State or Government, was an
important milestone. The IPU conference of presidents
of  national  parliaments  was  also 
important.  The
Declaration  adopted  at 
the  Millennium  Assembly
stressed  the  need  to  establish  closer  relations  between
the United Nations and the  IPU, and I well recall that
time,  since  I  was  a  participant  in  those  forums  and
spoke from this very rostrum.
Since  the  Millennium  Summit,  a  great  deal  has
been  accomplished.  Today  we  can  justifiably  say  that
cooperation  between  two  powerful  organizations  is
progressing.  This  is  clearly  seen  in  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General submitted to the 57th session of the
General Assembly, which provides a full picture of the
interaction  of 
two  organizations.  Of  great
significance  to  the  IPU  are  the  annual  meetings  of
parliamentarians  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in
New York, as well as their participation in the meetings
of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly  as  members
of national delegations.
the 
The  day  before  yesterday  we  held  our  regular
annual  meeting.  Such  meetings  give  parliamentarians
greater  opportunities  to  communicate  problems  of
common  interest.  IPU  is  pleased  that  it  has  been
proposed for observer status in the meetings and work
of the General Assembly. We also support the proposed
resolution  for  the  General  Assembly  on  cooperation
between the United Nations and the IPU.
Today  we  cannot  but  touch  upon  the  topic  of
terrorism.  The  brutality  and  the  scale  of  the  inhuman
tragedy on 11 September 2001 shook the whole planet.
The  world  has  never  before  witnessed  such  a
monstrous event. The taking, of nearly 1,000 hostages
from  two  dozen  countries  in  Moscow  last  month  by
Chechnyan fighters, again confirmed that international
terrorism not only possesses a powerful financial basis,
but  is  also  very  well  equipped  technically,  well
organized  and  also,  unfortunately,  finds  support  and
financing for its inhuman actions in several States.
These  two  events  are,  unfortunately,  links  in  the
same  chain.  They  have  changed  the  world  and  have
shown  that  no  country  is  immune  to  possible  attacks
and  terrorist  acts.  Today  the  world  is  one  in  its
understanding  of  the  need  to  combat  the  evil  of
8
international terrorism. In these circumstances, the role
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU  significantly
increases in combining the efforts of  States  to  combat
terrorism  and  we  feel  it  is  the  United  Nations  which
should  be  the  centre  for  developing  strategies  and
tactics  for  action  by  the  international  community  to
counter this evil.
In turn, the IPU can and must assume the function
of coordinator of the  activities of national parliaments
to quickly bring all countries of the world to adhere to
United Nations anti-terrorism conventions. We need to
accelerate 
finalization  and  adoption  of  a
comprehensive convention on combating terrorism. My
country  considers  itself  an  inseparable  part  of  the
international  anti-terrorism  coalition  and,  within
international  law,  is  making  its  contribution  to  this
common cause.
the 
This  year  we  adopted  a  national 
law  on
combating  terrorism  and  have  included  several  other
measures.  However,  we  must  all  understand  that  the
breeding  ground 
is  backwardness,
underdevelopment and a lack of basic living conditions
for normal life for many people. These problems create
social  and  political  instability  in  many  regions  of  the
world.
terrorism 
for 
situation 
I  shall  touch  upon  one  other  global  problem
which  is  of  great  concern.  We  need  to  recognize  that
the  world  environmental 
seriously
deteriorating.  The  main  cause  of  this  is  a  not  always
judicious,  sometimes  even  dangerous  production
activities  of  man  which  can  cause  serious  manmade
disasters. Just such a disaster — the Chernobyl nuclear
power station accident — had a profound impact upon
the United Nations.
is 
I  would  like  to  once  again  recall  the  tragic
consequences of this accident. More than 70 per cent of
the radioactive fallout fell on our territory. One in five
inhabitants  of  Belarus,  including  more  than  half  a
million  children,  have  been  affected.  Annually  the
State  spends  15  per  cent  of  its  budget  on  eliminating
the  consequences  of  the  accident.  The  Republic  of
Belarus is sincerely grateful to the  many States  of  the
world  for  their  assistance  which  has  been  given  in
overcoming 
the  Chernobyl
disaster.  International  assistance,  however, 
is  not
commensurate  with 
the  disaster  at
Chernobyl  and  the  resultant  losses  being  borne  by
Belarus.  We  welcome,  therefore,  the  new  strategy  of
the  consequences  of 
the  scale  of 
the Organization endorsed by the General Assembly on
the  socio-economic 
the 
regions
affected as a result of the Chernobyl accident.
rehabilitation  of 
I  hope  that  through  joint  efforts  at  the  State  and
parliamentary  levels  we  will  be  able  to  find  an
effective solution to the pressing problems facing all of
humankind.
Mr.  Bergqvist  (Sweden):  Speaking  on  behalf  of
the  Government  of  Sweden,  let  me  first  of  all  stress
that  I  associate  myself  entirely  with  the  message
delivered by the presidency of the European Union.
As  a  member  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of
the  Council  of  Europe,  I  will  naturally  focus  on  the
relations between the Council of Europe and the United
Nations.
The  highest  common  denominator  between  the
United Nations and the Council of Europe is the central
role  that  human  rights  play  in  their  activities.  The
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and 
the
European  Convention  on  Human  Rights  are  both
utterly  central  instruments  for  achieving  humanism  in
the world.
important.  Today,  one  of 
The  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe
have  always  complemented  each  other.  Following  the
end  of  the  cold  war,  this  complementarity  has  grown
even  more 
the  main
undertakings of the Council of Europe is active support
for  the  rule  of  law  and  the  development  of  sound
practices  in  new  and  re-established  democracies.  This
also has global implications and is of great importance
from a United Nations perspective.
The  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  has
often  talked  about  the  need  to  take  intergovernmental
policy decisions back to the citizens, who are the ones
who  will  abide  by  these  decisions  and  benefit  from
them.  The  Secretary-General  has  underlined  the  need
for  a  two-way  political  discussion  to  make  citizens
understand and accept decisions which, to them, might
seem  to  have  been  made  far  away  and  as  a  result  of
complicated international processes.
Here,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  other  regional
organizations can be of great use.
When the Council of Europe was created in 1949,
it was a unique international organization insofar as it
included  a  body  with  direct  democratic  links  to  the
people:  the  Parliamentary  Assembly.  That  institution
A/57/PV.55
was  made  up  of  elected  members  of  national
parliaments,  that  is,  politicians  who  had  a  mandate
from  their  voters  and  were  responsible  to  them.  True,
the Inter-Parliamentary Union had had a similar set-up
in  the  nineteenth  century,  but  the  Council  of  Europe
combined this with the Committee of Ministers, which
not  only  represents  the  member  Governments,  but  is
obliged to react, in the name of those Governments, to
political impulses from the Parliamentary Assembly.
For  many  years,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of
the Council of Europe has also served as a democratic
anchor for the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD). Once a year, parliamentary
delegations  from  Korea,  Japan,  Canada  and  Mexico
join  the  session  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the
Council  of  Europe  to  discuss  the  development  of  the
world economy and other OECD matters.
in  Europe  (OSCE)  formed 
In  the  1990s,  the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation 
its  own
Parliamentary  Assembly.  The  OSCE  complements  the
Council  of  Europe 
interesting  way:  both
organizations  deal  with,  inter  alia,  human  rights  and
social, cultural and economic issues. The difference is
that  the  OSCE  does  it  from  a  broad  perspective  of
security and the Council of Europe from a perspective
of individual rights.
in  an 
the  framework  of 
Consequently,  within 
the
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe,  there  are  lots  of  opportunities  to
utilize  the  direct  links  between  the  members  of  the
Parliamentary  Assembly  and  their  constituents  for  a
direct  political  discussion  on  urgent 
international
issues. Furthermore, with the creation of the Congress
of  Local  and  Regional  Authorities  within  the  Council
of  Europe,  an  even  more  basic  channel 
the
populations of Europe has been established.
to 
This  opens  up 
interesting  perspectives 
for
political  dialogue,  especially  since  the  core  activities
are so much in parallel. I am thinking of the meticulous
everyday  work  that  is  done,  which  is  not  always
spectacular,  but  has  immense  long-term  importance  in
terms  of  conflict  prevention.  For  instance,  there  is
inter-cultural  and  inter-religious  dialogue,  and  history
schoolbooks  are  scrutinized  to  identify  and  change
traditional  but  negative  or  xenophobic  descriptions  of
the neighbouring world.
Let  us  make  optimal  use  of  our  common
resources to develop conflict-prevention strategies and
9
A/57/PV.55
build  up  a  more  systematic  conflict-prevention
machinery.  At  the  recent  European  Union  regional
meeting  on  conflict  prevention,  held  in  Sweden  in
August,  both  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United
Nations  were  able  to  share  valuable  experiences  of
practical cooperation in this field.
the  European  Centre 
There is an interesting offspring of the Council of
Europe  called 
for  Global
Interdependence  and  Solidarity,  or  simply  the  North-
South  Centre.  As  can  be  deduced  from  its  name,  the
Centre’s  goal  is  to  serve  as  a  bridge  to  other  cultures.
In  addition,  it  is  currently  working  hard  to  follow  up
the Johannesburg meeting in the field of education for
sustainable  development,  where  it  has  made  great
efforts  in  supporting  the  work  of  the  United  Nations
Economic Commission for Europe.
The Council of Europe is proud of the fact that it
has  managed 
to  create  an  area  free  of  capital
punishment under all circumstances. This is manifested
in  the  13th  Additional  Protocol  to  the  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights,  which  a  majority  of
member States have now also signed.
Following the tragic events of 11 September  last
year,  it  was  only  natural  for  the  Council  of  Europe  to
make  every  possible  contribution  to  the  fight  against
terrorism.  That  political  preparedness  resulted,  among
other  things,  in  a  set  of  guidelines  for  the  important
work  of  combating 
terrorism  while  preserving
democracy and human rights.
It  is  of  crucial  importance  that  States  do  not
deviate  from  their  democratic  standards  of  openness,
responsibility and legal predictability just because they
are dealing with evil terrorists. If  we are not  steadfast
in  that  respect  we  may  soon  find  ourselves  on  a  very
slippery  slope  towards  lower  standards  in  the  field  of
democracy and human rights. In that context, it is also
to  be  hoped  that  the  International  Criminal  Court  will
eventually  be  universally  recognized  and  that  its
Statute  will  not  be  diluted  or  set  aside  by  bilateral
agreements.
We  must  all  do  our  best  to  ensure  that  the  high
standards of the United Nations  —  which  are  also  the
standards  of  the  Council  of  Europe  —  will  prevail  in
the 
increasingly  close
partnership, we must build further on that platform.
future.  Together  and 
in 
Mr.  Musambachime  (Zambia):  My  delegation
would like to express its appreciation to the Secretary-
10
General for his report contained in documents A/57/94
and A/57/94/Add.1, in which he provides an update to
his  previous  reports  contained  in  documents  A/56/134
and  A/56/134/Add.1,  on  programmes  and  activities
undertaken by Member States and bodies of the United
Nations  in  cooperation  with  the  Southern  African
Development Community (SADC).
My delegation also wishes to associate itself with
the statements made by the representative of Angola on
behalf  of  SADC  and  by  the  representative  of  the
Republic  of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the  African
Union,  in  which  they  urged  support  for  the  draft
resolutions 
resolutions
A/57/L.30  —  on  cooperation  with  SADC  —  and
A/57/39  —  on  cooperation  with  the  African  Union  —
respectively.
introduced, 
draft 
they 
My  Government  recognizes  the  importance  of
regional  integration  as  a  fundamental  tool  to  foster
social and economic development. Given the small size
of  our  individual  economies,  which  are  unable  to
achieve  economies  of  scale  in  the  production  and
marketing of products, there is a need to work together
as  a  region  in  order  to  achieve  significant  levels  of
economic  growth  and  to  compete  in  a  world  that  is
becoming  increasingly  dominated  by  large  trading
blocs. Trade liberalization and regional integration will
therefore  promote  greater  growth  through  improved
resource  allocation,  greater  competition,  technology
transfers and improved access to foreign capital.
It  is  in  that  regard  that  my  delegation  firmly
supports the New Partnership for Africa’s Development
(NEPAD),  which  provides  a  comprehensive  and
integrated development plan that addresses key social,
economic  and  political  issues  on  the  continent.  The
international 
the
commitment  of  our  leaders  in  Africa  to  the  people  by
assisting  Africa  to  embark  on  a  path  of  sustainable
growth.  That  can  be  achieved  through  the  continent’s
accelerated integration into the global economy.
community 
support 
should 
We  welcome  the  support  the  NEPAD  initiative
has  received  at  major  conferences,  in  particular  at  the
Group  of  Eight  Summit  held  in  Kananaskis,  Canada.
We also applaud the high-level plenary meeting of the
General Assembly that was held on 16 September 2002
and  devoted  to  a  discussion  of  the  NEPAD  issue.  We
welcome  resolution  57/2,  which  was  adopted  by  the
General Assembly at that meeting, and hope that it will
be  fully 
is  a  clear
implemented.  That  support 
manifestation  of  the  commitment  of  the  international
community to address the problems of the region, and
those of the continent as a whole.
integration 
With  regard  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  we  note  with  appreciation  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  in
support  of  efforts  by  SADC  to  promote  sustainable
development  and  regional 
in  a  broad
spectrum  of  economic  and  social  areas.  We  also  note
with great satisfaction the efforts of the United Nations
and  Member  States 
strengthen
cooperation  with  SADC  and  its  member  States  in  the
areas  of  conflict  prevention,  conflict 
resolution,
peacekeeping  and  peace-building.  Those  efforts  have
heightened  the  prospects  for  peace  in  Angola  and  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.
initiate  and 
to 
However,  I  wish  to  highlight  two  areas  of  grave
concern to  our  region,  namely,  the  humanitarian  crisis
affecting 
the  HIV/AIDS
pandemic.
region  and 
the  SADC 
to  available 
For  the  third  consecutive  year,  Southern  Africa
has  been  affected  by  natural  disasters.  This  year,
drought  has  affected  Lesotho,  Malawi,  Swaziland,
Zambia and Zimbabwe, causing severe food shortages.
According 
information,  14.5  million
people  are  affected.  That  combination  of  calamities
comes  at  a  time  when  the  extent  of  the  humanitarian
crisis  in  the  region  is  becoming  clear.  It  is  estimated
that there will be a total regional shortfall of 4 million
tons  of  food  over  the  next  year,  of  which  1.2  million
tons will be met by emergency food aid.
With  respect  to  my  country,  Zambia,  this  is  the
second year that we are experiencing severe drought. It
is  estimated  that  2.3  million  people  need  emergency
food  assistance.  That  unfortunate  situation  has  further
been  exacerbated  by  the  high  prevalence  of  AIDS,
which affects the most productive age group — that in
the range of 15 to 49 years of age.
Furthermore,  poor  communities  have  become
to  natural  disasters  and  erratic
more  vulnerable 
weather.  In  addition,  other  factors  faced  by 
the
region —  such  as  economic  decline,  dwindling
commodity  prices  and  limited  access  to  Western
markets — are constraining development.
Against that background, my delegation wishes to
appeal  to  the  international  community  for  food  aid  to
solve  the  immediate  food  shortages  and  to  prevent  a
A/57/PV.55
severe  catastrophe.  We  further  appeal  to  the  donor
community  to  take  an  integrated  approach  to  the
problem,  as  this  is  not  just  a  question  of  famine  but
also  one  that  involves  a  wider  public  health  issue  as
regards  water  and  sanitation.  In  the  long  run  it  would
also  be  advisable  for  the  donor  community  to  engage
and  strengthen  regional  mechanisms  within  SADC  to
address this crisis.
Finally,  we  wish  to  express  our  support  for  the
views  of  other  delegations  that  have  called  on  the
Secretary-General  to  continue  to  intensify  contacts
aimed  at  promoting  and  harmonizing  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Southern  African
Development  Community.  The  challenges  facing  our
Community are grave, but they are not insurmountable.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  is  best  placed  to
mobilize the necessary resources from the international
community  that  will  effectively  address  the  problems
we  are  confronting  in  the  region.  My  delegation
appeals for support for the draft resolutions before us.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  At  the  outset,  I  would
in
to  align  myself  with  previous  speakers 
like 
expressing  my  delegation’s  appreciation 
to 
the
Secretary-General for the preparation of the reports on
the  agenda  item  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations”.
Given  the  time  factor,  I  would  like  to  focus  on  sub-
items 22 (b), (d), (l), (n) and (o).
and 
other 
regional 
The  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  attaches  great
importance to cooperation between the United Nations
and 
organizations.  These
organizations are an integral part of a globalizing world
that  needs  consolidated  and  coordinated  efforts  at  the
regional  level  aimed  at  combating  such  threats  and
challenges  as  military  conflicts, 
terrorism,  drug
trafficking,  organized  crime,  arms  smuggling,  illegal
migration, 
of  mass
destruction,  natural  disasters,  poverty  and  social  and
economic degradation.
of  weapons 
proliferation 
During  the  last  decade  the  significance  of  the
Council of Europe has grown. This organization plays
an outstanding role  in  instituting  European  integration
and  leading  the  process  towards  the  formation  of  a
common  legal  framework  through  the  unification  of
the  basis  of  European
national 
conventional 
strengthening 
democratic
institutions and developing cultural identity in Europe.
legislation  on 
norms, 
11
A/57/PV.55
for 
The enlargement of the Council of Europe created
an  opportunity 
the  new  Eastern  European
democracies to participate closely in European life and
to  quickly  develop  the  conditions  needed  to  meet  the
socio-political and juridical requirements for admission
to  the  European  Union.  We  underline  the  valuable
contribution  of  the  Council  to  democratic  stability  in
Europe and welcome the fact that the activities of that
organization  are  increasingly  being  referred  to  by
others  beyond  the  region  of  its  responsibility.  The
Council’s  experience  deserves  close  attention  by  the
United Nations.
In 
the 
today’s  world 
importance  of 
the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  as  a
structure  that  brings  together  States  on  the  basis  of
common cultural, historical and religious traditions and
values  is  growing.  In  the  context  of  new  challenges,
that  organization  plays  a  significant  role  as  an
influential  participant 
the  dialogue  aimed  at
strengthening confidence between civilizations. Having
gained  since  its  very  inception  a  solid  international
reputation  and  influence,  particularly  in  the  vast  area
from  North  Africa  to  South-Eastern  Asia,  where
numerous “hot spots” exist, the OIC has demonstrated
its  true  interest  in  ensuring  international  peace  and
security  and  has  consolidated  the  efforts  of  Islamic
States to combat current challenges and risks.
in 
With  a  profound  perception  from  within  of  the
problems of the Orient and their complex character, the
OIC  would  expect  that  the  international  community
would  be  more  attentive  to  its  opinion  with  regard  to
the achievement of stability and accord in regions with
populations.  Constructive
predominant  Muslim 
dialogue  and  cooperation  with 
the  OIC  could
contribute  to  the  solution  of  many  complex  issues,
including 
the  settlement  of  armed  conflicts  and
suppression of sources of international terrorism.
It  is  noteworthy  that  a  large  number  of  OIC
countries  have  vast  natural  resources  and  great
potential for development. Effective utilization of these
resources  would  benefit  those  countries  and  would
secure  interests  throughout  the  world,  as  a  result  of  a
comprehensively balanced relationship with the Orient.
Economic  Cooperation
Organization 
a
cooperation  initiative  in  the  Black  Sea  region  into  a
European  organization,  with  a  broad  range  of  sub-
The  Black 
developed 
(BSEC) 
from 
Sea 
has 
12
entities.  This  process  has  gained  pace  during  the  last
three years.
Cooperation  among  States  with  different  values,
levels of economic development, natural resources and
productive  forces  sets  the  ground  for  a  deepening  of
mutual  dialogue  and  for  exploration  of  common  ways
to develop economic cooperation in the region. Priority
directions  of 
the  organization  have  already  been
determined  and 
the  energy  and
transport sectors. Azerbaijan contributes actively to the
BSEC,  and  in  a  wider  context,  to  Europe  in  the
development of these important sectors.
include  mainly 
Being  actively  engaged  in  the  expansion  of  its
relations  with  the  outside  world,  Azerbaijan  places
great significance on the further development of mutual
advantageous  cooperation  with  members  of 
the
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS).  In  2001,
Azerbaijan  was  granted  the  status  of  a  permanent
observer  at  that  organization.  Our  country  will  do  its
utmost to contribute positively to cooperation between
the United Nations and the OAS.
common  principles  of 
Continuing  our  discussion  of  the  significance  of
regional  organizations  in  global  development,  we  see
the  OSCE  as  the  only  European  structure  that  brings
together all countries of the region. The historical merit
of  that  organization,  which  took  upon  itself  the
responsibility for building a pan-European home on the
basis  of 
and
cooperation, is in its important role in sustaining peace
in the  era  of  the  bloc  confrontation,  in  the  democratic
transformation of Eastern European societies at the end
of last century, as well as in establishing prerequisites
for  the  integration  process  throughout  the  European
continent.  Owing  to  the  activities  of  OSCE,  there  has
been  rapprochement  among  European  States,  and
standards  of  conduct  and 
the  main  spheres  of
cooperation were established.
security 
the 
last  decade, 
Meanwhile,  during 
the
effectiveness  of  the  OSCE  to  countering  dangerous
new  challenges  was  seriously  tested.  We  believe  that
the  OSCE  has  to  enhance  its  contribution  to  the
settlement  of  conflicts  primarily  in  the  area  of  its
responsibility.
In  this  context,  allow  me  to  touch  upon  the
peaceful  settlement  of  Armenian-Azerbaijani  conflict
within  the  framework  of  the  OSCE  Minsk  Group.
Mediation  by  the  Minsk  Group  should  be  impartial,
just and aimed at the unconditional implementation of
decisions of the OSCE and the United Nations Security
Council  with  regard  to  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian
occupying  forces  from  the  occupied  territories  of
Azerbaijan  and 
the
consequences  of  the  armed  conflict,  with  a  settlement
based on strict compliance with the principles set forth
in the Helsinki Final Act of 1975.
the  complete  elimination  of 
Departure  from  these  principles  and  decisions  or
consideration  of  proposals  by  mediators  based  on  the
acceptance of fait accompli put the rule of law and the
effectiveness  of  international  mediation  under  serious
doubt,  undermine  confidence  in  the  OSCE  Minsk
Group and negatively impact the prestige of the OSCE,
which plays a lead role in the resolution of the conflict
in  and  around 
the  Nagorno-Karabakh  region  of
Azerbaijan,  as  rightly  mentioned  in  the  Secretary
General’s  report  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  OSCE”,  document  A/57/217.
We maintain, however, that given the protracted lack of
progress  in  the  negotiations  and  the  “conciliation”
efforts  by  the  mediators  with  regard  to  the  results  of
the  Armenian  aggression,  there  is  a  need  for  decisive
intervention  by  the  Security  Council,  which  has  not
exhausted all its opportunities for exerting influence to
achieve a breakthrough in the negotiations.
conflict 
and 
the 
and 
For  our  part,  my  country  has  very  recently  put
forward  a  package  of  proposals  on 
the  partial
elimination  of  the  consequences  of  the  Armenian-
Azerbaijani 
establishment  of
cooperation. Backed by the international organizations
concerned,  the  package  implies  the  withdrawal  of
Armenian armed forces from four occupied districts of
Azerbaijan and the restoration of the main railroad line
passing 
linking
Azerbaijan, Armenia and other countries of the region.
However, our proposals, the realization of which could
have  been  an 
important  confidence-building  step
towards  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict  and
regional cooperation, were rejected by Armenia.
territories 
through 
those 
Let  me  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  enhanced
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and  other  organizations  will  lead  to  the  increased
practical  and  operational  effectiveness  and  efficiency
of  the  organizations  involved.  Our  delegation  is  also
convinced  that  the  United  Nations  can  only  benefit
from close cooperation with those organizations.
Mr.  Salman  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the
outset, I should like to express our appreciation for the
A/57/PV.55
fact  that  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
regional and other organizations has become a separate
item on our agenda, which will undoubtedly give added
impetus  to  the  working  methods  of  the  General
Assembly  and  improve  its  efficiency.  In  addition,  my
delegation  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report  contained  in  document  A/57/375,  which  details
the  levels  of  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  and  their
activities in the fields of peace, security, economic and
social  development,  international  law,  human  rights
and  democracy.  We  believe  that  the  IPU  has  an
immense  wealth  of  knowledge  and  experience  from
which the Organization can greatly benefit.
The  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  represents  the
voices  of  the  people.  Accordingly,  it  must  be  a
significant  component  of  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  and  should  play  an  important  role  in  the
strengthening  of  multilateral  diplomacy.  That  will  be
possible  only  if  our  legislative  bodies  have  a  greater
part 
enhance
international  cooperation  within  the  framework  of  the
United  Nations.  Parliaments  are  an  expression  of  the
voices  of  the  people,  and  thus,  their  participation
guarantees  the  democratic  nature  of  such  decision-
making processes.
in  decision-making  processes 
to 
An  important  aspect  to  note  in  that  regard  is  the
IPU’s  ability  to  make  a  positive  contribution  to  the
current  debate  on  reform  of  the  United  Nations,
especially  that  of  the  Security  Council  and  of  the
General  Assembly.  Council  resolutions  should  be  just
and  democratic  and  should  allow  those  affected  by
such  resolutions  to  take  them  before  the  International
Court of Justice so that the Court can decide whether or
not they conform to the Charter of the United Nations.
That  would  prevent  one  or  more  countries  from
pressuring the Security Council to adopt resolutions of
ill  political  intent  without  giving  those  affected  the
right  to  any  legal  recourse  to  ascertain  the  legality  of
such  resolutions,  just  as  citizens  have  the  right  to
question  the  constitutionality  of  laws  adopted  by
legislative bodies and high tribunals.
Relations  and  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  IPU  conform  to  the  provisions  of  the
Charter, which encourages and determines partnerships
among regional organizations, especially with regard to
the maintenance of international peace and security. As
my  delegation  has  noted,  the  IPU  should  actively
participate  in  any  important  agenda  items  that  have
13
A/57/PV.55
implications.  Such  a  partnership 
is
international 
essential  under 
and
challenges  now  faced  by  the  international  community,
because 
the
Organization’s  work 
to
and 
international public opinion.
transparency  of 
accountability 
circumstances 
improve 
current 
it  can 
the 
the 
its 
In  order  to  halt  the  anarchy  that  is  spreading
through  international  relations  as  a  result  of  the
increasing  tendency  to  infringe  upon  the  sovereignty
and  territorial  integrity  of  States  and  to  interfere  in
their internal affairs — contrary to the principles of the
Charter — and to stop the United Nations from losing
the  respect  of  the  world’s  peoples  and  from  being
consumed  by  selfish  interests,  we  call  on  the  IPU  to
join  other  organizations  of  goodwill  in  their  efforts  to
save  the  Organization  and  to  confront  the  policies  of
hegemony,  tyranny  and  destabilization  of  States  and
the inflaming of ethnic divisions.
What  is  happening  in  Iraq  as  a  result  of  the
embargo  that  the  United  States  insists  on  maintaining
without any moral or legal support is clearly a case of
tyranny  and  injustice.  Indeed,  it  constitutes  genocide
that not even United Nations personnel could tolerate.
Genocide is a crime under the Charter and international
law,  yet  it  is  occurring  there.  Every  day,  the  children,
women  and  elderly  people  of  Iraq  are  dying.  What  is
happening  in  the  Security  Council  with  regard  to  the
Iraqi  question  is  yet  another  example  of  flagrant
violation of the Charter and of international law.
the  free  peoples  of 
The people of Iraq, the Arab people, the Muslims
and  all 
the  world  call  for
democracy,  respect  for  justice,  the  application  of
international legitimacy and respect for the Charter and
for international law in word and in deed. To that end,
the IPU can make a positive contribution. It is our hope
that the debate on this item will strengthen cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU.  Will  our
meeting  succeed  in  bringing  that  about?  We  sincerely
hope that it will.
Mr.  Davis  (United  Kingdom):  Thank  you,  Mr.
President,  for  giving  me  the  floor  to  address  this
important  agenda  item.  I  should  like  to  begin  by
thanking  the  distinguished  representative  of  Denmark,
who  spoke  earlier  in  the  debate  on  behalf  of  the
member States of the European Union, and to take this
opportunity to put on record that the delegation of the
United Kingdom fully endorses their statement.
14
As we did last year, we have gladly supported the
Secretary-General’s  recommendation  that  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  be  granted  observer  status
here  at  the  United  Nations.  And  the  British  Group  of
the IPU has also asked me to pass on its full support. I
welcome  this  recognition  of  the  valuable  role  that  the
IPU  plays  worldwide  in  fostering  peace  and  security
through dialogue, in promoting democracy and respect
for  human 
the
development of representative and effective legislative
institutions.
in  contributing 
rights,  and 
to 
The  IPU  already  does  a  great  deal  of  excellent
work  in  support  of  the  objectives  of  the  United
Nations.  In  recent  months, 
it  has  also  provided
parliamentary  forums  on  the  occasions  of  the  fifty-
eighth  session  of  the  United  Nations  Commission  on
Human  Rights,  the  General  Assembly  special  session
on  children,  the  World  Food  Summit:  five  years  later
and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development.
And,  of  course,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the
Council of Europe is also much involved in the follow-
up to the World Summit on Sustainable Development.
to 
That  is  one  reason  why,  as  a  member  of  the
United  Kingdom  delegation 
the  Parliamentary
Assembly  and  leader  of  the  Socialist  Group  —  the
largest  political  group  in  the  Assembly  —  I  also
welcome  and 
resolution  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe,  with  its  total  membership  of  44
countries,  following  the  accession  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  during  the  past  year,  and  our  close
relationship  with  Canada,  Mexico  and  several  other
members of the United Nations from other continents.
the  draft 
support 
The  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United  Nations
emerged  at  a  similar  point  in  history.  Both  shared  a
common goal: to put an end to the scourge of war. The
statesmen  who  struggled  to  make  the  Council  of
Europe a reality took heart from the foundation of the
United  Nations.  More  than  50  years  have  passed,  and
today  the  Council  of  Europe  continues  to  regard  the
United Nations as a source of inspiration and practical
expertise  in  achieving  our  common  goals.  The  two
organizations are mutually reinforcing. The Council of
Europe  looks  to  the  United  Nations  to  take  a  lead  on
global  conflict  prevention  and  human  rights  issues.  In
return, it serves to underpin and advance the universal
goals and values of the United Nations throughout the
European continent.
Tragically,  despite  the  efforts  of  the  United
Nations,  the  Council  of  Europe  and  others,  war  and
conflict remain a global scourge that destroys the lives
and  hopes  of  millions.  Europe  has  not  been  immune.
The  end  of  the  cold  war  brought  most  of  Central  and
Eastern  Europe  into  the  Council  of  Europe,  but  this
development  was  preceded  by  violent  conflicts  that
saw  human  rights  abuses  on  a  massive  scale  in  the
South Caucasus and South-East Europe. No one would
claim that the United Nations has got everything right
in South-East Europe. But it has played a vital role in
stabilizing  the  region  and  in  bringing  to  justice  those
responsible  for  serious  war  crimes  and  some  of  the
worst abuses of human rights.
government 
The Council of Europe has worked alongside the
United Nations to assist its post-conflict peace-building
efforts.  At  the  request  of  the  United  Nations  Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE), the Council of Europe once again mounted an
election observation mission in Kosovo for this year’s
local 
and
Herzegovina,  the  Council  of  Europe  is  supporting  the
work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Representative  by
extensive training of the judiciary. And the Council of
Europe  is  involved  in  the  promotion  of  human  rights
and democratic institutions, economic development and
the fight against corruption across the whole of South-
East Europe, especially through our contribution to the
Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe.
In  Bosnia 
elections. 
It 
is 
about 
But cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  Council  of  Europe  goes  far  beyond  the  borders  of
South-East  Europe. 
the  mutual
reinforcement of a common set of values and goals. It
is  about  respect  for  human  rights;  the  prevention  of
torture;  the  fight  against  discrimination,  racism  and
xenophobia; and the campaign for equal treatment and
equal  opportunities  for  men  and  women.  It  is  about
securing  a  better  future,  based  on  universally  held
rights  and  values.  The  points  of  interaction  are  too
numerous to catalogue in full, so I shall mention just a
few.
As  the  report  of  the  United  Nations  Secretary-
General  shows,  the  last  year  has  been  notable  for
increased  cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe,
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees.  Of  course,  the  Council  of  Europe’s  greatest
contribution  to  human  rights  and  peace  is  its  legal
A/57/PV.55
in 
instruments.  And  when  we  are  engaged 
the
promotion  of  the  European  Convention  on  Human
Rights, we are, at the same time, promoting respect for
the  rights  set  out  in  the  Universal  Declaration.  Our
Framework  Convention  for  the  Protection  of  National
Minorities  is  a  legally  binding  instrument  based  on
principles established in a United Nations text.
Similarly,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  been  a
tireless  advocate  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.
More  than  30  of  our  member  States  have  ratified  the
Rome  Statute,  which  is  now  in  force.  The  Council  of
Europe  pledges  to  continue  working  with  its  member
States in helping the implementation of the Statute.
We also applaud the plan to adopt a draft optional
protocol  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  against
Torture. The European Committee for the Prevention of
Torture,  which  is  one  of  the  most  important  activities
of  the  Council  of  Europe,  looks  forward  to  working
with the United Nations subcommittee that we set up as
a result of the adoption of the protocol. The Council of
Europe, through another of its important activities, the
European Commission against Racism and Intolerance,
has  also  been  active  in  the  implementation  of  the
conclusions  of  the  World  Conference  against  Racism,
Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related
Intolerance.
We have a joint mission with the United Nations
and  the  rest  of  the  international  community.  This
mission is to defeat the forces of hatred and fanaticism,
which are the antithesis of human rights, and which can
lead, as we have seen, to indiscriminate terrorism. The
United  Nations  has  taken  a  leading  role  in  the
international  response  to  the  events  of  11  September.
The Council of Europe’s main contribution has been to
strengthen 
the  fight  against
terrorism.  At  the  same  time,  we  stand  firm  in  our
opposition  to  the  death  penalty  in  these  and  all  other
circumstances.
legal  cooperation 
in 
Nor  has  the  Council  of  Europe  confined  its
concerns  to  Europe.  We  take  an  active  interest  in
developments in and among our neighbours to the East,
in  the  Middle  East  and  in  North  Africa,  and,  through
the  work  of  our  North-South  Centre  in  Lisbon,  in  the
rest of the world as well.
I  am  confident  that  in  the  coming  months  and
years,  the  Council  of  Europe  will  continue  to  work
alongside the United Nations on the  challenges before
us.  The  Council  of  Europe’s  work  is  the  work  of  the
15
A/57/PV.55
United Nations. Our values are the values of the United
Nations. Our goals are the goals of the United Nations.
In  the  Council  of  Europe,  we  will  continue  to  look  to
the United Nations for support and inspiration. And we
hope that we can give the same in return.
(spoke 
Mr.  Toscano-Amores 
in
(Ecuador) 
Spanish):  The  creation  of 
the  Latin  American
Economic System on 17 October 1975 took place in an
international  environment  dominated  by  bipolar
confrontation, in the midst of which Latin America and
the Caribbean sought to equip themselves with a truly
regional  organization  under  the  exclusive  control  and
management of the countries of the region.
for 
In  order 
to  ensure 
themselves  active
participation  and  an 
international  presence,  Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean  vitally  needed  to  assert
their own identity and personality and to undertake an
independent critical analysis. It also needed to set up a
permanent system of economic cooperation, interacting
with international agencies, third countries or regional
groups of countries, and to establish a guiding body in
the  joint  negotiations  that  might  potentially  involve
Latin America and the Caribbean.
As  it  came  into  being,  the  Latin  American
Economic System  set  up  to  create  such  a  space  in  the
region,  because  the  international  economic  landscape
had proved to be adverse to the needs of our countries.
The  international  economic  relations  that  developed
following  the  Second  World  War,  marked  by  the
imbalances  and  inequities  repeatedly  alluded  to  by
developing  countries 
forums,
underwent  changes  during 
the  1980s  and  1990s.
Regrettably,  those  changes  did  not  mean  correcting
those  imbalances;  rather,  they  consolidated  them  in  a
pattern  of  economic  and  political  blocs  in  which  the
decision-making  capacity  was  concentrated  in  a  few
countries.
this  and  other 
in 
the  Latin  American  region  face 
All  of  this  indicates  the  grave  obstacles  that  the
countries  of 
in
overcoming  poverty  and  underdevelopment.  The
conditionality  implicit  in  stabilization  policies  and
structural adjustment programmes tends to weaken the
structures of the States concerned, while economic and
trading openness is pursued in an international market
riddled  with  protectionist  barriers  imposed  by  the
developed countries.
These  conditionalities  and  structural  adjustments
imposed  by  the  international  financial  agencies  have
16
begun to have a harmful impact  on  our  socio-political
structures.  Regional  democratic  systems  have  had  and
continue  to  face  profound  and  intractable  economic
crises  while  social  discontent  has  grown.  As  these
attempts  fail,  the  very  democratic  governance  of  the
region  totters  dangerously;  such  deterioration  cannot
continue indefinitely, because there is a genuine danger
of collapse.
We  must  therefore  ask  ourselves  what  course  to
take  in  addressing  these  challenges.  There  is  no  easy
answer  because,  unfortunately,  it  depends  not  only  on
countries’ striving to find the path to development, but
also on the support offered by the developed countries
possessing financial and technological resources.
its 
is 
Against  this  backdrop,  SELA’s  validity  is  all  the
is 
interaction  with  other
more  necessary,  as 
multilateral 
for  debate  and  concertation,
forums 
especially the United Nations. As has been said, one of
SELA’s  objectives 
to  promote  a  system  of
consultation  and  coordination  in  order  to  develop
common  regional  positions  and  strategies  vis-à-vis
other  countries,  forums  and  international  agencies,  as
well as to promote Latin American integration. In this
regard,  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  system  is
it  encompasses  multilateral
also  essential,  since 
agencies  with 
complementary
objectives at the regional and global levels.
convergent 
and 
reciprocal 
exchange, 
attendance 
financial  contributions 
One feature of the current world order is the lack
of  alternative  academic  and  political  debate.  In  this
respect,  there  is  a  need  for  an  increase  in  the  quality
and  quantity  of  the  cooperation  of  the  Economic
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean
(ECLAC)  in  order  to  develop  better  mechanisms  of
at
information 
meetings  and 
to  SELA
activities.  Above  all,  however,  Ecuador  should  like  to
see SELA and ECLAC pool their capacities in order to
reinvigorate  the  academic  and  political  debate  on  the
urgent need for a fairer and more equitable new world
order,  because  the  social  turmoil  in  our  continent
reflects  a  disenchantment  with  and  intolerance  of  the
current world situation and urgently calls for effective
alternatives to overcome the structural crises that, since
the  1980s,  have  undermined  the  capacities  and  well-
being of our peoples.
Similarly,  complementary  action  between  SELA
and the agencies of the United Nations system will be
important  in  securing  firm  support  for  technical  and
economic cooperation among developing countries that
is  complementary  with  but  not  a  substitute  for  North-
South  cooperation.  This  will  optimize  the  rational  use
of  resources  stemming  from  cooperation  and  their
impact on national development efforts.
The Millennium Summit set 2015 as the deadline
for  overcoming  poverty.  Since  its  endorsement  by  the
General  Assembly,  very  few  tangible  steps  have  been
taken in that direction. Accordingly, it is a priority for
the entire United Nations system to work more closely
with  regional  organizations,  including  SELA,  in  order
to  achieve 
set  at  Monterrey  and
Johannesburg  and  to  realize  the  aspirations  of  all
people  to  economic  and  social  well-being,  a  basic
element in the construction of productive societies that
are ready to co-exist peacefully in a fair and dignified
life now and in the future.
targets 
the 
Mr. Kikaya (Kenya): Let me begin by extending
to  you,  Sir,  my  deep  appreciation  for  the  excellent
manner in which you have conducted this session.
My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report in document A/57/351 on agenda
item 22 (m) on cooperation between the United Nations
and the African Union, in line with General Assembly
resolution  56/48  of  7  December  2001.  Indeed,  the
adoption  of  that  particular  resolution  was  in  keeping
with  our  collective  resolve  to  enhance  the  role  of  the
African  Union  in  all  activities  of  the  United  Nations
concerning  Africa,  a  position  that  Kenya  is  proud  to
associate itself with.
We acknowledge the fact that the development of
the  African  continent  will  ultimately  depend  on  the
ownership of development policies and commitment of
the  African  leaders  and  peoples.  The  cooperation
between  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  is
expected  to  assume  fresh  dynamism  following  the
launch of the African Union by African heads of State
and  Government  on  10  July  2002  in  Durban,  South
Africa.  This 
the
revitalization  of  the  organization  both  in  orientation
and institutional structure. In addition, the adoption of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD)  as  a  programme  of  the  African  Union  bears
eloquent 
and
the 
determination  of  our  peoples 
the  pursuit  of
sustainable development.
commitment 
in 
important  development 
testimony 
launched 
to 
We  welcome  the  positive  support  given  by  the
international community to NEPAD and especially the
A/57/PV.55
adoption  by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  declaration
on  NEPAD  of  16  September  2002  and  General
Assembly resolution 57/7 of 4  November  2002  on  the
final  review  and  appraisal  of  the  United  Nations  New
Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s
and support for NEPAD.
conflicts 
in  Africa  has 
Development  can  only  be  achieved 
in  an
atmosphere  of  peace,  stability  and  security.  The
escalation  of 
eroded
development  gains  attained  over  the  years.  In  recent
times,  it  has  been  established  that  conflict  situations
are  havens  for  the  illegal  exploitation  of  natural
resources.  To  stem  the  tide  of  chaos,  Kenya  supports
the role of the United Nations in the area of peace and
security.  We  fully  welcome  any  form  of  collaborative
mechanism  between 
the
African Union in preventive diplomacy, particularly in
the  operation  of  peace  missions 
in  Africa.  My
delegation wishes to reiterate that Kenya will continue
to  participate 
in  various  peacekeeping  operations
whenever called upon.
the  United  Nations  and 
My delegation welcomes the efforts of the United
Nations in promoting peace in the Great Lakes region.
We  support 
the  deployment  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping forces in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo  and  we  remain  confident  that  the  United
Nations  Organization  Mission 
the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  will  work  closely  with  the
African  Union  under 
framework  of  Lusaka
Ceasefire Agreement in realizing tangible peace.
the 
in 
Kenya has been in the forefront of the search for
peace  in  the  Great  Lakes  and  Horn  of  Africa  regions,
especially  in  southern  Sudan  and  in  Somalia,  as  it  is
our conviction that no sustainable development can be
achieved  in  an  atmosphere  of  war  and  conflict.  I
therefore call upon the United Nations to lend support
to regional and subregional initiatives of conflict early
warning  and  response  mechanisms  with  a  view  to
enhancing  our  capacity  in  conflict  prevention  and
management.
in 
Kenya  reiterates  the  important  role  of  regional
organizations 
resolution,  preventive
diplomacy  and  peacemaking.  However,  cooperation
between  regional  organizations,  including  the  African
Union, and the United Nations should be reinforced.
conflict 
Humanitarian and emergency situations in Africa
seem  to  elicit  a  slow  response  from  the  international
community. Kenya continues to shoulder an enormous
17
A/57/PV.55
burden  resulting  from  the  influx  of  refugees  from
neighbouring  countries;  we  call  for 
international
support in alleviating that burden. The United Nations
and  the  African  Union  need  to  collaborate  in  building
Africa’s  capacity  to  mitigate  both  natural  and  man-
made disasters. Kenya would like to draw the attention
of the international community, particularly the United
Nations system, to the need  for  Africa  to  be  equipped
with  a  rapid  response  mechanism  to  disasters  on  the
continent, especially in terms of disaster preparedness,
prevention  and  management.  We  hold  the  view  that
international solidarity is necessary in the prevention of
the  root  causes  of  the  problem  of  refugees  and
displaced persons, and we urge closer coordination and
monitoring  of  global  efforts  in  addressing  the  entire
range of humanitarian crises.
Kenya  is  deeply  concerned  with  the  question  of
the  excessive  availability,  accumulation  and  illicit
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  These
weapons  threaten  human  security  and  hinder  socio-
economic  development  and  political  stability.  It  is
therefore  imperative  that  the  global  community  take
decisive  steps 
this  problem.  Kenya
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  work  hand  in  hand  with
the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  other
regional organizations to stem this problem.
to  alleviate 
the 
to  correct 
Most  African  countries  are  still  amongst  the
poorest  in  the  world;  out  of  34  least  developed
countries in the world 29 are from Africa. This calls for
concerted  efforts 
imbalance.  The
implementation  of  the  commitments  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed
Countries,  the  International  Conference  on  Financing
for  Development,  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  and  other  United  Nations  conferences
and summits holds the key to sustainable development.
There is no doubt that the process of globalization
and  the  rapid  transformation  of  the  international
economic  environment  have  contributed 
the
marginalization  of  sub-Saharan  Africa.  We  call  upon
the  United  Nations  agencies,  in  collaboration  with  the
African  Union,  to  play  a  more  effective  role  in
reducing  the  negative  impact  of  globalization.  In  this
regard,  regional 
the  promotion  of
economic growth must be encouraged and supported.
integration 
to 
in 
the 
in  meeting 
and 
the  Millennium
Declaration with respect to poverty eradication and the
provision  of  shelter  will  eventually  realize  sustainable
development in Africa.
targets  of 
in 
the  report  of 
Ms. Pi(cid:224) Comella (Andorra) (spoke in French): I
have  the  pleasure  of  speaking  on  agenda  item  22  (h),
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union”.  Since 
the  General
Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  56/46,  and  as
indicated 
the  Secretary-General
(A/57/375),  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  has  steadily
strengthened  and  grown.  In  that  regard,  we  hail  the
leading  role 
in  major
international  United  Nations  conferences.  National
parliaments,  either  through  the  IPU  or  because  they
were represented on national delegations, were able to
participate in making decisions about conferences texts
on sustainable development and security.
the  IPU  has  played 
that 
On sustainable economic and social development,
the  IPU  made  an  active  contribution  which  enriched,
for  example,  the  declarations  adopted  at  the  special
session of the General Assembly on children and at the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  held  in
Johannesburg.  First,  the  IPU  and  the  United  Nations
Children’s  Fund  organized  a  parliamentary  forum  on
children  at  which  250  of  parliamentarians  from  75
countries  adopted  a  set  of  recommendations  and
measures  designed  to  protect  and  promote  the  rights
and  well-being  of  children.  Then,  in  accordance  with
an  initiative  of  the  South  African  Parliament,  the  IPU
brought together 300 parliamentarians from  more than
50  countries 
to  adopt  a  parliamentary
declaration  which  was  subsequently  presented  to  the
Johannesburg Summit.
in  order 
In  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  the  IPU  has
played a pioneering role in combating terrorism. At its
106th  Conference,  on  11  September  2001,  the  IPU
condemned with the utmost energy the terrorist attacks
perpetrated against the United States and subsequently
adopted  a  resolution  in  which  it  invited  States  to
cooperate in combating and preventing terrorism. That
resolution also invited national parliaments to promote
endorse 
or 
anti-terrorism
conventions.
the  United  Nations 
My delegation is optimistic that the collaboration
of  the  African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  in  the
implementation  of  the  development  agenda  for  Africa
The Principality of Andorra, with a parliamentary
tradition  going  back  to  1419,  can  only  welcome  the
fact  that  the  General  Assembly,  by  resolution  57/32,
18
invited  the  IPU  to  participate  in  its  work  as  an
observer.  This  will  undoubtedly  help 
to  bolster
cooperation between the two institutions.
(spoke in Spanish)
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Permanent
Representative  of  Chile  and  his  delegation  for  their
work  in  drafting  and  conducting  the  negotiations  on
draft  resolution  A/57/L.38.  The  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Andorra told me personally that we would be
sponsoring  the  resolution  and  that  we  would  speak  at
this meeting, stressing the importance of strengthening
cooperation  between  Governments  and  parliaments  in
the  international  arena  of  the  United  Nations.  In
Andorra  we  shall  continue  to  actively  support  such
cooperation.
Mr.  (cid:138)erk(cid:154)nys
(Lithuania):  Lithuania 
fully
associates  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the
representative  of  Denmark  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union and associated countries.
I would like first to thank warmly the delegation
of  Malta,  the  country  which  recently  assumed  the
duties  of  the  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of
Ministers of the Council of Europe, for the presentation
of  draft  resolution  A/57/L.23,  on  cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe.  At  the
same time, allow me to express our appreciation to the
delegation of Luxembourg, which did a remarkable job
preparing the draft resolution.
Since  1989,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  enlarged
its membership significantly and has integrated most of
the  countries  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe;  it  has
supported them in their efforts to implement standards
of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
With  the  accession  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina
earlier  this  year,  the  organization  now  counts  44
member States. In this regard, another important fact is
that in September 2002 the Parliamentary Assembly of
the  Council  of  Europe  adopted  its  opinion  no.  239
(2002), on inviting the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
to become a full member of the organization.
The Council of Europe remains the main standard
setter  in  the  field  of  the  promotion  and  protection  of
the
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and
European 
increasing 
regional
organization  and  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the
Offices of the United Nations High Commissioners for
continent.  Therefore, 
cooperation 
in 
continuous 
between 
this 
A/57/PV.55
Human  Rights  and  for  Refugees,  UNICEF  and  the
United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Europe
should be supported by States members of both forums.
The  Council  of  Europe  has  tremendous  experience  in
human  rights  education  and  training  and  legislative
expertise,  as  well  as  experience  in  the  elaboration  of
legally  binding  international  instruments  in  the  fields
of human rights, criminal law, environment and culture
and in the social sphere. It is important that the Council
of Europe legal space be open to participation broader
than only the membership of the organization.
Lithuania  highly  values  the  contribution  of  the
Council  of  Europe  to  international  action  against
terrorism,  namely,  successful  elaboration  of  a  draft
protocol  amending  the  European  Convention  on  the
Suppression  of  Terrorism,  carried  by 
the  Multi-
disciplinary  Group  on  International  Action  against
Terrorism.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  important  to  stress
that the Council of Europe has elaborated and adopted
a  set  of  guidelines  on  human  rights  and  the  fight
against terrorism.
During  the  last  decade  the  death  penalty  has
disappeared  from  many  of  the  European  criminal
codes. For this, tremendous credit undoubtedly goes to
the Council of Europe. Here, I wish to hail the adoption
of  Protocol  No.  13  to  the  European  Convention  on
Human  Rights,  which  was  opened  for  signature  on  3
May  2002  in  Vilnius.  That  document  provides  for
abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances.
Regional  cooperation  can  make  an  essential
contribution to consolidating stability and security, and
the  Council  of  Europe  plays  a  significant  role  in
promoting  regional  cooperation,  inter  alia  cooperation
between regional organizations, various initiatives and
processes  in  Europe,  and  the  United  Nations.  In  this
regard my delegation considers the Vilnius Declaration
on  Regional  Cooperation,  adopted  on  3  May  2002,  to
be  a  very 
important  document,  guiding  regional
cooperation  which  could  be  used  in  other  parts  of  the
world as well.
into 
force  of 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
This year we witnessed the important event of the
entry 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  Also  the  first  session  of
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties 
last
September.  The  role  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in
facilitating the entry into force of the Rome Statute and
its  readiness  to  provide  States  with  the  relevant
assistance to become States parties are commendable.
took  place 
19
A/57/PV.55
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my
conviction that cooperation between the United Nations
and 
the  Council  of  Europe  offers  promising
opportunities.  The  contribution  of  the  Council  of
Europe  to  United  Nations  initiatives  on  the  peace-
building  dialogue  could  be  among  prospective
cooperation  topics.  Exchanges  of  information,  views
and  good  practices  in  fields  of  interest  to  both
organizations at any level should be encouraged. In that
regard, I would like to welcome the exchanges of views
on  United  Nations  matters  relating  to  human  rights,
with  the  participation  of  experts  from  various  States,
held annually in Strasbourg.
Also  in  this  connection,  the  importance  of  high-
level  tripartite  meetings  of  the  United  Nations,  the
Council  of  Europe  and  the  Organization  for  Security
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  has  to  be  emphasized.  We
thus  strongly  encourage  a  proactive  approach  and
closer 
all  delegations 
and
secretariats in New York, Geneva and Strasbourg.
cooperation 
among 
Mr.  Haneda 
(Japan):  The 
importance  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations,  particularly  in  addressing  issues  of
conflict prevention and economic development, cannot
be overstated.
This  year  we  witnessed  a  truly  historic  event,
namely the establishment of the African Union (AU). I
would  like  first  of  all  to  comment  upon  cooperation
between  that  regional  organization  and  the  United
Nations.  The  problems  Africa 
facing  pose
tremendous challenges not only to the region itself but
to the international community as a whole. In order to
address 
Japan  has  consistently
advocated the importance of Africa’s ownership, that is
its  own  initiatives  and  self-help  efforts,  as  well  as
Africa’s  partnership  with  the  international  community,
which supports such efforts.
these  problems, 
is 
for 
tackling 
Progress  in  development  cannot  be  sustained  for
long  unless  the  beneficiaries  of  development  assume
responsibility 
the  challenges.  Thus,
African  development  must  be  initiated  and  led  by  the
African  peoples  themselves.  But  at  the  same  time,  in
order  to  help  ensure  the  fruitfulness  of  those  efforts,
the  international  community,  as  an  equal  partner,
should respect and support those efforts.
The 
countries 
clearly
demonstrated  their  ownership  of  the  development
process through the elaboration of the New Partnership
of  Africa 
have 
20
for  Africa’s  Development 
the
establishment  of  the  African  Union.  Japan  and  indeed
the  entire  international  community  pay  high  tribute  to
them for these efforts and achievements.
(NEPAD) 
and 
Africa’s 
I  wish 
ownership. 
in  Africa, 
to  emphasize 
the  United  Nations  and  other 
that,  hereafter,  all
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
African  Union,  as  well  as  other 
regional  and
subregional  organizations 
should  be
conducted  in  a  manner  conducive  to  encouraging  and
strengthening 
Japan’s
determination  to  make  every  effort  in  that  regard  is
demonstrated  in  its  plans  to  convene,  in  collaboration
with 
international
organizations, the third Tokyo International Conference
on African Development (TICAD III) in October 2003.
Like  development  issues,  the  prevention  and
resolution  of  conflicts  in  Africa  also  require  self-help
efforts  at  the  regional  and  subregional  levels.  Japan
intends  to  continue  to  support  the  activities  of  the
African Union in that area as well by encouraging the
appropriate  use  of  the  AU  Peace  Fund,  to  which  we
recently made a contribution of $200,000.
is  a 
forty-first  session, 
Next, I would like to comment on the cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Asian-African
Legal  Consultative  Organization 
(AALCO).  My
delegation would like to commend the President of the
organization’s 
the  Honourable
Senator  Kanu  G.  Agabi,  and  the  Government  of
Nigeria for successfully hosting the very fruitful annual
meeting of the AALCO in Abuja last July in their role
as  Chair.  AALCO 
regional
organization  which  promotes 
legal
cooperation;  develops  and  disseminates  expertise  in
international 
law  by  organizing  annual  meetings,
seminars and workshops which focus on current issues
in  international  law  under  consideration  in  various
forums  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  bodies;  and
contributes 
the  process  of  codification  and
development  of  international  law.  Japan  is  confident
that  the  work  of  the  codification  of  international  law
will  be  greatly  advanced  by  strengthening 
the
interaction between AALCO and the United Nations.
truly  unique 
international 
to 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  briefly  comment  on  the
cooperation between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU).  With  the  adoption  of
resolution  57/32,  we  believe  that  the  IPU,  with  its
unique  character  as  a  world  organization  representing
national  parliaments,  will  significantly  strengthen  the
parliamentary  dimension  of  the  work  of  the  United
Nations.
stemming  the  negative  effects  of  globalization  or
making efforts to achieve sustainable development.
A/57/PV.55
Mr. Kafando  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French):
The  consideration  of  agenda 
item  22,  entitled
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and  other  organizations”,  is  of  great  importance  at  a
time  when  the  demands  of  globalization  call  for
rational integration of the world’s activities.
The fact that so many institutions have expressed
the  desire  to  establish  organizational  links  with  the
United  Nations  provides  indisputable  proof  of  the
vitality  of  our  Organization,  as  well  as 
real
reassurances  for  us  who  are  its  privileged  members.
Our hope is that through that cooperation, the efforts of
all  those  organizations  will  serve  to  strengthen  the
United  Nations  in  its  leading  and  central  role  of
promoting peace and justice throughout the world.
all 
the
organizations  concerned  under  agenda  item  22,  and
without  intending  to  be  arbitrary,  we  would  like  to
focus our attention on just a few of those organizations.
I should first like to refer to the African Union.
importance  of 
Given 
equal 
the 
In  dealing  with 
To  say  the  least,  the  challenges  confronting
Africa are enormous. First of all, there are the political
challenges. 
the  demands  of
democratization  and  with 
social  challenges  —
challenges  that  are  sometimes  tribal  in  nature  —  the
continent 
is  also  being  constantly  challenged  by
internal  conflicts  and  crises,  most  of  which  are
associated  with  the  problems  inherent  in  devolution
and a State’s exercise of its powers. The  resolution of
those  conflicts,  either  through  preventive  means  or
through 
the
assistance  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that  regard,  it  is
only  right  that  we  commend  the  role  of  the  United
Nations in calming a good number of regional crises in
Africa. It is also important that we note the support of
the United Nations for the democratization process, in
particular  in  the  area  of  providing  electoral  assistance
to African countries.
peacekeeping 
operations, 
requires 
With  regard  to  economic  challenges,  the  African
Union expects a great deal from the United Nations in
helping  it  to  combat  poverty,  in  accordance  with  the
commitments  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.
Cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  will  always  be
essential, whether with regard to the implementation of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development,
With regard to social and humanitarian concerns,
the African Union is aware of the fact that a solution to
the  negative  impact  of  the  major  epidemics  ravaging
Africa  —  in  particular  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  —  as
well  as  to  many  social  constraints  and  problems  —
such  as  those  associated  with  refugees,  respect  for
human  rights  and  improving  the  status  of  women  and
children  —  necessarily  require  partnership  with  the
United Nations.
to  congratulate 
the  members  of 
To  end  my  comments  on  the  subject  of  the
African  Union,  I  would  like  to  take  advantage  of  this
opportunity 
the
Permanent  Observer  Mission  of  the  African  Union  to
the  United  Nations,  who  are  primarily  responsible  for
the 
the
Organization.  I  would  like  in  particular  to  encourage
them,  for  we  know  that,  as  they  do  not  enjoy
diplomatic 
they  work  under  unenviable
conditions.
cooperation  between 
the  Union 
status, 
and 
My  delegation  stands  in  solidarity  with  the
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of
South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union.  My
delegation  has  no  doubt  that  the  Assembly  will  give
draft 
and
overwhelming support.
resolution  A/57/L.39 
genuine 
its 
I  should  now  like  to  turn  to  the  subject  of
cooperation  with  the  International  Organization  of  la
Francophonie (IOF). The IOF has proven its credibility
as a cultural and linguistic instrument in the service of
international  cooperation.  Founded  under  its  current
acronym  just  a  few  years  ago,  the  IOF  has  since
demonstrated  remarkable  dynamism  and  vitality  given
that its sphere is constantly expanding and its activities
continue to become diversified.
Above all, the IOF is now an essential participant
in  the  search  for  peace,  the  solving  of  crises  and  the
strengthening of democratic institutions, not to mention
its  training  assistance  and  its  efforts  at  promoting
human  rights,  among  other 
things.  Strengthening
relations between the United Nations and the IOF, both
of  which  pursue  the  same  goals  and  objectives,  is
therefore a logical step.
like 
to
congratulate  the  leaders  of  the  Permanent  Observer
this  opportunity 
We  would 
take 
to 
21
A/57/PV.55
Mission of the IOF to the United Nations, who are the
force behind this dynamic policy of cooperation.
Given  the  merits  of  the  IOF,  we  are  certain  that
draft 
resolution  A/57/L.29  will  be  adopted  by
consensus. I would also like to conclude my comments
in this regard by recalling that the next IOF summit of
heads of State or Government will be  held  in  Burkina
Faso in 2004.
I  would  now  like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU).  The  Assembly  will
recall that, for the last two years, my country has been
among  those  vigorously  calling  for  the  IPU  to  be
granted observer status at the United Nations. That has
now become a reality. We are convinced  that  the  very
important step we have just taken will serve to further
strengthen cooperation between the two organizations.
As we all know, the Inter-Parliamentary Union is
the worldwide organization of parliaments of sovereign
States.  Its  statute  very  clearly  indicates  that  it  shares
the  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  In  fact,  through
its  activities,  the  IPU  is  working  towards  peace  and
cooperation  among  peoples  and  the  strengthening  of
representative  democracy.  To  those  ends,  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  promotes  contacts,  coordination
and  exchanges  of  experience  between  parliaments  and
parliamentarians  of  all  countries.  It  also  considers
issues  of  national  interest  and  expresses  its  views  on
those issues in order to stimulate subsequent actions by
national  parliaments.  In  that  way  it  is  contributing  to
intensifying  international  efforts  in  favour  of  peace.
The  United  Nations  is  indeed  aware  of  the  advocacy
role  played  by  the  IPU  in  the  search  for  international
security.
Strengthened  by  its  new  status,  the  IPU  will  be
able  to  take  advantage  of  its  special  rapport  with  the
United  Nations  to  further  shape  and  strengthen  its
cooperation  with  the  Organization.  The  basis  for  that
cooperation  has  been  established  by  virtue  of  the
cooperation agreement signed with the United Nations
in 1996, in which the IPU noted the responsibilities of
the  United  Nations  under  the  Charter  and  committed
itself 
the  Organization’s
activities.  The  foundation  for  IPU-United  Nations
cooperation  was 
the
strengthening of cooperation between the Organization
and  national  parliaments  called  for  by  heads  of  State
and  Government  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  as
well  as  through  the  Secretary-General’s  report  to  the
to  continue 
to  support 
also 
established 
through 
22
General Assembly of 26 June 2001, which endorsed the
IPU’s proposals on the role it could play to strengthen
cooperation with the Organization.
It  is  for  all  those  pertinent  reasons  that  Burkina
Faso fully supports draft resolution A/57/L.38. We are
a  sponsor  of  that  draft  resolution,  and  have  no  doubt
that the Assembly will adopt it by consensus.
I  cannot  conclude  my 
statement  without
congratulating  the  leaders  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary
Union,  and 
in
particular, for the results they have obtained.
its  representatives 
in  New  York 
Mr. Scott (Australia): I am pleased to be able to
speak  briefly  to  this  agenda  item  on  behalf  of  the
Australian delegation. The range of sub-items grouped
under  agenda  item  22  provides  clear  evidence  of  the
very  extensive  network  of  cooperation  and  dialogue
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other
entities.  Australia  is  gratified  by  the  constructive
approach  evident  in  these  reports  and  in  interventions
that  others  have  made  before  me.  We  are  also
encouraged  to  see  this  item  serve  as  a  practical
example of the efforts of streamlining the work of this
Assembly without compromising on the content of the
matters  under  discussion.  We 
it  entirely
appropriate  that  the  issues  under  this  item  will  be
addressed in future on a biennial basis.
think 
Australia  has  been  pleased  to  be  a  sponsor  of  a
number  of  the  draft  resolutions  presented  under  this
agenda  item,  including  that  of  cooperation  with  the
Pacific  Islands  Forum,  on  which  the  Ambassador  of
Fiji has spoken so eloquently on our behalf. As one of
two full-time Australian parliamentary delegates to this
General Assembly, I would like to make a few remarks
about  another  draft  resolution,  namely  on  cooperation
with  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU),  introduced
under agenda item 22 (h).
Notwithstanding  Australia’s 
long  history  of
engagement with, and support for, the IPU, Australian
parliamentary delegates to the General Assembly in the
past have expressed caution about the need for the IPU
to be represented formally at the United Nations. This
stems  from  our  belief  that  the  parliaments  of  IPU
member countries are in fact able to give voice to their
views  through  their  elected  Governments  and  their
representatives  here  in  New  York.  That  said,  we  note
that  arguments  made  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution
have  drawn  attention  to  the  particular  nature  of  the
IPU, noting its unique status as an inter-State body, and
have  stressed  that  granting  it  the  right  to  circulate
official documents at no expense to the United Nations
does  not  set  a  precedent  for  others.  We  believe  these
two  points  are  very  important.  At  a  time  when  the
Secretary-General  is  trying  to  rationalize  the  agenda
and  the  workload  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  not
sure  that  adding  to  the  list  of  potential  documents
which must be processed and digested, in particular by
smaller  delegations,  is  necessarily  going  to  help  the
streamlining 
of  United  Nations
administrative  processes  that  we  and  many  others
strongly support.
reform 
and 
Nonetheless,  we  are  encouraged  by  advice  that
the volume of documents in question is unlikely to be
great,  and  by  the  very  strong  support  expressed  by
numerous  sponsors  of 
this  draft  resolution.  We
interpret  this  as  a  collective  desire  to  make  this  new
arrangement  operate 
the
cooperation between the two organizations. It is on this
basis  that  Australia  has  joined  the  list  of  sponsors  of
this draft resolution.
efficiently 
further 
to 
Mr. Huston (Liechtenstein): When we met a year
ago to discuss cooperation between the United Nations
and  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  common  fight  against
terrorism  was  the  main  topic  on  our  agenda.  Today,
international  action  against  terrorism  is  still  a  top
political priority of the United Nations, the Council of
Europe,  and  also  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  and  therefore  an
important area where coordination and complementary
efforts are essential.
through 
We commend the important contribution made by
the  Council  of  Europe 
its  adoption  of
“Guidelines  on  Human  Rights  and  the  Fight  against
Terrorism”.  These  Guidelines  are  designed  to  help
States find the right balance between the requirements
of effectively protecting society and preserving human
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  an  undertaking  that
is  also  at  the  core  of  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations. We are glad to point out that just this morning
the Third Committee of the General Assembly adopted
without a vote and recommended to the plenary a draft
resolution  on  the  “Protection  of  human  rights  and
fundamental  freedoms  while  countering  terrorism”
(A/C.3/57/L.61), 
the  existing
efforts of the United Nations system.
thus  complementing 
Further priority areas of Council of Europe action
in the fight against terrorism complement and advance
A/57/PV.55
includes  on-site  visits  and 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations.  Preventing  the
financing  of  terrorism  is  one  important  example.  The
Council of Europe Select Committee of Experts on the
Evaluation  of  Anti-Money  Laundering  Measures  has
been  mandated to give high priority  to  the  assessment
of the implementation by member States of the Special
Recommendations  of  the  Financial  Action  Task  Force
on  the  financing  of  terrorism.  The  work  of  this
committee 
typologies
meetings,  where  financial  and  legal  experts  discuss
prevalent money laundering methods, emerging threats
and the development of effective counter-measures. At
the 
in
Liechtenstein  at  the  invitation  of  the  Liechtenstein
Government, counter-measures against the financing of
terrorism  were  the  main  topic.  The  acting  head  of  the
United  Nations  Global  Programme  against  Money-
Laundering (GPML) participated as a keynote speaker.
His  contribution  indicated  the  great  potential  for
complementary  action  of  both  organizations  in  this
area.
typologies  meeting,  which  was  held 
last 
The  OSCE,  as  a  regional  arrangement  under
Chapter  VIII  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  has  been
closely  working  together  with  the  United  Nations  and
its  specialized  organizations,  in  particular  with  regard
to  the  global  fight  against  terrorism.  At  the  upcoming
Ministerial  Council  meeting  in  Porto,  Portugal,  the
Ministers  will  adopt  a  charter  on  preventing  and
combating terrorism that  recognizes the  importance  of
the  work  developed  by  the  United  Nations  Counter-
Terrorism Committee and that reaffirms the obligation
and willingness of participating States and the OSCE to
cooperate with this Committee. The Charter recognizes
conventions,
that 
protocols,  and  Security  Council 
in
particular  Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001),
constitute  the  primary  international  legal  framework
for  the  fight  against  terrorism,  and  it  reaffirms  the
commitment  of  all  OSCE  States  to  become  parties  as
soon as possible to all 12 United Nations Conventions
and  protocols  relating 
the
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  and  its  Chairman  have
emphasized  the  importance  of  the  role  of  regional
organizations,  such  as  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
OSCE,  and  the  relevant  legal  instruments  under  their
auspices.
relevant  United  Nations 
terrorism.  In 
resolutions, 
turn, 
the 
to 
As stated in the report prepared by the Secretary-
General  (A/57/225),  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
Center  for  International  Crime  Prevention  continue  to
23
A/57/PV.55
share  common  interests  in  combating  transnational
organized  crime,  trafficking,  corruption,  and  terrorism
in  Europe.  In  addition  to  the  promising  steps  already
taken,  we  welcome  the  suggestion  made  by  the
Secretary-General  to  further  strengthen  cooperation
through information-sharing and better coordination in
the  delivery  of  assistance.  The  establishment  of  a
mechanism  for  information-sharing  on  request  for
technical  assistance  is  an  idea  that  should  be  further
developed. Such a mechanism would reduce the risk of
duplication  and  help  ensure  the  efficient  and  focused
use of the resources of both organizations.
In  the  area  of  trafficking,  the  OSCE  closely
cooperates  with  the  Center  for  International  Crime
Prevention.  The  Ministerial  Council  meeting  in  Porto
will produce a roadmap for future coordination of these
activities.
indications  on 
The  report  by  the  Secretary-General  provides  a
wealth  of 
the  continued  close
cooperation  between  the  organizations  on  the  working
and  political  levels.  Since  a  unique  feature  of  the
Council  of  Europe  is  its  parliamentary  dimension,  we
would  like  to  express  our  satisfaction  that  during  this
reporting  period  there  have  been  also  exchanges
between  members  of  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of
the Council of Europe and high-level representatives of
the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  such  contact  is
especially  useful  with  regard  to  the  assessment  of  the
political and legal situation in certain countries.
The  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of
Europe  plays  an  important  role  in  this  respect,  due  to
its  mandate  to  monitor  compliance  of  member  States
with  the  commitments  they  entered  into  when  joining
the  organization.  These  commitments  relate  to  the
protection of human rights, the rule of law, democracy,
and  protection  of 
the  rights  of  minorities.  This
mechanism  of  the  Council  of  Europe  considerably
helps  to  advance  the  ideals  and  values  that  are  also
defended by the United Nations.
It  was  also  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the
Council  of  Europe  which  strongly  advocated  the
elaboration  of  an  international  instrument  to  prohibit
the  abuse  of  the  Internet  for  racist  propaganda.  The
quintessential role of the Parliamentary Assembly, as a
driving  force  for  new  initiatives,  has  thus  again
produced  a  tangible  result.  At  its  last  session,  the
Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe
adopted  an  Additional  Protocol  to  the  Convention  on
24
Cybercrime  concerning  the  Criminalization  of  Acts  of
a  Racist  or  Xenophobic  Nature  Committed  Through
Computer Systems. This Protocol, the first of its kind,
constitutes an important element of the follow-up to the
World 
Racial
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance,
and  gives  a 
the  concrete
contribution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  to  international
efforts under the leadership of the United Nations.
further  example  of 
Conference 
Racism, 
against 
Mrs. Ninčić (Yugoslavia): It is with pleasure that
I  take  this  opportunity  to  speak  of  the  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  and
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
Basic  values  shared  by  the  United  Nations,  the
OSCE  and  the  Council  of  Europe  include  stability,
democracy and the  rule  of  law  and  the  promotion  and
strengthening  of  human 
fundamental
freedoms. All three multilateral organizations have for
years  been  involved  in  South-East  Europe,  both  in
standard  setting  and  the  implementation  of  those
common values. We would like to focus on the role of
these  organizations  from 
the  perspective  of 
the
experience of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
rights  and 
My  Government  would  like  to  emphasize  the
fruitful cooperation between the OSCE and its Mission
to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, confirmed by a
number  of  successfully  completed  projects  and
activities.  As  a  result  of  this  cooperation,  the  Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia has been actively participating
in  the  work  of  all  OSCE  bodies  and  organs  and
maintains  cooperation  with  the  Office  for  Democratic
Institutions and Human Rights, the High Commissioner
on  National  Minorities  and  the  OSCE  Representative
on Freedom of Media.
My  country  is  currently  chairing  the  OSCE
Forum for Security Cooperation and has been actively
engaged  in  the  preparation  of  documents  for  the
forthcoming  OSCE  Ministerial  Council  meeting,  such
as 
the  Prevention  and
Suppression of Terrorism.
the  OSCE  Charter  on 
The OSCE Mission in Yugoslavia was established
nearly  two  years  ago.  The  Mission’s  mandate  is  to
extend  assistance  and  expertise 
the  Yugoslav
authorities  at  all  levels,  as  well  as  to  interested
individuals  and  organizations 
fields  of
democracy, protection of human rights, including rights
of minorities, the rule of law and economic transition.
the 
in 
to 
The  scope  of  the  Mission’s  activities  encompasses  the
reform  of  the  judiciary,  public  administration,  the
police and the media. In all these fields, the role of the
OSCE  in  helping  our  country  overcome  a  difficult
legacy has been remarkable.
The  prevailing,  publicly  stated  opinion  in  OSCE
circles  is  that  the  OSCE  Mission  in  Yugoslavia
represents  a  new  model  of  a  mission  for  the  twenty-
first century. It was established by the invitation of the
host  country,  confirming  Yugoslavia’s  willingness  to
work with and accept assistance from the international
community in efficiently implementing reforms.
Cooperation  being  a  two  way  process,  we  have
found  particularly  valuable  the  relationship  between
the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  Mission,
based  on  dialogue  and 
full  exchange  of
information.  The  Mission  actively  consults  with  the
competent  ministries, 
and  non-
governmental  organizations,  to  the  benefit  of  all
concerned.
experts 
the 
local 
in 
cooperation  with 
Confidence-building  measures  in  South  Serbia,
the
implemented 
close 
the  Federal  Republic  of
Coordinating  Center  of 
Yugoslavia  and  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of
Serbia,  are  a  distinctive  segment  of  the  Mission’s
activities,  ranging  from  police  training  to  engagement
in  local  elections.  Exemplary  cooperation  has  been
achieved between the United Nations and the OSCE in
this  part  of  our  country.  The  results  are  a  model  of
support in stabilizing a fragile situation.
We would like to use this opportunity to express
once  again  our  appreciation  for  the  flexibility  and
expertise  of  the  OSCE  in  the  complex  tasks  it  has
undertaken in our country and South-East Europe as a
whole.  We  look  forward  to  our  continued  overall
cooperation.
Much  has  been  said  in  previous  debates  on  the
coordination  between  various
need 
international organizations and their missions.
for  better 
The  United  Nations  and 
the  OSCE  have
accomplished  admirable  cooperation  in  Kosovo  and
Metohija, where the OSCE constitutes an essential part
of the United Nations Mission in Kosovo.
However,  as  on  many  previous  occasions,  we
would  like  to  emphasize  the  necessity  of  cooperation
between the two OSCE Missions in our country — the
OSCE  Mission  in  the  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia
A/57/PV.55
and  the  OSCE  Mission  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  This
would  doubtlessly  make  possible  better  results  in
protecting minorities, returning refugees and internally
displaced  persons,  resolving  the  issue  of  missing
persons,  as  well  as  fighting  terrorism  and  organized
crime. For the same reasons, strong cooperation is also
needed  among  OSCE  missions  deployed  throughout
South-East Europe.
Turning  briefly  to  the  Council  of  Europe,  my
Government  wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  of  this
organization’s  valuable  contribution  to  the  promotion
of United Nations principles within South-East Europe.
This is done not only for these countries’ sake, but for
the  security  of  the  region  and  thereby  Europe  as  a
whole.
In  this  context,  we  appreciate  the  role  of  the
Council of Europe Mission in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia.  We  also  welcome  the  engagement  of  the
Council  of  Europe  in  developing  a  proposal  for
decentralization in Kosovo and Metohija.
recently 
recommended 
The  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of
Europe 
the  accession  of
Yugoslavia to this organization. Our country has agreed
to  a  series  of  commitments,  declaring  its  readiness  to
continue  its  democratic  reforms  within  the  Council  of
Europe. Having neared the end of this process, we fully
expect to become a member well before the next debate
on this agenda item in the General Assembly.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  say  that  we  welcome
the overall efforts of the United Nations, the OSCE and
the Council of Europe in assisting the Western Balkans
to become just another region of a united Europe.
Mr.  Khalid  (Pakistan):  This  statement  on  behalf
of 
the  Pakistani  delegation  concerns  cooperation
between the United Nations and the Organization of the
Islamic Conference (OIC) and cooperation between the
United  Nations  and 
the  Economic  Cooperation
Organization  (ECO).  Pakistan  has  the  privilege  of
being a founding member of both these organizations.
The Organization of Islamic Conference is one of
the  largest  intergovernmental  organizations;  its  56
members  and  four  observer  States  come  from  Asia,
Africa  and  Europe.  As  the  collective  voice  of  the
Muslim  world,  the  OIC  has  been  engaged  over  the
years  in  a  constructive  and  cooperative  relationship
with the United Nations, reinforcing common efforts in
pursuit of peace and development.
25
A/57/PV.55
The  OIC  has  endeavoured  to  promote  better
understanding  and  dialogue  between  and  among
different civilizations and cultures.
It  has  taken  significant  measures  in  fostering
peace, in promoting social and economic development,
in combating ethnic or racial intolerance and in seeking
an end to the causes of injustice and instability, which
are a constant threat to world peace and security.
the 
joined 
international  community 
In  the  aftermath  of  the  tragic  events  of  11
September, the Islamic world, under the auspices of the
OIC, 
in  our
common  endeavour  and  fight  against  international
terrorism.  The  OIC  has  been  unequivocal  in  its
condemnation  of  terrorism.  It  has  adopted  its  own
convention 
that
convention  represents  a  comprehensive  framework
with  a  clear  definition  of  terrorism,  while  upholding
the United Nations Charter’s cardinal principle of self-
determination  and  acknowledging  the  legitimacy  of
freedom struggles against foreign occupation and alien
domination.  The  OIC  Convention  on  Combating
International Terrorism offers a useful model.
this  scourge  and 
to  deal  with 
the 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
We  welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General
on  Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  of 
Islamic  Conference,  which
recapitulates the progress achieved during the past year
by 
in
promoting their shared goals of international peace and
the
security  and  development.  We  also  welcome 
effective  contacts  and  consultations  that 
the 
two
organizations  have  maintained  over  the  past  several
years.
the  OIC 
The  two  organizations  have  regularly  interacted
on  a  number  of  political  issues,  including  Kashmir,
Afghanistan,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Kosovo,  the
Middle  East  and  Palestine.  Their  mutually  supportive
role and their determination to promote negotiations to
resolve 
to  receive  wide
international support.
these  conflicts  continue 
Cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  has
also been increasing in a wide range of socio-economic
areas  of  mutual  interest.  It  is  gratifying  to  note  that  a
general meeting of representatives of the Secretariat of
the United Nations system and the OIC was held earlier
this year in Vienna. Another meeting of focal points of
the  organizations  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations
system  and  the  OIC  and  its  subsidiary  organs  and
specialized  and  affiliated  units  was  held  concurrently.
26
formal 
interaction  will 
This 
enhance
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations.  We  are  of
the view that the two sides should continue to examine
ways and means of further expanding and diversifying
their cooperation by identifying new areas.
further 
Pakistan has the great privilege of chairing one of
the  two  main  committees  of  the  OIC,  namely  the
Standing  Committee  on  Scientific  and  Technological
Cooperation,  which  is  known  as  COMSTECH.  The
Pakistan-based Committee is responsible for promoting
cooperation  in  the  fields  of  science  and  technology
among  Muslim  countries.  Pakistan  is  also  host  to  the
Islamic Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
The  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO)
is  another  major  regional  organization  seeking  to
promote  socio-economic  development  of  its  member
States  on  the  basis  of  their  common  needs  and  in
keeping  with  the  challenges  on  the  global  economic
scene. The organization was founded by Pakistan, Iran
and  Turkey  as  the  successor  organization  to  the
Regional Cooperation for Development. In 1992, it was
expanded 
the  newly
established  Central  Asian  States  of  Kazakhstan,
Kyrgyzstan,  Turkmenistan,  Uzbekistan  and  Tajikistan,
as well as Azerbaijan.
include  Afghanistan  and 
to 
an 
role 
important 
ECO  has  played 
in
strengthening and promoting multidimensional regional
economic  cooperation  among  its  member  countries.  It
has  identified  four  priority  areas  for  intense  regional
cooperation  — 
transport,
communications  and  energy.  The  project-oriented
Almaty  Outline  Plan  underscores  the  importance  that
ECO  member  States  attach  to  the  development  of
transport and communications infrastructure linking the
ECO  member  States  with  each  other  and  with  the
outside world.
namely, 
trade, 
The  conclusion  of  two  important  agreements  —
namely,  the  ECO  Transit  Trade  Agreement  and  the
ECO  Transit  Transport  Framework  Agreement  —  has
given further impetus to the expansion of regional trade
and economic cooperation.
The  ECO  region  covers  a  territory  of  more  than
includes  a
seven  million  square  kilometres  and 
population  of  nearly  350  million  people.  The  region
has  immense  natural  resources,  and  its  members  have
the  political  will  to  tap  these  resources  for  the  mutual
advantage  of  all.  With  peace  having  returned  to
Afghanistan,  ECO  can  serve  not  only  as  a  vehicle  for
the post-war reconstruction of Afghanistan, but also for
developing  and  integrating  the  economies  of  the
region,  which  have  borne  the  brunt  of  the  conflict  in
Afghanistan.
of 
transport 
development 
ECO  already  has  in  place  the  blueprints  for  the
region-wide 
and
communications  infrastructure,  facilities  for  trade  and
investment,  banking  and 
insurance,  culture  and
education and effective use of the region’s vast energy
resources.  We  expect  the  United  Nations  system  and
the  international  community  to  support  the  efforts  of
the ECO and its member States in order to realize these
blueprints,  not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  region,  but
also for the world at large.
To conclude, I would like to express our hope and
confidence  that  the  cooperation  of  the  United  Nations
with  both  the  OIC  and  the  ECO  will  continue  to
flourish  to  the  mutual  benefit  of  the  organizations
concerned. Pakistan, as a proud member of the United
Nations, the OIC and the ECO, would remain actively
involved in the work of all three.
Mr.  Kulyk  (Ukraine):  It  is  my  pleasure  to
participate in this joint debate on cooperation between
the United Nations and regional and other international
organizations.
From  the  point  of  view  of  the  substance  of
today’s topic, we firmly believe that close cooperation
between the United Nations and regional organizations
is a decisive factor in meeting the challenges faced by
the world community. Therefore, the importance of the
right relationship between them, as well as an adequate
level  of  understanding  and  mutual  support,  cannot  be
overestimated.
Ukraine  notes  with  satisfaction  the  increasing
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE). Among the major achievements, I would like
first  of  all  to  mention  the  coordinated  actions  in  the
fight  against  international  terrorism.  We  believe  that
the  OSCE  Charter  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Terrorism  to  be  adopted  at  the  forthcoming  OSCE
Ministerial  meeting  in  Porto  will  become  another
significant  contribution  made  by  the  OSCE  to  United
Nations-led international efforts in this sphere.
We  also  believe  that  the  United  Nations-OSCE
dialogue  should  be  further  strengthened  through  joint
endeavours  to  elaborate  a  comprehensive  strategy  for
A/57/PV.55
conflict  prevention  on  the  basis  of  the  wide  use  of
preventive diplomacy and peace-building efforts.
My  country  supports  all  the  constructive  steps
taken  to  foster  coordination  and  synergy  between  the
United Nations and the OSCE, aimed at bringing peace
and  stability 
the  areas 
the  OSCE  region
challenged by security threats.
to 
in 
in  cooperation  between 
In  this  regard,  let  me  also  welcome  the  positive
developments 
the  United
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe.  In  particular,  we
are  pleased  with  their  steady  involvement  in  the
process 
and
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  in  South-Eastern
Europe.  For  its  part,  Ukraine  remains  ready  to  further
contribute to this vital process.
rehabilitation 
post-conflict 
of 
(IPU).  Having 
My  country  attaches  special  importance  to  the
activities of  one  of  the  oldest  organizations,  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union 
reviewed
cooperation between the IPU and the United Nations in
the  past  12  months,  we  highly  appreciate 
the
achievements made to date. We hope that the invitation
to  participate  in  the  capacity  of  observer,  recently
extended  by  the  General  Assembly  to  the  IPU,  will
strengthen  cooperation  with 
inter-
parliamentary organization.
important 
this 
the 
rights  and 
This  year  witnessed  the  historic  birth  of  a  new
regional  organization,  the  African  Union  (AU),  which
assumed 
the
Organization of African Unity. I would like to reiterate
Ukraine’s support for the African Union’s objectives of
securing  sustainable  peace,  stability  and  development
in the continent.
responsibilities  of 
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  strengthening
of  cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  and
regional  and  subregional  African  organizations  in  the
areas of peace and security and political, economic and
social  development.  Ukraine  highly  commends  the
continued  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the
United Nations system in promoting such cooperation.
As the African Union is moving forward with the
development  of 
is
important  that  effective  coordination  be  established
between 
system  and  new
mechanisms  of  the  African  Union.  Particular  attention
in  this  regard  should  be  also  given  to  the  effective
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development (NEPAD).
institutional  structures, 
the  United  Nations 
its 
it 
27
A/57/PV.55
the 
International  Organization  of 
Let  me  conclude  by  commending  the  important
role  of 
la
Francophonie in promoting and expanding multilateral
cooperation  in  the  areas  of  peace,  democracy  and
human  rights,  as  well  as  in  the  social  and  economic
spheres.
The  outcome  of 
the  Ninth  Summit  of 
la
Francophonie  in  Beirut  in  October  this  year  clearly
underlined the importance of promoting the dialogue of
cultures  and  civilizations  and  bringing  peoples  closer
together  through  mutual  understanding  in  the  interests
of  consolidating  peace,  democracy  and  respect  for
human  rights.  I  would  also  like  to  reiterate  the
willingness  of  Ukraine,  whose  people  fully  share  the
values, goals and priorities of la Francophonie, to join
the activities of this organization as an observer.
Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Austria):  Austria  welcomes  this
second joint debate on cooperation between the United
Nations  and  several  regional  and  other  organizations
under a single agenda item. Austria would like to refer
to  the  statement  by  the  Presidency  of  the  European
Union  and  add  a  few  brief  observations  due  to  the
interest and special  responsibilities that  Austria  has  in
regard to certain organizations.
Austria has been actively engaged in the work of
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in
Europe  (OSCE)  since  the  beginning  of  the  process  of
the  Commission  on  Security  and  Cooperation 
in
Europe.  We  are  honoured  and  proud  to  host  this
organization,  which  has  proved  itself  an  important
actor  in  the  field  of  conflict  prevention,  civil  crisis
management  and  post-conflict 
rehabilitation.  My
delegation  would 
the  Portuguese
chairmanship  for  its  untiring  engagement  this  year  on
behalf of the Organization.
thank 
like 
to 
to  strengthen 
The  OSCE  and  the  United  Nations  are  close
partners  in  the  efforts  for  peace,  democracy  and
prosperity.  We  must  continue 
this
relationship.  Today’s  threats  to  security  and  stability
are of such a complex and diverse nature that no single
institution or country on its own is able to combat them
effectively.  One  example  of  the  excellent  cooperation
between the OSCE and the United Nations is the effort
in  countering  terrorism.  After  11  September  2001,  the
OSCE  adopted  two  far-reaching  documents  to  prevent
and combat terrorism: the Bucharest Plan of Action and
the  Bishkek  Programme  of  Action.  Both  require  close
interaction between the organs of the OSCE and those
28
of the United Nations, in particular the United Nations
Office  for  Drug  Control  and  Crime  Prevention  in
Vienna.
As  host  of  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization
(CTBTO), Austria assumes a special responsibility for
the successful preparation of the entry into force of the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT).
Since  the  Provisional  Technical  Secretariat  of  the
CTBTO Preparatory Committee took up its work at the
Vienna 
its
Executive  Secretary  Wolfgang  Hoffmann,  much
progress has been achieved. The impressive number of
signatures  and  ratifications  demonstrates  the  growing
support for this Treaty: 166 States have signed, and 97
States have deposited their instrument of ratification.
International  Centre 
in  1997,  under 
Unfortunately, 
the  number  of  States  whose
ratification is required for the CTBT’s entry into force
is  stagnating  at  31.  We  must  intensify  our  efforts  to
convince the necessary countries to ratify the Treaty. In
this  respect,  my  delegation  underlines  the  importance
of  the  third  conference  on  facilitating  the  entry  into
force  of  the  CTBT,  to  be  convened  in  2003.  This  will
be  the  opportunity  to  demonstrate  our  commitment  to
the  CTBT  and  underline  its  importance  in  the  context
of nuclear non-proliferation.
Austria  appreciates 
the  United  Nations 
the  high  quality  of 
the
cooperation of the United Nations with the Council of
Europe.  This  is  particularly  true  for  the  work  of  both
organizations  on  the  ground,  inter  alia:  cooperation
with 
Interim  Administration
Mission  in  Kosovo  in  areas  such  as  judicial  and  legal
training,  elections  and  the  preparation  of  legislation;
cooperation with United Nations Mission in Bosnia and
Herzegovina  regarding  post-accession  requirements
and  the  legislative  work  with  the  Council’s  Venice
Commission;  and  the  joint  efforts  in  Georgia  with  the
United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia, inter alia,
to  normalize  the  situation  in  the  Gali  sector  and  thus
facilitate the return of internally displaced persons.
Austria supports the ongoing work involving both
the  Council  of  Europe  and  the  Office  of  the  United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, both
of  which  cover  areas  which  are  dealt  with  at  the
regional  level  by  the  Council  of  Europe.  We  are  also
pleased  to  note  that  the  Council  of  Europe  played  a
constructive  role  this  year,  both  before  and  during  the
General  Assembly’s  special  session  on  Children  and
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in
Johannesburg.  I  am  confident  that  the  Member  States
of  the  United  Nations  and  States  members  of  the
Council  of  Europe  will  continue  to  support  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  and  Secretary  General  Walter
Schwimmer  in  their  efforts  to  intensify  the  dialogue
between the two organizations.
Before  closing,  I  would  also  like  to  congratulate
for  having
Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
the 
(IPU) 
formally  received  observer  status  in 
the  General
Assembly  earlier  this  week.  As  a  sponsor  of  both  the
resolution  in  the  Sixth  Committee  on  the  observer
status and the resolution under our current agenda item,
Austria  supports  the  special  cooperation  between  the
IPU  and  the  United  Nations.  By  including  the  IPU  in
its  debates,  the  General  Assembly  will  acknowledge
the voices of the elected representatives of our peoples
and  will  benefit  not  only 
their  valuable
issues  but  from  additional
the 
contributions  on 
democratic legitimacy.
from 
A/57/PV.55
initiated, 
together  with 
As  a  host  country  to  the  United  Nations  and  to
various  other  international  and  regional  organizations,
Austria  has  stressed  the  urgent  need  for  closer  inter-
organizational  dialogue  at  the  policy-making  stage.
Consequently,  Austria 
the
International  Peace  Academy  (IPA),  a  process  to
analyse,  inter  alia,  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  regional  organizations  at  annual  seminars
in Vienna. In July 2000, IPA and Austria celebrated the
30th  anniversary  of 
the  Vienna  Seminar  with  a
commemorative  session  entitled  “Sharing  political
space 
in  peacekeeping:  The  United  Nations  and
regional  organizations,  the  case  of  Europe”.  The  last
two  seminars  focused  on  practical  lessons  learned  in
the  Caucasus  and 
the
improvement of institutional cooperation in the future.
At  the  2003  Vienna  seminar  we  plan  to  take  a  closer
look  at  the  prospects  for  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  European  organizations  in  peace
operations.  We  hope  that  these  annual  seminars  will
continue  to  make  a  useful  contribution  to  improving
inter-organizational  cooperation  to  the  benefit  of  the
organizations and their member States.
in  Central  Asia  and  on 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
29
