United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-seventh session
28th plenary meeting
Monday, 14 October 2002, 3 p.m.
New York

A/57/PV.28
Official Records
President:
Mr. Kavan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Czech Republic)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Aguilar Zinser
(Mexico), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda items 11 and 40 (continued)
Report of the Security Council (A/57/2 and
A/57/2/Corr.1)
Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters
Mr.  Valdivieso  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
On  behalf  of  my  country,  I  would  like  to  begin  by
expressing  our  solidarity  with  the  Government  and
people  of  Indonesia  and  with  the  family  members  of
the victims of the terrorist act that took place this past
weekend.  This  was  an  event  of  great  seriousness  that
will likely attract the attention of the United Nations as
it  discharges 
the  area  of
international peace and security.
responsibility 
its 
in 
The joint consideration of these two agenda items
is not only appropriate, it is also particularly important
to  relations  between  the  Security  Council  and  the
General Assembly. At the outset, I would like to thank
the  President  of  the  Council,  the  Ambassador  of
Cameroon,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the
Security Council. We would also like to emphasize the
fact that this debate is taking place at a very important
in 
that 
justified 
time,  given  the  successful  effort  of  the  Security
Council to adopt a new report to the General Assembly
on  its  activities  that  is  more  flexible,  shorter,  more
pertinent and, so far as possible, more analytical. That
effort  was 
it  promoted  greater
transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Council;  underscored
the  special  responsibility  of  the  members  of  the
Council towards the Assembly, which has been referred
to  as  accountability;  and  contributed 
to  better
functioning of a body whose composition and working
methods are often questioned. The changes made in the
report were the result of persistent efforts made mainly
by  the  elected  members  of  the  Council,  namely,  those
members  whom 
to
represent it.
the  Assembly  has  entrusted 
The criticisms made concerning the format of the
report  routinely  sent  to  the  Assembly  were  always
justified  and  reasonable.  Much  of  that  criticism  was
expressed  in  meetings  such  as  the  ones  taking  place
during  these  two  days.  It  has  therefore  been  very
satisfying for Colombia, which will very soon conclude
its term of office in the Council, to have taken part in
this common exercise. We would like to emphasize the
role  played  by  Singapore  and  other  members  who
always  demonstrated  keen  interest  in  the  subject.
Among  the  permanent  members,  a  special  tribute
should  be  paid  to  the  United  Kingdom,  which  has
shown  great  willingness  to  consider  reforms  in  the
working  methods  of  the  Council  in  a  constructive
spirit.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
02-63587 (E)
*0263587*
A/57/PV.28
As  we  have  said  in  the  Council,  the  adoption  of
the  new  report  is  a  lesson  to  the  members  of  this
principal  organ,  whether  permanent  or  elected,  that
these  things  can  be  done  without  disrupting  the
political situation. It is also a lesson for the Secretariat,
which at the beginning expressed doubt, saying that it
was very uncomfortable about such an exercise.
it  shows 
that 
that 
is,  when 
However,  we  can  only  be  pleased  with  the  new
report  when  it  achieves  the  only  thing  that  is  truly  of
importance; 
it  has
contributed  in  a  better  way  to  a  situation  whereby  the
members of the General Assembly and members of the
international  community  are  enabled 
to  critically
observe the work of the Security Council. The report in
its  new  form  must  now  contribute  to  this  new  critical
vision,  promote  a  more  informed  debate  and  make  it
possible for members of the Council to work in such a
way  that  the  rest  of  the  membership  of  the  United
Nations can examine its work more constructively.
However,  all  we  can  say  thus  far  is  that  the
changes  have  been  of  limited  effectiveness. That  is
why  it  would  be  very  useful  to  continue  making
reforms when possible — reforms based on suggestions
and proposals that are set forth in debates like the one
being  held 
renewed
commitment and solidarity of the voice of the General
Assembly in the Council.
today,  as  well  as  on 
the 
in  document  A/57/387  on 
When  considering  the  last  report  in  relation  to
other  innovations,  we  believe  that  the  proposal  by  the
Secretary-General 
the
codification  of  changes  that  have  taken  place  as
working  methods  is  very  appropriate. This  exercise
makes  political  sense  and  would  be  a  major
contribution  to  transparency  without  damaging  the
provisional rules of procedure.
During  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  the
Security Council has been faced with many challenges.
There has been the collapse of the Taliban regime and
the  installation  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance
Mission to Afghanistan; measures have had to be taken
against  international  terrorism  in  the  Security  Council
Committee  established  by  resolution  1267  (1999),
presided over by Colombia, and the Counter-Terrorism
Committee,  presided  over  by  the  United  Kingdom.
There  have  also  been  changes  to  the  presence  of  the
United  Nations 
its
independence;  the  impasse  in  the  conflict  in  Angola
has  moved  forward  after  the  death  of  Jonas  Savimbi,
in  East  Timor 
following 
2
the  participation  of 
and there  are now new efforts to bring about peace in
that country; and there have been presidential elections
in  Sierra  Leone,  with 
the
Revolutionary United Front as a political party. I would
like  to  point  out  the  first  positive  signs  regarding
general  political  agreements  and  the  beginning  of  the
withdrawal,  which  must  be  final,  of  foreign  troops
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Finally, I
want  to  highlight  the  decision  of  the  committee  on
borders between Ethiopia and Eritrea, and the situation
regarding security in Somalia and the possibility for a
process of reconciliation.
Perhaps it may be too early to give a critical and
wise  assessment  of  these  actions,  but  in  all  the  cases
that  I  have  mentioned,  the  success  or  failure  of  the
Council  will  depend  largely  on  the  motivation  that  it
has  in  the  coming  months  and  years. There  must  be  a
real  commitment  in  the  Security  Council  to  defend
collective interest, and overcome the temptation to act
in  exclusive  ways  favouring  only  national  interests  or
lesser goals.
I  will  conclude  with  a  few  comments  regarding
the  reform  of  Security  Council. The  progress  that  has
been  made  in  Cluster  II  can  lead  to  a  more  realistic
debate on this topic. It is recognized that the expansion
of the Council continues to be a contentious issue. But
if  you,  Sir,  encourage  the  members  of  the  Council  to
hold  a  dialogue  on  more  realistic  goals,  perhaps  we
may  be  able  to  agree  on  an  expansion  for  the  non-
permanent members. This could be accompanied by an
intensification  of  efforts  in  favour  of  constructive
reforms 
in  working  methods  which  should  be
consistent  with  the  overall  approach  taken  to  the
subject as described in the Millennium Declaration.
Mr. Andjaba (Namibia): Allow me, on behalf of
my delegation, to express our heart-felt condolences to
the  Government  and  people  of  Indonesia  and  to  the
families of the victims of the explosion that took place
in  Bali. Our  deepest  sympathies  also  go  to  all  the
countries  whose  nationals  were  victims  of  this  tragic
event.
The  consideration  of  this  item  this  year  is
different  in  many  respects. First,  the  format  of  the
report of the Security Council has been reconfigured in
response to the views expressed and suggestions made
by Member States. Secondly, the two reports have been
clustered  together  for  a  joint  debate,  which  brings
harmony  and  logic  to  our  consideration  of  these  two
very  pertinent  issues. Lastly,  and  perhaps  even  most
important,  this  joint  debate  is  taking  place  at  a  time
when  a  cloud  of  war  hangs  over  our  heads,  and  when
action  or  inaction  in  the  Security  Council  could  make
the difference between war and peace.
It is the hope of my delegation therefore that the
Security  Council  will  indeed  take  into  account  the
views  that  will  be  expressed  over  the  next  two  days.
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate
Angola,  Chile,  Germany,  Pakistan  and  Spain  for  their
election to the Council.
For  nine  years,  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
on  the  Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and
Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council
and  other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  has
been  deliberating  on  how 
the  Council
democratic, representative and responsive to the needs
of all Members of the United Nations.
to  make 
The question needs not be asked as to how much
progress  has  been  achieved 
from  one  General
Assembly  session  to  another.  It  has  become  ritualistic
for  preceding  Assembly  sessions  to  take  note  of  the
report  of  the  Working  Group,  welcome  progress  made
and  decide  that  the  succeeding  General  Assembly
session  would  continue  consideration  of  Security
Council reform through this Working Group.
the  Security  Council.  These 
During the second session of the Working Group,
discussion  with  Council  members  stressed  progress  in
the  work  of  the  Council  on  its  reforms.  Indeed,  some
steps  have  been  taken  with  regard  to  the  working
methods  of 
include
improvements  in  the  Arria  formula,  meetings  with
troop-contributing  countries  and  other  countries
contributing  to  peace-keeping  operations,  briefings  by
the  President  of  the  Security  Council  to  non-Council
members,  availability  of  draft 
resolutions  and
summaries  of  meetings  and  informal  consultations  of
the whole.
These are all welcomed measures adding value to
the Security Council reform process. However, they do
not  address  the  core  of  the  problem:  the  imbalanced
decision-making process of the Security Council. What
developing  countries  need  is  their  democratic  right  to
participate 
of
international peace and security.
decision-making 
issues 
on 
in 
A/57/PV.28
Let  me  recall  that  General  Assembly  resolution
48/26  of  3  December  1993,  among  other  things,
recognized in its fifth preambular paragraph,
of 
“the  need  to  review  the  membership  of  the
Security  Council  and  related  matters  in  view  of
the substantial increase in the membership of the
United  Nations, 
especially  of  developing
countries, as well as the changes  in  international
relations”.
The  resolution  refers  to  the  increase  in  the
number  of  developing  countries,  which  constitute  the
overwhelming  majority 
the  Organization’s
membership.  It  cites  changes  in  international  relations
because  those  changes  make  up  the  agenda  of  the
Security Council and, almost without exception, either
affect  or  happen  mostly  in  developing  countries,
especially  in  Africa.  So  it  is  logical  that  developing
countries  call  for  appropriate  representation  on  the
Security  Council.  In  that  context,  Namibia  stands  by
the decision of the African Union that Africa deserves
two  permanent  and  five  non-permanent  seats  on  the
Council. Africa’s decision that the two permanent seats
for  Africa  will  be  filled  on  a  rotational  basis
demonstrates 
and
democratic spirit in which Africa is pursuing this vital
issue.
representative 
collective, 
the 
Security  Council  resolution  1234  (1999)  affirms,
inter  alia,  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  and  calls  for  the
withdrawal  of  uninvited  forces  from  the  territory  of
that  country.  We  welcome  the  latest  developments  in
that  regard.  We  applaud  the  recommendation  of  the
Secretary-General  to  increase  the  personnel  of  the
United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC), and we
call on the Council to implement that recommendation.
We  look  forward  to  the  report  of  the  Council  on  the
illegal  exploitation  of  the  natural  resources  of  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  express  our
desire to see the Council take appropriate action so that
those  resources  can  benefit  the  rightful  owners  —  the
people of the country.
in 
On Angola, we note the agreement in the Council
to review the mandate of the United Nations Mission in
Angola. It is our hope that all  required  assistance will
be  made  available  to  assist  the  Angolan  people  in  the
consolidation of peace.  In that context, we  call  on  the
3
A/57/PV.28
international  community 
assistance to those in need in Angola.
to  provide  humanitarian
countries  in  the  implementation  of  resolution  1373
(2001).
The successful elections held in Sierra Leone are
only  the  beginning  of  the  consolidation  of  peace-
building.  The  situation  around  Sierra  Leone  calls  for
the  continued  presence  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
engagement  of  the  international  community  in  that
country.
to 
On  27  September  2002,  we  finally  and  joyfully
welcomed  the  sovereign  and  independent  State  of
Timor-Leste 
the  community  of  nations.  We
congratulate  the  people  of  that  country  for  that  noble
achievement.  The  President  of  Timor-Leste,  in  his
address  during  the  admission  of  his  country,  paid
tribute  to  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community  at  large  for  having  assisted  the  people  of
Timor-Leste 
self-
determination.
realizing 
right 
in 
their 
to 
their  right 
He  further  went  on  to  say  that  the  people  of
Western  Sahara  also  deserve 
to  self-
determination. Therefore, the fundamental question we
have to ask ourselves is what did the Security Council,
in  particular,  do  in  the  case  of  Timor-Leste  which  it
needs  to  do  in  the  case  of  Western  Sahara?  Is  the
international  community  showing  the  same  resolve  on
the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Settlement
Plan  for  Western  Sahara  and 
to  self-
determination of the Saharan people?
the  right 
Let me point out that in the report of the Security
Council under discussion, Western Sahara is referred to
only  in  the  introduction  and  is  entirely  omitted  from
the activities relating to all questions considered by the
Security  Council  under 
the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We
ask  that  this  serious  omission  be  rectified.  Namibia
calls on the Council to see to it that the United Nations
Settlement  Plan  for  Western  Sahara  is  implemented.
The  Secretary-General  should  therefore  continue  to
work towards that end.
its  responsibility  for 
The report of the Security Council rightly points
out  that  the  Council  broke  new  ground  with  the
Counter-Terrorism Committee in the degree to which it
has engaged in cooperation with every Member State in
the  follow-up  to  Council  resolution  1373  (2001),
including help to Member States seeking technical and
financial  assistance.  We  underscore  the  need  for  the
Security  Council  to  follow  through,  among  other
to  developing
things,  with  providing  assistance 
4
Namibia firmly believes that all Security Council
resolutions  must  be  implemented  by  the  relevant
parties,  failing  which  the  Council  and,  indeed,  the
entire  Organization  loses  credibility.  But  when  the
Security  Council  unanimously  adopts  four  resolutions
on the Middle East during the period under review and
none  of  them  see  implementation,  what  message  does
this  send 
the
Palestinian  people,  whose  only  hope  rests  in  the
implementation  of 
resolutions?  The
Council must do all it can to help bring about peace in
the Middle East.
the  parties,  and  especially 
the  Council 
to 
to 
On Iraq, the report of the Security Council states,
inter  alia,  that  the  Secretary-General’s  dialogue  with
Iraq  was  renewed  and  that  members  of  the  Council
were  supportive  of  that  process.  My  delegation  sees
merit in that process and urges its continuation.
In  its  efforts  to  make  the  work  of  the  United
Nations more transparent, the general membership has
had opportunities to make their views heard before the
consideration  of  Council 
resolutions.  That  was
certainly the case with Council resolution 1325 (2000)
on  women,  peace  and  security,  and  the  presidential
statement  on  disarmament,  demobilization 
and
reintegration,  to  mention  but  a  few.  Security  Council
resolutions  are  binding  on  all  Member  States.
Decisions  in  the  Council  are  taken  by  a  few  in  the
name  of  all  Members  of  the  Organization.  It  is  only
logical, therefore, that the Council hears the views and
opinions  of  the  larger  membership  before  it  adopts
resolutions,  especially  those  under  Chapter  VII  of  the
Charter, which are enforceable.
The  democratization  and  enlargement  of  the
Security Council should be  seen  as  an  integral  part  of
the  overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  Hence,  we
cannot  open  up  the  rest  of  the  United  Nations  system
and  leave  the  Security  Council  intact.  The  indefinite
deferral of the enlargement and democratization of the
Security Council will amount to the gradual erosion of
its prestige.
Mr. Mbanefo (Nigeria): Allow me, through you,
Sir,  to  extend  the  sympathy  of  my  delegation  to  the
people of Indonesia for the tragic events that took place
in that country very recently.
I wish to express our appreciation to the President
of the Security Council, the Permanent Representative
of the Republic of Cameroon, for introducing the report
of the Council to the General Assembly. I also take this
opportunity  to  congratulate  Spain,  Germany,  Pakistan,
Chile  and  Angola  on  their  election  as  non-permanent
members of the Council for 2003 and 2004.
the  activities 
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  provides  an
invaluable  insight  into 
the  Council
undertook  last  year.  According  to  the  report,  the
Council  held  192  formal  meetings,  comprising  159
public and 33 private meetings. Eleven “Arria formula”
meetings  were  also  held  with  representatives  of  non-
governmental  organizations,  academia  and  the  media.
The  Council  adopted  73  resolutions  and  issued  45
presidential  statements.  Furthermore,  the  Council  held
consultations  of 
the  whole,  considered  numerous
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  and  reviewed  and
processed documents and communications from States
and regional and intergovernmental organizations.
The  report,  which  highlighted  such  issues  as  the
maintenance of international peace and security and the
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council,  represents
the effort of the Council to make itself  accountable to
the  membership  of  the  United  Nations,  in  accordance
with the provisions of Article 24 of the Charter.
Nigeria is encouraged by the fact that the Council
has begun to respond positively to the demand that the
report  be  more  analytical,  concise  and  easy  to  read.
There has been a significant reduction in the size of the
report,  and  more  statistical  information  is  provided.
The  introduction,  which  summarizes  activities  of  the
Council  as  they  relate  to  specific  conflict  areas  of  the
world, is welcome, as it makes the report easy to read
and  the  information  easy  to  access.  We  commend  this
new  format  and  urge  that  more  improvement  be  made
as the work of the Council progresses.
like 
My  delegation  would 
to  address 
the
following specific headings in the report.
First,  there  is  the  issue  of  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security. The issue of conflicts
and the maintenance of international peace and security
continue  to  pose  enormous  challenges  to  the  Security
Council. We note that, while the Council has succeeded
in making progress in the resolution of some conflicts,
as reflected in the noticeable increase in the number of
peace agreements, the Council, in conjunction with the
international  community,  still  needs  to  do  more  to
A/57/PV.28
non-governmental 
make  the  world  a  peaceful  place  in  which  to  live.  In
this  regard,  Nigeria  endorses  the  involvement  of  the
including  subregional  and  regional
wider  society, 
organizations, 
organizations,
international  financial  institutions  and  developmental
the  process  of  conflict  prevention,
agencies, 
in 
collective
management 
and 
contributions  no  doubt  substantially  help 
the
reduction  of  socio-political  and  economic  pressures,
the diffusion of which often leads to violent conflict or,
sometimes, war.
resolution.  Their 
in 
On  the  subject  of  Sierra  Leone,  we  note  the
progress  made  since  the  conclusion  of  democratic
elections  in  that  country.  We  support  the  Security
Council’s  Adjustment  Withdrawal  Plan  and  hope  that
caution will be applied in the implementation to ensure
that  the  security  of  the  country  is  not  impacted
negatively.
We call on the Council to assist in the completion
of the integration of ex-combatants. Assistance should
also  be  extended  to  the  training  of  Sierra  Leone’s
police and army, which would be totally responsible for
maintaining  security  in  the  country  following  the
withdrawal of United Nations troops. The Sierra Leone
Government  should  further  be  assisted  to  establish  an
effective 
political
institutions,  particularly  the  courts,  that  will  ensure
practical implementation of the rule of law.
administration 
civilian 
and 
Nigeria endorses the Security Council’s efforts in
addressing  a  complex  humanitarian  political  and
security  situation  in  the  Mano  River  Union  States.
However,  we  call  for  a  comprehensive  security
arrangement  for  the  entire  Mano  River  Union,  instead
of  the  current  ad  hoc  strategy.  We  commend  the
Security  Council’s  visit  to  the  area  last  year  and  urge
that the momentum be sustained, given the rather fluid
political situation in the area.
in  Angola  and  welcome 
We commend the Security Council for facilitating
the  peace  process 
the
establishment of an enhanced United Nations  mission,
as this will strengthen the urgently needed assistance in
the  peace-building,  demobilization  and  quartering
programme.
As  regards  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  Nigeria  remains  committed  to  the  support  of
the Security Council to accomplish its current mandate
in  that  country.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s
recommendation on the expansion of the mandate. We
5
A/57/PV.28
commend  Council  assistance  in  the  implementation  of
the  disarmament,  demobilization  and  rehabilitation
programme  and  urge  troop-contributing  countries  to
provide troops, personnel and equipment for the much-
needed  Air  Field  Services  Unit.  Nigeria  will  continue
to  support  the  inter-Congolese  dialogue,  which  we
hope  will  lead  to  a  durable  peace  and  crystallize  into
formation of an all-inclusive Government.
the 
international
community should support the South African-led peace
process in Burundi. Meanwhile, we call on the parties
to  give  peace  a  chance  and  observe  a  ceasefire  to
ensure  effective  international  support  in  resolving  the
conflict.
The  Security  Council  and 
On  the  subject  of  terrorism,  Nigeria  notes  the
Security  Council’s  prompt  response  to  the  threat  of
terrorism after the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks
on the United States of America, with the adoption of
resolution  1368  (2001)  and  1373  (2001),  which
condemned  the  attacks  and  established  the  Security
Council  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  (CTC).  The
CTC  has  effectively  galvanized  an 
international
coalition  against  terrorism,  and  this  has  proved  the
determination  of  the  Council  to  live  up  to  its  Charter
obligation  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security. We remain committed to the global effort
to 
combat 
its
ramifications.
international 
terrorism 
all 
in 
and 
these  meetings 
system  of  briefing 
In terms of working  methods  and  the  briefing  of
troop-contributing  countries,  Nigeria  commends  the
regular  briefings  by  the  Security  Council  to  non-
members  of  the  Council,  as  well  as  the  briefing  of
Chairmen  of  Regional  Groups.  We  note  the  regularity
of 
consultations  with
troop-contributing  countries,  especially  the  recently
introduced 
troop-contributing
countries before the report of the Secretary-General on
a mission is presented to the Council. We consider this
practice  a  welcome  development,  as  it  enables  the
troop-contributing countries to express their views and
offer 
the  overall
improvement of the peacekeeping mandate. As a major
troop-contributing  country,  Nigeria  believes  that  the
continuation  of  this  process  of  consultation  by  the
Security  Council  will  eliminate  friction  and  facilitate
effective peacekeeping operations in the field.
suggestions 
ideas 
and 
for 
We  urge  that  the  monthly  wrap-up  meetings  of
the  Council  remain  as  informal  and  interactive  as
6
possible.  We  support  these  meetings,  as  they  provide
Member States the opportunity to exchange views with
the  Council  and  enable  them  to  benefit  from  lessons
learned by all sides.
We  note  that  the  Security  Council  undertook  a
number  of  ad  hoc  missions  to  some  conflict  locations
during the period under review. Nigeria appreciates and
endorses  this  strategy.  It  is  our  belief  that  such
missions  will  enhance  the  ability  of  the  Council  to
assess  situations  on  the  ground  and  to  anticipate,
prevent  as  well  as  respond  adequately 
to  such
situations.  However,  we  would  still  urge  that  officials
of subregional and regional organizations be invited to
participate in such missions. Furthermore, the Council
should endeavour to consult more with subregional and
regional organizations before missions are undertaken.
In 
the  Council’s
missions  to  West  Africa,  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the  Congo  and  the  Great  Lakes.  We  urge  that  more
such  trips  be  undertaken,  as  the  missions  could  be
morale-boosting and also capable of encouraging good
governance in those countries.
this  regard,  Nigeria  commends 
Nigeria  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  thematic
debates in the Council on such issues as the prevention
of  armed  conflict,  HIV/AIDS  and 
international
peacekeeping,  gender  and  peacekeeping,  and  civilians
in armed conflict. These debates have always provided
opportunities  for  the  Council  and  Member  States  to
focus  on  related 
to  finding
appropriate solutions. We hope that such efforts will be
sustained.
issues  with  a  view 
therefore 
We  recall  that,  at  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the
General  Assembly, 
the  Millennium  Declaration
reaffirmed  faith  in  the  United  Nations  and  its  Charter
as  an  indispensable  foundation  of  a  more  peaceful,
prosperous  and  just  world.  It  further  resolved  to
intensify  efforts  towards  achieving  a  comprehensive
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects.
Nigeria 
the
Declaration. We also believe that the Security Council
needs to reflect the realities of the twenty-first century
in order to better serve the interests of our Organization
and  its  Charter,  especially  in  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security. Nigeria will therefore
continue to support the increase in  the  membership  of
the Council in both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent
categories  on  the  basis  of  equitable  geographical
distribution,  in  line  with  the  position  of  the  African
its  support 
reiterates 
for 
Union, which calls for at least two permanent seats for
Africa in an enlarged Security Council.
In conclusion, Nigeria pledges its support for the
efforts  of  the  Security  Council  to  make  itself  more
responsive  to  global  challenges  and  the  yearnings  of
Member  States,  and  reiterates  its  determination  to
encourage  the  Council  as  it  continues  to  improve  its
work methods and discharges its responsibility justly in
the maintenance of international peace and security and
in accordance with the United Nations Charter.
Mr.  Kerim  (the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia):  In  light  of  current  circumstances,  our
discussion on the report of the Security Council for the
period  June  2001  to  July  2002  presents  us  with  a
unique  task.  As  we  review  its  report,  we  see  that  the
Security  Council  is  confronted  with  an  issue,  the
situation  in  Iraq,  which  requires  urgent  and  effective
action that is in full compliance with the principles of
the United Nations Charter.
As  Secretary-General  Annan  rightly  pointed  out
the  General  Assembly  on  12
to 
in  his  address 
September:
“I urge  Iraq to  comply  with  its  obligations,
for the sake of its own people and for the sake of
world  order.  If  Iraq’s  defiance  continues,  the
Security  Council  must  face  its  responsibilities.”
(A/57/PV.2, p. 3)
Eventually, making the Security Council relevant to the
critical issues of the day is the most appropriate way to
elevate its significance, stature and authority.
We  look  forward  to  the  open  Security  Council
debate on Iraq, which has been scheduled for later this
week  on  the  initiative  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.
No  doubt,  such  a  debate  is  necessary  and  useful.  For
the  sake  of  strengthening  the  authority  of  the  United
Nations and  acting  in  the  spirit  of  multilateralism,  the
Republic  of  Macedonia  would  find  it  appropriate  for
the Security Council to adopt a resolution on Iraq that
would send a strong and clear signal.
From our point of view, the Security Council has
submitted  a  concise  and  sound  report.  In  addition  to
this  general  assessment,  allow  me  to  make  a  few
comments  on  some  of 
issues  contained  and
elaborated on in the report.
the 
We have noted with satisfaction improvements in
the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  particularly  an
A/57/PV.28
increasing  degree  of  transparency.  We  also  welcome
the periodic wrap-up meetings of the Security Council,
as  well  as 
the  practice  by  some  non-permanent
members of providing regular briefings to non-member
States on issues of crucial importance.
We commend the prompt and unanimous reaction
of  the  Security  Council  concerning  the  events  and
aftermath of 11 September 2001. Fighting international
terrorism  must  remain  at  the  top  of  the  agenda  of  the
United Nations and especially of the Security Council.
In  this  regard,  we  have  a  high  appreciation  for  the
activities  of  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  under
the  chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Greenstock  of  the
United  Kingdom,  and  its  essential  contribution  to  the
follow-up of resolution 1373 (2001).
We  wish  the  Security  Council  would  assume
responsibilities  and  demonstrate  leadership  in  other
situations  which  have  been  outlined  within 
the
report  —  situations  in  which  the  world  has  been
confronted  by  the  nuclear  threats  of  Member  States
involved in disputes that are apparently of a bilateral or
regional  character,  but  have  potentially  global
consequences.
just, 
Finding  a 
lasting  and  comprehensive
solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  is  certainly  the
most  painful  and  sensitive  issue  for  the  Security
Council, as well as for the United Nations as a whole.
Therefore, we believe that the Security Council should
remain  steadfast  in  its  efforts  to  implement  resolution
1397 (2002), as well as resolutions 242 (1967) and 338
(1973),  including  the  peace  initiative  adopted  at  the
Arab Summit in March 2002.
We  fully  concur  with  the  assessments  contained
in  the  report  on  the  Balkans.  Within  this  context,  we
would like to stress the considerable contribution of the
Security Council  and  the  Secretary-General  to  making
progress  in  the  crisis  management  of  that  region.
Together with the European Union, the North Atlantic
Treaty  Organization  and  the  Organization  for  Security
and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  United  Nations  has
managed to preserve peace and stability in the region.
However, ethnic strife, organized crime and small arms
collection remain very important tasks to be dealt with.
In  dealing  with  issues  related  to  peace  in  the
region and the stability of my country, the Republic of
Macedonia,  the  Security  Council  has  acted  in  a
considerate and cooperative manner. In this respect, we
would like to mention the adoption of resolution 1371
7
A/57/PV.28
(2001).  This  is  an  excellent  example  of  a  quick,
measured  and  effective  response  of 
the  Security
Council  to  events  and  developments  which  were  of
concern  not  only  to  my  country,  but  also  to  its
immediate neighbours and the entire region.
Full engagement of the United Nations in Kosovo
is  of  crucial  importance  in  maintaining  peace  and
stability  in  South-Eastern  Europe.  For  this  reason,
acting 
in  full  compliance  with  Security  Council
resolutions  1160  (1998),  1199  (1998),  1203  (1998),
1244  (1999)  and  1345  (2001)  is  necessary.  The
benchmarks set up by the Special Representative of the
General  Assembly,  implying  standards  before  status,
are in full accordance with this.
the 
It is our deep conviction that the Security Council
should  support 
International  Criminal  Court
unconditionally,  ensuring  that  essential  principles  of
international law are not compromised. In that context,
we fully support every effort made by the International
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  to  ensure  that  all
indicted  war  criminals  are  brought  to  justice  without
further delay.
With 
to 
conflict 
regard 
prevention 
and
humanitarian issues, the Security Council has managed
to make remarkable progress. In adopting its resolution
1366  (2001),  on  conflict  prevention,  the  Security
Council  expressed  its  full  commitment  to  the  further
implementation,  throughout  the  entire  United  Nations
system, of the recommendations of the Brahimi report
(A/55/305)  and 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on
conflict  prevention  (A/55/985).  The  work  carried  out
by  the  Security  Council  and  the  Secretary-General  in
developing  a  policy  framework  for  the  protection  of
civilians in armed conflict deserves our full support. It
represents a substantial contribution to the setting up of
a  coherent  approach  by  the  United  Nations  for  the
protection  of  civilian  populations  during  armed
conflict.
This  discussion  of  the  report  of  the  Security
Council  also  presents  an  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the
United  Nations  as  a  whole.  In  making  the  United
Nations  a  strong  multilateral  institution  in  the  era  of
globalization,  we  must  make  sure  that  it  enjoys
credibility  in  all  parts  of  the  globe.  The  Security
Council has to play a key role in that respect.
The strengthening of the United Nations system is
one  of  the  highest-ranking  issues  on  our  common
agenda. It also implies reform of the Security Council.
8
On the other hand, we must continue to be  aware that
the Council’s decision-making authority is based on its
capacity  to  take  prompt  and  realistically  founded
decisions  and  actions.  In  our  opinion,  the  most  recent
report  of 
the  Security  Council  contains  certain
elements which live up to such expectations. Our final
goal, however, must still be to make the United Nations
a more meaningful, more powerful and more  effective
Organization.  In  order  to  do  so,  every  one  of  us  must
be  aware  that  in  this  situation,  no  one  can  afford  to
behave like an ostrich with its head in the sand.
Mr.  Amer  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  My  delegation  welcomes  this  joint  debate  in
the  General  Assembly  to  discuss  the  report  of  the
Security Council (A/57/2) and the question of equitable
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of
the  Security  Council  and  related  matters,  since  we
believe  that  the  two  issues  are  closely  linked.  The
holding  of  this  joint  debate  is  a  good  start  to  the
rationalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly
and will be an encouragement to the Secretary-General,
who  is  endeavouring  to  increase  the  effectiveness  and
efficiency of the Organization.
to 
implement  some  of 
Certain procedures relating to the improvement of
the  Council’s  working  methods  are  covered  by  both
issues  under  discussion  today.  The  Security  Council
has  already  begun 
those
procedures.  In  its  annual  report  the  Security  Council
provides  evidence  that  consultations  among  troop-
contributing  countries  has  led  to  a  great  improvement
in  its  work.  Monthly  appraisals  of  Security  Council
Presidents  and  open  formal  meetings  have  been  very
useful.  This  year’s  document  does  not  contain  the
voluminous  accounts  that  were  included  in  the  past.
Rather, it contains brief accounts that provide adequate
information  on  the  deliberations  of  the  Council.  We
look forward to further improvements in future reports,
in  accordance  with  part  III  of  this  year’s  report.  The
improvements that have been made were based on the
serious  work  undertaken  by  the  Assembly’s  Open-
ended  Working  Group.  We  commend  the  Working
Group; it must continue its efforts.
The  Council’s  report  refers  only  briefly  to  the
practice of informal consultations, which have become
the real mechanism by which decisions are taken in the
Council. We know that such consultations precede  the
adoption  of  draft  resolutions;  the  decisions  have
already  been  taken  by  the  time  the  Council  holds  the
public  meetings  in  which  the  general  membership  is
able  to  participate.  Thus  Member  States  are  presented
with  a  fait  accompli,  as  decisions  have  already  been
taken in informal consultations.
We  would  like  the  Council  to  further  expand  its
cooperation  with  the  general  membership  and  with
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  in  accordance
with  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter.  We  hope  that  the
Council  will  conduct  a  general 
its
procedures.  Improvements  must  be  mandatory  if  they
are to have a real impact on working methods.
review  of 
is  essential.  It 
that 
is  unacceptable 
Enhancing  the  relationship  between  the  Security
Council  and  the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United
Nations 
the
Council’s  relationship  with  the  General  Assembly
should be confined to the issuance of an annual report.
Cooperation  between  the  Council  and  the  General
Assembly  should  be  further  expanded  in  accordance
with Article 24 of the Charter. We also believe that the
relations  between  the  Council  and  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  and  the  International  Court  of  Justice
should be further expanded.
The  Security  Council  should  be  impartial  and
objective  and  avoid  selectivity  and  double  standards
when dealing with the various issues on its agenda.  If
transparency  and  democracy  are  the  true  foundations
on which the legitimacy of national Governments rests,
they  should  also  apply 
the  United  Nations,
particularly the Security Council.
to 
in 
The  practice  of  holding  consultations  behind
closed doors among a very limited number of Council
members  should  stop  immediately.  Failing  to  take
action 
in  one  single
country —  or  a  very  few  countries  —  becoming  the
decision makers in the Council. This would cast doubt
on  the  legitimacy  of  the  Council’s  resolutions,  which
are adopted on behalf of the international community.
this  respect  will  result 
The Security Council will also perform its duties
better  when  its  composition  reflects  a  more  equitable
geographic  distribution.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement
has always stood firm on this issue, as we believe that
expansion of the membership of the Council should be
based  on  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of
States. We believe that the non-permanent category of
membership  should  be  expanded.  There  should  be  no
increase  in  the  number  of  permanent  members,  as  we
do not want more members with special privileges.
A/57/PV.28
We  believe  that  expansion  should  be  carried  out
in  a  non-selective  manner  and  should  take  account  of
the  limits  imposed  by  the  Organization’s  budget.  We
should  also  focus  on  increasing  the  resources  of
peacekeeping  operations  so  as  to  weaken  the  power
wielded  by  the  strong  over  the  weak.  The  general
membership should be represented in an equitable and
fair manner. Africa does not have an adequate number
of  seats  in  the  Council  much  less  a  permanent  seat,
although  the  African  Group  has  more  members  than
any  other  regional  group  in  the  Organization.  This  is
contrary  to  the  proposal  made  at  the  Harare  summit
that  Africa  be  granted  two  permanent  seats  in  the
Council in a manner commensurate with the size of its
membership.
the  work  of 
the  Council  since 
The  question  of  the  veto  is  one  of  the  most
controversial  issues  with  respect  to  the  reform  of  the
Council. It is no exaggeration to say that it has further
complicated 
the
establishment  of  the  Organization.  Since  the  first
instance  of  its  use,  it  has  become  clear  that  it  runs
counter  to  the  principle  of  equal  sovereignty  among
States and to other principles contained in the Charter.
It  does  not  promote  democracy  but  undermines  it.  It
accords  a  privilege  to  some,  who  then  use  it  in  the
service  of  their  own  interests  and  against  the  national
and international interests of others.
This  poses  a  challenge  to  the  authority  of  the
majority of the Council. We believe that the use of the
veto  should  be  subject  to  approval  by  a  two-thirds
majority  of  the  membership  of  the  General  Assembly.
We  believe  also  that  Council  reform  will  not  be
complete  as  long  as  the  veto  right  is  not  eliminated.
Only  a  few  Members  of  the  United  Nations  will  have
that right and will use it to impose their will on the rest
of the world.
the  Millennium  Declaration  called 
A few days ago, the Secretary-General stated that
no  reform  of  the  United  Nations  would  be  complete
without the reform of the Security Council. Two years
ago, 
the
intensification of efforts to comprehensively reform the
Security Council in all its aspects. This call should be
translated  into  concrete  action.  It  can  become  reality
only through the cooperation of all.
for 
We  hope  that  the  upcoming  meetings  of  the
Working Group on Council reform will give priority to
the key objectives of the Charter of the United Nations
9
A/57/PV.28
in  order  further  to  democratize  the  Council  and  its
work.
have not been given the same attention by the Council
or the international community.
Mr. Atta (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I should like
at the outset to extend my heartfelt condolences to the
Government and the people of Indonesia in the wake of
the tragic events that took place late last week.
We would all agree that the Security Council has
devoted  most  of  its  meetings  and  consultations  to
Africa  and  its  various  political  issues.  We  would  also
agree that the Council has amply demonstrated that it is
capable of bearing the heavy responsibility entrusted to
it  by  the  Member  States  for  the  maintenance  of  peace
and  security  in  the  African  continent.  This  has  been
made  clear  in  the  efforts  it  has  deployed  in  Sierra
Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola,
in Ethiopia and Eritrea and in other hotbeds of tension
in the continent.
This  gives  us  grounds  for  optimism  and  hope  as
to the Council’s determination to fulfil the tremendous
responsibility entrusted to it of settling armed conflicts
in  Africa  and  to  use  its  political  weight  to  support
efforts for peace in Africa.
At the same time, proceeding from our collective
will to enhance the role of the Council in Africa and to
promote  a  partnership  between 
the
continent 
subregional
regional 
organizations,  we  would  like  to  stress  three  basic
pillars that should underline the Council’s approach to
African issues.
the  Council, 
and 
and 
its 
First,  an  effort  should  be  made  to  establish  an
institutionalized and regulated relationship between the
Security Council and African organizations in the field
of conflict settlement and the maintenance of peace and
security in the continent. This relationship would keep
the  Council  abreast  of  the  positions  taken  by  the
African  continent  and  take  account  of  the  limited
military,  logistical  and  financial  resources  of  the
continent.
Secondly,  the  Security  Council’s  responsibilities
should be extended to the other armed conflicts that are
tearing  the  African  continent  asunder,  not  only  those
that are of special interest to its influential members. It
should  deal  with  all  conflicts  in  the  continent  in  an
equitable  manner  that  does  not  discriminate  between
the  various  issues.  That  could  be  done  by  devoting
increased attention to the issues of Somalia, the Central
African  Republic,  Burundi,  Liberia  and  others  that
10
Thirdly, 
the  Security  Council’s  response 
to
conflicts  in  Africa  should  be  commensurate  with  the
dimension and complexity of those conflicts. That will
require political will on the part of the Council that is
equal to that shown in the case of Timor-Leste, Kosovo
and  other  areas  —  areas  that  are  not  in  Africa.
Peacekeeping  missions  in  the  continent  could  also  be
given further attention and resources.
For  more 
than  a  decade  now, 
the  General
Assembly’s  Working  Group  on  reform  and  expansion
of the membership of the Council has been doing very
important  work.  We  are  committed  to  the  position  of
the Non-Aligned Movement and of the African Union,
and we have actively participated in both their working
groups  on  this  issue.  We  would  like  in  this  regard  to
stress  the  elements  included  in  the  statement  made  by
the  representative  of  Ethiopia  with  respect  to  the
African  position  on  the  expansion  of  the  membership
of the Council.
All  of  these  working  groups  have  deployed
tireless efforts to reform the Council in the area of the
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  and  with
regard to the veto right and other working methods of
the  Council.  However,  any  delay  in  the  consideration
of these issues should not be interpreted as acceptance
by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  present  form  or
working methods of the Council. We believe, therefore,
that a number of steps should be taken in order to give
the  expansion  of  the  Council  the  high  priority  it
deserves.
the  openness  of 
Closed meetings of the Council have become the
rule,  though  they  were  intended  to  be  the  exception.
That  affects 
the  Council,  since
decisions  are  taken  during  the  closed  consultations,
while  open  meetings  are  held  to  enable  the  general
membership — whose influence on decision-making is
not  clear  —  to  express  their  views.  Therefore,  we
request greater transparency in the methods of work of
the  Council  in  its  private  meetings  and  in  its  closed
consultations.
Secondly,  the  Security  Council  must  take  into
account the views of non-member States of the Council
that  have  a  direct  or  indirect  connection  to  a  given
issue, in particular when it comes to the imposition of
measures  against  another  State,  in  accordance  with
Article 51 of the Charter. That Article has been ignored
for too long. It is applicable and should be resorted to,
and we believe that the time has come to do so.
Thirdly, the Security Council should further seek
out  the  specific  opinions  of  the  general  membership
when  discussing  any  important  issue.  That  would  add
to  the  practicality,  credibility  and  applicability  of  any
decision taken by the Council.
international 
Fourthly, the Council should address all threats to
international  peace  and  security  on  an  equal  footing.
Certain 
issues  should  enjoy  greater
attention from the Council, which we have seen hasten
to  deal  with  one  particular  question  while  ignoring
others  that  may  pose  a  greater  threat  to  international
peace and security.
Fifthly, all Security Council resolutions should be
implemented with equal rigour. Some are implemented
immediately and to the letter, while others seem to be
ignored  by  the  Council  or  by  any  State  that  may  be
involved  in  their  implementation.  We  in  the  Middle
East have many examples to invoke in this regard.
Sixthly,  with  respect  to  the  Council’s  working
methods and the follow-up to its recommendations, the
Council  took  a  commendable  step  in  establishing  a
Panel  of  Experts  last  July  to  submit  an  independent
report  on  the  violations  of  the  arms  embargo  against
Somalia. A similar step should be taken with regard to
the  grave  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law
committed in the occupied Palestinian territories.
The  Open-ended  Working  Group  has  held  only
six  meetings  over  the  course  of  the  entire  year.  This,
we believe, will not lead to the further progress that we
all expect on the Council.
Mr.  Yuchengco  (Philippines):  Through  you,  Sir,
allow  me  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of
Cameroon  and  President  of  the  Security  Council  for
this  month,  Ambassador  Belinga-Eboutou, 
for
introducing this year’s report of the Security Council to
the General Assembly.
to 
The Philippines also wishes to extend its deepest
condolences 
the  Government  and  people  of
Indonesia  over  the  despicable  terrorist  attack  this  past
weekend,  which  took  the  lives  of  so  many.  Our
condolences  go,  too,  to  the  other  Governments  and
families that also lost loved ones in the attack.
The General Assembly, which is the only United
Nations  organ  that  receives  reports  from  the  other
A/57/PV.28
that  of 
including 
principal  organs, 
the  Security
Council,  must  effectively  seize  this  opportunity  each
the  Security
session 
Council’s  work  and  decisions  during 
the  period
covered by its annual report.
to  comment  on  and  assess 
As  a  whole,  we  find  the  present  annual  report
more  concise  and  more  organized  than  previous  ones.
We  congratulate  the  Council  on  the  changes  made  to
the  report’s  format  and  we  welcome  the  new  format,
which  provides  more 
and
information.  We  further  welcome  the  inclusion  of  an
analytical portion on the activities of the Council in the
introduction segment of the report. Perhaps that section
could be expanded in future reports.
substantive  details 
We also note the deletion of the descriptive list of
all  decisions,  resolutions  and  presidential  statements
for  the  one-year  period  preceding  the  period  covered
by the current report, and we are pleased that the report
no 
the
discussions  on  each  subject  dealt  with  by  the  Council
during the period under consideration.
the  verbatim  account  of 
includes 
longer 
These  changes,  at  the  very  least,  make  it  easier
the  general  membership 
to  gain  a  clearer
for 
appreciation  of  the  activities  and  decisions  of  the
Council.  Nevertheless,  it  might  also  be  useful  for  the
Council to consider submitting, from time to time each
year, special reports, as referred to in Article 15 of the
Charter, so as to keep the General Assembly abreast of
the  Council’s  work.  For  example,  the  period  of  the
present report goes up to 31 July 2002. A supplemental
special report covering the period from, say, 1 August
to 1 October would also have been useful.
Regarding 
the  observation  of  delegations 
in
previous debates on this item that the Council’s report
is not analytical, but a mere compendium of documents
and  activities  undertaken  by 
the  Council,  my
delegation  shares  the  view  that  an  analytical  report
would  be  virtually 
the  highly
politicized  and  controversial  nature  of  many  issues
considered by the Security  Council.  As  my  delegation
has  stated  before,  we  believe  that  the  analysis  and
assessment  of 
the
responsibility  of  the  States  members  of  the  General
Assembly. It is up to us to assess what is contained in
the report.
impossible,  given 
the  report  are 
the 
issues 
in 
We  are  pleased  to  note  from  the  report  that  the
year  under  review  was  marked  by  significant  events,
highlighted  by,  among  other  things,  the  Council’s
11
A/57/PV.28
action  on  terrorism,  the  successful  completion  of  the
United  Nations  Mission  of  Support  in  East  Timor
(UNMISET), the launching of the Bonn process and its
on-track implementation in Afghanistan, and the peace
process and successful elections in Sierra Leone. While
there are an abundant number of issues covered by the
report,  in  view  of  the  limited  time,  allow  me  to
comment on just some.
We  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Council  in
fighting terrorism. In particular, we support the work of
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  which  we  note  has
made  considerable  progress  over  the  past  year.  The
Philippines is committed to supporting the work of the
Committee,  particularly  its  programme  on  technical
assistance.  We  also  believe  that  to  enhance  more
effective implementation by States of Security Council
resolution  1373  (2001),  the  provision  of  technical
assistance would be more than helpful.
We  recognize  the  significant  role  of  the  Council
in the establishment of UNMISET, which led to the full
independence of East Timor. As we celebrate the birth
of that new nation, we join other nations in welcoming
Timor-Leste  as  the  newest  Member  of  the  United
Nations.
The Security Council has a crucial role to play in
finding  an  effective  solution  to  the  Middle  East
conflict, and we believe it must continue to do so. My
delegation  views  the  recently  adopted  declaration  of
the  Quartet,  specifying  its  three-phase  solution  to
realize  the  vision  of  two  States  living  side  by  side  in
secure  borders,  as  a  positive  development.  We  would,
however,  emphasize  that  the  international  community
cannot  impose  peace.  The  success  of  the  Quartet
formula  rests  on  the  parties  concerned.  We  reiterate
that  there  is  no  military  solution  to  the  Middle  East
conflict.  The  way 
through  political
negotiations.
forward 
is 
The Security Council’s consideration of the issue
of small arms is important and should complement the
efforts  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  national
and regional activities.
On  the  working  methods  of  the  Council,  we
believe  that  a  number  of  improvements  have  been
made  over  the  past  few  years  in  order  to  increase
transparency  and  greater  participation  by  non-
members.  Nevertheless,  the  Council’s  procedures  and
the recent positive innovations in its working methods
remain  provisional  and  ad  hoc  in  nature.  The  Council
12
might wish to heed the Secretary-General’s suggestion
in  his  agenda  for  further  change  (A/57/387)  that  the
Council consider codifying its recent changes. One way
to do that would be to adopt definitively its provisional
rules of procedures and annex its recent innovations to
the  rules.  We  also  support  more  dialogue  between  the
the  General
representatives  of 
Assembly’s  Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
the
Council’s  working  methods  and  related  issues.  Such
meetings have proven to be useful and a good way for
the  Council  and  General  Assembly 
to  have  an
interactive exchange on a broad range of issues.
the  Council  and 
We  find  the  Council’s  thematic  debates  very
useful, and they should be continued. Nevertheless, we
believe  they  should  also  aim  at  some  action-oriented
objective  over  a  medium-term  period.  The  Council’s
thematic  debates  should  also  be  synchronized  with
debates on the same issues in the General Assembly, in
order  to  link  the  decisions  and  appropriate  policy
actions  taken  by  the  Council  and  the  Assembly  on
these issues. One such issue that comes to mind is the
prevention of armed conflict. Linking outcomes would
also  be  a  step  towards  more  interaction  between  the
Council and the Assembly.
In the coming years, my delegation looks forward
to a more substantive consideration by the Assembly of
the report of the Council, not necessarily of the whole
report  but  at  least  of  certain  issues  addressed  in  it.  In
that  regard,  it  is  suggested  that  the  President  identify
specific  issues  for  more  intensive  discussion.  That
should  be  done  while  taking  into  account  Article  12
and  in  a  more  informal  format,  such  as  informal
consultations  or  round  tables.  The  discussions  should
aim at reaching a specific outcome such as a decision,
a  chairman’s  summary  or  simply  an  aide-memoire  of
the discussion. This approach would, in our view, be in
line  with  the  intent  of  earlier  resolutions  on  the
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  issues
selected  could  be  country-specific  or  could  be  among
the thematic matters considered by the Council.
Regarding  the  agenda  item  on  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council,  the  Philippines  is  committed  to
promoting agreement on measures aimed at achieving a
more open and transparent decision-making process in
the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  on  finding  an
acceptable compromise on the expansion in the number
of  permanent  and  non-permanent  members  of  the
Council.
As we enter the tenth year of our exercise on the
reform of the Security Council, we remain deadlocked
on  the  issue  of  new  permanent  members.  The  Open-
ended  Working  Group  has  had  some  influence  in
initiating  positive  reforms  in  the  working  methods  of
the  Council,  including  more  open  meetings,  regular
briefings and improved arrangements for consultations
with troop-contributing countries. We therefore believe
that this session of the work of the Group should focus
on  the  main  outstanding  issues  of  expansion,  while
preserving 
reached  on
cluster II  issues  relating  to  the  Council’s  working
methods.
tentative  agreements 
the 
Finally,  we  are  prepared  to  support  all  efforts
aimed at reaching a comprehensive package agreement
consisting of measures relating to the expansion of the
Council’s  membership 
the
transparency of the Council’s working methods.
enhancing 
and 
to 
to 
like 
Mr.  Sun  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the  outset,  I
would 
convey  my  delegation’s  deep
condolences to the bereaved families of those killed in
the  bomb  attack  in  Indonesia  last  weekend.  We  also
wish  a  speedy  recovery  to  those  injured  as  a  result  of
that  attack.  We  condemn  acts  of  terrorism  targeting
innocent civilians and reaffirm our commitment to join
the  rest  of  international  community  in  fighting  such
terrorist acts.
Council 
(A/57/2) 
As  we  have  noted,  this  year’s  report  of  the
Security 
contains  many
improvements  over  previous  reports.  It  is  more  cost-
effective  thanks  to  the  reduction  in  the  size  of  the
report. With the introduction of an analytical overview,
it  also  gives  a  clearer  picture  of  the  Council’s  work.
Such progress in the format of the report is a welcome
response  to  long-standing  requests  from  the  wider
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that
these  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  Security  Council  to
make  its  report  a  more  in-depth  account  of  its  work
should be continued and further strengthened.
Let  me  now  briefly  review  the  Council’s  work
over  the  past  year.  The  period  under  consideration,
from June 2001 to July 2002, was indeed a unique and
busy time. Among other things, the terrorist attacks of
11  September  2001,  for  whose  gravity  no  precedent
exists,  changed  our  perception  of  the  world.  As  the
international community swiftly realized the imperative
need  to  stand  together  in  the  face  of  such  global
threats,  the  Security  Council  rose  to  the  occasion  by
A/57/PV.28
reinforcing the resolve of the international community
and  by  enhancing  its  readiness  to  take  united  action.
The  adoption  of  resolution  1373  (2001)  and  the
subsequent  establishment  of  the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  clearly  demonstrated  how  the  international
community,  under 
the  Security
Council,  can  act  in  partnership  and  solidarity  in  the
fight against a common security threat.
the  guidance  of 
engagement 
With  regard  to  regional  matters,  the  cases  of
Afghanistan  and  East  Timor  stand  out  as  successful
missions.  With  well-planned 
and
assistance,  as  set  out  in  the  relevant  Security  Council
resolutions,  both  countries  have  made  remarkable
progress 
stability  and  democracy.  The
Republic  of  Korea  has  been  actively  engaged  in  the
efforts  of  the  international  community  in  this  regard,
including  by  providing  humanitarian  assistance  and
logistical and other support.
towards 
that 
truly  hope 
the  efforts  of 
(Portugal),  Vice-
Mr.  Santa  Clara  Gomes
President, took the Chair.
In the Middle East, there seems to be no respite in
violence  and  strife.  The  loss  of  civilian  lives  and  the
deterioration in the humanitarian situation in the region
are  of  profound  concern.  There  have  been  both
achievements  and  setbacks  in  the  Council’s  work  to
address  these  challenges.  However,  what  is  important
is  that  the  Security  Council  has  laid  down  crucial
groundwork for peace in the Middle East by setting out
in  its  resolution  1397  (2001)  a  vision  of  two  States
living  side  by  side  within  secure  and  recognized
borders.  We 
the
international  community,  particularly  those  of  the
“Quartet”,  to  bring  lasting  peace  to  the  region  will
succeed  in  achieving  a  positive  outcome  within  the
framework of the relevant Security Council resolutions.
With regard to Africa, it has been encouraging to
note  the  cessation  of  some  civil  and  inter-State
conflicts. Though peace in many parts of the continent
still remains fragile, such developments as the holding
of  elections  in  Sierra  Leone  and  peace  agreements
relating to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and
Angola certainly give us cause for optimism and hope.
The role of the Security Council, including its mandate
of  peacekeeping  and  peace-building  missions, 
is
indispensable to these endeavours. Noteworthy, too, is
the Council’s renewed  attention to the region with the
establishment of the Ad hoc Working Group on Africa
during the year.
13
A/57/PV.28
My  delegation  also  values  the  work  of  the
Security  Council  in  Europe  and  other  parts  of  the
world,  as  well  as  its  continued  engagement  with  the
issues  of  protecting  civilians,  especially  women  and
children in armed conflicts.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  working  methods  of  the
Security  Council.  My  delegation’s  basic  approach  to
this matter, perhaps shared by many other delegations,
is  that  the  views  and  observations  of  the  wider
membership  of  the  United  Nations  should  be  duly
reflected  in  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.  In  this
ever-globalizing  world,  few  international  issues  of
peace  and  security  remain  isolated  in  scope  and
seriousness.  As  the  issue  of  counter-terrorism  most
compellingly  shows,  the  matters  before  the  Council
have  far-reaching  implications  and  consequences  for
nearly  all  corners  of  the  world.  Transparency  in  the
work  of  the  Council  and  the  substantial  contributions
by  its  non-members  are  two  sides  of  the  same  coin,
since,  without  comprehensive  knowledge  of 
the
Council’s  work,  the  non-member  States  can  hardly
make  meaningful  contributions.  Stronger  and  wider
participation  by  non-members 
the  Council
discussions would also further enhance the authority of
the Council in implementing its resolutions.
in 
In this regard, the increasing frequency of public
meetings  and  briefings  in  the  Security  Council  is  a
welcome  development.  The  way  that  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  has  worked,  offering  regular
briefings  by  its  chairman,  is  an  example  to  be
emulated. However, the challenge ahead lies in the fact
that confidentiality still serves as the norm rather than
the exception in the work of the Council and that there
the  openness  and
exists  great 
transparency, 
from
committee to committee.
in 
to  month  and 
inconsistency 
from  month 
My delegation believes that further efforts should
be made to find ways and means to enhance openness,
transparency and efficiency in the working methods of
the Security Council. We would like to suggest that the
public  meetings  of  the  Council,  particularly  those  on
thematic  issues,  be  conducted  in  a  more  focused
manner,  by  narrowing  the  scope  of  subject  under
discussion,  thereby  enabling  the  Council’s  discussions
to be more action-oriented.
measures 
the
institutionalization  of  post-meeting  briefings  and
timely  dissemination  of 
the  results  of  meetings,
include 
Other 
might 
14
including  those  of  the  sanctions  committees.  With
regard  to  post-meeting  briefings,  we  believe  that  the
option of appointing a spokesperson, whose major role
would  be  to  provide  up-to-date  briefings  to  non-
members on the results of each meeting, merits serious
consideration.
Let me now turn to the question of the reform of
the  Security  Council.  First  of  all,  while  the  slow  pace
of  discussions  and  lack  of  tangible  progress  can  be
frustrating,  we  should  not  attribute  this  stalemate  to
ineffectiveness  on  the  part  of  the  Working  Group;
rather, it is a reflection of the tremendous significance
and  politically  sensitive  nature  of  this  issue.  My
delegation  believes  that  the  Working  Group,  the  sole
body  mandated  by  the  General  Assembly  to  discuss
Security  Council  reforms,  still  remains  the  best  forum
for addressing the issue.
Secondly,  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,
both  in  its  shape  and  in  its  decision-making  process,
should  be  guided  by  democratic  principles  and  should
reflect our current reality. The two major questions  —
the  enlargement  of  the  Council  and  the  decision-
making  procedures  —  are  inextricably  linked  and  are
therefore best considered in a single context.
Thirdly, as we have witnessed, a growing number
of States have been playing an increasingly active role
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  have  become
indispensable  to  the  maintenance  and  promotion  of
international  peace  and  security.  In  spite  of  these
developments,  only  a  handful  of  Member  States  are
given the opportunity to fully participate in the work of
the Security Council. This discrepancy lies at the heart
of our efforts to reform the Security Council. In light of
this  situation,  a  greater  effort  must  be  made  to  find
ways to provide as many countries as possible with the
opportunity to serve on the Council on a more frequent
basis.
I  would  like  to  reiterate  my  Government’s  view
that an increase in the number of non-permanent seats
alone is a viable  option  under  the  circumstances.  This
would  allow  more  members  to  be  elected  for  regular
terms, thereby making the Council more representative
and accountable.
Finally,  cooperation  among  the  whole  of  the
United  Nations  membership  will  be  needed 
to
surmount  the  daunting  challenges  ahead  of  us.  In  this
context,  it  is  critical  that  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council  be  carried  out  in  a  way  that  unites  Member
States.
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to
the next speaker, I would like to remind Members that
the  General  Committee  will  meet  tomorrow  morning,
Tuesday,  15  October,  at  9.30  in  Conference  Room  4.
The  agenda  for  the  meeting  can  be  found  in  today’s
Journal.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of
Spain.
Mr. Arias (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): First of all,
I  would  like  to  express  my  condolences  to  the
Government and people of Indonesia and to the family
members  of  all  the  victims  of  the  terrible  terrorist
attack, a scourge of the twenty-first century.
Secondly,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  the  Members
of the United Nations for supporting Spain’s candidacy
to  one  of  the  non-permanent  member  seats  of  the
Security Council for the coming biennium. I also want
to  thank  the  representative  of  Cameroon,  the  current
President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  presenting  this
report.
the 
in 
increase 
The  Foreign  Minister  of  Spain,  in  her  speech  in
the  General  Assembly  in  September,  said  that  our
country  would,  during  its  tenure,  work  in  favour  of
transparency and greater openness of the Council. It is
undeniable  that  progress  has  been  made  in  improving
the working methods of the Council in recent times; for
example, 
the  number  of  public
meetings,  which  are  open  to  participation  to  all  non-
members  who  wish  to  attend,  and  the  innovative
practice introduced by some members of the Council to
hold the so-called wrap-up meetings at the end of their
presidency.  Another  interesting  example  is  that  of  the
meetings in the last two years of the Working Group on
Security  Council  Reform  with  representatives  of  the
Council  members  in  order  to  discuss  aspects  of
working methods.
Also  with  respect  to  achievements,  we  should
underline  the  excellent  reform  to  the  format  and
content of the annual report of the Security Council to
the  General  Assembly,  now  under  consideration.
Numerous delegations, including mine, have spoken in
favour of a less voluminous report that is easier for the
user,  more  analytical  and  more 
transparent.  The
report —  we  are  delighted  to  say  —  has  improved
considerably  and  better  corresponds  to  the  wishes
A/57/PV.28
expressed  by  many  Member  States.  We  wish  to  thank
the  members  of  the  Council  for  the  work  carried  out,
with a special mention for Ambassador Mahbubani.
private  meetings.  My 
Despite  the  achievements,  the  reality  is  that  the
Council  continues  to  favour  closed  meetings  —  the
consultations — and the semi-closed meetings, the so-
called 
has
traditionally  argued  that  the  consultations  should  be
reduced to the minimum number necessary and that an
effort  should  be  made  to  clarify  the  modalities  and
criteria  for  the  participation  of  non-member  States  in
the private meetings.
delegation 
The  question  of  working  methods  is  not  a  futile
discussion.  We  are  convinced  that  one  of  the  ways  to
make  the  Security  Council  more  effective  lies  in
carrying improvements in this area further.
As  has  been  noted  on  various  occasions,
including at the Millennium Summit, the great majority
of Members of the Organization desire a reform of the
Security Council that will make it a more efficient and
more participative organ. A reform of that kind can be
carried  out  only  if  there  is  consensus  on  the  elements
such a reform consists of. The Millennium Declaration
echoes  this  need  when  it  calls  on  all  to  carry  out  a
comprehensive reform of the Security Council in all its
aspects.  The  clarity  of  the  Declaration  is  obvious  and
completely  excludes  any  partial  focus.  Unfortunately,
we are still far from reaching consensus on the various
aspects  of  reform,  and,  therefore,  discussions  in  the
Working  Group  of  the  General  Assembly  should
continue.
One of the key aspects of reform is the decision-
making process in the Council, including the veto. The
question  of  the  veto  is  an  essential  aspect  of  Council
reform. It is of prime importance. The great majority of
States  unhesitatingly  wish 
this  unparalleled
instrument  of  power  be  eliminated  or  —  if  nothing
else — reduced in scope.
that 
However, we know that our ambition is somewhat
illusory. Those possessing the veto power are unlikely
to  surrender  it,  even  partially.  We  also  know  that  the
status of permanent member is inexorably linked to the
veto power. Bearing that in mind, an obvious question
must once more be asked: do we realize — in 2002, 57
years  after  the  last  war  —  what  it  would  mean  to
increase  the  number  of  permanent  members,  based  on
more  than  debatable  criteria,  in  addition  to  granting
them the all-powerful prerogative of being able to veto
15
A/57/PV.28
the  Council?  Can  we, 
any  resolution  of 
today,
collectively and bitterly lament that the United Nations
has  been  prevented  from  acting  because  the  vote  of  a
single  member  has  paralyzed  it,  and  then  tomorrow
grant that same paralyzing power to another handful of
chosen States?
it 
in 
relates 
to  an 
increase 
The  veto  is  a  crucial  element  of  reform,  in
particular  as 
the
membership. When, in the twenty-first century, there is
a  demand  among  Members  to  abolish  an  existing
power,  it  is,  to  say  the  least,  strange  that  we  should
grant  that  power  to  yet  another  group  of  countries.
Aside from acting paradoxically, we would be creating
a  new  class  of  privileged  States,  poorly  serving  the
United Nations.
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  I  cannot  begin
today  without  expressing  to  the  Indonesian  authorities
our profound shock and grief at what happened in Bali.
We  condemn  the  bombing  in  the  strongest  terms.  Our
thoughts and prayers are with those families who have
lost their loved ones.
We  owe  sincere  thanks  to  Ambassador  Martin
Belinga-Eboutou  for  his  presentation  of  the  annual
report of the Security Council (A/57/2).
This  year’s  report,  as  has  been  stated,  marks  a
notable  improvement  in  trying  to  be  more  than  just  a
reference  document.  We  view  the  editorial  changes
favourably. We would suggest further rationalization of
the  contents  through  the  elimination  of  all  sections
containing  records  of  meetings  and  catalogues  of
documents.  If  deemed  necessary,  a  separate  volume,
which  would  not  duplicate  the  repertoire,  could  be
considered.
The  objective  of  this  debate  is  to  exchange
information, to share views and to deliberate on policy
orientation on international peace and  security.  In  that
context,  we  find  the  introduction  to  the  report  of
particular 
initiative.
the  general
Nevertheless, 
membership has long been asking for. The introduction
does  not  go  beyond  what  we  read  in  individual
presidential assessment reports.
it  falls  short  of  what 
laudable 
interest. 
is  a 
It 
While on the Council, Bangladesh had wished for
a  report  that  would  serve  the  purpose  of  a  dialogue
between  the  Council  and  the  Assembly.  The  idea  we
pursued  was  to  have  a  substantive  report  that  would
present  an  analysis  of  issues  before  the  Council,  the
16
difficulties  confronted  in  resolving  ongoing  conflicts,
the  challenges  of  prevention  and  the  tasks  of  peace-
building.
It 
and 
from 
security. 
analysis, 
cannot  discharge 
information 
the 
and 
implementation  of 
To that end, we suggested that the report include,
specific
apart 
recommendations  on 
its
resolutions and decisions. The Council has the primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace 
that
responsibility  alone.  Given  the  complexity  of  today’s
conflicts  and  other  threats  to  international  peace  and
security, the Council’s efforts require the support of the
Assembly  and  other  organs,  funds,  programmes  and
agencies. The Bretton Woods institutions, regional and
subregional  organizations, 
the  non-governmental
organizations and the private sector are also important
players  and  stakeholders.  There  is  need,  and  certainly
the  scope, 
to  further  strengthen  cooperation  and
coordination with those stakeholders.
The  decisions  of  the  Security  Council  affect
Member  States.  We  would  have  liked  the  Council  to
tell  us,  for  instance,  about  non-compliance  with  its
resolutions, the violation of sanctions and the impact of
sanctions on third countries.
the  Security  Council 
For  the  next  session,  we  would  expect  the
President  of 
to  present  a
substantive  report  —  just  like  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  —
highlighting the issues the  Council  addressed  over  the
reporting  year,  presenting  the  challenges  ahead  and
calling 
for
implementation  of  its  resolutions  and  decisions.  The
report  should  cover  the  period  from  October  to
September,  given  that  the  Security  Council  report  is
considered in mid-October.
required 
specific 
support 
the 
for 
Let  me  share  some  of  our  specific  ideas  and
concerns  with  regard  to  the  Council’s  functioning.
First, with respect to the Council’s relationship with the
General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council: as we have suggested on other occasions, the
General Assembly and the Security Council could hold
quarterly meetings for review of the implementation of
Council  decisions.  The  areas  of  cooperation  and
coordination  might  be  identified  and  worked  out  by
their  respective  offices 
the
Secretariat.  The  General  Assembly  President  might
have with him five members of his Bureau representing
the  five  electoral  groups.  The  Security  Council
in  coordination  with 
likewise  might  have 
five  members
President 
representing 
similar
institutional  arrangement  might  be  envisaged  for
coordination with the Economic and Social Council.
electoral  groups.  A 
five 
Secondly,  as  regards  openness  and  participation,
Council  meetings  should  be  held  in  public  or  private
formats, depending on the need for confidentiality. The
use  of  informal  consultations  should  be  restricted  to
exceptionally sensitive cases. When the agenda item so
requires,  the  Council  should  meet  with  the  active
participation  of  non-members  and  other  stakeholders,
the  United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and  agencies
and 
their
deliberations.  Further  ways  and  means  should  be
explored to involve non-governmental organizations in
the  Council’s  work.  We  have  supported  increased
recourse  to  orientation  debates  for  the  purpose.  The
Council  might  hold  more  Arria-formula  meetings  to
exchange  views  with  civil  society  organizations,
including  non-governmental  organizations  and  think
tanks.
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions, 
in 
regret 
to 
the 
last-minute  pro 
the  Council  and 
instead  of 
the 
Thirdly, on the Council’s relationship with troop-
contributing  countries,  we  note  with 
the
continuation  of  the  practice  of  pro  forma  meetings.
Bangladesh proposed the holding of periodic meetings
troop-contributing
between 
countries, 
forma
renewal  of
meetings  called  generally  prior 
peacekeeping  mandates.  Such  meetings  convened
under the terms of Council resolutions 1327 (2000) and
1353 
for  sustained
exchange, review of implementation of the mandate of
missions and discussion of any difficulties faced by the
missions.  These  periodic  meetings  would  allow  for
better reflection of the concerns and positions of troop-
contributing countries in Council decisions.
(2001)  would  be 
important 
Fourthly,  we  recognize  the  extremely  valuable
contribution  made  by  groups  of  friends  in  drafting
Council  resolutions.  In  the  current  practice,  Council
members  not  represented  on  any  of  these  groups  are
virtually  excluded  from  the  decision-making  process.
There should be an official list, with the composition of
the  various  groups  of  friends,  however  informal  they
may  be.  The  list  of  the  groups  of  friends  should  be
posted on the United Nations web site.
Fifthly,  on  relating  procedural  improvements  to
substantive action, besides the specific suggestions, we
have  stressed  the  need  to  relate  procedural  reforms  to
A/57/PV.28
those  of  substance.  First,  the  Council  should  function
in  such  a  way  as  not  to  invite  the  criticism  of  “doing
too little, too late” as has, at times, been the case. The
Council should be proactive rather then reactive, as has
sadly been the case in recent times. The Council should
address  issues  more  on  the  basis  of  developments
rather  than  as  calendar  events  determined  by  the
submission of reports or expiry of mandates.
We  note  with  satisfaction  a  positive  evolution  in
the  Council’s  perception  of  peace  and  security.  The
challenge  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and
security  is  increasingly  recognized  as  a  continuing
process  requiring  a  comprehensive  approach  and
involving all stakeholders.
taken  by 
the  position 
Finally,  on  the  issue  of  expansion,  Bangladesh
shares 
the  Non-Aligned
Movement.  We  hold  the  view  that  both  reform  and
expansion of the Security Council should be considered
as integral parts of a common package. We support an
increase in the membership of the Security Council by
not  less  than  11,  based  on  the  principles  of  equitable
geographical  distribution  and  sovereign  equality  of
States.
The  objective  of  reform  remains  to  enhance
transparency, accountability and democratization in the
decision-making  process  of  the  Security  Council.  We
are not in  favour of any partial  or  selective  expansion
or  enlargement  of  the  membership  to  the  detriment  of
developing countries.
We also believe that the Council should function
more as a rule-based organ in accordance with Charter
provisions.  The  principle  and 
the  objective  of
collective  security  should  be  upheld  in  its  action  in
every case.
All  these  principles  have  been  stated  time  and
again.  But  the  process  remains  stalled  in  the  Working
Group.  The  United  Nations  has  accomplished
significant reforms in past years. After his track 1 and
track  2  reforms,  the  Secretary-General  has  launched  a
further programme of revitalization and rationalization
of 
remain
incomplete  without  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It
is  time  we  thought  of  ways  and  means  to  engage  in
serious negotiations on core issues and lead the reform
process to a conclusion.
the  Organization.  The  process  will 
Bangladesh  attaches  the  greatest  importance  to
the peace and security mission of the Organization and
17
A/57/PV.28
to 
to  contribute 
the role of the Security Council in the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security.  We  have  made  every
effort 
that  mission.  We  have
demonstrated our commitment by extending the fullest
cooperation to the Council, by contributing to positive,
proactive and constructive decision-making directly as
a member in 2000 and 2001, and by contributing troops
and  other  personnel 
to  United  Nations  peace
operations, irrespective of risks and uncertainties.
The overarching goal of reform and expansion of
the  Security  Council  for  us  is  to  make  the  Council
more  balanced,  representative  and  effective.  There
have been major breaches of the peace across the world
in the past two decades. The Security Council has not
always  been  effective.  It  has  remained  stymied.  It  has
been  accused  of  employing  double  standards.  There
have been wars between, but mostly within, States. The
humanitarian  consequences 
though
differing in extent and magnitude, have been appalling.
The impact on the economies of the affected countries,
almost  all  of  them  developing  nations,  has  been
disastrous.  The  cost  of  these  wars  for  third  countries
and,  in  general,  for  the  international  community  has
also been enormous.
in  each  case, 
All these conflicts have been senseless. All these
expenditures  could,  and  should,  have  been  avoided.  It
should  be  our  common  endeavour  to  pursue  the
Charter’s  objective  of 
“international
machinery  for  the  promotion  of  the  economic  and
social advancement of all peoples”.
employing 
But when a sizeable portion of global resources is
spent  on  armed  conflicts,  this  aim  remains  seriously
jeopardized. If the Security Council fails to address this
phenomenon, the vision of the founding fathers of this
Organization will remain unrealized.
I  wish 
Mr.  Listre  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):
Firstly, 
the
Government  and  people  of  Indonesia  for  the  savage
terrorist  attack  that  took  place  in  Bali  on  2  October,
which we condemn most vigorously.
to  express  condolences 
to 
This year we have decided to have a joint debate
of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General  Assembly  and  the  question  of  reform  of  the
Security  Council.  It  is  the  right  thing  to  do,  because
both subjects have a common denominator that, I think,
is an objective all of us here share — namely, to have a
more  transparent  Security  Council  in  its  working
methods, more representative in its composition, more
18
democratic  in  its  decision-making  process  and  more
accountable 
the  United  Nations
membership for its actions.
rest  of 
the 
to 
Ambassador  Belinga-Eboutou  of  Cameroon,  in
his  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security  Council,
introduced the Council’s report, contained in document
A/57/2.  Here  we  want  to  emphasize  an  important
positive point — last year’s debate was not in vain; the
Council  adopted  a  receptive  and  positive  attitude.  It
took into account the Assembly’s criticism concerning
the format and substance of the report and produced a
shorter and more useful one. In this respect, we want to
praise the role played by the non-permanent members,
its  Permanent
and 
Representative,  my  friend, 
indefatigable  and
intelligent  Ambassador  Kishore  Mahbubani.  It  is  also
worth noting that, for the first time, the report contains
an  introduction  with  an  analytical  summary.  In  this
respect,  we  appreciate  the  contribution  made  by  the
United Kingdom.
in  particular,  Singapore  and 
the 
There is no doubt  that  the  report  can  and  should
be  improved.  For  the  most  part,  it  continues  to  be  a
formal  description  of  events  that  does  little  justice  to
the  substantive  work  carried  out  by  the  Council.
Nevertheless, we believe that a first step has been taken
in the right direction. That step should be encouraged.
In 
this  connection,  we  support 
With  regard  to  transparency,  we  are  grateful  to
the  Secretariat  for 
the  preparation  of  document
S/2002/603, which illustrates the positive development
in the working methods of the Council during the past
few  years. 
the
suggestion made by the Secretary-General in his report
on the strengthening of the United Nations (A/57/387)
concerning codification of those practices. Contrary to
the  views  expressed  by  some  permanent  members
during the public meeting of 26 September, we do not
believe  that  such  codification  would  work  against
pragmatism  and  dynamism  in  the  Council’s  work.  On
the  contrary,  it  would  improve  the  legal  soundness  of
procedures  and  contribute  to  diminishing  the  margin
for  discretion,  especially 
the  permanent
members. Those members constitute the sole repository
of  the  Council’s  institutional  memory  and,  on  more
than  one  occasion,  have  invoked  precedents  that  the
non-permanent  members  are  at  a  loss  to  recall.  We
believe that, after 57 years, it is time for the Council’s
rules of procedure to cease being provisional.
that  of 
There  is  no  doubt  that  there  has  been  progress.
Today  we  have  a  Council  that  is  a  little  more
transparent  than  it  was  10  years  ago.  Nevertheless,
there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  As  the  report  itself
points  out,  most  of  the  Council’s  substantive  work
takes  place  in  informal  consultations.  Public  meetings
therefore serve as a rubber stamp for what is negotiated
and agreed upon behind closed doors. Having said that,
we are aware of the fact that informal consultations are
a  reality  in  the  work  of  the  Council.  Faced  with  that
reality,  we  must  act,  first  to  reduce  the  number  of
informal consultations and, secondly, to allow access to
consultations,  under  specific  circumstances,  to  a  State
party to a conflict that is not a member of the Council.
We  believe  that  Articles  31  and  32  of  the  Charter
provide  an  adequate  legal  basis  for  doing  so.  The
participation of interested States should not hinder the
Council’s decision-making process. On the contrary, it
would 
and  political
legitimacy of the decisions adopted by the Council.
transparency 
increase 
the 
to 
in 
the 
issue  of 
Also  with  regard 
informal
consultations,  we  would  like  to  recall  the  Argentine
proposal  put  forth  in  the  note  by  the  President  of  the
Council  (S/2000/155),  which  was 
issued  on  28
February  2000.  That  proposal  would  invite  newly
elected  members 
the  Council’s
informal  consultations  during  the  month  immediately
preceding  their  term  of  membership.  That  proposal
would  guarantee  greater  transparency  and  make  it
possible for new members to acquaint themselves with
the Council’s practices in informal consultations.
to  participate 
The last few weeks have done little to contribute
to  transparency  in  the  Council.  We  have  all  witnessed
how  discussions  about  issues  crucial  to  international
peace  and  security  that  affect  basic  principles  of
international law, and that may seriously affect the very
existence of the United Nations, take place exclusively
among the permanent members of the Council. It seems
that the elected members of the Council and the rest of
us  only  have  the  right  to  be  informed  through  the
newspapers. We have recently read that proposals have
been  made  to  include  in  the  text  of  a  resolution  an
unacceptable  and  discriminatory  distinction  between
the  powers  of  permanent  and  elected  members,
something that runs counter to the letter and the spirit
of the Charter.
We  would  not  like  to  conclude  this  part  of  our
statement on the working methods of the Council on a
negative note. We would therefore like to point to two
A/57/PV.28
positive  developments.  First,  we  are  pleased  with  the
follow-up  received  by  the  initiative  launched  by  the
delegations  of  Argentina  and  New  Zealand  in  1994  to
institutionalize 
troop-
contributing  countries.  Resolution  1353  (2001)  has
paved the way for a more substantive dialogue.
the  meetings  with 
the 
In  the  context  of  the  Council’s  work  in  the  fight
against  terrorism,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the
transparency  and  efficiency  of  the  work  done  by
Ambassador Greenstock of the United Kingdom in his
capacity as Chairman of the Committee established by
resolution 1373 (2001), and by Ambassador Valdivieso
of  Colombia  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the
Committee established by resolution 1267 (1999).
After nine years of deliberations, we have still not
achieved  the  progress  desired  with  regard  to  the  veto
and to increasing the membership of the Council. Like
the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States,
Argentina  is  opposed  to  the  veto.  The  veto  is  an
institution  that  runs  contrary  to  the  principle  of
sovereign  equality  among  States.  We  are  nevertheless
realistic  enough  to  know  that  the  elimination  of  the
veto will not be accepted in the medium term. That is
why we propose a functional and reasonable limitation
of the veto that includes restricting its use to situations
under Chapter VII of the Charter. In our opinion, such
limitations  should  be  established  through  amendments
to  the  Charter.  A  political  commitment  would  not
provide  sufficient  legal  guarantees.  Even  a  unilateral
legal  declaration  to  restrict  the  use  of  the  veto  would
fail to prevail over the provisions of Article 103 of the
Charter.
the 
issue  of 
We  have  said  on  numerous  occasions  that  the
reform of the Security Council is a “package deal”. We
therefore  cannot  artificially  separate  proposals  by,  for
example,  putting  off 
the  veto  and
discussing  only  the  matter  of  expansion,  under  the
pretext that the veto has not been used much since the
end  of  the  cold  war  and  that  it  does  not  represent  a
reform priority at the moment. Our recent experience in
the  Council  does  not  support  that  conclusion.  On  the
contrary, it shows that the veto or the threat of veto is a
relevant  political  tool.  That  is  the  reason  for  the
reluctance 
the  part  of  permanent
members.  There  is  no  doubt  that  issues  of  expansion
and of the power of the veto are closely linked, given
that it is clear that it is not possible to take a decision
on  the  enlargement  of  a  body  of  such  political
the  Council  without  a  previous
importance  as 
to  change  on 
19
A/57/PV.28
agreement on the decision-making process of that body.
That is why the real reason for the delay in the reform
of  the  Council  is  clear:  it  lies  within  an  obstructionist
minority  that  opposes  any  limitation  of  the  veto,  and
not  in  the  vast  majority  of  States  that  want  a  more
democratic and representative Council.
We  believe  that  we  should  not  perpetuate  the
inequalities of the past by establishing new permanent
seats  following  the  model  of  1945,  namely,  members
that are not accountable to the rest of the membership
and  that  enjoy  the  privilege  of  the  veto.  Doing  so
would  further  augment  existing  inequalities.  It  would
also be tantamount to ignoring the march of history and
would imperil the right of every Member State to elect
and be elected to participate in the system of collective
security.  Quite  frankly,  in  nine years  of  discussion  we
have not heard any proposals to increase the number of
permanent  members  that  have  not  contradicted  the
democratic  principles  espoused  by  their  sponsors  in
their own legal systems.
I  would  like  to  repeat  once  again  that  Argentina
only supports increasing the number of non-permanent
members. We believe such members should be elected
in  accordance  with  the  criteria  set  out  in  Article  23,
paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter,  namely,  on  the  basis  of
their  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security  and  the  principle  of  equitable
geographic  distribution.  We  believe  that  those  criteria
continue to be in effect. Finally, we also think that it is
up  to  regional  groups  to  decide  the  allocation  of  the
new  non-permanent  seats  created  as  a  consequence  of
the reform of the Council.
I  would  not  want  to  end  my  statement  without
conveying  our  congratulations  to  the  newly  elected
members  of  the  Council:  Angola,  Chile,  Germany,
Spain and Pakistan.
Mr.  McIvor  (New  Zealand):  May  I  add  my
delegation’s condolences to the families of the victims
of  last  weekend’s  appalling  terrorist  attacks  in  Bali,
which  has  left  many  killed  and  many  more  injured.
This a very tragic reminder of the global nature of the
terrorist 
the  need  equally  of  global
responses,  something  indeed  that  has  been  on  the
forefront  of  the  Security  Council’s  action  in  the  past
year.
threat  and 
We  welcome  the  decision  to  combine  the  debate
on the annual report of the  Security  Council  with  that
on  issues  relating  to  its  membership  and  working
20
linked.  In  my  delegation’s  view 
methods. We hope that this will mean a more efficient
use  of  this  Assembly’s  time.  More  important,  we  see
this  as  a  logical  combination,  since  the  two  items  are
inextricably 
the
performance  and  credibility  of  the  Council  depend
much on how it is constituted  and  how  it  conducts  its
business. Consideration of the report should play a key
role  in  our  collective  efforts  to  enhance  the  Council’s
transparency and effectiveness and hold it accountable.
My  delegation  joins  others  in  welcoming  the
efforts that have been made this year to produce a more
concise,  analytical  and  user-friendly  annual  report  of
the Security Council. In this the Council has begun to
respond  to  calls  made  over  the  last  few  years  for
improvements  in  this  report.  We  have  been  seeking  a
report  that  is  substantive  rather  than  formal,  analytic
rather than descriptive. In this regard, the commentary
provided  in  the  eight-page  introduction  to  this  year’s
annual report represents a move in the right direction.
It  has  been  a  remarkable  year  for  the  Council,
including the response to terrorist attacks of September
last  year,  the  substantially  increased  attention  to  the
Middle East, and the Council’s key role in international
action  on  Afghanistan.  The  report’s 
introduction
conveys a sense of the Council’s  response  to  new  and
continuing challenges. We look forward to next year’s
report building on this by providing a fuller analysis of
how  the  Council  has  dealt  with  issues  coming  before
it — what worked well, what didn’t work so well, and
why. The report is the Council’s opportunity to address
its  universal 
issues  of
international peace and security.
constituency  on  vital 
transparency  and  working  methods,  we
On 
welcome 
the  President’s  note  of  May  2002  on
procedural  developments.  Indeed  we  would  have
thought  that  the  President’s  note  contains  information
and comment that could usefully be incorporated in the
annual  report  itself  —  the  current  section  on  these
issues  in  the  introduction  is  very  brief.  We  fully
support  the  suggestion  that  recent  improvements  in
working methods might be codified in some way.
to 
In  the  past  year  there  have  been  encouraging
developments 
further  enhance  Member  State
consultation with the  Council,  including  a  useful  joint
meeting  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and  the
Council to discuss workings methods. There have been
more  open-ended  meetings  and  wrap-up  sessions.
Presidency  web  sites  have  been  very  helpful,
particularly  when  kept  up  to  date.  The  Singapore
presidency  in  particular  worked  hard  at  improving
transparency  and  the  effectiveness  of  non-member
participation.
the  arrangements 
The consultation process between the Council and
troop-contributing  countries  is  settling  in  well.  Again
we appreciate the Council’s responsiveness to concerns
expressed  last  year  on  this  issue,  including  by  my
delegation.  We  welcome 
for
consultation between the Council’s Working Group on
Peacekeeping  and  Troop-Contributing  Countries,  set
out  in  the  Council’s  President’s  note  of  14  January.
This  provides  an  additional  mechanism 
that
contained in Council resolution 1353 (2001). We found
the  joint  meeting  with  East  Timor  troop-contributing
countries  helpful,  though  we  would  have  welcomed
more  interaction  with  Council  members  attending  the
session.
to 
Notwithstanding 
these  positive  developments,
opportunities  for  consultation  between  members  and
non-members  remain  predominantly  formal,  involving
set  pieces  with  limited  interaction.  At  times  it  is
entirely appropriate that Member States set out national
positions  during  these  sessions.  However,  on  other
occasions  the  discussions  could  be  more  free-flowing.
We accept that the onus to improve the quality of these
debates  rests  with  non-members  as  well  as  members.
We  also  recognize  that  the  Council’s  time  is  limited
and  that  it  is  faced  with  a  growing  number  of
increasingly 
issues.  Selective  use  of
additional committees or working groups might help in
this  regard  and  at  the  same  time  encourage  greater
interaction  between  members  and 
interested  non-
members. We wonder also whether the physical layout
and  grandeur  of  the  Council  Chamber  might  not  also
inhibit more useful interaction.
complex 
Transparency  counts  most  when  it  relates  to
matters  of  substance.  Many  important  issues  continue
to  take  place  behind  close  doors.  Smaller  missions  in
particular  have  difficulty  keeping  in  touch  with  key
developments  when  this  involves  deploying  limited
resources  outside  the  Council  Chamber.  There  is  only
so much coffee one can drink in a day. In this regard,
advance notice of the timing of briefings is helpful.
The  essential  dilemma  remains.  When  non-
members are not permitted to attend Council meetings,
their ability to make a contribution to its deliberations
depends  on  having 
those
some  knowledge  of 
A/57/PV.28
discussions  —  and  then  the  opportunity  to  make  an
input  before  the  Council  comes  to  a  decision.  In  this
regard  we  welcome  the  readiness  of  some  non-
permanent  members  to  seek  our  views  on  regional
issues coming before the Council.
We recognize that on occasion draft texts need to
be  considered  behind  closed  doors  in  the  interest  of
achieving consensus. But we need to remind ourselves
that  transparency  and  participation  are  the  keys  to
credibility  and  effectiveness.  The  rules  of  procedure
say  that  the  Council  shall  meet  in  public  unless  it
decides otherwise; public discussion should be the rule
and not the exception. In 2001, there were 183 informal
consultations compared with 159 public meetings. With
respect  to  private  meetings,  they  can  be  a  useful  tool
for  the  involvement  of  non-Council  members,  but  we
need clear and uniform rules for participation.
the  credibility  of 
Finally, there is little more that can be said about
recent further attempts to achieve a more representative
Council.  During  the  course  of  the  year  the  Working
Group was unable to make any progress on the matter.
This  comes  at  a  time  when  the  Security  Council  has
been  wrestling  with  issues  that,  perhaps  more  than
ever, are of vital interest to the membership as a whole.
In  my  delegation’s  view 
the
multilateral  system  and 
the  Council  are
inextricably  linked.  The  Council’s  standing  ultimately
will depend not on how it conducts its business but on
how  it  is  constituted.  Its  credibility,  acceptability  and
effectiveness  will  require  a  change  in  membership  to
reflect  the  reality  of  the  modern  world.  It  will  require
an end to the right of a single country to hold the power
of  veto  over  the  entire  membership.  My  delegation
considers  also  that  the  time  is  coming  when  we  will
need 
to  re-think  anachronistic  regional  groupings
which hinder rather than help the search for consensus
that is an essential feature of this unique organization.
that  of 
its 
in 
tasks 
Mr.  Haraguchi  (Japan):  Looking  back  on  the
activities of the Security Council during the past year,
since  the  terrorist  attacks  on  11  September,  we  think
that  in  general  the  Council  has  functioned  well  in
carrying  out 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  The  best  example  is
its in counter-terrorism, where the Council enjoyed the
positive  cooperation  of  non-members.  I  am  also
pleased to note that, in the case of Afghanistan, steady
progress  has  been  made  in  the  area  of  reconstruction,
with  the  cooperation  of  donor  countries,  and  in
restoring security, also with the support of members as
21
A/57/PV.28
well  as  non-member  countries.  I  highly  appreciate  the
fact  that  the  Council,  while  maintaining  its  unity,  has
tackled such complicated issues  as the situation in the
Middle East and the International Criminal Court.
I  would  like  to  welcome  the  improvements  that
have  been  made  in  the  working  methods  of  the
Council.  I  am  particularly  pleased  that  this  year’s
report  of  the  Security  Council  reflects  the  Council’s
efforts  to  respond  to  the  criticisms  expressed  by  non-
members of the Council during the debate on this item
in  the  General  Assembly  last  year.  However,  I  would
like to make two suggestions for further improvement.
First,  I  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Council  to
enhance participation of non-members by, for example,
convening  frequent  open  meetings  and  meetings  with
troop-contributing  countries.  However, 
the  new
mechanism  for  convening  joint  meetings  between
Council  members  and  troop-contributing  countries,
which was introduced at the beginning of this year, still
lacks clarity as to how it actually works. I would like to
request  the  Council  to  make  further  improvements  on
this matter. It is the view of the Government of Japan
that 
the  effective  functioning  of  a  peacekeeping
operation  requires  the  involvement  of  not  only  those
countries  which  provide  military  and  police  personnel
but also those which supply civilian personnel or which
make major financial contributions. We should always
bear 
the  smooth  conduct  of  a
peacekeeping  operation  is  possible  only  with  the
appropriate involvement of those countries.
in  mind 
that 
important  role 
My second suggestion relates to Security Council
missions. I understand that missions dispatched by the
Security  Council  can  play  an 
in
determining how the United Nations should be engaged
in  efforts  to  settle  a  regional  conflict.  However,  from
the  viewpoint  of  cost-effectiveness,  I  think  it  is
necessary  that  the  costs,  and  the  criteria  for  deciding
when  and  where  to  dispatch  a  mission,  as  well  as  its
composition, be made transparent. For instance, a clear
explanation  should  be  given  to  non-members  why  the
Council  has  deemed  it  necessary  to  send  a  mission  to
Kosovo three years in succession.
I  welcome  the  Council’s  voluntary  efforts  to
improve  its  working  methods,  although  I  find  it
regrettable that discussion among Council members has
been  conducted  on  the  premise  that  the  existing  size
and composition will be maintained. The challenges to
international  peace  and  security  are  rapidly  changing,
22
both quantitatively and qualitatively, while the present
system for maintaining international peace and security
is  led  by  the  five  States  that  were  entrusted  with  that
responsibility at the time when the United Nations was
established, more than half a century ago. It thus makes
us  wonder  whether  the  present  system  is  the  most
suitable  option  for  securing 
legitimacy  and
effectiveness  of  the  Council.  As  I  have  already
mentioned, if we look back on its activities during the
past  year,  we  can  see  that  the  Council  now  requires
knowledge  and  expertise  in  an  ever-wider  range  of
fields.  Its  counter-terrorism  efforts,  for  example,
involve areas of expertise ranging from public security
to 
the
implementation of  resolutions adopted by the Security
Council,  the  cooperation  of  all  Member  States  is,
likewise, required in a broad range of areas.
international 
financing. 
ensure 
the 
To 
and 
the  will  and 
Having  said  this,  in  order  to  avoid  any  possible
misunderstanding,  I  have  to  stress  that  I  have  no
doubt —  there  is  no  question  —  that  the  present  five
permanent  members  have  both 
the
adequate  capacity  to  contribute  to  world  peace  and
security 
that
responsibility  well.  In  this  new  era,  however,  I  must
seriously  ask:  is  it  not  important  that  other  countries
that  have  strong  will  and  adequate  capacity  equal  to
those  of  the  five  permanent  members  also  be  actively
engaged  in  contributing  to  world  peace  and  stability,
thereby 
and
effectiveness of the Council?
they  have  discharged 
legitimacy 
enhancing 
further 
that 
the 
Furthermore,  with  the  admission  of  Switzerland
and  Timor-Leste,  there  are  no  fewer  than  191  States
Member of the United Nations. From the viewpoint of
its representativeness, how can we keep the Council at
its present size and composition, which is the same as
it was  nearly  40 years  ago,  when  there  were  only  118
Member  States?  It  is,  of  course,  essential  that  the
Council’s efficiency be maintained. However, I think it
is increasingly necessary to expand the Council, while
paying  due  attention  to  ensuring  that  its  effectiveness
will not be sacrificed.
I believe that the views I have just expressed are
shared by most of the United Nations membership. The
fact that 80 countries referred to the need to reform the
Security  Council  during  the  general  debate  last  month
supports 
the  broader
framework  of  strengthening  the  United  Nations,  we
must  bear  in  mind  that  Security  Council  reform
remains one of the most important items on the United
this  belief.  Also,  within 
Nations agenda. As Secretary-General Kofi Annan put
it in his report on that issue, “no reform of the United
Nations  would  be  complete  without  reform  of  the
Security Council” (A/57/387, para. 20).
in 
that 
the  past  year 
In  his  statement  at  the  close  of  the  fifty-sixth
session,  the  then  President  of  the  Assembly,  Mr.  Han
Seung-soo,  mentioned 
the
discussion  of  Security  Council  reform  had  not  seen
much  change  (see  A/56/PV.112,  p.3).  Japan  shares  the
frustration 
that  many  countries  are  now  feeling.
Because the United Nations has had to devote itself to
the fight against terrorism over the past year, we have
been unable to build upon the momentum that had been
generated at the Millennium Summit the previous year.
It is thus all the more important that we revitalize our
discussion  now.  In  noting  that  the  debate  on  reform
will  enter  its  tenth  year  next  year,  Prime  Minister
Koizumi  avowed  in  his  statement  in  this  Hall  in
September  (see  A/57/PV.4)  that  Japan  intends  to  work
hard to achieve progress on Security Council reform.
My delegation believes that, as the first practical
step 
towards  concluding  a  comprehensive  reform
package, our discussions at the  meetings of the Open-
ended  Working  Group  on  Security  Council  reform
should  now  focus  on  such  questions  as  the  number  of
seats on an enlarged Council. Based on my delegation’s
experience  last  year,  we  cannot  expect  to  make
progress by repeating our discussion of existing papers.
We  thus  look  forward  to  the  positive  engagement  by
the Bureau of the Working Group, under the leadership
of the President of the Assembly, Mr. Jan Kavan.
As we continue with this task, we also think that
it  will  be  helpful  to  provide  opportunities  to  consider
the  issue  from  various  angles,  both  inside  and  outside
the  United  Nations,  and  with  wider  participation  by
both  Government  officials  and  non-governmental
actors.  In  the  event  that  concrete  progress  towards
Security Council reform is not achieved, even after 10
years  of  deliberations  on  this  issue,  it  might  be
worthwhile  to  consider  measures  for  moving  the
discussion  forward  by,  for  example,  holding  meetings
with  representatives  of  Member  States  at  the  political
level.
In the Millennium Declaration, heads of State or
Government  committed  themselves  to  comprehensive
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  up  to  us  to
continue  our  efforts  towards  that  end.  Japan  reaffirms
its  determination  to  do  just  that  and  is  ready  to
A/57/PV.28
cooperate  with  other  Member  States  to  realize  our
common objective, Security Council reform.
Mr. Nambiar (India): At the outset, on behalf of
my  delegation,  I  must  express  India’s  absolute  and
unequivocal condemnation of the senseless and heinous
terrorist  act  recently  perpetrated  in  Bali,  Indonesia,
which resulted in the tragic death of so many innocent
civilians.  We  convey  our  profound  condolences  to  the
Government and the people of Indonesia, as well as to
the  families  of  the  victims  of  this  tragic  incident.  We
reaffirm our determination to work to the full with the
international  community  in  united  efforts  to  confront
the terrible menace of international terrorism.
to  Ambassador 
Please  allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s
appreciation 
Belinga-Eboutou,
President  of  the  Security  Council,  for  his  introduction
of  the  report  of  the  Council  (A/57/2  and  Corr.1).  I
would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate
Angola,  Chile,  Germany,  Pakistan  and  Spain  on  their
election to the Security Council.
instrument 
the  organic 
An  analysis  of 
that
constitutes  the  bedrock  of  the  United  Nations,  namely
the  Charter,  shows  that  the  exercise  of  the  primary
responsibility  of  the  Security  Council  is  linked  to  the
consideration  of  its  reports  by  the  General  Assembly.
Article  24,  paragraph  3  and  Article  15  of  the  Charter
require the Security Council to submit and the General
Assembly  to  receive  and  consider  annual  and  special
reports.  The  Security  Council’s  submission  of  its
annual 
for
consideration  establishes  a  modicum  of  accountability
in  the  relationship  between  the  Security  Council  and
the General Assembly.
the  General  Assembly 
report 
to 
It  is,  therefore,  gratifying  to  note  that  the  report
of  the  Security  Council  this  year  represents  a  fresh
approach to the very issues raised in this Assembly on
the  accountability  and  transparency  of  the  Council  in
its functioning as an organ of the United Nations. The
new  format  of  the  report  and,  more  important,  the
attempt  at  reform  leading  to  greater  transparency  and
consultation  with  non-members  on  major  issues,  are
important steps in the right direction.
the  proactive 
In  that  context,  I  wish  to  place  on  record  our
role  played  by
appreciation 
for 
Singapore,  under 
able  guidance  of
Ambassador  Mahbubani,  in  ensuring  that  many  of  the
ideas raised in the General Assembly for improvement
in  the  functioning  of  the  Security  Council  are  being
the  very 
23
A/57/PV.28
implemented.  Admittedly,  no  effort  of  one  single
member  can  be  successful  without  the  cooperation  of
the  other  members.  All  the  current  members  of  the
Security  Council  have  undoubtedly 
contributed
towards  initiating  the  changes  in  the  Council,  and  we
wish  to  congratulate  each  of  them  on  their  effort.  I
wish  to  also  thank  the  Secretariat  for  bringing  out  a
much  shorter,  more  concise  and  better  focused  report
on the work of the Security Council.
contains 
Document  S/PV.4616,  which 
the
provisional  verbatim  record  of  the  Security  Council’s
meeting held to consider the draft report of the Council
to  the  General  Assembly,  provides  a  valuable  insight
into  the  effort  and  cooperation  that  went  into  the
reforms sought to be introduced in the working of the
Council.  Ambassador  Mahbubani,  on  the  basis  of  his
unique insight from within, has described the Security
Council as one of the most conservative institutions in
the world today. Reforms are not easily introduced into
a  body 
in  core
composition since its inception more than 50 years ago.
Yet it is important that the Council also heed the calls
for reform in an Organization that has initiated reform
measures in all its other major organs.
remained  unchanged 
that  has 
We  fully  agree  with  Ambassador  Mahbubani
when he advocates the need for formalizing the system
of  drawing  names  to  determine  the  speakers’  list  for
public  meetings.  There  is  surely  a  method  in  the
madness  here,  but  we  have  yet 
it.
Standardization  of  the  nomenclature  of  the  different
types  of  meetings  of  the  Council  would  be  another
useful  action.  A  perusal  of  document  S/2002/603,  a
note  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  on
procedural  developments  in  the  Council  in  2001,
indicates the multifarious forms of meetings, orders of
speakers and innovations within them that the Council
adopted during that period of time.
to  discern 
We  fully  appreciate  the  point  brought  out  by
Ambassador Levitte of France in his intervention at the
Security Council meeting on the report that the Council
has moved from a period of hibernation to a period of
rapid  development  (see  S/PV.4616,  p.  7).  In  2001,  the
Council held 192 formal meetings, the highest in a one-
year period since its inception. Of greater importance is
the  fact  that  159  of  those  meetings  were  public,  the
fourth  highest  number  of  public  meetings  in  a  year  in
the Council’s history. That is a good beginning towards
transparency.
24
taken 
into  account 
We  favour  more  open  meetings,  allowing  the
participation  of  non-members  in  the  debates,  thereby
enabling the views of the wider comity of nations to be
heard  and 
the  Council’s
consideration  of  vital  issues  of  global  import.  Better
organization  in  the  form  of  advance  intimation  of  the
monthly  programme  of  work,  information  posted  on
the Council’s United Nations web site and on the web
sites  of  the  Missions  of  Member  States  holding  the
presidency  of  the  Council  for  a  particular  month,  and
wrap-up  sessions  are  all  positive  developments  in  the
move 
the  Council’s
functioning.
transparency 
towards 
in 
in 
Ambassador  Greenstock  of  the  United  Kingdom
has  spoken  of  the  need  to  assess  the  quality,  and  not
just  the  quantity,  of  the  Council’s  work.  We  are  in
agreement  with  that  observation.  The  Council  moved
quickly  and  decisively  in  the  aftermath  of  the  11
September  2001  attacks  to  adopt  resolutions  1363
(2001)  and  1368  (2001)  and  the  landmark  resolution
1373  (2001),  as  well  as  the  sanctions  against  the
Taliban  under  the  earlier  resolutions  1267  (1999)  and
1333 (2000). In January 2002, the Council adopted its
resolution  1390  (2002)  to  respond  to  the  threat  posed
by  the  Taliban  and  Al  Qaeda.  It  established  the
Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  which  has  begun  its
work  with  the  spirit  and  dynamism  that  the  situation
demands.  The  Council’s  active 
in
establishing the International Security Assistance Force
in  Afghanistan 
role  of
peacekeepers  in  various  conflict  situations  in  Africa
and  elsewhere  have  proved  valuable  in  dousing  the
fires raging in many of those areas.
coordinating 
intervention 
and 
the 
Some of the Council’s actions continue to require
greater  clarity,  equity  and  sense  of  purpose.  For
instance, the role of the Council in running the oil-for-
food  programme  for  Iraq,  under  which  Council
members decide which contracts to approve and which
to  put  on  hold,  has  led  to  a  situation  where  866
contracts  worth  $2.7  billion  have  been  put  on  hold  as
of  4  October  2002,  without  any  effective  or
independent  avenue  to  improve  the  situation.  The
reasons  why  the  shortfalls  in  Iraqi  oil  exports  have
risen, 
to  approximately  $2.56  billion  of
humanitarian  goods  being  placed  on  hold,  have  to  be
examined  and  gone  into  with  a  sense  of  urgency  and
compassion for the people of Iraq.
leading 
While the efforts at reform, initiated primarily by
greater
non-Council  members 
introduce 
to 
in 
transparency  an  essential 
transparency  and  accountability 
the  Council’s
functioning,  have  been  an  important  step  in  the  right
direction,  the  process  of  reform  should  in  no  way  be
considered  as  having  been  completed  or 
fully
accomplished.  We  would  urge  the  Security  Council  to
make 
its
functioning. A major effort should go towards making
closed  meetings 
agree
wholeheartedly  with  Ambassador  Greenstock 
that
virtually  all  Council  meetings,  with  the  exception  of
those involving negotiation of texts and those on issues
that require confidentiality, could be kept open.
exception.  We 
feature  of 
an 
It  is  quite  natural  that,  given  the  profusion  of
conflicts  arising  in  the  aftermath  of  the  cold  war,  the
Council would have overextended itself in its efforts to
contribute to the resolution of those situations. While it
is  the  Council’s  primary  responsibility  to  maintain
international  peace  and  security,  it  is  necessary  to
realize 
limitations  of
involvement in all situations, particularly those that are
best  contained  through  the  efforts  of  the  parties
involved.  Here  again,  we  agree  with  Ambassador
Greenstock  when  he  says  that  there  are  some  issues
that the Council cannot resolve, and that, in his belief,
avoiding  the  Council  is,  empirically,  the  right  way  to
go.
the  practical  and  realistic 
and 
between 
the  Council 
We also appreciate the spirit behind which efforts
have been made under what has now come to be known
as  the  Arria  formula  to  introduce  greater  informal
interactions 
the
representatives  of  organizations  that  could  provide
valuable inputs into the Council’s workings. A notable
example  of  the  utility  of  Arria-formula  meetings,
referred to by the President of the Security Council in
his note on transparency in the Council, is the meeting
held  on  6  March  2001  with  the  Secretary-General  of
NATO. Arria-formula meetings have also been utilized
by  presidencies  to  facilitate  meetings  of  Council
members  with  representatives  of  non-governmental
organizations  and  civil  society,  including  academics.
That,  on  the  face  of  it,  is  a  desirable  trend  when  it
involves mainly social and economic issues that could
have an impact on the Council’s overall assessment of
a  situation.  However,  when  it  comes  to  dealing  with
complicated and long-standing political issues with the
concomitant sensitivity and controversial implications,
the  Council  would  be  well  advised  to  exercise  greater
circumspection.
A/57/PV.28
in 
fact, 
It  is  our  considered  view  —  and  a  view  which  I
am  certain  many  other  members  share  —  that  in  an
effort  to  increase  transparency,  the  Arria  formula
should  not, 
introduce  subjectivity  and
controversy that could ultimately prove more injurious
than  therapeutic  to  the  issue  it  ostensibly  seeks  to
resolve.  Nor  should  it  prove  divisive  within  the
Council membership. We would recommend that strong
rules governing the issues on which such meetings may
be called, the choice of parties involved in the briefing
and  the  expression  of  the  views  of  Member  States,  if
any, be framed before any such initiative is undertaken
in  the  future.  This  would  be  a  genuine  effort  towards
transparency.  Otherwise,  the  question  of  why  Arria-
formula  meetings  are  not  held  on  issues  in  which
Council  members  are 
involved  would
indeed become a vexed one.
themselves 
Beyond the flaws in the reporting procedures and
in the  meetings behind closed doors, there is a  deeper
subterranean  fault  line,  a  malady  which  points  to  the
loss  of  moral  vision  and  of  the  democratic  ethos  of
representation in the Security Council. Many a problem
confronts  us  today  because  of  the  way  the  Security
Council is structured. The structure and composition of
the  Council  are  demonstrably  out  of  touch  with  the
realities  on  the  ground  and  are  no  longer  capable  of
meeting 
the
membership  and  of  the  international  community  at
large.
the  aspirations  and  expectations  of 
The  solution  lies  in  reforming  and  restructuring
the Council comprehensively. Much has been said and
written  on  this  subject,  and  consensus  continues  to
elude  us  in  the  deliberations  of  the  Open-ended
Working  Group.  But  on  one  point  there  is  general
agreement:  the  Security  Council,  as  it  is  composed
today, is unrepresentative and anachronistic, and in no
way  reflects  a  world  that  has  changed  dramatically  in
the  more  than  50  years  since  San  Francisco.  That  the
developing  countries,  which  constitute 
the  vast
majority  of  the  general  membership  of  the  United
Nations,  find  no  place  in  the  category  of  permanent
members and are generally inadequately represented in
the  non-permanent  category,  serves  only  to  further
highlight the unrepresentative and unbalanced nature of
a  body  that,  by  definition,  is  responsible  for  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  but
which, in practical fact, is ill-equipped to do so to the
satisfaction  of  the  Members  of  the  Organization.  The
Council’s  actions  cannot  be  seen  to  command  a
25
A/57/PV.28
legitimacy  which  its  own  composition  and  working
methods do not possess.
is 
There 
little  disagreement  among  Member
States that the Council requires reform to better reflect
current  global  realities;  reform  that  imparts  balance,
representativeness  and  legitimacy  to  the  Council  and
reflects  contemporary  reality;  reform 
is  not
piecemeal  or  partial  —  which  would  only  serve  to
perpetuate 
the
Council  and  erode  its  credibility  even  further;  reform
that  is  comprehensive,  includes  expansion  of  the
Council’s  membership  in  both  the  permanent  and  the
non-permanent  categories  and  improves  its  working
methods; and reform of its decision-making processes.
Any  reform  that  does  not  contain  these  core  elements
would, in our opinion, be no reform.
the  unrepresentative  character  of 
that 
the  Council 
We have had occasion to outline India’s position
on Security Council restructuring on several occasions
in the past, and we shall refrain from doing so in detail
now.  However,  we  would  like  to  caution  against  the
temptation to resort to piecemeal and partial solutions.
After toiling  for  nine  years,  if  we  were  to  agree  to  an
expansion  of 
the  non-permanent
category  alone,  or  if  we  were  to  make  cosmetic
changes in its working methods, we would be doing a
major  disservice,  not  only  to  ourselves  but  to  the
Organization  as  a  whole.  Expansion  is  needed  in  both
categories of Council membership, and if an attempt to
do  otherwise  is  made,  we  would  be  not  only  shying
away  from  the  main  issues  that  confront  us  but  also
perpetuating  an  international  system  characterized  by
inequity.
in 
Turning to the Working Group, we note that there
have been many fewer sessions and meetings this year
compared  to  the  past,  reflecting  the  present  state  of
ennui among member States. There has been progress,
though, in the Council’s working practices. Particularly
the  stepped-up
noteworthy 
interaction  between 
troop-
contributing  countries,  which  we  would  like  to  see  as
an  ongoing,  expanding  and  fruitful  interaction  in  the
years to come. India remains committed to evolution in
this respect.
the  Council  and 
this  connection 
the 
in 
is 
We  have  deliberately  confined  ourselves 
to
outlining  very  briefly  the  fundamental  precepts  on
which  we  believe  the  reform  and  expansion  of  the
Security  Council  should  be  structured.  My  delegation
will  participate  in  and  contribute  to  the  consideration
26
of  specific  issues  when  the  Working  Group  begins  a
detailed discussion of them next year. Suffice it to say
that India remains committed to implementing the call
of  world  leaders  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  to
achieve comprehensive reform of the Council in all its
aspects  and  that  we  see  the  Working  Group  as  the
legitimate instrument with which to do so. We welcome
all  constructive  proposals  to  carry  our  work  forward,
and would be happy to cooperate with the Bureau and
all  other  members  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group
towards that end.
We also wish to place on record our reservations
concerning the need for the Security Council to spend
so  much  time  on  thematic  issues  such  as  women  and
armed  conflict,  children  and  armed  conflict  and  the
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  all  of  which
pertain to the management of conflict and are therefore
outside the Council’s  mandate. This  transgression  into
areas  allocated 
to  other  United  Nations  bodies
competent  to  handle  many  of  these  thematic  issues
could  be  condoned  if  the  discussions  added  value.
Unfortunately, they add nothing to either the norms set
by international law or to its practice.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  state  that  the  process  of
introducing  reform  and  change  into  the  Council’s
functioning  is  both  noteworthy  and  laudable.  While
welcoming 
the
continuation  of  this  process.  The  Security  Council
should not be seen as an isolated island of exclusion in
a democratic polity. The attempts at reform and greater
participation have to be seen in this light.
them,  we  also 
look  forward 
to 
Mr. Ngo Duc Thang (Viet Nam): At the outset, I
wish to join  other  speakers  in  expressing  our  heartfelt
condolences to the Government of Indonesia and to the
relatives  of  all  of  the  victims  of  the  brutal  terrorist
attack that took place in Bali on Saturday. We condemn
the attack in the strongest terms.
The  delegation  of  Viet  Nam  attaches  great
importance  to  the  agenda  items  under  consideration:
the  Security  Council’s  work  and  its  reform.  I  wish  to
compliment  Ambassador  Kishore  Mahbubani  and  his
staff  for  their  part  in  compiling  the  concise  and
insightful  report  (A/57/2  and  Corr.1)  that  covers  the
work  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period  from  16
June 2001 to 31 July 2002. Given the number of issues
in the  report,  my  delegation  would  like  to  make  some
observations on several topics which we consider to be
of vital importance.
We  hold  the  view  that  the  work  of  the  Security
Council  has  brought  about  certain  positive  results  in
maintaining  peace  and  security 
in  Timor-Leste,
Afghanistan,  parts  of  Africa  and  the  Balkans,  and
especially  in  assuming  major  new  responsibilities  in
combating global terrorism after the tragic events of 11
September 2001. Immediately after that terrorist attack,
the Security Council adopted its resolution 1373 (2001)
and  set  up  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  (CTC)
charged  with  monitoring  the  implementation  of  that
resolution.  The  CTC  embarked  on  its  work  seriously,
quickly  providing  guidance  to  Member  States  on  how
they  should  report  on  steps  taken  to  implement  the
resolution.
We  appreciate  the  attention  paid  by  the  United
Nations system in general and the Security Council in
particular  to  various  aspects  of  the  Afghan  crisis.  The
Council  has  greatly  contributed  to  restoring  peace  in
the  country  and  to  helping  the  Afghans  to  form  a
broad-based  and  representative  Government  and  to
start  their  national  reconstruction  after  more  than  two
decades of war, terror, suffering and misery.
The  declaration  of  independence  of  Timor-Leste
on  20  May  2002  is  another  real  success  story  for  the
United  Nations,  in  which  the  work  of  the  Security
Council must be commended as well.
However,  while  applauding 
the  encouraging
results  of  the  Council’s  work,  we  cannot  fail  but
mention  the  protracted  Middle  East  crisis.  Despite  the
attention  paid  by  the  Council  to  the  ongoing  crisis
during the past year, it is regrettable that the continued
aggressive  policy  of  the  Israeli  Government  on  one
hand  and  the  lack  of  consistent  measures  by  the
Security  Council  on  the  other  did  not  allow  for  the
implementation of several Security Council resolutions
on  the  issue.  As  a  result,  the  situation  in  the  region
remains  volatile,  and  the  prospect  of  lasting  peace  is
ever  more  remote.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation
believes that it is necessary for every State Member of
the  United  Nations 
the  Council’s
resolutions,  thereby  leaving  no  impression  of  double
standard in the Council’s work.
to  abide  by 
With  respect  to  the  Council’s  work,  we  are
pleased to note that the Council has made a number of
useful  changes  in  its  methods  of  work,  such  as  an
increase  in  the  number  of  open  meetings;  briefings
provided at the end of the monthly Council presidency;
consultations  with  troop-contributing  countries;  and
the  Council’s 
debates open to non-members of the Council. Together
with 
interactive  meetings  with
representatives  of  the  Secretary-General,  his  special
envoys  and  the  Secretary-General  himself,  as  well  as
thematic debates and wrap-up discussions on the work
of  the  Security  Council,  all  these  practices  can  help
enhance 
the
Council’s work and make that organ more effective and
democratic.
transparency  and  accountability 
A/57/PV.28
in 
We  welcome  further  measures  enabling  non-
members of the Council to participate more actively in
the discussion of the most important issues, for it is our
conviction  that  this  will  help  the  Council  better  to
equip  itself  to  deal  with  crises  when  they  occur  in
future.
My delegation joins with other speakers to call on
the  Council  to  make  a  critical  evaluation  of  the
effectiveness  of  sanctions  imposed  on  Member  States,
which have caused untold suffering to innocent people,
particularly  women  and  children.  We  believe  that
sanctions  are  outdated  and  should  never  be  used
indefinitely.  In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  Council’s
decision to lift the embargo imposed on the Sudan and
call it to do the same in the case of Iraq.
My country has always paid special interest to the
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  as  it  forms  the
cornerstone  of  the  overall  process  of  United  Nations
reform.  Therefore,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  position
that there is a need to accelerate this urgent task, as the
lack  of  tangible  progress  in  fundamental  areas  of
reform, despite nine years of discussion, has no doubt
been  frustrating.  It  is  true  that  the  issues  are  of  a
complex and sensitive nature, which makes the task of
reaching  agreement  a  formidable  challenge.  But  the
United  Nations  cannot  afford  to  fail  in  this  important
task,  or  the  credibility  of  the  Organization  as  a  whole
will be put at risk. My delegation reiterates its support
for the view that more vigorous efforts should be made
by  all  countries  to  move  forward  the  process  of
reforming  the  Security  Council,  as  expressed  in  the
Millennium Declaration.
Viet  Nam  believes  that  reform  of  the  Security
Council  must  be  comprehensive  and  that  it  should  be
pursued in the context of strengthening the authority of
the General Assembly, be based on transparency and on
democratic  principles,  and  be  undertaken 
in  full
conformity with its intrinsic purpose. The reform must
reflect  the  three  basic  components  of  the  process:  an
27
A/57/PV.28
increase in the Council’s membership; decision-making
process;  and  working  methods.  We  believe  that  it  is
urgent  and  necessary  to  correct  the  current  imbalance
by ensuring more balanced and equitable geographical
representation  and  by  increasing  the  participation  of
developing  countries,  emerging  regional  players  and
centres of economic power.
It  is  important  to  ensure  that  the  interest  of  all
nations are sufficiently reflected in the composition of
the  Security  Council,  in  line  with  the  complexity  of  a
world 
seen  great  development,  both
quantitative and qualitative, in international relations.
that  has 
We support the idea of  enlarging  both  categories
of  members  —  permanent  and  non-permanent  —  and
believe  that  due  recognition  should  be  given  to
improving 
the  Council’s  working  procedures  and
decision-making  process,  so  that  it  can  become  more
democratic,  representative,  and  transparent  and  be
better  prepared  to  face  the  security  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century.
Let me conclude my statement by congratulating
Germany,  Spain,  Pakistan,  Angola  and  Chile  on  their
election  to  the  Security  Council.  I  hope  that  the  new
non-permanent  members  will  help  enhance 
the
openness,  transparency  and  representativeness  of  the
Council to the full extent permissible under the current
structure  of  this  main  body  of  the  United  Nations.  I
also  wish  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  outgoing
members  for  their  contribution  to  the  promotion  of
peace and international security.
Mr.  Akram
(Pakistan):  Let  me  begin  by
expressing  my  deep  condolences  to  the  Government
and the people of Indonesia, as well as to Australia and
to  the  other  countries  who  lost  their  nationals  in  the
recent  terrorist  tragedy  in  Bali.  We  hope  that  the
perpetrators  of  this  atrocity  will  be  brought  to  justice
soon.
We  wish  also  to  express  our  appreciation  to
Ambassador  Martin  Belinga-Eboutou,  the  Permanent
Representative  of  Cameroon  and  the  current  President
of  the  Security  Council,  for  introducing  the  annual
report of  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly.  May  I
take this opportunity to thank those delegations which
have  congratulated  Pakistan  on  its  election  to  the
Council for the next two years.
I  would  in  turn  wish  to  felicitate  Angola,  Chile,
Spain and Germany on their election to the Council last
28
month. We look forward to working closely with them
as well as with other Council members in our common
pursuit  of  global  peace  and  security.  I  would  wish  to
pay  special  tribute  to  the  outgoing  members  of  the
Council for the important contributions to its work.
This  year,  the  Security  Council’s  annual  report,
submitted in accordance with Article 15 of the Charter,
has been presented in a new, improved format with an
analytical summary. We appreciate the conscious effort
made  to  reduce  the  size  of  the  report  and  to  avoid
repetition,  as  well  as  the  active  role  played  by  the
Council’s  non-permanent  members  in  making  these
improvements.
First, 
I  would  note 
the  Council’s  visible
successes. The Council’s supervision and support for a
number of peacekeeping operations — especially those
in Timor-Leste and Sierra Leone — have been the most
visible  manifestations  of  collective  security,  as
visualized  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  Both  the
Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations  have  learnt
appropriate  lessons  from  the  past.  We  hope  that  in
future, too,  the  Council,  the  Secretariat  and  the  troop-
contributing countries will work together to ensure the
effective  realization  of  the  larger  purposes  of  the  re-
establishment and preservation of peace and security in
so many troubled parts of the world.
to  combating 
During the past year, the Security Council made a
significant  contribution 
international
terrorism, including the adoption of provisions to arrest
the  financing  and  support  of  terrorism  through  the
Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  The  Security  Council
also played a role in shaping the events in Afghanistan.
Yet,  all  these  endeavours  to  build  peace  and  restore
hope in Afghanistan remain under threat so long as the
international  community, 
the  Security
Council,  is  unable  to  consolidate  peace  and  security
and  establish  President  Karzai’s  authority  in  all  parts
and  regions  of  Afghanistan.  To  this  end,  Pakistan  has
continued 
the
Secretary-General,  as  well  as  the  major  Powers,  to
authorize  the  deployment  of  additional  international
forces,  especially  in  regional  centres.  It  is  imperative
for the Council to take early and resolute action for this
purpose.
the  Security  Council  and 
including 
to  urge 
The Middle East crisis and the prolonged tragedy
of  the  Palestinian  people  have  continued  to  challenge
the  credibility  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Council
achieved a high point when it adopted resolution 1397
(2002),  creating  the  framework  for  a  just,  lasting  and
comprehensive solution of the Arab-Israeli conflict on
the basis of the principle of land for peace. Since then,
however,  confronted  by  repeated  Israeli  military
incursions, 
economic
strangulation  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  spiralling
violence  in  the  occupied  territories,  the  Security
Council’s  deliberations  have  become  almost  a  parody
of the role which the Charter had perceived for it.
punitive  measures, 
the 
Among the most glaring of the Council’s failures
has been its inability even to reverse the threat to peace
in South Asia, even though the India-Pakistan issue and
the  underlying  dispute  over  Jammu  and  Kashmir
remain  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  With  one  million
troops  deployed  by  India  along  Pakistan’s  eastern
border  and  the  Line  of  Control  in  Kashmir;  with
repeated threats from New Delhi of war and the use of
force  against  Pakistan;  and  with  artillery  and  small
arms exchanges a daily feature on the Line of Control,
there  could  be  no  clearer  and  more  tangible  threat  to
international  peace  and  security,  even  if  one  were  to
discount  the  danger  arising  from  the  fact  that  the  two
antagonists possess nuclear weapons.
The  United  Nations  Charter  requires  that,  in  the
event  of  a  breach  of  the  peace  or  a  threat  of  use  of
force,  the  Security  Council  shall  address  the  situation
with  a  view  to  restoring  such  peace  and  security.  The
Council’s  responsibility  to  prevent  a  conflict  in  South
Asia,  which  has  been  described  as  “the  most  has
dangerous  place  in  the  world”,  is  clear  and  present.
Yet, although the Council’s attention was drawn to the
crisis  repeatedly  during  the  year,  including  by  the
Secretary-General  himself, 
remained
impassive. Not even an Arria-formula meeting could be
convened  for  this  purpose.  War  may  have  been
temporarily  averted  by  the  active  diplomacy  of  some
major  Powers,  but  neither 
the
international  community  can  afford 
to  substitute
conflict management for conflict resolution.
the  Council  nor 
the  Council 
During  the  Security  Council’s  debate  on  this
report,  Ambassador  Mahbubani  of  Singapore  referred
to the Council’s “orphans” — peoples on whose behalf
the Council had undertaken to act but never did. Most
prominent  among  these  orphans  are  the  people  of
Jammu and Kashmir. The Council has adopted a series
of  resolutions  defining  a  clear  framework  for  the
political disposition of Kashmir in accordance with the
freely expressed wishes of the Kashmiri people, under
A/57/PV.28
a  United  Nations-supervised 
resolutions remain to be implemented.
plebiscite.  These
flow  not  only 
The  Council  should  not  be  oblivious  to  the
erosion of its credibility flowing from non-compliance
with its resolutions. The Council has been convincingly
reminded  of  this  in  recent  weeks.  Ineffectiveness  and
weakness 
from  an  absence  of
determination  and  will  to  secure  compliance  with
certain  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council;  they  are
also  manifested  by  the  acceptance  and  application  of
double  standards  and  discrimination.  The  Council’s
resolutions  represent  international  legality;  they  must
be  respected  comprehensively  by  all  sides,  in  all
regions and in all circumstances.
The Council’s failures have not been due mainly
to the shortcomings in its procedures or, indeed, in its
structures.  These  failures  are  principally  due  to  a
shortfall 
the  commitment  of  Member  States,
individually  and  collectively,  to  conduct  their  policies
and uphold their legitimate national interests strictly in
accordance  with  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  its
principles.
in 
that 
We  are  convinced 
the  departures  from
principle witnessed in the Council would become more
isolated and infrequent if the Council were to become a
more representative body. Pakistan therefore continues
to  support  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council’s
membership.  At  the  same  time,  we  will  continue  to
resist  proliferation  of 
the  centres  of  privilege
represented  by  the  unfortunate  institution  of  the  five
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  and  their
veto  power.  It  is  clear  that,  for  the  present,  consensus
within 
the
expansion of only the non-permanent, elected members
of the Council.
the  General  Assembly  would  favour 
There  have  been  prolonged  endeavours 
to
improve  the  Council’s  working  methods,  transparency
and effectiveness. We appreciate these. We support the
Secretary-General’s recommendation that the improved
practices should now be codified.
We  also  welcome  the  recent  efforts  to  make  the
Council’s  work  more  transparent  and  inclusive  for  the
rest of the United Nations membership. Rule 48 of the
Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure  specifically
states:  “Unless  it  decides  otherwise,  the  Security
Council  shall  meet  in  public.”  Despite  the  increase  in
the  number  of  public  debates  and  the  consultations
the  Council’s
with 
troop-contributing  countries, 
29
to 
in 
letter  and 
working methods should be codified, as recommended
by the Secretary-General. Secondly, rule 48 of Security
Council’s  provisional  rules  of  procedure  should  be
adhered 
in  spirit.  Thirdly,  a
compendium  should  be  drawn  up  of  those  Security
Council  resolutions  whose  implementation  remains
in
outstanding.  Fourthly, 
cooperation  with 
should
undertake  a 
the
provisions  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter  can  be  fully
utilized  to  promote  the  pacific  settlement  of  conflicts
and disputes.
thorough  consideration  of  how 
the  Security  Council, 
the  Secretary-General, 
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
A/57/PV.28
decisions  continue  to  be  made  mostly  behind  closed
doors.  In  a  statement  to  the  Council  in  1994,  the
representative  of  one  of  the  five  permanent  members
described such informal consultations in the following
words:
“Informal  meetings  are  not  even  real  Council
meetings  at  all;  they  have  no  official  existence,
and  are  assigned  no  number.  Yet  it  is  in  these
meetings  that  all  the  Council’s  work  is  carried
out.” (S/PV.3483, p. 2)
The  argument  that  there  is  a  trade-off  between
efficiency and transparency is a false one, we believe.
Indeed,  it  can  be  argued  more  cogently  that  the
Wilsonian principle of “open covenants, openly arrived
at” is the one that will enhance the effectiveness of the
Council  and  the  consistent  application  of  the  United
Nations  Charter’s  principles.  In  the  circumstances,  we
believe  that  the  General  Assembly,  the  most  universal
and representative organ of the United Nations, should
recommend  the  following  measures  to  the  Security
Council.
First,  the  improvements  made  in  the  Council’s
30
