United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
43rd plenary meeting
Monday, 27 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.43
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m.
Agenda item 60 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Draft resolution (A/58/L.5)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the
General Assembly held its debate on this agenda item,
together  with  agenda  item  10,  at  the  23rd  to  27th
plenary  meetings  on  6,  7  and  9  October  2003.  In
connection  with  this  item,  the  General  Assembly  has
before 
issued  as  document
A/58/L.5.
it  a  draft  resolution 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  China  to
introduce draft resolution A/58/L.5.
Mr. Wang Guangya (China) (spoke in Chinese): I
have the honour to introduce draft resolution A/58/L.5,
entitled  “Enhancing  capacity-building  in  global  public
health”, under agenda item 60.
To  halt  and  to  begin  to  reverse,  by  2015,  the
spread of  HIV/AIDS  and  the  incidence  of  malaria  and
other  major  diseases  is  one  of  the  development  goals
set  down  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  To  achieve
such a  goal, the  international  community  needs  to  pay
greater  attention  to  capacity-building  in  global  public
health.  The  outbreak  of  severe  acute  respiratory
syndrome  (SARS)  in  certain  countries  and  regions  in
the  first  half  of  the  year  once  again  demonstrated  that
public health has become a global issue, which requires
global cooperation.  Only by enhancing the  capacity  of
the  international  community  to  combat  HIV/AIDS,
malaria  and  other  infectious  diseases  and  by  boosting
national capacity-building in public health can there be
a  solid  basis  for  development  and  prosperity  in  all
countries.  With  that  in  mind,  the  Chinese  delegation
has 
the  draft
resolution  entitled  “Enhancing  capacity-building  in
global public health”.
initiative  of  submitting 
taken 
the 
therein, 
the  deleterious 
the  globalization  of 
the  development  goals  contained 
The main elements of this draft resolution include
recalling the Millennium Declaration adopted by heads
of  State  and  Government  at  the  Millennium  Summit
and 
in
the  health-related  development  goals;
particular 
recognizing 
trade  and
increased international travel have increased the risk of
the  rapid  worldwide  spread  of  infectious  diseases,
posing  new  challenges  to  public  health;  noting  with
concern 
impact  on  humankind  of
infectious  diseases  and  epidemics,
various  major 
especially 
the
developing countries; welcoming the current success of
the  affected  countries 
in  combating  severe  acute
respiratory  syndrome  (SARS);  emphasizing  the  need
for  greater  international  and  regional  cooperation  to
meet  new  and  existing  challenges  to  public  health;
welcoming 
the  World  Health
Organization and  other  United  Nations bodies, as  well
as  the  private  sector  and  civil  society,  aimed  at
enhancing capacity-building in global public health and
at promoting public health at the country level.
the  heavy  burden  they  impose  on 
that 
the 
efforts 
of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-58083 (E)
*0358083*
A/58/PV.43
the 
In  the  operative  part,  the  draft  urges  Member
States  to  further  integrate  public  health  into  their
national  economic  and  social  development  strategies
and  consistently  improve  their  public  health  systems;
calls  upon  Member  States  and 
international
community  to  raise  public  awareness  of  good  public
health  practices,  including  through  education  and  the
mass media; calls for the improvement of global public
health  preparedness  and  response  systems,  including
systems  of  prevention  and  monitoring  of  infectious
diseases;  invites  the  regional  social  and  economic
commissions to  cooperate  closely  with  Member  States
in  their  capacity-building  in  public  health;  encourages
United  Nations 
and
to  address  public  health
programmes  to  continue 
concerns 
and
programmes  and  to  actively  support  capacity-building
in  global  public  health;  and  requests  the  Secretary-
General 
issue  of
enhancing  capacity-building  in  global  public  health  in
his  report  on  the  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the
Millennium  Summit  to  be  submitted  to  the  General
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session.
include  observations  on 
development 
agencies, 
activities 
in 
their 
bodies, 
funds 
to 
the 
During  the  consultations  on  this  draft  resolution,
delegations  put  forward  many  constructive  ideas  and
proposals that further enriched the draft resolution and
made  it  more  comprehensive.  I  am  confident  that  the
adoption  of 
the  General
Assembly  will  not  only  inspire  Member  States  to  give
higher  priority  to  capacity-building  in  public  health,
but  also  to  play  an  important  role  in  achieving  the
development goals set in the Millennium Declaration.
this  draft  resolution  by 
Before  the  text  was  issued,  120  countries  joined
in  the  sponsorship  of  this  draft  resolution.  Now,
another  24  countries  have  joined  in  sponsorship  —
Albania,  Bhutan,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,
Ecuador,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Gabon,  Haiti, 
Jordan,
Kyrgyzstan,  Liechtenstein,  Maldives,  Mauritania,
Monaco,  Nauru,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Republic  of
Moldova, Romania, Seychelles, Turkey, Turkmenistan,
Uruguay  and  Uzbekistan.  Please  allow  me  to  express,
on  behalf  of  the  Chinese  Government,  our  sincere
thanks  to  all  those  countries  that  have  shown  interest
and  given  their  support.  We  hope  that  this  draft
resolution can be adopted by consensus.
The  President:  I  call  on  the  representative  of
Morocco, who will speak on behalf of the Group of 77
and China.
2
Mr. Arrouchi (Morocco): I would like, on behalf
of  the  Group  of  77  (G-77),  to  thank  the  delegation  of
China  for  having  introduced  this  very  important  draft
resolution  on  enhancing  capacity-building  in  global
public health. We fully support this initiative, as it will
help  the  international  community  to  further  enhance
capacity-building  of  global  public  health.  This
initiative  will  also  contribute  to  the  promotion  of
the
further 
Millennium  Summit,  particularly 
reinforcing
national  public  health  infrastructures  to  face  new
challenges  posed  by  deadly  diseases  worldwide.  From
the  special  session  on  HIV/AIDS,  we  know  that  the
number  of  infected  persons  has  increased  from  36
million  to  40  million,  the  majority  of  who  are  in
Africa.
implementation  of 
the  outcome  of 
in 
We look forward to a unanimous and enthusiastic
this  very
the  General  Assembly  on 
decision  by 
important draft resolution.
Mr.  Shamanov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian):  Regarding  the  draft  resolution  on  capacity-
building  and  global  public  health,  we  would  like  to
point out the following.
At  the  crossroads  of  this  twentieth  and  twenty-
first century, public health has become a priority on the
international  agenda.  The  international  community’s
consensus  was  reflected  in  a  number  of  fundamental
documents  in  recent  times,  including  the  Millennium
Declaration  and  the  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development. 
In
achieving  sustainable  development  and  eradicating
poverty,  protecting  public  health  and  strengthening
national  health  services  have  taken  on  increasingly
important roles, first of all as factors for the promotion
and implementation of those objectives and secondly as
indicators  of  the  social  and  economic  sustainability  of
society.
From  this  standpoint,  we  regard  positively  the
Chinese-sponsored  draft  to  enhance  capacity-building
in global public health and based on what we feel to be
its great timeliness,  we  were one of  the  first  sponsors.
The  principle  importance  of  the  document  is  that  it
does not focus on just one of the individual aspects of
public  health,  but  draws 
the
international community  to  the  strengthening  of  social
public  health  services  as  the  basic  machinery.  Major
emphasis is put on the improvement of the systems for
prevention  and  monitoring  infectious  diseases  and  for
the  attention  of 
partnerships 
establishing 
among  Governments,
organizations  and  institutions  of  the  United  Nations
system  and  international  financial  institutions,  as  well
as  the  private  sector  and  other  representatives  of  civil
society.
We  would  like  to  highlight  with  satisfaction  the
successful  work  of  our  Chinese  colleagues  on  coming
to  an  agreement  on  the  draft.  Evidence  of  this  is  the
great  number  of  sponsors  for  this  document.  We  hope
that  it  can  adopted  by  consensus  and  we  believe  that
the  adoption  of 
this  resolution  will  give  further
important  momentum  to  international  cooperation  for
the  purpose  of  carrying  out  the  tasks  of  public  health
and sustainable development.
Mr.  Cardoso  (Brazil):  Let  me  convey  my
congratulations  to  the  Chinese  delegation  for  such  an
opportune  and  important  initiative.  Brazil  was  very
pleased to be one of the sponsors at a very early stage
of the consultations.
recent 
decision 
Council’s 
We  note  with  satisfaction,  out  of  the  many
important  issues  raised  by  this  draft  (A/58/L.5),  a
reference  to  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)
General 
the
implementation of paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration
on 
the  Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of
Intellectual  Property  Rights  (TRIPS  Agreement)  and
public health. This is a life-saving decision that allows
poorer  countries  to  deal  with  diseases  that  devastate
their  people.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  people
suffering from infectious  diseases,  such  as  HIV/AIDS,
are in developing countries.
on 
initiatives  already 
We  attach  great  importance  to  health  related
issues.  This  year  we  will  bring  to  the  attention  of  the
Third  Committee 
the
Commission on Human Rights on the universal right to
enjoy  the  highest  possible  standard  of  physical  and
mental  health  and  on  access  to  medications  in  the
context of pandemics such a as HIV/AIDS, malaria and
tuberculosis.
taken 
in 
If  we  are  to  attain  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  in  particular  the  health  related  Development
Goals,  we  must  persevere  in  enhancing  capacity-
building 
in
developing countries.
in  global  public  health,  especially 
Mr.  Nambiar  (India):  The  achievement  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  of  reducing  child
mortality,  of 
improving  maternal  health  and  of
A/58/PV.43
combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases
necessarily  requires  capacity-building  in  public  health
on a global basis.
Furthermore, 
ill  health  undermines  economic
development  and  impedes  efforts  to  reduce  poverty.
Capacity-building  in  public  health  is  in  fact  essential
for economic growth and the achievement of the seven
Development Goals of the Millennium Declaration.
India  is  happy  to  be  associated  with  this  draft
resolution  as  a  sponsor.  We  thank  China  for  the
initiative that they have taken.
it 
is 
In the context of the Development Goals adopted
by 
the  United  Nations, 
the
Organization  also  recognizes  its  close  and  direct  link
with  public  health.  Not  to  do  so  would  constitute  a
serious  shortcoming  in  the  details  of  any  viable
strategy  for 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
the  achievement  of 
important 
that 
that 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  have  the
primary  responsibility  for  building  and  strengthening
their  public  health  capacities.  The  draft  resolution
recognizes,  however, 
the
challenge  may  be  beyond  the  capabilities  of  many
developing countries. We are pleased to see in the draft
an  emphasis  on  the  importance  of  active  international
cooperation. The report that the Secretary-General will
give  to  us  at  the  next  session  will,  we  expect,  help  us
further address this matter.
the  magnitude  of 
albeit 
limited, 
recognize 
somewhat 
The Commission on Macroeconomics and Health
had,  in  its  2001  report,  provided  an  approach  to  the
development  cooperation  goal  of 
the  Millennium
there  has  been
Declaration.  We 
that 
movement, 
its
recommendations. We are happy that India, particularly
through  its  pharmaceutical  manufacturing  capabilities,
has been able to make a contribution. We hope that this
draft  resolution  will  encourage  further  effort  in  the
direction  recommended  by  the  Commission.  We  join
China  in  expressing  appreciation  for  the  positive  and
constructive  spirit  of  the  consultations  held  on  this
draft  and  also 
its  adoption  by
consensus.
look  forward 
on 
to 
Mr.  Cumberbach  Miguén  (Cuba)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  I  would  like  join  other  speakers  in  thanking
the  Chinese  delegation  for  having  introduced  this
initiative,  of  which  my  country  has  been  a  sponsor
since its introduction.
3
A/58/PV.43
Meeting here, our heads of State and Government
proposed  in  the  Millennium  Summit  Declaration  that
we  enhance  our  citizens’  health,  one  of  many  other
goals furthering the development of our peoples.
In this context,  Cuba thinks that  it  is essential to
promote  at  the  global  level  international  cooperation
activities  that  will  lead  to  creating  capacities  and
promoting public health, particularly in the third world.
We  are  convinced  that  the  draft  resolution  entitled
“Enhancing  capacity-building  in  global  public  health”
(A/58/L.5) 
this
direction.  We  would  like  to  reiterate  once  again  that
our  country  will  continue  to  support  all  international
efforts in the  health area  to combat  the  evils  afflicting
the international community.
is  an  additional  step  forward 
in 
Mr.  Mekprayoonthong 
(Thailand):  My
delegation wishes to express our appreciation to China
for 
this  draft
resolution for consideration by the General Assembly.
to  present 
important 
its 
initiative 
The  emergence  of  new  epidemics  in  the  twenty-
first  century  has  called  for  collective  action  from  the
international  community  on 
the  basis  of  shared
responsibilities. Thailand hosted the special meeting of
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)
leaders  and  China  in  Bangkok  in  April  2003  to
encourage  strong  political  commitment  and  strengthen
cooperation in order to contain severe acute respiratory
syndrome (SARS).
The success in combating severe acute respiratory
syndrome  has  proven  that  regional  and  international
cooperation are vital to cope with the common threat of
infectious diseases. In that regard, Thailand joins other
countries  in  sponsoring  this  draft  resolution  and  looks
forward  to  its  adoption  by  consensus.  My  delegation
believes that adoption of this draft resolution  will lead
to  significant  enhancement  of  capacity-building  in
the
global  public  health.  That 
strengthening  of  global  capacity 
this
common threat to our peoples.
for 
to  contain 
is  crucial 
Mr.  Andrabi  (Pakistan):  One  of  the  greatest
challenges  that  humanity  faces  in  the  twenty-first
century  is  the  spread  of  infectious  diseases,  both
emerging and re-emerging. Although the exact sources
of  many  new  diseases  are  still  being  researched,  the
phenomenon  of  globalization  —  people  coming  into
closer  contact  with  other  people  —  has  permitted  a
jump  of  infectious  agents  across  borders.  This  has
4
such 
diseases 
given  a  global  complexion  to  the  problem.  It  needs  a
global response.
Infectious 
as  HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis  and  malaria  have  devastated  millions  of
people.  The  process  of  development 
in  countries
afflicted by those diseases has come to a grinding halt.
These  epidemics  have  rolled  back  decades  of  progress
and  prosperity  with  their  devastating  effect.  Public
health has therefore acquired a very prominent place on
the  development  agenda.  Economic  growth  and  social
development  must  go  hand  in  hand,  and  the  two  need
to complement each other.
Reversing the spread of major diseases by the end
of 2015 is one of the development goals set out in the
Millennium  Declaration. Last  year, a new epidemic  —
severe acute respiratory syndrome — broke out in more
than 30 countries and regions, causing over 800 deaths
and  more  than  8,000  cases  of  infection.  Its  outbreak
and spread pose a threat to public health undertakings.
The fact that its cause remains  unknown  heightens  the
level of threat. We commend the efforts made by China
and other affected countries to take effective  measures
not only to combat the epidemic, but also to control its
spread.  However,  it  has  become  quite  clear  that,
without  effective 
such
problems cannot be effectively dealt with.
international  cooperation, 
This  calls  for  closer  international  cooperation  on
the  basis  of  equality  and  mutual  respect  and  benefit.
Special attention needs to be paid to the establishment
and  improvement  of  the  global  contingency  reaction
mechanism.  Simultaneously,  the  ability  to  respond
effectively to such major health disasters also needs to
be  enhanced.  The  United  Nations  system,  therefore,
needs  to  consider  integrating  public  health  issues  into
its  activities  and  programmes.  The  aim  should  be  to
further strengthen the capacity of Member States and to
facilitate international cooperation in public health.
Against  that  backdrop,  we  consider  the  Chinese
draft  resolution  (A/58/L.5)  a  timely  initiative  and  a
major step in the right direction. We thank China for its
efforts  to  draft  a  consensus  resolution  with  broad
sponsorship. Pakistan has fully supported this initiative
since  its  inception  and  has  joined  in  sponsoring  the
draft  resolution.  Adoption  of  this  draft  resolution  by
the  General  Assembly  would  enable  the  international
community  to  effectively  help  developing  countries
develop  their  economies,  improve  the  level  of  health
care  and  reduce  the  probability  of  the  outbreak  of
diseases.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft
resolution  A/58/L.5,  entitled  “Enhancing  capacity-
building in global public health”.
like 
I  should 
that,  since 
to  announce 
the
introduction of draft resolution A/58/L.5, the following
countries have become sponsors of the draft resolution:
Argentina,  Bolivia,  Costa  Rica,  Eritrea,  the  former
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Israel,  Mali,  the
Marshall  Islands,  Norway,  Switzerland,  Ukraine  and
Venezuela.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to  adopt
draft resolution A/58/L.5?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution
58/3).
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item
60.
Agenda items 55, 57, 58 and 59
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
Restructuring and revitalization of the United
Nations in the economic, social and related fields
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/57/786,
A/58/175, A/58/351, A/58/382, A/58/395 and
A/58/395/Corr.1)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  at  the
90th plenary meeting of the fifty-seventh session, held
on  18  June  2003,  the  General  Assembly  decided  to
defer  consideration  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General entitled “Strengthening of the United Nations:
an  agenda 
Intergovernmental
review  of  the  medium-term  plan  and  the  programme
budget”  (A/57/786)  to  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the
General  Assembly, 
item 
entitled
“Strengthening of the United Nations system”.
further  change: 
under 
the 
for 
A/58/PV.43
focused  on  agenda 
The  General  Assembly  begins  discussion  this
morning  on  a  cluster  of  reform  items.  Particular
attention  will  be 
item  55,
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”.
Delegations  will  also  wish  to  pay  attention  to  the
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  under  item  59,  which
describe  the  actions  taken  by  the  Secretary-General  in
implementation of Assembly resolution 57/300.
From the time that I was elected President in June
of  this  year,  I  have  considered  United  Nations  reform
to be a matter of the highest priority. As Member States
may  be  aware,  I  have  already  begun  to  take  practical
steps  to  streamline  the  work  of  the  Assembly  and  to
make  better  use  of  the  General  Committee  as  a  body
providing  coordinating  and  oversight  advise  and
support to the President.
I  have  also  begun  to  look  into  the  provisions  of
various  General  Assembly  resolutions 
that  confer
specific  responsibilities  on  the  President,  but  which
may  not  have  been implemented. Thus,  for  example,  I
provided  an  assessment  of  the  debate  on  the  report  of
the  Security  Council,  an  action 
that  had  been
authorized by the Assembly but not implemented.
As Chairman of the Assembly Working Group on
revitalization,  I  have  a  personal  responsibility 
in
respect  of  item  55.  I  also  have  a  deep,  personal
commitment.  The  comments  made  by  speakers  in  the
general  debate,  including  those  made  by  a  large
number  of  heads  of  State  and  Government,  indicate
that Member States consider that the time has come for
serious  consideration  to  be  given  to  a  wide  range  of
reform issues.
Reform  and 
revitalization  of 
the  General
Assembly  figure  prominently  among  those 
issues.
Speaker  after  speaker  has  also  reaffirmed  his  or  her
commitment to the  Organization  and  the  provisions  of
the  Charter.  Having  come  here  and  made 
that
reaffirmation,  I  believe  that  the  leaders  in  capitals  are
now looking to those of us in this Hall today to proceed
from  discussion  to  action.  I  trust  therefore  that  the
debate  that  we  are  about  to  have  will  reflect  this
approach 
to  be
straightforward and precise in expressing their views.
speakers  will 
seek 
that 
and 
In  order  to  move  forward,  we  need  to  speak
frankly  to  each  other  and  we  need  to  make  specific
proposals.  Upon  the  conclusion  of  this  debate,  I  shall
announce  the  facilitators  whom  I  have  designated  to
move the process forward. I will work closely with the
5
A/58/PV.43
facilitators  and  coordinate  their  work.  I  will  also
discuss  with  them  a  time  frame  for  the  negotiation
process. I have already sought to provide a framework
for action by way of the informal note that I circulated
a  week  and  a  half  ago,  which  served  as  a  background
paper to the informal open-ended plenary consultations
that took place on 17 October. It seems to me that that
meeting  went  well  and  helped 
launch  our
deliberations on this item.
to 
Before concluding, I extend a special welcome to
the  Women’s  International  Forum,  whose  members
impressed me tremendously by their interest in matters
relating to the reform and revitalization of the Security
Council and the General Assembly, respectively.
I now call on the Deputy Secretary-General.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  It  is  a  great
pleasure  for  me  to  join  the  Assembly  today  to  present
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  implementation  of
his  agenda  for  further  change,  contained  in  document
A/58/351.
This  is  a  moment  when  the  United  Nations  is
facing 
formidable  challenges  and  wrestling  with
fundamental  questions.  The  Secretary-General,  in  his
speech  to  the  General  Assembly  at  the  opening  of  the
general  debate,  called  for  bold  changes  in  order  to
ensure  that  our  Organization  is  up  to  the  task.  At  the
same  time,  it  is  important  not  to  lose  sight  of  the
practical measures and day-to-day steps that need to be
taken  to  strengthen,  adapt  and  otherwise  equip  the
United Nations to meet the tests of our times.
A lot has already been achieved since the process
of reform  was  initiated  by  the  Secretary-General  upon
taking office in 1997. The Millennium Declaration that
the Assembly adopted three years ago gives the world a
common vision for the new century, including a  set of
Development  Goals  that  now  serves  as  a  template  for
action  by  the  entire  international  system.  Through  the
Brahimi  report  and  other  initiatives,  we  have  made
major  improvements  in  our  capacity  to  deploy  and
manage  complex  peacekeeping  and  peace-building
operations.
We  have  developed  new  mechanisms  and
procedures  to  ensure  that  the  disparate  parts  of  the
Organization work better together both at headquarters
and in the field. We have built strong new partnerships
with the private sector, civil society groups and others,
bringing  new  energies  to  the  pursuit  of  our  common
6
goals.  And  we  have  stressed  managerial  reform  more
than  ever  before 
to
modernize our systems and our skills.
in  recognition  of 
the  need 
Last  year,  the  Secretary-General  introduced  an
“agenda  for  further  change”  that  sought  to  build  on
these  achievements  and  take  into  account  important
developments  in  the  international  arena,  most  notably
the Millennium Declaration. The report now before the
Assembly  sets  out  what  has  been  done  to  implement
the  new  agenda  and  describes  the  steps  to  be  taken
next.  It  also,  of  course,  reflects  the  guidance  that  the
Assembly provided in last year’s resolution. Allow me
to mention a few highlights.
to  realign  activities  with  priorities  and 
The budget submitted this year represents a major
effort 
to
increase  attention  to  development  issues,  in  particular
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Secretary-
General  will  offer  greater  details  tomorrow  in  his
address  to  the  Fifth  Committee  to  introduce  the  2004-
2005  budget.  The  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  has  moved  forward
with efforts to improve management and the services it
provides.  Restructuring  of  the  Department  of  Public
Information  has 
regional
information  centre  for  Western  Europe  will  be  fully
operational next year. We have made major innovations
in  managing  conferences  and  meetings,  in  particular
through greater reliance on information technology.
taken  place  and 
the 
leading 
The  streamlining  of  reports,  considered  essential
to  better  focus  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  its
subsidiary  bodies  and 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council,  has  been  initiated.  A  number  of  reports  on
related  subjects  were  consolidated, 
to  an
overall  reduction  during  this  session  of  approximately
20  reports  from  what  was  originally  foreseen.  Further
progress  on  this  front  will  depend  in  large  part  on
decisions  which  the  Member  States  can  take  in  the
context of the revitalization of the work of the General
Assembly and the integrated follow-up to conferences.
in  developing
countries 
through
simplification  and  harmonization  of  procedures,  joint
programming, 
resources,  better
knowledge  management  and 
the
Resident  Coordinator  system.  A  review  of  technical
cooperation activities in key areas  was carried out and
is  being  transmitted  to  the  Assembly  in  a  separate
report.  The  review  identifies  the  various  Secretariat
is  being  made  more  effective 
The  United  Nations  presence 
the  pooling  of 
improvements 
in 
in 
involved 
entities  and  operational  agencies 
the
provision of technical cooperation in a selected number
of issues, as well as areas where further clarification of
roles and responsibilities will be undertaken in order to
avoid  duplication.  It  is  hoped  that  this  compendium
will  be  a  useful  source  of  information  for  programme
countries and the donor community.
The Panel Of Eminent Persons on United Nations
Relations  with  Civil  Society,  which  the  Secretary-
General  announced  in  his  reform  report  last  year,  was
formed  last  February.  It  is  chaired  by  the  former
President  of  Brazil,  Mr.  Fernando  Henrique  Cardoso,
and  comprises  12  members  from  all  regions  of  the
world. The Panel’s report is expected  early in the  new
year.
We are also continuing to  make  new  investments
in our staff through training. With the appointment of a
new Assistant Secretary-General for Human Resources,
renewed  impetus  will  be  given  to  the  implementation
of  the  measures  identified  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report  last  year,  particularly  as  regards  staff  mobility
and career prospects for General Service staff.
in 
greater 
covered 
Some  of 
are 
the  reform  activities  I  have 
detail 
just
mentioned 
in
complementary  reports.  These  are  identified  in  the
report before the Assembly today and should be read in
conjunction  with  it.  While  implementation  is  under
way  on all  elements  of the  Secretary-General’s  reform
package  of  last  year,  there  is  one  major  piece  of
unfinished  business.  I  refer  here  to  the  reform  of  the
planning and budgeting system.
The  Secretary-General  argued  in  his  report  last
year  that  the  process  needs  to  be  more  strategic  and
results-oriented, and less time-consuming. He proposed
changes  to  the  format  and  content  of  the  budget
document.  He  proposed  that  the  strategic  framework
for  the  Organization  should  consist  of  a  medium-term
plan  covering  a  two-year  period,  combined  with  the
budget  outline.  He  also  suggested  that  the  Committee
for  Programme  and  Coordination  shift  its  focus  to
monitoring  and  evaluating  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  —  critical  functions  that  are  all  too  often
overlooked  or  given  short  shrift  —  rather 
than
replicating  the  reviews  of  plans  and  budgets  already
done by other bodies.
The Assembly did not reach decisions on most of
those  issues  last  year,  and  requested  supplementary
in
information.  That 
information 
contained 
is 
A/58/PV.43
documents  A/57/786  and  A/58/395.  The  changes
proposed  are  not  dramatic,  but  if  adopted  they  would
significantly improve the quality of the budget process
while reducing the amount of time  and the  quantity  of
documentation that go into it. I hope that the Assembly
will  take  a  decision  before  the  end  of  the  year  so  that
the changes can shape the way in which the budget for
2006-2007 is developed.
it 
is  a  wide-ranging  — 
Reform  is  not  a  single,  specific  destination.
Rather, 
indeed,  an  all-
encompassing  —  journey.  Ultimately  it  is  a  state  of
mind  —  an  openness  to  new  ideas  and  partners,  a
continuous search for better ways of doing our work, a
commitment  to  excellence,  a  talent  for  focusing  on
what matters, an appetite for service.
All  of  the  reforms,  big  and  small,  swift  or  slow,
internal or intergovernmental,  that  have been  achieved
show not only that the United Nations can change, but
that  change  is  an  integral  part  of  the  way  we  do
business. Indeed, change has been our métier since our
earliest days. We all look forward to  wise decisions in
the days ahead that will enable us to keep it so for the
future.
Mr.  Dauth  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to
address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  Canada,  New
Zealand  and  Australia.  I  also  wish  to  associate  my
delegation with the statement that the Foreign Minister
of  Fiji  will  deliver  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Islands
Forum.
and  Australia 
is  more  pressing 
Canada,  New  Zealand 
are
convinced  that  the  need  for  reform  in  the  United
Nations 
than  ever  before.  The
Secretary-General  is  right  to  say  that  the  United
Nations has reached a historic fork in the road. We are
encouraged by our sense that there is greater realization
of this, and believe that a rare opportunity for us to act
will exist this year and perhaps next year. After that, it
may be too late.
Today’s debate covers reform processes in several
parts of the United Nations, and I will mention a few of
them  specifically.  The  common  problem  faced  by  all
ideas  for  change  in  the  United  Nations  is  generating
enough  political  will  to  overcome  the  inertia  intrinsic
to  an  Organization  governed  by  191  sovereign
Members.  Certainly,  there  is  no  lack  of  good  reform
ideas here. But a decade of labours towards revitalizing
the  Assembly  and  making  the  Security  Council  more
representative has, frankly, produced few results.
7
A/58/PV.43
The  bright  spot  has  been  the  leadership  of  the
Secretary-General  —  ably  assisted  by  the  Deputy
Secretary-General, Ms. Fréchette —  who  has  achieved
welcome  progress  in  modernizing  and  improving  the
Secretariat.  The  Brahimi  peacekeeping  reforms  will
stand  as  another  of  his  achievements.  The  Secretary-
General  recently  announced  a  new  panel  that  will
examine the  policy  challenges  facing  the  Organization
and  the  institutional  structures  needed  to  meet  them.
Such  an  examination is  very  timely  and  much  needed.
The  panel  should  consult  widely  with  Member  States
and  be  bold  in  its  analysis  and  recommendations.  Our
delegations  stand  ready  to  contribute,  and  we  look
forward to receiving the  Secretary-General’s proposals
next  year.  In  the  meantime,  however,  there  is  plenty
that needs doing.
fresh  agenda 
A  year  ago,  the  Secretary-General  presented  the
Assembly  with  a 
(see
A/57/387). This year he has given us a progress report,
submitted several detailed reports on specific proposals
and  requested  our  approval  for  other  reforms  in  the
2004-2005 budget.
for  reform 
57/300 
Resolution 
broadly  welcomed 
the
Secretary-General’s  proposals.  Since  then,  we  have
been  disappointed  that,  whatever  reform  actions  have
been discussed, there has been resistance or opposition
from  one  quarter  or  another.  For  instance,  in  the
Committee  on  Programme  and  Coordination  in  June,
every  one  of  the  reform  measures  proposed  in  the
budget  was  criticized  and  efforts  were  mounted  to
block several of them.
This  year,  with  elaborated  and  refined  proposals
before  it,  the  Assembly  needs  to  take  decisions.  Our
delegations will give full support to the implementation
of 
all
intergovernmental bodies.
Secretary-General’s  measures 
the 
in 
Many  proposals  have  now  been  referred  to  the
Fifth Committee. Reform must be the abiding theme of
deliberations and decisions there. The Fifth Committee
has  a  particular  responsibility  to  advance  management
and administrative reforms that  make the Organization
stronger and more effective.
Our  delegations  attach  special  importance  to  the
request  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights for a greater share of
the  regular  budget.  In  particular,  we  support  the  new
posts  to  strengthen  the  human  rights  treaty  bodies,  in
line with the Secretary-General’s recommendations.
8
The  budget,  planning  and  evaluation  cycle  is  of
critical  importance  to  the  Organization.  That  cycle
brings  together  the  many  legislative  mandates  created
by the Assembly and the Economic and Social Council
and  their  subsidiaries,  and  it  matches  them  with  the
finite resources available to the Organization.
The two reports before us on improvements to the
current  process  of  planning  and  budgeting  (A/57/786
and A/58/395) offer a compelling diagnosis of flaws in
the current process. Taken as a whole, the process is so
protracted  and  burdensome  that  it  disenfranchises  the
majority of Member States. The  medium-term plan,  as
now  constructed,  leads  to  rigidity  in  the  Secretariat’s
work  and  inhibits  our  ability  to  respond  to  changing
are
circumstances.  Programmes 
considered  on 
the
development  of  results-based  budgeting.  Furthermore,
programmatic  evaluation  does  not  feed  back  into  the
planning and budgeting cycle.
resources 
tracks,  undermining 
separate 
and 
better 
support 
We  consider  that  modest  refinements  of  the
process  could  lead  to  significant  improvements.  Our
approach is based on five principles. First, the process
should 
budgeting;
secondly, programme and resource decisions should be
integrated;  thirdly,  Member  States  should  be  able  to
give  strategic  policy  direction;  fourthly,  evaluation  of
results  must  be  effective  and  affect  planning;  and
lastly,  the  intergovernmental  organs  must  spend  less
time on reviewing the budget.
results-based 
The  Secretary-General’s  proposals  offer  a  way
forward and a starting point for our discussions. But we
will  take  a  flexible  and  creative  approach  to  finding  a
set of reforms that serves all of us better and makes the
Organization stronger.
identified: 
the  process  of  revitalizing 
We welcome your efforts, Mr. President, to inject
life 
the  General
into 
Assembly.  Our  delegations  believe  that  revitalization
needs to start with the second of the two areas that you
have 
improved  working  methods.  The
agenda is the core of the malaise in the Assembly. It is
overloaded,  outdated,  highly  repetitive  and  often  of
marginal  relevance,  even  in  the  capitals  of  Member
States,  let  alone  to  their  peoples.  As  everyone  knows,
the  Assembly  spends  most  of  its  time  negotiating  the
same resolutions, year after year.
We  must  start  with  a  thorough  reappraisal  of  the
agenda. We could, for example, envisage a streamlined
agenda of  a limited  number of  items  relevant  in  terms
of  contemporary  problems  and  challenges.  Such  an
agenda  would  be  established  anew  for  each  Assembly
session. We need to concentrate on resolutions that are
meaningful and can be implemented. At the same time,
we  should  evaluate 
the  committee  structure  and
reshape it to fit a new agenda that focuses on the major
issues facing the globe today.
Only by making fundamental changes to its work
programme  and  methods  can  we  restore  the  authority
and prestige of the Assembly. While the biennialization
of some items has helped to rationalize the agenda, that
is  not  enough  to  turn  the  Assembly  into  the  thriving
centre of the multilateral system that it ought to be.
The revitalization process has yielded so little not
because of a lack of good ideas, but  because of a  lack
of  political  will.  If  the  Assembly  is  going  to  be
revitalized,  then  all  Member  States  need  to  reassess
their  positions  and  be  prepared 
their
preferences  to  accommodate  those  of  others.  Without
recognition  by  all  parties  of  our  shared  interest  in  a
productive  and  effective  multilateral  system, 
the
Assembly will continue to wither.
to  adapt 
is 
The  common  challenge  facing  proposals  for
to  create  political  will  and  generate
reform 
momentum.  Our  endeavours 
the  United
Nations  more  productive  and  effective  assume  even
greater 
this  complex  and  daunting
international environment.
importance 
to  make 
in 
Mr. Tavola (Fiji): I have the  honour to  speak  on
behalf of the members of the Pacific Islands Forum that
are  represented  at  the  United  Nations:  Australia,  the
Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  the  Federated  States
of  Micronesia,  Nauru,  New  Zealand,  Papua  New
Guinea,  Samoa,  the  Solomon  Islands,  Tonga,  Tuvalu,
Vanuatu and my own country, Fiji.
countries.  We 
The  Pacific 
and 
Islands  Forum  comprises  both
developing 
developed 
are
predominantly small  States. We  share  a  strong  interest
in  making  the  United  Nations  and  its  processes  more
efficient,  because  we  have  limited  resources  ourselves
and because a more efficient Organization will give the
United Nations greater credibility worldwide. We share
a  strong  interest  in  reforms  that  will  enhance  the
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  and  focus  the
Organization  and 
today’s
priorities.
its  constituent  parts  on 
A/58/PV.43
The  case  for  reform  has  been  made  and,  in  our
view,  is  widely  accepted.  We  agree  with  those  who
sense  that  the  prospects  for  reform  look  brighter  than
they  have  in  the  past.  We  must  seize  the  opportunity.
Our  task  is  to  engage  in  processes  that  will  deliver
specific  reforms  on  which  we  can  all  agree.  Several
reforms are  under  way,  because reform  is  necessary  at
a number of levels.
At the highest level, we need to look at the role of
our  major  governance  organs  and  the  relationship
among  them.  Secondly,  we  need  to  continue  work  on
strengthening  the  United  Nations  as  an  organization.
Thirdly,  we  need  to  breathe  new  life  into  the  General
Assembly.  Those  areas  of  reform  are  closely  linked;  I
will comment on each.
The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  fully  supports  the
Secretary-General’s  initiative  to  establish  a  high-level
panel to review the functioning of our major bodies and
consider reforms to our institutions and processes. The
Secretary-General  rightly  places  that  review  in  the
context  of  an  examination  of  global  challenges  to  the
United  Nations,  particularly  —  but  not  exclusively  —
challenges to peace and security. The panel should not
shy  away  from  difficult,  fundamental  questions.  We
urge  all  Member  States  to  be  open  to  the  process.
While  many  may  have  anxieties  about the  options  and
the  potential  implications  of  those  options,  we  should
not  step  away  from  exploring  the  possibilities.  The
panel will need to consult  widely, and  we look to it to
provide an independent, honest and fresh assessment of
where we go from here.
report 
activities, 
(A/58/351) 
spanning  human 
Last  December,  we  adopted  resolution  57/300,
which goes some way towards strengthening the United
Nations.  Good  progress  has  been  made,  but  much
remains to be done. Our delegations are committed and
supportive  of  this  ongoing  process.  The  Secretary-
General’s  progress 
reflects  a
substantive  effort  across  a  very  broad  range  of  United
Nations 
the
Organization’s outreach to civil society and the private
sector,  and  strengthening  the  effectiveness  of 
the
United Nations presence in developing countries. Some
of  those  proposals  are  well  developed,  and  the  ideas
that underpin them are not new. We support the overall
direction  and  leadership  provided  by  the  Secretary-
General.  We  agree  that  the  budget  for  2004-2005
provides  a  good  vehicle  for 
implementing  many
proposals,  and  we  shall  follow  these  discussions  very
closely.
rights, 
9
A/58/PV.43
The Pacific Forum group of Member States has a
particular  interest  in  strengthening  United  Nations
operational activities for development, and we strongly
support  the  thrust  of  the  Organization’s  work  in  that
area.  The  work  of  the  United  Nations  Development
Group and the strengthening of the resident coordinator
system  have  been  positive  developments.  We  strongly
support  continuing  to  improve  coordination  among
United  Nations  funds  and  programmes,  in  particular
through  the  simplification  and  harmonization  of  their
work.  The  aim  of  reducing  transaction  costs  is  a
particularly  important  one  for  developing  countries  in
the  Pacific,  given  their  generally  small  size  and  the
constraints  on 
their  capacity.  Australia  and  New
Zealand, as regional donors, also support that aim as a
means of ensuring that contributions to United Nations
development  activities  are  used  to  best  effect.  The
appointment  of 
to
coordinate  sector-wide 
is  another  positive
development.  It  could  add  welcome  flexibility  to
enable  United  Nations  agencies  to  work  together
coherently in partnership with host Governments, while
at  the  same  time  reducing  unnecessary  duplication  of
reporting and other activities.
lead  United  Nations  agencies 
inputs 
We  also  welcome  the  improved  focus  on  post-
conflict  transition.  That  is  an  area  where  United
Nations  funds  and  programmes  have  provided  useful
input  in  two  Pacific  Islands  Forum  member  countries,
the  Solomon  Islands  and  Papua  New  Guinea.  These
ongoing reforms are important in an increasingly field-
based  Organization,  and  our  delegations  look  forward
to  discussions  during  next  year’s 
triennial  policy
review of operational activities.
in 
the 
report  of 
the 
recognition 
In  the  area  of  strengthening  human  rights,  we
welcome 
the
importance  of  the  role  of  national  human  rights
institutions. We should also like to see better targeting
of technical assistance in support of the treaty body and
special procedures systems. We need to find pragmatic
solutions  to  the  demands  that  increased  treaty  body
reporting and compliance place on small States.
the  Pacific 
Mr.  President, 
Islands  Forum
welcomes  your  own  recent  initiative  to  provide  a
framework  for  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.
The Forum fully supports proposals that will  make the
General  Assembly  more  efficient  in  its  operation  and
more  focused  and  relevant  in  the  issues  it  addresses.
We would emphasize that we seek changes not in order
to  diminish  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  but  in
10
order  to  enhance  its  relevance.  We  recognize  that,  for
all of us, there  will be a balance between  national  and
collective interests. But at its heart, the United Nations
is  about  the  collective  good,  and  achieving  effective
collective action  may require us  at  times  to  rise above
national interests.
Mr.  President,  your  informal  note  usefully  sets
out  the  possible  areas  of  reform  under  two  broad
headings.  You  have  highlighted  a  number  of  specific
proposals. These and others will  need to be developed
and discussed. We look to the process being transparent
and  inclusive  and  welcome  your  intention  to  appoint
facilitators.  There 
important  role  for
individual  committee-based  discussions  involving  a
bottom-up as well as a top-down approach.
is  also  an 
In  many  ways,  it  is  the  plenary  of  the  General
Assembly  that  needs  most  attention.  If  debates  are
poorly attended and have little  impact,  we  need  to  ask
why.  We  need  to  think  more  about  what  role  we  want
the  General  Assembly  to  play.  In  the  view  of  the
Pacific  Islands  Forum,  the  plenary  should  address  key
current  issues  in  a  way  that  enhances  the  authority  of
the  General  Assembly.  The  Assembly  should  provide
strategic  guidance  to  the  rest  of  the  United  Nations
system.
We fully support the basic concept of the general
debate.  It  is  the  one  time  of  the  year  when  a  large
number of Heads of Government and ministers engage
with  the  United  Nations  and  with  each  other.  Formal
statements  setting  out  national  positions  and  priorities
are  important,  but  beyond  this  we  believe  that,  where
possible, plenary sessions should involve a much more
interactive  exchange  of  views  on  priority  issues.  The
term “debate” should  not  be a  euphemism. There  will,
of  course,  be  differences  in  the  priority  individual
Member  States attach  to  particular  issues.  That  should
not surprise us, but we can probably agree on many of
the  priorities  for  discussion  and  find  creative  ways  of
managing  situations  where  we  cannot  presently  agree.
We  also  support  thematic  debates  if  they  can  be
constructed  to  encourage  meaningful  discussion  with
outcomes 
the  General
Assembly.
that  enhance 
the  role  of 
Mr.  President,  you  have  rightly  referred  to  the
possibility  of  rationalizing  existing  agenda  items.  We
think,  by  way  of  example,  that  our  consideration  of
reform itself has become somewhat splintered and that
a combined interactive debate on all aspects of  United
Nations  reform  might  be  useful.  It  would  focus  on
Members’  broad  views  on  the  reforms  they  wished  to
pursue,  with  details  being  discussed  in  more  informal
settings.
its  highest 
On  the  other  side,  we  wonder  whether  there  are
major current issues that this  Assembly  should  be,  but
is currently not discussing. For example, peacekeeping
is among  the  United  Nations  most  important  activities
and  has  a  high  public  profile.  Should  not  the  General
Assembly, 
at 
level,  be  discussing
peacekeeping 
issues?  We  would  envisage  such  a
discussion  looking  at  the  broader  process  of  United
Nations  intervention,  from  conflict  prevention  through
peacekeeping  to  the  United  Nations  role  in  post-
conflict  situations.  These  issues  have  development  as
well  as  political  and  security  aspects  and  bridge
discussions  taking  place  in  a  number  of  committees.
Under the Charter, these are legitimate concerns of the
General Assembly.
How  we  discuss  issues  is  as  important  as  the
issues we discuss. If the plenary remains no more than
a formal venue for delivering national statements, then,
in terms of promoting the collective will of the United
Nations, we will not be able to make it more relevant to
the outside world.
Secretary-General 
Mr. Løvald (Norway): Let me begin by thanking
the  Deputy 
personally
introducing  the  Secretary-General’s  reports  on  United
Nations 
reform.  The  Deputy  Secretary-General’s
commitment  and  dedication  to  United  Nations  reform
are truly appreciated.
for 
Allow  me  also  to  pay  particular  tribute  to  you,
Sir,  for  the  work  you  have  invested  in  attempting  to
revitalize  and  improve  the  working  methods  of  the
General Assembly. There seems to be  a  willingness  of
Member States to take a closer look at how to improve
the  General  Assembly, 
various
Committees.  We  must  take  advantage  of  this  growing
momentum,  and  let  me  assure  you,  Sir,  that  Norway
stands  ready  to  support  you  in  the  weeks  and  months
ahead.
including 
the 
In  keeping  with  the  prevailing  reform  spirit,  I
shall limit my intervention to a few main points, while
circulating the full text of my prepared remarks.
The Secretary-General’s opening statement to the
fifty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  inspired
us all to take a new look at United Nations reform. We
A/58/PV.43
share 
the  Secretary-General’s  vision  of  global
solidarity  and  security.  Norway  supports  reforms
leading to  a  more  representative  Security  Council.  We
would like to see a more effective and efficient General
Assembly  with  a  better  managed  and  more  relevant
agenda. The Economic and Social Council should be a
real force in international development cooperation and
a  true  partner  to  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  After
years  of  discussions  in  working  groups  and  other
forums,  we  always  seem  to  reach  a  stalemate.  We
therefore  applaud  the  establishment  of  a  high-level
Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  to  review  these  issues  and
recommend  ways of  strengthening the  United  Nations.
We 
and
recommendations.
findings 
forward 
their 
look 
to 
We need not wait for the recommendations of the
Panel,  however.  There  are  measures  that  we  can
implement  during  the  current  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  This  leads  me  to  the  Secretary-General’s
proposals  and  recommendations,  as  contained  in  the
reports  prepared  pursuant  to  last  year’s  resolution
57/300,  as  well  as 
to  your  concrete  proposals,
Mr. President. They are all important building blocks in
the overarching reform of the United Nations.
affairs, 
Let  me  highlight  some  aspects  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposals  and  our  views  on  them.  Norway
welcomes  the  emphasis  on  human  rights  in  the  report
before  us  in  document  A/58/351.  The  work  of  the
Secretary-General  and  the  High  Commissioner  for
Human  Rights  in  integrating  human  rights  into  all
United  Nations  activities,  particularly  in  areas  such  as
humanitarian 
and
peacekeeping, is of utmost importance. True respect for
and  protection  of  human  rights  starts  at  home.  We
applaud  the  concerted  effort  under  way  to  provide  an
integrated  and  consistent  response  to  Member  States’
requests  for  support  in  strengthening  their  national
human rights systems. The ongoing work for enhanced
implementation of human rights treaties, as well as for
improving  the  system  of  special  procedures,  is  both
timely and necessary.
prevention 
conflict 
Increasing 
is  a  prerequisite 
the  effectiveness  of  development
the
assistance 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals. 
consistency  and  coordination  of  United  Nations
activities  at 
increasing
programme  effectiveness  is,  in  that  respect,  essential.
We  thus  support  the  Secretary-General’s  proposals  on
strengthening  the  role,  authority  and  capacity  of  the
for  achieving 
Improving 
country 
level 
and 
the 
11
A/58/PV.43
United  Nations  Resident  Coordinator,  making 
the
Coordinator  the  leader  of  a  truly  integrated  United
Nations  country  team.  Norway  is  encouraged  by  the
contributions  and  advances  that  the  United  Nations
Development  Group 
the  area  of
coordination  and  joint  programming.  A  strengthened
United  Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework
and  new  joint  programming  tools  are  important  and
practical ways of moving this process ahead.
is  making 
in 
Commitment  to  United  Nations  reform  will  be  a
significant  factor  in  our  assessment  of  the  various
agencies  and  a  precondition  for  further  and  increased
Norwegian 
triennial
comprehensive  policy  review  next  year,  we  will  have
the  opportunity  to  assess  whether  or  not  we  are
progressing as rapidly as we would wish.
contributions.  During 
the 
The  Secretary-General  has  already  taken  action
and  made  changes  and  improvements  in  a  number  of
important  fields.  We  note  with  satisfaction  that  these
changes and reallocations of resources are concentrated
in  areas  where  we  all  share  the  same  priorities.  His
actions  clearly 
to
development  issues  and  particularly  the  special  needs
of  Africa.  There  is  also  a  new  emphasis  on  an
improved  and  enlightened  human  resources  strategy
and  continued  efforts  to  improve  the  Organization’s
management in general. We applaud those changes.
increased  attention 
show  an 
The revised budget format is a first important step
in  pursuing  the  Organization’s  priorities  as  defined  by
the  Millennium  Declaration 
recent  global
conferences.  The  Secretary-General  has  proposed
further  improvements  to  the  planning  and  budgeting
system, including a shorter and more strategic medium-
term plan that is linked to the budget and a single-stage
intergovernmental 
budget.  The
Norwegian Government supports those changes.
review 
and 
of 
the 
There  are  other  areas  in  the  Secretary-General’s
reform programme where consensus is not as apparent.
The  Millennium  Declaration  promises  to  give  greater
opportunities  to  the  private  sector,  non-governmental
organizations and civil society in general to contribute
to  the  realization  of  the  Organization’s  goals  and
programmes.  The  United  Nations  has  different  rules
and practices for its various bodies. There is no system
of accreditation to the General Assembly.
We are particularly keen on finding ways to make
it  easier  for  civil  society  actors  and  non-governmental
organizations  from  the  developing  countries  to  play
12
society 
central roles in United Nations activities. This will also
facilitate  mobilization  of  the  enormous  resources  of
for  development  cooperation.  We
civil 
therefore  have  great  expectations  as  regards 
the
upcoming recommendations of the Secretary-General’s
Panel of Eminent Persons on United Nations Relations
with Civil Society.
Before concluding, I would like to return to your
appeal, Mr. President, for concrete proposals as regards
the working methods of the General Assembly. I would
like, however, to  remind  the  Assembly that there  have
indeed  been  improvements  in  our  working  methods  in
the  past  few  years.  Agenda  items  and  debates  have
been  successfully  merged,  most  recently  during  our
consideration a few days ago of issues related to Africa
and  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD).  Perhaps  we  should  aim  to  make  some
concrete  improvements  in  the  area  of  resolutions  as
well. Resolutions and decisions are, after all, the  main
products  of  our  work.  We  should  look  at  ways  of
making them more operational and relevant. We do not
need  resolutions  that  are  lengthy  documents  with  the
same text, year after year.
Perhaps  the  General  Assembly  should  consider
some  limitations  or  guidelines  on  the  length  and
composition  of,  and  degree  of  repetition 
its
resolutions.  I  believe  that  we  should  look  to  the
practices  of  the  funds  and  programmes in this  respect.
As  to our  lengthy  agenda,  it  is  indeed  symptomatic  of
the  problem  that  our  discussions  today  cover  four
agenda  items,  two  of  them  without  any  content  or
reporting requirements. Why, then, are they still on our
agenda?
in, 
Norway is convinced that under the leadership of
the  Secretary-General,  the  Deputy  Secretary-General
and, more directly, under your leadership, Sir, Member
States will rise to the occasion and take decisive action
that will improve the efficiency of this  most important
of all multilateral institutions.
Mr.  Baali  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on behalf  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  Working  Group
on  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
reform of the United Nations.
Mr.  President,  the  main  point  that  the  Non-
Aligned  Movement  Working  Group  wishes  to  convey
today  is  its  strong  support  for  your  continued  efforts
towards  an  authentic  and  genuine  revitalization  of  the
General  Assembly,  so  as  to  restore  its  central  position
the 
chief 
as 
and
representative organ of the United Nations, as set out in
paragraph 30 of the Millennium Declaration.
policy-making 
deliberative, 
like  also 
We  would 
to  express  our  sincere
appreciation to  you, Sir, for having presented the  non-
paper  that  you  and  your  competent  team  prepared,
which  we  believe  constitutes  an  excellent  basis  for
today’s debate as well as for our future efforts aimed at
revitalizing the General Assembly.
We  particularly  appreciate  the  fact  that  you  have
indicated that you will take the lead in pursuing efforts
to advance the process of revitalization. In this context,
I  can  assure  you  of  the  full  confidence  of  the  Non-
Aligned Movement Working Group and its support for
your undertaking.
The  Working  Group attaches  great  importance  to
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to
improving  its  efficiency,  and  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  reiterate  its  willingness  to  participate
actively in that important process.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes  the  steps
you  have  proposed  and  most  of  the  measures  outlined
in the non-paper, which correspond to the position and
the  approach  adopted  by 
the  Working  Group
concerning the issue of the revitalization of the General
Assembly.  An  assessment  of  the  progress  achieved  so
far in the process of revitalizing the General Assembly,
which  started in the  early 1990s, is  needed  before  any
additional measures in this regard can be considered.
Since  1993,  the  General  Assembly  has  adopted
several  resolutions  aimed  at  rationalizing  its  working
methods  and  improving  its  efficiency.  Among  those
resolutions,  let  me  recall  in  particular  resolutions
47/233  of  17  August  1993,  48/264  of  29  July  1994,
51/241 of 31 July 1997, 55/285 of 10 September 2001,
57/301  of  17  March  2003  and  many  other  resolutions
listed  in  the  background  information  paper  that  you
have circulated.
The  measures  outlined  in  the  aforementioned
resolutions put more emphasis on the rationalization of
the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  working
methods  and  less  on  the  substantive  aspects  of  the
revitalization of the General Assembly.
The  measures  taken  for the  rationalization  of  the
agenda  —  clustering  and 
the  biennialization  and
triannualization  of  items  —  and  the  working  methods
of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  Main  Committees
A/58/PV.43
have  contributed,  to  a  certain  extent,  to  a  better
functioning of the Assembly. However, those measures
have  had  minimal  impact  in  helping  to  achieve  the
main  goal  set  out  in  paragraph  30  of  the  Millennium
Declaration.
Equally  important  is  the  need  fully  to  comply
with  the  relevant  guidelines  on  the  rationalization  of
the agenda of the plenary and of the respective agendas
of  the  main  Committees,  as  outlined  in  annex  1  of
resolution  48/264  and  in  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the
General Assembly.
this 
These  guidelines are  the  following.  First,  agenda
items  concerning  issues  of  closely  related  substance
could  be  merged  within  a  single  agenda  item  or  be
incorporated  as  sub-items  where 
is  possible
without  any  loss  of  focus  on  the  items  or  sub-items
concerned.  Secondly,  items  that  cover  related  matters
or  issues  could  be  considered  in  agreed  clusters.
Thirdly, biennialization and triennialization of items on
the  agenda  of 
the  Main  Committees  could  be
considered.  Fourthly  and  lastly,  the  existing  broad
division  of  work  among  the  Main  Committees  should
be maintained.
The purpose of the process of the revitalization of
the General  Assembly is defined in paragraph 1 of the
annex  to  resolution  55/285.  In  that  paragraph,  it  is
stated that:
of 
implementation 
“The  process  of  revitalizing  the  General
Assembly and improving its efficiency focuses on
the 
existing  Assembly
resolutions  and  decisions  …  Improvement  of  the
procedures and working methods of the Assembly
is  only  a  first  step  towards  more  substantive
improvements 
the
Assembly. The goal of this ongoing process is  to
enable the Assembly to play its role effectively as
the 
policy-making 
and
representative body of the United Nations”.
As  you  have 
revitalization  of 
deliberative, 
indicated 
in  and 
chief 
various 
resolutions, 
in  your  non-paper,
there  are  a  number  of  measures
Mr. President, 
contained 
particularly
in 
resolutions  51/241  and  55/285,  which  have  not  been
implemented. We appreciate the action  you have taken
so  far  in  giving  effect  to  some  of  those  measures  and
look  forward  to  further  action  to  ensure  their  full
implementation, 
the  measure
contained  in  paragraph  12  of  the  annex  to  resolution
including 
that  of 
13
A/58/PV.43
51/241,  regarding  General  Assembly  consideration  of
the report of the Security Council.
for 
As  part  of  the  efforts  aimed  at  resolving  the
problem of late issuance of documents and its negative
impact  on  the  work  of  the  Assembly,  the  Secretary-
General,  in  his  report  entitled  “Strengthening  the
United  Nations:  an  agenda 
further  change”
(A/57/387),  proposed  certain  measures  to  streamline
documentation,  such  as  consolidating  documents  on
related  subjects,  requiring  reports  to  be  sharper  with
more  clearly  defined  recommendations  for  action,  and
observing  a  stipulated  page  limit  of  16  pages.  These
measures, 
of
documents —  mainly  those  to  be  considered  by  the
Third Committee and the Second Committee — will be
reviewed  in  the  context  of  the  follow-up  to  resolution
57/300.
consolidation 
particularly 
the 
All  these  measures  aimed  at  rationalizing  the
procedures  and  working  methods  of 
the  General
Assembly have had a positive effect on the functioning
of  the  Assembly.  However,  a  genuine  and  authentic
revitalization of the General Assembly can be achieved
only  through  additional  bold  and  innovative  measures
that address the problem of the relative marginalization
of  the  Assembly  and  its  relationship  with  the  other
organs  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  the  Security
Council.
its 
During 
last  meeting, 
the  Non-Aligned
Movement  working  group  considered  the  two  broad
areas  outlined 
in  your  non-paper,  Mr.  President,
namely, enhancing the role and authority of the General
Assembly  and  improving  its  working  methods,  and
discussed  some  of  the  concrete  proposals  contained
therein.  However,  given 
the  time  constraints,  the
working group  was not able to consider thoroughly all
the  specific  measures  you  proposed.  The  Non-Aligned
Movement  will  therefore  continue  to  study  carefully
the  proposals  put  forward  in  the  non-paper,  so  as  to
reflect  on 
informal
consultations  you  intend  to  convene  in  mid-November
2003.
the  context  of 
them 
the 
in 
Assembly,  and  we  cannot  but  support  such  a  measure.
A  well  staffed  Office  would  provide  the  requisite
substantive  support  to  the  President  to  enable  him  to
play  a  leadership  role,  would  provide  continuity  and
institutional  memory  to  the  Office  of  the  presidency
and  would  enrich  the  substantive  content  of  proposals
emanating  from  the  Office  of  the  President.  The  Non-
Aligned  Movement  will,  in  due  time,  articulate  and
submit a concrete proposal in that regard.
Secondly,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  supports
the proposals  aimed  at  programming  the  consideration
of agenda items over the full year of the session, rather
than  concentrating them  in the  period  from  September
to  December,  as  is  the  current  practice.  If  General
Assembly agenda items could be grouped according to
their  importance  and  urgency,  such  sequencing  could
make  effective  use  of  the  whole  year.  That  would
reduce  the  burden  put  on  small  and  medium-size
delegations  and  enable  them  to  participate  effectively
in  the  negotiation  process  and  in  the  huge  number  of
meetings  —  more  than  6,000  —  held  each  year  at
Headquarters in New York.
Thirdly, the Non-Aligned Movement believes that
Member  States  have  an  important  role  to  play  in
implementing  resolutions,  particularly  their  sponsors,
which could take more responsibility in that regard. On
the other hand, there are some resolutions that have not
been implemented because of a lack of resources and it
is  essential  in  those  cases  that  adequate  resources  be
allocated to ensure their implementation.
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes 
the
Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  establish  a  high-level
panel  for  the  reform  of  the  principal  organs  of  the
Organization  and  the  review  of  their  effectiveness,
their  coherence  and 
roles  and
responsibilities 
imminent
personalities who will be members of the panel should
meet  important  requirements  such  as  high  integrity,
be
competence 
the 
knowledgeable 
the
intricacies of the Organization.
the  balance  of 
The 
should 
and 
functioning 
neutrality, 
among 
them. 
about 
and 
and 
At this  stage of  the  process  aimed  at  revitalizing
the  Assembly,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  would  like
to put on the record the following.
First,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  believes  that
the  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly  would  be  a  concrete  measure  to
the
increase 
the  efficiency  and  effectiveness  of 
Mr.  Acosta  Bonilla  (Honduras),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Further, we believe that the panel should also take
into account  what has been accomplished  so  far  in  the
institutional 
various  processes  of 
reform.  The
Movement  believes 
the  current  revitalization
exercise,  and  whatever  exercise  we  may  engage  in
that 
14
regarding the reform of the Security Council, should at
some point converge with the new process initiated by
the Secretary-General.
Those are  a  few  of  the ideas  we  wanted  to  share
at  this  stage.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  working
group  is  still  considering  and  working  on  further
proposals. I intend during the coming  weeks to submit
to  the  President  and  to  the  whole  membership  some
concrete  proposals  which  we  hope  will  strengthen  the
efficiency  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  and
enhance  its  political  role  as  the  chief  deliberative,
policy-making  and  representative  body  of  the  United
Nations. It is also our intention to fully cooperate with
the  President  and  to  interact  with  all  groups  and
delegations to achieve that goal.
Mr.  Bennouna  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  I
would  like  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and
China. I am pleased to speak after my Algerian brother,
Ambassador Baali, because we also hope to coordinate
our  efforts  with  the  Malaysian  presidency  of  the  Non-
Aligned  Movement  in  our  important  task  of  United
Nations reform.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend to
the Secretary-General the sincere congratulations of the
Group  of  77  on  all  his  efforts  to  foster  his  agenda  for
change,  designed  to  refocus  United  Nations  activities
on priorities which we, as Member States, laid down in
the  Millennium  Declaration  and  in  the  major  United
Nations conferences and summits held in recent years.
Reform  is  a  process.  This  process  requires  a
strategy  and  priorities  to  address  all  the  challenges  of
globalization. The challenges for us in the Group of 77
are, first of all, the reduction of poverty, as well as the
international  peace  and  security,
maintenance  of 
because 
there  can  be  no
maintenance  of  peace,  strictly  speaking,  without
economic security. But this also pertains to all of what
we now call the new threats to peace, and especially to
the campaign to combat international terrorism.
together: 
two  go 
the 
Our  objective  is  to  best  serve  humankind,  to
improve  the  standard  of  living  of  millions  of  people
who are suffering the ordeals of poverty, illness and all
the other devastating scourges. That is the principle of
our  collective  action,  which  should  guide  us  when  we
talk  about  reform  and  which  must  be  followed  with
respect  for  the  basic  values  that  informed  the  birth  of
the United Nations.
A/58/PV.43
We  are  convinced  that  reform  of  the  multilateral
institutions is more necessary than ever to enable those
institutions,  under  optimal  circumstances,  to  adapt  to
the new problems and new situations facing the world.
This  common  exercise  should  be  accompanied  by  a
sustained effort and by real determination to strengthen
our  collective  action  and  realize  the  objectives  of  the
Millennium Development Goals.
Reform is not an end in itself. Its  main objective
is to strengthen international cooperation and to ensure
the  fulfilment  of  commitments  entered  into  during
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits,  with  a  view
to  enabling  the  developing  countries,  especially  the
poorest  and  least  developed  among  them,  to  attain  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  for  the  economic  and
social well-being of their peoples.
Strengthening  our  Organization 
requires  an
overhaul  of  the  architecture  of  the  intergovernmental
bodies and  of  their  work  programmes  and  methods  —
primarily  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and
Social Council and the Security Council.
Regarding  the  Security  Council,  the  organ  with
the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security,  it  is  obvious  that  the
conditions  which  led  to  agreement  on  its  membership
and  functioning  have  changed  profoundly.  Therefore,
the  question  of  Security  Council  reform  should  be  on
the agenda of meetings among our leaders, so that they
can outline Council reforms that  we  would  then  refine
in New York so they may then be placed in the context
of a reformed Charter.
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  at
the  heart  of  the  necessary  United  Nations  reform.  It
cannot  be  carried  out  piecemeal  but  must  be  part  of  a
consistent  approach.  All  efforts  must  be  channelled
towards  the  objectives  which  our  heads  of  State  or
Government  set  out  in  the  general  debate  during  this
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  so  as  to  ensure  the
positive involvement of expertise and political will. All
parties 
relations  have
expressed 
the
reform, 
conviction  that  a  more  efficient  organization  better
adapted to the post-cold-war world is in the interest of
all  members  of  the  family  of  nations,  whatever  their
size, religion or culture.
international 
this 
their  support 
involved 
in 
in 
for 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  was  created  in  the
1960s  to  work  together  for  the  democratization  of
the  major
international 
relations  by  eliminating 
15
A/58/PV.43
the  members  of 
the
disparities  which  divided 
international 
the
community. 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  has  thus  always
been  among  our  priorities.  It  should  enable  us  to  act
better to reduce poverty and eliminate the most serious
social problems.
Strengthening 
international 
conferences 
on 
follow-up  and 
implementation  of 
Since the adoption of the Millennium Declaration
we  have  spared  no  effort  towards  the  convening  of
major 
sustainable
development, financing of development or international
trade.  This  year,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  all,  we
succeeded  in  adopting  resolution  57/270  B  on  the
integrated 
the
outcomes of those major conferences, in order to attain
the Millennium Development Goals. Resolution 57/270
B means that the General Assembly and the Economic
and  Social  Council  can  play  a  role  in  monitoring  and
following  up  implementation  and  in  the  adoption  of
necessary  adjustment  measures.  To 
the
Economic and Social Council should be more active in
coordinating  the  activities  of  the  specialized  agencies
and  in  strengthening  cooperation  with  the  Bretton
Woods institutions in order to give them the necessary
momentum.
that  end, 
The  composition  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council,  in  relation  to  its  effectiveness  increased,
should be the subject of an in-depth analysis. We hope
that  this  analysis  will  be  carried  out  as  quickly  as
possible.  Moreover,  it  is  important  for  the  General
Assembly  to  be  in  session  throughout  the  year  and  to
respond  to  proposals  from  anywhere  in  the  world,
directly or via the Economic and Social Council, so as
to prepare studies and react promptly to the challenges
of  globalization.  In  the  same  vein,  the  role  and
presence  of  the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly
must  be  strengthened  and  given  adequate  resources  to
that end.
The  General  Assembly  should  be  able  to  set  up
thematic groups whenever issues arise on which it must
take  a  stand.  The  membership  of  such  groups,  if  they
are  open-ended,  could  work  with  full  respect  for
transparency. It is  in  this  manner  that  we  worked  well
this  year  in  the  open-ended  ad  hoc  working  group  on
integrated  follow-up  and  implementation  of  the  major
United Nations conferences.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  will  support  all
initiatives 
the  better  effectiveness  and
visibility  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  We
to  ensure 
16
believe  the  Assembly  can  make  better  use  of  its
decision-making power  involving  budgetary  matters,  a
power which it has under Article 17 of the Charter. We
must continue budgetary and financial reform along the
lines  set  forth  by  resolution  57/300.  This  means  that
the  General  Assembly  must  have 
resources
necessary  to  make  strategic  choices  and  decide  on
priorities when it enters into a budgetary exercise. Such
an  exercise  cannot  be  only  technical,  and  cannot  lie
within the sole purview of Fifth Committee experts. In
this  connection,  consideration  of  the  future  of  the
Committee for Programme and Coordination should go
forward so that the Committee’s functions  are actually
carried out.
the 
As  I  just  said,  it  would  be  useful  to  extend  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  entire  calendar
year so that we can focus on our various activities in a
way that would make us as visible as possible. Work on
revitalization  and reform,  now  begun,  should  certainly
continue  next  year,  without  awaiting  the  report  of  the
panel  of  eminent  personalities  to  be  set  up  by  the
Secretary-General.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  attaches  great
importance  to  preparation  for  the  high-level  meeting
scheduled  for  2005  on  the  integrated  follow-up  and
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals,
as  provided  for  in  resolution  57/270  B.  We  hope  that
the  2005  summit  will  give  impetus  to  development
questions  before  the  General  Assembly.  To  that  end,
the  summit  should  be  prepared  with  all  the  requisite
professionalism  during 
the  upcoming  year.  A
preparatory committee  will probably need to be  set  up
to ensure the success of the 2005 summit, which for us,
as  a  developing  country,  will  provide  an  important
stimulus.
The  Group  of  77  and  China  intend  to  give  the
presidency  all  cooperation  necessary  for  the  early
attainment  of  concrete  results  because  we  believe  that
this  is  the  best  way  to  initiate  the  much  desired
dynamic of reform.
Mr.  Balarezo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  It  is  a
great  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  19  member
States  of  the  Rio  Group:  Argentina,  Bolivia,  Brazil,
Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Dominican  Republic,
Ecuador,  El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras,
Mexico,  Nicaragua,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Uruguay,
Venezuela and my country, Peru.
The  Rio  Group  reaffirms  its  full  support  and
cooperation  in  the  effort  to  revitalize  the  work  of  the
General  Assembly.  Also,  it  welcomes  the  important
document that has been submitted, with which it agrees
in  several  areas.  Like  the  President  of  the  General
Assembly, we believe that this is an opportune moment
to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  Assembly  and  that  it
should not be wasted because such opportunities do not
come along often.
We  hope  that  the  reform  initiatives  will  be  both
bold  and  coherent,  bold  in  not  shirking  the  most
difficult issues and coherent in ensuring the promotion
of  multilateralism in the Organization, in particular by
affirming the General Assembly’s ability to fully carry
out the functions entrusted to it under the Charter.
Recently, at their summit held in Cusco last May,
the  heads  of  State  or  Government  of  the  Rio  Group
countries  decided  to  employ  the  full  capacity  of  their
countries 
the
multilateral  system  based  on  international  law  and  the
Charter.  They  determined  that  the  General  Assembly
plays a fundamental role in that task.
the  strengthening  of 
to  encourage 
is  determined 
The  Rio  Group 
its
contribution  to  the  Assembly’s  regaining  its  effective
political  leadership  of  the  Organization’s  activities,
with  a  real  capacity  for  action  and  purpose,  as  all  the
Member  States  of  the  Organization  recognized  in  the
Millennium Declaration.
to  make 
In that context, I wish to present on behalf of the
Rio  Group  some  suggestions  for  the  revitalization  of
the General Assembly under the two clusters presented
by the President.
related  not  only 
First,  with  respect  to  strengthening  the  authority
and  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  United  Nations
Charter  conferred  a  broad  range  of  functions  and
powers  on  the  General  Assembly  to  deal  with  all
questions 
for
development  but  also  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security. Therefore, the Rio Group considers
that the General Assembly, as the most democratic and
representative  organ,  must  have  the  capacity  to  react
appropriately  and  to  discuss  the  issues  of  the  greatest
urgency 
international
community.
to  cooperation 
importance 
and 
for 
the 
A/58/PV.43
Assembly’s  General  Committee.  That  means  that  the
capacity  for 
initiative  and  action  should  not  be
delegated  to  individuals  as  such  but  according  to  an
official working structure based on clear rules.
It  is  a  basic  requirement  that  such  a  mechanism
for  management  receives  the  necessary  financial  and
technical  support  from  the  Secretariat,  including  the
appointment  of  permanent  officials  who  would  be  of
great  advantage  because  of  their  liaison  with  the
Secretariat  and  their  collective  memory  of  the  lessons
learned from the work of each session.
In  addition,  the  provisions  of  resolution  51/241
must  be  complied  with;  the  resolution  requests  the
General Committee of the General Assembly to prepare
a  document  containing  conclusions,  suggestions  and
recommendations  based  on  its  experience  in  order  to
simplify  and  rationalize  the  work  of  the  General
Committee in the following session.
In order for the General Assembly to be relevant,
it  must be able to prioritize the  main  issues  at  a  given
time,  giving  them  their  due  attention.  That  does  not
mean creating an agenda of first and second class items
but simply identifying the interests of the international
community  at  a  given  moment  in  order  to  achieve
timely and concrete results.
The Rio Group also supports the proposal that the
Department  of  Public  Information  create  a  plan  of
action for the better dissemination of the results of the
General Assembly’s work. That will require improving
the  quality  and  relevance  of  the  recommendations  and
conclusions adopted.
It is necessary to comply with the various General
Assembly  resolutions  requesting  the  president  of  the
General  Assembly  to  prepare  an  assessment  of  the
debate  on  the  meetings  devoted  to  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  as
well  as  to  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  The
assessment  of  those  debates  should  also  consider
whether a  more thorough  examination  of those reports
by 
through
informal  consultations.  The  president’s  assessment
should  also  contain  proposals  on  ways  to  facilitate  a
more in-depth discussion of those items, as indicated in
resolutions 48/264 and 51/241.
the  Assembly 
is  required, 
including 
To that end, it is essential to strengthen the role of
the  president  of  the  General  Assembly,  through  the
coordinated  supported  and  balanced  work  of 
the
With  respect  to  the  second  cluster,  working
methods  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Rio  Group
considers that the work of simplifying the agenda must
17
A/58/PV.43
continue,  starting  with  the  selection  of  the  priority
issues,  which  could  be  done  by  the  president  of  the
General  Assembly  and  the  General  Committee.  That
does  not  necessarily  mean  eliminating  items  currently
on  the  agenda  but  deciding  which  items  should  be
treated at a specific time.
The  Rio  Group  agrees  on  the  need  for  a  more
coherent and balanced calendar of meetings in order to
avoid  concentrating  most  of  the  work  of  the  Main
Committees  and  the  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly
into a mere three months.
of 
and 
reports 
The  numerous  formal  and  informal  meetings,
parallel
panels, 
presentations 
negotiations  prevent 
the  effective  and  sustained
treatment of agenda items. The president has reminded
us  that  in  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  General
Assembly,  all  countries  must  adequately  participate  in
its  meetings.  That  is  almost  impossible,  given  the
current  workload.  This  situation  is  incomprehensible,
given  that  the  length  of  every  General  Assembly
session  is  one  calendar  year  —  the  time  necessary  to
cover all the agenda items  in  a  more  coherent,  orderly
and thorough fashion.
initiate  a  process  of  reform 
Moreover, the Rio Group believes that each Main
Committee  must 
to
optimize its  work. This  should  include reviewing  their
agendas,  the  number  of  their  resolutions  and  the
distribution  of  their  tasks  over  the  course  of  the  year.
The consultations and coordination of Committees that
deal  with  common  items  must  also  be  improved  to
avoid  duplication  of  efforts.  And  the  work  of  others,
such  as  the  Fourth  Committee,  should  be  enhanced
with 
including  some
the  addition  of  new 
considered in plenary meeting.
items, 
With  regard  to  the  debate  already  begun  in  the
First  Committee,  the  Rio  Group  considers  that  that
Committee  must  strengthen  its  work  in  the  area  of
disarmament  and  international  security  through  the
effective use of the powers and functions granted to the
General Assembly by the Charter. Furthermore, the Rio
Group considers that the First Committee must make a
greater  contribution  to  international cooperation  in  the
political field.
We  must  reflect  on  the  existing  decision-making
process  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  rule  that  must
guide  us 
the  greatest  common
denominator  and  the  greatest  degree  of  cooperation
from all Member States. The rule of consensus is very
to  achieve 
is 
18
important,  but  it  must  not  become  an  instrument  to
impede the consideration and the promotion of matters
that  can  be  vital  to  a  substantial  majority  of  Member
States.
is 
are 
But 
the  most 
important  matter 
the  General  Assembly 
the
implementation  of  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the
General Assembly. We must ensure that the resolutions
adopted  by 
fully
the  Secretariat  can  assist  us.
implemented.  Here, 
the
Perhaps,  at 
Secretariat  could 
report  on
resolutions  that  have  not  been  implemented.  It  would
also  be  worthwhile  to  have  a  Secretariat  evaluation  of
the  reasons  why  those  resolutions  have  not  been
implemented.
the  beginning  of  each  session, 
submit  a 
thorough 
If  it  is  wrong  for  States  not  to  implement  the
recommendations  of  Assembly  resolutions,  it  is  even
less plausible  for  the  Secretariat and  other  multilateral
organs subordinate to the Organization not to carry out
the  provisions  of  resolutions  that  apply  to  them.  A
study of that kind would also allow us to look into the
implementability  of  such  resolutions  and  to  adopt
measures to deal with that problem. It is also important
to encourage the submission of short and concise draft
resolutions, based mainly on new elements.
identifying, 
from  among 
We  believe  that  it  is  very  important  to  prepare  a
summary 
the  numerous
suggestions  presented,  specific  substantive  proposals
which can garner the support of the majority of States;
this  will  allow  development  of  this  process.  The  Rio
Group hopes to continue participating in this important
effort  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly,  which  the
President 
in  which  we  participate
enthusiastically.
leads 
and 
The  Rio  Group  also  attaches  great  importance  to
the process of strengthening the Organization, initiated
by the Secretary-General. In that regard, the Rio Group
expresses  its  satisfaction  at  the  efforts  undertaken  to
implement  resolution  57/300,  particularly  with  regard
to  budgetary  reform.  In  that  respect,  the  Rio  Group
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  create  a
shorter,  more  strategic  medium-term  plan  that  takes
into consideration emerging trends and new challenges
facing the Organization, and that does not leave out the
priorities set by Member States.
Regarding 
the  Rio  Group
considers it worthwhile for it to have a broad vision of
major  programmatic  changes  and  variations  and
the  draft  budget, 
requirements of resources that reflect those changes. It
also considers it necessary to strengthen the monitoring
and  evaluation  functions  through  the  Committee  for
Programme and Coordination, in order to determine the
ongoing  relevancy,  efficiency  and  impact  of  the  work
of 
the  Organization.  The  Group  will  work
constructively  during  the  intergovernmental  debate  in
the Fifth Committee.
Finally, our  countries  will  continue  to  participate
actively in the debates and negotiations in the  General
Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the
Commission on Human Rights, with a view to ensuring
full  implementation  of  the  objective  of  strengthening
the Organization.
Mr.  Limon  (Suriname):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  that  are  Members
of  the  United  Nations:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  the
Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada,
Guyana,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad  and
Tobago and my own country, Suriname.
We 
thank 
the  President  for  convening 
this
meeting, and even more for his approach to the issue of
revitalizing  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  In
placing this matter before the Assembly at this stage of
the  fifty-eighth  session,  he  has  demonstrated  not  just
commitment, but also determination to move this issue
to a meaningful level within the Assembly. CARICOM
is
welcomes  his 
unequivocal 
in 
towards
meaningful advancement in this decade-long process.
initiative  and 
its  commitment 
leadership  and 
to  work 
Our  commitment  to  revitalization  of  the  General
Assembly finds resonance not only in the universal call
for  change  among  the  diplomatic  and  intellectual
community,  and  not  only  in  the  more 
than  150
statements issued by our heads of State or Government
or  Foreign  Ministers,  who,  from  this  very  podium,
pronounced on the need for reform and revitalization of
our  Organization,  although  that  in  itself  is  a  clear
mandate.
The call for reform comes from the people of the
that  we,  who  are
world,  who  increasingly  sense 
charged with the task of representing their needs, have
failed  to  make  the  United  Nations  a  more  effective
instrument  for  pursuing  the  fight  for  development  for
all  peoples  of  the  world;  the  fight  against  poverty,
ignorance  and  disease;  the  fight  against  injustice,
A/58/PV.43
violence,  terror  and  crime;  and  the  fight  against  the
degradation  and  destruction  of  our  common  home,  in
keeping  with  our  commitments  in  the  Millennium
Declaration. This is a clear mandate. What prevents us
from responding to this call? The time has come for us
to  move  away  from  simply making rhetorical  calls  for
reform and to finally take action.
Our  first  action  must  be  to  reaffirm  the  position
that the General Assembly is the principal organ of the
United  Nations,  for  it  is  in  the  General  Assembly  that
we find the universality of this Organization. Only the
General  Assembly  can  speak  on  behalf  of  all  the
peoples of the world.
CARICOM supports the proposal put  forward  by
the President, which groups the revitalization issue into
two clusters — one on enhancing the authority and the
role of the General Assembly and one on improving the
working methods of the General Assembly.
and  more 
the  working  methods  of 
A  number  of  ideas  have  been  put  forward  on
improving 
the  General
Assembly.  For  CARICOM,  such  improvements  should
lead  to  more  substantive  debates,  more  interactive
discussions 
implementation.  We
acknowledge  the  concerns  of  those  who  worry  that
reform  of  the  working  methods  could  be  used  to
marginalize 
to  some
influential  delegations.  CARICOM  will  be  vigilant  in
ensuring that important issues are not marginalized, but
we  also  recognize  the  need  for  flexibility  in  finding
common ground in fulfilling our mandate.
less  significance 
issues  of 
a 
We believe that improving our work and ensuring
that  we  produce  relevant  and  meaningful  outcomes
represents 
the
enhancement  of  the  authority  and  the  role  of  the
General Assembly. Relevant and  meaningful  outcomes
will  be  translated  into  positive  results  for  those  we
serve.
contribution 
significant 
to 
is 
the 
revitalization  process 
CARICOM  believes  that  an  equally  important
the
component  of 
strengthening  of  the  office  of  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly.  The  President  must  have 
the
resources to carry out the mandates entrusted to him by
the  Charter,  as  well  as  those  that  result  from  the
deliberations  of  this  body.  He  must  also  be  given  the
resources necessary for him to take the message of the
Assembly beyond the confines of this Hall. CARICOM
looks  forward  to  working  with  him  on  this  most
19
A/58/PV.43
important  issue.  We  hereby  express  our  willingness  to
accommodate all constructive proposals.
This  conversation  on  reform  and  revitalization
has continued for over a decade. We have expressed in
every  possible  way  our  understanding  of  the  need  for
reform  —  for  change.  Our  level  of  activity  aimed  at
achieving  change,  however,  remains  sluggish  at  best.
As  The  Right  Honourable  P.  J.  Patterson,  Prime
Minister  of  Jamaica,  put  it,  we  must  resuscitate  the
powers  of  the  General  Assembly  and  assert  its  role  as
the  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Let  us  act
now.
in 
the  failure  of 
Mr. Elnaggar (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): No one
in  this  Hall  is  in  any  doubt  about  the  urgent  need  for
reform. That need has been evidenced by recent events
and  crises 
the
international order to carry out its responsibilities in an
effective manner so as to ensure that the foundations of
this international Organization are safeguarded and that
it  be  allowed  to  confront  the  new  challenges  that  it
faces.
the  world  and 
There  are  many  reform  initiatives  relating  to,
inter  alia,  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,
the  reform  and  expansion  of  the  Security  Council,  the
functioning  and  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council, reconsideration of the  role  of  the  Trusteeship
Council and the strengthening of the United Nations at
the  administrative  and  institutional  levels,  as  well  as
the  strengthening  of  the  post  of  the  Secretary-General
and reducing the pressure on him and on his decisions.
In our view, reform in the various fields must be a
comprehensive,  integral  process.  Our  unity  of  purpose
must be manifested in the increase in the effectiveness
and  efficiency  of  this  international  Organization  in  all
areas and the  wider participation of all  Member  States
in the decision-making process, as well as an expansion
and  fusion  of  the  issues  that  are  on  the  international
agenda.  In  this  respect,  we  believe  that  the  process
should  be  based  on  a  firm  foundation  and 
that
selectivity  must  be  avoided  when  determining  which
areas  require  reform  and  in  what  manner.  This  in  turn
will  require  openness  and  transparency  with  regard  to
the reality of the current international situation, without
unjustified  pessimism  or  exaggerated  and  unfounded
ambitions being manifested.
In this context, I would like to make some general
points,  within  a  framework  of  transparency,  which
could contribute to the desired goal of reform. First, we
20
must  all  agree  that  the  institutional  reform  of  the
United  Nations  is  governed  by  a  number  of  factors,
some  of  which  undermine  the  scope  of  the  reform
effort  itself,  as  well  as  our  ability  to  carry  it  out.
Reform at all levels is, in principle, a political process
aimed  at  enhancing  the  authority  of  the  General
Assembly  and  expanding  the  participation  of  Member
States in elaborating the objectives of the Organization
and  all  its  resolutions,  including  those  relating  to
international  peace  and  security  and  support  for  the
role  of  the  Organization  in  the  social,  economic  and
political  fields  throughout  the  world,  which  is  in  our
common interests.
We must therefore understand that an approach to
reform that focuses only on the rationalization of some
procedures  —  despite  the  importance  of  that  —  will
not  bring  about  the  objective  that  we  all  seek.  That  is
the  starting  point.  We  would  like  to  make  clear  that
there  is  an  enormous  difference  in  positions  between
those who want to carry out a radical reform — which
is required in many important fields — and amend the
Charter, whether by addition or by omission, and those
who  believe  that  the  status  quo  should  be  maintained
and  that  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  should  be
limited  to  purely  humanitarian  work.  Despite  the
importance  of  such  work,  however,  it  cannot  meet  the
aspirations  of  peoples  or  the  requirements  of  the
current  international  order.  For  example,  the  United
Nations is still far from undertaking a leading political
role  in  specific  boiling  crises  or  in  the  international
economic  order,  which  is  controlled  by  closed  cadres
of the elite.
In  this  respect,  I  believe  we  must  thoroughly
examine the issue of General Assembly resolutions and
its  authority  within  the  framework  of  the  “Uniting  for
peace”  resolution.  That  would  be  very  useful  in  these
difficult  times  when  people  have  lost  faith  in  the
Organization.
If the role of the Security Council — the principal
organ for  maintaining international peace and security,
pursuant to the Charter — has been undermined, as can
be seen from many recent events, and its role limited to
reforming  policies  that  it  did  not  draw  up  or  set,  then
the question would be: is an expansion of the Council’s
membership  sufficient  to  increase  and  enhance  its
effectiveness  and  efficiency?  If  the  answer  is  in  the
affirmative,  what  would  then  be  the  scope  of  the
expansion,  and  would  it  reflect  the  reality  of  the
international  political  arena  in  an  inclusive  manner  —
or  would  it  be  carried  out  with  selectivity  so  as  to
reflect only part of that reality?
the  General  Assembly 
Secondly, there are many reform initiatives before
us,  some  of  which  overlap  in  certain  areas,  and  they
need to be rationalized. Discussions on the  same issue
are currently taking place on parallel tracks. There are
also  other  approaches  that  are  trying  to  bring  together
separate and isolated areas of reform. In this context, I
would like to note the discussions that are taking place
in 
the
revitalization  and  enhancement  of  its  role.  Egypt  also
supports the initiative of the Secretary-General, spelled
out in his statement on 23 September, to set up a high-
level panel of eminent personalities to discuss the same
issue and other matters. In this connection, a report will
be submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth
session.  Thus  the  General  Assembly  will  consider  the
results  reached  by  the  panel,  which  will  examine  that
issue and the possibility of reaching consensus on some
of the proposals in that connection.
itself  concerning 
I  should  like  to  note  that  discussions  on  the
revitalization of the role and rationalization of the work
of the General Assembly and its Main Committees are
taking  place  in  parallel  in  several  committees,  each
considering  the  same  issue  and  without  any  unified
guiding  vision.  I  would  therefore  propose  that  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  undertake  a  lead
role in the preparation of a clear programme of action,
with a specific time frame lasting through this and the
next  session  and  ending  with  the  sixtieth,  to  cover  all
such debates. In that  manner,  we can use the available
time  with  greater  efficiency,  avoid  duplication  and
establish  clear  benchmarks  during  each  session,
including specific and practical objectives.
We  also  note  the  importance  of  establishing  an
appropriate  mechanism  to  coordinate  the  work  of  the
Panel Of Eminent Persons on United Nations Relations
with Civil Society and of the General  Assembly in the
same area. My delegation has already proposed that the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  assume  that  vital
coordinating role at this session.
Finally,  with respect to promoting the role of  the
United Nations and following up the implementation of
resolution  57/300,  I  should  like  to  note  the  ambiguity
that surrounds both the proposals submitted to develop
the process of adopting the United Nations programme
budget  and 
the  role  of  multilateral  governmental
frameworks  in  the  various  phases  of  that  process.  I
A/58/PV.43
wish  to  stress  here  the  importance  that  Egypt,  like
many  other  developing  countries,  attaches  to  the  mid-
term  planning  of  our  Organization.  We  believe  that,
without  such  mid-term  planning,  it  will  be  difficult  to
identify  our  priorities  and  to  assess  progress  made  in
them.  I  wish  once  again  to  reiterate  the  importance  of
considering  this  matter  in  a  comprehensive  manner
encompassing its various  phases  in  order to be able  to
determine  its  shortcomings  and  to  suggest  remedies
thereto.
Mr. Spatafora (Italy): I have the honour to speak
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  acceding
countries  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,
Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,  Slovakia
and  Slovenia;  the  associated  Countries,  Romania  and
Turkey;  and  the  European  Free  Trade  Association
country  member  of  the  European  Economic  Area,
Iceland, align themselves with this statement.
launched  by 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  decision  to
hold today’s joint debate, as it brings together different
strands of work on United Nations reform. Through the
initiatives 
the  Secretary-General  and
others, as well as thanks to the personal engagement of
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  there  is  an
encouraging  sense  of  momentum  to  take  forward  our
common  interest  in  strengthening  the  United  Nations.
The initial reactions of Member States  have been  very
positive  and 
their
commitment  to  moving  the  process  forward.  We  have
before  us  a  common  path  and  the  European  Union
wants to walk it together with others.
they  provide  an 
indication  of 
institutions 
The  European  Union  supports  the  process  set  in
motion by the Secretary-General. We want a strong and
efficient  United  Nations  system.  We  believe 
that
multilateral 
should  be  updated  and
strengthened. We are ready to contribute actively to the
goal  of  building  an  international  order  based  on
effective  multilateral 
the
fundamental  framework  of  the  United  Nations  Charter
and  our 
the  United  Nations,  as
articulated  by  our  heads  of  State  in  the  Millennium
Declaration.  The  European  Union  gives  its  support  to
the  establishment  of  a  high-level  Panel  of  Eminent
Personalities  and  we 
receiving
recommendations  from  the  Secretary-General  in  2004,
based on the work of the Panel.
institutions,  within 
joint  vision  for 
look 
forward 
to 
The European Union  further believes that reform
should  extend  to  the  main  United  Nations  policies  in
21
A/58/PV.43
order  to  make  them  more  effective  in  the  face  of  new
and  evolving  global  challenges.  In  this  regard,  the
European  Union  and  its  member  States  continue  to
work  to  strengthen  the  coherence  and  consistency  of
their  collective  actions  in  principal  United  Nations
organs  with  a  view  to  ensuring  greater  respect  for
multilateral decisions and greater determination in their
implementation.  While  recent  improvements  in  the
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  should  be
further developed, there is a need for a comprehensive
reform 
it  more 
representative,  more
effective and more democratic.
that  makes 
like 
the 
they 
response 
received  during 
for  Mr.  Hunte’s 
to  express 
leadership 
With  respect  to  General  Assembly  revitalization,
its
the  European  Union  would 
appreciation 
and
commitment  in  steering  the  revitalization  process.  We
welcome his recent non-paper as an excellent basis for
making  real  progress  during  this  sessions  of  the
General  Assembly.  We  share  his  views,  both  on
substance  and  on  process,  and  are  heartened  by  the
positive 
first
informal  consultations  last  week.  The  proposals  now
need further elaboration with a view to taking decisions
as soon as possible. We should be ambitious and at the
same time focus on issues where progress can be made.
We  agree  with  the  President’s  proposal  to  hold
informal  consultations  grouping  the  issues  under  two
headings: first, enhancing the authority and role of the
General  Assembly,  including  to  restore  its  central  role
in 
international  debate  and  decision-making;  and
secondly,  improving  the  working  methods.  In  this
framework, we are ready to work with the President in
achieving  concrete  decisions  to  be  adopted  at  this
session of the General Assembly.
Enhancing  the  authority  and  role  of  the  General
Assembly  is  first  and  foremost  a  matter  of  political
will.  It  is  our  shared  responsibility  to  create  the
conditions in  which the Assembly can fulfil its role as
defined in the Charter. The General Assembly requires
improvements  in  its  working  methods,  but  improving
those  working  methods  is  not  an  end  in  itself.  It  will
underpin  our 
the  General
Assembly’s authority and role, as I  was  saying  before.
We would like to highlight the following priorities.
enhance 
efforts 
to 
First, we must strengthen the role of the President
and  his  Office.  We  would,  for  instance,  welcome
temporary secondment of additional Secretariat staff to
the  President’s  Office.  We  also  would  suggest
22
exploring  the  possibility  of  extending  a  President’s
term  or  of  introducing  the  troika  system  in  order  to
draw upon experience and provide continuity.
Second, we must enhance the role of the General
Committee.  We  welcome  the  initial  steps  that  the
President  has  taken.  We  could  envisage  a  bureau
function for the Committee in support of the President.
One  of  the  specific  additional  roles  of  the  General
Committee could be to come up with recommendations
to streamline the reporting requirements.
their 
Third,  we  must  work  in  the  Main  Committees  to
strengthen 
functioning  and  encourage  each
Committee  to  find  efficient  ways  of  organising  their
work.  Of  course,  these  proposals  should  be  consistent
with 
the
Assembly as a whole.
the  wider  context  of 
revitalisation  of 
Fourth,  we  must  develop  constructive  interaction
with and between the bureaux of the main Committees,
for  example  by  joint  bureaux  meetings  to  identify
potential areas of overlap and to review their respective
programmes  of  work.  We  could  also  consider  election
of the bureaux earlier in the year, as is now the case for
the  President  of  the  Assembly,  to  facilitate  continuity
and planning.
Fifth, we must communicate more effectively the
decisions  of 
to  Governments  and
agencies  and  disseminate  information  thereon  to  the
broader public.
the  Assembly 
Sixth,  we  must look again at  how  to  do  better  in
implementing  past  General  Assembly  resolutions  on
efficient working.
of 
common 
Seventh,  we  must establish a closer link between
the Assembly’s agenda and the global challenges of the
outside  world.  Debates  in  the  plenary  and  in  the  main
Committees  should  focus  on  a  limited  number  of  key
issues 
interest.  The  Millennium
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
should  provide  the  overarching  framework  in  that
regard.  Prominent  outsiders  could  be  invited  to  give
their  views  on  these  issues.  The  general  debate  could
set  the  stage  by  focusing  on  key  themes  agreed  on  by
Member  States  beforehand  —  ideally  building  upon
priorities  indicated  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his
report on the work of the Organization.
The  European  Union  also  believes  that  some
items  do  not  require  annual  debate.  Considering  them
every two or three years would make room for more in-
depth  debates  as  well  as  for  topical  new  items.  We
suggest  that,  under  the  guidance  of  the  President,
specific  ideas  to  that  effect  could  be  elaborated.
Debates  should  become  more  interactive,  for  instance
by  using  alternative 
formats  such  as  high-level
dialogues and panels more often.
a  given 
time-frame.  Furthermore, 
The  General  Assembly  should  become  more
action-oriented.  Resolutions  and  decisions  should  be
shorter and less repetitive and focus on implementation
within 
their
implementation  by  Member  States,  the  Secretariat  and
other  parts  of  the  United  Nations  system  should  be
monitored  more  vigorously.  The  European  Union
seconds the suggestion that Member States proposing a
draft  resolution  become  the  “focal  points”  for  its
follow-up.  My  Algerian  colleague,  on  behalf  of  the
Non-Aligned  Movement,  has  touched  on  this  point,  as
have others, with whom we fully agree.
In 
the  same  spirit,  we  support  efforts 
to
strengthen  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  so  that  it
can  perform  its  role  as  the  central  mechanism  for
system-wide  coordination.  A  great  deal  has  been  done
already, for example to improve its methods of work.
light  of 
the  achievement  of 
Priority should be given to implementing General
Assembly  resolution  57/270  B,  in  particular  in  the
following  areas:  first,  to  elaborate  a  programme  of
work  based  on  cross-cutting  themes  for  the  follow-up
to  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits,  in
the 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals;  secondly,  to  review  the  methods
of  work  of  the  functional  commissions  methods  of
work  before  2005,  in  order  better  to  pursue  the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  Summits,  while  recognizing
that  there  is  no  need  for  a  uniform  approach  for  all
functional  commissions; 
the
interaction  with  its  subsidiary  bodies;  fourthly,  to
review  the  role  of  the  annual  spring  meeting  and  its
articulation  with  the  biannual  high-level  dialogue,  in
relation  to  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the
World Trade Organization (WTO).
to  enhance 
thirdly, 
the  functioning  of 
The  EU  welcomes  the  initiative  of  the  President
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  stimulate
thinking  on 
the  Council.  An
essential 
the
President and the Bureau in taking forward these ideas.
We  hope  that  this  debate  will  address  wider
issues,  such  as,  first,  the  articulation  of  the  Economic
leadership  role  must  be  played  by 
A/58/PV.43
and  Social  Council’s  work  with  that  of  the  General
Assembly and its main committees in the economic and
social  sphere;  and  secondly,  the  Council’s  interaction
with the Security Council, for example on post-conflict
issues.
Turning  to  the  implementation  of  the  Secretary-
General’s proposals on the strengthening of the United
Nations, the EU fully supports the General Assembly’s
the  Secretary-
resolution  57/300.  We  welcome 
General’s  analysis  on  a  single-stage  approach 
to
budgetary  and  programming  decisions,  to  streamline
budgetary documentation and to reduce the complexity
of budget procedures.
that 
continue 
issues.  Within 
the  basic  structure  of 
We  have  made  clear  that  the  European  Union
believes 
the  General
Assembly’s  decision-making  process  is  valid.  The
decision-making  process  must 
to  be
transparent  and  representative  of  the  full  membership,
allowing  for  full  consideration  of  budgetary  and
programmatic 
that  framework,  we
should  be  ready  for  a  frank  appraisal  of  how  well  the
existing  structures  operate,  in  order  to  guarantee  the
efficient  functioning  of  the  Committee  for  Programme
and  Coordination  (CPC),  the  Advisory  Committee  on
Administrative  and  Budgetary  Questions  (ACABQ)
and 
the  Fifth  Committee.  The  monitoring  and
evaluation  role  of  the  CPC  could  be  enhanced  in
parallel  with  a  more  effective  contribution  on
programmatic issues.
framework.  Both  would  better 
There are serious questions as to the usefulness of
the  medium-term  plan  and  the  budget  outline.  There
are any number of ways to proceed to agreed outcomes
this autumn, whether conjoining the medium-term plan
with  the  programme  budget,  as  some  have  suggested,
or  harmonizing  the  plan  more  effectively  with  a
rejuvenated budget outline as part of a dual-component
align
strategic 
programming 
resource
implications,  which  should  be  one  of  the  primary
objectives of this reform process.
the 
forward?
Strengthening,  enhancing  and  reforming  the  United
Nations,  as 
is
necessary  and  urgent.  We  believe  that,  to  ensure
continuity  of  this  process,  there  should  be  regular
overall reviews on the progress being made in shaping
the reform.
the  only  universal  Organization, 
and  priority-setting  with 
to  move 
process 
How 
23
A/58/PV.43
The  European  Union  is  ready  to  work  for  more
concrete  improvements  in  the  efficiency  of  United
Nations bodies, policies and  processes.  We  are  willing
to  cooperate  with 
the  broader  United  Nations
membership, reaching out to other groups and Member
States  with the aim of delivering tangible results  as of
the current session of the General Assembly.
Let us not put off until tomorrow what we can do
today. The present momentum will not last forever. The
year  2005  will  be  the  natural  point  for  us  to  review
many  United  Nations  processes.  We  support  a
comprehensive review in 2005 of major United Nations
conferences,  within  the  overarching  framework  of  the
Millennium  Declaration 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
and 
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
24
