United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
16th plenary meeting
Monday, 29 September 2003, 3 p.m.
New York

A/58/PV.16
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by The Most Honourable Percival
James Patterson, Prime Minister and Minister
for Defence of Jamaica
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Prime Minister and Minister for Defence
for Jamaica.
Mr.  Percival  James  Patterson,  Prime  Minister
and  Minister 
for  Defence  of  Jamaica,  was
escorted to the rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming  His  Excellency  The  Most  Honourable
Percival James Patterson, Prime Minister and Minister
for Defence of Jamaica, and inviting him to address the
General Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr.  Patterson  (Jamaica):  Your  election  to  the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth
session, Sir, is a source of great pride and considerable
satisfaction  to  Jamaica  and  the  entire  Caribbean.  We
regard it as a tangible acknowledgement of the region’s
active engagement on the global stage. I am confident
that  your  combination  of  long  political  experience,
outstanding  diplomatic  skills  and  commitment 
to
global comity will enable all of us to benefit from your
guiding  hand  at  a  time  when  the  United  Nations,  the
very  cornerstone  of  global  security  and  economic
cooperation, faces its most severe test and the Charter
itself is exposed to its greatest challenge. We also wish
to commend the Secretary-General for his work during
a very difficult year and in trying circumstances for the
United Nations.
It may eventually prove to be a fortunate quirk of
history  that,  by  virtue  of  the  rotation  system,  a
distinguished  representative  of  the  Caribbean  now
occupies  the  presidency.  For,  by  virtue  of  our  history,
location  and  size,  we  who  fashioned  the  Caribbean
Community thirty years ago recognized that we would
never  be  able  to  acquire  the  economic  power  or
military  might 
stand  alone.  Multilateralism,
therefore, affords us our only source of protection.
to 
Therefore, from its inception, our Community has
remained  resolute  in  upholding  the  sovereign  equality
of States and the maintenance of an international order
that protects the weak and powerless from domination.
The  international  situation  today  is  filled  with
uncertainty  and  fear.  There  is  a  prevailing  climate  of
distrust and insecurity. Humankind faces the dangers of
terrorism,  nuclear  proliferation  and  weapons  of  mass
destruction. We witness outbreaks of war and violence
and a worrying escalation of confrontation and conflict.
There  are  new  doctrines  and  policies  that  threaten
peace everywhere.
The  pillars  of  international  law  and  respect  for
sovereign  rights  are  being  steadily  eroded.  Injustice
and abuses of human rights still remain manifest. These
are real concerns that underscore the need to strengthen
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-53450 (E)
*0353450*
A/58/PV.16
multilateralism,  to  restore  confidence  in  the  United
Nations  system,  to  buttress  its  centrality  in  decisions
that affect us all and to thereby enhance its capacity to
enforce.
The  multilateral  process  will  collapse  unless  the
international community asserts a strong collective will
to  review  the  structures,  mandates  and  procedures  in
our global system.
In relation to efforts to strengthen multilateralism,
I wish to emphasize four requirements:
First,  multilateralism  must  be  equitable.  This  is
critical  for  its  credibility.  It  should  promote  policies
that  provide  full  opportunity  for  all  States  to  benefit
from  the  global  system  and  that  take  into  account  the
needs,  aspirations  and  welfare  of  the  entire  global
community.  It  should  be  non-discriminatory  and
proceed  from  the  principle  that  the  lives  of  human
beings  cannot  be  differentiated  on  the  basis  of  race,
nationality or religion.
Secondly,  multilateralism  must  be  democratic.
This is critical for its acceptability. Its decision-making
should be based on a fully inclusive process, in which
all  States  have  a  voice  and  where  dialogue  and  equal
participation are encouraged and promoted.
No  one,  not  even  the  five  permanent  members,
dares to dispute the compelling urgency of altering the
design  and  function  of  the  Security  Council  if  it  is  to
fulfil,  in  the  realities  of  the  world  today,  the  mandate
conferred  by  the  Charter  of  1945.  The  case  for
expansion of membership is irrefutable, as is the need
to  redesign  decision-making  to  correspond  with  the
principle of the sovereign equality of States.
Let me make it clear: reform must extend beyond
composition  and  geographical  balance.  The  Security
Council, as presently constituted, makes no pretence at
representing democracy in the global system. This must
be changed if we are to not fall into a dangerous abyss,
and  it  must  be  changed  in  a  way  that  deters  arrogant
deviation  from  the  most  basic  elements  of  the  rule  of
international  law.  We  have  been  talking  for  long
enough; the time has come to cut the talk and walk the
walk.
In  2001,  from  this  podium,  I  called  for  a  United
Nations renaissance. Unless we undertake it now, only
those who believe in a resurrection will still be present.
None  of  us  will  then  be  able  pretend  that  we  are  not
responsible for the demise of the Organization, nor will
we  be  able 
the
condemnation of history.
to  exonerate  ourselves 
from 
Thirdly,  multilateralism  must  be  principled.  This
is  critical  for  its  legitimacy.  It  must  be  based  on
common  rules  and  standards  devised  and  enforced  by
the 
standards  without
selective application or double standards.
international 
community, 
Fourthly,  multilateralism  must  be  effective.  This
is  critical  for  its  efficiency.  Decisions,  once  taken,
should  be  implemented.  Member  States  must  exercise
the  political  will 
that  policies  and
decisions that are agreed upon and taken are supported
and upheld.
to  guarantee 
Adequate resources must also be provided where
necessary.  In  order  to  promote  the  interests  of  all
States, the United Nations and multilateral institutions
must  facilitate  the  creation  of  new  opportunities  for
economic development, through the expansion of trade
and 
technical
cooperation assistance.
investment 
through 
flows 
and 
In  order  to  strengthen  multilateralism,  we  need
reform  and  rebuilding  to  improve  the  work  of  the
United  Nations 
in  areas  such  as  development
cooperation, humanitarian affairs and disarmament.
2
With  regard  to  the  General  Assembly,  what  is
needed  is  a  resuscitation  in  the  use  of  its  powers  and
assertion of its role as the principal organ of the United
Nations.  This  Assembly  is  a  forum  of  equals.  Its
pronouncements  and  policy  decisions  must  carry  the
stamp  of 
the
international community.
legitimacy  as 
the  voice  of 
is 
it 
But  while  we  emphasize  the  importance  of
institutional reform, there should be equal focus on the
responsibilities  of  membership.  There  is  need  for  a
revitalization  in  the  commitment  and  political  will  of
Member  States  to  support  the  multilateral  system  and
provide  it  with  adequate  resources.  Irrespective  of  the
institutional  arrangements  we  may  devise,  it  is,  in  the
final analysis, the Member States alone who can make
the system work. We cannot afford to fail.
The  critical  problems  facing  us  concerning  war
and  peace  are  compounded  by  the  proliferation  of
weapons  of  all  kinds.  Globally,  military  expenditures
now  amount  to  over  800  billion  dollars  annually.
Experience  has  shown,  however,  that  military  power
and  massive  investment  in  weapons  do  not  bring
security  and  lasting  peace.  The  force  of  arms  cannot
impose  a  lasting  peace.  Instead,  it  breeds  a  climate  of
insecurity  and  feeds  violence,  war  and  terrorism  with
increasingly destructive capacity.
At  the  same  time,  the  arms  industry  fuels  a
rapidly growing underworld of trans-national organized
crime,  which  jeopardizes  law  and  order  and  impedes
economic  growth  and  social  stability  within  our
national boundaries.
It  is  tragic  and  painful  to  witness  the  continued
cycle  of  violence  and  carnage  and 
the  massive
destruction of property in the Middle East. No solution
can  result  from  the  continued  military  subjugation  of
the Palestinians or from violence against the Israelis. A
political settlement has to be found to provide security
for the Israeli people, to establish an independent State
for the Palestinians and to make suitable arrangements
for the security of all States in the region.
We  cannot  begin  to  speak  about  the  situation  in
Iraq  without  noting  the  atmosphere  of  fear,  disorder
and insecurity which now prevails in that country. We
deplore the recent bombings of the Jordanian Embassy
in  Baghdad  and  the  United  Nations  office,  which
resulted  in  the  deaths  of  United  Nations  officials,
including  that  of  the  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General  in  Iraq,  and  the  bombing  of  the
Shi’ite mosque.
We must all learn from what has happened in Iraq
over  the  past  year.  The  immediate  question  is  how  to
formulate  interim  arrangements  for  the  recovery  and
reconstruction of that country and the restoration of its
sovereignty  and  independence,  under  a  Government
chosen  by  the  Iraqi  people.  Efforts  to  re-engage  the
United  Nations  must  ensure 
it  assumes  a
meaningful  role  in  the  peace-building  process  and  the
transition to democracy.
that 
The  situation  in  Africa  has  not  been  given  the
level  of  attention  that  is  needed,  particularly  by  the
Security Council. The continued turmoil within parts of
the  continent  shows  the  need  for  stabilization  through
conciliation  and  dialogue  between  contending  parties
to  end  further  fighting  and  bloodshed.  We  commend
the role being played by regional organizations like the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS)  and  by  African  statesmen  to  mediate  and
bring peace to those areas of current concern. But more
should be done.
A/58/PV.16
Additional  resources  are  needed  to  assist  to
ensure  that  societies  disrupted  by  conflict  can  be  re-
established and stabilized. The obstacles to eliminating
poverty  and  disease  can  be  overcome  by  providing
material  assistance,  and  we  are  convinced  that  Africa
has the indigenous resources, the human  potential  and
the leadership to prevail over adversity.
Within the global economy, the pattern continues
of  a  widening  gap  between  developed  and  developing
countries.  Wealth  is  increasing  but  poverty  is  also
growing  in  critical  areas  of  the  world.  Although  we
continue to raise our voices to warn of the  dangers  of
this  global  trend,  our  partners  in  the  developed  world
have given little indication of a change in policies that
might reverse it. We are continually told that prosperity
will  come  with  policies  of  liberalization,  a  minimalist
State  and  deregulation.  In  turn,  these  policies  will
unleash  free  enterprise  to  take  advantage  of  economic
opportunities that will lead to development and growth.
But  it  has  become  painfully  obvious  that  this  model
does  not  succeed  everywhere,  particularly  in  the
developing world.
As  you  know  so  well,  Sir,  the  countries  of  the
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  have  for  a  long
time been a region where democracy flourishes and the
rule  of  law  prevails.  The  strengthening  of  civil  and
political  rights  in  our  countries  has  been  our  passion
since we gained our freedom.
We  know  that  no  country  is  above  improvement
in  any  of  these  areas,  but  there  is  a  fashion  in  the
industrial  world  —  including  countries  that  are  new
converts to these values — to imply that their adoption
is  the  solution  to  all  the  problems  of  development.
Were  that  so,  Jamaica  and  all  our  countries  of  the
Caribbean  would  have  been  havens  of  prosperity  long
ago.
What  much  of  the  developing  world  needs  goes
beyond  sermons  about  the  precepts  of  democracy,
about obeying the rule of law and securing respect for
human  rights.  The  help  we  need  is  help  in  preserving
those rights from erosion by the instabilities that derive
from  underdevelopment 
steady
deterioration in the global political environment.
from 
and 
the 
In the international community, those same values
are being systematically discarded and destroyed, as if
our  world  society  deserves  less  than  our  national
communities. The persistence of underdevelopment  —
the denial of people’s full rights as human beings — is
3
A/58/PV.16
the major challenge that poor countries face. We make
this  clear,  because  it  has  become  all  too  easy  for  rich
countries  to  excuse  themselves  from  any  meaningful
effort 
towards  poverty  alleviation  and  economic
development  by  asserting  that  salvation  lies  simply  in
securing civil and political rights. This is exactly what
they  did  at  Cancun  to  the  poorest  countries  in  the
world —  to  those  who  live  in  abject  poverty  —  by
denying  their  plaintive  petition  for  a  better  deal  in
cotton.
As 
favourable 
in  a  more 
the  current  Chairman  of 
the  Caribbean
Community,  I  assert  that  for  us  in  the  Caribbean,  the
future  of  our  democracies  lies  in  the  strengthening  of
our  economies, 
trading
environment  for  our  products,  in  more  rapid  and
effective  debt  relief,  in  the  protection  of  legitimate
areas  of  economic  progress  like  our  financial  services
industry  and  in  tailoring  globalization  and  the  dogma
of liberalization to the  needs  of  small  economies.  Our
future  lies,  in  short,  in  escaping  the  trap  of  poverty.
That some are poorer does not make us less poor than
we are; that some are less developed than we are does
not alter our state of underdevelopment.
there 
in 
countries 
are  weaknesses 
Trade and competitiveness are not everything. In
developing 
in
production capacity and deficiencies at the micro level
that can be helped through programmes of development
cooperation.  Regrettably, 
recent  years,  donor
resources  for  such  cooperation  have  been  shrinking.
Where  commitments  have  been  given,  there  have  just
been  too  many  promises  broken.  But  we  still  remain
hopeful that the pledges of Monterrey and the targets of
Johannesburg  will  be  taken  seriously  as  commitments
to be implemented.
Partnership  should  not  be  used  as  a  vehicle  for
the  imposition  of  conditionalities  to  promote  bilateral
political objectives. In our view, true partnership must
respect the concept of ownership by recipients and the
national  priorities  as  determined  by  them.  Decisions
affecting  development  are  being  taken  in  different
areas,  in  different  forums  and  by  different  agencies.
Increasingly,  there  is  the  need  to  ensure  coherence  in
policies and programmes.
The international system  currently does not have
an  effective  mechanism  for  conducting  such  an
exercise. We reiterate our belief that one of the urgent
tasks  of  the  moment  is  to  create  a  mechanism  within
the  international  architecture,  which  will  focus  on
4
trade,  finance,  technology  and  development  policy  in
an integrated manner.
We  want  to  draw  attention  to  the  Barbados
Programme  of  Action,  which  deals  with 
the
vulnerability of small island developing States (SIDS).
We call on the donor community to support the review
of  international  economic  arrangements,  when  the
international  conference  meets  in  2004  to  review  the
Barbados Programme of Action.
We  in  Jamaica  fully  recognize  that  globalization
has  the  potential  to  advance  human  development
throughout  the  world.  But  this  is  not  automatic.  For
globalization  has  also  increased  our  vulnerability,
insecurity and the possibility of marginalization. Small
countries  like  Jamaica  and  groups  like  CARICOM
cannot and should not be expected to  follow the same
policy  prescriptions  applied  to  larger,  more  advanced
countries.  Special  and  differential  treatment  of  a
meaningful  kind  is  important,  as  we  require  policy
space for our productive sectors. It cannot be expected
that  countries  such  as  ours  will  abandon 
local
production  in  agriculture  and  manufacturing,  although
we  fully  recognize 
importance  and
potential of the service sector in both the regional and
global economies.
the  growing 
In  the  aftermath  of  Cancun,  we  in  the  global
community  need  to  accept  that  trade  rules  must  be
asymmetrical in recognition of the diversity in levels of
development  and  the  size  of  economies.  Trade  rules
must also recognize the right of all countries to protect
their  development  priorities  and  vulnerable  groups,
especially  their  small  farmers.  Development  issues  as
they  relate  to  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)
agenda  must  be  defined  by  developing  countries
themselves  and  not  by  others  for  us.  The  world
community  must  recognize  these  principles  to  ensure
that the global trade architecture can bring meaningful
benefits for all.
single 
sustainable  model 
Globalization may bring a more integrated world,
but  there  will  always  remain  significant  variations  in
national systems, cultures and national priorities. There
is  no 
for  political
development or economic success everywhere. We live
in a diverse world where different ideas, cultural norms
and  standards  exist.  These  should  all  be  respected  in
the  framework  of  agreed  principles  within  the  United
Nations.  In  a  world  of  such  diversity  and  pluralism,
there 
tolerance,  understanding,  non-
should  be 
discrimination,  self-determination,  respect  for  equal
rights  and 
for  us,  are
transcendental  values  to  which  we  in  Jamaica  and
throughout the Caribbean will always fully subscribe.
for  all.  Those, 
justice 
and 
law 
and  order 
The  United  Nations  should  continue  to  promote
respect  for  diversity  while  promoting  the  common
principles  and  ideals  that  form  the  foundations  of
international 
international
cooperation. This provides the only key for the pursuit
of  enduring  peace,  harmony  and  real  development  in
the global village to which we all belong.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I thank the Prime Minister and Minister for
Defence of Jamaica for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Percival  James  Patterson,  Prime  Minister
and  Minister 
for  Defence  of  Jamaica,  was
escorted from the rostrum.
Address  by  Mr.  Mari  Alkatiri,  Prime  Minister  of
the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic
Republic of Timor-Leste.
Mr.  Mari  Alkatiri,  Prime  Minister  of 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was
escorted to the rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Democratic
Republic 
Excellency
Mr.  Mari  Alkatiri.  I  invite  him  to  address  the  General
Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
Timor-Leste, 
His 
of 
Mr. Alkatiri (Timor-Leste) (spoke in Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): At the outset,
allow  me  to  congratulate  you, Sir,  on  your  election  to
preside  over  the  work  of  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  We  are  confident  that  you  will  draw  on  all
your  experience  and  wisdom  to  conduct  successfully
the  work  of  this  Assembly.  I  assure  you  of  all  the
support and cooperation of my delegation and wish you
success in your task.
I  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  former
President,  Mr.  Jan  Kavan,  for  the  exceptional  way  in
which  he  presided  over  the  work  of  the  fifty-seventh
session.
I  speak  today  with  a  mixture  of  happiness  and
sorrow.  I  am  happy  to  address  the  Assembly  for  the
A/58/PV.16
first  time  in  this  plenary  in  my  capacity  as  Prime
Minister  of  my  young  country,  after  more  than  two
decades  of  having  sought  understanding  and  support
for the cause of my people and having often lobbied for
support  in  the  corridors  of  this  building.  I  am  also
deeply saddened, however, for having lost, just over a
month  ago,  an  old  friend  —  Mr.  Sergio  Vieira
de  Mello  —  an 
intolerance,
extremism  and  terrorism.  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  his
memory  and  to  all  those  who  have  served  the  United
Nations  and  lost  their  lives  in  Baghdad  and  other
turbulent regions of the world.
innocent  victim  of 
represented 
in  Timor-Leste 
It  was  under  the  guidance  of  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan, 
by
Mr.  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  that  exactly  one  year  ago
the  Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste  became  the
191st  Member  of  this  Organization.  The  President  of
the 
Timor-Leste,
Mr. Xanana Gusmão, and I bore witness to that historic
act.
Democratic 
Republic 
of 
Since 
then,  our  country  has  experienced
significant progress in the consolidation of our nascent
democracy.  My  Government  has  presided  over  the
strengthening  of  national  cohesion  and  has  given
priority to the unequivocal affirmation of the Republic
as  a  democratic  State  founded  on  the  rule  of  law  by
taking normative measures in governance to implement
the provisions of a modern Constitution drafted by the
Timorese  and  adopted  by  an  Assembly  democratically
elected by the people.
Open governance is one of the programmes of my
Government.  Based  on 
the  principles  of  good
governance,  inclusion,  participation  of  the  individual
and  collective  responsibility,  open  governance  was
initiated in January this year. It consists of bringing the
Government  to  the  people  in  the  remote  areas  of  the
country to hear first hand their priorities, problems and
needs,  as  well  as  to  clarify  to  the  people  the  national
development  plan, 
the  Government  programme,
available  resources  and  the  challenges  ahead.  It  also
seeks  to  instil  a  greater  sense  of  responsibility  in  the
people and to make them better understand the need for
their  participation  in  the  reconstruction  of  the  country
vis-à-vis  the  implementation  of  the  national  plan,  the
methods  of  achieving  the  objectives  of  economic
growth and of the reduction and eradication of poverty.
In  relation  to  the  legislative  process,  we  have
prioritized  the  adoption  of  laws  for  the  foundation  of
5
A/58/PV.16
in  order 
to  avoid 
the  State,  above  all 
taking
discretionary and subjective  measures that are without
legal  foundation.  Hence,  more  than  30  decrees  and
laws  have  been  adopted  by  the  Government  for
approval  by  the  National  Parliament.  In  this  manner,
we  will  create  an  institutional  culture  of  democracy,
giving basis to a democratic State founded on the rule
of law and the principle of good governance.
The  challenges  are  enormous,  however.  Of  the
900  schools  destroyed  in  1999,  around  700  have  been
rehabilitated  and  more 
schools
constructed.  Despite  this,  25  per  cent  of  our  children
remain without access to education.
than  30  new 
In 
the 
tertiary  sector,  we  have  a  national
university with more than 7,000 students. Hundreds of
candidates  are  frustrated  that  their  expectations  of
graduating  from  the  national  university  have  not  been
met.  We  now  have  a  proliferation  of  institutions  of
higher learning that are not officially recognized by the
Government.  To  deal  with 
the
Government  has  assumed 
responsibility  of
preparing rules.
situation, 
this 
the 
In health care, similar challenges are being faced.
Much  of  the  infrastructure  has  been  rehabilitated  and
more  is  being  built,  but 
the  people  want  more
assistance  and  means  of  support.  They  ask  for  more
doctors,  more 
nurses,  more  midwives,  more
ambulances and  health  centres  closer  to  their  villages.
A  national  health  policy  has  been  adopted  by  the
Government.  We  hope  soon  to  be  able  to  reduce  the
difficulties  in  this  area  with  the  cooperation  of  the
People’s  Republic  of  China  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba
in the provision of doctors to operate in the rural areas.
In  agriculture,  more  than  60  per  cent  of  the
irrigation  system  has  been  repaired  and  new  systems
have been built. It is important now to instruct farmers
in  the  best  methods  of  use  for  their  systems  and  to
make  them  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  those
systems while the remainder is being repaired.
In  infrastructure,  in  general,  the  repairs  and
maintenance  have  been  slow  and  difficult.  There  are
6,000  kilometres  of  roads  to  be  rehabilitated  and
maintained, and our people are demanding the opening
of  many  others.  Many  bridges  need  to  be  rebuilt,
completed or built outright.
We  also  are  facing  problems  in  the  electrical
sector,  which  is  in  deficit.  We  have  re-established
6
the  meantime, 
electricity production in all districts and in 55 of the 65
sub-districts.  Dili,  the  capital,  has  power  24  hours  a
day.  In 
the  policy  of  my
Government to identify and develop alternative sources
of  energy  that  are  more  accessible  and  sustainable.
Currently, we are conducting a feasibility study of such
resources, in particular in the area of hydropower.
is 
it 
Access to running water for consumption is very
limited.  However,  it  is  undeniable  that  the  number  of
people with access to running water is increasing daily,
more so than in 1999.
In 
the  area  of 
telecommunications,  we  are
implementing an ambitious project overseen by Timor-
Leste  Telecom  through  a  concession  in  the  build-
operate-transfer system.
At  the  end  of  this  year,  all  district  capitals  will
have at their disposal fixed and mobile telephones, for
both  domestic  and  international  purposes.  With  the
completion  and  installation  of  the  telecommunications
system,  we  will  also  create  the  technical  conditions
necessary for the development of television and radio,
delivering the best service in the media sector, which is
free, vibrant and responsible.
The  process  of  reconstruction  is  taking  place  in
an environment of peace and stability. However, areas
that  are  key  for  guaranteeing  the  sustainability  and
credibility  of  the  entire  process,  such  as  the  judicial
system,  defence  and  security,  will  continue  to  require
substantial  assistance  and  support  for  some  time  to
come.
the  Timorese, 
In  other  sectors  of  the  Administration,  we  need
qualified  people  to  assist  in  the  development  of  the
capacity  of 
the
consolidation  of  the  financial  and  banking  systems,
border control, legislative drafting and the definition of
a  national  policy,  promotion  of 
investment  and
technology transfer.
in  particular 
in 
With this in mind, I would like to reiterate that, in
order  to  guarantee  the  sustainability  of  the  entire
process and to meet two major aspirations – that of our
people for peace, democracy and development, and that
of the international community to continue to promote
Timor-Leste  as  a  success  story,  we  must  not  forget  to
say the following.
To our people, we would say — as we have been
doing  —  that  they  should  be  more  patient.  Above  all,
we  must  demand  their  participation  and  that  they
shoulder their responsibilities.
manner  at  the  bilateral,  trilateral  and  multilateral
levels.
A/58/PV.16
We 
the 
ask 
for
consistency,  continued  dynamic  partnership  and
support.
international 
community 
To  the  General  Assembly  in  particular,  we  ask
that  it  endorse  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s
decision  to  include  Timor-Leste  in  the  list  of  least
developed countries.
In  keeping  with  its  history  of  struggling  for
human  dignity,  my  country  has  ratified  a  number  of
important  international  human  rights  treaties.  We  are
aware 
international
instruments creates legal obligations, and the Timorese
State will do its utmost to implement its commitments
under those instruments.
the  ratification  of 
these 
that 
With regard to external relations,  we  continue  to
develop  ties  of  friendship  and  cooperation  with  our
neighbours,  namely,  Thailand,  Singapore,  Malaysia,
Japan, South Korea and New Zealand, and in particular
with  our 
two  closest  neighbours,  Indonesia  and
Australia.
As  Prime  Minister,  I  have  made  official  or
working visits to Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines,
Indonesia,  Thailand,  New  Zealand,  Mozambique,
Angola, Portugal and the People’s Republic of China.
At the beginning of this month, a meeting of the
Joint  Indonesia-Timor-Leste  Ministerial  Commission
was held with a view to resolving a number of residual
issues  of  recent  years,  as  well  as  to  promoting  new
cooperation  in  the  areas  of  commerce,  investment,
development,  education,  health  and  security.  The
meeting  had  a  positive  outcome.  We  hope  to  finalize
the demarcation of our land boundary this year in order
to  begin  negotiations  on  our  maritime  boundaries.
Boundaries, whether land or sea, define the territory of
a  country.  Within  a  territory,  one  can  exercise  powers
of  sovereignty  or  jurisdiction.  For  this  reason,  Timor-
Leste, having as  its  neighbours  two  large  and  friendly
countries — Indonesia and Australia — hopes to see its
borders with both countries demarcated or delimited by
the  end  of  my  Government’s  mandate,  so  that  all  the
resources  belonging  to  the  people  of  Timor-Leste  can
be  exploited  in  a  free  and  sovereign  manner,  for  the
benefit of present and future generations of Timorese.
The  relationship  between  Timor-Leste  and  its
neighbours is developing in a constructive and dynamic
Timor-Leste enjoys special observer status in the
Pacific  Forum  and  has  participated  as  a  guest  in  the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN).
Timor-Leste  is  a  fully  fledged  member  of  the
Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking  Countries;  the
African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific-European  Union;  the
World  Bank;  the  International  Monetary  Fund;  the
Asian  Development  Bank;  and  various  specialized
United Nations agencies.
The  fight  against  terrorism,  organized  crime  and
trafficking  in  human  beings,  drugs  and  illegal  arms  is
at the top of the agenda, regionally and in Timor-Leste.
We  will  make  every  effort  to  contribute  to  the
eradication  of  these  ills,  which  are  turning  into  a  real
epidemic with the development of new technology.
Timor-Leste  is  a  country  of  South-east  Asia
which is linked to the Pacific by geography, history and
culture.  Our  people  are  proud  to  be  part  of  this  great
geographical  region  of  Asia  and  Oceania  —  rich  in
history,  culture  and  civilization,  and  comprising  more
than one fifth of humanity. We are deeply grateful to all
our Asian brothers  —  Japan, the People’s  Republic  of
China,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Philippines,  India,
Malaysia,  Singapore  and  Thailand  —  who  have
responded without fail to our appeal for assistance, on
a major or modest scale, depending on the capacity and
experience  of  each  country.  We  are  grateful  to  all  of
them.
I  have  just  concluded  a  visit  to  the  People’s
Republic  of  China.  Within  weeks,  Timor-Leste  will
receive 
of  Malaysia,
Mr.  Mahathir  Mohamad.  In  December,  we  will  be
honoured  with  a  visit  from  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
Kingdom of Thailand.
Prime  Minister 
the 
We  continue  to  strengthen  our  relationships  with
other countries in South-east Asia, in particular Brunei
Darussalam, Cambodia, Laos and Viet Nam.
We  deem  it  regrettable  that  the  process  of
dialogue and national reconciliation in Myanmar is at a
itself  with 
standstill.  Timor-Leste  associates 
the
concerns  and  disappointments  of  our  friends 
in
ASEAN, and we join our voice with those of others in
the 
the
immediate release of Mrs. Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and
of  all  others  who  are  being  detained,  and  for  the
international  community 
to  appeal 
for 
7
A/58/PV.16
resumption of talks and of the process of reconciliation
and democratization.
My  Government  takes  note  of  the  commitments
undertaken by General Khin Nyunt, Prime Minister of
the  Union  of  Myanmar,  in  his  speech  of  30  August
2003. We would like to express our deep concern at the
abandonment  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of
Korea  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  its  stated  intention  to
produce  nuclear  weapons.  The  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea has three countries as its neighbours
that  over  the  years  have  demonstrated  friendship  and
solidarity.  None  of  those  three  countries  presents  any
threat to its security or sovereignty, thus the production
of nuclear weapons cannot be justified.
Timor-Leste  is  a  small  country  with  a  small
population.  Nonetheless,  it  has  coastlines  on  two
oceans and is linked to two continents. Historically, we
were  for  five  centuries  the  only  Portuguese  colony  in
the  region,  and,  during  a  quarter  century,  a  territory
occupied  by  Indonesia.  More  than  90  per  cent  of  the
population of my country is Catholic, and there are also
two  minority  religious  groups  —  Protestants  and
Muslims.
History  determined  that  we  would  be  different.
Our  geographical  situation  conferred  on  us  conditions
for  converging  and  relating.  We  remain  different  and,
within that difference, we find our identity and sense of
openness  and  tolerance.  We  know  that  we  have
something to give, but we also have much to receive.
in  preaching  respect  and 
I  am  a  Muslim  of  Arab  descent  and  the  Prime
Minister of a country with a Catholic majority. Our tiny
Muslim  community  lives  in  peace  and  tranquillity,
integrated  into  society  in  general  without  losing  its
identity and without feeling alienated or discriminated
against.  The  Timorese  Catholic  leadership  has  been
exemplary 
in
relation to all religious faiths, constantly searching for
dialogue, cooperation, participation and mutual respect.
My country does not intend to put itself forward
as a model of tolerance, mutual respect and coexistence
between religions. I am speaking about our experience
only  to  say  that  in  this  world  of  hate,  violence,
intolerance  and  extremism,  there  are  some  oases  of
tolerance, peace and tranquillity that deserve to be the
source of new energy.
tolerance 
8
Fanatics  and  extremists  have  existed  throughout
history  and  no  region  or  civilization  in  the  world  can
claim  exclusive  rights  to  virtue  or  truth.  In  this
globalized  world,  there  is  no  place  for  racial  or
cultural,  much  less  religious,  superiority.  Extremists
and  terrorists  have  always  existed.  The  fundamental
difference  is  that  the  terrorists  of  today  benefit  from
globalization and make use of modern technology as a
means of achieving their objectives.
It is rhetoric, and unacceptable, to define different
civilizations and religions as a target. The fundamental
reason  for  violence  in  the  world  is  inequality  in
development  and,  in  particular,  the  injustice  of  the
international  economic  order.  The  target  of  extremists
and  Islamic  terrorists  is  not  the  West,  its  culture  and
dominant religions. Rather, it should be stated that the
West is a target as a consequence of the global order.
We  are  witnessing  a  new  reality.  The  agenda  of
the extremists is primarily the toppling of moderate and
elite  regimes  and  the  imposition  of  theocratic  systems
in  which 
the  universal  values  embraced  by  a
democratic  State  are  called  into  question,  as  they
contradict  their  views.  Such  an  agenda  would  mean  a
return to the Middle Ages, with the Islamic extremists
determining the fate of their citizens.
The  fight  against  extremism,  fanaticism  and
terrorism  must  be  waged  on  all  fronts.  One  is  the
military front,  where  action  must  be  seriously  thought
through  and  always  implemented  with  great  caution
and  clear-sightedness.  The  other  fronts  include  the
political,  economic  and  social.  The  fight  against
poverty  and  exclusion  must  be  integrated  into  our
global strategy in the war against terrorism.
My Government congratulates the people of Iraq
on  the  end  of  one  of  the  bloodiest  dictatorships  in
history. The people of Timor-Leste know only too well
the significance of a dictatorship. In order to be free of
it, we sacrificed hundreds of thousands of our children
in decades of unequal struggle.
for 
During  our  struggle 
independence  and
democracy, we always believed that our efforts should
be  focused  on  re-establishing  international  legality  in
our  country,  ensuring  that  the  United  Nations  take
responsibility  and  demanding  that  the  international
community  respect  the  Charter  and  United  Nations
resolutions on Timor-Leste.
My  Government  defends  the  concept  that  the
central role of the United Nations must be respected by
all  countries,  in  particular  those  with  the  means  and
resources to strengthen the role of our Organization.
parties  to  return  to  direct  dialogue  with  a  view  to
establishing  a  definitive  date  for  the  holding  of  the
referendum  on  self-determination  in  the  territory  of
Western Sahara.
A/58/PV.16
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Iraq,  it  is  urgent
that  international  legality  be  re-established  in  that
country.  The  only  legitimate  means  of  transferring
sovereignty to the people of Iraq is to hand over power
to their democratically elected representatives.
We  believe  that  the  Arab  League  must  be  a
privileged partner of the United Nations in the process
of  transition  and  reconstruction  in  Iraq.  As  it  is  a
regional  organization  representing  more 
than  200
million  people  who  mostly  profess  the  same  religion,
speak  the  same  language  and  are  of  the  same  cultural
and  historical  origin,  it  must  not  be  ignored  or
bypassed when its own interests and that of the region
are at stake.
My  country  is  a  good  example  of  the  kind  of  a
partnership  that  can  develop  when  the  United  Nations
and  its  obvious  natural  role  in  the  resolution  of
conflicts  and 
international
consensus  is  recognized.  Each  process  is  unique  and
has  its  own  dimensions  and  characteristics,  but  our
positive experience can be repeated in other places, and
can serve as a reference point for Iraq.
the  mobilization  of 
I would like to comment on two issues related to
the Middle East, beginning with Palestine. We express
our  deep  disappointment  that  the  peace  process  has
regressed and that violence has escalated in that part of
the  world.  We  feel  encouraged  by  the  presentation  of
the road map, and hope that it can assist in accelerating
the peace process.
the  people  of  Palestine 
We reaffirm our support for the road map and for
the 
right  of 
to  self-
determination,  independence  and  the  establishment  of
an  independent  and  sovereign  State.  We  appeal  to  all
the parties in that bloody conflict to cease all forms of
violence, to resume dialogue and rigorously to respect
the road map as agreed to with the Quartet.
With  respect  to  Western  Sahara,  the  Arab  and
Muslim  people  of 
that  former  Spanish  Territory
continue  to  wait  patiently  for  the  holding  of  a
referendum  on  self-determination,  as  agreed  to  by  all
parties  in  1994.  We  appeal  to  the  General  Assembly,
the  Secretary-General,  the  Security  Council,  the  Arab
League  and  the  African  Union  to  encourage  both
My Government is closely following the situation
in  Guinea-Bissau.  While  deploring  the  military  coup
that toppled the elected President, we are relieved that
there was no bloodshed or loss of life. My Government
supports  the  holding  of  new  elections  with  a  view  to
the  restoration  of  a  constitutional  democratic  order,  if
possible  within  the  framework  of  the  United  Nations
and the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries,
to  achieve  the  necessary  support  for  the  bringing  of
peace, stable government and economic recovery.
round  of 
held 
that 
We regret the breakdown in talks during the most
the  World  Trade  Organization
recent 
in  Cancun.  The
Ministerial  Conference 
industrialized  nations  must  understand 
the
international  trade  systems  must  be  rectified.  It  is
neither  ethical  nor  moral  for  the  rich  countries  to
preach  democracy,  human  rights  and  the  dogma  of  a
free market, while practising protectionist policies that
condemn  hundreds  of  millions  of  human  beings  to
perpetual  poverty  and  dependency.  It  is  less  than
ethical  when  they  teach  the  rules  of  the  free  market
while subsidizing their farmers with billions of dollars,
making  the  products  of  our  countries,  which  have  a
greater  comparative  advantage, 
less
competitive.
increasingly 
Timor-Leste  has  benefited  from 
international
solidarity, and we are grateful for  that.  But  we  cannot
remain  silent  in  the  face  of  injustices  and  anti-
economic  policies  that  impoverish  the  rest  of  the
world. We appeal for the renegotiation of debt and for
debt relief for the poor and indebted countries. But we
also believe that debt relief must be proportional to the
measures  taken  by  each  country  in  adopting  strategies
for  sustainable  development  and  focusing  on  the
eradication  of  poverty.  This  means 
increased
expenditure  on  public  health  and  education,  reduced
military  expenditure,  the  strengthening  of  democratic
institutions,  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and  the
independence  of  the  judiciary.  Those  are  conditions
that are indispensable for peace and prosperity.
In conclusion, I would like to touch on the theme
of  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  The  creation  of  this
institution was the result of the collective experience of
humankind,  victim  of  the  greatest  scourge  in  history.
9
A/58/PV.16
We  congratulate  the  founders  on  their  vision,  but  we
are conscious that the institution reflects the reality of
that  period.  In  1945  there  were  merely  51  Members,
and it was viewed as a club for the rich and powerful, a
“white man’s club”. But the United Nations today is a
truly global institution, with 191 Members.
The  recent  experience  of  Iraq  provoked  a  new
debate  on  the  need  for  the  structural  reform  of  our
institution, beginning with the Security Council, which
is  increasingly  being  called  upon  to  provide  opinions
and  to  intervene  in  many  regions  of  the  world.  We
support  an  increase  in  the  number  of  permanent
members of the Security Council to reflect the current
demographic reality and the new world balance.
Many  people  are  frequently  asking  themselves,
and asking out loud, a few questions, such as “Is it fair
for the Western Group to have three permanent seats in
the  Security  Council,  while  Asia  has  only  one  and
Africa and Latin America have none? Is it possible that
India,  the  largest  democracy  in  the  world,  with  more
than  one  billion  inhabitants,  does  not  have  the  same
status  as  others?  Is  it  possible  that  Brazil,  with  the
world’s  ninth  largest  economy  and  Latin  America’s
largest, a crossroads of races and civilizations — Ibero-
Latin  American,  African  and  indigenous  people  —
does  not  have  status  as  a  permanent  member  of  the
Security  Council?”  Throughout  its  history,  Brazil  has
shown  prudence  and  balance  in  the  conduct  of  its
foreign politics, an active and constructive engagement
at  the  regional  and  international  level  and  always  a
voice of moderation and dialogue.
There are  certain procedures that  may have been
understandable  during  the  cold  war  period.  But  today
the  way  must  be  made  for  principles  of  democratic
decision-making  that  are  acceptable  and  universally
practiced. We must question these paradigms.
We also believe that the term of the mandate  for
non-permanent  members  must  be  reduced  to  between
six  months  and  one  year.  That  will  give  the  191
members  of  our  Organization  the  opportunity  to  serve
in  this  organ.  Besides,  a  shorter  period  will  allow  the
less privileged to feel the desire to invest their human
and  financial  resources  to  serve  on  the  Security
Council.
The reform and the democratization of a number
of organs of our Organization are necessary and urgent.
The  errors  and  failures  of  the  past,  when  the  Security
Council  was  powerless  and  indifferent  to  human
10
tragedy,  should  compel  us  all  to  have  the  courage  to
accept  a  fair  share  of  the  decision-making  that  affects
us all.
Let the big, rich and powerful know that humility
is  the  greatest  virtue.  Leadership  means  knowing  how
to  dialogue,  persuade  and  build  alliances  and
consensus. There are challenges ahead. There are many
threats. The resources of 191 countries are represented
in 
these
challenges and threats, we must unite and build bridges
of consensus and active cooperation.
this  huge  Organization.  To  respond 
to 
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  saying  that  the  future
belongs to the optimists. We are here today because we
favour  optimism.  That  is  why  the  struggle  must
continue.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste for the statement
he has just made.
Mr.  Mari  Alkatiri,  Prime  Minister  of 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  Timor-Leste,  was
escorted from the rostrum.
Mrs. Ataeva (Turkmenistan), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Morshed Khan, Minister for
Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  People’s  Republic  of
Bangladesh.
Mr.  Khan  (Bangladesh):  I  bring  a  message  of
peace from Bangladesh.
Please allow me to congratulate the President on
his election. I wish him every success in the formidable
task  of  leading  the  United  Nations  to  continued
relevance  and  credibility  in  these  stormy  times.  I  am
confident that he will build upon the legacy left by his
predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan.
in 
We  commend 
these  difficult 
the  Secretary-General  for  his
stewardship 
times.  The  United
Nations  has  been  faced  with  extremely  challenging
situations  over  the  past  year.  We  have  lost  one  of  our
most 
peace  —
Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and many of his colleagues.
Such  senseless  and  despicable  acts  must  not  be
repeated.
outstanding 
men 
of 
into 
The new millennium, which we all heralded with
so  much  hope,  has  been  plunged 
turmoil.
Intervening events in the last three years have changed
our  world  forever.  They  have  left  us  groping  for
solutions.  The  events  of  11  September  2001,  the
Afghan  and  the  Iraq  war,  the  open  confrontation
between  Israel  and  Hamas  and  the  African  civil  wars
shape some of the dimensions of this world of disorder.
Driving these crises are new realities — an all-out
offensive against terrorism, arguments for pre-emption
and  unilateral  action  as  an  option  for  security,  the
targeting  of  Islamic  radicalism  and  its  fall-out  as
religious  profiling.  Somewhere,  the  coin  of  global
cooperation has been debased.
Each year we come to this Assembly to  reaffirm
our faith in the United Nations and our commitment to
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  Today,  we
pause to grapple with doubts that have arisen about the
relevance  of  the  world  body.  I  hasten  to  add  that  for
Bangladesh, this pause is very short-lived. The cardinal
question is not what is wrong with the United Nations,
but what is right with it and how we can make it serve
our purposes despite seeming setbacks.
Three  compelling  factors  stand  out.  The  first  is
universality.  All  191  States  of  the  world  wish  to  be
within the fold of the international community. Second
is the flip side of globalization. The bottom line is that
no one State alone can deal with the intricate problems
facing  our  world  —  be  it  the  dysfunction  of  the
collective  security  system,  an  interlocking  economic,
monetary,  financial  and  trade  grid,  the  challenges  of
globalization,  international  terrorism,  environmental
degradation,  new  diseases, 
trans-border  organized
crime,  and  so  on.  The  conclusion  is  clear.  The  United
Nations  is  indispensable  as  the  central  organ  for  the
collective management of world affairs.
The  third  factor  is  legitimacy.  As  has  been
underlined, the greatest strength of the United Nations
remains 
the  bedrock
principles  of  international  law.  There  is  no  substitute
for that legitimacy. It is by this measure that we look to
the United Nations.
legitimacy,  founded  on 
its 
But  as  the  Secretary-General  notes  in  his  report
on the implementation of the Millennium Development
Goals,  “The  war  exposed  deep  divisions 
the
international  community,  with  accusations  of  double
agendas”. He goes on to observe that “The war in Iraq
brought to the fore a host of questions of principle and
in 
A/58/PV.16
practice  that  challenge  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community  as  a  whole”.  This  is  a  sad
commentary on the state of the world body today.
In  contrast,  we  have  noted  that  wherever  the
United Nations was allowed to take up its rightful role
and  responsibility,  and  where  it  was  provided  with
necessary  support,  it  has  achieved  success,  durable
peace  and  stability.  The  experience  of  East  Timor,
Sierra  Leone  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  to  name  only  a  few,  have  vindicated  the
legitimacy,  role  and  relevance  of  the  United  Nations.
War can be won by military might; the challenge lies in
winning  peace.  That  is  what  the  United  Nations,  with
over  half  a  century  of  experience  in  peacemaking,
peacekeeping and peace-building, is best placed to do.
We in Bangladesh place our full trust — and have
total  confidence  —  in  the  capacity  of  the  United
Nations  to  address  matters  of  international  and  global
concern,  including  peace  and  security.  We  see  the
United Nations as a source of inspiration, initiative and
support  in  our  national,  regional  and  international
endeavours.  It  is  in  this  forum  that  we  establish
common  standards,  universal  values  and  shared
programmes.  In  a  globalizing  world,  no  nation  is  an
island;  none  can  prosper  alone.  We  therefore  believe
that  today,  more  than  ever  before,  the  Organization
deserves  the  support  of  all  of  our  nations  in  a  more
active and demonstrable way.
The  Secretary-General  deserves  our  appreciation
for  bringing  the  focus  of  the  Organization  back  to  its
socio-economic agenda. We welcome his report on the
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
His  assessment  of  the  progress  in  achieving  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  is  sobering.  While
signs of progress for a given region are noted, the road
to 2015 is long for many of our nations. The report of
the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific 
the  United  Nations  Development
Programme  concerning  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  for  instance,  draws  attention  to  the  worrying
declines in the flow of official development assistance
to the least developed areas and countries; it described
that as “unacceptable and unconscionable”. The report
has  also  called  for  reforms  in  the  international  trade
system to help the poorest countries.
and 
Against  that  backdrop,  the  setback  at  the  World
Trade  Organization  Ministerial  Conference,  held  at
Cancún,  warrants  an  early 
the
resumption  of 
11
A/58/PV.16
and 
that 
significant 
negotiations.  A  breakthrough  will  require  courageous
decisions 
compromises.  Our
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
also  requires 
the  negotiations  be  concluded
successfully.  The  global  economic  situation  today
dictates equitable trade policies and fair trade practices,
which  were  sought  in  the  Doha  round.  The  economic
survival  and  the  socio-economic  stability  of  many
nations  depend  on  how  we  handle  post-Cancun
challenges.  The  stakes  are  very  high  for  all  of  us,  in
both the short and the long term.
The development policies and programmes of our
Government, led by the Prime Minister of Bangladesh,
Begum  Khaleda  Zia,  are  based  on  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  Our  resource  allocation  in  the
social  sector  remains  high,  and  we  have  prepared  a
three-year  economic  growth,  poverty  reduction  and
social  development  strategy.  That  is  a  major  initial
policy framework. We look forward to working closely
together  with  our  development  partners 
in  our
implementation of those policies.
The  governance  paradigm  in  recent  decades  has
happily embraced the fundamental tenets of democracy.
In  Bangladesh,  we  have  the  necessary  institutions  in
place.  We  are  reforming,  modernizing  and  expanding
them.  As  a  thriving  democracy  ourselves,  we  support
United  Nations  efforts  aimed  at  promoting  the  rule  of
law,  good  governance  and  human  rights.  We  believe
that  all  human  rights  — 
to
development — should be pursued in a comprehensive
manner and with a holistic approach.
the  right 
including 
security 
The  past  year  has  seen  serious  developments  in
the 
situation,
international  peace  and 
especially  in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  Bangladesh
has  taken  a  positive  and  constructive  approach  to  all
these issues. We have consistently supported the efforts
of the United Nations in that regard. We have done that
as  a  matter  of  our  commitment  to  the  purposes  and
principles of the United Nations and its Charter.
the  past 
In  practical  terms,  Bangladesh  has  remained  a
major  partner  of  the  United  Nations  in  its  peace  and
two  decades,
security  mission.  Over 
Bangladesh  has  participated 
in  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations  in  four  continents,  including
the  most  perilous  ones.  We  are  currently  among  the
largest  contributors  of  troops  and  other  personnel  to
United  Nations 
operations,  with
thousands  of  our  troops  in  eight  Missions,  in  Côte
peacekeeping 
12
d’Ivoire,  Western  Sahara,  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Kosovo,
Timor-Leste  and  Georgia.  Recently,  we  are  also
committed  to  taking  part  in  the  proposed  United
Nations mission in Liberia.
and 
integrity 
territorial 
its  support  for 
The  people  of  Iraq  have  inherited  a  civilization
that  is  ancient  and  one  of  the  most  glorious.  The
present  situation  in  Iraq  should  be  resolved  while
preserving  the  interests  of  the  people  of  Iraq  and
ensuring  long-term  peace,  security  and  stability  in  the
region.  Bangladesh  reiterates 
the
sovereignty, 
political
independence  of  the  country.  We  stand  ready  to  take
part in the reconstruction and rebuilding of Iraq in the
true  spirit  of  brotherhood 
the
relationship  between  our  two  nations  and  peoples.  We
reiterate  our  call  for  ensuring  a  clear,  effective  and
credible role for the United Nations in Iraq’s transition
to  democracy  and  in  the  country’s  reconstruction.
Bangladesh  supports  the  forthcoming 
international
conference on Iraq’s reconstruction to be convened by
the  United  Nations,  and  we 
to  a
successful outcome.
that  characterizes 
look  forward 
the  other 
implemented  by 
The  recent  developments  in  the  Middle  East  are
extremely  worrying.  It  is  clear  that  the  progress  made
from  Oslo  to  Madrid  and  the  present  is  now  seriously
threatened.  The  road  map  that  the  Palestinian  side
accepted  with  great  courage  has  not  been  seriously
accepted  or 
side.
Preconditions  have  been 
imposed,  making  peace
difficult.  The  Israeli  practices  that  are  well  known  to
the  Assembly  continue  to  be  applied  in  occupied
Palestine. There are gross and systematic violations of
international humanitarian law and fundamental human
rights.  The  vicious  and  criminal  announcement  of  the
intention  to  expel  and  even  assassinate  President
Yasser  Arafat  calls  for  global  condemnation  in  the
strongest possible terms. All of that runs counter to the
global  demand 
the  peaceful  settlement  and
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  to  live  as  a  good
neighbour in peace and security.
for 
Bangladesh  reiterates  its  support  for  the  early
establishment  of  a  sovereign,  independent  State  of
Palestine  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  United
Nations resolutions.  We  call  for  a  more  active  role  on
the part of the United Nations, and we ask the Security
Council  to  assume  its  responsibilities  towards  the
people of Palestine. We urge the diplomatic Quartet to
intensify its efforts to prevent further escalation and to
address  the  threats  against  President  Arafat,  a  Nobel
Peace  laureate  and  the  undisputed  leader  of  the
Palestinian  people.  We  urge  that  the  peace  process  be
placed  back  on  track.  We  call  for  renewed  efforts
aimed at a comprehensive solution of the Middle East
issues within a given time frame.
International  terrorism  remains  a  scourge.  In  the
post-11  September  2001  context,  it  has  taken  centre
stage 
in  our  global  concerns.  We  reiterate  our
unequivocal condemnation of terrorism in all its forms
and  manifestations.  Bangladesh  is  party  to  several
international  conventions  on  combating  terrorism,  and
we  are  in  the  process  of  acceding  to  the  remaining
ones. We are actively involved in the elaboration of an
additional protocol to the South Asian Association  for
Regional  Cooperation’s  Regional  Convention  on
Suppression of Terrorism. The protocol will strengthen
the  Convention  by 
that
include  those  contained  in  recent  Security  Council
resolutions, 
in  particular  resolution  1373  (2001).
Bangladesh  attaches  great  emphasis  on  disarmament.
We  believe  that  it  is  closely  related  to  international
peace  and  security  and  has  a  direct  relationship  with
development.  Bangladesh  is  party  to  all  international
disarmament 
treaties  covering  nuclear,  biological,
chemical  and  conventional  weapons.  Seeking  general
and  complete  disarmament 
is  our  constitutional
commitment.  International  peace  and  security,  human
security  and  the  security  of  our  planet  have  been  the
prime considerations in making our policy choices.
incorporating  provisions 
We have supported all efforts at disarmament. We
continue  to  believe  in  the  value  of  all  measures,  even
partial  efforts  at  arms  control  and  disarmament.  Our
conviction  has  been  vindicated  by  our  progress  in  the
control  and  ban  of  a  number  of  weapons.  The
multilateral 
the  Conference  on
Disarmament, needs to be revived.
including 
track, 
Bangladesh  has  renounced  all  weapons  of  mass
destruction  —  biological,  chemical  and  nuclear.  The
situation  along  the  borders  of  the  two  nuclear-armed
South  Asian  countries  has  been  a  matter  of  global
concern.  As  a  close  neighbour,  we 
too  have  a
legitimate  cause  for  concern.  In  this  context,  we
applaud the Secretary-General for his recent call for the
elimination of all nuclear weapons. The imperatives, in
view  also  of  the  threats  to  the  existing  regimes  and
their  implications,  do  not  require  elaboration  in  this
House. We would thus urge a renewed consideration of
the International Court of Justice (ICJ) opinion and the
A/58/PV.16
report of the Canberra Commission on the Elimination
of Nuclear Weapons.
be 
It 
is  with 
thought 
that  our 
development, 
socio-economic 
In our region, as elsewhere, particularly since we
are  challenged  by  abject  poverty,  hunger,  illiteracy,
lack  of  safe  drinking  water  and  disease,  our  priorities
should 
not
nuclearization.  We  need  to  foster  cooperation,  not
prepare for confrontation.
this 
late
President  Shaheed  Ziaur  Rahman  conceived  of
institutionalized  regional  cooperation  leading  to  the
emergence of the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation (SAARC). We firmly believe in the value
and indeed the imperative of cooperation in our region.
We hope that together we shall also be able to establish
a  peaceful,  friendly  and  prosperous  South  Asia.  We
would  draw  inspiration  from  other  parts  of  the  world
where  such  regional  economic  integration  has  worked
well for the people of those regions.
In  today’s  world,  perhaps  the  most  potential
sources  of  conflict  of  interest  within  countries  and
among  them  would  centre  on  natural  resources,  in
particular,  fresh  water.  We  call  for  management  of
shared resources without depriving or causing damage
to  the  economy  or  ecology  of  any  of  the  countries
concerned or the region.
For  example,  any  unilateral  withdrawal  of  water
from international rivers should be prohibited, as such
action  would  cause  great  damage  to  the  environment,
agriculture,  industry  and  the  overall  economy  and
ecology  of  other  countries.  All  actions  in  such  areas
should  conform  to  international  law  and  the  norms  of
equity,  justice  and,  of  course,  fair  play.  Any  decision
with regard to shared natural wealth should be through
consultation among all concerned countries.
Bangladesh  identifies  itself  closely  with 
the
problems  of  Africa.  We  believe  in  the  efficacy  of
South-South  cooperation  as  a  mutually  beneficial
practice  among  societies  at  comparable  stages  of
development.  The  launching  of  the  African  Union  has
been  inspiring  and  that  of  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  encouraging.  We  are
confident  that  the  leadership  of  Africa  and  its  people
will  succeed  in  transforming  the  continent  into  a
peaceful and prosperous one.
We  have  developed  greater  knowledge,  special
bonds and closer friendship with many African nations
13
A/58/PV.16
through  our  participation  in  their  democracy  and
nation-building  efforts  and  through  peacekeeping  and
development  activities.  Bangladesh  will  continue  to
work  together  with  them  in  addressing  the  challenges
of building durable peace and sustainable development.
The  specific  problems  facing  the  landlocked  and
small 
island  developing  countries  require  special
attention. We hope the Almaty Conference has created
a  fresh  impetus  to  address  their  needs.  We  must  also
accord  support  to  countries  that  are  in  the  process  of
transition in their economies.
for  Development,  held 
the  World 
The  1990s  have  seen  a  series  of  major  United
Nations  conferences.  Each  has  adopted  an  elaborate
implementable  programme  of  action  with  clear  and
specific  responsibilities  at  national,  regional  and
international  levels.  The  International  Conference  on
in  Monterrey,
Financing 
Mexico, 
Sustainable
Development,  held  at  Johannesburg,  and  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed
Countries,  which  met  in  Brussels,  have  reinforced  the
earlier  commitments.  Now  is  the  time  to  focus  our
efforts — individual and collective — to implementing
the  programmes  of  action  emanating  from 
those
Conferences.
Summit 
on 
in 
progress 
reforming 
The  United  Nations  has,  in  recent  years  made
significant 
in
organizational  and  substantive  terms.  Further  progress
remains to be achieved  in  various  areas,  including  the
Security Council, where reforms are essential to make
the  Council  more  representative,  democratic  and
effective.
itself 
including 
Also  in  need  for  further  reform  are  the  General
Assembly  and  other  major  organs, 
the
Trusteeship Council, which could be revived. We need
certainly  to  go  further.  Bangladesh  welcomes  the
proposal  of  the  Secretary-General  to  establish  a  high-
level  panel  of  eminent  persons  for  examining  the
challenges  to  peace  and  security.  We  look  forward  to
their  report.  In  this  regard,  we  would  underline  the
importance 
and
consensus.
preserving  multilateralism 
of 
Decisions  on  budget  cuts  must  not  compromise
the  functioning  of  the  Organization  and  budgetary
exercises must not adversely affect the interests of the
developing  countries,  in  particular  the  least  developed
ones. There should be adequate provision for mandated
activities in the developing countries.
14
It  will  remain  our  goal  to  bring  the  United
Nations  to  the  centre  of  global  development  efforts.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  can  play  a  crucial
role  in  this  regard.  It  must  examine  innovative  and
creative  methods  in  its  work.  Bangladesh  has  sought
election to the Economic and Social Council during the
current  session.  As  we  have  done 
the  past,
Bangladesh  seeks  to  contribute,  as  a  member  of  the
Council, to the pursuit of the United Nations social and
economic  agenda.  We  hope  we  shall  receive  valuable
support from all Members of the Assembly.
in 
The Millennium Development Goals set a number
of  achievable  targets  in  the  most  pressing  areas.
Bangladesh  is  committed  to  achieving  them  for  our
people.  We  shall  also  work  closely  with  all  other
nations so that these objectives are realized equally for
all  of  us.  But  we  aspire  to  go  beyond.  We  urge
continued focus on the implementation of the outcome
of  the  1990s  cycle  of  international  conferences.  They
represent a comprehensive agenda for humanity for our
century.  We  must  follow  up  on  them  for  our  present
and  future  generations  and  for 
the  progress  of
humankind. Let us all try to create a better world for all
generations.
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): I now
call  on  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Saint  Kitts
and  Nevis,  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Timothy
Harris.
Mr.  Harris 
(Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  My
Government  is  pleased  that  the  General  Assembly’s
presidency  at  its  fifty-eighth  regular  session  is  in  the
capable  hands  of  my  distinguished  colleague,  the
Foreign Minister of Saint Lucia, Senator Julian Hunte,
whose election bears witness to the importance that this
Organization  holds,  not  just  for  the  Government  of
Saint  Lucia,  but  also  for  the  Governments  and  people
of the Caribbean Community. I trust that as he tackles
the  critical  United  Nations  agenda  over  the  coming
year  he  will  incorporate  into  his  work  the  lessons  of
our successes as a Caribbean Community. As with his
predecessor, whose steady leadership was tested during
a year of unprecedented challenges, he, too, can count
on my Government’s continued support.
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
to
Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General,  other  staff  of  the  United  Nations
and the citizens of Iraq who lost their lives or sustained
injuries  in  the  tragedy  of  Baghdad  last  August.  We
to  pay 
tribute 
share the sorrow of the Secretary-General and his staff,
and  extend  our  profound  condolences  to  the  bereaved
families.
I  intend  to  focus  our  attention  on  the  critical
importance of strategic partnership. Lest my statement
be misconstrued, I hasten to assure the Assembly from
the outset that my Government is neither oblivious nor
indifferent  to  the  multitude  of  concerns  and  problems
that  attend  and  threaten  our  quest  for  international
peace  and  security.  I  will  be  pleased  to  share  my
Government’s perspective on them later. But allow me
first 
the  Assembly  our  national
philosophy  and  policy  as  they  relate  to  improving  the
human condition.
to  share  with 
“How does one do that?” you ask. Improving the
human  condition  is  achieved  by  working  towards
human  security.  Notwithstanding  the  recriminations
and  blame,  at  the  core  of  the  failed  World  Trade
Organization  round  in  Mexico  earlier  this  month  was
the  issue  of  human  security.  Clearly,  countries  want
guarantees as Governments struggle to meet the needs
of  their  citizens.  For  my  Government,  human  security
means  that  each  citizen  has  the  right  to  liberty,
education, employment, an improved standard of living
and  economic  development.  We  believe  that  human
security  is  a  comprehensive  and  holistic  concept  that
encompasses all aspects of the human condition.
Obviously, there is much that we in the Caribbean
can and must still learn from the rest of the world. But,
equally, there are many valuable lessons that the rest of
the world can draw from our experiences and successes
in  the  Caribbean.  In  many  areas,  the  Caribbean  is  a
testament to the practicality and efficacy of functional
cooperation,  and  of  how,  despite  the  many  issues  that
divide  us,  we  continue  to  work  together  on  matters
common  to  us.  Be  it  at  the  subregional  level  of  the
Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  (OECS)  or
within 
Community
(CARICOM),  the  progress  we  have  made  in  forging
consensus  and  in  building  common  institutions  to
address  our  shared  problems  allows  us  to  be  able  to
share  best  practices  with  the  United  Nations  and
demonstrate  how,  by  working 
through
cooperative partnerships, each of us can achieve more.
the
University  of  the  West  Indies  has  cultivated  many
distinguished  academics  and  other  notables.  Today,  it
stands  as  a  beacon  of  hope  for  our  young  people  in
For  nearly  four  decades,  for  example, 
Caribbean 
together 
broader 
the 
A/58/PV.16
their  quest  for  quality  higher  education.  To  its  credit,
the  University  continues 
to  work  with  several
internationally  recognized  institutions  and  agencies  in
the  areas  of  peace  and  security,  health  care  and
scientific  research,  to  name  but  a  few.  The  Caribbean
Examinations  Council  has  responded  adequately  and
with  requisite  standards  of  excellence  to  the  growing
education  needs  of  the  English-speaking  Caribbean.
When our students complete their education, they stand
shoulder to shoulder with their counterparts around the
world. It is not my intention to boast, but for us it is a
matter  of  national  and  regional  pride.  Further,  as  the
Assembly’s  President  is  aware,  many  of  our  countries
have  adopted  policies  that  allow  nationals  of  other
member States to travel to and work in their countries
without  the  hassle  of  visa  requirements  and  work
permits.  Although  we  are  divided  by  the  sea,  the
bridges of commitment and recognition of our common
challenges  and  the  benefits  of  shared  approaches  are
bringing us ever closer together.
The  Caribbean  Development  Bank  and 
the
Eastern  Caribbean  Central  Bank  are  models  of  how
financial  responsibility  and  cooperation  with  and
among  member  Governments  in  executing  fiscal  and
monetary  policies  can  facilitate  stability,  underpin
accountability and engender progress. For decades, the
Eastern Caribbean dollar, the currency of the countries
of  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States,  has
remained  the  bedrock  of  monetary  stability.  We  are
also especially proud of the success of the OECS Court
of Appeal, which has worked effectively and dutifully
in  dispensing  justice  throughout  the  territories  over
which it exercises jurisdiction. Further, the prudent and
positive  steps  toward  a  Caribbean  Single  Market  and
Economy 
the
determination  of  Caribbean  Governments  to  cooperate
in almost all endeavours to advance the human security
of  our  citizens.  These  are  but  a  few  examples  of
functional  cooperation. 
In  every  case,  member
countries  are  better  off  because  they  work  together
rather than unilaterally.
to 
in  our  national
policies  many  of  the  agreed  principles  of  sustainable
development.  Additionally,  our  regional  campaign  to
fight the spread of HIV/AIDS and treat its victims has
witnessed encouraging results under the Pan-Caribbean
Partnership against HIV/AIDS. My Government wishes
to commend the World Bank and the William J. Clinton
Presidential Foundation for their pledges of support for
We  continue 
incorporate 
(CSME), 
of 
provide 
evidence 
15
A/58/PV.16
our work in this regard. We hope that our cooperation
efforts  will  be  a  model  for  future  partnerships  in  our
region and beyond.
I  promised  earlier 
the  collapse  of  major 
that  I  would  share  my
Government’s  perspective  on  some  of  the  decisive
issues  that  confront  us  internationally.  I  preface  my
remarks with a reminder that just over a decade earlier
we stood on the threshold of a new era of opportunity.
We  celebrated 
ideological
conflicts,  which  previously  held  us  captive,  even,  I
dare say, on the brink of nuclear Armageddon. As one
leader remarked, nations and peoples quietly harboured
dreams that the last decade of the twentieth century and
the advent of the twenty-first century would herald new
opportunities  to  address  and  redress  asymmetrical
issues that had frustrated our collective aspirations and
individual  potential.  None  of  us,  I  am  sure,  would
likely  admit  that  we  may  have  squandered  such
prospects.  However,  a  little  more  than  a  decade  later,
ideological  rifts  seem  to  have  been  replaced  by
political chasms and new dangers.
Consequently, we must re-evaluate our concept of
security.  The  Organization  of  American  States,  in  its
meeting  of  foreign  ministers  last  year  in  Barbados,
took  the  bold  and  timely  step  of  redefining  security
within  its  hemisphere.  Security,  the  foreign  ministers
declared,  is  diverse  in  scope  and  multidimensional  in
nature,  requiring  multifaceted  approaches  to  address
political,  economic,  social  and  environmental  issues.
This concept clearly recognizes that we cannot separate
national, regional and international security issues from
political,  economic  and  social  stability  and  their
security implications.
We  in  the  Caribbean  recognize  that,  whereas
globalization  is  a  viable  instrument  of  growth  and
prosperity for some, it has become the vehicle of  ruin
and despair for many of the already poor people around
the  world.  While  countries 
that  prosper  praise
globalization  and  free  trade,  countries  that  suffer  see
themselves as no more than the guinea pigs, the passive
objects  of  globalization,  with  very  little  hope  of
advancing human security for their poor citizens.
How  do  we  encourage  our  citizens  to  have  faith
in a system that punishes their legitimate efforts? How
can  we  tell  the  poor  farmers  in  the  developing  world,
struggling  to  eke  out  an  existence,  to  hold  out  hope
when  farmers  in  rich  countries  are  subsidized  and
rewarded  for  overproduction?  How  do  we  ask  our
16
free 
trade  wholesale,  while 
citizens in small vulnerable economies to sacrifice and
adopt 
larger,  more
developed  economies  devise  new  ways  to  deny  them
crucial  market  access.  Unless  we  address  such
inequities, 
there  will  always  be  resentment  and
mistrust.  We  must  therefore  work  together  to  level
these  bumps  on  the  road  to  development.  Also,  we
must rob the uncivil forces of the arguments they use to
feed and exploit the anger and despair of the poor and
dispossessed.
I turn now to the United Nations. In our view, the
United  Nations  remains  central  to  international  peace
and  human  security.  The  myriad  challenges  facing  us
today require collective action and partnership. I hasten
to  add  that,  although  the  United  Nations  still  lacks
important  elements  of  transparency  and  democracy  in
the  operations  of  the  Security  Council,  it  nevertheless
represents  the  most  practical  framework  our  nations
have to address regional and international concerns in a
holistic manner.
I  trust  that,  when  the  dust  of  discontent  settles,
we  will  appreciate  that  no  country  can  act  alone  in
pursuit of international peace, development and human
security.  My  Government  calls  on  the  United  Nations
membership to embrace a bold vision and commitment
to  fighting  the  pull  of  isolation  and  the  lure  of
economic  and  financial  engineering.  Our  reality  today
encompasses 
find  positive  and
sustainable  methods 
for  advancing  our  citizens’
development against uncivil forces or rogue ideologies
working relentlessly to undermine them.
the  struggles 
to 
My Government calls on the United Nations and
Member  Governments  to  further  subscribe  to  and
promote  partnership  by  fulfilling 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  The  Millennium  Goals  are
essential steps to improving the human condition. They
are  also  a  reliable  basis  for  addressing  many  of  the
inequities  of  globalization.  We  urge  Member  States  to
work to meet these goals. We can relent only when the
other  half  of  the  world’s  population  ceases  to  live  in
abject  poverty,  when  larger  sectors  of  the  world’s
population can find work, and when all parents are able
to send their children to school.
Despite  its  exclusion  from  this  international
fraternity of nations, the Republic of China on Taiwan
remains a valuable partner  for peace  and  development
with fullest respect for international law. We trust that
its  contributions  and  its  citizens’  right  to  adequate
representation can be guaranteed in the best interest of
brotherhood  so  that  all  people  can  live  in  peace  and
enjoy  the  fruits  of  prosperity  through  partnership.
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  therefore  urges  the
United  Nations  to  avail  itself  of  every  possibility  to
facilitate  a  sustainable  resolution  of  the  impasse  that
hampers  Taiwan’s  efforts  to  engage  in  international
dialogue  and  contribute  to  the  common  interests  of
mankind.
Let  me  end  by  reaffirming  my  Government’s
to  strategic
to  multilateralism  and 
commitment 
partnership.
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): I give
the floor to Her Excellency Mrs. Maria de Fátima Lima
Veiga,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Cooperation  and
Communities of the Republic of Cape Verde.
Mrs.  Veiga  (Cape  Verde)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
English text furnished by the delegation): Let me at the
very  outset  offer  my  warm  congratulations  to  Mr.
Hunte  on  his  election  to  preside  over  this  fifty-eighth
session of the General Assembly. With his proven skills
in the field of international affairs and his wide-ranging
experience,  we  are  confident 
that  we  will  deal
effectively  with  the  many  crucial  tasks  facing  this
Assembly.  I  assure  him  of  the  full  support  and  best
wishes of  my delegation as he carries out the  tasks  of
his high office.
Let  me  also  extend  our  appreciation  to  the
outgoing  President,  Mr.  Jan  Kavan,  whose  committed
efforts  guided 
this
Assembly.
fifty-seventh  session  of 
the 
I wish to express my delegation’s appreciation for
the  indefatigable  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to
preserve and enhance the role of our Organization last
year, which proved to be one of the most difficult in its
existence. One sad sign of this was the bombing of the
United  Nations  headquarters  in  Baghdad  last  month,
which took the lives of Sergio Vieira de Mello and 21
other  persons  of  different  nationalities.  It  was  a
monstrous  act  that  deserved  strong  and  universal
condemnation.  Nothing  could  justify  such  a  senseless
attack  against  the  civil  personnel  of  a  mission  whose
aims  were  none  other  than  to  help  the  Iraqi  people  to
face  the  tragic  situation  in  which  they  are  living.  We
thus pay our respectful homage to the memory of those
dedicated persons who lost their lives in the tragedy.
A/58/PV.16
the 
lead 
international  community 
My  country  fully  cooperates  with  the  United
Nations  bodies  in  the  struggle  against  terrorism  and
organized  crime.  However,  the  fight  against  terrorism
should  not 
to
downplay  the  importance  of  promoting  development
and fighting poverty and everything associated with it,
including  hunger,  illness,  illiteracy  and  environmental
degradation.  Nor  should  the  international  community
forget the need to guarantee the respect of the rights of
peoples and individuals, combat discrimination and all
its aspects that deprive human beings of their dignity.
Very  relevant  proposals  concerning  the  future  of
our Organization have been presented by the Secretary-
General. He stressed the need to accelerate the reform
of the United Nations by adapting it to the realities of
the  world  in  which  we  live,  namely  addressing  the
question  of  enlarging 
the  Security  Council  and
increasing  the  number  of  its  permanent  members,
strengthening the General Assembly and reinvigorating
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  Economic  and  Social
Council  (ECOSOC),  as  well  as  of  the  United  Nations
as  a  whole,  including  its  relationship  with  the  Bretton
Woods institutions.
By  their  size,  economic  power,  regional  and
international influence, there are obvious candidates to
become  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council.
Their  weight  in  international  affairs  can  no  longer  be
overlooked.  We  should  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that
their contributions to peace,  security  and  development
can bring more legitimacy to the body. The time is ripe
to  welcome  those  countries  in  an  enlarged  and  more
representative Security Council, in which Africa should
have at least two permanent seats.
Being a member of the Community of Portuguese
Speaking Countries (CPLP), Brazil should, in our view,
take a permanent seat in the Council.
The  issues  relating  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations have been the subject of a longstanding debate
that  points  to  an  overwhelming  consensus  among
Member  States.  My  delegation  supports  the  proposals
made  by  the  Secretary-General  and  hopes  that  the
momentum  provided  by  acknowledgement  of 
the
challenges, threats and dangers faced by the world will
be seized by this Assembly and instil its members with
the  sense  of  urgency  to  come  up  with  appropriate
binding  and  pragmatic  decisions  relating  to  these
issues.
17
A/58/PV.16
As the President of the Assembly rightly pointed
out 
in  his 
inaugural  speech,  “Many  developing
countries  do  not  have  a  wide  range  of  development
choices  available  to  them  and  in  fact  face  serious
challenges due to their special circumstances.”
these 
Among 
countries 
developing 
recognized  small 
the
international  community 
island
developing states as a special case of development and
environment.  It  will  be  during  the  mandate  of  the
current  President  of  the  General  Assembly  that,  by
happy  coincidence,  an  international  meeting  will  be
held in Mauritius to assess the state of implementation
of the Barbados Programme of Action.
Earlier this month, Cape Verde hosted the second
regional  preparatory  meeting  in  anticipation  of  the
Mauritius  event.  In  this  context,  I  would  like  to
underline the meaning of my country’s commitment to
the  process  of  global  support  to  the  sustainable
development  of  small  island  developing  states,  a
process to which my Government is fully dedicated.
The  SIDS  denomination  has  now  been 
in
existence for nearly a decade. The work accomplished
by  the  United  Nations  toward  a  greater  international
awareness  of  the  problems  of  small  island  developing
states has been generally successful.
this  opportunity 
express  my
Government’s  gratitude  to  the  entire  United  Nations
system for the  central  role  it  has  played  in  cultivating
and  maintaining  the  high  degree  of  international
awareness that is essential to our countries.
take 
to 
I 
treatment  of 
However, the recognition of a special category of
countries  cannot  be  justified  for  the  purposes  of
classification alone. One would expect that the special
designation  would  lead  to  some  minimal  amount  of
special 
concerned,
commensurate  with  their  specific  disadvantages  and
handicaps.  Regrettably  that  is  not  the  case  with  the
small  island  developing  states.  In  fact,  island-specific
special  treatment  is  almost  non-existent,  even  though
many SIDS are in dire need of greater differentiation in
the current pattern of international cooperation.
countries 
the 
I  therefore  wish  to  convey  my  Government’s
hope  that  the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action  +10
process,  culminating  in  the  Mauritius  international
meeting, will constitute a landmark in the history of the
differentiated 
treatment  of  developing  countries,
particularly small island developing States.
18
The  need  for  special  consideration  that  is  most
commonly  shared  by  small  island  developing  states  is
the  need  to  see  market-access  preferences  preserved,
not  eroded.  Such  a  need  is  not  a  luxury,  but  a
prerequisite for many SIDS in their efforts to maintain
competitiveness  and  economic  viability  in  response  to
the  structural  disadvantages 
their
remoteness and small size.
resulting 
from 
While  several  SIDS  do  enjoy  a  fair  amount  of
special  treatment,  such  as  the  treatment  derived  from
least developed country (LDC), African, Caribbean and
Pacific  States 
(ACP)  or  African  Growth  and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) status, there are still areas of
international  cooperation  in  which  the  absence  of
reference to island status is difficult to understand. One
of these areas — of direct relevance to the question of
trade preferences — is the ongoing debate in the World
Trade  Organization  concerning  the  Work  Programme
on  Small  Economies,  a  debate  in  which  small  island
developing  states,  regrettably,  have  not  been  able  to
advocate their case under the SIDS designation.
Cape Verde has again been deemed to qualify for
graduation  from  least  developed  country  (LDC)  status
under  the  criteria  and  graduation  rules  used  by  the
Committee  for  Development  Policy  and  the  Economic
and  Social  Council.  As  stressed  by  my  delegation  in
the substantive session of the Council in July, we feel
that  a  decision  to  graduate  Cape  Verde  from  least
developed  country  status  at  this  juncture  would  give
the 
incorrect
impression  of  our  structural  progress  and  prosperity,
whereas  Cape  Verde  remains  one  of 
the  most
economically  vulnerable  and  aid-dependent  countries
in the world.
international  community  a  gravely 
Here we are faced with a peculiar paradox: in the
context of its support to small island developing states
the  United  Nations  system  recognizes  the  permanent
handicaps  of  a  country,  but,  at  the  same  time,  it  is
considering  withdrawing  the  special  treatment  this
country  has  been  eligible  for,  without  leaving  any
alternative treatment available.
this  context,  and 
the
international  recognition  of  the  special  handicaps  of
small  island  developing  states,  my  Government  urges
the General Assembly to request the relevant bodies of
the United Nations system to re-examine with care the
rule whereby a least developed country would be seen
as  qualifying  for  graduation.  We  believe  that  such  re-
light  of 
the 
In 
in 
examination ought to result in a methodological reform
that will do justice to the least developed small island
developing States.
Africa  has  made  a  remarkable  effort  to  respond
positively  to  the  call  of  the  international  community
and  its  own  peoples  to  foster  development,  promote
democracy, transparency, good governance, the rule of
law and accountability. In the wake of this call African
leaders  agreed  to  establish  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  in  whose  success  we
are  all  engaged  in  order  to  lead  our  continent  out  of
poverty  and  conflict,  ushering  in  a  new  era  of
prosperity  and  peace.  Its  adoption  not  only  by  the
African Governments and civil societies but also by the
international  community  as  a  framework  for  African
development  will  help  establish  common  goals  and
clear  commitments  that  will  lead  our  continent  on  a
promising  new  journey.  We  believe  that  the  NEPAD
project should pay special attention to  the  situation  of
the island States.
Noticeable  progress  has  been  achieved,  both  in
the  manner  of  installing  democratic  Governments
throughout  the  continent  and  in  putting  an  end  to
conflicts.
In  this  particular  case,  we  are  heartened  by  the
recent  accord  between  the  Sudanese  Government  and
the Sudan People’s Liberation Army. This constitutes a
very  significant  step  towards  putting  an  end  to  the
suffering  of  the  Sudanese  people.  If,  as  we  all
anxiously  hope,  this  agreement  brings  peace  to  that
great  African  nation,  it  will  add  to  the  successes
already  registered  in  Mozambique,  Angola  and  Sierra
Leone,  along  with  the  ongoing  processes  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Great  Lakes
and Liberia.
We  must  be  cautious,  however.  Conflicts  result
from  unsettled  social  and  political  issues.  If  these  are
not  adequately  tackled,  the  risk  of  new  conflicts  will
persist. It is important to recall that democracy and the
rule  of  law  can  develop  unhindered  only  when  and  if
the minimum conditions for survival are assured for the
populations  and  when  the  rights  of  individuals  and
groups, including minorities, are respected.
The  events  in  Guinea-Bissau  two  weeks  ago
illustrate  the  fragility  of  the  institutions  in  a  country
that  cannot  address 
its
population.  While  it  may  be  true  that  political  leaders
must  be  held  accountable  for  not  ensuring  good
the  basic  problems  of 
A/58/PV.16
governance,  in  an  environment  of  poverty,  lack  of
resources  and  indebtedness  good  governance  is  easily
set aside. These events point to the need for a stronger
commitment of the international community to helping
countries in distress face the tasks of fighting poverty,
consolidating  democratic  institutions  and  promoting
economic  and  social  development  not  only  with
promises and advice, but also with concrete means.
Notwithstanding  the  serious  threats  that  hover
over  mankind,  a  safer,  more  just  and  more  peaceful
world  is  now  within  reach  of  our  living  generations.
Never before has mankind had such an array of means
to  face  the  great  challenges  that  continue  to  defy
humankind,  such  as  hunger,  poverty,  illiteracy  and
curable  diseases.  Hunger  is  a  case  in  point.  Several
experiences in different regions of the world prove that
hunger can be eliminated if there is determination and
available resources. It is therefore unacceptable that, in
a  world  awash  with  food,  one  in  three  sub-Saharan
Africans should continue to suffer from chronic hunger.
Last  July,  at  the  second  ordinary  session  of  the
Assembly  of  the  African  Union,  held  in  Maputo,
Mozambique,  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the
African  Union  adopted  a  Declaration  on  Agriculture
and  Food  Security  in  Africa.  In  this  Declaration,
African  leaders  once  again  demonstrated  their  firm
commitment  to  combating  hunger  on  the  African
continent.
immediately  after 
At  the  national  level,  fighting  hunger  was  set  as
one  of  the  main  priorities  of  the  first  Government  of
Cape  Verde 
independence  and
continues  to  have  a  prominent  place  in  Government
policies 
the  framework  of  poverty  reduction
strategies. That is why we support the plea made by the
President  of  Brazil  to  establish  a  world  committee  to
fight hunger.
in 
Three  years  ago,  world 
leaders  endowed
themselves with the important political tool that is the
Millennium Declaration. There is no excuse for the fact
that  the  promised  resources  and  the  proclaimed  will
have not been put to work to achieve and even surpass
the arduously negotiated but unanimously agreed Goals
adopted  in  this  very  Hall.  Despite  the  difficulties  and
uncertainties  looming  over  the  Organization,  the  eyes
of the world are focused on the United Nations because
all believe that our Organization can and should be the
vehicle for achieving those Goals. Let us work together
to make it happen.
19
A/58/PV.16
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): I give
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Harmodio  Arias,
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of
Panama.
Mr.  Arias  (Panama)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On
behalf  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Panama,
Mireya  Elisa  Moscoso  Rodríguez,  and  on  my  own
behalf,  I  extend  my  warmest  congratulations  to  Mr.
Hunte  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly at this session. The delegation of Panama is
deeply gratified that he has been appointed to guide our
debates, because he represents here the commitment of
developing  countries,  and  in  particular  those  of  the
Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States,  to
multilateral efforts to achieve peace, respect for human
rights, and sustainable development.
Stability and security, in their broadest sense, are
things  to  which  all  humanity  aspires.  We  will  never
achieve  these  objectives,  however,  if,  in  attempting  to
shape this new world, we counter the aspirations of our
peoples  or  attempt  to  base  it  on  the  systematic
development  of  grand  military  alliances.  Human
security, which is sought by all States, large and small,
depends exclusively on our dedication to the collective
security  architecture  that  we  have  concentrated  in  the
United  Nations.  Our  duty,  then,  is  to  defend  and
strengthen  at  all  costs  our  Organization’s  objectives
and  purposes,  in  particular  the  integrity  and  authority
of our international legal system.
The  world  has  been  through  an  extraordinary
experience this year, one that was hotly debated and the
fallout  from  which  is  still  far  from  clear.  It  is  not  too
much to say that the trepidations over the events in Iraq
that  were  felt  here  in  the  United  Nations  and  beyond
have  had  a  number  of  repercussions  both  on  the
internal  work  of  this  Organization  and  on  the  conduct
of international relations.
that 
is  convinced 
Nevertheless,  Panama 
the
differences that were aired in the Security Council are
a  clear  demonstration  that  it  has  functioned  as  it
should;  that  the  diversity  of  opinions  and  approaches
that  exist  in  the  world  were  aired  there  without
reservations; and that, although differences remained at
the  end  of  the  process,  it  had  the  marginal  benefit  of
highlighting the measurement and control requirements
that must be taken into account in the Security Council.
the  Security
Council acted appropriately in establishing a pragmatic
these  differences, 
Apart 
from 
20
relationship  with  the  occupying  Powers  in  Iraq  by
means  of  resolution  1483  (2003)  of  May  22.  In
addition, our Organization is demonstrating that it has
an irreplaceable role to play in the humanitarian field,
just as it has in the political, diplomatic, economic and
financial spheres.
took  place 
The  shocking  slaughter 
that 
in
Baghdad  on  19  August  and 
the  killings  of  22
September  —  painful  acts  of  terrorism  that  took  the
lives  of  many  national  and  international  civil  servants
of the United Nations, including Special Representative
Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello  —  must  move  us  to  consider
and  adopt  urgent  measures 
the
international community takes concerted action as soon
as  possible  towards  the  reconstruction  of  Iraq.  To  all
their colleagues and to the great United Nations family,
we  express  the  most  sincere  condolences  of  Mireya
Moscoso,  President  of  Panama,  her  Government  and
the people of Panama.
to  ensure 
that 
During  the  Millennium  Summit,  Panama  asked
Member  States,  among  other  things,  to  return  to  the
original spirit of the United Nations Charter. Consistent
with that request, we hope that all of us will accept the
obligation  to  reconcile  ourselves  with  the  general
interests  of  the  international  community  and  to  avoid
acting  solely  in  light  of  our  particular  strategic,
military or political interests.
We repeat that request today, and call attention to
the  urgent  need  for  strengthening  the  multilateral
system as the guarantee of stability and security, which
are  fundamental  for  peaceful  coexistence.  Today,
perhaps more than ever before, we must tackle the task
of  reforming  our  Organization  so  that  the  General
Assembly can fulfil its proper function as the principal
political  body,  and  the  Security  Council  can  have  a
greater  capacity  to  deal  with  the  new  challenges  that
the end of the cold war has brought with it.
To  achieve  this  objective,  Panama  stresses  the
contents of the Declaration on the Strengthening of the
United Nations and Security  Council Reform,  adopted
at  the  Eleventh  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and
Government of the Rio Group, which met at Asunción,
Paraguay, in August 1997, calling upon Member States
of the United Nations to correct the present imbalances
in the composition of the Security Council, improve its
decision-making  mechanisms,  and  bring  greater
transparency to the conduct of its work.
We  firmly  believe  that  an  extremely  important
element  in  this  and  other  tasks  facing  us  is  the
announcement  by  the  Secretary-General,  Kofi  Annan,
that  he  will  establish  a  high-level  panel  comprising
eminent  personalities  from  all  regions  of  the  world.
Panama  and  the  world  congratulate  him  on  having
proposed this initiative.
We  also  wish  to  have  the  General  Assembly
become  the  forum  in  which  to  seek  a  solution  to  the
problem  between  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and
Taiwan.  As  Panama  has  noted  on  previous  occasions,
Taiwan  has,  in  a  sense,  been  left  hanging  in  time  and
space,  protected  and  yet  unprotected.  Recently,  in
response  to  the  need  to  combat  the  severe  acute
respiratory  syndrome  (SARS)  epidemic,  the  World
Health  Organization  was  able  to  provide  direct  and
effective  assistance  to  Taiwan  without  violating  or
weakening  the  fundamental  elements  of  the  positions
of  the  parties  to  that  controversy.  We  believe  that  the
United  Nations  system  could  act  in  several  ways  to
help  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  and  Taiwan
resolve their dispute in a peaceful way, while we fulfil
our  most  cherished  objective  of  responding,  without
exception, to the social needs of humanity.
Last July we held here the first Biennial Meeting
of  States  to  Consider  the  Implementation  of  the  2001
Programme  of  Action  on  Small  Arms  and  Light
Weapons in All Its Aspects. We are still quite far from
achieving  our  objectives,  both  nationally 
and
internationally,  but  we  believe 
that  biennial
meeting  injected  new  vigour  into  the  efforts  that  we
must all make to keep our commitments.
that 
We  repeat  our  position,  put  forward  at  that
meeting,  that  the  purposes  and  code  of  conduct  put
before  Member  States  in  the  first  two  articles  of  the
Charter  must  be  crucial  for  securing  peace  and
understanding among the nations of the world.
internal 
conflicts, 
dictatorships, 
We would also stress that the massive clandestine
trafficking  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which
fuels 
guerrilla
movements  and  international  terrorism,  can  only  be
blocked  through  close  international  cooperation.  With
equal  determination,  we  must  pursue  the  networks  of
traffickers in narcotics and diamonds, which use bogus
firms  and  banks,  thrive  by  corrupting  public  officials
and are constantly working to destroy our societies.
In  a  follow-up  to  the  Monterrey  Summit,  we  in
the countries of the South renew our call for creating a
A/58/PV.16
more just and efficient financial system, for eliminating
the 
inequities  of  globalization  and  financing  for
development,  and  for  raising  the  depressed  prices  of
our  raw  materials  and  other  export  products.  As  we
have  stated  on  previous  occasions,  there  is  also  an
urgent  need  to  agree  on  the  proper  mechanisms  for
forestalling  financial  crises  and  finding  a  solution  to
unsustainable  external  debt  burdens,  in  accordance
with resolution 57/240.
We  now  approach  the  High-level  Dialogue  on
Financing for Development, which will be held in this
city  on  29  and  30  October  2003.  We  must  seize  this
opportunity to reinvigorate this part of our activity, and
to  review  the  progress  achieved  in  ensuring  effective
Secretariat support, pursuant to resolution 57/273.
represented 
in 
Panama’s  position 
At the second meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee
to consider proposals for a comprehensive and integral
international  convention  to  promote  and  protect  the
rights  and  dignity  of  persons  with  disabilities,  it  was
decided  to  create  a  working  group  to  prepare  and
submit  a  draft  text  for  negotiation  among  Member
States and accredited observers.
is 
the
Declaration of Quito of 11 April 2003, which, in brief,
called  for  promoting  and  protecting  the  rights  and
dignity  of 
living  with
disabilities  around  the  world,  the  great  majority  of
whom  suffer  constantly  from  poverty  and  lack  of
understanding.  The  international  convention  that  we
seek,  as  noted  in  the  Declaration,  must  reflect  “the
universality,  indivisibility  and  interdependence  of  all
human rights and the principle of non-discrimination.”
These  concepts  are  thoroughly  established  in  the
United  Nations  Charter,  the  Universal  Declaration  of
Human  Rights,  international  human  rights  agreements
and other related instruments.
the  600  million  persons 
It  is  timely  to  refer  here  to  the  persistent  and
growing  worldwide  HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  Latin
American and Caribbean countries, too, are confronted
with a serious situation in this area. The Pan American
Health  Organization  met  in  Washington  on  11  June  to
address this issue, and noted that the demographic and
social  impact  of  HIV/AIDS  in  our  region  threatens  to
undermine 
to  carry  out  development
projects.
the  ability 
We therefore call on the United Nations system to
make  available  to  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean
adequate  resources  to  prevent  this  scourge.  As  is  well
21
A/58/PV.16
known,  our  region  today  has  some  2.5  million  people
suffering from this terrible disease.
It is clear that the moral and technical presence of
the  United  Nations  is  essential  in  efforts  to  eradicate
political,  racial  and  religious 
in
support  of  negotiations  for  pacification,  reunification,
self-determination  and  reconstruction, 
to
ensure  that  the  peoples  concerned  can  enjoy  the
benefits of development.
intolerance,  and 
in  order 
Having said this, I urge our Organization to find
expeditious  ways  of  helping  those  who  are  committed
to  the  so-called  road  map  for  resolving  the  conflict
between  Palestine  and  Israel  to  secure  the  active
cooperation  of  the  countries  of  the  region  and  of  the
Governments  of  Israel  and  the  Palestine  National
Authority,  so  as  to  overcome  the  current  scepticism
over  any  imminent  possibility  of  seeing  the  two
peoples  living  in  peace,  within  secure  boundaries,  as
two sovereign States.
Ensuring  that  that  urgent  task  is  carried  out
successfully  will  require  the  ongoing  participation  of
all of the neighbouring States. They must demonstrate
a joint willingness to become guarantors of the stability
and security of the Israeli and Palestinian peoples and
guardians  of  strict  adherence  to  the  Charter  of  the
United Nations and to Security Council resolutions.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  referring  briefly  to
the  International  Criminal  Court.  With  the  election  of
its  Judges  and  Prosecutor,  the  Court  has  become  a
reality.  We  recognize  the  concern  that  has  been
aroused,  particularly  among  the  States  parties  to  the
Rome Statute, by the fact that the Security Council, in
its  resolution  1487  (2003),  renewed  for  one  year  the
provisions  of  resolution  1422  (2002)  with  regard  to
immunity in cases relating to peacekeeping operations,
as  well  as  by 
immunity
agreements have been negotiated separately by several
countries on the basis of article 98 of the Statute.
that  bilateral 
the  fact 
that 
Panama,  a  firm  supporter  of  the  International
Criminal  Court,  believes 
these  pragmatic
agreements are a response to a temporary situation, and
that they cannot and must not detract from the purposes
and  objectives  of  the  Rome  Statute.  As  States  parties,
we cannot shrink from the obligations imposed by our
domestic 
to  war
crimes,  and  we  are  therefore  convinced  that  the
political  concerns  and  suspicions  of 
today  will
disappear  as  it  becomes  apparent  that  persons  who
in  matters  relating 
jurisdictions 
22
commit  monstrous  crimes  against  humanity  can  never
be  shielded  by  any  State  or  protected  by  dreams  of
impunity.  Any  State 
to  a  different
interpretation  on  this  point  will  be  swimming  against
the tide of human progress and international law.
that  holds 
The Acting President (spoke in Russian): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mustafa  Osman
Ismail, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of
the Sudan.
Mr.  Ismail  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should
like  to  begin  my  statement  with  a  quotation  from  the
Koran:
“O mankind! We created
You from a single (pair)
Of a male and a female,
And made you into
Nations and tribes, that
Ye may know each other
(Not that ye may despise
(Each other). Verily
The most honoured of you in the sight of Allah
Is (he who is) the most
Righteous of you.” (The Holy Koran, XLIX:13)
Peace be upon you.
I  should  like  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  Mr.
Julian  Hunte  on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session.  I
should  also  like  to  express  the  gratitude  of  my
delegation to his predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan.
that 
the 
role 
We would like to express our appreciation for the
important 
Secretary-General,
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  continues  to  play  in  revitalizing  the
work  of  the  Organization.  In  this  connection,  we
welcome his ideas regarding the institutional reform of
the  Organization.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  express  to  the  United  Nations  our
heartfelt  condolences  for  the  untimely  deaths  of  Mr.
Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues.
When  I  addressed 
this
rostrum  last  year,  I  made  clear  that  my  Government
and  my  country  were  eager  to  achieve  peace  in  the
Sudan.  I  am  very  pleased,  therefore,  to  inform  the
the  Assembly  from 
Assembly  that  our  words  have  been  matched  with
deeds,  and  peace  is  now  on  the  horizon  —  peace  that
will  put  an  end 
that  has
squandered  the  human  and  natural  resources  of  the
country and hindered the development of the Sudanese
people.
to  an  armed  conflict 
My country has continuously reiterated its desire
for  dialogue  and  negotiation  with  the  Sudan  People’s
Liberation  Army  Movement  (SPLM).  Our  efforts,
together  with  those  of  the  mediators,  have  been
continuing  for  more  than  10  years  and  have  recently
been crowned with success in the form of an agreement
by both parties as a result  of  an  initiative  put  forward
by  the  countries  of  the  Inter-Governmental  Authority
on  Development,  under  the  patronage  of  the  sisterly
country,  Kenya,  and  with  much  appreciated  positive
support by the IGAD partners.
At  the  most  recent  round  of  negotiations,  His
Excellency Mr. Ali Osman Mohamed Taha, First Vice-
President, led the Government delegation, and Mr. John
Garang  led  the  SPLM  delegation.  Four  days  ago,  it
resulted in an agreement on security arrangements and
the  extension  of  a  ceasefire.  It  is  expected  that  that
agreement  will  pave  the  way  for  a  final  round  of
negotiations  that  will  lead  to  just  and  lasting  peace
throughout the Sudan as soon as possible.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
our  gratitude  to  the  IGAD  member  countries  for  the
role they played in the Sudan peace process, under the
stewardship  of  the  President  of  Kenya  and  his  special
envoy.  Our  thanks  and  appreciation  also  go  to  IGAD
partners,  namely  the  United  States  of  America,  the
United  Kingdom,  Italy  and  Norway.  We  would  like  to
express 
positive
intervention of the Government of the United States of
America at the most critical juncture in the negotiation
process.  We  also  appreciate  the  considerable  efforts
that  Egypt  and  Libya  have  continued  to  make  in  the
interests of peace in the Sudan, as well as those of the
Arab League and the African Union.
particular 
gratitude 
the 
for 
We  are  confident  that  Members  will  understand
how  important  the  ceasefire  agreement  is  for  the
humanitarian  situation.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the  Sudan
demonstrates  the  extent  of  the  progress  made  in  this
area. Next month will mark the one-year anniversary of
the  cessation  of  hostilities.  Peace  remains  a  basic
requirement for the rehabilitation of the areas affected
A/58/PV.16
by  war  and  will  allow  for 
humanitarian 
development.
relief 
transition  from
to  comprehensive  sustainable
the 
Mr.  Ekua  Avomo  (Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
We would like to reiterate our full conviction that
the peace, security and stability of the countries of the
region are directly linked with peace in the Sudan. That
is why my country has endeavoured to heal the wounds
of the past in its relations with neighbouring countries,
in particular Egypt and Ethiopia. Our relationship with
those 
the
reconciliation stage; we now have exemplary  strategic
security ties with them, thereby protecting the interests
of our peoples and consolidating peace and security in
the entire region.
countries  has  moved  beyond 
two 
We would like to express gratitude to our friends
and  brothers  and  to  the  United  Nations  in  general  for
their  humanitarian  assistance  during  the  conflict.  We
call  upon  the  international  community  to  help  in  the
post-conflict  reconstruction  of  our  country  and  the
internally  displaced  persons  and
rehabilitation  of 
refugees,  and 
the  achievement  of
sustainable  development  in  support  of  the  fledgling
peace.
to  assist 
in 
appreciable 
that  will  open 
It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  tell  the  Assembly
constitutional
that  we  have  made 
achievements 
the  door  wide  for
participation by all the Sudanese people in all areas of
political  life.  Economic  plans  and  policies  adopted  by
the  Government  have  started  to  bear  fruit,  whether  in
the  form  of  reduced  levels  of  inflation,  high  rates  of
growth  or  the  stabilization  of  exchange  rates.  We  will
continue  to  enhance  those  policies  with  a  view  to
reducing 
sustainable
development  within  the  framework  of  the  25-year
comprehensive  development  strategy  for  the  period
2003-2027.
achieving 
poverty 
and 
In his report on the work of the Organization, the
Secretary-General  reminded  us  that,  as  the  challenges
facing  us  change,  so  must  we  alter  our  methods  of
dealing  with  them.  It  is  high  time,  therefore,  that  we
summon  the  political  will  to  reform  the  Security
Council  by  dealing  with 
issues  of
membership and the right of veto so as to make it more
representative and democratic in its membership and in
its  decision-making.  While 
touching  on  Security
reform,  we  warmly  welcome  Council
Council 
the  double 
23
A/58/PV.16
resolution  1506  (2003),  which  lifted  the  sanctions
imposed against fraternal Libya. In that connection, we
wish  to  stress  the  need  to  lift  all  unilateral  sanctions,
used  as  a  means  for  the  political  and  economic
coercion of States. We urge the Security Council not to
be quick to impose sanctions on countries, particularly
the  developing  countries,  because  of  their  adverse
impact on their people.
The  high-level  participation  at  this  session  to
discuss various international issues is clear evidence of
the  General  Assembly’s 
importance.  We  strongly
support its efforts to rearrange its priorities and agenda
items,  in  order  to  improve  the  administrative  and
procedural aspects of its work, to enhance its relations
with  the  Security  Council,  the  highest  organ  in  the
United  Nations,  to  contribute  to  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  and  to  face  ongoing
challenges.
Another challenge of great concern to us lately is
the  increasing  acts  of  terrorism.  Terrorist  acts  that
occurred in various parts of the world last year clearly
prove that no country is immune to terrorism. All of us,
regardless  of  our  religion  or  beliefs,  could  be  the
victims  of  such  crimes.  As  I  mentioned  earlier,
terrorism has no religion or country. Hence, in order to
face this grave threat, we need to reach an international
consensus  on  its  definition,  root  causes  and  means  to
combat  it,  under  the  auspices  of  our  international
Organization.
In  that  context,  we  express  our  support  for  the
call  of  His  Excellency  Mohamed  Hosni  Mubarak,
President of the Arab Republic of Egypt, to convene an
international  conference,  under  the  auspices  of  the
United Nations, to address the issue of terrorism. In the
context of its international and regional role, the Sudan
will have the honour next year to host the Non-Aligned
Movement  ministerial  conference.  We  hope  that  the
conference  will  consider  issues  of  collective  security
and challenges.
The deteriorating socio-economic situation of the
least  developed  countries  requires  the  international
community to make every effort to extricate them from
the  labyrinth  of  poverty,  hunger  and  disease.  Our
experience in the Sudan has proved that, regardless of
their  endeavours,  the  least  developed  countries  cannot
achieve  the  objectives  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of
Action  without  substantial  assistance 
their
development partners. I commend the tireless efforts of
from 
24
the  High  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for
the  Least  Developed  Countries 
in  mobilizing
international support  for  initiatives  on  the  subject.  We
join  the  appeal  to  the  international  community  by  His
Excellency  Joaquim  Alberto  Chissano,  President  of
Mozambique,  as  Chairman  of  the  African  Union,  to
extend  support  and  assistance  to  the  New  Partnership
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  the  framework
adopted  by  the  African  continent  and  endorsed  by  the
United Nations and donor countries as a tool for coping
with development challenges in the continent.
I  am  pleased  to  inform  members  that  the  Sudan,
as  Chairman  of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on
Development (IGAD) and Common Market for Eastern
and  Southern  Africa  (COMESA),  has  tried  its  best  to
formulate  policies  and  take  steps  that  will  further
consolidate  and  promote  links  of  cooperation  between
EGAD and COMESA member States. Such efforts are
in  line  with  the  NEPAD  initiative  aimed  at  achieving
peace,  development  and  prosperity  for  the  peoples  of
the  entire  African  continent.  To  that  end,  a  number  of
specialized  conferences  have  been  convened  in  the
Sudan  to  address  issues  of  economic  cooperation,
disarmament and combating terrorism, as well as issues
of  internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees,  all  with
the aim of attaining the NEPAD goals.
Another  agenda  item  subject  that  we  think  will
negatively  impact  the  future  of  humankind  if  not
properly  addressed  is  that  of  human  cloning,  which  is
now at the centre of a heated scientific, religious, legal
and  ethical  debate.  The  Sudan  strongly  supports  the
call  for  an 
the
reproductive  cloning  of  human  beings.  We  also
condemn  all  medical  ventures  that  disdain  human
dignity and the sanctity of the Creator.
international  convention  against 
Statements  over 
the  past  few  days  clearly
demonstrate  the  keen  interest  of  the  international
community  in  maintaining  international  peace  and
security. While adding our voice to those calling for the
revitalization  of  multilateral  diplomacy,  we  also  call
for  the  prompt  handling  of  the  critical  security  and
humanitarian situation in Iraq. Furthermore, we call for
the  empowerment  of  our  Iraqi  brothers  so  that  they
may  exercise  their  right  to  sovereignty,  as  guaranteed
to  them  by  international  law,  and  live  in  peace  and
harmony with their neighbours. It gives me pleasure to
remind  the  Assembly  of  the  important  resolution
adopted  a  few  weeks  ago  by  the  Council  of  Ministers
of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  which  recognized  the
transitional  Governing  Council  of 
Iraq.  Such
recognition  is  a  significant  step  that  will,  hopefully,
enable  Iraq  to  regain  its  sovereignty  and  to  play  its
regional and international role.
The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  a  deep
concern  to  the  human  conscience.  For  more  than  five
decades,  it  has  been  a  major  threat  to  international
peace and security. We have been firmly convinced that
Israel’s  maintenance  of  a  huge  military  presence,  its
aggression  and  its  killing  and  suppression  of  the
Palestinian people, will only aggravate a situation that
is already deteriorating. The only viable way to achieve
peace  is  to  adhere  to  the  relevant  resolutions  of
international  legitimacy  and  international  law.  The
international  community,  particularly  the  influential
parties in the peace process, are urged to exert pressure
on Israel.
The  conflict  in  Somalia  has  been  a  bleeding
wound in the Horn of Africa and the time has come to
stop that painful bleeding. We call upon the leaders of
all Somali factions to join hands to preserve the unity
and  stability  of 
to  achieve
development and prosperity for their people, in order to
protect them from the scourge of war and fighting. We
remain  confident  that  the  neighbouring  and  other
interested  countries  will  spare  no  effort  to  help  reach
an agreement that will preserve the unity, security and
stability of Somalia.
their  country,  and 
The  Sudan  is  now  a  genuine  partner  in  the
international  efforts  aimed  at 
the  prohibition  of
chemical weapons. One of the significant roles played
by the Sudan in that regard was its hosting last August
of  the  First  Conference  of  the  African  National
Authorities  of  the  Chemical  Weapons  Convention
States  Parties.  We  are  committed  to  implementing  the
recommendations 
conference,
particularly to creating a chemical-weapon-free zone in
Africa  and  to  enhancing  international  cooperation  in
the peaceful use of chemical materials.
adopted 
at 
the 
I  call  upon  the  international  community  to  make
renewed efforts to declare the Middle East a zone free
of  nuclear  weapons  and  of  all  other  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  That  inflamed  region  must  abide  by
international agreements banning nuclear weapons. The
nuclear  facilities  of  all  States,  without  exception  and
with  complete  fairness,  must  be  subjected  to  the
comprehensive  safeguards  of  the  International  Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA).
A/58/PV.16
the 
factory  by 
Here we recall, shortly after its fifth anniversary,
the unjust bombing of the Al-Shifa pharmaceutical and
veterinary 
former  United  States
Administration  which  claimed  that  it  was  used  to
manufacture weapons. It was a baseless accusation, as
Members are aware, that has been refuted by American
scientific  and  academic  institutions  before  relevant
international  organizations.  The  Sudan’s  complaint  is
still alive in the Security Council. In that connection, I
call  upon  the  current  United  States  Administration  to
rectify  the  serious  mistake  that  it  inherited  from  its
predecessor,  by  compensating  the  Sudan  morally  and
financially.
I  hope  that  before  the  end  of  this  session  my
country will finally bid farewell to the longest African
conflict,  an  achievement  that  would  enable  the  Sudan
to play its role at the regional level and to contribute to
the  stability  and  sustainable  development  of 
the
African continent.
and 
promoting 
administering 
In conclusion, I reaffirm our deep conviction that
the United Nations is the sole, irreplaceable mechanism
for 
international
cooperation in all fields. Therefore, we should distance
the  United  Nations  from  serving  narrow  interests  and
from attempts to exploit it to pursue special agendas. In
that  connection,  we  express  our  readiness  and  our
commitment  to  assist  the  United  Nations  system  in
achieving the lofty goals enshrined in the Charter.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Marwan Muasher, Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of
Jordan.
Mr. Muasher (Jordan) (spoke in Arabic): Let me
begin by expressing warm congratulations to Mr. Julian
Hunte  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly at its fifty-eighth session. I can assure him of
the  full  cooperation  of  the  Jordanian  delegation  to
ensure the fulfilment of his mandate for the benefit of
all  peoples  and  nations.  I  should  also  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  express  our  thanks  and  appreciation  to
his  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Kavan,  for  his  remarkable
stewardship of the previous session.
A special tribute is due to the Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi Annan, for his efforts dedicated to upholding
the lofty goals of the Organization. Mr. Annan has been
quite dynamic in his work to enhance this world body’s
effectiveness  and  to  revitalize  its  functions,  especially
in the areas of international peace and security, human
25
A/58/PV.16
rights and social and economic progress throughout the
world.
I wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the
Secretary-General  as  well  as  to  the  family  of  Mr.
Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello  and  to  those  of  all  his
colleagues  who  lost  their  lives  as  a  result  of  the
terrorist bombing of the United Nations headquarters in
Iraq, a barbaric act that we all condemn.
sad 
collapse  of 
The 
the  Oslo  process
demonstrated  that  a  revival  of  the  Middle  East  peace
process  under  the  previous  terms  was  no  longer  a
viable  option.  Peace-making  in  the  region  requires  a
new  modus  operandi,  as  all  transitional  arrangements
have  failed  to  establish  and  build  mutual  confidence
between  the  two  sides  and  to  meet  the  envisioned
goals.  Thus,  the  time  has  indeed  come  for  a  shift  in
approach.  Instead  of  managing  the  conflict  in  a  way
that  has  led  thus  far  to  a  perpetuation  of  the  cycle  of
violence, our focus should be redirected onto the final
objectives  of  the  negotiations.  Furthermore,  it  is  no
longer  useful  to  concentrate  only  on  security  aspects
without  realizing 
is  essentially
political in nature and not only a question of security.
the  problem 
that 
It was against that backdrop that George W. Bush,
President  of  the  United  States,  launched  in  June  2002
his vision for peace in the Middle East. On the basis of
that  initiative,  the  road  map  was  formulated  and
announced.  Jordan  contributed  to  the  development  of
the road map, which generated a real turnaround in the
region’s political landscape. It established a framework
of  mutual  obligations,  whose  aim  is  to  end  the  Israeli
occupation and to establish an independent Palestinian
state  on 
relevant  United  Nations
resolutions and the Arab peace initiative. The road map
set  forth  a  specific  three-year  time  frame  for  the  birth
of a Palestinian State. Furthermore, it provided for the
creation of a monitoring and assessment mechanism to
ensure  viable  implementation  according  to  specific
timelines.
the  basis  of 
It  was  on  the  basis  of  that  vision  that  the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan welcomed the road map
when it was formally announced by the Quartet. At the
time,  we  expressed  the  hope  that  that  impetus  would
help to restart the peace process on a solid foundation.
However, Jordan also made it clear that the declaration
in and of itself would be insufficient to create forward
movement 
towards  our  objectives.  What  was
additionally required was a genuine commitment on the
26
the  United  States  and 
part  of 
international
community  to  implement  that  vision.  True  to  our
expectations, we sensed such a genuine commitment at
the two recent Sharm al-Sheikh and Aqaba summits.
the 
Jordan,  in  the  meantime,  fully  recognizes  that
recent  developments  on  the  ground  —  especially  the
collapse  of  the  ceasefire,  or  hudna,  arrangement
between  the  Palestinian  groups  and  Israel  —  create
severe  and  real  risks  and  threats  for  the  road  map.
Nonetheless, we should stay the course with a view to
implementing  the  road  map  and  putting  an  end  to  the
occupation  and  the  tragic  killing  of  civilians  on  both
the Palestinian and Israeli sides. The hard work that we
are  investing  in  this  exercise  is  worthwhile  given  the
potential  risk  of  failure  and  the  absence  of  political
opportunity again. Such failure would make for a more
dangerous and complex scenario than before and would
jeopardize the interests and security of all actors.
On  behalf  of  Jordan,  I  wish  to  urge  from  this
world  podium  all  stakeholders  —  especially 
the
members  of  the  Quartet  —  to  pursue  their  efforts  to
ensure  scrupulous  implementation  of  the  road  map,
without any modifications and in a way that guarantees
by  2005  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State,  with
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  and  the  termination  of  the
Israeli  occupation  of  all  Arab  territories  occupied  in
1967.  All  that  would  be  in  keeping  with  the  relevant
United  Nations  resolutions  and 
the  Arab  peace
initiative,  which  is  a  key  component  of  the  road  map
and provides a framework for peace — a peace that is
acceptable to all peoples of the region and fulfils their
long-standing aspirations.
Along the same lines, we urge acceleration in the
creation  of  an  effective  political  and 
security
monitoring  mechanism  to  be  operated  by  the  Quartet.
That is essential to ensure strict implementation of, and
compliance with, without modifications, the respective
obligations of both parties as set forth in the road map.
To us, such a mechanism is an essential component on
which  we  must  insist,  because  we  consider  it  to  be  a
true  point  of  departure  that  would  enable  us  to  take
advantage  of  the  historic  window  of  opportunity  and
bring  about  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in
the entire Middle East.
Regarding suicide attacks, I wish to reiterate that
Jordan  took  a  principled  position  repudiating  and
condemning  such  acts  on  both  moral  and  political
grounds. We maintain that those operations have done
the 
same 
harm to the Palestinian cause and have  resulted in the
erosion  of  international  sympathy  for  it.  Furthermore,
they have shifted the global focus away from the core
question  of 
the  Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian
territories and the pressing need to end that occupation.
Along 
Israel’s
extrajudicial  killing  of  Palestinian  citizens.  Let  me
stress  once  again  that  the  prevailing  atmosphere  of
violence will only play into the hands of extremists on
both  sides  of  the  divide.  Therefore,  it  is  high  time  to
implement the road map as accepted by all parties and
to  take  bold  and  expeditious  steps  to  place  the  entire
peace process back on an irreversible track.
lines,  we 
condemn 
We call upon Israel to change its current security
policy,  which  has  failed  to  ensure  security  for  the
Israelis. Rather, Israel should move towards restoration
of confidence with the Palestinian side partner side so
that both can focus on the political process by engaging
in  a  serious  implementation  of  the  road  map.  To  this
end,  Israel  must  ease  the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian
people  by 
the  closures  on  Palestinian
communities, removing the restrictions imposed on the
Palestinian  leadership  and  by  withdrawing  its  military
forces from the cities occupied since September 2000,
in  compliance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1402
(2002).
lifting 
In  the  same  context,  my  Government  condemns
the  decision  taken  by  the  Government  of  Israel  to
remove,  in  principle,  from  the  occupied  Palestinian
territories,  the  Palestinian  President,  Yasser  Arafat,
who  was  legitimately  elected  by  his  people.  In  our
view, 
the  peace
process. We call on the Government of Israel to reverse
its  decision,  which  otherwise  will  plunge  the  entire
region into a dangerous tunnel.
this  decision  seriously 
imperils 
Jordan  condemns  the  Israeli  settlement  activities
that 
the  form  of  unabated  construction  of
take 
settlements  on  occupied  Palestinian  land.  Israel  must
end  these  activities,  which  breach  the  basic  norms  of
international law and, not least, impede ongoing efforts
to put the peace process back on track. We demand that
the  Government  of 
Israel  start  dismantling  all
settlements erected since March 2001. This is, after all,
a binding obligation of Phase I of the road map.
We  also  condemn  the  separation  wall,  which
consolidates 
Palestinian
territories, devours further Palestinian land, aggravates
the  suffering  of 
the  Palestinian  population  and
occupation 
Israeli 
of 
A/58/PV.16
anticipates  as  a  fait  accompli,  the  future  shape  of  the
Palestinian  State.  While  we  demand  that  Israel  cease
forthwith  the  construction  of  the  wall,  we  stress  the
need to respect the status of the 4 June 1967 line.
Iraq  has  now  entered  a  new  phase  during  which
the  brotherly  people  of 
that  country  are  facing
enormous  hardships  and  challenges.  The  eyes  of  all
Iraqis  are  now  set  on  the  international  community  in
the  hope  of  receiving  every  possible  assistance  that
would  enable  them  to  lay  a  solid  foundation  for
building  a  promising  future 
include
reconstructing their country and regaining its status as
an  active  member  in  the  Organization  and  of  the
international community.
that  would 
While  we  emphasize  the  need  to  safeguard  the
unity,  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  of  Iraq,  to
ensure the withdrawal of the foreign occupation forces
as quickly as possible and to enable the people of Iraq
to  determine  their  future  by  themselves,  we  welcome
the formation of the transitional Governing Council as
a  first  and  important  step  towards  a  broad-based  Iraqi
Government  that  represents  the  full  spectrum  of  the
Iraqi population, to be elected by the people of Iraq as
expeditiously as possible on the basis of a constitution
accepted and endorsed by them. Against this backdrop,
we  decided  to  deal  positively  with  the  Governing
Council  and  with  all  political  groups  in  Iraq.  Let  me
elaborate 
the
assumption  by  the  representatives  of  the  transitional
Iraqi  Government  of  the  seat  of  Iraq  in  the  League  of
Arab  States  on  a  temporary  basis,  based  on  the
understanding 
Iraq  will  subsequently  move
towards  drafting  its  constitution  and  holding  elections
leading  to  the  formation  of  a  representative  Iraqi
Government.
that  my  Government  has  accepted 
that 
We must also emphasize our condemnation of the
violations  of  human  rights  and 
law
committed  by  the  previous  regime  in  Iraq,  especially
the  crimes  of  assassination,  mass  killings  and  mass
burials,  including  the  execution  of  Kuwaiti  prisoners
and detainees.
international 
At  this  juncture,  I  wish  to  underline  the  central
role the United Nations  must continue to play in Iraq.
The  United  Nations  should  remain  an  active  player  in
the forthcoming political process; its role should not be
only.  Our
restricted 
humanitarian 
Organization  must  assume 
in
overseeing  the  political  process  in  the  forthcoming
leading 
issues 
role 
to 
the 
27
A/58/PV.16
stage,  including  the  finalization  of  the  drafting  of  the
constitution and supervision of the elections to be held
in order to form a sovereign Iraqi Government.
Jordan  condemns  in  the  strongest  possible  terms
the cowardly terrorist attack against the United Nations
headquarters in Baghdad. Despite the immense tragedy
suffered by the United Nations, we do have trust in the
resolve  and  ability  of  the  United  Nations  system  to
maintain  its  operations  and  assistance  to  the  Iraqi
people.
As  you  are  all  aware,  the  Jordanian  Embassy
complex  in  Baghdad  was  also  a  target  of  a  vicious
terrorist  attack  that  claimed  many  innocent  lives.
Nonetheless,  that  appalling  act  reinforced  our  resolve
to continue to reach out in every possible way to help
our  brothers  in  Iraq,  in  order  to  enable  them  to
overcome  the  overwhelming  odds  they  have  been
enduring.
Terrorism has proved to be a global phenomenon
that  cuts  across  national  boundaries  and 
is  not
exclusive  to  a  particular  region,  language,  religion  or
race.  It  is  therefore  imperative  for  all  members  and
institutions  of  the  world  community  to  combat  it  and
eradicate  it.  Let  me  assure  the  Assembly  that  the
Government  and  people  of  Jordan  are  determined  to
confront  this  phenomenon  which  our  citizens  and
institutions  have  suffered  from  for  several  decades.
Once  again,  let  me  reiterate  our  firm  commitment  to
cooperate with all countries and international efforts in
the joint fight against terrorism.
We would like to express our full backing for the
efforts  aimed  at  achieving  meaningful  progress  in  the
current negotiations in the General Assembly to adopt
a  comprehensive  convention  on  combating  terrorism
and  a  convention  on  combating  nuclear  terrorism.  We
hope that these  endeavors will prove successful in the
formulation  of  a  legal  and  specific  definition  of  the
concept of terrorism which would set it apart from the
rights 
and
international  humanitarian  law  for  States,  peoples  and
individuals.
international 
protected 
under 
law 
For  out  part,  Jordan  repudiates  all  vicious
falsehoods and sinister campaigns to smear Arabs  and
Muslims with the label of terrorism. This phenomenon
is  in  complete  contradiction  of  the  true  nature  and
meaning of the Islamic faith, which is anchored in the
values  of  justice,  tolerance,  peaceful  coexistence  and
reverence  for  humankind.  Thus,  we  feel  a  pressing
28
in 
plays 
civilization 
need to pay due attention to the role that the dialogue
among 
consolidating
understanding  and  coexistence  among  peoples  and
nations.  It  also  helps  in  eliminating  the  causes  of
extremism  that  emanate  from  a  lack  of  genuine
knowledge  and  comprehension  of  the  essence  of
religions and cultures that are based on disseminating a
message  of  peace,  understanding  and  acceptance  of
others.
and 
The  political 
economic  developments
unfolding  in  this  era  of  globalization  and  information
technology  prompt  us  to  accelerate  the  process  of
political  and  economic  openness  in  the  developing
countries.  That  will  help  in  the  evolution  of  stronger
incentives  for  achieving  further  progress  and  stability.
Such  an  environment  will  be  more  amenable  to
economic  growth  and  will  generate  a  stronger
momentum to eradicate poverty and human suffering as
we  strive  towards  the  fulfilment  of  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
In  that  context,  democracy  assumes  a  special
relevance, especially since it is essentially an inherent
process  that  evolves  from  the  cultures  and  specific
characteristics  of  societies.  Therefore,  it  is  virtually
untenable 
in
prescribed forms that might not be in concert with the
cultural structures of those communities.
this  concept  on  others 
impose 
to 
In  Jordan,  however,  we  are  committed  to  pursue
the path of democratic reforms and development of the
national political process in all its aspects. In fact, that
issue  is  quite  high  on  our  national  agenda,  and  our
expectation is that further progress will be made in the
enhancement of our democratic institutions.
Bearing this in mind, Jordan will be guided by the
conclusions  outlined  in  the  extremely  valuable  United
Nations  Development  Programme  report  on  Arab
Human Development. We are grateful to the UNDP and
its team of Arab experts for their analytical methods in
identifying  and  profiling  some  pressing  challenges
currently  facing  the  Arab  world.  Jordan  views  this
publication with great interest and perceives it from an
extremely  positive  perspective,  given  its  merits  in
terms  of  data,  analytical  approach  and  practical  and
specific objectives as well as its valuable science-based
conclusions and recommendations.
Our  primary  purpose  should  be  how  to  improve
the  role  and  performance  of  the  United  Nations  in  all
spheres of its operations. More specifically, that should
include strengthening its role in the areas of preventive
diplomacy,  the  management  of  humanitarian  crises,
conflicts  and  wars,  human  rights  violations,  and  the
challenges  associated  with  globalization  and 
the
development of humankind.
In that regard, Jordan welcomes the fact  that  the
International Criminal Court is entering a new phase in
terms  of  the  election  of  its  Judges  and  Prosecutor,
which  is  a  further  step  in  the  establishment  of
international 
in  how  violations  of
international  humanitarian  law  are  treated.  As  the
General  Assembly  is  well  aware,  Jordan  had  the
privilege  of  working  hard 
to  make  significant
contributions in support of the Court’s creation and of
the entry into force of its Statute.
justice  and 
In  the  same  vein,  Jordan  takes  pride  in  the
election  of  Her  Majesty  Queen  Rania  Al-Abdullah  to
the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Victims’  Trust  Fund
established  for  the  victims  of  crimes  falling  under  the
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The
Fund 
in
alleviating  the  anguish  of  the  victims  of  the  most
horrifying crimes and of their families.
is  expected 
to  have  a 
tangible 
impact 
With  regard  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations, Jordan continues to attach great importance
to  this  area  of  activity  by  the  United  Nations  system.
We  are  proud  and  privileged  to  participate  with  other
Member States in those global operations in areas that
have  been  afflicted  by  war,  conflict  and  instability.
However, 
the  effective  and  complete
fulfilment  of  the  lofty  objectives  of  the  mandate  of
each peacekeeping operation, adequate budgetary funds
must  be  ensured 
smooth
functioning, 
reimbursement  of
payments due to troop-contributing countries.
including  on-time 
the  operations’ 
to  ensure 
for 
In  closing,  allow  me  once  again  to  thank  the
President. I wish this session of the General Assembly
every success as I pray to Allah, our Lord, to enable us,
one and all, to live up to the responsibilities entrusted
to us.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
to  His  Excellency  Professor  S.
the 
the
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
floor 
give 
Jayakumar,  Minister 
Republic of Singapore.
Mr.  Jayakumar  (Singapore):  I  would  like  to
congratulate Mr. Julian Hunte, the Foreign Minister of
Saint Lucia, on his election as the new President of the
A/58/PV.16
General Assembly. Singapore is delighted that a fellow
small island State  and  member  of  the  Forum  of  Small
States holds that office.
I  also  join  others  in  paying  a  tribute  to  United
Nations  personnel  who  have  fallen  victim  to  violence
or  attacks,  including  a  special  tribute  to  the  late
Sergio Vieira de Mello. The terrorist attack that caused
his  death  has  outraged  the  entire  civilized  world.
Sergio  dedicated  his  life,  and  ultimately  gave  his  life,
in the service of the United Nations. He is mourned and
missed by his many friends around the world.  We can
best  honour  his  memory  by 
reaffirming  our
commitment to the ideals that he served.
The run-up to the war in Iraq saw a heated debate
about  the  role  of  the  United  Nations.  The  United
Nations  is,  of  course,  no  stranger  to  controversy,  but
that debate was notable for being framed in particularly
stark terms. The rhetoric was inflamed and inflated. It
has  been  variously  asserted,  with  glee  or  gloom,  that
the  United  Nations  was  irrelevant  or  irreplaceable,  a
threat  to  national  sovereignty,  the  sole  source  of
international legitimacy, merely a tool of the remaining
super-Power,  or  the  only  way  to  restrain  that  super-
Power.  There  are  indeed  serious  issues  that  require
debate, but the simplistic manner in which that debate
was framed — in particular the portrayal of a struggle
between unilateralism and multilateralism — is, in my
view,  unhelpful.  Unfortunately, 
that  rhetoric  has
obscured,  rather  than  clarified,  the  issue.  It  has
oversimplified  the  debate  and  glossed  over  the  more
complex reality. The danger is that we  may believe in
the rhetoric and arrive at wrong conclusions about the
relevance,  or  irrelevance,  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am
therefore joining that debate with some trepidation, and
I  do  so  only  to  highlight  some  of  the  complexities,  in
the  hope  that  it  will  contribute  to  a  more  balanced
appraisal  of  the  United  Nations.  I  shall  start  by
restating some basics.
indispensable  on  some  crucial 
In the 58 years since its formation, the influence
and  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  world  affairs  has
always  flowed  and  ebbed  in  accordance  with  shifting
geopolitical  tides.  The  role  of  the  United  Nations  has
been 
international
issues;  on  other  occasions  the  United  Nations  has  had
no role, or only a marginal role. If that meant that the
United  Nations  was  irrelevant,  then  it  was  irrelevant
long  before  the  recent  war  in  Iraq.  The  ability  of  the
United  Nations  to  act  and  the  kinds  of  actions  it  took
have  always  been  contingent  on  how  States,  and  in
29
A/58/PV.16
particular  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security
Council,  perceived  whether  the  United  Nations  served
their  interests.  But  the  United  Nations  and  the  United
Nations system have always endured.
Neither  the  variable  fortunes  nor  the  survival  of
the United Nations should surprise anyone. The United
Nations functions in an international system consisting
of  sovereign  States.  Multilateralism  and  unilateralism
were  never  mutually  exclusive  alternatives;  they  are
different  options  in  every  State’s  menu  of  policy
choices.  Few  States,  large  or  small,  would  agree  to
entrust  their  security  or  other  vital  national  interests
entirely to a multilateral institution. On the other hand,
no  State,  however  powerful,  can  always  succeed  in
achieving  its  objectives  without  the  help  of  others.
Every  State  will  choose  the  option  that  serves  its
interest best.
Furthermore, the United Nations as a total system
is  bigger  than  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security
Council.  As  we  debate  the  future  of  international
organizations  we  should  not  forget  that  the  world  has
never been more interdependent, and therefore more in
need  of  global  governance.  The  United  Nations  now
has more than 190 Members and has never been closer
to the ideal of universal participation. There has never
been  a  period  in  world  history  when  there  have  been
more international legal regimes and norms  regulating
State  behaviour.  The  Secretariat  is  the  depository  for
over  500  international  treaties  covering  the  entire
spectrum of global activities.
legal 
International 
regimes  and  norms  are
imperfect  in  their  efficiency  and  observance.  Some
international  norms  are  hotly  contested.  Still,  the
conduct  of  international  relations  today  does  not  take
place in a vacuum, but within that framework of laws,
rules,  standards  and  norms.  Nevertheless,  there  is  no
escaping the fact that the maintenance of international
peace  and  security  is  first  among  the  purposes  of  the
United  Nations,  and 
the  most  contested  and
controversial  of  its  roles.  It  is  also  the  focus  of  the
current  debate  over  Iraq.  It  is  here  that  the  rhetorical
exaggerations  I  mentioned  earlier  stand  most  in  the
way  of  clear  and  rational  thinking  about  the  strengths
and limitations of the United Nations.
Traditional international law recognizes only two
grounds  for  the  use  of  force:  self-defence  under
Article  51  of  the  Charter  and  authorization  by  the
Security Council. That seeming clarity is deceptive.
30
the 
of 
Even  before 
latest  Iraq  war, 
traditional
interpretations of the Charter had been questioned. The
doctrine  of  self-defence  has  long  been  the  subject  of
learned  debate.  The  current  controversy  over  the  right
to  pre-emption  is  only  the  latest  manifestation.  The
doctrine 
or
“responsibility to  protect”  —  so  boldly  brought  to  the
fore by Secretary-General Kofi Annan, has for several
decades  challenged  the  conventional  concepts  of  non-
intervention and the sovereign equality of States.
intervention  — 
humanitarian 
Another  challenge  to  traditional  approaches  has
been  the  threat  posed  by  non-State  actors,  especially
the  contemporary  menace  posed  by  perpetrators  of
international  terrorism.  The  problem  posed  by  rebel
groups in civil conflicts is another example.
In its efforts to respond to egregious violations of
human  rights,  starvation,  anarchy  and  chaos,  the
Security  Council  had  already  stretched  both 
the
authority  of  the  United  Nations  to  intervene  and  the
definition  of  “threats  to  the  peace”  and  “aggression”.
The war in Iraq was not the first time, and will not be
the  last  time,  that  the  Security  Council  was  unable  to
act. The hope of the late 1980s and early 1990s that the
end  of  the  cold  war  would  at  last  enable  the  Security
Council  to  discharge  its  primary  responsibility  for  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  has
long been shattered.
In  retrospect,  Iraq’s  invasion  and  annexation  of
Kuwait  in  1990  represented  an  unusually  clear-cut
violation  of  fundamental  Charter  principles.  That
greatly  eased  the  task  of  securing  Security  Council
authorization for military action.
But  the  consensus  on  Iraq  was  short-lived.  By
1994, France and Russia began to call  for  a  road  map
for the lifting of sanctions. By 1998, the withdrawal of
the United Nations Special Commission and Operation
Desert  Fox  marked  the  end  of  the  Security  Council’s
consensus  on  Iraq.  Thereafter  the  Security  Council
acted 
in  accordance  with  a  complex  balance  of
principles 
in
inconsistent  and  incoherent  decisions.  In  the  oil-for-
the
food  debates  humanitarian  concerns  about 
consequences  of  sanctions  were  mixed  with 
the
commercial  and  business  interests  of  some  of  the
permanent members.
and  national 
interests, 
resulting 
That did not, however, make the Security Council
irrelevant. It merely meant that the Council served as a
forum  for  managing  competing  interests,  an  important
role that it has played for all its history. After all, while
Security Council resolutions have the force of law, they
are,  at  the  end  of  the  day,  first  and  foremost  political
documents indicating the degree of consensus that can
be achieved among its  most powerful  members  at  any
one time.
I do not think that it is self-evident that the 2002-
2003  clash  of  interests  over  Iraq  was  qualitatively
different  from  the  differences  between  the  permanent
members  during  the  previous  decade.  I  do  not  think
that  the  disagreement  over  Iraq  has  permanently
damaged the United Nations.
The  2002-2003  crisis  over  Iraq  in  the  Security
Council  only  underscored  what  we  have  known  all
along, namely, that the Security Council can authorize
intervention only when  the  permanent  members  are  in
agreement,  and  that  all  States,  big  and  small,  will  do
what they must to protect their vital national interests.
This is not the occasion to revisit old debates over
whether the war in Iraq was authorized on the basis of
a continuity of authority from 1990 to 2003. Certainly,
as resolution 1441 (2002) recognized, Iraq had been in
material breach of several resolutions. My point is that,
whatever  its  eventual  outcome,  the  intense  diplomatic
effort  to  secure  another  explicit  resolution  for  the  use
of force was itself testimony to the importance attached
by  all  to  the  Security  Council’s  legitimizing  role.  In
May,  only  weeks  after  a  formal  end  to  major  combat
operations  was  declared,  resolution  1483  (2003)  was
adopted  without  any  dissenting  vote,  recognizing  that
the  United  Nations  had  a  significant  role  in  post-war
Iraq.
More  balanced  views  are  now  beginning  to
emerge,  albeit  still  tainted  by  the  bitterness  of  the
debates  in  the  run-up  to  the  war.  It  will  be  some  time
before  consensus  can  be  reached  on  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  in  post-war  Iraq.  Some  are  loath  to
grant ex post facto legitimization of military action. At
the  same  time,  there  is  reluctance  to  cede  power  won
with blood. But the legitimacy that the United Nations
brings is unique.
The debate on the role of the United Nations will
continue.  It  can,  and  should,  go  on.  But  that  does  not
mean  that  the  United  Nations  should  be  in  paralysis.
We  must  at 
time  press  on  with  our
commitment  to  fulfil  the  fundamental  purposes  of  the
United Nations, which, as stated in the Charter, are “To
maintain international peace and security”, “To develop
the  same 
A/58/PV.16
friendly  relations  among  nations”  and  “To  achieve
international cooperation”.
The  starting  point  for 
that  effort  must  be
acceptance  of  the  fact  that,  while  the  United  Nations
stands  for  ideals  that  we  must  never  relinquish,  the
reality  is  that  the  United  Nations  both  reflects  and
shapes  geopolitics.  Underlying  the  debates  in  the  run-
up  to  the  war,  and  still  infusing  the  controversies,  is
acute  uneasiness  over  the  distribution  of  power  in  the
post-cold war international system. But can the United
Nations escape that reality? The fact is that the United
Nations can operate only on the basis of a hard-headed
appreciation  of  the  realities  of  power.  If  we  allow
exaggerated  rhetoric  about  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  to  obscure  that  fact,  then  we  do  the  United
Nations a disservice.
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  has  remained
essentially  unchanged  since  1945.  But  it  has  been
continuously  interpreted  and  re-interpreted  to  meet
changing 
new
challenges,  many  of  which  were  unforeseen  by  the
founders of the United Nations.
circumstances 
geopolitical 
and 
international 
Today  we  are  again  faced  with  radically  new
threats,  not  least  of  which  are  the  global  terrorist
networks  that  respect  neither  national  boundaries  nor
traditional 
the  United
Nations needs to fashion new and more flexible rules to
deal with these new threats. Yet, at the same time, we
must  continue  to  ensure  that  there  are  adequate
safeguards to prevent abuse or a return to the law of the
jungle.
law.  Clearly, 
Finding  the  right  balance  between  those  equally
urgent  imperatives  will  not  be  easy.  But  it  is  not
impossible, if we  can  find  the  discipline  to  debate  the
issues  openly 
clear
appreciation of both the limitations and potential of the
United Nations.
realistically,  with 
and 
a 
Recent events in Iraq have shown that the United
States  needs  the  United  Nations.  It  is  also  a  fact  that
the United Nations needs the United States. Since there
is a convergence of interests for the two to cooperate in
order to achieve our shared interests and objectives, it
is  surely  not  impossible  for  us  to  negotiate  and  agree
upon  a  new  paradigm  of  cooperation  between  the
world’s  sole  super-Power  and  the  world’s  only,  and
indispensable, United Nations.
31
A/58/PV.16
The  United  Nations  is  not  a  panacea  for  all  the
world’s  ills.  Neither  is  the  United  Nations  a  global
villain.  The  United  Nations  is  a  political  institution.
Politics,  as  is  often  said,  is  the  art  of  the  possible.
There  is  no  need,  therefore,  to  succumb  to  despair  or
cynicism. We should turn the page and move on.
now 
The  Acting  President
floor 
(spoke 
in  Spanish):
I 
to  His  Excellency
Mr. Baboucarr-Blaise Ismaila Jagne, Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Gambia.
give 
the 
congratulations 
Mr. Jagne (Gambia): Please allow me to convey
my 
to
delegation’s  warmest 
Mr.  Julian  Hunte  on  his  election  to  the  high  office  of
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth
session.  I  am  sure  that  his  vast  experience  on  the
international scene will be brought to bear on the work
of  this  session,  and  help  direct  it  with  ease  to  a
successful 
session
promises to be rich in substance, and may also prove to
be a watershed in our bid to make the United Nations
responsive to the needs of the peoples of the world in
the  new  millennium.  I  wish  to  assure  the  President  of
my delegation’s fullest cooperation in the discharge of
his onerous responsibilities.
conclusion.  The 
fifty-eighth 
the 
fifty-seventh 
In the same vein, let me also congratulate the out-
going President, Mr. Jan Kavan, for his laudable efforts
during 
session.  The  dynamic
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  also  deserves
commendation for another productive year of service to
the  Organization,  a  year 
that  was  fraught  with
difficulties  and  incredible  challenges.  Thanks  to  his
leadership, we have, by and large, been able to weather
the storm.
this  opportunity 
to  express  once  again 
We were all devastated, however, by the bombing
of the offices of the United Nations in Baghdad, which
claimed  the  lives  of  so  many  people.  May  it  never
recur  —  please  God  —  but  it  shows  that  we  must
remain united in our resolve to fight terrorism. Let me
seize 
to
Mr. Kofi Annan and his staff, as well as to the relatives
the
of 
the  heartfelt  condolences  of 
people  of  The  Gambia.  We  pay  homage 
to
Mr. Sergio Vieira de Mello and his colleagues, who lost
their  lives,  and  we  mourn  the  tragic  loss  of  a  highly-
acclaimed  international  civil  servant  at  the  hands  of
terrorists. In wishing the injured a speedy recovery, we
pray that the souls of all those who died rest in perfect
peace. My delegation strongly urges that that cowardly
the  victims, 
32
act should in no way weaken the resolve of the United
Nations  in  fulfilling  its  obligations  to  the  people  of
Iraq.
Resolution 1373 (2001) was adopted unanimously
by  the  Security  Council  following  the  attacks  of
11  September,  and  the  majority  of  Member  States,
including my own, have embarked on implementing its
salient  provisions.  We  have 
the  major
international 
and,
furthermore,  have  enacted  domestic  legislation  to
implement  them.  Let  me  state  that,  in  spite  of  our
modest  achievements 
international
cooperation  and  technical  assistance  remain  critical  to
the success of our future implementation efforts.
that  regard, 
instruments 
terrorism 
ratified 
on 
in 
The  Counter-Terrorism  Committee’s  assistance
unit  must  strengthen  the  coordination  of  its  technical
assistance portfolio in order to have greater impact. In
that regard, we welcome the commitment of the G-8 to
provide  capacity-building  and  technical  assistance  to
priority  countries.  The  translation  of  declarations  of
commitment into concrete action is the only guarantee
of  making  meaningful  headway  to  counter  terrorism.
Apart  from  the  recent  terrorist  attacks  against  the
United  Nations  in  Baghdad,  other  such  incidents  in
Indonesia,  Kenya,  the  Russian  Federation,  Morocco
and Saudi Arabia, coming in the wake of the attacks of
11  September,  are  reminders  of  the  enormity  of  the
tasks ahead.
The fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly
has  been  convened  at  a  time  when  our  approaches  to
the  management  of  global  issues  have  come  under
sharp scrutiny. Those issues are the unfinished business
of  the  preceding  millennium.  The  United  Nations  —
the  premier,  overarching  venue  for  multilateralism  —
cannot  but  be  the  only  vehicle  through  which  the
world’s  peace  and  security  problems  can  be  solved.
The  recent  events  in  Afghanistan,  Iraq  and  elsewhere
only serve to underscore the need for the nations of the
world  to  strengthen,  not  weaken,  multilateralism.  We
shall  never  achieve  global  peace,  security  and
prosperity without working together in a forum such as
the one provided by the United Nations, a forum that is
all-inclusive  and  which  permits  each  and  every
nation  —  big or small,  rich or poor  —  to  expound  on
matters  of  concern  to  them.  The  ideals  and  principles
that were the basis of the founding of the Organization
are as relevant today as they were 58 years ago. Let us
therefore 
to
the  United
multilateralism  by  always 
our 
turning 
commitment 
demonstrate 
to 
Nations.  My  delegation  therefore  urges  all  Member
States  to  maintain  confidence  in  the  United  Nations
and  to  have  recourse  to  the  Organization  for  the
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  and  the  settlement  of
disputes.
real 
threat 
a 
While 
terrorism  poses 
to
international peace and security, other violent conflicts
continue  to  rage  around  the  world,  leaving  death,
destruction and desolation in their wake. The situation
in  the  Mano  River  Union  region  remains  volatile  as  I
speak. Even though former President Charles Taylor of
Liberia has left the scene, as was required of him, and
there  appears  to  be  some  laudable  progress  towards
reinvigorating  the  democratic  process  in  that  country,
we  should  be  under  no  illusion  as  to  the  extreme
fragility  of  the  situation  in  Liberia,  and  indeed  within
the  West  African  subregion.  We  commend  all  the
parties  that  recently  signed  the  Peace  Agreement  in
Accra, Ghana, for their determination and patience, and
urge  them  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  stay  the  course.
That would also have a salutary effect on the situation
in  neighbouring  Sierra  Leone,  where  we  note  with
satisfaction the consolidation of the peace process.
However, the problem of conflicts in West Africa
continues to be compounded by the illicit flow of small
arms and light weapons, as well as by roving bands of
mercenaries.  International  efforts  could  serve 
the
region best by developing comprehensive disarmament,
demobilization  and  rehabilitation  programmes 
that
target  militias  and  that  are  region-specific  rather  than
country-specific.  We  must  endeavour  to  address  the
issue  of  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light
weapons  with  greater  determination.  An  arrangement
similar to the Kimberley Process in blood diamonds is
what is urgently required to effectively stem the illicit
flow of small arms and light weapons. My Government
strongly  supports  any  measure  that  would  treat  as
accomplices 
to  war  crimes  and  crimes  against
humanity  illegal  brokers  who  knowingly  supply  arms
and  weapons  to  militias  and  other  insurgents  in  West
Africa.  Conflict  zones  elsewhere  in  Africa  that  tell  a
similar story should also be assisted in that manner.
We warmly congratulate our brothers in Sudan on
the recent signing of the Naivasha peace accord, which
promises to bring the long-drawn fratricidal conflict in
that country to an end.
Meanwhile, my Government continues to play its
part in the search for solutions to the problems of peace
A/58/PV.16
the 
initiatives  of 
and  security  in  Africa.  We  participate  actively  within
the  context  of 
the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  to
contribute  to  the  subregion’s  collective  efforts  in  that
area.  My  Government,  under  the  wise  leadership  of
President Jammeh, has in the past contributed, and will
contribute  in  the  future,  to  subregional  efforts  to  keep
the  peace  in  West  Africa.  We  have  continuously
participated  in  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra
Leone (UNAMSIL) since its inception. We stand ready
to contribute our own modest share to any other United
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  designed  for  the
West Africa subregion, as we are doing now under the
ECOWAS  Military  Mission  in  Liberia  (ECOMIL).  In
that  regard,  we  welcome  the  adoption  of  Security
Council resolution 1509 (2003), establishing the United
Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL).
I just made mention of the unfinished business of
the preceding millennium. Those are thematic issues of
political  exclusion,  disenfranchisement,  economic
exclusion  and  abject  poverty.  All  affect  the  greater
majority  of  humankind.  They  also  give  rise  to  all  the
urgent situations that the world is faced with today —
situations  of  conflict  and  civil  strife;  in  short,  of  the
absence of peace.
resolution  2758 
A  peculiar  situation  of  exclusion  was  created  by
General  Assembly 
(XXVI)  on
25  October  1971,  which  relates,  through  its  direct
effects, to Taiwan. From 1949 to 1971, the Republic of
China (Taiwan) was a bona fide member of the United
Nations,  recognized  by  the  comity  of  nations.  If  the
Republic of China (Taiwan) could be a member of the
United  Nations  then,  why  could  it  not  be  a  member
now?  The  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution  2758
(XXVI),  which  addressed  only  the  question  of  the
representation of the People’s Republic of China at the
United  Nations  and  related  organizations.  It  did  not
decide  that  Taiwan  was,  or  should  be,  a  part  of  the
People’s  Republic  of  China.  Nor  did  it  confer  on  the
People’s  Republic  of  China  the  right  to  represent  the
Republic  of  China  (Taiwan)  or 
the  23  million
Taiwanese  people  in  the  United  Nations  and  related
organizations. Resolution 2758 (XXVI) has since been
misused  to  justify  the  exclusion  of  Taiwan  from  the
United  Nations.  That  runs  counter  to  the  claim  by  the
Government  of  the  People’s  Republic  of  China  that  it
represents  the  interests  of  all  Chinese,  not  to  mention
those  Taiwanese  who  are  in  the  Republic  of  China
(Taiwan).  If  we  are  to  comprehensively  deal  with  the
33
A/58/PV.16
problems engendered by exclusion in whatever form it
takes,  I  call  on  the  international  community  to  revisit
that issue urgently.
into  material  and 
My Government appreciates the special  attention
that  Guinea-Bissau  has  received  from  the  Security
Council,  especially  through  the  Council’s  Ad  Hoc
Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution
in Africa. We also commend the remarkable efforts of
the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory
Group on Guinea-Bissau. As Chairperson of the Group
of  Friends  of  Guinea-Bissau,  my  Government
acknowledges  the  groundswell  of  support  and  good
will  that  Guinea-Bissau  enjoys  from  the  Organization.
that  has  not  yet  been  adequately
Unfortunately, 
translated 
forms  of
that  country  so
assistance,  which 
desperately need. The recent developments in Guinea-
Bissau should be seen not so much as a constraint, but
rather  as  an  opportunity  to  re-engage  the  international
community,  in  partnership  with  the  people  of  Guinea-
Bissau, 
their  problems  of
governance  and  development.  Now  that  concerted
efforts are being made by all the major actors to agree
on  transitional  arrangements  for  the  preparation  of
parliamentary and presidential elections in the not-too-
distant  future,  we  call  on  the  rest  of  the  international
community 
to
stabilize the situation and keep the process on course to
a successful outcome.
the  support  necessary 
the  people  of 
resolution  of 
to  provide 
financial 
the 
in 
Problems of security and peace in my part of the
world  have  not  in  any  way  diminished  our  concerns
over  similar  problems  elsewhere.  The  people  of  Iraq
and Afghanistan need urgent international assistance to
shore  up  security,  re-establish  the  rule  of  law  and
embark  on  an  effective  programme  of  reconstruction.
My  Government  welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution
1500 (2003), in the hope that the establishment of  the
Governing  Council  of  Iraq  will  lead  towards  a  real
political transition for the Iraqi people. While a speedy
end  to  the  occupation  of  Iraq  is  both  desirable  and
urgent,  as  clearly  underscored  in  resolution  1472
(2003),  outstanding 
issues  emanating  from  Iraq’s
occupation of Kuwait should be comprehensively dealt
with once and for all.
We continue to follow closely the situation in the
Middle East, and we deplore yet again the recent spate
of vicious attacks and counter-attacks between Israelis
and  Palestinians,  thus  negating  hope  for  an  early
settlement within the framework of the road map. Trust
34
stage  of 
to  every 
to  attend 
and  confidence-building  measures  must  be  reinforced
and  made 
the
implementation of the road map, if the peace process is
to  endure.  Suicide  bombings  that  target  innocent
civilians  must  be  stopped.  The  occupation  of  Arab
lands  must come to an end. In reiterating our  position
on the Arab-Israeli conflict, we call for the creation of
an 
in  peace
alongside the State of Israel.
independent  Palestinian  State 
living 
My  Government  firmly  supports  the  initiatives
being  taken  to  reduce  tensions  between  India  and
Pakistan,  two  great  friends  of  The  Gambia.  We  urge
them  both  to  reduce  the  arms  build-up  on  their
respective  sides  of  the  border  and  to  strive  harder  to
reach  a  mutually  acceptable 
their
differences,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  issue  of
Kashmir.  Similarly,  we  reiterate  our  support  for  a
peaceful reunification on the Korean peninsula.
solution 
to 
Human  security  is  not  threatened  by  conflicts
alone.  The  scourge  of  HIV/AIDS  continues  to  be
elusive, and now poses a serious threat to the viability
of  some  societies  in  Africa.  The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic
has  slowly  evolved  from  a  health  and  humanitarian
issue  to  a  development  and  security  problem.  The
pandemic  has  compounded 
the  problems  African
countries face in the fight against other scourges, such
as  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  It  is  gratifying  to  note
however, that the international community is sensitized
to that fact and that initiatives such as the Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria have been put
in  place.  Consequently,  more  money,  resources  and
attention  must  be  given  to  research  and  development.
Contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  have 
slackened,  and
developing  countries  are  paying  a  colossal  price  in
human and material terms. The initiative of the Global
Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  equally
requires adequate funding.
strongly 
supports 
The pursuit of justice and the international rule of
law  have  never  been  as  pressing  as  it  is  today.  My
Government 
International
Criminal Court as it embarks on its crucial mandate of
delivering  justice.  We  hail  its  progress  so  far,  and  I
would  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  call  on  all  to
cooperate  with  the  Court  in  order  that,  together  all
around  the  world,  we  can  say  no  to  the  culture  of
impunity.
the 
While  still  on  the  subject  of  justice,  let  me
reiterate  my  Government’s  view  that  the  sanctions
being imposed on Cuba should now be lifted. They are
counter-productive  anyway.  Cuba  is  a  peace-loving
member  of  the  international  community  whose  people
do not deserve the punishment that has been meted out
to them for almost four decades now.
Let  me  now  turn  to  development  issues.  In
Africa,  our  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable  development
continue  to  be  seriously  undermined  by  a  variety  of
factors,  prominent  among  which  are  conflicts,
structural  weaknesses,  natural  disasters  and  disease.
For  the  international  system  to  successfully  address
those  factors  of  underdevelopment,  more  serious
attention  must  be  paid  to  the  implementation  of  the
Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries  for 
the  Decade  2001-2010,  and  more
attention  must  be  focused  on  the  attainment  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  must  also  give
effect  to  the  commitments  made  at  Doha,  Monterrey
and Johannesburg.
There 
is  no 
shortage  of  blueprints 
for
development. What is in short supply, and what needs
to be urgently mobilized, are resources. So far, there is
still  a  big  gap  between  commitment  and  action.
Africa’s development partners must make good on their
pledges 
support  Africa’s  development.  My
delegation welcomes the Africa Action Plan of the G-8,
the African Growth and Opportunity Act of the United
States  of  America  and  the  “Everything  But  Arms”
initiative of the European Union, all of which commit
their  sponsors  to  well-defined  forms  of  support  for
Africa’s development.
to 
to 
There  are,  however,  many  barriers 
the
implementation  of  those  initiatives,  which  are  caused
by  certain  protectionist  policies  pursued  by  our
partners,  as  well  as  other  policy  and  structural
constraints. The problem of farm subsidies just will not
go  away.  Agricultural  economies  in  our  part  of  the
world must be allowed to compete if the global trading
system  is  to  function  in  favour  of  the  eradication  of
poverty. The debt issue is far from being resolved and
the procedures for accessing the benefits of the Highly
Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative (HIPC) are too
cumbersome  for  many  poor  countries  to  follow.  The
only realistic approach to the debt problem as a major
impediment 
it
unconditionally for HIPC countries and for low-income
countries under stress.
to  development 
cancel 
to 
is 
A/58/PV.16
We have just ended at Cancún another attempt at
negotiations  on  world  trade.  My  delegation  deeply
regrets the failure of the talks,  as well as the fact that
the developed world could not see eye to eye with the
Group  of  21  on  the  issue  of  subsidies.  It  is  in  our
collective interest to dismantle global trade barriers and
allow  markets  to  expand,  for  incomes  to  rise  in  the
developing world  and  poverty  to  be  reduced.  Stronger
earning power in the developing world would stimulate
world  trade  in  ways  that  would  be  most  beneficial  to
rich countries. My delegation calls on all concerned to
ensure that we return to the negotiating table as soon as
possible, and with greater determination on both sides,
to  reach  a  just  and  fair  agreement  on  all  the  issues
involved.
Official development assistance (ODA)  still  falls
short of the internationally agreed target of 0.7 per cent
of gross domestic product. We commend the countries
whose  ODA  has  risen  to  that  level,  in  particular
Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands and Sweden.
My  delegation  urges  all  of  Africa’s  development
partners  to  address  those  issues  with  sincerity  and
commitment,  with  a  view  to  meaningfully  assisting  in
kick-starting 
the  sustainable  human  development
process in African countries.
It 
that 
to  note 
is  gratifying 
the  Human
Development Report 2003 is devoted to the Millennium
Development  Goals.  In  that  way,  the  fight  against
poverty  is  kept  high  on  the  international  community’s
agenda,  because  we  still  have  a  very  long  way  to  go.
For instance, as stated in the report,
“Regionally,  at  the  current  pace  Sub-Saharan
Africa  would  not  reach  the  Goals  for  poverty
until 2147 and for child mortality until 2165. And
for  HIV/AIDS  and  hunger,  trends  in  the  region
(Human
are  heading  up  —  not  down.” 
Development Report 2003, p. 2)
It is indeed true that sub-Saharan Africa is being
left behind. That state of affairs is alarming and, as the
United  Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP)  has
rightly stated, the Millennium Development Goals will
not be realized with a business-as-usual approach. The
paradox, in our view, is the fact that, while the means
to  attain  the  Goals  are  available,  it  would  appear  that
the  political  will  to  do  so  is  lacking.  Let  me  again
quote from the Human Development Report 2003.
35
A/58/PV.16
to 
tackle 
than  ever  before 
“Today’s  world  has  greater  resources  and
know-how 
the
challenges of infectious disease, low productivity,
lack  of  clean  energy  and  transport  and  lack  of
basic  services  such  as  clean  water,  sanitation,
schools and health care. The issue is how best to
apply  these  resources  and  know-how  to  benefit
the poorest people.” (ibid, p. 3)
In The Gambia, my Government’s focus is on the
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. The
strategy we have designed to that end is detailed in our
poverty  reduction  strategy  paper.  In  a  resource-
strapped  economy  such  as  The  Gambia’s,  getting  all
the relevant indicators to perform well towards poverty
reduction  is  a  daunting  challenge.  It  is,  however,  a
challenge  my Government  is  prepared  to  take  up.  Our
special focus is on the empowerment of our people, and
we  seek  to  do  so  by  giving  priority  to  our  education,
health  and  agricultural  sectors,  as  well  as  by  building
capacity  among  our  women,  who  are  the  architects  of
stable  and  strong  nations.  That  strategy  has  so  far
yielded  dividends,  as  evidenced  by  my  country’s
showing  on  UNDP’s  Human  Development  Report
2003.
In the education sector our goal is to achieve full
enrolment  well  before  the  Millennium  Declaration’s
target year of 2015. As of now, we have taken the gross
enrolment  rate  from  44  per  cent,  eight  years  ago,  to
over  90  per  cent  today.  We  have,  at  the  same  time,
increased  non-formal,  adult  and  distance  education
programmes throughout the country. The net result has
been  a  dramatic  drop 
illiteracy  nationwide.
Transition rates from primary to secondary levels have
been significantly improved, from 12 per cent, 15 years
ago, to over 77 per cent today. Six years ago there were
hardly any tertiary level institutions to speak of. Today
they  abound,  and  include  the  new  University  of  The
Gambia. That has been made possible by the visionary
leadership provided by Al Hadji Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh,
President of the Republic of Gambia.
in 
Recognizing  the  important  role  women  play  in
the  family,  in  the  community  and  in  the  nation,  my
Government has sought to pay special  attention  to  the
empowerment  of  our  women 
through  education,
training  and  special  income-generating  projects.  In
order to increase opportunities for the girl child in the
educational  system,  we  have  created  a  trust  fund,
entitled  “The  President’s  Empowerment  of  Girls
Education Project”, to provide full scholarships to girls
36
who  would  otherwise  not  be  able  to  go  to  school  for
lack  of  resources.  That  and  other  measures  geared
towards  assisting  women  have  helped  to  close  the
gender gap in education in Gambia.
Empowering  the  rural  dweller  is  another  priority
of my Government. We seek to do so through measures
that  lead  to  an  increase  in  access  to  resources,
infrastructure  and  services,  as  well  as  to  knowledge
and  skills.  Most  villages  now  have  a  primary  school,
and  clusters  of  villages  share  secondary  education
facilities.
and 
comprehensive 
Our  efforts  have  also  been  geared  towards  the
improvement of the health of our people. Significantly
improved  child  health  care,  especially  through  an
extensive 
immunization
programme,  has  contributed  immensely  towards  a
considerable  reduction  in  infant  mortality  in  the  last
few years. Infant mortality rates have been reduced by
one  third.  Primary  health  care  programmes  have  been
strengthened across the board. Overall, access to health
facilities  and  services  have  equally  been  greatly
improved,  with  the  construction  of  hospitals,  health
centres,  clinics  and  dispensaries 
the
country.
throughout 
For  all  these  achievements,  however,  we  are
humbled  by  the  challenges  that  still  remain.  The
prevalence  of  diseases  such  as  tuberculosis,  malaria
and  a  host  of  respiratory  illnesses,  is  part  of  an
unfinished  agenda.  Malaria,  in  particular,  remains  a
major problem. It is the leading cause of mortality and
a  major  cause  of  morbidity  among  pregnant  women,
contributing  to  anaemia  and  low  birth  weight.  Today,
with  the  cooperation  of  a  Cuban  medical  and  health
team, The Gambia is number one in Africa as far as its
malaria  control  programme  is  concerned,  according  to
the World Health Organization.
In  the  area  of  agriculture,  our  objective  is  to
achieve  a  total  transformation  of  the  sector.  Our
priority  is  to  reduce  the  drudgery  of  production  and
increase  productivity  through  a  systematic  programme
of  mechanization.  Added  to  this  is  our  bid  to  reduce
our  dependence  on  rain-fed  methods  of  production,  in
favour  of  greater  irrigation,  using  the  abundant  water
resources  that  the  Gambia  River  and  its  tributaries
provide.  A 
third  plank  of  our  programme  of
empowerment  in  the  agriculture  sector  is  to  diversify
activities  away  from  the  traditional  crops  by  placing
greater  emphasis  on  food  production  as  well  as  on
other non-traditional crops for export. Finally, with all
of these objectives already well on the road to success,
we  are  beginning  to  increase  market  access,  both
locally and abroad, for our producers.
Attaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
will  depend  to  a  large  extent  on  how  well  poor
countries perform in the areas I have just referred to. It
would  also  depend  on  how  far  they  themselves  are
empowered, and  made capable of  performing,  through
the  requisite  support  measures  from  the  international
community. The United Nations system as a whole can
be  mobilized  further  to  broker  such  support  for  poor
countries,  and  especially  for  those  among  them  that
show promise and positive signs of progress.
intent 
is 
forms 
that  end,  our 
My Government has been increasing its efforts to
deepen democracy and strengthening good governance
in  The  Gambia.  To 
to
continuously  bring  improvements  to  the  performance
of  all  arms  of  government.  Our  multiparty  democratic
system 
the  backbone  of  our  political
dispensation.  We  continue  to  conduct  free  and  fair
elections  at  all  levels  of  popular  representation.  Our
courts operate independently. We have encouraged the
mass  media  to  grow  and  expand,  with  increasingly
higher levels of private participation. The international
community  must  have  been  satisfied  with  our  efforts
and  achievements  in  this  domain,  since  the  World
Economic Forum, meeting in South Africa, decided to
classify  The  Gambia 
its
performance  on  good  governance.  We  are  indeed
honoured  by  this  recognition,  and  feel  encouraged  in
our resolve to do even better.
in  Africa, 
third 
for 
Advances  in  information  and  communication
technology have come to make our world a truly global
village.  This  is  indeed  remarkable.  However,  we  must
not lose sight of the fact that even in this area there is a
great deal of catching up to be done by the developing
world.  Global  initiatives  geared  towards  bridging  the
digital  divide  between  the  developed  and  developing
worlds should be pursued with unrelenting vigour.
Scientific  and  technological  research  must  be
conducted  in  support  of  the  essence  of  life.  In  the
course of this year, we have heard several claims as to
the  successful  cloning  of  human  embryos.  These
claims,  whether  genuine  or  not,  are  indeed  a  wake-up
call  for  all  of  humanity.  The  international  community
must  close  ranks  to  address  them  in  a  manner  that
ensures that no one is allowed, for whatever reason, to
A/58/PV.16
tinker  with  science  and  technology  in  ways  that  may
upset or threaten nature’s fragile balance.
and 
The  phenomenon  of  illegal,  unregulated  and
unreported  fishing  remains  a  challenge  to  coastal
African  States  such  as  The  Gambia.  It  has  generated
enormous  concern  at  the  international  level,  as  is
evident  from  the  adoption  of  various  international
instruments to combat it. My delegation would like to
express  its  gratitude  to  the  Governments  of  Japan  and
Luxembourg 
and  Agriculture
Organization for the assistance that they provide to our
fisheries  sector,  and  to  fully  endorse  the  Secretary-
General’s recommendation that technical and financial
assistance to developing countries for the conservation
and  management  of  fisheries  resources  should  be
provided  in  a  comprehensive  manner.  We  call  for
greater  assistance  and  cooperation  in  our  efforts  to
promote sustainable practices in the fisheries sector of
our economies.
the  Food 
the  efforts  aimed  at 
On the crucial topic of United Nations reform, my
delegation  welcomes 
the
revitalization of the General Assembly and the reform
of the Security Council. After more than a decade, little
progress  has  been  made  in  our  attempts  to  reform  the
Security  Council  so  that  it  is  truly  reflective  of  the
realities  of  the  international  system  in  the  twenty-first
century. My Government reiterates its stance — indeed
the  stance  of  the  entire  African  region  —  that  the
to  be
composition  of 
revamped  and  democratized.  Membership  of 
the
Council  must  be  expanded,  with  Africa  occupying  at
least  two  permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent
seats.  We  therefore  wholeheartedly  support  the  timely
proposal  of  the  Secretary-General  to  establish  a  high-
level  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to  make  concrete
recommendations,  inter  alia,  on  the  reforms  of  the
Organization.
the  Security  Council  has 
As we  move into the business of the fifty-eighth
session of the General Assembly, my delegation prays
that  the  Almighty  Allah  crowns  our  endeavours  with
success.  We  pray  that  this  session  proves  to  be  the
turning  point  in  our  efforts  to  render  the  United
Nations  more  relevant,  more  effective  and  truly  all-
inclusive. We pray that at this session, any doubts as to
the utility of the United Nations to each and every one
of us be put to rest once and for all. We pray that by the
close of this session, we shall all have emerged secure
in  our  conviction  that  only  through  fuller  recourse  to
the  United  Nations  can  we  expect  to  have  our  global
37
A/58/PV.16
problems  of  conflict,  peace  and  security  and,  indeed,
development,  frontally  addressed,  fully  contained  and
completely resolved.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bhekh  Bahadur
Thapa,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of
Nepal.
Mr. Thapa (Nepal): I greet Julian Hunte warmly
as  President  at  this  session  and  assure  him  of  Nepal’s
full  cooperation  in  his  work.  His  Excellency  Jan
Kavan, 
our
appreciation for the job well done. I also pay tribute to
the  distinguished  Secretary-General  for  providing
dynamic leadership to the United Nations.
the  outgoing  President, 
deserves 
The  last  12  months  have  been  a  momentous
period  of  convulsive  events.  It  has  been  a  mixed  bag.
We  have  made  a  dent  in  combating  terrorism,  but  it
remains a serious threat to peace. Some countries have
limped back to normality, while others have descended
into  chaos.  All  sides  have  accepted  the  Middle  East
road map, but a new cycle of violence is undermining
it. Iraq continues to be a source of concern to all. The
global  economic  slump  has  turned  the  corner,  but
growth  remains  anaemic,  and  the  Cancun  trade  talks
have foundered.
In  these  developments,  the  United  Nations  has
come  into  a  sharp  focus  that  is  not  always  flattering.
However,  Nepal  has  an  abiding  faith  in  the  United
Nations and believes in its centrality for all humanity’s
quest  for  shared  peace,  progress  and  justice.  To  small
nations like ours, the United Nations is and should  be
the bulwark of sovereignty and defender of freedom. It
has stood up to such challenges in the past, and it must
prepare itself to face the future just as boldly through a
process of strengthened multilateralism.
Today, the world faces a number of threats to its
peace, progress and harmony. Terrorism is now by  far
the  most  immediate  threat  that  afflicts  countries,  rich
and  poor,  large  and  small.  After  11  September  2001,
the  concerted  battle  we  have  launched  has  pushed
terror  into  retreat,  but  the  decisive  war  against  it  that
we must win has yet to be won.
This  scourge  has  not  left  the  United  Nations
untouched  either.  For  instance,  two  bombs  exploded
within  the  first  two  months  of  the  United  Nations
presence  in  Baghdad  at  its  offices  there,  killing  Mr.
Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello  and  others,  and  serving  as  a
38
grim  reminder  of  the  indiscriminate  dark  threat  of
terrorism.  We  condemn  the  assault  on  the  United
Nations  and  our  profound  condolences  go  to  the
countries  that  lost  their  citizens  and  families  who  lost
their dear ones in those tragic attacks.
My  own  nation  is  in  the  throes  of  terrorism,
perpetrated by the self-proclaimed Maoists for the last
seven  years.  Opposed  to  constitutional  monarchy  and
democratic  order, 
the
seven-month  ceasefire,  withdrawn  from  the  talks  and
unleashed  unspeakable  violence  on  the  people.  They
did  so  even  as  the  Government  showed  flexibility  in
accommodating  several  of  their  demands  and  put  a
comprehensive package of reforms on the table.
the  Maoists  have  broken 
His Majesty’s Government has the duty to protect
the life and liberty of the people and to defend freedom
and democracy in the country. We will do so resolutely
but also responsibly. While doing so, we have kept the
door of dialogue open. On behalf of the Government, I
thank our friends for their understanding and assistance
in our war against terror and the Secretary-General for
his interest and concern.
Clearly, Iraq continues to be a serious issue. Now
that the war is over, the global community must agree
to  return  sovereignty  to  the  Iraqi  people  as  quickly  as
possible,  to  let  them  govern  themselves  and  to  help
them rebuild their country. The United Nations should
be given an enhanced role in this process.
in 
Renewed  violence 
the  Middle  East  has
imperilled 
the  Quartet-endorsed  road  map,  which
promises a viable State to the Palestinians and security
to the Israelis. Nepal appeals to both sides to exercise
maximum restraint and engage in constructive dialogue
to  attain  a  comprehensive  settlement  of  the  long-
festering  crisis.  It  also  appeals  to  Israel  to  reconsider
its decision to remove Palestinian President Arafat.
The Security Council must take an early decision
to  extend  security  throughout  Afghanistan  so  that
rebuilding can go forward in the country. It should also
augment efforts to resolve conflicts and bring stability
to volatile countries in Africa and elsewhere.
to,  United  Nations 
Nepal  has  a  deep  interest  in,  and  unwavering
peacekeeping.
commitment 
Nepalese  Blue  Helmets  have  served 
in  various
missions in an outstanding manner, and many of them
have made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of peace
and  humanity.  The  United  Nations  should  continue  to
help  poor  troop-contributing  countries  to  bridge  their
resources  gaps,  and  give  them  more  say  in  mission
planning and deployment of forces.
While  firefighting  in  crisis  situations  is  urgent,
the  international  community  must  look  beyond  the
immediacy of conflicts and attempt to build an edifice
of  durable  peace 
the  world.  Disarmament,
development and the rule of law are the pillars of such
architecture. There is a moral case for all of us to work
together  towards  such  peace  and  it  is  also  a  matter  of
enlightened self-interest.
in 
Disarmament  and  confidence-building  measures
are  critical  to  building  a  culture  of  peace.  Nuclear
weapons  are  the  greatest  threat  to  humanity  and  must
be  eliminated,  with  their  delivery  vehicles,  in  a  time-
bound  manner.  Nuclear-weapon  States  should  steadily
reduce  their  nuclear  arsenals;  the  Conference  on
Disarmament  must  draw  up  a  strategy  to  eradicate
these arms.
As a nation committed to peace, Nepal welcomes
the  proposals  to  establish  nuclear-weapon-free  zones
and to keep outer space free of weapons. We also stress
the necessity to reinforce the regimes banning chemical
and  biological  weapons  and  to  strengthen  measures  to
prevent  the  access  of  non-State  actors  to  small  arms
and light weapons.
as 
tools 
significant 
Nepal supports the regional centres for peace and
disarmament 
for  building
confidence among nations. We eagerly look forward to
hosting  in  Kathmandu  the  Regional  Centre  for  Peace
and  Disarmament  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  We  have
asked  the  Secretariat  to  revise  the  draft  host  country
agreements so that they are consistent with diplomatic
practices  and  with  the  provisions  for  the  other  two
centres.
for 
to 
together 
lift  people 
Poverty  is  by  far  the  most  entrenched  threat  to
peace and human dignity, and development is the most
the  world.  The  global
daunting  challenge 
community  must  act 
in
developing  countries  from 
the  perils  of  hunger,
ignorance,  disease  and  despair.  We  must  create  jobs
and opportunities to enable people to lead a decent life
and to raise their stakes in peace and order. Nepal has
accorded  the  highest  priority  to  poverty  alleviation  in
its  current  plan,  modelled  after  the  Poverty  Reduction
Strategy  Papers.  Broad-based  growth,  social  sector
development, 
good
governance constitute the strategy of the plan. We have
programmes 
targeted 
and 
A/58/PV.16
liberalized  our  economy  to  foster  broader  partnership
with 
non-governmental
organizations  and  community  groups  and  provide  a
wider space for foreign investment.
private 
sector, 
the 
in 
Improvements 
the  agriculture  and  social
sectors  as  well  as  in  rural  infrastructure  constitute  the
core of our quest for poverty reduction and sustainable
development.  However,  Nepal 
sufficient
resources  to  achieve  its  development  objectives.  Our
resource  constraints  have  become  more  acute  due  to
Maoist 
economic
disruption.  Many  other  developing  countries  are  in  a
similar situation.
consequent 
insurgency 
lacks 
and 
The  global  community  must  join  forces,  in  a
spirit of partnership, to eradicate absolute poverty and
stimulate  development  in  developing  nations.  Indeed,
the  Millennium  Summit  and  global  conferences  on
financing,  sustainable  development,  HIV/AIDS  and
trade have clearly laid down the way forward. We must
ensure that these compacts do not fail in the crucible of
implementation.
As  developing  countries  lead  efforts  for  their
their
progress,  development  partners  must  keep 
commitments  by  meeting  development  assistance
targets and providing debt relief to the highly indebted
poor countries, including the least developed nations.
assistance 
Increasing 
development 
alone,
however,  will  do  little  to  help  developing  countries
unless  rich  nations  dismantle  their  farm  subsidies  and
pull down their tariff and non-tariff barriers to products
from  the  South.  Improved  access  to  world  markets  is
critical  for  poor  nations  to  attract  investment,  remove
their  supply-side  constraints  and 
their
economies. In this context, the Cancun trade talks must
be 
that
globalization brings benefits to the poor as well.
in  such  a  manner 
resumed  soon  and 
transform 
His  Majesty’s  Government  is  grateful  to  the
World Trade Organization for deciding to admit Nepal
and  Cambodia  as  new  members.  That  is  just  the  first
step.  Nepal  needs,  as  other  least  developed  countries
do,  duty-free  and  quota-free  access  to,  and  increased
assistance from, rich nations to escape the poverty trap
and to integrate itself into the global economy.
Landlocked developing countries face geographic
handicaps and  remoteness from the  major corridors  of
global commerce. We welcome the fact that the Almaty
Programme  of  Action  addresses  their  problem  and  we
39
A/58/PV.16
thank the transit and development partners for making
the ministerial meeting a success. We urge all sides to
make  concerted  efforts  to  implement  the  Almaty
Programme of Action.
Democracy,  fairness  and  the  rule  of  law  are  the
building blocks of secure peace at home and across the
world.  With 
in  view,  Nepal  has  embraced
pluralistic democracy, constitutional monarchy, and the
inviolability  of  human  rights  and  freedoms  as  the
defining features in our present Constitution.
this 
Our pledge to these values and ideals remains as
strong  as  ever.  Parliamentary  elections  postponed  due
to  the  Maoist  threat  will  be  held  as  soon  as  possible,
and  immediate  steps  will  be  taken  to  restore  and
reactivate 
is
seriously committed to doing this.
local  authorities.  The  Government 
the 
status 
The  Government  has  accorded  high  priority  to
children 
and
raising 
of  women, 
to  preventing
disadvantaged  people,  as  well  as 
trafficking in women. It has established juvenile courts
and strengthened the court system, and has tried to give
the  human 
rights  protection  and  anti-corruption
agencies  the  necessary  tools  and  resources  to  do  their
job.
Nepal  firmly  believes  that  the  world  community
should try its level best to promote democracy, justice
and  fairness  in  world  trade,  global  governance  and
international relations. In this spirit, we underscore the
imperative need for change in the global trade regime,
for  reform  in  the  international  financial  architecture
and for help to developing countries to overcome their
problems.
Speaking  of  justice,  nearly  100,000  Bhutanese
refugees  living  in  camps  in  Nepal  have  been  waiting
for over a decade to return home in safety and dignity.
We  hope  Bhutan  will  show  more  flexibility  in  the
bilateral  negotiations 
just
settlement. We call on the world community, including
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for  Refugees  (UNHCR),  to  help  create  a  climate
conducive  for  resolving  this  distressing  humanitarian
problem by sustaining its interest and assistance for the
maintenance of the refugees at this crucial juncture.
to  find  an  early  and 
No organization can stand the test of time unless
it  is  prepared  to  carry  out  bold  reforms.  Events  in  the
run-up  to  the  Iraq  war  have  shown  the  frailty  of  the
United  Nations  and  underlined  the  imperative  for
40
immediate  and  balanced  reforms  for  the  Organization
to  secure  more  legitimacy,  not  only  in  the  eyes  of  the
rich but also in the perception of the poor.
While  we  welcome  the  reforms  the  General
Assembly adopted last year, we support the Secretary-
General’s proposal to set up a high-level panel to seek
ways  to  make  the  United  Nations  a  vibrant,  effective
and  efficient  Organization,  which  can  come  to  grips
with emerging challenges.
As  we  see  it,  it  is  imperative  for  the  General
Assembly to reclaim its primacy at the United Nations
and  for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  make  its
work more visible and relevant to ordinary people. To
achieve  these  objectives,  we  must  not  only  rationalize
the  agendas  of  those  organs  but  also  ensure  that  they
adopt 
resolutions  —
resolutions  that  could  be  implemented  to  benefit
humanity.
fewer  but  more 
relevant 
in 
Reforms  are  long  overdue  to  make  the  Security
Council  more  democratic 
its  work  and  more
representative in its structure. Nepal expresses its deep
concern  at  the  lack  of  tangible  progress  for  over  a
decade on the issue of  Council  enlargement  and  urges
all  Member  States  to  scale  up  their  efforts  to  achieve
that  goal.  In  our  view,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement
should play an active role in United Nations reform. It
should  also  work  closely  with  the  G-77  to  advance
their shared agenda in this and other respects.
as 
an 
In  South  Asia,  as  elsewhere,  we  view  regional
cooperation 
instrument  of  South-South
cooperation  for  collective  progress  in  the  region  and
the  world  at  large.  The  South  Asian  Association  for
Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC)  has  been  inspired  by
that  aspiration.  Let  us  hope  our  region  can  put  its
political differences behind it and steam ahead to find
the  place  South  Asia  deserves  in  the  community  of
nations.
If our immediate and overriding preoccupation at
home  is  the  restoration  of  peace,  our  commitment  to
regional  cooperation  and  a  just  and  secure  world
constitutes  an  objective  of  equal  order.  The  world  has
witnessed the resilience of the Nepalese people during
the difficult periods in our history. We remain equally
committed  today  to  overcome  the  current  challenge.  I
call  on  friends  and  well-wishers  of  Nepal  for  greater
understanding  and  cooperation 
to  help  us  help
ourselves in our onward journey to peace and progress.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for
this  meeting.  A  representative  has  asked  to  speak  in
right of reply.
May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  statements 
in
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  5  minutes  for  the
second  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from  their
seats.
Mr.  Requeijo  Gual  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
The  delegation  of  Cuba  has  listened  attentively  to  the
address  of  the  Czech  Republic  and  regrets  that  it  has
been  used  to  attack  Cuba.  In  the  trials  in  March  and
April 2003 that were mentioned in this speech, a group
of  mercenaries  who  were  paid  and  instructed  by  the
United  States  in  its  political  and  economic  warfare
against  Cuba  and  who  were  repeatedly  violating  our
laws, were judged and punished with all guarantees of
due  process  by  regular  courts  and  according  to  pre-
existing laws.
Numerous  penal  codes  in  Europe  and  in  the
United States describe and punish severely this conduct
as  being  “acts  committed  by  organizations  under
foreign  control”.  Many  States  have  laws  as  antidotes
sanctioning cooperation with foreign Powers.
The  Czech  Republic  is  a  tool  for  the  United
States  to  use  against  Cuba.  This  has  repeatedly
occurred in the Commission on Human Rights. To that
end, Czech-accredited diplomats, parliamentarians and
other  envoys  frequently  violate  our  laws.  The  Cuban
Government  regrets  that  the  Czech  address  did  not
even  mention 
the  North  American
blockade of Cuba is a massive, flagrant and systematic
violation of the human rights of Cubans.
the  fact 
that 
A/58/PV.16
It has not been said, even now, that the blockade
has  become  more  severe  and  its  territorial  scope
expanded, nor that there is manipulation of the limited
Cuban  purchases  of  foodstuffs  in  the  United  States,
whose rigid restrictions and obstacles impede free trade
and  confirm  the  genocidal  nature  of  a  blockade  that,
flying  in  the  face  of  international  humanitarian  law,
includes medicine and foodstuffs.
My  delegation  regrets  that  the  Czech  address
omitted the grave, systematic violation of human rights
in  occupied  Cuban  territory,  that  is  to  say  the  naval
base of Guantanamo, where the United States subjects
to  inhuman  conditions  and  practices  torture  upon  the
so-called  illegal  combatants,  including  some  children
and citizens of dozens of countries, including European
countries  that  are  being  kept  in  limbo  now  for  more
than one year.
The Cuban delegation is duty-bound to state that
a  country  in  which  there  is  discrimination,  repression
and  ghettoization  of  a  gypsy  minority,  where
xenophobia,  violence  and  murder  of  immigrants  and
gypsies go unpunished, where there is public tolerance
of  racism  and  neofacism,  where  police  brutality  is
tolerated, as are the arbitrary arrests of demonstrators,
where detainees are refused contact with attorneys and
information  is  denied  their  families,  where  dozens  of
detainees have died in suspicious circumstances, where
the foreign residence laws permit police harassment of
foreigners,  where  there  are  inhuman  conditions  and
hunger  strikes  in  the  prisons,  where  the  sex  trade  and
pedophilia  increase  each  day  —  such  a  country  does
not  have  a  shred  of  moral  authority  to  back  their
criticism of Cuba.
The meeting rose at 7.10 p.m.
41
