United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
28th plenary meeting
Monday, 13 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.28
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Organization of work of the fifty-eighth regular
session of the General Assembly, adoption of the
agenda and allocation of items
Second report of the General Committee
(A/58/250/Add.1)
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of  representatives  to  the  second  report  of  the  General
Committee (A/58/250/Add.1), concerning a request by
the Secretary-General for the inclusion in the agenda of
an  additional  item,  “Financing  of  the  United  Nations
Mission  in  Liberia”;  a  request  by  the  Netherlands  for
the  inclusion  in  the  agenda  of  an  additional  item,
“Admission  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  to
membership  in  the  United  Nations  Joint  Staff  Pension
Fund”;  and  a  request  contained  in  a  letter  dated  3
October  2003  from  the  Permanent  Representative  of
Mexico  to  the  United  Nations,  addressed  to  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  concerning  the
allocation  of  agenda  item  108,  “Crime  prevention  and
criminal justice”.
In  paragraph  1  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
an  additional  item,  entitled  “Financing  of  the  United
Nations Mission to Liberia”, be included in the agenda
of  the  current  session.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General
Assembly decides to include this additional item in the
agenda of the current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  1  (b),  the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the additional item be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to allocate this
item to the Fifth Committee?
It was so decided.
The President: I should like to inform  members
that this item becomes agenda item 165.
item,  entitled  “Admission  of 
In  paragraph  2  (a)  of  the  report,  the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
an  additional 
the
International  Criminal  Court  to  membership  in  the
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund”, be included
in the agenda of the current session. May I take it that
the General Assembly decides to include this additional
item in the agenda of the current session?
It was so decided.
The  President:  In  paragraph  2  (b),  the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
the additional item be allocated to the Fifth Committee.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to allocate this
item to the Fifth Committee?
It was so decided.
The President: I should like to inform  members
that this item becomes agenda item 166.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-56874 (E)
*0356874*
A/58/PV.28
the  report, 
In  paragraph  3  of 
the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
agenda  item  108,  “Crime  prevention  and  criminal
justice”, also be considered directly in plenary meeting
for the sole purpose of taking action on the draft United
Nations Convention against Corruption.
May I take it that the  General  Assembly  decides
to  also  consider  agenda  item  108,  “Crime  prevention
and  criminal  justice”,  directly  in  plenary  meeting  for
the  sole  purpose  of  taking  action  on  the  draft  United
Nations Convention against Corruption?
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  Chairmen  of  the  Third  and
Fifth Committees will be informed of the decisions just
taken.
Agenda item 7
Notification by the Secretary-General under Article
12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the United Nations
Note by the Secretary-General (A/58/354)
The  President:  As  members  are  aware, 
in
accordance with the provisions of Article 12, paragraph
2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  with  the
consent of the Security Council, the Secretary-General
is mandated to notify the General Assembly of matters
relative  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  that  are  being  dealt  with  by  the  Security
Council and of matters which the Council has ceased to
deal with.
In  that  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as
document  A/58/354.  May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly
takes note of that document?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 11
Report of the Security Council (A/58/2)
The President: As we begin our consideration of
the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  I  believe  it
important  to  draw  attention  to  relevant  provisions  of
several 
including
resolutions  47/233,  48/264  and  51/241,  on  what  the
Assembly’s  approach  to  the  report  ought  to  be.  These
resolutions  concern  the  revitalization  of  the  General
the  Assembly, 
resolutions  of 
2
Assembly  and  reform  issues  generally.  The  practical
effect  of  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  resolutions  is
that 
the
Assembly  and,  indeed,  the  President  should  take  in
considering the report of the Security Council.
they  present  specific  courses  of  action 
For  example,  first,  the  resolutions  encourage
Member States to participate actively in the substantive
and  in-depth  discussions  on  and  consideration  of  the
report  of  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to  fulfil  the
relevant  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations, and, secondly, the President is asked to assess
the  debate  on  this  item  and  consider  the  need  for
further  consideration  of  the  report.  In  light  of  this
assessment, 
be
undertaken  to  discuss  the  need  and  content  of  any
action by the Assembly based on the debate.
consultations  might 
informal 
I  wish  to  remind  the  Assembly  that  this  agenda
item remains open — I underscore, remains open — to
further discussion necessary during the year, including
discussion  on  additional  reports  the  Council  may
present to the General Assembly.
I  would  encourage  delegations  to  keep  in  mind
this
these  matters,  contained 
Assembly  adopted  by  consensus,  as  we  address  the
Security Council’s report.
in  resolutions 
that 
Before I go any further, may I make again a very
special request relating to cellular phones. Please keep
your cellular phones on vibrate so as to allow speakers,
and even  myself in the Chair, to  better  follow  what  is
taking place. It is most disruptive, when a speaker is at
the  rostrum,  for  cellular  phones  to  sound  off.  You
would not like it to happen when your representative is
speaking,  please  do  not  do  it  to  anybody  else.  I  crave
your indulgence in this particular matter.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the
Security  Council,  Mr.  John  Negroponte,  to  introduce
the report of the Council.
Mr.  Negroponte:  I  am  pleased  to  report,  Mr.
President, that I forgot to bring my cellular phone with
me this morning.
I  have  the  privilege,  in  my  capacity  as  President
of the Security Council for the month of October 2003,
to  introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council
to the General Assembly.
On behalf of the Security Council, I would like to
extend my congratulations to you, Mr. Hunte, on your
election  as  President  of  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the
General Assembly. I know that I speak for all members
of  the  Security  Council  when  I  say  that  I  am  certain
that, during your tenure, relations between the General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  will  be  further
strengthened,  as  we  work  together  to  promote  the
purposes and principles of the Charter.
The  report  I  am  introducing  covers  the  period
from  1  August  2002  to  31  July  2003.  The  seemingly
ever-increasing  trend  towards  an  increased  workload
for 
this
reporting period.
the  Security  Council  continued  during 
There  were  many  areas  of  focus,  including  Iraq,
the Middle East and Afghanistan, which are covered in
detail  in  the  report.  Africa  continued  to  be  a  major
priority for the Council, which responded to worsening
conflicts in Côte d’Ivoire and Liberia, while working to
encourage  and  foster  continuing  progress  in  bringing
peace  and  stability  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  and  Burundi.  The  Security  Council  undertook
missions  to  Central  and  West  Africa  and  focused  on
several  issues  affecting  Africa,  such  as  the  threat  of
small  arms  and  mercenaries  and  the  role  of  Council
missions  and  other  United  Nations  mechanisms  in
promoting peace and security on the continent.
In  addition 
to  addressing  specific  ongoing
conflicts,  the  Security  Council  also  held  thematic
discussions  directly  related  to  the  Council’s  work,
which will allow for fruitful discussions with the larger
United  Nations  membership.  The  Council  held  open
debates on women, peace and security, on children and
armed conflict, on small arms, on the interaction of the
Security  Council  and  regional  organizations,  on  the
threat  of  small  arms  and  mercenary  activities  to  West
Africa,  and  on  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes.  The
issue  of  the  protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict
was pursued on a six-monthly basis, with debates held
in December 2002 and June 2003.
The serious and continuing threat to global peace
and  security  posed  by  terrorism  remained  a  primary
focus  of 
the  Council.  The  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  continued  to  work  intensively  to  fulfil  its
mandate  as  set  out  in  resolution  1373  (2001).  The
Committee  conducted  detailed  dialogues  with  all
Member  States,  concentrating  on  ensuring,  as  a  first
priority,  that  States  have  in  place  legislation  covering
all aspects of resolution 1373 (2001) and the executive
machinery to tackle terrorist financing.
A/58/PV.28
These  issues  I  have  mentioned  provide  only  a
quick overview of some of the larger areas covered by
the work of the Council during the last year.
to 
During  the  debate  on  this  agenda  item  in  recent
years,  Assembly  members  have  put  forward  a  number
of  ideas  with  regard  to  a  better  presentation  of  the
Security  Council’s  annual  report 
the  General
Assembly.  Assembly  members  have  suggested  a
shorter and more focused report, and I am happy to say
that  this  year’s  report  is  68  pages  shorter  than  last
year’s,  which  in  turn  was  itself  more  than  300  pages
shorter  than  its  predecessor.  This  year’s  report  also
opens  with  a  narrative  overview  of  the  Council’s
activities,  a  continuation  of  an  innovation  begun  last
year at the suggestion of Assembly members.
Although  the  last  year  was  an  especially  busy
one, there was an increase in the already growing trend
toward  transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Security
Council. The Council took care to hold as many public
meetings as  possible  and  regularly  conducted  wrap-up
sessions  and  provided  opportunities  for  all  Member
States to attend briefings.
For example, of the 200 meetings held during the
period of this report, only eight were closed, excluding
the  ongoing  consultations  with 
troop-contributing
countries.  This  compares  with  32  closed  meetings
during  the  previous  year.  This  emphasis  on  greater
transparency  is  intended  to  allow  the  wider  United
Nations membership to remain in closer touch with the
Council and its deliberations.
In  concluding,  I  would  like  to  express  my
appreciation to my colleagues on the Security Council
for their deep dedication and commitment to the cause
of  peace  and  security.  On  behalf  of  all  Council
members,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General
for  his  vision  and  leadership  and  to  express  our
gratitude  to  the  members  of  the  Secretariat  for  their
professionalism  and  daily  support,  without  which  the
Council could not complete its duties.
Mr.  Haraguchi  (Japan):  Let  me  begin  by
expressing  my  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the
Security Council, Ambassador John D. Negroponte, for
his  introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security
Council  on  its  work.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the
United  Kingdom 
the
introduction to the report.
for  drafting 
and  Spain 
3
A/58/PV.28
In the period covered by this report, the issue of
Iraq figured prominently on the agenda of the Security
Council,  as  the  introduction  to  the  report  indicates.
Much of the Council’s time and energy was consumed
by  discussions  of  the  Iraqi  issue.  In  that  process,
questions  have  been  raised  on  the  effectiveness  of  the
Security  Council  with  regard  to  its  primary  role  of
maintaining international peace and security.
I  understand  that  there  was  an  active  discussion
among  Security  Council  members  on  how  each
member’s  views  should  be  reflected  in  the  report
during  the  drafting  process.  I  was  looking  forward  to
hearing  these  frank  views  in  an  open  meeting  of  the
Council,  as  has  occurred  in  previous  years.  However,
contrary  to  the  previous  practice,  no  Council  member
took the floor to present their views this time. From the
standpoint of ensuring transparency and accountability
of the Council to non-members, it was regrettable that
we  were  not  able  to  hear  the  views  of  the  Council
members directly.
I  do  not  intend  to  comment  on  the  substance  of
each of the activities of the Council as summarized in
the report at this time. However, let me raise two points
which Council members may deem worth considering.
My first point relates to the issue of ensuring the
openness  of  the  activities  of  the  Council  to  non-
members. Japan welcomes the fact that the Council has
become  increasingly  aware  of  the  need  to  ensure  its
openness to non-members in recent years and that open
debate meetings are now held more frequently, as was
just 
report  of  Ambassador
Negroponte.
confirmed 
the 
in 
From  time  to  time  a  Council  meeting  which  had
been announced as an open briefing has been changed
to  an  open  debate.  That  should  be  a  welcome
development,  but  those  changes  in  format  were  often
announced  on  very  short  notice.  In  the  case  of  the
discussion  on  Kosovo,  that  took  place  in  August,  for
example, we were informed of the change of format for
the first time in the Journal of the very day on which
the debate was to be held. As a  result, not many  non-
Council  members  were  able  to  take  full  advantage  of
the opportunity presented.
We  would  like  to  request  that  the  Council  make
sure that reasonable advance notice is given in case of
such changes, in order to enable non-Council members
to make full use of their opportunity to participate. The
same thing can also be said of the emergency meetings
4
of the Council, such as the one held at the beginning of
this  month.  I  know  it  is  difficult  to  announce  the
holding  of  an  emergency  meeting  well  in  advance,
simply because it is an emergency meeting. However, I
consider  it  necessary  for  the  Council  to  search  for  a
means to ensure that all non-members are informed of
such  an  emergency  meetings  beforehand  so  that  they
can express their views if they wish to do so.
In  addition,  there  have  been  cases  in  the  past  in
which wrap-up sessions, whose original purpose was to
review  the  activities  of  the  Council  for  the  month,
digressed from their original purpose by engaging in a
thematic  discussion  that  was  totally  unrelated  to  the
Council’s activities during that month.
These are some of the examples of the procedural
issues 
that  have  caused  frustration  among  non-
members such as my country. I hope that the members
of the Council would continue to make efforts towards
procedural improvements in these areas.
On  a  second  matter,  Japan  would  like  to  request
that the Council continue to look for means to involve
more  substantially  those  non-Council  members  with  a
vital  interest  in  an  issue  under  discussion,  in  the
Council’s decision-making process.
that 
budgetary
implications,  including  those  relating  to  peacekeeping
operations  (PKOs),  political  missions  and  peace-
consolidation, 
to  be  ensured,
particularly with respect to major financial contributing
countries, when adopting resolutions or reviewing their
implementation.
transparency  needs 
resolutions 
have 
for 
As 
for 
A  mechanism 
their  financial  contributions 
consultation  has  been
established between the Council and troop contributing
countries  (TCCs)  regarding  specific  PKOs.  Some
mechanism  of  a  similar  nature  is  needed  for  major
financial  contributors,  because  they  are  obliged  to
account  for 
their
taxpayers. It is not reasonable to expect that those non-
Council  members  which  share  the  bulk  of  such
expenses  will  simply  passively  issue  the  cheques
necessary for implementation of the decisions made by
the 15 countries on the Council, without being given a
chance  to  consult  on  the  decisions  or  to  confirm
whether the decisions have been properly implemented.
In this connection, I would like to point out again
that we have yet to receive sufficient explanation with
regard  to  budgetary  transparency  for  Security  Council
to 
missions,  an  issue  that  my  delegation  has  raised
continuously. However, I wish to add on this occasion,
that  Japan  does  acknowledge  that  improvement  has
been realized on other issues of transparency, including
the provision of detailed briefings before and after the
dispatch of Security Council missions.
Procedural 
the  Council 
improvement  of 
is
important;  however,  that  alone  is  not  sufficient  to
enhance  the  legitimacy  of  the  Council.  We  need  to
reform the Council by including those countries which
are  both  willing  and  able  to  shoulder  responsibility  at
the  global  level  as  permanent  members.  I  intend  to
elaborate  Japan’s  view  on  this  issue  under  the  agenda
item,  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and
increase in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters”, which is to be taken up following the
discussion on this item.
Mr. Andjaba (Namibia): We welcome this debate
on the report of the Security Council (A/58/2) and the
report  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other
Matters  Related  to  the  Security  Council  (A/57/47  and
Corr.1).  As 
the
expectation  of  my  delegation  that  the  views  being
expressed here, especially on the report of the Security
Council, will be taken into account by the members of
the Council.
in  previous  discussions, 
is 
it 
and 
social 
Namibia  rejoiced  when  peace  finally  came  to
Angola, after  many years  of  political  strife.  While  the
guns  have  gone  silent,  the  Government  of  Angola  is
earnestly  grappling  with 
economic
challenges. It is therefore imperative, as we applaud the
positive developments in Angola, that we, as members
of  the  international  community,  support  the  efforts  of
the Government towards the consolidation of peace and
reconstruction.  The  spirit  of  national  reconciliation,
which the people of Angola have embarked upon,  can
only  be  nurtured  by  favourable  social  and  economic
conditions.
Following three years of repeated appeals by the
African  Member  States,  the  Security  Council  has
finally  approved  a  new  concept  of  operations  for  the
United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC),  which
strengthened  the  Mission.  Namibia  welcomes  this
positive  step  and  the  installation  of  the  transitional
Government in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
in 
A/58/PV.28
that 
remain 
concerned 
However,  we 
the
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  that  country
continue  to  be  violated.  The  situation  in  the  eastern
part remains particularly worrying. Gross violations of
human  rights,  including  rape,  murder,  the  destruction
of  property,  the  large-scale  displacement  of  civilians,
the use of child soldiers and the illegal exploitation of
natural resources, continue unabated.
Namibia  welcomes  the  recommendations  on  the
situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  as
contained in the report of the Security Council mission
to  Central  Africa  (S/2003/653).  We  concur  with  the
sentiments of paragraph 4 on the role  to  be  played  by
the  leadership  of  the  Government  of  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  “to  put  the  national  ahead  of
the  factional  interest”.  In  that  respect,  let  me  add  that
this will only be possible if and when all the States in
the region uphold in earnest Article 2 of the Charter.
intolerance  of 
impunity.  However, 
Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  recommendation
concerning 
to
achieve  the  desired  goal,  pressure  must  be  exerted  on
those who hold influence over the armed factions in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is not enough to
deplore  the  impunity  that  accompanies  the  aggression
and  the  illegal  exploitation  of  the  natural  resources  of
that  country; 
responsible  must  be  held
accountable.
those 
the 
proposed 
We  welcome 
international
conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  region  and  hope  that
this  will  mark  the  beginning  of  lasting  peace  for  the
Congolese  people,  as  well  as  for  the  people  of  the
whole region.
My  delegation  read  the  report  of  the  Security
Council  mission  to  West  Africa  (S/2003/688)  with
great interest.
that 
It is gratifying to note that the situation in Sierra
Leone  has  stabilized,  and 
the  process  of
governance  is  on  course.  If  we  are  to  meaningfully
assist  the  people  of  Sierra  Leone  in  that  regard,  we
must  help  them  to  create  conditions  for  sustainable
development,  in  which  their  natural  resources  will  be
exploited  to  their  benefit.  It  is  our  hope  that  the
Kimberly Process Certification Scheme will contribute
towards this end. While the United Nations Mission in
Sierra  Leone  is  drawing  down,  the  situation  in  the
region  must  be  taken  into  account,  as  should  the
possible impact it might have on the reconstruction of
5
A/58/PV.28
Sierra  Leone.  Particular  attention  must  be  paid  to  the
situation of women, children and refugees.
My delegation welcomes the joint mission of the
Security  Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council’s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau
to that country. We support the recommendations of the
mission  for  continued  collaboration  between 
the
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council
and 
the  Economic
Community of West African States.
increased  assistance 
for 
to 
The  commitment  of  Polisario  Front  and  the
Kingdom of Morocco to the ceasefire is a means to an
end. While it is commendable, it must not be seen as a
substitute to the right of the people of Western Sahara
to self-determination. My delegation strongly supports
the  immediate  implementation  of  Security  Council
resolution  1495  (2003)  and  calls  for  an  increased  role
by the Secretary-General on this matter. In this regard,
we  applaud  the  Polisario  Front  for  its  response  to  the
peace  plan,  as  presented  by  the  Secretary-General’s
Personal Envoy.
There  is  unanimity  in  the  Organization  that
Security Council resolutions are binding on all Member
States and that anything short of that will discredit the
Organization.  It  is  therefore  incomprehensible  that
Security  Council  resolutions  on  Palestine,  and  in
particular resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973) and 1397
(2002) continue to be flouted with impunity. We cannot
uphold  international  law  when  adherence  to  Security
Council  decisions  is  an  option  for  some  and  an
obligation for others. Pressure cannot be exerted on the
occupied,  while  the  occupiers  are  being  exonerated.
This concern is as valid for the situation in the Middle
East as it is for other situations anywhere in the world.
The  people  of  Palestine  deserve  their  own  State,  side
by side with that of Israel.
When  the  Security  Council  adopted  resolution
1325  (2000),  it  reaffirmed  the  role  of  women  in  the
process  of  peace-making  and  peace-building.  In  many
parts  of  the  world,  women  are  making  their  full
contribution to post-conflict reconstruction, a trend that
must  be  encouraged  and  supported.  With  regard  to
children  and  armed  conflict,  we  call  for  their  full
protection  and  urge  those  responsible  to  desist  from
using and recruiting them.
Namibia  reaffirms  its  opposition  to  all  acts,
methods  and  practices  of  terrorism,  and  reiterates  its
determination to combat it by every means available to
6
it, in accordance with our national laws. Undoubtedly,
we must enhance cooperation among Member States to
that end.
But  in  doing  so,  Namibia  continues  to  maintain
that,  measures  to  combat  international  terrorism  must
be in conformity with  international  obligations  arising
from  treaties  and  other  rules  of  international  law.  We
firmly  hold  the  view  that  the  principle  of  the  rule  of
law  is  as  central  in  today’s  globalized  institutions
dedicated  to  combating  terrorism  as  it  is  to  national
political  systems.  There  is  a  need  to  ensure  that  those
legal  tools  dedicated  to  combat  terrorism  do  not
undermine  values  that  are  fundamental  to  democracy,
liberty and justice — values that lie at the heart of the
international constitutional order.
In  these  times  of  growing  international  tension,
Namibia  is  concerned  about  the  unilateral  pressure
being exerted on States parties to the Rome Statute of
the  International  Criminal  Court  to  circumscribe  their
legal  commitment  to  the  Statute.  It  is  each  State’s
sovereign  prerogative  to  become,  or  not  to  become,  a
party  —  or  even  to  withdraw.  Furthermore,  Namibia
has once again noticed with great concern the adoption
of  another  Security  Council  resolution  —  resolution
1497 (2003) — under Chapter VII of the Charter, as if
the ICC were a threat to peace or an act of aggression.
In  our  view,  such  resolutions  can  undermine  the
jurisdiction of the ICC.
We last deliberated on these two items 12 months
ago,  when  a  cloud  of  a  possible  war  in  Iraq  was
hanging over our heads and when all eyes were on the
members of the Security Council in the hope that they
would reaffirm the centrality of the United Nations and
avert war. What has transpired between then and now,
in  a  way,  shapes  our  deliberations  on  peace  and
security during this session. We have all welcomed the
proposal 
the
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals
in 2005. The reform of the Security Council is part of
the  commitment  our  leaders  made  at  the  Millennium
Summit.
to  have  a  high-level 
review  of 
The  challenges  confronting  us  in  the  area  of
the
peace  and  security  are  a  direct 
result  of 
the
unrepresentative  and  undemocratic  nature  of 
composition  and  decision-making  of 
the  Security
Council.  For  12  years,  brilliant  ideas  have  been
advanced on how to correct the situation. For 12 years,
we  have  continued  to  seek  courage  to  expand  and
democratize  the  Security  Council.  How  much  more
must  the  international  situation  deteriorate  before  we
make 
today’s
challenges?
the  Security  Council 
relevant 
to 
the  Security  Council, 
Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil): At the outset, I would
like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  John  Negroponte,
President  of 
for  having
introduced  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General Assembly, covering the period from 1 August
2002 to 31 July 2003 (A/58/2). The submission of the
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council,  under  Articles
15  and  24  of  the  Charter,  is  a  commendable  practice,
which  should  enable  a  useful  and  wide-ranging
dialogue  between  these  two  principal  organs  of  the
United Nations. The report is the Council’s opportunity
to address the universal constituency on vital issues of
international peace and security.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  efforts  that  have
been  made  to  produce  an  accessible  and  user-friendly
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council:  one  can  easily
find the subjects under review, the number of meetings
involved,  the  number  of  resolutions  and  presidential
statements  adopted,  the  documents  that  have  been
circulated, dates, and so on. However useful, the report
still falls short  of  an  overview  of  the  decision-making
process,  the  goals  envisaged  or  any  of  the  positions
advocated  by  the  members.  We  have  been  seeking  a
report that is substantive rather than formal, analytical
rather than descriptive.
The  report’s  introduction  conveys  a  sense  of  the
Council’s  response  to  new  and  continuing  challenges.
We  look  forward  to  a  report  that  provides  a  fuller
analysis of how the Council deals with issues under its
review.  It  is  emblematic  that  one  of  the  subjects  that
most  figured  on  the  agenda  of  the  Council  during  the
period covered by the report — the situation in Iraq —
including  debates  at  the  ministerial  level,  has  been
accorded no more than three sentences in the analytical
section  of  the  document.  It  seems  important  to  know
how the Council manages its work, including possible
options that probably were at its disposal at the time.
We are aware that the Security Council is a body
in  which  confidentiality  and  informality  regarding  the
decision-making  process  are  part  of  the  business.  The
safeguards,  however,  should  not  compromise 
the
accountability of the Council to the wide membership,
which has entrusted it with the power to deal with the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.
A/58/PV.28
Transparency  adds  to  the  specific  weight  of  Security
Council  decisions.  A  better  clarification  of 
the
Council’s  modus  operandi  can  contribute  to  dispelling
possible  misgivings  regarding  its  effectiveness  and
even  relevance.  Transparency  and  participation  can
only enhance credibility and effectiveness.
We should encourage those practices that seem to
be  constructive  and  that  promote  a  better  relationship
between  the  Member  States  and  the  Council.  The
briefings  given  by  the  presidency  of  the  Security
Council at the end of each informal consultation are a
valuable initiative for our follow-up of the discussions
that  are  taking  place.  Moreover,  the  end-of-month
wrap-up  meetings,  which  could  be  a  regular  practice,
are  positive  means  to  enhance  interaction  and  to
promote synergy.
important  role 
My  delegation  also  understands  that  Security
Council  missions  can  play  an 
in
determining how the United Nations should be engaged
in efforts on the ground, as they have been in the cases
of  Guinea-Bissau,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Burundi,  the  Great
Lakes  region,  Kosovo  and,  by  the  end  of  the  month,
Afghanistan.  The  submission  of  reports  and 
the
discussions that usually take place in the aftermath can
produce a constructive and vibrant exchange of ideas.
Finally, 
tool 
important 
the  meetings  with 
troop-contributing
countries  are  an 
that  could  be
institutionalized,  since  the  great  majority  of  Member
States  whose  personnel  take  part  in  peacekeeping
operations  are  not  represented  on  the  Council.  The
growing  complexity  of  United  Nations  missions
mandated by the Council requires careful consideration
of that contribution by all States concerned.
Notwithstanding 
those  positive  developments,
opportunities  for  exchanges  between  members  and
non-members  remain  limited.  Although  discussions  in
the  Council  should  sometimes  flow  more  freely,  at
times it is entirely appropriate, or even necessary, that
Member  States  set  out  national  positions  during  open
meetings.  Ample  opportunity  and  due  consideration
should  be  given  to  the  messages  conveyed  by  the
membership as a whole, as they can enhance the debate
and  thus  provide  an  important  contribution  to  the
Council’s deliberations.
To conclude, let me observe that attention should
be drawn to the increasing engagement of the Security
Council  in  post-conflict  situations  and  in  the  realities
of reconstruction. There, concerns about political order
7
A/58/PV.28
and  security  are  combined  with  discussions  of  an
economic  and  social  nature.  Brazil  favours,  in  that
regard,  a  better  defined  partnership  between 
the
Security  Council  and  the  other  main  bodies  of  the
United  Nations  system,  so  as  to  contemplate  the
specific requirements of those situations. We call upon
the Security Council to look for greater interaction with
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council, as in the cases of Guinea-Bissau and Burundi,
so as to favour a comprehensive and in-depth approach
to  the  problems  with  which  it  is  faced.  Within  the
framework  of  a  broader  interpretation,  making  fuller
use  of  the  provision  contained  in  Article  65  of  the
Charter would be a first step in a positive direction.
Mr.  Ashiru  (Nigeria):  I  wish  to  express  the
appreciation  of  the  delegation  of  Nigeria  to  the
President  of  the  Security  Council,  the  Permanent
Representative  of  the  United  States  of  America,  for
introducing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General Assembly.  The  report  of  the  Security Council
(A/58/2) provides invaluable insights into the activities
of the Council during the course of the preceding year.
The report highlights issues such as the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security,  disarmament  and
international  humanitarian  efforts.  Significantly, 
it
represents  the  efforts  of  the  Security  Council  to  make
itself  accountable  to  the  membership  of  the  United
Nations,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article
24 of the Charter.
Nigeria is encouraged by the fact that the Council
continues  to  respond  positively  to  the  demands  of  the
membership  that  its  report  should  be  more  analytical,
concise  and  easy  to  read.  We  welcome  the  significant
improvement in the quality of the report, particularly of
the statistical information provided.
The introduction, which summarizes  activities of
the  Council  as  they  relate  to  specific  conflict  areas  is
also  welcome,  as  it  makes  for  easy  reference  to  the
specific subject matter. We commend that improvement
in the format and urge its retention.
Despite  its  best  intentions,  the  Security  Council
continues  to  be  besieged  with  the  thorny  issue  of
conflict  prevention  and  resolution.  While  the  Council
has  made  appreciable  progress  in  resolving  some
conflicts,  as  borne  out  by  the  number  of  peace
agreements  signed,  it  is  our  view  that  the  Council,  in
conjunction with the international community, can still
to do more to make the world a safer place.
8
non-governmental 
In  that  regard,  Nigeria  endorses  the  involvement
of  the  wider  society,  such  as  subregional  and  regional
organizations, 
organizations,
international  financial  institutions  and  development
the  process  of  conflict  prevention,
agencies, 
in 
management 
and 
collective
contribution  can  no  doubt  substantially  help  in  the
reduction  of  socio-political  and  economic  pressures,
pressures  which,  if  not  defused,  often  lead  to  violent
conflicts and sometimes to war.
resolution.  Their 
With respect to the situation in Sierra Leone, we
note  the  continued  progress  that  has  been  made  since
the conclusion of democratic elections in that country.
We support the Security Council’s modified withdrawal
plan  for  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Sierra  Leone
(UNAMSIL)  and  suggest  that  caution  be  used  in  its
implementation  to  ensure  that  the  security  of  the
country  is  not  negatively  affected.  Nigeria  supports
Security  Council  resolution  1508  (2003)  on  Sierra
Leone and calls on the Council to assist in the ongoing
task of the integration of ex-combatants.
Sierra  Leone  still  needs  to  be  assisted  in  the
training  of  its  police  and  army,  both  of  which  will  be
fully responsible for the maintenance of security in the
country after the withdrawal of United Nations troops.
The  Sierra  Leone  Government  also  needs  further
assistance 
civilian
administration  and  political  institutions,  particularly
courts of law, that will ensure practical implementation
of the rule of law. This is necessary to ensure that the
gains of the peace process are not lost.
establish 
to 
an 
effective 
In  that  connection,  we  observe  that  the  Security
Council  has  played  a  commendable  role  in  addressing
complex humanitarian, political and security situations
in  the  Mano  River  Union  States,  as  well  as  in  other
States  in  West  Africa,  especially  Guinea-Bissau  and
Côte  d’Ivoire.  However,  in  order  to  ensure  lasting
peace in the subregion, we urge the Council to come up
with  a  comprehensive  security  arrangement  for  the
entire  Mano  River  Union  area  that  would  address  the
cycle of strife, instability and conflicts.
to 
the  Security
Council’s  efforts  at  implementing  its  current  mandate
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. We note with
dismay that despite the authorization by the Council of
phase  III  of  the  deployment  of  the  United  Nations
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the  Congo  (MONUC),  the  number  of  combatants
Nigeria  remains  committed 
remains 
in 
the 
and 
reintegration 
low.  Progress 
presenting themselves for disarmament, demobilization
and 
has
unfortunately  been  hampered  by  continued  violence
and  obstructionist  activity  by  some  leaders  of  the
armed  groups.  In  that  regard,  we  urge  the  parties  to
cooperate  and  facilitate  early  implementation  of  the
Secretary-General’s  recommendation  on  the  expansion
of  the  mandate  of  MONUC.  We  welcome  Security
Council  assistance 
the
disarmament 
reintegration
programme, and urge Member States as well as troop-
contributing countries to provide the additional troops,
personnel  and  equipment  needed 
the
situation,  particularly  in  the  north-east  Ituri  district  of
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
implementation  of 
demobilization 
to  stabilize 
resolution  1484 
We  reaffirm  our  support  and  commitment  to
Security  Council 
(2003),  which
authorized  deployment  of  an  Interim  Emergency
Multinational Force in Bunia. We note with satisfaction
that  the  Force  made  a  significant  contribution  to
stabilizing  security  and  the  humanitarian  situation  in
Bunia.  Nigeria  welcomes 
the  establishment  of  a
Government  of  national  unity  in  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  would  urge  continued
national  reconciliation  efforts,  which,  we  hope,  will
lead to durable peace and stability.
The  situation  in  Liberia  tested  and  stretched  the
ability  of  the  international  community  to  respond
proactively 
to  a  humanitarian  catastrophe.  The
magnitude  of  the  human  suffering  was  such  that
Nigeria  could  not  ignore  the  scale  of  the  destruction
and  human  carnage.  Nigeria’s  decision  to  deploy  its
troops in the face of obvious perils and attendant costs
was predicated on the reality of the situation in Liberia.
Nigeria’s offer of political  asylum  to  former  President
Charles  Taylor  and  the  early  deployment  of  its  troops
were a humanitarian gesture to arrest the deteriorating
situation  and 
the
multinational force.
the  deployment  of 
facilitate 
In  this  regard,  we  note  that  the  Security  Council
has  remained  engaged  with  the  protracted  conflict
situation in Liberia. Nigeria welcomes the adoption of
Security  Council  resolution  1509  (2003)  establishing
the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  (UNMIL)  and
calls  on  the  international  community  to  support  and
ensure the  effective implementation of  that  resolution.
We urge the various factions in Liberia to give peace a
chance, 
reconciliation,
reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  of  their  country.  The
effect  national 
and 
to 
A/58/PV.28
people  of  Liberia  deserve  nothing  but  peace,  having
been subjected to almost 14 years of civil war.
Nigeria endorses the Security Council’s continued
efforts to contain terrorism and urges Member States to
support  those  efforts.  We  condemn  in  the  strongest
terms  the  terrorist  attack  on  the  United  Nations
headquarters  in  Baghdad,  Iraq,  on  19  August  2003
which resulted in the death of 22 people, including Mr.
Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  the  High  Commissioner  for
Human  Rights  and  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General for Iraq. We affirm our support  and
commitment 
to  Security  Council  resolution  1502
(2003)  on  the  protection  of  civilians  and  the  safety  of
United  Nations  and  associated  personnel,  and  urge
strict  compliance  with  it.  We  commend  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  for  effectively  galvanizing  an
international coalition against international terrorism.
Those  efforts  confirm  the  determination  of  the
Council  to  live  up  to  its  Charter  obligations  for  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.
Nigeria  remains  committed  to  the  global  effort  to
combat international terrorism in all its ramifications.
Nigeria  commends  the  briefings  by  the  Security
Council to non-members of the Council as well as the
briefings  to  the  Chairmen  of  the  regional  groups.  We
note  the  regularity  of  the  meetings  and  consultations
with troop-contributing countries especially the system
of  briefing 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  a  mission  is  presented  to  the
Council.
those  countries  before 
As  a  major  troop-contributing  country,  Nigeria
believes  that  the  continuation  of  this  process  of
consultation  by  the  Security  Council  will  eliminate
frictions  early  on  and  will 
facilitate  effective
peacekeeping  operations  in  the  field.  Furthermore,  we
urge  that  the  end-of-month  wrap-up  meetings  of  the
Council remain as informal and interactive as possible.
Nigeria  supports  those  meetings  as 
they  provide
Member States the opportunity to exchange views with
the  Council  and  enable  them  to  benefit  from  lessons
learned by all sides.
We  note  that  the  Security  Council  undertook  a
number of ad hoc missions to conflict locations during
the period under review. Nigeria supports that strategy.
We believe that such missions will enhance the ability
of  the  Council  to  properly  assess  situations.  In  that
regard,  Nigeria  commends  Council  for  dispatching
missions  to  West  Africa,  the  Democratic  Republic  of
9
A/58/PV.28
the  Congo  and  the  Great  Lakes  region.  We  urge  the
continuation of that practice.
Nigeria reaffirms its support for thematic debates
in the Council on such issues as women and peace and
security;  children  and  armed  conflict;  and 
the
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  and
mercenary  activities:  threats  to  peace  and  security  in
West  Africa.  These  debates  have  always  provided
opportunities  for  the  Council  and  Member  States  to
focus on the issues in question.
the  efforts  of 
Notwithstanding 
the  Security
Council  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security, Nigeria remains committed to the reform and
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  so  as  to  make  it
more  responsive  to  contemporary  global  needs  and
challenges.
We note with dismay that obstacles continue to be
placed  against  the  adoption  of  any  of  the  constructive
proposals  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We
appreciate  the  changes  that  are  being  made  in  the
Council’s  working  method  in  response  to  demands  by
Member  States  for  more  openness  and  transparency.
We consider these changes no more than marginal, and
therefore reiterate our long held conviction that what is
required  is  fundamental  reform  and  expansion  of  the
membership of the Council in both permanent and non-
permanent categories.
It  is  only  such  reform  that  will  reposition  the
Security  Council  to  enable  it  respond  to  issues  of
international  peace  and  security  in  a  much  more
comprehensive,  objective  and  effective  manner.  The
overwhelming  membership  of  our  organization
demands  no  less  in  the  interest  of  its  continued
relevance.
in  making 
to  global  challenges  and  meeting 
Finally, Nigeria pledges its support for the efforts
itself  more
the  Security  Council 
of 
responsive 
the
yearnings  of  Member  States,  and  reiterates  our
determination to encourage the Council as it continues
to 
its
responsibility justly in the maintenance of international
peace  and  security  and  in  accordance  with  the  United
Nations Charter.
its  work  methods  and  discharge 
improve 
Mr.  Baali  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I  would
like 
to 
the
Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  States  and
current president of the Security Council for the month
thank  Ambassador  John  Negroponte, 
10
of  October,  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  the
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General
Assembly.
An  analysis  of  the  Charter  proves  how  much
exercise  by  the  Security  Council  of 
its  primary
responsibility is linked to the consideration of its report
by  the  General  Assembly.  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of
the  United  Nations  Charter  requires  the  Security
Council  to  submit  to  the  General  Assembly  an  annual
report on its work.
The  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the
Council  to  the  Assembly  creates  rules  that  govern  the
relationship  between  the  two  principal  organs  of  the
United  Nations.  Consideration  of  this  item  always
provides, we feel, an ideal opportunity for an exchange
of  views  on  how  to  improve  the  working  methods  of
the Council to make them more transparent and how to
limit the secrecy of this important organ.
The  exercise  we  are  involved  in  today  should
provide  a  valuable  opportunity  for  our  Assembly  to
consider  in  depth  the  activities  of  the  Council  and  to
identify  measures  that  should  be  taken  to  make  the
necessary improvements.
Furthermore,  this  return  to  the  previous  practice
of having two separate discussions on the two priority
issues  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  annual  report  of
the  Security  Council  and  the  reform  of  that  body,
seems more appropriate to me. The first experiment of
last year, whereby we merged these two items, showed
its  limitations  as  far  as  providing  an  opportunity  to
Member States to properly examine in a more detailed
fashion these two items.
to  welcome 
My  delegation  continues 
the
inclusion,  for  the  second  time  in  the  report,  of  a  brief
analytical  summary.  This  analytical  part  provides
indicators  of  achievement  of  the  work  done  by  the
Council  and  should  be  supplemented  by  proposals  or
recommendations about how to improve its work.
This chapter of the report should not be limited to
what has been done by the Council. It would be  more
useful to reflect in  an objective  manner on its  failures
and the reasons for those failures.
Only  by  making  available  to  Member  States  a
very  useful,  full  and  substantive  document  could  they
then be able to assess in depth the work of the Council.
It  is  a  matter  of  the  Council’s  credibility  that  its
internal  rules  of  procedure  are  still  provisional,  58
years  after  the  creation  of  that  body.  The  provisional
rules have sometimes led to undesirable practices in the
conduct of public meetings. In this respect I refer to the
open  debate  that  took  place  last  month  on  the  Middle
East,  during  which  States  were  confined  to  three
minutes  per  delegation  to  express  their  views  on  a
question as complex as the question of the Middle East.
Any  change  to  the  rules  adopted  by  the  Council  or  to
its  practices  should  be  stipulated  in  the  rules  of
procedure.
On the other hand, we note a positive change with
regard to the increase in the number of public meetings
during  the  reporting  period,  providing  an  opportunity
to non-members to state their views on items before the
Council.  However,  the  private  informal  consultations
that  are  not  covered  by  the  provisional  rules  of
procedure  have  become  the  norm,  rather  than  the
exception.
that 
Given  this  situation,  my  delegation  continues  to
believe 
it  would  be  wise  for  consultations
following  the  open  meetings  to  be  open  regularly  to
parties  interested  or  concerned  by  the  question  under
discussion  in  order  to  seek  their  views,  which  would
enable  the  Council  to  have  a  better  understanding  of
these  subjects  and  hence,  would  help  the  Council  to
take decisions more advisedly.
On  the  other  hand,  we  note  with  concern  that
most  of  the  briefings  by  the  Secretariat  and  by
representatives  of  the  Secretary-General  for  various
conflicts,  take  place  in  private,  not  in  open  meetings,
even  though  this  information  is  also  useful  for  non-
member  States  of  the  Council  who  should  also  then
have  the  opportunity  to  give  their  views  on  these
conflicts in question.
there 
is  an 
The  Security  Council’s  wrap-up  sessions  are  an
innovation  to  be  encouraged.  These  meetings,  during
which 
interactive  dialogue  between
members and non-members of the Council, are proof of
the  need  for  greater  openness.  These  meetings  have
proven  their  usefulness  and  validity  and  should  be
institutionalized and held regularly.
Another aspect my delegation wanted to touch on
has  to  do  with  consultations  among  members  of  the
Council. It is disquieting to note that at a time when the
Council,  in  a  spirit  of  openness,  is  increasing  the
number  of  open  debates, 
ten  non-permanent
members  are  not  fully  involved  in  the  process  of
consultation when it comes to delicate questions.
the 
A/58/PV.28
that 
recognize 
On  substance  we  must 
the
reporting  period  has  been  an  extraordinary  period  for
the  Council  in  many  respects  and  that  it  has  been
extremely  active  during  this  period.  The  Council  has
had  some  successes  and  some  failures.  First,  we  note
the  Council 
the  outstanding  achievements  of 
in
combating 
terrorism,  particularly 
the  adoption  of
resolutions  1455  and  1456  of  2003,  strengthening  the
mandate  of  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  and
putting  an  end  to  the  financing  of  and  support  for
terrorism.
We  also  should  take  note  of  progress  made  with
regard to a number of peacekeeping operations  and of
the  support  the  Council  has  continued  to  give  them,
particularly 
the  Council’s
commitment,  positive  changes  have  occurred  in  areas
of  conflict  in  Africa.  Security  Council  missions  to
several areas of conflict have had a positive impact on
the local protagonists.
in  Africa.  Thanks 
to 
In light of these good experiences, we encourage
this  kind  of  initiative  and  action  and  call  for  their
formalization  and  their  expansion  to  other  areas  of
conflict.  But  the  Council’s  contribution  is  far  from
meeting the aspirations of African countries. We think
the  Council  should  take  the  opportunity  to  act  and
provide  useful  support  for  the  African  Union  and  its
mechanisms,  to  make  it  possible  to  attain  the  results
hoped for in conflict settlement.
On  the  other  hand,  on  the  subject  of  the  Middle
East, 
the  Council  has  fallen  well  short  of 
the
expectations  placed  in  it.  It  has  been  prevented,  thus
far,  from  playing  its  rightful  role  here.  The  monthly
briefing  by  the  Secretariat  and  the  holding  of  several
open debates on occupied Palestine have unfortunately
not  had  an  impact  on  the  situation  on  the  ground.
Either  Israel  has  continued  to  flout  the  Council’s
resolutions  or,  more  often  than  not,  the  Council  has
been unable to do anything because it has been blocked
by the anachronistic privilege of the veto.
if 
that 
We  are  convinced 
the  Council  had
approved  the  establishment  of  a  United  Nations  or
international  presence  in  the  occupied  Palestinian
territories, the violence we are witnessing today would
have been largely avoided or lessened and the situation
today  would  without  doubt  be  more  conducive  to  a
negotiated settlement.
The other Arab question confronting the Council
is  the  question  of  Iraq.  In  addressing  that  issue,  the
11
A/58/PV.28
Council is going through the most crucial period in its
history. The Council should act immediately to put an
end to the suffering of the Iraqi people, whose situation
continues to be most tragic. The Council should enable
the  United  Nations  to  play  the  central  role  incumbent
upon it and should enable the Iraqi people to regain the
full exercise of their sovereignty as soon as possible.
Indeed,  as  President  Bouteflika  said  on  24
September  2003  during  his  address  to  the  General
Assembly (see A/58/PV.9), only the United Nations can
legitimately and effectively accompany the institution-
building and reconstruction of the country, and its role
in these processes is of paramount importance.
Mr.  Neil  (Jamaica):  The  report  of  the  Security
Council  which  is  before  us  (A/58/2)  is  a  bulky
document of 221 pages, the real substance of which is
contained  in  the  introductory  section  of  14  pages,
containing  a  descriptive  account  of  the  Council’s
activities,  with  the  rest  of  the  document  consisting  of
documentary  information  and  references.  We  would
have benefited more from substance and analysis. The
period  covered  was  one  of  intense  activity  as  the
Council  held  more  than  200  formal  meetings  along
with numerous informal meetings and consultations.
The  dominant  issue  in  the  Council’s  activity
related to the disarmament of Iraq. It formed part of the
dramatic  events  which  captured  world  attention  amid
controversy  and  debate  on  the  role  of  the  United
Nations. As a result of profound divisions, the Council
was unable to control or determine the course of events
following the decision taken by a coalition of States to
take  military  action  without  authorization  by  the
Council.
The record of the Security Council in that process
had some positive elements as, in some ways, members
sought  to  exercise  their  responsibility  with  due  regard
for 
the  Charter.  Political
circumstances  created  a  difficult  time  for  the  Council,
which is still grappling with the complications flowing
from the unfolding events.
principles 
the 
of 
The  other  area  of  concentrated  effort  was  Africa
where  there  were  some  positive  indications  of  the
Council’s effectiveness in dealing with particular areas
of  conflict.  We  note  the  improving  situation  in  Sierra
Leone and Angola and intervention with respect to the
conflicts  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia  and  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo.  There  are  concerns  with  the
to
level  and  urgency  of 
the  Council’s  response 
12
developments  in  both  Liberia  and  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  which  was  hesitant  and  tardy.
In Liberia, the slowness to engage  may have caused a
worsening of the humanitarian situation up to the time
of  the  deployment  of  the  Economic  Community  of
West African States (ECOWAS) vanguard force.
that 
In  general,  we  believe 
the  Council’s
engagement  in  Africa  could  have  been  fortified  by  a
greater  sense  of  urgency  and  a  larger  commitment  of
resources 
terms  of  manpower  and  economic
assistance  to  provide  for  security  and  stability  in  a
situation where there had been so much disruption and
humanitarian need.
in 
With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East,
which  has  been  a  continued  source  of  anxiety  and
frustration,  the  year  carried  us  through  a  familiar
pattern  of  hope  and  despair.  The  road  map  was
heralded as opening the way for peace, but that process
has  been  unravelling.  The  role  being  played  by  the
Security Council appears to be uncertain and tentative.
The United Nations is declared as being a party to
the  Quartet,  under  whose  sponsorship  the  road  map
was launched. But it is not clear to some of us what is
the  agency  through  which  the  United  Nations  is
represented in this process. There does not appear to be
any active role being performed by the Organization in
terms  of  the  formulation  of  the  plan  or  in  the
monitoring and strategy of implementation. The United
Nations  appears  to  be  only  a  nominal  partner  or  a
bystander,  since  there  is  little  evidence  that  the
Security  Council  has  been  significantly  engaged.  The
report  merely  indicates  that  the  Council  followed  the
work of the Quartet and reiterated support for the road
map and the Quartet’s efforts.
We also note that the Council continued to engage
in  holding  debates  on  thematic  issues,  though  there
seems  to  be  a  lessening  of  that  activity.  In  our  view,
such debates are an unnecessary addition to the work of
the  Council.  Besides,  the  practice  gives  us  increasing
concern  with  respect  to  duplication  and  encroachment
on  subject  matters  which  are  more  appropriately
handled  by 
the  General  Assembly.  We  would
recommend  that  in  order  to  respect  the  different
competencies  of  the  various  organs,  the  practice  of
holding  debates  on  thematic  questions  should  be
reviewed and possibly discontinued.
With regard to the operations of the Council, we
would wish to make two observations. The first is that
in 
the  debates  before 
there  is  continued  concern  about  transparency  and  a
failure to give  due  attention  to  the  views  of  the  wider
membership  expressed 
the
Council.  When  decisions  are  taken  before  a  debate  is
held  and  when  non-members  are  heard  after  Council
members  have  spoken, 
the  contribution  of  non-
members cannot be really effective. We believe that it
is incumbent on the Council in its decision-making, to
take  account  of  the  views  of  interested  parties  and  of
the wider membership. That is a serious obligation on
the Council, as it acts on behalf of the membership to
safeguard international peace and security.
to  be  concentrated  among 
The  second  point  relates  to  the  tendency  for
decision-making 
the
permanent members and to the limited role assigned to
the  elected  members  of  the  body.  We  continue  to  feel
concerned  at  this  trend  of  a  growing  concentration  of
power in decision-making. We understand the realities
of power, but the fact is that an undemocratic process is
undermining  the  legitimacy  of  the  Council’s  decisions
and the authority of Council action.
Under  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  the  Security
Council acts on behalf of the international community
and is therefore accountable to  the  General  Assembly.
Accordingly,  we  believe  it  is  important  that  the
Security  Council  be  formally  informed  of  the  views,
observations  and  recommendations  of  the  General
Assembly in relation to its report. As a follow-up to the
present  debate,  we  would  suggest  that  a  special
meeting  of  the  Security  Council  be  held  to  hear  the
response  of  the  General  Assembly,  either  through  a
statement  made  by  the  President  of  the  Assembly
summarizing  the  debate  or  alternately  through  the
the  General
adoption  of  a  formal  document  by 
Assembly 
the  Council.
Accountability  should  thus  be  formally  acknowledged
in  order  that  the  General  Assembly  can  carry  out  its
role envisaged in the Charter as a principal organ of the
United Nations.
presentation 
for 
to 
With regard to reform of the Security Council, we
regret the lack of progress. We continue to underscore
the  importance  of  enlarging  the  composition  of  the
Security Council to make it more representative, and of
reforming  its  decision-making  procedures  to  conform
to the principle of the sovereign equality of States. The
situation cannot continue to be left in abeyance because
of  a  failure  to  find  consensus.  Some  new  initiative
should be undertaken, utilizing a democratic procedure
to move the process forward.
A/58/PV.28
Jamaica  places  its  trust  in  you,  Mr.  President,
having  regard  to  the  sense  of  commitment  that  you
have demonstrated for the strengthening of the United
Nations system. Your political experience and skill are
our  greatest  assets  for  progress  during  this  Assembly
session.  We  need  to  show  some  positive  results  from
the  years  of  meetings,  consultations,  discussions  and
negotiations. To succeed, we will need the full support
and  contribution  of  all  Members  of  the  Organization.
You can be assured, Sir, that Jamaica will do its part.
Mr. Spatafora (Italy): First of all, I would like to
thank  the  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,
Ambassador  Negroponte,  for  his  presentation  of  the
report of the Council (A/58/2), which contains valuable
information  with  which  we  can  assess  the  Council’s
work over the 12-month reporting period, a period that
has been particularly challenging in terms of its role of
maintaining international peace and security.
The  report  highlights  the  broadening  scope  of
responsibilities  that  the  Security  Council  assumed  on
various  fronts  simultaneously,  from  regional  crises  to
counter-terrorism, from the proliferation of small arms
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  other
thematic  issues.  We  take  note  of  the  efforts  that
members  of  the  Security  Council,  in  fulfilling  their
responsibilities,  have  dedicated 
the
transparency,  openness  and  inclusiveness  —  outreach
to  non-members  —  of  their  working  methods.  Here,  I
would  like  to  recall  the  meaningful  remarks  made  by
some  of  my  colleagues;  here,  I  would  mention  the
representatives  of  Jamaica,  Japan,  Brazil  and  Algeria.
We fully agree with those remarks.
improving 
to 
Further progress could be made in that direction.
Indeed,  transparency  continues  to  be  an  important
means  by  which  non-members  of  the  Council  can  not
only be informed about the state of deliberations inside
the Security Council, but also communicate their views
and  positions  on  specific  issues.  Another  area  where
continued progress should be made is in the interaction
between  Security  Council  members  and  non-members
whose  interests  are  specially  affected,  as  provided  for
in Article 31 of the Charter.
Last year the Secretary-General recommended, in
his  report  “Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  an
agenda  for  further  change”  (A/57/387), 
the
Security  Council  consider  codifying  recent  changes  in
its  practice.  We  renew  our  support  for  the  Secretary-
General’s call.
that 
13
A/58/PV.28
to 
Greater  participation  of  non-members  on  issues
such  as  conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and
transition  to  post-conflict  peace-building  could  bring
substantial  value  to  Security  Council  decision-making
and  could  help  mobilize  the  active  support  of  the
international  community.  An  enhanced  dialogue  with
non-members  could  contribute 
forging  more
effective and coherent global policies to address many
pressing crises that confront us today. Promotion of the
rule  of  law,  protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflicts
and  gender  mainstreaming  in  peace  operations  are
further  areas  where 
the  broader
membership  could  be  useful  to  the  definition  of
Security  Council  lines  of  action.  A  framework  for
cooperation with troop-contributing countries has been
established. There is still unexploited potential. Similar
flexible  mechanisms,  based  on 
transparency  and
dialogue,  could  be  developed  with  regard  to  other
components  of  Security  Council  activity,  for  example
the management of special political missions.
interaction  with 
those 
that  have  developed 
The  Security  Council  could  further  develop  its
relations and consultations with regional organizations,
particularly 
crisis-
management  capacities  to  such  a  level  that  they  can
effectively  contribute  to  the  collective  action  of  the
international community. The Council could thus avail
itself  more  frequently  of  the  views  of  those  regional
organizations,  since  they  are  often  equipped  with
significant political and financial resources, and better
able  to  mobilize  the  will  of  the  main  regional  actors.
The  same  applies  to  implementation  of  sanctions,
where 
regional
organizations  and  sanctions  committees  or  monitoring
groups can yield satisfactory results.
cooperation 
between 
close 
Italy supports the continuing efforts by sanctions
committees  to  improve  their  working  methods,  thus
increasing  transparency  and  effective  fulfilment  of
their mandates.
This rare opportunity for dialogue and interaction
between  two  main  organs  of  the  United  Nations,
pursuant  to  Article  15  of  the  Charter,  should  not  be
merely  ritualistic.  It  is  our  hope  that  it  will  induce
specific, constructive proposals to improve the capacity
of  the  Security  Council  to  effectively  and  collectively
face  new  global  challenges  and  emerging  threats  to
international peace and security.
In  the  context  of  United  Nations  reform,  it  is
important to forge stronger interactive links among the
14
Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Economic and Social Council, so that their partnerships
become  more  operational  and  effective  which  would
strengthen the coherence of the United Nations system.
Furthermore,  better  structural  dialogue  with  United
Nations agencies, funds and programmes could help in
defining  more  credible  mandates  during  crisis
management,  exit  strategies  and  transition  to  peace-
building.  We  should  seize  this  moment  to  reform  the
practices  of  the  Security  Council  and  move  the
dialogue forward.
Mr. Fadaifard (Islamic Republic of Iran): I wish
to  begin  by 
thanking  His  Excellency  Mr.  John
Negroponte, the President of the Security Council, for
introducing  the  report  of  the  Council  (A/58/2)  to  the
General Assembly.
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  agenda  item
under  consideration.  What  we  are  considering  is  the
annual  report  by  the  Security  Council  to  the  General
Assembly  on  the  way  the  Council  conducts  its  work,
which  constitutes  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security on behalf of the full membership of
the  United  Nations.  The  submission  of  the  annual
report as stipulated by the Charter is the constitutional
link  which  establishes  accountability  between  two
principal organs of the United Nations. In other words,
the annual report represents an effort by the Council to
live up to the expectations of the membership and to be
accountable  for  its  work  to  that  membership,  from
which it receives its powers.
As  to  the  content  and  structure  of  the  report
before us, we note that it has been prepared in line with
the revised format agreed upon by the Security Council
in  2002.  It  provides  a  guide  to  the  activities  of  the
Council  in  a  concise  manner.  This  is  the  second  such
report prepared in this way. Here, the Council aimed to
enhance the  quality  of  the  report  and  to  accommodate
the views expressed on the previous format.
report 
is  more
streamlined,  better  focused,  concise  and  shorter,
avoiding  overlapping  and  repetition  and  thereby  also
reducing  the  cost  of  its  production.  Thus,  we  believe
that,  to  some  extent,  the  present  report  has  rectified  a
defect  in  the  way  the  Council  previously  reported  to
the Assembly. While it is dramatically reduced in size,
at 
it  provides  more  statistical
information on the Council’s activities.
is  noticeable 
the  same 
time, 
that 
It 
the 
The most important innovation introduced to last
year’s  report  is  also  present  in  this  year’s  report.  The
introduction  of  the  current  report  highlights  continued
effort by the Council to present an analytical summary
of its work for the period covered by the report, which
represents  an  effort  to  address  the  main  criticism
repeated  year  after  year  in  past  General  Assembly
debates  on 
is,
undoubtedly,  an  improvement  over  preceding  reports,
we  believe,  however,  that  there  is  still  room  for
improving 
it  more
analytical  and  less  descriptive,  and  by  providing
information about informal consultations and rationales
behind the decisions made by the Council.
introduction  by  making 
report.  While 
the 
the  Council’s 
it 
The  report  is  indicative  of  the  large  number  of
open meetings of the Council held in the period under
review. The holding of 207 open meetings is significant
and is one of the highest in the Council’s history. That
is partly because of the Council’s crowded agenda last
year  and  partly  due  to  increased  efforts  in  the  area  of
transparency and  openness  in  the  work  of  the  Council
and  its  relationship  with  the  wider  United  Nations
membership. As a result, non-members of the Council
had greater opportunity to participate in its work. It is
important that the Council build upon this achievement
and enhance links between the members of the Council
and the Members of the General Assembly.
While  the  working  methods  of  the  Council  were
also  improved  over  previous  years,  mainly  as  a  result
of ideas expressed and progress made in the course of
the deliberations of the Open-ended Working Group on
Security  Council  Reform,  it  is  noticeable,  however,
that,  especially  with  regard  to  certain  sensitive  issues,
the five permanent members are increasingly acquiring
special  privileges 
informally
coordinating  among  themselves  in  a  format  where  the
elected members are absent.
in  considering  and 
It  is  unfortunate  that  last  year,  like  preceding
years,  the  number  of  issues  on  which  the  permanent
five  resorted  to  exclusive  deliberations  and  embarked
on a decision-making process of their own was on the
rise.  It  is  an  unacceptable  procedure,  which  is  in
contrast  to  the  trend  towards  more  transparency  and
democratization  of  the  Council.  That  procedure,  if
unchecked,  will  prevent  the  elected  members  from
fully participating in the work of the Council, thereby
undermining further the legitimacy and the authority of
its decisions.
A/58/PV.28
the 
Moreover,  we  notice  a  trend  towards  a  more
complicated  decision-making  process  in  the  Council.
The  number  of  subsidiary  organs  of  the  Security
Council is on the rise. Committees, monitoring groups
and 
like  are  proliferating  and  playing  an
increasingly important role in the work of the Council,
in  its  decision-making  or  in  the  implementation  of  its
decisions.  It  is  very  important  that  these  subsidiary
organs  of  the  Council  work  in  a  way  in  which  the
general membership of the United Nations can receive
adequate information on their role and functions.
While considering the functioning of the Security
Council  over  past  years,  we  cannot  refrain  from
expressing  our  frustration  at  the  Council’s  inability  to
address  effectively  the  Palestinian  question,  which  is
one of the grave ongoing  crises  threatening  peace  and
security in the sensitive region of the Middle East. It is
appropriate  and  useful  that,  in  the  past  year,  the
Council  could  convene  monthly  meetings  at  which
members  received briefings from the  representative  of
the  Secretary-General  or  high-ranking  Secretariat
officials.  Undoubtedly, 
those  meetings  had  an
informative  effect  and  helped  the  Council  not  to  lose
sight of the difficult situation in the Middle East.
that 
While  we  hope 
the  monthly  briefings
continue  this  year,  we  hardly  find  it  effective  in
meeting  the  responsibility  shouldered  by  the  Council.
We  acknowledge  that  the  recourse  to  veto  power
several times in the past two years alone is responsible
for the Council’s paralysis in this area.
Undoubtedly, world public opinion has noted the
double standard with which the Council treated, in the
last  year,  the  Iraqi  question,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the
Palestinian  question,  on  the  other.  There  should  be  no
doubt that, in continuing to work that way, the Council
does  not  contribute  to  its  legitimacy  and  authority  in
the eyes of the general membership and of world public
opinion.
Mr. De Rivero (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I wish
to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United
States,  the  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,
for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Council
covering  the  period  from  1  August  2002  to  31  July
2003 (A/58/2).
In  the  past  few  months,  we  have  witnessed  an
intense  international  debate  on  the  role  of  the  United
Nations, particularly of the Security Council.  In  many
cases,  during  these  debates,  the  ability  of  the  United
15
A/58/PV.28
the  Rio  Group,  I  felt 
Nations  and  the  Security  Council  to  act  and  to  make
decisions  have  been  called  into  question  and  their
future considered uncertain. In those circumstances, as
President  of 
it  was
appropriate  to  invite  to  our  Group  the  well-known
academic, Mr. Paul Kennedy, Professor of History and
Director of the Centre of International Security Studies
at  Yale  University,  to  have  a  dialogue  with  the
Ambassadors  of  the  Rio  Group  on  challenges  to
international  security  and  on  the  future  of  the  United
Nations.
that 
all 
these 
During our dialogue with Professor Kennedy, we
drew  the  conclusion  that  global  challenges  such  as
terrorism,  poverty,  migration,  drug 
trafficking,
trafficking  in  people  and  weapons  and  increasing
ecological deterioration are affecting the stability of all
our societies, irrespective of borders. That is  affecting
international  peace  and  security.  We  also  agreed  that
today 
complex
they  cannot  be
interdependency,  and 
addressed in a unilateral or isolated way, and much less
through  a  purely  military  approach.  Quite  to  the
contrary,  those  challenges  should  be  faced  with  a
common strategy on the part of all of our countries. In
other  words, 
they  cannot  be  overcome  without
multilateralism.  That  was  also  the  conclusion  reached
by  Harvard  professors  Joseph  Nye  and  Samuel
Huntington in recently published essays.
challenges 
therefore 
form 
a 
is 
the 
today 
Lastly, it is becoming increasingly clear in world
public opinion, the academic world and the diplomatic
sphere  that,  given  the  current  international  situation,
the  United  Nations 
indispensable
organization to overcome the challenges of the twenty-
first  century.  A  realistic  collective  security  policy  on
the  part  of  the  Security  Council  will  be  the  most
appropriate way to overcome many of those challenges.
Nevertheless, we believe that the functions of the
Security  Council  must  be  improved.  Peru  therefore
supports a reform of the Security Council that makes it
a more representative body and improves its decision-
making  process  and  working  methods,  so  that  it  may
effectively assume its responsibilities in the face of the
challenges  to  international  peace  and  security  in  the
twenty-first  century.  But  before  any  reform  is  carried
out,  it  is  imperative  to  ensure  the  fulfilment  of  the
Council’s  resolutions  and  decisions  so  as  to  avoid
losing  credibility  for  that  body  in  international  public
opinion, and consequently in the United Nations.
16
Adequate  cooperation  between 
the  General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  is  important  to
strengthening  the  United  Nations.  For  example,  the
General  Assembly’s  adoption  of  a  resolution  on  the
prevention  of  conflict  is  an  example  of  that  body’s
ability  to  contribute  to  the  consideration  of  issues
linked  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security, which falls under the purview of the Security
Council.  That  resolution  encourages 
the  Security
Council to use appropriate mechanisms to contribute to
the effective prevention of conflict.
to  socio-economic  aspects 
We  can  also  count  on  another  resolution  of  the
General  Assembly  that  recognizes  the  importance  of
facing  up 
that  could
exacerbate civil conflicts. It also calls for the adoption
of  measures  to  promote  sustainable  development  and
the fight against poverty. The Security Council should
in  turn  support  such  preventive  efforts  by  the  General
Assembly.
Another  step  by  the  General  Assembly  that
contributes  to  strengthening  the  credibility  of  the
Security  Council  is  the  President’s  power,  established
in resolution 51/241, to carry out a closer examination
of  the  Security  Council’s  report.  That  power  has  not
been  exercised,  largely  owing  to  the  sterility  and  lack
of  clarity  that  continues  to  characterize  the  report  of
the Security Council we are considering today.
to  be 
transparent,  based  on 
My country has previously drawn attention to the
fact  that  there  is  a  need  for  the  report  of  the  Security
Council 
the  current
international 
situation,  and  comprised  of  more
analytical  and  political  content.  Its  conclusion  should
not be limited solely to a list of documents; it should,
among  other  things,  include  an  accounting  of  the
vetoes exercised and the arguments employed in doing
so,  a  list  of  Security  Council  resolutions  yet  to  be
implemented and, lastly, a factual summary of the host
of  valuable  ideas  contained  in  the  main  proposals
relating to each one the topics of the Council’s agenda
put  forth  by  countries  in  the  open  meetings  of  the
Council.
In  connection  with  the  report  of  the  Security
Council, a student of international relations desiring to
glean  a  comprehensive  perspective  on  international
security today from the report of the Security Council,
the main body entrusted with maintaining that security,
would  become  lost  in  the  endless  lists  of  documents
and  almost  cryptic  jargon  that  is  understood  only  by
initiates such as us.
In  the  globalized  world,  where  information  and
transparency are the guarantee of democracy and truth,
the  intense  work  and  primary  activities  carried  out  by
the Security Council are, unfortunately, not clearly set
forth. In that regard, the Security Council — the main
instrument  of  international  security  —  like  other
international organizations and bodies, runs the risk of
becoming, through its reports, an entity removed from
world public opinion that has no real meaning and that
does  not  convey  anything 
international
community.  It  also  runs  the  risk  of  being  forgotten,
passed  over  by  other  organizations 
that  better
communicate their performance.
the 
to 
My  country  makes  those  comments  because  it
supports the work of the Security Council and wants to
see it become more efficient and successful, as well as
more  open 
cooperation,  understanding 
and
transparency vis-à-vis the international community.
to 
My  country  would 
like 
the  efforts  made 
to  conclude  by
highlighting 
to  produce  greater
transparency in  the  Security Council  —  especially  the
significant  number  of  open  meetings  that  have  been
held, both thematic debates and meetings at which the
Secretariat  introduced  reports  on  various  subjects  on
the Council’s agenda. Peru supports the continuation of
such meetings, as well  as of wrap-up  meetings, which
provide  an  opportunity  for  all  interested  States  to
participate  in  the  establishment  and  strengthening  of
realistic  collective  security  by  the  United  Nations,
which is a common responsibility of all of us.
the  report  of 
Mr.  Aboul  Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
Undoubtedly, 
the  Security  Council
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  at  the  current
session  reflects  the  number  of  challenges  that  arose
during the period that it covers. Although a number of
events  and  developments  tested  the  Council’s  unity,
effectiveness  and  credibility,  other  issues  underscored
its  relevance  as  an  important  tool  for  dealing  with
international  peace  and  security  whenever  permanent
and  non-permanent  members  of  the  Council  could
muster  the  necessary  political  will,  sound  vision,
objectivity  and  transparency  to  address  those  pivotal
issues.
In that context, we find that events in the period
covered  by  the  report  pointed  to  the  Council’s  role  in
addressing several central issues affecting the evolution
A/58/PV.28
of  the  concept  of  international  peace  and  security  at
this  critical  stage  in  the  history  of  international
relations,  issues  such  as  international  terrorism,  the
proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons,
mercenarism,  the  role  of  regional  organizations  in
peace and security issues, the Council’s function in the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  role  of  the
illicit diamond trade in fuelling conflicts. We hope that
the  Council’s  plenary  debates  on  those  issues  will
reflect  a  clearer  vision  and  understanding  of  the
challenges  and 
international
community in terms of maintaining international peace
and  security.  Moreover,  we  hope  that  next  year  there
will  be  more  interaction  and  dialogue  between  the
Security  Council  and 
the  wider  United  Nations
membership on those and other issues.
threats 
facing 
the 
to  broaden  and  enrich 
The delegation of Egypt would like to express its
appreciation  to  the  Security  Council  for  convening  a
series  of  special  meetings  with  States  that  contribute
troops  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  That
is  the  kind  of  dialogue  and  interaction  needed  to
enhance  such  missions  and  to  ensure  their  success.  In
our  view,  it  is  essential  that  in  the  coming  period  the
Security Council continue to hold more such meetings
in  order 
the  Council’s
perspective in addressing peace and security issues and
to  foster  a  concept  of  partnership  among  its  members
and  all  other  concerned  parties  and  actors,  so  as  to
form  a  collective  international  view  regarding  those
issues. Here, I should like to stress the need to provide
an  opportunity  for  all  non-members  of  the  Council  to
exercise  their  right  to  fully  express  their  views  on  all
issues considered by the Council, without  any  attempt
on the part of some parties in the Council to jeopardize
that  right  based  on  non-compelling  procedural  or
substantive pretexts.
The report of the Security Council shows that the
bulk  of  the  international  peace  and  security  issues
before  it  continue  to  relate  to  Africa.  Obviously,
African issues and conflicts have created new kinds of
challenges  that  require  the  United  Nations  to  develop
new  ways  to  deal  with  them.  In  that  regard,  we
welcome  the  trends  in  the  past  year  towards  the
development  of  cooperation  between  the  Council  and
international actors and African regional organizations
in the fields of peacekeeping and conflict settlement on
the continent. We also welcome the willingness to take
a  regional  approach  in  dealing  with  the  causes  and
parameters of African conflicts by dispatching Council
17
A/58/PV.28
missions to Central and West Africa. We highlight the
need to expand those trends and to consider ways and
means of increasing their effectiveness.
However,  we  express  concern  at  the  Council’s
limited ability to respond expeditiously and effectively
to the serious humanitarian and security crises faced by
African  nations  and  regions  in  the  past  year.  That
limited  ability  is  reflected  clearly  in  the  reports  and
statistical  data  available  to  the  United  Nations  and  to
international relief agencies with regard to the number
of casualties, internally displaced persons and refugees
caused by African conflicts. We observed the Council’s
reluctance  for  several  months  to  deal  with  the  grave
massacres in the eastern and north-eastern Democratic
Republic of the Congo until the forces and the mandate
of the United Nations  mission there were expanded to
enhance the peace process and reconciliation. Also, we
saw  a  similar  Council  reluctance 
to  approve  a
multinational  force  in  Liberia  before  a  peacekeeping
mission was mandated and deployed there. In addition,
we  find  that  the  Council  continues  to  face  serious
problems in dealing with issues in African post-conflict
situations because of the required measures and efforts
transcend 
for 
limited
traditional concept of security and peace.
those  situations 
that 
the 
The  concept  of  peace  and  security  has  expanded
to 
include  economic, 
social,  humanitarian  and
geographic  dimensions  that  cannot  be  fragmented  or
addressed  in  isolation  from  the  others.  Hence,  the
Security Council is duty-bound to carry out its primary
responsibility  for  maintaining  and  consolidating  peace
in  post-conflict  countries  by  coordinating  and
cooperating  with  the  regional  organizations  concerned
and  with  all  other  relevant  United  Nations  organs  and
programmes — particularly the General Assembly and
its  Committees  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
since  those  two  organs  are  the  appropriate  legislative
mechanisms  for  developing  a  conceptual  framework
for peace-building in the fullest sense of the word. The
delegation  of  Egypt  believes  that  the  reform  process
called  for  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  statement
before the Assembly on 23 September 2003  must  also
include  ways  and  means  that  will  enable  the  Security
Council to respond rapidly, with a more comprehensive
vision, in order to meet the ever-increasing challenges
to the maintenance and building of peace and security.
in  Spanish):  My
delegation  will  refer  jointly  to  two  important  agenda
Mr.  Arias  (Spain)  (spoke 
18
items:  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  and  the
question of Council representation.
Spain began its two-year term as a member of the
Security Council on 1 January. During these almost 10
months  on 
to
maintaining,  and,  where  possible, 
to  enhancing
transparency in the Council’s working methods.
the  Council,  we  have  contributed 
May I mention just two examples. During Spain’s
presidency,  there  were  a  total  of  17  open  meetings,
including  formal  meetings  and  open  briefings  —  in
other  words,  more  than  the  number  of  informal
consultations.  Secondly,  Spain  drafted,  together  with
the United Kingdom, the introduction to the report that
is  before  us  today.  It  did  so  with  the  objective  of
making  it  more  accessible  to  all  Members  of  the
Organization.
We  believe  that  considerable  progress  has  been
made  in  the  area  of  Security  Council  transparency  in
recent  years,  but  we  must  not  be  complacent,  and  we
must continue to make progress in this direction.
We believe that it is a mistake to take an approach
to  Council  reform  that  focuses  exclusively  on  the
concept  of  expansion.  Reform  is  an  all-inclusive
subject  in  which  at  least  three  elements  converge:
composition, working methods and decision-making.
We  have  already  referred  to  the  question  of
working  methods. As for the question of composition,
most  Member  States  believe  that  the  Council,  in  an
Organization  that  now  has  191  Members,  should  be
more  representative  —  in  other  words,  that  it  would
have to be expanded.
Nonetheless, there are well-founded doubts about
whether  expansion  would  make  the  Council  perform
better.  As  was  stated  here  in  the  General  Assembly
some days ago by the President of the Government of
Spain,  an  increase  in  the  number  of  Security  Council
members  will  not  necessarily  mean  an  increase  in  the
Council’s effectiveness.
Setting  aside  for  the  moment  this  question  of
expansion  versus  effectiveness,  which  is  no  trivial
matter,  let  me  say  that  my  country  believes  it  is
obvious  that  the  Council  can  be  more  representative
only  if  we  increase  only  the  number  of  its  elected
members. 
the  number  of  permanent
members — in other words, swelling the ranks of those
who have privileges under the Charter and including in
Increasing 
the  United  Nations  aristocracy  another  handful  of
countries — would seem to us to be counterproductive.
The  existence  of  the  veto  —  that  totally  anti-
democratic  instrument  of  immense  power  —  has  been
the subject of frequent complaints ever since the birth
of  our  Organization.  Is  it  conceivable  that  we  should
want,  in  2003,  to  create  a  new  category  of  the
powerful?  If 
indeed  completely  and
intrinsically anti-democratic, should we give it to new
permanent members?
the  veto 
is 
This  brings  me  to  the  question  of  decision-
making.  The  process  should  reflect  a  greater  balance
between 
two  essential  elements:  democracy  and
effectiveness.  Here  again  the  question  of  the  veto
arises. In these 10 months of our term on the Council,
we  have  experienced  situations  involving  vetoes  and
threats  of  vetoes  —  the  so-called  hidden  veto.  Those
instances of vetoes used or suggested have hardly been
to  the  satisfaction  of  the  majority  of  Member  States,
and  they  have  illustrated  time  and  again  the  unusual
power  enjoyed  by  the  permanent  members,  as  well  as
the  abyss  of  power  that  separates  the  permanent  from
the non-permanent members. Let us not give this elitist
attribute to others.
We  also  see  that  the  majority  of  Member  States
have called for greater democratization in the decision-
making  process,  which  is  generally  understood  as
meaning a reform of the veto through a reduction in the
number  of  potential  cases  in  which  it  can  be  applied.
We  believe,  for  example,  that  the  exercise  of  the  veto
should  be  limited  to  Chapter  VII  cases.  Furthermore,
we  would  have  to  devise  formulas  that  would  prevent
its use in cases of massive violations of human rights.
But  let  us  have  no  illusions.  This  wish  of  the
overwhelming majority for reform can become a reality
only  through  the  will  of  those  that  today  possess  this
privilege.  Given  past  experience  and  Article  108,
unfortunately,  this  wish  on  the  part  of  the  majority  is
nothing  but  a  dream.  Only  a  balance  among  the
different  elements  involved  in  reform  can  lead  to  a
Security Council that is — as the representative of Italy
said on behalf of the European Union in his statement
before  the  Assembly  —  more  representative,  more
effective and more democratic.
We know that this may be only a dream — but it
is a wish that must be expressed.
A/58/PV.28
in 
join  others 
Mr.  Rastam 
(Malaysia):  My 
delegation
welcomes this opportunity to consider the report of the
thanking
Security  Council.  We 
Ambassador  John  Negroponte,  President  of 
the
Security  Council  for 
the  month  of  October,  for
introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the
fifty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We
consider  the  annual  reporting  process  by  the  Security
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  to  be  an  important
step.  It  is  important  not  only  with  respect  to  the
fulfilment  of  the  provisions  of  the  relevant  articles  of
the Charter of the United Nations, but also as a way of
maintaining  the  relationship  between  the  Security
Council and the General Assembly, as envisaged in the
Charter.
This  annual  report  should  serve  as  a  means  for
the  general  membership  of  the  United  Nations  to
become better acquainted with the work of the Security
Council.  Its  consideration  in  the  General  Assembly
will,  it  is  hoped,  provide  useful  feedback  for  the
Council in the further improvement of its work.
The annual report by the Security Council to the
General  Assembly  is  an  important  element  in  the
Charter  relationship  between  these  two  major  organs.
The  Charter  requires  that  the  Council  submit  annual
and,  when  necessary,  special  reports  to  the  General
Assembly for its consideration. This is provided for in
articles  15  and  24.  This  clearly  points  to  the  need  for
the Council to be accountable to the larger membership
of the United Nations.
judge 
to  assess  and 
In this  connection,  the  General  Assembly  should
have 
the  opportunity 
the
performance  of  the  Council  for  the  past  year.  In  turn,
Council  members  should  have  the  opportunity  to  pay
careful  attention  to  the  concerns,  observations  and
comments  of  the  larger  membership  of  the  United
Nations.  My  delegation  hopes  that  the  comments  and
suggestions made in the General Assembly will receive
appropriate  consideration  by  the  members  of  the
Council in the further discharge of their responsibilities
on  behalf  of  all  of  us 
the  maintenance  of
in 
international peace and security.
Last  year, 
the  report  of 
the  Council  was
introduced  in  a  fresh,  concise  and  improved  format,
which  my  delegation  welcomed.  We  saw  it  as  a
reflection  of  the  Council’s  willingness  to  evolve  and
improve  its  methods  of  work.  We  felt  then  that  the
Council  had  certainly  heeded  the  comments  made  by
19
A/58/PV.28
larger  membership  over 
the 
the  years.  We  also
welcomed the decision of the Security Council to hold
an open meeting to discuss the Council’s report prior to
the fifty-seventh session of the General Assembly. We
are  disappointed  that  the  Council  decided  to  do  away
with  that  practice  during  this  session.  We  think  that
such  an  open  meeting  would  be  useful  and  that  it
should  be  held  in  the  interest  of  further  promoting
transparency in the work of the Security Council.
the 
My  delegation  finds  that  improvement  in  the
format of the report does not necessarily bring about a
qualitative improvement in the substance of the report.
We  think  that  the  attempt  introduced  last  year  to
provide  some  analytical  reporting  in  the  introduction
could  be  further  improved.  We  look  forward  to  future
reports containing more details and analyses. We have,
for  instance,  called  for  a  more  detailed  account  of
Council  decisions  and  actions.  We  feel 
that  an
elaboration  of  the  circumstances  that  had  influenced
the decisions of the Council on a particular issue would
allow 
the
achievements  registered  and  difficulties  faced  by  the
Council. Perhaps, with better understanding, we might
be able to offer useful suggestions to break an impasse
in  the  Council  or  to  enable  it  to  make  decisions  that
could  be  successfully  implemented  by  the  parties
concerned and by the international community at large.
We  had  hoped  that  this  report  of  the  Council
would contain an analysis as bold as the one provided
by the Secretary-General in his reports on the work of
the  Organization  (A/58/1)  and  follow-up 
the
outcome of the United Nations Millennium Declaration
(A/58/323).
larger  membership 
to  appreciate 
to 
The holding of thematic discussions is useful for
improving  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council.  We  note
that  the  Council  held  15  thematic  discussions  during
the  reporting  period  on  a  wide  range  of  issues.  The
exchange of views between Council members and non-
members  in  these  thematic  discussions  on  issues
relating  to  international  peace  and  security  will  allow
for  the  development  of  appropriate  strategies  that  are
more  holistic  and  integrated,  involving  all  the  major
organs  of  the  United  Nations.  Nevertheless,  such  an
exercise  by  the  Security  Council  should  not  venture
into areas that are rightly the responsibility of the other
major organs of the United Nations.
Given  the  increased  workload  of  the  Council,  it
might be helpful if the thematic discussions were kept
20
to  a  minimum  in  any  particular  year.  They  should  be
held  not  just  for  the  sake  of  having  discussions,  but
with a view to achieving concrete results, which would
have  an  impact  on  the  performance  not  only  of  the
Security  Council,  but  also  of  the  United  Nations  at
large.  These  thematic  discussions  and  other  important
issues  addressed  by  the  Council  from  time  to  time
would  merit  the  submission  of  special  reports  to  the
General Assembly, when necessary, as provided for in
the Charter.
We  note 
the  Council’s  workload  has
continued  to  increase  steadily.  A  total  of  207  open
meetings were held, and 66 resolutions were adopted.
that 
Conflicts in Africa continue to dominate the work
of  the  Council.  Malaysia  is  pleased  that  the  Ad  Hoc
Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution
in  Africa  has  been  active  in  its  efforts  to  find  lasting
solutions  to  various  conflicts  on  the  continent.  Two
Security  Council  Missions  were  also  organized,
namely, to Central Africa and West Africa in June and
July  this  year,  and  the  Council  has  made  some
important  recommendations  to  bring  political  stability
to the subregions. We are also particularly pleased with
the  signing  of  a  power-sharing  agreement  in  Burundi.
We look forward to the Council’s taking more effective
decisions on the conflict situations in Africa.
My delegation has noted that during the past year
the  Council  discussed  the  Palestinian  question  with
greater frequency. We have observed  that  12  meetings
and 21 informal consultations were held on this issue.
Only  one  resolution  was  adopted  by  the  Council.  We
recall  that  the  international  community  welcomed  the
publication of the Quartet’s road map in April. Yet the
Council has not been able to play the role expected of
it.
My  delegation  certainly  welcomes  the  Council’s
consideration  of  the  question  of  Palestine  through  the
monthly  briefings  and  open  debates.  Unfortunately,
these  have  not  had  an  impact  on  the  situation  on  the
ground. Indeed, the situation is clearly worsening. The
violence  continues,  and  the  death  toll  has  mounted  on
both sides. The Council must improve and maintain its
credibility  by  enforcing  its  authority  on  this  question,
in particular in respect  of  the  commitment  to  the  road
map  and  to  a  peaceful  two-State  solution,  the  end  of
occupation of Palestinian and other Arab territories, the
termination of Israel’s settler-colonialism activities and
the construction of the separation wall.
The  Council  must  not  allow  its  resolutions  to  be
manipulated, or the Council itself to be prevented from
doing anything meaningful, as happened last month. It
should resolutely take action on the illegal construction
of  the  Israeli  expansionist  wall.  My  delegation  hopes
that this will be done soon on the basis of the initiative
currently before the Council. My delegation also hopes
that  the  Council  will  act  decisively  on  the  recent
flagrant violation of Syria’s territory by Israel.
two  members  of 
Another issue that has brought great difficulty for
the  Council  is  that  of  Iraq.  When  we  discussed  the
Council’s report about a year ago, the threat to peace in
Iraq was looming over our heads. Despite the call by an
overwhelming  majority  in  the  United  Nations  for  a
peaceful solution, a war was launched against Iraq, led
by 
the  Security  Council.  My
delegation  notes  that  the  report  gives  a  description  of
the events leading  up  to  war.  Clearly,  the  war  without
Security  Council  authorization  has  entailed  a  number
of  problems.  It  is  my  delegation’s  hope  that  the
Security  Council  will  be  able  to  draw  clear  lessons
from  this  particularly  difficult  and  protracted  issue.  A
major  challenge  for  all  of  us,  and  a  lesson  to  be
learned, is how the Security Council can prevent such a
situation from occurring again in the future.
My  delegation  believes  that  the  United  Nations
must  be  made  to  assume  its  central  role  in  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  It
must  be  given  major  responsibility  for  resolving  the
problem  in  Iraq  so  that  the  people  of  Iraq  can  regain
their  sovereignty  and 
their  suffering  can  end.
Sovereignty must be returned to the Iraqi people soon.
They  must  be  given  the  authority  over  their  own
natural  resources,  and  this  should  be  done  quickly.
Otherwise,  the  United  Nations,  which  is  a  major
instrument  for  promoting  decolonization,  would  be
seen  as  indifferent  to  the  ending  of  the  occupation  of
one of its Members. This would indeed be a tragedy.
On  the  issue  of  sanctions,  Malaysia  in  principle
opposes  their  imposition  due  to  their  debilitating
impact  on  the  general  population  of  a  Member  State.
Sanctions should be utilized as a measure of last resort
and  after  careful  consideration  of  their  ramifications.
Sanctions  should  hit  their  intended  target  and  not  the
innocent  populace.  Sanctions  must  be  devised  with
clear  parameters, 
including  specific  and  clearly
identified  targets,  time  frame  and  regular  impact
assessment. In this connection, we welcome the lifting
A/58/PV.28
by the Council of sanctions against Iraq and the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya.
At  the  last  session  of  the  General  Assembly,
discussion  on  this  item  was  held  simultaneously  with
that  on  the  item  concerning  reform  of  the  Security
Council. My delegation found it useful and fitting that
the  two  items  should  be  discussed  together,  as  we
believe 
issues  under  consideration  are
intertwined  and  have  an  important  bearing  on  one
another.  In  this  connection,  my  delegation  would  also
touch on the issue of reform of the Security Council at
this juncture.
that 
the 
Malaysia is pleased that the Secretary-General, in
outlining the tasks for the high-level panel of  eminent
persons  on  the  reform  of  the  Organization  that  he
proposes  to  establish,  has  included  the  questions  of
peace and security as well as Security Council reform.
These  two  subjects  must  go  hand  in  hand.  It  is  our
conviction that the key to reforming the United Nations
is  its  democratization,  particularly  of  the  Security
Council. Not only should the Council’s membership be
democratized,  but  also,  most  important,  so  should  its
decision-making process.
Addressing  the  question  of  the  veto  is  central  to
the reform of the United Nations. In this connection, it
may  be  recalled  that  the  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia
proposed in his statement in the general debate, on 25
September, that the veto be modified. He proposed that
a  veto  could  be  cast  only  when  two  veto  Powers  and
three  other  members  of  the  Council  backed  it.  This
modified  veto  should  eventually  be  abolished  and
replaced  by  majority  decisions.  We  believe 
that,
gradually,  the  United  Nations  should  be  made  more
democratic,  and  the  Prime  Minister’s  proposal  should
provide a good basis on which to start.
The  cooperation  provided  by  Member  States  in
the  work  of  the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  is  an
illustration  of  effective  multilateralism.
excellent 
Member 
States 
in
implementing Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
We reiterate the importance of political will and sense
of responsibility among all Member States in effecting
this  badly  needed  international  cooperation  to  combat
the scourge of international terrorism.
cooperated 
readily 
have 
Sadly,  such  cooperation  is  not  replicated  in  the
implementation of many other Council resolutions. As
they are legally binding, it is incumbent upon Member
implement  Security  Council  resolutions
States 
to 
21
A/58/PV.28
without selectivity. The Security Council must play its
role, without discrimination, to ensure that all Member
States  adhere  to  and  implement  its  resolutions.  In  this
connection, we  repeat  our  support  for  the  adoption  by
the Security Council of clear  and precise indicators to
measure  its  work.  One  such  indicator  is  the  level  of
compliance  by  Member  States  in  implementing  the
resolutions  of  the  Council.  The  Secretary-General  has
underscored  the  importance  of  legitimacy  in  the  work
of  the  United  Nations.  This  question  would  be  crucial
in our endeavour to regain the credibility of the United
Nations in the eyes of the international community. The
legitimacy  of  action  by  the  Council  is  at  the  forefront
of this endeavour. Effective implementation of Council
resolutions would pave the way to that end.
Mr.  Kuchinsky  (Ukraine):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak  on  behalf  of 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,
Georgia,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Ukraine  and  the
Republic  of  Uzbekistan  —  the  GUUAM  member
States.
to 
First of all, I would like to express our gratitude
to the President of the Security Council for the month
of  October,  Ambassador  John  Negroponte  of  the
United  States,  for  presenting  the  annual  report  of  the
Council 
the  General  Assembly  (A/58/2).  The
promising  practice  of  making  this  —  in  every  sense
weighty — document more analytical, practical and, at
the same time, thinner and more elegant can be traced
throughout  the  last  several  years.  I  believe  we  owe  it,
in  particular,  to  the  initiatives  of  present  and  former
Council  members,  who  have  pursued  the  ideology  of
new and constructive change.
During  the  period  under  review,  from  August
2002  through  July  2003,  the  Council  maintained  the
important 
towards  higher  effectiveness  and
transparency, both in quality and in quantity.
trend 
A  few  months  ago,  addressing 
the  Council
meeting  on  cooperation  with  regional  organizations,
United  Nations  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan
expressed  the  feeling  of  global  insecurity,  which  he
said “has seldom, if ever, been greater than it is today”
(S/PV.4739). Such a conclusion mirrors the magnitude
of the critical challenges faced by the Security Council
and  the  international  community.  Undoubtedly,  an
adequate response to the new threats should reflect our
common  desire  for  a  strong  peace  and  security
framework,  based  firmly  on  the  international  rule  of
law.
22
interests 
in  order 
Analysing the recent performance by the Council,
we see that the formula of its success consists of four
major  elements:  unity,  which  allows  for  overcoming
national 
reach  collective
agreement;  political  will,  which  moves  the  Council
towards  concrete  and  practical  results;  sufficiency,
which  helps  to  find  appropriate  methods,  instead  of
appropriate  explanations;  and 
transparency,  which
expands the Council’s capacity and impact on  a wider
number of international actors.
to 
geographical 
May  I  also  highlight  yet  another 
important
element, which is the transformation of its composition
and 
the
understandable  frustration  over  the  slow  progress  in
this area, we still count on the common will to reach a
reasonable compromise for a comprehensive reform of
the Council in all its aspects.
representation.  Despite 
I trust you will agree that we all are interested in
a strong, proactive and powerful Security Council. For
all  its  real  and  perceived  imperfections,  the  Security
Council can and should be ready to provide the proper
response to these new and important demands.
The past 12 months appear to be one of the most
turbulent  periods  in  the  Council’s  recent  history.
Though  the  issue  of  Iraq  almost  divided  the  world
community,  the  Security  Council  finally  found  a  path
of  unanimity  with  the  adoption  of  resolution  1441
(2002)  and,  in  spite  of  later  critical  developments,  it
managed  to  keep  on  the  consensus  track  with  the
adoption  of  resolutions  1472  (2003),  1476  (2003)  and
1483 (2003).
Against  this  background,  it  is  now  important  to
focus efforts on securing law and order and promoting
reconstruction  in  Iraq.  The  Security  Council  can  play
an  even  more  prominent  role  in  this  process.  Our
countries  look  forward  to  adopting  a  new  Council
resolution,  clarifying  the  path  towards  Iraqi  self-
governance and ensuring peace, stability and recovery.
At  the  same  time,  we  should  never  forget  the
irretrievable losses that the United Nations suffered in
the course of settling the Iraq issue. We lost excellent,
talented  and  dedicated  people,  among 
the
outstanding Brazilian diplomat, Sergio Vieira de Mello.
It  is  a  dramatic  and  disturbing  fact  that,  during
recent  years,  United  Nations  staff  has  been  facing
growing  insecurity.  This  makes  it  all  the  more  urgent
for all members of the international community to fully
them 
comply with the relevant international treaties and, first
of  all,  with  the  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  United
Nations and Associated Personnel.
This  year  the  Security  Council  has  been  further
challenged by developments in the Middle East and in
the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  The  first  encouraging
steps  in  the  resumed  peace  process  earlier  this  year,
based  on  the  Quartet’s  road  map,  gave  way  to
scepticism over the viability of the peace plan.
Although there were periods of relative calm, the
terrorist attacks and the use of military force continued
to  take  innocent  lives.  The  recent  suicide  bombing  in
Haifa and the air strikes by Israel on the territory of the
Syrian Arab Republic led to the escalation of tensions
in  the  Middle  East.  In  general,  we  still  lack  final
answers,  and  one  of  the  major  questions  there  is  still
whether the Security Council’s reaction to these events
is  adequate  and 
its  Charter
responsibilities?
in  conformity  with 
Another  demanding  problem  is  the  situation  in
Afghanistan.  We  believe  that  the  success  of  the  Bonn
process  depends  to  a  great  extent  on  the  security
situation  in  Afghanistan.  Therefore,  it  is  difficult  to
overestimate  the  significance  of  timely  and  target-
oriented  actions  of  the  Council  and  of  the  global
antiterrorist coalition.
The GUUAM group welcomes the decision of the
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  to  take
over 
the  International  Security
Assistance Force in Kabul, and believes that it is time
to renew the Force’s mandate.
the  command  of 
Regarding European issues, the GUUAM group is
concerned with a lack of progress in the settlement of
the  conflict  in  Abkhazia,  Georgia.  We  call  on  the
Abkhaz side to abide by the relevant Security Council
resolutions  and  to  accept  the  document  on  “Basic
Principles for the Distribution of Competences between
Tbilisi and Sukhumi” as a basis for negotiations on the
key issue of the political status of Abkhazia, within the
State of Georgia.
The  convening  of 
two  meetings  of  senior
representatives of the group of friends of the Secretary-
General on Georgia in Geneva, and the summit meeting
between  the  Presidents  of  Georgia  and  the  Russian
Federation in Sochi gave positive impetus to the peace
process.  The  GUUAM  group  hopes  that  the  dialogue
established  between  the  sides  will  lead  to  concrete
A/58/PV.28
results,  and  that  the  more  active  efforts  of  the  United
Nations, the Security Council, the group of friends and
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in
Europe  will  make 
tendency
irreversible.
encouraging 
the 
In  speaking  of  the  wider  range  of  the  Council’s
activities, we are glad to note the final settlement of the
Libyan  problem.  Positive  developments  have  been
evident  in  the  resolution  of  African  conflicts.  The
Security  Council  further  strengthened  its  interaction
with other United Nations bodies, in particular with the
Economic  and  Social  Council.  Those  developments
mark a positive trend.
the  Council  and  African 
Of particular importance is enhanced cooperation
between the Council  and  the  European  Union,  as  well
as  between 
regional
organizations.  The  deployment  of  European  Union
forces  in  Bunia  and  the  role  played  by  the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  in
Liberia were instrumental in dealing with security and
humanitarian  crises  in  the  region.  We  hope  that  the
newly 
in
Liberia —  one  of  the  major  United  Nations  missions
undertaken to date  —  will  succeed  in  bringing  further
stability to that embattled country.
established  United  Nations  Mission 
The  Security  Council  continues  to  play  a  central
role in facilitating cooperation among Governments in
the fight against international terrorism. The GUUAM
countries  welcome  the  endeavours  of  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  (CTC)  to  provide  all  possible
assistance  to  the  multinational  anti-terrorist  coalition
by 
regional
the 
organizations and groups.
strengthening 
capacities 
of 
The  CTC’s  meeting  of  6  March  with
representatives  of  regional  organizations  —  a  meeting
in  which  the  GUUAM  group  took  an  active  part  —
proved  that  there  is  great  potential  in  that  sphere.  I
would  also  like  to  emphasize  that  the  GUUAM  group
took  an  active  part  in  the  most  recent  follow-up
meeting  for  regional  and  subregional  organizations,
held  on  7  October  in  Washington,  D.C.,  by  the  CTC
and the Organization of American States.
We  are  confident  that  the  further  expansion  of
dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the  Council  and  its
regional partners will remain a priority task. Successful
examples  of  the  interaction  of  the  Security  Council
with the European Union, NATO, the Organization for
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  the  African
23
A/58/PV.28
Union,  ECOWAS, 
the  Organization  of  American
States, the League of Arab States and other institutions
prove  that  the  United  Nations  could  and  should
actively  use  this  important  political  tool  to  rely
increasingly on regional organizations to assume more
responsibility, especially for peacekeeping efforts.
with  the  requisite  political  will,  that  time  and  effort
will  be  translated  into  concrete  strategic  solutions  to
the  conflicts  plaguing  the  region.  In  order  for  the
missions  to  have  greater  impact,  they  should  be  of
longer  duration  and  should  not  involve  visits  to  too
many countries.
The  GUUAM  group  stands  ready  to  cooperate
fully  with  the  Council  and  to  help  it  to  pursue  its
Charter responsibilities.
Mr.  Effah-Apenteng  (Ghana):  At  the  outset,
allow  me  to  express  my  appreciation  to  Ambassador
John  Negroponte,  Permanent  Representative  of  the
United States of America and President of the Security
Council for this month, for his lucid introduction of the
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period  1
August  2002  to  31  July  2003  (A/58/2).  I  would  also
like  to  thank  the  United  Kingdom  and  Spain  for
drafting  the  introduction  to  the  report.  Taken  as  a
whole, the information detailed in the report conveys a
picture  of  the  busy  schedule  that  characterized  the
Council’s work during the period covered.
security, 
for  which 
it  has 
its  comprehensive  approach 
My delegation appreciates the Council’s focus on
to
peacekeeping  and 
dealing  with  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and 
the  primary
responsibility.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  fact  that  the
Council paid particular attention to conflict prevention,
resolution and management. We would like to urge the
Council  to  continue  to  focus  its  attention  on  those
issues,  given  the  gravity,  complexity  and  multifaceted
nature  of 
the  problems  and  conflicts  bedevilling
various  regions  and  the  need  for  peace  and  security,
which are prerequisites for promoting development and
stability.  In  this  regard,  we  cannot  overemphasize  the
need  for  the  Council  to  cooperate  with  the  General
Assembly,  and  with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
the
and 
interrelationship 
and
development.
given 
security 
development 
bodies, 
other 
among 
peace, 
My  delegation  also  notes  with  appreciation  the
Council’s continued dedication of most of its efforts to
the  African  region.  This  has  been  evidenced  in  its
various  debates  on  several  conflict  situations  in  the
continent,  such  as  those  in  Liberia,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Burundi,  Somalia
and  the  Central  African  Republic,  and  also  in  the
holding of two missions to Central and West Africa, in
June  and  July  2003  respectively.  It  is  our  hope  that
24
initiatives  on  which 
Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  consultations  and
complementary 
the  Council
embarked  with  regional  and  subregional  institutions;
we  would  like  to  encourage  the  Council  to  stay  on
course. We are of the firm conviction that partnerships
with subregional and regional organizations such as the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS)  and  the  African  Union  (AU)  could  go  a
long way towards helping to find lasting solutions with
respect  to  the  prevention,  management  and  resolution
of conflicts in Africa.
Having brokered the Accra Accord to bring under
control the conflict in Liberia  —  and, in effect, in the
Mano  River  Union  countries  —  ECOWAS  would  like
to cooperate with the international community in order
to  identify  ways  in  which  vital  partnerships  can
prevent, combat and eradicate illicit brokering in small
arms and light weapons in the West African subregion.
I would like to recall that last year my delegation
added  its  voice  to  the  call  for  more  information  to  be
provided in the report with respect to Security Council
missions to conflict areas, so as to enable us to acquire
first-hand  information  —  if  the  Council  was  going  to
continue  to  rely  on  that  system,  as  we  thought  it
should. I would like to congratulate the members of the
Security  Council  for  improvements  in  that  regard;  the
present  report  presents  a  much  more  detailed  account
of those trips.
Over  the  years,  my  delegation  has  been  among
those calling for improvements in the report and in the
procedures  and  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council.  Last  year,  we  commended  the  Council  for
coming  out  with  a  new  format,  which  was  more
compact  and  reader-friendly.  However,  much  remains
to  be  done 
the  analytical
framework.  This  year’s  report,  too,  lacks  the  requisite
information for an evaluation of the Council’s work.
improving  upon 
in 
We  are  encouraged  by  the  number  of  open
meetings  and  by  the  monthly  briefings  given  by  the
presidency  of  the  Council,  as  well  as  by  the  periodic
wrap-up meetings to which non-members were invited.
The holding of such open meetings should not be seen
just  as  a  matter  of  going  through  the  motions.  If  they
are  to  prove  useful,  the  views  expressed  by  Member
States should be taken into account when real decisions
are made by the Council.
We  wish  to  commend  the  Council  for  its  pivotal
role in the global campaign against terrorism in all its
forms  and  manifestations.  The  Counter-Terrorism
Committee is a good example of transparency, and we
congratulate 
the  previous  Chairman,  Sir  Jeremy
Greenstock  of  the  United  Kingdom,  for  his  yeoman
service,  and  we  welcome  the  further  efforts  of  his
successor,  Ambassador  Arias  of  Spain, 
that
direction.
in 
We  also  wish  to  applaud  the  functioning  of  the
mechanism to further improve cooperation between the
Council  and  troop-contributing  countries,  especially
the growing regularity and frequency of meetings with
those  countries.  My  delegation  believes  that  that
consultative  mechanism  has  inherent  benefits  for  all
the parties involved in peacekeeping.
It  cannot  be  gainsaid  that  this  has  been  a  very
trying year for the United Nations in the area of peace
and  security.  The  obvious  schisms  that  arose  over  the
situation in Iraq sorely tested the principle of collective
security  and  the  resilience  of  the  Organization.  The
experience gained from these trying times, in which the
Organization is hard-pressed to reassert its indisputable
relevance  in  the  contemporary  global  context,  should
lead us to a clear understanding of the ever-present fact
that  the  world  desires  a  United  Nations  whose  image
reflects  its  true  nature  as  an  international  instrument
designed  to  achieving  the  common  end  of  a  just  and
stable  world  order  —  one  that  is  not  subject  to  the
pursuit of the narrow parochial interests of a powerful
few.
My  delegation  therefore  wishes  to  reiterate  the
imperative  need  to  enhance  the  credibility  of  the
Council  through  substantive  reform  guided  by  the
principles  of  democracy,  the  sovereign  equality  of
States and equitable geographical representation.
Mr.  Heinbecker  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):
Today I would like to develop three ideas. The first is
that  we  could  have  made  do  with  just  one  debate  on
these  issues  instead  of  two;  secondly,  the  working
methods  of  the  Security  Council  can  be  improved
further;  and,  thirdly  and  most  important,  we  all  must
support  the  broader  reform  effort  launched  by  the
Secretary-General, even as we continue our own efforts
to reform the Council, the General Assembly and other
United Nations bodies.
A/58/PV.28
We are pleased to see that, once again, the report
of  the  Security  Council  (A/58/2)  is  more  concise  than
those  of  previous  years.  That  is  a  step  forward  that
should  facilitate  our  deliberations.  Having  said  that,  I
am  disappointed  that  we  have  also  taken  a  step
backward. Last year, we instituted a joint debate on the
report  of  the  Security  Council  and  on  the  question  of
representation on the Council. This year we are back to
the two-debate format, which only consumes extra time
and appears to go against the flow of reform ideas.
is  about 
This  is  particularly  regrettable,  as  the  Secretary-
to  form  his  panel  of  eminent
General 
personalities with the  mandate to examine reform.  We
can  and  must  use  our  time  more  efficiently  and
effectively.
(spoke in English)
With regard to the Council’s  methods,  we  would
like  to  see  still  greater  transparency;  self-discipline  in
the  recourse  to  the  threat  or  the  use  of  the  veto;  a
voluntary commitment by veto holders to explain to the
entire  membership  the  rationale  in  each  case  why  a
veto  has  been  used;  and,  as  regards  the  Council’s
treatment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  greater
adherence to the Charter.
We  would  also  like  to  see  more  systematic
consultation  with  non-members  of  the  Council  on
matters of significant interest to them. We are pleased,
in  this  regard,  that  the  Council  has  begun  to  consult
troop-contributing countries more formally on military
mission mandates. None of us here has any doubt today
that  we  live  in  troubled  times,  times  when  soldiers  of
peace  are  attacked,  such  as  the  two  Canadian  soldiers
killed  in  Kabul  just  10  days  ago  or  the  22  United
Nations  staffers  killed  in  Baghdad  two  months  ago.
These  and  other  attacks  are  attacks  against  us  all,  for,
as  the  Secretary-General  has  said,  we  are  the  United
Nations.  We  live  in  times  when  terrorists  target  the
innocent, when abject poverty is the daily reality for so
many  of  our  fellow  human  beings,  and  when  some
leaders have to be reminded that the State exists for the
people,  not  the  people  for  the  State,  that  sovereignty
entails  responsibilities  as  well  as  privileges,  and  that
the  primordial  responsibility  of  States  —  and  their
leaders — is to protect their own people. Most germane
for the people in this Hall, we are living in times when
many  of  our  own  people  are  losing  faith  in  this
Organization  and  in  us,  and  in  this  Organization’s  —
that  is  to  say  our  —  ability  to  respond  to  these
challenges.
25
A/58/PV.28
Clearly, the United Nations has much to be proud
of,  from  its  50  plus  years  of  peacekeeping  operations,
to  the  arms  control  regimes  it  has  created,  to  the  six
core  human  rights  treaties  it  has  passed,  to  the
international  courts  —  especially  the  International
Criminal  Court  —  that  it  has  sponsored,  to  the  120
environmental  agreements  it  has  brought  about,  to  the
children it has fed and educated and inoculated, to the
refugees 
the
leadership  it  is  providing  on  health,  particularly  on
HIV/AIDS.
it  has  saved  and  sheltered  and 
to 
But,  equally  clearly,  all  is  not  well  here.  As
Secretary-General  Annan  indicated  during  his  address
to  the  General  Assembly  on  23  September,  we  have
come  to  a  fork  in  the  road.  Few  among  us  would
disagree  that  our  Organization  needs  thorough,  far-
reaching reform. To continue with business as usual in
these  circumstances  would  be  an  exercise 
in
complacency and an abdication of our responsibilities.
We  need  to  reconsider  both  what  this  Organization
does and how it does it.
In  considering  these  purposes  and  practices,  we
need  to  serve  the  interests  of  both  the  least  and  the
greatest among us. Otherwise, we risk being inadequate
to the needs of the former and irrelevant to the fears of
the latter. We need, as the Secretary-General said here
on  23  September,  in  his  seminal  address,  to  “face  up
squarely  to  the  concerns  that  make  some  States  feel
uniquely  vulnerable,  since  it  is  those  concerns  that
drive them to take unilateral action” (A/58/PV.7, p. 3).
We need, no less urgently, to agree that we have a
collective  responsibility  to  protect  the  innocent  by
preventing conflicts, by reacting to conflicts where we
have  not  succeeded 
them  and  by
rebuilding societies after conflicts are over.
in  preventing 
We  need  to  ensure  that  we  deal  effectively  with
the  weaknesses  of  both  the  Security  Council  and  the
other  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the
General  Assembly.  That  is  why  we  welcome  the
Secretary-General’s  decision  to  establish  a  panel  of
eminent  persons  to  make  recommendations  to  States
both on what the United Nations does and how it does
it  —  or  how  it  should  do  it.  It  is  an  idea  that  Canada
heartily  endorses.  The  Secretary-General  is  seeking  to
break  the  reform  logjam.  Let  us  work  with  him  and
with  his  panel  of  eminent  persons  so  that,  in  a  year’s
time, they can make the soundest possible proposals for
change to our Governments: to the membership.
Meanwhile,  let  us  keep  an  open  mind  on  what
that change should entail. And, in the interim, let us go
26
on  ourselves,  improving  the  way  we  do  business,
including here in the General Assembly. Let us resolve
here that the 191 delegations that inhabit this place will
be part of the solution and not part of the problem.
Reflecting  on  his  experience  with  the  United
Nations,  the  late  Canadian  Prime  Minister  Lester  B.
Pearson,  a  former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,
wrote that
“the  growth  of  the  United  Nations  into  a  truly
effective  world  organization  was  our  best,  and
perhaps our last, hope ... if mankind was to end a
savage tradition that the strong do what they can
and the weak suffer what they must.”
In  the  intervening  50  years,  we  have  made  enormous
progress. But times change, needs change and now we
need the United Nations to change.
that  multilateral  cooperation 
Prime  Minister  Pearson’s  generation  bequeathed
us this magnificent, crucial Organization. It is up to our
generation now to  renew it  and  regenerate  it.  None  of
us  here  doubts 
is
indispensable,  or  that  global  issues  respond  only  to
global solutions, or that the United Nations is and must
be  at  the  heart  of  the  multilateral  system  and  is,  or
should  be,  essential  to  the  legitimacy  of  international
actions.  No  time  is  perfect  for  reform,  but  a  historic
opportunity is emerging here, and we should seize that
opportunity.
Our  parents  and  grandparents,  realistic  idealists
who  experienced  the  worst  war  in  history,  bequeathed
to us the extraordinary idea that nations could unite to
build better lives for their people; that they could unite
to safeguard the rights and the dignity of the men and
the  women  of  nations  large  and  small;  and  that  they
could  unite  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the
scourge of war.
That dream remains unfulfilled for  many people.
And, for all people, that dream at times recedes. But it
remains a dream that time has not mocked.
the 
At  San  Francisco, 
leaders  of  another
generation,  in  times  no  easier  than  these,  dreamt  of  a
better  world  and  created  an  institution  with  which  to
build  it.  Let  us,  let  our  generation,  revive  the  dream.
Let  it  be  said  of  us  by  the  generation  that  follows  us
that  we  were  worthy  descendants  of  the  giants  who
created  this  place  and  that,  when  challenged,  we  did
not  fail  them  or  their  idea  of  the  United  Nations  that
they bequeathed to us.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
A/58/PV.28
27
