United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
25th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 7 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.25
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda items 60 and 10 (continued)
set  up  a  high-level  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to
prepare,  for  the  fifty-ninth  session,  recommendations
on the reform of its institutions and processes.
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/323)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization (A/58/1)
Mr.  Ivanou  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Belarus,  Mr.  Sergei
Martynov,  speaking  last  week  in  the  general  debate,
touched on several important aspects of the work of the
United  Nations  over  the  past  year.  Today,  I  wish  to
draw  representatives’  attention  to  a  few  fundamental
issues.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work
of the Organization and his statement of 23 September
do not merely contain statements of fact. They were, in
a  way,  a  call  to  action  to  improve  the  structures  and
mechanisms  of  the  Organization  and  to  reform  the
work  of  the  basic  organs,  as  well  as  to  equip  the
Organization  with  adequate  means 
to  effectively
respond to the threats and challenges of the twenty-first
century.
Over the past year, the United Nations has had to
carry out its work within the context of the complicated
circumstances  of  the  as  yet  unresolved  Iraq  crisis  and
the  Middle  East  question,  as  well  as the  resurgence  of
international terrorism. Unfortunately, the Organization
did  not  demonstrate 
in
maintaining peace and security. The  Secretary-General
is right when he says that, if the Security Council does
not restore the confidence of the countries of the world
in  the  near  future,  then  States  will  themselves  decide
on and carry out measures they believe will help ensure
their own security. There is already a trend towards the
fragmentation  and  decentralization  of  the  international
security system.
its  unique  ability 
fully 
That is a clear signal of the need to strengthen the
role  of  the  United  Nations,  as  a  key  element  in  the
collective  resolution  of  today’s  most  acute  problems.
We  believe  that,  in  the  next  year  or  two,  the  open-
ended working group on equitable representation in the
Security  Council  and  on  increasing  its  membership
should  arrive  at  a  definitive outcome  —  the  reform  of
the  Council.  Greater  equitable  representation  on  the
Council will mean more equitable Council decisions.
the  Organization 
We  in  Belarus  take  for  granted  that  the  stable
functioning  of 
is  an  essential
precondition  for the elimination of  diktat  and  pressure
in 
the  construction  of  a
sustainable  just  and  dynamic  developing  world.  We,
therefore, welcome the Secretary-General’s intention to
international 
life  and 
It is extremely important that the  United  Nations
play  a  coordinating 
international
community in the fight against terrorism. The Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  (CTC)  continues  to  contribute
enormously  to  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to
reinforce  United  Nations  potential  in  the  fight  against
role  with 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-54387 (E)
*030354387*
A/58/PV.25
terrorism and for the formation of a broad international
coalition  to  counter  this  great  ill  of  our  times.  The
Republic of Belarus expresses its interest in broadening
its  contacts  with  that  authoritative  body,  including
obtaining 
terrorist
potential.
technical  assistance 
fight 
to 
An effective step in countering terrorism might be
the  adoption  of  international  agreements  such  as  the
draft  comprehensive  convention  on 
international
terrorism  and  the  international  convention  on  the
prevention  of  acts  of  nuclear  terrorism.  We  call  for
more  vigorous  work  on  these  important  documents,
with  a  view  to  overcoming  existing  disagreements  on
key issues. It is important to remember that our failure
to come together  on  these issues  simply  plays into the
hands of terrorists.
At  the  same  time,  the  global  fight  against  the
threat of terrorism should not lead to the restriction  of
or  infringement  upon  fundamental  human  rights.  The
United  Nations  Commission  on  Human  Rights  should
play  an  important  role  within  the  CTC,  and,  as  the
Secretary-General  rightly  pointed  out  in  his  report  on
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  the  Committee  must  avoid  politicization  and
must  act 
the
international community.
interest  of  all  members  of 
the 
in 
Belarus  has  always  expressed  support  for  an
exclusively  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Iraq  crisis.  My
Government  welcomes  the  adoption  by  the  Security
Council  of  the  relevant  resolutions  emerging  from
consensus  among  the  members  of  the  Council.  The
Republic  of  Belarus  considers  that  the  central  role  of
coordinating 
international
community  regarding 
the  Iraqi
situation  and  the  restoration  of  its  sovereignty  and
economy should belong to the United Nations.
the  settlement  of 
activities  of 
the 
the 
The 
establishment  of 
the  United  Nations
Assistance Mission in Iraq is a timely and sensible step
taken  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  in
addressing economic, humanitarian, political and other
pressing issues.
The  Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly
have  played  an  important  role  in  settling  African
problems. We are now seeing the gradual normalization
of the situation in Liberia. Progress  has  been  achieved
and  a  Transitional  Government  has  been  set  up  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  There  has  also
been  progress  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  However,  these  shifts
would not be so substantial without the contribution of
the  African  Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of
2
West  African  States.  We  welcome  that  trend,  which
confirms the efforts of the Governments and peoples of
the African States to take responsibility for the  fate  of
their own continent.
We support the adoption by the Secretary-General
of  measures  taken  over  the  past  year  aimed  at  the
peaceful  settlement  of  the  Middle  East  question.  We
support the six-sided talks in Beijing, aimed at bringing
peace  to  the  Korean  Peninsula.  We  also  support
resolution of the Cyprus problem.
Most  conflicts  have  their  origin  in  situations  of
economic  disparity  —  unemployment,  low-level  of
education,  poverty  and  disease.  The  alarming  scale  of
hunger, poverty, illiteracy and epidemic diseases in the
world  provides  a  breeding  ground  for  terrorist  groups.
Promoting  economic  and  social  progress  is  one  of  the
best ways of ensuring peace and security on the planet.
to  achieve 
For 
it 
the
development  goals 
the  Millennium
Declaration.
important 
in 
is 
set  out 
that  reason, 
that 
the  achievements  of 
The  attention  of  the  international  community  is
firmly  focused  on 
the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  We
believe 
the  specialized  agencies,  funds  and
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system,  together
with  State  donors,  must  take,  in  conjunction  with  the
African Union and the Governments of African States,
comprehensive  measures  in  order  to  quickly  achieve
NEPAD goals. That would also be an important step in
achieving  the  development  goals  of  the  Millennium
Declaration.
We  are  convinced  that,  for  further  progress  in
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  it  is
necessary 
to  develop  cooperation  between  United
Nations organs and the Bretton Woods institutions and
to further develop potential of the multilateral financial
institutions.  It  is  important  to  continue  the  practice  of
holding  joint  meetings  between  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  to
discuss  joint  measures  in  order  to  resolve  the  vital
economic, social and environmental issues of the day.
Finally, we should consider a strategic orientation
for  the  2004-2005  United  Nations  programme  budget,
aimed  at  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  which  will  be  important  in  order  to  achieve
results  by  2005,  when  a  review  conference  on  the
Millennium  Declaration  is  planned,  based  on  the
consideration of the five-year comprehensive report  of
the  Secretary-General  on  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium Development Goals.
the 
implementation  of 
Mr.  Balestra  (San  Marino):  First  of  all,  let  me
thank the Secretary-General for the two exhaustive and
effective  reports  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  and
on 
the  United  Nations
Millennium  Declaration.  These  reports  make  clear  the
progress  made  in  every  field  of  activity  of  the  United
Nations. It is now essential to determine which aspects
must be given greater consideration in the future  work
of the General Assembly.
The ongoing  globalization  process,  which  started
last  century,  has  already  brought  a  number  of  benefits
to  humankind,  although  the  results  obtained  to  date,
poverty 
especially 
and
underdevelopment, 
from  meeting
expectations.
against 
far 
fight 
still 
are 
in 
the 
and 
new 
face 
Moreover,  we 
dangerous
challenges.  Along  with  economic  and  technological
globalization,  we  are  faced  with  the  globalization  of
terrorism,  organized  crime,  pandemics  and  pollution.
All  these  factors  represent  a  constant  threat  to  the
international  community  and  to  every  individual.  No
human being is safe from terrorist attack; everyone is a
potential victim of a new pandemic; no country can be
sure  to  avoid  hosting,  directly  or  indirectly,  organized
crime; and there is nowhere in space, in the air, on land
or in the water that is free from the risk of pollution or
natural disaster.
identifies 
San  Marino  shares  the  view  of  the  Secretary-
General  when  he 
the  strengthening  of
cooperation  as  the  only  instrument  available  to  the
international  community  to  face  and  overcome  these
destructive  aspects  of  globalization.  Governments  are
responsible  for  the  well-being  of  their  own  nationals.
They  must  be  aware 
that  national  policies  and
strategies  are  no  longer  sufficient  to  guarantee  a
prosperous  future  for  their  populations,  and  that  they
must  act  in  a  wider  context,  beyond  national  and
regional  borders.  Today  more  than  ever,  the  world
needs multilateralism.
As  the  Secretary-General  states  in  paragraph  61
of his report on the work of the Organization, terrorism
“continues to pose a major threat to international peace
and  security”,  and  we  must  continue  to  fight  it  at  all
times.  The  international  community  also  needs  to
understand the causes of terrorism in order to be able to
react  in  an  efficient  way  and  improve  situations  that
lead  to  such  a  phenomenon.  Terrorism  is  not  the
weapon  of  a  particular  region,  culture,  religion  or
socio-economic group. It is a strategy that originates in
all civilizations and human societies.
A/58/PV.25
While universal condemnation of terrorism has to
remain  firm  and  inflexible,  the  motivations  behind
terrorism  must  be  analysed  attentively  in  their  own
specific  context.  The 
rights,
fundamental  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law  remains
essential 
In  no
circumstances  can  those  principles  can  be  abandoned,
not even in time of war.
respect  of  human 
fight  against 
terrorism. 
the 
in 
of 
one 
remains 
the  most 
The prevention and resolution of conflicts and the
provisions  of  assistance  to  populations  emerging  from
conflicts 
exacting
commitments  of  the  Organization.  As  recalled  by  the
Secretary-General,  the  resolution  recently  adopted  by
the  General  Assembly  on  the  prevention  of  armed
conflict gives the United Nations a strong mandate not
only  to  continue  but  also  to  expand  and  intensify  its
conflict-prevention activities. San Marino believes that
more resources should be allocated to programmes and
projects aimed at the prevention of conflicts. A system
to  strengthen 
international  cooperation  should  be
implemented  in  countries  at  risk.  The  United  Nations
should  have  the  capacity  immediately  to  intervene.
History  teaches  us  that  disagreements  can  deteriorate
over time and lead to insoluble conflicts.
are  not 
Unfortunately, 
It is very difficult to evaluate the results obtained
by  this  Organization  in  this  important  field  of  action.
United  Nations  failures  are  very  visible,  but  the
successes  achieved  in  the  implementation  of  conflict-
prevention  measures  often 
sufficiently
highlighted,  as  they  seem  obvious  to  us.  But  that  is  a
mistake, as they risk being taken for granted.
evident 
the
international  community  is  more  interested  in  facing
the  tragic  consequences  of  armed  conflicts  than  in
trying  to  foresee  and  avert  them.  It  is  in  the  global
interest to reverse that trend. To address only the tragic
dramatic consequences of a war and not to have tried to
avert it is ethically unacceptable and much more costly.
We  have  to  reject  the  old  saying  that  states  that  “it  is
more difficult  to  find  money  to  buy the  medicine  than
it is to buy the coffin”.
seems 
that 
it 
The  development  of  a  conflict-prevention  policy
must  become  an  effective  priority  for  the  United
Nations  through  the  strengthening  of  international
dialogue,  the  creation  of  adequate  mechanisms  for  the
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts,  and 
the  constant
monitoring of international commitments.
San Marino has always supported the programme
of reforms of the  Secretary-General  and  welcomes  the
great  improvements  made  to  our  Organization,  with  a
3
A/58/PV.25
view to  making it  more active and  more efficient. The
commitment shown by the Secretary-General should be
shown  also  by  Member  States.  Our  Governments
should  carry  out  the  programme  of  reforms.  San
Marino  believes 
the  General
Assembly’s  working  methods  remains  an  essential
element  in  guaranteeing  the  efficiency  of  the  United
Nations. My delegation has put forward some concrete
proposals, and it is ready to cooperate  with the ad hoc
Working  Group  so  that  the  General  Assembly  can
reacquire the importance given to it by the Charter.
reform  of 
that  a 
to 
less 
those  of 
The best way to strengthen the Organization is to
disseminate  knowledge  of  its  work  throughout  the
world.  Unfortunately,  national  and  local  media  do  not
devote  enough  attention  to  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations,  and  even 
the  General
Assembly.  Often  our  Organization  is  considered  as
consisting  only  of  the  Security  Council.  Too  often  the
important activities of the General Assembly are given
only  a  marginal  role  or  even  ignored.  It  is  vital  to
emphasize  the  opportunity  to  ensure  a  more  effective
diffusion  of  information  on  the  results  of  the  work  of
the  General  Assembly.  We  cannot  underestimate  the
importance of this  organ  — the  most  representative  in
the United Nations.
In  this  respect,  I would  like  to  express  my
appreciation for the new operational model and the new
organizational  structure  of  the  Department  of  Public
Information, which will help to increase its capacity to
deliver  news  and  to  enhance  the  image  of  the  United
Nations in the world.
Mr.  Heinbecker  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):
the
Canada  wishes  fully 
statement  on  this  agenda  item  made  by  Australia,  on
behalf of Australia, Canada and New Zealand.
to  associate 
itself  with 
My  delegation  has  some  additional  comments  to
offer  on  one  issue  that  is  of  profound  concern  to  the
Canadian Government.
During the past decade we have witnessed horrors
which  have  made  a  mockery  of  our 
repeated
declarations  of  “never  again”.  The 
international
community stood aside as innocent civilians in Rwanda
and Srebrenica were slaughtered.
(spoke in English)
If the United Nations is to be relevant in future —
and  seen  to  be  relevant  by  the  peoples  for  whom  the
Charter  was  written  —  then  it  cannot  avert  its  eyes
from such atrocities because some of us here insist on a
narrow interpretation of sovereignty.
4
the
took 
Mr.  Fall  (Senegal),  Vice-President, 
Chair.
Let  us  be  clear.  Military  intervention  is  very
rarely  justifiable.  But  when  Governments  cannot  or
will not protect the lives of their people, which is their
most formal, primordial duty, or when they themselves
are  the  perpetrators  of  atrocities  against  their  own
people,  then  the  responsibility  to  protect  those  people
falls, temporarily, to the international community.
As  we  look  ahead  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations,  its  mission  and  its  architecture,  as  proposed
by  the  Secretary-General,  we  must,  as  he  himself  has
emphasized,  come  to  grips  with  this  most  critical  of
issues.  Nothing  less  than  the  integrity  of  the  United
Nations and its future depends on our doing so.
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  My  delegation  commends
the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  and  for  his
statement to the General Assembly on 23 September on
the  work  of  the  Organization.  The  reports  paint  a
chequered  picture  of  progress  and 
in
addressing  the  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations
and the wider international community in the quest for
a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. We concur
broadly  with  the  Secretary-General’s  analysis  of  the
current threats to peace and development.
setbacks 
Several of those threats are of immediate concern
to  Guyana  and 
the  wider  Caribbean  Community.
Among  them  are  those  posed  by  the  illicit  flow  of
small  arms,  the  illicit  trade  in  narcotic  drugs  and
disquieting new patterns of criminality. These, coupled
with more fundamental dangers generated by persistent
poverty,  unemployment,  inadequate  social  safety  nets
and  an  unfavourable  external  economic  environment,
pose  serious  challenges  to  democracy  and  stability  in
the  region.  Preventive  action  is  therefore  necessary  to
avert 
social  and  political
instability on our societies.
the  encroachment  of 
The  threats  to  which  I  have  referred  affect  our
countries, in large measure, as part of a wider network
of challenges facing our hemisphere and the rest of the
world.  International  terrorism  remains  a  danger  to
world  peace  and  security,  and  indeed  to  development.
It  must  be  addressed  through  the  cooperation  of  all
States.  My  Government, despite  limited resources,  has
striven  to  fulfil  its  obligations  under  Security  Council
resolution  1373  (2001).  International  support  remains
critical  to  the  success  of  our  efforts.  The  constructive
approach 
the  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  is  to  be  encouraged.  Our  ongoing  struggle
against  this  scourge  must  be  informed  by  a  thorough
of 
understanding  of  all  factors  that  contribute  to  it,
including its root causes.
While our region is fortunate to have been spared
the worst horrors of internecine strife and civil war, we
remain  deeply  troubled  by  the  suffering  that  has  been
visited  on  peoples  of  other  regions  as  a  result  of
conflict.  In  many  of  those  instances,  the  victims  have
been  innocent  civilians,  mainly  women  and  children.
At  the  same  time,  we  are  encouraged  by  the  progress
being  made  in  Africa  to  resolve  conflicts,  which  have
ravaged the continent, and to re-establish conditions for
durable  peace  and  development  through  the  African
Union and instruments such as the New Partnership for
Africa’s  Development.  The  role  being  played  by
African  countries  themselves  in  that  process  is  to  be
commended; 
the  unstinting
support of  the  international community. In the light  of
this and other experience, Guyana notes the continuing
value  of 
the  role  of  regional  organizations  and
mechanisms  in  the  promotion  of  international  peace
and 
ongoing
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations.
development.  We  welcome 
their  efforts  deserve 
the 
Three  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  historic
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2), the results to
date,  as  well  as  the  prospects  for  the  future,  are
decidedly mixed. The fight against poverty remains our
most  formidable  challenge.  We  are  told  that,  on
average, the international community — by dint of the
progress  being  recorded  in  a  few  large  countries  —
stands  a  chance  of  achieving  the  goal  of  halving
poverty  by  2015.  At  the  same  time,  the  Secretary-
General  notes  that  the  picture  is  much  more  troubling
at  the  national  level,  with  37  of  the  67  countries  for
which  data  are  available  experiencing 
increased
poverty rates in the 1990s.
for 
We  share  the  Secretary-General’s  concern  over
the lack of progress in reversing the rate of the spread
of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  The  need  for
access  to  medicines  and  care  at  affordable  costs  —
particularly 
in
developing  countries  —  cannot  be  overemphasized.
The  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and
Malaria is an important instrument that needs resources
adequate 
the
international  community  to  increase  contributions  to
the Fund.
the  challenge.  We  urge 
living  with  HIV/AIDS 
to  meet 
those 
Debt  relief,  official  development  assistance  and
trade 
the  global
partnership  for  development,  the  eighth  Millennium
represent  essential  elements  of 
A/58/PV.25
Development Goal, which is critical to achievement of
the  Goals.  However,  the  persistent  debt  burden  borne
by many developing countries, the inadequacy of flows
of official development assistance and the uncertainties
that bedevil the world trading system currently militate
against  achievement  of 
the  Goals.  The  prompt
provision  of  debt  relief  under  the  enhanced  Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  is  therefore  a
major key to progress, as is the full implementation of
the official development assistance commitments made
at Monterrey and Johannesburg.
The 
the 
failure  of 
recent  World  Trade
Organization (WTO) Ministerial Conference in Cancún
shows that the international community is still far from
honouring  the  commitments  made  in  Doha  to  place
development  and  the  interests  of  developing  countries
at  the  centre  of  the  WTO  negotiations.  On  the  other
hand,  it  affords  an  opportunity  to  refocus  efforts  on
consolidating 
trade  and
development. In that regard, we believe that the United
Nations can and must play a key role through the High-
level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
process  leading  up  to  the  eleventh  United  Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD XI).
I should like to quote  from  the  conclusion  of the
the
the  work  of 
link  between 
report  on 
the  vital 
Secretary-General’s 
Organization:
its 
“Despite 
imperfections, 
the  United
Nations still embodies the hopes of the peoples of
the world for a peaceful and just world.” (A/58/1,
para. 248)
Events  over the past  year  have  confirmed  that  there  is
no  viable  alternative  to  the  United  Nations.  That  is
especially the case for small countries such as my own,
for which the United Nations remains indispensable to
the  promotion  of  peace  and  development.  The
increasing interdependence of countries and peoples in
this  era  of  globalization  only  serves  to  underscore  the
need  to  strengthen  multilateralism  and  international
cooperation.
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  reiterate  what  the
President  of  Guyana  said 
the
Assembly  on  25  September  2003,  during  the  just
concluded general debate:
in  his  address 
to 
“The  success  of  international  cooperation,
and indeed of the United Nations system,  will be
determined  by  how  well  they  respond  to  the
interests  and  concerns  of  not  only  the  powerful,
but  also  the  powerless,  and  not  only  of  the  rich
5
A/58/PV.25
but,  most  urgently,  of  the  poor.”  (A/58/PV.12,
p. 4)
My  delegation  is  of  the  firm  view  that  the  aspirations
of  humanity  for  peace,  security  and  development  will
not be fulfilled without the effective participation of all
States  in  global  affairs.  The  application  of  democratic
principles  —  which,  happily,  has  increasingly  become
the  norm  within  countries  —  must  be  extended  to  the
international  councils  that  shape  our  common  destiny.
We  therefore  strongly  endorse  the  Secretary-General’s
call for a greater role for developing countries in global
decision-making. That will require a more fundamental
reform of the Organization —  and indeed of the entire
multilateral system — than we have seen so far.
In  this  connection,  we  note  with  interest  the
Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  establish  a  high-level
panel of eminent  personalities.  We  trust  that  the  panel
will  be  broadly  representative  of  diverse  experiences
and  perspectives,  including  those  of  small  States.  It
must  be  noted,  however, that there  is  no  substitute  for
the  political  will  of  Member  States 
the
decisions  that  are  needed  to  make  the  multilateral
system  accommodative  of  and  adequate  for  present
realities. The Assembly, therefore, should not relent in
the search for ways to strengthen its role and the role of
the  Organization  as  a  whole,  in  keeping  with  the
Charter.
take 
to 
I conclude by recalling the statement of Assembly
President,  Julian  Hunte,  at  the  opening  of  the  fifty-
eighth  session,  when  he  spoke  of  a  desire  that  this
session  be  an  action-oriented  one  in  which  decisions
are  implemented.  Guyana  shares  his  commitment  to
action  and  will  support  his  efforts  in  that  regard.  We
are conscious that the action required of this Assembly
must  go  beyond  the  mere  adoption  of  resolutions  and
declarations, or even of programmes of action. The full
and effective implementation of the commitments made
at  the  Millennium  Summit  and  the  series  of  United
Nations  Conferences  and  Summits  are  now  of
paramount  importance.  It  is  incumbent  on  us  all  to
devise 
the  means
necessary  to  transform  our  agreed  objectives  into
tangible reality for the peoples of the world.
the  mechanisms  and  mobilize 
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): Let me first congratulate
the  President  on  his  important  assumption  of  the
presidency  of  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the  General
Assembly  and  to  pledge  Uganda’s  support  for  his
presidency.
6
I  commend 
the
excellent  report.  Because  of  the  time  limitation,  I  will
comment on only a few matters.
the  Secretary-General 
for 
The  United  Nations,  under  the  Charter,  has  the
primary  responsibility  for  maintaining  peace  and
security.  Uganda  supports  measures  to  strengthen  its
role  in  this  area,  in  particular  with  respect  to  the
proposal  for  a  panel  of  experts  to  address  itself  on
current  security  threats  and  the  best  use  of  collective
action to respond to them.
In order to address conflicts, including preventive
measures,  especially  on  the  African  continent,  we  call
for  the  strengthening  of  regional  and  subregional
organizations so that they  will build their capacities to
respond  quickly  to  crises.  The  United  Nations  would
act  best  by  acting  through  such  organizations.  It  also
gives  responsibility  to  these  organizations  to  manage
the conflicts.
On  peacekeeping,  Uganda  welcomes  the  robust
mandate  given  to  the  United  Nations  Organization
Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo
(MONUC)  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  to  deal
with the conflict in  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic
Republic of Congo, especially Ituri and the Kivus.  We
also  pledge  our 
to  the  Transitional
Government in Kinshasa. By  having a functional State
in  that  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
our security concerns will be addressed. In this regard,
full  support  should  be  given  to  the  United  Nations  —
and  the  African  Union-sponsored  conference  on  the
Great Lakes region to be held in Tanzania in June next
year.
total  support 
terrorist 
threats.  All 
to 
fighting 
Terrorism  must  be  fought,  as  it  threatens  all
nations  without  exception.  We  all  have  experienced
embarrassing  and  dehumanizing  searches  at  airports
the  money  and
because  of 
resources  devoted 
terrorism  would
otherwise  be 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  therefore  support
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  in  this  regard.  We
call on the international community to help nations that
have  been  victims  of  terrorist  attacks,  like  Uganda,  to
build  capacity  and  to  make  resources  available  to
respond effectively to terrorist threats.
implementing 
channelled 
to 
Building  a  global  partnership  for  development
has  been  a  central  focus  for  Uganda.  As  a  Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Country  (HIPC),  we  are  addressing
issues  of  trade.  through  specific  policies,  focusing  on
the flow of aid and elaborating macroeconomic policies
that have ensured the progress of Uganda in the area of
debt relief, in order to reach the HIPC decision point.
As the Secretary-General mentioned in his report,
we  are  using  debt  relief  proceeds  to  expand  primary
education  in  line  with  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  However,  we  are  still  confronted  with  some
difficulties that slow down our progress.
The decline in commodity prices and agricultural
subsidies by developed countries, among other factors,
undercut  our  efforts  to  keep  the  debt-to-export  ratios
below  150  per  cent,  in  line  with  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
On  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  we  agreed  on  the
principle  of  ownership.  Poverty  eradication  is  at  the
heart  of  Uganda’s  development  agenda.  We  have
evolved,  with  the  support  of  international  donors,  a
comprehensive  Poverty  Eradication  Action  Plan  to
tackle  poverty  in  all  its  aspects.  We  need  increased
resources to continue implementing the programme, in
keeping  with 
the  United  Nations  Millennium
Development  Goals.  Official  development  assistance
(ODA),  therefore,  remains  an  important  facet  of  our
development process, and we call upon our partners to
fulfil  their  commitments  and  to  increase  ODA  to
0.7 per cent of their gross national product.
is 
Uganda 
committed 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  and,  with  the  support
of  our  development  partners,  we  intend  to  keep  the
current momentum going.
achieving 
to 
Mr.  Chidumo  (Mozambique):  My  delegation  is
pleased  to  participate  in  this  important  debate  of  the
General Assembly on the work of the Organization and
the implementation of the Millennium Declaration. We
welcome  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  these
critical subjects, as well as the statement he made at the
beginning  of  the  general  debate.  Both  the  report  and
the  statement  offer  comprehensive  assessments  of  the
situation  in  which  the  United  Nations  currently  finds
itself,  the  challenges  before  the  Organization  and
recommendations on the way forward.
The  United  Nations  has  been  at  a  crossroads
during  the  recent  past.  Once  again,  the  Organization
has  been  tested  by  ever  increasing  demands  and
challenges,  comprised  of  a  multiplicity  of 
tasks
performed 
including  peace  and
security,  economic  and  social  development,  human
rights  and  humanitarian  assistance,  international  law
and the environment.
in  several  areas, 
A/58/PV.25
Recent  events  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security
have  brought  additional  challenges  to  the  United
Nations  and  multilateralism.  The  climate  of  global
consensus  and  cooperation 
fight  against
terrorism,  reflect  in  Security  Council  resolution  1373
(2001),  which  forged  the  international  community’s
resolve  to  collectively  fight  terrorism  and  place  the
United  Nations  at  the  forefront  of  global  action,  has
been  tested  by  new  challenges  to  multilateralism  and
collective security.
the 
in 
On 
the 
other 
hand, 
progress 
the
the  Millennium  Declaration,
implementation  of 
particularly of the Millennium Development Goals, has
been  slow,  casting  a 
timely
achievement  of  these  goals.  The  Secretary-General
notes in his report that,
shadow  over 
the 
in 
in 
implied 
“in  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  in  particular,
the  consensus  expressed  or 
the
Declaration now looks less solid than it did three
years  ago.  In 
the  area  of  development,  by
contrast,  a  stronger  consensus  has  been  forged,
but  grave  doubts  remain  as  to  whether  Member
States  are  sufficiently  determined  to  act  on  it.
And  in  the  area  of  human  rights  and  democracy
there  is  a  danger  that  we  may  retreat  from  some
of  the  important  gains  made  in  the  previous
decade”. (A/58/323, para. 3)
With  the  necessary  political  will,  these  issues  can  be
addressed. We therefore  must do everything  we can to
reverse this disturbing course of events, in particular in
the  issue  of  conflict  prevention,  management  and
resolution.
In  Africa,  it  has  been  recognized  that  conflicts
continue  to  undermine  efforts 
towards  sustainable
development  in  the  continent,  but  it  has  also  been
recognized  that  we  Africans  step  by  step  are  steadily
discharging our responsibilities for the  maintenance of
peace and stability in the continent. This is particularly
relevant  given 
that  almost  all  conflicts
afflicting  Africa  today  are  a  continuation  of  old
conflicts  which  have  not  been  resolved  properly  over
time or are seemingly new ones  whose root causes are
linked  or  might  be  traced  back  to  those  that  have  not
been  settled  yet.  This  suggests  that,  once  the  current
conflicts  are  addressed,  the  continent  will  be  on  the
right path towards development and implementation of
Millennium Development Goals.
the  fact 
The  entry  into  force  of  the  Peace  and  Security
Council,  an  important  organ  of the  African  Union  that
will  deal  with  issues  related  to  conflict  prevention,
7
A/58/PV.25
and 
resolution,  will 
management 
undoubtedly
contribute  to  the  collective  efforts  under  way  in  our
continent.  Accordingly,  the  international  community
must continue to focus  on  the  principle of  collectively
and  swiftly  addressing  new  and  old,  hard  and  soft
threats to international peace and security as a whole.
recognize 
Though  we 
that  priority  can  be
accorded  to  one  group  of  threats  at  a  given  time,
history  reminds  us  that  failure  to  act  globally  against
threats  to  peace  in  all  their  forms  and  manifestations
may  ultimately  affect  our  common  security  agenda.
Therefore,  our  security  agenda  should  continue  to
reflect the global nature of these threats. Our collective
security  agenda  will  be  successful  if  it  is  pursued
through the United Nations. For these reasons, we must
strengthen the United Nations, particularly the General
Assembly, in order to enable it to regain the confidence
of Member States and of world public opinion at large.
The  much-sought  reforms  of  the  Organization
must  be  seen  within  this  perspective.  The  current
composition of the Security Council remains hostage to
the past and fails to reflect the geopolitical realities of
the twenty-first century. In particular, it fails to provide
adequate  qualitative  and  quantitative  representation  of
developing countries in that critical organ of the United
Nations. Therefore, unless this matter is addressed, the
decisions  of  the  Council  will  continue  to  be  seen  as
reflecting  mainly  the  interests  of  those  who  have
benefited from its current composition. Member States
are  urged  to  show  leadership  by  deciding  on  this
matter, which has been on their agenda for more than a
decade. We should not blame the General Assembly for
ineffectiveness  and  redundancy  on  issues  that  only
Member States can resolve.
a 
its  powers 
The  General  Assembly,  a  democratic  body  that
reflects the full membership of the United Nations, has
been  seeing 
increasingly  undermined.
Important issues are discussed and resolutions adopted
mostly  on 
lowest-common-denominator  basis,
consequently commanding little or no attention beyond
the confines of the General Assembly Hall. The United
Nations  and  the  General  Assembly  in  particular  can
only  be  what  Member  States  want 
to  be.
Therefore, the blame for the performance and relevance
of  the  General  Assembly  and  other  organs  of  the
United  Nations  lies  entirely  with  Member  States,  and
no  reform  can  change  that  if  the  minds  of  those  who
can  decide  appear  to  be  set  to  obstruct  the  very  work
we are all supposed to emulate.
them 
8
The  implementation  of  Millennium  Development
Goals in their entirety remains the most important task
before 
the  United  Nations.  We  are  particularly
disturbed  by  current  trends  that  show  that  many
developing  countries  lag  far  behind  in  this  noble  task
and that, at the prevailing pace, they  will be  unable  to
meet  these  Goals.  Global implementation of the  Goals
requires  strong  global  partnership  and  cooperation
among  all  countries  of 
the
international  community 
the  necessary
support  to  developing  countries,  in  particular  the  least
developed, 
levels  of  official
development  assistance  and  foreign  direct  investment,
to  allow  those  countries  to  board  the  plane  of  socio-
economic development.
the  world.  We  urge 
to  provide 
including  adequate 
for 
support 
We  commend 
the  Secretary-General  for  his
efforts  to  undertake  reforms  aimed  at  aligning  the
task.  For  developing
institution  with 
that  critical 
countries,  United  Nations 
the
implementation of the Millennium  Development Goals
is  of  paramount  importance.  Therefore,  we  encourage
the  United  Nations  system  to  continue  to  support
national Governments in their efforts to mainstream the
Goals 
and
programmes.  Furthermore,  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  should  take  regional
development  strategies  into  account.  In  Africa,  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)
remains  the  framework  for  implementation  of  the
Goals.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  NEPAD  must  be
implemented  and  that  pledges  for  support  by  our
development partners should be met and on time.
in  national  development 
strategies 
in  placing 
they  must  strive 
the  Organization  at 
We  also  commend  the  overall  efforts  of  the
Secretary-General to put the Organization at the service
of  its  Member  States.  The  ongoing  reforms  have  been
instrumental 
the
forefront  of  the  battle  to  eradicate  poverty  and  fight
HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other  infectious
diseases. For United Nations institutional reforms to be
successful, 
translate  General
Assembly  decisions  into  reality.  For  instance,  the
allocation  of  resources  to  United  Nations  programmes
and  bodies  should  be  in  accordance  with  priorities  set
out by the General Assembly. On the other hand, there
is  a  need  to  equip  the  Organization  with  the  best
available  staff. 
the
assumption  that  new  recruitments  will  be  made,  due
attention  and  priority  should  be  given  to  candidates
from  unrepresented  and  underrepresented  countries,  as
envisaged in relevant General Assembly resolutions.
these  efforts,  and  given 
In 
to 
The  United  Nations  remains  the  only  legitimate
global  organization  that  commands  wide  international
recognition,  legitimacy,  confidence  and  respect.  As
President  Chissano  said  in  his  recent  address  to  this
body,
“it  is  through  the  United  Nations  that  we  can  all
find  the  much-sought  legitimacy  of  action  in
tackling  issues  of  common  concern,  including
threats  to  peace  and  security,  and  in  addressing
the  challenges  of  sustainable  development  and
HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis,  malaria  and  other
infectious diseases”. (A/58/PV.9, p.4)
responsibility 
There  is  no  substitute  for  multilateral  approaches  and
collective 
global
challenges.  Only 
through  common  and  collective
action can we ensure effectiveness and unity of purpose
in  enabling  the  United  Nations  to  fulfil  its  obligations
under the Charter.
addressing 
in 
the 
implementation  of 
Mr. Wang Guangya (China) (spoke in Chinese):
The Chinese delegation  wishes to  thank the  Secretary-
General for his reports on the work of the Organization
and  on 
the  Millennium
Declaration.  The  reports  have  reviewed  the  work  in
different areas carried out by our Organization over the
past year and highlighted the challenges still facing us.
They  also  contain  many  thought-provoking  ideas.  We
need 
in-depth
consideration  to  the  two  reports.  I  now  wish  to  make
the  following  remarks  in  connection  with  the  two
reports.
to  give  further  careful  study  and 
The first concerns the role of the United Nations.
In his report on the implementation of the  Millennium
Declaration, the Secretary-General pointed out that the
collective  security  mechanism  is  the  best  response  to
both old and new challenges. That view is undoubtedly
shared  by  the  vast  number  of  Member  States.  During
the  general  debate  of  the  current  session,  almost  all
countries  have  affirmed  the  irreplaceable  role  played
by the  United  Nations in today’s  world  affairs  and the
need  to  maintain  and  strengthen  it.  Developments  in
the  international  situation  over  the  past  year  have
proved  once  again  that  a  multilateral  approach,  with
the  United  Nations  at  its  core,  cannot  be  cast  aside  if
we  are  to  remove  various  kinds  of  security  threats
facing the  world and achieve common development. It
is in the common interests of all countries to safeguard
the authority of  the  United  Nations.  Under  the  current
circumstances,  we  should  continue  to  adhere  to  and
earnestly implement the purposes and principles of the
Charter  and  make  active  endeavours 
to  enhance
A/58/PV.25
democracy  and 
relations.
the  rule  of 
law 
in 
international
and 
and 
promote 
China  supports  the  United  Nations  efforts  to
conduct the necessary and appropriate reforms so as to
keep  pace  with  the  times.  These  reforms  should  be
aimed at improving  the  efficiency  of  our  Organization
and  increasing  its  capacity  to  respond  to  various
challenges 
social
development,  thus  better  enabling  the  United  Nations
to  meet  the  needs  of  the  twenty-first  century.  We
welcome  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General  to
establish  a  high-level  panel  of  eminent  personalities.
The Chinese delegation will continue in a constructive
manner to take an active part in discussions on reform
of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the
Economic and Social Council.
economic 
My  second  remark  concerns  peace  and  security.
As is stated in the work report, the past year has been a
trying  one  for  the  United  Nations.  The  war  in  Iraq  at
the beginning  of the  year posed  a  serious  challenge  to
the  collective  security  mechanism  represented  by  the
United  Nations.  Though  the  war  has  come  to  an  end,
peace  is  still  a  distant  prospect.  We  hope  to  see  the
restoration  of  security  and  stability  in  Iraq  and  the
resumption  of  the  exercise  of  sovereignty  by  the  Iraqi
people at an early date. We are in favour of adopting a
new resolution by the Security Council that is effective
and supported by all sides. The resolution should set a
timetable for the political process in Iraq and explicitly
state  the  important  role  to  be  played  by  the  United
Nations.
The  situation  between 
Israel  and  Palestine
remains  a  source  of  concern.  The  peace  process  over
the past year has witnessed ups and downs. The history
of the  Middle  East  has  shown  that  to  counter  violence
with  violence  will  only 
to  a  dead  end.
Negotiations  and  dialogue  are  the  only  way  out.  We
urge  Israel  and  Palestine  to  stop  the  violence  and  all
acts that may increase the tension, resume talks as early
as  possible  and  create  conditions 
for  continued
implementation of the road map.
lead 
In Africa, positive progress has been made in the
settlement  of  such  questions  as 
the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Liberia. However, it is still
a long-term and arduous task to achieve peace in some
areas  of  Africa.  The  international  community  should
attach greater importance to the conflicts in Africa and
provide  stronger  support  to  peacekeeping  operations
there.
9
A/58/PV.25
We  are  still  confronted  by  terrorism  and  the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  An
effective solution requires consistent measures that can
tackle 
through
international  cooperation  should  also  be  made  on  the
basis of the purposes and principles of the Charter.
root  cause.  Greater  efforts 
their 
third  remark  concerns  development.  To
My 
coordinated, 
common
achieve 
development  in  the  world  and  to  attain  lasting  peace
and  stability,  it  is  vital  to  implement  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  I  would  like  to  share  my  views
with you on this question.
balanced 
and 
through 
First,  globalization  should  be  managed  and
geared  towards  universal  enjoyment  of  benefits  by  all
countries 
their  participation.  The  United
Nations  should  actively  accelerate  reforms,  improve
the  international  financial  system,  establish  a  more
open  and  fair  multilateral  trade  system,  reinforce  its
role  of  coordination  in  the  field  of  development  and
promote the right of participation and decision-making
of the developing countries.
Secondly, the United Nations should give priority
to development and  make efforts  to  establish  a  culture
of  development,  strengthen  development  agencies  and
ensure development  funds. The  United  Nations  should
make  financial  aid, 
transfer,  capacity-
building,  market  access  and  poverty  elimination  key
areas  of  cooperation  and  strengthen  cooperation  and
participation  among  the  Government,  private  sector
and civil society so as to implement development goals
in a comprehensive and balanced manner.
technology 
to 
the 
key 
Thirdly, 
accelerating 
the
implementation of the Millennium  Development Goals
lies  in  a  fair  and  reasonable  evaluation  framework.
in
That  framework  should  evaluate 
the  progress 
different  countries  and  supervise  and  assess 
the
fulfilment  of  the  development  aid  commitment.  We
support  the  proposals  made  by  the  Secretary-General
on  encouraging  the  developed  countries  to  set  a
timetable  for  fulfilling  their  commitments  on  trade,
debt relief and aid. We also support the United Nations
to
in  holding  an 
comprehensively 
progress 
in
implementing the Millennium Development Goals.
important  conference 
in  2005 
evaluate 
the 
My  fourth  remark  concerns  public  health.  In  the
first  half  of  this  year,  the  outbreak  of  severe  acute
respiratory  syndrome  (SARS)  in  some  regions  and
countries  shows  once  again  that  all  countries  should
make  continued  efforts  to  consolidate  public  health
undertakings.  The 
international  community  should
10
to 
the 
improve 
cooperation 
strengthen 
global
emergency  mechanism.  We  call  on  all  countries  to
incorporation  of  global  public  health
support  the 
capacity-building 
in  United  Nations  development
programmes 
enhance
international  and  regional  cooperation.  The  Chinese
delegation  will  submit  a  draft  resolution  on  this
question  at  the  current  General  Assembly  session.  We
hope that it will enjoy support from all countries.
and  other  plans 
and 
to 
As 
the  President  rightly  pointed  out  at 
the
opening session, the current General Assembly session
is  faced  with  many  challenges  and  arduous  tasks.  The
Chinese  side  supports  his  vision  for  the  work  of  the
current  session  and  agrees  with  him  that  the  General
Assembly  should  be  action-oriented.  The  Chinese
delegation supports the strengthened authority and role
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  General  Assembly  and
will  take  an  active  part  in  the  working  group  on  the
revitalization of the General Assembly. We believe that
the  current  General  Assembly  session  will  achieve
positive results through concerted efforts.
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow
me,  first  of  all,  Sir,  to  ask  you  to  convey  just  how
pleased  we  are  to  see  the  outstanding  diplomat  from
Saint  Lucia,  representing  the  Caribbean,  preside  over
the present General Assembly for a year.
the 
report  on 
implementation  of 
The  Secretary-General  has  submitted  to  us  an
important 
the
Millennium  Goals,  whose  conclusions  deal  with  the
critical  question  of  strengthening  our  multilateral
institutions,  and  in  which  the  Secretary-General  offers
a few thoughts on the  limitations  that  he  has observed
with respect to the main organs of the Organization.
In  the  same  vein,  in  his  address  in  the  general
debate,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  went  a  step  further  and  said
that it was his intention to establish a commission that,
among  other  things,  would  make  recommendations  on
the interaction of the organs of the United Nations and
how  to  strengthen  the  Organization  with  proposals  for
reform. In other  words, the Secretary-General is  doing
his job, and it is now time for us, as the representatives
of Member States, to do ours.
The United Nations is in urgent need of renewal.
That diagnosis is broadly shared. The great challenge is
to  agree  on  the  necessary  changes  for  the  General
Assembly,  the  Security  Council,  the  Economic  and
Social Council and the Trusteeship Council. That need
for renewal has become even more evident in the wake
of  11  September  2001  and  the  Iraq  crisis.  Power
relations 
changed
security  priorities  have 
and 
dramatically  in  the  last  few  years.  New  global  threats
such  as  terrorism  and  pandemics  can  be  dealt  with
effectively  only  by  means  of  a  multilateral  approach.
But  if  strengthening  multilateralism  is  critical  for
dealing  with  conflicts  and  challenges,  both  old  and
emerging  ones,  it  is  essential  that  the  United  Nations
renew itself in order to adapt to the new circumstances.
That  diagnosis  is  neither  original  nor  new;  the
the  United  Nations  are  replete  with
shelves  of 
proposals  and 
that  have
languished  in  the  labyrinth  of  bureaucracy,  because
they ceased to be priority issues, fell victim to political
inaction  or  served  merely  to  score  talking  points
without operational consequences.
initiatives 
reform 
for 
That  is  why  the  Presidents  of  Chile,  Mexico,
other  countries  of  our  region  and  other  like-minded
States  have,  in  various  forums,  underscored  the  need
for  a  new  approach  to  the  renewal  of  the  United
Nations. Chile thus agrees with the Secretary-General’s
proposal  to  create  a  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to
address 
issue,  a  panel  whose  work  can  be
supported by a group of like-minded countries that are
proponents of reform.
this 
representative  of 
What  changes  are  needed?  In  our  opinion,  the
Security  Council,  whose  reform  is  probably  the  most
complex,  needs  to  be  expanded  to  make  it  more
today’s
democratic  and  more 
international  community,  without  undermining 
its
effectiveness. Today the Council meets more frequently
than  it  did  during  the  cold  war,  but  it  still  does  not
reflect the realities of power of the twenty-first century.
Moreover,  despite  the  evident  desire  of  permanent
members  to  perhaps  keep  their  veto  power  intact,  that
privilege must be at least modified in order to limit its
use to exceptional circumstances.
The  General  Assembly  has  clearly  suffered  a
marked  deterioration  in  its  status  as  a  political  organ.
Part  of  the  problem  is  the  long  list  of  repetitive
resolutions  that  serve  only  very  narrow  objectives  and
which are almost never implemented. Another problem
is  the  broad  agenda  and  the  extremely  long  annual
sessions.  As  Member  States,  we  have  been  remiss  in
resolutions  whose
not 
objective 
to  remedy  some  of 
those  problems,
particularly the problem of the agenda.
implementing 
consensus 
is 
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  must  have
closer  and  more  effective  coordination  with 
the
Security Council in the areas of conflict prevention and
post-conflict  reconstruction.  Secondly,  it  must  have  a
closer, improved working relationship with the Bretton
A/58/PV.25
Woods  institutions.  Thirdly,  it  is  important  that  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  strengthen  its  role  as
coordinator  of  the  programmes  and  agencies  of  the
United  Nations  system  that  are  within  its  area  of
competence,  as  well  as 
its
subsidiary  organs  such  as  the  Commission  on  Human
Rights 
Sustainable
Development. In that regard, the ideas proposed by the
current President of the Economic and Social  Council,
Ambassador Gert Rosenthal of Guatemala, deserve the
careful study of Council members.
its  relationship  with 
the  Commission 
and 
on 
One aspect of  reform  that  is  not  often  dealt  with
concerns  the  decision-making  mechanisms  of  United
Nations  organs.  The  obsessive  search  for  consensus
often  results  in  decisions  of  the  lowest  common
denominator, which means decisions of scant relevance
and  effectiveness  in  the  world  outside  the  United
Nations,  to  which,  in  the  end,  those  agreements  are
directed. The reform process should include a study of
this  problem  because,  while  consensus 
is  always
advisable, good decisions must not be sacrificed in the
exclusive interest of consensus.
The  changes  I  have  just  mentioned  are  easier  to
enumerate  than  to  implement.  The  renewal  of  the
United  Nations  must  be  a  complete  package,  a
collective  undertaking  in  which  all  Members  gain
something  and  in  which  nothing  is  concluded  until
everything has been negotiated in a single undertaking.
Perhaps some countries will obtain more in some areas
than in others, but no country should come out empty-
handed at the conclusion of the process.
What is certain is that this is the right time — and
the  situation  is  ripe  —  for  a  bold,  decisive  and  high-
level  political  initiative,  in  which,  in  the  end,  all  the
actors  participating  in  the  United  Nations  —  Member
States,  the  Secretariat  and  civil  society  —  emerge  as
winners.
looking  back  on 
Mr.  Nakkari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  Today,  we  are  debating  the  reports  of  the
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization
(A/58/1) and on implementation of the United Nations
Millennium  Declaration  (A/58/323)  and  —  on  the  one
hand 
the
Organization  and  the  challenges  it  has  faced  and,  on
the  other  hand,  looking  ahead  to  the  future  hope  of
implementing the outcomes of the Millennium Summit.
are  dreams  mixed  with  optimism.
However,  a  realistic  examination  of  the  events  of  last
year leads us to pause and reflect on challenges that are
unprecedented  in  the  history  of  our  Organization.  To
the  achievements  of 
Hopes 
11
A/58/PV.25
quote the Secretary-General’s report on the Millennium
Summit,  “This  climate  of  cooperation  and  consensus
was  seriously  eroded  by 
Iraq”
(A/58/323,  para.  6).  The  consensus  on  peace  and
security achieved in the Millennium Declaration is now
less solid than it was three years ago, as the Secretary-
General also notes in the same report.
the  war  against 
to 
More than half a century after the creation of the
Organization,  storms  continue 
rage.  We  are
witnessing  occupation,  aggression,  the  violation  of
international law, the use of the logic of force to coerce
others and the flagrant violation of sovereignty, as well
as  poverty,  ignorance,  underdevelopment,  illiteracy,
hunger, 
local
conflicts — all of them the result of human actions  —
to say nothing of the natural  disasters that  have  struck
many parts of the world.
terrorism,  disease,  pandemics  and 
such 
Given 
challenges, 
that  globalization 
the  demands 
imposes  on 
and
responsibilities 
the
international community are now greater than ever. We
live  in  a  world  in  which  the  media  can  reach  into  our
homes,  making  people  better  able  to  understand  the
suffering  of  others.  This  obliges  the  world’s  decision
makers  to  be  more just and  to  respect  equality,  justice
and  international  law.  The  worldwide  rejection  of  the
war against Iraq is perhaps the best example of that.
Even  as  we  try  to  give  globalization  a  more
human  face,  the  failure  to  make  the  most  of  the
scientific  and  technical  advances  of  the  past  two
decades will surely lead to greater poverty and feelings
of  injustice  and  inequity  among  the  peoples  of  the
world. As the Secretary-General states in his report on
the implementation of the Millennium  Declaration, the
central  challenge  we  face  today  is  to  ensure  that
globalization  becomes  a  positive  force  for  all  the
world’s people.
At  Monterrey,  all  parties  agreed  that  it  was
important for the Governments of developing countries
to  adopt  national  development  strategies  and  for
countries  with  economies  in  transition  to  maximize
their  economies  with  the  utmost  effectiveness.  The
for
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Financing 
Development,  however,  has  stated 
if
developing countries adopt sound policies and succeed
in  maximizing  their  local  resources,  it  is  likely  that
they  will  still  need  at  least  a  further  $50  billion  in
assistance if development goals are to be achieved.
that,  even 
Although  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration
refers 
the
to  pledges  of  greater  assistance  from 
12
developed  countries  to  the  developing  countries,  we
believe  that,  if  the  system  of  international  trade  is  not
reformed,  that  will  simply  amount  to  giving  with  the
left  hand  and  taking  with  the  right.  The  Secretary-
General was correct to stress the vital need for a  more
comprehensive  multilateral  agreement 
that  gives
developing  countries  greater  access  to  markets  and
eliminates  the  tariffs  and  other  obstacles  created  by
developed  countries. The  Secretary-General  also  made
clear  that  in  the  absence  of  such  a  comprehensive
agreement, developing countries have no real chance of
furthering their economic growth.
region  has  suffered 
from
campaigns  based  on  injustice,  misinformation  and
misconceptions.  The  Israeli  policy  of  aggression  and
occupation,  which is continuing, is  the principal  cause
of 
the
Secretary-General’s report states, Palestinians continue
to suffer at unprecedented levels,  while the policies  of
closure  and  curfew  have  led  to  the  paralysis  of  the
economy  and  have  pushed  1.3  million  Palestinians
below the poverty line. Furthermore, Israel has carried
out a number of military operations that have destroyed
the homes of thousands of Palestinians.
region.  As 
for  decades 
suffering 
Our 
the 
of 
our 
In  this  context,  I  must  recall  that  some  500,000
Syrians  have been  displaced  from  the  occupied  Syrian
Golan  —  expelled  by  force  by  the  Israeli  occupation
forces  from  their  homes,  which  were  then  taken  over.
Furthermore,  Israel  is  still  causing  great  suffering  in
other  countries  in  the  region,  including  Lebanon,
whose air space it is continuing to violate.
The  cowardly  attack  by  Israel  against  Ein  Saheb
in Syria on 5 October was a clear violation of the most
important  principles  of  the  Charter.  It  was  a  threat  to
regional and international peace and security, as well as
the  Agreement  on  Disengagement
a  violation  of 
between  Israeli  and  Syrian  forces,  welcomed 
in
Security Council resolution 350 (1974).
by 
the  Secretary-General 
In this regard, we welcome the statement made on
5  October 
strongly
denouncing the Israeli air strike against Syrian territory
and  expressing  his  particular  concern 
this
additional  escalation  comes  at  an  already  difficult  and
tense  moment,  and  will  likely  have  repercussions  that
exacerbate  the  dispute  in  the  Middle  East  and  further
threaten regional peace and security.
that 
In this regard, it is appropriate that the Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization
should  state  that  the  ultimate  objective  of  the  peace
process  as  a  whole 
the  comprehensive
remains 
settlement of the Middle East conflict, including on the
Israeli-Syrian  track  and  the  Israeli-Lebanese  track,
based  on  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and
338  (1973),  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the
terms  of  the  Madrid  Peace  Conference  of  1991  and
other agreements reached by the parties, as well as the
peace  initiative  endorsed  at  the  Beirut  Summit  of  the
League of Arab States in March 2002.
Hope  has  not  failed  us,  however.  We  must  all
shoulder our responsibilities with courage, because the
grave  challenges  that  threaten  the  very  foundations  of
this  Organization  —  which  was  created  to  ensure
international  peace  and  security  —  require  world
leaders  to  make  sincere efforts  and  demonstrate  sound
political  will.  As  the  Secretary-General  recalled  in  his
report 
the  Millennium
Declaration,  the  fundamental  authority  of  the  United
Nations  stems  from  the  fact  that  its  legitimacy  is
founded on the principles of international law. There is
no  substitute  for  such  legitimacy,  and  the  actual
conduct  of  international  affairs  must  be  in  conformity
with those principles.
implementation 
on 
of 
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the
Security  Council’s  ability  to  mobilize  the  broadest
possible  support  for its resolutions  and actions  will be
strengthened if  the  Council is  seen  as  representing  the
widest  possible  cross-section  of 
international
community.  We  must  have  democracy  in  international
relations.
the 
In  conclusion,  as  the  Secretary-General  states  in
his  report  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Declaration, 
essential
foundation  for  the  legitimacy  of  any  action  at  the
international level.
the  Charter 
remains 
the 
Ms.  Corkery 
(United  States  of  America):
Today’s  discussion  reflects  streamlining  in  action.  We
will address both the Secretary-General’s report on the
work of the Organization and his report on follow-up to
the  outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit.  The  two  are
closely linked. In the reports Secretary-General Annan
addresses  how  the  United  Nations  is  to  regain  “the
confidence  of  States  and  of  world  public  opinion”  by
demonstrating  “its  ability 
the  most
difficult issues ... effectively.” (A/58/323, para. 13)
to  deal  with 
The  United  States  delegation,  along  with  others,
listened  attentively  to  the  Secretary-General’s  address,
his  “report 
shareholders”,  delivered  on  23
September.  Subsequently,  President  George  W.  Bush
stated in this Hall that the United States “As an original
signer of the United Nations Charter ... is committed to
to 
A/58/PV.25
the  United  Nations  and  we  show  that  commitment  by
working  to  fulfil  the  United  Nations  stated  purposes
and by giving meaning to its ideals.” (A/58/PV.7, p. 12)
That commitment is manifested in our  work  with
the Secretariat and other Member States to increase the
effectiveness,  efficiency  and  accountability  of 
the
United Nations. The United States has been among the
leading  advocates  of  United  Nations  management
reform,  which  includes  working  to  implement  results-
based budgeting and phasing down — or sunsetting —
redundant  and  obsolete  programmes.  Only  in  this  way
can the United Nations fulfil membership priorities and
mandates.  The  Secretary-General’s  report  —  and,
indeed, 
the  Organization  —
positively  reflect  many  of  these  reforms.  Member
States  should  be  encouraged  by  these  changes  in  the
Organization.
the  performance  of 
thoughtful 
The  United  States  supports  making  the  United
Nations even more effective, efficient and accountable.
We  are  working  with  our  colleagues  to  rethink  and
reinvigorate the role of the United Nations, particularly
in  economic  and  social  matters.  One  way  to  do  this  is
through 
resolution
57/270  on  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation
of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic  and
social fields. The credibility of United Nations policy-
making bodies is  undermined if the  outcomes  of  these
conferences  and  summits  are  not  fully  integrated  into
the work of the United Nations.
implementation  of 
We  welcome, 
The  Secretary-General  highlights 
the  United
Nations  efforts  to  address  extreme  poverty  at  the
global, regional and  national  levels,  and reports  “good
progress”  by  the  United  Nations  system,  including  the
specialized  agencies,  in  achieving  “greater  coherence
in  their  policies  and  programmes”  and  in  “improving
the efficiency and impact of the support they provide at
the country level.” (A/58/1, para. 106)
in  particular, 
the  Secretary-
General’s creation of the Commission on Private Sector
and  Development,  which 
to  develop  strategic
is 
recommendations  on  how 
to  promote  a  strong,
indigenous private  sector in  developing  countries.  The
newly established Financing for Development Office in
the  Secretariat  will  have  an  important  role  to  play  in
promoting  activities that  will  accelerate the process  of
implementing the Monterrey Consensus and integrating
the  outcome  of 
the  groundbreaking  Monterrey
Conference  into  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  This
year the United States has contributed $500,000 to the
13
A/58/PV.25
Office  for  activities  in  support  of  the  Monterrey
Consensus.
in 
reorienting 
The United States applauds the Secretary-General
the
for  his  support  and  energy 
Organization’s  work  on 
sustainable  development
toward  implementation  and  action.  Last  year’s  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  opened  a  new
chapter  in  our  common  endeavour  to  transform  words
and  commitments  into  concrete  actions  that  make  a
difference.  To  that  end,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  update  stating 
is
finalizing its own inter-agency mechanisms for system-
wide  follow-up  to  that  World  Summit  across  the  full
range  of  issues.  Ensuring  that  all  relevant  United
Nations  bodies  are  working  in  harmony  and  focusing
their 
on
implementation is critical.
the  Organization 
complementary 
expertise 
skills 
that 
and 
supports 
increase 
strongly 
to 
The  United  States 
the
Secretary-General’s  determination 
the
effectiveness  and  productivity  of  the  United  Nations
activities  to  support  Africa’s  development,  as  outlined
the  Secretary-General’s  update  on  activities
in 
undertaken 
and
programmes  in  support  of  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  The  United  States
fully supports NEPAD, which is a by-Africa, for-Africa
initiative guided by the principles of good governance,
open markets and respect for fundamental freedoms.
by  United  Nations 
agencies 
The  NEPAD  approach  is  consistent  with  the
Monterrey Consensus, the Millennium Declaration and
the World Summit on Sustainable Development. It is an
approach  that  depends  on  concrete  actions  at  the
country  and  subregional  levels.  The  United  States
initiatives  to  support  peace,  democracy  and  prosperity
in  Africa, 
the  Millennium  Challenge
Account, 
the  United  States  Emergency  Plan  for
HIV/AIDS  Relief,  the  Africa  Education  Initiative  and
the  African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Act  are  geared
toward  helping  African  nations 
that  are  helping
themselves.
including 
We  concur  with  the  Secretary-General  on  the
importance  of  food  assistance  to  Africa,  and  we  are
taking significant actions to meet the need. The United
the  World  Food
States  continues 
Programme 
and 
significant
emergency  assistance  to  Africa  to  address  food  crises.
In  2003,  we  will  provide  $1.4  billion 
in  global
emergency  food  aid.  The  Famine  Fund  —  a  new
presidential  initiative  —  will  make  available  $200
million for rapid response to food crises.
to  work  with 
others 
provide 
to 
14
to 
in 
the 
represents 
the  urgent  need 
international  community 
The  Millennium  Declaration 
the
to
collective  will  of 
fight  poverty.  The
address 
the
internationally  agreed  Development  Goals 
Millennium  Declaration  represent  clear,  time-bound
development  targets.  Success  in  achieving  these  goals
depends  on  a  partnership  in  which  developing  and
developed  countries  focus  on  positive  outcomes.  The
framework  for  this  partnership  was  agreed  by  our
leaders 
the
Conference on Financing for Development.
in  Monterrey,  Mexico, 
last  year,  at 
The  Monterrey  Consensus  gives  us  a  practical
framework  in  which  to  pursue  effective  development
and  to  meet  the  ambitious  agenda  laid  out  in  the
Millennium  Declaration. 
same
underpinnings as the Millennium  Declaration: political
and  economic 
sound  governance  and
institutions, 
through
improved health and education and encouraging growth
through free trade and private enterprise.
increasing  human 
freedom, 
capacity 
shares 
the 
It 
the 
In  his  report  on 
implementation  of 
the
Millennium Declaration, the Secretary-General stressed
the importance of follow-through and political will. We
concur  with  the  Secretary-General.  As  President  Bush
stated  on  23  September,  “Our  good  intentions  will  be
credited  only 
if  we  achieve  good  outcomes”.
(A/58/PV.7,  p.  12)  The  United  States  is  following
through on our commitments and taking action. We are
deepening  partnerships  with 
that  are
committed  to  good  governance,  investing  in  their
people,  and  free  markets.  The  $5  billion  Millennium
the  principles  of
Challenge  Account,  based  on 
accountability  and 
that
responsibility  for  development 
in  developing
countries  themselves,  will  increase  core  development
assistance  by  50  per  cent  over  the  next  three  years,
resulting in more than a $5 billion annual increase over
current levels in fiscal year 2006.
reward  and  emphasizing 
countries 
lies 
Mr.  Kyaw  Tint  Swe  (Myanmar),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
On  HIV/AIDS,  President  Bush’s  $15  billion
emergency  plan  for  AIDS  relief  is  intended  for  14  of
the  most  affected  countries 
the
Caribbean.  Water  is  another  area  where  the  United
States has taken the lead to produce good outcomes: in
the  United  States  Water  for  the  Poor  initiative,  the
United States has proposed total funding commitments
for  2003  to  2005  of  $510  million  for  water  supply,
sanitation  and  health  services  and  nearly  $400  million
to promote improved watershed management.
in  Africa  and 
to 
President  Bush’s 
We  strongly  support 
the  Secretary-General’s
focus  on  women  in  political  decision-making.  As  he
noted, “women in  many parts of the  world continue to
be  excluded  from  decision-making  at  all  levels  of
government,  or  are  given  only  token  representation”
(A/58/323,  para.  83).  In  an  effort  to  address  this
grievous  exclusion,  the  United  States  will  introduce  a
draft resolution on women and political participation at
this session of the General Assembly.
statement 
the  General
Assembly two weeks ago (see  A/58/PV.7) underscored
the  commitment  of  the  United  States  to  ending  the
scourge of trafficking in persons and our strong interest
in working with other countries and the United Nations
system  to  that  end.  Our  own  efforts  include  an  annual
report  on  trafficking  in  persons  as  well  as  numerous
programmes to assist other countries in the fight to end
this tragic modern manifestation of slavery. Our efforts
are aimed at prosecuting traffickers, protecting victims,
preventing crimes at home and assisting other countries
that are committed to doing the same. We will look for
opportunities to advance our shared goals in this body.
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  has  set  the  stage
for 
the  Assembly’s  further  discussion  of  United
Nations  reform  and  revitalization.  He  has  rightly
emphasized  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  and  its
bodies  to  better  achieve  their  original  and  intended
purposes.  For  example,  he  reminds  us  —  and  we
strongly  concur  —  that  in  the  human  rights  arena,
Member  States  should  appreciate  that  membership  on
the  Commission 
“implies
responsibilities as well as privileges” (ibid, para. 78).
on  Human  Rights 
The  Secretary-General  has  also  raised  a  number
of other important and challenging questions that need
to  be  seriously  addressed  by  Member  countries  in  the
year  ahead.  Our  comments  on  this  topic  are  part  of  a
broader  discussion  and  call  to  action,  which  will
continue  later  in  this  month  when  we  look  at  United
Nations reform proposals in detail, and during the work
of the General Assembly’s main committees.
Mr.  Van  den  Berg  (Netherlands):  The  report  of
the Secretary-General on implementation of the United
Nations  Millennium  Declaration  (A/58/323) 
is  as
crucial as it is courageous. On substance, he has raised
the  issues  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction, the threat of terrorism, the need for criteria
for  the  use  of  pre-emptive  force  and  the  necessity  to
balance our response to the hard and the soft threats the
world  faces  today.  On  organization,  he  challenged  us
A/58/PV.25
on  the  adequacy  of  the  intergovernmental  system  to
tackle today’s global agenda.
The  Netherlands  fully  associates  itself  with  the
statement  made  by  Italy.  The  European  Union  has
made it clear that it is ready to engage on the full range
of  issues  that  the  Secretary-General  has  put  to  us
Member States. We take the floor to share our thoughts
three 
on 
and
sequencing.
issues:  pitfalls, 
specific 
timing 
On  pitfalls,  the  general  debate  made  it  clear  that
there is a momentum and a sense of urgency. Will this
drive for reform last in the coming months? Let me cite
three  possible  pitfalls  that  could  derail  our  efforts.
First, the Secretary-General has invited us to discuss a
series of topics at the same time. Here  we run the risk
of  progress  in  one  area  being  made  dependant  on
progress  in  other  areas.  We  should  not  allow  that  to
happen.  We  are  invited  to  a  game  of  simultaneous
chess; we have to move our pieces on all the boards in
the same game.
Secondly,  the  importance  of  the  matter  demands
innovation  and  expeditiousness;  it  requires  departure
from our usual patterns of behaviour here in New York.
If  we  allow  old  reflexes  to  creep  in,  we  will  find
ourselves locked up in the usual exchange of arguments
among  regional  groups.  That  would  take  the  spirit  out
of  the  debate  —  and  gone  is  the  sense  of  momentum
and  importance.  If  that  scenario  becomes  reality,  we
will all lose.
Thirdly,  the  panel  of  eminent  persons  can  in  no
way present an excuse for the rest of us to sit back and
wait. We would lose valuable time if we waited for the
Secretary-General  to  report  on  the  work  of  the  panel.
That would effectively mean the adjournment of reform
to  the  next  General  Assembly.  The  panel’s  work  and
our work here in New York can happily coexist. In fact
I  expect  both  exercises  to  complement  each  other
rather than to compete.
is 
limited  shelf 
essential.  Momentum  has, 
by
Timing 
definition,  a 
life.  The  window  of
opportunity  to  shape  the  United  Nations  to  meet  our
present needs will not be open forever. Looking ahead,
September  2005  emerges  as  a  natural  deadline  for  our
work. September 2005 can bring together development,
the  financing  of  development,  security,  human  rights
and 
institutions.
September  2005  can  mean  a  truly  comprehensive
reappraisal  of  the  multilateral  system  worthy  of  the
optimistic  and  ambitious  spirit  of  the  Millennium
the  adequacy  of 
the  multilateral 
15
A/58/PV.25
Summit,  which  by  then  will  have  taken  place  5  years
before.
If timing is essential, then sequencing in our work
is  even  more  so.  If  we  accept  September  2005  as  a
decisive  milestone,  we  will  have 
two  General
Assembly  sessions  at  our  disposal  to  do  the  work.
Arguing  backwards  starting  in  September  2005,  it
seems  probable  that  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General  Assembly  will  be  devoted  to  discussions  on
the  Secretary-General’s  proposals  with  the  panel’s
report as one of the inputs.
We will have to prepare for that, meaning that we
have  to  probe,  to  discuss  and  to  speak  our  minds,
within  and  among  the  regional  groups.  To  make  that
happen, we should consider uncommon formats for our
deliberations, 
the  establishment  of
roundtables  cutting  across  groups.  Obviously,  given
our busy agenda for the coming three months the main
thrust  of this  exploratory  work  will  have to take  place
in  the  second  half  of  this  session,  in  the  first  part  of
2004.
for  example 
Still  arguing backwards,  I  now  come  to  what  we
can  take  up  now.  In  the  coming  three  months,  three
items  on  our  agenda  stand  out  on  which  we  can
demonstrate  our  genuine  will  to  improve  the  system:
the  high-level  dialogue  on  financing  for  development,
the  budget  and 
the  General
Assembly.
the  revitalization  of 
On  the  high-level  dialogue  on  financing  for
development, we will have to start building up towards
the September 2005 event. On the budget, we will have
to  agree on a  more  streamlined  budgetary process  that
channels funds to priorities and steers away from input-
oriented  micro-management  by  Member  States.  I
strongly  recommend  that  permanent  representatives
take a personal interest in that important debate. On the
revitalization of the General Assembly, we will have to
focus on specific issues on which progress is possible.
Our  suggestions  are  the  strengthening  of  the  office  or
the  President, 
the  General
Committee,  the  restructuring  of  the  agenda  of  the
General  Assembly,  the  role  and  impact  of  resolutions
and the organization of work of the Main Committees.
We  will  come  back  to  these  issues  at  the  end  of  this
month.
revitalization  of 
the 
I know that this timetable is ambitious. I am fully
aware  that  ambition  can  sometimes  be  met  with
cynicism, but I also happen to believe that cynicism is
the lowest level of intellectual activity. Simple calculus
demonstrates  that,  all  missions  added  up,  we  have
16
about 3000 kilograms of brains at our disposal.  Let  us
put  those  brains  to  work  to  the  full  for  the  benefit  of
the United Nations and therefore for the benefit of “We
the Peoples” we represent.
Mr. Ngo Duc Thang (Viet Nam): I wish to thank
the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  reports
and I concur  with  many of his analyses.  His  dedicated
to 
service 
the  Organization  deserves  our  highest
appreciation.
an 
ever-more 
As rightly observed by the Secretary-General, the
past  year  has  really  been  a  trying  one  for  the  United
Nations. Indeed, challenges old and new have emerged
with 
and
complexity.  While  poverty  and  injustice  persist,  the
events  that  took  place  during  the  year  —  such  as  the
war  in  Iraq,  growing  violence  in  the  Middle  East  and
spreading terrorism — have cast very dark shadows on
the various aspects of international life and on the work
of the Organization.
expanded  magnitude 
In view of those challenges, the only way forward
is  for  nations  to  work  together  in  partnership  and  on
the  basis  of  the  principles  of  the  Charter  and  of
international  law.  This  requires  us  to  work  harder  for
the  building  of  healthy,  equitable 
international
relations.  Viet  Nam  fully  shares  this  conviction  and
the  principles  of  respect  for  national
holds  dear 
independence,  sovereignty, 
integrity  and
non-interference in the internal affairs of States.
territorial 
tasks 
Peace  and  development  continue 
to  be  our
primary 
today.  Recent  developments  have
required  us  to  focus  our  attention  on  working  to
maintain  world  peace,  combat  terrorism  and  resolve
conflicts.  We  must,  however,  redouble  our  efforts  for
economic  and  social  development  and  for  poverty
eradication.
to  be 
imposed 
In  the  current  international  trade  climate,  clearly
the  developing  countries  will  always  be  the  most
disadvantaged.  In  particular,  protectionist  measures,
including non-trade forms in the name of anti-dumping,
continue 
to  prevent  developing
countries’ products from entering developed countries’
markets.  This  situation  must  be  corrected  through  the
building  of  a  more  democratic  and  open  world  trade
and 
financial  system,  which  would  also  ensure
favourable  conditions  to  the  developing  countries.  We
hope  that  the  forthcoming  high-level  dialogue  on
financing for development at the end of the month will
also take due account of these priorities.
The  Goals  set  by  the  Millennium  Summit  have
been  our  shared  priorities  ever  since  their  inception.
We  welcome  the  progress  made  by  the  Organization
and the efforts of the Secretary-General to map out the
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
The  fact  is  that  we  are  still  a  long  way  from  meeting
the common needs and expectations.
The  United  Nations  should  therefore  work  more
effectively  and  practically  to  accelerate  the  realization
of  those  Goals.  This  will  require  a  more  effective  and
democratized United Nations. We therefore support the
ongoing efforts towards those  ends.  We  also  welcome,
in that regard, the decision by the Secretary-General to
establish  a  high-level  group  to  consider  proposals  for
strengthening the Organization.
The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  should  be
guided by the principles of the Charter. In this exercise,
it  is  imperative  to  ensure  that  the  General  Assembly
assume  its  authoritative  and  political  role  as  the
universal,  representative  body  and  that  the  Security
Council  effectively  discharge 
functions  and
mandates  in  a  manner  that  truly  reflects  the  common
will of the Organization’s membership.
its 
The  solution  of  global  issues  today  requires  the
combined  efforts  of  all  nations.  A  prominent  message
emerging from the general debate of this Assembly has
been that of renewed commitment to multilateralism. In
this  context,  the  United  Nations  needs  to  play  an
important  role  in  the  fields  of  peace  and  development
and 
international
relations.
in  building  healthy,  equitable 
to 
the  statement  made  by 
Mr. De Santa Clara Gomes (Portugal): Portugal
fully  subscribes 
the
representative of Italy on behalf of the European Union
on  the  follow-up  to  the  Millennium  Summit  and  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the
Organization.  In  particular,  we  support  its  call  for
Member  States to  show  political  will,  pragmatism  and
imagination in the reform of the United Nations.
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to
create a panel of eminent personalities as an important
step towards overcoming the difficulties  we have  been
facing in reforming this Organization. However, as the
Permanent Representative of Italy said,
“we must not put off until tomorrow what we can
do  today.  We  must  push  ahead  with  action  on
reforming this year”. (A/58/PV.23)
The challenging dimension of the measures that need to
be  adopted  and  the  different  levels  where  action  is
A/58/PV.25
required  make  it  advisable  to  go  forward  as  soon  as
possible  in  those  areas  where  reform  is  most  needed
and pressing.
As  the  statement  of  the  European  Union  affirms,
one  of  our  priorities  is  to  consider  how  to  improve
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  order  to  enhance  the
effectiveness  of 
the  United  Nations.  Cooperation
among the various United Nations organs is foreseen in
the  Charter  as  a  necessary  way  of  achieving  common
goals.  The  Secretary-General  has  been  stressing  the
need  to  improve the  coherence  of  the  system  and  thus
to  transform  it  into  a  more  effective  instrument  of  the
international community.
One  of  the  areas  where  that  cooperation  is  most
needed  is  in  the  field  of  conflict  prevention.  Conflict
prevention is one of the primary obligations set forth in
the Charter. We must be fully aware that the usefulness
of the United Nations will always be judged in terms of
the  Organization’s  capacity 
to  avoid  and  handle
conflicts.
In  our  view,  conflict  prevention  has 
three
fundamental  dimensions:  security,  institution-building
and  development.  Those  three  dimensions  are  closely
intertwined;  the  failure  of  one  places  all  the  others  in
jeopardy.
The Security Council, besides its ongoing  efforts
in the field of security and peacekeeping, has recently,
within  the  framework  of  a  debate  promoted  by  the
British  presidency,  considered  justice  and  the  rule  of
law as essential elements for nation- and State-building
and  has  explored  ways  to  place  greater  emphasis  on
that dimension. The Economic and Social Council, for
its  part,  has  been  trying  to  address  the  development
component  of  conflict  prevention  through  establishing
ad  hoc  working  groups  for  specific  countries.  We
should  encourage  those  positive  trends  and  try  to  take
further steps in the same direction.
My  Prime  Minister  suggested  in  his  statement
before the General Assembly (see A/58/PV.8) that there
is  a  solid  case  for  advocating  the  creation  of  a  new
institutional  mechanism:  a  new  commission  with  a
mandate to routinely monitor conflict-prevention cases
and to promote the creation of conditions for peace and
development. In conjunction with the Security Council
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  which  would
both maintain their respective areas of competence, and
under a mandate given by them, that commission could
identify  and  deal  with  the  most  pressing  needs.  It
would  also  draw  up  for  countries  at  risk  —  which  are
17
A/58/PV.25
of 
the 
linking 
objectives 
the ones involved in most post-conflict situations — as
well  as  in  other  clearly  defined  situations,  integrated
strategies 
security,
reinforcement of institutions in the fields of justice and
administration, and economic and social development.
In order to create conditions for development, the
commission would obviously need to be closely linked
to  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  United  Nations
agencies.  International  and  donor  aid  will  be  more
forthcoming  if  an  integrated  strategy  is  adopted  with
that  kind  of  support.  In  terms  of  the  United  Nations
budget, we think existing resources should be sufficient
to cover the functioning of such a Commission.
I  think  this  proposal  should  be  considered  and
discussed  in  the  context  both  of  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General on the work of the Organization and
of the report on the implementation of the Millennium
Goals. It addresses what we believe to be a widely felt
need  at  this  moment  and  proposes  an  instrument  that
would be very useful.
the  past  year  call 
Mr.  Listre  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The
events  of 
the
commitment  made  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  to
share  responsibility  in  tackling  the  threats  against
international  peace  and  security  by  recourse  to  the
multilateral tool embodied by this Organization.
into  question 
led 
That  has 
to  deep  division  within 
the
international  community  and  has  raised  new  questions
about  United  Nations  actions  and  about  the  principles
on which the Organization was founded. This forces us
to  reflect  sincerely  and  deeply  on  the  future  of
multilateralism and the collective security system. This
concept  must reflect the  global consensus on the  main
threats to international peace and security, as well as on
the proper responses to them.
The  sine  qua  non  condition  of  multilateralism  is
that,  in  attaining  their  national  interests,  States  must
respect global realities and take into account the needs
of  others.  Unless  we  find  a  collective  response  to
collective problems,  we  will  not  be able  to  restore  the
confidence  of  States  and  world  public  opinion  in  this
Organization.  The 
the  United
Nations is its principal asset. However, that legitimacy
must  be  complemented  by  a  clear  demonstration  that
collectively we can effectively tackle the most difficult
issues  and  that  international  matters  can  be  best
resolved 
not
unilaterally.
everyone  working 
legitimacy 
together, 
lent  by 
by 
18
to  establish  collective  mechanisms 
Following  the  11  September  2001  attacks,  the
United Nations demonstrated that it could act swiftly in
order 
to  fight
terrorism.  In  the  area  of  peacekeeping  and  peace-
building  too,  it  became  clear  that  it  is  possible  to
effectively  fulfil  complex  mandates  and  face 
the
challenge  of  stabilizing  conflict  situations  and  help
societies devastated by  war in their transition  to  peace
and  democracy.  The  example  of  Timor-Leste 
is
particularly relevant in that respect, as are the cases of
Kosovo and Sierra Leone, among others.
In  these  and  other  areas,  the  United  Nations  can
make significant contributions, and it has demonstrated
the ability to adapt. By way of example, during the past
few years, it has been proven that, in certain cases, it is
necessary to establish peace and to stabilize a situation
before  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  mission  can  be
the  deployment  of
deployed. 
multinational 
appropriate
instrument, 
cases  of  Timor-Leste,
Afghanistan, Côte d’Ivoire, Bunia and elsewhere in the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  Liberia.  We
thank  the  countries  and  organizations  that  have  led
such efforts for their solidarity and for their interest in
maintaining peace in those situations.
forces  has  been 
instances, 
In  such 
the 
the 
as 
in 
With  regard  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  we
agree with the Secretary-General that it is necessary to
strengthen and supplement the existing regimes. In our
view, the United Nations must expand its action in this
area  and  adopt  the  measures  necessary  to  prohibit  the
proliferation  of 
these  weapons  by  adopting  clear
measures  that  point  out  the  consequences  of  non-
compliance.  These  are  actions  that,  as  experience
shows, can and should be carried out effectively in the
multilateral  framework  of  the  United  Nations.  We
value the  work  of the  Secretary-General,  whose report
on  this  item  has  provided  impetus  in  the  sphere  of
conflict-prevention.
recently 
The  General  Assembly 
adopted
resolution  57/337,  aimed  at  including  this  issue  in
future  action  and  calling  on  States  and  regions  to
develop  strategies  in  that  area.  Activities  aimed  at
putting 
in  place  a  culture  of  structural  conflict
prevention  throughout  the  system  at  the  national,
regional and international levels must be sustained and
increased.
The great discouragement and outrage that we all
felt as a  result of  the  attack in  Baghdad reminds  us of
the  urgency  of  strengthening,  as  much  as  possible,
everything pertaining to the security of United Nations
personnel.  Such  security  requires  practical  measures
and the elimination of the broad impunity still enjoyed
by  the  criminals.  That  is  why  we  wish  that  the
Secretary-General,  after  expressing  strong  indignation
at the attack in paragraph 3 of his report on the work of
the  Organization,  had  also  noted 
the  urgency  of
strengthening  the  current  process  aimed  at  broadening
the  implementation  of  the  1994  Convention  on  the
Safety  of  United  Nations  Personnel  and  Associated
Personnel.  I  should  add  that  that  is  an  old  concern  of
Argentina’s  that  we  expressed  when  we  presided  over
the Security Council in February 2000.
It  is  encouraging  that 
the  principles  of  the
protection of civilians have begun to be included in the
mandates of a number of recent peacekeeping missions,
and  we  support 
to
organize  regional  workshops  to  study  humanitarian
challenges, aimed at developing a regional perspective
on the protection of civilians.
the  Secretary-General’s  work 
to 
remain 
divisions 
However, 
the  Optional  Protocol 
One  field  in  which  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  has  been  notable  is  that  of  the  international
protection  of  human  rights.  Recently,  the  General
Assembly  adopted 
the
Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel,  Inhuman
or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment  (resolution
57/199,  annex),  and  the  International  Criminal  Court
began to function a few months ago. Since the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we have
made  progress  in  establishing  a  system  to  defend  the
dignity of the human person and to eliminate impunity
for those who infringe it.
there 
and
contradictions  in  the  full  implementation  of  those
norms  and  a  misperception  that  through  the  United
Nations  there  will  be  an  attempt  to  impose  on  various
countries  values  that  are  foreign  to  their  culture,
tradition  and  situation.  In  truth,  we  need  to  admit  that
there are basic international norms incumbent on all of
us because they deal with inalienable human rights, and
because  the  peace  and  stability  that  concern  everyone
depend on them. Thus, it is a very negative practice to
group together in blocs in order to avoid facing glaring
realities  or  to  assert  the  principle  of  unrestricted
sovereignty  in  order  to  avoid  honouring  commitments
undertaken in front of the international community. We
therefore support the process of reviewing the working
methods of the Commission on Human Rights so as to
reduce  its  politicization  and  enable  it  to  focus  on  its
essential  mission  of  truly  promoting  and  protecting
human rights throughout the world.
A/58/PV.25
The 
increasing 
Closely  related  to  that  subject  is  the  issue  of
democracy,  which  —  as 
the  Secretary-General
recalls — is a human right implied in article 21 of  the
Universal  Declaration. 
global
acceptance  of  the  democratic  paradigm  is  one  of  the
most  significant  achievements  of  recent  decades,
despite  the  fact  that  some  countries  still  resist  it  by
arguing  for  different  types  of  systems.  We  know  that
democracy — whatever its particularities — exists only
where there is plurality of opinions and political parties
and  respect  for  internationally  recognized  rights  and
guarantees  and  for  the  constitutions  of  indisputably
democratic countries, and where power comes from the
exercise  of  the  free  vote  by  all  citizens.  Of  course,
many  democracies  languish  because  of  social  and
economic  difficulties  and 
the  poor  quality  and
corruption  of  their  leaders,  but  that  can  be  resolved
only  with  more,  not  less,  participation  by  society  in
decision-making.
The United Nations has played  an  important role
in the area of electoral assistance, guaranteeing that, in
many  cases,  no  frustration  will  be  caused  by  an
illegitimate  election  experience, 
to  grave
consequences  for  the  political  process.  That  is  an
aspect 
requiring  continued  attention  and  greater
support from the international community.
leading 
The  urgent  threats  to  global  security  must  not
make  us  lose  sight  of  necessary  action  with  regard  to
development. We agree with the Secretary-General that
there  is  at  present  a  wide  gap  between  the  rhetoric  of
inclusion and the reality of exclusion. As the President
of  my country, Néstor Kirchner, stated  a  few  days ago
before 
...
development 
...  is  no  longer  simply  a  matter  of
social conscience on the part of the central countries. It
has  an 
their  situation  and  security”.
(A/58/PV.11, p. 7)
the  General  Assembly: 
“Promoting 
impact  on 
Argentina  supports  the  Organization’s  actions  to
the  results  of  major  development
follow  up  on 
conferences.  However,  as  one  can  see  from 
the
Secretary-General’s  recent  report  on  follow-up  to  the
Monterrey  Summit  (A/58/216),  efforts  by  developing
countries to carry out sound macroeconomic and fiscal
policies  do  not  dovetail  with  the  attitude  shown  by
developed  countries  at  the  recent  Cancún  meeting  of
the  World  Trade  Organization.  In  that  connection,  we
importance  of  a
join 
successful 
in
revitalizing  the  economy  and  in  strengthening  the
development  process,  enabling  our  countries  to  grow
on the basis on genuine resources stemming from their
in  underscoring 
round  of 
the  vital 
international 
trade 
talks 
19
A/58/PV.25
in 
progress 
implementing 
comparative  advantages.  We  consider  that  the  review
of 
the  Millennium
Declaration  commitments  envisaged  for  2005  could
enable  us  to  carry  out  a  broad  assessment,  at  a  high-
level  event,  of  progress  made  in  the  processes  of  the
major conferences of the 1990s.
In  his  report  on  follow-up  to  the  Millennium
Summit (A/58/323), the  Secretary-General  makes  very
interesting  observations  about  the  need  to  strengthen
multilateral institutions and to  thoroughly  review  their
current  architecture.  My  Government  supports  such
efforts  to  build  a  more  efficient  and 
transparent
Organization.  Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly
is  a  key  to  the  changes  needed,  and  we  assure  the
President  of  our  cooperation  so  that  we  can  make
significant progress in our work this year.
We also support Security Council reform, but  we
need to establish unequivocally that  it  must  take place
only on the basis of  consensus  and  democratization. It
is not a question of increasing the number of privileged
countries  with  permanent  seats,  which  itself  was  an
anomaly  of  the  Organization’s  origins;  to  repeat  it
would  be  an  error  in  terms  of  efficiency.  On  the
contrary,  we  need  to  increase  the  number  of  non-
permanent  members  from  all  regions  to  make  the
Security  Council  more  representative  and  to  enhance
the  legitimacy  of  its  decisions  by  limiting  the  right  of
veto  and  establishing  procedures  aimed  at  greater
transparency.
Argentina,  as  a  founding  country  of  the  United
Nations  and  despite  the  ups  and  downs  of  its  national
history,  has  always  demonstrated a  commitment to  the
Organization’s  cause.  We  take  this  opportunity  to
reaffirm  our  will  to  participate  in  this  reform  exercise
with  the  objective  of  reaching  a  historic  agreement
soon 
individual
interests  and  the  general  interest  of  ensuring  peace,
security and development for all.
reflects  a  balance  between 
that 
Mr. Hachani (Tunisia) (spoke in French): I  wish
on  behalf  of  my  delegation  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on 
implementation  of  the
Millennium  Declaration  (A/58/323),  adopted  by  heads
of  State  or  Government  from  all  over  the  world  in
September  2000.  The  report  has  the  merit  of  having
clearly and  courageously identified the challenges that
face us all, as well as the measures to be taken to meet
them.
The  Millennium  Declaration  traces  the  path  that
we  must  follow  collectively  in  order  to  ensure  that
peace and security reign in a world where fear has been
20
banished.  It  also  established  the  main  direction  of
international  cooperation  for  development  by  setting
measurable time-bound goals.
We  must  recognize  that  the  hopes  raised  by  the
Declaration  have  largely  crumbled.  Conflicts  continue
to  boil  in  several  regions  of  the  world,  while  the
implacable  grip  of  poverty,  hunger  and  disease
continues to tighten on the developing countries.
In  the  sphere  of  peace  and  security,  Tunisia  is
convinced  that  coordinated  action  is  necessary  to
develop collective  and  concerted responses to  the  new
and  old  challenges  that  the  international  community
must face. The  most recent events  on  the international
scene  have  highlighted  the  need  to  strengthen  the
United Nations, whose purposes and principles are now
more 
the
international community.
than  ever  standards 
that  must  guide 
for 
to 
the 
to 
reform 
the  need 
underscore 
to  enhance  and  strengthen 
In  that  context,  we  share  the  view  expressed  by
the Secretary-General in his report, in which he calls in
particular 
international
institutions  and 
the
effectiveness of the United Nations to enable it to fulfil
the  mandate  accorded to it by  the  Charter.  We  wish  in
particular 
of
democratizing the Security Council, the principal organ
responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and  security.  Democratization  of  the  Council,  which
has  been 
increasingly
indispensable 
the  geopolitical
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century  and  to  enable  the
Security  Council  to  deal  with  the  changing  nature  of
conflicts  and  to  face  new  challenges  to  peace  and
security.
long  awaited, 
is  becoming 
importance 
in  order 
to  reflect 
for 
the 
With  regard  to  challenges  raised  by  conflicts
throughout the world, our gaze remains turned towards
Iraq  and  the  Middle  East,  which  are  still  victims  of
violence.  The  ongoing  tragedy  being  experienced  by
the  Iraqi  people  is  a  source  of  great  concern  and
anxiety 
international  community.  While
reiterating  our  commitment  to  the  independence  and
integrity of the territory and people of Iraq, we reaffirm
the need for the international community to join efforts
and for the United Nations to assume a leading role to
establish peace and stability in that fraternal country, to
open the path to reconstruction and to the restoration of
normal living conditions.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  continues  to
deteriorate  because  of  the  ongoing  occupation  and
Israel’s  delays  in  settling  the  Palestinian  question.  We
reiterate our appeal  to  the  Security  Council to become
more  involved,  in  keeping  with  relevant  resolutions,
and not employing a policy of double standards, to put
an  end  to  the  escalation,  to  give  concrete  form  to  the
legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Palestinians  to  establish
their sovereign State  with Jerusalem as its capital,  and
to ensure Israel’s withdrawal from occupied Syrian and
Lebanese  territory.  Tunisia  learned  with  great  concern
of Israel’s aggression against the Syrian Arab Republic.
We  forcefully  condemn  once  again  that  aggression,
which constituted a vile assault on the sovereignty of a
fraternal  Arab  country  and  a  serious  violation  of
international law.
It is gratifying to  note that Africa is  increasingly
at the centre of the international community’s concerns.
The  magnitude  of  the  challenges  faced  by  several
African  regions  is  such  that  international  mobilization
is necessary to help the continent reverse current trends
and  avoid  prolonged  destabilization.  We  appeal  to  the
developed countries and the United Nations system, the
Security  Council  in  particular,  to  strengthen  their
commitment to Africa and to continue their support for
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD)  in  order  to  stem  the  many
conflicts  and  to  promote  political  stability,  without
which  the  continent  cannot  tackle  the  urgent  tasks  of
economic and social development.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
That  old  saying  remains  valid  today.  If  applied,  we
would  be  able  to  save  innocent  lives  and  avoid
destruction  and  destabilization.  We  welcome 
the
Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  strengthen  the  capacity
of  the  Organization  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention.
In  that  context,  we  underscore  the  need  to  support
regional,  subregional  and  national  efforts  to  develop
prevention strategies.
Likewise,  we  call  for  the  strengthening  of  the
partnership  that  the  Security  Council  should  establish
with regional and subregional organizations in the area
of  peacekeeping,  and  also  emphasize  the  need  to
improve cooperation between the Economic and Social
Council and the Security Council.
Still  in  the  sphere  of  peace  and  security,  my
country,  Tunisia,  also  attaches  great  importance  to  the
fight  against  terrorism  in  all  its  aspects.  We  stress  the
need 
to  combine  efforts,  under  United  Nations
auspices,  to  eradicate  that  dangerous  phenomenon  by
eliminating 
causes,  particularly
poverty, alienation and despair. Tunisia, which actively
participated 
the  drafting  of  Security  Council
resolution 1373 (2001), adopted following the terrorist
fundamental 
its 
in 
A/58/PV.25
attacks  of  11  September  2001,  advocates 
the
establishment  of  an  international  code  of  conduct  for
the fight against this scourge.
We  are  convinced  that  the  deterioration  in  the
world  situation  requires  us  to  adopt  a  global  and
multidimensional  approach,  based  on  interdependence
between  peace  and  security,  on  one  hand,  and
development, on the other hand. We are also convinced
that  peace  and  security  cannot  be  established  and
cannot  last  without  harmonious  development  and  the
satisfaction of the needs of all the world’s peoples.
on 
Financing 
Conference 
The  Millennium  Declaration,  the  United  Nations
International 
for
Development, held in Monterrey, and the Johannesburg
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  aroused
great  hope  within 
international  community,
particularly  within  the  developing  world,  of  finally
witnessing the advent of a stable, just and united socio-
economic order.
the 
Despite  the  consensus  that  emerged  and  the
commitments  made  to  fight  poverty  and  to  promote
sustainable  development,  we  must  note  that  many
countries  will  not  achieve  some  of  the  Development
Goals  contained  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We
would  point  out  the  increase  in  the  number  of  people
living  in  poverty  throughout  the  world,  particularly  in
Africa, a region where the achievement of those Goals
poses the greatest challenge.
Moreover,  six  years  after 
the  World  Food
Summit, more than 820 million people still suffer from
hunger  and  malnutrition  —  at  a  time  when  we  are
witnessing  global  food  overproduction.  Certainly,  the
primary  responsibility  for  achieving  the  Millennium
Goals rests with the developing countries, but it is also
clear  that  their  efforts  deserve  the  support  of  the
international 
their
developed  partners,  because  most  of  the  developing
countries will not succeed alone.
community, 
particularly 
of 
Debt  alleviation  must  be  more  substantial  and
rapid  so  that  the  developing  countries  will  be  able  to
devote their resources to meeting the essential needs of
their  peoples,  rather  than  to  servicing  debt.  Access  of
the products  of  developing  countries  to  world  markets
must be facilitated and improved. That means reducing
agricultural  subsidies  and  eliminating  tariff  barriers.
Donor countries must also honour their commitment to
increase official development assistance to 0.7 per cent
of their gross national product.
21
A/58/PV.25
Facilitating the active participation of developing
countries in decisions  made by the  major international
organizations —  not  only  the  United  Nations,  but  also
the World Trade Organization (WTO), the International
Monetary  Fund  and 
is  also
important.
the  World  Bank  — 
We 
should 
focus  our 
Finally,  a  mechanism  to  help to  finance the  fight
against poverty is  now  more  necessary  than  ever. This
is an added reason  in  favour  of  the  General  Assembly
decision to create a World Solidarity Fund, which must
now be put into operation.
also 
attention  on
strengthening  the  review  process  of  the  outcomes  of
conferences  and  summits  on  economic  and  social
development. In that respect, we welcome the adoption
by  the  General  Assembly,  on  23  June  2003,  of  a
resolution  on 
the  comprehensive  and  coordinated
follow-up  and  implementation  of  the  texts  resulting
from  major conferences and  summits  organized  by  the
United  Nations  in  the  economic  and  social  fields.  We
believe 
the
acknowledgement  of  the  need  to  stimulate  political
momentum  for the enforcement and follow-up of texts
resulting  from  major  conferences  and  summits.  We
must  now  implement  the provisions  of  that  resolution,
including those concerning the holding of a  summit  in
2005 on the implementation of the Goals adopted at the
Millennium Summit and other conferences.
that 
the 
resolution 
reflects 
those  personalities  reflect 
In conclusion, we support the Secretary-General’s
proposal  to  create  a  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to
promote the reforms. We believe it is essential that the
choice  of 
the  broadest
possible geographic representation and meet the crucial
requirement  of  neutrality.  Moreover,  those  reforms
must  be  fundamental  and  in  accordance  with  the
principles of the Charter. They must also aim at giving
more weight to the work of our Organization and to its
decisions  and  recommendations  at  an  earlier  stage,
rather  than  being  a  matter  of  saving  money  or  putting
unjustified  pressure  on  the  General  Assembly  agenda,
which  constitutes,  after  all,  the  gamut  of  the  concerns
of  the 
international  community  and  its  collective
interests.
The  planned  reform  must  serve  to  confirm  our
common  commitment  to  an  effective  multilateralism
that  will  enable  us  to resolve  world  political  problems
in a fair and equitable way and can help to bring about
the  advent  of  an  economic  and  social  order  where  all
countries may live in security and dignity and enjoy the
benefits of globalization.
22
Ms.  Rivero  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My
delegation endorses the statement of the Rio Group. We
would simply like to emphasis a few items of particular
interest to Uruguay.
First,  we  would  like  to  express  our  particular
gratitude  for  the  Secretary-General’s  important  and
tireless efforts, which, as we all know, have lately been
especially arduous. We have all been deeply moved by
the  terrorist  attacks  suffered  by  the  Organization  and
the unjust loss of life.
For  those  reasons,  we  especially  appreciate  his
valuable  efforts  to  continue  in  his  unflagging  mission
and  fight  to  enable  our  Organization  to  overcome  its
ongoing  challenges.  We  are  especially  grateful  for  his
steadfast  determination  to  try  to  prevent  the  urgent
problems  involving  international  peace  and  security
from  making  us  put  aside  other  substantive  matters
requiring just as much of our attention.
As  we  have  said  in  the  general  debate,  Uruguay
will continue to support the United Nations, and we are
convinced that it is only through  multilateral  solutions
that  we  can  be  successful 
implementing  our
objectives. However, we should be realistic and accept
that we cannot claim to resolve all questions related to
international  peace  and  security  that  concern  us  and,
regrettably,  that  persist  or  arise  in  rapid  succession,
given  that  no  sooner  do  we  manage  to  bring  one
conflict under control than another one arises or a pre-
existing one is rekindled.
in 
We must thus come to terms  with those issues of
peace  and  security  without  abandoning  our  efforts  to
resolve  them,  while  also  devoting  more  time,  energy
and resources to tasks related to areas of economic and
social  development,  which  we  can  no  longer  put  off,
because  it  is  in  these  areas  that  we  find  the  roots  of
most of our political problems.
Secondly,  and  with  respect  to  those  other  vital
tasks, we  would like to stress just how frustrating it is
to  note  that  despite  the  progress  made  in  child  health,
more  than  11  million  children  die  annually  before  the
age of five. How is it possible that, notwithstanding our
ability to prevent  that  gross violation of  human rights,
we  still  have  not  managed  to  tackle  the  problem  or
mobilize the necessary funds for that purpose.
We  cannot  allow  that  situation  to  repeat  itself
year  after  year.  We  must 
immediately  set  up  a
mechanism  to  prevent  this.  Let  us  rely  on  cooperation
if  that  is  the  way,  implement  a  partnership  with  civil
society  and  the  business  sector  and  look  for  ways  to
make  vaccines  and  medicine  available  to  the  most
vulnerable  groups  to  end,  or  at  least  mitigate,  the
magnitude of the tragedy. It is also for this reason that
we  are  concerned over  the  lack  of  progress  in  moving
towards  economic  and  social  development  and  the
effective  implementation  of  the  priority  Goals  that
were  identified  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We
cannot  wait  until  2015  and  risk  finding  that  we  have
not  achieved  the  Goals  that  we  set  for  ourselves.  We
must  urgently  establish  a  work  timetable  with  short-
terms  goals,  which  would  make  it  possible  to  achieve
all  of  our
gradual  progress 
commitments 
the  Millennium
Declaration  and 
the
objectives towards which we are aspiring.
to  consolidate  one  by  one 
implementing 
undertaken 
in 
in 
Like the Secretary-General, we feel quite hopeful
that  in  2005  we  will  be  able  to  carry  out  a  broad
assessment of the progress made in implementing all of
the  commitments  contained 
the  Millennium
Declaration — an evaluation that  we hope  will  mark a
very  important  event.  But  we  believe  that  an  even
better outcome would be to have the necessary political
commitment  to  make  the  Millennium  Declaration  a
reality.
in 
Mr.  Kazykhanov  (Kazakhstan):  We  are  grateful
to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive reports
on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration
and  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  which,  in  fact,
cover the entire agenda of the United Nations.
Peace  and  security  remain  the  main  priorities  of
the 
international  community.  We  agree  with 
the
conclusion  that  the  common  security  agenda  should
reflect a global consensus on the major threats to peace
and  security  and  our  common  response.  It  should
strengthen  international  solidarity  based  on  the  shared
universal values enshrined in the Charter.
instruments 
Kazakhstan  is  confident  that  the  United  Nations
has a sufficiently high potential for coordinating efforts
of  States  to  counter  emerging  threats  and  to  develop
proper 
for  creating  a  comprehensive
security system. Kazakhstan firmly supports the efforts
by  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen  its  peacekeeping
capacity.  We  share  the  opinion  regarding  the  need  to
continue  our  search  for  methods  of  efficient  response
to complex emerging conflicts of our time, which often
require 
of
action 
peacekeeping and development.
simultaneous 
areas 
the 
in 
In the  Millennium  Declaration,  States  pledged  to
take  measures 
to  eliminate  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  That  goal  can  be  achieved  only  through  a
A/58/PV.25
multilateral  and  comprehensive  approach  and  by
developing  transparent  strategies  which  would  enable
us to make the world free from nuclear armaments. The
existing international agreements in this area should be
adapted to new realities.
Last  year,  the  Secretary-General  introduced  a
second  set  of  United  Nations  reforms,  which  were
endorsed by Member States in general. We agree that at
this stage there is a need for a comprehensive analysis
to  assess  the  adequacy  and  efficiency  of  the  main
United  Nations  bodies,  as  well  as  the  openness  and
transparency of their methods of work.
We believe that the main task of the international
community  is to  strengthen  the  United  Nations,  which
is  our  common  tool.  Without  strengthening  the  entire
United Nations system, it will be impossible to resolve
global  problems  and the  most  acute  regional  conflicts.
Kazakhstan  believes  that  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations 
should
encompass  all  the  main  bodies  of  the  United  Nations.
We share the opinion of the Secretary-General that the
reform  of the  Security  Council  should  be  expedited  in
order  to  eliminate  any  doubts  regarding  its  legitimacy
and authority.
comprehensive 
should  be 
and 
The  question  of  improving  the  work  of  another
main  body  of  the  United  Nations  —  the  General
Assembly  —  is  particularly  relevant  in  view  of  its
unique  role  as  a  universal  forum  for  dealing  with  the
global issues of our time. In the context of the ongoing
processes, we consider it necessary to further optimize
the agenda of the General Assembly so that it is better
adapted to prevailing conditions. We believe that at its
current session, the General Assembly should focus its
attention  on  three  cardinal  issues:  peace  and  security;
sustainable development; and the reform of the United
Nations. It is necessary to further strengthen the role of
the United Nations in the social and economic area.
the  proposal  by 
the
Secretary-General  to  establish  a  high-level  panel  to
examine  the  current  challenges  to  peace  and  security
and  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations  system.  Like
other  countries,  we 
receiving
recommendations  from  the  Secretary-General  on  the
main  aspects  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  based  on
the  work  of  the  high-level  panel.  We  also  believe  that
coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations must be reinvigorated. Such coordination
would  enable  the  Organization  to  effectively  address
crucial  challenges  to  international  peace  and  security.
In  this  context,  as  mentioned  in  the  statement  made
Kazakhstan 
supports 
forward 
look 
to 
23
A/58/PV.25
during  the  general  debate  by  our  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs,  Kazakhstan  proposes  to  establish  a  permanent
council of regional organizations under the auspices of
the Secretary-General.
in  Baghdad  on  19  August, 
In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  pledged  to
take coordinated actions against international terrorism,
drug trafficking and organized crime. As a result of the
tragic  events 
the
international community lost talented people who were
dedicated  to  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations.  While
strongly condemning that criminal act,  we believe that
such attacks must not be allowed to undermine the will
of 
in  offering  every
assistance to countries that need the full support of the
Organization.
international  community 
the 
It  will be  necessary during  the  current  session to
continue the process of increasing the number of States
parties to all 12 international conventions and protocols
against  terrorism  and  of  working  towards  adopting  a
comprehensive convention against terrorism.
that,  although  ambitious, 
We  fully  share  the  opinion  of  the  Secretary-
General 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  can be reached  at  both  global  and
national levels if, during the next 12 years, we maintain
or  increase  the  momentum  that  has  been  generated
during  the  first  three  years  of  the  new  century.  We
believe that the United Nations should continue to play
a  critical  role  in  ensuring  steady  progress  towards
global 
the
implementation of the outcomes of the global forums.
development 
partnership 
for 
and 
Kazakhstan  is  dedicated  to  a  comprehensive  and
coordinated strategy by the international community to
promote  sustainable  development.  We  are  convinced
that  development  goals  can  be  achieved  only 
if
favourable  economic  conditions  prevail,  together  with
peace  and  stability,  and  if  we  are  willing  to  cooperate
with other States in the effort to create a world without
conflict, based on justice and prosperity.
Mr.  Chidyausiku  (Zimbabwe):  I  wish  to  add
Zimbabwe’s  voice  to  the  expressions  of  thanks  and
appreciation to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan,
for his report on the follow up to the implementation of
the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration,  contained
in  document  A/58/323.  I  should  also  like  to  also
associate  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the
Permanent Representative of Morocco, on behalf of the
Group  of  77  and  China.  The  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  covers  a  wide  range  of  pressing  international
topics  and  issues  —  issues  with  which  Zimbabwe  is
preoccupied,  and  on  which  it  hopes  the  international
24
community  will focus attention  with a view to coming
up  with  durable  and  lasting  solutions  to  improve  the
quality of life of its people.
Zimbabwe  believes  that  international  peace  and
security  can  be  achieved  only  when  the  legitimacy  of
the  United  Nations  is  respected  by  all  Members,  large
and  small.  Peace  has  been  achieved  because  of  our
belief  in  the  principles  laid  down  in  the  Charter  with
regard  to  collective  security  as  a  guarantor  of  world
peace.  Recent  developments,  however,  resulting  in  the
invasion  and  occupation  of  Iraq,  a  sovereign  Member
of  the  United  Nations,  have  shaken  the  foundation  on
which the Organization was founded.
logic 
such 
to 
represents  a 
As  the  Secretary-General  stated  in  his  address  to
the Assembly at the beginning of this session, whereas
States reserve the right  to  act  unilaterally  or  in  ad  hoc
coalitions, 
fundamental
challenge 
the  principles  on  which,  however
imperfectly,  world  peace  and  stability  have  rested  for
the 
last  58  years.  The  Secretary-General  further
expressed  his  —  and,  indeed,  our  —  concern  that,  if
such  a  doctrine  were  applied  arbitrarily,  it  could  set
precedents  that  could  result  in  the  proliferation  of  the
unilateral  and  lawless  use  of  force,  with  or  without
justification.
Scarcely  two  weeks  have  gone  by  since  that
address  by  the  Secretary-General  and  we  have  seen  a
concrete manifestation of that concern in the attack by
Israel  against  Syria  without  provocation.  We  can  see
the  excessive  use  of  force  and  the  occupation  of
Palestine by the same  Member  State, in disregard  of  a
number  of  United  Nations  resolutions  on  the  matter.
That  behaviour  has  to  stop.  The  resort  to  unilateral
action,  in  defiance  of  the  United  Nations,  is  a  sure
route  to  a  less  safe  world.  Unilateralism  undermines
the  sanctity  of  the  principles  upon  which  the  United
Nations  was  founded.  After  all,  since  it  came  into
existence, the United Nations has successfully resolved
numerous  conflicts 
the  world.  Any
undermining  of  United  Nations  authority  threatens
nations both big and small.
throughout 
Since  its  independence  in  1980,  Zimbabwe  has
placed  high  on  its  agenda  the  issues  embodied  in  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  further  reiterated
our  commitment  to  those  goals  when  we  took  part  in
the  Millennium  Summit.  We  have  made  strides  in
poverty  reduction,  the  provision  of  universal  primary
education,  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of
women,  to  name  but  a  few  issues.  This  we  have  done
while  fighting  the  odds  as  a  developing  country.
Zimbabwe  agrees  with 
that
equity  and  growth  are  one  of  the  benchmarks  that
define  the  vision  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.
the  Secretary-General 
HIV/AIDS,  Malaria  and  other  communicable
diseases  are  of  great  concern  to  all  nations.  As  the
General  Assembly  is  aware,  Zimbabwe  is  among  the
countries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  where  the  pandemic
has reversed some of the gains our countries had made
in human resources development. We have declared the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  a  national  disaster.  As  a
Government,  we  have  put  in  place  several  policy
initiatives  to  combat  the  disease  with  the  objective  of
reversing its destructive and deadly effects.  Zimbabwe
therefore  joins  hands  and  actively  participates  in  all
current  international  endeavours  focused  at  reversing
the spread of the disease. This is indeed a challenge we
cannot  win  on  our  own.  Zimbabwe  calls  upon  the
international  community  to  meet  these  commitments
that were made on this issue when our heads of State or
Government  met  at  Headquarters  in  June  2001  at  a
special General Assembly session on the matter.
We are very grateful to the Global  Fund  to  Fight
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  set  up 
the  by
Secretary-General  to  seek  the  resources  to  fight  this
pandemic.  The  Fund,  as  a  multilateral  institution,  is
doing  a  splendid  job,  despite  resource  constraints.  It
has  disbursed  resources  to  the  countries  in  need
without  favour,  complementing  very  well  the  work
being done by the Joint United Nations Programme on
HIV/AIDS. Zimbabwe believes this is the best route to
address the issue of allocating resources to all countries
in  need.  Singling  out  certain  prospective  recipients  of
such  assistance  for  exclusion  makes  no  sense,  for  the
disease respects no boundaries.
Zimbabwe 
that 
at 
is  concerned 
the  developed
countries  are  not  moving  fast  enough  in  meeting  their
stated  obligations  on  such  issues  as  trade,  debt  relief,
and official development assistance. The deadlock  and
collapse  of  negotiations 
the  World  Trade
Organization  (WTO)  ministerial  meeting  in  Cancún,
Mexico, in September, is a statement by the developing
countries  that  our  trading  partners  can  no  longer
determine the negotiating agenda that  meets only their
subjective interests.  We  are  in  this  world  together,  big
nation  or  small,  developed  or  developing.  We  need  to
make world trade work for the benefit of all, not just a
few.
Such an approach to world trade would go a long
way  in  making  Governments  meet  their  commitments
A/58/PV.25
to  fulfil 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  we
adopted  here.  It  is  our  hope  that,  as  WTO  members
continue  their  negotiations  in  Geneva,  there  will  be
political  will on the  part  of  the developed countries to
engage  seriously  in  negotiations  to  enable  world  trade
to be fair to all.
Zimbabwe  believes  that  our  recently  completed
fast-track  land  redistribution  programme  has  gone
some  way  in  our  quest  to  meet  the  Millennium
Declaration Goals. There can never be any  sustainable
development in Zimbabwe without addressing the issue
of  land  distribution.  However,  our  detractors  have
decided  to  vilify  my  Government  for  taking  the  bold
decision to give land to the people, a way of addressing
the 
issue  of  poverty  alleviation  and  sustainable
development.
We  believe  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme,  as  the  development  arm  of  the  United
Nations,  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  here  in  securing
financial assistance for capital and other inputs for the
new  farmer  in  Zimbabwe.  This  is  the  only  long-term
viable  way  to  help  the  Zimbabwean  people  to  fight
hunger,  poverty  and  disease,  in  accordance  with  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  allocated
national  resources  towards  this  programme  but  we
would  appreciate  some  assistance.  As  regards  the
compensation  of  the  former  commercial  farmers,  we
leave  that  issue  to  those  that  made  a  commitment  to
fund  such  a  programme  at 
the  Lancaster  House
Conference of 1979.
Human  rights,  democracy  and  good  governance
are  cardinal  values  that  unite  nations  and  peoples.
Indeed,  there  can  be  no  development  in  any  nation  if
any of those principles of human existence are violated
or  abused.  Zimbabwe  agrees  that  all  nations  should
advance 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
these  values  as  part  of 
fulfilling 
Such  values  are  dear  to  Zimbabwe  as  it  had  to
wage  a  war  for  its  people  to  be  able  to  enjoy  these
rights.  Since  1980,  we  have  religiously  held  elections
every  five  years,  in  accordance  with  our  constitution.
Each time the people of Zimbabwe have been afforded
the opportunity to freely elect the Government of their
choice.  The  record  shows 
that  on  a  number  of
occasions  the  ruling  party  has  lost  elections  at  the
municipal  and  at  the  parliamentary  levels  to  the
opposition parties. This tells the story of a country that
subscribes to democracy, not a country that is resistant
to democracy.
25
A/58/PV.25
It  is  here  that  I  want  to  set  the  record  straight.
Zimbabwe  cannot  be  described  as  a  country  where
resistance  to  democracy  is  strong,  even  though  the
majority  of  the  people  clearly  desire  change.  I  do  not
know  which  majority  is  being  referred  to.  If  some
people want Zimbabwe to return to its former colonial
status  under  the  name  Rhodesia  in  order  for  us  to  be
seen  as  being  democratic, 
this  we  cannot  do.
Democracy  was  not  given  to  us  on  a  platter  by  our
former  colonizer;  we  had  to  fight  a  bitter  war  to
proclaim  it.  We  will  remain  loyal  to  our  cause  of
improving the quality of life for our people and we will
never revert to being a colony again.
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
26
