United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
18th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 30 September 2003, 3 p.m.
New York

A/58/PV.18
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Alsaidi
(Yemen), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Lyonpo Khandu Wangchuk,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bhutan.
Mr. Wangchuk (Bhutan): It gives  my  delegation
immense  satisfaction  to  see  Mr.  Julian  Hunte  in  the
high  office  of  the  presidency,  not  only  because  of  his
wide  experience  and  his  proven  abilities,  but  also
because Saint Lucia — a small country like Bhutan —
has assumed leadership of the General Assembly at this
critical  juncture  of  its  history.  We  are  confident  that,
under  his 
and  guidance,  our
deliberations  on  the  many  important  and  challenging
issues  that  confront  our  world  today  will  be  fruitful.
Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  deep
appreciation 
to  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  for  his  excellent
stewardship 
session.  His
of 
presidency  enhanced  the  esteem  of  the  international
community  both  for  himself  personally  and  for  the
Czech Republic.
fifty-seventh 
the 
able 
leadership 
My delegation would like to pay a special tribute
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his
dynamic leadership and his tireless efforts to revitalize
the  United  Nations  and  to  enable  it  to  assume  its
rightful role at a very challenging time in our history.
We  have  gathered  in  this  magnificent  Hall  year
after  year,  bound  together  by  a  common  vision  of  a
peaceful,  prosperous  and  just  world.  The  end  of  the
cold  war  renewed  our  hope  to  bring  to  fruition  our
collective  aspirations,  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations.  The  historic  Millennium  Summit
ushered  in  a  sense  of  optimism  that  we  could  bring
about  a  world  free  from  want  and  fear.  Unfortunately,
the  horrific  events  of  11  September  have  shaken  the
very  foundations  of  our  nascent  faith  in  our  ability  to
deliver a new era of peace and prosperity. The situation
in  Iraq  is  a  serious  challenge  to  the  international
community.  Three  years  ago,  we  stood  united  and
confident  about  the  prospects  in  the  new  millennium,
providing a ray of hope for millions around the  world.
Today,  sadly,  we  stand  as  a  house  divided,  uncertain
about  the  future  and  unsure  whether  we  can  rid  the
world of the vicious circle of conflict, poverty and fear
that has plagued humankind for centuries.
It  is  clear  that  international  peace  and  security
and the eradication of poverty remain the most pressing
challenges  confronting  the  international  community.
What  must  be  recognized  is  the  undeniable,  but  often
overlooked,  fact  that  those  overarching  goals  are
interlinked  and  cannot  be  achieved  in  isolation.  There
can be no prosperity without peace and security. At the
same  time,  peace  and  security  cannot  be  sustained  if
billions  are  deprived  of  the  basic  necessities  of  life.
Our  collective  resolve 
the  menace  of
terrorism  must  be  matched  with  an  equal  commitment
to  combat 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-53555 (E)
*0353555*
A/58/PV.18
to eradicate the scourge of poverty, which afflicts more
than half of the world’s population.
and 
focus 
We welcome the President’s intention to focus the
Assembly’s efforts on implementation of the outcomes
of  United  Nations  summits and conferences,  including
the Millennium Development Goals. The realization of
a  new  economic  order  that  is  inclusive,  equitable  and
sustainable is an imperative that  must be  pursued  with
renewed 
resolve.  The  Millennium
Declaration provides a clear set of targets and steps  to
be  undertaken 
them.  The  Monterrey
Consensus,  the  Doha  Development  Agenda  and  the
Johannesburg Declaration on Sustainable Development
provided further impetus towards the attainment of the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Yet  33  countries  that
together  account  for  26  per  cent  of  the  world’s
population  are  reported  to  be  off  track  on  more  than
half of the Goals. The lack of progress so far is indeed
disconcerting.
to  achieve 
While  emphasizing  the  need  to  accelerate  the
implementation  of  commitments  made  by  both
developed  and  developing  countries  at  various
international conferences,  my  delegation  would like to
highlight  the  critical  need  for  adequate  financing
mechanisms  through  trade,  investment  and  official
development  assistance.  In  particular,  my  delegation
hopes  that  the  special  needs  and  vulnerabilities  of  the
least 
landlocked
developing  countries  and  of 
island
developing  States  will  be  comprehensively  addressed,
as  called  for  in  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  for
the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
the  Almaty
Declaration  and  in  the  Barbados  Plan  of  Action,
respectively.
countries,  of 
developing 
small 
in 
the 
the 
to  Africa.  My  delegation  calls  on 
Of the 33 countries that are off track in achieving
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  23  are  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  highlighting  the  need  for  special
attention 
the
international  community  to  lend  its  full  support  to  the
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development.  International  support 
is  particularly
crucial  for  countries  emerging  from  conflicts,  for
without  the  rehabilitation  of  social  and  economic
infrastructure,  progress 
in  peacemaking  cannot  be
the
sustained. 
international 
the
necessary  support  to  the  peoples  of  Afghanistan  and
Iraq  as  they  endeavour  to  rebuild  their  nations  under
the most trying circumstances.
that 
also  provide 
that  context,  we  hope 
community  will 
In 
2
Every  Member  State  has  the  responsibility  to
eradicate  poverty  and  create  an  enabling  environment
for peace and security. It is in the mutual interest of all
nations,  small  or  large,  developed  or  developing,  to
collectively  promote  global  prosperity  and  peaceful
coexistence.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
give 
the 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nagoum
Yamassoum,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  African
Integration of the Republic of Chad.
floor 
Mr. Yamassoum (Chad) (spoke in French): As in
the past, and despite present ordeals, Chad, my country,
is  very  glad  to  take  active  part  in  this  meeting  of
peoples  united  by  the  same  fate  and  motivated  by  the
same spirit of peace, justice and equality.
to  preside  over 
I  am  convinced  that  the  wise  choice  of  someone
with  the  experience  and  requisite  skills  of  Mr.  Julian
Hunte 
this  historic  meeting  will
guarantee  the  success  of  the  session.  My  country  has
assumed  similar  responsibilities  within  the  previous
Bureau  and  knows  just  how  consuming  yet  exalting
they  can  be.  My  delegation would also  like  to  express
its  encouragement  and  congratulations  to  Mr.  Hunte
and other members of the Bureau. My delegation and I,
personally,  would  like  to  assure  him  of  our  complete
availability  and  full  support  for  the  success  of  his
mission.  We  would  like  to  reiterate  our  deep  gratitude
to  him  and  especially 
to  his  predecessor,  His
Excellency Mr. Jan Kavan, for the skill and enthusiasm
with  which  he  led  the  Assembly  during  the  fifty-
seventh session.
Allow  me  also  to  express  to  His  Excellency
Mr.  Kofi  Annan  our  sympathy  and  admiration  for  the
courage  and  the  firm  resolve  that  he  places  at  the
service of the ideals and causes of the United Nations,
which is now confronting many exceptional challenges.
Finally,  the  Government  of  Chad  would  like  to
associate itself with other members of the international
community  to  condemn  in  the  strongest  terms  the
terrorist  attacks  against  the  United  Nations  offices  in
Iraq,  which claimed the lives of several staff  members
of 
the  Special
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Sergio
Vieira de Mello. These heinous acts of violence should
in  no  way  break  our resolve to  pursue  the  noble  goals
of  our  Organization,  foremost  among  which  is  to  help
peoples in difficulty to fully regain their rights to lead
the  United  Nations, 
including 
their  lives  in  conformity  with  the  values  of  freedom,
democracy and justice.
I  would  therefore  like  to  extend  the  condolences
of  the  Chadian  Government  to  all  United  Nations
personnel,  and 
the  Brazilian,  Egyptian  and  other
Governments  for  the  deaths  of  those  who  sacrificed
themselves for the freedom of others.
If 
the 
international 
community  has  been
thoroughly overhauled since the fall of the Berlin Wall
and the end of the cold war, it has been victim to a new
kind  of  trauma  since  11  September  2001.  Since  that
time,  terrorism  has  been  a  dire  threat  to  international
peace  and  security.  Globalization  has  complicated  the
rules  of  the  game  in  trade  between  the  North  and  the
South,  and  new  forms  of  conflict  have  emerged  at  the
regional level.
its 
reaffirms 
for  peace,  strongly 
The  best  response  to  all  this  must  be  based  on
collective  and  joint  action.  As  a  full  member  of  the
international community,  Chad,  which  is  faithful  to  its
quest 
resolute
condemnation  of  any  act  of  terrorism,  act  of  violence
or any use of force — in the defence of any cause — to
resolve disputes among nations.. Such actions  must  be
dealt  with  by  our  regional  organizations  first  and
foremost,  and,  if  they  fall  short,  to  our  common
Organization, the United Nations. Although it has been
the  subject  of  some  controversy,  the  United  Nations
continues  to  be  the  only  Organization  in  the  world  to
truly enjoy international legitimacy.
But to continue to best ensure that its mission and
functions are carried out and to maintain its legitimacy,
our  Organization  must  enjoy  the  full  support  of  all
Member States. We must all contribute to assisting it in
regaining  its  principal  mission.  The  United  Nations
must once again become a common tool for us all and
no  longer  be  seen  as  showcase,  much  less  a  sounding
board, for the will and power of the few.
It will undoubtedly achieve this goal all the more
easily if the long-postponed reforms are successful and
reflected in the enlargement of the Security Council to
include  new  or  emerging  Powers  of  Europe,  Africa,
Asia and the Americas — in sum, in recognition of the
true  state  of the  world today. This  would  do  justice  to
those  nations  and  render  a  service  to  the  Organization
itself.
In  that  respect,  the  Iraqi  crisis  has  only  further
convinced  us  of  the  need  to  pursue  those  reforms.  We
A/58/PV.18
cannot  continually  evade  this  crucial  issue.  Stability
and  international  peace  and  security  are  at  stake,  for
the  kind  of  globalization  that  our  peoples  seek  cannot
evolve in the interest of all if the international political
system is predominantly unilateral in nature.
Pending  this  revolution,  which  all  peoples  who
cherish 
justice  ardently  seek,  we  still  note  with
satisfaction that our  Organization remains  active  in  all
crisis areas, particularly in Africa,  where  we urge it to
be  more  proactive.  Indeed,  Africa  is  confronted  with
many difficulties that have ensued from both  wars and
other crises, as well as from a lack of good governance.
The  recent  establishment  of  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  promises  to  save  the
continent from the economic quagmire in  which  it  has
been  plunged.  But  the  coherence  of  this  extensive
programme is connected  with the  support of the  entire
international community. The anticipated outcome  will
depend  on  true  solidarity  on  the  part  of  all  economies
worldwide.
My  country,  which  has  been  committed  to  the
path  of  democratic  pluralism  since  1  December  1990,
has  made  significant  progress.  These  efforts  will  be
sustained  until  we  have  perfected 
the  republican
institutions  provided  for  under  the  Constitution  of  31
December  1996.  The  Government  of  Chad  believes  it
important  that  this  democratic  process  be  achieved  so
that  the  rule  of  law  and  also  peace  and  prosperity,
which are the ultimate goals, might be attained.
To that end, in 1999 the President of our Republic
promulgated,  a  unique  type  of  law  that  sets  out
modalities for the use of oil revenues. This has resulted
in  a  system  in  which  a  substantial  part  of  this  direct
income  —10  per  cent  —  is  set  aside  for  future
generations,  and  the  remaining  80  to  90  per  cent
remainder goes to priority sectors — those vital areas I
mentioned  earlier  —  and  the  region  of  production
receives 5 per cent.
Secondly,  the  law  provides  for  an  office  for  the
control and surveillance of oil income. It is made up of
nine  members,  including  only  one  representing  the
Government,  with  five  representing  civil  society  and
two the Parliament. As an independent body, that office
will  have  broad  powers  and  prerogatives,  including
authorizing  expenditures 
revenue  and
verification of their proper use.
from  oil 
In this new international context, in  which States
are increasingly interdependent and in which the world
3
A/58/PV.18
has  truly  become a  village,  Chad,  while  addressing  its
internal problems, is endeavouring to open itself to the
outside  world.  It  is  following  with  great  interest
developments  in  the  international  political  situation
and  is  working  to  make  its  modest  contribution  to  the
efforts  of  the  international  community  in  settling
conflicts, especially in Africa.
in 
Therefore,  we  note  with  satisfaction, 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the new awareness
of the parties involved and the emerging understanding,
by the Congolese people themselves, of the enlightened
self-interest of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
We  fervently  hope  that  the  transition  process  will
continue uninterrupted until the final return of stability
to that fraternal country.
In  the  Central  African  Republic,  realities  in  the
field  have  shown  positive  change,  but  it  is  up  to  our
Central African brothers to close their ranks to an even
greater  extent  in  order  to  consolidate  peace  in  their
country.  The  national  dialogue  under  way  offers  them
an  excellent  opportunity  for  a  deep  and  constructive
process  of  reflection  on  ways  of  bringing  about
national reconciliation.
With  respect  to  our  border  with  the  Sudan,  we
welcome most particularly the prospects for peace that
have  been  emerging  in  that  long-suffering  country.
Accords  were  concluded  on  3  September  2003  under
the  auspices  of  President  Idriss  Deby  at  Abeche  in
Chad,  between  the  Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the
People’s  Liberation  Army  of  the  Sudan,  and  the
protocol on security questions signed on 25 September
between  the  Government  and  the  SPLA  also  is  a
welcome  development  on  the  path  to  peace.  Chad
encourages  the  two  parties  to  do  their  utmost  to
conclude a genuine peace agreement that would put an
end to the sufferings of that fraternal country.
We  note  with  satisfaction  a  trend  towards  peace
and  stability  in  West  Africa.  For  us,  the  Ivorian  crisis
was  a  serious  cause  for  concern.  The  Marcoussis
agreements  gave  rise  to  a  real  hope  finally  to  see  a
peaceful solution emerge. Today  all  eyes  are turned to
Abidjan,  where  the  Transitional  Government  has  the
heavy 
national
reconciliation  in  the interest  of  all  the  children  of  that
country.  Chad  encourages  the  Ivorian  people  to  help
the  Transitional  Government  to  carry  out  its  mission,
so that peace might be consolidated in Côte d’Ivoire.
responsibility 
of 
conducting 
4
With  regard  to  Liberia,  we  hope  that,  with
continued  international  assistance,  its  situation  will
become stabilized. The participation of the countries of
the  subregion  in  peacekeeping  operations  and  the
presence of the Economic Community of West African
States  Mission  in  Liberia  in  Monrovia  all  give  rise  to
hope  and  are  a  guarantee  of  political  stability.  The
adoption of resolution 1497 (2003)  was very timely. It
represents a framework for settlement which should be
used  finally  to  break  the  infernal  cycle  of  violence  in
that country. We would therefore like to ask the parties
to the conflict to  overcome  their  differences  and  work
towards the return of a just and lasting peace.
I  cannot  conclude  my  words  on  Africa  without
joining  my  voice  to  those  of  other  delegations  that
spoke  earlier  from  this  rostrum  and  welcoming  finally
the  wise  decision  of  the  Security  Council  to  lift  the
embargo  that  for  years  had  penalized  the  fraternal
people of Libya.
Outside  of  Africa,  other  hotbeds  of 
tension
remain,  especially  in  the  Near  and  Middle  East,  that
require the involvement of the international community
in the quest for adequate solutions. In the Middle East,
the  Israeli-Arab  conflict  has  long  been  one  of  the
concerns of the United Nations. Today conditions seem
to  have  been  met  for  a  constructive  dialogue  between
the  two  neighbouring  peoples,  since  the  road  map
containing the peace plan  was agreed to by the parties
to the conflict. This peace plan  will, it is hoped, allow
Palestine 
the  year  2005,  national
independence and international sovereignty.
to  achieve,  by 
Regarding the Middle East, the Republic of Chad
welcomes  the  interest  shown  by  the  international
community in the restoration of Iraq’s sovereignty and
independence.  We  hope  that  the  process  of  restoring
power  to  the  Iraqis  will  continue  pursuant  to  Security
Council  resolution  1483  (2003)  in  a  way  that  best
serves the interests of the Iraqi people.
territorial  conflicts  and 
In  East  Asia,  the  question  of  the  proliferation  of
nuclear  weapons, 
terrorist
attacks are jeopardizing  stability,  not  just  for  States  in
the  region  but  for  the  entire  world.  Nevertheless,  we
are  pleased  to  note  that  a  dynamic  for  peace  has
definitely begun to prevail in that region. We welcome,
therefore, the holding of multilateral talks on the North
Korean  nuclear  programme,  and  we  encourage  States
in  the  region,  whose  role  in  this  respect  is  crucial,  to
become  truly  involved  in  order  to  facilitate  the  quest
for a final settlement of that crisis.
We  welcome  also  with  relief  the  significant
improvement  that  has  taken  place  in  the  context  of
relations  between  India  and  Pakistan.  This  favourable
climate will no doubt enable the two nuclear Powers to
maintain  good-neighbourly  relations  and  to  undertake
the true problems of development.
Above  and  beyond  these  conflicts,  which  are  all
of  great  concern,  there  remain  two  major  issues  with
which  the  international  community  has  not  dealt  with
courageously,  in  spite  of  good  intentions  and  of  the
resolutions  adopted  in  various  forums  beginning  with
the Millennium Summit. I am speaking of development
assistance and of the fight against HIV/AIDS. Both are
Millennium  Development  Goals  with  respect  to  which
commitments  were  entered  into  here,  in  June  2001,  at
the special session on HIV/AIDS, and  at  Monterrey in
March 2002.
While it is  encouraging  to  note  that  the  heads  of
State  or  Government  of  the  Group  of  Eight,  at  their
most recent Summit in May 2003, gave their support to
the  achievement  of  those  goals,  they  still  have  to
translate  such  commitments 
into  action,  as  was
emphasized  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  on
the work of the Organization.
implement 
the  outcome  of 
That  means,  inter  alia,  that  developed  States
should 
the  Monterrey
Consensus  and  the  results  of  the  Johannesburg  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in  August  2002.
But  the  conclusions  of  the  most  recent  World  Trade
Organization  (WTO)  Conference 
in  Cancún  have
shown that we have not yet embarked on that path.
We  must  all  translate  into  action  the  Summit’s
resolutions  on  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and
other  infectious  diseases.  Indeed,  in  spite  of  the
increase  in  resources  and  the  strengthening  of  the
political commitment at the highest  level  —  following
the example of the commitment made by the President
of the Republic of Chad — the situation remains one of
great concern and calls for unfailing determination and
exceptional  efforts  in  order  to  stem  this  pandemic.  I
would  almost  say  that  we  must  invent  a  new  kind  of
containment in order to stem the spread of this disease.
In  any  case,  the  disease  is  waging  a  brutal  war
against  humankind,  which  must  respond  by  utilizing
the  means  required  to  fight  a  global  war.  This  is  a
A/58/PV.18
for 
prerequisite 
survival  of  many  nations
throughout  the  world  and  therefore  for  the  stability  of
our future world.
the 
I  cannot  conclude  without  drawing  the  attention
of  the  international  community  to  the  crucial  issue  of
the representation of the Republic of China on Taiwan
in  our  Organization.  That  country  has  diplomatic
relations  and  relations  of  cooperation  with  many
Member  States, 
including  Chad.  Paradoxically,
however,  with  regard  to  the  United  Nations,  it  finds
itself  without  any  status.  Its  ostracism  is  unjustified
and unjustifiable.
its  specialized  agencies.  It 
Indeed,  the  Republic  of  China  was  one  of  the
founders  of  the  United  Nations  and  was  represented
here  from  1949  through  1971.  The  fact  that  this  item
comes  up  each  and  every  year  in  the  debates  of  the
General Assembly proves that a substantive issue  is  at
stake.  Chad  deems  it  inadmissible  for  23  million
Taiwanese  to  be  discriminated  against  by  the  United
Nations  and 
thus
unfortunate  to  note  that,  in  the  current  context,  the
World  Health  Organization,  for  example,  cannot  lend
Taiwan assistance in the event of epidemics, which was
recently 
respiratory
syndrome. Yet the Taiwanese also have the right to live
in  serenity,  to  lead  a  democratic  life  and  to  be  in
solidarity  with  the  world’s  other  peoples.  They  need
peace  —  the  very  foundation  of  democracy  and  a
condition  for  development.  Peace  presupposes  the
resolution of conflicts through mediation. That implies,
in  both  hearts  and  minds,  a  culture  of  tolerance  and
respect for differences.
the  case  with  severe  acute 
is 
We  urge  this  session  to  put  an  end  to  Taiwan’s
exclusion  by  restoring  its  status  as  a  full-fledged
United  Nations  Member,  and  we  take  this  opportunity
to  invite  all  States  in  the  region  to  halt  the  military
escalation.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Kokou Tozoun, Minister for
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Togolese
Republic.
that  can  breathe  new 
Mr. Tozoun (Togo) (spoke in French): Again this
year, we are meeting to assess our actions and to define
approaches 
the
Organization. Far from becoming a routine, our annual
meeting 
the
Organization,  in  that  it  offers  to  each  Member  State,
through a frank and constructive debate, an opportunity
the  high  point 
life  of 
into 
is 
life 
in 
the 
5
A/58/PV.18
to  make  its  contribution  to  the  building  of  peace  and
security, which are indispensable to the just and lasting
development of our countries. It is also an opportunity
for  us  to  reaffirm  the  paramount  role  of  the  United
Nations  in  the  world  and  to  find  appropriate  ways  to
strengthen the Organization further.
Before I  proceed,  let  me express  — on  behalf  of
the President of the Togolese Republic, His Excellency
Mr.  Gnassingbé  Eyadema,  and of  the  Government  and
the  people  of  Togo,  whom  I  have  the  honour  to
represent  at  this  rostrum  —  my  warm  congratulations
on the election of Mr. Julian Hunte as President of the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth  session.  Our
congratulations  go  also  to  the  other  members  of  the
Bureau. They can be assured of the full availability and
cooperation  of  the  Togolese  delegation.  I  should  also
like to express our appreciation and profound gratitude
to Mr. Hunte’s predecessor, Mr. Jan Kavan, who led the
work of the fifty-seventh session of the Assembly with
dexterity  and  skill.  To  the  Secretary-General,  we
reaffirm how much we admire him for the work that he
continues to lead at the head of the Organization.
in 
the 
light  of 
This General Assembly session is taking place at
a  particular  time  of  evolution  for  the  United  Nations.
Indeed, 
the  grave  events  being
experienced  by  today’s  world,  the  United  Nations
needs more than ever before to be strengthened so that
it can fully accomplish the primary tasks entrusted to it
by  the  Charter:  inter  alia,  maintaining  international
peace  and  security  and  serving  as  a  forum  where  the
efforts  of  nations  can  be  harmonized  towards  the
achievement  of  collective  development  and  shared
well-being.  It 
the  Organization’s
purposes  and  principles  retain  all  their  relevance  and
remain  guideposts  for  action  on 
the
international community.
the  part  of 
is  obvious 
that 
In  my  delegation’s  view, 
this  session  must
intensify  its  reflection  with  a  view  to  defining  new
approaches  that  will  enable  the  United  Nations  to
search  for  more  viable  and  lasting  solutions  to  the
problems  of  peace,  security  and  development,  which
daily challenge the entire international community. We
must 
support  United  Nations  actions,
especially at a time when peoples are aspiring to  more
freedom  and democracy  and  to  greater  involvement  in
the management of civic affairs.
therefore 
The democratic wind that is blowing through our
country  is  far  more  than  an  irresistible  movement  for
6
renewal;  it  holds  immense  hopes  for  our  people.  For
Togo, that is what has justified the people’s support for
the  political  reform  that  the  Government  has  been
undertaking for more than a decade and a half. Here, I
should  like  to  recall  the  faith  and  determination  with
which the Togolese Government — spurred on by of its
head  of  State  —  is  striving  to  build  a  democratic
society  that  will  take everyone’s  legitimate  aspirations
into  account  and  that  is  rooted  in  the  country’s
sociological  realities.  In  essence,  we  are  engaged  in
this  democratization  process  in  the  conviction  that  the
task  —  which  will  be  long-term  —  requires  much
resolve, patience and self-sacrifice.
in 
fair 
the  general 
interest,  which  must 
From  this  rostrum,  I  should  like  to  stress  that,
through  the  recent  presidential  election  —  which  was
free,  honest  and 
the  general  view  of
observers  —  a  broad  majority  of  the  Togolese  people
demonstrated  their  political  maturity  and  their  keen
sense  of 
take
precedence over partisan and personal interests. In any
event,  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  Togolese
people  —  who  know  how  to  go  the  extra  mile  —  are
determined  to  move  forward.  The  Government,  for  its
part, 
the  process  of
democratization  and  establishing  the  rule  of 
law,
strengthening  its  foundations  through  the  local  and
senatorial  elections  whose  preparations  are  now  under
way.
to  continue 
resolved 
is 
is 
to 
to 
that 
related 
tirelessly 
to  provide 
One  can  never  emphasize  enough 
the
difficulties 
the  whole  democratization
process  are  not  limited  to  one  country  or  to  a  specific
group of countries; they are inherent in any endeavour
in 
whose  objective 
the
involve  people 
management  of  public  affairs.  The  path 
towards
democracy is long and fraught with pitfalls, but we are
working 
the  country  with
democratic  institutions  which  are  indispensable  to  the
proper  functioning  under  a  rule  of  law.  The  quest  for
democracy  —  a  contemporary  development  that  Togo
fully  endorses  — 
that
requires  time.  Indeed,  democracy  can  take  shape  only
in  an  environment  of  peace  and  security,  which  alone
can  guarantee  gradual  assimilation  of  democratic
values that are  well understood  and that  emanate  from
the wisdom of the culture and traditions of the peoples
concerned.  In  that  spirit,  Togo  is  striving  to  establish
the rule of law in  the  hope that  we  will  be  understood
by our partners.
is  a  complex  undertaking 
Today, we can affirm that, despite the difficulties
besetting  our  march  towards  the  establishment  of
democracy, encouraging and concrete results have been
achieved. Above and beyond institutional development,
ensuring  full  human  rights  in  all  their  aspects  is  a
paramount  necessity.  Here,  we  wish  to  emphasize  the
Togolese  Government’s  primary  concern  to  guarantee
and promote the economic, social and cultural rights of
all Togolese citizens. The realization of those rights  is
of particular importance, for in them lie the interests of
democracy  and 
the  Republic’s
institutions.
stability  of 
the 
Indeed,  if  one  takes  a  careful  look  at  Africa’s
contemporary  history,  one  will  note  that  the  many
sudden  changes  and  various  attempts  challenging
democratic  institutions  in  some  countries  result  less
from  a  misunderstanding  of  the  democratic  process
than  from  the  economic  and  financial  difficulties  felt
by various social strata. The success of the democratic
undertaking  is  therefore  a  function  of  the  economic
possibilities  of  the  States  that  are  engaged  in  it,  and
establishing 
considerable
resources  that  our  countries  cannot  muster  at  the
current stage of their development without foreign aid.
If  that  observation  is  universally  shared,  why  impose
sanctions against — and suspend cooperation with — a
country  that,  like  many  other  States,  has  encountered
difficulties  in  implementing  its  democratization  policy
and is  undertaking  notable  efforts  to  establish  the  rule
of law?  Does  my  country, Togo, deserve  the treatment
that it has received for the past 10 years?
institutions 
requires 
I  would  like,  once  again,  to  appeal  for  the
resumption  of  cooperation  with  Togo.  That  is  the
appeal  of  an  entire  people.  Peace  and  security,  which
reign  in  Togo,  and  the  outstanding  efforts  to  ensure
economic 
the
suspension  of  aid,  clearly  support  the  expectations  of
the Togolese people.
social  development,  despite 
and 
While the elimination of poverty is considered an
essential  task  to  be  tackled  to  help  a  people  or  a
country rebuild, it is also the same thing as giving it the
means  to  consolidate  democracy,  which  is  essential  to
build a more just and peaceful world.
international  community,  particularly 
The  need  for  solidarity,  justice  and  equity  must
lead 
the
the 
European  Union  and  other  development  partners,  to
reconsider  their  position  and  to  commit  to  supporting
the  reconstruction  effort  in  Togo,  a  country  that  has
A/58/PV.18
made  peace  and  security  the  very  foundation  of  its
internal and external policies.
That  said,  Togo  believes  firmly  that  the  use  of
sanctions,  if  not  properly  measured  and  without  time
limits, will only increase people’s poverty, particularly
that of women, the elderly and children. Such sanctions
provide,  therefore,  fertile  ground  for  disorder  and
anarchy.  The  Assembly  must,  therefore,  think  about
this question more deeply.
Our faith in peace and security is reflected in the
concrete  results  of  a  bold  and  visionary  economic
policy,  which  is carried  out  untiringly,  despite  adverse
times. This  conviction  is also justified  by  the  fact that
peace  and  social  cohesion  remain,  undoubtedly,  the
basic  factors,  without  which  any  socio-economic
development  would  be  carried  out  ineffectively  and
with  only  illusory  results.  Peace  and  security  are,
therefore,  priorities  for  all  countries,  whether  they  are
in Africa or elsewhere in the world.
At the African level, the head of State of Togo is
very  engaged in  the  process  of  conflict  settlement.  By
way  of  example,  let  me  recall  prior  outstanding  and
effective mediation efforts in which he played a role in
settling  crises  that  have  afflicted  Chad,  Sierra  Leone,
the  Great  Lakes  region,  Guinea-Bissau  and,  most
recently, Côte d’Ivoire.
Regarding 
its  contribution 
to  peacekeeping
operations, I wish to recall that Togo is contributing in
a  meaningful  and  active  way  to  the  deployment  of
military  or  police  contingents  at  the  subregional  level
or  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations;  in
Namibia in 1989, in Rwanda in 1993, in Haiti in 1993,
in  the  Central  African  Republic  in  1997,  in  Guinea-
Bissau  in  1999,  and  recently  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and
Liberia.
With 
to  Liberia,  we  welcome 
the
regard 
establishment  by 
the  Security  Council,  on  19
September  2003,  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in
Liberia, which will be deployed on 1 October — in just
a  few  hours.  It  will  contribute  to  supporting  in  a
meaningful  way 
the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS).
the  peacekeeping 
force  of 
My  country,  which  contributed  to  restoring  that
peace  by  sending  a  contingent,  urges  the  wealthy
countries to contribute to financing the United Nations
7
A/58/PV.18
force in order to provide it with the necessary means to
accomplish its mission.
In 
the  Great  Lakes  region,  particularly 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Togolese
the  new  stage,
Government  hopes  ardently 
characterized  by 
a  new
Government  and  other  transitional  institutions,  will
lead to stability, unity and national reconciliation.
establishment  of 
that 
the 
In Burundi, my country welcomed the significant
progress  made  on  the  basis  of  the  Arusha  Agreement,
and  it  urges  the  parties  to  the  conflict  to  work
resolutely toward restoring peace to the country.  Togo
is very involved in the settlement of disputes in Africa,
demonstrating  clearly 
to
contribute to maintaining and to consolidating peace in
the  African  continent.  It  was  in  that  context  that  the
President  of  the  Togolese  Republic  advocated  the
establishment  of  an  African  peacekeeping  force  at  the
1994 summit of the Organization of African Unity.
firm  determination 
its 
It is worth noting that that idea made headway in
the Organization of African Unity, as is attested by the
adoption at Durban, South Africa, of a protocol on the
establishment of the Peace and Security Council of the
African  Union,  which  demonstrates  the  determination
of  Africans  to  be  the  builders  themselves  of  peace  in
Africa.  It  is  also  comforting  to  note  that,  within  the
context  of  that  protocol,  the  establishment  of  a  pre-
positioned  African peace  force  and  a  continental  early
warning system are taking shape.
to  making 
My  country 
is  committed 
its
contribution  to  the  implementation  of  this  collective
approach to questions of defence, peace and security in
Africa,  and  calls  on  the  international  community  to
firmly  support  the  African  continent  with  a  view  to
guaranteeing the success of this effort.
Outside  of  Africa,  we  are  constantly  watching
Iraq  and  the  Middle  East,  always  in  the  grip  of
violence.  Regarding  the  Middle  East  in  particular,  my
country  considers  that  the  definitive  settlement  of  the
Palestinian  question,  which  is  at  the  heart  of  the
conflict in the region, necessarily requires the cessation
of  violence  and  counter-violence  and  consideration  of
the  legitimate  rights  of  both  people  —  the  right  of
Israel  to  live  in  full  security  within  internationally
recognized borders and that of the Palestinian people to
fully  enjoy 
the
establishment of a State.
their  national 
including 
rights, 
8
In 
that  context,  we  encourage  Israelis  and
Palestinians 
to
achieving  a  negotiated  and  comprehensive  settlement
of the Middle East question.
to  pursue  dialogue,  with  a  view 
Despite  a  new  environment  conducive 
to
economic expansion, poverty continues to increase and
remains  a  striking  and  paradoxical  feature  of  our  era.
Peace  and  security  will  constantly  be  threatened  if
measures  of  justice  are  not  adopted  to  push  back  the
borders of  poverty that  weaken  the  foundations  of  our
society.
The  economic  situation  of  developing  countries,
particularly in Africa, is a matter of great concern. The
external  debt  burden,  instability  in  export  income  and
the  devastating  effects  stemming  from  deterioration  in
terms  of  trade  have  largely  contributed  to  aggravating
the deterioration of socio-economic conditions in many
African countries.
countries 
Speaking  of  international  trade,  it  is  unfortunate
to  note  that,  despite  liberalization  of  the  economy,
industrialized 
practice
protectionist measures in the industrial and agricultural
sectors.  These  measures,  particularly  harmful 
to
developing  countries,  particularly  African  countries,
impede  the  efforts  made  to  restore  increased  export
income.
continue 
to 
Like  many  other  delegations,  Togo  demands,
therefore,  that  protectionist  practices  and  subsidies  be
ended.  That  would  contribute  significantly  to  the
development  of  poor  countries.  We  believe 
that
globalization  must  be  accompanied  by  a  greater  spirit
of  solidarity  and  by  a  policy  aimed  at  the  purchase  of
products  from  the  South  at  fairer  and  more  lucrative
prices.
In  that  regard,  the  Togolese  Government  wishes
to emphasize that, if they are to benefit all, the rules of
the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  must  take  into
account  the  deep  aspirations  of  developing  countries,
which  demand  that  they  be  able  to  participate  in
international trade in conditions of equality and justice,
as recently emphasized at Cancún.
At a time  when our  continent is  doing its  utmost
to  make  the  African  Union  the  priority  instrument  to
ensure  peace  and  security  and  economic  and  social
prosperity,  the  international  community  must  become
more  involved  to  assist  economic  recovery  efforts  of
our  States,  in  order  to  meet  the  challenges  they  face,
such as poverty, the AIDS pandemic and malaria.
It  is  important  that  our  common  Organization
mobilize its efforts even more in order to fight the evils
that afflict the world and make it vulnerable. Terrorism
would  definitely  be  included  among  those  evils.  The
terrible  events  of  11  September  2001  and  the  recent
deadly attacks against the United Nations headquarters
in  Iraq  and  elsewhere,  still  alive  within  us,  compel  us
to  act  promptly  to  eradicate  this  evil.  My  country,
which  has  frequently  been  the  victim  of  terrorist
aggression, in 1977, 1985, 1986, 1993, 1994 and 1998,
recognizes  the  importance  of  that  challenge.  This  task
should  be  one  of  our  highest  priorities  if  we  wish  to
give future generations a sound world, in which respect
for  human  dignity, 
the
foundation.
fraternity  are 
love  and 
In  order  to  achieve 
those  aims,  the  United
Nations must assume greater responsibility and provide
more  resources.  It  certainly  needs  to  be  substantially
reformed.  We  would  like  to  welcome  the  relevant
proposals of the Secretary-General to establish a panel
of  eminent  personalities  from  civil  society  to  address
this issue. We remain convinced that our actions, taken
together,  will  lead  to  the  reign  of  a  society  free  from
selfishness,  violence,  terrorism,  disease  and  the  threat
of nuclear confrontation. May the  work of this session
lead  each  of  our  States  to  resolutely  follow  the  path
towards  peace  and  ensure  that  all  peoples,  without
discrimination,  can  enjoy  the  fruits  of  progress  made
by  humanity 
justice,
fraternity and solidarity.
in  a  climate  of 
tolerance, 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Hidipo  Hamutenya,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hamutenya  (Namibia):  Mr.  President,  my
delegation  congratulates  you  on  your  assumption  of
this high office. We are confident that, given your vast
experience  and  consummate  diplomatic  skill,  you  will
be able to successfully  manage the proceedings of this
session of the General Assembly. I also wish to express
our appreciation for the excellent and effective manner
in  which  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Kavan,  conducted
the work of the fifty-seventh session. In the same vein,
I would like to commend the Secretary-General for his
efforts  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in
resolving the world’s burning issues.
A/58/PV.18
Allow  me  also  to  pay  tribute  to  the  international
workers  who  have  recently given  their lives in  service
to the United Nations in Iraq. In particular, we reiterate
our  condolences  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the
Organization  for  the  tragic  death  of  Sergio  Vieira  de
Mello, that outstanding servant of the United Nations.
As we condemn terrorism and violence in all their
forms  and  manifestations,  we  honour  the  memory  of
Anna  Lindh,  the  slain  Foreign  Minister  of  Sweden,
who  dedicated  her 
the  pursuit  of  peace,
development and social progress.
life 
to 
We  appear  here  before  this  Assembly  every  year
to  renew  our  vow  to  the  United  Nations  as  the  main
guarantor  of  international  peace  and  security.  The
speeches that we deliver here are a distilled expression
of  our  collective  passion  for  and  conviction  about  the
ideals that the United Nations stands for.
its  authority  undermined 
Yet,  at  times,  as  was  the  case  with  the  war  on
Iraq, the  United  Nations  gets  sidelined  and  the  unique
legitimacy  of 
through
unilateral  actions.  Such  actions  produced  a  general
feeling  of  fear  and  uncertainty,  especially  among  the
small  and  weak  nations  of  the  world.  This  is  why  the
central theme that runs through nearly all the speeches
at  this  session  is  the  call  for  a  return  to  multilateral
dialogue,  persuasion  and  collective  action  as  the  only
appropriate  approach  to  resolving  the  many  conflicts
facing  the  international  community.  Being  a  small
country, Namibia echoes this call. Multilateralism must
be the basis of global security, if smaller countries are
not to feel that they are at the  mercy of  stronger ones.
But,  as  recent  events  have  demonstrated,  big  Powers,
like 
the  smaller  ones,  also  need  a  multilateral
framework  as  a  more  reassuring  environment  for  the
execution of foreign policy.
The President took the Chair.
We  cannot  fail  to  re-emphasize  the  inseparable
link  between 
international  security  and  economic
development. Therefore, the Organization  must uphold
the  commitments  made  in  the  field  of  economic
development, especially the important pledges made at
the  Millennium  Summit  and  contained 
the
Millennium Declaration.
in 
In  that  Declaration,  world  leaders  committed
themselves  to  help  lift  half  of  the  world’s  poor  out  of
misery  and  deprivation  by  the  year  2015.  We  are
talking here of 1.5 billion people around the world who
9
A/58/PV.18
are  today  victims  of  abject  poverty  and  800  million
who  are  starving.  Still  more,  we  are  talking  about  the
900 million adults worldwide who are illiterate.
The tragedy is that this human misery is acquiring
deepening  and  broadening  dimensions  at  a  time  when
human  ingenuity  is  ever  enlarging  the  horizons  of
possibilities of doing away with this terrible scourge of
extreme poverty and deprivation. Clearly, therefore, the
implementation of the Millennium Declaration is a race
against  time.  Failure  to  act  now,  and  to  do  so  with  a
sense of urgency, will mean that we, especially the rich
of  this  world,  have  failed  to  rise  to  the  moral  and
political challenge, which is to protect that most sacred
of all human rights, the right to life.
Namibia is fully committed to the implementation
of the Millennium Declaration. To this end, we allocate
23 per cent of our annual national budget to education
and 15 per cent to health. In this commitment to invest
in our people, we have proceeded from the premise that
a fundamental way to address the problem of poverty is
to  improve  the  productive  competitiveness  of  our
economy,  and  that  improving  that  competitiveness  is
dependant  on  the  rapid  increase  in  the  knowledge,
skills  and  capacities  of  the  people,  with  a  view  to
empowering them to be able to escape from the trap of
poverty.  Skills  in  the  field  of  information  technology
are  a  critical  element  of  our  human 
resources
development programme.
The  other  urgent  challenge,  spelled  out  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  is  the  fight  against  the  AIDS
pandemic.  Namibia  is  devoting  considerable  resources
and  attention  to  this  seemingly  daunting  battle  to
contain the spread and limit the impact of this epidemic
on our society. In this effort, we are working with other
countries, relevant United Nations agencies, the private
sector  and  members  of  civil  society.  In  the  context  of
this battle, the plight of AIDS orphans is given priority.
However, 
for  more  generous
contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria.
is  a  need 
there 
in 
In the pursuit of Millennium Development Goals,
Namibia  is,  furthermore,  working  closely  with  its
partners 
the  Southern  African  Development
Community  (SADC)  to  implement  a  number  of  key
regional  projects.  One  of  these  is  a  major  power
project, 
the  power  utilities  of  Angola,
Botswana,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
South Africa and Namibia.
involving 
10
of 
all 
five 
and 
largest 
the  world’s 
Similarly,  Namibia, 
this  area  cuts  across 
together  with  Angola,
Botswana,  Zambia  and  Zimbabwe,  has  embarked  on
one  of 
regional  wildlife
conservation  and  tourism  development  projects.  The
the
geographical  scope  of 
territories 
covers
approximately 278,000 square kilometres.
to 
the
Secretary-General  that  Namibia  has,  indeed,  started  in
earnest  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Declaration  and  is  staying  the  course.  However,  as  I
said  earlier,  there  is  still  a  great  need  for  additional
resources so that  we can intensify our efforts  aimed at
development and poverty eradication.
We  would 
countries 
like, 
therefore, 
reassure 
For  more  than  a  decade  now,  the  overwhelming
majority  of  Member  States,  including  Namibia,  have
been  calling  for  the  reform  of  the  institutions  of  the
Organization, especially the Security Council.
At the time of the founding of the United Nations
in 1945, the Organization consisted of only 51 Member
States.  That  number  has  now  grown  to  191  sovereign
States.  But  the  structure  of  the  United  Nations  has
remained in some respects unchanged.
to 
needs 
The  Security  Council 
become
democratic  and  more  representative  —  allowing  other
regions  and  States  to  be  represented.  There  is  a  broad
consensus  that  by  making  it  a  democratic  body,  and
more  representative,  we  would  give 
the  Security
Council greater legitimacy and that that, in turn, would
mean more effective United Nations machinery.
This call for reform is in line with the principle of
democratic  governance  so  often  demanded  of  the
developing  countries  by,  among  others,  some  of  the
Powers  that  occupy  permanent  seats  in  the  Security
Council.
We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  Secretary-General
has  taken  on  board  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,
and that it is one of the higher priorities on his agenda.
We  have  noted  with  great  interest  his  plan  to  set  up  a
panel  of  eminent  personalities  to  look  into  the  reform
process  and  recommend  ways  of  effecting  such  a
reform.
One of the issues that underlines the need for the
urgent  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  the  pathetic
inability  of  that  organ  to  bring  the  authority  of  the
United  Nations  to  bear  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle
East.  The  unrelenting  carnage  that  is  taking  place  in
that  region  has  not  compelled  the  Powers  that  be  to
accept the fact that that situation constitutes a threat to
international  peace  and  security.  Because  of  a  lack  of
political will in the Security Council, there has been no
ability to act collectively to put a stop to the carnage.
The  continued  occupation  of 
the  Palestinian
territory exacerbates frustration and despair among the
Palestinians.  It  follows,  therefore,  that  the  end  of  the
occupation and the establishment of a Palestinian State,
existing  side  by  side  with  Israel,  is  key  to  peace  and
stability in that region.
The  implementation  of  the  Security  Council’s
plan for Western Sahara would have closed the chapter
on decolonization in Africa. The right of the people of
Western Sahara to self-determination and independence
is a Charter obligation that we cannot shirk.
We  hail  the  efforts  of  the  Economic  Community
of  West  African  States  in  Liberia  and  welcome  the
establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  that
country.  Guided  by  our  commitment 
to  African
solidarity and given the resolve of the African Union to
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security, Namibia has decided to contribute troops
to the United Nations Mission in Liberia.
Geographic  proximity  is  not  a  matter  of  choice.
We abhor the continued imposition of the United States
embargo  against  the  people  of  Cuba,  and  call  on  the
international  community  to  demand  the  immediate
lifting of that embargo.
international 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  stress  the  vital
importance  of 
all
stakeholders  in  our  effort  to  realize  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  In  order  to  reduce  the  scourge  of
poverty  and  underdevelopment,  developing  countries
need access to the markets of developed countries.
cooperation  by 
There  is,  therefore,  an  urgent  need  to  overcome
the  impasse  which  has  developed  as  result  of  the
failure  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  Ministerial
Conference  at  Cancún.  We  need  to  emphasize  that
urgent  need.  We  call  on  the  developed  countries  to
demonstrate  a  spirit  of  compromise  in  line  with  their
undertakings at the Millennium Summit.
Furthermore  the  implementation  of  the  decisions
taken  at  the  Monterrey  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  must  not  be  allowed  to  become  a  dead
letter.  The  promise  made  by  world  leaders  at  the
A/58/PV.18
Millennium Summit to give globalization a human face
should also be given practical expression.
In  short,  the  vision  of  a  bright  and  prosperity-
enhancing  new  Millennium  must  not  be  allowed  to
become a mirage or a dream that could not be realized.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Sodiq  Safoev,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Republic of Uzbekistan.
Mr. Safoev (Uzbekistan): I should like first of all
to join  earlier  speakers in congratulating  you,  Sir, The
Honourable Julian Robert Hunte, Minister for External
Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint
Lucia,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly  and  to  wish  you  every  success  as  you  carry
out  your  duties.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  our
appreciation  to  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  for  the  very  efficient
way  in  which  he  organized  the  work  of  the  fifty-
seventh session of the General Assembly.
We  would  like  at  the  outset  to  express  our
profound  condolences  to  the  whole  family  of  the
United Nations for the loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello, a
brave and able diplomat, and the other United  Nations
personnel  who  died  as  a  result  of  the  deadly  attack
against the United Nations premises in Baghdad.
I would like to take this opportunity to outline the
position of Uzbekistan on the key issues on the agenda
of this forum. As is well known, since the events of 11
September 2001, the  world has been on the  verge  of  a
fundamental  transformation  caused  by  new  challenges
and  threats  to  security  in  many  regions  of  our  planet.
This  harsh 
the
responsibility  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  unique
international 
cannot  be
substituted by anyone or anything. It also increases the
responsibility  of  each  and  every  nation  to  preserve
peace  and  stability  in  countering  threats  to  modern
civilization such as international  terrorism,  extremism,
and the ever-growing illegal drug trade.
reality  unequivocally 
institution  whose 
increases 
role 
Given  our  immediate  proximity  to  Afghanistan,
we,  the  nations  of  Central  Asia,  know  at  first  hand
what  these  threats  are  and  what  they  can  bring  to  the
world,  if  timely  steps  are  not  taken  to  prevent  and
eliminate  them  at  their  very  core.  In  this  context,  it  is
difficult to overestimate the significance of the actions
of  the  international  anti-terrorist  coalition  led  by  the
United  States  of  America  and  of  the  International
Security Assistance Force, which are doing so much to
11
A/58/PV.18
revive and restore peace and stability in long-suffering
Afghanistan.
In  the  meantime,  despite  the  prerequisites  for  a
full-scale  peace  process  in  Afghanistan  and  sustained
development of  the region,  the peace in the country is
still  fragile.  We  believe  that  the  resources  of  the
international 
international
organizations  and  donor  nations,  as  well  as 
the
capabilities of neighbouring  countries,  should be  more
intensely engaged, as they are essential to post-conflict
reconstruction.
community, 
major 
Afghanistan  should  become  a  harmoniously
integrated part of Central Asia, and this will positively
contribute to the enhancement of stability and security
in  the  country  and  region.  In  view  of  the  exceptional
importance  of  the  socio-economic  rehabilitation  of
Afghanistan,  Uzbekistan  is  rendering  assistance  to  the
Afghan people in  the reconstruction  of damaged roads
and the construction of new ones, as well as supplying
electricity  to  the  northern  provinces  of  Afghanistan.
Uzbek  specialists  have  built  eight  large  bridges  along
the  road  from  Mazari  Sharif  to  Kabul.  Uzbekistan  is
also delivering humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan.
More than 1 million tonnes of humanitarian cargo have
been  shipped  through  our  country’s  territory.  We  will
continue  to  cooperate  with  international  organizations,
foremost with the United Nations, in this regard.
in 
learned 
lessons 
that  overcoming 
recent  years  have
The 
confirmed 
the  consequences  of
terrorism  and  extremism  is  more  difficult  than  their
timely  prevention.  Moreover,  the  aggressive  drive  of
terrorists  to  acquire  weapons  of  mass  destruction  has
become  a  new  reality.  The  international  community
should  confront  these  far-reaching  plans  using  an
effective  and  streamlined  system  of  measures 
to
prevent access by terrorists to arms, new technologies,
and dual-use material.
Uzbekistan  welcomes  the  progress  made  in  the
development  of  legal  instruments  aimed  at  combating
international  terrorism.  Tangible  results,  however,  can
be  achieved  only  by  creating  a  global  system  of
comprehensive  cooperation.  That  is  why  we  support
the  work  of  the  Security  Council  Counter-Terrorism
Committee.  We  are  confident  that  the  regional  anti-
terrorism 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization,  established  to  collaborate  with  other
similar  centres,  will  prove 
to  be  an 
important
component of the global anti-terrorist system.
centre  of 
12
To  combat  the  threat  of  international  terrorism
and extremism,  it  is  important  to  confront  the  hotbeds
all over the  world  of  extremism  and  the  dissemination
of the ideology of fanatical ideologies. Despite current
measures  to  isolate  them,  these  centres  still  possess
substantial  financial  resources  and  the  capacity  to
influence  the  hearts  and  minds  of  young  people  and
mobilize  them  for  their  far-reaching  objectives.  In
addition  to  the  measures  being  implemented  today,  it
would  be  desirable  to  establish  a  special  United
Nations  programme 
and
awareness among young people and develop in them a
strong aversion to extremist ideology.
to  promote 
education 
Uzbekistan maintains that the United Nations can
and  must  play  a  more  significant  role  in  resolving  the
most  urgent  issues  of  today’s  world.  For  this  purpose,
first  and  foremost,  United  Nations  programmes  must
become  more  concrete  and  effective  so  that  they  can
better target the real needs of regions. In this regard, I
would like to present the following views.
First,  Uzbekistan  unequivocally  supports  further
development  of  regional  integration  and  considers  the
Organization of Central Asian Cooperation (OCAC) as
a  crucial  mechanism  of  multilateral  collaboration
among  the  States  of  the  region.  We  consider  the
Organization’s  economic  component,  as  well  as  the
establishment  of  water, 
and
communication  consortia  within  its  framework,  as  a
priority.
transport 
energy, 
The need to overcome the isolation of  the region
in  terms  of  transport  and  communication  is  of  utmost
importance  among  the  objectives  vital  for  sustainable
development  of  the  Central  Asian  States.  In  this
context,  I  would  particularly  like  to  draw  Members’
attention  to  the  multilateral  initiative  to  establish  a
trans-Afghan  transport  corridor,  which  would  provide
landlocked  nations 
in
accessing  world  markets  with  new  access  to  seaports.
Undoubtedly, the implementation of this project would
boost  trade  and  economic  ties  and  fundamentally
change  geopolitical  and  economic  realities  in  the
region.
that  encounter  difficulties 
We  believe  it  is  high  time  for  relevant  United
Nations  agencies,  above  all 
the  United  Nations
Development  Programme,  United  Nations  Industrial
Development  Organization  and  the  Economic  and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, to develop
programmes  aimed  at  increasing  the  volume  of  aid  to
the region’s  States and  Afghanistan  for  the  purpose  of
developing  transport  infrastructure  and  providing  real
support in communications projects.
Secondly,  Uzbekistan  calls  for  strict  compliance
by  all  nations  with  a  global  nuclear  non-proliferation
regime.  Today,  in  our  view,  the  significance  of  the
initiative  of  Uzbekistan  and  other  countries  of  the
region  to  establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in
Central  Asia  has  become  paramount.  We  greatly
appreciate the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi Annan,
and  the  United  Nations  Department  for  Disarmament
Affairs  in  supporting  the  expert  group,  which  is
currently working on a draft treaty.
The establishment of the zone is nearly complete,
and, to legitimize it, Uzbekistan calls on all permanent
Security  Council  members  to  develop  a  consolidated
position  with  the  region’s  States  on  the  provisions  of
the draft treaty and its protocol.
Thirdly,  Central  Asia  is  facing  a  wide-scale
assault  by  international  drug  cartels,  which  are  using
the  destructive  power  of  international  terrorism  to
protect  drug  routes.  Under  these  conditions,  there  is  a
need  for  concerted  efforts  and  effective  international
programmes  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime.
We  believe  that  the  establishment  in  Tashkent  of
the  regional  information  and  coordination  centre  to
combat  transboundary  crime,  proposed  by  President
Islam Karimov during the visit of Secretary-General to
Uzbekistan  last  October,  could  become  a  tangible
contribution  by  the  United  Nations.  We  count  on  the
support  of  the  United  Nations  and  donor  countries  in
making this initiative a reality.
the  process  of 
reform  of 
think, 
is  dependent  upon 
Today, the United Nations faces the need to adapt
its  mechanisms  to  the  realities  of  the  new  world,
the  prompt
which,  we 
completion  of 
the
Organization. There is an urgent need to reorganize the
Security Council so that it reflects current realities. An
expanded  Security  Council  should 
include  both
developed and developing nations. We reiterate our call
for  inclusion  of  Germany  and  Japan  in  the  Security
Council as permanent members.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  note  that  the
principally  new  approaches 
the  United
Nations  to  the  realities  and  prospects  of  Central  Asia
will  ultimately  meet  the  fundamental  interests  of  the
taken  by 
A/58/PV.18
entire  world  community.  I  am  confident  that  this
session will give new momentum to the joint efforts of
Member States to counter the threats and challenges of
global and regional security.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr.  Hor  Namhong,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and
International  Cooperation  of 
of
Cambodia.
the  Kingdom 
Mr.  Hor  Namhong  (Cambodia):  First  of  all,  I
wish  to  extend  my  warmest  congratulations  to  you,
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the
fifty-eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am
confident that, under your wise leadership, the work of
this 
strengthen
international cooperation and will thus contribute to the
maintenance  of  peace,  stability  and  security  in  this
globalized  world. The international  environment  today
remains, no doubt, uncertain, as the world continues to
confront constant change and turbulence.
great  Assembly  will 
further 
On the global stage, at least three key challenges
continue  to  occupy  the  attention  and  remain  a  priority
of the international community.
The  first  challenge  is  the  global  situation.  First,
the  current  situation  in  Iraq  is  a  serious  predicament.
While  the  war  is  over,  the  situation  in  the  country
remains  critical.  Peace,  security  and  stability  have  not
returned to Iraq.  Although  the  number  of  international
contingents  deployed  in  Iraq  has  been  increased,  the
overall  environment  in  the  country  is  very  fragile  and
highly  unstable.  I  think  that  United  Nations  should
assume a greater and more responsible role in returning
normalcy to the country during  the  transitional period.
The  road  to  normalcy  means  that  Iraq  should  be
allowed to govern itself as early as possible, which can
be  done  in  several  ways,  including the  holding  of  free
and fair elections.
Cambodia  strongly  condemns  the  criminal  attack
against the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on
19  August,  and  it  wishes  to  pay  a  tribute  to  all  the
victims,  especially  to  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  Special
Representative of the Secretary-General. Let us pay our
respect  to  the  memory  of  that  great  servant  of  peace.
We  in  Cambodia  always  remembers  his  noble  actions
in Cambodia in the early 1990s in the framework of the
United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia.
Secondly, regarding the Middle East quagmire, it
is important that all parties to the conflict, particularly
13
A/58/PV.18
Palestine  and  Israel,  as  well  as  the  international
community,  continue  to  pursue  a  peaceful  solution  to
the Middle East conflict on the basis of the agreed road
map of the Quartet. At the  same time, I  believe  that  it
is  vital  for  the  leaders  of  both  sides  of  this  conflict  to
renounce  the  cycle  of  violence  and  overcome  feelings
of animosity and  myopic  interest. Instead, they  should
consider  the  broader  collective  interests  of  peaceful
coexistence,  a  peaceful  life  for  their  peoples  and
stability  in  the  region.  There  is  a  need  for  all  sides  to
have  a 
shared
determination to make peace possible.
sense  of  political 
realism  and 
I believe that today peace in the Middle East will
come  only  when  both  Palestine  and  Israel  reasonably
recognize  in  every  way  that  they  must  coexist  side  by
side, living in peace and harmony  with each  other and
looking  after  the  interests  of  one  another.  Peace,
tolerance  and  harmony  are  the  only  way  forward  for
the  people  of  Palestine  and  Israel.  In  that  regard,  the
international  community  must  remain  fully  committed
to continuing to support the Middle East process to its
end.
the 
to  fight 
international  reaction 
Thirdly,  terrorism  is  still  a  very  serious  threat  to
humanity as a whole. Since the attacks of 11 September
and 
terrorism,
terrorists  have  been  strengthening  their  worldwide
networks.  They  also  continue  to  kill  innocent  people
everywhere  in  the  world.  In  Asia  and  in  South-East
Asia, Jemaah Islamiah, which is linked to al Qaeda, has
been responsible for a number of terrorist attacks in the
region.  The  Association  of  South-East  Asian  Nations
(ASEAN) has been actively responding to terrorism by
strengthening cooperation  at all  levels,  issuing  various
statements and taking concrete measures. Nevertheless,
Jemaah  Islamiah  remains  a  significant  threat  to  the
region  today,  despite  the  progress  in  anti-terrorism
action thus far.
International  Conference  on  Financing 
Fourthly,  regarding  global  poverty,  we  recall  the
Millennium  Summit  held  in  New  York  and  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Johannesburg,
the 
for
Development in Monterrey and the recent G-8 Summit
in  Evian,  France,  where  the  overriding  theme  was  the
fight  against  poverty,  which  calls  for  concerted  efforts
for  poverty  alleviation  and  sustainable  development.
However,  poverty  remains  a  severe  problem  for  the
world,  particularly  the  developing  countries,  with  1.2
billion  people  still  surviving  on  less  than  one  dollar  a
day.  Despite  clear  messages  from  all  those  summits,
14
especially  from  the  developing  countries,  on  the  need
to  reduce  poverty,  the  actions  so  far  have  not  been
decisive enough.
I believe that,  without concrete  measures and the
provision  of  adequate  resources,  it  will  be  impossible
for  the  least  developed  countries  to  overcome  the
current challenges of poverty, aggravated by the  speed
of globalization, which has contributed to the widening
gap between the haves and the have-nots.
is 
Fighting  poverty  is  not  the  responsibility  of  the
the  shared
least  developed  countries  alone.  It 
responsibility of the international community, in which
the  developed  world  has  an  important  role  to  play.
Poverty prevails today in  many forms and dimensions.
For the developed countries to share resources with the
developing countries is not only an act of generosity, it
is  also  a  requirement  for  living  together  in  a  world  of
peace,  security  and  harmony.  In  that  regard,  I  am
convinced  that  the  international  community  must  act
collectively  and 
in  a  spirit  of  responsibility  and
solidarity  to  end  this  alarming  situation  of  poverty  by
taking concrete steps to reduce it gradually.
of 
establishing 
The  second  major  challenge  involves  regional
developments.  Regarding  the  regional  situation,  there
have  been  many  developments.  Some  have  been
positive;  others  negative.  I  wish 
to  note  several
important  developments  since  last  year.  First,  the
eighth  ASEAN  Summit  and  other  related  summits  in
Phnom  Penh,  Cambodia,  have  successfully  advanced
ASEAN  integration  by  moving  the  region  ahead  in
terms 
the  ASEAN  Economic
Community  (AEC),  deepening  cooperation  between
ASEAN  and  China,  Japan  and  the  Republic  of  Korea,
and  strengthening  cooperation  with  India.  With  those
four  countries,  ASEAN  has  enhanced  close  and
proactive cooperation among a combined population of
more  than  three  billion  people  that  has  enormous
economic  potential  and  opportunities  for  development
and  growth.  In  addition,  during  that  ASEAN  Summit,
its  leaders  also  held,  for  the  first  time,  a  summit
dialogue  with  Africa  through  President  Thabo  Mbeki
of  South  Africa,  the  current  Chairman  of  the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development, NEPAD.
Secondly,  the  situation  in  the  Korean  peninsula
continues  to  evolve  and  give  rise  to  concerns  for
countries  that  are  directly  involved.  Cambodia  fully
supports  the  peace  talks  in  Beijing  and  believes  that
only dialogue and compromise can provide the way out
of 
the  present  quandary.  Although  a  number  of
outstanding issues need to be mutually resolved, I think
it  is  important  for  all  the  parties  concerned  to  reduce
tension by avoiding hostile actions that  would escalate
the  situation.  I  believe  that  one  way  of  enabling  the
situation  on  the  Korean  Peninsula  to  move  ahead
positively is to negotiate a road map for a nuclear-free
and  secure  Korean  Peninsula.  I  believe  that,  if  such  a
plan could go ahead, steps towards the normalization of
the situation on the Korean Peninsula could be taken.
to 
to 
like 
refer 
Thirdly, 
I  would 
important  milestone 
recent
developments in Cambodia. The situation in Cambodia
is  continuing  to  improve  significantly.  The  recent
elections  were  held  in  a  free,  fair  and  democratic
environment,  as  many  international  election  observers
noted  in  their  statements.  This  year’s  election  marks
another 
Cambodia’s
democratization,  which  has  been  strengthened  at  the
grass-roots level through the  successful local  elections
to  communal  councils  last  year.  At  the  same  time,
Cambodia’s  gross  domestic  product  growth  continues
to  show  positive  signs,  with  an  approximate  growth
rate of 6.7 per cent per annum over the past five years,
despite  natural  calamities  and  the  impact  of  other
regional  and  global  developments,  such  as  terrorism
and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.
in 
In  addition,  the  Government’s  strategy  gives  top
priority  to  poverty  reduction.  In  March  this  year,  the
Cambodian  Prime  Minister,  Samdech  Hun  Sen,
officially 
poverty
alleviation  aimed  at  reducing  the  poverty  rate  by  1.2
per  cent every  year.  By  2015,  the  poverty  level  would
be reduced to 19 per cent. In order to achieve that end,
a budget of $1.5 billion has been projected.
campaign 
launched 
the 
for 
representatives  of 
The  third  challenge  is  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations.  Every  year, 
every
delegation  advocate  to  the  Assembly  the  necessity  of
reforming  the  Organization,  in  particular  the  Security
Council. I, too, believe that without sufficient reform in
this  world  body,  the  United  Nations  cannot  be  an
effective  and  efficient  global  Organization  that  is  able
the  complex  global
to 
challenges  affecting  humanity 
twenty-first
century. The world has witnessed a wave of democracy
since the end of the cold war more than a decade ago. I
believe,  however,  that  democratization  needs  to  start
right  here  at  the  United  Nations,  which  should  respect
the  will  of  the  community  of  nations.  Any  further
inaction  on  the part of the  United  Nations  with  regard
respond  collectively 
the 
in 
to 
A/58/PV.18
to the call for reform will mean a continuing decline in
its  credibility,  as  well as increasing  loss  of  confidence
in this universal institution.
I  believe  that  one  of  the  key  issues  of  United
Nations  reform  is  the  need  for  the  expansion  of  the
Security  Council.  Cambodia  calls  once  again  for  the
expansion  of  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council
to include Japan, the Federal Republic of Germany and
India  as  new  permanent  members,  given  the  crucial
role  of  these  three  countries  in  international  political
and economic affairs today.
Moreover,  the  General  Assembly,  as  the  highest
body  of  the  United  Nations,  should  play  a  more
important role, in  accordance  with the  Charter,  for  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.
Furthermore, in the context of United Nations reform, I
think  that  we  should  look  beyond  the  conventional
agenda  of  international  peace  and  security,  given  that
the  glaring  poverty  in  the  world  today  is,  without
doubt,  a  peace  and  security  issue.  I  believe  that  the
United  Nations  should  play  a  more  meaningful  role,
within  the  broad  framework  of  human  security,  in  the
world’s collective efforts to fight poverty.
As the  world  marches  on, I believe that  we  must
perhaps  devise  new  ways  to  deal  with  a  myriad  of
challenges that menace the whole of humanity. We will
have to close the gap between the poor and the rich and
between  the  developed  and  developing  countries.  We
must fight poverty and HIV/AIDS, which are affecting
millions  of  people  in  the  developing  countries.  We
need 
impact  of
transnational  crime.  At  the  same  time,  we  must  pay
greater attention to hotbeds of tension around the world
in order to ensure a peaceful and secure world for all.
the  growing 
together 
tackle 
to 
Finally,  we  must  continue  to  ensure  that  the
United  Nations  is  truly  a  democratic  global  institution
that reflects the reality of the  world today. We need to
advance 
stability,
development  and  prosperity  in  building  a  better  place
for all peoples on the Earth.
security, 
together 
peace, 
in 
In  conclusion,  I  believe  the  way  forward  for  the
world  will depend largely  on  international  cooperation
and the need to share global resources  more  equitably.
Growing  interdependence  and  increasing  globalization
mean  that  every  nation  must  work  collectively  in
addressing the current challenges in the  most  effective
way.
15
A/58/PV.18
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
Mr.  Francisco  Guerrero  Prats,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of the Dominican Republic.
Mr.  Guerrero  Prats
(Dominican  Republic)
(spoke  in  Spanish):  The  international  community  is
currently going through a period of reflection and self-
definition.  The  great  transformations  that  humanity
experienced  during  the  course  of  the  previous  decade,
as  well  as  current  challenges,  demand  greater
responsibility  on  the  part  of  our  nations  in  playing  an
active  role  in  the  search  for  urgent  solutions  to  the
problems that are affecting us. This new session of the
General  Assembly  presents  us  with  an  excellent
opportunity to achieve that goal.
Today,  the  Dominican  Republic  reaffirms  its
commitment  to  peace,  the  defence  of  human  rights,
security, 
the
strengthening  of  democracy  —  pillars  of  indisputable
importance  in  safeguarding  international  peace  and
stability.
development 
sustainable 
and 
The issue of the reform of the United Nations has
been  on  our  agenda  for  a  long  time.  Events  of  recent
years make it clear that this task must be undertaken as
a matter of priority. The reform the Security Council is
particularly  urgent.  Ever  since 
the  approval  of
resolution  47/62  of  11  December  1992,  we  have  been
engaged  in  an  ongoing  debate  on  the  various  reform
proposals. Now, however, it is time to act to restructure
the  Council  so  as  to  make  it  more  representative  and
equitable,  as  well  as  more  transparent  in  its  decision-
making,  thereby  strengthening  its  legitimacy  as  the
guarantor of international peace and security.
Terrorism  has  emerged  as  an  ongoing  threat  to
humanity.  Uncertainty  and pain  have  characterized  the
beginning of the twenty-first century. Our nations have
the  challenge  of  fighting  together,  at  a  global  level,
against 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction and in favour of equitable development and
free  societies.  Security  problems  call  for  decisive
action  against  international  terrorism,  organized  crime
and the illegal trade in arms and drugs.
The Millennium Summit established as one of its
main goals  the reduction  of poverty  by  50  per cent  by
2015.  Notwithstanding 
the
achievement  of those  goals, poverty  remains  a  terrible
scourge. The Dominican Government, which considers
that issue to be  one of  great importance,  has  created  a
Social  Cabinet  to  act  as  a coordinating  mechanism  for
progress 
some 
in 
16
all  governmental  institutions  for  social  welfare,  and  is
helping  to  ensure  that  both  national  and  international
resources  are  distributed  equitably  and  allocated  to
regions that require social investment.
All  countries  must 
join  efforts,  accepting
responsibilities, both shared and separate, to guarantee
that growth and poverty do not go together and that, in
meeting the needs of the present generation, we do not
cause the destruction of future generations’ capacity to
meet their own needs.
on 
in  November  2001,  and  of 
Conference 
Financing 
The  positive  outcome  of  the  Fourth  Ministerial
Conference  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  held  in
the
Doha,  Qatar, 
International 
for
Development  held  in  Monterrey,  Mexico,  in  March
2002,  was  a  key  element  for  achieving  millennium
development  goals.  The  Doha  Development  Agenda
and the Monterrey Consensus provided a framework to
facilitate  market 
improve  multilateral
regulations  for  channelling  globalization  and  increase
financial aid for development.
access, 
However, we must mention what happened at the
the  World  Trade
Fifth  Ministerial  Conference  of 
Organization (WTO) recently held in Cancún, Mexico.
Although  agreement  was  not  reached  because  of
fundamental  differences  in  the  positions  regarding
essential world trade issues, we are convinced that this
will  not  affect  the  multilateral  system  of  negotiations.
On the contrary, some member states maintain that this
impasse  may  even  be  necessary 
to  shape  more
equitable  international  agreements  at  the  heart  of  the
WTO.  What  is  an  important  issue  is  not  to  lose  the
development  perspective  within  the  work  programme
of the WTO, as set in the Doha Development  Agenda,
because that agenda includes the aspirations of millions
of  people  around  the  world,  whose  hope  for  progress
lies in the opportunities of the global economy.
The  position  of  the  Dominican  Government  with
regard to the Middle East conflict is based primarily on
unconditional adherence to the norms and principles of
international  law,  particularly  those  related  to  the
peaceful  solution  of  disputes;  condemning  the  use  of
force and terrorism in all its forms; complying in good
faith  with 
strict
observance of resolutions of the United Nations and its
deliberative bodies.
to 
the  Dominican
Republic  has,  in  response  to  the  humanitarian  appeals
treaties;  and  on 
these  principles, 
international 
Devoted 
of  the  Security  Council,  participated  in  the  efforts  to
rebuild  Iraq, in order  to  contribute  to  the development
of  a  secure  and  stable  environment  in  which  the
sovereignty of the Iraqi people may be restored.
Similarly, our country supports the peace process
outlined in the road map submitted by the United States
of  America  and  endorsed  by  the  Russian  Federation,
the  United  Nations  and  the  European  Union.  We
understand  that  a  cessation  of  violence  cannot  be
postponed, along with the historic pledges of all parties
to  make  sacrifices  to  promote  a  lasting  solution  to  the
conflict and peaceful coexistence.
in  achieving 
implies  making  headway 
Drawing  up  sustainable  development  policies
calls  for  dealing  with  problems  before  they  emerge.
This 
the
millennium  development  goals,  particularly  on  crucial
issues 
the
environment.  In  this  respect,  our  nation  reiterates  its
rejection  of  the  international  maritime  transport  of
radioactive and toxic waste, a position  which has been
expressed  in  other  international  forums.  This  issue  is
linked to international security.
such  as  energy  and  protection  of 
their 
The  importance  of  guaranteeing  women  equal
rights  and  equity,  and  promoting 
increased
political  participation,  has  been  a  continuous  concern
of  the  heads  of  State  in  various  international  forums.
The  International  Research  and  Training  Institute  for
the  Advancement  of  Women  (INSTRAW),  the  only
institution  within the  United  Nations  system  dedicated
exclusively  to  that  end,  has  its  headquarters  in  Santo
Domingo,  capital  of  the  Dominican  Republic.  The
Dominican  Government  calls  upon  Member  States  to
continue  supporting  the  work  of  INSTRAW  in  the
Dominican Republic by providing contributions, to the
extent that they can.
are 
about 
taught 
Our  country  commends the culture  of peace,  and
is  making  efforts  to  ensure  that  at  the  primary  level
children 
promoting  mutual
understanding and learn about civics and human rights.
Similarly,  we  believe  that  a  solid  and  permanent
democracy  is  an  achievable  goal.  The  challenges  here
are  clear:  growing  democracy,  more  respect  for  civic
rights,  freedom  of  the  press;  freedom  of  expression  of
political  parties  and  public  opinion;  dignity  and
transparency of all leaders and the moral legitimacy of
all.
A/58/PV.18
Deeply concerned about the spread of HIV/AIDS
in our nation, the Government has made great efforts to
comply  with  the  commitments  entered  into  in  the
Declaration on fighting this terrible disease. We call for
increased 
to
guarantee the availability of drugs at affordable prices,
based on the Doha Declaration on intellectual property
and the right to health.
international  cooperation  and  efforts 
the  United  Nations  and 
The  Dominican  Republic  salutes  with  optimism
the  role  played  by 
the
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS)  in  efforts  to
develop  humanitarian  aid  programmes  for  the  Haitian
people.  It  is  imperative  to  stress  here  the  need  for
greater  support  from  the  international  community  for
our  neighbouring  republic  of  Haiti  and  its  neglected
population.
Although  we  are  aware  that  this  issue  has  been
excluded  from  the  agenda  of  the  current  session  ,  we
wish  to  state  our  support  for  the  aspirations  of  the
Republic of China, Taiwan, to rejoin this Organization,
of which it was a Member for many years. Our position
is in line with the universal principles contained in the
Charter,  the basis of  the rules of international  law  and
the  historical 
tradition  of  friendly  relations  with
Taiwan.
On  behalf  of  the  Dominican  Government,  Sir,
may  I  congratulate  you  on  your  election  as  President,
confident  that  your  conduct  of  this  session  will  be
successful,  beneficial  for  the  international  community
and a source of pride to your country, Saint Lucia, and
thus to our Caribbean community.
I 
to 
express 
also  wish 
the  Dominican
Government’s  rejection  of  the  barbaric  act  perpetrated
against  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Baghdad  on  19
August,  and  to  reiterate  to  the  families  of  Mr.  Sergio
Vieira  de  Mello  and  of  the  other  deceased  colleagues
our most heartfelt condolences.
We  are  all  aware  of 
the  great  challenges
confronting  humanity.  Our  future  depends  on  the
actions  we take now. We have the opportunity to  meet
the expectations of the nations of the world. Let us take
up this challenge with all due responsibility.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Mateus  Meira  Rita,  Minister  for
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the  Democratic
Republic of Sao Tome and Principe.
17
A/58/PV.18
text  provided  by 
Mr. Meira Rita (Sao Tome and Principe) (spoke
in  Portuguese,  English 
the
delegation):  I  begin  by  joining  previous  speakers  in
congratulating you, Mr. President, on your election. My
Government  is  deeply  gratified  by  the  recognition  of
your accomplishments as someone from a country that
is  a  member  of  the  Small  Island  Developing  States
Network.  We  are  confident  you  will  lead  the  work  of
fifty-eighth  session  with  the  same  abilities  as  your
distinguished  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Jan  Kavan
of the Czech Republic.
On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Sao  Tome  and
Principe, I  would like to reaffirm  the  principles  of  the
Charter  and 
in  promoting  peace  and
development,  and  to  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-General
Kofi Annan for his dedication and leadership.
role 
its 
We  all  face  daunting  challenges.  Violence  has
inflamed  international  relations.  On  behalf  of  my
country, I would like to express our outrage and regret
that  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Baghdad  was
brutally  attacked,  with 
loss  of  such
outstanding  United  Nations  professionals  as  Sergio
Vieira  de  Mello.  We  pay  tribute  to  all  those  who  died
defending the  peaceful path to peace  and development
in Iraq.
tragic 
the 
As  we  all  are  aware,  Africa,  perhaps  more  than
all  the  world’s  continents,  faces  enormous  challenges.
We  are  plagued  by  endemic  diseases  such  as  malaria,
which  debilitate  and  kill  our  people  needlessly.  HIV/
AIDS 
families,  societies,
cultures  and  economies.  How  can  we  have  economic
development  when  our  people  are  too  ill  to  work,  or
when  the  main  breadwinner  in  the  family  is  dying  of
HIV/AIDS, without any medical treatment?
is  devastating  Africa’s 
Our  economy  has  begun  to  feel  the  negative
effects  of  these  two  deadly  diseases.  We  urge  all
nations  to  work  together  to  mobilize  the  necessary
human  and  financial  resources  for  the  critical  task  of
controlling  these  epidemics,  which  give  rise  to  an
unrelenting  cycle  of  death  and  suffering  for  our
peoples. There can be no hope for progress in Africa if
basic health is not first ensured, so that the people can
work and build their own prosperity.
Sao Tome and Principe, a small island State with
a  fragile  economy,  is  struggling.  We  are  proud  of  our
democracy,  our  free  and  fair  elections,  our  human
rights and our rule of law. But in July of this  year  our
proud  and  stable  democracy  came  under  threat  from
18
forces  seeking  to  topple  our  constitutionally  elected
Government.  They  did  not  succeed,  because 
the
international community quickly  intervened  to  support
our  elected  authorities  and to  negotiate  a  peaceful  end
to  the  coup  attempt,  which  restored  our  constitutional
Government.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
thank  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  personal
concern  for  our  country’s  well-being.  I  wish  also  to
express my appreciation for the support of the  African
Union, led by President Chissano of Mozambique, and
for  the  tireless  assistance  of  President  Obasanjo  of
Nigeria,  as  well  as  that  of  officials  from  Portugal,
Brazil,  the  United  States,  Angola,  Gabon,  Cape  Verde
and  the  Congo,  and  the  many  others  who  rescued  our
democracy from peril.
the  Government  can  mobilize 
But  our  democracy  will  remain  under  threat
resources
unless 
sufficient  to  provide  basic  services 
long-
suffering  people.  For  this  reason,  the  people  and  the
Government  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  ask  for
continued international support,  with development aid,
to  improve  the  lot  of  our  people  and  to  ensure  the
survival of our young democracy.
to  our 
to 
together 
We  must  all  work 
strengthen
multilateral  cooperation  and  to  ensure  that  the  United
Nations and all its agencies continue to be the forum in
which  all  Member  States  can  promote  dialogue  and
ensure  world 
and
development.
democracy 
security, 
peace, 
extreme 
violence 
My  country  regrets  that  international  relations  in
some  parts  of  the  world  have  deteriorated  to  the  point
where 
norm,
infrastructures  have  been  destroyed,  and  human  rights
are daily violated. We lament the plight of the refugees
that  this  violence  creates,  and  especially  the  plight  of
children,  who  often  become  the  victims  of  those  who
traffic in human beings.
daily 
the 
is 
The  tragedies  in  Iraq,  the  Middle  East,  Liberia
and Afghanistan — to name only the most egregious —
can  be  overcome  only  within 
the  multilateral
framework  of  United  Nations.  Unilateral  actions  are
doomed to failure in the long run.
At 
the  same 
time,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe
supports  an  urgent  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  to
make  it  into  a  body  that  reflects  current  realities  and
not  those  of  the  cold-war  era.  The  Security  Council
must  be  democratised,  with  the  expansion  of  the
category of permanent members.
We  observe  with  great  concern  the  spread  of
terrorist  acts  across  the  globe,  ranging  from  tragic
examples  such  as  what  happened  at  Bali  in  Asia,  to
Palestine  and  Israel  in  the  Middle  East,  to  Spain  and
the United Kingdom in Europe, to Kenya and Tanzania
in Africa, to Colombia in Latin America, and right here
to  New  York  and  other  sites  in  North  America.  But
fighting violence with violence is not enough. We must
go to the root of the problem, and that is the task of the
United Nations.
The world is a less secure place today than it was
a  year  ago.  The  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction 
treaties
notwithstanding.  We  must  ensure  the  universality  of
those  treaties  and  compliance  with  them  under  the
authority of the Security Council.
non-proliferation 
continues, 
rules  of 
the 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  strongly  supports  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  much  remains  to
be  accomplished.  The 
international
economy continue to be dictated by a small number of
countries that promote free markets while closing their
own.  The  latest  World  Trade  Organization  meeting  in
Cancún 
this  hypocrisy.
Developing  economies  like  that  of  my  country  can  be
competitive only if there is a  level  playing  field,  if  all
markets are open and if subsidies and protectionism are
erased.
the  natural 
result  of 
is 
As  an  island  nation,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe
continues to see its very existence threatened by global
warming.  Our  shorelines  are  eroding  and  our  national
territory  is  shrinking  as  the  seas  rise.  Is  my  small
country  to  end  up  as  nothing  but  a  tiny  volcanic  peak
sticking up above the waves, with the last of our people
clinging  to  the  land  left  unclaimed  by  the  rising  sea?
The Kyoto Protocol must be implemented by all for the
benefit of all.
For  many  years,  the  people  of  Cuba  have  been
living  under  an  unjustifiable  economic  embargo.  That
economic  embargo  is  hampering  development,  and
people’s lives  would improve  were it to end. The time
has  come  for  both  sides  to  improve  confidence-
building  measures  by  going  back  to  the  negotiating
table and normalizing relations.
Mr.  President,  my  country  would  once  again  ask
for your attention with respect to the Republic of China
on  Taiwan.  This  is  a  country  with  a  democratically
elected Government  which has built  a  strong  economy
and  which  has  strong  ties  with  many  Member  States.
A/58/PV.18
Taiwan  was 
recently  affected  by  Severe  Acute
Respiratory  Syndrome  (SARS),  but  it  was  beyond  the
reach  of 
the  World  Health  Organization  because
Taiwan  is  not  allowed  to  be  a  member  —  simply
because  Taiwan’s  people  do  not  accept  the  imposition
of the “one China” principle.
Despite its small size, Taiwan offers development
aid  to  a  large  number  of  countries.  Taiwan  also
contributes  to  international  security  by  being  a  strong
proponent of the fight against terrorism.
I  wish  to  call  to  the  attention  of  the  Assembly
that, under the universality rules set out in the Charter
of  the  United  Nations,  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan must one day be here among us.
Our  goal  is  to  leave  a  better  world  for  the  next
generation.  We  cannot  go  along  with  the  concept  of
using force in international relations, and we denounce
human injustice.
We  decry  environmental  degradation,  which
ultimately  threatens  us  all.  Sao  Tome  and  Principe
urges dialogue, tolerance and  mutual understanding on
the part of all Member States. We ask all to respect the
United Nations Charter.
The  President:  I  call  on  His  Excellency  The
Honourable  Henry  Chimunthu  Banda,  M.P.,  Deputy
Minister 
and 
International
Cooperation of the Republic of Malawi.
for  Foreign  Affairs 
Mr.  Chimunthu  Banda  (Malawi):  First  of  all,
Sir,  allow  me  to  congratulate  you  on  your  election  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth
session  and  also  to  commend  Mr.  Jan  Kavan  for  his
outstanding and astute leadership in presiding over the
fifty-seventh  session.  I  should  like  also  to  commend
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  dynamism  and
for  the  great  leadership  qualities  he  continues  to
display  in  steering  the  affairs  of  the  United  Nations.  I
wish  to assure  you  of  Malawi’s  continued  support  and
cooperation as we deal with the challenges before us.
like 
I  would 
to  express  Malawi’s  sincere
condolences  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of  the
senseless  and  barbaric  attack  against  the  headquarters
of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq,
which  resulted  in  the  loss  of  a  number  of  lives,
including  that  of  the  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello.  The
attack should serve as a warning of our need to remain
focused on the fight against terrorism to ensure that the
19
A/58/PV.18
war  against  that  scourge  proceeds  as  a  multilateral
undertaking.  We  fully  support  the  call  for  all  those
responsible  for  such  attacks  to  be  charged  with  war
crimes.
Time  has  demonstrated  the  cardinal  place  of
multilateral  approaches  to  international  issues  and
problems.  The  Iraq  situation  has  revealed  to  us  all  in
the 
importance  of
multilateralism  under 
the  United
Nations,  whose central role in  addressing international
conflicts should not be undermined.
international  community 
the  auspices  of 
the 
Let  me  seize  this  opportunity  to  express,  on
behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Malawi,
my gratitude to the United Nations and its agencies, as
well  as  to  other  multilateral  and  bilateral  donors,  for
the emergency relief assistance given to Malawi and to
other  countries  of  southern  Africa  during  the  past  two
years,  when  our  people  faced  a  critical  food  shortage
that 
timely
intervention  enabled  us  to  prevent  a  massive  loss  of
life. We trust that the international community will also
assist us in improving our agricultural production so as
to prevent the recurrence of famine.
threatened  millions  of 
lives.  Their 
Africa  continues  to  experience  the  effects  of  the
tragedy  created  by 
the  HIV/AIDS  scourge.  Our
national  budgets  are  seriously  overstretched  by  the
demands  of  care,  treatment,  support  and  funerals  for
HIV/AIDS  victims,  which  occur  on  an  hourly  basis  in
an  environment  of  devastating  economic  decline  and
famine.  We  are 
losing  able-bodied  people  and
professional  expertise  in  all  the  sectors  of  our  society
two  and  a  half  times  faster  than  we  can  replace  them.
We are grappling with the problem of caring for tens of
thousands of orphans, whose numbers are increasing at
an alarming rate.
The bleak and desperate situation created by HIV/
AIDS  urgently  calls  for  concerted  and  practical
international  action 
the  Millennium
Declaration and Development Goals in the fight against
this pandemic. I  would like to thank  all  those  partners
that  continue  to  assist  us  in  addressing  this  serious
problem.
implement 
to 
Malawi  has  paid  close  attention  to  the  new
international  debate  presently 
taking  shape  which
advocates  a  qualitative  paradigm  shift  from  policy
frameworks  and  mere  commitments  in  conferences  to
the  concrete 
implementation  of  an  agreed  action
programme,  or  what  has  become  known  as  the  New
20
of 
existing  multilateral 
innovation  and,  especially, 
Multilateralism  which  aims  at  addressing  the  serious
shortcomings 
policy
prescriptions. The debate also seeks to effect a move in
the  right  direction.  My  Government  supports  this
the  newly-
important 
integrated
launched  United  Nations  system  wide 
framework 
jointly
worked  out  by  the  six  core  agencies  and  designed  to
least
facilitate 
developed  economies 
trading
system.
least  developed  countries, 
the  multilateral 
integration  of 
the  effective 
into 
the 
for 
(UNDAF)  mechanism 
We also support the United Nations Development
Assistance  Framework 
for
effecting  increased  coordination  and  collaboration  at
the  national  level  in  the  preparation  of  development
plans  and  programmes.  We  are  keen  to  see  a  better-
coordinated 
and
implementation  of,  not  only  conference  outcomes  but
also 
outstanding 
our
development efforts.
commitments 
integrated 
follow-up 
donor 
and 
to, 
to 
In the same vein, the Government of Malawi fully
endorses  the  current  exercise  designed  to  reform  the
United Nations.  A  more representative  and democratic
United  Nations  will  enhance 
the  efficiency  and
credibility of this world organization.
and 
agriculture 
sustainable 
trade  barriers.  Malawi 
I  cannot  overemphasize  the  centrality  of  market
access  and  trade  to  the  whole  question  of  poverty
eradication, 
rural
development.  We  need  to  translate  the  debate  on
Western  protectionism into a deliberate,  broad-ranging
global  policy  against 
is
concerned  at  the  collapse  of  the  recent  World  Trade
Organization meeting in Cancún, Mexico. We can only
hope  that  the  stalemate  in  the  talks  is  only  temporary.
In 
low
commodity  prices  on  the  international  market  have
allowed a  virtual  free  flow  of  our  primary  products  to
the  West  with  a  near-zero  return  on  our  agricultural
sector,  making  it  all  the  more  difficult  to  develop  the
sector  into  a  key  catalyst  for  rural  and  sustainable
development  as  a  strategy 
for  effective  poverty
reduction.
the  current  unbalanced  system  of 
trade, 
is 
today 
The  world 
faced  with  multiple
challenges,  which  have  tested  the  resilience  of  the
strong, as well as that of the weak. In Africa, the noble
for  Africa’s
objectives  of 
Development  (NEPAD),  geared 
towards  enabling.
Africans  themselves  to  assume  full  responsibility  for
the  New  Partnership 
development  challenges,  can  be  meaningfully  realised
only  with  the  support  of  the  developed  countries.  So
far,  not  much  has  been  achieved  owing  to  resource
constraints.  The  resource  pledges  made  by  the  Group
of  Eight  at  meetings  in  Canada  and  France  must  be
honoured  in  order  for  the  implementation  of  the
NEPAD  programmes  to  pull  Africa  out  of  economic
stagnation.
to 
transition 
We were heartened by the launch, early this year,
of  the  road  map  for  a  Middle  East  peace  with  the
expectation  that  it  had  established  conditions  for  an
irreversible 
the  establishment  of  an
independent Palestinian State co-existing with the State
of Israel. It is,  therefore, regrettable  that  the road  map
is being frustrated by elements that do not  wish to  see
peace  take  root  in  the  Middle  East.  We  call  upon  the
Middle East Quartet and the Israeli and the Palestinian
sides,  in  particular,  to  remain  committed  to  the  road
map  and  to  do  everything  in  their  power  to  make  it
succeed.
I  would  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-General,
jointly with the Assembly and the Security Council, for
having  taken  a  number  of  decisive  steps  towards  the
resolution of conflicts in Africa, including through  the
framework of the open-ended ad hoc Committee. of the
Security Council on conflict prevention and recovery in
its  alignment  with 
Africa.  Malawi  reaffirms 
the
position  of  Africa 
and 
the  Southern  African
Development  Community  on  preventive  diplomacy,
and  commends,  in  this  regard,  the  General  Assembly
work on a  draft resolution on  the  prevention  of  armed
conflict  in  Africa.  We  also  support  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  resolution  establishing  an  Ad  Hoc
Advisory  Group  for  mobilizing  assistance  for  African
countries emerging from conflict.
The  humanitarian  tragedies  in  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Guinea-Bissau,
Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia  remain  a  serious  distraction
from  important  national  and  regional  development
initiatives.
In this regard, we welcome the peaceful handover
of the reigns of power in Burundi on 30 April, 2003, in
accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  peace  accord  of
August  2000.  We  also  commend 
the  successful
a  broad-based
launching  of 
establishment 
Government  of  national  unity 
in 
the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  on  15  July  2003  and  the
peaceful  and  successful  elections  recently  held  in
and 
A/58/PV.18
Rwanda.  However,  it  is  important  that  war  crimes
committed in conflict areas be thoroughly  investigated
so that justice  may take its course. This  would  help  to
check 
impunity,  a  phenomenon  of  most  conflict
situations. 
this  connection,  my  Government
welcomes  the  announcement,  on  16  July  2003,  by  the
Chief Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court of
plans to investigate war crimes committed in the region
of  Ituri  in  the  north-eastern  part  of  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
In 
Malawi  believes  that  the  United  Nations  can
meaningfully advance the principles upon which it was
founded  and  effectively  deal  with 
the  multiple
challenges  that  the  global  community  is  facing  by
taking an all-inclusive approach to its membership. It is
in this spirit that my country has, time and again, called
for  the  participation  of  the  Republic  of  China  in  the
affairs of this Organization in line with the principle of
universality. Taiwan has a lot to offer in the promotion
of the global common good, which the United Nations
is here to advance. I therefore hope that the 23 million
people  of  Taiwan  will  be  given 
sympathetic
consideration  so  that  they  may,  once  again,  enjoy  the
right  to  associate  with  the  world  community  through
this Organization.
and 
presidential, 
parliamentary 
Next year will be an important one for the people
of  Malawi,  as  we  will  be  holding  the  third  general
election  of  the  democratic  dispensation  ushered  in
1994.  The  elections  will  be  tripartite,  as  they  will
include 
local
government  elections.  The  elections  could  not  have
been scheduled to take place at a worse time, given that
the  country  has  recently  experienced  a  serious  food
shortage  that  has  further  strained  the  few  resources
available to it. However, in response to the demands of
the  country’s  constitution,  the  Government  and  the
people  of  Malawi  remain  committed  to  fulfilling  this
constitutional  requirement  for  good  governance  based
on 
the
cooperation, support and assistance of the international
community to facilitate the entire electoral process.
fair  elections.  Malawi 
free  and 
seeks 
I 
May 
conveying 
conclude  by 
to  you,
Mr. President, to the Secretary-General and, indeed, to
the  United  Nations  family,  the  profound  gratitude  and
appreciation of His Excellency President Bakili Muluzi
and 
the  support  and
cooperation  extended 
the  President  and  his
Government  since  they  assumed  power  in  1994.  As
President  Muluzi  prepares  to  retire  next  year,  after
the  people  of  Malawi  for 
to 
21
A/58/PV.18
serving  the  people  of  Malawi  as  President  for  two
consecutive  five-year  terms,  he  is  confident  that  the
United  Nations 
international
community at large, will remain committed to assisting
the  new  leadership  and  the  people  of  Malawi  in  their
quest for meaningful and effective socio-economic and
political development.
indeed, 
and, 
the 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
the
Excellency  Mr.  Alfred  Capelle,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Marshall Islands.
the  General  Assembly  at 
Mr. Capelle (Marshall Islands): I am honoured to
address 
its  fifty-eighth
session,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  President  Kessai
H. Note and the people of the Republic of the Marshall
Islands.
like 
the  outset,  I  would 
Allow me to extend my sincere congratulations to
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to  your  high
office.  At 
this
opportunity  to  express  our  deepest  condolences  to  the
bereaved  families  that  lost  loved  ones  in  the  recent
bombing  attack  on  the  United  Nations  offices  in
Baghdad. That tragic event was also a great loss to the
international  community.  Such  horrific 
acts  of
terrorism 
those
and 
responsible should be swiftly brought to justice.
condemnable, 
utterly 
take 
to 
are 
My  delegation  is  especially  pleased  that  this
session of the General Assembly will be presided over
by  the  representative  of  a  fellow  member  of  the
Alliance of Small Island States, and we wish you well,
Sir, in your endeavours throughout the session. We are
hopeful that  your presidency  will  help to  highlight  the
special  needs  of  small  island  developing  States.  It  has
long been  recognized that  such  States  suffer  particular
disadvantages 
terms  of  both  environment  and
development.  This  was  recently  reaffirmed  by  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  which
called  for  a  full  and  comprehensive  review  of  the
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable
Development of Small Island Developing States.
in 
The  coming  year  will  be  a  particularly important
one  for  the  Marshall  Islands  and  for  all  small  island
the  2004
developing  States  as  we  prepare 
International  Meeting 
in  Mauritius 
the
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action.
In preparation for that Meeting, the Marshall Islands is
currently 
the
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  at  the
national  level.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
for 
to  review 
completing 
assessment 
an 
of 
22
encourage  the  international  donor  and  development
community to engage with the small island developing
States  in  the  preparatory  process  and  to  actively
participate  in  the  International  Meeting  so  that  it  can
produce successful and practical outcomes for all such
States.
island  States.  Our 
The  Marshall  Islands  is  faced  with  challenges
shared  by  many  small 
land
comprises  small,  scattered  islands  and  atolls,  spread
over  vast  areas  of  ocean.  Our  unique  environment  is
fragile  and  highly  vulnerable  to  the  threats  posed  by
global  warming  and  environmental  pollution  and
degradation.  Our  natural  resource  base  is  extremely
narrow,  our  economy  very 
small  and  we  are
disadvantaged by our remoteness from world markets.
Islands 
the  Marshall 
Given these factors, in our interactions within the
international  community, 
is
particularly concerned about  the  following  issues.  The
first  issue  is  sustainable  development.  Pursuing  the
three  pillars  of  sustainable  development  —  economic,
social and environmental — poses many challenges for
small  island  States.  During  last  year’s  general  debate,
we  introduced  our  national  blueprint  for  sustainable
development.  This  document  forms  the  basis  of  our
long-term sustainable development plans, which we are
currently working hard to implement.
In this context, and in the follow-up to the World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  we  continue  to
seek opportunities to  form  partnerships  that  will  assist
us in the practical implementation of projects under the
Pacific’s  14  Type  II  Umbrella  Initiatives.  Areas  of
particular  importance  for  our  people  include  the  need
for  greater  access  to  fresh  water,  the  availability  of
renewable  and  environmentally  sound
affordable, 
energy 
the  development  of  waste
management systems that  minimize  hazardous  impacts
on society and the environment.
sources  and 
Also  in  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  new  work
programme  of 
the  Commission  on  Sustainable
Development.  We  are  particularly  pleased  that  small
island  developing  countries  will  be  considered  as  a
cross-cutting  issue  in  relation  to  the  themes  of  each
two-year  work  cycle,  and  that  the  theme  of  the  2014-
2015 work cycle will focus on small island developing
States issues.
Our  second  main  area  of  concern 
the
environment,  and  in  particular  the  threats  posed  by
global climate change and sea level rise. These threats
is 
are  felt  most  acutely  by  low-lying  island  and  atoll
countries such as the Marshall Islands and many of our
Pacific neighbours.
I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Marshall
Islands  has  recently  completed  its  ratification  process
for  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  I  take  this  opportunity  to
commend  those  States  that  have  ratified  the  Protocol,
and  I  urge  remaining  States  to  do  so  without  delay.
This  matter  is  surely  the  most  urgent  facing  the
international  community  today.  If  we  fail  to  act  now,
the future will see the complete disappearance of many
small island nations.
In relation to environmental matters, the Marshall
Islands  is particularly concerned about  the  state  of the
world’s  oceans  and  fisheries.  As  a  nation  whose  very
livelihood  depends  on  the  resources  of  the  sea,  the
Marshall Islands Government reaffirms  its  unwavering
support  for  the  regime  established  under  the  United
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  I  am  also
pleased to state that the Marshall Islands is now a party
to the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement.
The Marshall Islands is seriously concerned about
instances of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing
within  its  exclusive  economic  zone.  Such  fishing
gravely  undermines  the  livelihood  of  our  people  that
depend  on  these  resources  as  their  primary  means  of
survival.  Regional  and  international  cooperation  must
focus on addressing this issue.
Within  our  region,  we  are  pleased  to  note  the
recent progress of the Convention on the Conservation
and  Management  of  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks  in
the  Western  and  Central  Pacific  Ocean.  We  are  also
particularly  pleased  with 
the
Pacific  Islands  Regional  Ocean  Policy  and  we  look
forward to broad participation in the upcoming Pacific
Islands Regional Ocean Forum.
the  development  of 
An  ongoing  issue  of  major  concern  for  the
Marshall  Islands  is  that  of  nuclear  weapons  testing.
The  people  and  the  environment  of  the  Marshall
Islands  continue  to  suffer  as  a  consequence  of  the
nuclear  weapons  tests  that  were  conducted  in  our
territory between 1946 and 1958.
As  we  continue  to  seek  resolution  of  this  issue
our  people  continue  to  suffer  from  ongoing  health
effects,  the  food  chain  still  contains  dangerously  high
radiation 
is
levels  and  our  development  capacity 
A/58/PV.18
restrained  by  an  inability  to  use  contaminated  islands
and atolls.
I  have  briefly  addressed  a  few  issues  of  major
concern  to  the  Marshall  Islands.  There  are,  of  course,
many  other  significant  issues  to  be  addressed  during
the upcoming session.
is 
the 
for 
need 
community 
One  of  the  most  important  challenges  facing  the
international 
a
comprehensive,  unified  response  to  combat  acts  of
international  terrorism.  I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  say
that the Marshall Islands has ratified all 12 of the core
Conventions  against  terrorism.  We  are  continually
working 
the  provisions  of  Security
Council  resolution  1373  (2001),  and  we  have  taken
many  steps  at  the  national  level  to  combat  money
laundering  and  terrorist  financing.  We  reiterate  our
solidarity  with  all  Member  States  that  are  working  to
eliminate terrorism in all its forms.
to 
implement 
Another  important  issue  facing  this  body  is  the
continued  exclusion  of  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan from the United Nations. The Marshall Islands
Government reiterates its concern that the exclusion of
a  nation  of  peaceful  and  law-abiding  citizens  is  not
consistent  with  the  inclusive  ideal  of  the  United
Nations. I  therefore  strongly  urge  every  Member  State
to reconsider this matter.
The  Marshall  Islands  welcomes  the  progress
achieved  by  the  International  Criminal  Court  over  the
past  year.  Many  positive  developments  have  taken
place,  not  the  least  of  these  being  the  election  of  a
prominent panel of judges and the chief prosecutor. We
look  forward  to  the  Court  becoming  fully  operational
and  we are confident that  the  Court  will  prove to be  a
valuable  mechanism  in the  administration  of  justice  at
the international level.
Finally,  in  terms  of  the  need  for  further  United
Nations  reform, 
the  Marshall  Islands  Government
wishes to reiterate its  support  for  the  expansion  of the
Security  Council.  We  believe  that  the  number  of  both
permanent  and  non-permanent  members  should  be
increased,  and  that  such  expansion  should  include
from  both  developed  and  developing
members 
countries.  This  expansion 
to
increase  the  representative  base  of  the  Council  and  to
enhance  its  legitimacy  in  the  light  of  the  geographic
and political realities of the world today. We also wish
to  emphasize  the  need  for  further  streamlining  of  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  six  Main
is  urgently  needed 
23
A/58/PV.18
Committees  in  order  to  enhance  the  efficiency  and
effectiveness of the Organization.
The meeting rose at 5.30 p.m.
24
