United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
33rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 15 October 2003, 3 p.m.
New York

A/58/PV.33
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 39 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development:
progress in implementation and international
support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/254)
Note by the Secretary-General on proposed
revisions to programme 8 of the medium-term
plan for the period 2002-2005: United Nations
support for the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development (A/58/83)
Report of the Committee for Programme and
Coordination (A/58/16, chapter III, section B,
programme 8; chapter IV, section B)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/352)
Mr.  Bennouna  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):  I
would like to speak on behalf of  the  Group  of  77  and
China  on  the  subject  of  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development: progress in implementation and
international  support.  As  you  know,  my  group,  the
Group of 77, has supported from the beginning and still
energetically  supports  the  NEPAD  initiative.  This  is
because,  first  of  all,  the  countries  of  NEPAD  are
members  of  our  group  and  also  because,  for  the  first
time, there is a coherent and completely integrated plan
for  the  development  of  the  entire  African  continent.  I
would like to thank the Secretary-General for his report
on  the  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  this
initiative  and  on  the  support  given  to  it  by  the
international community.
The Group of 77 and China is very pleased to see
this  debate  covering  the  issues  that  relate  primarily  to
Africa’s  development.  NEPAD  is  a  comprehensive
programme  for 
the  socio-economic  and  political
development  of  the  continent,  and  that  is  why  we
should also deal with it in a comprehensive way. This
programme  is  the  departure  point  for  the  integrated
development of the African continent.
But,  of  course,  beyond  the  planning  of  the
programme,  there  is  the  political  will  that  each  and
every  African  country,  all  of  us  on  the  African
continent, must have — the will to translate into reality
the strategies that were adopted at a national level and
that  are  taking  place  within  the  context  of  this
integrated  programme  for 
the  African  continent.
Therefore,  each  African  Government  will  be  called
upon  to  mobilize  all  its  national  capacities  for  the
realization of NEPAD objectives.
With the report of the Secretary-General, we have
today an idea of all the measures taken by each African
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-56963 (E)
*0356963*
A/58/PV.33
country and the institutional  mechanisms set up  at the
regional level.
the  mechanism 
The establishment of what is now called the African
Peer  Review  Mechanism  — 
for
monitoring,  assessment  and  reciprocal  apprenticeship  —
constitutes  a  significant  step  made  by  our  African
countries  for  assessing  the  political  and  economic
performances of the continent. That mechanism reflects
the  determination  of  all  African  countries  to  take
charge  of  their  own  development.  It  will  enable  us  to
master  the  process  of  implementation  and  to  achieve
the  objectives  of  NEPAD.  As  we  have  seen  in  the
report,  four  countries  will  start  these  assessments  by
the end of this year.
Concurrently with the development efforts of the
programme,  good  governance,  as  it  is  called  today,
should  accompany  the  programme.  Efforts  have  been
made  all  over  the  continent  to  consolidate  democracy
and  strengthen  conflict  prevention,  settlement  and
management. Efforts have also been made to establish
a  pan-African  parliament  and  to  set  up  national  focal
points  for  NEPAD,  and  there  are  initiatives  in  each
subregion  of  Africa  to  begin  and  encourage  plans  for
infrastructures, health, education  and  agriculture  —  in
other words, some of the most fundamental sectors.
We share the view of Kofi Annan that all this cannot
be done without additional resources coming from outside
the  African  continent.  The  mobilization  of  national
resources  by  each  countries  on  the  continent  is  not
sufficient. That is why this debate today is so important,
because it must inspire the international community to
mobilize even more resources for NEPAD.
In 2002, a declaration was adopted by which the
Member  States  committed  themselves  to  provide  the
help  and  the  support  necessary  for  NEPAD,  and  we
hope  that  that  declaration  will  be  followed  up.  The
developed  countries  should  help  Africa  to  respect  and
implement the commitments that have been undertaken
in  various  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits
since the Millennium Declaration. Those commitments
include, of course, official development assistance and
the  famous  objective  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national
product.  Unfortunately,  and  we  have  to  repeat  this
every time, there is the issue of external debt and, in an
even  more  striking  way  today,  in  this  world  of
globalization,  the  issue  of  opening  up  developed
countries’  markets  to  exports  from  poorer  countries.
2
is  also 
investment 
limited, 
the  promotion  of 
There 
in
developing countries, in particular in African countries.
There  has  certainly  been  some  increase,  which
remains  very 
in  official  development
assistance for Africa. We hope that this increase will be
continued  so  that  we  can  attain  the  objectives  set  for
official  development  assistance,  which  rose  with
difficulty  from  $16  billion  in  2000  to  $18  billion  in
2002.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like  to  take
this  opportunity  to  encourage  all  donor  countries  to
continue  their  efforts  to  provide  official  development
assistance  to  the  poorest  countries 
in  Africa  —
obviously,  the  least  developed  countries  continue  to
need it most — in order to promote the development of
those countries and implementation of NEPAD.
As  far  as  external  debt  is  concerned,  measures
have  been  undertaken  with  the  Highly  Indebted  Poor
Countries  Debt  Initiative.  But  we  are  still  far  from
meeting  the  expectations  of heavily indebted  developing
countries.  That  is  why  we  hope  that  the  announced
contributions to the Fund created for the heavily indebted
poor countries will be forthcoming. Furthermore, there is
the impact of the international economic environment, of
the  policies  of  developed  countries  and  of  financial
policies  on  a  number  of  the  reforms  undertaken  by
developing countries to benefit from the Initiative.
Because  of  those  difficulties,  many  countries
have been slow to  move  from  the point of decision to
the point of completion. Likewise, some countries that
have  reached  the  point  of  completion  have  seen  a
deterioration  in  their  indebtedness  indicators  because
of  the  decrease  in  export  income,  which  I  just
mentioned, and the volatility in commodity prices. That
is  why  the  Group  of  77  and  China  has  consistently
linked international trade problems, debt problems and
development financing problems.
Other 
indebted  African  countries  have  been
neglected  and  continue  to  suffer  from  the  burden  of
debt.  They  are  obliged  to  allocate  important  resources
to  reimbursing  that  debt,  often  to  the  detriment  of
investment  in  the  social  sector.  That  is  why  it  might
seem  abnormal  that  those  countries  are  obliged  to
reimburse  their  debts  to  rich  countries  —  for  which
such  sums  represent  an  extremely  small  proportion  of
their resources — to the detriment of social investment,
which is absolutely necessary for their stability.
Therefore,  during  today’s  debate,  we  call  on
developed  countries  to  redouble  their  efforts,  in  the
in  Africa,  particularly  because 
context  of  international  solidarity,  to  invest  financial
resources 
today’s
subject is NEPAD. Moreover, as I just said, developed
countries must give up their protectionist trade policies to
enable developing countries to gain access to the markets
and  consequently  increase  their  own  resources.  The
effects  of  such  protectionist  measures  on  the  efforts
and  plans  of  developing  countries  —  particularly
African  countries  —  can  be  devastating,  as  revealed
during the recent conference held in Cancún.
like 
to  highlight 
Here, on behalf of the  Group  of  77  and  China,  I
should  also 
the  commitments
undertaken  since  the  Millennium  Declaration  during
the  international  conferences  held  at  Monterrey,  Doha
and  Johannesburg.  This  year,  in  the  context  of  the
United Nations, we tried to ensure integrated follow-up
and implementation of those conferences. We hope that
that effort will be continued so that we can achieve the
results envisaged for the 2005 summit.
In  addition,  I  cannot  fail  to  recall  the  failure  of
Cancún  and  the  “cotton  scandal”,  which  showed  to
what  an  extent  the  positions  of  the  richest  countries
may  seem  inconsistent  with  the  multilateral  trade
system  that  they  themselves  have  encouraged  and
supported.  Indeed,  at  a  time  when  rich  countries  are
demanding increased and general trade liberalization of
African countries — to the point of imposing it through
multilateral  institutions  —  those  same  countries  show
no  sign  of  receptivity  to  the  legitimate  demands  and
urgent needs of African countries.
The role of the United Nations is certainly essential;
it  is  important  to  mobilize  international  support  for
NEPAD.  The  creation  of  the  Office  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  —  headed  by  my
friend Ambassador Gambari — to which we contributed
much last year in the framework of reform, is a source
of satisfaction for us. We are also pleased to know that,
in  this  year’s  budget,  the  necessary  resources  will
finally  be  allocated  to  that  Office,  which  will  help  to
support NEPAD.
For  the  first  time,  we  in  the  United  Nations
Secretariat  we  will  have  a  focal  point  that  will  follow
all  African  affairs  on  an  equal  basis.  That  being
acknowledged, financial resources exist, and we fervently
hope that they will help African countries and NEPAD.
Finally,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  recall  that
United  Nations  reports  predict  that  certain  of  the
world’s  regions  will  be  in  a  position  to  attain  the
A/58/PV.33
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  unfortunate
exception is the African region, for the simple reason that
current growth  rates  remain  too weak to  reduce  poverty
on the African continent. That is why, once again, the
international  community  must  meet  the  efforts  of
African countries halfway. Of course, more democracy
and good governance are required of those countries.
the  struggle  against  poverty 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  has  often  had  the
opportunity  to  say  that  security  and  peace  are  global
concepts.  They  cannot  be  considered  solely  from  the
perspective  of  peacekeeping  or  of  disarmament.
Consequently, 
is  an
integral  part  of  the  action  undertaken  to  safeguard
international security. It is the preventive component of
any action in favour of international peace and security.
In  conclusion,  Africa  today  has  a  mechanism  at
its disposal — an indigenous African initiative, NEPAD.
It is up to us to support Africa’s own efforts.
Mr.  Jose  (India):  We  would  like  to  thank  the
Secretary-General  for  his  first  consolidated  report  on
progress  in  the  implementation  of  and  international
support for the New Partnership for Africa’s Development
(NEPAD). We would also like thank him for the report on
the  implementation  of  his  recommendations  on  the
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace
and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.  We  have
considered both reports with interest.
It  has  always  been  our  conviction  that  Africa
knows  its  own  problems  better  than  anybody.  It  also
knows  the  solutions  to  the  problems.  We  believe  that
Africa’s understanding cannot be substituted by that of
others. Its ownership and leadership of NEPAD is, for
us, a sine qua non for the success of this framework.
Africa  does,  however,  require  support  from
outside  for  the  solutions  which  it  has  identified.  The
international community promised this support, notably
in the Declaration adopted at the Millennium Summit.
It has also, in the United Nations and in other forums,
endorsed  NEPAD  as  the  framework  for  an  African-
owned  and  African-led  programme  for  the  social  and
economic development of the continent.
It 
is  still  early 
to  assess  progress 
the
implementation  of  NEPAD. 
is,  nevertheless,
important  to  bear  in  mind  that  a  principal  conclusion
contained  in  the  report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent
Personalities  on  the  Independent  Evaluation  of  the
United  Nations  New  Agenda  for  the  Development  of
in 
It 
3
A/58/PV.33
Africa was that commitments made by the international
community  largely  remained  unfulfilled  during  the
1990s.  Official  development  assistance  for  Africa  had
been  expected  to  increase  at  an  annual  rate  of  4  per
cent  during  that  period.  Instead,  it  fell  by  46  per  cent
between 1990 and 2000.
NEPAD is based on the principles of responsibility,
solidarity and partnership. This time, solidarity needs to
be real. A further failure to show solidarity would harm
the  credibility  of  the  international  community  and  be
injurious to the notion of partnership.
One  of  the  first  opportunities  to  demonstrate
solidarity  was  provided  by  Cancún.  The  result  was
disappointing.  There  seems 
incipient
realization  now  that,  tactically,  the  developed  world
should have offered more, and that it should have done
so  earlier.  From  a  strategic  point  of  view,  however,  it
should  have  proceeded,  ab  initio,  on  the  basis  of  a
spirit of partnership.
to  be  an 
There  are  some  signs  of  progress,  albeit  modest,
with regard to official development assistance for Africa.
We  note  that  the  figure  increased  from  $16.4  billion  in
2000 to $17.7 billion in 2001 and $18.6 billion in 2002.
That trend needs to be built upon. It cannot, by itself, lead
to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals. A quantum increase is of primary importance as,
given the situation with regard to trade and investment,
there  can  be  no  substitute  for  official  development
assistance.
in 
the 
true 
India’s  own  relationship  with  Africa  is  built  on
strong  historical  and  political  foundations.  We  have
been exploring ways in which we can provide support
to  NEPAD 
spirit  of  South-South
cooperation. Our Ministry of Commerce has launched a
Focus  Africa  programme.  This  seeks  to  build  on  the
growth of approximately 300 per cent which has  been
achieved  in  trade  with  sub-Saharan  Africa  in  the  past
10  years.  We  have  also  decided  to  increase  the
availability  of  credit  for  trade  and  other  commercial
exchanges. All bilateral debt with the countries covered
by  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  (HIPC)
Initiative  has  been  cancelled.  Africa  is  the  principal
focus  of  our  technical  and  economic  cooperation
programme with developing countries. Our cooperation
and  solidarity  with  Africa  is  based  on  the  firm  belief
that  this  partnership  can  be  meaningful  and  mutually
beneficial. While more remains to be accomplished, we
are satisfied with the progress which is being made in
4
sharing  with  Africa  our  experience  of  economic  and
social development.
We  endorse  the  recommendations  made  by  the
Secretary-General  and  would  particularly 
to
highlight  those  which  pertain  to  Africa’s  development
partners. The resources which have been pledged need
to  be  disbursed  quickly  and  without  conditionalities.
Coherence  and  complementarity  also  need 
to  be
achieved in trade and aid policies.
like 
Mr.  Kuchinsky
(Ukraine):  First  of  all, 
the
delegation  of  Ukraine  would  like  to  join  others  in
thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  submitted
under agenda item 39. We commend the comprehensive
and 
action-oriented
recommendations contained in those documents.
thorough 
analyses 
and 
The  beginning  of  the  new  millennium  witnessed
an unprecedented intensification  of integration  processes
in  Africa,  marked  by  the  creation  of  the  African  Union
and  the  adoption  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD)  as  a  strategic  framework  for
the  rebirth  of  the  continent.  Those  historic  events
symbolized  a  new  starting  point  for  advancing  the
African  renaissance  on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of
ownership, partnership, commitment and responsibility.
leaders
themselves  at  the  Maputo  Summit,  implementation  is
the key for the success of the New Partnership. In this
regard, we underscore the particular importance of the
early  operationalization  of  the  African  Peer  Review
Mechanism,  the  innovative  system  of  self-monitoring
and self-control.
the  African 
stressed  by 
As  was 
While  it  is  the  primary  responsibility  of  the
Africans  themselves  to  translate  their  aspirations  for
revival  into  reality,  the  international  community  as  a
whole  has  an  equal  responsibility  to  assist  Africa  in
that  endeavour.  The  fact  that  the  NEPAD  agenda  has
been  given  a  high  priority  in  the  work  of  the  United
Nations,  the  Group  of  Eight  and  other  important
international  forums  testifies  to  the  determination  of
Africa’s partners to shoulder this responsibility.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  has  an
important  role  to  play  in  NEPAD  by  coordinating
global  advocacy  in  support  of  the  New  Partnership.
That  challenging  mission  necessitates  strengthening
collaboration,  coordination  and  coherence  among  the
various United Nations components. In this context, we
take positive note of the establishment of the Office of
the  Under-Secretary-General  and  Special  Adviser  on
Africa, which serves as a focal point for NEPAD in the
United Nations system.
We  believe  that  the  success  of  NEPAD  will
depend  to  a  large  extent  on  proper  dissemination  of
information  and  on  the  mass  education  of  the  African
people  as  to  its  objectives.  That  is  why,  in  our  view,
one of the priorities of the United Nations should be to
popularize NEPAD and increase local awareness of the
programme, or, in the words of the Secretary-General,
to give visibility to NEPAD.
Ukraine, as a country which has a long history of
friendly relations and partnership with Africa, pledges
its  continued  support  for  sustainable  development  of
the  continent,  first  of  all  by  deepening  mutually
beneficial  cooperation  with  African  States.  We  are
closely 
of  NEPAD’s
implementation,  and  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  our
genuine 
in  bilateral  and
multilateral  cooperation  programmes  for  its  specific
sectoral priorities, such as the educational, agricultural
and transport fields.
in  participating 
following 
process 
interest 
the 
All of us present in this Hall are aware of the close
interlinkage  between  the  issues  of  development  and  of
peace  and  security.  It  will  not  be  possible  to  attain
NEPAD’s objectives and the Millennium Goals without
settling unresolved conflicts in Africa and moving from
a culture of reaction to a culture of prevention.
Addressing  in  September  2000  the  momentous
Millennium Summit and the Security Council summit,
the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, put forward an
initiative to develop, within the framework of the United
Nations,  a  comprehensive  conflict-prevention  strategy.
That idea has gained even greater relevance since then.
The complex nature of conflicts in Africa should be
addressed in a comprehensive and integrated manner, and,
in this regard, I would like to make some key points.
First, equally responsible actions are required on
the part of all relevant United Nations bodies, primarily
the  Security  Council.  That  organ  should,  in  our  view,
continue  to  be  at  the  front  line  of  international  efforts
to address the conflict situations in Africa.
the  fact 
Secondly,  given 
the  origins  of
outbreaks of violence often are of a social and economic
the  Security
nature,  enhanced  cooperation  between 
Council  and 
is
indispensable in addressing the root causes of hostilities.
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
that 
A/58/PV.33
regional 
and  dialogue  with 
Thirdly, the situation that prevails in Africa today
highlights  the  importance  of  increased  United  Nations
coordination 
and
subregional  organizations.  Ukraine  strongly  advocates
support on the part of the international community for
the  activity  of  the  African  Union,  the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the
Inter-Government  Authority  on  Development  (IGAD),
the  Southern  African  Development  Community
(SADC)  and  other  regional  structures,  which  have
conflict management and peacemaking as their central
agenda.  In  that  regard,  we  highly  commend  the
assumption  by  the  African  countries  of  the  primary
responsibility for the stability of the continent.
Ukraine  has  always  been  committed 
the
objectives of peace and security in Africa and has been
making  a  practical  contribution  to  international  peace
efforts 
of  Ukrainian
peacekeepers  in  the  United  Nations  missions  in  Sierra
Leone,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and
Ethiopia-Eritrea 
commitment.
Moreover,  I  would  like  to  use  this  opportunity  to
inform 
the  arrangements  being
undertaken  in  Ukraine  with  respect  to  participation  in
the newly created United Nations Mission in Liberia.
the  Assembly  of 
participation 
there.  The 
testifies 
that 
to 
to 
As the Secretary-General rightly argues on page 1
of his report on NEPAD’s implementation,
“Together, the principles of responsibility, solidarity
and partnership are a formula for success”.
In  the  context  of  the  forthcoming  visits  of  the
President  of  Ukraine,  Leonid  Kuchma,  to  Africa  this
fall, I would like to reaffirm my country’s readiness to
continue to contribute to the promotion of international
solidarity and partnership with the continent.
Mr.  Sardenberg  (Brazil):  I  would  like  at  the
outset  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  first
consolidated report on progress in implementation and
international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
I  wish  to  associate  myself  with  the  statement
made by Ambassador Bennouna on behalf of the Group
of 77 and China.
As  the  country  outside  Africa  with  the  largest
afro-descendent  population  in  the  world,  and  with
strong  historical  and  cultural  ties  to  the  continent,
Brazil  welcomed  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
the  ownership  and
Development. 
In  our  view, 
5
A/58/PV.33
leadership of African countries regarding the definition
of the priorities, strategies and actions foreseen therein,
together with the principles of responsibility, solidarity
and partnership, constitute the  main  merits  of  NEPAD
and the right recipe for its success.
More than a decade ago, due to the magnitude of
the  problems  affecting  the  continent,  the  international
community  identified  Africa  as  its  main  target  for
cooperation.  Conflicts,  poverty,  hunger, 
illiteracy,
HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria  combined  made
prospects for development in Africa even bleaker than
in other regions of the world.
Endeavours  undertaken  during  the  1990s  did  not
lead  to  the  expected  results.  On  the  contrary,  the
number  of  poor  people  increased  dramatically  and
many  other  problems  were  aggravated, 
including
political  instability  and  conflicts,  which  continued  to
hamper  development  efforts.  Those  problems  were
made  even  more 
serious  by  an  unfavourable
international  environment 
in  which  protectionism
prevailed and the price of commodities fell sharply, as
did  the  flow  of  official  development  assistance  and
investments towards the African continent.
In  response,  African  leaders  decided  collectively
to  take  on  the  challenge  of  designing  their  own
development strategy, based on a spirit of brotherhood
and solidarity, which resulted in NEPAD. Last year, the
General  Assembly  urged  the  international  community
and the United Nations system to organize their support
for  African  countries  around  the  principles,  objectives
and priorities of NEPAD.
As shown in the report of the Secretary-General,
African  countries  have  been  doing  their  part.  They
have  taken  action  in  several  areas,  such  as  health,
education,  food  security  and  infrastructure,  and  have
important  concepts  and
also 
mechanisms 
the
identification  of  national  focal  points  and  the  African
Peer Review Mechanism.
further  developed 
in  NEPAD, 
such  as 
foreseen 
Brazil welcomes the fact that the African leaders
incorporated  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  as  a
central part of NEPAD. The Secretary-General’s report
shows 
in  official
development  assistance  and  progress  in  the  Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries 
international
support  to  Africa  has,  so  far,  fallen  short  of  what  is
needed.  In  order  to  halve  the  number  of  people  living
that,  despite 
Initiative, 
increases 
recent 
6
in  poverty  by  2015,  African  countries  will  require  an
average annual economic growth of 7 per cent.
Coherence  in  the  trade  and  aid  policies  of
developing  countries,  along  with  disbursement  of
pledged  resources  and  increased  foreign  investments,
will  be  essential  to  support  and  supplement  African
endeavours 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
realizing 
towards 
Due  to  its  universality,  neutrality  and  great
experience,  the  United  Nations  family  has  a  very
important role to play in supporting NEPAD. As shown
in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  the  United  Nations
funds,  programmes  and  agencies  have  been  actively
supporting African development efforts in many fields.
For  these  actions  to  have  greater  impact,  increased
collaboration  and  coordination  among  the  different
United Nations institutions is very desirable.
The United Nations has also been playing a very
positive  role  in  countries  emerging  from  conflicts.  In
that regard, we support the efforts of the Economic and
Social  Council  in  post-conflict  situations  and  the
contribution of the Council’s Ad Hoc Advisory Group
on Guinea-Bissau, our sister country.
Brazil  is  determined  to  continue  contributing  to
development  efforts  in  Africa.  Throughout  the  years,
we  have  developed  a  special  relation  with  the  five
African  Portuguese-speaking  countries  through  the
Community  of  Portuguese  Speaking  Countries,  which
we  hope  will  continue  to  thrive.  Our  President  will
shortly visit five countries in Africa in order to pursue
cooperation efforts.
Despite  our  limited  resources,  we  have  been
involved  in  a  series  of  initiatives  which  include  debt
cancellation  or  alleviation,  technical  cooperation  and
capacity-building.  We  are  very  willing  to  continue
sharing  experiences  that  have  proved  successful  in
Brazil 
illiteracy  and
HIV/AIDS, among other challenges.
in  fighting  poverty,  hunger, 
We  are  convinced  of  the  value  of  South-South
cooperation, as a supplement to North-South cooperation.
Similar  realities  and  problems  can  clearly  benefit  from
similar  solutions.  We  invite  developed  countries  and
the United Nations system as a whole to enhance their
support  of  this  modality  of  cooperation,  including
through  triangular  arrangements,  so  as  to  ensure  its
sustainability and long-term positive results.
For  NEPAD  to  harvest  positive  results  and
become  the  landmark  that  we  all  desire,  international
support and cooperation, in a true spirit of solidarity, are
essential. The conditions exist and the time is ripe. Let us
implement  the  actions  and  fulfil  the  commitments  that
were made. Africa cannot wait 10 more years.
Mr.  Kim  Sam-hoon (Republic  of  Korea):  My
delegation  is  pleased  to  note  the  firm  commitment
demonstrated  by  the  African  countries  during  the  past
year to integrate the priorities and the objectives of the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)
into  their  national  policies  and  development  planning
frameworks.  We  are  fully  supportive  of  Africa’s
ownership  and 
leadership  of  NEPAD.  International
solidarity and partnership, while necessary and important,
can  be  effective  only  to  the  extent  that  the  African
countries take charge of their own development. In that
regard, we encourage the African countries to continue
to mobilize domestic support, as well as resources, for
the implementation of NEPAD.
In order to ensure NEPAD’s forward momentum,
issues of political stability and good governance must be
addressed. Conflict and civil strife continue to be the first
and greatest roadblock to African development. We agree
with  the  Secretary-General’s  assessment  that  security
must  be  elevated  to  the  highest  priority  in  African
affairs and that NEPAD economic programmes must be
bolstered  by  strong  institutions  for  conflict  prevention
and  management.  Thus,  we  welcome  the  initiatives  of
the  African  Union  to  strengthen  regional  mechanisms
for conflict prevention and resolution. In particular, we
commend  the  African  Union’s  ongoing  efforts  to
establish  a  Peace  and  Security  Council  under  its
authority.  Moreover,  we  believe  that  the  African
Union’s  progress  toward  establishing  a  pan-African
parliament  represents  an  important  step  towards  the
development and the integration of the continent.
is 
to 
the  other  key 
Good  governance 
the
successful  implementation  of  NEPAD.  We  commend
the  establishment  of 
the  NEPAD  Peer  Review
Mechanism, 
to  which  16  countries  have  already
acceded. We believe that the Mechanism is a very good
way  to  put  mutual  accountability  to  work  for  good
economic  and  political  governance.  We  encourage
more  countries  to  join  in  this  important  initiative.
Moreover,  we  would  like  to  see  the  international
community  provide  technical  support  to  the  African
countries  to  ensure  that  the  Mechanism  is  fully
functional as a vital aspect of NEPAD.
A/58/PV.33
The 
to  NEPAD 
international  community  must  fulfil 
its
commitment 
through  continued  and
strengthened  financial  support  and  assistance  in  the
area  of  capacity-building.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome
the  recent  increases  in  official  development  assistance
to  match 
the  financial  commitments  of  African
countries  to  their  national  NEPAD  programmes.  Over
the  past  15  years, 
the  Republic  of  Korea  has
contributed  around  $2  billion  of  official  development
assistance to developing countries under the framework
of  South-South  cooperation.  Despite  our  current
economic  difficulties,  we  continue  to  increase  our
official development assistance on an annual basis.
Equally  important,  we  believe,  is  assistance  for
human resources development and capacity-building. The
international  community  should  continue  to  share  its
experience and expertise with the African countries. This
cooperation  is  particularly  important  in  the  field  of
information  and  communications  technologies,  which
has  become  an  indispensable  means  of  harnessing  the
benefits of the globalizing world. With financing from
the  Republic  of  Korea  Economic  Commission  for
Africa  Fund,  my  Government  has  undertaken  projects
that  have  included  the  establishment  of  an  African
information  and  telecommunications  centre.  We  have
also  participated  in  human  resources  development
projects,  including  the  invitation  of  African  ministers
of education to the Republic of Korea for study tours.
in 
the 
to  participate 
Since  1992,  we  have  invited  some  1,200  foreign
information  and  communication
trainees 
technologies  (ICT)  field 
in  human
resources development programmes in my country and
have dispatched more than 500 Korean ICT experts and
volunteers  to  implement  programmes  overseas.  We
have  also  sponsored  an  international  conference  on
reviving  private  investment  in  Africa,  as  well  as
gender-based leadership development programmes.
Based  on  its  own  experience,  the  Republic  of
Korea  cannot  overstate  the  importance  of  trade  to
national  development.  Thus,  we  would  like  to  see  the
international community make efforts to expand market
access for African products. I am pleased to report that
my  Government  has  adopted  a  preferential  scheme  in
which  duty-free  and  quota-free  market  access 
is
granted to a substantial number of products originating
in least developed countries, the majority of which are
in  Africa.  As  a  result,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  now
importing  4.8  per  cent  of  all  exports  from  least
developed countries. According to recent World  Trade
7
A/58/PV.33
Organization (WTO) statistics, this makes us the world’s
fourth largest importer of those countries’ products.
Moreover,  the  Republic  of  Korea  continues  to
provide  assistance  to  developing  countries  in  capacity-
building in the area of trade negotiations. My Government
has invited 160 trade officials from developing countries
for courses and seminars on international trade law and
the details of the WTO agreement.
Another  crucial 
issue  for  NEPAD’s  forward
momentum  is  debt,  which  has  sapped  the  energy  of
many  developing  countries.  We  would  like  to  see
significant  efforts  made  to  solve  the  debt  problems  of
the  heavily  indebted  poor  countries  in  Africa.  By
exploring  such  options  as  debt  restructuring  and  debt
relief,  we  believe  that  a  final  resolution  can  be
achieved that will contribute to the sustained economic
growth of the such countries. For its part, the Republic
of  Korea  has  made  a  contribution  this  year  of  $10
million  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  heavily  indebted  poor
countries  and  encourages  other  countries  to  make
efforts to fill the financial gap in the Trust Fund.
in  collaboration  with  one  another, 
We  applaud  the  steps  taken  by  many  United
Nations  agencies  in  support  of  NEPAD.  Individually
and 
they  are
providing  valuable  assistance  that  is  in  tune  with  the
needs  of  the  various  sectors  of  NEPAD.  However,  as
the report of the Secretary-General (A/58/254) points out,
there  is  room  for  greater  coherence  and  coordination  in
their work. In this regard, we hope that the Office of the
Special  Adviser  on  Africa  can  play  a  greater  role  in
enhancing  the  coherence,  coordination  and  effectiveness
of the United Nations in support of NEPAD.
In  conclusion,  the  Republic  of  Korea  would  like
to  renew  its  commitment  to  assisting  the  African
countries  in  their  efforts  for  development.  We  remain
confident that the resolute commitment and political will
of  the  African  countries,  met  by  an  effective  response
from the international community, will encourage further
progress in the implementation of NEPAD.
Mr.  Aye  (Myanmar):  My  delegation  would  first
like  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the  consolidated
report prepared by the Secretary-General (A/58/254) on
the  implementation  of  resolution  57/7  of  the  fifty-
seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  which
entrusted  the  international  community  and  the  United
Nations  system  with  organizing  support  for  African
countries in accordance with the principles, objectives
and  priorities  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
8
on 
of 
the 
implementation 
report  presented  by 
Development (NEPAD). My delegation also commends
the  Secretary-General
the 
(A/58/352) 
the
recommendations contained in the report on the causes
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and
sustainable  development.  Both  reports  contain  a
comprehensive  review  of  the  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of  NEPAD  and  the  establishment  of
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.
The reports also identify the challenges and constraints
encountered in implementation.
Africa has suffered through considerably difficult
times, and it continues to encounter a complex array of
problems,  to  the  extent  that  we  cannot  expect  their
immediate  resolution.  Nevertheless,  Africa’s  record  of
achievements thus far must also be acknowledged. The
international community, for its part, needs to continue
and  increase  the  momentum  of  its  assistance  and
demonstrate its solidarity with our African partners.
My  delegation 
is  heartened  by 
two  recent
developments  directed  towards  the  realization  of  the
NEPAD initiative. The first is the Maputo Declaration
adopted  at  the  second  session  of  the  Assembly  of  the
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  African  Union
held  last  July,  which  reiterated  the  political  will  and
resolve of the African leaders to implement NEPAD as
a  holistic,  comprehensive  and  integrated  strategic
framework developed by African leaders themselves as
a  home-grown  initiative.  The  second  development  is
the progress made in the implementation of an African
Peer  Review  Mechanism,  aimed  at  increasing  the
transparency 
of  African
accountability 
Governments.  Those 
two  positive  developments
indicate  that  the  NEPAD  process  has  been  moving
forward to address the problems at hand.
and 
Such  commitments  made  by  the  African  leaders,
commendable  as  they  are,  will  not  be  sufficient  to
overcome  the  many  difficulties  Africa  is  presently
encountering. The majority of Africa’s population lives
on inadequate incomes. And  more  than  24  million  are
suffering  the  effects  of  HIV/AIDS;  they  can  ill-afford
the  expensive  but  essential  drugs  available  to  treat
them.  The  mortality  rate  among  young  children
remains high and primary school enrolment is low. The
recent  economic  climate 
is  not  very
encouraging,  as  the  year  2002  was  characterized  by  a
slowdown  in  economic  growth,  with  only  a  modest
recovery expected in 2003.
in  Africa 
In 
the 
light  of 
those  developments, 
is
imperative that African countries redouble their efforts
and  demonstrate 
remains  a  viable
development partner in the world. At the same time it
necessarily  follows  that  the  international  community
must  respond  appropriately  by  assisting  our  African
friends to help themselves.
that  Africa 
it 
In  this  context,  it  is  of  significance  that  the
Government of Japan pledged $1 billion in new aid for
education and health care in Africa at the recent Tokyo
International Conference on African Development. It is
also a positive development to see a rebound in official
development assistance to Africa, which has increased
from  $17.7  billion  in  2001  to  around  $18.6  billion  in
2002.  The  Group  of  Eight  has  also  provided  three
quarters  of  official  development  assistance  to  Africa,
and 
to
participate  in  the  Africa  Action  Plan  to  provide  $6
billion  annually  to  African  countries  to  spur  growth
and contribute to poverty alleviation.
its  members  have  committed 
themselves 
But  these  developments,  however  encouraging,
are  still  far  from  adequately  addressing  the  many  and
varied  needs  of  Africa.  Developed  countries  need  to
make additional resources available towards  achieving
the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  domestic
product 
to
developing countries.
as  official  development 
assistance 
In  the  area  of  trade,  improved  market  access  for
African exports is playing an essential role towards the
attainment  of  sustainable  economic  growth.  Some
developed  countries  have  begun 
to  demonstrate
flexibility  on  agricultural  subsidies  and  other  issues.
The  recent  World  Trade  Organization  agreement
allowing  countries  with  insufficient  pharmaceutical
manufacturing  capacity  to  import  inexpensive  generic
drugs  also  has  been  widely  welcomed  in  developing
countries, especially in Africa, where the incidence  of
HIV/AIDS  is  pervasive.  Malaria  and  tuberculosis  also
pose  a  health  threat  and  have  a  long-term  negative
impact  on  labour  productivity.  The  failure  at  Cancún,
however,  has  dampened  hopes  for  further  progress  in
those areas.
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  South-South
cooperation remains a key instrument to assist African
development.  The  trend  of  increased  economic  and
technical  cooperation  between  Africa  and  other
developing  regions  in  Asia,  Latin  America  and  the
Caribbean 
is  particularly  welcome.  The  recently
A/58/PV.33
concluded  Asian-African  Subregional  Organizations
Conference, held at Bandung, Indonesia, last July is an
example of the  revitalization of the spirit of the Afro-
Asian  movement  and  solidarity  that  began  some  50
years ago.
My delegation welcomes the role that the United
Nations is playing in the implementation of NEPAD by
helping  to  structure  activities  in  accordance  with  the
priorities  of  the  Agenda.  The  Secretary-General’s
efforts  to  establish  the  Office  of  the  Under-Secretary-
General  and  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  are  also
noteworthy.  We  must  also  give  due  recognition  to  the
productive role that the private sector and civil society
can play to ensure the success of NEPAD.
and 
sustainable
development in Africa are intertwined and interrelated.
In  these  circumstances,  NEPAD  remains  the  most
viable  approach 
to  achieving  sustainable  African
development  as  well  as  durable  peace.  It  is  essential
that the  international  community  remain  engaged  with
the 
successful
implementation  of  the  home-grown  process  so  wisely
drawn up by the African leaders.
of  Africa 
countries 
Durable 
security 
peace, 
for 
the 
Mr. Samala (Nigeria): Let me state at the outset
that  Nigeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made
earlier  by 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  by
Mozambique  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China
and of the African Union, respectively.
Nearly 12 months ago, the Assembly held a joint
debate  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of
global  peace  and  sustainable  development  on  our
continent. A few weeks earlier, the Assembly had also
held a high-level dialogue on  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD).  The  debate  on
NEPAD  was  a  watershed  event,  and  the  one  on  the
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace
once  again  shone  a  spotlight  on  the  difficult  road  to
peace and development on the African continent.
Since those  two  debates,  conflicts  in  the  African
region have intensified rather than diminished. Guinea-
Bissau,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Liberia,  the  Central  African
Republic,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  and  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo have gone through one crisis or
another, 
to  varying  degrees.  Guinea-Bissau  and
Liberia,  more  than  any  other,  made  dramatically  clear
the serious consequences of indecision and inaction by
the international community.
9
A/58/PV.33
Nigeria,  along  with  members  of  the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),
responded  positively  to  the  crisis  in  our  subregion.  In
Liberia, an ECOWAS force was dispatched to stabilize
the  situation  in  that  country.  To  further  the  process,
Nigeria  successfully  negotiated  an  exit  strategy  that
enabled former President Charles  Taylor,  the  principal
player  in  the  Liberia  conflict,  to  relinquish  political
power and go into exile.
It  is  important  to  note  that,  in  the  absence  of
peace  in  Liberia,  it  will  be  very  difficult  to  achieve
peace  in  neighbouring  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea  Conakry
and Côte d’Ivoire.
As  concerns  Guinea-Bissau,  I  and  five  other
ECOWAS  Foreign  Ministers  led  a  mediation  mission
during  which  successful  mediation  efforts  were
deployed  and  a  truce  between  the  military  and  former
President  Kumba  Yalá  achieved.  That  paved  the  way
for  the  establishment  of  a  transitional  Government
under new leadership.
African countries have thus proved, in both words
and deeds, their determination and their commitment to
confront  head-on  the  issue  of  conflict  on  the  African
continent.  The  establishment  by  the  African  Union  of
the Peace  and  Security  Council  and  also  of  a  peace  and
security 
enable  African
Governments to mediate and possibly to resolve conflicts.
However, the establishment of the Council should not be
seen  or  used  as  an  excuse  for  the  international
community to shrink from playing an active role in the
search for peace on the African continent.
corps  will, 
hopefully, 
It  will  be  necessary  to  develop  and  strengthen
African capacity for conflict resolution. Furthermore, the
international  community,  in  particular  the  developed
countries  and  the  donor  institutions,  must  endeavour  to
balance  their  support  for  peace  and  security  measures
with adequate support for socio-economic development
in  the  African  continent.  This  will  have  the  effect  of
curbing  conflict  and  providing  a  secure  environment
for durable development to take place on the continent.
The  African  Union  will  intensify  its  efforts  for
the  early  establishment  of  an  African  standby  force,
which  will  be  capable  of  rapid  deployment  and
intervention  in  areas  of  conflict  on  the  continent.  In
this regard, Nigeria looks forward to support from the
international  community 
this
important goal of the African continent.
to  realize 
in  order 
10
While  we  commend  the  United  Nations  system
for  its  remarkable  work  in  Sierra  Leone,  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  in  Côte
d’Ivoire,  we  cannot  overlook  its  hesitant  response  to
the  crises  in  the  Central  African  Republic,  Guinea-
Bissau  and  Liberia.  The  Security  Council  did  not  act
decisively to contain those crises. Not surprisingly, the
conflicts resulted in horrendous carnage, human rights
abuses,  deprivations,  the  displacement  of  persons  and
political instability in those three countries.
Nevertheless,  Nigeria  commends  the  Council  for
sending its team to West Africa to make an on-the-spot
assessment  of  the  security  situation  in  the  subregion.
Similarly, Nigeria commends the Economic and Social
Council  for  sending  its  Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Group  on
African  Countries  Emerging  from  Conflict  to  Guinea
Bissau last October. Indeed, the visit of the two teams
had  a  calming  effect  on  the  conflicts  in  the  West
African region.
they  escalated 
In our view, it is much cheaper to contain a conflict
in  its  incipient  stage  than  to  reconstruct  and  rehabilitate
after the destruction. Therefore, peacekeeping and peace-
building  measures  must  have  an  inbuilt  early  warning
and  response  mechanism  to  avert  the  need  for  post-
conflict  developments.  It  would  be  better  and  more
cost-effective  to  respond  to  the  early  warning  signals
before 
full-blown  conflicts.
Therefore,  the  promotion  of  good  governance,  respect
for  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  accountability,
transparency  and  the  freedom  to  make  choices  are
fundamental  for  nurturing  a  culture  of  peace  and
sustainable  development  in  the  African  continent.  In
that regard, we commend the Secretary-General for his
report  (A/58/352),  which  addresses  the  questions  of
who  is  doing  what,  and  to  what  effect  in  the  African
continent.
into 
It is also appropriate at this stage to point out that
the items on our agenda today concern implementation,
not  examination  of  causes  and  effects.  However,  it  is
important to reiterate that poverty, ignorance, illiteracy,
unemployment, the ready availability of small arms and
people’s willingness to buy diamonds at cheaper prices
outside  the  world  market  fuel  conflicts  in  the  African
continent.
the 
Furthermore, 
community’s
inaction  and  non-implementation  of  its  commitments
also  have  a  direct  bearing  on  the  conflicts  in  our
continent. However, it is gratifying to note that several
international 
(UNICEF), 
United  Nations  agencies,  in  particular  the  United
Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United  Nations
Children’s  Fund 
the  United  Nations
Development  Fund  for  Women,  the  Office  of  the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for  Refugees,  the  United  Nations  Human  Settlements
Programme  (UN-HABITAT)  and  the  recently  created
Office  of  the  Under-Secretary-General  and  Special
Adviser  on  Africa,  to  mention  a  few  of  those  actively
involved  in  the  promotion  of  peace  in  some  of  the
complex  situations 
the  African  continent,  as
indicated in the report of the Secretary-General.
in 
and 
peace 
durable 
However, 
sustainable
development  need  an  environment 
that  promotes
transparency,  accountability,  economic  growth,  social
harmony,  participation,  inclusiveness  and,  to  a  greater
extent, freedom. The capacity of African Governments
to provide those elements and all the social services is
very weak today, as the Secretary-General reminded us
in his report.
It is in this  millennium that the New Partnership
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  is  expected  to
operate. The objective of the NEPAD initiative is to lift
Africa to a higher plane, anchored on the assumption of
a robust economy, functional institutions and structures
and a sustainable environment.
the  prospects 
But,  by  most  accounts, 
for
economic  recovery  in  the  African  continent  still  look
bleak.  In  2002,  five  African  countries  experienced  a
negative  economic  growth  rate.  That  trend  does  not
augur  well  for  durable  peace  and  development  in  the
African  continent.  On  the  contrary,  as  the  Secretary-
General  has  pointed  out,  the  challenges  of  poverty
reduction in Africa  are  enormous.  Nigeria  agrees  with
the  Secretary-General’s 
that  while
economic  and  political 
including  good
governance,  sound  social  and  economic  policies,
domestic  resource  mobilization  and  allocation  are
important for poverty reduction, they are not sufficient
for achieving sustainable development.
assessment 
reforms, 
daunting 
their 
have  made 
tasks,  African
Despite 
Governments 
the
implementation  of  NEPAD.  Nigeria  and  several  other
countries have established national focal points, and we
are on course in integrating NEPAD priorities into our
national  development  plans.  These  countries  are  to  be
commended  for  their  efforts,  and  urge  all  those  that
progress 
in 
A/58/PV.33
to  do  so, 
have  yet 
international
community, to take the necessary steps to integrate the
NEPAD  priorities  into  their  programmes  and  projects
in support of the NEPAD initiatives.
including 
the 
to  oversee 
The  establishment  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent
Persons 
the  African  Peer  Review
Mechanism is a step in the right direction. Nigeria and
15 other African countries have voluntarily subscribed to
the Mechanism and have agreed to present themselves for
peer  review  on  good  governance  and  accountability  in
the next three months. It is our hope that the results of
the  Peer  Review  will  end  any  lingering  doubts  about
the  irreversible  commitment  of  African  Governments
to the implementation of NEPAD.
Nigeria welcomes the practical steps taken by the
G-8 countries and the United Nations in support of the
implementation  of  NEPAD.  In  particular,  Nigeria
appreciates the G-8’s African Action Plan announced at
the  Kananaskis  Summit  and  reiterated  at  the  Evian
Summit 
the
establishment  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on
Africa,  which  my  dear  brother,  Mr.  Ibrahim  Agboola
Gambari,  is  heading  as  Under-Secretary-General,  and
urges that the Office be adequately funded.
in  2003.  Nigeria  also  welcomes 
While  applauding 
these  practical  measures,
Nigeria  hopes  that  African  countries  will  accelerate
their  mobilization  of  domestic  resources  and  internal
savings  while  our  development  partners  undertake  to
commit  more  resources  beyond  the  $13  billion  so  far
committed 
implementation  of  NEPAD’s
priorities and programmes.
the 
for 
It is a matter of regret that many NEPAD projects
remain on the drawing board today because Africa lacks
the  requisite  resources  to  implement  them.  To  make
resources  available,  developed  countries  must  urgently
address  the  protracted  questions  of  trade,  market
access,  agricultural  subsidies,  official  development
assistance,  foreign  direct  investment,  high  levels  of
external debt and the flight of capital. Since trade is an
engine 
for  development  and  economic  growth,
developed  countries  must  make 
the  necessary
concessions  at  the  resumed  talks  of  the  World  Trade
Organization in December this year and respond  more
positively  to  Africa’s  urgent  call  for  a  fair,  equitable
and rule-based international trade and financial system.
Africa  is  also  constrained  by  the  scourge  of
HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and  other  deadly
diseases.  The  socio-economic  losses  caused  by  their
11
A/58/PV.33
prevalence  are  incalculable.  Unless  those  diseases  are
contained, Africa will lose not only its productive work
force, but also several generations of its population.
The  greatest  challenge  in  Africa  is  to  overcome
the  high  incidence  of  conflict  in  order  to  make  it
possible  for  the  continent  to  move  forward  with  its
development  goals  and  programmes.  Complementary
partnerships  between  African  Governments  and  the
African  people 
the
international  community  will  be  required  to  ensure
lasting peace, stability and sustainable development.
and  between  Africa 
and 
A new enterprise for Africa’s development cannot
thrive  in  an  atmosphere  of  conflict.  Nor  will  it  be
effective without international cooperation.
the 
the  efforts  of 
In  conclusion,  therefore,  Nigeria  fully  welcomes
and  appreciates 
international
community to ensure that Africa’s determination to lay
a solid foundation for integrated sustainable  economic
development  becomes  a  reality.  We  believe,  however,
that  if  those  efforts  are  to  bear  fruit  and  if  we  are  to
avoid the pitfalls of past initiatives, there must be full
implementation  and  fulfilment  of  all  commitments
made  by  the  international  community  during  the
Millennium  Summit,  the  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development.  Implementation  must  take
place in an integrated and coordinated manner, so as to
ensure  synergy  and 
these
processes.  That  is  the  only  way  to  ensure  Africa’s
permanent  and  sustainable  development  and  to  enable
the  continent  to  claim  the  twenty-first  century  as
Africa’s century.
the  effectiveness  of 
Mr. Sermoneta (Israel): I would like at the outset
to  note  with  satisfaction  the  fact  that  this  year  the
Assembly  is  considering  both  the  issue  of  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and
the causes of conflict in Africa in a joint debate. In our
opinion, this not only accurately reflects the close link
between peace and development, but also contributes to
the  focalization  of  the  work  of  the  Organization,  a
principle that we strongly support.
Israel  welcomes  the  first  consolidated  report  on
progress  in  the  implementation  of  and  international
support for NEPAD (A/58/254). The report outlines in
a  comprehensive  fashion  progress  stemming  from
actions  taken  by  African  countries,  as  well  as  the
responses  of  the  international  community  and  the
United Nations system, while at the same time offering
12
a  coherent  analysis  of  the  challenges  and  constraints
faced at each level.
to 
in 
its 
efforts 
achieve 
As in the past, Israel wishes to reiterate its strong
support for the initiatives and principles adopted by the
African  Union 
its
developmental  goals.  This  African-Union-led,  -owned
and  -managed  initiative,  and  the  important  elements
that it includes, constitute an outstanding example of how
ownership and regional cooperation can be harnessed  to
pursue  development  and  address  challenges.  By
striking an appropriate balance among the principles of
responsibility,  solidarity  and  partnership,  NEPAD
could potentially improve the chances for progress and
prosperity in that troubled continent.
to 
In this context, we commend the accession of 16
African  countries 
the  African  Peer  Review
Mechanism.  As  that  Mechanism  reflects  a  genuine
desire on the part of African nations to make good on the
promises  of  NEPAD  —  good  governance,  democracy,
peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  sound  economic
management  —  we  would  like  to  encourage  other
countries to join the Mechanism soon.
We note with appreciation the creation of national
focal  points  for  NEPAD  in  several  African  countries,
the completion of the NEPAD health programme and the
recent  endorsement  in  Maputo  of  the  environmental
programme. At the same time, and given the importance
of education as a primary and critical component in any
this
development  strategy,  we  would 
opportunity 
hope 
speedy
implementation of the educational programme of NEPAD.
Israel  welcomes  the  commitment  of  the  United
Nations 
and
coordination among its components in order to provide
the necessary support for the effective implementation
of  NEPAD,  and  endorses 
recommendations
specified in the report.
strengthening 
collaboration 
like 
for 
to 
the 
express 
take 
the 
to 
in 
Israel  has  always  considered  its  relations  with
Africa  to  be  of  the  highest  priority.  From  the  late
1950s,  while  still  a  developing  country  itself,  Israel
sought  to  build  development  partnerships  with  the
newly  independent  States  of  sub-Saharan  Africa.  In
line  with 
long  record  of  cooperative  work
throughout  Africa,  and  the  continuing  tradition  of
friendship  and  solidarity, 
its
experience  and  expertise  to  help  NEPAD  succeed  and
the  African  continent  flourish  by  sharing  our  know-
how  in  areas  such  as  food  security,  the  empowerment
is  offering 
Israel 
this 
of  women,  education  and  health,  both  bilaterally  and
with  the  participation  of  United  Nations  development
funds and programmes.
In  addition  to  our  bilateral  aid  and  training
programmes, Israel also actively supports international
initiatives  such  as  the  World  Bank’s  International
Development Association programmes and the Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  (HIPC)  Initiative  for
debt reduction. Israel has already forgiven the debt of a
number  of  African  countries,  and  will  continue  to
consider  additional  debt  relief  to  other  States,  to  the
extent that our limited resources allow.
Although  our  assistance  may  appear  rather
modest to some, one must remember that as a nation of
barely  6  million  citizens  carrying  a  heavy  financial
burden arising from the need to defend their existence,
Israel’s  per  capita  contribution  to  Africa’s  future  is
among  the  most  significant  in  the  world.  Based  on  a
friendship 
time,  we  are
committed  to  working  together  with  African  countries
to build on the momentum of NEPAD and to reach its
promised  outcome.  We  are  doing  so  because  we  are
convinced that the hardships of Africa are not a burden,
but a shared responsibility. We are doing so because we
believe in the potential of Africa and its people.
that  has  endured  over 
Ms.  Motjope  (Lesotho):  I  am  delivering  this
statement on behalf of the Permanent Representative of
Lesotho, Ambassador Moleko.
I  wish  to  join  other  delegations  in  extending  my
warm  congratulations  to  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your
election, as well as to the other members of the Bureau.
I  am  confident  that,  under  your  able  leadership,  our
deliberations  will  be  crowned  with  success.  Lesotho
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the
Kingdom of Morocco on behalf of the Group of 77 and
China.
for  Africa’s  Development 
A  year  ago,  on  16  September  2002,  the  United
Nations  General  Assembly  convened  a  high-level
plenary  meeting  to  consider  how  to  support  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD).
Through its resolutions 57/2 of 16 September 2002 and
57/7  of  4  November  2002,  the  General  Assembly
decided  to  bring  to  a  close  the  United  Nations  New
Agenda  for  the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s
and to endorse NEPAD as the framework within which
the  international  community,  including  the  United
Nations  system,  should  concentrate  its  efforts  for
Africa’s development.
A/58/PV.33
NEPAD  is  viewed  as  an  expression  of  Africa’s
determination  to  assume  strong  leadership  for  poverty
eradication  and  sustainable  development.  In 
this
regard,  it  is  important  to  note  that  the  priorities  of
NEPAD  are  closely 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  NEPAD  therefore
deserves 
international
community, including the United Nations system, as it
is  an  important  element  in  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium Development Goals in Africa.
linked  with 
support  of 
those  of 
full 
the 
the 
in 
of 
and 
peace 
durable 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  two  comprehensive
reports  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled  “The  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  first  consolidated
report  on  progress  in  implementation  and  international
the
support”  (A/58/254)  and  “Implementation  of 
recommendations  contained 
the  report  of 
the
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the
promotion 
sustainable
development  in  Africa”  (A/58/352).  The  report  on  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)
recognizes the good will of African countries, through
various  measures  that  they  have  taken,  to  ensure  that
international
NEPAD  becomes  the  framework  for 
cooperation  between  Africa  and 
the 
international
community.  Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to
express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  establishing  the  Office  of  the  Special
Adviser  on  Africa.  We  call  for  adequate  funding  for
that Office to enable it to fulfil its mandate.
achieve 
sustainable
development continue to be undermined by a variety of
factors, 
including  conflicts,  humanitarian  crises,
natural disasters and diseases including HIV/AIDS. For
the  international  community  to  successfully  address
those  factors,  serious  attention  must  be  paid 
to
fulfilling  the  commitments  made  at  all  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  summits  and  to  focusing
greater  attention  on  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  My  delegation  welcomes  the
international  community’s  continued  commitment  and
supportive role with regard to NEPAD and the role of
the United Nations in coordinating activities related to
ensuring  its  success  at  the  regional  and  subregional
levels.
In  Africa, 
efforts 
to 
Economic  growth  and  political  development  in
Africa  are  threatened  by  the  prevalence  of  conflicts.
Some of those  conflicts are interminable, while others
are  spontaneous  yet  equally  destabilizing.  As  a  result,
they pose serious challenges to development efforts in
13
A/58/PV.33
security, 
Africa.  Without  peace  and 
long-term
development  and  poverty  eradication  are  only  utopian
ideals.  NEPAD 
primary
responsibility for Africa’s future and development rests
with  Africans  themselves,  but  Africa  needs  support
from its development partners.
recognizes 
that 
the 
While  African  leaders  have  shown  their  firm
commitment  to  assuming  responsibility  for  peace  and
security on their continent, what has been lacking is a
rapid  response  to  conflict  situations  such  as  those  we
have witnessed in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau
and  elsewhere.  Experience  has  shown  that,  where  the
international  community  responds  promptly,  the  results
are  clear,  but  that,  where  there  is  hesitancy,  we  have
carnage  and  mindless  destruction.  African  Governments
are  determined  to  promote  peace  and  security  on  the
continent through democracy, good governance, respect
for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  sound  economic
management,  and  involvement  by  civil  society  in  the
decision-making  processes  through  consultations.  The
appointment  of  a  panel  of  eminent  persons  to  oversee
the African Peer Review Mechanism is a commendable
development  and  a  concrete  indication  that  Africans
are serious about charting a new course for themselves.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Africa  Action  Plan
adopted  by  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  world  economic
Summit held in Canada in June 2002. The Action Plan
is  undoubtedly  a  valuable  and  vital  framework  for  a
new  partnership  between  Africa  and  the  G-8.  We  also
welcome  the  commitment  to  implement  the  Action
Plan made at the G-8 Summit held in Evian, France, in
June 2003. In addition, let me take this opportunity to
welcome 
the  Tokyo
International  Conference  on  African  Development,
Japan’s initiative aimed at implementation of NEPAD.
Lesotho  is  committed  to  the  implementation  of
NEPAD. Like many other African countries, Lesotho is
committed  to  peace  and  security,  democracy,  good
governance  and  respect  for  human  rights.  We  have
made  progress 
tolerance  and
inclusiveness.  However,  Lesotho  still 
the
challenge  of  ensuring  that  peace  and  stability  are
entrenched  and  that  democracy  as  a  way  of  life  is
deepened 
the
Government  of  Lesotho  is  working  on  strengthening
institutional 
ensure  good
governance  as  well  as  accountability  in  the  public
service and private sectors and transparency throughout
Government at the central and local levels. Lesotho is
throughout  society.  To 
the  progress  made 
towards  political 
that  will 
that  end, 
structures 
through 
faces 
14
currently  investing  heavily  in  stamping  out  corruption
within the public sector.
The  African  vision  is  clear.  What  remains  to  be
done  is  implementation,  and  if  NEPAD  is  to  avoid
going the way of the United Nations New Agenda  for
the  Development  of  Africa  in  the  1990s,  both  Africa
and 
their
commitments.  Africans  have  demonstrated  leadership
and ownership of the initiative, and it is expected that
the international community will continue to extend the
requisite support to NEPAD.
its  development  partners  must 
fulfil 
Mr.  Dube  (Botswana):  First  of  all,  I  should  like
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  two  reports,  on
progress made in implementation of the programme of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD)  (A/58/254)  and  on  implementation  of  the
recommendations  contained 
the
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the
promotion 
peace 
sustainable
development in Africa (A/58/352).
the  report  of 
durable 
and 
of 
in 
Through its resolutions 57/2 and 57/7, adopted in
September  and  November  2002  respectively, 
the
General Assembly welcomed NEPAD as a programme
of  the  African  Union  that  embodies  the  vision  and
commitment  of  all  African  Governments  and  peoples
for  peace  and  development.  Furthermore, 
its
resolution  57/300  of  December  2002,  the  General
Assembly  adopted 
the  NEPAD  programme  as  a
framework  for  United  Nations  support  for  Africa  and
mandated  the  creation  of  an  Office  at  United  Nations
Headquarters  led  by  an  Under-Secretary-General  and
dedicated to supporting African development in general
and  NEPAD  in  particular.  The  functions  of  that  new
Office  were 
reporting,
coordination  and  servicing  of  the  intergovernmental
bodies at United Nations Headquarters.
identified  as  advocacy, 
in 
report  by 
It  is  therefore  timely  and  appropriate  that  the
General Assembly is meeting today to consider the first
consolidated 
the  Secretary-General  on
progress in implementation of the NEPAD programme.
Botswana is a member of the NEPAD Heads of State and
Government  Implementation  Committee,  and  we  have
remained  committed  to  supporting  and  ensuring  full
implementation of NEPAD priorities and programmes.
In  its  resolution  57/7,  the  General  Assembly
welcomed  the  commitment  of  African  countries  to
integrate  the  priorities  of  NEPAD  into  their  national
policies  and  development  planning  frameworks,  to
maintain full ownership and leadership in developing and
utilizing  such  policies  and  frameworks,  and  to  mobilize
domestic resources in support of NEPAD. The resolution
also  welcomed  the  commitment  of  African  countries
to  peace,  security,  democracy,  good
themselves 
governance,  human 
rights  and  sound  economic
management.
that  African  countries  and 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  highlights  the
actions  taken  in  the  support  and  implementation  of
NEPAD  programmes,  as  well  as  the  challenges  and
constraints  ahead.  The  report  also  indicates  that  a
number  of  positive  steps  are  being  taken  by  African
countries  towards  attaining  these  goals.  The  report
notes,  however, 
their
regional  organizations  should  now  incorporate  into
their  development  plans  the  NEPAD  priorities  and
programmes,  including  the  identification  and  creation
of  national  focal  points,  the  reorientation  of  the
activities of regional organs to reflect those of NEPAD,
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  health  programmes  at
national and regional levels and, finally, the completion
of a comprehensive  plan  for  African  development  and
programmes 
the  environment  and
infrastructure development.
in  education, 
It  must  be  pointed  out,  however,  that  the  report
contains few concrete examples of programmes that are
now under implementation in our respective countries.
Africa cannot survive on ideals and platitudes alone. It
is clear that African Governments themselves still have
a  lot  to  do  before  they  can  implement  NEPAD  at  the
national and regional levels. Of course, we are still in the
early stages of this, as the programme itself is still new.
Africa’s development partners, on the other hand,
have  responded  positively  to  NEPAD.  The  report
indicates,  for  example,  that  over  the  past  two  years
official  development  assistance  to  Africa  rose  from
$17.729 billion to $18.615 billion. We believe that this
is  mainly  because  the  NEPAD  initiative,  which  has
by  Africans
been 
themselves,  has  generated 
interest 
and
excitement among our partners.
developed 
strong 
formulated 
and 
A/58/PV.33
related  issues  of  market  access;  and  infrastructure
development.
However, with Africa’s performance appearing so
bleak on some fronts — in regard particularly to growth,
trade,  foreign  direct  investment  and  poverty  —  some
pessimists have wondered whether it is realistic to expect
our  continent  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  and  other  ambitious  targets.  They  note,  for
example, that, despite  many international and regional
initiatives — including NEPAD — by 2015, poverty in
Africa  will  have 
that  HIV/AIDS
prevalence rates will also have risen. Furthermore, they
cite  studies  on  African  economies  that  also  indicate
that  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  will  reduce  the  gross
domestic product growth rate by between 0.4  per  cent
and  1.5  per  cent  during  the  same  period.  To  make
matters worse, debt relief in Africa is still inadequate.
This  is  further  compounded  by  the  high  domestic
burden, high interest rates and little or no new private
sector investment.
increased  and 
We,  however,  still  believe  that  Africa  is  a
continent filled with dynamism and potential. What we
need  now  is  to  concentrate  on  the  twin  challenges  of
development  and  poverty  eradication,  which  is  what
NEPAD  is  trying  to  do.  These  can  only  be  achieved
through a concerted global effort. There needs to be a
greater  push 
the  overarching
framework  for  public  policy,  and  to  ensure  that
NEPAD’s  priorities  are  better  understood  by  civil
society in Africa. Ownership of NEPAD must relate to
the needs of the ordinary people of Africa and not just
to Governments.
to  make  NEPAD 
We note that the review of implementation of the
recommendations  contained  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report regarding the causes of conflict and the promotion
of  durable  peace  in  Africa  indicates  that  there  has  been
progress,  although  it  has  been  slow  and  uneven.  We
should bear in mind that there is a clearly established link
between poverty on the one hand and political instability
on  the  other.  Poverty  breeds  resentment,  anger  and
despair, and Africa is plagued by all three of these.
The goals and priorities of  NEPAD  do  not  differ
from the Millennium Development Goals, especially in
that  NEPAD  has  identified  the  following  areas  as
critical: the pursuit of peace and security and the related
issues  of  poverty  reduction  and  good  governance;
agriculture  and 
food  security;  diversification  and
competitiveness  of  Africa’s  output  and  exports,  and
Like any other people condemned to the margins
of society, the majority of Africans feel that they have
nothing  to  gain  by  participating  in  the  democratic
process.  Instead,  some  believe  that  they  have  nothing
to lose if they resort to violence,  for,  as they perceive
it, their Governments and the international community
are indifferent to their suffering.
15
A/58/PV.33
Our failure to resolve conflicts in Africa poses  a
major  threat  to  NEPAD.  It  is  incumbent,  therefore,
upon  all  of  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  in  conflict
resolution and post-conflict management.
for 
leaders 
In  conclusion, 
their  continued 
let  me  express  our  deep
appreciation for the efforts made by the Group of Eight
(G-8) 
constructive
engagement with African leaders in the NEPAD agenda
and  their  adoption  of  the  G-8  Africa  Action  Plan.  I
would also like to implore the rest of the international
community  to  continue  to  follow  their  example  in
making  concrete  commitments  of  support  for  the
revitalization of the African continent.
in 
like 
I  would 
(Uganda): 
the  New  Partnership 
We  put  our  trust  in  the  United  Nations  as  the
focal  point  for  the  promotion  and  coordination  of
international  efforts 
the  support  of  Africa’s
development strategy.
Mr.  Butagira 
to
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  his  excellent
report  on 
for  Africa’s
Development (NEPAD) (A/58/254). I associate  myself
with the statement of the Kingdom of Morocco on behalf
of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  with  that  of
Mozambique on behalf of the African Union on NEPAD.
The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,
as  a  home-grown  and  -owned  blueprint  for  Africa’s
development,  has  put  Africa’s  economic  and  social
development  programmes  at 
the
international development agenda. Besides these issues
of  economic  development,  African  countries  are  also
emphasizing  good  governance,  including  corporate
governance, the rule of law and democracy and putting
in  place  a  self-policing  mechanism  known  as  the
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  Rather  than  being
prodded  by  developed  countries  towards  those  good
values, African countries have taken the bull by the horns
and  have  declared  to  the  whole  world  that  they  too  are
capable  of  appreciating  good  values,  just  as  everybody
else  does,  and  that  they  are  prepared  to  bring  errant
members to book through persuasion and dialogue. What
they  need  from  the  developed  world  are  resources  to
implement  these  programmes  designed  by  themselves;
hence their partnership with the developed world.
the  heart  of 
I  will  comment  on  a  few  areas  on  which  I  think
we should focus to make this initiative more effective.
Mr.  Ekua  Avomo  (Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
16
First,  with  regard  to  the  African  Peer  Review
Mechanism, it is not encouraging to learn that only 16
countries  have  acceded  to  the  protocol.  More  work  is
needed  —  through  concerted  effort  by  the  African
Union  secretariat, 
the  Economic  Commission  for
Africa (ECA) and the Office of the Special Adviser on
Africa  here  at  the  United  Nations  Headquarters  —  by
way of impressing it upon those countries that have not
acceded to the Mechanism to do so.
Peace and security on the continent are necessary
to  provide  a  conducive  atmosphere  for  economic
development,  including  foreign  investment.  In  that
regard,  the  establishment  of  the  Peace  and  Security
Council  by  the  African  Union  is  a  welcome  measure.
So  far,  12  countries  have  ratified  the  Protocol,  out  of
the 15 needed to make the Council operational. That is
encouraging,  and 
the  necessary
is  hoped 
ratifications will be obtained soon.
that 
it 
to 
In 
thanks 
the  Great  Lakes  region, 
the
assistance  and  cooperation  of  the  United  Nations  and
the  international  community,  we  have  seen  regional
efforts  bear  some  fruit  with  regard  to  resolving  the
conflict in Burundi. Uganda commends the initiative of
the  Secretary-General,  who  convened  a  high-level
meeting 
the  Principles  on  Good-
Neighbourly  Relations  and  Cooperation  between  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Burundi,  Rwanda
and Uganda.
that  adopted 
The  Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development
has been instrumental in finding durable peace in Sudan
and Somalia.
including 
Many  players  — 
intergovernmental
organizations,  the  private  sector,  the  United  Nations
system and Governments — have come forward to assist
African  countries  in  implementing  NEPAD.  Besides
increased  financial  resources,  more  coordination  and
consultation  is  needed  to  mainstream  NEPAD  into
various programmes of those organizations and bodies.
To that end, the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa
must  be  strengthened  by  increasing  the  financial  and
human  resources  at  its  disposal.  For  example,  the
Office  should  be  able  to  organize  seminars  and
workshops 
to
popularize NEPAD.
in  various  parts  of 
the  continent 
Skilled personnel and resources are needed at the
secretariats of the ECA and NEPAD, as well as at  the
subregional  and  country  levels,  to  help  put  in  place
development  plans  for  various  areas  covered  by
NEPAD. In that regard, I commend the United Nations
Development  Programme,  which  has  made  funds
available  to  NEPAD  to  develop  its  five-year  strategic
plan. I also commend the United Nations Environment
Programme,  which  has  helped 
to  develop  an
environmental plan for NEPAD.
Institutional  mechanisms  need  to  be  put  in  place
to  ensure  the  success  of  NEPAD.  In  my  own  country,
Uganda,  efforts  are  under  way  to  establish  a  NEPAD
focal point. A Cabinet decision ruled that  the  national
NEPAD secretariat would be hosted in the Ministry of
Finance,  Planning  and  Economic  Development.  A
steering  committee,  made  up  of  that  Ministry,  the
Ministry 
sector
foundation,  civil  society,  the  Prime  Minister’s  office,
the President’s office and representatives of academia,
was also established to oversee NEPAD’s activities.
for  Foreign  Affairs,  a  private 
the 
institutional  mechanism 
The  national  task  force  on  NEPAD  has  been
studying  coordination  models 
in  other  African
countries  from  which  best-practice  recommendations
for 
for  NEPAD’s
implementation  in  Uganda  can  be  made.  To  retain
African  ownership  and  leadership  of  NEPAD,  the
Government  is  expected  to  fund  the  activities  of  the
NEPAD national focal point from the  national  budget.
However,  due 
to  budgetary  constraints,  we  need
assistance  to  secure  funds  to  get  the  national  NEPAD
coordinating structures started, as well as to design and
implement an initial outreach programme.
Apart  from  developing  a  strategy  to  coordinate
and  oversee  the  implementation  of  Cabinet-approved
policies,  programmes  and  projects  at  the  national  level,
the focal point is mandated to develop a communication
strategy  to  effectively  mobilize  the  private  sector,  local
governments, 
leaders  and  civil  society,
including women’s organizations, in support of NEPAD.
traditional 
Africa  needs  to  invest  more  in  human  resources
development if it is to realize its NEPAD goals. In that
regard,  education  is  a  key.  Sadly,  not  much  has  been
achieved  in  this  area,  although  some  countries  have
made impressive progress. In Uganda, for example, we
achieved  the  goal  of  universal  primary  education.  In
1996 enrolment in primary schools stood at 2.5 million
pupils.  Today  it  is  7.8  million.  The  number  of
universities has risen from one in 1986 to 16 today; and
only  5  are  Government-funded,  pointing  to  the  role
played by the private sector. It goes without saying that
A/58/PV.33
an educated populace is good for governance, and good
for industrialization by providing skilled manpower.
Health  and  the  provision  of  safe  drinking  water
and  sanitation  are  vital.  Preventive  measures  like
immunization  and  hygiene  need  to  be  stepped  up.  In
Africa  water-borne  diseases  are  a  menace.  Improved
sanitation  and  the  provision  of  safe  drinking  water
should  therefore  be  a  priority.  In  Uganda  now,  55  per
cent  and  65  per  cent  of  rural  and  urban  populations,
respectively, have clean water.
Finally, at the Monterrey Conference on Financing
for  Development,  the  Johannesburg  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development, the Kananaskis G-8 Summit,
the  third  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African
Development  and  various  other  conferences  and
summits,  developed  countries  pledged  themselves  to
assist  Africa  financially  in  its  development  goals  at
both  the  bilateral  and  multilateral  levels.  As  Africans
fulfil  part  of  their  bargain,  we  look  forward  to
developed  countries  fulfilling  their  part,  especially  by
increasing the flow of official development assistance,
the  target  of  which  —  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  domestic
product — is still an unrealized dream.
Mr. Mahiga (United Republic of Tanzania): It is
with great pleasure that I take the floor on behalf of my
delegation  to  speak  on  the  agenda  item  entitled  “New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress  in
implementation  and  international  support”.  That  item
became  part  of  the  annual  agenda  of  the  General
Assembly  in  accordance  with  resolution  57/7,  of  4
November  2002.  Concurrently,  we  are  also  debating
today the sub-item entitled “Causes of conflict and the
promotion 
sustainable
development  in  Africa”,  as  per  resolution  57/296,  of
December 2002.
durable 
of 
peace 
and 
reports  of 
for  Africa’s  Development 
Allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  acknowledge  the
comprehensive 
the  Secretary-General,
namely,  the  first  consolidated  report  on  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD)
(A/58/254)  and 
the  updated  report  on  conflicts
(A/58/352). The quality of both reports is outstanding.
We  owe  special  thanks  to  the  Office  of  the  Special
Advisor  on  Africa  and  to  the  Secretary  General  for
preparing those reports.
Let me also take this opportunity to commend the
United  Nations  system  as  a  whole  for  its  positive
response  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD-related
activities in individual African countries, as well as in
17
A/58/PV.33
regional groups and throughout the world.  The  cluster
approach  is  an  imaginative  intervention  in  achieving
coherence  and  coordination  among  United  Nations
entities. In this regard, we further commend the global
advocacy  and  coordination  efforts 
in  support  of
NEPAD  undertaken  by  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa
through  the  United  Nations  System  Chief  Executives
Board  for  Coordination,  which  periodically  reviews  and
assesses the progress and work of United Nations entities
in Africa to advance NEPAD’s objectives and goals. We
trust that these approaches and roles will be strengthened
and 
emerging
challenges as NEPAD implementation continues.
adequately 
responsive 
remain 
to 
NEPAD  is  a  homegrown  African  initiative  and  a
collective commitment to put Africa on a new path of
development.  NEPAD  has  recognized  the  systematic
fetters  and  constraints  which  have  left  Africa  on  the
margins  of  the  global  economy  and  social  progress.
The African continent is the least developed continent
in  the  world.  Not  only  that,  it  is  the  only  continent
where  poverty  is  on  the  increase  with  more  than  340
million  people,  or  half  the  population,  living  on  less
than $1 a day. In Africa there are 34 of the world’s 54
least developed countries.
NEPAD  intends  to  reverse  this  situation.  It  is  a
framework for a new partnership with the international
community  designed  to  address  the  current  challenges
facing the African continent: issues such as  escalating
the  HIV/AIDS
poverty 
pandemic  and  other  communicable  diseases. 
In
essence,  NEPAD  is  a  commitment  to  the  Millennium
Development  Goals,  notably  the  goal  of  reducing  by
half the proportion of people living in extreme poverty
by the year 2015.
levels,  underdevelopment, 
To achieve these Goals, NEPAD calls for attaining
and sustaining an average growth of real gross domestic
product of 7 per cent per year up to the year 2015. In
order to attain that goal, NEPAD calls for a partnership
of  Governments,  the  private  sector,  civil  society  and
development partners in the international community.
In  order  to  translate  its  vision  into  tangible
results,  NEPAD  has  developed  an  initial  plan  which
centres on the following priorities: first, to establish the
conditions  for  sustainable  development  by  addressing
issues  of  peace  and  security,  democracy,  good
governance,  respect  of  human  rights,  as  well  as
regional  cooperation  and  capacity  building;  secondly,
to  address  sectoral  priorities 
in  areas  such  as
18
agriculture,  infrastructure,  human  development  and
energy and thirdly, to mobilize resources by increasing
domestic 
improving
management  of  public  revenue  and  expenditure  and
improving  Africa’s  share  in  global  trade  and  foreign
direct investment.
investments, 
savings 
and 
and 
socio-economic 
NEPAD has been approved as the vision, strategic
framework 
development
programme of the African Union. It is the blueprint of
the  African  Union  to  implement  its  objectives  and  a
mechanism  for  accelerating  implementation  of  the
Abuja Treaty, as outlined in the Constitutive Act of the
African Union. NEPAD will be fully integrated into the
African Union over a three-year period.
The  African  Union  is  working  to  put  in  place
programmes  and  institutions  which  will  assist  in  the
implementation of NEPAD. It is also acknowledged by
the  African  Union  that  genuine  development  and
poverty reduction is only possible in an environment of
true democracy, respect for human rights and peace and
good  governance  at  the  national,  regional  and  global
levels.  Long-term  conditions  for  ensuring  peace  and
security require policy measures to address the political
and  social  vulnerabilities  on  which  conflict  and
corruptive practices thrive in Africa.
My country is among the founding member States
of the African Union, which has embraced NEPAD as
one  of  its  economic  pillars.  We  totally  support  the
principles and objectives of NEPAD, which are also in
line with my Government’s Economic Vision 2025, as
well  as  the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  policy.  I  am
delighted to say that NEPAD has been well received at
the national level, including by relevant institutions in
the  public  and  private  sectors.  Efforts  are  also
continuing to educate the general public to understand,
cooperate  and  participate  in  the  implementation  of
NEPAD initiatives.
The private sector is recognized as pivotal in the
implementation  of  NEPAD.  Tanzania  has  successfully
completed  a  number  of  reforms  that  are  conducive  to
fostering  private  sector  development.  Such  reforms
have included opening up financial sector participation,
proactive encouragement of foreign investment through
appropriate  incentive  packages  and  rationalization  of
the  tax  policy.  Other  reforms  include  establishment  of
commercial  courts  to  deal  with  commercial  disputes,
improvement  of  business 
licensing  procedures,
liberalization  of  the  domestic  trade  regime,  which  has
enhanced  competition  and  productivity,  as  well  as
liberalization of the foreign exchange market.
Tanzania  has  also  prepared  write-ups  of  various
projects  in  all  sectors  covered  under  NEPAD  and
already  has  submitted  them  to  the  East  African
Community  and  the  Southern  African  Development
Community  (SADC)  for  funding.  The  Eastern  African
subregion is scheduled to meet at the summit level on 29
October 2003 in Nairobi, to rationalize these projects and
see  how  best  to  cooperate  and  operationalize  these
projects.  The  major  focus  is  expected  to  be  on
infrastructure development in the region.
At  the  August  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and
Government  of  the  SADC  countries  in  Dar  es  Salaam
this  year,  the  Summit’s  final  communiqué  urged
member  States  to  integrate  NEPAD  agreed  priorities
into  their  national  development  plans  and  to  increase
resource  allocation  to  these  priority  areas.  It  is  in  this
regard that we call upon our partners to come forward
and  assist  in  these  initiatives.  The  Summit  also
mandated  the  Ministers  of  Trade,  as  a  matter  of
urgency,  to  prepare  negotiating  guidelines  and  to
initiate  negotiations  with  the  European  Union  on
economic partnership agreements.
It should further be pointed out that NEPAD has
also  come  up  with  what  is  described  as  a  most
innovative  programme  —  the  African  Peer  Review
Mechanism.  This  is  a  systematic  assessment  of  the
performance  of  a  country  by  member  States  whose
ultimate  objective  is  to  help  a  country  undergoing
review  improve  its  policy,  adopt  appropriate  practices
and  comply  with  established  standards,  principles,
codes  and  best  practices  consistent  with  political
economic and corporate good governance. Peer review
also  helps  in  confidence-building  among  States  and
permits  predictability  with  regard  to  policies  and
strategies in a given country or region. Tanzania totally
subscribes to this mechanism.
a 
as 
framework 
acceptance 
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  NEPAD  has  received
international 
for
engagement  with  Africa  on  development.  Significant
interactions  have  been  undertaken  with  the  G-8,  the
European  Union,  various  agencies  of 
the  United
Nations,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  and  non-G-8
development partners, such as the Nordic States, India
and  China,  as  well  as  the  Commonwealth,  and  the
Tokyo 
on  African
Development (TICAD) process.
International  Conference 
A/58/PV.33
In  these  areas  of  cooperation  with  our  partners,
Tanzania,  as  one  of  the  participants  in  the  search  for
solutions to conflicts and for peace and security in the
Great Lakes region of Africa, welcomes the assistance
given  by  the  G-8  countries,  the  European  Union  and,
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  bilateral  assistance,  to
enable  deployment  of  peace  observers,  monitors  and
peacekeeping  troops  in  the  region.  For  all  of  us
involved, it should be pointed out that early and timely
deployment  is  a  tremendous  issue  of  essence  in
realizing peace in conflict situations.
In  conclusion,  we  urge  greater  coordination  and
harmonization  of  interventions  with  our  partners.  We
are  deeply  aware  of  the  need  to  streamline  the
coordination  channels  between  NEPAD’s  Steering
Committee  and  Implementation  Committee  with  the
national focal points to expedite the communication of
decisions and follow-ups in both directions. We are all
set  on 
is
encouraging. We have but to sustain the momentum of
NEPAD’s implementation with the requisite resources.
We cannot afford to regress.
the  right  course; 
review 
initial 
this 
Mr.  Amer  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  In  1998  the  Secretary-General  submitted  a
report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa.
A little over a year ago, the first summit meeting of the
African  Union  adopted  a  document  on  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  in
which 
the  heads  of  State  of  Africa  committed
themselves to carry out a common vision, convinced as
they were that an end had to be put to hunger, poverty,
underdevelopment  and  marginalization,  and  to  enable
their  countries  to  follow  the  path  of  sustainable
development  by  allowing  them  to  participate  in  an
effective manner in the global economy.
We  are  now  reviewing  the  progress  achieved
regarding  the  implementation  of  the  New  Partnership
as regards conflicts in Africa.  I  should  like  to  express
my  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  two
reports  he  has  prepared  on  these  issues.  They  make
clear  what  has  been  achieved  during  the  past  year  as
well as the obstacles that remain to be overcome.
The reports are contained in documents A/58/254
and  A/58/352.  They  make  clear  the  progress  that  has
been  achieved  in  putting  an  end  to  conflicts  and
achieving  the  priority  goals  of  NEPAD.  We  welcome
the  fact  that  African  countries  have  taken  numerous
19
A/58/PV.33
innovative measures, despite the fact that many of them
have been ravaged by civil wars for so long. They have
indeed  begun  to  follow  the  path  of  negotiation  and
dialogue, which are essential for the full restoration of
peace.  They  have  been  working  to  strengthen,  adapt
and  manage  the  African  Union  mechanism.  Let  me
mention here the acceleration of the implementation of
the  Protocol  establishing 
the
Council on Peace and Security as well as the efforts to
establish  the  Pan-African  Parliament,  with  a  view  to
allowing all African peoples to contribute effectively to
the development process.
the  mechanism  for 
Africa  has  emphasized  certain  priorities:  food
security,  medical  services  and  the  development  of
educational institutions in order to achieve the goal of
education  for  all.  Investment  in  those  areas  has  been
encouraged,  and  joint  projects  have  been  initiated
among  the  various  countries.  My  country  participated
in the area of metallurgy, agriculture, wood harvesting
and development projects, inter alia.
The  General  Assembly  and  other  international
forums have asked the international community and the
United Nations to support the African initiative for the
restoration  of  peace  and  security,  and 
to  help
implement  NEPAD.  Cooperation  between  the  African
Union and the European Union is multifaceted, and we
would  like  to  mention  in  that  regard  the  debt  that  has
been  forgiven  by  some  countries  in  the  context  of
official  financial  assistance.  We  have  seen  an  increase
in economic and technical cooperation among African,
Asian and Latin American countries. This represents a
real opportunity for cooperation among developing and
African  countries,  which  have  long  tried  to  establish
this kind of triangular cooperation.
Furthermore,  the  United  Nations  has  supported
African  efforts  to  restore  peace  and  security  on  the
African continent. Accordingly, peacekeeping missions
were  sent,  along  with  special  representatives, 
to
encourage  dialogue  and 
to  bring  about  national
reconciliation  in  those  countries  in  conflict.  Certain
United  Nations  agencies  have  adopted  programmes  to
respond  to  Africa’s  priorities:  peace  and  security  in
Africa,  food  security,  the  provision  of  potable  water,
improvement  of  health  services, 
information  and
communications  technologies  and  the  reintegration  of
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  and  the  use
of national resources.
20
All those measures aim in the right direction, but
a  great  deal  remains  to  be  done  in  the  entire  African
continent.  All 
their
conviction  that  we  must  close  the  development  gap,
which  has  widened  throughout  centuries  of  unjust
relations.  All  necessary  resources  should  be  used  to
finance NEPAD’s programmes.
leaders  have  expressed 
its 
Though it is clear that Africa has benefited from
the  increase  in  official  development  assistance  during
the  previous  period,  it  is  not  sufficient.  Therefore  the
development partners must support Africa in order that
peace  and  security  may  be  restored  on  the  continent
and  ignorance,  hunger  and  disease  overcome.  As  the
Secretary-General  has  said,  the  increase  in  official
development assistance remains very modest compared
to  the  assistance  given 
in  developed
countries.  Therefore  this  policy  must  be  reviewed
because  of  its  adverse  consequences  on  the  African
economy.  In  addition,  the  drop  in  agricultural  output
has jeopardized the lives of millions of people.
to  farmers 
It is clear that the measures that have been taken
by  developed  countries  have  reduced  the  debt  burden
of  African  States.  However,  a  great  deal  of  money  is
required to pay off the interest that is still owed, which
has  a  negative  impact  on  the  educational,  health  and
other  sectors.  We  must  resolve  this  longstanding
problem.  If  we  do  not  do  so,  unemployment  will  rise,
leading  to  tension,  desperation,  marginalization  and
many other problems.
The  Secretary-General  in  his  two  reports  has
made several recommendations as to how to overcome
those problems standing in the way of the achievement
of  NEPAD’s  goals.  This  is  very  important,  especially
with  respect  to  peace,  security  and  development  in
Africa.  Those  objectives  must  be  attained.  However,
we  deem  it  necessary  for  the  international  community
to  focus  on  certain  issues  in  order  to  stabilize  Africa
and  to  ensure  that  that  partnership  is  genuine.  Those
issues are the following.
First, it is necessary to respect African societies,
their  histories  and 
their  cultures,  and  political
conditions  must  not  be  imposed  on  them.  Their
characteristics must at all times be taken into account.
Secondly,  donor  partners  need  to  realize  that  the
more  assistance  they  provide,  the  more  they  will  help
African  efforts  to  put  an  end  to  conflicts  and  to  help
their societies socially and materially. As an example, I
can  cite  restricting  or  curbing  migration  through  the
adoption of administrative and legislative measures.  It
is  clear  that  development  programmes  can  assist
countries  that  are  experiencing  emigration  to  stop  it
altogether.
committed themselves to helping Africans in their fight
to  establish  lasting  peace  and  development  and  to
eliminate  poverty  in  order  to  integrate  the  African
continent into the world economy.
A/58/PV.33
Thirdly,  we  need  to  improve  the  infrastructure,
including communications and roads. In that way, we can
gain  the  maximum  benefit  from  the  resources  provided
and can finally solve the problem of food security.
Fourthly,  we  must  resolve  problems  related  to
technology transfer in the development, economic  and
social sectors.
Fifthly, we must take into account the suffering of
African  peoples  in  past  centuries  and  the  pillaging  of
their natural resources.
reaffirmed 
and 
to  NEPAD’s  objectives; 
The Secretary-General has said that Africa is at a
turning  point.  That  is  true.  The  conflict  settlement
process  has  truly  begin  in  a  number  of  countries;
African  heads  of  State  have 
their
commitment 
the
contributions  of  NEPAD’s  partners  are  encouraging.
We  must  promote  peace  and  development  throughout
the  African  continent.  Any  hesitation  in  that  regard
would constitute a  political  and  moral  failure.  African
countries  and  the  rest  of  the  international  community,
including  the  United  Nations  system  and  all  other
concerned parties, must together meet the challenge of
developing Africa in its entirety.
Mr. Hachani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am
pleased  to  take  the  floor  under  agenda  item  39  (a),
“New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress
in  implementation  and  international  support”.  In  that
regard, I should like to thank the Secretary-General for
his  report  (A/58/254).  In  addition,  we  should  like  to
take note of the statement made this morning on behalf
of  the  African  Union  by  the  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  Mozambique  and  the
statement  made  this  afternoon  by  the  Permanent
Representative  of  Morocco  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of
77 and China.
Tunisia  attaches  great  importance  to  our  debate
today,  which  attests  to  the  commitment  of  United
Nations  Member  States 
supporting  African
development efforts. It offers us the opportunity to help
address the challenge represented by implementation of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD).  We  should  recall  that,  in  the  Millennium
Declaration,  our  heads  of  State  or  Government
to 
In  launching  NEPAD,  African  leaders  strove  to
reaffirm  their  collective  will  to  promote  the  African
continent  within  the  framework  of  an  integrated  action
plan based on a comprehensive concept of  the  attributes
of  sustainable  development  and  relying  primarily  on
Africa’s own capacities. It is reassuring to note that this
initiative  has  benefited  from 
the
international community, particularly the Group of Eight
(G-8), the countries of the European Union, international
financial  institutions,  the  Secretary-General  and  the
Economic and Social Council. We welcome the process
in  support  of  NEPAD,  furthered  at  the  Third  Tokyo
International Conference on African Development.
the  support  of 
Since  its  launching,  NEPAD  has  seen  notable
progress  in  its  implementation.  The  Partnership  attaches
crucial  importance  to  areas  important  for  the  continent
such  as  regional  integration,  agriculture,  food  security,
health,  education,  infrastructure,  industrialization,  the
environment  and  tourism.  Several  African  countries
have undertaken measures with a view to establishing a
national  coordination  body  for  NEPAD.  As  far  as
Tunisia  is  concerned,  our  country’s  economic  and
social policy is in harmony with the Partnership.
to 
to  mobilize 
The  United  Nations  system  has  a  crucial  role  to
play  in  terms  of  cooperation  and  coordination  among
its  various  components 
the  support
necessary 
implement  NEPAD  effectively.  We
welcome the fact that several institutions and agencies
of  the  United  Nations  system  have  aligned  their
activities  with  NEPAD’s  priorities.  We  also  stress  the
importance  of  involvement  by  the  private  sector,  civil
society  and  non-governmental  organizations  and  of
public  support  for  its  implementation.  We  express  our
appreciation  to  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on
Africa,  under  the  able  guidance  of  Mr.  Ibrahim
Gambari, for its efforts in coordinating global activities
to  promote  support  for  NEPAD.  The  Office  certainly
needs  continued  and  even  enhanced  support  from  the
United  Nations  Secretariat  to  continue  its  positive
activities on behalf of our continent.
Africa’s  efforts  cannot  be  successful  without
substantial  support  from  the  international  community.
Such  solidarity  should  take  the  form  of  sufficient  and
reliable  resources  on  the  one  hand,  and  favourable
21
A/58/PV.33
to  build 
external  environment  on  the  other.  The  scope  of  the
problems  and  the  complexity  of  the  obstacles  that  the
African  continent  must  overcome 
the
foundations  of  its  infrastructure  and  socio-economic
development demand that we be far more resolute and
devote  far  more  resources  at  both  the  national  and
international  levels  to  ensuring  for  Africa,  along  with
the  world’s  other  regions,  economic  growth  and
sustained  and  lasting  development  that  will  enable
them to attain the Millennium Development Goals.
Over  the  past  decade,  many  African  countries
intensified 
the  process  of  democratization,  of
strengthening  civil  society  and  of  promoting  human
rights and respect for the rule of law. African countries
have  also  begun  economic  reforms  to  promote  the
establishment of solid macroeconomic foundations and
the  creation  of  an  environment  conducive 
to
sustainable development, foreign direct investment and
poverty reduction, particularly through effective public
management. However, we must acknowledge that the
current  efforts  of  developed  countries  and  the  United
Nations system still do not rise to the magnitude of the
problems  Africa  must  face.  That  insufficiency  can  be
seen in official development assistance, investment and
the  problem  of 
Indeed,  official
development  assistance,  despite  the  efforts  of  African
countries to better utilize it, is constantly declining.
indebtedness. 
the  area  of 
Africa’s  marginalization  in  the  area  of  foreign
direct  investment  is  comparable  to  its  marginalization
in 
trade.  Despite  African  countries’
considerable efforts to implement reforms in their trade
policies,  Africa’s  share  of  the  world  market  has
remained weak, representing less than 2 per cent. That
situation 
the
international  community  must  help  African  countries
put 
and
organizational  capacities  necessary  to  support  efforts
aimed  at  promoting  trade,  improving  market  access,
further  reducing  customs  tariffs  and  lifting  non-tariff
barriers to African products.
the  material, 
institutional 
particularly 
disturbing, 
and 
is 
in  place 
Indebtedness 
remains  one  of 
the  principal
obstacles  to  economic  recovery  and  sustained  growth
in  Africa.  The  international  community  must  continue
to cooperate to lighten that burden. In this respect, we
call  upon  creditor  countries,  private  banks  and
multilateral  financial 
to  help  African
countries to emerge more quickly and sustainably from
their  state  of  indebtedness,  through  the  accelerated
application  of  an  enhanced  and  broadened  Heavily
institutions 
22
Indebted Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative. We are,
moreover,  concerned  about  the  fact  that  some  countries
that  have  reached  the  completion  point  have  seen  their
indebtedness  indicators  worsen  due  to  a  drop  in  export
revenue, often as a result of volatile commodity prices.
Countries emerging from conflict also need special
treatment, and we must be flexible  in  providing  support
to them and generous in treating their debt arrears.
Information  and  communication 
technologies
(ICT)  are  increasingly  acting  as  a  catalyst  for  the
promotion  of  social  and  economic  development  in
African countries. African countries must develop ICT as
an integral part of their national and regional development
programmes. For their part, Africa’s international partners
must 
communication
technologies  as  a  matter  of  priority  for  African
development.  The  convening  of  the  World  Summit  on
the  Information  Society  in  Geneva  in  December  this
year  and  in  Tunis  in  November  2005  will  provide  an
opportunity for us to further examine the best ways and
means of using ICT for African development.
information 
consider 
and 
the 
With  respect 
implementation  of 
We  are  convinced  that  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  provides  us  with  an
appropriate  framework  for  the  development  of  our
continent.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  take  the
necessary  steps  to  provide  the  required  assistance  and
support to that initiative.
to 
the
recommendations contained  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa,
the  Tunisian  delegation  would  like  to  thank  the
Secretary-General for his report contained in document
A/58/352  before  us.  The  most  important  lesson  to  be
learned  from  that  report  is  that,  despite  the  progress
achieved  in  implementing  the  recommendations,  weak
human  and  institutional  capacity,  a  lack  of  financial
resources,  especially  from  foreign  sources,  as  well  as
the continuation of conflict — both within and between
States — slow and sometimes obscure that progress.
With  regard  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and
security, we call upon the international community and
the United Nations system to involve themselves more
fully  in  the  prevention,  management  and  resolution  of
conflict in Africa.  We  also call  for greater support for
African  initiatives  in  resolving  conflict,  including  for
the  operation  of  the  Peace  and  Security  Council
established by the African Union.
Tunisia,  which  participates 
in  a  number  of
peacekeeping  operations 
its
ongoing  determination  to  help  its  brother  countries  to
overcome crises, as well as its commitment in support
of operations decided upon by the Security Council to
maintain security and stability in Africa.
in  Africa, 
reaffirms 
Mr.  Neil  (Jamaica):  The  Jamaican  delegation
wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement  made  this
afternoon by the Permanent  Representative  of  Morocco,
speaking on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
the  report  of 
Our  delegation  welcomes 
implementation  of 
for  Africa’s  Development 
the
the  New
Secretary-General  on 
(NEPAD),
Partnership 
contained in document A/58/254. The report shows that
a  positive  start  has  been  made  and  that  NEPAD  is
beginning to register some progress in important areas.
At  the  same  time,  the  report  draws  attention  to  major
challenges and constraints. There are severe problems,
although  they  can  be  overcome.  They  arise  from
continued  difficulties  associated  with  unresolved
conflicts,  the  ravages  of  the  HIV  pandemic  and  the
economic  challenges  of  globalization.  Developing  and
sustaining  momentum  for  NEPAD  will  require  two
things:  a  collective  effort  in  Africa  towards  internal
stabilization;  and  a  commitment  to  the  delivery  of
resources  from  the  donor  community.  It  matters  to  all
of us that, through our combined effort, NEPAD should
succeed.  For  our  delegation  this  is  a  special  priority,
for  Africa  has  always  been  close  to  the  hearts  of  the
Jamaican people.
In  reviewing  the  progress  made  so  far,  there  is
reason  for  some  cautious  optimism.  We  note  an
increasing  level  of  official  development  assistance  in
recent years, reversing the steady decline of the 1990s.
But  the  level  still  remains  substantially  below  that  of
1990, despite the overall growth in the world economy.
We  therefore  place  great  reliance  on  fulfilment  of  the
pledges  made  at  the  Monterrey  and  Johannesburg
conferences,  as  well  as  those  made  by  the  Group  of
Eight  at  the  Evian  Summit.  The  expected  increase  in
quantum  of  official  development  assistance  should  be
combined  with 
aid
effectiveness  by  removing  procurement  requirements,
excessive 
the
conditionalities  which 
the  delivery  of
development cooperation.
improvements 
bureaucratic 
procedures 
restrict 
further 
in 
and 
A/58/PV.33
With regard to debt relief, we are encouraged that
there  is  some  movement  under  the  Heavily  Indebted
Poor Countries Debt (HIPC) Initiative, but we are still
worried  by  the  reported  complexities  of  the  process.
The 
complicated
requirements  may  still  be  hindering  the  delivery  of
benefits promised under the programme.
qualification 
standards 
and 
The  trade  and  investment  pattern  shows  a  mixed
picture.  Investment  flows  are  not  promising  and,
although  there  are  some  special  arrangements  to
stimulate  exports,  they  are  still  not  enough  to  bring
significant  change.  To  generate  investment  flows,
special  promotional  programmes  will  be  needed
beyond  the  mere  liberalization  of  investment  regimes.
In  this  regard,  we  applaud  the  initiative  of  two
European States for providing a fund for guarantees for
particular areas of investment.
With reference to trade, if the Doha agenda is to
help  Africa,  it  is  not  just  a  matter  of  removing
subsidies and opening new markets; there is a need for
some stabilization of commodity prices. And all of that
will have to be combined with the building of productive
capacity.  This  will  require  a  huge  investment  in  the
development 
and
technological innovation in all sectors.
infrastructure 
physical 
of 
In agriculture, there is a need for innovation, not
only for the expansion of agricultural exports, but also
to  break  the  recurring  cycle  of  crop  failures  so  as  to
improve  food  security.  As  regards  industrialization,
there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  But  this  must  be  an
important  part  of 
for
diversification  with  a  view  to  achieving  higher  levels
of  economic  growth, 
reducing  vulnerability  and
increasing employment opportunities.
economic 
strategy 
an 
In  all  of  this,  there  is  an  important  role  for  the
State to manage and stimulate the development of these
important sectors. It goes  beyond  ensuring  conditions of
peace  and  stability  and  developing  sound  governance
principles  and  practices.  The  building  of  institutional
capacity  and  a  social  and  legal  framework  is  an
important  foundation  for  the  development  process.
Education and public health are important priorities of
the moment in the building of the social infrastructure.
But  the  public  sector  also  needs  to  contribute  to
promoting  enterprise  development  and  production
facilities.  Africa  needs  help  in  all  of  these  areas,  help
which  should  be  provided  in  a  way  that  is  tailored  to
African needs and the African cultural environment.
23
A/58/PV.33
We  are  greatly  encouraged  by  the  determination
manifested  by  the  African  Union  to  make  its  own
arrangements for  monitoring  governance  issues  and  to
be engaged in the conflict resolution and the promotion
of  peace  and  stability.  Of  special  importance  is  the
evolution  of  regional  mechanisms,  under  the  aegis  of
the  African  Union,  with  respect  to  conflict  prevention
and 
the
establishment  of  a  pan-African  parliament  to  promote
development  and  integration  and  to  the  establishment  of
the Peace and Security Council of the African Union.
reduction.  We  also 
forward 
look 
to 
With regard to the role of the United Nations, we
can  see  that  there  is  movement  towards  collaboration
within  the  system.  The  coordination  of  the  various
agencies  is  now  being  oriented  towards  achieving
NEPAD’s  priorities  and  working  with  the  appropriate
African  regional  and  subregional  organizations.  We
welcome the establishment within the Secretariat of the
Office  of  the  Under-Secretary-General  and  Special
Adviser on Africa, which is playing a strategic role in
this  effort.  We  can  only  hope  that  this  coordination
does not become so overloaded with bureaucracy that it
stifles  creative  efforts  and  the  implementation  of
development  projects.  What  we  want  to  see  are
concrete 
organizational
improvements in the system.
flowing 
results 
from 
I  mentioned  earlier  the  importance  of  building
productive  capacity.  In  this  age  of  globalization,
competitiveness  and  efficiency  are  of  paramount
importance. There is obviously a need to work closely
with civil society to strengthen the private sector and to
ensure  that  African  entrepreneurship  and  indigenous
capability  are  encouraged  and  developed  to  take
advantage  of  economic  opportunities  in  the  global
system.  These  are  things  that  cannot  be  left  to  chance
and  that  requires  special  attention  on  the  part  of  the
directing  agencies  of  each  country,  working 
in
cooperation with bilateral and multilateral agencies.
The international community should be careful to
avoid the imposition on Africa of economic models and
development  policies  that  bear  no  relations  to  a
country’s  social,  political  and  economic  realities.  If
doctrinaire prescriptions are applied or are required by
international  cooperation,  it  will  not  help  Africa.  We
therefore  continue  to  stress  African  ownership  of
NEPAD  and  African  priorities  as  defined  by  Africans
themselves. The role of the international community is
a  supportive  one.  That  spirit  of  partnership  and
24
solidarity should be driven by a sense of responsibility
to lend support and not to dictate what is to be done.
the  provision  of  substantial 
The  people  of  the  Caribbean  Community  have  a
special  linkage  and  kinship  with  Africa,  and  we  fully
support 
international
support  for  Africa.  As  indicated  by  the  representative
of  Guyana  this  morning,  we  are  making  our  own
modest contribution, particularly in the area of capacity-
building,  and  we  intend  to  explore  all  avenues  to  give
concrete support to African development initiatives.
It  is  not  necessary  at  this  time  to  stir  up  the
passions  of  historical  grievance,  but  we  should
remember  that  Africa  has  suffered  from  plunder  and
exploitation. NEPAD provides the framework and also the
opportunity  for  redressing  the  balance  and  for  reversing
the  neglect  of  previous  decades.  We  look  forward  to
making this the beginning of a brighter future.
for  Africa’s  Development 
Mr. Dangue Réwaka (Gabon) (spoke in French):
A  little  more  than  a  year  ago,  in  this  very  Hall,  the
General  Assembly  held  a  debate  devoted  to  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD).
During  that  important  meeting,  heads  of  State  or
Government  of  the  African  countries  came  to  ask  for
the international community’s support in implementing
the  Partnership,  on  which 
the  future  of  Africa
henceforth would lie.
We  are  here  today  to  take  stock  of  the  progress
we  have  attained  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.
Agenda  item  39  (a),  which  we  are  now  considering,
was conceived with this in mind. We welcome the first
report  of  the  Secretary-General  reviewing  the  actions
that have been undertaken at the national, regional and
global level to contribute to the implementation of this
major  partnership.  The  report  (A/58/254)  constitutes
beyond doubt a reference tool on the basis of which we
must  shape  our  future  cooperation,  cooperation  which
must be marked by solidarity and complementarity.
In Africa, NEPAD will henceforth be an integral
part  of  national  development  strategies,  thanks  in
particular to the establishment in most of our countries
of focal points. Unfortunately, however, their disparate
and diverse character dilutes the collective momentum
to  which  the  Partnership  gave  rise  in  the  continent.
Could  not  the  United  Nations  help  us  to  elaborate  a
standard  focal  point  to  be  used  as  a  reference  and
which  would  help  us  truly  integrate  NEPAD  into  our
national  development  policies?  That  would  enable  all
our countries to speak the same language and to use the
A/58/PV.33
indicators 
same 
NEPAD.
in 
the  process  of 
implementing
To the problem of the diversity of focal points we
add  another  one:  the  multi-sectoral  dimension  of
NEPAD.  Instead  of  dispersing  our  efforts  over  all
sectors,  it  would  be  wise  for  us  to  target  two  or  three
that  have  a  comprehensive  impact.  With  that  in  mind,
hunger, malnutrition and the pandemics of HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis  and  malaria,  which  today  are  the  main
obstacles to the development of Africa, must constitute
the leitmotif of our concerns.
Resolution  57/297  rightly  emphasized  the  need
for including the industrialization of Africa in this first
report  on  the  implementation  of  NEPAD.  It  is  more
important than ever that the industrialization of Africa
be  directed  towards  the  resolution  of  certain  major
issues,  such  as  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and  the
strengthening  of  the  health  and  food  systems  of  our
countries.
We  would  like,  finally,  to  welcome  all  the
initiatives  taken  at  both  the  bilateral  and  multilateral
levels  to  mobilize  new  resources  for  NEPAD.  I  am
thinking  in  particular  of  the  pledges  made  by  the
European  Union  and  the  United  States  of  America  to
devote  respectively  150  million  euros  and  $15  billion
to  the  campaign  against  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa.  We
encourage  them  to  further  intensify  their  efforts  of
solidarity with Africa, where poverty, war and disease
have  become  the  daily  fate  of  the  people  of  the
continent.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
25
