United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
47th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 29 October 2003, at 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.47
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 104
Follow-up to the International Conference on
Financing for Development
(b) High-level dialogue for the implementation of
the outcome of the International Conference on
Financing for Development
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/58/216 and
A/58/323)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/58/436)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
(A/58/3, Parts I-II)
Summary by the President of the Economic and
Social Council and notes by the Secretariat
(A/58/77, A/58/77/Add.1 and A/58/77/Add.2)
Conference Room Paper (A/58/CRP.2)
The President: A little more than one and-a-half
years since we adopted the Monterrey Consensus at the
International 
for
Development,  held  in  Monterrey,  Mexico,  we  have
come,  as  agreed,  to  comprehensively  review  our
progress,  both  substantially  and  institutionally,  in
meeting commitments made.
Conference 
Financing 
on 
Today,  I  am  pleased  to  formally  open  this  High-
level  Dialogue  on  Financing  for  Development,  the
mechanism agreed to the follow-up to Monterrey. The
purpose  of  this  short  meeting  of  the  Plenary  is  to
permit  us  to  adopt  our  Programme  of  Work  and  to
address  other  organizational  matters.  I  consider  it
opportune,  nevertheless,  to  emphasize  the  importance
of the initiative in which we will engage over these two
days.  It  is  pertinently  captured  in  the  theme  for  the
High-level  Dialogue,  “The  Monterrey  Consensus:
status of implementation and tasks ahead”. This theme
takes into account commitments made at Monterrey to
the  development  agenda  by  setting  and
advance 
implementing 
internationally  agreed  development
goals.  It  also  takes  into  account  the  essential  need  to
maintain a balance sheet of the progress we have made
to permit us to systematically and strategically plan for
further effective action.
relief,  domestic 
The  financing  for  development  agenda  is  a
trade,  official
comprehensive  one,  encompassing 
development  aid,  debt 
resource
mobilization,  other  private  flows,  institutional  issues
and partnerships. It is essential, therefore, that our two
days  of  deliberations  are  equally  as  comprehensive,
and take into account the totality of commitments made
the  High-level
at  Monterrey.  The  framework  of 
Dialogue  permits  us 
this  comprehensive
approach.  All  those  who  were  part  of  the  broad
coalition established at Monterrey are also part of this
High-level  Dialogue  —  Governments,  major
stakeholders,  other  intergovernmental  organizations,
civil  society,  and 
the  business  sector.  Although,
take 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-58471 (E)
*0358471*
respectively,  and  with  themes  as  announced  in  the
Journal  of  the  United  Nations;  a  plenary  meeting  at
9.30 a.m. on Thursday, 30 October 2003, in the General
Assembly Hall,  to  hear  statements  by  the  President  of
the  General  Assembly,  the  Secretary-General  of  the
United  Nations,  the  President  of  the  Economic  and
Social Council, representatives of the World Bank, the
International  Monetary  Fund, 
the  World  Trade
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on
Trade and Development.
Also  speaking  will  be  the  Administrator  of  the
United Nations Development Programme, as Chairman
of the United Nations Development Group, as well as a
representative of the regional development banks and a
representative of the regional commissions.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  remind
those  who  will  be  taking  the  floor  on  Thursday  that
there is a time-limit of 5 minutes for each statement.
in  Conference  Room  4, 
In addition, an informal interactive dialogue will
take  place 
immediately
following  the  adjournment  of  the  plenary  meeting  of
Thursday,  30  October  2003.  This  will  continue  in  the
afternoon until 6 p.m.
I would like to take this opportunity to encourage
informal
representatives 
interactive dialogue not to read prepared statements.
the  floor 
taking 
the 
in 
Finally,  there  will  be  a  plenary  meeting,  to  be
held  at  6  p.m.  on  Thursday,  30  October,  immediately
following  the  conclusion  of  the  informal  interactive
dialogue, to hear a concluding statement by me, and to
formally close the High-level Dialogue.
The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m.
A/58/PV.47
regrettably,  schedules  of  the  heads  of  the  major
stakeholders  did  not  permit  all  to  participate,  as  was
expected in the documents established at the High-level
Dialogue, 
senior
representatives  will 
the
contribution of the stakeholders.
that 
appropriately 
their 
represent 
confident 
am 
I 
I  take  the  opportunity  to  welcome  Ministers  and
all  participants  to  this  High-level  Dialogue.  I  express
my  appreciation  to  the  co-chairs  of  the  round  tables
that  will  be  convened  today.  Importantly,  I  urge  all
Permanent  Representatives  to  participate  to  the  fullest
extent possible in these two days of deliberations. Our
collective effort is critical to the successful outcome we
all expect from this High-level Dialogue on Financing
for Development.
Turning  to  the  matters  at  hand,  the  General
Assembly  will  now  begin  its  High-level  Dialogue  on
Financing for Development, held under sub-item (b) of
agenda  item  104  and  pursuant  to  General  Assembly
resolution 57/250 of 20 December 2002 and the letters
from  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  dated  7
May 2003 and 6 October 2003.
As  representatives  will  recall,  the  High-level
Dialogue on Financing for Development will consist of
the  following:  this  plenary  meeting,  to  formally  open
the High-level Dialogue; four  round  tables,  to  be  held
this  morning,  immediately  following  the  adjournment
of  this  plenary  meeting,  in  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  Chamber  and  in  Conference  Rooms  5,  6,  and
7,  respectively,  and  with  themes  as  announced  in  the
Journal of the United Nations; four round tables, to be
held  this  afternoon,  in  Conference  Rooms  5,  6,  7  and
the Economic and Social Council Chamber,
2
