United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
23rd plenary meeting
Monday, 6 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.23
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections
(d) Election of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees
Note by the Secretary-General (A/58/396)
The President: I should like to draw the attention
of  the  General  Assembly  to  document  A/58/396,
containing a note by the Secretary-General, under sub-
item  (d)  of  agenda  item  16,  relating  to  the  election  of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
By  its  decision  55/310  of  26  October  2000,  the
General  Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/55/519),  elected  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  as
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for a
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2001.
By  its  resolution  57/186  of  18  December  2002,
the General Assembly decided to continue the office of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees
for a further period of five years from 1 January 2004.
In  conformity  with  the  procedure  established  by
paragraph 13 of the statute of the Office of the United
Nations  High  Commissioner 
the
Secretary-General  proposes  to  the  General  Assembly
for  Refugees, 
May  I 
that the term of office of Mr. Ruud Lubbers as United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees be extended
for a period of two years, beginning on 1 January 2004
and ending on 31 December 2005.
therefore  consider 
the  General
Assembly  approves 
in
document  A/58/396  and  decides  to  extend  the  term  of
office  of  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  as  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Refugees for a period of two years,
beginning  on  1  January  2004  and  ending  on  31
December 2005?
that 
the  proposals  contained 
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the
Assembly,  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  on  the
extension  of  his  appointment  as  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Refugees.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  China,
who  will  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of
Asian States.
Mr.  Xie  Bohua  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
Allow me to speak on behalf of the Asian Group.
The Asian Group supports the  proposal  made  by
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  to  extend  the  term  of
office of Mr. Ruud Lubbers for a period of two years.
Since  Mr.  Lubbers  came  into  office  in  2001,  he  has
done  a  great  deal  to  address  the  problem  of  refugees
throughout  the  world,  and  great  progress  has  been
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-54292 (E)
*0354292*
A/58/PV.23
made.  We  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  for  his
efforts.
The  Asian  Group  is  ready  to  work  closely  with
Mr. Ruud Lubbers, as well as the Office of the United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  and  will
continue its efforts to find a solution to the question of
refugees worldwide.
to 
the 
floor 
I  give 
The  President: 
the
representative of Lithuania, who will make a statement
on behalf of the Group of Eastern European States.
(Lithuania):  Lithuania, 
as
Chairman  of  the  regional  Group  of  Eastern  European
States  for  the  month  of  October,  has  the  honour  to
speak on behalf of our delegations.
Mr.  Šerkšnys
Twenty-one  Eastern  European  States 
fully
support the Secretary-General’s proposal to extend the
term of office of Mr. Ruud Lubbers as United Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  for  the  next  two
years.
It  is  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to  congratulate,  on
behalf  of  the  Group,  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  on  the
extension of his appointment.
like 
I  should 
to  express 
the  Group’s  full
satisfaction  at  his  confirmation  by 
the  General
Assembly in this very important post and to assure Mr.
Ruud Lubbers of our continuous support for the efforts
of the High Commissioner.
I  should  like  also  to  express  the  appreciation  of
my  Group  of  States  to  the  High  Commissioner  and  to
his staff for their constant attention to the fundamental
principles  of  refugee  protection  —  principles  we  all
must strive to implement and to safeguard.
Over the past three years, Mr. Ruud Lubbers has
been  fully  dedicated  to  the  implementation  of  the
common  goals  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of
human  rights  and  the  rights  of  refugees.  That  period
was marked by a real transformation in the area of the
protection of human rights and by a shared vision and
concern  on 
international
community.
the  part  of 
the  entire 
We  are  pleased  to  underscore  that  Mr.  Ruud
Lubbers always stands for the rights of the weakest and
most vulnerable, sometimes confronting the interests of
the strong and powerful.
2
the  new 
In  our  struggle  against 
threat  of
terrorism, we can always hear Mr. Lubbers’ voice — a
strong  request  to  observe  human  rights  and  protect
human beings. The High Commissioner always guards
against overly restrictive procedures and practices that
are  not  consistent  with  international  refugee  law.  He
works  within  a  framework  comprising  international
refugee,  human  rights  and  humanitarian  law,  and
internationally  accepted  standards  for  the  treatment  of
refugees and other persons of concern to the Office of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees
(UNHCR).
The  success  of 
the  humanitarian  operations
carried  out  by  UNHCR  in  order  to  save  the  lives  of
millions of refugees and displaced persons has become
a  matter  of  critical  importance  as  a  prerequisite  for
peace and stability.
initiatives  — 
We  are  convinced  that,  under  his  leadership,  the
work  of  UNHCR  will  continue  to  be  enhanced.  The
High  Commissioner’s 
to  strengthen
UNHCR  as  a  multinational  institution;  the  “4-R”
situations  —  namely
proposal 
repatriation, 
and
reconstruction;  new  approaches 
to  development
through local integration; a new agenda for protection;
and  UNHCR  2004,  or  Convention  Plus  —  deserve  to
be implemented.
in  post-conflict 
reintegration, 
rehabilitation 
Protecting  refugees  and  searching  for  durable
solutions  to  their  plight  is  a  humanitarian  imperative,
but  it  is  also  fundamentally  about  contributing  to
international  peace  and  security.  Persecution  and
conflict  produce 
time,
unresolved refugee problems can themselves be a cause
of conflict and instability. It is vital, therefore, that the
international community support UNHCR in its efforts
to find durable solutions for refugees and other persons
of concern.
refugees.  At 
same 
the 
Finally,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our  full  support  and
cooperation  to  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  and  to  wish  him
success in his renewed role as High Commissioner for
Refugees.
The  President: 
the
representative of Spain, who will make a statement on
behalf  of  the  Group  of  Western  European  and  Other
States.
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
Mr.  Arias  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  will  be
speaking on behalf of the Group of  Western European
and Other States, which I am chairing this month.
We would like to express our gratification at  the
the  High
two-year  extension  of 
Commissioner for Refugees, Mr. Ruud Lubbers.
the  mandate  of 
Mr.  Lubbers’  term  of  office  began  on  1  January
2001, and, for almost three years now, he has deployed,
with  dedication  and  effectiveness,  very  commendable
efforts  at  the  head  of  that  United  Nations  agency,
whose  work  is  of  crucial  importance.  For  this  reason,
we welcome the decision of the Secretary-General and
we commend him for it. We would convey to Mr. Ruud
Lubbers that he can rely on the full cooperation of our
group.
The  President: 
the
representative of Costa Rica on behalf of the Group of
Latin American and Caribbean States.
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
Mr.  Stagno  Ugarte  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in
Spanish): I am honoured to take the floor on behalf of
the  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  to
lend  our  support  to  the  extension  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers’
term  of  office  as  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for Refugees for a period of two more years.
This  being  the  first  time  that  I  have  taken  the
floor before this Assembly, I wish to convey to you and
to the other members of the Bureau our congratulations
on  your  election.  We  are  certain  that  your  known
record  and  experience  will  make  it  possible  for  the
work  of 
the  General
Assembly to conclude successfully.
the  fifty-eighth  session  of 
Our  region  regards  the  purely  humanitarian  and
apolitical nature of the work of the Office of the High
Commissioner  as  of  crucial  importance,  as  it  gives
international  protection  to  refugees  and  tries  to  find
permanent solutions to their problems. We would recall
that such a solution would involve, first and foremost,
voluntary  repatriation  as  the  preferred  solution.  We
know  that  there  needs  to  be  concerted  international
action to help refugees. In this regard, we would assert
that  international  protection  is  a  dynamic  function,
which  is  action-oriented,  carried  out  in  cooperation
with  States  and  other  partners,  so  as  to,  among  other
things, promote and facilitate the admission, reception
and treatment of refugees and finding lasting solutions
for their protection.
A/58/PV.23
This  challenge  has  been  tackled  in  recent  years
thanks  to  the  guiding  skills  of  Mr.  Lubbers  as  he  has
carried out his work, and for this reason we support the
extension of his term in office so that he may continue
his  work  concerning 
international  protection  and
material assistance to refugees, as well as the quest for
permanent  solutions  to  their  problems.  The  Latin
American and Caribbean Group will continue to follow
attentively  the  activities  of  Mr.  Lubbers  in  his  second
term of office, and we will continue to support him in
his work.
The  President: 
the
representative  of  Rwanda  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of
African States.
I  give 
floor 
the 
to 
Mr.  Kamanzi  (Rwanda)  (spoke  in  French):  On
behalf of the African Group, which we are honoured to
chair for the month of October, I would like to take this
opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  on  the
extension  of  his  mandate  by  the  Secretary-General  of
the  United  Nations  for  the  next  two  years  to  head  the
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
Refugees.  No  one  doubts  that  Mr.  Ruud  Lubbers  will
to  exercise  his  skills  and  his  personal
continue 
commitment 
international
community 
the  difficult  problems  of
refugees who, on our continent, unfortunately, number
in  the  thousands.  We  wish  him  every  success  and  we
assure him of the total support of Africa.
in 
to  resolve 
the  service  of 
the 
The  President:  The  Assembly  has 
thus
concluded  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (d)  of  agenda
item 16.
Agenda item 60 and agenda item 10 (continued)
Follow up to the outcome of the Millennium
Summit: report of the Secretary-General
(A/58/323)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization (A/58/1)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the
Secretary-General  presented  his  report  on  the  work  of
the  Organization  to  the  General  Assembly  at  the  7th
plenary meeting, on 23 September 2003.
Mr.  Bennouna  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French):
Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me the floor at the
opening  of  this  crucial  debate  being  held  at  the  fifty-
in
eighth  session  on  questions  of  development, 
3
A/58/PV.23
the 
implementation  of 
particular 
the  Millennium
Summit. We, in the Group of 77 and China, know that
you  attach  great  importance  to  the  implementation  of
the Millennium Development Goals.
through  debt  relief  and  an 
in  official
development  assistance,  as  well  as  on  the  success  of
trade  negotiations  undertaken  by  the  World  Trade
Organization.
increase 
Before  I  get  to  the  substance  of  this  debate,  I
would  like  to  convey  our  sincere  thanks  to  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  the  Secretary-General,  for  his  well-structured
and  very  important  report  presented  to  us  at  the
beginning  of  this  session,  which  presents  the  progress
achieved  so 
the
Millennium  Goals  and  what  still  needs  to  be  done  to
meet its objectives.
implementation  of 
the 
far 
in 
implementation  of 
At a time when the international community was
expecting  an  accelerated 
the
respective  commitments  of  Member  States  in  order  to
attain the Millennium Development Goals, new threats
have  emerged,  unfortunately,  which  jeopardize  the
international climate of cooperation and consensus that
is  essential  for  the  attainment  of  durable  peace  and
sustainable development.
Restoring 
this  atmosphere  of 
international
cooperation  and  consensus  remains,  in  our  view,  the
main  objective,  and  it  should  guide  our  collective
multilateral  action  in  order  to  preserve  the  credibility
and 
increase 
the  effectiveness  of  our  universal
Organization.
A responsible unreserved commitment on the part
of the international community, particularly of the most
developed  countries,  within  a  context  of  solid  and
fruitful  cooperation  towards  sustainable  development
for  the  benefits  of  all,  remains  the  vital  element  that
can  only  further  strengthen  confidence  in  our  United
Nations system in these difficult times.
We  have  taken  note  of  the  considerable  progress
made in the implementation of the Development Goals
enshrined  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  by  the
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  meetings  held
since the year 2000.
However, the prospects for Africa, unfortunately,
remain  a  source  of  concern.  Indeed,  the  number  of
people  living  in  extreme  poverty  is  expected  to
decrease  in  all  regions  of  the  world  except  in  Africa,
where  projected  growth  rates  will  not  stem  the  spread
of  poverty  and  thus  not  attain  the  objectives  of
sustainable  development.  This  development 
is  a
process  that  depends  on  a  number  of  factors,  in
particular  on  increased  financing  for  development
4
at 
The  Doha  Declaration 
We agree with Mr. Kofi Annan that strengthened,
balanced and equitable international trade is one way to
help  the  poorest  countries  combat  hunger  and  poverty
and to attain the Millennium Development Goals.
underscored 
trade  negotiations.  Unfortunately, 
discussions 
that
development and the interests of the poorest should be
to 
central 
the
subsequent 
the  World  Trade
Organization (WTO) in Geneva did not ensure concrete
follow-up  to  the  Doha  Declaration.  The  failure  of  the
Cancún  negotiations  should  encourage  us  to  redouble
our  efforts,  in  order  to  achieve  in  the  near  future
satisfactory  results 
the  confidence  of
developing countries and to send a positive message to
the  world  economy.  I  talked  about  the  failure  at
Cancún,  but  others  have  also  said  that  the  developing
countries  showed  great  solidarity  at  Cancún,  which
made  it  possible  not  to  accept  any  compromise
proposed.
to  restore 
financing 
The  high-level  dialogue  on 
for
development,  to  be  held  at  the  end  of  this  month,
should,  as  a  global  mechanism  for  coordination  and
follow-up,  enable  us 
to  carry  out  a  coherent
examination  of  the  implementation  of  the  Monterrey
commitments and to assess progress made.
the 
implementation  of 
the  United  Nations 
The  work  done  by 
to
the  Monterrey
accelerate 
increased
Consensus  must  be  accompanied  by 
cooperation  of  other  stakeholders, 
the
Bretton  Woods  financial  institutions,  the  WTO,  the
civil 
private 
society.  Sustainable
development  also  requires 
that  food  security  be
guaranteed,  as  well  as  adequate  health  and  education
services.
including 
sector 
and 
We are pleased that the United Nations has made
every effort to improve access to food and medical care
by  encouraging  increased  international  cooperation,
supported,  inter  alia,  by  bilateral  and  multilateral
donors,  to  help  the  developing  countries  elaborate,
adapt  and 
security  and
agricultural development strategies.
strengthen 
their 
food 
The 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  and  the  United  Nations  system  of  a
endorsement  by 
to 
attain 
strategy 
substantive 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  is  a  commitment  that  should  help
the developing countries attain their national priorities.
As we have said since the beginning of this year,
throughout  our  chairmanship  of  the  Group  of  77,  we
need  to  have  national  and  international  indicators  in
order to assess progress made in the implementation of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  are  in  the
process of establishing those indicators now.
Agenda  21  and 
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
for
Implementation  are  a  set  of  commitments 
sustainable development. Practical steps clearly need to
be  taken  to  implement  them.  That  is  why  this  year,
during  the  eleventh  session  of  the  Commission  on
Sustainable Development, a multi-year programme was
drafted, covering the period 2004 to 2017, to preserve
the momentum created in Johannesburg. The Group of
77 made a very decisive contribution to the elaboration
of  this  multi-year  programme.  We  hope  that  that
programme will strengthen the implementation process
and  follow-up  to  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.
Within  the  framework  of  the  Commission  on
Sustainable  Development,  a  multi-year  programme  of
work  will  make  it  possible  to  assess  all  cross-cutting
issues  and  questions  identified  by  the  Johannesburg
Plan of Implementation, in order to identify gaps in its
implementation  and  to  take  the  steps  necessary  to
remedy  them.  During  the  eleventh  session  of  the
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  the  Group
of 77 saw to it that that programme of work maintained
the  integrity  of  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  and  ensured  equal 
treatment  of  all
thematic  modules  identified.  By  adopting  this  multi-
year programme of work, the international community
has  what  we  could  call  a 
the
for 
implementation of sustainable development goals.
road  map 
Allow me to also recall that water, sanitation and
housing  matters  will  be  examined  in  depth  by  the
Commission. We hope that the launching of this multi-
year  programme, 
those
matters,  will  be  a  success,  inspire  confidence  and
demonstrate 
to  achieve  sustainable
development goals.
through  consideration  of 
the  real  will 
As  Members  know,  United  Nations  reform  has
probably been and will be the overriding theme of this
session.  Our  group  is  convinced  that  reform  of  the
multilateral  institutions  is  essential  now  more  than
A/58/PV.23
ever,  so  that  our  Organization  can  adapt  to  new
problems and situations in the world. Reform is not an
end  in  itself.  The  point  is  to  increase  international
cooperation,  and  particularly 
the
commitments undertaken at the various United Nations
conferences  and  summits,  to  enable  the  developing
countries, particularly the least developed countries, to
attain  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  for  the
economic and social well-being of their peoples.
implement 
to 
to 
In  June  2003,  the  Assembly  adopted  a  very
important resolution, to which we, together with other
groups,  contributed  greatly,  to  ensure  that  it  would  be
adopted.  I  am  referring  to  the  resolution  on  the
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and
follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  summits.  That  text  reaffirmed  the
determination 
comply  with
commitments  made  and  to  place  implementation  of
development  goals  set  by  the  United  Nations  at  the
very core of development and cooperation policies. As
Members  know,  goal  number  eight,  on  means  of
implementation, was recognized as being central to the
implementation  of  the  first  seven  goals.  With  that
resolution  we  now  have  a  framework  at  our  disposal,
and  we  must  all  work  together  to  give  it  specific
contents.
implement 
and 
The  second  essential  aspect  of  the  resolution  —
which  was  adopted  in  June  —  is  to  provide  for  the
holding of a world summit on development in 2005.  I
think it is time to begin preparing for the summit right
now. The Assembly will find total support in the Group
of 77 and China for such preparation. We hope that that
meeting,  which  will  be  very  important  for  billions  of
people, is crowned with success.
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  our  Group,  I  would
recall  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  bearer  of  a
universal  ethical  message  contained  in  the  purposes
and  principles  of  the  Charter  that  any  institutional
reform  must  maintain  and  strengthen  in  order  to  be
more  effective.  That  is  the  challenge  we  must  meet
together  through  concerted,  collective  action  in  which
all  nations,  large  and  small,  must  bear  their  share  of
responsibility so that future generations are saved from
the  scourge  of  war  and  the  horrors  of  poverty  and
illiteracy.
Mr. Spatafora (Italy): I have the honour to speak
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  acceding
countries  —  Cyprus,  the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,
5
A/58/PV.23
Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,  Slovakia
and Slovenia — and the associated countries Bulgaria,
Romania  and  Turkey  align 
this
statement.
themselves  with 
We thank the Secretary-General for his important
and comprehensive  report  and for  his  statement  in  the
general debate. The Millennium Declaration (resolution
55/2)  remains  central  in  setting  the  agenda  for  our
work.  The  European  Union 
is  wholeheartedly
committed  to  the  principles  and  objectives  it  sets  out.
We  attach  equal  importance  to  all  its  parts,  on,  inter
alia,  peace  and  security;  development  and  human
rights;  democracy 
and  good  governance.  The
Secretary-General’s  report  sets  out  the  progress  we
have  made  in  implementing  the  Declaration  and  in
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It
highlights new challenges and  areas where progress is
insufficient.  It  lays  down  fundamental  questions  that
we must address.
that  commitment 
The foundation of the European Union’s approach
is  our  strong  commitment  to  effective  multilateralism
and  collective  action 
to  address  shared  global
challenges.  The  European  security  strategy  on  which
we  are  working  emphasizes 
to
effective  multilateralism.  We  are  convinced  that  the
United Nations is, and must remain, the central forum
for  international  cooperation  and  the  vital  instrument
for  common  action  at  a  global  level.  We  therefore
accept  our  common  responsibility  to  ensure  that  the
United Nations is as effective as it needs to be for the
pursuit  of  those  goals.  The  initiative  launched  by  the
Secretary-General 
the
Organization is a shared interest and a commitment for
all Member States of the United Nations.
reform  and  strengthen 
to 
We call upon all Member States to show political
will,  pragmatism  and  imagination  in  this  endeavour.
We  must  address  the  crucial  challenges  that  the
Secretary-General  has  set  out  and  the  wider  questions
they raise for the international system. For example, we
recognize the case for reform of the Security Council,
the  General  Assembly  and  the  other  principal  United
Nations organs and mechanisms.
We  know  that  these  issues  are  complex.  Finding
the right answers calls for intensified and more focused
action.  In  that  respect,  we  also  support  the  Secretary-
General’s  proposal  to  invite  eminent  personalities  to
review  the  challenges  we  face  and  to  consider  further
steps  that  may  be  needed  to  meet  them.  We  look
6
to 
receiving 
forward 
the
Secretary-General  in  2004,  based  on  the  panel’s  work
on all aspects of the Millennium Declaration, which he
mentioned in his recent status report.
recommendations 
from 
But we must not put off until tomorrow what we
can  do  today.  We  must  push  ahead  with  action  on
reform this year, at the current session of the Assembly.
During  this  session,  the  General  Assembly  should
address in particular the issue of establishing a single-
stage  budget  review  for  the  United  Nations  regular
budget as a follow-up to last year’s reform resolution.
We  strongly  applaud  the  progress  already  made,
under the Secretary-General’s leadership, to reform the
Secretariat,  United  Nations 
the
operational activities of the United Nations system. But
there  is  still  more  to  do.  We  will  continue  to  support
this  work.  We  stand  ready  to  engage  actively  in  the
reform process.
agencies 
and 
Indeed, Member States themselves must do more
to  reform,  strengthen  and  make  more  effective  the
intergovernmental  bodies  of  the  United  Nations.  We
welcome  the  initiatives  launched  by  the  President  to
revitalize  the  Assembly.  We  will  strongly  support  his
efforts. Like him, we want the work of the Assembly to
be  more  focused  and  action-  oriented  and  to  achieve
greater  political  impact  in  global  debate.  As  the
President has said, it is in our best interests
“to  demonstrate  by  our  action  that  the  General
Assembly  has  not  only  the  capacity  but  also  the
political  will 
to  constructively  address  and
resolve the complex problems of the world and to
close  the  gap  between  our  agreed  objectives  and
the  resources  needed  to  implement  them....  As
advocate,  supervisor  and  policy-making  body,
[the Assembly] must give the direction necessary
to ensure coherence in the system”... (A/58/PV.7,
p. 1)
While  we  welcome  recent  improvements  in  the
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  —  which
should  be  further  developed  —  there  is  a  need  for  a
comprehensive 
it  more
representative, more effective and more democratic. In
the same spirit, we must strengthen the Economic and
Social  Council’s  coordinating  role  across  the  United
Nations  system.  To  that  end,  we  must  act  now  on  the
conclusions of the General Assembly to implement and
follow  up  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits in an integrated manner. In that regard, I fully
that  makes 
reform 
agree  with  what  was  said  earlier  by  the  representative
of  Morocco,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.
We  must  further  reflect  on  the  proposals  and  ideas  of
the President of the Economic and Social Council. We
must  consider,  among  other  issues,  how  to  improve
cooperation between the Economic and Social Council
and  the  Security  Council,  building  further  on  recent
initiatives,  so  as 
the  coherence  and
effectiveness of the United Nations system.
to  enhance 
As we engage in follow-up to the full spectrum of
the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  must  recognize  that
these  are  inter-linked  strands  of  a  single  agenda.  For
example,  development  cannot  flourish  without  peace
and  security,  and  vice  versa.  Indeed,  the  development
agenda  must  be  better 
interrelated  with  conflict
prevention — as well as linked to peace-building — to
sustain  economic  and  social  development.  Our  task  is
not  whether  to  tackle  so-called  hard  or  soft  threats  to
security,  but  to  deal  with  all  of  them  as  effectively  as
possible.
In the sphere of peace and security, the European
Union will play its full part in achieving more effective
conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping  and  peace-building.
We  will  work  to  that  end  in  the  United  Nations,  with
other  organizations  and  with  all  our  partners.  We  will
act  to  build  upon  the  Joint  Declaration  that  the
European  Union  and  the  United  Nations  recently
signed on crisis management.
We  must  also  address  new 
threats.  The
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and
terrorism are fundamental threats to international peace
and  security.  We  fully  share  the  Secretary-General’s
view on the importance of international instruments to
address  that  issue,  and  the  necessity  of  ensuring
universal adherence to, and full compliance with, those
instruments.  In  this  regard,  we  will  continue  to
implement the European Union Action Plan against the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
The  Millennium  Declaration  provides  a  clear
agenda for development, which was reinforced through
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  major
United  Nations  Summits 
and
Johannesburg.  We  must  continue, 
in  a  spirit  of
partnership, our common drive to implement the goals
and  targets  set  out  therein,  and  to  meet  the  clear
timetables which we have agreed. The European Union
remains  absolutely  committed  to  delivering  on  its
undertaking 
the  Millennium
of  Monterrey 
to  achieve 
in  order 
A/58/PV.23
require 
Development  Goals.  This  will 
renewed
efforts — for example, to deal with the terrible scourge
of HIV/AIDS and environmental sustainability, as well
as  to  reach  a  successful  conclusion  to  the  Doha
Development  Round.  In  this  context,  Africa  will
remain  at 
the  European  Union
commitment.  We  strongly  support  the  principles  and
objectives  of 
for  Africa’s
Development.
the  New  Partnership 
the  heart  of 
The European Union remains fully engaged in its
efforts  to  fulfil  the  commitments  on  financing  for
development  made  at  Monterrey  with  a  view  to
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We look
forward  to  the  high-level  dialogue  on  that  issue,
scheduled to take place later this month.
this  end,  we  support 
We must continue with equal vigour to strengthen
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  and  to  protect  human
rights and fundamental freedoms. These values are best
guaranteed 
through  effective  multilateralism.  The
European  Union  considers  that  rule-of-law  elements
should  be  included,  as  appropriate,  in  United  Nations
peace  operations.  To 
the
strengthening  of  United  Nations  capacities  in  the  area
of  the  rule  of  law.  We  must  make  the  work  of  the
United  Nations  as  effective  as  possible  by  supporting
and 
the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  the  Commission
on Human Rights. On behalf of the European Union, I
take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  once  again  to  the
service and sacrifice of Sergio Vieira de Mello and the
other  United  Nations  staff  members  who  were  killed.
We  must  strengthen  the  focus  of  all  the  organs  of  the
United  Nations  system  on  the  protection  of  civilians
and  children  affected  by  armed  conflict  and  on  the
rights of women.
strengthening 
efforts 
the 
of 
In  conclusion,  the  matters  that  I  have  set  out
represent  an  enormous  set  of  challenges  to  the  United
Nations  and  its  Member  States.  Work  will  proceed  on
many  fronts.  The  European  Union  will  contribute
actively.
We welcome the concept of a major event in 2005
to review progress and make further decisions. Such an
event  must  provide  new  political  impetus  to  achieve
the goals set in the Millennium Declaration and at the
major  United  Nations  summits.  We 
the
Secretary-General  to  make  further  proposals  to  the
Assembly next year on the structure of such an event.
look 
to 
7
A/58/PV.23
In  the  meantime,  let  us  push  ahead  with  further
action  and  reform  where  there  is  common  ground  on
which  it  is  possible  to  build  with  an  incremental
approach.  Let  us 
the
commitments  we  have  all  made.  Let  us  stay  united  in
pursuing  the  ambitious  aspirations  set  out  in  the
Millennium Declaration.
implementing 
focus  on 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I
should  like  first  to  convey  to  you,  Mr.  President,  my
warm congratulations on your well-deserved election to
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  have
every confidence that, thanks to your experience, skill
and  dedication,  you  will  successfully  carry  out  your
difficult task. You will certainly be able to count on the
full  cooperation  of  my  delegation  as  you  guide  our
work to a successful outcome.
I should also like to thank the  Secretary-General
for  his  excellent 
the
Organization  and  on  the  follow-up  to  the  Millennium
Declaration, which was adopted in December 2000.
the  work  of 
reports  on 
I associate myself with the statement made by the
Permanent  Representative  of  Morocco,  who  spoke  on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
This  joint  debate  gives  us  the  opportunity  to
assess  what  has  been  done  in  the  Organization’s
various  areas  of  activity  during  the  past  year  and  to
consider  the  progress  made  and  problems  encountered
over 
the
commitments  made  under  the  various  headings  of  the
Millennium Declaration.
implementing 
three  years 
the  past 
in 
A  close  reading  of  the  two  reports  and  a  lucid
analysis of what has been done and what remains to be
done lead us to conclude that the need for a strong and
effective Organization is more urgent than ever, as it is
clear that we will not be able to attain the Millennium
Development Goals unless we manage to conclude the
radical reform that our Organization so sorely needs.
The  scope  and  diversity  of  the  activities  of  the
Organization, exhaustively covered in the two  reports,
and the limited time available for this discussion, mean
that  we  cannot,  of  course,  cover  all  those  activities  in
depth.  We  will  have  an  opportunity  in  the  coming
weeks  to  discuss  here  in  detail  some  very  important
items,  such  as  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  the
coordination of humanitarian assistance, the follow-up
to  the  outcome  of  the  special  session  on  children  and
8
relating 
to  making 
to  development  and 
to
other  questions 
therefore
international  peace  and  security.  I  will 
confine  myself 
several  preliminary
comments  on  one  of  the  most  salient  aspects  of  the
report of the Secretary-General on  the  implementation
of the Millennium Declaration  — those relating to his
initiative  for  radical  institutional  reform  and  to  his
appeal to each Member State to try to reach agreement
on  this  question  as  a  matter  of  national  priority.  That
appeal  was  reiterated  in  his  statement  immediately
before the general debate.
The  work  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  to
meet  the  challenges  of  globalization  and  attain  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  raises  the  important
question  of  whether  its  means  are  commensurate  with
its  ambitions,  and  whether  its  structures,  mechanisms
and  methods  are  appropriate  for  the  nature  of  the
challenges that the United Nations faces today. That is
an  enormous  and  complex  task,  because  we  need  to
control  the  effects  of  globalization;  reduce  poverty;
remove  inequalities;  eradicate  diseases,  in  particular
AIDS;  promote  economic  and  social  development;
avert  threats,  both  old  and  new,  to  international  peace
and  security,  in  particular  terrorism;  and  resolve  other
humanitarian, 
rights
problems.
environmental 
and  human 
In  this  respect,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  fact
that the Secretary-General, in his report on the follow-
up to the Millennium Declaration, stated that terrorism
constitutes a violation of fundamental human rights and
must be combated as such. Meeting that challenge will
require  strengthening  the  international  community’s
collective  capacity  for  action.  The  United  Nations,  as
the  only  universal  global  organization,  provides  an
ideal,  irreplaceable  framework  for  collective  unified
action  by  the  international  community  as  a  whole.
Nevertheless,  more  than  ever  before,  it  is  required  to
turn over a new leaf to adapt to the new  requirements
of  a  world  in  constant  change  and  to  finalize  in  a
resolute and determined  manner the process of  reform
under way.
During  the  general  debate  over  the  last  two
weeks,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States
renewed  their  commitment  to  multilateralism  and
forcefully  stressed  the  need  to  follow  up  on  the
commitments  contained 
the
Millennium  Declaration  covering  the  strengthening  of
the United Nations.
in  section  VIII  of 
The  effective 
implementation  of  reforms 
is
essential  if  we  want  the  United  Nations  to  become  a
more  efficient,  consistent,  dynamic  organization  that
will continue to play the role of catalyst for change and
serve as a forum for dialogue and specific action.
The  climate  of  cooperation  and  consensus  that
prevailed  following  the  tragic  terrorist  attacks  of  11
September  2001  has  unfortunately  been  gravely
jeopardized  by 
the  crisis  experienced  by  our
Organization  at  the  beginning  of  this  year.  Profound
divisions  within  the  international  community  have
indeed  been  created,  which  have  cast  doubt  on  the
effectiveness,  usefulness  and  credibility  of 
the
collective  security  system  as  defined  by  the  Charter.
However,  we  have  every  hope,  now  that  the  Security
Council seems to have regained its unanimity and unity
of vision and that the central role of the United Nations
in  post-war  Iraq  is  not  merely  recognized  but  desired
by  everyone,  that  the  United  Nations  will  emerge
strengthened from the trial that it has endured.
Accordingly, we agree  with  the  idea  put  forward
by the Secretary-General in his report on the follow-up
to the Millennium Declaration that the great strength of
the Organization lies in its legitimacy, anchored in the
fundamental principles of international law accepted by
all  States  and  expressed  by 
international
community as a whole.
the 
Multilateralism,  of  which  the  United  Nations
system is the basis, must be preserved and strengthened
if  we  want  international  affairs  to  be  effectively  and
credibly  managed.  Accordingly,  we  believe  that  the
decisions  of  the  Security  Council  would  enjoy  greater
support  if  the  organ  were  perceived  as  being  more
representative.  An  expanded  and  reformed  Security
Council  would  be  in  a  better  position  to  increase
confidence  between  it  and  other  members  of  the
international  community,  which  would  see  that  their
interests were duly represented by the members of the
Council,  and 
thus  be  more
rigorously  complied  with.  After  the  long  repetitive
debates that we have heard for the last 10 years about
the 
the  Security  Council,  which,
unfortunately,  have  been  inconclusive,  the  time  has
come, as the Secretary-General has suggested, to place
this  debate  within  the  context  of  radical  reform  that
would also encompass the revitalization of the General
Assembly, the Economic and Social Council, or, better
still, of the role of the United Nations as a whole in the
area of economic and social affairs and its relationship
its  decisions  would 
reform  of 
A/58/PV.23
with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  and  take  a  new
look at the role of the Trusteeship Council in the light
of new types of responsibility conferred on the United
Nations by Member States in recent years.
and 
question 
We share the analysis and understand the motives
behind  that  approach  and  my  delegation  can  only
welcome  this  initiative  at  this  stage.  It  is,  however,
important  to  stress  that  the  mechanism  proposed  to
establish a panel of eminent personalities to study this
and  make
important 
recommendations  for  radical 
institutional  reforms
should  meet  a  number  of  conditions  so  that  this  panel
may enjoy the trust and support of all Member States.
First  of  all,  the  choice  of  these  eminent  personalities
must 
the  broadest  possible  geographical
representation  and  meet  the  necessary  conditions  of
integrity, competence and neutrality.
sensitive 
reflect 
In  this  vein,  an  in-depth  knowledge  of  the
Organization  and  the  way  it  functions  is  an  essential
requirement  that  should  not  be  minimized  or  ignored.
In  one  way  or  another,  Member  States  should  also  be
involved  in  defining  the  mandate  and  consulted  and
invited by members of the panel to give their views, on
the  understanding  that,  in  any  case,  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  containing 
the  conclusions  and
recommendations of the panel will be submitted to the
General Assembly for consideration and decision.
These are essential conditions if we wish to abide
by the procedures in force and the relevant established
practices  of  the  Organization.  These  conditions  would
only strengthen the credibility of the panel and help it
to enjoy support from Member States.
Mr.  De  Rivero  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As
coordinator of the Rio Group, I would like to make this
statement  on  behalf  of  Argentina,  Bolivia,  Brazil,
Ecuador,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Chile,  El  Salvador,
Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Mexico,  Nicaragua,
Paraguay,  Panama,  Peru,  Dominican  Republic,
Uruguay  and  Venezuela,  which  are  all  member  States
of the principal mechanism of political coordination in
Latin America.
We  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General for his candid report on the implementation of
the Millennium Declaration. The Rio Group shares his
diagnosis, concerns and proposals.
The  Rio  Group  is  firmly  convinced  that  the
international  order,  which  must  prevail  in  the  world,
9
A/58/PV.23
needs to be based on multilateralism and respect for the
international  law.  It  is  imperative  to  strengthen  the
United  Nations  system  and  to  consolidate  clear  and
consistent legal norms that allow us to act with vigour,
efficiency  and  legitimacy  to  confront  the  threats  and
challenges in the areas of peace, international security
and development.
In this regard, we are in complete agreement with
the Secretary-General’s report. First, there is a need for
prompt  and  urgent  reform  of  the  Organization.  This
reform  must  be  based  on  the  universal  values  of  the
San  Francisco  Charter,  which  are  still  in  force,  and
must be focused principally on the main organs of the
Organization and their interrelationships. The reform of
the Security Council must be based on its composition,
process of decision-making and working methods.
The  General  Assembly  requires  an  immediate
reorganization  of  its  working  methods  and  work
programme.  In  this  manner,  as  the  most  democratic
organ of the system, it can restore its central role as a
universal  and  political  forum  for  addressing 
the
important  issues  and  concerns  of  the  international
community, in relation to either international peace and
security  or  economic  and 
social  development.
Furthermore,  we  must  ensure  that  its  decisions  are
complied with.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  requires
rationalization  and  greater  scope  of  activity  to  work
effectively  to  promote  development  and  inclusive
globalization.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  said,  this
requires  us  to  rethink  the  relationship  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  as
well as to attain greater participation of the developing
countries 
international  economic  decision-
making  process.  The  Secretariat  must  continue  to
improve 
its
relationships  with  Member  States.  Along  with  all  of
this,  we  need  to  insure  better  coordination  among  the
various organs.
its  management,  accountability  and 
the 
in 
Secondly,  the  Rio  Group  also  subscribes  to  the
proposal  that  greater  interaction  should  be  achieved
between  the  United  Nations  and  civil  society,  and
especially  non-governmental  organizations  and  the
private sector. The United Nations cannot turn its back
on  these  new  actors  which  are  increasingly  important
in  the  international  system  and  which  have  an  ever
weightier 
the  development  of  our
countries.  We  therefore  look  forward  with  interest  to
influence  on 
10
the recommendations of the high level panel set up by
the  Secretary-General  to  review  relations  between  the
United Nations and civil society.
Thirdly,  the  Rio  Group  notes  with  concern  the
point  made  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report,  to
the  effect  that  in  the  area  of  human  rights  and
democracy, there is a danger that we may lose sight of
some of the important achievements of the last decade.
The  Rio  Group  would  appeal  to  all  States  to  work
harder  to  promote  democracy  and  unreserved  respect
for human rights.
Fourthly, the Rio Group believes that the agenda
and  concerns  in  the  area  of  international  peace  and
security  should  not  overshadow  the  great  challenges
that we face in the area of sustainable development, or
relegate them to a secondary level.
in  response 
The  international  community  has  not  just  the
responsibility,  but  also  the  obligation  to  act  with
determination 
the  proliferation  of
weapons of mass destruction, illicit trafficking in small
arms and light weapons, terrorism, international  crime
and  drug  trafficking  and  in  striving  to  overcome  the
inequities  that  have  been  emerging  in  the  struggle  to
combat these and other contemporary threats.
to 
Nevertheless,  the  international  community  has
also the political and moral obligation to firmly tackle
poverty,  whether  in  the  form  of  deprivation,  social
exclusion  or  unemployment.  We  must  not  forget  that
destitution, hunger  and  poverty  are  the  cause  of  many
of the current crises.
The  Rio  Group  is  committed  to  fulfilling  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Nevertheless,  it  is
concerned that there has been scant progress or even a
step backwards in the area of such crucial objectives as
the  reduction  of  poverty.  The  industrialized  countries
as  well  as 
the
responsibility  to  fulfil  our  commitment  to  attain  these
goals  and  we  need  to  renew  our  efforts  towards  this
purpose.
the  developing  countries  have 
in 
the 
area  of 
cooperation 
The  industrialized  countries  must  fulfil  their
commitments 
for
development,  as  well  as  those  regarding  higher  levels
of national or foreign public and private investment, so
that  Latin  American  and  other  developing  countries
may  achieve  sustained  growth  sufficient  to  reduce
poverty  and  create  employment.  It  is  indispensable
towards that goal and in the advance towards fulfilment
of  the  Doha  agenda,  to  liberalize  the  mechanisms  of
technology transfer and to give effect to the Monterrey
consensus.
innovative responses to them. We are confident that the
composition  and  leadership  of  the  group  will  truly
reflect the membership of the Organization.
A/58/PV.23
to 
introduce 
In  May  of  this  year  in  Cuzco,  the  Presidents  of
the  States  members  of  the  Rio  Group  agreed  that  the
time  had  come 
innovative  financial
mechanisms  to  support  the  efforts  of  our  countries  in
the  strengthening  of  democratic  governance  and
reduction of poverty, paying immediate attention to the
social  demands  of  employment  and  better  incomes,
while  making 
it  possible 
to  achieve  sustainable
economic and social growth.
Experts  from  the  Rio  Group  have  provided
specific proposals that will be reviewed shortly by our
ministers  of  economy  and  finance.  These  initiatives
include,  among  others, 
the  creation  of  regional
authorities  to  govern  investment  in  infrastructure,
better fiscal management through the  reformulation  of
the fiscal goals, the reduction of debt cost by designing
new  debt  instruments  such  as  indexed  bonds,  and  the
creation of a regional trusteeship in Latin America for
private 
the  development  of  public
infrastructure.
investment 
in 
The Rio Group believes that the establishment of
such  innovative  financial  mechanisms  deserves  the
most  serious  attention  on  the  part  of  the  international
community, 
industrialized
countries,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme and the regional and international financial
institutions.
in  particular  by 
the 
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  stating  that  the  Rio
Group  accepts  the  challenge  of  the  Secretary-General
to  achieve  by  2005  a  radical  reform  of  the  United
Nations  and  to  proceed  to  evaluate  at  the  highest
political level, the progress made, the ground lost, and
the  inadequacies  that  we  see  in  the  implementation  of
the Millennium Declaration.
Mr.  Hosseinian  (Iran):  I  would  like  to  join  the
previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  Secretary-General
for  his  reports  on  the  items  and  his  address  in  the
general debate.
Allow me to pay special tribute to the Secretary-
General for his firm leadership of the Organization and
his  continuing  interest  in  the  search  for  practical  and
innovative  solutions.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  his
proposal to invite a group of eminent persons to study
the  challenges  before  the  Organization  and  propose
We fully agree with the Secretary-General that in
the  area  of  peace  and  security,  last  year  was  a  trying
year  for  the  United  Nations;  the  war  in  Iraq  severely
tested  the  principle  of  collective  security  and  the
resilience  of  the  Organization.  Indeed,  maybe  never
since  its  creation  has  the  relevance  of  the  United
Nations  been  so  openly  challenged  and  its  usefulness
questioned.  The  challenge,  in  turn,  even  gave  rise  to
dire  forecasts  depicting  the  Organization  as  moribund
and about to suffer the same fate as that of the League
of Nations.
in 
Iraq  have 
Later  developments 
clearly
demonstrated  that  the  United  Nations  was  right  in
resisting and opposing the unilateral and unsanctioned
invasion  of  a  Member  State.  In  his  opening  statement
to  the  General  Assembly  last  month,  the  Secretary-
General was more explicit in pointing to the unilateral
and  pre-emptive  use  of  force  as  a  fundamental
challenge 
the  principles  on  which,  however
imperfectly,  world  peace  and  stability  have  rested  for
the last 58 years.
to 
Now  there  is  an  absolute  need  to  remedy  the
damage  done  to  the  integrity  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the
international  level.  Recognition  of  the  central  role  of
the United Nations in the rapid transfer of sovereignty
to the Iraqi people would constitute the first necessary
step.
We  agree  with 
the  Secretary-General 
that,
“Whatever  view  each  of  us  may  take  of  the  events  of
recent months, it is vital to all of us that the outcome is
a  stable  and  democratic  Iraq  at  peace  with  itself  and
with its neighbours, and contributing to stability in the
region.” (A/58/PV.7, p. 2)
My  delegation  has  noted  the  reference  of  the
Secretary-General to terrorism and the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction as issues that remained of
great  concern  during 
the  past  year.  Regarding
terrorism,  we  are  pleased  that  he  emphasized  in  his
report the need for taking into account root causes such
as  poverty  and  grievances  over  injustice  in  strategies
aimed  at  reducing  the  incidence  of  terrorist  acts.  We
fully agree that, to maintain together a genuinely global
coalition  against  terrorism,  the  world  will  need  to  see
progress  on  other  fronts  of  the  struggle  for  a  humane
and just world.
11
A/58/PV.23
the 
risks  of 
community  on 
Regarding  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the
Secretary-General  rightly  refers  to  the  concern  of  the
international 
the
development of weapons of mass destruction and their
possible use by State or non-State actors. As suggested,
the  only  powerful  and  legitimate  tool  continues  to  be
universal adherence to, and effective compliance with,
negotiated  multilateral  agreements.  In  that  respect,
universality  of  instruments  on  the  elimination  and  the
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the
Chemical  Weapons  Convention, 
the  Biological
Weapons  Convention  and,  particularly,  the  Treaty  on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is yet to be
achieved.
Our  collective  views  on  the  follow  up  to  the
outcome of the Millennium Summit have already been
presented  by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of
Morocco, who spoke on behalf of the G-77 and China.
Allow me to simply highlight a couple of points.
on 
Financing 
Conference 
The  momentum  that  was  generated  after  the
International 
for
Development  for  at  least  partial  fulfilment  of  the
commitments by the international community seems to
be  dying  down.  That  will  shatter  the  prospects  for
meeting the Millennium Development Goals in general
and  building  a  global  partnership  for  development  in
particular.  The  recent  Cancún  Conference,  that  dealt
with  one  of  the  most  important  components  of  that
partnership, with its inability to produce the favourable
result,  as  well  as  lack  of  progress  on  reform  of
international financial institutions, once again  requires
us to pay urgent and critical attention to the insufficient
voice  of  developing  countries  in  trade,  financial  and
monetary  institutions,  as  well  as  the  imperative  that
their  structures  should  be  reformed  in  favour  of
democratic participation of those countries. The United
Nations  should  continue  to  lead  the  efforts  towards
achieving that objective.
Finally, my delegation has noted the efforts cited
in  the  report  towards  achieving  greater  consistency  of
practices  on  common  support  services,  improving
human  resource  management,  including  the  expansion
of learning and career support programmes, sustaining
positive  financial  trends  of  the  last  two  years  and
enhancing  accountability,  monitoring,  evaluation  and
audit.  Such  collective  endeavours  are  expected  to
increase efficiency within the Organization.
12
Moreover,  the  report  on  the  agenda  for  further
change  submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  provided
Member  States  with  the  opportunity  to  review  results
of  the  reform  process  so  far  and  to  examine  the  new
proposals.
that 
While 
reaffirming 
strengthening 
the
efficiency  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  centrality  in
the international arena is essential to respond to current
and  future  challenges  and  opportunities,  we  believe
that  further  constructive  debate  among  all  Member
States  is  imperative  to  ensure  that  their  demands,
concerns 
those  of
developing countries, are duly addressed.
and  priorities,  particularly 
Mr.  Aboul-Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
wish,  at  the  outset,  to  sincerely  congratulate  the
President  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  fifty-
eighth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  wish  him
every  success  as  he  conducts  the  work  of  this  session
of the Assembly at this important time.
The Secretary-General was absolutely right when
he stated in the introduction of his report on the work
of the Organization (A/58/1) for the past year that there
were  dim  prospects  and  predictions  for  the  future  of
this  international  Organization,  a  prognosis  stemming
from the crises facing the world in 2003. Hence, there
is a need to examine closely ways that would help this
Organization 
challenges.
Notwithstanding the numerous points that the Egyptian
delegation  would  like  to  address  and  comment  on,  I
wish  to  raise  the  point  made  in  the  two  reports
submitted  by  the  Secretary-General.  We  believe  that
the  vision  of  the  Secretary-General,  contained  in  his
report  on 
the  Millennium
Declaration, and the main elements of proposed reform
that make up that vision, merit our attention.
implementation  of 
existing 
tackle 
the 
The  United  Nations  is  an  Organization  for  all
States,  large  or  small.  It  must  meet  the  needs  of  the
existing
international 
challenges,  while 
the
diversity  factor  inherent  in  the  United  Nations  system
at all levels; hence the need for sufficient flexibility in
the system to take all differences into account.
and 
into  consideration 
community 
taking 
tackle 
The  general  debate  of  the  fifty-eighth  session
reflected  a  broad  consensus  on  the  need  to  reform  the
United  Nations  system  in  all  its  aspects,  be  that  from
an  institutional  or  administrative  perspective.  The  call
to reform is based on an important  assumption,  which
is that the United Nations has never faced a challenge
like the one it faces today. It is a challenge to the core
principles  of  the  Organization.  As  the  Secretary-
General himself said in his statement on 23 September
2003, it is a challenge that relates to the unilateral right
to use force preventively or pre-emptively, even at the
risk  of  going  beyond  the  legal  framework  of  the
international Organization.
Accordingly,  this  new  concept  and  approach
advanced  by  some  and  pointed  to  by  others  regarding
the  need  to  introduce  modifications  to  the  multilateral
international  system  so  that  the  system  can  take
preventive or pre-emptive measures, is a philosophical
idea  that  the  whole  international  community  should
carefully  consider  in  depth  before  embarking  on  any
type of reform or change. The Secretary-General, in his
address  on  23  September,  proposed  setting  up  a  high-
level  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to  be  entrusted
with four tasks. That panel would then submit a report
to  the  Secretary-General  before  the  beginning  of  the
fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Secretary-General  would  present  his  recommendations
to the General Assembly at that session.
jurisdiction  of 
the  diversity  of 
the  panel  should  reflect 
Egypt  supports  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal
and reaffirms a number of points: first, the panel needs
to  represent  a  broad  gamut  of  opinion  that  would
reflect 
international  multilateral
systems,  from  the  standpoint  of  culture,  needs  and
geographical diversity. Secondly, the terms of reference
and 
the
intergovernmental  nature  of 
the  United  Nations.
Thirdly,  there  are  already  initiatives  in  existence  that
have  presented  various  ideas  about  the  need  to  make
institutional  reforms  in  the  United  Nations  —  I  am
thinking  in  particular  of  the  ideas  of  the  Secretary-
General  himself  presented 
in  1997  and  1999
concerning  what  is  called  humanitarian  intervention,
namely  the  right  of  the  international  community  to
provide  protection 
the  case  of  human  rights
violations.  Given  the  link  between  the  concepts  of
State  sovereignty  and  stability  and  these  previous
initiatives,  it  seems  important  that  the  proposed  panel
should take into consideration the efforts already made
in this area. It should also be guided by the conclusions
that  have  emerged  from  international  committees  that
have  already  examined 
these  concepts,
possibilities  for  applying  them  and  their  potential
shortcomings.  Fourthly,  we  must  not  prevent  States,
geographical groups or various negotiating group from
presenting their proposals on this vital subject.
in  depth 
in 
A/58/PV.23
Therefore,  right  from  the  start  of  this  panel’s
work, there must be communication between the panel
and  the  General  Assembly  so  that  the  results  of  the
discussion held at the current session can be conveyed
to that panel, thus supplementing and crystallizing their
ideas  and  preventing  an  undue  waste  of  time.  Of
course,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  could
play  a  vital  and  crucial  role  in  this  respect.  Thus  I
propose  that  the  General  Assembly,  at  this  session,
adopt  a  brief  resolution 
the
Secretary-General’s proposal to create this panel, while
restating the vision and the consensus of this Assembly
concerning the need for reform.
that  would  support 
We  have  before  us  now  a  large  number  of
proposed  reforms  —  proposals  that  have  already  been
put  forward  and  that  have  not  been  sufficiently
debated. There are also proposals that will come before
us in the course of this session. The issue of reform is
important  and  is  a  matter  of  concern  for  all  of  us.
Consequently,  this  issue  needs  to  be  addressed  in  a
comprehensive fashion, in the form of proposals in all
in
areas  and  with 
discussing,  endorsing  or  adopting  some  of 
these
proposals.  We  have  a  single  objective  here:  we  must
promote,  develop 
international
multilateral  system  so  as  to  enable  it  to  tackle  all
challenges,  not  just  some  of  them.  Reform  does  not
necessarily  mean  change,  just  as  change  does  not
necessarily mean reform. We need to be fully aware of
that.
the  participation  of  everyone 
adapt 
and 
the 
the 
In  conclusion,  we  have  great  hopes  that  this
discussion will bring about results acceptable to all. We
welcome 
of
convening a high-level dialogue in 2005 regarding the
implementation of the Millennium Declaration and we
hope that everyone will fully participate on the subject
of this reform.
Secretary-General’s 
proposal 
to 
the  Nigerian  delegation 
Mr.  Akinsanya  (Nigeria):  I  wish  to  express  the
appreciation  of 
the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his  report  on
the work of the Organization, as contained in document
A/58/1.  We  also  commend  the  statement  that  the
Secretary-General  made  at 
this
session, a statement that was thought-provoking and in
which  he  has  made  forward-looking  proposals  for  the
reform of our Organization.
the  beginning  of 
My  delegation  also  associates  itself  with  the
statement  made  by  the  distinguished  representative  of
13
A/58/PV.23
the Kingdom of Morocco, on behalf of the Group of 77
and China.
The Secretary-General’s report discusses some of
the  most  pressing  issues  confronting  humanity  —
issues of terrorism, conflict situation, natural disasters,
human  rights,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  poverty  and
sustainable  development.  The  report  not  only  reviews
the  considerable  efforts  of  our  Organization  to  seek
constructive and lasting solutions to these fundamental
problems,  but  also  recognizes  the  complexities  of  the
task confronting the international community.
the 
efforts 
towards 
It  is  a  matter  of  great  concern  that,  in  spite  of
continued 
achievement  of
international peace and security, conflicts and wars still
remain  some  of  the  greatest  challenges  facing  our
Organization.  Nigeria  commends  the  efforts  of  the
United  Nations,  through  the  Security  Council,  in  the
maintenance of international peace and security. While
some  remarkable  successes  have  been  made  in  this
regard, a lot still needs to be done to usher in durable
peace  and  stability  to  conflict  ravaged  areas  of  the
world.
that 
We  commend 
the  continued  efforts  of 
the
Secretary-General  in  his  use  of  preventive  diplomacy,
peacemaking,  peacekeeping  and  peace-building  in  the
discharge  of  his  responsibilities.  To  some  extent,  we
can  say 
the  objectives  of  our  Millennium
Declaration  related  to  conflict  resolution  have  been
met.  For  instance,  there  has  been  a  decline  in  the
number  of  conflicts  and  a  significant  increase  in  the
number of  peace  agreements,  especially  in  Africa.  We
therefore commend the adoption by the United Nations
of  a  comprehensive  and  multidisciplinary  approach  at
conflict prevention and resolution.
In  compliance  with  the  Millennium  Declaration
and consistent with the Charter of the United Nations,
regional  organizations,  with  the  assistance  of  the
United  Nations,  are  becoming  more  focused  and
proactive in the maintenance of international peace and
security  through  the  establishment  of  institutional
cooperation  for  conflict  prevention,  management  and
resolution. 
the
establishment  by  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African  States  (ECOWAS)  of  the  Mechanism  for
Prevention,  Management,  Resolution,
Conflict 
as 
Peacekeeping 
such
complimentary 
ECOWAS
Parliament,  Council  of  Elders  and  the  Mano  River
as  well 
as 
the 
In  West  Africa, 
and  Security, 
for  example, 
institutions 
14
regard, 
the  United  Nations  — 
Women’s  Peace  Network,  are  all  efforts  aimed  at
institutionalizing  our  conflict  prevention  strategy.  In
that 
in  active
collaboration  with  ECOWAS  and  Mano  River  Union
countries  —  is  continuing  to  participate  in  addressing
the  complex  humanitarian,  political  and  security
situations affecting Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and,
recently, Guinea-Bissau.
We commend the continued support of the United
Nations  for  the  ECOWAS  initiative  to  promote  peace,
particularly in Liberia and other countries of the Mano
River  Union,  in  the  belief  that  without  such  dialogue,
efforts  to  address  the  root  causes  of  the  subregion’s
problems will not yield the desired results. Specifically,
with  the  deployment  of  its  vanguard  force,  ECOWAS
has taken the lead role in the restoration of normalcy in
Liberia.  We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the  United
Nations in adopting resolution 1509 (2003). We pledge
our  support  for  that  resolution,  which  effectively
establishes  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia
(UNMIL),  and  urge  the  international  community  to
extend  financial  resources  and  logistical  support  to
ECOWAS  in  order  to  enhance  peace  efforts.  We  also
note  with  satisfaction 
the  United  Nations  active
involvement  in  peace  operations  in  many  parts  of  the
world, 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Sierra  Leone  and
Timor Leste.
including  Afghanistan,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
As the world marks the second anniversary of the
tragic  events  of  11  September  2001,  Nigeria  reaffirms
its  condemnation  of  international  terrorism.  While  we
support the Secretary-General’s view that human rights
must  not  be  sacrificed 
the  struggle  against
international  terrorism,  we  also  believe  that  poverty
and  grievances  over  injustices  are  also  intrinsically
linked  to  terrorism.  We  pledge  our  cooperation  with
other members of the international community, through
bilateral and multilateral efforts, to combat that menace
in all its forms.
in 
As the President of Nigeria, His Excellency Chief
Olusegun  Obasanjo,  said  in  his  statement  to  the
General Assembly on 23 September, Nigeria condemns
the  recent  terrorist  attack  on  the  office  of  the  United
Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq. We also stress our
support  for  Security  Council  resolution  1502  (2003),
on  the  protection  of  civilians  and  United  Nations  and
humanitarian  personnel  in  conflict  zones.  We  also
condemn  all  acts  of  terrorism  in  the  strongest  terms,
the
and  urge 
firm  action  by  all  members  of 
international community to deny support of any kind to
terrorists and their cohorts.
that 
regard, 
The  illicit  trade  and  transfer  of  small  arms  and
light weapons continues to be a cause of concern to the
international  community,  and  to  developing  countries
in particular, as it contributes to conflicts and political
instability.  The  excessive  accumulation  and  easy
availability  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  hinders
peace-building  and  development  efforts  and  threaten
In 
human  security. 
the  ECOWAS
Moratorium  on 
the  Importation,  Exportation  and
Manufacture  of  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in
West  Africa  has  been  a  useful  mechanism  for  a
coordinated  and  sustainable  regional  approach 
in
controlling that menace.
reaffirms 
the
Programme  of  Action  adopted  by  the  United  Nations
first  Biennial  Meeting  of  States  to  Consider  the
Implementation  of 
to
Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in
Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,
which was held in July 2003. We urge the international
community to control the movement of those weapons,
especially  to  non-State  actors.  We  also  call  for  the
elaboration  of 
international
legally  binding 
instrument to combat illegal trafficking.
the  Programme  of  Action 
commitment 
Nigeria 
its 
to 
a 
While  we  note  the  progressive  decrease  in  the
production  and  transfer  of  landmines,  it  is  regrettable
that  landmines  continue  to  impede  the  development
and security of populations, especially in some African
States  emerging  from  conflict.  We  should  therefore
strengthen  our  support  for  the  United  Nations  mine
action,  as  it  is  the  only  way  to  curb  the  menace  of
landmines.
the 
international  community 
The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  continues  to  pose  a
grave  challenge  to  our  efforts  at  development.  We
appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
contribution  of 
in
combating  the  HIV/AIDS  scourge,  particularly  in
Africa.  We  also  endorse  the  African  Union’s  plan  of
action, adopted at its special summit of African leaders,
to intensify their efforts and mobilize resources for the
prevention of the disease and for the care and treatment
of people infected by it.
Nigeria  commends  the  Secretary-General  for  the
establishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is aimed at mobilizing
the  necessary  finances  to  address  the  AIDS  epidemic.
A/58/PV.23
We call on the international community to demonstrate
firm commitment to contribute generously to the Fund.
The Millennium Declaration resolved to eliminate
poverty by launching a sustained campaign to make the
right to development a reality for all. In order to reduce
poverty  and  promote  development,  it  is  essential  to
achieve  sustained  and  broad-based  economic  growth.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  highlighted
priority  areas 
including
commitments  made  by  developed  nations,  such  as
increased  official  development  assistance,  flows  of
foreign  direct  investment  and  improved  market  access
for  exports  from  developing  countries.  We  therefore
believe  that  if  the  international  community  is  to  meet
and  poverty-eradication  goals,
its  development 
deliberate  efforts  should  be  made 
to  accelerate
economic growth in developing countries.
that  must  be  addressed, 
the  breakdown  of 
In  addition,  given 
the
negotiations  of 
the  World  Trade  Organization  at
Cancún,  Nigeria  believes  that  practical  efforts  must
also be made to put the Cancún process back on track,
with renewed commitments from capitals and political
will to break the deadlock.
acknowledge 
development.  We 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s
Through 
(NEPAD),  African  countries  have
Development 
their  own  social  and
accepted  responsibility  for 
economic 
the
importance  of  sound  national  policies  and  good
governance  as  prerequisites  for  poverty  reduction  and
sustained  socio-economic  development.  We  therefore
welcome the fulsome support for NEPAD, contained in
General Assembly resolution 57/300, of 2002. We also
urge  that  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,
which was created to ensure a coherent and integrated
approach by the United Nations, be adequately funded
to enable it to discharge its responsibility credibly.
law  have 
international 
The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other
sources  of 
established
conditions  under  which  justice  and  respect  for  the
obligations  arising  from  treaties  can  be  maintained.
The rule of law is becoming more widely accepted, and
States  are  increasingly  employing  treaties  to  regulate
their relations.
In conclusion, Nigeria is pleased to note that the
Secretary-General  has  made  commendable  efforts
towards 
the
the  various
Organization.  We  are  satisfied  with 
initiatives that  have  been  put  in  place,  and  pledge  our
the  effectiveness  of 
strengthening 
15
A/58/PV.23
continued  cooperation  in  his  efforts  to  strengthen  the
Organization.
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  Let  me  begin  by
associating  myself  with  the  statement  made  by  the
representative  of  Morocco,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of
77 and China.
When  the  bomb  went  off  at  the  United  Nations
offices  in  Baghdad  on  19  August  2003,  it  not  only
shattered  the  lives  of  our  dear  colleagues,  it  also
marked  the  end  of  innocence  for  the  Organization,
which  for  nearly  six  decades  had  regarded  itself  as  a
universally  accepted  and  neutral  actor.  The  Secretary-
General  described  the  attack  as  “a  direct  challenge  to
the  vision  of  global  solidarity  and  collective  security
rooted  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and
articulated in the Millennium  Declaration.”  (A/58/323,
para.  2).  That  makes 
the  report
(A/58/323)  on 
the  United
Nations  Millennium  Declaration  perhaps  one  of  the
most  important  debates  to  be  held  in  a  long  time.  We
thank Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  presenting  us
with  such  a  bold,  candid  and  challenging  report  that
allows  us  to  engage  the  urgent  issues  that  face  the
Organization.
the  debate  on 
implementation  of 
the 
It  is  also  heartening  that  the  heads  of  State  and
Government,  ministers  and  other  high-level  officials
who participated in the general debate overwhelmingly
spoke of the challenge that the United Nations faces at
the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century,  and  that  they
supported the Secretary-General’s intention to focus on
the reform of the United Nations.
In  his  statement  during 
the  general  debate,
President Mbeki said that recent dramatic events have
“raised  important  and  disturbing  questions  about
the  very  future  of  the  United  Nations.  Central
among  them  is  the  question,  does  the  United
Nations  have  a  future  as  a  strong  and  effective
multilateral organization enjoying the confidence
of  the  peoples  of  the  world  and  capable  of
addressing  the  matters  that  are  of  concern  to  all
humanity?” (A/58/PV.7, p. 23)
President Mbeki also stated that
“there  is  no  way  in  which  we  could  advance  the
interests of the people, the majority of whom are
poor,  outside  the  context  of  a  strong,  effective
and  popularly  accepted  United  Nations”.  (ibid,
p. 24)
16
formulate 
My  Government  welcomes  the  intention  of  the
to  appoint  a  panel  of  eminent
Secretary-General 
recommendations  aimed  at
persons 
to 
the  overall  effectiveness  and  eventual
improving 
transformation  of  the  United  Nations.  We  agree  with
the Secretary-General that the panel should look at the
relationship  among  the  major  bodies  of  the  United
Nations, 
the
Economic and Social Council and the Security Council.
In that process the importance of the General Assembly
as  the  main  decision-making  body  of  the  United
Nations, 
in  which  all  Member  States  participate
equally,  needs  to  be  enhanced.  It  is  equally  important
that  the  relationship  between  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions and the United Nations should form part of
that review.
the  General  Assembly, 
including 
Everything  we  do  in  the  United  Nations  is
premised  on  the  common  values  that  were  reaffirmed
in 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  namely,  freedom,
equality,  solidarity,  tolerance,  respect  for  nature  and
shared  responsibility.  While  we  continue  to  work  on
the 
implementation  of  our  socio-economic  goals,
respect  for  human  dignity  remains  central  to  our
common  objectives.  As  an  institution  we  have  to
embody  the  highest  aspirations  of  human  rights,
democracy and good governance.
While  South  Africa  remains  fully  committed  to
combating  terrorism  in  all  its  manifestations,  we
believe  that  human  rights  should  not  be  sacrificed  for
short-term goals in the fight against terrorism. We have
to take into consideration the unintended consequences
the  fight  against  terrorism  may  have.  In  referring  to
terrorism, the Secretary-General has noted that
“in  fighting  against  it,  we  run  the  risk  of
sacrificing a great deal in terms of human rights,
democracy and good governance. Tolerance is too
often the first casualty of a ‘war on terror’, which
is  widely  perceived,  especially  by  Muslims,  as  a
war  against  Islam.  To  go  down  that  path  would
hand 
their
dreams”. (A/58/323, para. 75)
In the Millennium Declaration heads of State and
terrorists  a  victory  beyond 
the 
Government stated that
“the central challenge we face today is to ensure
that globalization becomes a positive force for all
the world’s people”. (resolution 55/2, para. 5)
the 
presented 
The  United  Nations  has  done  its  best  to  try  to
mitigate  the  effects  of  globalization.  Two  of  the  most
recent  United  Nations  meetings  have  provided  the
international  community  with  a  platform  to  address
those  global  challenges.  The  International  Conference
on  Financing  for  Development  led  to  the  Monterrey
Consensus,  which 
international
community with a new framework for cooperation. The
World Summit on Sustainable Development resulted in
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation,  which
addresses  fundamental  issues  of  underdevelopment,
such as clean water, basic sanitation  and protection of
the  environment.  The  outcomes  of  those  conferences
form  part  of 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  However,  as  the
Secretary-General  states  in  his  report,  the  progress
towards  achieving  the  overarching  goal  of  halving
poverty by 2015 will require greater commitment from
the international community.
the  broader  effort 
to  achieve 
The  march  towards  the  achievement  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  will  be  a  long  and
arduous  one,  with  numerous  obstacles.  Developing
countries  will  need  the  support  of,  and  partnership
with,  developed  countries, 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  and  the  United  Nations  system.  The  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  is  already  in
place to promote such partnerships. In the Millennium
Declaration 
special  needs  of  Africa  were
highlighted for that particular reason. We hope that the
concerns  of  Africa  will  continue  to  be  considered
integral  to  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Declaration.
the 
The  outcome  of  the  Ministerial  Meeting  of  the
World  Trade  Organization  held  recently  in  Cancún,
Mexico,  underlined  the  need  for  an  open,  fair  and
rules-based  multilateral  trading  system.  It  is  now
evident 
international
community  to  address  the  concerns  of  developing
countries  will  lead  to  increased  poverty  and  make  it
even  harder  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.
inability  of 
that 
the 
the 
tuberculosis 
The  HIV/AIDS, 
and  malaria
pandemic continues to devastate the African continent.
As  a  country  and  as  a  region,  our  heads  of  State  and
Government  have  on  numerous  occasions  expressed
and  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  combating  those
communicable  diseases  in  all  their  manifestations.
During  the  recent  high-level  meetings  devoted  to  the
implementation  of  the  Declaration  of  Commitment  on
A/58/PV.23
HIV/AIDS,  numerous  States,  including  South  Africa,
reported significant examples of real implementation of
the targets agreed to in the outcome document.
funds 
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria  has  rapidly  developed 
into  an  effective
multilateral institution able to allocate large additional
resources  to  projects  directed  to  fight  against  those
diseases of poverty. Thus far, the Fund has managed to
disburse 
to  public  and  private  partners,
particularly  in  developing  countries,  in  support  of
prevention and treatment programmes. However, while
contributions  by  major 
foundations,  private  and
Government donors have been forthcoming, the Global
Fund remains insufficiently funded. We therefore wish
to  urge  all  Member  States  to  show  their  commitment
through increased contributions to the Fund.
to 
challenges 
The  past  12  months  have 
indeed  presented
tremendous 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  The  war  against  Iraq
and  the  escalation  of  the  conflicts  in  Liberia  and  the
eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo have placed
the 
the  Organization  under  sharp,  and
sometimes negative, public scrutiny.
role  of 
While  welcoming  the  deployment  of  ad  hoc
multinational  forces  to  provide  stability  and  a  smooth
entry  for  eventual  peacekeeping  missions  in  Liberia
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we
nevertheless  concur  with  the  Secretary-General  that
they raise important questions about the kind resources
required to ensure the success of peacekeeping.  In the
case  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we
believe  that  an  honest  assessment  of  the  situation
would  have  revealed  to  the  Security  Council  the  need
to mandate, from the beginning, the deployment of the
United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  (MONUC)  under
Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  backed  up  with  the
necessary  robust  capabilities  to  ensure  its  credibility.
Robust peacekeeping requires the strong and sustained
support  of  all  Member  States,  both  developed  and
developing.  Developing  countries  should  not  be  the
only  ones  shouldering  what  is  a  key  United  Nations
responsibility.
in 
We, as Member States, are continuously engaged
in several negotiations where we review and, at times,
establish additional mandates for the United Nations. It
is imperative that we provide the Organization with the
necessary resources to fulfil those mandated activities.
17
A/58/PV.23
it 
that 
receives  adequate 
The  success  of  the  Organization  depends  not  only  on
our political support but also on the extent to which we
ensure 
financial  and
administrative resources to support it in the completion
of  its  task  without  having  to  resort  to  extrabudgetary
funding.  We  therefore  support  a  more  realistic  budget
in  which 
the  Organization  will
determine the resources needed, and not vice-versa.
the  priorities  of 
At  this  time,  we  are  passing  through  a  period
when  the  credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the  entire
United  Nations  is  being  questioned.  The  General
Assembly is seen as an organ that has lost its focus and
that concentrates on statements and resolutions that are
often  ignored.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  is
seen  as  being  out  of  step  with  the  rapidly  changing
socio-economic challenges. The Security Council is not
representative 
current  United  Nations
membership, and its decisions are viewed increasingly
as lacking credibility.
the 
of 
The  threat  to  international  security  posed  by  all
weapons  of  mass  destruction  remains  a  critical
concern.  Equally, 
the  unrestrained  build-up  of
conventional  weapons  beyond  a  level  which  can  be
considered legitimate for self-defence purposes poses a
daily  threat  to  the  physical  safety  of  people  in  many
countries  around  the  world.  The  proliferation  of  small
arms  and  light  weapons  disrupts  the  normal  functions
of society.
The United Nations is uniquely placed to project
global assurance in a time of uncertainty. The survival
of  the  multilateral  system  demands  that  the  United
Nations  address  equally  the  concerns  of  peace  and
security  as  well  as  underdevelopment,  as  a  way  to
ensure that the interests of powerful States,  as well as
those  of  smaller  States,  are  pursued  as  a  collective
global effort. We must avoid a situation in which either
the  powerful  or  the  disempowered  States  do  not  have
their particular interests addressed. The United Nations
was  founded  nearly  60  years  ago  to  collectively
address the needs of the world. We cannot afford to fail
now.
Mr.  Lovald  (Norway):  We  have  a  thought-
provoking  and  challenging  report  before  us  on  the
implementation of the Millennium Declaration. I would
like to thank the Secretary-General for his introduction
to the report and for pointing out the challenges to our
common security agenda so clearly.
18
The report takes a frank and focused approach to
our shortcomings — both the shortcomings of Member
countries  in  living  up  to  the  obligations  set  out  in  the
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  shortcomings  of  the
Organization  itself  in  fulfilling  its  mandates.  The
Norwegian  Government  agrees  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  the  time  has  come  for  a  hard  look  at
fundamental  policy  issues  and  for  a  review  of  the
structural  changes  that  may  be  needed  to  deal  with
them.
We  have  seen  how  international  terrorism  is
trying to undermine our common security agenda. The
vicious  attacks  on  United  Nations  headquarters  in
Baghdad  were,  in  the  Secretary-General’s  own  words,
proof  of  a  direct  challenge  to  the  vision  of  global
security, rooted in the United Nations Charter.
This is a challenge to us all, and one that we must
face with determination and resolve. It must be treated
like any other serious threat to international peace and
security.  But  that  resolve  must  result  in  much  more
than  swift  retribution.  It  is  essential  to  eliminate  the
root causes of terrorism.
The  Norwegian  Government  is  firmly  convinced
that  there  are  clear  links  between  peace  and  security,
sustainable development in the broader sense, and good
governance  and  respect  for  human  rights.  Every
country  bears  the  main  responsibility  for  its  own
development,  and  this  includes  the  responsibility  for
creating  and  fine-tuning  national  mechanisms  for
sharing  political,  social  and  economic  resources  and
ensuring 
liberties,  gender
equality  and  human  rights  —  in  other  words,  the
responsibility for building a democratic society.
the  protection  of  civil 
In  our  endeavours  to  improve  on,  and,  when
necessary,  change  the  structure  and  functions  of  the
United  Nations  and  of  other  international  institutions,
we  must  build  on  those  democratic  principles  and
create a  common, revitalized security agenda that will
enable us to meet new challenges.
The  Secretary-General’s 
these
interconnected  issues  makes  it  very  clear  that  what  is
needed  is  change,  both  in  the  way  we  deal  with  our
common  challenges  and  in  the  institutions  we  have
established 
them.  The  Norwegian
Government agrees that we must return to the vision of
global  solidarity  and  collective  security  expressed  in
the Millennium Declaration. Norway’s views on reform
of the United Nations and its institutions and processes
to  deal  with 
report 
on 
are  well  known.  We  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  we
share the Secretary-General’s vision in this respect. We
applaud his proposal to establish a high-level panel to
review 
issues  and  make  recommendations,
including  recommendations  on  ways  of  strengthening
the  United  Nations.  We  are 
to
participating in such discussions.
looking  forward 
these 
I would now like to turn to development and the
follow-up  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We
are  pleased  to  note  the  emphasis  on  the  eighth
Millennium  Development  Goal  —  the  commitment  to
develop a global partnership for development — in the
Secretary-General’s  report.  This  is  the  glue  that  binds
all the Millennium Development Goals together into a
comprehensive  development  strategy.  Thus  we  must
achieve  the  eighth  Millennium  Development  Goal  in
order to be able to achieve the others. There can be no
compromise or holding back in this endeavour. It must
be followed up just as rigorously as the other seven.
endorses 
The  Norwegian  Government 
the
Secretary-General’s  suggestion  that  donor  countries
should  agree  among 
time-bound
deadlines  for  the  pledges  contained  in  the  eighth
Millennium Development Goal, similar to those for the
other seven. In our view, it is particularly important to
set  ambitious  deadlines  for  trade,  debt  relief  and
official  development  assistance.  Norway  will  work
towards  agreement  on 
the
Organization 
and
Development  (OECD)  and  other  forums.  This  would
also  make  it  necessary  to  set  up  a  universal  reporting
system  for  donor  countries  on  progress 
towards
achieving  the  eighth  goal.  The  Nordic  countries  are
already  in  the  process  of  implementing  such  a  system
on a voluntary basis.
in 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
such  deadlines 
themselves  on 
But  time-bound  targets  are  not  enough  in  and  of
themselves.  I  would  also  like  to  stress  the  importance
of policy coherence. This is the responsibility of donor
countries,  and  we  must  ensure 
the  coordination,
consistency  and  coherence  of  all  policies  relating  to
global  poverty  and  attainment  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  Policy  coherence  also  entails  the
systematic  promotion  of  mutually  reinforcing  actions
by  national  and  international  decision-makers,  which
will create synergies in our efforts to fight poverty.
If we are to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals  and  win  the  war  on  poverty,  we  must  make
A/58/PV.23
changes  and  mobilize  resources  in  at  least  four  areas
simultaneously.
First, international framework conditions for debt
reduction, trade and investment must be improved and
angled  more  towards  the  Millennium  Development
Goals. We must continue to build on the positive trends
and 
from  Monterrey,
Johannesburg and Doha.
emanating 
decisions 
Secondly,  the  developing  countries  themselves
need  to  assign  priorities,  draw  up  strategies,  invest  in
human  resources  and 
implement  poverty-oriented
policies  based  on  good  governance  and  respect  for
human  rights.  Again,  as  agreed  at  Monterrey,  such
efforts need to be matched with stronger support from
developed countries.
Thirdly,  official  development  assistance  should
be increased considerably. The necessity for this cannot
be overemphasized. We think that a clear and concrete
plan,  with  time  limits,  should  be  set  for  the  necessary
increases  in  official  development  assistance.  Official
development  assistance  is  an  essential  development
tool  for  achieving  the  hard  targets  such  as  halving
poverty,  achieving  universal  primary  education  and
reversing the spread of killer diseases.
Fourthly,  we  must  make  a  concerted  effort  to
ensure that the Millennium Development Goals are the
focus of both global and national action. We must build
new  coalitions  for  action  to  achieve  them  in  both
developed  and  developing  countries.  To  do  that,  we
must also mobilize the private sector and the enormous
resources  of  civil  society.  New  partnerships  must  be
explored that can unleash unexploited potential in these
sectors.
In conclusion, I would like to mention a fifth area
where  progress  is  essential  if  we  are  to  achieve  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  is  meeting  the
special  needs  of  Africa.  It  is  a  challenge  that,  in  one
way or another, involves practically all eight goals. We
must be aware of the  real  magnitude of this challenge
and  deal  with  it  accordingly.  That  applies  both  to  the
international  community  and  to  the  African  countries
themselves.  We  commend  the  African  leaders  on  the
initiative  of 
for  Africa’s
development  and  on  their  willingness  to  tackle  the
continent’s diverse and difficult problems.
the  New  Partnership 
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  You  and  your
team,  Sir,  have  been  displaying  a  spirit  of  remarkable
19
A/58/PV.23
collegial leadership. It is worthy of our admiration and
our support.
Both the reports of the Secretary-General, the one
on the work of the Organization (A/58/1) and the other
on  the  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the  Millennium
Summit  (A/58/323)  are  products  that  represent  a  high
order  of  professionalism.  They  underscore 
the
geopolitical realities that have provided the  matrix for
United  Nations  activities  over  the  past  year.  They
reaffirm the sobering facts  and  serious  challenges  that
need  to  be  faced  and  overcome,  if  lasting  peace  and
unfettered  development, 
the
Millennium Declaration, are to be achieved.
envisioned 
as 
in 
We  find  this  joint  debate  on  both  reports  most
worthwhile. We would have liked, however, to see the
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  issued  six
weeks prior to the session’s commencement. We would
also endorse the idea that several closely linked reports
be combined into a single document.
The Secretary-General is both profound and wise
when  he  cautions  that,  “In  the  area  of  peace  and
security,  in  particular,  consensus  expressed  or  implied
in the Declaration now looks less solid than it did three
years ago”. (A/58/323/para. 3)
When  he  expresses  concern  about  the  deep
division within the international community and refers
to the accusation of double agendas and preferences for
narrow national gains over broader collective interests,
it confirms our apprehension that we do not learn from
history. In concluding, the Secretary-General reaffirms
his strong resolve to conduct reviews and reform of the
world  body  to  render  it  greater  flexibility  and  more
credibility. Such determination is reassuring.
for  strengthening 
Bangladesh  strongly  supports 
the  Secretary-
General’s  call 
the  multilateral
institutions through effective reforms in order to adapt
to the emerging challenges of the twenty-first century.
We  must  work  together  seriously  to  respond  to  his
appeals to focus on the principal organs of the United
Nations  —  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and
the
Social  Council, 
Security  Council.  But 
truly
representative  of  the  aspirations  and  concerns  of  all
Member  States.  They  must  not  perpetuate  current
imbalances,  nor  respond  only  to  transitory  phases.
Anything 
international
community  into  situations  for  all  times  cannot  be
stabilizing.
the  Trusteeship  Council  and 
reforms  must  be 
that  purports 
lock 
the 
to 
20
We  share  the  Secretary-General’s  concerns  over
the  serious  setbacks  and  threats  to  international  peace
and  security  during  the  past  year.  The  war  in  Iraq,  in
varying intensity, continues to test the credibility of the
United Nations and the principle of collective security,
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  and  reaffirmed  in  the
Millennium  Declaration.  The  central  and  effective
United  Nations  role 
the  post-war
economic and political reconstruction in Iraq is critical
to the resolution of the current impasse.
in  facilitating 
The situation in Palestine worsens by the day. The
spiralling  violence  continues  unabated.  The  attack  on
Syria  yesterday,  which  has  been  condemned  by  my
Government, cannot, and will not, advance the cause of
peace;  indeed,  on  the  contrary,  it  has  contributed  to
exacerbating the already volatile situation. The United
Nations  must  use  the  totality  of  its  capacity  in  all  its
organs to resume the peace process and realize the two-
State solution.
My  delegation  has  noted  the  reference  made  by
the  Secretary-General  to  proliferation  and  weapons  of
mass  destruction  as  issues  of  great  concern.  On
terrorism,  he  has  emphasized  the  need  to  take  into
account  root  causes  such  as  poverty  and  grievances
over injustices. We cannot agree more. We believe that,
to  keep  a  genuine  global  coalition  against  terrorism
together,  there  will  be  need  for  tangible  progress  on
other  fronts  of  the  struggle  for  a  humane  and  just
world.
to 
failed 
Bangladesh  has  never 
respond
effectively and promptly to the Secretary-General’s call
for peacekeeping and peace-building. Over the past two
years,  we  have  participated  in  28  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations,  across  four  continents,  with
over  50,000  military  and  police  personnel.  Most
recently, we have answered the call for participation in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and are poised
to do so in Liberia.  We do so not just because we see
this as advancing our constructive role as an active and
stabilizing  international  actor,  but  also  because  we
want  to  spread  across  the  troubled  parts  of  the  world
the  lesson  and  axiom  we  have  learned  from  our  own
experience 
take  place,
conflicts  must  first  cease.  Hence,  also,  our  interest  in
the  United  Nations  conflict  prevention  exercises,  in
which we have played the role of facilitator.
that,  for  development 
to 
For  billions  around 
the  world,  non-military
threats  to  security  remain  the  highest  priority.  These
in  both  his 
include  extreme  poverty,  environmental  degradation,
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  The  Secretary-General  has
done well to apply special focus on the socio-economic
agenda 
reports.  The  Millennium
Development  Goals  are  the  best  hope  for  the  world’s
poor. 
Secretary-General’s
assessment of its progress is sobering. It falls short of
our expectations. For most developing nations, the road
to the year 2015 is far too long and the destination far
too elusive.
Unfortunately, 
the 
relief 
We agree with the analysis that the success of the
first  seven  goals  hinges  on  the  fulfilment  of  the
commitments  of  goal  eight,  dealing  with  equitable
trade,  greater  debt 
larger  official
development  assistance  flows  to  developing  countries.
To achieve the Millennium Development Goals, words
must  be  translated  into  deeds  and  commitments  made
must  be  kept.  It  is  not  enough  just  to  set  targets.  It  is
far more important to create the wherewithal to achieve
them. Horrendous experiences have already warned us
that failure in development is not an option.
and 
failures 
to  advance 
The  disappointment  at  Cancún  must  not
overpower  us,  but  instead,  must  spur  us  to  greater
action.  Continued 
trade
negotiations  will  be  to  the  detriment  of  all;  there  will
be no advance unless it is based on equity and fair play.
Unhindered market access and special and preferential
treatment  for  products  of  developing  countries  should
be at the heart of multilateral negotiations. Trade is an
instrument  of  development,  and  must  be  treated  as
such.
in 
A/58/PV.23
women have been the major policy thrusts of the Prime
Minster, Begum Khaleda Zia.
We  believe  our  successes  are  owed  not  just  to
appropriate use of external assistance, though that is a
factor,  but,  more  important,  to  the  prevalence  of  a
culture  of  pluralism, 
the  creation  of  strong  and
accountable democratic institutions and the emergence
of  a  powerful  middleclass  and  a  vibrant  civil  society.
The World Bank has called Bangladesh’s experience a
silent  revolution.  Many  see  this  as  a  paradigm  worth
emulating. We want to share our experience with others
of  comparable  milieu.  We  would  like  the  United
Nations  to  be  a  conduit  for  making  that  possible.  The
United  Nations  will  be  most  relevant  to  developing
countries when it enhances its role as a locater, collator
and transmitter of best practices. It will pass the litmus
test  of  relevance  not  in  drafts  and  declarations,  but  in
operations and implementation.
that 
firmly 
believes 
Bangladesh 
poverty
alleviation  is  best  achieved,  and  development  is  most
possible,  through  a  mix  of  democracy,  pluralism,
moderate  and  progressive  social  ethos,  greater  gender
balance and women’s empowerment, human rights and
accountable  governance.  We  would  encourage  the
through  appropriate
United  Nations 
consultations, 
instituting  peer
reviews  of  development  policies  of  partners  and
Members  States  that  volunteer  themselves  for  the
purpose.  This  could  result  in  rewarding  performance,
show-casing  achievements  and  guiding  investments  to
more fruitful destinations.
the  possibilities  of 
to  examine, 
Africa  deserves  special  attention.  We  applaud
African  leaders  for  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development, for we believe it will place Africa in the
driver’s  seat.  Also  the  needs  of  the  least  developed
countries  must  be  addressed  and 
the  Brussels
Programme  of  Action 
the  Least  Developed
Countries implemented.
for 
I am pleased to be able to say that in recent times,
we in Bangladesh have achieved considerable progress
with regard to our development achievements. We have
cut  our  population  growth  by  half,  curbed  child
mortality  by  a  third,  achieved  food  self-sufficiency,
improved sanitation standards with indigenous methods
and  reduced  emission  of  ozone-depleting  substances
and  vehicular  pollution.  Free  schooling  for  girl
children,  gender  mainstreaming  and  empowerment  of
the  United  Nations, 
The  Secretary-General  has  called  for  a  greater
voice  and  presence  of  developing  countries  in  the
decision-making  process  of  key  international  bodies,
including 
the  World  Trade
Organization  and  international  financial  institutions.
Their policies impact on our societies most profoundly.
As  the  current  chairperson  of  the  Second  Committee,
Bangladesh  will  work  closely  with  Members  States,
global  institutions  and  civil  society  to  join  efforts  to
realize this goal.
Our  leaders,  during  the  past  two  weeks,  have
reaffirmed  that  nations,  big  and  small,  weak  and
powerful,  need  the  United  Nations  as  much  as  the
United  Nations  needs 
through
combining  our  endeavours  that  we  shall  be  able  to
achieve  our  shared  objectives  of  peace,  security,
development  and  harmony.  The  power  of  humanity
them.  It 
is  only 
21
A/58/PV.23
does not lie in the  size  of  its  armies,  but  rather  in  the
strength of its ideas; not in its ability to destroy, but in
its  capacity  to  build;  not  in  its  tendencies  to  despair,
but  in  its  propensity  to  hope.  Let  humanity  tap  its
power for its own benefit.
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
As this is the first time that I am taking the floor since
you,  Sir,  have  become  President,  I  wish  to  sincerely
congratulate  you  on  your  election  to  preside  over  our
work and to assure you of my fullest cooperation. I am
also  grateful 
the
documents  he  has  made  available  to  us,  A/58/1  and
A/58/323, which constitute a very clear foundation for
our debates.
the  Secretary-General 
for 
to 
Allow  me  first  to  endorse  the  remarks  made  by
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Morocco  and  Peru,
who spoke today in the debate on behalf of the Group
of 77 and the Rio Group respectively, groups to which
Guatemala belongs.
to  review 
We  wanted  to  supplement  those  statements  with
some  additional  thoughts,  because  today  we  have  an
opportunity 
the  current  status  of  and
prospects  for  the  United  Nations,  a  very  important
issue,  on  which  we  wish  to  clearly  state  our  position
for 
the  record.  Secondly,  by  way  of  a  general
statement, we concur with the Secretary-General when
he  states,  in  the  last  three  paragraphs  of  his  report  on
the work of the Organization (A/58/1), that, despite its
imperfections, the United Nations continues to embody
the  hopes  of  peoples  and  that  its  work  is  having  a
positive impact on the lives of many people throughout
the  world.  I  can  attest  to  the  fact  that  this  is  true  in
Guatemala,  where 
the  Organization  has  had  and
continues to have a significant impact.
to 
the  Organization 
At the same time, we recognize the vital need to
adapt 
the  world’s  changing
circumstances. In that regard, we also concur with what
the Secretary-General states in his report as well as in
his  address  in  this  very  Hall  on  23  September  2003,
when  he  indicated  that  the  events  of  the  past  few
months were so traumatic for us all and that they have
led  us 
the  kind  of
Organization we want and to take action in the area of
reform.
to  dispassionately 
re-think 
Thirdly,  we  have  read  with  interest  the  report
submitted  by  the  Secretary-General  by  way  of  follow
up to the outcome of the Millennium Declaration. As is
true of any complex project, it provides a mixed picture
22
for  hope 
in which achievements and failures, steps forward and
backward,  grounds 
for
disappointment are intermingled. Perhaps what remains
freshest  in  our  memory  are  the  marked  disagreements
in the Security Council on the disarmament of Iraq and
the  deep  divisions  in  the  international  community
concerning the war and its aftermath.
causes 
and 
in  Cancún.  But  none  of 
We  also  have  in  mind  the  far  from  impressive
performance  of  the  world  economy  recently,  which  is
jeopardizing  the  fulfilment  of  several  key  Millennium
Development  Goals,  as  well  as  the  less  than  positive
outcome  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  Ministerial
Conference,  held 
these
shortcomings  can  cancel  out  our  Organization’s
significant  achievements,  including  the  process  that
culminated  in  the  independence  of  Timor-Leste,  the
collective  response  of  the  membership  to  the  tragic
events  of  11  September  2001  in  combating  terrorism,
the adoption of that unique manifesto — the Monterrey
Consensus — and the strengthening of the Secretariat’s
peacekeeping and peace-building capacity.
Above  and  beyond  this  purely  illustrative  list  of
achievements,  we  believe  that  the  success  of  greatest
import was the very holding of the Millennium Summit
and  the  adoption  of  the  Declaration  which  was  its
outcome. We believe that that Declaration is in itself an
important inherent asset because, among other reasons,
it  provides  a  road  map  or  a  shared  vision  for  all
Members.  It  is  a  tool  for  raising  public  awareness.  It
facilitates  the  task  of  making  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  system  more  coherent,  coordinated  and
cooperative by providing a set of common objectives.
It also should also be a source of improvement in
our  system  of  programming  and  of  setting  budgetary
priorities.  It  gives  quantitative  indicators,  which  make
it  easier  to  gauge  progress.  It  represents  a  foundation
on which we can continue to build, at the international
level as well as within each country. In particular, it is
an  implicit  justification  of  the  need  to  preserve  and
strengthen multilateralism and the United Nations.
to 
the
accounting  that  the  Secretary-General  has  given  us  in
each  of  the  areas  covered  by  the  report  —  peace  and
security, development, human rights and democracy —
our  own  assessment  of  the  work  of  the  Organization
this  year  —  a  year  that  has  been  so  traumatic  for  the
United Nations, when we are still mourning the victims
of  August  19  last  —  in  no  way  alters  our  feeling  that
in  addition 
For  all 
reasons, 
these 
the  United  Nations  remains  an  indispensable  tool  for
humankind. 
be 
improved,
modernized and strengthened.
protected, 
It  must 
That is also why we are ready to heed the appeal
made  by  the  Secretary-General  on  23  September  that
together we reach agreement on ways of improving the
United Nations, so that it may serve the purpose of its
founders:
“to save succeeding generations from the scourge
of war … to reaffirm faith in fundamental human
rights  …  to  establish  conditions  under  which
justice  and  respect  for  the  obligations  arising
from  treaties  and  other  sources  of  international
law can be maintained … [and] to promote social
progress  and  better  standards  of  life  in  larger
freedom.”
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his reports on the work of the Organization
and  on 
the  Millennium
Declaration,  respectively.  We  are  equally  grateful  for
his  statement  during  the  inaugural  session  of  the
General Assembly on 23 September. These reports and
statements  will  contribute  greatly  to  our  discussions
about the relevance and the role of the United Nations
in our fast-changing world.
implementation  of 
the 
tested 
We agree with the Secretary-General that this has
been  a  trying  year  for  the  United  Nations.  The  crisis
over  Iraq  has  severely 
the  principles  of
collective  security.  The  Security  Council’s  refusal  to
authorize 
to  unfair
judgements about the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Council as the primary instrument for the maintenance
of international peace and security. The Council did not
fail; in accordance with the Charter, it set the bar high
for the use of force.
the  use  of  force 
led  some 
The  framers  of  our  Charter,  emerging  from  a
devastating World War, authorized the use of force by
States only in self-defence or collectively, if explicitly
authorized by the Security Council. That principle must
remain  sacrosanct.  Attempting  to  develop  criteria  for
an early authorization of coercive measures to address
certain  types  of  threats  is  fraught  with  danger  for  the
world order. We fear that reopening the issue of the use
of  force,  apart  from  requiring  Charter  revision,  may
open  the  door  to  more  frequent  resort  to  unilateral  or
pre-emptive use of force by certain States.
A/58/PV.23
The United Nations has continued to grapple with
what are now referred to as the old and new threats to
international peace and security. The international legal
framework  to  fight  terrorism  more  effectively 
is
growing,  and  so  is  the  capacity  of  States  acting
cooperatively to counter terrorism.
the  same 
We  agree  that  terrorists  must  be  prevented  from
ever  acquiring  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  States
which possess such weapons, or sensitive  materials  or
technology,  should  exercise  effective  controls  over
them.  At 
time,  we  must  not  allow
exaggeration  of  this  threat.  There  has  been  only  one
incident in Japan where a terrorist group — a non-State
actor  —  actually  resorted  to  the  use  of  chemical
weapons. Otherwise, weapons of mass destruction have
been  used  only  by  States  and  in  the  context  of  State
terrorism. Our attention must not be diverted from the
fact  that  there  are  two  separate  dangers  —  terrorism
and weapons of mass destruction  — and both must be
dealt with effectively and largely separately.
Pakistan  believes  that  while  strengthening  State
capacities to fight terrorism, we must address terrorism
more  comprehensively.  A  legal  definition  of  terrorism
must  be  evolved  which  also  includes  State  terrorism
and  which  rejects  attempts 
the
struggles of peoples for self-determination and foreign
occupation. The fight against terrorism must be waged
without  sacrificing  human  rights.  We  must  evolve
strategies that aim at reducing the resort to terrorism —
especially  by  promoting  solutions  to  longstanding
disputes  and  measures  to  reduce  poverty  and  address
political and economic injustice.
to  de-legitimize 
In  the  arena  of  disarmament,  the  Secretary-
General  has  rightly  called  attention  to  the  risks  of
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and
stressed  the  need  to  strengthen  existing  weapons  of
mass  destruction  regimes.  We  agree  that  applying
double  standards  could  have  adverse  consequences.
The  most  effective  way  to  address  the  danger  of
weapons of mass destruction is through sincere efforts
to  achieve  disarmament  —  of  nuclear,  chemical  and
biological weapons.
in  paragraph  20  of  his 
The  Secretary-General  is  of  the  view  —  as  he
stated 
the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  —  that
weak enforcement measures are the major weakness of
the  existing  nuclear,  chemical  and  biological  regimes,
as  they  “essentially  leave  the  penalties  for  non-
report  on 
23
A/58/PV.23
could, 
Security  Council, 
compliance  unspecified.”  We  believe  that  this  is  not
necessarily  so.  The  major  weakness  is  that  the  non-
proliferation  and  disarmament  bargain 
is  being
unequally  implemented.  Both  horizontal  and  vertical
proliferation  must  be  halted.  The  suggestion  for
possible  action  through  the  United  Nations,  including
the 
be
counterproductive, as is being discovered in the case of
Korea.  Pakistan  has  consistently  held  that  existing
treaty  regimes  should  be  strengthened  to  equitably
address  all  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  issues,
including  non-compliance.  Any  effort  to  complement
the  treaty  regimes  outside  the  treaty  bodies  would  not
only undermine those regimes but also set back efforts
for  disarmament  at  the  global  level.  They  may  indeed
increase the dangers of the use of force, including the
use of weapons of mass destruction.
fact, 
in 
and 
announcements  on 
In South Asia, the Secretary-General has referred
to the exchange of High Commissioners between India
and  Pakistan 
intended
restoration  of  rail,  road  and  air  links  and  other
confidence-building  measures.  He  has  expressed  the
hope that those measures will lead to the resumption of
sustained  dialogue  and  to  real  progress  towards  a
peaceful  settlement  of 
the  outstanding  problems
between  these  two  neighbours,  including  over  Jammu
and Kashmir.
Unfortunately, such hopes have not been realized,
due to India’s refusal to resume dialogue with Pakistan,
especially on the core issue of Kashmir.
On  24  September,  President  Musharraf  proposed
from  this  rostrum  an  action  plan  for  peace  between
India and Pakistan — including the opening of bilateral
dialogue,  a  reciprocal  ceasefire  along  the  Line  of
Control  in  Kashmir,  cessation  of  violence  within
Indian-occupied  Kashmir  by 
forces  and
Kashmiri freedom fighters, enhanced monitoring of the
Line of Control on both sides, and the maintenance of
an  arms  balance,  both  conventional  and  non-
conventional, between the two countries.
Indian 
India  lost  an  opportunity  for  peace  when  it
summarily  rejected  Pakistan’s  action  plan.  We  hope
India will yet reflect and respond positively. This world
body,  and 
the  Secretary-General,  have  a  direct
responsibility,  flowing  from  the  resolutions  of  the
Security Council, to promote and support all measures
for  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Kashmir  dispute,
rightly  described  as  the  most  dangerous  in  the  world.
24
The pledge of the United Nations  — and of India  and
Pakistan — to the people of Jammu and Kashmir must
be honoured.
The Secretary-General’s report illustrates how the
challenge  of  security  in  Afghanistan  casts  a  shadow
over  every  aspect  of  rebuilding  that  war-ravaged
country.  Pakistan  believes 
international
community  has  an  obligation  to  ensure  the  successful
implementation of the Bonn process.
that 
the 
for 
Iraq 
remains  an  urgent  challenge 
the
international  community.  Member  States  must  be
guided  in  this  situation  by  the  objective  of  restoring
Iraq’s sovereignty and political independence; ensuring
its unity and territorial integrity; upholding the right of
the  Iraqi  people  to  determine  their  own  future  and
control  their  natural  resources;  and  respecting  their
religious and cultural traditions and the sanctity of the
holy places.
The  political  and  stabilization  processes  in  Iraq
should  involve,  and  should  be  owned  by,  the  Iraqi
people,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations.  We
trust  that  consensus  will  be  reached  on  such  a
framework  for  Iraq’s  political,  security  and  economic
transition 
in  a  new  Security  Council  resolution,
acceptable to the Iraqi people and enjoying the support
of the regional States.
The  hopes  for  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  revived
by  the  Quartet’s  road  map,  have  now  been  all  but
extinguished.  The  unacceptable  Israeli  aggression
against  Syrian  territory  is  a  flagrant  violation  of
international law, the Charter and all relevant Security
larger
Council  resolutions.  Besides 
conflagration, 
for  a
comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  Middle
East on the basis of resolutions 242 (1967), 338 (1973)
and  1397  (2002).  The  world  must  reject  Israel’s
aggressive actions and revive the hopes for a just peace
where  two  States  —  Palestine  and  Israel  —  can  exist
side by side within viable and recognized boundaries.
threatening  a 
it  undermines  endeavours 
Human  rights  remain  an  essential  part  of  United
Nations work. Human rights bodies, however, must not
be  allowed  to  serve  the  national  or  partisan  political
agendas of some States. Nor should the United Nations
tolerate  selectivity  and  double  standards  in  human
rights,  practices  that  erode  the  credibility  of  our
institutions.  It  is  bizarre  that  our  Organization  should
ignore the premeditated massacre of 2,000 Muslims at
Gujarat,  while  castigating  isolated  misdemeanours  in
so many other countries.
especially  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of
States.
A/58/PV.23
There is a growing recognition  that  development
agenda.  Regrettably, 
the
is  humanity’s 
shared 
international  community 
is  falling  well  short  of
realizing  most  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
The  developing  countries  must,  of  course,  undertake
the  necessary  structural  reforms  at  the  national  level.
But 
their
commitments,  particularly 
areas  of  official
development assistance and equitable trade.
the  developed  countries  must  honour 
in 
For  its  part,  Pakistan  has  embarked  upon  an
ambitious  reform  programme  to  mobilize  domestic
resources  and  build  up  national  capacity  to  meet  the
challenges of development. We are also engaged in the
process  of  preparing  our  national  Millennium
Development Goals report.
Pakistan  believes 
the  objectives  of
sustainable  development  can  be  fully  realized  only
when  we  pursue  an  integrated  approach  whereby
commitments relating to all three pillars of sustainable
development —  economic  growth,  social  development
and  environmental  protection  —  are  honoured  and
implemented by all parties.
that 
inequities 
in 
We  agree  with 
development.  The 
the  Secretary-General 
that
international  trade  can  be  the  most  important  tool  to
generate 
the
international 
trading  system  must  be  eliminated.
Development  should  become  the  gravamen  of  trade
negotiations  and  globalization.  The  Doha  Round  must
genuinely  become  a  development  round.  The  special
programmes  for  Africa,  such  as  the  New  Partnership
for  Africa’s  Development,  and  for  the  least  developed
and 
low 
income  countries  must  be  vigorously
supported.
We  commend 
the  Secretary-General  for  his
consistent  efforts  since  1997 
the
Secretariat.  Pakistan  has  made  its  modest  contribution
to advance these reforms and will continue with those
efforts.
to  streamline 
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the
Organization  must  adapt  to  the  realities  of  today’s
world.  However,  it  is  extremely  important  that  the
prospective  institutional  reforms  do  not  change  the
intergovernmental,  multilateral  and 
representative
nature of this Organization and that such reforms are in
consonance  with 
the  Charter,
the  principles  of 
procedures 
The  General  Assembly’s 
and
processes  can,  of  course,  be  improved  to  enhance
efficiency.  However,  the  weakness  of  the  General
Assembly  has  been  caused  by 
those  who  have
transferred  the  real  responsibility  for  addressing  the
major issues — even those not primarily relating to the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  —  to
the  Security  Council  and  other  organs  and  entities,
some of which are outside the United Nations system.
We  are  not  convinced  that  creating  an  executive
committee,  steering  committee,  select  body  or  any
other  privileged  group  within  the  General  Assembly
would make it more effective. On the contrary, it would
undermine the representative character of the Assembly
and erode the legitimacy of its decisions. We must try
not to import into the Assembly the culture of unequal
relationships  that  afflict  some  other  bodies  of  the
United Nations system.
We  can  all  agree  that  the  Security  Council  is  in
need of reform. It needs to become more representative
and more transparent. Pakistan supports the expansion
of  the  Security  Council.  At  the  same  time,  we  will
continue  to  resist  the  proliferation  of  centres  of
privilege in the Security Council. It is clear that, for the
present,  consensus  within  the  United  Nations  would
favour  the  expansion  of  only  the  non-permanent
elected  members  of  the  Security Council,  and  we  will
support that.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  cannot  be
empowered  to  play  the  central  role  in  economic  and
social  cooperation  merely  by  changing  its  name.  The
real  problem  is  the  unwillingness  of  major  Member
States  to  allow  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to
consider  and  decide  on  central  issues  relating  to  the
management  of  international  economic  and  social
relations.  The  Monterrey  Conference 
the
endeavour 
integrated  mechanism  for
follow-up  and  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of
major  United  Nations  conferences  offers  a  unique
opportunity to enable the Economic and Social Council
and  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole  to  play  a  central
coordinating  role  in  achieving  universal  development
and 
the
international  community,  especially  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
the  socio-economic  goals  endorsed  by 
to  build  an 
and 
25
A/58/PV.23
Pakistan  has  also  proposed  the  setting  up  of  ad
hoc  composite  committees  of  the  General  Assembly,
Security Council and Economic  and  Social  Council  to
address  complex  crises  and  conflict  situations  in  their
political, economic and social dimensions.
We support the presentation of the United Nations
budget  in  a  shorter,  more  strategic  and  results-based
format. Pakistan believes that all mandated activities of
the  United  Nations  should  be  provided  with  adequate
resources.  While  we  support  efforts  to  align  resources
to  the  priorities  of  the  Organization,  we  believe  that
resource allocation should not be used as an instrument
of  policy  for  priority-setting.  We  fully  support  budget
discipline and an efficient use of resources.
Pakistan  would  welcome  the  establishment  of  a
high-level  panel  of  eminent  personalities  to  examine
the  current  challenges  and  recommend  ways  of
strengthening the United Nations through reform of its
institutions  and  processes.  Such  a  panel  should  be
broadly  representative,  interact  with  Member  States,
its
including 
formulate 
recommendations  for  action  and  decision  by 
the
General Assembly.
smaller 
States, 
and 
Mr.  Djumala  (Indonesia):  The  delegation  of
Indonesia welcomes the report of the Secretary-General
on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/58/1),  his  annual
summary of how the United  Nations  has  responded  to
the issues before it in the previous year, as well as his
report  on  the  implementation  of  the  United  Nations
Millennium  Declaration  (A/58/323).  We  are  proud  of
this  opportunity 
this
discussion, in view of the fact that the past year proved
to  be  one  of  the  most  intriguing  that  our  esteemed
Organization has ever seen.
to  make  a  contribution 
to 
Speaking in the general debate on 23 September,
President  Megawati  Soekarnoputri  of  Indonesia  drew
the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  need  to
tackle the scourge of terrorism by ensuring that its root
causes are adequately addressed. As Indonesia, a nation
that  has  twice  in  the  past  year  seen  the  worst  of
terrorism,  has  always  stressed  here  in  the  United
Nations, nothing is an admissible excuse for terrorism.
While  adequate  international  effort  must  be  mobilized
against  it,  therefore,  attention  must  also  be  paid  to
addressing  those  issues  that  might,  in  a  roundabout
way,  provide  justification  to  those  who  might  want  to
engage  in  it.  Of  key  concern  here,  as  President
26
Megawati  indicated,  is  the  pursuit  of  social  and
political justice.
In this regard, it is noteworthy that, in his report,
the  Secretary-General  observes  that  indirect  causes  of
terrorism,  such  as  poverty  and  grievances  borne  from
injustice,  must  be 
in
fashioning strategies aimed at addressing terrorism. We
in  Indonesia  strongly  believe 
that,  by  genuinely
addressing  these  fundamental  issues,  we  will  make  it
more and more difficult for terrorists to find adherents
or strong support.
into  consideration 
taken 
peace 
This  approach 
is  based  on 
and 
the  relationship
between 
development.  While
underdevelopment  should  never  be  used  as  an  excuse
for disturbance of the peace, it unfortunately is always
a  ready  excuse  or  natural  scapegoat.  That  is  why
development  is  the  natural  answer  to  the  problem  of
how 
that
addressing  issues  of  poverty  and  injustice  proves  a
useful tool for combating terrorism.
to  resolve  conflict, 
the  same  way 
in 
Indonesia  notes  with  concern 
the  chronic
shortfalls  in  funding  for  dealing  with  humanitarian
crises  internationally.  Whereas  the  United  Nations
produced,  in  all,  27  consolidated  appeals  for  $5.8
billion  for  humanitarian  assistance,  the  international
response  yielded  only  52  per  cent  of  the  amount
requested.  The  48  per  cent  shortfall  means  that  many
millions of lives, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, may
have  been  placed  in  great  peril  during  the  reporting
period.  In  this  regard,  we  need  to  re-emphasize  that
international  security  is  put  at  risk  when  individual
security  is  put  at  risk.  The  gap  in  funding  must
therefore  be  closed  for  peace  to  prevail  and  for
development to take place.
in 
situation 
to  note 
Iraq,  where 
The  present 
the
humanitarian  crisis  intensifies  almost  daily,  embodies
this  challenge.  We  are  pleased 
the
accomplishments of the United Nations system in  that
country, despite the highly volatile scenario there. Not
the  least  of  these  accomplishments  is  the  courage  and
determination of the system to respond to the needs of
millions  of  ordinary  Iraqis,  whose  only  desire  is  for
peace  and  the  opportunity  to  live  life  in  greater
freedom.
Indonesia is in full agreement with the Secretary-
General’s  identification  of  the  elements  critical  to  the
global  enhancement  of  the  process  of  development.
There is agreement on the need for new and increased
financing  for  development,  as  mandated  by 
the
Monterrey Consensus. Likewise, there is agreement on
the  fact  that  cooperation  from  the  private  sector  also
facilitates  financing  of  the  development  process  and
helps  to  mobilize  societies  towards  attaining  national
development goals.
While  the  role  of  the  private  sector  is  not  to  be
ignored,  it  is  equally  important  that  Governments  live
up  to  their  responsibility  to  create  an  environment
conducive  to  development.  Through  Governments’
coherently  organized  policies 
and  programmes,
sustainable  development  must  be  placed  well  within
the reach of individuals, groups and institutions in their
societies.
However,  without  international  cooperation  to
achieve  internationally  accepted  development  goals,
including those of the Millennium Declaration, national
efforts  will  be  seriously  handicapped.  To  aim  for  the
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
within  the  specific  timeframes  is  not  impractical  or
utopian,  as  some  might  be  tempted  to  believe.  In
paragraph 49 of his report on the implementation of the
Millennium  Declaration,  the  Secretary-General  made
the point very clearly:
“Rapid advances in some areas have shown
that  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  while
ambitious,  can  be  reached  at  the  global  level.
They are still achievable at the national level for
nearly every country.” (A/58/323)
But  success  in  meeting  global  challenges,  he
observes, hinges upon a demonstration of the necessary
political will at the global level.
Apart  from  concessions  for  poor  countries  to
access  cheaply  produced  generic  drugs  to  combat  the
HIV/AIDS epidemic, nothing else of note has occurred.
It  was  estimated  that  if  the  summit  in  Cancún  had
negotiated  solid  free  trade  agreements,  it  would  have
generated  some  $530  billion  in  income  gains  for  both
rich and poor countries and reduced the number of the
world’s  poor  by  as  many  as  144  million  people  by
2015.
To  promote  South-South  cooperation,  Indonesia
hosted,  last  July,  the  two-day  Asian-African  Sub-
regional  Organizations  Conference  in  Bandung.  That
Conference  was  held  to  establish  a  New  Strategic
Partnership  between  Asia  and  Africa,  the  foundation
for which was laid in 1955. Using their differences as
strengths  to  complement  each  other,  Asia  and  Africa
will draw lessons from their experiences in overcoming
A/58/PV.23
problems  related  to  political,  social,  economic  and
development  issues,  as  part  of  their  development
processes.
In  this  context,  my  delegation  welcomes  the
outcomes  of  the  recently  held  Tokyo  International
on  African  Development,  which
Conference 
emphasizes  support  for 
the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development as one of its basic themes.
that 
the 
Indonesia 
strongly  urges 
reforms
necessary  to  make  the  United  Nations  system  more
effective  and  efficient  not  be  delayed  any  further.  We
cannot  agree  more  with 
the  Secretary-General’s
observation  that  the  Security  Council  needs  to  be
reformed in order to regain the confidence of States, in
particular  those  of  the  developing  world,  by  showing
itself  to  be  truly  representative  of  their  views  and
interests.  The  Council’s  composition  must  also  reflect
current geopolitical realities. The truth is, we all want a
better,  stronger,  more  capable  United  Nations  that
represents the best hope for multilateralism in a highly
interdependent  world.  For 
the
Organization  must  prove  itself  to  be  flexible  and
adaptable.
to  happen, 
that 
With  regard  to  paragraph  74  of  the  report  —
concerning  the  situation  in  Aceh  —  my  delegation
would like to set the record straight. There has been no
resumption  of  military  activity  against  the  separatist
movement.  What  we  have  is  a  combined  operation,
which  contains  a  humanitarian  aspect  that  has  borne
fruit.  The  Acehnese,  who  had  been  the  victims  of
extortion,  killings  and  other  acts  of 
terrorism
perpetrated  by  the  armed  separatist  movement,  have
shown their full support for the integrated or combined
operation  without  fear  of  retaliation  from  the  armed
separatists.
Besides  the  humanitarian  aspect,  another  aspect
of  the  combined  operation  is  the  revitalization  of  the
civil administration and the implementation of the rule
of law. In the five months since the combined operation
began,  on  19  May  2003,  the  situation  in  Aceh  has
improved  considerably.  Another  positive  development
is  that  hundreds  of  members  of  the  armed  separatist
movement 
surrendered.  The
Government has accepted them and provided them with
vocational  training  so  that  they  will  have  appropriate
skills when they are returned to the community.
voluntarily 
have 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on these items for this meeting.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
27
