United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
50th plenary meeting
Friday, 31 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.50
Official Records
r
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 13
Report of the International Court of Justice
(a) Report of the International Court of Justice
(A/58/4 and Corr. 1)
(b) Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/295)
The  President: May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly
takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice?
It was so decided.
The President: In connection with this item, the
Assembly  also  has  before  it  a  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund  to
Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes through the
International  Court  of  Justice,  which  has  been
circulated in document A/58/295.
I  call  on  Mr.  Shi  Jiuyong,  President  of  the
International Court of Justice.
Mr. Shi Jiuyong (International Court of Justice):
It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly
for the first time in my presidency, on the occasion of
its examination of the report of the International Court
of  Justice  for  the  period  1  August  2002  to  31  July
2003.
This  yearly  contact  which  has  been  established
between  the  Court  and  the  General  Assembly  since
1968  allows  for  an  invaluable  direct  interchange
between these two sister organs of the United Nations.
In particular, I wish to express my sincere thanks to the
Assembly for its continued  interest  in  the  work  of  the
Court,  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United
Nations, whose vocation is  to  deal  with  legal  disputes
submitted  to  it  by  Member  States,  as  well  as  legal
questions  put  to  it  by  other  organs  of  the  United
Nations and duly authorized specialized agencies.
I am particularly pleased to address the Assembly
today under the distinguished presidency of Mr. Julian
R.  Hunte,  Minister  for  External  Affairs,  International
Trade  and  Civil  Aviation  of  Saint  Lucia.  I  offer  you,
Sir,  my  warm  congratulations  on  your  election  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth
session.  You  have  my  sincerest  wishes  for  every
success in his eminent office. I should like particularly
to commend you for your  unflagging  determination  to
pursue  the  struggle  against  the  principal  sources  of
conflict,  and  for  your  vision  of  the  international
community,  which  encompasses  peaceful  coexistence
between  States  and  equity  among  nations  large  and
small,  as  well  as  your  commitment  to  strengthening
civil society and encouraging sustainable development,
in particular in the context of small island States.
The  Court  has,  as  usual,  transmitted  its  annual
report  to  the  Assembly,  and  that  report  has  been
circulated  together  with  an  introductory  summary.  A
corrigendum 
the  case
the  report  relating 
to 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-58976 (E)
*0358976*
A/58/PV.50
concerning  Avena  and  Other  Mexican  Nationals
(Mexico  v. United States of  America)  has  further  been
distributed this week. I will not impose on the General
Assembly a complete reading of those documents, but I
would nevertheless like to summarize and stress  some
of the essential elements therein reported.
the  Assembly 
May  I  begin  by  recalling  that  191  States  are
currently parties to the Statute of the Court, and that 60
of  them  have  accepted  the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of
the  Court  in  accordance  with  Article  36,  paragraph  2,
of the Statute. Furthermore, approximately 300 treaties
refer  to  the  Court  in  relation  to  the  settlement  of
disputes arising from their application or interpretation.
Since  my  predecessor,  President  Guillaume,
addressed 
the
International Court of Justice has been as busy as ever.
As of 31 August 2003, the docket of the Court stood at
25 cases. This number now stands at 23, following the
removal from the Court’s list in early September 2003,
at the joint request of the parties, of two cases brought
before the Court in 1992 by Libya, against the United
Kingdom and against the United States of America, in
respect  of  disputes  concerning  the  interpretation  and
application  of  the  1971  Montreal  Convention  arising
from the aerial incident at Lockerbie.
in  October  2002, 
That 
character. 
Those  cases  come  from  all  over  the  world,  four
being  between  African  States,  one  between  Asian
States, 11 between European States and three between
four  are  of  an
Latin  American  States,  while 
intercontinental 
international
distribution  reflects  the  universal  composition  of  the
Court  itself,  comprised  as  it  currently  is  of  members
from  Brazil,  China,  Egypt,  France,  Germany,  Japan,
Jordan,  Madagascar,  the  Netherlands,  the  Russian
Federation,  Sierra  Leone,  Slovakia, 
the  United
Kingdom, the United States of America and Venezuela.
The  subject  matter  of  the  cases  before  the  Court
is  extremely  varied.  As  is  frequently  the  case,  the
Court’s  docket  contains  a  number  of  cases  concerning
territorial  disputes  between  neighbouring  States
seeking  a  determination  of  their  land  and  maritime
boundaries,  or  a  decision  as  to  which  of  them  has
sovereignty  over  particular  areas.  This  is  the  position
for four cases concerning, respectively, Nicaragua  and
Honduras,  Nicaragua  and  Colombia,  Benin  and  Niger,
and Malaysia and Singapore.
Another classic type of dispute is one in which a
State  complains  of  the  treatment  of  its  nationals  in
2
another  State.  That  is  the  position  in  the  cases  of
Guinea against the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Liechtenstein  against  Germany,  Mexico  against  the
United  States  of  America,  and  the  Republic  of  the
Congo against France.
Other  cases  relate  to  events  that  the  General
Assembly or the Security Council have had to address.
Thus,  Iran  has  brought  proceedings  over  the  alleged
destruction  of  oil  platforms  by  the  United  States  in
1987  and  1988.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Croatia
have,  in  two  separate  cases,  sought  the  condemnation
of  Serbia  and  Montenegro  —  formerly  the  Federal
Republic  of  Yugoslavia  —  for  violation  of  the  1948
International  Convention  on 
the  Prevention  and
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide.  Serbia  and
Montenegro  itself  has  brought  proceedings  against
eight  States  members  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization, challenging the legality of their action in
Kosovo.  Finally,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, in two separate cases, contends that it has been
the  victim  of  armed  aggression  on  the  part  of  Uganda
and Rwanda, respectively.
The Court’s decisions in the course of the period
under  review  include  in  particular  three  Judgments  on
merits  and  two  orders  on  request  for  provisional
measures. In October 2002, the Court gave a Judgment
in the case concerning the land and maritime boundary
between Cameroon and Nigeria (Cameroon v. Nigeria:
Equatorial Guinea intervening) thereby putting an end
to  a  long-standing  territorial  and  frontier  dispute.  The
Court  decided  that  sovereignty  over  Bakassi  lay  with
Cameroon. The Court also determined the boundary in
the Lake Chad area and defined with extreme precision
the course of the land boundary between the two States
in 17 other disputed sectors. The Court then went on to
determine  the  maritime  boundary  between  the  two
States.  Drawing  upon 
its
determination of the land boundary, the Court held that
each  of 
is  under  an  obligation
expeditiously  and  without  condition  to  withdraw  its
administration  and  military  and  police  forces  from
areas falling within the sovereignty of the other. In the
reasoning of its Judgment, the Court also noted that the
implementation  of  the  Judgment  would  provide  the
parties with a beneficial opportunity for cooperation. It
took  note  of  Cameroon’s  undertaking  at  the  hearings
that,
the  consequences  of 
two  States 
the 
“‘faithful  to  its  traditional  policy  of  hospitality
to  afford
and 
‘will  continue 
tolerance’, 
it 
protection  to  Nigerians  living  in  the  Bakassi
Peninsula  and  in  the  Lake  Chad  area’”.  (A/58/4,
para. 19)
Finally, 
responsibility claims against the other.
the  Court 
rejected  each  party’s  State
the  Court  rendered 
In  December  2002, 
its
Judgment  in  the  case  concerning  sovereignty  over
Pulau Ligitan and Pulau Sipadan (Indonesia/Malaysia)
in  which  it  found  that  the  1891  Convention  between
Great Britain and the Netherlands, on which Indonesia
based  its  claim  to  sovereignty  over  the  islands,  could
not be taken to establish a title to sovereignty and that
neither  of  the  parties  had  obtained  title  to  Ligitan  and
Sipadan  by  succession.  The  Court  concluded,  on  the
basis of effectivités —  that is,  activities evidencing an
actual,  continued  exercise  of  State  authority  over  the
islands  —  that  sovereignty  over  the  islands  of  Ligitan
and Sipadan belonged to Malaysia.
The third Judgment rendered by the Court in the
period  in  question  related  to  its  previous  decision  on
preliminary  objections  of  11  July  1996  in  the  case
concerning  application  of  the  Convention  on  the
Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide
(Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  v.  Serbia  and  Montenegro),
in  which  the  Court  had  found,  inter  alia,  that,  on  the
basis of article IX of the Convention on the Prevention
and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide,  it  had
jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute.
In  April  2001,  Serbia  and  Montenegro  filed  an
application for revision of that decision, subsequent to
its  admission  to  the  United  Nations  on  1  November
2000 — a fact which, it contended, proved that it was
not  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  was  not  a  State
party  to  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and  was  not  a  State
party to the genocide Convention prior to that date. In
its Judgment of 3 February 2003, the Court rejected the
request  for  revision  on  the  grounds  that  the  recent
admission of the applicant to the United Nations could
not  be  regarded  as  a  new  fact  within  the  meaning  of
Article 61 of its Statute, capable of founding a request
for revision of the 1996 Judgment. In other words, the
Court  found  that  a  fact  which  had  occurred  several
years  after  a  Judgment  had  been  given  could  not  be
regarded as a new fact for the purposes of the Court’s
revision procedure.
Also in February 2003, the Court issued an order
indicating  provisional  measures  in  the  case  submitted
by  Mexico  on  9  January  2003  concerning  a  dispute
A/58/PV.50
over  alleged  violations  of  the  Vienna  Convention  on
Consular  Relations  with  respect 
to  54  Mexican
nationals  sentenced  to  death  in  certain  States  of  the
United  States  of  America.  The  Court  stated  that  the
United States
for  provisional  measures, 
“‘shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
[three of the Mexican nationals, who are at risk of
execution in the month coming], are not executed
pending final judgment’ in the case; and that the
United  States  ‘shall  inform  the  Court  of  all
measures taken in implementation of the Order’”.
(ibid., para. 22)
In June 2003, the Court issued another order on a
request 
the  case
concerning  certain  criminal  proceedings  in  France  —
Republic of the Congo v. France. In its application of 9
December 2002, the Republic of the Congo had sought
to  institute  proceedings  against  France  with  a  view  to
obtaining  the  annulment  of  the  investigation  and
prosecution  measures  taken  by  the  French  judicial
authorities  further  to  a  complaint  for  crimes  against
humanity  and  torture  filed  by  various  associations
against the President of the Republic of the Congo, the
Congolese  Minister  of 
Interior  and  other
individuals,  including  the  Inspector-General  of  the
Congolese Armed Forces.
the 
in 
The  application  also  stated  that,  in  connection
with  these  proceedings,  an  investigating  judge  of  the
Meaux  Tribunal  de  grande  instance  had  issued  a
warrant for the President of the Republic of the Congo
to  be  examined  as  a  witness.  The  Republic  of  the
Congo  further  stated  that  it  sought  to  found  the
jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  pursuant  to  article  38,
paragraph  5,  of  the  Rules  of  Court,  on  the  consent  of
the  French  Republic,  which  will  certainly  be  given.
This provision in the Rules of Court refers to situations
where  the  applicant  State  proposes  to  found  the
jurisdiction of the Court upon a consent thereto yet to
be given or manifested by the State against which such
application  is  made.  In  such  circumstances,  the  case
does  not  proceed  unless  and  until  the  defendant  State
consents to jurisdiction.
Following France’s consent, given in April 2003,
to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  to  entertain  the
application,  the  case  was  entered  in  the  Court’s  List
and  the  proceedings  were  opened.  The  request  for  the
indication  of  a  provisional  measure,  which 
the
Republic of the Congo had submitted on the same day
3
A/58/PV.50
as the application, was activated also by the acceptance
of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  by  France.  In  that  request,
the  Republic  of  the  Congo  sought  an  order  for  the
immediate  suspension  of 
the  proceedings  being
conducted  by  the  investigating  judge  of  the  Meaux
Tribunal  de  grande 
its  Order  on
provisional measures, however, the Court found, on the
facts  before  it,  that  no  risk  of  irreparable  prejudice
existed  with  regard  to  the  rights  claimed  by  the
applicant and rejected the Congo’s request.
instance. 
In 
The case brought by the Republic of the Congo is
the  first  case  of  the  kind  contemplated  by  article  38,
paragraph  5,  of  the  Rules  of  Court  in  which  the  State
named  as  respondent,  on  being  notified  of 
the
application made against it, has in fact agreed to accept
jurisdiction. The provision whereby such an application
is  ineffective  until  the  other  State  accepts  jurisdiction
was  introduced  to  discourage  proceedings  from  being
brought before the Court for purely political reasons, in
the  absence  of  any  jurisdictional  title.  Nevertheless,  it
remains  open  to  any  State  to  use  this  means  of
extending  an  invitation  to  another  State  to  confer
jurisdiction on the Court in a specific dispute and thus
to  demonstrate 
the  Court.
Furthermore,  since  France  was  free  to  disregard  the
application, the fact that it chose to accept jurisdiction
and  to  appear  and  defend  the  case  is  an  encouraging
tribute to the value of judicial proceedings as a means
of pacific settlement of disputes.
confidence 
its 
in 
its  deliberations  on 
Following  hearings  earlier  this  year,  the  Court
the  Oil
recently  completed 
Platforms (Islamic Republic of Iran v. United States of
America)  case,  concerning  the  destruction  by  United
States  Navy  warships,  in  1987  and  1988,  of  three
offshore oil production complexes owned and operated
by  the  National  Iranian  Oil  Company.  The  Court  will
deliver its Judgment, in this case, in open court shortly
after my return to The Hague.
Following  hearings 
the  Court 
in  September  2003, 
in 
for  Revision  of 
the
the  case  concerning
Chamber  of 
Application 
the  Judgment  of  11
September  1992  in  the  Case  concerning the  Land,
(El
Island 
Salvador/Honduras:  Nicaragua 
(El
Salvador 
holding
is 
deliberations.  Hearings  are  also 
for
the  case  concerning  Armed
November  2003 
Activities  on  the  Territory  of  the  Congo  (Democratic
Republic of the Congo v. Uganda); and hearings in the
and  Maritime  Frontier  Dispute 
intervening) 
similarly 
v.  Honduras) 
scheduled 
in 
4
case  concerning  Avena  and  Other  Mexican  Nationals
(Mexico v. United States of America) are due to open in
December 2003.
In  addition  to  the  Chamber  formed  for  the  case
between  El  Salvador  and  Honduras,  the  Court  has,  as
requested  by  the  parties,  also  formed  a  five-member
Chamber  to  deal  with  a  boundary  dispute  between
Benin  and  Niger.  The  Court  is  thus  maintaining  its
work  rate  and  looks  forward  to  an  equally  busy
schedule next year.
Before  concluding  this  part  of  my  statement,  I
would  like  to  stress  the  fact  that  both  Judgments  and
orders  indicating  provisional  measures  made  by  the
Court  are  binding  on  the  parties.  For  it  is  indeed  this
binding nature of its decisions which lies at the heart of
the  Court’s  mission  to  solve  legal  disputes  between
States and is the necessary condition for the successful
achievement  of 
that  mission.  Under  Article  94,
paragraph 1, of the Charter, each Member of the United
Nations undertakes to comply with the decision of the
International Court of Justice in any case to which it is
a party. Article 60 of the Statute of the Court adds that
Judgments  of  the  Court  are  final  and  without  appeal.
The  binding  effect  of  orders  indicating  provisional
measures  under  Article  41  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court
has recently been confirmed by the Judgment rendered
by  the  Court  in  the  LaGrand  case.  The  Court  has  no
doubt, therefore, that parties to litigation before it will
continue to implement its decisions, as they have done
in the past.
As  my  predecessors  have  endeavoured  to  point
out, the Court is always aware of its duty to deal with
cases  as  promptly  and  efficiently  as  possible.  The
working methods of the Court are subject to permanent
re-examination  in  an  effort  to  avoid  delays  in  the
Court’s  proceedings.  This  constant  quest  to  meet  the
expectations  of 
is
necessary in view of the considerable number of cases
on its docket.
the  parties  before 
the  Court 
Furthermore,  many  cases  have  been  rendered
more complex as a result of preliminary objections by
respondents  to  jurisdiction  or  admissibility  and  of
counterclaims  and  applications  for  permission 
to
intervene, not to mention requests by applicants — and
even sometimes by respondents — for the indication of
provisional measures, which have to be dealt with as a
matter of urgency.
In that regard, in order to improve efficiency, the
internal  mechanisms  of  the  Court  are  under  constant
review.  But  we  also  ask  parties  before  the  Court  to
cooperate in achieving our common goal. For example,
the  Court  has  issued  a  number  of  Practice  Directions,
including  Practice  Direction  IX,  which  is  aimed  at
limiting  the  late  filing  of  documents,  in  accordance
with  article  56  of  the  Rules  of  Court.  The  Court  has
also  noted  the  increasing  tendency  of  parties  to  use
requests  for  the  indication  of  provisional  measures  as
an opportunity to provide an early outline of their cases
on  the  merits.  It  is  therefore  looking  into  ways  of
emphasizing  —  and  indeed  requiring  —  that,  in
hearings on such  requests,  parties  should  focus  on  the
legal  conditions  for  the  indication  of  provisional
measures.
The  Court  is  also  aware  of  the  importance  of
keeping pace with technological developments in order
to improve the internal functioning of its Registry. The
Court’s  well-regarded  web  site  and  its  intranet  —  the
Court’s internal web site — are in the process of being
redesigned  to  make  them  more  dynamic  and  easier  to
use. The Court has also set up an electronic document
management system, which provides immediate access
to case files and archival documentation. In particular,
the  ZyIMAGE  document  retrieval  software,  which
provides  an  updated  bilingual  database,  enables  users
quickly to access and consult a wide range of legal and
Court-related materials.
officer 
additional 
professional 
In its budgetary request for the biennium 2004 to
2005, the Court has asked for provision to be made for
an 
the
Computerization  Division,  which  currently  has  only
one  post  in  the  Professional  category.  The  Court
believes  that  it  is  absolutely  essential  to  recruit  a
professional  with  advanced  information  technology
skills  in  order  to  be  able  to  meet  the  General
Assembly’s  request  for  more  enhanced  use  of  modern
technology.
in 
Nor  can  the  Court  overlook  the  need  for  well-
qualified  young  lawyers  to  assist  with  research  for  its
15  members,  and  to  that  end,  in  its  latest  budgetary
proposal  it  has  requested  the  conversion  of  the  funds
temporarily  available 
into
established  posts.  The  Court  has  also  requested  the
creation of two security posts, as recommended by the
United  Nations  Security  Coordinator.  In  making  those
requests — which are presently under consideration —
the  Court  has  restricted  itself  to  proposals  that  are
law  clerks 
five 
for 
A/58/PV.50
financially  modest  but  also  of  the  utmost  significance
for the implementation of key aspects of its work. The
Court  hopes  that  those  budgetary  proposals  will  meet
with the  agreement  of  the  Assembly,  thereby  enabling
the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  to
better serve the international community.
While  the  International  Court  of  Justice  carries
out its work in the tranquil setting of The Hague — far
from  the  hustle  and  bustle  of  Headquarters  in  New
York — its activities contribute in a very direct way to
the overall aims and objectives of the United Nations.
The  Court’s  potential  in  that  regard  is  apparent  in  the
wide-ranging  impact  that  its  work  already  has  on  the
international community. In particular, the role that the
Court  plays  —  through  the  power  of  justice  and
international  law  —  in  resolving  disputes  between
States  is  widely  recognized  and  evidenced  by  the
number of cases on the Court’s docket.
Furthermore, it is not uncommon that these cases
deal directly with issues concerning international peace
and  security.  The  impartiality  of  the  Court’s  judicial
procedure and the equality of arms that it guarantees to
the parties before it — inherent elements of the Court’s
nature  —  undoubtedly  contribute  to  the  effective
resolution  of  such  disputes.  In  performing  its  dispute
resolution  function,  the  Court,  which  embodies  the
principle  of  equality  of  all  before  the  law,  acts  as
guardian  of 
the
maintenance  of  a  coherent  international  legal  order.  I
can assure the Assembly that the Court will pursue its
efforts to respond to the hopes placed in it.
law  and  ensures 
international 
The  Court  thanks  the  Assembly  for  its  help  and
counts  on  it  for  continuing  support  in  the  years  to
come, in the interests of justice, peace and law.
Ms. Al Bakri Devadason (Malaysia): Permit me
at  the  outset  to  thank  Judge  Shi  Jiuyong,  President  of
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  enlightening
introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Court  (A/58/4).  That
comprehensive  report  contains  useful  information  on
the  work  of  the  Court  and  provides  us  with  a  better
understanding of the complex issues before it.
We  appreciate  the  important  contribution  of  the
International Court of Justice to the peaceful settlement
of  disputes  between  States  and  to  the  development  of
international  law.  Indeed,  the  peaceful  settlement  of
disputes is one of the fundamental pillars of the United
Nations.  We  acknowledge  that  the  International  Court
of Justice has tremendous influence in the promotion of
5
A/58/PV.50
peace  and  harmony  among  the  nations  and  peoples  of
the world through the rule of law.
international 
The  Court  plays  an  important  role  in  resolving
disputes  submitted  by  States  and  giving  advisory
opinions on legal questions referred to it in accordance
with 
law.  That  role  should  not  be
underestimated  in  the  common  endeavour  to  promote
peace  among  nations.  The  Court  provides  a  more
prudent  and  civilized  alternative  to  violence  and  the
use of force.
We are pleased to note the marked progression in
the  caseload  of  the  Court  since  its  inception  58  years
ago.  That  is  testimony  to  the  growing  confidence  of
States in the work of the Court and to  the  willingness
of  the  international  community  to  be  governed  by  the
principles  of  international  law  in  the  conduct  of
international relations.
the  preference  of  States 
The  Court  has  handed  down  judgements  and
opinions  of  excellent  quality.  The  acceptance  of  those
judgements  and  opinions  by  the  parties  concerned
demonstrates 
to  avail
themselves  of  the  wisdom  of  the  Court  to  resolve
disputes peacefully. Indeed, this increasing recourse by
States  to  the  judicial  settlement  of  their  disputes  has
granted  the  Court  centrality  in  the  administration  of
international  justice.  Confidence  in  the  role,  function
and  accomplishments  of  the  Court  has  strengthened
Malaysia’s belief that the Court is the most appropriate
forum  for  a  peaceful  and  final  resolution  of  disputes
when all efforts in diplomacy have been exhausted.
Malaysia,  in  mutual  agreement  with  its  friendly
neighbours,  Indonesia  and  Singapore,  decided 
to
submit  both  of  its  respective  territorial  disputes  with
them  for  adjudication  by  the  Court.  We  welcome  the
Judgment of the Court delivered on 17 December 2002
on  the  dispute  with  Indonesia,  which  relates  to  the
sovereignty over two islands, Pulau Ligitan and  Pulau
Sipadan.  In  this  regard,  Malaysia  is  truly  grateful  that
the  Court’s  decision  has  been  fully  respected  by  both
sides.  With  regard  to  the  territorial  dispute  with
Singapore 
over  Pedra
Branca/Pulau  Batu  Puteh,  Middle  Rocks  and  South
Ledge,  currently  in  the  Court’s  docket  and  which  will
begin  its  pleadings  stage,  we  wish  to  affirm  that,
consistent with its abiding respect for international law,
Malaysia will fully respect the Court’s decision on the
case.  This  respect  for 
the  Court’s  decision  will
contribute to enhancing the Court’s stature and prestige
sovereignty 
concerning 
6
among Member States and in turn inculcate a culture of
respect for international law in relations among States.
Malaysia welcomes the increasing recourse to the
Court  by  Member  States.  The  number  of  cases
currently in the Court’s docket stands at 23 and covers
a  range  of  varied  subject  matter.  This  augurs  well  for
the  progressive  development  of  international  law  and
the  role  of 
the  Court  as  a  dispute  settlement
mechanism.  We  note  with  interest  that  64  States  have
declared  their  acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory
jurisdiction in accordance with Article 36, paragraph 2,
of  the  Statute.  Also  noteworthy  is  the  fact  that  some
300 bilateral and multilateral treaties have provided for
the  Court  to  have  jurisdiction  in  the  resolution  of
disputes 
application  or
interpretation. Through its work, the Court will play an
important role not only in the development of the body
of  international  law  but  also  in  establishing  and
maintaining  the  primacy  of  international  law.  Indeed,
rule of law and the primacy of international law in the
settlement  of  disputes  rather  than  the  use  of  force  are
particularly significant in our world today.
arising  out  of 
their 
We realize that with the increase in its workload,
the  Court  is  faced  with  the  challenge  of  responding
speedily  and  soundly  to  the  ever  more  complicated
matters before it. Undoubtedly, there is a pressing need
to  enhance  the  Court’s  capability  to  enable  it  to
efficiently  dispose  of  the  cases  before  it  as  well  as  to
undertake its additional administrative responsibilities.
The Court’s efforts to deal with this challenge through
improved working methods and the implementation of
the various measures that it initiated in 1997 appear to
have borne fruit. We welcome the continuation of those
efforts,  particularly  the  greater  use  of  information
technology,  and  encourage  the  constant  review  of  the
implementation  of  the  improved  working  methods  in
order to meet the needs of the Court. We are pleased to
note  the  strengthened  capacity  of  the  Department  of
Linguistic  Matters  since  its  recent  expansion  and  the
progress in the  automation  and computerization of the
Archives, Indexing and Distribution Division.
on  Administrative 
We  note  that  in  its  requests  to  the  Advisory
Committee 
and  Budgetary
Questions,  the  Court  has  made  proposals  which  it
considers  to  be  financially  modest  but  of  utmost
significance  to  the  key  aspects  of  its  work.  In  this
regard, we hope that the Court will be granted adequate
resources  to  allow  it  to  continue  to  fulfil  its  mandate
efficaciously, as its increasing workload demands.
The  Court’s  efforts  to  increase  public  awareness
and understanding of its work in the judicial settlement
of  disputes  and  its  advisory  functions  are  laudable.
Malaysia  considers  the  publications  and  lectures  by
members of the Court to be valuable in the promotion
and  dissemination  of  international  law.  In  this  regard,
we  commend  the  Court’s  initiatives  to  improve  and
modernize  its  methods  of  disseminating  information
concerning  its  work.  Its  employment  of  electronic
media  has  made  it  tremendously  convenient  to  follow
the  work  of 
judicial
pronouncements. The Court’s web site has indeed been
very  useful  to  diplomats,  academicians,  students  and
interested members of the public. It is undoubtedly one
of the most useful sources of public access to the most
recent developments in international case law.
the  Court  and  access 
its 
Ms. Amadi (Kenya): I thank the President of the
International  Court  of  Justice  for 
lucid  and
elaborate  report  contained  in  document  A/58/4.  It
provides  a  clear  basis  for  our  discussion  today,  as  it
outlines the work that the Court has undertaken to date
and  the  difficulties  it  faces  in  implementing  its  core
functions.
the 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  in  the  discharge  of  its
onerous  yet  indispensable  mandate,  has  established
itself  as  truly  the  only  court  of  a  universal  character
with  general  jurisdiction.  The  increase  in  the  number
and  diversity  of  cases  referred  to  the  Court  attests  to
the  confidence  of  States  in  the  integrity  of  this
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. It is our
hope  that  the  Court  will  continue  to  dispense  justice
with  integrity  and  impartiality  in  accordance  with  the
United Nations Charter and the Statute of the Court.
We  support  the  establishment  of  the  new  posts,
particularly  for  legal  clerks,  who  we  believe  will  be
able to speed up the Court’s work, for justice delayed is
justice denied. To have 23 cases pending is not a good
reflection of the  administration of justice  in  the  world
court.  Indeed  the  Court’s  workload  is  heavy,  as
reported  in  paragraphs  61  to  64  of  the  report.  In
paragraph 25 and 304, the report notes that the judicial
year has been particularly busy. It is envisaged that the
following  year  will  be  equally  busy,  if  not  more  so.
Given  that  there  are  191  Member  States  —  which
increasingly recognize the Court’s important role in the
pacific  settlement  of  international  disputes  —  we  are
certain that this trend will continue.
A/58/PV.50
My delegation appreciates the measures that have
been taken to reduce delays at the Court, as reported in
paragraph  26.  We  urge  the  Registrar  to  continue  to
improve  on  these  measures  in  order  to  expeditiously
determine the cases that come before the Court.
We  note  the  increase  last  year  in  the  budget
requirements  for  personnel.  In  the  light  of  the  Court’s
increased workload, it should continue to rationalize its
operations.  In  particular,  there  could  be  a  need  to
examine  the  possibility  of  increasing  the  number  of
permanent  judges  in  order  to  deal  expeditiously  with
pending and future cases. In that regard, the President
of the Court could make proposals for consideration by
the General Assembly, perhaps at the next session.
in  various 
We  commend  the  President  and  members  of  the
Court  for  promoting  a  better  understanding  of  the
Court  and  its  role  within  the  United  Nations  through
speeches  and  presentations 
institutions
around the world. My delegation’s concern is that none
of  those  speeches  and  presentations  were  made  in
Africa.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  Court  not  only  to
redouble  its  efforts  in  this  regard  but  also  to  make
deliberate  efforts  to  ensure  that,  in  the  planning  of
these  activities,  due  regard  is  given  to  developing
countries, particularly those in Africa.
Kenya  attaches  great  importance  to  the  work  of
the International Court of Justice. In that regard, Kenya
has deposited with the Secretary-General a declaration
of acceptance of the Court’s compulsory jurisdiction in
accordance with Article 36, paragraph 2, of the Statute
of the Court. We note that only 64 States parties have
now  deposited  declarations  under  this  article.  We
therefore encourage States that have not yet done so to
deposit their declaration with the Secretary-General in
order to further entrench the universality of the Court.
Mr.  Baja  (Philippines):  As  the  Chairman  of  the
Sixth Committee I wish to say that, with the consent of
the  Bureau  and  the  members  of  the  Committee,  we
suspended  our  morning  meeting  to  hear  the  important
report of the International Court of Justice (ICJ).
The 
Philippine 
expresses 
delegation 
its
appreciation  to  Judge  Shi  Jiuyong,  President  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive
presentation  today  on  the  report  of  the  Court  to  the
General Assembly. In the same vein, we would like to
extend our congratulations to him for his election early
this  year  as  President  of  the  Court,  as  well  as  to
Judge  Raymond  Ranjeva,  who  was  elected  Vice-
7
A/58/PV.50
President of the Court. We would also like to take this
opportunity to extend our congratulations to the Judges
who  were  re-elected  and  who  were  elected  during  the
previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  whose
term of office took effect on 6 February this year.
The  past  12  months  have  underscored 
the
importance  of  the  role  played  by  the  Court  as  the
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
only  court  of  a  universal  character  with  general
jurisdiction.  The  acceptance  by  many  States  of  the
Court’s judicial role — not just because they are States
parties  to  its  Statute,  but  also  because  they  have
submitted to its jurisdiction in contentious cases — is a
testament  to  the  recognition  of  how  effectively  the
Court has pursued its mandate over the years.
The  Court  is  now,  more  than  ever,  immensely
preoccupied with the disposal of pending cases from its
busy  docket.  These  cases  have  not  only  increased  in
number,  but  have  evolved  in  terms  of  the  range  of
issues requiring adjudication and the geographic reach
of  the  parties  involved.  The  parties  that  seek  the
Court’s  jurisdiction  come  from  all  parts  of  the  world,
and  the  variety  of  the  cases  it  handles  today  ranges
broadly  from  territorial  disputes  to  diplomatic  and
consular protection by States of their nationals.
greater 
provided 
understanding 
In  its  function  as  a  judicial  organ,  the  Court  has
not 
only 
of
international  law  through  its  decisions  and  judicial
pronouncements,  it  has  also  become  an  indispensable
instrument  for 
the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes
between and among States. Thus, the Court has become
an indispensable cog of the geopolitical architecture by
providing  a  solid  compass  for  the  development  of
international law and by serving as a significant pillar,
both  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security and for the strengthening of the rule of law in
State-to-State relations.
The  Court  faces  a  tremendous  challenge  to  stay
relevant  and  on 
the  cutting-edge  of  political
developments and the legal demands of a world that is,
on the one hand, getting smaller as it rushes to develop
its technology but, on the other hand, is growing apart
because  of  the  widening  gap  between  rich  and  poor
countries.  The  Court  must  continue  to  improve  its
working  methods  and  those  of  its  Registry  and  to
strengthen 
the
consideration  and  adjudication  of  cases  without  delay.
It must avail itself more extensively of the advantages
its  procedures  so  as 
to  allow 
8
information 
of 
collaboration  with 
streamline its proceedings.
technology 
and 
relevant  parties 
seek 
in  order 
greater
to
and 
resolution  of 
Resort  to  the  judicial  system  that  is  uniquely
afforded  by  the  Court  must  be  made  easily  accessible
to  all  nations,  particularly  to  poor  nations.  The  Court
must be the court of last resort for all nations seeking
justice 
and
disagreements.  In  the  asymmetrical  reality  of  power
politics, the Court, as an instrument of the rule of law,
provides an opportunity for small and poor countries to
improve  their  chances  of  finding  a  resolution  to  a
dispute  with  a  stronger  and  mightier  adversary.  The
Court  provides  the  equalizer  that  would  prove  the
counter-adage  that  might  does  not  necessarily  make
right.
their  disputes 
It  is  in  this  context  that  the  Secretary-General’s
Trust Fund to assist States in the judicial settlement of
disputes  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice
would prove its strategic purpose. While access to the
Court  is  free,  the  cost  of  submitting  a  dispute  to  the
Court  remains  prohibitive.  It  is  unfortunate,  however,
that the guidelines for use of  the  Trust  Fund  are  quite
restrictive  with  regard  to  the  type  of  cases  and  the
range of costs for which it could be applied.  We hope
that these issues can be addressed so that the utility of
the Trust Fund can be optimized for the benefit of poor
nations.
The  Philippines  is  a  strong  believer  of  the
significant  contribution  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice  to  the  comprehensive  vision  of  the  United
Nations.  The  United  Nations  Charter,  of  which  the
Statute  of  the  Court  forms  an  integral  part,  has
provided  the  international  community  the  only  viable
multilateral  arrangement 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  for  more  than  a  half-
century. As with any organization, the United Nations,
including the Court, requires periodic review to ensure
that it stays relevant as it advances in years and as the
world  undergoes  unrelenting  transformation  brought
about by advancing technology and knowledge.
for 
The  Philippine  delegation  is  pleased  that  an
important  priority  for  the  current  presidency  of  the
General  Assembly 
the
Organization.  We  encourage  you,  Mr.  President,  to
maintain  a  steady  hand  in  this  course.  It  is  our  hope,
moreover, that the Court will not be overlooked in this
exercise.  In  these  days  of  mounting  challenges  to  the
revitalization  of 
the 
is 
international  community,  we  need  a  Court  that  will
continue  to  be  a  relevant  instrument  of  fairness  and
justice for all the nations of the world.
Mr.  Motomura  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure
and honour, on behalf of the Government of Japan,  to
address  this  Assembly  under  your  presidency.  My
delegation  would  like  to  thank  President  Shi  Jiuyong
for  his  in-depth  report  on  the  current  situation  of  the
International Court of Justice (ICJ). The report gave us
confidence  that  the  new  team  of  Judges,  who  began
their  work  in  February  of  this  year,  are  addressing  a
variety of issues brought to the jurisdiction of the Court
with considerable efficiency.
In the current state of international society, there
is no question that the importance of the Court, with its
long  history,  solid  jurisprudence  and  the  confidence
that  States  place  in  it,  remains  unchanged.  Indeed,
under the present circumstances, in which we continue
to  witness  armed  conflict  and  acts  of  terrorism,
achieving the goal of establishing and maintaining the
primacy of integrated international law is essential. The
role of the Court, as the principal judicial organ of the
United Nations, is crucial in this undertaking.
As a State that firmly believes in the rule of law
and  strongly  upholds 
the  principle  of  peaceful
settlement of disputes, Japan appreciates the strenuous
efforts  and  meticulous  work  of  the  Court.  We  fully
support the role of the Court in striving to make further
contributions  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  in
international  society  and  in  resolving  international
crises.
It is important to note that there is  an increasing
number of cases appearing on the docket of the Court.
The Court needs to make a concerted effort to establish
a  more  efficient  system  of  management  that  would
enable  it  to  render  a  greater  number  of  Judgments
without sacrificing the quality of its work. At the same
time,  the  international  community  must  consider  the
level  of  resources  that  must  be  made  available  to  the
Court so that it can fulfil its role as guardian of the rule
of  law.  The  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative
and  Budgetary  Questions  (ACABQ),  in  its  report  on
the  budget  for  the  biennium  2004-2005,  proposed  the
conversion  of  five  judicial  clerkships  from  temporary
to permanent status. My delegation believes that such a
change  would  be  a  significant  step 
the
strengthening of the Court’s capacity.
towards 
A/58/PV.50
To conclude my statement, I would like to stress
once  again  the  willingness  of  my  Government  to
contribute  to  the  strengthening  of  the  International
Court of Justice so that it will be well equipped for the
invaluable role that it is to play in establishing the rule
of  law  in  international  society  for  the  twenty-first
century.
Mr. 
Andrianarivelo-Razafy 
(Madagascar)
(spoke  in  French):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  extend
the sincere and warm congratulations of the delegation
of Madagascar to Mr. Shi Jiuyong on his election to the
presidency  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We
wish him every success in his new task. We would also
like to express our appreciation to the President of the
Court  for  introducing  the  excellent  report  of  the
International Court of Justice (A/58/4).
These  past  few  years,  we  have  witnessed  on  an
almost  daily  basis  violations  of  the  principles  of
humanitarian  law.  We  have  witnessed  regional  and
subregional conflicts which are tearing the world apart
almost everywhere. We have witnessed border disputes
and maritime disputes which give rise to disagreement
among the sovereign States concerned.
The  Charter  encourages  all  parties  to  settle  their
disputes by peaceful means, in particular by recourse to
judicial  settlement.  The  International  Court  of  Justice,
as the primary judicial body of the United Nations, and
having  universal  jurisdiction,  plays  that  fundamental
role.  It  thus  contributes  to  the  strengthening  of  our
system  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security, concepts that are inseparable.
The current  evolution  of  international  affairs  has
shown  that  cases  brought  to  the  Court  are  not  only
increasing  in  number  but  are  becoming  increasingly
varied  and  complex.  The  increase  in  the  diversity  of
cases that States have freely submitted to the Court, as
well as in their number — from 10 on the docket five
years ago to 25 today — is an encouraging sign and an
irreversible trend. It reflects the growing confidence of
Member States in the Court. Even better, it shows that
law  is  taking  precedence  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of
international  disputes,  even 
the  application  of
international  law  to  help  smooth  over  difficulties
requires political will and political choices by States.
if 
Nevertheless, the recognition by only one third of
the  membership  of  the  United  Nations  of  the  binding
jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice under
Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute  does  not
9
A/58/PV.50
their  disputes.  Madagascar  attaches 
strengthen  the  aforementioned  trend,  although  States
can  choose  the  applicable  legislation  in  the  settlement
of 
special
importance to the work of the Court and is happy to be
among  the  20  African  countries  that  have  made
declarations 
binding
jurisdiction.  We  encourage  States  that  have  not  yet
done  so  to  recognize  that  jurisdiction.  This  would
strengthen  the  credibility  of  the  Court  and  would
streamline its procedures.
the  Court’s 
recognizing 
The  International  Court  of  Justice  represents
impartial justice for the international community, with
a view to better organizing the world for the furthering
of peace and development.
it  deserve  support.  Knowing 
The  Court’s  efforts  to  better  deal  with  the
disputes  before 
the
practices  of  States  and  national  legislations,  referring
to the Statute and to the jurisprudence of international
criminal  jurisdictions  and,  finally,  applying  Security
Council resolutions regarding respect for human rights
and  for  international  humanitarian  law  all  help  the
Court  reach  decisions  that  are  founded  on  legal  bases
and that are in accordance with the relevant provisions
of the United Nations Charter.
We  are  grateful  to  the  judges  and  staff  of  the
Court  for  having  worked  so  hard  to  accelerate  the
examination  of  cases  before  it.  They  have  done  this
over the past few years in spite of a modest budget. We
welcome  progress  made  in  the  Court  to  improve  its
working methods in order to adapt to the considerable
increase in its workload during the year under review.
The Malagasy delegation thus believes that significant
financial,  material  and  organizational  means  must  be
allocated 
the  desired  and
necessary reform of the United Nations system. Such a
commitment  by 
is
international  community 
necessary to support the Court in the coming years.
the  Court,  pending 
the 
to 
Justice is the fortress of the weak and the refuge
of  the  poor.  Madagascar  welcomes  the  Trust  Fund  —
created  in  1989  by  the  Secretary-General  —  enabling
parties to a conflict to apply to the Court for a judicial
settlement.  This  assistance,  given 
for
expenses  incurred  during  trials,  particularly  benefits
developing  countries  which  are  experiencing  various
social problems and which are fighting against poverty.
Such  countries  have  a  great  need  for  the  Fund’s
resources  —  which,  unfortunately,  have  diminished
steadily since the Fund was created.
to  States 
10
In 
international 
this  context,  Madagascar  welcomes 
the
existence  of  other 
tribunals.  Recent
serious  and  systematic  violations  of  humanitarian  law
require effective international  machinery to ensure the
appearance in court and punishment of perpetrators of
odious  crimes  that  threaten  international  peace  and
security.
It is also time to ensure that international law —
and humanitarian law in general — prevails. It is time
to  protect  the  legitimate  interests  of  the  victims  of
the  various
conflicts.  Close  cooperation  among 
international 
is  desirable 
in  order 
to
standardize  jurisprudence  and  the  decisions  handed
down.  Greater  synergy  among  the  principal  organs  of
the  Organization  is  also  necessary  for  the  effective
revitalization of the entire United Nations system.
tribunals 
Mr.  Lobach  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in
Russian):  First  and  foremost,  the  Russian  delegation
would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International
Court of Justice, Mr. Shi Jiuyong, for his very thorough
presentation to the General Assembly  of  the  report  on
the work of the International Court (A/58/4).
The  International  Court  is  the  chief  judicial
organ,  not  only  of  the  United  Nations,  but  perhaps  of
the entire system of international relations. It has a lead
role  in  fulfilling  one  of  the  most  important  Charter
duties  of  the  United  Nations:  ensuring  the  peaceful
settlement  of  disputes  among  States.  The  Court  plays
an  irreplaceable  role  in  interpreting  the  norms  of
international  law;  this  has  a  direct  impact  on  the
progressive development of international law.
We are gratified to note that in recent years there
has  been  growing  interest  on  the  part  of  States  in  the
activities  of  the  International  Court,  which  indicates
that  its  authority  is  growing  and  that  there  is  a
strengthening  of 
international
relations as  a whole. This is indisputably indicated by
the large number of applications that have been filed by
States  with  the  International  Court  regarding  various
disputes.
legal  basis  for 
the 
In  our  view, 
the  obligations 
International  Court 
is
the 
successfully  discharging 
that  are
incumbent upon it. But this does not remove  from the
agenda  the  question  of  making  its  work  even  more
effective. To a large extent, this has been promoted by
steps 
to
rationalize  its  working  procedures,  particularly  those
aimed at reducing the time it takes to consider cases. It
in  previous  years 
the  Court  has 
taken 
is  our  belief  that  we  need  to  continue  to  monitor  this
matter closely. The General Assembly should maintain
a  constant  and  appropriate  level  of  financial  and
staffing support for the work of the International Court
of  Justice  and  give  full  consideration  to  requests  that
have been made in that connection by its directors.
that  connection,  we  need  only  refer 
the 
Recent  decades  have  been  characterized  by  the
headlong  development  of  international  jurisprudence.
to 
In 
the
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former
Yugoslavia,  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for
Rwanda, the International Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the
Sea  and 
International  Criminal  Court.  This
proliferation  of  international  jurisprudence,  caused  by
objective  needs,  quite  legitimately  gives  rise  to  the
question  of  the  nature  of  the  relationship  among  the
various institutions of international justice.
the 
for 
In 
that 
connection,  proposals  have  been
discussed,  even  for  the  construction  of  a  sort  of
hierarchical  system  of  international  judicial  bodies.
The  Russian  Federation  does  not  agree  with  that
approach. It does not believe that the absence of such a
system  would  —  or  could  —  lead  to  the  violation  of
the unity of international law, including the appearance
of  competing  legal  precedents.  We  believe  that  the
International  Criminal  Court,  in  the  light  of  all  the
existing and possible future international jurisdictions,
has  a  unique  role  to  play  because  of  its  importance,
which can be strengthened and developed by all means
possible.
Mr.  Adekanye  (Nigeria):  The  delegation  of
Nigeria  commends  the  president  of  the  International
Court of Justice (ICJ), Judge Shi Jiuyong for the report
contained  in  document  A/58/4  on  the  activities  of  the
Court for the period 1 August 2002 to 31 July 2003. As
the  main  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  for  the
pacific settlement of disputes between Member States,
the  Court  has  continued  to  attract  the  confidence  of
Member  States  in  its  defence  of  the  principle  of  the
rule  of  law  in  inter-State  relations  because  of  its
universal  character  and  general  jurisdiction.  We  note,
in  that  connection,  that,  as  of  31  July  2003,  some
191  States  have  become  parties  to  the  Statute  of  the
Court, while 64 of those States, including Nigeria, have
deposited  with  the  Secretary-General  a  declaration  of
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction,  in
accordance with Article 36, paragraph 2 of its Statute.
We  believe  that  this  is  a  positive  development  for
world peace through international law.
A/58/PV.50
Another  positive  development  highlighted  in  the
report concerns the increase in the number of cases on
its docket, which stood at 25 as of 31 July 2003. This is
as  much  a  reflection  of  the  confidence  and  trust  of
States  Parties  in  the  impartial  role  of  the  ICJ  as  an
indication  of  the  high  expectations  that  its  decisions
should  strengthen  peace  and  good  neighbourliness
among  States.  At  the  same  time,  however,  we  are
concerned that the increase in the number and diversity
of  cases  will  entail  an  additional  workload  on  the
judges.  In  order  for  them  to  perform  their  duties
effectively, we support additional financial and human
resources  for  the  Court.  The  various  measures  taken
since  1997  to  rationalize  the  work  of  its  Registry  are
indicative  of  the  Court’s  capacity  to  properly  manage
such  additional  resources.  We  note  in  this  connection
that the Court has already taken advantage of advances
in  science  and  technology  through  the  adaptation  of
communication and information technology to improve
its  working  methods  and  thereby  to  enhance  its
cooperation  with  States  parties,  particularly  on
procedures.
We  also  commend  the  Court  for  its  publications,
which include reports of judgements, advisory opinions
and orders, and we find them to be invaluable sources
of  international  law  for  Member  States,  especially  the
developing  countries.  We  believe  that  the  availability
of  those  documents  to  States  parties,  as  well  as
regional  and  international  judicial  institutions,  would
enhance  understanding  of  the  Court’s  procedures  and
decisions  as  well  as  help  promote  uniformity  in
international  law.  It  is  equally  desirable  that  States
parties  continue  to  be  availed  of  assistance  to  enable
them to bear the  expenses of the proceedings initiated
before  the  Court.  In  that  connection,  we  urge  that  the
procedures for  access to the special Trust Fund  set  up
by United Nations Secretary-General in 1989 should be
simplified.
We 
that
international  law  is  the  basis  of  inter-State  relations;
mutual  respect  and  the  desire  for  peace  serve  as  the
glue that bind countries, large and small, together. This
is in line with the obligations assumed as a State party
to the Statute of the ICJ which, inter alia, provides for
the pacific settlement of international disputes. It is in
this context that Nigeria received the judgement of the
Court  in  October  2002  on  the  land  and  maritime
boundary dispute between Cameroon and Nigeria.
reaffirm  Nigeria’s 
conviction 
11
A/58/PV.50
to 
implement 
Since  that  judgement  was  delivered,  the  two
parties  have  had  fruitful  sessions  in  the  Nigeria-
Cameroon  Mixed  Commission, 
the
decision of the Court. As  a consequence,  considerable
progress has been made on the various issues raised by
the  judgement.  Also,  the  leadership  of  both  countries
has successfully turned the land and maritime boundary
differences 
expanded
development and fruitful cooperation covering various
areas of mutual interest.
an  opportunity 
into 
for 
We are resolute in our determination not to allow
the vestiges of the colonial past to frustrate our efforts
to build partnerships and thus make this an example of
fruitful cooperation in our region and beyond. We wish
to restate our country’s appreciation for the helpful role
of the Secretary-General in this process, and we call on
the  international  community  to  demonstrate,  in  words
and in deeds, their support for our current efforts.
In  conclusion,  we  reaffirm  our  commitment  to
and  support  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  in
which  some  of  our  eminent  jurists  have  served  in  the
past.  We  do  so  in  the  firm  conviction  that  the  Court
constitutes a pillar of stability in the efforts to expand
the  frontiers  of  international  law  and  enhance  the
principle  of  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes  among
States.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the  debate  on  agenda  item  13.  May  I  take  it  that  it  is
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its
consideration of agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 108
Crime prevention and criminal justice
Report of the Ad Hoc Committee for the
Negotiation of a Convention against Corruption
on the work of its first to seventh sessions
(A/58/422 and A/58/422/Add.1)
Draft resolution (A/58/422, para. 103)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  at  its
28th plenary meeting on 13 October 2003, the General
Assembly decided that agenda item 108 would also be
considered  directly  in  plenary  meeting  for  the  sole
purpose  of  taking  action  on  the  draft  United  Nations
Convention against Corruption.
the  floor 
to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,
I  now  give 
Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The  Secretary-General:  Corruption 
is  an
insidious  plague  that  has  a  wide  range  of  corrosive
effects  on  societies.  It  undermines  democracy  and  the
rule of law, leads to violations of human rights, distorts
markets, erodes the quality of life and allows organized
crime, terrorism and other threats to human security to
flourish.
This evil phenomenon is found in all countries —
big  and  small,  rich  and  poor  —  but  it  is  in  the
developing  world  that  its  effects  are  most  destructive.
Corruption  hurts 
the  poor  disproportionately  by
diverting funds intended for development, undermining
a  Government’s  ability  to  provide  basic  services,
feeding 
injustice  and  discouraging
foreign aid and investment. Corruption is a key element
in economic underperformance and a major obstacle to
poverty alleviation and development.
inequality  and 
I  am  therefore  very  happy  that  we  now  have  a
new  instrument  to  address  this  scourge  at  the  global
level.  The  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Convention
against  Corruption  will  send  a  clear  message  that  the
international  community  is  determined  to  prevent  and
control corruption. It will warn the corrupt that betrayal
of  the  public  trust  will  no  longer  be  tolerated.  And  it
will  reaffirm  the  importance  of  core  values  such  as
honesty, respect for the rule of law, accountability and
transparency  in  promoting  development  and  making
the world a better place for all.
a 
is 
The 
new  Convention 
remarkable
achievement,  and  it  complements  another  landmark
instrument,  the  United  Nations  Convention  against
Transnational  Organized  Crime,  which  entered  into
force  just  a  month  ago.  It  is  balanced,  strong  and
pragmatic, and it offers a new framework for effective
action and international cooperation.
The  Convention  introduces  a  comprehensive  set
of standards, measures and rules that all countries can
apply  in  order  to  strengthen  their  legal  and  regulatory
12
to  return 
regimes  to  fight  corruption.  It  calls  for  preventive
measures and the criminalization of the most prevalent
forms of corruption in both public and private sectors.
And  it  makes  a  major  breakthrough  by  requiring
Member  States  to  return  assets  obtained  through
corruption to the country from which they were stolen.
These  provisions  —  the  first  of  their  kind  —
introduce  a  new  fundamental  principle,  as  well  as  a
framework  for  stronger  cooperation  between  States  to
prevent  and  detect  corruption  and 
the
proceeds.  Corrupt  officials  will  in  future  find  fewer
ways  to  hide  their  illicit  gains.  This  is  a  particularly
important  issue  for  many  developing  countries  where
corrupt  high  officials  have  plundered  the  national
wealth  and  where  new  Governments  badly  need
resources to reconstruct and rehabilitate their societies.
For  the  United  Nations,  the  Convention  is  the
culmination of work that started many years ago, when
the word corruption was hardly ever uttered in official
circles. It took systematic efforts, first at the technical,
and then gradually at the political, level to put the fight
against  corruption  on  the  global  agenda.  Both  the
Monterrey  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  and  the  Johannesburg  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development  offered  opportunities  for
Governments  to  express  their  determination  to  attack
corruption and to make many more people aware of the
devastating effect that corruption has on development.
The  Convention  is  also  the  result  of  long  and
difficult  negotiations.  Many  complex  issues  and  many
concerns from different quarters had to be addressed. It
was a formidable challenge to produce, in less than two
years, an instrument that reflects all those concerns. All
countries  had 
and  make
concessions. But we can be proud of the result.
flexibility 
to 
show 
Allow  me  to  congratulate  the  members  of  the
Bureau  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  their  hard  work
and  leadership,  and  to  pay  a  special  tribute  to  the
Committee’s 
late  Chairman,  Ambassador  Héctor
Charry Samper of Colombia, for his wise guidance and
his dedication. I am sure all here share my sorrow that
he is not with us to celebrate this great success.
The  adoption  of  the  new  Convention  will  be  a
remarkable achievement. But let us be clear: it is only a
beginning.  We  must  build  on  the  momentum  achieved
to ensure that the Convention enters into force as soon
as  possible.  I  urge  all  Member  States  to  attend  the
Signing  Conference  in  Merida,  Mexico,  in  December,
A/58/PV.50
and  to  ratify  the  Convention  at  the  earliest  possible
date.
If fully enforced, this new instrument can make a
real  difference  to  the  quality  of  life  of  millions  of
people around the world. And by removing one of the
biggest obstacles to development it can help us achieve
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Be  assured  that
the  United  Nations  Secretariat,  and  in  particular  the
Office on Drugs and Crime, will do whatever it can to
support the efforts of States to eliminate the scourge of
corruption  from  the  face  of  the  Earth.  It  is  a  big
challenge,  but  I  think  that,  together,  we  can  make  a
difference.
The President: I call on Mr. Muhyieddeen Touq,
Acting  Chairman  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  for  the
Negotiation  of  a  Convention  against  Corruption,  to
introduce the report of the Ad Hoc Committee and the
draft United Nations Convention against Corruption.
Mr.  Touq  (Jordan),  Acting  Chairman  of  the  Ad
Hoc  Committee  for  the  Negotiation  of  a  Convention
against  Corruption:  It  is  indeed  a  great  privilege  and
honour  for  me  to  be  here  today  and  to  address  the
Assembly  in  my  capacity  as  Acting  Chairman  of  the
Ad Hoc Committee on the Negotiation of a Convention
against  Corruption.  I  am  here  as  the  Acting  Chairman
because,  sadly, 
the  Ad  Hoc
Committee,  Ambassador  Héctor  Charry  Samper  of
Colombia,  has  prematurely  passed  away.  The  Ad  Hoc
Committee,  its  Bureau  and  I  personally  owe  a  great
debt  of  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Charry  Samper,  and
we mourn his absence on this momentous occasion.
the  Chairman  of 
The  momentum 
for  a  convention  against
corruption  started  building  during  the  negotiations  on
another  very  important  international  legal  instrument:
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Transnational
Organized  Crime,  which  the  Assembly  adopted  three
years  ago  and  which  entered  into  force  last  month.
Those negotiations produced a profound understanding
among  countries  that  the  time  had  come  to  deliver  to
the  world  a  broad,  comprehensive  and  effective
instrument 
the
international community to take joint action against the
scourge of corruption.
the  determination  of 
to  mark 
The General Assembly reaffirmed those qualities
in  its  resolution  56/260,  adopted  less  than  two  years
ago, by which the terms of reference for the negotiation
process  —  the  marching  orders  of  the  Ad  Hoc
Committee  —  were  agreed  upon.  The  General
13
A/58/PV.50
Assembly  decided  at  the  same  time  to  follow  the
successful  experience  of  the  negotiation  of  the  United
Nations  Convention  against  Transnational  Organized
Crime and its Protocols. Therefore, it set a deadline for
the completion of the negotiation of a draft Convention
against Corruption and asked the Ad Hoc Committee to
be  inspired  by  the  Convention  against  Transnational
Organized  Crime  as  well  as  by  regional  instruments
that had set the stage in recent years.
The  Ad  Hoc  Committee  began  its  work  with  an
informal  preparatory  meeting  that  was  graciously
hosted  by  the  Government  of  Argentina,  to  whose
commitment and generosity I should like to pay special
tribute.  In  Buenos  Aires  in  December  2001,  we  were
pleasantly  surprised:  26  countries  came  forward  with
proposals for the new Convention, making the work of
the  secretariat  quite  demanding  but  rendering  the
endeavour of the Ad Hoc Committee very rich in ideas
and substance.
As  the  report  indicates  (A/58/422),  the  Ad  Hoc
Committee  held  seven  sessions  between  January  2002
and October 2003.  It complied fully with  the  mandate
given  to  it  by  the  Assembly  and  has  delivered  to  the
Assembly  a  new  Convention 
is  practical,
pragmatic,  enforceable  and  comprehensive.  It  is  also
characterized by a carefully crafted equilibrium, which
is  designed  to  reflect  the  reality  that  corruption  is  a
broad  phenomenon  that  has  many  facets  and  that
demands  a  multidisciplinary  approach  at  both  the
national and international levels.
that 
The  Ad  Hoc  Committee’s  success  in  the  very
short time of less than two years was certainly not due
to  the  simplicity  of  the  task  or  to  an  absence  of
political  differences  in  opinion  or  objectives.  Our
success was the product of unwavering commitment by
all  delegations,  a  highly  participatory  process  —  we
had  an  average  of  more 
than  125  countries
participating  in  the  negotiations  —  and  the  spirit  of
cooperation and compromise that prevailed throughout
the process. All delegations were intent on concluding
a  Convention  that  would  benefit  the  international
community  and  enable  it  to  make  inroads  against
corruption.
Compromise was not easy. All delegations had to
revisit and reassess their objectives and their positions.
All delegations had to give up something and to make
concessions.  But  all  delegations  were  adamant  about
one  thing:  while  the  new  Convention  needed  to  fully
14
reflect  all  concerns  and  to  make  sure  that  it  did  not
impinge  on  essential  principles  and  values  that  the
entire  international  community  holds  dear  —  such  as
respect for national sovereignty — it was of paramount
importance 
the  high  quality  and
innovative  nature  of  the  final  product.  In  the  end,  it
was  sustained  political  will  that  animated  the  Ad  Hoc
Committee’s  work  and  forged  this  new  instrument  out
of the good faith and talent of all delegations.
safeguard 
to 
the  United  Nations  Convention 
In  that  light,  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  complied
with  its  mandate  and  is  presenting  to  the  Assembly
today 
against
Corruption,  annexed  to  a  draft  resolution  for  its
consideration and action. I hope that the Assembly will
accept  the  recommendation  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee
and  adopt  the  new  Convention.  I  also  hope  that  all
States  will  make  every  effort  in  their  power  to  be
represented  at  the  Signing  Conference  —  which  will
take  place  at  the  highest  possible  level  in  Merida,
Mexico, at the beginning of December — and sign the
Convention.
Before  concluding,  I  should  like  to  express  my
sincere gratitude to all delegations that took part in the
negotiations.  I  was  particularly  impressed  by  their
knowledge,  expertise  and  professionalism.  I  was
especially  impressed  by  the  dedication  and  stamina  of
the  delegations  from  the  many  developing  and  least
developed countries that made valuable contributions. I
owe a debt of gratitude to the members of the Bureau,
some  of  whom  are  here  with  us 
the
representatives  of  Austria,  Hungary,  Mauritius,
Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines and the United Kingdom,
and  the  representative  of  Poland,  who  served  as
indefatigable  participation  —
Rapporteur.  Their 
coupled  with 
their
impressive diplomatic skills — was a major reason for
the Ad Hoc Committee’s success. Let me also express
my  heartfelt  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  for  the
support given to our Committee by the United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime and its able secretariat.
their  strong  commitment  and 
today: 
The Ad Hoc Committee has laid the first building
block.  The  Assembly’s  action  today  will  continue  the
construction  of  a  strong  system  of  national  action  and
international cooperation  against  corruption.  However,
we still have a long way to go. We must make sure that
the  political  will  that  made  the  negotiation  of  the
Convention possible is sustained and strengthened and
that  it  manifests  itself  in  the  expeditious  ratification
and  subsequent  full 
Convention.
implementation  of 
the  new
Mr. Romero (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): At the
outset,  I  should  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of
Ambassador Héctor Charry Samper, who unfortunately
is no longer with us. The swift  entry into force of the
United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  will
undoubtedly  be  the  best  way  to  honour  appropriately
the  work  carried  out  by  Ambassador  Charry  Samper.
We  regret  the  loss  that  his  death  has  meant  for  the
Government  and  the  people  of  Colombia,  and  we
express our most heartfelt condolences to the family.
I  am  particularly  pleased  to  speak  on  behalf  of
Mexico at the current General Assembly session, which
has  received  the  report  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  for
the  Negotiation  of  a  Convention  against  Corruption
(A/58/422  and  Add.1)  in  response  to  the  desire  of  the
highest  United  Nations  body 
for  an  effective
international  legal  instrument  to  fight  corruption.  The
Assembly’s  adoption  of  the  Convention  will  open  up
new horizons and enable us to establish mechanisms of
cooperation  to  fight  one  of  the  problems  that  most
afflict institutions and society in general: corruption.
It is very clear to us that corruption is a scourge
that  obstructs  the  development  of  nations,  deepens
inequality 
in  societies  and  diminishes  countries’
competitiveness. Carrying out resolute action to fight it
is  a  concern  not  only  of  advanced  countries,  but  of
each and every United Nations Member.
For  that  reason,  the  implementation  of  far-
ranging  public  policies  against  corruption  is  today  an
overriding  need  around  the  world.  In  the  struggle
against this evil, we need the participation of those who
govern and those who are governed and we need to join
efforts  at  the  international  level.  This  would  make  it
possible for us to consolidate institutions and society as
a whole and to promote living together, side by side, in
democracy.
In  Mexico, 
the  administration  of  President
Vicente Fox Quesada has designed and implemented a
comprehensive programme to combat corruption and to
promote transparency and administrative development.
The  programme’s  objective  is  to  transform  the  public
administration 
service-oriented
organization  responding  closely  to  the  needs,  interests
and demands of society.
into 
a  modern 
A/58/PV.50
We  have  appealed  for  transparency  in  the  public
sector so that society can receive information that was
previously  kept  from  it.  We  have  laid  down  judicial
bases to professionalize public service, to give priority
to  the  training  and  value  of  its  members  and  to  thus
make 
the  smooth
functioning of the State.
it  a  fundamental  element 
in 
The approval of laws on the transparency of and
access to public and governmental information and on
the  career  professional  service  are  examples  of  the
progress  we  have  made.  Similarly,  we  have  adopted
measures  to  promote  citizen  participation  in  the  fight
against  corruption.  We  are  modernizing  public  service
through  information  technology  and  by  generating
assistance  and  cooperation  among  nations.  For  that
reason, Mexico is actively participating in international
organization  mechanisms  aimed  at  reaching  those
goals.
The  adoption  of 
the  draft  United  Nations
Convention against Corruption will be the result of the
international  community’s  conviction  that  the  fight
against  corruption  requires  a  common  effort  and  a
concerted and immediate response. The members of the
Ad  Hoc  Committee 
the  Negotiation  of  a
Convention  against  Corruption  went  beyond  their
differences  and  sought  formulas  for  consensus  and
demonstrated firm political will, which today is bearing
fruit.  The  text  adopted  reflects  the  concerns  of  all
countries,  and  we  are  convinced  that  it  will  make  it
possible 
towards  eradicating
corruption.
to  make  progress 
for 
The  comprehensive  approach  to  corruption,  the
emphasis on prevention both in the  public  and  private
sector  and  the  measures  provided  for  in  the  area  of
extradition  and  mutual  legal  assistance,  including  the
handling of property and assets obtained illegally, will
make the Convention an effective instrument.
to  open 
My country has given special attention to the fact
the  General  Assembly  will  decide 
the
Convention  to  signing  in  the  city  of  Merida,  Mexico.
We  thank  States  for  their  support  of  Mexico’s  offer,
and  we  would  join  in  the  appeal  of  Secretary-General
Kofi Annan that they come to Merida, Mexico, to sign
the  Convention.  We  are  convinced  that  the  Merida
conference  will  open  new  paths  of  understanding  and
will  help  uphold  the  spirit  of  the  struggle  against
corruption 
in
Vienna.  We  invite  all  States  to  be  represented  at  the
that  characterized 
the  negotiations 
15
A/58/PV.50
highest level at the conference, which will be held from
9 to 11 December 2003.
Simultaneously with the conference, there will be
exchanges  through  round-table  meetings  in  which
experts  will  offer  their  opinions  on  how  to  ensure  the
effective implementation of the Convention. The round
tables  will  emphasize  the  role  of  civil  society  and
communications  media 
struggle  against
corruption,  legislative  measures  to  achieve  that  goal,
preventive action in the public and private sectors and
measures to combat corruption in financial systems.
the 
in 
informal  meeting  on 
This  afternoon  in  Conference  Room  4  Mexico
the  Merida
will  hold  an 
conference; 
interested  delegations  will  be  given
detailed information of an organizational and logistical
nature  and  on  formal  matters  regarding  their  stay  in
Mexico  for  representatives  and  those  accompanying
them. We sincerely hope that the political will that has
been  a  constant  in  this  discussion  will  be  reflected  in
the participation of States in the Merida conference and
in  the  signing  of  the  Convention.  We  would  urge  all
delegations 
to  sign 
this  most
important instrument during the conference.
to  participate  and 
Mr.  Gayan  (Mauritius):  Allow  me  first  to  thank
the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan,
for his very inspiring address this morning on the need
for the international community to deal effectively with
the  scourge  of  corruption,  and  also  for  his  continued
support  in  that  regard.  I  would  also  like  to  express  to
Mr. Muhyieddeen Touq, the Acting Chairman of the Ad
Hoc  Committee  for  the  Negotiation  of  a  Convention
against  Corruption,  our  profound  appreciation  for  the
quality  of  the  work  he  and  his  team  have  done  in  so
short a time. They deserve our sincere gratitude.
It  is  with  a  sense  of  great  satisfaction  and  pride
that  Mauritius  expresses  its  support  for  this  new  draft
Convention  against  Corruption.  Mauritius  has  been
closely  associated  with  the  preparation  of  this  new
instrument. As a member of the Ad Hoc Committee for
the Negotiation of the Convention and  also as a Vice-
Chairman  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee,  Mauritius  is
delighted  that  the  international  community  is  being
presented  with  an  additional  instrument  in  the  overall
architecture of good governance.
When 
the  General  Assembly  adopted 
its
resolution 55/61 in December 2000, recognizing that an
effective 
against
the  United  Nations
corruption, 
independent  of 
international 
instrument 
legal 
16
it  could  not  have  foreseen 
Convention  against  Transnational  Organized  Crime,
was  desirable, 
that
“desirable”  was  a  gross  understatement.  The  fact  that
the  draft  Convention  is  ready  for  adoption  only  two
years  after  work  started  on  it  is  indicative  of  the
international  community’s  eagerness  to  take  urgent
collective  measures 
the  havoc  which
corruption wreaks on our countries. We are happy that
the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  for  the  Negotiation  of  a
Convention against Corruption has fulfilled its mandate
with remarkable speed. The experts and all  those  who
participated  in  the  drafting  of  this  comprehensive  and
multidisciplinary 
our
congratulations and gratitude.
instrument 
to  undo 
deserve 
Article  1  of  the  Convention  stipulates  that  the
purposes  of  the  Convention  are:  first,  to  promote  and
strengthen  measures  to  prevent  and  combat  corruption
efficiently  and  effectively;  secondly, 
to  promote,
facilitate  and  support  international  cooperation  and
technical  assistance  in  the  prevention  of  and  fight
against  corruption,  including  in  asset  recovery;  and
third,  to  promote  integrity,  accountability  and  proper
management of public affairs and public property.
in 
in 
of 
freezing, 
protection 
corruption; 
the  Convention; 
We  admire  the  fact  that  it  has  taken  only  71
articles  to  deal  with:  prevention,  investigation  and
prosecution 
seizure,
confiscation  and  return  of  the  proceeds  from  offences
established 
of
sovereignty;  public  reporting  to  enhance  transparency
in  public  administration,  particularly  with  regard  to
decision-making  processes;  bribery  and  embezzlement
of  property 
the  private  sector;  bank  secrecy;
international  cooperation;  extradition;  mutual  legal
assistance;  mechanisms  for  recovery  of  property
through international cooperation and confiscation; and
information  exchange.  This 
is  drafting  of  an
exceptional  quality,  which  will  become  a  model  and
which will be acknowledged as a work of art.
In  2000,  we  in  Mauritius  decided  to  modernize
our  legislation  in  order  to  deal  more  effectively  with
the scourge of corruption. We set up a select committee
of  our  Parliament,  which  proposed  a  new,  modern,
comprehensive 
law.  The
Prevention  of  Corruption  Act  set  up  an  independent
anti-corruption commission with a three-fold objective:
to educate and to prevent and prosecute corruption. The
new commission is already operational and is gradually
gaining in stature. While the Government of Mauritius
to  wage  a  relentless  war  against
is  determined 
results-oriented 
and 
the  commission  should  respect 
corruption, we also believe that, in the performance of
its  functions, 
the
fundamental  principles  of  human  rights  and  guarantee
due process and the rule of law in accordance with the
principles  of  our  domestic  legislation,  because  we
believe that failure by the institution entrusted with the
prevention, investigation and prosecution of corruption
to  observe  the  principles  of  the  rule  of  law  would
render that institution itself guilty of corruption.
Mauritius is convinced that limiting the definition
of  corruption  to  the  classic  offences  of  bribery  would
be unwise, especially as those who in modern times are
bent  on  blazing  new  trails  in  corrupt  practices  are
endowed  with  extraordinary  ingenuity  and  creativity.
We  are  happy  to  note  that  the  Convention,  which  is
couched in a language sufficient to  address  corruption
in  a  meaningful  manner  for  present  purposes,  will  be
reviewed in five years. The review process is necessary
to  keep  pace  with  new  trends  in  corruption  and  to
improve the legal framework in the light of experience
gained.
International  and  uniform  norms  of  conduct  for
public affairs and the management of the private sector
will supplement the legal arsenal we have to deal with
corruption.  In  Mauritius,  we  shall  review  our  own
legislation  in  order  to  bring  it  in  line  with  this
Convention.
In  addition  to  the  Prevention  of  Corruption  Act,
my  country  has  also  created  legislation  on  financial
intelligence and a campaign against money-laundering.
A financial intelligence unit not only oversees internal
cooperation  among  national  law  enforcement  agencies
but also provides international cooperation and mutual
legal  assistance 
in  cases  of  suspected  money-
laundering.  We  are  proud  that  many  aspects  of  our
legislation are reflected in this multilateral instrument.
Mauritius,  which  has  a  thriving  banking  and
financial  services  sector,  is  anxious  to  preserve  its
impeccable 
image.  Mauritius  maintains  constant
vigilance  for  attempts  to  introduce  the  illicit  proceeds
of crime into its financial circuits.
As  a  member  of  the  African  Union,  Mauritius  is
extremely  sensitive  to  the  havoc  which  corruption  has
caused in many of our countries. Millions of our people
are  suffering  today  on  account  of  corrupt  practices,
resources 
which 
have 
from
development 
in  non-African
countries.  Although  the  state  in  which  Africa  is  in
scarce 
to  bank  accounts 
diverted 
A/58/PV.50
today cannot be attributed to any single cause, still we
have no doubt that corruption was a major contributor
to that state. No wonder then that corruption is viewed
in Africa as our own weapon of mass destruction.
We know that business in Africa can no longer be
business as usual. We have decided to take our destiny
in  our  own  hands,  and  we  are  committed  to  the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Good
governance  is  making  significant  progress  all  over
Africa.  We  are  committed  to  upholding  human  rights,
democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  the  fight  against
corruption. We have also decided to adopt the African
Peer Review Mechanism. We are determined to live up
to  those  norms,  not  because  they  are  being  imposed
upon  us  by  others  but  because  our  people  deserve
nothing  less.  On  12  July  2003,  the  heads  of  State  and
Government of the African Union adopted the African
Union  Convention  on  Preventing  and  Combating
Corruption.  There  are  other  regional  initiatives  that
complement 
the  United  Nations  Convention.  A
worldwide  effort  to  combat  corruption  in  all  its  forms
and  aspects  is  in  our  collective  interest  as  corruption
has  become 
transnational.  The  prevention  and
eradication  of  corruption  is  the  responsibility  of  all
States, big and small.
is  critical 
International  cooperation 
for  a
successful  campaign against  corruption.  No  country  is
really immune to the ravages of corrupt practices. Like
the  war  against  terrorism,  this  war  against  corruption
must enjoy the widest possible international consensus.
We  hope  that  many  States  will  attend  the  signing
ceremony in Merida, Mexico, and we are reassured by
the  interest  that  this  Convention  is  generating:  the
required number of ratifications for  the  Convention  to
enter  into  force  will  be  reached  in  less  time  than  our
experts took to finalize the Convention. May I add that
Mauritius  will  be  an  immediate  signatory  of  the
Convention.
The  fight  against  corruption  cannot  be  won  by
relying  only  on  repressive  measures.  This  Convention
has  the  merit  of  having  gone  beyond  what  is  usually
contained  in  such  multilateral  instruments  by  offering
to the international  community an exhaustive range of
levels  of  intervention  to  combat  corruption  in  all  its
known forms.
Transparency, 
sound
management of public affairs and respect for the rule of
law 
corruption.
are  preconditions 
for 
fighting 
good 
governance, 
17
A/58/PV.50
Corruption thrives when public affairs are shrouded in
secrecy.  Corruption  cannot  coexist  with  transparency
and good management.
Mauritius wishes to echo what is contained in the
preamble  to  the  Convention.  We  are  concerned  about
the  seriousness  of  the  problems  and  threats  posed  by
corruption  to  the  stability  and  security  of  societies;
undermines  the  institutions  and  values  of  democracy,
ethical  values  and  justice  and  jeopardizes  sustainable
development  and 
law.  We  are  also
concerned about the links between corruption and other
forms of economic crime and organized crime.
the  rule  of 
The  Ad  Hoc  Committee  was  well  inspired  to
provide for measures which States must take to address
the consequences of corruption. In that context, States
parties  may  consider  corruption  a  relevant  factor  in
legal  proceedings  to  annul  or  rescind  a  contract,
withdraw  a  concession  or  take  any  other  remedial
action. In our view,  that  is  an  essential  element  in  the
armoury 
to
effectively  combat  corruption.  The 
fight  against
corruption concerns all of us, and we must do whatever
it takes not to lose that fight.
international  community  needs 
the 
In conclusion, I would be failing in my duty if I
did  not  express  our  grief  at  the  passing  away  of
Mr. Hector  Charry  Samper  of  Columbia,  who  chaired
the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  until  very  recently.  The  only
comfort  we  have  is  that  his  name  will  be  forever
associated with this landmark Convention.
Mrs.  Borzi Cornacchia  (Italy):  I  have  the
honour  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union.  The  acceding  countries  Cyprus,  the  Czech
Republic,  Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,
Poland,  Slovakia  and  Slovenia  and  the  associated
countries  Bulgaria,  Romania  and  Turkey  align
themselves with this statement.
Allow me to join previous speakers in expressing
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  our  great  debt  of
gratitude  to  Ambassador  Charry  Samper  of  Colombia,
Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee. We deeply mourn
his absence today on this special occasion.
Corruption 
impoverishes  national  economies,
undermines democratic institutions and the rule of law
and  has  a  negative  impact  on  economic  and  social
development.  For  this  reason  the  European  Union
attaches  particular 
importance 
to  preventing  and
combating corruption at all levels.
18
continues 
the  European  Union 
to
While 
implement 
its  own  comprehensive  anti-corruption
policy,  at  the  same  time  it  believes  that  —  in  an
increasingly  connected  world  —  the  United  Nations
needs to take stronger action in the increasingly urgent
fight  against  corruption.  In  this  context,  the  European
Union wholeheartedly looks forward to the adoption of
the  United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption,  an
instrument 
to  our
common aim.
that  can  effectively  contribute 
The European Union expresses its satisfaction on
the  outcome  of  the  negotiations  on  this  Convention,
held  in  Vienna,  in  which  the  Union  played  an  active
role. The text to be adopted today provides States with
an  instrument  of  high  standard  and  with  a  wide  range
of  universally 
that  will
strengthen  States’  ability  to  combat  corruption  at  the
national  and  international  levels.  The  European  Union
also  applauds 
the
Convention,  which  includes  both  prevention  and  law
enforcement  measures,  as  well  as  innovative  legal
provisions or the transfer of funds of illicit origin  and
their restitution.
the  comprehensive  nature  of 
acceptable  provisions 
reiterates 
The  European  Union 
its  high
appreciation  for  the  offer  made  by  the  Government  of
Mexico to host a high-level political conference for the
purpose of signing the convention in Merida from 9 to
11  December  and  sincerely  hopes 
the  maximum
number  of  States  will  sign  the  convention  on  that
occasion. Such a response would be an important first
force  and
step 
implementation  of 
the
European Union is committed.
the  speedy  entry 
towards 
the  Convention, 
to  which 
into 
The  European  Union  also  believes  that  adequate
support  for  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and
Crime  on  Vienna  is  needed,  including  for  its  Global
Programme  against  Corruption,  so  as  to  enable  it  to
promote the entry into force of the Convention against
Corruption  and  to  support  the  implementation  of
related activities and initiatives.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative  of  Rwanda,  on  behalf  of  the  African
Union.
Mr.  Kamanzi  (Rwanda)  (spoke  in  French):  I
would like to take this opportunity to reiterate to both
you,  Mr.  President,  and  to  your  Office,  our  profound
congratulations  for  the  excellent  way  in  which  you
continue  to  guide  the  work  of  the  fifty-eighth  session
of the General Assembly.
I would also like to express the great appreciation
of the African Group for having included on the agenda
the item on crime prevention and criminal justice.
The  Ad  Hoc  Committee  for  the  Negotiation  of  a
Convention  against  Corruption  has  just  presented  its
report to the General Assembly. Its goal was to produce
an  effective  international  juridical  tool  to  combat
corruption,  and  I  should  like  to  express  my  sincere
congratulations  to  the  Committee  for  the  excellent
work  it  has  done,  which  is  an  ample  reflection  of  the
outstanding capacity of its members.
Like  previous  speakers,  I  would  also  like  to  pay
tribute  to  the  late  Ambassador  Héctor  Charry  Samper
for his commendable work in his capacity as Chairman
of the Committee. May he rest in peace.
The  proposed  convention  gives  Member  States  a
way to overcome the major political and legal obstacles
that  have  frequently  hampered  development  efforts  in
various countries, particularly the poorest ones. It will
also  help  to  counter  the  danger  of  the  proliferation  of
armed  conflicts  that  affect  the  poorest  countries  —
conflicts often underpinned by multinational structures
operating  through  political  regimes  controlled  by  a
nucleus  of  corrupt 
the
instrument the General Assembly now has before it is a
real shot in the arm for the efforts to institutionalize the
rule of law and good governance initiated by a number
of African States, which are determined now more than
ever to  assure  a  better  socio-economic  future  for  their
citizens.
leaders. 
In 
this 
regard, 
I  hardly  need  to  dwell  on  the  importance  of  this
mechanism  for  the  international  community  in  its
efforts to combat terrorism, which is often strengthened
by  the  existence  of  networks  forged  with  the  aid  of
commercial and political systems maintained by illegal
funds.
To have an effective mechanism is one thing, but
to  use  it  is  another.  So  I  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity to appeal to the international community to
provide 
this  draft
convention.  From  the  time  of  its  conception,  through
its preparation, the proposal has now reached the stage
where  each  country  has  to  commit  to  making  this
proposed mechanism its own by adopting it.
their  unreserved  support 
for 
A/58/PV.50
In  this  connection  I  would  like  to  encourage  all
nations of the world to make an overwhelming show of
acceptance  for  the  invitation  to  the  Merida,  Mexico
signing  conference,  from  9  to  11  December,  to  mark
the formal adoption of the United Nations Convention
against Corruption. This will be one more opportunity
for  the  nations  of  the  world,  both  rich  and  poor,  to
voice  their  firm  support  for  justice,  peace  and  the
prosperity of humankind.
Mr. Negroponte (United States of America): Ten
years  ago,  bribes  were  still  tax  deductible  in  some
countries  and  no  international  anti-corruption  treaties
existed.  Today’s  resolution  is  therefore  a  milestone
achievement in the global effort to ensure transparency,
fairness and justice in public affairs.
This is vital not only to the rule of law, but to the
fundamental  confidence  citizens  must  have 
for
representative  government  and  private  enterprise  to
succeed.  Corruption  and  democracy  are  incompatible;
corruption  and  economic  prosperity  are  incompatible;
and corruption and equal opportunity are incompatible.
As  a  consequence,  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the
draft  convention  we  consider  for  adoption  represents
the  first  globally  negotiated  anti-corruption  treaty  and
will likely be the first anti-corruption treaty applied on
a truly global level. It is more comprehensive than any
existing  anti-corruption  treaty  and  provides  the  first
agreed  multilateral  framework  for  Governments  to
cooperate  in  the  recovery  of  illicitly  obtained  assets.
An  important  chapter  of  the  text  creates  a  conference
of States parties that will be responsible for follow-up.
We  expect  that  body  to  play  a  prominent  role  in
promoting implementation, and we believe it is not too
soon  for  us  informally  to  share  our  visions  of  how  it
can be most effective.
Like  other  anti-crime  treaties  before  it,  the  new
Convention  will  establish  commitments  to  criminalize
certain undesirable and harmful conduct — in this case,
corrupt  actions  such  as  bribery,  embezzlement  and
money-laundering.  But  the  Convention  does  not  stop
there. It will also require Governments to take action in
a  number  of  areas  — 
in  public
procurement,  public  financial  management  and  the
regulation  of  public  officials  —  so  as  to  help  prevent
corruption from happening in the first place.
for  example 
The  international  fight  against  corruption  has
long been a priority for my country, beginning with our
efforts  in  the  1980s  to  rally  international  attention  to
19
A/58/PV.50
bribery  in  international  business  transactions.  In  fact,
President  Bush  considers  anti-corruption  efforts  to  be
so central to development that he has made progress on
fighting 
for
participation  in  the  Millennium  Challenge  Account,
which  we  expect  will  add  $5  billion  to  our  core
development  assistance  and  thereby  increase  it  50  per
cent by fiscal year 2006.
corruption 
essential 
element 
an 
Experts  from  approximately  130  countries  spent
countless hours over the past two years developing this
Convention.  The  United  States  was  pleased 
to
participate  actively  in  those  long  and  highly  technical
negotiations. Our experience convinces us that the draft
United  Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  is  the
product  of  a  true  partnership  among  most  of  the
countries  represented  in  this  Hall.  We  think  this  is
crucial.  A  successful  fight  against  corruption  requires
action  on  many  fronts;  clearly,  our  efforts  will  be
effective  only  to  the  extent  that  we  maintain  the
partnership we have forged over the last two years.
in 
Now  —  as  with  all  treaties  —  the  end  of
negotiations  marks  the  real  beginning  of  engagement.
The  words  of  this  Convention  must  be  translated  into
action, or else the hard work of the Ad Hoc Committee
will  be  for  naught.  Numerous  compromises  had  to  be
made 
the  negotiations;  no  country  obtained
everything it sought. But with an agreed text before us,
the time has come for all countries to move as quickly
as  possible  in  their  national  processes  to  consider
signature  and  ratification,  to  engage  civil  society  and
the  private  sector  and 
the
and  helpful
implementation  of 
the 
approaches that we have developed together.
to  promote 
innovative 
to  work 
In  closing,  we  thank  the  members  of  the  Bureau
of  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  and  its  secretariat  from  the
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in Vienna,
in  particular  Eduardo  Vetere  and  his  staff,  including
Dimitri Vlassis, for their tireless dedication during the
two years of negotiations.
Our Acting Chairman, Ambassador Muhyieddeen
Touk  of  Jordan,  deserves  special  credit  for  his  wise
leadership  following  the  sad  and  untimely  death  of
Ambassador  Charry  Samper  of  Colombia.  We  also
want 
late
Ambassador  Samper,  who  believed  wholeheartedly  in
our efforts and, we believe, would be pleased with the
finishing touches to his work.
the  contributions  of 
to  recognize 
the 
20
Thank you, Mr. President, for allowing me to take
the  floor,  and  congratulations  to  our  colleagues  who
participated  in  the  important  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc
Committee.
Mr.  Garcia  (Philippines):  First  of  all,  I  would
like  to  express  my  satisfaction  at  being  able  to  attend
this  particular  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to
deliberate  on  the  adoption  of  the  draft  United  Nations
Convention against Corruption.
It  is  widely  recognized  that  corruption  is  a
universal phenomenon and that it knows no boundaries.
No country is immune to its pernicious effects. Indeed,
all  societies  and  economies  are  affected  by  that
transnational phenomenon. The International Monetary
Fund  has  estimated  that  the  total  amount  of  money
laundered on an annual basis is equivalent to 3 per cent
to 5 per cent of the world’s gross domestic product. A
significant  portion  of  that  activity  involves  funds
derived from corruption.
the 
first 
time, 
It is precisely for that reason that the draft United
Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  should  be
hailed  as  a  landmark  achievement  by  the  international
community.  For 
the  scourge  of
corruption  is  being  addressed  in  a  comprehensive  and
multidisciplinary  manner.  For 
the
members  of  the  international  community  have  broken
new ground and have been able to forge a consensus on
measures  to  prevent  and  combat  corruption  more
efficiently  and  effectively,  as  well  as  on  measures  to
promote, 
international
cooperation  and  technical  assistance  in  the  prevention
of  and  the  fight  against  corruption,  including  in  asset
recovery.  These 
requiring
cooperation, flexibility and creativity.
strengthen 
the  first 
facilitate 
complex 
issues 
time, 
and 
are 
We do not need to be reminded of the fact that the
Philippines is among those countries which in the past
have  been  damaged  by  high-level 
corruption
committed  with  impunity  by  high-level  officials  and
their  high-powered  cohorts  and  cronies  in  the  private
sector. The Filipino people are still paying for the sins
of those to whom they had entrusted their fate — those
who  had  sworn  to  uphold  and  protect  their  interests.
Since  President  Gloria  Macapagal-Arroyo  assumed
leadership  in  2001,  significant  accomplishments  have
been  made  in  the  fight  against  corruption  in  my
country,  the  Philippines.  Despite  these  gains,  the
Philippines  realizes  that  international  cooperation  and
technical assistance are vital elements in the campaign
against  corruption,  especially  as  regards  funds  that
have  been  illicitly  transferred,  hidden  or  invested  in
other  countries  beyond  the  jurisdiction  of  our  legal
system.
Viewed against this backdrop, it is not surprising
that  the  Philippines  welcomed  from  the  outset  the
negotiations  on  the  draft  United  Nations  Convention
against  Corruption.  The  Philippines  was  actively
engaged  in  this  multilateral  process  from  the  very
beginning and was elected a Vice-Chairman of the Ad
Hoc  Committee  for  the  Negotiation  of  a  Convention
against Corruption. The Philippines had even submitted
its own draft of the convention during the preparatory
meeting held in Buenos Aires in December 2001.
This involvement was capped by close Philippine
participation  in  the  sixth  and  seventh  sessions  of  the
Ad Hoc Committee, held in Vienna in July/August and
September/October this year. During these sessions we
were  able  to  put  to  good  use  the  hard  and  painful
lessons  of  the  Presidential  Commission  on  Good
Government, the Philippine Government agency tasked
with the recovery of the illicitly acquired assets of the
Marcos  regime.  I  specifically  refer  to  the  landmark
chapter  V  of  the  draft  Convention  where,  for  the  first
time,  the  return  of  assets  is  stated  as  a  fundamental
principle,  and  international  parameters  are  set  relative
to asset recovery.
Having  said  that,  the  Philippines  is  well  aware
that  major  compromises  had  to  be  made  by  all
delegations  to  successfully  secure  final  agreement  on
the  draft  Convention.  The  Philippine  delegation  was
among  those  that  had  to  strike  a  compromise  for  the
sake  of  reaching  consensus  on 
language  of
provisions that, for us, touched on dearly held positions
and convictions. This we did, knowing that the Filipino
people would be better served by the existence, rather
than  the  absence,  of  an  international  legal  instrument
against corruption.
the 
Nevertheless, the proceedings of the negotiations,
the notes in the travaux preparatoires and the report of
the  consistency  group  make  very  clear  the  spirit  and
intent behind these textual accommodations. Likewise,
the statements of the Group of 77 and China during the
Ad  Hoc  Committee  sessions  elaborate  on  the  raison
d’être of the Convention for the developing countries.
The  Philippines  wholeheartedly  supports 
the
adoption  of  the  Convention  by  the  General  Assembly.
In our view, the Convention should ultimately serve as
A/58/PV.50
a  catalyst  for  the  rule  of  law,  the  exchange  of  best
practices,  technical  assistance  and  capacity-building,
particularly  to  strengthen  the  efforts  of  developing
countries in fighting corruption. It would, however, be
an aberration, a distortion of all that the United Nations
stands  for,  if  the  Convention  were  to  be  used  as  an
instrument to impose conditionalities, or if it were cited
as  a  convenient  excuse  to  intrude  into  the  internal
affairs of individual States.
I  would 
like 
In  closing, 
to  express  my
appreciation  to  all  those  delegations  who  participated
actively  in  the  Vienna  negotiations,  including  the
secretariat  of  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and
Crime  under  the  leadership  of  the  Executive  Director,
Mr.  Antonio  Maria  Costa,  and  members  of  the  United
Nations  Secretariat.  I  would  also  like  to  mention,  in
particular, Mr. Eduardo Vetere and Mr. Dimitri Vlassis.
The  Ad  Hoc  Committee  has  complied  with  and
fulfilled its difficult mandate and is now presenting to
us  the  formidable  product  of  its  heroic  and  creative
efforts.  This  deserves  our  heartfelt  thanks.  We  are
hopeful  that  the  same  heroism  and  creativity  will
prevail with respect to the future entry into force of the
Convention.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the  debate  on  this  item  for  this  meeting.  Because  I
promised  many  delegations  that  I  would  present  this
morning  my  analysis  on  the  debate  on  the  cluster  of
items  on  revitalization,  restructuring  and  reform,  we
will  continue  the  debate  on  agenda  item  108  this
afternoon.
Agenda item 55 (continued)
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Agenda item 57 (continued)
United Nations reform: measures and proposals
Agenda item 58 (continued)
Restructuring and revitalization of the United
Nations in the economic, social and related fields
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/57/786;
A/58/175, A/58/351, A/58/382, A/58/395 and
A/58/395/Corr.1)
21
A/58/PV.50
Agenda item 59 (continued)
Strengthening of the United Nations system
The  President:  Sixty-one  delegations  have
spoken in the debate under item 55, “Revitalization of
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly”,  item  57,  “United
Nations reform: measures and proposals”, agenda item
58,  “Restructuring  and  revitalization  of  the  United
Nations in the economic, social and related fields” and
agenda  item  59,  “Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations
system”.
I  believe  it  important  to  note  at  the  outset  that
delegations speaking under this cluster of items centred
their statements on agenda items 55 and 58. Little or no
reference  was  made  to  items  57  and  59.  This  is,  I
believe,  an  indication  of  where  some  of  our  problems
lie,  in  respect  of  reform  and  revitalization  of  the
General  Assembly  and  of  the  United  Nations  as  a
whole. We should, in our deliberations, ponder why we
have two items before us for discussion on which few
delegations cared to comment.
The  discussions  on  items  55  and  58  have  been
both  interesting  and  thought  provoking.  Delegations
have  been  particularly  reflective  and  conscientious  in
their approach to agenda item 55, on the revitalization
of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  on  this  item  that  I  will
focus  my  assessment  today.  I  am  both  pleased  and
encouraged  by  the  overall  mood  of  the  debate,  and
particularly  by  the  many  concrete  proposals  and
suggestions that delegations have made.
I sense a gathering momentum in favour of taking
decisive steps towards revitalization of the Assembly. I
also sense an emerging consensus that we should take
action expeditiously. I see no reason  for further delay.
The  informal  note  I  circulated  to  delegations  on  15
October 2003 has been well received. I appreciate your
support  for  this  document  as  a  worthwhile  initiative
and the generally held view that it forms a good basis
on  which  to  begin  our  work.  I  was  especially  pleased
that  the  two  clusters  of  issues  I  identified  in  the
informal  note  have  been  generally  welcomed  as  a
useful conceptual framework.
Among  the  specific  issues  addressed  in  the
debate, it is noteworthy that a number appeared to give
rise to particular concerns and were based centrally on
decisions  that  must  be  taken  in  the  context  of  the
revitalization exercise. The first, and all-encompassing,
is  the  political  position  and  status  of  the  General
22
Assembly.  In  that  regard,  attention  was  repeatedly
drawn to the passage in the Millennium Declaration in
which heads of State and Government resolved
“To  reaffirm  the  central  position  of  the  General
Assembly  as 
the  chief  deliberative,  policy-
making  and  representative  organ  of  the  United
Nations,  and  to  enable  it  to  play  that  role
effectively.” (resolution 55/2, para. 30)
That objective, I believe, should form the backdrop for
our negotiations in the weeks ahead.
the  General  Assembly  and 
to  be  addressed.  In 
The view has also been taken that the relationship
the  Security
between 
Council  needs 
that  context,
consideration by the Council of issues that seem to fall
more naturally within the purview of the Assembly and
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  a  development  to
which further attention must be paid in our discussions.
The  view  has  been  strongly  advanced  in  the
course  of  the  debate  that  for  the  General  Assembly’s
resolutions  and  decisions  to  be  better  respected,  they
will  have  to  become  better  known.  Attention  was
drawn  to  the  advocacy  role  that  the  Department  of
Public  Information  should  more  actively  play 
in
bringing that about.
In 
the  consideration  of  possible  means  of
strengthening  the  General  Assembly,  many  references
were  made  to  the  need  to  strengthen  the  Office  of  the
President,  both  as  a  means  of  better  managing  each
session  and  as  a  way  to  ensure  needed  continuity  and
institutional  memory  from  session  to  session.  Such
strengthening  would  require  augmenting  the  resources
available to the Office. There is also an emerging view
that  the  role  of  the  presidency  itself  needs  to  be
reviewed.  Comments  were  made  in  that  regard  on  the
possibilities of extending the term of the President, re-
electing the President to a second term or instituting a
troika  system.  Each  of  those  issues  might  be  further
considered.
The  idea  of  making  more  effective  use  of  the
General  Committee 
and
coordinating mechanism has been generally welcomed.
The  initial  informal  steps  I  have  taken  in  that  respect
might now be fleshed out and formalized.
an  organizational 
as 
The 
implementation  of 
the
Assembly  was  a  crucial  concern  raised  in  the  debate.
Comments were made concerning the many resolutions
that  went  unimplemented  or  were  poorly  followed  up.
resolutions  of 
That  is  indeed  a  significant  deficit  in  our  activities  to
which greater attention must be paid. Suggestions have
been  made  for  better  monitoring  of  the  process  of
implementation  that  should  be  examined  in  detail.  A
vital  part  of  ensuring  more  effective  implementation
must  lie  in  drafting  better  resolution  texts  that  would
make  resolutions  more  user-friendly,  and  thus  more
implementable. There appears to be general agreement
that resolutions should be shorter and more to the point
and,  to  the  extent  possible,  should  refrain  from  the
excessive repetition of previous resolutions. I trust that
the  comprehensive  resolution  that  I  anticipate  will  be
the result of the negotiations that  will  now  commence
on the revitalization item will itself be a model of what
resolutions of the future might look like.
Views  have  begun  to  converge  on  some  points
regarding the nature and function of the plenary itself.
The rationale for compressing the plenary’s work into a
three-month  period,  whatever  it  may  have  been  once,
some time ago, no longer appears to be persuasive. An
alternative should be sought to that practice that has the
Assembly considering, over a period of approximately
13 weeks, some 200 draft resolutions. As the Assembly
session  is  for  one  year,  scheduling  the  work  of  the
Assembly over a longer period seems desirable.
Notable  interest  was  shown  in  positioning  the
plenary to approach its work more thematically. That is
an issue that should now receive further consideration,
both  in  relation  to  the  organization  of  the  general
debate  and  the  organization  of  the  agenda  of  the
General  Assembly.  A  consensus  has  begun  to  develop
around  the  importance  of  reducing  the  length  of  the
Assembly’s  agenda.  Delegations  have  acknowledged
that  the  substantive  agenda  as  currently  presented
creates a workload that is difficult to contend with. At
the same time, the increasing awareness that the agenda
should reflect contemporary realities was evident from
the debate, and is a matter that should require attention
in our revitalization discussion.
Progress  has  been  made  in  the  biennialization,
triennialization  and  clustering  of  items  for  discussion
on  the  Assembly’s  agenda,  and  that  has  been  widely
recognized.  The  general  view  appears  to  be  that  the
time has come to make further progress on those fronts
as we proceed with the revitalization exercise.
A/58/PV.50
The  issue  of  documentation  overload  is  one  that
is inextricably linked to matters concerning the agenda,
resolutions and  the  biennialization  and  triennialization
and clustering of items. It would be essential to take up
that matter in that broader context.
Comments have been made concerning aspects of
the  revitalization  exercise  that  concern  the  Main
Committees  and 
the
Committees  are  themselves  reviewing  their  working
methods  and  procedures  to  improve  effectiveness.
Those  initiatives  will  need  to  be  integrated  into  the
overall revitalization exercise.
their  bureaux.  Some  of 
I  hope  that  my  assessment  of  the  revitalization
debate  will  assist  Members  as  we  move  ahead  in  our
work.
that 
I  have 
invited 
With regard to the next steps, I wish to advise the
Assembly 
six  permanent
representatives  to  serve  as  facilitators  for  this  item.  I
appreciate, and I am pleased, that they have agreed to
do  so.  The  facilitators  are  Mr.  Abdallah  Baali,
Permanent  Representative  of  Algeria;  Mr.  Stafford  O.
Neil,  Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica;  Mr.  Dirk
Jan  van  den  Berg,  Permanent  Representative  of  the
Netherlands;  Mr.  Kishore  Mahbubani,  Permanent
Representative  of  Singapore;  Mr.  Roman  Kirn,
and
Permanent 
Mr. Dumisani 
Permanent
Representative of South Africa. I shall be meeting the
facilitators  as  a  group  shortly  —  in  fact,  no  later  than
Monday  afternoon  —  so  that  we  can  determine  a
framework and timeframe for their work.
of 
Kumalo, 
Representative 
Slovenia; 
Shadrack 
It is my intention to present a draft resolution of
the President for consideration by the Assembly before
it  concludes  the  substantive  part  of  its  session,  in
December  of  this  year.  I  know  that  I  can  count  on
members  to  give  the  facilitators  the  necessary  support
and  cooperation  so  that  we  can  meet  that  goal.  I  look
forward 
to
benefiting  from  its  continued  support  as  we  pursue
together the critical questions that have been identified
by our heads of State and Government and other high-
level  representatives  as  matters  of  priority  for  the
General Assembly.
the  Assembly  and 
to  working  with 
We  have 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our
consideration of agenda items 55, 57, 58 and 59.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
23
