United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
49th plenary meeting
Thursday, 30 October 2003, at 6 p.m.
New York

A/58/PV.49
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m.
Agenda item 104
Consensus.  Speakers  were  frank  in  their  assessment
of  implementation,  and  progress  —  when  it  had
occurred — was welcomed.
Follow-up to the International Conference on
Financing for Development:
(b) High-level dialogue for the implementation of
the outcome of the International Conference on
Financing for Development
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/58/216 and
A/58/323)
Note by the Secretary-General (A/58/436)
Report of the Economic and Social Council
(A/58/3, Parts I-II)
Summary by the President of the Economic and
Social Council (A/58/77 and Add. 1 and 2)
Conference Room Paper (A/58/CRP.2)
The  President:  The  following  represents  my
assessment  of  the  interactive  dialogue  in  the  General
Assembly on financing for development.
Governments,  international  institutions  and  non-
Government  stakeholders  who  participated  in  our
dialogue  have  clearly  signalled  their  continued  strong
support  for  the  unique  Monterrey  process.  This  is
critical  for  full  implementation  of  the  Monterrey
in 
But  much  more  is  required,  and  there  has  been
slippage  in  some  areas,  notably  in  disappointing
developments 
trade  and  financial
transfers.  There  were  many  calls  for  a  more  precise
mechanism  for  monitoring,  as  we  go  forward,  the
Monterrey  commitments  and  the  targets  embodied  in
Goal 8 of the Millennium Development Goals.
international 
to 
taken 
implement 
Both  developed  and  developing  countries  should
report  on  actions  being 
the
Monterrey Consensus. The essential issue in delivering
the  Monterrey  Consensus  is  political  will,  and  many
speakers called for the need to explore ways to muster
the required political will. Certain developed countries
described  an  approach  that  explicitly  seeks  greater
coherence  among  Government  policies  and  that,  in  so
doing, would raise the visibility of the commitment to
development.  In 
legislation  would
require  that  decisions  taken  in  different  policy  areas
should be explicitly found consistent with development
commitments.
this  approach, 
learned 
We  also 
that  parliamentarians 
in
developing  countries  are  becoming  more  intimately
involved  in  development  and  economic  reform  issues
and  that  international  support  is  engaged  in  indirect
discussions with international financial institutions and
bilateral  donors  on  proposed  programmes.  This  is  a
practical means for promoting “ownership” of reforms.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-58970 (E)
*0358970*
A/58/PV.49
concern 
Many called for an increase in core resources for
United  Nations  development  assistance.  There  was  a
universal 
trade
negotiations  in  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)
resume  as  soon  as  possible  and  work
should 
expeditiously 
towards  an  effective  development
conclusion.
international 
that 
the 
Some  Governments  expressed  concern  about  the
abuse  of  anti-dumping  measures  exemplifying  a
concern  about  how  the  WTO  was  functioning.  A
number of speakers emphasized the important role that
regional  cooperation  can  play  in  trade  and  financial
issues and that it should be promoted further.
Concerns  were  expressed  about 
international
commodity  markets, 
the  exposure  of  developing
countries’  farmers  to  market  vulnerability  and  to
volatile  and  low  prices,  and  the  need  to  consider  this
matter at the United Nations in a more comprehensive
and  focused  manner.  One  proposal  was  to  adjust
development  assistance  to  counter  the  declines  in
cycles  of  commodity  prices.  Another  idea  was  to
consider  some  mechanism 
for  commodity  price
guarantees for poor countries. Some delegations called
for  a  more  meaningful 
relationship
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  WTO.  This  was
suggested by civil society.
institutional 
While 
increases 
in  aid  were 
reported  and
commitments to further increased official development
assistance  were  reiterated,  the  large  gap  between
expected  flows  and  what  is  needed  to  realize  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  remained  very  large.
No  one  questioned  that  this  was  so  or  gave  us  the
answer as to how to close the gap.
last 
summer. 
Speakers 
The importance of increasing aid to support rural
development  and  agriculture  in  developing  countries
was emphasized. The need of this sector was the focus
of the  high-level  segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council 
expressed
disappointment at how slow the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Debt Initiative has been to deliver relief, and
questions about the adequacy of the relief were raised.
A number of creditor countries said  they  were  willing
to  revisit 
is  a
mechanism  to  deepen  debt  relief  for  heavily  indebted
poor  countries  when  they  complete  their  programme
and  still  do  not  have  —  or  would  not  have  had  —
sufficient relief.
topping-up,  which 
issue  of 
the 
2
More  generally,  there  seems  to  be  considerable
interest  in  undertaking  further  international  work  on
how  to  resolve  sovereign  debt  crises  and  how  to  be
more  successful  in  preventing  them.  It  was  felt  by
many that the United Nations could help facilitate such
considerations, such as through the Secretary-General’s
proposed  informal  study  group  or  an  independent
international arbitration group under the auspices of the
United  Nations.  While  there  are  common  financing
needs for development, differentiated support is needed
for emerging countries, middle-income countries, least
developed  countries  and  land-locked  and  small  island
developing States. Some speakers focused attention on
remittances  as  a  major  source  of  financial  flows  from
developed  to  developing  countries.  There  were  some
efforts  to  make  such  transfers  less  costly  and  simpler.
There is a need to strengthen international cooperation
on  tax  matters,  and  there  was  strong  interest  in
pursuing  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  upgrade
the  Ad  Hoc  Group  of  Experts  on  Cooperation  in  Tax
Matters. An enhanced dialogue on tax issues should be
global  and  include  the  full  representation  of  small
States.
reiterated 
the  need 
There  were  strong  calls  for  additional,  new  and
innovative sources of financing for development. Many
speakers 
to  establish  and
consolidate democratic structures at the domestic level
for  better  governance,  including  through  improved
transparency, anti-corruption  regulations  and  measures
to combat money-laundering. There is equal concern to
strengthen democratic processes at the global level, in
particular  to  enhance  the  participation  of  developing
countries and countries with economies in transition in
international financial institutions, and in  more  settled
and  standard  ways.  The  United  Nations,  through  the
Economic and Social Council, could play a larger role
as  a  forum  for  discussion  on  macroeconomic  policy
coordination at the global level.
Several 
concerned 
countries  were 
about
reforming the Economic and Social Council in order to
make  it  more  effective  in  international  economic  and
social  affairs  and,  in  particular, 
the
momentum  of  the  financing  for  development  process.
One specific proposal was to expand the Bureau of the
Economic and Social Council. Another proposal was to
create  an  Economic  and  Social  Security  Council.  Yet
another was for the formation of an intergovernmental
body  to  adequately  prepare  for  the  Monterrey  follow-
up meeting.
to  maintain 
A/58/PV.49
In  addition,  there  were  proposals  to  form,  under
the  financing  for  development  umbrella,  various
informal,  multistakeholder  working  groups  to  address
various technical policy issues, such as financial sector
development,  financial  cooperation,  tax  matters  and
debt arbitration. A number of speakers from developing
countries  described  efforts  in  the  area  of  South-South
financial cooperation. That included assistance to least
developed  regional  partners  and  South-South  debt
relief.
We have had two full days of holistic interactive
dialogue  on  financing  for  development.  We  have
reviewed all chapters of the Monterrey Consensus, and
we have heard from practically all stakeholders. I want
to personally thank all of you for participating, and, in
particular,  the  Secretariat  for  their  usual  tremendous
support.
I have shared with you highlights of our dialogue
and will submit a more comprehensive summary to the
Second  Committee,  as  mandated.  Let  us  leave  here
committed 
implement  what  we  have
articulated in  words  over  the  last  couple  of  days.  It  is
with pleasure — and I am sure with great relief to some
of  you  —  that  I  declare  the  High-level  Dialogue  on
Financing for Development to be closed.
to  act  and 
The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m.
3
