United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
41st plenary meeting
Wednesday, 22 October 2003, 3 p.m.
New York

A/58/PV.41
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m.
Agenda item 50 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic,
social and related fields
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/359)
Ms. Ndhlovu (South Africa): South Africa aligns
itself with the statement made by the representative of
Morocco on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
It  is  with  a  sense  of  proud  achievement  that  the
South  African  delegation  contributes  to  the  debate  on
the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic  and  social
fields. Not only did we actively participate in all of the
major conferences and summits that took place during
the  last  decade,  we  were  also  privileged  to  host  both
the  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance in
2001  and 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development in 2002.
South Africa strongly supports the recognition —
given  by  resolution  57/270  B,  which  is  the  basis  for
discussions  under  this  item  —  of  the  fact  that  we  are
beyond  the  normative  debate  and  planning  phase  and
have to ensure that the outcomes of major conferences
and  summits  are  indeed  implemented.  Having  had
these  conferences  and  summits,  we  now  face  the
challenge of ensuring that the decisions taken at these
global  meetings  are  implemented  in  a  coherent  and
effective  manner.  In  this  regard,  the  principal  result
that  South  Africa  would 
the
implementation  of  these  decisions  is  that  they  would
ultimately lead to a better life for all mankind.
to  see  from 
like 
South  Africa,  as  part  of  the  developing  world,
knows  the  great  difficulties  in  achieving  the  goals  of
freedom  from  want  and  freedom  from  fear.  This  is  a
challenge that cannot be addressed by any one country
in  isolation.  It  is  indeed  a  challenge  for  all  of  us  and
must be addressed in a multilateral context.
and 
summits 
provide 
conferences 
In this context, the outcomes of the major United
Nations 
a
comprehensive basis for action at the national, regional
and international levels, with  the  key  objectives  being
poverty  eradication,  sustained  economic  growth  and
sustainable  development.  The  fact  that  every  country
has  the  primary  responsibility  for  its  own  economic
and  social  development  means 
that  regional  and
international  organizations,  as  well  as  the  United
Nations  as  a  whole,  also  have  a  role  to  play  in  this
important partnership. However, for this partnership to
work,  every  Member  State  should  undertake 
to
implement the commitments it has made.
Africa  has  already  shown  its  commitment  to
contribute  to  this  notion  of  partnership  by,  among
others,  its  active  promotion  and  participation  in  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).
This  home-grown  African  initiative,  so  generously
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-57382 (E)
*0357382*
A/58/PV.41
supported  by  the  United  Nations  and  other  Member
States and organizations, is seeking to address Africa’s
particular 
and
institutionalized  framework  of  partnership  and  mutual
benefit.
problems  within 
coherent 
a 
that 
However important this regional framework is to
addressing the issues confronting Africa, the need for a
international  socio-economic  environment 
is
conducive remains critical for it to be successful. It is
because  of  this  recognition  that  South  Africa  has
expressed  its  disappointment  on  the  failure  of  the
discussions 
the  same  vein
pronouncing  its  determination  to  get  the  development
round, as agreed upon in Doha, back on track. We also
believe in the necessity to ensure the full participation
of  developing  countries  in  setting  the  agenda  and
determining  the  norms  for  international  interaction  in
the economic, financial and monetary fields.
in  Cancún,  while 
in 
However,  the  United  Nations  system  also  has  an
important  responsibility  to  stay  fully  engaged  in  the
implementation  of  agreements  and  commitments
reached  at  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits. Of particular importance is the need to ensure
that policy guidelines from the General Assembly and
the  Economic 
the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations conferences and summits be incorporated into
the  programmes  of  work  and  operational  activities  of
the  relevant  funds  and  programmes  of  the  United
Nations.
and  Social  Council 
on 
My  delegation  recognizes  the  need  to  strengthen
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  highest
intergovernmental  mechanism  for  the  formulation  and
appraisal  of  policy  on  matters 
the
coordinated  and  integrated  follow-up  to  the  major
United Nations conferences and summits. At the same
time, it is important to ensure that the working methods
of  its  committees  and  plenary  meetings  allow  for
maximum focus and participation, in order to  enhance
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  reviewing  the
progress made in implementation.
relating 
to 
With  reference  to  the  important  role  of  the
General  Assembly  as  a  deliberative  and  legislative
body  to  set  norms  and  guidelines,  it  is  therefore
regarded  as  the  ideal  authority  for  overall  monitoring
and  oversight  of  implementation  regarding  decisions
taken  in  multilateral  forums.  The  convening  power  of
the United Nations, as was seen in the  major summits
2
the  highest 
at 
Conference 
the  Millennium  Summit, 
Financing 
and  conferences  of  the  past  decade,  and  as  was
level  of
reflected,  for  example,  by 
the
participation 
International 
for
Development  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development, suggests that the United Nations should
play  an  overall  coordination  and  monitoring  role,
overseeing the implementation by all actors, including
from  national  Governments,  regional  and  global
institutions and civil society.
on 
regard,  my  delegation 
the  central  mechanism 
should  also  continue 
that 
The Economic and Social Council can and should
for  system-wide
act  as 
to  be
coordination  and 
strengthened. 
is
In 
particularly supportive of the recommendation made in
resolution  57/270  B,  that  the  Economic  and  Social
Council should review on a regular basis, by means of
a  cross-sectoral  approach,  the  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  summits  and  their  follow-up
processes  and  to  assess  its  impact  on  the  possible
achievements  of  the  goals  and  the  targets  of  the
conferences  and  summits.  The  role  that  the  Statistical
Commission  could  play  by  refining  and  finalizing
indicators 
of
commitments  and  the  achievement  of  development
goals remains crucial.
implementation 
assess 
the 
to 
In this ambit of partnership, it is also important to
recognize  the  important  role  that  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)
should  play  in  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.  The
high-level meeting every spring between the Economic
and Social Council, the Bretton Woods institutions and
the  WTO,  during  which  time  the  important  issue  of
coherence  and  consistency  of 
international
monetary,  financial  and  trading  systems  in  support  of
development and other matters are discussed, is already
an  indication  of  the  effort  to  implement  the  decisions
made  at  Monterrey 
improve  dialogue  and
coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and  those
institutions.  This  bodes  well  for  future  discussions  on
the  international  development  agenda  and  for  taking
stock  of  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  the
Monterrey Consensus.
the 
to 
At  the  same  time,  acknowledgement  should  also
be  given  to  the  important  role  that  non-governmental
organizations,  community  based  organizations  and  the
the  coordinated
private 
should  play 
sector 
in 
implementation  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in  the
economic and social fields.
The  successful  implementation  of  the  outcomes
of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits
lies with all of us — Member States, non-governmental
organizations  and  the  United  Nations  system.  The
commitments  made  during 
these  conferences  and
summits  will  come  to  nothing  if  we  do  not  show  the
necessary  political  will  to  succeed.  The  goals  that  we
have set ourselves at these major meetings to eradicate
poverty and to improve the lives of millions of people
are in danger of not being achieved.
I would also like to briefly reflect on the follow-
up to the outcome of the special session on children.
The 
international  community  made  profound
commitments  to  children  at  the  special  session  on
children and endorsed unanimously the Declaration and
Plan  of  Action,  “A  World  Fit  for  Children”.  The
Convention on the Rights of the Child and its Optional
Protocols  serve  as  a  landmark  treaty  due  to  its  almost
universal ratification by Member States. The voices of
children  and  their  concerns  and  aspirations  form  an
integral part of the outcome document adopted in 2002.
These commitments to building a world fit for children
must  compel  us  to  implement  our  obligations  as  a
matter  of  priority,  since 
issues  at  stake,  as
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  said,  are  about  the
future of humanity.
the 
The international community is faced with global
crises and a number of conflicts, which in all instances
involve the lives of children caught up in conflict and
humanitarian disasters. Yet, in many parts of the world,
the challenges to improve children’s lives have moved
forward.  The  work  of  the  United  Nations  Children’s
Fund (UNICEF), in partnership with Governments, has
continued  to  address  the  rights  of  children  in  a
comprehensive  manner.  Numerous  national  plans,
based  on  the  outcome  of  the  special  session,  are  in
place  and  are  being  implemented.  The  international
community  therefore  has  a  road  map  before  it  and
should continue to deliver its promises to the children
of the world.
for 
the 
In  closing,  allow  me  to  voice  my  delegation’s
support 
the
Secretary-General  in  his  report  (A/58/228)  to  address
the  serious  issue  of  global  road  safety.  It  is  again
highlighted that the burden of road traffic injuries falls
recommendations  made  by 
A/58/PV.41
in 
disproportionately  on  people 
low-and  middle-
income  countries,  with  Africa  possessing  the  highest
road  traffic  death  rate  of  28  deaths  per  100,000
population.  World  Health  Organization  projections
suggesting that by 2020 road traffic injuries would rank
third  among  causes  of  death  and  disability,  ahead  of
such other health problems as malaria and HIV/AIDS,
is a serious concern. The impact that this could have on
the 
the  developing
countries speaks for itself.
sustainable  development  of 
I  would,  therefore,  in  particular,  support  the
recommendation made by the Secretary-General in his
report for stronger international cooperation to support
the  development  of  the  national  capacities  of  Member
States in need thereof to address this problem. The role
that 
in
addressing  global  road  safety  could  be,  among  others,
the  identification  of  a  coordinating  body  within  the
United  Nations  system  to  facilitate  and  coordinate  the
efforts  of  global  road  safety.  Such  an  effort  should  be
welcomed.
the  United  Nations  system  could  play 
Mr.  Kazykhanov  (Kazakhstan):  Let  me,  at  the
outset,  express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General for his  report prepared under agenda item 50,
entitled “Integrated and coordinated implementation of
and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,
social and related fields”. In our view his report is the
result of the thorough and comprehensive work carried
out  by  the  Secretariat  and  by  the  delegations  of
Member States that  made recommendations  under  this
agenda  item  within  the  framework  of  the  open-ended
ad  hoc  working  group  headed  by  the  President  of  the
Assembly.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  report’s  observation
that  the  global  consensus  generated  by  the  United
Nations summits and conferences of the last decade on
issues  of  poverty 
sustainable
development  as  central  concerns  of  national  and
international  policy  frameworks  has  renewed 
the
relevance  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
economic, social  and  related  fields,  and  of  its  mission
to guide and harmonize policies for development.
eradication 
and 
In  that  regard,  the  Millennium  Summit  truly
marked  a  turning  point  in  the  process  of  transforming
the  emerging  global  consensus  into  specific  goals  and
targets, backed by political commitment at the highest
level.  We  pledged  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  to
3
A/58/PV.41
strengthen  international  solidarity  and  partnership  in
order to attain the Millennium Development Goals in a
timely manner.
the 
that 
the  view 
We  share 
International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  —  two
major  conferences,  held  last  year  in  Monterrey  and
Johannesburg  respectively  —  have  proved  to  be  very
useful  global  events  in  terms  of  offering  focused
mechanisms to monitor progress towards attainment of
the Millennium Development Goals.
At 
is 
the 
time, 
those 
summits 
the  same 
international 
issue  of  conceptual
integrity  of  various  efforts  to  follow  up  on  the
outcomes  of 
and
conferences  is  highly  relevant  in  view  of  the  need  to
ensure  better  coordination  of  global,  regional  and
national activities for development. In this regard, it is
my  delegation’s  view  that  the  existence  of  a  structure
for  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  and
follow-up 
to  promotion  of  mutually
reinforcing  action  in  the  pursuit  of  the  internationally
agreed development goals.
the  key 
importance 
for  attaining 
the  State’s  economic  and 
Kazakhstan  shares  the  view  that  an  enabling
environment  at  the  national  and  international  levels  is
of  critical 
the  agreed
development goals. As for our country, we can say that
it has become possible  to  successfully  incorporate  our
development-goals  commitments  into  our  long-term
national  programmes  and  strategies  as  a  result  of  the
political  will,  clearly  expressed  by  our  leaders,  to
pursue  the  development  of  Kazakhstan,  guided  by  the
principle  of 
social
responsibility vis-à-vis its citizens.
on 
the  Millennium
Development Goals, the first such report submitted by
a country of the Commonwealth of Independent States
(CIS), demonstrated that those goals are fully reflected
in  our  existing  national  development  strategies,
policies  and  programmes.  We  also  agree  that  an
enabling environment at the international level requires
enhanced  partnership  between  donor  and  recipient
countries,  based  on  a  recognition  of  the  national
leadership and ownership of the development goals, as
well  as  on  sound  policies  and  good  governance  at  the
national and international levels.
Kazakhstan’s 
report 
To 
achieve 
agreed
development goals, it is necessary to step up efforts to
mobilize  and  effectively  use  financial  resources  as  a
internationally 
the 
4
means of implementation. Reaching the United Nations
target  for  official  development  assistance  of  0.7  per
cent  of  gross  national  product,  along  with 
the
mobilization  of  the  domestic  resources  of  recipient
countries,  should  be  considered  a  key  factor 
in
attaining  such  important  goals  as  the  elimination  of
poverty,  the  improvement  of  social  indicators,  the
achievement  of  better 
the
protection of our environment.
living  standards  and 
In  that  regard,  our  delegation  attaches  great
importance  to  the  High-Level  Dialogue  on  Financing
for  Development  to  be  held  next  week  in  accordance
with  the  Monterrey  Consensus  in  order  to  coordinate,
at 
the
Monterrey Conference.
intergovernmental 
level,  follow-up 
the 
to 
system, 
including 
Kazakhstan  believes  that  the  role  of  the  United
Nations 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions and the World Trade Organization (WTO),
is as crucial as ever in terms of assisting Governments
in their efforts to comply with their development-goals
commitments.  The 
the
Economic and Social Council, the WTO and the United
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development
(UNCTAD)  should  continue 
important
instrument  to  monitor  the  progress  of  the  United
Nations 
international
cooperation.
joint  spring  meetings  of 
to  be  an 
area  of 
system 
this 
in 
like 
to  welcome 
Our  delegation  would 
the
decision of the eleventh session of the Commission on
Sustainable  Development  to  move  to  a  biennial  cycle
of work as an example of a coordinated approach to the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations summits and conferences. That decision, in our
view,  should  facilitate  a  more  meaningful  assessment
of  progress  in  the  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the
major United Nations summits and conferences.
We  also  believe  that  an  implementation  review
process  should  be  used  to  reaffirm  the  goals  and
objectives agreed upon at conferences and summits and
to identify obstacles and constraints as well as actions
and  initiatives  to  overcome  them.  In  this  context,  a
major event to be held in 2005 to review the progress
achieved in implementing all the commitments made in
the  Millennium  Declaration,  as  referred  to  by  the
General  Assembly  in  its  resolution  57/270  B,  would,
we hope, contribute to that process.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our
conviction  that  the  United  Nations  should  continue  to
play a critical role in ensuring steady progress towards
forging  global  partnerships  for  development  and  the
implementation of the outcomes of global forums.
Mr.  Jenie  (Indonesia):  Let  me  first  thank  the
Secretary-General for his report on this important item
(A/58/359).  Also,  we  associate  ourselves  with  the
remarks  made  by  the  distinguished  representative  of
Morocco on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
The time has come for us to meet the challenges
posed by the lack of progress in the implementation of
the outcomes of the major United Nations conferences
and summits in the economic, social and related fields.
We  must  live  up  to  the  commitments  made  at  the
conferences 
together  we
established  internationally  agreed  development  goals
aimed  at  eradicating  poverty,  achieving  sustained
economic 
sustainable
development.
summits,  where 
promoting 
growth 
and 
and 
to 
facilitate 
international  gatherings 
the  Millennium  Declaration  and 
Indeed,  solid  platforms  for  action  emerged  from
the
those 
targets,
achievement  of  development  goals  and 
including 
the
outcomes of the International Conference on Financing
for Development and the World Summit on Sustainable
Development.  Thus,  we  must  move  from  the  phase  of
goal-setting  and  commitment  to  the  phase  of  concrete
implementation 
and
international  levels.  The  international  conferences  and
summits  also  successfully  engaged  civil  society,  non-
governmental  organizations,  the  private  sector  and
other relevant stakeholders in the development process.
As stated in the Secretary General’s report, “They thus
marked  the  first  crucial  phase  in  the  process  of
bringing  development  issues  to  the  forefront  of  the
multilateral agenda” (A/58/359, para. 4).
the  national, 
regional 
at 
With  this  background  in  mind,  my  delegation
welcomed resolution 57/270 B on the subject before us.
We  believe  that  this  comprehensive  resolution  should
be  used  for  guidance  and  as  the  basis  for  the  work  of
the 
relevant  United  Nations  bodies  and  other
stakeholders 
the
outcomes of the conferences and summits.
implementing 
responsible 
for 
At  the  national  level,  appropriate  policies  and
development strategies are indeed crucial for achieving
the agreed development goals. The fact is that domestic
economies  are  interwoven  with  the  global  economic
system;  that  underlines  the  need  to  establish  an
to
enabling 
international  economic  environment 
A/58/PV.41
between 
partnerships 
support  national  development  efforts.  In  fulfilling  this
goal,  it  is  important  to  stress,  inter  alia,  the  need  to
enhance 
and
developing  countries;  the  importance  of  strengthening
the coherence of the United Nations system, including
the  Bretton  Woods  Institutions  and  the  World  Trade
Organization;  and  the  need  to  engage  other  relevant
stakeholders,  including  civil  society  and  the  private
sector, in this process.
developed 
This holistic approach will necessarily require the
formulation  of  a  global  strategy.  In  the  context  of  the
agenda  item  before  us,  such  a  move  will  be  a  step  in
that direction. For that purpose, the initiative taken by
the Secretary-General to establish a high-level panel of
eminent  personalities  is  certainly  relevant  and  timely.
In that regard, my delegation takes this opportunity to
call on the high-level panel of eminent personalities to
strengthen efforts aimed at integrating and coordinating
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.
Other  United  Nations  bodies  have  equally  important
roles to play in this regard.
The  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and
Social Council and its relevant functional commissions,
acting  as  a  three-tiered  system  for  follow-up  to  and
review of the conferences, are all playing crucial roles
in the implementation process. It is therefore important
to  ensure  that  each  of  those  organs  fully  grasps  the
linkages  between  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United
Nations conferences and summits and, as part of a joint
effort,  contributes  towards  achieving  an  integrated
framework 
the
internationally agreed development goals.
implementation 
the 
for 
of 
Furthermore, it is essential to strengthen the links
between  policy  development  at  the  intergovernmental
level and the operational work being undertaken at the
country level by the funds, programmes and specialized
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  including  the
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
Organization. Such an approach will foster the greater
coherence  of 
the  whole  range  of  activities  and
undertakings  initiated  by  the  funds,  programmes  and
other  relevant  organizations  and  bodies  of  the  United
Nations  as  they  work  towards  the  realization  of  the
outcomes of the conferences and summits.
institutions  and 
Towards those ends, we should strive  for  greater
coherence and coordination in the work of the General
Assembly,  especially  in  plenary  meetings  and  in  the
5
A/58/PV.41
Second and Third Committees. That would ensure that
the  system  is  fully  equipped  to  effectively  adopt  an
integrated  approach  to  follow  up  the  outcomes  of  the
conferences and summits.
Concerning the programme of work of the Second
Committee,  my  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the
restructuring and mainstreaming of its agenda needs to
be  reflected  in  the  framework  for  the  integrated  and
coordinated 
to
conference  outcomes.  That  must  be  done  without
diluting  any  agenda  items,  such  as  those  concerning
debt,  trade  or  financing  for  development,  that  are  of
critical importance to developing countries.
implementation  of  and  follow-up 
Another  positive  measure  that  could  aid  the
implementation  process  is  the  possible  comprehensive
review in 2005 of actions taken to achieve that goal. It
is  believed  that  such  a  major  event  would  prove
politically attractive and powerful for Member States.
coherence 
the  agenda  of 
Accordingly, the review process should be placed
high  on 
the  General  Assembly,
coinciding  with  the  decision  taken  at  the  fifty-seventh
session and taking into account the need to give  more
importance, 
the
implementation of the Millennium Declaration. In that
regard,  I  would  like  to  stress  that  the  importance  of
such a review should be viewed within the framework
of  the  integrated  and  coordinated  follow-up  to  the
outcomes  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits.
visibility 
and 
to 
the 
highest 
In  achieving  our  objective,  my  delegation  would
like  to  emphasize  the  crucial  role  of  the  General
inter-governmental
Assembly 
mechanism  and  the  most  important  tool  for 
the
appraisal of policy on matters related to the integrated
and coordinated follow-up to the major United Nations
conferences and summits. The General Assembly must
ensure  that  the  goal  of  integrating  and  harmonizing
policy  guidance,  based  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  as  the  coordinating
mechanism  of 
functional  commissions  and
specialized  agencies,  is  put  into  effect.  Moreover,  the
General  Assembly  should  begin  to  enhance  policy
coherence  among  the  United  Nations  system,  the
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
Organization 
goals,
particularly  in  eradicating  poverty,  promoting  food
security and enhancing sustainable development.
institutions  and 
development 
achieving 
the 
as 
in 
6
the 
that 
to  ensure 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to
reaffirm  that  the  focus  must  be  on  implementation,
while  preserving  the  thematic  unity  of  each  of  the
conferences  and  summits  and  their  respective  follow-
up  mechanisms.  To  gear  up  further,  we  should  also
seek 
implementation  process
complements the ongoing reform process of the United
Nations as a whole. However  great  the  challenge  may
be,  one  has 
those
objectives.  It  is  our  hope  that  we  shall  not  move
backwards  but  display  the  political  will  to  progress
consistently,  as  required  by  General  Assembly  in  its
resolution  50/227  on 
the
restructuring and revitalization of the United Nations in
the economic, social and related fields.
further  measures 
to  be  optimistic 
in  realizing 
for 
Mr. Neil (Jamaica): Jamaica associates itself with
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Morocco
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. We also join
previous  speakers  in  thanking  the  Secretary-General
for  his  report  on  the  integrated  and  coordinated
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in
the economic, social and related fields (A/58/359). The
report provides a useful assessment of the preliminary
steps being taken to implement resolution 57/270 B.
The  adoption  of 
that  resolution  marked  an
important step in support for the consensus on the need
for  a  sharper  focus  on  implementation.  It  creates  a
framework  for  linking  policy  development  at  the
intergovernmental level and operational activities at the
country  level.  If  we  are  to  meet  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  ensure  that  concrete  and
practical efforts are made to achieve the various goals
we  have  set  in  the  extensive  set  of  conferences  and
summits,  all  United  Nations  bodies  should  work  in
concert 
in  support  of
implementation.
improve  coordination 
to 
While  only  four  months  have  elapsed  since  the
adoption  of  the  resolution,  we  are  pleased  that,  as
indicated  by  Secretary-General,  concrete  steps  are
being  taken  in  a  number  of  areas  both  in  the  General
Assembly  and  in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to
give  effect  to  crucial  decisions  and  recommendations.
However, we  would  have  liked  to  have  been  provided
with some detail with respect to the actual functioning
of the follow-up mechanisms established in accordance
with chapter III of the Monterrey Consensus in order to
facilitate  an  in-depth  analysis  and  assessment  of  the
work  done  to  date.  It  is  important  that  in  future
sessions of the General Assembly special emphasis be
placed on providing such material.
With  regard  to  further  action  to  be  taken  by  the
General  Assembly  during  this  fifty-eight  session  to
support implementation of the resolution, we urge that
every  effort  be  made  to  expedite  consideration  of  the
revised  indicative  programme  of  work  of  the  Second
Committee  to  allow  a  decision  to  be  taken  by  the
stipulated deadline in December  2003.  It  is  important,
however, that the question of restructuring the work of
the  Committee  be  carefully  addressed  and  that  the
quality of the deliberations and the effectiveness of the
Committee’s  work  not  be  negatively  affected.  It  is
particularly  important  that  issues  of  particular  interest
to  developing  countries  and  to  the  ongoing  debate  on
global  economic  policy  not  be  overshadowed  in  any
way and continue to be given priority.
We  welcome  the  recommendation  for  increased
consultation  between  the  Presidents  of  the  General
Assembly and of the Economic and Social Council, and
we  urge  that  concrete  steps  be  taken  to  ensure  the
institutionalization of such contacts.
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  a  central
role to play  in  providing  oversight,  and  it  remains  the
most  appropriate  body  for  coordinating  follow-up  on
the implementation of the commitments made at major
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.  There  is  a
clear  need  for  enhanced  coherence,  coordination  and
cooperation at the intergovernmental level between the
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  intergovernmental
organizations  such  as  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions
and the World Trade Organization (WTO). The annual
spring  meetings  between  the  Council,  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions  and  the  WTO  should  therefore  be
strengthened, and  we  welcome  the  Council’s  decision,
in  its  resolution  2003/47,  to  invite  representatives  of
the  Trade  and  Development  Board  of  the  United
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development
(UNCTAD) to participate in future sessions.
In order to improve the value of these exchanges,
however,  it  is  important  that  the  outcomes  of  those
meetings  provide  concrete,  action-oriented  proposals
which  will  have  practical  effect  in  the  operation  of
these  bodies  with  respect  to  development  issues.  This
would 
facilitate  more  effective  coherence  and
pragmatic actions in support of follow-up, particularly
of the Monterrey Consensus.
A/58/PV.41
It  is  important  in  all  of  this  that  we  do  not  lose
focus by over-concentration on analysis of themes and
cross-cutting  issues.  We  should  not  be  converting  the
review of implementation into a complicated academic
exercise.  To  avoid  this,  the  Economic  and  Social
Council should maintain a special focus on monitoring.
Jamaica had supported the establishment of a separate
monitoring  mechanism,  but,  since 
that  was  not
forthcoming, it is hoped that the Council will fulfil that
role.
In  this  context,  my  delegation  hopes  that  the
decision that the Economic and Social Council conduct
reviews  through  the  consideration  of  cross-sectoral
thematic  issues  common  to  the  conferences  outcomes
will not detract from the need to monitor indicators and
concrete steps by all actors to meet specific targets. In
this respect, the Secretary-General and the Department
of  Social  and  Economic  Affairs  should  support  this
approach  by  informing  the  Council  of  specific  details
and  progress,  or 
to
commitments  made  at  the  major  conferences.  That
would  enable 
to  address
concrete  challenges  to  implementation  on  an  ongoing
basis.
the  General  Assembly 
thereof, 
relation 
lack 
in 
The  functional  commissions  have  an  important
role  to  play  within  their  respective  mandates  to
improve  the  effectiveness  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  in  follow-up.  By  better  planning  its  work  on
common conference themes, the Council will be able to
engage  with  the  functional  commissions.  We  expect
those  commissions,  in  order  fully  to  support  the
Council, urgently to review their working methods with
a view to directing greater attention to the outcomes of
major conferences. We look forward to an early report
from the Commissions to the Council on their efforts.
We  believe  that  well-organized  and  effective
reviews  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits are vital for maintaining political momentum,
raising  awareness  and  assessing  new  challenges  and
constraints to the implementation of commitments. We
agree that the question of periodicity and of the format
of reviews should be carefully considered on a case-by-
case basis. That approach should not, however, serve to
frustrate  efforts  to  undertake  much-  needed  reviews
and ongoing assessments of the implementation of the
conference and summit outcomes.
The holding of a major event during the General
a
2005,  which  would 
ensure 
in 
Assembly 
7
A/58/PV.41
comprehensive  review,  is  therefore  welcome.  It  will
represent an important opportunity for the international
community  to  take  stock  of  the  progress  being  made.
The ongoing work in ensuring implementation is one of
the  important  elements  in  the  revitalization  of  the
General Assembly and therefore should be treated as a
matter of the highest priority.
Mr. Rao (India): We thank the Secretary-General
for  his  report  on  the  integrated  and  coordinated
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in
the economic, social and related fields. My delegation
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the
Permanent  Representative  of  Morocco  in  his  capacity
as Chairman of the Group of 77.
We  welcome 
the  adoption  by 
the  General
Assembly  of  resolution  57/270  B,  which  provides,  in
our  view,  a  framework  for  the  General  Assembly  to
provide  political  oversight  to  the  implementation  of
and follow-up to the major United Nations conferences
held over the past decade.
a 
set  of  well-defined 
The objective of any follow-up exercise should be
to  address  the  issue  of  implementation.  The  major
United Nations conferences and summits have in their
outcomes 
and
commitments  for  which  all  Member  States  have
accepted  a  shared  responsibility.  The  implementation
of  outcomes  would  be  a  clear  demonstration  of  the
fulfilment  of  such  shared  responsibility  and  would
contribute  immensely  to  the  strengthening  of  the
United Nations.
targets 
For the developing countries, the implementation
of 
the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  summits  presents  an  enormous
challenge.  They  are  not  in  a  position  to  fulfil  all  the
commitments  they  undertook  with  respect  to  the
outcomes  of  such  events,  especially  as  regards  the
Millennium  Declaration,  without  further  progress  in
international  cooperation.  The  developed  countries
have  special  obligations 
the  areas  of  official
development assistance, debt relief and market access.
implementation  of  conference
outcomes  requires  a  two-pronged  approach.  First,  it
needs  an  integrated  and  coordinated  approach  to  the
overarching  goals  common  to  all  or  many  of  the
conferences.  Secondly,  it  also  requires  a  focused
review that seeks to retain the identity and integrity of
every major conference and to stimulate progress in the
Reviewing 
the 
in 
8
to  assess 
We  welcome 
implementation  of  agreements  in  the  specific  area  or
sector covered by each conference. The Economic and
Social Council and its functional commissions can play
a  major  role  in  addressing  this  task.  To  that  purpose,
the  Council  will  pursue  the  establishment  of  a  multi-
year  programme  of  work  for  the  consideration  of
identified cross-sectoral thematic issues.
the  opportunity 
the
functioning  of  the  follow-up  mechanisms  established
pursuant to the Monterrey Consensus. We would like to
see greater synergy between the annual meeting of the
Economic and Social Council with the  Bretton  Woods
institutions, the World Trade Organization (WTO) and
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and
Development  (UNCTAD)  on  the  one  hand  and  the
biennial  high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly
on  the  other.  Apart  from  the  high  quality  of  the
dialogue  in  terms  of  issues  addressed  and  level  of
specificity,  what  we  also  require  is  an  effective
mechanism 
of
commitments and agreements reached in the Monterrey
Consensus.
implementation 
assess 
to 
the 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/58/359)
speaks  in  paragraph  11  of  the  need  to  establish  a
stronger link between policy guidance  and  operational
activities,  as  provided  for  in  resolution  57/270  B.  We
would, however, like to sound a note of caution in that
regard.  The  principal  foundation  for  the  operational
activities of the United Nations development system is
country-driven  programming  or,  in  other  words,  the
United  Nations  system  responding  to  the  needs  and
priorities  of  the  recipient  countries.  We  believe  that
nothing  should  be  done  to  undermine  that  principle.
The linkage provision should not be  misused  to  thrust
donor-driven  or  Secretariat-driven  agendas  on  the
developing countries. The only possible link would be
the  funds  and
to  ensure 
programmes 
the
implementation of the conference outcomes.
the  activities  of 
recipient  countries  advance 
that 
in 
On  the  question  of  the  review  of  the  Second
Committee’s programme of work, my delegation would
like  to  point  out  that  the  exercise  must  not  be  seen  in
isolation but should be viewed as part of the efforts for
the  revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Any
decision  that  might  be  taken  in  the  limited  context  of
the  Second  Committee  should  be  subject  to  review  in
the  light  of  decisions  that  are  adopted  in  the  overall
process  of  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and
reform of the United Nations.
contains 
(A/58/323) 
The  report  presented  by  the  Secretary-General
this  year  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Declaration 
several  useful
suggestions.  We  agree  with  the  proposal  made  by  the
Secretary-General  for  the  holding  of  a  major  event  in
2005. Such an event should provide an opportunity for
a  comprehensive  review  of  the  progress  achieved  in
implementing  all 
the
Millennium Declaration.
the  commitments  made 
in 
Mr.  Maalouf  (United  States  of  America):  The
United States welcomes the opportunity to speak on the
integrated and coordinated implementation and follow-
up  to  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and
related  fields.  We  strongly  support  the  need  to  frame
our work at the United Nations around the outcomes of
the major summits and conferences and we participated
actively  in  the  open-ended  ad  hoc  working  group  on
this  subject.  We  recall  that  the  Secretary-General  has
pointed out the urgent need for us to take a critical look
at  all  of  the  General  Assembly’s  activities  and  ask
ourselves  whether 
the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and
other  conference  outcomes  and  whether  they  have  the
desired impact.
relevant 
they 
are 
to 
that 
While  recognizing 
the  working  group’s
report was only adopted in June and that it is therefore
somewhat  premature  to  report  on  outcomes,  we  must
not lose sight of the fact that a number of fairly modest
recommendations 
group,
recommendations  which  can  be  acted  on  during  this
General  Assembly  session.  We  are  pleased  that  the
bureaux  of  the  Second  and  Third  Committees  have
discussed  overlap  and  duplication  and  are  looking  for
ways to take up, in a more coordinated manner, issues
relating to conference follow-up.
came 
that 
out 
of 
As  stated  in  resolution  57/270  B,  the  Second
Committee  is  to  consider  its  programme  of  work  and
make  a  decision  on  it  by  December  2003.  Members
need to bring the vision and commitments of the major
summits  and  conferences  —  such  as  the  Millennium
Summit,  the  Monterrey  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development — to the work of the Second
Committee. We need to move towards partnerships and
action  and  away  from  sterile  rhetoric  and  timeworn
themes.
A/58/PV.41
in  order 
to  better  pursue 
The  United  States  welcomes  the  mandate  of
resolution 57/270 B by which the Economic and Social
Council  functional  commissions  must  examine  their
method  of  work 
the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  summits.  The  ongoing  work
of the Commission on Sustainable Development offers
us  an  example  that  the  other  Economic  and  Social
Council  functional  commissions  may  wish  to  consider
following.  Last  May,  the  Commission,  at  its  eleventh
session,  adopted  a  series  of  trail-blazing  reforms.
Members  agreed  to  limit  the  number  of  negotiations
and  to  focus  on  how  the  international  community  —
Governments, international organizations, civil society
and the private sector — can work together to achieve
our  ambitious  and  critically 
important  objectives.
Taken together, these steps will make the Commission
on  Sustainable  Development  and  the  United  Nations
more  responsive  and  relevant  to  the  needs  of  all,
especially developing countries.
We  look  forward  to  working  constructively  with
other delegations to follow through on the challenging
task before us.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item for this meeting.
Agenda item 51
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Note by the Secretary-General (A/58/136 and
Corr.1)
Mr.  Alessandro  (Italy):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak on behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  acceding
countries  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,
Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,  Slovakia
and  Slovenia, 
the  associated  countries  Bulgaria,
Romania  and  Turkey  and  the  European  Free  Trade
Association 
the  European
Economic  Area  Norway  align  themselves  with  this
statement.
country  member  of 
This important debate is yet another indication of
the  attention  that  malaria  control  and  prevention  has
received 
international  community,
the  World  Health  Organization,
particularly  after 
together  with  UNICEF, 
the  United  Nations
Development Programme and the World Bank, founded
throughout 
the 
9
A/58/PV.41
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership  and  since  the
holding  of  the  Abuja  Summit  in  2000.  Over  the  last
few  years,  we  have  seen  a  change  in  attitude  that  has
placed  malaria  high  on  the  agenda  of  Governments,
international 
development
programmes. Through the Roll Back Malaria Initiative
and  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and
Malaria,  a  new  form  of  co-operative  partnership  has
started  between  low-income  countries  and  the  donor
community.
organizations 
and 
The  European  Union  warmly  welcomes  such
developments.  We  recognize 
the  need  for  more
resources  to  implement  concrete  actions,  but,  at  the
same time,  we  must  be  aware  that  those  resources  are
limited  and  should  be  used  primarily 
to  create
continuity  in  awareness  and  support.  That  means  day-
by-day  support  at  the  grass-roots  level,  involving
Governments, local communities and aid agencies in a
participatory  manner,  in  order  to  meet  the  targets
agreed upon for the Decade to Roll Back Malaria.
We  fully  endorse  the  final  declaration  of  the
Second Summit of the African Union, in which Heads
of  State  and  Government  confirmed  that  the  fight
against  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis  is  a
priority for the continent. The burden of those diseases
and their impact on the population are heavy, and they
inevitably  affect  development 
initiatives  planned
within  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD) and the Group of Eight Africa Action Plan.
This  year,  more  than  a  million  people  will  die
from malaria. Many more will contract the disease. Of
the  500  million  people  suffering  from  malaria,  450
million,  representing  90  per  cent  of  the  total,  are  sub-
Saharan  Africa’s  poorest  citizens.  In  addition,  we  are
aware that malaria costs Africa from $10 billion to $12
billion  annually  in  its  gross  domestic  product.  That
includes  medical  costs,  missed  schooling, 
lower
productivity,  less  foreign  direct  investment  and  lower
tourism  revenues.  Moreover,  malaria  claims  the  lives
of  many  African  children  every  day.  The  European
Union  expresses  its  deepest  concern  at  this  situation
and its willingness to act to reverse it.
To  end  this  cycle  of  suffering  and  poverty,
Governments  and  the  private  sector  are  accelerating
malaria  research.  As  we  pick  up  the  pace  on  malaria
research,  we  must  also  greatly  expand  existing
prevention,  care  and  treatment  approaches,  which  are
mutually dependent. Global funding to combat malaria
10
will require resources matching the scale of the crisis.
Approximately  $60  million  a  year  is  invested  in
malaria research, and $200 million is spent annually to
treat  impoverished  patients  and  distribute  mosquito
nets  and  insecticides.  In  that  regard,  the  European
Union  is  committed  to  strengthening  and  increasing
financial support for research and development.
Allow me to describe briefly the actions we have
undertaken so far. Under the last European framework
programme,  covering  the  period  1998  to  2002,  we
implemented  26  different  research  projects  on  malaria
at  a  cost  of  more  than  30  million  Euros.  Nearly  100
research institutions, based in 15 African countries, 11
European countries and five Asian and South American
countries,  participated  in  the  project.  Through  that
partnership 
encourage
strengthened  cooperation  within  the  framework  of
international  initiatives  such  as  the  European  Malaria
Vaccine  Initiative,  the  African  Malaria  Vaccine  Trial
Network  and  the  new  European-Developing  Countries
Clinical Trial Partnership.
tackle  malaria,  we 
to 
following 
as  well 
the  Decade 
Furthermore  — 
the
recommendations  made 
in  General  Assembly
resolution  57/294  on 
to  Roll  Back
Malaria —  last  July  the  European  Parliament  and  the
European Council adopted a regulation on assistance in
fighting  poverty-related  diseases 
in  developing
countries, namely HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
In  allocating  funding  and  expertise,  priority  will  be
given  to  the  least  developed  countries  and  the  most
disadvantaged sections of the population. The financial
framework 
this  new
regulation  for  the  period  2003  to  2006  is  set  at  351
million euros.
implementation  of 
for 
the 
The European Union has also noted that, in spite
of the fact that most of the key pharmaceuticals are off
patent,  few  developing  countries  have  sufficient
capacity  to  manufacture  them.  Moreover,  for  the  time
being,  available  drugs  are  not  well  suited 
for
developing  countries,  and  malaria  drugs  are  becoming
less and less effective as a result of increased parasite
resistance.  We  should 
therefore  find  new  drugs
appropriate  to  Africa’s  special  needs  and  take  into
account  local  distribution  problems  and  cold  chain
availability.
In  that  regard,  we  encourage  interested  parties,
especially  the  pharmaceutical  industry,  to  promote
sustainable  local  production  for  national  and  regional
markets, aiming at the transfer of technology. For that
reason,  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States
fully  endorse  the  Doha  Declaration  on  the  Agreement
on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property
Rights and Public Health.
tuberculosis, 
this  disease 
Many  African  countries  are  working  to  fight
malaria,  but  they  cannot  do  it  alone.  Like  HIV/AIDS
and 
requires  a  well
coordinated,  comprehensive  and  consistent  response,
which is beyond the financial and human  resources of
many developing countries. Because of their magnitude
and transitional nature, poverty-related diseases require
a 
international
community. In that respect, we commend the proactive
role played by the United Nations and the World Health
Organization.
systematic 
response 
from 
the 
is 
a 
We 
health 
public 
believe 
public
responsibility.  Actions  targeting  the  poverty-related
disease must be carried out within the larger context of
improving health care systems in developing countries
and making those systems accessible to all. Improving
health care is a precondition for and  a  key  element  of
sustainable  development.  The  European  Union 
is
to  providing  partner  countries  with
committed 
assistance  consistent  with 
their  own  development
plans, thus taking into account the overall objectives of
improving 
reducing
poverty.
the  population’s  health  and 
If  the  international  community  is  capable  of
building a true  global  partnership  with  effective  tools,
and  if  developed  and  developing  countries  and  the
public  and  private  sectors  are  able  to  work  together
towards  this  common  goal,  we  strongly  believe  that
malaria  can  be  definitively  rolled  back  throughout  the
world, as it has been in Europe.
Mr.  Andjaba  (Namibia):  In  his  report  contained
in  document  A/58/136  the  Secretary-General  reveals
that, in 2005 — when we review the implementation of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  —  he,  in  close
collaboration  with  the  Director  General  of  the  World
Health Organization (WHO), will present to the august
Assembly  a  progress  report  on  the  targets  of  the
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries,
particularly in Africa.
The importance of that submission to the sixtieth
session  of  the  General  Assembly  is  underlined  by  the
fact  that,  in  Africa,  an  increasing  number  of  deaths  is
being caused by malaria. It is in that context that heads
A/58/PV.41
of State or Government of the African Union, meeting
in July at the Second Ordinary Session of the Assembly
in Maputo, Mozambique, reaffirmed their commitment,
enshrined  in  the  Abuja  Declaration  and  the  plan  of
action  adopted  for  the  Roll  Back  Malaria  Initiative.  It
is  for  that  reason  that  my  delegation  thanks  the
Secretary-General  for  his  report  and  welcomes  this
debate.
Mr.  Hoscheit  (Luxembourg),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
in  Namibia,  and 
Malaria  continues  to  be  a  major  public  health
problem 
thus  warrants  special
attention in terms of monitoring trends and formulating
control  strategies  and  prevention  at  all  levels  of  the
health  care  system  and  the  community.  According  to
health service statistics, an average of 450,000 malaria
cases  and  800  deaths  from  malaria  are  reported
countrywide  annually.  This  amounts  to  an  incidence
rate of 248 per 1,000 population and a mortality rate of
45 per 100,000 population per year. As one can expect,
children  under  the  age  of  five  years  and  pregnant
women  are  at  higher  risk  of  getting  malaria  and
suffering  its  consequences.  Our  efforts  to  combat  this
disease  are  impeded  by  the  problem  of  inadequate
resources,  compounded  by  the  shortage  of  trained
personnel.
in  1991 
this  problem, 
In  addressing 
the
Government  launched  a  comprehensive  programme  to
control  malaria  and  other  vector-borne  diseases.
Through  this  programme  a  number  of  activities  have
been  undertaken  to  improve  disease  management,
including the training of health workers, intensification
of house spraying and improved reporting through  the
health information system.
While  challenges  remain,  we  have  indeed  made
progress.  At  the  national  level,  the  Government  has
demonstrated  its  firm  commitment  to  tackling  the
problem  of  malaria  by  establishing  a  national  malaria
control  programme,  appointing  malaria  control  staff
and allocating regular budgetary and logistical support.
The  national  policy  and  strategy  on  malaria  was
launched in  1995.  That  policy  document  describes  the
goals,  malaria  control  strategies  and  activities  at  all
levels  of  the  health  care  system.  It  is  also  intended  to
inform  both  health  workers  and  the  general  public
about  the  role  they  can  play  in  reducing  malaria
morbidity and mortality to the lowest possible level.
11
A/58/PV.41
To date, 2000 health workers have been trained in
malaria  case  management  and  microscopic  diagnosis,
which  is  believed  to  have  markedly  improved  the
quality  of  malaria  diagnosis  and  treatment.  It  was
possible  to  significantly  improve  the  coverage  and
quality  of  spraying  in  the  affected  areas  following  a
major  input  from  the  Government  and  our  Roll  Back
Malaria partners.
To  reduce  the  impact  of  malaria  among  the
vulnerable  population  groups,  about  20,000  children
under the age  of  five  years  and  pregnant  women  have
been provided  with  insecticide-treated  nets  in  selected
highly affected areas. In order to mitigate the dreadful
effects  of  malaria 
affected
communities, weekly malaria surveillance has been put
in  place.  This  has  facilitated  the  detection  of  malaria
epidemics  at  a  relatively  early  stage.  To  facilitate  the
implementation  of  malaria  control  in  the  country,  a
five-year  Roll  Back  Malaria  strategic  plan  has  been
finalized.
epidemics 
among 
On  22  September  2003,  high-level  meetings  of
the  General  Assembly  were  convened  to  mobilize
efforts to address the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Today, we
meet  to  discuss  yet  another  killer  disease,  which  in
many  African  countries  is  claiming  more  lives  than
HIV/AIDS. This is a fact that needs to be emphasized
as  a  rallying  tool  in  the  process  of  raising  awareness
and resource mobilization.
Malaria  is  preventable,  treatable  and  curable,  as
stated  clearly  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General.
One can die from malaria only if and when not treated
promptly  and  effectively.  The  challenge,  then,  is  to
assist  the  affected  countries.  The  use  of  anti-malaria
tools is widespread and common. Unlike the case of the
AIDS  virus,  many  African  countries  have  access  to
anti-malarial drugs. However, the growing resistance to
current  drugs  compounds  the  problem.  This  is  a
challenge that needs to be addressed now, together with
the question of affordability. We can achieve the Abuja
target of 60 per cent coverage only when the new and
improved drugs are affordable.
Efforts at the community level are crucial, and, as
pointed  out  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  home
treatment  supported  by  public  information  and  pre-
packaging  can  assist  substantially  in  reducing  child
the  areas  surrounding
mortality.  Malaria  affects 
affected  communities  and 
their  efforts 
towards
sustainable  development.  In  this  context,  research  on
12
environmental  management  for  malaria  control  in
development should be supported.
While  we  continue  to  support  ongoing  research
for  a  vaccine,  we  call  on  the  international  community
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  affected  countries  by
providing the tools, which are already available. In that
connection,  we  welcome  and  further  encourage  the
transfer of technology for the production of insecticide-
treated  nets  and  efforts  to  increase  access  to  anti-
malaria  medicines.  We  view  the  transfer  of  this  new
technology  as  a  firm  beginning  in  effectively  tackling
malaria  in  the  affected  African  countries.  Making
generous  contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  is  one  effective  way
of  assisting  the  affected  countries.  We  commend  the
efforts  of  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  the
United  Nations  Children’s  Fund  (UNICEF)  and  other
Roll  Back  Malaria  partners  in  mobilizing  the  business
community to take part in the global campaign against
malaria.
We  welcome  the  increase  in  resources  mobilized
for 
the  Roll  Back  Malaria  campaign,  but  more
resources  are  needed  to  complement  those  of  the
affected countries.
to 
the  affected  countries, 
In  conclusion,  the  report  before  us  contains
recommendations 
the
international  community  as  a  whole,  and  in  particular
the private sector, in the fight against malaria. We urge
the implementation of those recommendations, so as to
assist  African  countries  in  implementing  the  Abuja
Declaration.
Mr. Aboul Gheit (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The
General Assembly today is considering an item of great
significance  —  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in
Developing Countries.
in  more 
represent  40  per  cent  of 
Malaria’s socio-economic impact is not limited to
the African continent. Studies have shown that malaria
than  100  countries,  whose
is  endemic 
populations 
total
population  of  the  world.  Studies  have  also  shown  that
90 per  cent  of  those  infected  by  the  disease  —  whose
number  ranges  from  300  million  to  500  million
people — are Africans.
the 
Regrettably, children represent the majority of the
3 million people who die from the disease every year.
This is particularly regrettable given not only the high
rate of infection and death among adults and children,
but  also  in  view  of  the  painful  scientific  fact  that
malaria  is  curable  if  diagnosed  and  treated  early.  For
that reason, we must focus on the humanitarian, not the
commercial, aspect of dealing with this disease.
that 
Reports 
indicate 
the  African  continent
requires  nearly  $1  billion  a  year  to  combat  malaria
effectively.  Reports  indicate  also  that  the  financing
available is only about a quarter of what is needed. My
delegation  therefore  agrees  with  the  statement  in  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  that  the  level  of
international  funding  to  combat  malaria  is  inadequate.
We 
to  bolster  governmental
expenditures  in  African  countries  with  greater  and
more comprehensive international funding.
support  his  call 
If  malaria,  as  facts  have  shown,  is  both  a  cause
and  a  consequence  of  poverty,  we  cannot  expect
developing  countries  to  succeed  in  overcoming  the
health  problems  they  face  without  a  tangible  increase
in development assistance, including the alleviation of
the  debt  burden  of  those  countries,  to  redirect  more
resources to health services, to promote prevention and
treatment programmes, and to improve general health-
care services in general.
Every  30  seconds  a  child  dies  of  malaria.  I
therefore  call  on  all  Governments,  in  particular  the
community  of  donor  States,  to  make  some  simple
calculations: how many children will have died during
the delivery of this statement? How many children will
die  during  the  discussion  of  this  item?  How  many
children  must  die  before  the  international  community
moves to eradicate this disease?
Malaria  is  not  considered  incurable.  On  the
contrary, there are means of treatment and prevention.
All  that  is  required  would  be  a  reasonable  percentage
of  what  the  world  spends  daily  on  armaments  and  on
the building of vast military arsenals.
Ms.  Bahemuka 
delegation
commends  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Secretariat
for the documentation provided for this agenda item.
(Kenya):  My 
Malaria  is  the  second  most  deadly  disease  in
Africa, after the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Recognizing the
magnitude of the problem, the General Assembly, at its
fifty-first  session,  appealed 
international
community  and  to  non-governmental  organizations  to
allocate substantial resources — especially through the
Global  Fund 
to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and
Malaria —  for  developing  countries,  particularly  in
the 
to 
A/58/PV.41
Africa. The goal was to enable African countries fully
to  implement  the  plan  of  action  adopted  at  Abuja  for
the Roll Back Malaria initiative.
We  are  grateful  indeed  to  the  World  Health
Organization  and  to  the  United  Nations  Children’s
Fund  (UNICEF)  for  their  joint  efforts  to  compile  a
report  on  malaria  in  Africa,  which  was  released  on
Africa  Malaria  Day,  observed  on  25  April  last  in  a
coordinated  launch  in  Nairobi;  Washington,  D.C.;  and
London.  We  also  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  World
Bank  and  of  other  partners  in  resource  mobilization
and in financing the campaign against malaria.
to 
for 
is  a  prerequisite 
the  Abuja  Declaration 
At the national level, Kenya recognizes that good
health 
the  socio-economic
development of any country. We are a signatory to the
Abuja  Declaration  on  Roll  Back  Malaria.  We  have
responded 
the
removal of taxes and tariffs associated with insecticide-
treated  net  products.  A  National  Malaria  Strategy  has
been  put  in  place  and  focuses  on  improving  malaria
case  management  at  all  levels  of  the  health  sector;
reducing 
the  risks  of  malaria  during  pregnancy;
increasing the use of insecticide-treated nets and other
vector-control technologies; and responding to malaria
epidemics.
through 
The  National  Malaria  Control  Council  (NMCC)
has  since  been  reconstructed  to  become  the  Inter-
Agency Coordinating Committee. That Committee will
be a more effective political and financial management
tool  for  soliciting  and  directing  investment  aimed  at
rolling  back  malaria  in  Kenya.  The  objective  is  to
reduce  morbidity  and  mortality  caused  by  malaria  by
30  per  cent  among  Kenya’s  population  by  the  year
2006  and  to  sustain  that  improved  level  of  control
through 2010.
Significant  resources  to  Kenya  districts  are  now
being  mobilized  though  health  sector  reform.  That
reform  will  provide  the  framework  and  financing
mechanisms  for 
improved  district-led  support  for
curative  and  preventive  services.  The  Division  of
Malaria  Control  will  support  planning  of  district-led
strategies in concert with the national malaria strategy.
In order to enhance those efforts, the Government
of  Kenya,  in  collaboration  with  other  stakeholders,
intends  to  strengthen  preventive  and  promotive  health
care 
expanded
integrated  control  of
immunization  programme, 
of
the 
and 
childhood 
through  malaria 
prevention 
control, 
illness 
an 
13
A/58/PV.41
environmentally  related  communicable  diseases.  We
are also trying to strengthen curative health services so
as  to  manage  the  top  10  killer  diseases  through  the
provision of health personnel, drugs and equipment. In
addition, Kenya would like to expand health insurance
coverage and access for all its citizens.
National  efforts  in  the  fight  against  malaria
require international support through funding, capacity-
building  and  equipment.  Kenya  has  drawn  up  a
strategic  plan  that  has  enabled  us  to  benefit  from  the
Global Fund. Such funds will be utilized to strengthen
malaria  early-warning  systems  and  studies  in  order  to
improve detection of outbreaks and response to them.
to 
community 
In  conclusion,  we  must  work  together  with  the
international 
strengthen  national
interventions  in  the  fight  against  the  major  killer
diseases in developing countries. It is very urgent that
our development partners honour their commitments by
contributing  to  the  Global  Fund  to  fight  the  three
maladies that continue to afflict developing countries.
Mr. Menan (Togo) (spoke in French): Last year,
when  the  General  Assembly  was  considering  the  item
that is before it today, the Togolese delegation strongly
urged the international community to make every effort
to attain the objectives set out in the framework of the
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries,
particularly  in  Africa.  From  that  perspective,  and  in
keeping  with  the  views  that  we  initially  expressed,
Togo believes that the Decade’s objectives should be a
genuine  challenge  for  countries  where  malaria  is
endemic and for the international community to meet at
all costs.
It  is  paradoxical  that  malaria,  which  everyone
agrees  is  a  disease  that  can  be  cheaply  controlled  and
cured,  remains  one  of  the  primary  causes  of  death  in
African  countries,  as  indicated  by  statistics  set  out  in
the  report  on  malaria  in  Africa  in  2003,  published
jointly  by  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  and
the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund 
(UNICEF).
According to those statistics, more than 3,000 children
in Africa die from the disease every day.
in  his  report  on 
implementation  of 
The  Secretary-General  addresses  that  state  of
the
affairs 
Millennium  Declaration  (A/58/323),  when  he  notes
with bitterness that, despite the progress achieved with
regard  to  children’s  health  in  developing  countries  in
the  1990s,  nearly  11  million  children  die  each  year
before their fifth birthday, primarily from diseases that
14
can  be  easily  prevented  or  treated,  malaria  among
them.
However,  it  is  encouraging  to  note  that,  because
of the proclamation in 2001 of the Decade to Roll Back
Malaria  and  the  launching  of  the  Roll  Back  Malaria
initiative  three  years  earlier  by  WHO,  UNICEF,  the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and
the World Bank, preventing and fighting the disease are
again  becoming  top  priorities  at  the  national  and
international  levels.  That  is  also  made  clear  in  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/58/136),  submitted
to 
the
the  General  Assembly 
recommendations  contained 
resolution  57/294,
which the Assembly adopted at its last session. As the
report  recalls,  administering  medicines  and  using
insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets  are  still  the  only
effective ways to fight the disease.
in  keeping  with 
in 
However, access to treated mosquito nets remains
relatively  limited  in  Africa  —  despite  notable  recent
efforts  to  bring  mosquito  nets  into  general  use  —
because of their high cost, which is an obstacle to their
widespread  use.  That  is  why  Togo  commends  the
Secretary-General 
to  persuade
companies  that  extract  petroleum  products  on  the
African  continent  to  contribute  to  the  Roll  Back
Malaria  initiative  in  Africa  by  providing  at  greatly
reduced  cost  the  polymers  used  in  manufacturing
mosquito  nets.  We  fervently  hope  to  see  the  General
Assembly endorse that recommendation as well  as the
others contained in the aforementioned report.
for  his  proposal 
To  attest  to  Togo’s  commitment  to  pursuing
efforts  aimed  at  promoting  the  health  of  the  Togolese
people, despite the financial difficulties the country has
faced  for  more  than  10  years,  since  the  suspension  of
the aid that it had received from its main development
partners,  the  head  of  the  Togolese  State  announced  to
UNICEF 
Togolese
Government’s  decision  to  lower  customs  tariffs  on
insecticide-treated mosquito nets.
authorities 
in 
June 
the 
to 
initiate  health  programmes 
Here, we should stress that, despite the scarcity of
their  resources  and  the  problems  of  every  kind  that
they  face,  African  countries  are  attempting  to  various
degrees 
that  place
priority  on  fighting  malaria.  Those  countries  are
mindful of the need to increase national investments in
the  health  sector  and  to  improve  its  management,
particularly  through  greater  integration  of  anti-malaria
activities  into  their  development  efforts  in  the  health
sector, in conformity with their commitments under the
Declaration  and  Plan  of  Action  on  the  Roll  Back
Malaria in Africa initiative, adopted in Abuja, Nigeria,
in  2000.  However, 
that
endeavour unless they receive adequate assistance from
the  international  community,  as  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General opportunely recalls.
they  cannot  succeed 
in 
With 
to 
regard 
pharmaceutical 
products,
according to a study by the Pasteur Institute in France,
researchers in areas where malaria is endemic have not
been  able  to  develop  a  viable  remedy  for  all  forms  of
the  parasites  that  are  responsible  for  the  disease.  The
study  also  states  that  one  of  the  major  difficulties
confronting  researchers  is  fighting  the  great  ability  of
mosquitoes  —  vectors  of  the  parasite  —  to  adapt  to
treatments  and 
the  parasites  deposited  by
mosquitoes  into  the  human  organism  are  resistant  to
medicines,  whereas  mosquitoes  themselves  develop
resistance to insecticides.
that 
However,  it  is  reassuring  that  research  continues
to  make  appreciable  progress,  as  attested  by  a  British
pharmaceutical  group’s  recent  launching  of  a  new
product,  called  Lapdap,  designed  to  fight  the  most
deadly form of  malaria, which is the  most  widespread
form  in  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Yet  it  seems  that,  if  the
political will prevails and if pharmaceutical companies
are  not  too  much  bent  on  the  frenetic  quest  for  high
profits,  the  current  efforts  could  sooner  or  later  be
successful, both in discovering a treatment for all types
of 
in
developing a vaccine.
the  disease  and 
the  parasites 
that  cause 
In this campaign against malaria, Togo, like other
African  States,  very  much  hopes  that  the  international
community will not cease to support seriously affected
countries so that lives can continue to be saved and so
that  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  will  be  able  to
reverse the trend of the disease.
In  that  way,  the  international  community  would
respond  to  one  of  the  specific  needs  of  Africa:
promoting  the  health  and  well-being  of  our  peoples.
And above all, it could help to spare families in distant
Africa  the  tragic,  wrenching  scenes,  often  marked  by
the death of a child simply because the parents did not
have enough money — which in many cases would be
less than $1 — to buy the necessary drugs.
In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the gratitude of
my  Government  to  the  United  Nations  agencies,
particularly  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the
A/58/PV.41
United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  as  well  as  to  the
various  foundations  for  their  positive  contribution  in
the  struggle  to  combat  malaria.  The  Government  of
Togo  urges  donors  to  provide  further  support  for  the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
Mr. Tekle (Eritrea): The Eritrean delegation takes
this opportunity to thank the Secretary-General for his
informative  report  (A/58/136)  on  agenda  item  51,
entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa”.
in 
My  delegation  participates 
this  debate
anticipating  that  the  review  of  the  first  three  years  of
the  10-year  programme  will  enable  us  to  identify  the
obstacles that confronted us and the various means by
which we can get rid of, or attempt to get rid of, those
obstacles.  It  hopes  that  this  exchange  of  views  will
enable us, if necessary, to readjust our programmes and
to reorganize our priorities and approaches.
fortunately, 
Unlike  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
is  not  a  new
pestilence.  Humanity  has  known  and  lived  with  it  for
millennia.  Although, 
it  has  been
completely eradicated in most parts of the world for at
least  several  decades,  in  some  unfortunate  areas  it
continues  to  kill  or  debilitate  large  sections  of  the
population.  Even  worse,  it  has  recurred  in  areas  from
which  it  had  successfully  been  eradicated.  Among  the
worst hit is the Horn of Africa, even though previously
it  had  made  progress,  owing  to  several  national
eradication programmes.
The  statistical  data  are  grim.  In  most  of  the
countries  of  the  Horn  of  Africa,  including  Eritrea,
almost  30  per  cent  of  the  population  is  victim  to
malaria.  Worse,  almost  70  per  cent  of  the  population
lives  in  malaria-endemic  areas.  In  Eritrea,  the  death
rate among children hospitalized with malaria is about
7.4 per cent.
The causes of the continued existence of malaria
may differ from area to area. In the Horn of Africa, the
primary  reason  for  this  calamity  has  been  war  —
never-ending  war.  Malaria  has  had  at  least  as  much
impact  as  HIV/AIDS  on  our  economies,  and  in  some
cases it has had a more negative one, not only because
of its debilitating effects on a much greater workforce,
particularly among the peasantry, but also because  the
malaria-endemic  areas  are  largely  unavailable  for
cultivation.  Indeed,  in  Eritrea  malaria  is  the  greater
threat.
15
A/58/PV.41
Thus, malaria is as much an economic threat as it
is a health problem and has influenced socio-economic
development  programming  in  African  countries.  It  is
for this reason that the Eritrean Government has, since
1991,  addressed  the  problem  with  the  seriousness  it
deserves, has given it high priority and is determined to
wage an unremitting struggle against the plague.
The  Government  of  Eritrea  has,  inter  alia,  taken
the  following  concrete  measures  in  its  war  against
malaria.
First, in addition to earlier efforts, the Ministry of
Health 
inaugurated  a  five-year  malaria  reduction
programme  for  the  period  2001  to  2005.  The  major
goal  of  this  holistic  programme  adopted  by 
the
Ministry was to significantly control the further spread
of the disease while, at the same time, preventing more
the
infection 
strengthening  of  epidemiological  surveillance. 
Its
ambition was to minimize the effects of malaria on the
capacities  of  the  population  by  reducing  mortality,
morbidity and the incidence of malaria by 80 per cent,
and to reduce malaria epidemics by 90 per cent by the
end of 2005. The programme is largely on course.
vulnerable 
groups 
among 
by 
Second, it established the national malaria control
programme, which is responsible for the formulation of
malaria  control  policies,  plans  and  guidelines;
coordination  and  control  of  programmes;  monitoring
and 
and
activities; 
coordination of technical assistance and research.
evaluation  of  programme 
Third,  it  has  trained  village  health  agents  and
assigned them to provide malaria control services at the
grass-roots  level.  These  agents  diagnose  and  treat
simple  cases  of  malaria,  disseminate  awareness
information,  mobilize  communities  for  environmental
management and identify vector-breeding sites close to
communities.  This  is  made  possible  through  village
meetings  and  periodic  seminars  given  by  the  village
agents,  and  through  the  coordination  of  community
participation  in  weekly  environmental  management
activities, including the draining and filling of breeding
sites.
Fourth, through its regional and local offices, the
Government provides insecticide-impregnated bed nets
to the needy population. It is hoped that, by the end of
2005,  every  household  will  have  at  least  two  such
bednets.
16
Fifth,  it  employs  combination  therapy  for  the
treatment of the disease at all levels and has evolved a
detailed  treatment  regimen  known  as  the  Eritrean
standard treatment guidelines.
it  carries  out 
indoor  house-spraying
activities, albeit selectively, on the basis of a previous
history of malaria in a given area and/or evidence of a
sudden  increase  in  other  areas.  This  may,  in  some
cases,  include  total  coverage  of  villages  in  affected
areas.
Sixth, 
Seventh, it routinely conducts tests of insecticide
spraying to determine the susceptibility or resistance of
the vector to insecticides selected for vector control.
Eighth, it has developed and widely disseminated
educational and awareness material in several Eritrean
languages,  including  Arabic,  Tigre  and  Tigrigna,  and
has  effectively  used  radio  and  television  programmes,
as well as village meetings, to that end.
Ninth,  the  Malaria  Control  Programme  has  also
established  a  close  collaborative  relationship  with
relevant Eritrean ministries including, in particular, the
Ministries  of  Agriculture  and  Environment,  and  Land
and  Water,  as  well  as  the  Meteorological  Department,
to  ensure  appropriate  surveillance  and  to  develop
sensitive forecasting methods.
In 
its  effort 
to  control 
the  scourge, 
the
Government of Eritrea has been cooperating with, and
has received assistance from the United States Agency
for  International  Development,  for  its  entomological
research programme, an Italian cooperation project, the
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  for  the  Roll  Back
Malaria  programme,  the  United  Nations  Children’s
Fund  (UNICEF)  for  the  protection  of  children  and
those  countries  which  are  supporting  the  HAMSET
Disease  Control  Project,  which  deals  with  HIV/AIDS,
malaria, sexually transmitted diseases and tuberculosis.
However, Eritrea recognizes that if the campaign
against malaria is to succeed, it must transcend national
boundaries  and  benefit  from  the  creation  of  effective
cooperative 
strategies  and
programmes. These are not yet in place.
regional  mechanisms, 
Needless  to  say,  the  Eritrean  Government  will
steadfastly  pursue  the  goals  it  has  set  for  itself  in  its
five-year  plan,  which  ends  in  2005.  The  mission  is
great  and  the  challenges  and  obstacles  are  many.  Yet,
they  would  not  be  insurmountable  if  there  were  to  be
peace  with  justice,  peace  based  on  the  rule  of  law,
peace  respecting  good  neighbourliness  and  peace
anchored  in  good  faith  and  trust.  Unfortunately,  the
chances  of  achieving  these  ideals,  too,  seems  to  be
remote.
Mr.  Rajalingam  (Fiji):  Fiji  commends 
the
Secretary-General for the excellent report contained in
document  A/58/136,  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries,
Particularly 
its
recommendations.
in  Africa”, 
supports 
and 
The HIV/AIDS pandemic has touched all corners
of  the  globe.  Its  effects  have  devastated  families,
economies  and  Governments.  Whole  generations  may
be 
recover.  Likewise,
development  strides  gained  in  recent  decades  have
been rolled back. Less mentioned but no less intense in
its devastation is malaria.
lost  before  we 
totally 
Malaria  continues  to  plague  parts  of  our  region.
Although  our  statistics  seem  relatively  less  alarming
than other regions, they have attracted global attention
and  resources.  We  do  not  believe  this  statistical
indicator  to  be  cause  for  complacency  in  taking
preventative  measures  to  ensure  it  does  not  reach
pandemic proportions. Nor indeed should a complacent
attitude  cause  malaria  to  revisit  those  countries  in  the
region,  such  as  Fiji,  that  have  successfully  rid  its
citizens of this disease. Sadly, tuberculosis is one such
ravaging disease that has returned.
We  acknowledge  the  intensive  efforts  of  the
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  in  controlling  this
disease as well as member Governments’ initiatives to
fight  the  scourge.  The  WHO  report  contained  in
document  A/58/136  is  meticulous  in  its  detail  and
statistics.  We  are  encouraged  to  see  that  the  plan  of
action to roll back malaria is global in perspective and
embraces all countries and regions, irrespective of size
or extent of the endemic malaria. In our region, we feel
confident  that  the  malaria  project  allocation  of  the
Global  Fund  to  fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria
will make a significant difference towards reaching the
objectives of the global programme.
Developing  countries  are  particularly  vulnerable
to  the  onset  of  any  epidemic.  They  lack  the  industrial
base  for  pharmaceutical  production  to  meet  demands
and lack readily available financial resources to buy the
necessary 
from
manufacturers.  Typically,  when  a  disease  reaches
is  also  accompanied  by
epidemic  proportions, 
pharmaceutical 
products 
it 
A/58/PV.41
opportunistic,  often  deadly,  companion  infections  or
diseases which are equally potent in impact.
The WHO report has allowed us to reflect on the
grim  picture  of  the  malaria  pandemic  in  Africa.
Alongside the plaguing effects of HIV/AIDS in Africa,
clearly  the  eradication,  or  at  least  alleviation  of  such
pandemics depends on development. The Global Fund
to  fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  is  only  one
avenue  — groundbreaking as it is  — that is making it
possible  for  African  countries  to  access  funds  for
malarial  control  commensurate  with  the  severity  of
their needs.
the 
Clearly, 
implementation  of 
the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development could strengthen
this  fight.  Other  financing  alternatives,  such  as  debt
swaps,  form  a  sound  basis  for  consideration  by  the
United  Nations  and  WHO,  in  partnership  with  the
Bretton  Woods  institutions.  The  private  sector  and
industry  need 
this
programme.
to  nurture  and  contribute 
to 
of 
The 
contributions 
non-governmental
organizations  are  also  acknowledged.  Assistance
provided  by  non-governmental  organizations  such  as
the  Sovereign  Military  Order  of  Malta,  in  setting  up
sleeping  sickness  clinics  in  the  Southern  Sudanese
town of Yei, is noteworthy.
Many  other  contagious  and  preventable  diseases
are  affecting  developing  countries.  In  Fiji,  filariasis,
dengue,  leprosy  and  diabetes  have  ravaging  impacts
and  the  incidence  of  tuberculosis  is  increasing.  Care,
treatment  and  upstream  prevention  need 
to  be
extensively addressed by WHO and other stakeholders.
Mr.  Olhaye  (Djibouti):  With  the  advent  of
information  technology  and  instant  communications,
our  world  appears  to  have  gone  from  a  state  of
information  awareness  and  knowledge,  to  one  of
information 
ignorance.
Consequently,  many  concerns  deserving  the  attention
of the international community are driven from public
view in the competition for attention being waged by a
vast  number  of 
issues.  The  global  fight  against
terrorism  in  all  its  various  forms,  the  recent  wars  in
Asia,  particularly  in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  and  those
plaguing  the  continent  of  Africa,  as  well  as  the
spreading  scourge  of  the  HIV/AIDS  crisis,  are  but  a
few of the more pressing issues which have combined
to push malaria below the radar of public concern. Not
overload 
virtual 
and 
17
A/58/PV.41
surprisingly therefore, the disease remains a dangerous
threat to millions of people.
The effort to combat malaria figures prominently
in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  seek  to
halt and reverse the incidence of this disease and other
major diseases by 2015.
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
The  General  Assembly,  by  its  resolution  57/294,
declared  2001-2010  as  the  “Decade  to  Roll  Back
Malaria 
in
Africa”.  The  resolution  called  for  support  of  the
Secretary  General’s  recommendations,  contained  in
document  A/57/123.  What  we  are  seeking  in  this  and
other relevant meetings is an update on the status of the
implementation of the recommendations in the General
Assembly resolution.
of 
on 
implementation 
Implementing  the  recommendations  would,  of
course,  take  place  in  a  real-world  situation,  and  here
the  actual  facts  are  startling.  The  latest  report  of  the
Secretary-General 
the
Millennium Declaration highlights disturbing  statistics
relating  particularly  to  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Clearly,
Africa represents the major focus of the malaria crisis.
To its credit, Africa has recognized that fact. The
Abuja  Declaration  of  2000  set  targets  and  called  on
African  States  and  their  partners  to  allocate  new
resources  —  at  least  $1  billion  per  year  —  for
combating  the  disease.  The  Africa  malaria  report  of
2003  was  released  on  25  April  2003,  Africa  Malaria
Day, and took stock of the malaria situation.
Obviously,  funds  set  aside  for  malaria  must
increase. A meagre $200 million was spent worldwide
in  2002,  as  against  the  $1  billion  recommended  for
Africa  alone.  But  perhaps  more  critical  than  the  sheer
provision  of  funds  is  the  need  for  Governments  in
Africa  to  be  engaged  and  to  enhance  the  capacity  of
manpower.  The  international  community  must  transfer
new  technology  to  developing  countries,  particularly
for the production of long-lasting insecticide nets, and
ways  must  be  found  to  increase  the  availability  of
combination drugs for multi-drug-resistant malaria.
As  with  HIV/AIDS,  the  roles  of  both  prevention
and  treatment  loom  large  for  malaria.  It  appears  that
thousands  of  lives  can  be  saved,  particularly  children,
simply  through  the  effective  use  of  insecticide-treated
bed nets. Usage is restricted, however, due to the high
cost  of  those  nets.  Those  costs  could  be  lowered  by  a
reduction  in  the  high  tariffs  and  taxes  levied  on  them
18
within  Africa.  With  the  resulting  lower  prices,  more
people  would  be  able  to  afford  the  nets,  which  would
stimulate  market  potential  for  commercial  production.
The  result  would  be  a  low  cost  but  highly  effective
method  for  reducing  the  incidence  of  malaria  among
users.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  is  quite
positive about the potential of long-lasting insecticidal
nets,  which  are  factory  pre-treated  and  require  no
further  treatment  during  a  projected  four  to  five  years
of  usage.  While  the  nets  are  considered  to  be  a  major
breakthrough  in  the  prevention  of  malaria,  global
production  is  inadequate.  The  report  recommends  that
an  additional  five  to  ten  factories  be  constructed  in
Africa at strategic locations in the next few years. Even
more  promising,  the  long-lasting  insecticide  nets  are
made  from  polymers  derived  from  petroleum.  Oil
companies  in  Africa  could  therefore  be  encouraged  to
make  those  polymers  available  either  free  or  at  a  low
cost.
and 
The  importance  of  long-lasting  insecticide  nets
rises  considerably  when  we  examine  the  growing
immunity 
resistance  of  malaria  parasites,
particularly  to  the  major  malaria  drug,  chloroquine.
Developing  new  treatments  are  therefore  critical.  The
World  Health  Organization  recommends  the  use  of
artemisinin-based  combination  therapy  (ACT),  which
appears  very  promising  aside  from  its  relatively  high
cost and limited operational experience in Africa. One
pharmaceutical  company  is  said  to  be  making  ACT
available at cost. Others must follow, along with donor
Governments,  to  explore  strategies  for  making  ACT
available at the lowest cost.
For  many  reasons,  people  in  sub-Saharan  Africa
cover the cost of malaria prevention and treatment out
of  their  own  pockets.  More  important  though,  is  the
fact that, given the inevitably low level of knowledge,
awareness  and 
to  poor
communications and public education  — there is little
guidance  on  quality,  safety  or  appropriateness.  Public
education is critical.
information  —  all 
tied 
fact 
is 
Perhaps 
to  note 
the  essential 
the
conclusion  of  the  Secretary  General’s  report  that
malaria is treatable, preventable and curable. That can
be  seen  by  the  zero-  to  low-level  incidence  in  many
areas  of  the  world  where  malaria  has  been  eradicated.
Major advances are possible in many countries simply
by utilizing existing tools. Developing new tools, such
and  Malaria 
as a vaccine, deserves continued support, although they
may  be  years  away.  While  progress  is  being  made,
measured  against  our  targets  and  recommendations,  it
is  too  slow.  The  creation  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight
AIDS,  Tuberculosis 
a  major
breakthrough and holds the potential of access to funds
for  malaria  control  commensurate  with  needs.  Such
funds would be well spent given that  macro-economic
analysis  indicates  that  the  net  return  on  investment  in
malaria control is substantial and far exceeds the initial
investment 
economic
performance and reduced poverty.
improved 
of 
is 
in 
terms 
Finally,  it  would  be  a  travesty  to  discuss  the
prevention  and  treatment  of  malaria  in  Africa  without
noting  the  remarkable  private  efforts  of  the  Bill  and
Melinda  Gates  Foundation.  While  it  is  true  that  the
Foundation  is  the  most  highly  funded  in  the  world,
what stands out is not the size of the largesse of those
individuals but the intensity of their personal focus and
concern for the lives and well-being of the global poor.
As  one  American  newspaper  notes,  the  Gates  have
placed  huge  bets  on  big,  difficult  scientific  problems.
They  have  committed  more  than  $126  million  to
finding  an  AIDS  vaccine  and  have  put  some  $150
million  into  the  development  of  a  malaria  drug.
Recently, they personally trekked to a remote clinic in
Mozambique  to  announce  the  largest  grant  in  history
for  malaria  research,  using  the  occasion  to  highlight
malaria’s toll of more than 1 million children dead each
year,  mostly  in  Africa.  They  recently  awarded  a  $28
million grant for a huge series of tests for a technique
which, if successful, could cut malaria deaths by half in
Africa.
Understandably,  much  of  the  world  shares  with
the  Gates  a  lack  of  understanding  about  why  other
people and their Governments do not share their sense
of  urgency.  We  hope  more  Governments  and
organizations will join this noble cause to eradicate one
of humanity’s scourges from the face of the earth.
Mr. Zenna (Ethiopia): At the outset, I would like
to  extend  my  sincere  appreciation  and  thanks  to  the
Secretary-General for his comprehensive report entitled
“2001-2010:  Decade 
in
in  Africa”
Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
(A/58/136  and  Corr.1).  My  delegation  fully  concurs
with the recommendations contained therein.
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
It  goes  without  saying  that  Africa,  the  most
marginalized region in the world, suffers from various
A/58/PV.41
social and economic deprivations which claim the lives
of  millions  of  people  each  year.  Also,  it  has  always
been  the  case  that  dismal  economic  growth,  hunger,
famine and disease are customary terms to describe the
misery of this continent.
When  one  speaks  of  diseases  in  Africa,  it  is
hardly  possible  to  fail  to  mention  malaria.  Although
malaria  is  a  global  health  problem,  it  remains  the
disease  of  the  impoverished,  mostly  in  sub-Saharan
Africa.  The  major  changes  in  the  eco-epidemiological
system  that  frequently  occur  in  different  parts  of  the
continent,  the  premature  termination  or  unplanned
interruption  of  antimalarial  measures  in  epidemic-
prone  areas  and  population  movements  due  to  the
requirements  of 
refugees  or
migration for different reasons are the major causes of
the outbreak of this epidemic in the region.
seasonal  workers, 
Ethiopia  is  no  different  from  other  African
countries that are severely affected by the disease. The
epidemic  has  proved  to  be  a  major  public  health  and
economic  problem  in  Ethiopia,  in  which  40  million
people are at risk of the disease, with approximately 4
to 5 million cases reported annually. The disease is on
the  top  of  the  list  of  the  major  killer  diseases  in  the
country  and  accounts  for  a  significant  number  of
outpatients.  Recurring 
and
subsequent  malnutrition  seem  to  create  a  conducive
environment  for  the  onset  and  spread  of  the  epidemic
in various regions of the country. According to a high-
level delegation of the World Health Organization that
recently visited the drought-affected areas in Ethiopia,
the onset of the  malaria  epidemic will increase during
the  next  couple  of  months.  Furthermore,  according  to
the  same  report,  if  the  proper  measures  are  not  taken,
tens  of  thousands  of  people  will  certainly  die  of  the
epidemic.
large-scale 
drought 
In an effort to combat the spread of this epidemic,
the  Government,  to  the  best  of  its  resource  capability,
is trying to take the necessary measures. In addition to
having  signed  on  to  the  global  campaign  to  fight
malaria,  it  has  launched  its  own  five-year  country
strategic plan for malaria control. In collaboration with
international  organizations  such  as  the  World  Health
Organization,  UNICEF  and  others,  efforts  are  under
way  to  target  the  most  vulnerable  section  of  the
population,  namely  pregnant  women  and  children  in
rural  areas,  and  launch  a  wider  campaign  to  fight  the
spread of the epidemic. The Secretary-General’s report
states  that  “the  bottlenecks  that  impede  effective
19
A/58/PV.41
resource  flows  for  malaria  have  now  been  identified
and malaria control is back on the Government agenda”
(A/58/136, para.21).
Apart  from  what  I  briefly  touched  on  at  the
beginning  of  my  speech  about  the  difficulties  that  our
continent of Africa is  facing, the  pain  and  sacrifice  in
overcoming  the  horrific  situation  in  the  region  is
becoming unbearable. Being aware of this menace, the
international  community,  at  the  dawn  of  the  new
millennium,  has  taken  the  initiative  of  alleviating  the
major challenges that impede the growth of the region
by  setting  various  development  goals.  To  that  end,
diseases  that  are  pervading  the  African  region  have
been  recognized  as  barriers  that  hamper  prosperity.
Accordingly,  the  international  community  has  stressed
the  importance  of  solidarity  in  tackling  the  problem.
That  commitment 
the
epidemic is embodied in the Millennium Development
Goals.  The  establishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  is  an  important  and
encouraging endeavour by the international community
to  support  poor  countries  in  their  effort  to  make
progress  in  malaria  control.  Ethiopia,  one  of  the
beneficiaries  of 
the
international community, especially partners among the
developed  countries,  to  increase  the  flow  of  financial
support to the Fund. We believe that such cooperation
is in line with the political commitment of our partners
to help realize the dream of stopping the global spread
of malaria.
the  Global  Fund,  calls  on 
the  effects  of 
to  mitigate 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We
have  heard  the  last  speaker  on  this  item.  The  General
Assembly  has 
its
consideration of agenda item 51.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
Agenda item 160
Global road safety crisis
The report of the Secretary-General (A/58/228)
Draft resolution A/58/L.3
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call  on  the  representative  of  Oman  to  introduce  draft
resolution A/58/L.3.
Mr. Al-Hinai  (Oman): The General Assembly is
for  the  very  first  time  discussing  another  rapidly
growing epidemic — that of globa road l traffic deaths
20
approximately 
and injuries. The Secretary-General’s report (A/58/228)
contains  very  alarming  statistics.  It  was  just  over  a
hundred  years  ago  that  the  first  road  traffic  death
occurred.  Today, 
people
worldwide are  killed  daily  as  a  result  of  road  crashes,
while thousands more are injured, some never again to
lead  productive  lives.  It  is  also  alarming  that  this
burden 
developing
countries,  where  roads  are  becoming  more  congested
with vehicles and people every day.
disproportionately 
3,000 
falls 
on 
But,  let  us  not  lose  hope.  The  battle  is  not  lost.
We can do something about it. I am optimistic that we
can  get  this  plague  under  control.  I  am  optimistic  for
two  reasons:  first,  because  we  have  an  unprecedented
understanding  of  the  dynamics  of  road  crashes  and,
secondly,  because  we  have  a  broad  range  of  effective
interventions to prevent them.
Let me first say a word about the predicted rapid
rate of increase in road deaths in the developing world.
This  is  a  man-made  plague,  and  we  understand  very
well why the deaths and injuries have been increasing
in low- and middle-income countries. What makes this
plague  different  from  AIDS  and  the  Severe  Acute
Respiratory  Syndrome  (SARS)  is  that  we  can  both
understand and control this problem.
In  developing  countries,  the  victims  of  road
crashes are the most vulnerable people, the vulnerable
road users. Most of the victims of road traffic injuries
and deaths are pedestrians, a contrast to the situation in
developed  countries,  where  the  victims  are  mostly  the
drivers  and  passengers  of  automobiles.  Owing  to  the
stricter  manufacturing  standards 
imposed  on  car
manufacturers 
those
passengers and drivers are actually very well protected
by  the  steel  frame  of  the  vehicles  in  which  they  are
riding.
the  developed  countries, 
in 
In 
countries, 
developing 
pedestrians 
and
bicyclists are the most vulnerable road users; they have
no  protection.  Mothers  carrying  babies  walk  between
rapidly  moving  buses,  cars  and  trucks,  while  traffic
signs,  which  are  rare,  are  often  ignored  even  when
present.
Cars  in  developing  countries  are  much  more
likely  to  kill  a  person  than  cars  in  the  developed
countries. In some developing countries, cars are up to
200  times  more  lethal  than  in  developed  countries.
Further,  we  also  know  that  car  manufacturers  plan  to
increase  production  and  exports  to  the  developing
world. As the number of vehicles increase, so will the
number of deaths and injuries — unless we take action.
From  this,  we  can  understand  the  rate  of  growth
of this epidemic. It is a scientific fact that we live in a
world  that  is  based  on  cause  and  effect.  When  we
understand  the  causes,  we  can  control  the  effects.  In
this  case,  we  understand  exactly  what  is  behind  the
increasing  rates  of  death,  and 
that  gives  us  an
advantage  in  addressing  the  problem.  Hence,  my  first
reason for optimism.
The  second  reason  for  my  optimism  is  the  new
way of thinking about road safety. The historical view
had  been  that  the  way  to  prevent  traffic  deaths  was
simply  to  warn  drivers  and  pedestrians  to  be  careful.
We thought that prevention meant getting the word out
to people and educating them about safe procedures. In
that view, education was really the only tool we had for
prevention.  We  now  realize  that  there  are  many  other
actions  we  can  take,  and  that  responsibility  rests  not
only with individuals, but it should be a responsibility
shared across many sectors and levels in our countries.
A  more  advanced  approach  to  road  safety  has
been developed, one that recognizes that the driver, the
vehicle  and  infrastructure  are  three  components  of  a
dynamic  system.  That  approach  recognizes  that  there
are many things we can do to prevent road crashes. A
systems-based  approach  seeks  to  identify  all 
the
sources  of  error  and  design  that  contribute  to  road
crashes,  and  then  tries  to  mitigate  the  consequences.
That  systems-based  approach  suggests  that,  first,  we
can look at roadways and make changes. For example,
pedestrians  and  people  in  non-motorized  vehicles  are
not separated from fast-moving traffic. Many roads do
not have barriers, or even white lines down the middle,
to  separate  lanes  of  traffic.  Communities  should  have
roadways that circle villages or towns, rather than just
pass right through them. Blind spots that limit visibility
can  be  eliminated,  and  rumble  strips  can  be  added  to
roads to reduce speed.
Next,  we  can  make  design  changes  in  vehicles.
Many  vehicles  may  be  very  old  and  lacking  safety
features  such  as  collapsible  steering  columns  and
engine  blocks  that  absorb  impacts  by  crushing  like  an
accordion.  Those  features  —  and  others  such  as
seatbelts,  child-safety  seats,  airbags  and  lights  to
increase visibility — can be added to modifications to
the  front  ends  of  vehicles  to  minimize  injury  to
pedestrians.
A/58/PV.41
We  can  also  look  at  human  behaviour  and  make
changes.  Laws  can  be  written  and  enforced  that
severely penalize drivers for speeding or driving under
the  influence  of  drugs  or  alcohol.  Laws  and  their
enforcement can be supported, starting at the top levels
of  Governments  and  down  through  community  levels,
and taught at an early age in school.
On  behalf  of  its  sponsors  —  Algeria,  Australia,
Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  China,  Cuba,  Ecuador,  Grenada,
Iran,  Kuwait,  Lebanon,  Malaysia,  Pakistan,  Panama,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Switzerland,
Syria,  Tunisia,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  the  United
States, Yemen and Oman — I now have the honour to
introduce the draft resolution on the global road safety
crisis, which is contained in document A/58/L.3. Since
the  issuance  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following
additional  countries  have  joined  the  list  of  sponsors:
Armenia,  Argentina,  Belgium,  Costa  Rica, 
the
Dominican  Republic,  France,  Greece,  Iceland,  Italy,
Kenya, Nauru, Portugal, the Republic of Moldova, the
Russian  Federation,  Singapore  and  Trinidad  and
Tobago.
In  order 
to  raise  greater  awareness  of 
the
magnitude  of  the  road-traffic  injury  problem,  the
sponsors  are  calling  for  a  plenary  meeting  of  the
General Assembly to be held on 14 April 2004 to bring
together  Government  representatives  and  experts  to
discuss  this  issue.  That  meeting  will  be  held  in
conjunction  with  World  Health  Day,  which  will  be
observed  on  the  7  April  2004,  and  the  World  Health
Organization’s  launching  on  that  day  of  its  World
Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention.
In  conjunction  with  that  plenary  meeting,  the
sponsors are requesting that a meeting be organized to
allow  the  private  sector,  relevant  non-governmental
organizations,  members  of  civil  society  and  other
interested  parties  to  exchange  information  on  best
practices  regarding  road  safety.  The  sponsors  are  also
calling  for  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to
facilitate the exchange of information on best practices
regarding  road  safety  and  to  make  recommendations
for  road  traffic  injury  control.  It  is  expected  that  the
outcome  of  the  exchange  of  information  between  the
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  regional  commissions
and  other  relevant  organizations  and  agencies  of  the
United Nations system and the exchange of views that
will take place at the 14 April 2004 meeting will form
the  basis  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  to  be
21
A/58/PV.41
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth
session.
I  would  like  to  express  my  deep  gratitude  to  the
representatives  who  participated  in  the  many  informal
meetings  we  held  and  who  offered  constructive
suggestions, amendments and advice.
I  am  honoured  to  recommend  draft  resolution
A/58/L.3 for adoption by the General Assembly.
In conclusion, catastrophic road crashes are not a
necessary product of development. Motorized vehicles
represent  positive  progress  for  people  and  allow  us  to
develop economically and as a society. We can ensure
that,  as  our  nations  move  people  and  goods  to  foster
development  and  commerce,  we  do  it  safely.  For  my
delegation, this represents an extraordinary opportunity
for all of us to help reach that goal — an opportunity to
make  a  difference  in  the  lives  of  men,  women  and
children around the world.
Mr.  Suhaili  (Malaysia):  At 
the  outset,  my
delegation  would  like  to  commend  the  delegation  of
Oman  for  its  initiative  in  raising  this  important
question  as  an  agenda  item  of  the  General  Assembly.
We  extend  our  sincere  appreciation  in  particular  to
Ambassador Fuad Al-Hinai, Permanent Representative
of  the  Sultanate  Oman  to  the  United  Nations,  for  his
untiring efforts and dedication in pursuing this  matter.
My delegation would also like to acknowledge the role
and  contributions  of  Member  States  and  relevant
agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  non-governmental
organizations  and  members  of  civil  society  to  this
initiative. We welcome the publication of the inaugural
report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  global  road
safety 
the
recommendations  contained  in  the  report,  most  of
which  have  been,  and  are  being,  implemented  by
Malaysia.
(A/58/228).  We 
support 
crisis 
According  to  statistics  compiled  by  the  World
Health  Organization  (WHO),  road  traffic  accidents
worldwide have resulted in the deaths of over 1 million
people and caused injury and disability to more than 10
million others on an annual basis. In 2000 road traffic
accidents  constituted the  ninth  leading  cause  of  death.
Such  a  horrific  situation  affects  both  developed  and
developing  countries.  However,  88  per  cent  of  those
deaths  and 
in  developing
countries.  Furthermore,  it  is  estimated  that  at  least  6
million  people  will  die  and  60  million  others  will  be
injured  or  disabled  in  developing  countries  over  the
injuries  have  occurred 
22
next  10  years  as  a  result  of  road  traffic  accidents.
Those figures warrant serious and urgent attention and
a  concerted  global  effort  to  tackle  and  reverse  such  a
largely preventable cause of death and injury.
In  Malaysia  over  200,000  cases  of  road  traffic
accidents  were  reported  in  2002  alone.  Those  cases
resulted  in  the  loss  of  nearly  6,000  Malaysian  lives.
The fatality rate due to these accidents in 2002 stood at
a  rate  of  4.9  deaths  per  10,000  registered  vehicles.
Consequently, total losses to the gross national product
arising from that situation amounted to $1.42 billion.
to  promote 
The  Government  of  Malaysia  has  maintained  a
long-standing and abiding  commitment  to  address  this
problem,  in  the  interest  of  saving  lives  and  managing
valuable  resources  required  for  development.  The
National  Road  Safety  Council  of  Malaysia  was
established in 1962. Through the National Council, the
Government  of  Malaysia  continues 
to  undertake
various  efforts  to  reduce  the  number  of  road  traffic
accidents  and 
safety
consciousness among road users and the general public.
The Council has set a target of reducing fatalities to a
rate  of  4  per  10,000  registered  vehicles  by  2010.  In
pursuing  that  objective,  in  1997  Malaysia  launched  a
nationwide road traffic safety campaign and awareness
programme premised on the concept of the “three Es”,
which 
and
engineering. That campaign has been quite effective in
reducing the number of road accident fatalities to 5,886
deaths in 2002. Malaysia will continue to make serious
efforts to further reduce that figure.
enforcement 
education, 
stands 
road 
traffic 
for 
Aside from efforts at the national level, Malaysia
is an active participant at the regional and international
levels  in  formulating  strategies  for  the  development
and  sustainability  of  road  infrastructure.  Among  other
things,  those  strategies  are  aimed  at  reducing  road
traffic accidents by constructing better, safer and more
road user-friendly infrastructure and by promoting and
ensuring  efficient  maintenance  of  road  infrastructure.
Malaysia  is  involved  in  the  World  Bank  Group’s
Global  Road  Safety  Partnership,  the  World  Road
Association, the Land Transport and Safety Committee
of 
the  Association  of  South-East  Asian  Nations
(ASEAN),  the  Road  Engineering  Association  of  Asia
and  Australasia  and  ASEAN’s  Sub-working  Group  on
Road  Transport  and  Road  Safety.  We  believe  that  the
consultations in, and experiences gained through, those
and other forums have, and will continue to be, useful
in  the  collective  efforts  to  address  this  issue  at  the
regional and international levels. That would also be in
accordance  with  one  of  the  conclusions  contained  in
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  submitted  under
this item.
impact  on 
The  statistics  on  deaths,  injuries  and  disabilities
caused  by  road  traffic  accidents  must  be  a  cause  of
grave concern to us. They are a burden on our human
conscience  and  a  subject  of  concern  because  of  their
destructive  and  multidimensional 
the
economic  and  social  well-being  of  our  societies.  The
loss of even one human life and the disabilities caused
by road traffic accidents have a rippling negative effect
on  individuals,  families  and  societies.  It  is  equally
heart-rending  for  anyone  to  learn  of  the  loss  of  dear
friends  and  family  members  —  be  it  a  teenager
involved in an illegal motorcycle race on the streets of
Kuala  Lumpur,  a  family  returning  from  vacation
somewhere in Greece or a busload of passengers killed
in  a  ravine  somewhere  in  Pakistan.  Initially,  such
accidents immediately and drastically affect family and
social  units,  both  emotionally  and  psychologically.
Subsequently  they  have  a  gradual  effect  on  the  larger
community and on the country as a whole, owing to the
human, economic and social losses involved.
According  to  studies  conducted  by  the  World
Health Organization, Harvard University and the World
Bank, it is anticipated that by 2020, if left unchecked,
road  traffic  accidents  will  advance  to  become  the
second  leading  cause  of  death  and  disability  in  the
world. The inclusion of  this  item  in  the  agenda  of  the
General Assembly is very timely, especially given that
road  safety  will  be  the  theme  and  focus  of  World
Health Day in 2004. Malaysia supports the adoption of
that  theme  to  mark  the  start  of  a  global  campaign  for
road traffic safety. We also support the draft resolution
before the Assembly on this item.
Road traffic accidents have affected, and continue
to  affect,  each  and  every  one  of  us  in  one  way  or
another.  The  United  Nations  has  an  important  role  to
play  in  leading  international  efforts  to  address  this
highly  preventable  but  deadly  public  safety  problem.
Rest  assured  that,  within  our  means  and  capacity,
Malaysia stands committed to make its contribution in
that regard.
Mr. Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
The  Chinese  delegation  supports  the  consideration  by
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the
agenda item entitled “Global road safety crisis”. I wish
A/58/PV.41
to  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  register  our
gratitude  to  the  Permanent  Mission  of  Oman  for  this
initiative. I would also like to thank Secretary-General
Kofi Annan for the informative report (A/58/228) that
he  has  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  under  this
item.
According to the report of the Secretary-General,
road traffic injuries have become a public health crisis
of  global  dimensions.  In  2000,  1.26  million  people
worldwide  died  as  a  result  of  road  traffic  injuries,
accounting  for  2.2  per  cent  of  global  mortality  and
ranking as the ninth leading cause of human death and
morbidity.  The  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)
predicts  that  by  2020  road  traffic  injuries  could  rank
third among the causes of death and disability, ahead of
HIV/AIDS and malaria.
A  cause  of  concern  is  the  fact  that  the  losses
sustained  by  developing  countries  as  a  result  of  road
traffic injuries far exceed those of developed countries.
Of the 1.26 million road traffic fatalities in 2000, about
1.04  million  occurred  in  developing  countries,  which
translates  into  88  per  cent  of  the  total  number  of
deaths,  whereas  developed  countries  accounted  for
only  12  per  cent.  Faced  with  that  grave  situation,  it
stands  to  reason  that  the  international  community
should enhance cooperation and endeavour to improve
road safety in all countries, and in developing countries
in  particular.  In  that  context,  I  wish  to  make  four
points.
First,  ensuring 
road  safety 
the 
environment 
is  a  systemic
undertaking  that  involves  human  beings,  vehicles,
roads, 
In
formulating specific laws, policies and measures in an
effort  to  eradicate  causes  of  road  traffic  injuries,
countries  should  take  into  account  the  overall  picture
and a whole range of factors.
and  management. 
Secondly,  given  that  national  Governments  bear
the  primary  responsibility  for  road  safety,  they  should
give  priority  to  preventive  interventions.  In  doing  so,
they should rely on the participation and collaboration
of all sectors of society; heighten the safety awareness
of  relevant  Government  departments,  transportation
authorities  and  the  general  public;  and  ensure  road
safety.
Thirdly,  it  is  imperative  to  effectively  beef  up
international  cooperation.  Countries  should  increase
their  exchange  of  information,  learn  from  one  another
and  join  their  efforts  to  improve  road  safety.  Because
23
A/58/PV.41
developing countries suffer from economic  constraints
and their infrastructure and management techniques are
yet to be perfected, the international community should
provide  them  with  the  necessary  financial,  technical
and managerial assistance.
Fourthly, the World Health Organization (WHO),
which  shoulders  the  weighty  responsibility  of  keeping
everyone in good health, should play an important role
in  coping  with  this  problem.  We  have  noted  with
pleasure that WHO has chosen the theme of road safety
for  World  Health  Day  2004.  It  is  our  hope  that  the
events  surrounding  World  Health  Day  will  serve  to
further  heighten  public  attention  to  road  safety  in  all
countries  and  make  travelling  a  safer  and  more
comfortable experience.
legislation  on 
China  is  a  developing  country.  Along  with  the
sustained healthy growth of the Chinese economy over
the  past  two  decades,  China’s  road  construction  and
automobile  industry  have  made  significant  headway.
Questions  such  as  how  to  try  to  improve  road  safety
conditions,  accelerate 
road  safety,
increase  input  in  highway  and  urban  road  safety
facilities, intensify the training and safety education of
drivers, 
accident
prevention mechanisms and upgrade the treatment and
rehabilitation  of  those  injured  in  traffic  accidents  are
major  challenges  facing  the  Chinese  Government.  We
hope to enhance cooperation with the  WHO and other
international  organizations  and  agencies,  draw  on  the
advanced  experience  of  other  countries  and  scale  new
heights 
road  safety  capacity-building
endeavours.
in  China’s 
improve 
further 
road 
traffic 
Mr.  Vargas  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At
the outset, I would like to thank the Permanent Mission
of Oman for assuming this important initiative.
the  prospect 
that  such  an 
In the early days of the automobile, some people
made fun of those slow moving vehicles by calling out
“hitch  a  horse  to  it”  as  they  passed  by.  Others
welcomed 
innovative
machine would put an end to the reckless behaviour of
horsemen  who  dashed  down  streets  in  full  gallop,
thereby  endangering  pedestrians.  Over  100  years  have
lapsed  since  then,  and  both  jokes  and  hopes  have
literally  been  run  over  by  the  almost  unmanageable
road crisis that, to one degree or another, affects all the
countries  of  the  world  and  whose  consequences  are
reflected in alarming statistics.
24
Traffic  accidents  are  today  responsible  for  the
disability of approximately 30 million people and cause
more  than  3  million  deaths  per  year.  Those  numbers
have made traffic accidents the principal cause for the
loss  of  potential  life-years.  Road  accidents  require
$500  billion  annually  in  medical  services  and  are
responsible  for  a  loss  in  productivity  amounting  to
about 1 per cent of a country’s gross domestic product.
Nevertheless,  those  statistics  do  not  begin  to  quantify
the  dimensions  of  individual  and  familial  tragedies
caused  by  traffic  accidents,  of  which  all  of  us  have
been, or may potentially be, victims.
generate 
and  multiply
exponentially  the  complex  sources  of  violence.  They
harm  the  economy  and  the  environment  and  have
damaging physical and psychological effects on human
beings, as well as on such social and cultural values as
security  and  solidarity  and  on  efforts  to  improve
quality of life.
accidents 
Traffic 
index 
the  motorization 
The  lack  of  road  safety  long  ago  ceased  to  be  a
problem  of 
the  developed  world  alone  or  a
phenomenon  limited  to  large  urban  centres.  In  my
country,  for  example, 
is
growing  exponentially,  thereby  increasing  the  risk  of
traffic  accidents  and  producing  a  worrying  rise  in  the
emission  of  toxic  gases.  Between  1981  and  2002  the
number  of  in  situ  deaths  grew  by  243  per  cent.
Although  the  percentage  of  deaths  caused  by  traffic
accident  has  gradually  decreased,  that  reduction  was
not due to a net drop in the actual number of deaths but
to the fact that there are currently many more non-fatal
accidents. The number of accidents has doubled in the
past 10 years, totalling 64,440 in the year 2002. For a
nation  of  fewer  than  4  million  inhabitants,  such
numbers indicate that the lack of road safety is a very
serious  social  and  public  health  problem  affecting
mostly  children,  students  and  the  majority  of  the
economically active segment of the population.
For  generations,  road  safety  strategies  have
followed  the  traditional  model  of  the  “four  Es”.  That
model  corresponds  to  the  English  words  enforcement,
engineering, education and emergency; in other words,
to  the  laws  pertaining  to  those  words.  However,  it  is
necessary  to  expand  that  traditional  model  to  include
new,  complementary  strategies.  With  regard  to  Costa
Rica  itself,  our  road  transit  authorities  are  making
strenuous  efforts  to  refocus  their  work  and  achieve
more concrete and effective results.
resources 
strategies, 
In  that  regard,  my  country  has  incorporated
several new elements in its effort to achieve road safety
as  part  of  an  approach  that  brings  together  various
perspectives,  policies, 
and
expertise.  Against  that  backdrop,  in  promoting  road
safety  it  is  essential  to  take  into  account  specific
geographic,  demographic,  cultural  and  climactic
characteristics.  It  is  also  essential  to  involve  local
governments,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in
devising  and  implementing  road  safety  policies.  Local
management of road safety must result in the putting in
place  by  the  users  of  the  road  system  itself  of
participatory approaches to the design, implementation,
monitoring,  control  and  evaluation  of  plans  and
programmes  in  the  area  road  safety  that  take  into
account  the  local  environment.  Moreover,  given  the
dynamic  character  of  the  road  safety  problem,  it  is
necessary 
taking  of  political,
the 
technical and financial decisions.
to  decentralize 
process 
regarding 
decision-making 
I  would  in  particular  like  to  emphasize  the
importance  of  putting  a  human  face  on  engineering.
The 
the
implementation  of  civil  engineering  work  must  take
into account the particularities and special needs of the
most  vulnerable  users  of  the  transit  system.  Among
other  things,  sustainable  road  safety  requires  the
development  of  a  road  system  defined  by  the  abilities
of  the  users  of  those  roads.  In  that  connection,  a  road
system  should  not  be  more  complicated  than  what  the
least competent user can negotiate. That is an idea we
must consider.
From  its  earliest  beginnings,  the  automobile  was
conceived as a tool in the service of human beings that
would  save 
time,  physical  effort  and  economic
resources, not as an end in itself — and much less as a
weapon  of  mass  destruction.  Let  us  join  efforts  to
ensure  that  road  transportation  once  again  becomes  a
means of safely and quickly reaching a destination, and
not an ongoing threat to every child and adult.
In  conclusion,  in  addition  to  expressing  our
gratitude to the Secretary-General for his report on the
global  road  safety  crisis  (A/58/223),  I  would  once
again  like  to  thank  the  delegation  of  Oman  for  its
leadership in the preparation of the draft resolution on
this item, which we are happy to sponsor.
Mr. Mantovani (Italy): I have the honour to take
the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The
acceding  countries  of  Cyprus,  the  Czech  Republic,
A/58/PV.41
Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,
Slovakia  and  Slovenia,  the  associated  countries  of
Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey and the Economic Free
Iceland 
Trade  Association 
and
Liechtenstein align themselves with this statement.
countries 
of 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General (A/58/228) on the need for a global
effort  to  raise  awareness  about  the  health  impact  and
social  and  economic  costs  of  road  traffic  crashes  and
injuries.  The  magnitude  of  the  burden  posed  by  road
traffic  injuries  is  reflected  by  the  figures  cited  in  the
report  of  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO).  It  is
also  clear  that  this  public  health  problem  has  a  major
effect on low- and middle-income countries and that it
considerably 
of
sustainable development.
achievement 
undermines 
the 
Despite the gravity of this public health problem,
we  are  convinced  that  a  great  deal  can  be  done  to
prevent  and  reduce  road  traffic  injuries.  Accidents  on
the  roads  are  preventable,  and  their  impact  on  society
can be reduced by the political commitment of national
Governments.
through 
to  promote 
We can also do more on an international level to
address this problem. To that end, we call for efforts by
the United Nations system to support the development
of  policies  on  road  safety  and 
the
integration  of  road  safety  concerns  into  all  relevant
national  policies  —  including  those  that  relate  to
women,  children  and  the  elderly  —  within  the  overall
framework of sustainable development. In that context
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the
WHO,  the  World  Bank  and  UNICEF,  as  well  as  the
regional  development  banks,  should  be  called  upon  to
play  a  major  role 
the  United  Nations
Development  Assistance  Framework  and  the  Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper process. The United Nations
system  can  also  contribute  by  providing  assistance  in
the  critical  area  of  data  collection.  In  that  respect,  the
European  Union  welcomes  the  initiative  by  the  WHO
to designate road safety as the theme for World Health
Day, which will be celebrated in Paris on 7 April 2004.
The European Union attaches great importance to
the  problem  of  road  safety.  That  commitment  is
reflected 
recent
adoption of its European road safety action programme
for the period 2003 — 2010, which aims at halving the
number  of  road  accident  victims  in  the  European
Community  as  a  whole  by  2010.  The  same  action
the  European  Commission’s 
in 
25
The  European  Union  believes  that  saving  human
lives  through  an  effective  road  safety  policy  is  a
difficult challenge, but it is also a moral obligation for
all Member States.
Finally, speaking in my  national  capacity,  let  me
add  that  Italy  is  ready  to  join  the  list  of  sponsors  to
draft  resolution  A/58/L.3,  on  the  global  road  safety
crisis.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
A/58/PV.41
programme  provides  for 
European 
Commission.
road 
safety  observatory  within 
the  establishment  of  a
the
The  problem  of  road  safety  is  on  the  agenda  of
the European Union. The ministries of transportation of
the  member  States  of  the  European  Union  will  gather
in Verona, Italy, in the next few days to discuss priority
action lines in order to improve and harmonize security
standards in Europe.
26
