United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
40th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 22 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.40
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. van den Berg
(Netherlands), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 41 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the special session on
children
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/333)
Ms. Kang Kyung-wha (Republic of Korea): My
delegation  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  review  the
follow-up to the General Assembly’s special session on
children,  which  was  held  from  8  to  10  May  last  year.
No  issue  is  more  relevant  to  the  present  and  future
well-being  of  our  world  than  that  of  children.  Indeed,
“A world fit for children”, as the outcome document of
the special session is called, would be a world best fit
for  all.  Progress  towards  the  major  goals  identified  in
the document will be a major contribution to achieving
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Republic  of
Korea is resolved to fully realizing those goals.
In the Republic of Korea the special session  and
the  preparations  leading  up  to  it  served  to  further
consolidate  the  reorientation  in  policy-thinking  on
children. In the past, the focus had been on support for
children  in  need.  However,  the  revision  of  our  child
welfare  act  in  2000  marked  a  shift  towards  children’s
rights in general. The shift was further institutionalized
with  the  formulation  of  the  comprehensive  plan  for
child protection and rearing, which was published on 5
May  2002  —  Children’s  Day  —  on  the  eve  of  the
special session.
The 
incorporates 
comprehensive  plan 
the
elements  of  “A  world  fit  for  children”  that  are  most
pertinent to areas requiring further improvement in the
Republic of Korea and is organized in a way that will
most  effectively  build  upon  the  achievements  attained
thus  far.  The  plan  covers  48  measures  in  five  areas:
enhancing  children’s  rights;  improving  the  health  and
welfare  of  children;  strengthening  children’s  safety;
protecting  children  from  harmful  environments;  and
supporting  the  sound  rearing  of  children.  To  oversee
the  implementation  of  the  plan,  the  Committee  for
Child Protection and Rearing, which is composed of 13
vice-ministerial-level  officials 
relevant
ministries  and  offices,  has  been  established  to  devise
annual programmes for the implementation of the plan
and to undertake regular reviews of achievements.
from 
the 
Among the 48 measures, of particular note for its
cross-cutting  implications  for  future  policy-making  is
the  development  of  the  children’s  rights  index.  As
called  for  in  “A  world  fit  for  children”  and  further
emphasized  in  the  Bali  Consensus  —  the  outcome  of
the  sixth  East  Asia  and 
the  Pacific  Ministerial
Consultation on Children — pertinent data is crucial to
devising  effective  policies.  My  Government  has
therefore  commissioned  the  Institute  for  Health  and
Social Affairs to develop a children’s rights index. The
existing system of data collection has lacked a unified
categorization  of  age  groups  for  children,  and  is
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-57376 (E)
*0357376*
A/58/PV.40
therefore insufficient to cover all children and all areas
under  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.  The
new  index  should  lead  to  vast  improvements  in  the
collection of data pertaining to children. It will serve as
the  basis  of  a  white  paper  on  children’s  rights,  to  be
published every five years, beginning in 2005.
Of  the  four  major  goal  areas  elaborated  in  “A
world  fit  for  children”,  I  wish  to  focus  on  education,
which was also identified in the Bali Consensus as an
overarching  imperative  in  fulfilling  the  commitments
made with regard to children.
Education  has  always  been  given  the  highest
priority in the Republic of Korea, and educated citizens
have  led  the  drive  behind  the  country’s  economic
development and democratic growth. The opportunities
for  children  are  already  wide  and  still  expanding.
Currently,  boys  and  girls  are  equally  entitled  to  nine
years of compulsory education. Most children advance
to  high  school.  There  is  little  gender  disparity  in
primary and secondary education. As of 2001, 67.6 per
cent  of  girls  and  73.1  per  cent  of  boys  advanced  to
college upon graduation from high school.
The  Government’s  current  focus  is  on  achieving
gender  equality  and  eliminating  gender  discrimination
in the content of education. A gender-equal curriculum
for primary and secondary education has been worked
out. Training programmes for teachers based on gender
equality  are  also  being  strengthened.  The  Republic  of
Korea  is  fully  committed  to  fostering  gender  equality
in and through education,  and  will  continue  its  efforts
in that regard.
Furthermore, we believe that the empowerment of
women  is  crucial  in  the  promotion  of  the  rights  and
well-being  of  children.  Measures  to  empower  women
such  as  strengthened  maternity  protection  and  child
care  outside  the  home  have  a  direct  bearing  on  the
healthy  growth  of  children.  The  Ministry  of  Gender
Equality,  which  was  established  in  2001,  is  therefore
working closely with the Ministry of Public Health and
Welfare  and  other  relevant  offices  to  devise  policies
that optimize the benefits to both women and children.
Another focus to improve the education sector is
on children with disabilities. Measures in that area are
an  important  part  of  the  national  programme  for  the
promotion  of  the  welfare  of  the  disabled,  which  was
established in 1998. Currently, the second phase of the
programme, 
includes
measures  to  provide  quality  education  for  disabled
the  period  2003-2007, 
for 
2
children  suitable  for  the  knowledge-based  information
age,  to  expand  model  schools  for  inclusive  education,
to improve support centres for disabled children and to
provide textbooks suited to the needs of  children with
visual impairments.
While  promoting  the  goals  of  “A  world  fit  for
children” at home, the Republic of Korea has also been
an  active  participant  in  regional  and  global  initiatives
on  children.  The  Asia-Europe  Meeting’s  (ASEM)
Action  on  Child  Welfare  and  the  ASEM  Initiative  to
Combat  Trafficking  in  Women  and  Children  are  just
some  of  the  recent  forums  through  which  we  have
shared our experiences and policies with others on the
pending issues related to children.
The  official  development  aid  programmes  of  the
Republic  of  Korea  have  also  incorporated  projects  for
children in the East Asia and Pacific regions, including
the  construction  of  primary  schools  and  hospitals,  the
promotion  of  children’s  health  projects  and 
the
dispatch  of  medical  specialists  in  paediatrics  and
obstetrics. We hope that those efforts will contribute to
the  enhancement  of  the  well-being  of  children  and  to
the  achievement  of  the  goals  of  “A  world  fit  for
children” in the region.
Finally, the Republic of Korea is fully behind the
efforts  made  by  the  United  Nations  on  behalf  of
children. 
In  particular,  we  applaud  UNICEF’s
dedication  to  helping  the  most  vulnerable  and  needy
children  of  the  world,  in  collaboration  with  other
United Nations bodies. We have supported its activities
in the field with financial and material assistance. The
successful  outcome  of  the  special  session  was  in  no
small measure due to the dedication of UNICEF acting
as 
successful
implementation  of  “A  world  fit  for  children”  calls  for
its 
advocacy,
humanitarian  intervention  and  development  assistance
on  behalf  of  children.  In  collaboration  with  other
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  and  as  a  complement
and  support  to  the  efforts  of  Member  States,  that
engagement would provide the building blocks for the
construction of a world fit for children.
secretariat.  Likewise, 
engagement 
continued 
active 
its 
the 
in 
Mr.  Buffa  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My
delegation  aligns 
the  statement  made
yesterday  by  the  delegation  of  Peru  on  behalf  of  the
countries of the Rio Group.
itself  with 
The  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay
attaches  priority  to  promoting  and  protecting  the
fundamental 
rights  of  children  and  adolescents,
particularly  in  conjunction  with  the  set  of  objectives
and  targets  agreed  at  the  May  2002  special  session  of
the  General  Assembly  on  children.  The  outcome
document  of  the  session,  “A  world  fit  for  children”
(resolution S-27/2, annex), reaffirmed the international
community’s 
the
remaining  programmes  and  tasks  of  the  1990  World
Summit for Children.
implementing 
commitment 
to 
We  should  note  that  the  special  session  was  the
first  time  that  delegations  comprised  children  and
adolescents  as  official  members,  more  than  400  of
whom participated from  more than 150 countries. The
objectives  and  targets  specifically  established  in  four
priority  spheres  of  action  —  promoting  a  healthy  life;
access to quality education; the need to protect children
and  adolescents  from  maltreatment,  exploitation  and
violence;  and  combating  HIV/AIDS  —  sought  to
strengthen  and  provide  new  impetus  to  countries’
commitments to attaining the Millennium Development
Goals  by  2015  through  the  definition  of  essential  and
concrete intermediate goals for 2010.
We  should  also  seek  to  integrate  international
objectives into national Government plans and policies.
In  that  connection,  we  have  agreed  to  formulate  or
strengthen,  by  the  end  of  2003,  national  and  regional
the
plans  of  action  designed  for  children  with 
participation  of 
non-
governmental 
and
adolescents,  whose  opinions  should  be  taken  into
account in all matters that affect them.
including 
children 
society, 
and 
organizations 
civil 
In that context, I wish to take this opportunity to
announce  that  Paraguay  recently  drafted  and  adopted
the  national  plan  for  children  and  adolescents,  a  five-
year short-term plan for 2003 to 2008, consistent with
the  national  childhood  and  adolescence  policy
formulated  for  a  10-year  period,  2003  to  2013,  which
has  greater  and 
longer-term  objectives  aimed  at
comprehensive  and  substantive  development  of  this
majority 
represents
approximately 47 per cent of Paraguay’s population.
society,  which 
sector 
of 
Since  the  World  Summit  for  Children,  important
progress has been made in Paraguay with regard to the
system  for  protecting  and  promoting  the  rights  of
children  and  adolescents.  In  that  connection,  the
childhood and adolescence code is the chief regulatory
framework  protecting  children’s  rights.  It  imposes  a
doctrine of comprehensive protection and incorporates
A/58/PV.40
the  principle  of  the  best  interests  of  the  child,  in
keeping  with  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the
Child.
In  the  same  way,  Paraguay  has  ratified  the
principal instruments of the inter-American and global
systems for protecting and promoting children’s rights,
including very recently the second Optional Protocol to
the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the sale
of  children,  child  prostitution  and  child  pornography.
Likewise,  the  national  secretariat  of  childhood  and
adolescence  is  promoting  measures  aimed  at  early
ratification  of 
International  Labour  Organization
Convention  138,  concerning  the  minimum  age  for
admission  to  employment,  which  has  already  been
endorsed by the Paraguayan Congress and is currently
before the Chamber of Deputies.
for 
promotion 
protection, 
In  this  field,  there  are  favourable  signs  in
Paraguay.  On  the  one  hand,  decentralized  efforts  and
mechanisms 
and
development  of  all  children  and  adolescents  have
passed  their  experimental  stage  and  are  now  being
permanently  financed  and  assessed.  I  am  referring  to
the municipal childhood councils, which aim to protect
children’s  best  interests  and  to  implement  public
policies at the local governmental level throughout the
national  territory  with  the  central  administration’s
decentralized  agencies,  civil  society  organizations  and
community organizations for children and adolescents.
A  concrete  example  of  that  is  the  commitment  to
implement  a  programme  to  provide  a  glass  of  milk  to
every  child  attending  primary  school.  Currently,  there
is renewed effort in the central department responsible
for  that  programme,  whose  outreach  is  expected  to  be
300,000 children.
However,  much  remains  to  be  done.  In  that
connection,  we  cannot  fail  to  mention  our  great
concern  about  the  number  of  children  and  adolescents
who  still  live  on  the  streets  in  an  urgent  situation
without  access  to  a  minimum  education  and  who  are
subject to all kinds of abuses and excesses. We are also
concerned about the high rates of school dropouts due
to  premature  admission  to  employment  and  to  the
pregnancies of school-age girls.
firm 
In the area of education, I should like to reaffirm
Paraguay’s 
strengthening
educational reform, which not only aspires to tailor the
comprehensive  training  of  children  and  adolescents  to
current  needs  and  challenges,  but  also  seeks 
to
commitment 
to 
3
A/58/PV.40
optimize  the  educational  system’s  scarce  resources.
Therefore,  mindful  that  education  and  comprehensive
training  of  children  and  adolescents  are  essential  for
development  and  the  enjoyment  of  human  dignity,  the
Government of Paraguay proposes to increase its social
capital  through  innovative  strategies  that  will  reverse
the perverse cycle of poverty.
Mr.  Chaimongkol  (Thailand):  My  delegation
wishes to thank the Secretary-General for his report on
follow-up  to  the  United  Nations  special  session  on
children (A/58/333), held in May 2002. We are pleased
to  learn  that  one  year  has  passed  with  a  good  start  in
the implementation of the Plan of Action  contained in
the  outcome  document,  entitled  “A  world  fit  for
children”  (resolution  S-27/2,  annex),  adopted  at  the
special  session.  Thailand  reaffirms  its  commitment  to
pursuing  the  four  goal  areas  of  the  Plan  of  Action:
promoting  healthy  lives;  providing  quality  education;
protecting  children  against  abuse,  exploitation  and
violence; and combating HIV/AIDS.
Thailand  attaches  high  priority  to  protecting
children  against  abuse,  exploitation  and  violence.  The
Thai  Government  has  striven  to  prevent  and  suppress
all  forms  of  exploitation  of  children,  particularly
trafficking 
in  children.  Apart  from  strengthening
legislative  measures,  the  national  policy  and  plan  of
action  to  prevent  and  suppress  trafficking  in  women
and  children  was  adopted  with  an  integrated  and
comprehensive  approach  to  addressing  the  problem,
particularly its root causes. Moreover, special attention
has  been  devoted  to  girls’  education.  Education,  both
formal  and  non-formal,  and  vocational  training  have
been  provided  to  girls  with  a  view  to  empowering
them.
among 
and 
It  is  to  be  noted  that  a  consistent  spirit  of
partnership 
non-
governmental sectors, including the private sector, non-
governmental organizations and civil society, has been
forged  to  ensure  that  every  effort  is  made  to  promote
and protect children in Thailand.
governmental 
As  international  cooperation  is  required  in  the
prevention  and  eradication  of  trafficking  in  children,
Thailand  has  developed  close  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations  system  and 
the  Governments  of
countries in  the  Greater  Mekong  subregion  —  namely
Cambodia,  China, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic
Republic  and  Myanmar  —  to  step  up  cooperation  in
combating  trafficking  in  women  and  children  in  the
4
region. At a bilateral level, Thailand also concluded, in
May  2003,  an  agreement  with  Cambodia  on  the
suppression  of  trafficking  in  women  and  children  and
on assistance to trafficked victims.
As  mentioned  in  the  report  of 
the  Special
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Children
and  Armed  Conflict,  Thailand  is  pleased  to  facilitate
conflict resolution by providing a venue for peace talks
by the conflicting parties. We are particularly delighted
that the recent peace talks in Thailand have resulted in
the  reaffirmation  of  the  commitments  undertaken  by
the  parties  concerned  to  refrain  from  using  children
under  18  years  of  age  in  combat  and  from  recruiting
those under 17.
My delegation wishes to underline the importance
of the universal nature of the Convention on the Rights
of the Child, which now has 192 State parties. We also
welcome the increasing number of countries that  have
acceded  to  its  optional  protocols.  As  a  party  to  the
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  since  1992,
Thailand  welcomes  the  enlargement  of  the  Committee
on 
the  Child,  which  will  further
strengthen the capacity of the Committee to fulfil more
effectively its mandate.
the  Rights  of 
In this connection, my delegation shares concerns
about the increasingly heavy workload and the backlog
problem  faced  by  the  Committee,  which  are  currently
affecting  the  Committee’s  effectiveness  in  addressing
global  concerns  on  children-related 
issues.  We
therefore wish to support the efforts of the Committee
to improve its methods of work and its management in
order  to  better  deal  with  the  challenges  facing  it.  We
should  not  forget 
the
Committee  is  vital  to  achieving  “A  world  fit  for
children”.
the  effectiveness  of 
that 
Mr. Dhakal (Nepal): At the outset, I wish to join
previous  speakers 
in  expressing  my  delegation’s
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his
comprehensive  report  (A/58/333)  on  the  follow-up  to
the United Nations special session on children.
My  delegation  also  wishes 
its
appreciation  to  the  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General  for  Children  in  Armed  Conflict  for
his  analytical  report  on  the  protection  of  children
affected by armed conflict (A/58/328).
to  express 
Humanity  is  on  a  perennial  quest  for  peace,
prosperity  and  justice  for  all.  Children  must  be  at
centre stage of that quest, as they are the future of our
societies.  For  them  to  become  educated,  healthy  and
productive citizens, they must have the right to proper
education,  adequate  health  facilities,  and  a  conducive
economic and social environment.
Today millions of children are victims of poverty,
illiteracy, disease and armed conflict across the world.
Eleven  million  children  still  die  every  year,  mostly  of
preventable  or  curable  diseases.  The  HIV/AIDS
pandemic  has  been  taking  its  toll  on  millions  of
innocent  children  as  well.  Atrocities  and  brutality
against children continue unabated in conflict areas.
This,  indeed,  must  change.  We  have  a  set  of
global  blueprints  for  action  in  place.  The  Convention
on the Rights of the Child sets out broad parameters for
a  better  environment  for  children.  The  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  the  Declaration  on  “A  world
fit for children” identify steps to change the world for
and  with  children  in  a  time-bound  manner.  The
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation reinforce these and other goals.
We  need  to  pool  our  resources  and  energies  to
implement  those  blueprints  in  order  to  protect  the
rights  of  children  and  to  uplift  their  status  in  society.
The  multidimensional  nature  of  children’s  problems
requires that we make coherent and concerted efforts at
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  Nepal
expresses its appreciation to the United Nations for its
endeavours to build a common platform for action and
to 
bring 
and
cooperation.
about  much-needed 
coherence 
The  task  before  us  is  formidable.  The  goals  of
reducing poverty by half and of providing all children
with  primary  education  by  the  year  2015,  as  well  as
other  global  agreed  goals,  are  laudable,  appropriate
and,  indeed,  ambitious.  Business  as  usual  will  not  get
us  where  we  want  to  go.  We  must  muster  greater
political  will  in  order  to  accomplish  our  task  and
redouble our efforts to achieve those goals.
Nepal  is  fully  committed  to  protecting  the  rights
of  children  and  to  promoting  their  development.  We
have  become  party  to  a  number  of  international  and
regional  human  rights 
the
Convention  on 
the  Child  and
International  Labour  Organization  (ILO)  Conventions
No.  138,  on  Minimum  Age 
to
Employment,  and  No.  182,  on  the  Worst  Forms  of
Child  Labour.  Nepal  has  already  signed  the  two
the  Rights  of 
for  Admission 
instruments, 
including 
A/58/PV.40
Protocols to the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
We have also submitted our combined second and third
periodic reports, as stipulated by the Convention on the
Rights of the Child.
To  translate  those  commitments  into  improved
status  for  children,  Nepal  has  taken  a  number  of
legislative,  policy  and  administrative  measures.  The
1990 Constitution of the Kingdom of Nepal guarantees
the protection of the rights and interests of children and
prohibits trafficking in human beings, slavery, serfdom
or forced labour.
the  Child  and  prescribes  measures 
The  Children’s  Act  of  1992  spells  out  the  rights
of  children  in  accordance  with  the  Convention  on  the
Rights  of 
to
safeguard  them.  The  Child  Labour  —  Prohibition  and
Control  —  Act  of  1999  prohibits  the  employment  of
children  under  the  age  of  16.  There  are  also  several
provisions  in  the  civil  code  to  protect  the  interests  of
children.
A  strategic  action  plan  has  been  formulated  to
address problems in seven key sectors, including child
bonded  labour;  child  rag  pickers;  child  porters;  child
domestic  workers;  children  in  mines;  children  in  the
carpet  sector;  and  trafficking  in  girls  and  sexual  or
labour  exploitation.  There  is  a  special  focus  on
promoting  a  healthy  life;  providing  quality  education;
protecting  children  against  abuse,  exploitation  and
violence; and combating HIV/AIDS.
in 
interventions 
A master plan has been prepared to eliminate the
worst  forms  of  child  labour  by  2007  and  all  forms  of
child  labour  by  2010.  The  overriding  objective  of  the
current  tenth  five-year  plan  is  to  reduce  poverty
through 
the  education,  health,
sanitation  and  rural  development  sectors.  The  plan
aims  to  raise  the  literacy  rate  to  63  per  cent  and  to
increase  school  enrolment  substantially.  Free  primary
education for all, free textbooks for girl students at that
level,  as  well  as 
for  Dalit  and
disadvantaged children, are some of the key features of
our  strategy 
the  process  of
implementation  in  the  education  sector  for  some  time
now.
that  have  been 
scholarships 
in 
An 
integrated  health  service 
that  provides
primary  health  care,  family  planning  services  and
immunization was introduced in our country some time
ago.  Immunization  has  reached  more  than  90  per  cent
of our country’s children. Emphasis has been placed on
providing  safe  drinking  water  and  sanitation  facilities.
5
A/58/PV.40
Those  programmes  are  integral  to  our  efforts  to
alleviate  poverty  and  improve  overall  condition  of
children.  As  part  of  our  overall 
strategy,  a
comprehensive  national  plan  of  action  on  children  is
also  being 
the  assistance  of
UNICEF and other United Nations agencies.
implemented,  with 
To 
those 
implement 
programmes,  Nepal
established a Ministry of Women, Children and Social
Welfare  and  other  necessary  institutional  frameworks.
The  Human  Rights  Commission, 
the  Women’s
Commission  and  juvenile  benches  in  district  courts
have  been  set  up  to  protect  children’s  rights.  A  high-
level  central  child-welfare  board  and  district  child-
welfare  boards  have  been  set  up  in  all  75  districts  to
promote  the  rights  of  the  child  and  to  mobilize  local
communities  and  resources  to  address  problems  faced
by children at the district level.
His  Majesty’s  Government  has  been  working  in
close  cooperation  with  all  stakeholders  at  home  and
abroad to make possible the implementation of various
development  programmes  aimed  at  children.  It  has
sought  the  full  participation  of  non-governmental
organizations and the private sector in those activities.
At the regional level, we signed the South Asian
Association 
(SAARC)
Convention  on  Preventing  and  Combating  Trafficking
in  Women  and  Children  for  Prostitution  and  the
SAARC Convention on Regional Arrangements for the
Promotion  of  Child  Welfare  in  South  Asia  at  the
Eleventh  Summit  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for
Regional  Cooperation,  which  was  held  in  Kathmandu
in  January  2002.  The  Conventions  will  complement
global  and  national  efforts  to  create  a  world  fit  for
children.
for  Regional  Cooperation 
been 
have 
Despite 
those  efforts,  poverty  persists  and
children  continue  to  suffer  in  Nepal.  The  Maoist
insurgency  has  further  worsened  the  situation.  The
Maoists 
disrupting  much-needed
development  activities,  destroying  infrastructure  and
recruiting  children  as  child  soldiers.  Nepal,  a  least
developed  country,  needs  peace 
to
implement 
the  various  programmes  and  activities
aimed  at  the  protection  of  children’s  rights  and  the
promotion  of  development.  The  Government  has  been
seeking 
through
dialogue,  while  at  the  same  time  taking  measures  to
protect  lives  and  property  from  Maoist  brutalities  and
the  Maoist  problem 
to  be  able 
to  resolve 
6
to  safeguard  liberty  and  freedom  from  the  insurgents’
ambition to destroy democracy.
from 
its  development  partners 
Nepal  needs  additional  financial  and  technical
cooperation 
to
implement  various  policies  and  programmes  and  to
improve  the  situation  of  children.  Assistance  is  also
critical for quick-impact projects in the Maoist-affected
areas  to  provide  basic  services  to  people.  A  recently
published report, which was also presented at the Joint
Executive  Board  meeting  of  UNICEF  and  the  United
Nations  Development  Programme  (UNDP),  showed
that  our  resources  and  the  present  level  of  external
assistance  will  be  far  from  sufficient  to  meet  the
Millennium Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  as  parents  and  elders  it  is  our
obligation to provide children with the basic necessities
of  life  and  with  the  opportunity  for  quality  education,
health  services  and  a  loving  and  caring  environment.
We  must  not  allow  the  momentum  generated  by  the
various conferences on those topics to falter.
Mrs.  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is
clear  that  the  rights  of  the  child  have  been  at  centre
stage  since  the  holding  of  the  World  Summit  for
Children  in  1990.  Those  rights  are  now  a  priority  of
Governments, civil society organizations, scientists and
researchers  who  seek  to  foster  the  capabilities  of
children  and  meet  their  basic  needs  within  a  family
providing  safety,  well-being,  education,  morals  and
ethics  for  a  better  future.  Interest  in  the  agenda  for
children  has 
the  adoption  and
implementation of the Plan of Action entitled “A world
fit  for  children”,  which  will  contribute  to  the  well-
being of children and to strengthening their rights.
increased  since 
International  cooperation  has  a  very  important
role  to  play  in  that  regard,  especially  in  connection
with providing support to developing countries as part
of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights
of  the  Child  and  as  a  practical  and  positive  approach
aimed  at  overcoming  obstacles  and  meeting  agreed
international 
is,
therefore, a need to enhance the implementation of the
Plan of Action and to reinvigorate political will at the
national and international levels.
commitments.  There 
financial 
If the present international situation continues, we
shall  see  a  widening  of  the  gap  between  the  rich  and
the poor in every country. Poor countries will therefore
not  be  able  to  benefit  from  the  positive  aspects  of
further
globalization,  which  will 
then 
lead 
to 
marginalization  of  developing  countries,  and 
in
particular  the  least  developed  countries.  At  the  same
time that those countries are experiencing the effects of
malnutrition, malaria and HIV/AIDS  —  especially  the
ones located in Africa — they must also contend with
the burden imposed by foreign debts and the servicing
of those debts.
My  delegation  made  a  statement  to  the  Third
Committee  concerning  the  national  efforts  Sudan  is
making with regard to protecting the rights of children
and promoting their well-being. In this connection, we
would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/58/333)  on  the  follow-up  to
the  outcome  of  the  special  session  on  children.  We
wish 
that  report
pertaining  to  the  follow-up  to  major  international
conferences and other important summits that provided
a  comprehensive  plan  of  action  for  development,
whose primary objective is the elimination of poverty.
the  contents  of 
to  underscore 
the  African  Union, 
The report of the Secretary-General also referred
to  cooperation  between 
the
Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and  UNICEF  in
drafting  a  comprehensive  report  on  the  situation  of
children  in  Africa.  My  delegation  believes  that  that
report should serve  to  raise  awareness  of  the  situation
of children in Africa, given that they represent the most
affected  and  vulnerable  segment  of  the  population  by
virtue  of  their  exposure  to  such  endemic  diseases  as
malaria and HIV/AIDS and the fact that their mortality
rate is extremely high owing to malnutrition and armed
conflict.  My  delegation  therefore  believes  that  all
factors  affecting  the  lives,  rights  and  prosperity  of
African  children  must  be  taken  into  account  in  the
preparation of the report.
The 
report  of 
the  Secretary-General  also
addressed  the  issue  of  follow-up  by  some  regional
organizations. A comprehensive resolution in line with
the  outcome  document  of  the  General  Assembly’s
special  session  on  children  and  entitled  “An  Arab
world fit for children” was adopted at the Arab Summit
held  in  March  2002.  The  May  2002  meeting  of  the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  also
adopted a resolution on child care and protection in the
Islamic  world.  That  resolution  refers  to  the  Plan  of
Action as a reference for action by OIC members.
My  delegation  would  like  for  the  Secretary-
General’s  future  reports  on  follow-up  to  include  a
comprehensive analytical review of the implementation
A/58/PV.40
of  the  Plan  of  Action  at  the  national,  regional  and
international  levels  by  focusing  on  the  four  primary
goals with a view to defining problems and challenges
and making practical recommendations. My delegation
attaches special importance to the study being prepared
by the Secretary-General on violence against children,
in  keeping  with  the  relevant  resolution  of  the  General
Assembly. My delegation hopes that it will be inclusive
of  all  the  fundamental  causes  that  lead  to  violence
against  children,  and  in  particular  of  the  spread  of
poverty  and  disease.  The  report  should  also  deal  with
the  commercial  and  sexual  exploitation  of  children
through  prostitution  and  their  suffering  under  armed
conflicts,  abuse,  killing  and  displacement,  to  which
they are subject as a result of foreign occupation.
specialized 
the  United  Nations 
Finally,  my  delegation  wishes  to  express  its
appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General
and 
agencies,
particularly the United Nations Children’s Fund, aimed
at  achieving  the  well-being  of  children  and  enhancing
their rights, while, at the same time, implementing the
recommendations  of  the  report,  “A  world  fit  for
children”, and supporting national efforts to follow up
implementation of the plan of action of that document.
We  also  appreciate  all  the  relevant  initiatives  of  non-
governmental 
society
organizations.
organizations 
civil 
and 
Mr.  Kovind  (India):  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report on the follow-up to the outcome
of the special session on children (A/58/333). We have
perused this report with interest.
We understand that the first in-depth report of the
Secretary-General on this subject will be provided only
in 2006. This is understandable, as progress, or the lack
of  it,  can  only  be  reviewed  after  sufficient  time  has
been  allowed  for  action  to  be  taken.  The  General
Assembly,  nevertheless, 
resolution  57/190
requested a report this year with a view to identifying
problems and constraints in achieving progress. Such a
report  can  enable  Member  States  to  focus  on  areas  in
which reinforced commitment may be required.
its 
in 
The special session on children, held in 2001, had
recognized  that  the  resources  promised  at  the  1990
World  Summit  for  Children  had,  in  fact,  not  been
provided.  The  Plan  of  Action  adopted  by  that  session
therefore devoted a separate chapter to the mobilization
of  resources.  That  was  based  on  the  realization  that
implementation  would  not  be  possible  without
7
A/58/PV.40
additional allocation of resources, both in  the  national
and  the  international  contexts.  Developed  countries
undertook  a  number  of  commitments  with  regard  to
official  development  assistance,  bilateral  official  debt
and market access in the Plan of Action adopted by the
special session.
to 
increase 
financing 
The report of the Secretary-General does not refer
to any specific constraints or problems that have been
identified  with  regard  to  the  commitments  undertaken
at  the  special  session.  The  report  contains  a  passing
exhortation  to  all  countries  to  follow  up  on  the
Monterrey  Consensus 
for
development.  There  is,  apart  from  this,  no  analysis  of
whether movement in the last year and a half has been
in  the  right  direction  or  not.  Such  an  analysis  could
have  helped  us  in  our  understanding  of  possible
problems  and  constraints.  There  are  a  number  of
studies 
incremental  growth
acceleration that takes place with simple investments in
the  health,  nutrition  and  education  of  infants  and
children.  A  study  conducted  in  India  has  shown  that
one dollar invested in a child saves 27 dollars in future
health  care,  medical  treatment,  subsidies  and  lack  of
economic contribution. It is very right, we believe, that
poverty alleviation must begin with children. To invest
in children is to invest in the future.
establish 
that 
the 
India  has  the  largest  child  population  in  the
world. We are aware of the gigantic dimension of that
challenge.  Our  achievements,  vis-à-vis  all  indicators
for  children  over  the  past  decade,  have  been  positive.
For  example,  the  infant  mortality  rate  declined  from
146  per  1,000  live  births  in  1960  to  70  in  2000.  The
prevalence  of  severe  and  moderate  degrees  of
malnutrition among children has steadily declined from
1974 to 2000. Primary school enrolment rates increased
from  38  per  cent  in  1951  to  80  per  cent  in  2000.  The
availability  of 
improved
significantly, from 68 per cent in 1990 to 78 per cent in
2000. We realize that we still have a long road ahead,
and we are committed to ensuring the rights, protection
and  complete  development  of  every  child  in  our
country.
safe  drinking  water 
services, 
We are attempting to provide maximum outreach
for  our  programmes  for  children.  The  integrated  child
development 
child-care
programme  in  the  world,  provide  early  child-care
services to over 30  million children  from 0 to 6  years
from low-income groups. With the further scaling up of
these  services  and  a  strong  focus  on  newborn  health
largest 
the 
8
and  survival,  including  through  home-based  neo-natal
care by community workers and better health facilities,
we  hope  to  further  improve  the  health  status  of  our
children.
The  spectre  of  HIV/AIDS  threatens  the  fabric  of
society, and children often become unwitting victims of
tragedy. The national policy for prevention and control
of  HIV/AIDS,  announced  by the  Government  of  India
last  year,  reaffirms  our  commitment  to  provide  an
enabling  social  environment 
to  prevention,  care,
support  and  protection  of  victims  and  to  provide
information and health education.
The problems of persisting malnutrition and high
infant and maternal mortality rates have been receiving
our  attention.  We  have  launched  a  national  nutrition
mission  that  provides,  inter  alia,  additional  nutritional
supplements  to  adolescent  girls  and  expectant  and
nursing mothers. Our strategy to eradicate malnutrition
will  follow 
intergenerational  approach,  while
building community awareness about healthy nutrition
and  educating  mothers  regarding  proper  health  and
nutritional  care  of  their  families.  With  those  measures
and with continued emphasis on improving the quality
of water and access to sanitation, we hope to make an
appreciable dent in the problem.
the 
step 
toward  achieving 
Our Government launched a universal elementary
education  scheme  three  years  ago.  Through  it,  we
intend  to  provide  free  and  quality  education  for  all
children in the age group of 6 to 14 years by 2010, with
special  emphasis  given  to  girls’  education.  This  is  a
significant 
the  goal  of
universalizing  elementary  education  through  a  time-
bound integrated approach. Our Department of Women
and  Child  Development  released  a  detailed  statistical
profile  of  Indian  children  last  year.  It  contains  a  rich
compilation of data for all the states in the country. The
data  have  been  disaggregated  by  gender  and  by  the
rural versus urban dimension. This is the beginning of
the  creation  of  a  national  and  State  database  for
children.  Such  a  database  would  assist  our  policy
makers  and  programme  managers  in  devising  more
focused  interventions  and  in  guiding  us  towards  the
goals that we have established.
Ms.  Kangaloo  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  The
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report,  contained  in  document  A/58/333  and  entitled
“Follow-up  to  the  United  Nations  special  session  on
children”.  In  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  has
sought  to  identify  the  extent  to  which  progress  has
been  made  by  Governments  in  developing  and/or
strengthening  national  action  plans  for  children  as  a
critical  first  step  towards  the  implementation  of  the
commitments  made  18  months  ago  at  the  special
session.
In this regard, my delegation would like to inform
the Assembly that Trinidad and Tobago’s national plan
of  action  is  well  advanced  and  is  expected  to  be
completed  and  approved  by  the  Cabinet  in  2004.  This
national plan of  action, which is being drawn up  after
the  holding  of 
to
incorporate  the  views  of  civil  society  and  other
organizations,  will  identify  concrete  strategies  for  the
development of children.
regional  public  consultations 
In addition to the preparation of a national plan of
action, other activities and policy initiatives have been
initiated or are fully under way in several areas, all of
which  are  aimed  at  according  full  respect  for  and
protection of children’s rights in Trinidad and Tobago.
Trinidad  and  Tobago’s  broad  policy  with  respect
the  following:
to  children  envisages, 
providing  quality  education  at  the  primary,  secondary,
vocational  and  tertiary  levels  starting  from  early
childhood;  ensuring  access  to  training  with  a  view  to
promoting  sustainable  employment;  promoting 
the
protection  of  children’s 
fostering  youth
leadership  and  participation  in  community  activities
and 
increasing
awareness of health issues such as HIV/AIDS.
decision-making; 
inter  alia, 
national 
rights; 
and 
Since  the  adoption  of  the  World  Declaration  on
the  Survival,  Protection  and  Development  of  Children
at  the  World  Summit  for  Children,  held  in  1990,  to
which Trinidad and Tobago fully subscribes, and in the
context of our subsequent adherence to the Convention
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  various  civil  society
organizations  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  have  been
striving  individually  and  collectively  to  formulate,
introduce and implement measures in keeping with the
aforementioned  international  policy  instruments,  to
protect  and  develop  the  children  of  Trinidad  and
Tobago and to promote their best interests.
For 
its  part,  Government  has  provided  a
facilitative  environment  and  has  sought  to  foster
collaboration  at  all  levels  of  society  to  take  into
consideration the relevant input of all stakeholders.
A/58/PV.40
Charged  as  I  am  with  the  portfolio  of  social
services delivery in the Office of the Prime Minister, I
wish  to  share  with  the  international  community  some
information  on  the  activities  that  we  have  undertaken,
aimed  at  reaffirming  and  promoting  the  rights  of
children.
the 
Since 1997, we in Trinidad and Tobago have been
annually observing Child Rights Week in the month of
November,  with 
intention  of  disseminating
information on the rights of the child to a wide cross-
section of target groups such as Government ministries,
non-governmental  organizations 
teachers,
parents,  the  general  public  and,  most  important  of  all,
the children of Trinidad and Tobago.
(NGOs), 
to  schools  and 
throughout  Trinidad 
We  have  also  been  engaged  in  regular  and
ongoing sensitization and education programmes aimed
at  various  publics.  Information  packages  have  been
to  community-based
distributed 
organizations 
and  Tobago,
containing,  among  other  things,  a  summary  of  the
articles  of  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child.
Essay  writing  on  this  issue,  community  meetings  and
television  and  radio  appearances  have  all  focused  on
discussions  on  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  the
child.  Articles  relating  to  proper  parenting  and  child
rearing  are  featured  on  a  weekly  basis  in  the  print
media with national circulation.
In  July  of 
this  year,  Trinidad  and  Tobago
submitted  its  second  periodic  report  to  the  Committee
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  in  accordance  with  the
Convention  and 
the
Committee’s 
its
consideration of Trinidad and Tobago’s initial report of
October 1997.
into  account 
of 
taking 
concluding 
observations 
fully 
of 
observance 
In  November  of 
annual 
last  year,  as  part  of  my
Government’s 
Poverty
Eradication  Week,  focus  was  placed  on  children  in
recognition  of  the  destructive  impact  that  poverty  has
on  their  daily  lives  as  well  as  on  their  future.  The
exploration  of  the  theme  “Breaking  the  cycle  of
poverty through early childhood care, nutrition and the
environment”  enabled 
to
understand what we — as adults, as a Government, as
civil  society  and  as  a  community  —  need  to  do  to
ensure that we break the  cycle of poverty  as  it  affects
children in particular.
the  national  community 
To  conclude,  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of
towards
Trinidad  and  Tobago  continues 
to  work 
9
A/58/PV.40
achieving  the  four  major  goals  identified  in  the
Declaration and Plan of Action entitled “A world fit for
children”  (resolution  S-27/2,  annex).  This  year’s
national budget for the fiscal year ending in September
2004  allocates  the  highest  percentage  of  resources  to
the  health  and  education  sectors  and,  in  the  area  of
combating HIV/AIDS, the Government will, starting in
fiscal year 2003 and continuing for the next five years,
spend  approximately  $80  million  on  all  aspects  of  the
campaign against HIV/AIDS, which will target, among
others,  HIV-positive  children.  The  Government  will
also  be  expanding  access  to  antiretroviral  therapy  by
establishing  treatment  centres  throughout  the  country
and  by  extending  the  coverage  of  our  programme  for
the prevention of mother-to-child transmission.
In the area of providing quality education and in
keeping  with  the  Government’s  holistic  approach  to
education,  a  plan  to  achieve  universal  pre-school
education  before  the  end  of  this  decade  has  been
developed.
As  regards  protecting  children  against  abuse,
exploitation  and  violence,  my  Government  will  be
establishing  no  later  than  2004  a  fully  functional
children’s  authority  for  championing  the  rights  of
children.
The Government of the Republic of Trinidad and
Tobago  remains  committed  to  ensuring  the  protection
and well-being of our nation’s children, and we will do
our utmost to ensure that our children not only survive
but  blossom  into  healthy,  wholesome  young  adults
capable  of  playing  a  meaningful  role  in  the  ongoing
development of Trinidad and Tobago.
The  Acting  President: We  have  heard  the  last
speaker  on  the  debate  on  this  item.  The  General
Assembly  has 
its
consideration of agenda item 41.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
Agenda item 46
Towards global partnerships
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/227)
Mr.  Staehelin  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):
Switzerland fully subscribes to the principle of States’
primary responsibilities to eradicate poverty, to respect
all  human  rights,  to  protect  the  environment  and  to
promote social and sustainable development. There  is,
in fact, little doubt regarding the central role of States,
10
in  drafting  national  and 
particularly 
international
policy.  However,  in  the  current  climate  of  economic
and  social  globalization,  there  is  even  less  doubt  that
the requirements for global governance extend beyond
the sphere of Governments’ jurisdiction and authority.
A solid consensus on the current state of affairs is
increasing among a growing number of countries in the
North  as  well  as  in  the  South.  In  this  regard,  many
recent  initiatives  support  the  need  to  develop  and
affirm a new culture of collaboration, relying on all of
society’s available resources.
In  2001,  this  Assembly  unanimously  recognized
for the first time, by its resolution 56/76, the soundness
of global partnerships. It reminded us that action taken
to  meet  the  challenges  of  globalization  could  only
benefit  from  a  strengthening  of 
the  cooperation
between the United Nations and all concerned partners,
in  particular  the  private  sector,  so  that  globalization
could become a force that is beneficial for all.
Despite this  encouraging  development,  what  was
once  the  millennium  consensus  is  now  waning,  to  the
point  of  being  called  into  question.  Switzerland  is
convinced  that  partnerships  are  one  useful  tool  for
maintaining this process, or even of re-energizing it.
This  commitment  was  notably  manifested  at  the
major  conferences  —  from  Monterrey  to  Cancún,  by
way  of  Johannesburg  —  even  though  their  outcomes
did  not  necessarily  meet  expectations.  Without
bringing these results into question, we must persevere;
our hope is based on the fact that the many partnerships
developed  at  these  intergovernmental  meetings  often
produce tangible and promising results in the future.
Drafted  two  years  ago,  the  Secretary-General’s
first  report  on  “Cooperation  between 
the  United
Nations  and  all  relevant  partners,  in  particular  the
private  sector”  (A/56/323)  is  now  the  document  of
reference.  It  presented  existing  forms  of  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  private  sector,
identified 
proposed
recommendations in that regard. Switzerland supported
those pertinent recommendations then and continues to
do so.
outstanding 
issues 
and 
was 
taken 
Action 
report’s
recommendations, as shown by the latest report on the
strengthening  of  cooperation  between 
the  United
Nations  and  relevant  partners  (A/58/227).  Moreover,
we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  this  excellent
on 
the 
document,  which  presents  an  exhaustive  overview  of
recent developments. It highlights, in particular, that all
partnerships initiated within the United Nations context
must  respect  a  certain  number  of  simple  and  effective
rules:  first,  they  must  fully  preserve  the  integrity,
impartiality,  and  independence  of  the  United  Nations;
secondly, they must function in as transparent a manner
as  possible;  finally,  they  must  contribute 
the
achievement of the Organization’s goals.
to 
In our view, these rules are essential, and in this
regard  we  have  taken  a  great  interest  in  the  review
currently  under  way  of  the  guidelines  governing  the
Organization’s  relations  with  the  private  sector.  We
hope  that  this  review  will  be  completed  as  early  as
possible.
The  report  also  highlights  the  fact  that,  today
more than ever, we need a new culture of cooperation.
In this regard, Switzerland is particularly interested in
the  development  of  policy  dialogues  with  the  private
sector, as well as in efforts to promote United Nations
objectives and sensitize non-State actors to them.
this 
three  years, 
launched  by 
the  Global  Compact 
In  the  same  spirit,  Switzerland  supports  with
the
conviction 
Secretary-General.  In 
innovative
initiative has proven that it is possible to bring together
businesses,  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies,  civil
society,  and  Governments  in  the  search  for  common
and freely agreed solutions. Of course, a watchful and
constructive  eye  must  be  trained  upon  the  subscribing
activities  and  businesses,  in  order  to  ensure  that  the
initiative is not reduced merely to public relations. The
founding  principles  of  the  Global  Compact  must
therefore remain the transparency and responsibility of
all  actors  involved.  At  the  same  time,  however,  the
Global  Compact  is  in  itself  an  experiment,  requiring
flexibility  and  sufficient  political  space  to  manoeuvre
to maximum effectiveness.
It  could  be  said  that  the  Global  Compact  has
reached the end of its  experimental  phase,  and  is  now
maturing 
its  operational  phase.  Institutional
into 
developments, 
the
improved 
permanent  debate  revolving  around  the  initiative  give
us confidence for its future.
transparency, 
and 
A/58/PV.40
joint  efforts  and  enhanced  partnership  cooperation
among  States,  international  organizations,  the  private
sector  and  other  segments  of  civil  society.  The
experience of recent years has confirmed that the main
focus of the efforts of these partners should be the fight
against poverty and assistance to economic growth and
sustainable  development.  The  United  Nations  has
shown  itself  to  be  the  most  appropriate  platform  for
developing 
flexible
coordination  of  the  work  of  their  stakeholders,  the
balance  of  their  interests,  transparency,  accountability
and conformity with United Nations objectives.
such  partnerships, 
enabling 
General  Assembly  resolutions  55/215  and  56/76,
“Towards  global  partnerships”,  co-sponsored  by
Russia,  set  out  the  proper  parameters  for  interaction
between  the  United  Nations  and  non-State  entities,
particularly enterprises, foundations and other actors of
the  private  sector.  Further  broadening  the  business
relations  of  the  Organization  with  the  private  sector
deserves all possible support and encouragement. That
is the imperative of our times. The globalization of the
world  economy  has  made  business  one  of  the  leading
factors of  development  and  one  of  the  most  important
participants in global economic ties. More than that, it
is obvious that the prospect of full achievement of the
Monterrey  and  Johannesburg  targets  depends  on  the
productive participation of the private sector and other
partners.
On  the  whole,  Russia  is  satisfied  with  United
Nations  efforts  to  establish  multilateral  partnerships.
As one of the most successful examples of such efforts,
we would like to mention the useful work of the United
Nations Information and Communication Technologies
(ICT)  Task  Force.  In  this  area,  we  particularly  take
note  of  the  achievements  resulting  from  the  World
Summit on Sustainable Development and the important
catalytic role played by the Commission on Sustainable
Development. We believe that there is a need to make
more active use here of the Monterrey track as well. On
the whole, the United Nations system needs to expand
the  practice  of  partnerships,  especially  in  the  area  of
development  assistance.  It  is  also 
that
partners  have  an  opportunity  to  exchange  experience
with each other.
important 
Mr.  Stanislavov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian):  The  implementation  of  the  goals  set  out  in
the  Millennium  Declaration  by 
International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  requires
the 
From 
the  outset,  Russia  has  supported 
the
initiative  of  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  on  the
Global Compact, aimed at the active cooperation of the
business  community  with  the  United  Nations  with  a
view to creating a global economy with a human face.
11
A/58/PV.40
It  is  no  secret  that  in  certain  places  there  are  still
apprehensions  that  the  involvement  of  the  business
sector in cooperative work with the  United  Nations  in
the  area  of  development  might  undermine  the  entire
governmental  basis  of  such  cooperation.  We  do  not
share  such  apprehensions,  and 
the
developments  of  recent  years  in  fact  convincingly
confirm this rationale.
in  our  view 
The experience of the United Nations allows us to
draw  some  conclusions.  We  share  the  view  of  the
Secretary-General,  stated  in  his  report  under  this
agenda  item  (A/58/227),  that  there  is  no  single  model
for  successful  partnerships  and  that  partnerships  are
flexible  in  nature.  However,  it  is  obvious  that  any
innovations  in  the  strategic  framework  and  in  the
practical  implementation  of  partnerships  must  in  the
final  analysis  both  meet 
the
Governments of Member States and work to strengthen
the  authority  and  preserve  the  independence  of  the
Organization.  We  expect  that  that  basic  approach  will
be  fully  taken  into  account  when  carrying  out  the
updating  of  the  United  Nations  business  guidelines
promised in the Secretary-General’s report.
interests  of 
the 
Russia  is  interested  in  developing  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Russian  business
community,  particularly  through  the  Global  Compact.
The idea of the Compact has become increasingly well
known in Russia as a result of a successful round table
on Russian business and the United Nations, held at the
end of 2001 in Moscow. Currently, 11 leading Russian
companies have adhered to the Global Compact, and a
national  coordination  committee 
the  Global
Compact,  made  up  of  representatives  from  private
companies and corporations, has been established. The
positive  trends  in  the  Russian  economy  and  the
attendant increase in foreign investment activity are, in
our  view,  creating  additional  opportunities  for  the
wider  dissemination  of  the  principles  of  corporate
governance and international standards of management,
accounting,  auditing  and  environmentally 
sound
production advanced by the Global Compact.
for 
first  and 
Mr. Kazemi Kamyab (Islamic Republic of Iran):
Let  me  express 
foremost  our  deep
appreciation  for  the  President’s  active  and  engaged
stewardship  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.  I
should also like to take this opportunity to register our
appreciation 
the
Secretariat  for  the  timely  reports  prepared  for  this
the  Secretary-General 
to 
and 
12
year’s  session,  including  that  on  agenda  item  46,
“Towards global partnerships”.
the  Secretary-General  —  should 
Recent  developments  at  major  United  Nations
conferences,  such  as  the  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  and  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development,  as  well  as  the  increasing
engagement  of  the  United  Nations  in  partnerships  —
examples  of  which  have  been  elaborated  in  the  report
of 
the
importance of this subject to all of us in the Assembly,
whether from developing or developed countries. Since
we have had the opportunity in the past to present our
general  views  on  various 
aspects  of  global
partnerships,  I  do  not  intend  to  repeat  those  positions
and analyses, which are fully known to the Assembly.
Instead,  I  wish  to  emphasize  some  elements  and
aspects which we consider to be prominent and urgent
for our prospective work.
indicate 
I should stress here that my Government attaches,
as  a  matter  of  principle,  great  importance  to  the  role
and participation of stakeholders, including the private
sector, in activities contributing to the realization of the
goals  and  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  Based  on
this  overall  premise,  we  are  well  disposed  and  fully
prepared  to  engage  in  a  proactive  and  constructive
dialogue with all interested negotiating partners on all
aspects of this important subject.
to  development  and 
We  are  of  the  firm  view  that  partnerships,  in  all
their aspects and at the national and global levels alike,
should  be  conducive 
the
elimination of poverty. This cannot be overemphasized.
What  is  at  issue,  therefore,  is  the  role  that  the
international  community  should  play  in  this  context.
The  question  of  building  partnerships  finds  its  place
within  this  overall  framework.  Put  in  very  practical
terms,  the  question  for  us  is  how  to  strengthen  the
development role of the United Nations system, how to
enhance the effectiveness of its development activities
and its support for national development strategies and
programmes  by 
initiatives,
including  partnerships  with  all  relevant  partners  and
the  private  sector  in  particular.  Needless  to  say,  these
initiatives  should  be  thoroughly  reviewed,  discussed
and refined by Member States.
implementing  various 
somewhat 
In  a  world 
fixated  on  market
economics  and  corporate  profitability,  legislation  and
intergovernmental agreements should remain important
components  of  any  strategy  to  promote  corporate
responsibility  and  accountability.  New  initiatives  in
general, and partnerships in particular, should not lead
to  a  further  weakening  of  the  regulatory  role  of  the
State  and  intergovernmental  bodies.  It  is  necessary  to
reiterate  the  importance  of  the  State  in  providing  for
the general welfare of its citizens. We should recognize
that fact and not undermine or diminish the role of the
State.  It  is  the  State  that  is  in  charge  of  development,
and not the market or corporations, as they have totally
different agendas.
to 
through 
the  realization  of 
the  development  goals  of 
The cooperation between the United Nations and
relevant  partners  should  primarily  aim  at  making  a
contribution 
the  goals  and
programmes  of  the  Organization.  Relevant  partners,
particularly the private sector, should contribute to the
realization  of 
the
Organization 
financial
resources, 
technology,  management
expertise,  in-kind  donations,  responsible  investments,
and  reductions  in  the  price  of  drugs  used  to  treat
pandemic  diseases.  We  hope  in  particular  that  the
transnational  corporations,  which  have  great  influence
in  the  global  economy,  will  join  efforts  to  realize  the
development  goals  of  the  United  Nations  and  take
concrete measures to help developing countries in their
efforts to promote development.
the  provision  of 
transfer  of 
required 
strategies 
In  our  view,  it  is  imperative  that  the  United
Nations and its related bodies should focus their work
on  issues  central  to  the  transfer  of  knowledge  and
technology  and  to  the  building  of  the  necessary
domestic  capacities,  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
competitiveness  of  the  developing  countries.  We  are
very much concerned that the resources available to the
United Nations system to assist developing countries in
meeting  the  challenges  they  face  in  designing  the
policies  and 
the
technology  gap  between  the  North  and  the  South  are
simply  inadequate.  In  this  context,  the  resources  that
the  partners  can  contribute  within  the  framework  of
partnership, 
funding  and
technology, should be a complement to, not a substitute
for, governmental resources.
the  view 
the  context  of
cooperation  with  the  relevant  partners,  the  United
Nations  needs  to  follow  a  differentiated  approach,  in
line  with  the  characteristics  of  the  partners  as  well  as
the  fundamental  purpose  of  contributing 
the
the  development  goals  and
implementation  of 
programmes of the Organization.
terms  of  expertise, 
to  bridge 
take 
We 
to 
in 
that 
in 
A/58/PV.40
With  that  in  mind,  and  taking  into  account  the
lessons  learned  from  successful  partnerships,  and  also
with  due  regard  for  the  provisions  of  the  relevant
General  Assembly  resolutions  on  global  partnerships,
my  country  stands  ready  to  contribute  to  collective
intergovernmental  endeavours  to  meet  the  challenges
ahead,  with  a  view  to  the  further  evolution  of  a
common  vision  and 
realistic
approaches 
to  promoting  partnerships  among  all
stakeholders.
the  elaboration  of 
Mr. Mantovani (Italy): I have the honour to take
the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The
acceding  countries  —  Cyprus,  the  Czech  Republic,
Estonia,  Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,
Slovakia and Slovenia  —  and the associated  countries
Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey, as well as the European
Free Trade Association countries Iceland  and Norway,
align themselves with this statement.
At  the  outset,  let  me  express,  on  behalf  of  the
European Union, our gratitude to the Secretary-General
for  his  report  on  “Enhanced  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  all  relevant  partners,  in  particular
the private sector”. The report is a useful update on the
progress  made  and  challenges  encountered  since  the
adoption  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  which
recognized  the  relevance  of  the  participation  of  the
private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs)
and  civil  society  to  the  collective  achievement  of  the
Organization’s purposes.
The  United  Nations  and  the  private  sector  have
developed  valuable  and  diverse  initiatives.  There  are
many  forms  of  partnerships,  ranging  from  time-bound
project  partnerships  involving  a  small  number  of
entities,  to  global  initiatives  involving  various  actors.
The  European  Union  is  very  pleased  to  acknowledge
that today partnerships are an integral part of the work
of many United Nations organizations, including funds
and  programmes,  particularly  those  who  have  on-the-
ground capacities to deliver.
The  European  Union  has  always  considered
partnerships  to  be  important  steps  in  the  context  of
international  cooperation  for  sustainable  development.
We  believe  that  partnerships  are  supportive  of,  and
complementary to, the intergovernmental processes and
procedures of the United Nations and policy-making at
the  national  level.  The  development  process  is  an
increasingly  demanding  task  —  all  the  more  so  given
our  growing  awareness  of  our  developing  partners’
13
A/58/PV.40
needs and priorities. To achieve the ambitious goals set
out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  must  seek  new
solutions  and  methods  of  work.  This  will  be  possible
only with the active participation of all stakeholders in
the  development  process  —  governmental  and  non-
governmental alike.
International  Conference  on  Financing 
The European Union takes a positive view of the
various initiatives undertaken after the launching of the
debate  on  global  partnerships.  There  has  been  a
flourishing of partnership initiatives, the best known of
which  are  outlined  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report.
The 
for
Development has further encouraged the establishment
of  partnerships.  At  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development,  200  partnerships  were  announced.
Partnerships  are  playing  an  important  supportive  role
in 
of
Implementation,  as  recognized  at  the  most  recent
session 
of 
Sustainable
Development.
Johannesburg  Plan 
the  Commission 
carrying 
out 
the 
on 
The 
United 
Nations 
that  make 
Information 
technologies  available 
and
Communication  Technologies  (ICT)  Task  Force  is
another  valuable  example  of  public-private-civil-
society  partnerships 
information  and
communication 
the
world’s  citizens,  in  fulfilment  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  We  look  forward  to  the  next
World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society,  as  it  will
provide a unique opportunity to develop partnerships in
this key sector. Furthermore, I wish to acknowledge the
activities of the United Nations Fund for  International
Partnerships and to express our gratitude to the private
companies and individuals that have contributed to the
implementation of so many projects worldwide.
to  all 
Global  partnerships  are  not  for  multinational
corporations  alone.  Experience  to  date  has  shown  that
both industrialized and developing countries are paying
attention  to  the  private  sector.  We  would  like  the
United  Nations  to  expand  its  partnerships  to  include
more  initiatives  by  developing  countries,  if  necessary
through capacity-building projects.
The  evolving  debate  on  global  corporate
citizenship  shows  great  vitality.  Concepts  such  as
accountability, 
transparency  and  corporate  social
responsibility  should  be 
into  account  and
underlined.  Governments  have  an  important  role  in
promoting this debate at the national and international
levels.  They  also  have  an  important  role  to  play  in
taken 
14
for  Economic  Cooperation 
encouraging  responsible  global  corporate  citizenship,
which  should  lead  more  companies  to  embrace  the
Organization 
and
Development  (OECD)  guidelines  for  multinationals
and  the  Global  Compact,  and  to  become  involved  in
partnerships  in  support  of  poverty  reduction  and
sustainable development.
in  July  2000, 
The United Nations Global Compact, launched by
the  Secretary-General 
is  receiving
tremendous support from the international community.
The private sector has also come to recognize the need
to  balance  financial  and  economic  imperatives  with
broader  societal  concerns.  The  Global  Compact
contains  a  vision  for  good  conduct  based  on  nine
principles, which more than 1,200 companies have now
made part of their corporate strategy.
The  European  Union  supports  the  work  done  by
the  Global  Compact  to  integrate  its  principles  into
business  activities  through  a  range  of  initiatives,
including dialogue, learning, outreach and projects. We
believe that the Global Compact contributes positively
to 
the  achievement  of  development  objectives,
including the Millennium Development Goals.
The  Secretary-General’s  report  reflects  the  fact
that  partnerships  are  a  very  new  phenomenon  for  the
United Nations. They entail experimentation, as we are
learning  by  doing.  The  United  Nations  can  be
instrumental  in  creating  a  favourable  environment  for
the  evolution  of  partnerships.  The  United  Nations,
together with main stakeholders like the Bretton Woods
institutions  and  the  World  Trade  Organization,  has,
therefore,  a  particular 
further
encouraging and enhancing the use of the instrument of
partnerships  in  order  to  achieve  the  goals  of  the
Organization.
to  play 
role 
in 
The  European  Union  understands  concerns  that
the  pursuit  of  profit  and  the  promotion  of  private  or
individual  advantage  might  take  precedence  over  the
public  good.  Partnerships  must  not  compromise  the
independence of the United Nations or prevent it from
defending  the  general  interest  and  acting  accordingly.
The  Secretariat  has  the  responsibility  to  safeguard  the
integrity  of  the  system,  and  we  welcome  the  steps
taken in that respect. At the same time, we believe that
the  growing  partnership  activities  will  require  special
training  within  the  United  Nations  system  to  enhance
the Organization’s ability to manage them.
in 
The  European  Union  will  introduce  a  draft
resolution in the General Assembly that will reflect the
positive  developments 
the  global  partnership
activities  of  the  United  Nations,  which  we  have
outlined  in  this  statement.  We  intend  to  build  on  the
considerable  support  we  received  two  years  ago,  and
look forward to working with all interested delegations.
Ms.  Jan  (Pakistan):  We  are  grateful  to  the
in
Secretary-General 
contained 
document  A/58/227,  on  cooperation  between 
the
United  Nations  and  all  relevant  partners,  in  particular
the private sector.
for  his 
report, 
Our deliberation on this agenda item is rooted in
the  Millennium  Declaration,  which  called  for  the
development  of  strong  partnerships  with  the  private
sector and with civil society organizations in pursuit of
development and poverty eradication.
The  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
Development  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  reaffirmed  the  commitment  made  at  the
Millennium  Summit  to  forge  a  global  partnership  to
address  the  complex  and  multidimensional  challenges
of poverty and underdevelopment.
to  1946,  when 
The  history  of  United  Nations  partnership  with
non-State  actors  dates  back 
the
Committee on Non-Governmental Organizations of the
Economic  and  Social  Council  was  first  established.
Today, 
thousands  of  non-governmental  and  civil
society  organizations  are  working  with  the  United
Nations  for  the  attainment  of  their  shared  objectives.
With  the  help  of  those  partners,  United  Nations
agencies  have  achieved 
successes,
especially  in  the  areas  of  health,  nutrition,  poverty
eradication and development.
some  major 
In  today’s  globalizing  world,  it  is  becoming
increasingly  evident  that  if  we  want  globalization  to
work  for  all,  as  envisioned  by  our  leadership  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  the  economic,  financial  and
social  challenges  confronting  humankind  will  have  to
be addressed in a coherent and collective manner by all
stakeholders.  That  will  require  greater  cooperation
between  Member  Governments  of  the  United  Nations
and  other  non-State  actors,  such  as  the  Bretton  Wood
institutions, civil society and the private sector, and the
development  of  greater  harmony 
their  shared
endeavours  to  promote  development.  Based  on  that
premise,  Pakistan  welcomes  cooperation  between  the
and
United  Nations 
stakeholders 
other 
and 
in 
A/58/PV.40
acknowledges  the  positive  role  such  partnerships  can
play in facilitating the flow of  financial  resources  and
technical 
and
development,  capacity-building  and  the  sharing  of
experiences in various realms of development.
know-how, 
including 
research 
We  believe  that  today’s  complex  challenges  can
only be addressed through a collaborative and coherent
approach  involving  the  Member  Governments  of  the
United  Nations,  institutional  stakeholders,  the  private
sector and  civil society. It was in that context that the
Millennium  Declaration  resolved  to  provide  greater
opportunities  for  the  private  sector,  non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and civil society to meaningfully
contribute to the realization of the objectives and goals
of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
in  achieving 
We also recognize the pivotal role that the private
sector  can  play 
the  development
objectives  of  the  major  United  Nations  summits  and
conferences,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  trade,  debt,
investment,  technology  and  industrial  cooperation.
Similarly, they can also make a positive contribution in
the  operational  activities  of 
the  United  Nations,
especially  as  regards  disadvantaged  groups  and  the
poorest segments of society.
In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  learn  from  the
Secretary-General’s report that a number of partnership
initiatives  between  the  United  Nations  and  non-State
actors are contributing immensely to the realization of
the  Organization’s  development  goals.  We  appreciate
the  effort  of  United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and
agencies to promote successful partnership with NGOs,
civil  society  and  other  non-State  actors.  In 
that
connection,  we  welcome  the  creation  of  a  United
Nations  Partnerships  Office  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General
Assembly.
to 
are 
the  Secretary-General 
tool 
complement 
to  achieve 
We  agree  with 
that
partnerships 
a 
the
Organization’s  efforts 
the  goals  and
objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also  agree  that,
given  the  diversity  of  the  areas  in  which  the  United
Nations system works with its development partners, to
evolve  a  uniform  modality  of  interaction  and  rules  of
engagement  is  not  possible.  However,  it  is  also  not
possible to work with non-State actors without defining
the scope and limits of such cooperation. It is therefore
important  that  partnership  arrangements  between  the
15
A/58/PV.40
United Nations system and the private sector should be
based  on  clearly  defined  definitions,  principles  and
criteria.
and 
for 
approaches 
so  prepared 
to  maintaining 
should  clearly 
The  principles 
such
partnerships  should  be  built  on  the  firm  foundation  of
the purposes and principles set out in the Charter. The
guidelines 
stipulate
delineation of responsibilities and roles, accountability,
transparency  and  commitment 
the
independence,  integrity  and  impartiality  of  the  United
Nations.  Furthermore,  they  should  aim  at  serving  the
goals  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations  system  and
should  respect  the  sovereignty  and  supremacy  of
States.  In 
the  set  of  principles  for
partnership arrangements prepared by the Commission
on  Sustainable  Development  at  its  eleventh  session
could  be  used  as  a  guideline  by  other  entities  of  the
their  own
United  Nations  system  for  preparing 
guidelines, 
specific
requirements.
that  regard, 
account 
taking 
their 
into 
in 
the  realization  of 
Pakistan  appreciates  the  role  of  non-State  actors
in  the  realization  of  the  objectives  of  the  United
Nations  and  considers  that  those  entities  can  play  a
vital  role 
the  Millennium
Development Goals. They can also support developing
countries  in  their  efforts  to  eradicate  poverty,  by
providing  financial  resources,  technical  expertise  and
transfer  of  technologies.  However,  it  is  important  to
ensure 
in  partnership
arrangements  with  the  United  Nations  abide  by  the
rules of procedure set by the Organization and assume
corporate responsibility and accountability.
the  entities 
involved 
that 
for  his  detailed 
It  contributes 
Mr. Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General 
report  on  partnerships
(A/58/227). 
to  a  comprehensive
understanding  of  the  state  of  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  its  partners  in  various  areas  over
the  past 
reach  of  economic
globalization  has  broadened  and  deepened  over  recent
years, but the gap between North and South continues
to  widen,  and  the  disparity  in  development  among
countries  has  become  more  pronounced.  At  the  same
time,  we  are  witnessing  a  considerable  role  being
played 
sector,
particularly the massive transnational corporations.
in  globalization  by 
two  years.  The 
the  private 
In order to turn globalization into a positive force
that benefits all and to promote common and balanced
16
in 
countries 
development  of 
the  process  of
globalization,  each  of  the  relevant  partners,  especially
the private sector, should make its unique contribution
by giving full play  to  its  own  advantages  in  financing
and technology. In that context, we support the United
Nations strengthening its cooperation with the relevant
partners  in  order  to  encourage  them  to  take  part  in
activities 
the  Millennium
Development Goals and implementing the outcomes of
the major United Nations conferences in the economic
and social fields.
attaining 
aimed 
at 
We have observed that the United Nations and its
relevant  partners  have  engaged  in  diverse  forms  of
cooperation  over  the  past  two  years.  Many  private
sector  and  non-governmental  organizations  and  civil
society actors actively participated in the International
Conference  on  Financing  for  Development  and  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  and  in
carrying  out  specific  projects 
field  of
development, playing a positive role towards achieving
the  goal  of  poverty  eradication  and  other  Millennium
Development Goals. We appreciate their efforts in that
regard.
the 
in 
At the same time, with a view to achieving better
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  relevant
partners  that  takes  full  advantage  of  the  strengths  of
those  partners  and  optimizes  their  contribution  to  the
work  of  the  Organization,  I  would  like  to  emphasize
the following points.
First,  cooperation  with  relevant  partners  should
conform  to  the  purposes  and  the  principles  of  the
Charter  and  to  the  rules  and  procedures  of  the  United
Nations,  without  detriment  to  the  intergovernmental
nature of the Organization. That is the basis for United
Nations cooperation with its partners.
Secondly,  partnerships  should  complement,  but
not be  a  substitute  for,  intergovernmental  cooperation,
and their overriding priority should be to contribute to
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
implementing  the  outcomes  of  major  United  Nations
conferences.  At  the  same  time,  partnerships  should  be
action-oriented.  We  agree  with  the  observation  of  the
Secretary-General in his report that “partnerships must
prove  their  worth  in  a  practical  manner  by  the
achievement of concrete results” (A/58/227, para. 66).
Thirdly, the Secretary-General also points out that
“[there] is no single model for successful partnerships”
(para. 64).  We  fully  agree  with  him  on  that  point  and
believe  that  the  United  Nations  should  adopt  diverse
and  flexible  forms  of  cooperation  with  relevant
partners,  in  keeping  with  the  characteristics  of  those
partners  and  the  areas  and  levels  of  cooperation,  and
that  this  cooperation  should  contribute  to  achieving
objectives.
participants in their own development and in the fight
for  poverty  eradication.  It  should  also  not  be  a
substitute  for  the  international  community  meeting  its
commitment  to  help  developing  countries  eradicate
poverty and achieve other agreed targets necessary for
development.
A/58/PV.40
Fourthly,  partnerships  need  to  be  guided  and
regulated  in  order  to  ensure  their  quality.  We  support
the  proposal  made  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his
report “to create more robust processes for partnership-
reporting  and  accountability”  (para.  92).  At  the  same
time,  we  believe  that  the  comprehensive  and  detailed
guidelines  and  criteria  on  partnerships  in  the  field  of
the
sustainable 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development  at 
its
eleventh  session  could  serve  as  guidance  for  other
partnerships  within  the  United  Nations  system  in  the
field of development.
development 
formulated 
by 
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): We thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/58/227).  It  is  clear  from  the
report  that  the  United  Nations  has  been  active  in
building  partnerships  to  achieve  the  goal  of  the
eradication  of  poverty  and  other  programmes  of  the
Organization.  Numerous  examples  of  partnership
projects have been undertaken, including on improving
education,  eliminating  child  labour,  promoting  youth
issues,  human  rights,  information 
technology  and
sustainable development. All of these contribute to the
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
and  other  commitments  made  at  other  major  United
Nations summits and conferences.
These partnerships are of particular importance to
developing countries, which have tremendous problems
mobilizing financial, technical and human resources to
implement  development  and  poverty  eradication
programmes.  Partners,  especially  from  the  private
sector,  can  come  in  to  complement  the  efforts  of
Governments.
My  own  country,  Uganda,  has  benefited  in  the
specific  areas  of  investment  guidance  and  capacity-
building,  as  well  as  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,
malaria and tuberculosis. Partnerships can help us, as a
least  developed  country,  in  the  area  of  infrastructure
development and maintenance. We also need continued
assistance  in  our  joint  effort  to  combat  all  forms  of
terrorism in our region.
We agree that such partnerships should in no way
be a substitute for States’ responsibility to be the lead
We note that the cooperation between the United
Nations  and  relevant  non-State  actors,  especially  the
private sector, is necessary and mutually beneficial and
has  gained  momentum  in  the  recent  past.  We  agree
with the view that such partnerships should continue to
serve the purposes and the principles of this, the most
universal  intergovernmental  Organization,  and  should
not compromise its intergovernmental decision-making
nature.
Lastly,  in  its  quest  to  deliver  programmes  to
Member States, the United Nations should continue to
assess  the  benefits  and  the  risks  associated  with
partnerships with non-State actors and to strengthen the
guidelines for such cooperation.
The  Acting  President: We  have  heard  the  last
speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  The  General
Assembly  has 
its
consideration of agenda item 46.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
Mr.  Alimov  (Tajikistan),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
Agenda item 50
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic,
social and related fields
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/359)
Mr. Benmellouk (Morocco) (spoke in French): I
should like to make the following comments on behalf
of the Group of 77 and China.
that 
The question before us today is indeed important,
if  not  critical,  given 
the  strengthening  of
multilateralism and the viability of international action
for  development  depends,  to  a  great  extent,  on  the
international  community’s  capacity  to  translate  into
reality  the  commitments  it  undertook  in  the  area  of
economic  and  social  development  at 
the  various
conferences  and  summits  held  during  the  past  few
years under the auspices of the United Nations.
17
A/58/PV.40
The Group of 77 and China would recall that the
commendable  —  and  considerable  —  efforts  of  the
international  community  have  made  it  possible  to
achieve 
the  problem  of
development  in  all  of  its  aspects  that  are  accepted  by
all.
results  dealing  with 
Indeed,  with  the  commitments  contained  in  the
Millennium  Declaration,  as  well  as  those  emanating
from the major conferences — in particular those held
at  Copenhagen,  Monterrey  and  Johannesburg  —  the
international  community  today  has  at  its  disposal  a
clear  road  map  to  guide  our  actions  and  channel  our
efforts 
the  achievement  of  conditions
conducive to sustainable and harmonious development;
the  equitable  sharing  of  the  benefits  of  globalization;
and a peaceful world reconciled with itself.
towards 
However, the achievement of such a far-reaching
yet  viable  objective  requires  unswerving  efforts  to
fulfil  the  commitments  to  which  I  have  just  referred,
taking  into  account  the  specific  particularities  of  each
process.  It  is  within  that  framework  that  the  Group  of
77  and  China 
the
establishment of  an  ad  hoc  working  group  to  consider
ways  and  means  of  ensuring  the  integrated  and
coordinated  follow-up  of  the  outcome  of  the  major
conferences  and  summit  meetings  held  under  the
auspices  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  economic  and
social spheres.
launched 
initiative 
the 
for 
Today, in the context of the adoption of resolution
57/270  B,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  Group’s
work,  in  particular  since  the  decision  to  convene,  in
2005, a summit devoted to development and to involve
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and
Development (UNCTAD) in the annual meeting of the
Economic  and  Social  Council  on 
for
considerable
development 
alia, 
advances in the area of development.
represent, 
financing 
inter 
Moreover, the broad consensus that emerged from
the work of that working group is likely to strengthen
the  conviction  of  the  international  community  as  a
whole regarding the vital need to revitalize the spirit of
multilateralism  and  shared  responsibility,  given  the
irreversible 
the
interdependence of economies.
globalization 
process 
and 
of 
In  that  context,  the  Group  of  77  and  China
believes that, at a  time  when  the  developing  countries
are  continuing  to  make  tremendous  efforts  towards
economic  and  social  reform  despite  various  and
18
overwhelming  constraints,  it  devolves  on  developed
countries to accompany those efforts by fulfilling their
commitments in the area of development.
Indeed,  based  on  the  principles  of  solidarity,
partnership and shared responsibility, which must guide
the  international  community  in  its  efforts  to  work  for
the  welfare  of  all,  the  developed  countries  are  more
than  ever  before  called  on  fully  to  contribute  to  those
efforts  through  a  variety  of  measures.  Such  measures
include market access for products from the developing
countries;  a  stepping  up  of  official  development
assistance;  a  reduction 
the  external  debt  of
developing  countries  and  its  cancellation  for  the  least
developed  countries;  the  promotion  of  foreign  direct
investment 
and
contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  combat  major
pandemics.
countries  of 
the  South; 
for 
in 
The  real  threats  of  marginalization  and  poverty
resulting from the galloping pace of globalization that
face so many peoples of the South must further prompt
the various elements of the international community —
in particular the developed countries — immediately to
act 
to
development that benefits all and that will allow us to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
realize  a  global  partnership 
leading 
to 
Resolution  57/270  B,  to  which  I  referred  earlier,
has prepared the ground for a major event — a summit,
to be held in 2005, to take stock of the implementation
of  commitments  to  achieve  the  Development  Goals.
The Group of 77, which spared no effort to achieve the
adoption  of  that  resolution,  fervently  hopes  that  the
prospect  of 
that  global  summit  will  provide  an
opportunity for all of us once again to give the issue of
development  top  priority  on  the  agenda  of  the  United
Nations.  As  everyone  is  aware,  security  questions  are
global and necessarily include the fight against poverty
and destitution. Only hope for a better future can lead
to greater stability and security for all.
We  must  take  advantage  of  this  debate  to  follow
up on that resolution, decide on the  modalities  for the
summit  and  begin  preparations  for  its  success.  The
summit,  as  provided  for  by  the  resolution,  should  be
held  within  the  framework  of  the  integrated  and
coordinated  follow-up  of  the  outcome  of  the  major
conferences  and  summits  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
economic  and  social  fields,  including  the  Millennium
Declaration.
We believe that such a major event will provide a
genuine opportunity to consider the implementation of
commitments  undertaken  by  Member  States,  both
developed  and  developing,  and  to  assess  the  progress
made  towards  the  achievement  of  the  development
goals agreed at the international level, including those
set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  That  meeting
will also enable the international community to reflect
on  the  best  ways  and  means  to  move  forward  the
implementation process.
Another  question 
in
resolution  57/270  B  deals  with  the  assessment  of
follow-up mechanisms of the International Conference
on  Financing 
resolution
provides  for  an  assessment  during  the  fifty-eighth
session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Monterrey
Consensus  follow-up  mechanisms,  namely  the  high-
level meeting of the Economic and Social Council with
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  with  the  World
Trade  Organization  (WTO),  and  the  Assembly  high-
level  dialogue  on  financing  for  development.  The
Group  of  77  will  be  ready  to  begin  that  assessment
immediately  following  the  high-level  dialogue  on
financing for development, set for 29 and 30 October.
for  Development.  That 
is  provided 
that 
for 
Mr.  Balarezo  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  countries  of  the
Rio  Group:  Argentina,  Bolivia,  Brazil,  Chile,
Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,
El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Mexico,
Nicaragua,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Uruguay,  Venezuela,
and my own country, Peru.
The  Rio  Group  has  decided  to  speak  in  this
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  which  we  are
discussing  resolution  57/270B,  adopted  in  June  2003,
to  reaffirm  our  firm  commitment  to  fulfilling  that
resolution’s  objectives  and  to  stress  the  importance  of
its full implementation.
We  believe  that  the  negotiating  process  that
guided us to the resolution reflected the concern of us
all  that  the  progress  made  is  not  sufficient  and  that
greater political impetus is therefore required to ensure
fulfilment  of 
the  complete  and  effective 
the
commitments  we  undertook 
the  major  United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic and
social fields.
in 
Those  conferences  and  summits,  each  with  its
thematic  unity,  offered  us  an 
institutional,
own 
programmatic  and  conceptual  framework  for  tackling
A/58/PV.40
of 
the  world’s 
what  we  consider  to  be  the  major  challenges  to
humanity: eradicating poverty and improving the living
standards 
population.
Nevertheless,  the  need  for  coordination  among  the
various follow-up mechanisms and for determining the
different  roles  of  the  various  actors  involved  alerts  us
the  urgency  of  preparing  a  comprehensive
to 
framework  giving  coherence 
follow-up
processes.
entire 
the 
to 
To tackle that challenge, we recognize, above all,
that  everyone  must  be  involved  in  attaining  those
commitments.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  coordinate
and  integrate  the  work  of  all  actors  involved  in  this
process, such as States, the organizations and agencies
of  the  United  Nations  system,  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions, the World Trade Organization, civil society
and the private sector.
In  this  regard,  the  Rio  Group  takes  note  of  the
proposal  of  the  President  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council to strengthen the role of the Council, which is
acting  on  the  requests  for  it  to  make  its  coordination
activities  more  effective,  in  particular  with  respect  to
the  work  of  the  Commissions,  the  impact  of  the
activities of the United Nations funds and programmes,
and the Council’s relationship with the Bretton Woods
institutions and the World Trade Organization. The Rio
Group  believes  the  proposal  by  the  President  of  the
Economic and Social Council is a valuable contribution
deserving the study and discussion of Member States.
We  emphasize  the  need  to  examine  periodically
the  progress  made  towards  achieving  the  agreed  goals
of the major United Nations conferences and summits.
Such  a  review  should  respect  the  follow-up  processes
of  each  conference  at  all  levels  —  national,  regional,
international  and  system-wide  —  and  identify  the
obstacles  that  arise  in  the  course  of  implementing
decisions. Reviewing each follow-up process will also
enable us to find the best ways to update their working
methods and to enhance the synergies generated among
the  follow-up  processes,  with  a  view  to  achieving
better results.
like 
to  stress 
The  Rio  Group  would 
the
importance we attach to such a periodic review, which
would provide us with an assessment of progress made,
maintain  the  momentum  necessary  to  consolidate  that
progress and enable us to design a set of measures for
overcoming  any  obstacles  encountered.  In  that  regard,
we  support  holding  a  summit  in  2005  to  assess
19
A/58/PV.40
comprehensively the progress made. It should coincide
with a comprehensive review of the implementation of
the Millennium Declaration assessing progress towards
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  including  goal  8:
building a global partnership for development.
We also agree that we must determine the roles of
and  coordination  among  the  various  organisms  and
agencies of the United Nations system in the follow-up
mechanisms for decisions adopted in order to enhance
the effectiveness of measures taken at all levels and to
strengthen the role of the United Nations.
In conclusion, we will continue this work in this
session of the General Assembly when we consider the
the  Second
indicative  programme  of  work  of 
Committee  and  when  we  evaluate 
the  follow-up
mechanisms  established  at  the  Monterrey  Conference
in  accordance  with  Chapter  III  of  the  Monterrey
Consensus.  The  Rio  Group  notes  the  suitability  of
continuing to explore ways and means of improving the
work  of  the  Second  and  Third  Committees.  The  Rio
Group will participate energetically in that work, which
is  part  of  the  framework  of  the  reform  process  under
way at the United Nations and which aims to improve
its action and effectiveness.
Mr.  Mantovani  (Italy):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak on behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The  acceding
countries  Cyprus, 
the  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,
Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malta,  Poland,  Slovakia,
Slovenia,  the  associated  countries  Bulgaria,  Romania
and  Turkey,  and  the  European  Free  Trade  Association
countries  Liechtenstein  and  Norway  align  themselves
with this statement.
The  European  Union  supports  a  strong  and
efficient  United  Nations  system  and  is  ready  to
contribute  actively 
the  goal  of  building  an
international  order  based  on  effective  multilateral
institutions  within  the  fundamental  framework  of  the
United Nations Charter.
to 
last 
ten  years, 
The principal goal of the years ahead will be the
effective  implementation  of  the  commitments  made  at
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  of
the 
the  Millennium
Declaration,  which  for  the  European  Union  represents
the  overarching  policy  framework  for  United  Nations
economic  and  social  work.  The  United  Nations  must
play  a  central  role 
the  political
momentum  established  through  the  major  conferences
in  maintaining 
including 
20
and  in  ensuring  a  more  integrated  and  coordinated
implementation of their targets and commitments.
The  positive  outcome  of  the  ad  hoc  working
group  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  integrated  and
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and
summits  in  the  economic  and  social  fields  culminated
in  the  approval  of  resolution  57/270B.  Its  success  in
capitalizing on the momentum originating in the United
Nations conferences and summits of the last decade has
given fresh impetus to the work carried out by United
Nations  bodies.  At  this  point,  we  have  established  a
clear direction and a working programme that calls on
the  entire  membership  to  make  progress  on  these
issues.
At  the  end  of  this  month,  the  General  Assembly
will  hold  its  first  High-Level  Dialogue  on  Financing
for Development. The European Union is committed to
ensuring  the  successful  outcome  of  that  event.  It  will
allow us to make an assessment of the follow-up to the
mechanisms  established  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus.
The Monterrey Consensus has been successful because
it  is  based  on  an  innovative  partnership  among  the
United Nations, the Bretton Woods institutions and the
World Trade Organization (WTO). Those organizations
have 
to
implementing  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  have
shown that it is possible to work together, within their
respective mandates, to achieve a common objective.
demonstrated 
commitment 
great 
a 
and 
action 
effective 
cohesive 
What we have witnessed is just the beginning of a
new era of cooperation and synergy in the international
community’s 
to
implement  a  common  agenda  for  the  financing  of
development. We believe that there is room to improve
this  relationship  further  through  the  development  and
strengthening,  in  all  the  organizations  involved,  of  a
sense of ownership of the follow-up mechanisms of the
Monterrey  Consensus.  We  should  continue  to  involve
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the  WTO  in  our
discussions  intended  to  determine  the  best  ways  to
ensure that the follow-up mechanisms reflect the spirit
of  Monterrey  and  correspond  to  our  common  final
objectives.
As far as the Second Committee is concerned, we
are  convinced  that  in  order  to  maximize  the  policy
relevance  and 
the  Committee’s
deliberations, we need to address the way it works. In
particular,  we  are  bound,  according  to  resolution
impact  of 
the 
to  consider 
57/270  B, 
the  Second  Committee
programme set forth in the annex to the resolution and
take  a  decision  thereon  by  December  2003.  The
European  Union  has  already  put  forward  its  vision  on
how  it  feels  the  work  should  be  reorganized.  We
approach  this  debate  with  an  open  mind  but  with  the
clear objective  of  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United
Nations.
the  need 
the  Assembly 
General  Assembly  resolution  57/270  B  also
indicated 
to  strengthen  United  Nations
cohesiveness  by  fostering  stronger  interaction  and
coordination  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  through  a  process  of
greater  consultation  between  the  Presidents  and  the
Bureaus  of 
the  Council.
Furthermore,  we  need  to  ensure  that  the  work  of  the
General  Assembly  and 
its  Second  and  Third
Committees  be  more  focused,  coherent,  visible  and
politically  relevant  to  the  implementation  of  and
follow-up  to  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
summits.  In  order  to  achieve  this,  we  need  to  look  at
the  interaction  between  the  different  Committees,
guided by political vision.
and 
in 
The  broad  consensus  on  the  pivotal  role  of  the
Economic  and  Social  Council 
system-wide
coordination  and  in  promoting  integrated,  coordinated
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  major  United
Nations conferences and summits has been emphasized
in the light of the policy guidance emanating from the
Millennium Summit, the Monterrey Consensus and the
outcome  of 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.  At  its  session  last  July,  the  Economic
and Social Council decided to finalize the list of cross-
referenced  thematic  issues  and  the  multi-year  work
programme before its next substantive session, in 2004.
In  its  deliberations,  the  General  Assembly  has
also  invited  the  functional  commissions  of  the  United
Nations  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  contribute
actively  to  the  assessment  of  cross-sectoral  thematic
issues.  The  various  commissions  have  been  asked  to
review 
their  work  methods,  and  we  have  great
expectations for the results. The new path being taken
by  the  Commission  on  Sustainable  Development,  for
example,  shows  how  innovation  can  lead  to  more
targeted,  productive  work 
the  United
Nations in  the  focus  of  the  initiatives  and  attention  of
Governments,  civil  society  and  other  stakeholders.  In
this respect we believe that the functional commissions
should  look  at  resolution  57/270  B  with  a  different
that  keeps 
A/58/PV.40
timetable.  According  to  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General,  it  will  take  at  least  two  years  before  we  can
have  an  understanding  of  what  has  been  done.  We
believe that once there is consensus on proceeding in a
certain  direction,  decisions  have  to  be  implemented
rapidly and efficiently.
to 
strong 
focus  on 
Achieving the Millennium Declaration Goals and
the  objectives  of  the  other  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  summits  will  take  sustained  political
sense  of  commitment  and
attention,  a 
unwavering  dedication  at  both 
the  national  and
international levels. The European Union believes that
the  major  event  of  2005  will  strengthen  our  common
will 
implementation  based  on  a
comprehensive review of the progress achieved. As we
have  already  indicated,  we  look  to  the  Secretary-
General  to  make  further  proposals  to  the  Assembly
next year on the structure of such an event. At the same
time,  we  believe  that  the  Secretariat  should  begin
preparations, in order to provide the membership with a
comprehensive  evaluation  on  what  has  been  achieved
in terms of the results of the commitments undertaken
by  the  international  community  in  implementing  the
Millennium Declaration and the outcomes of the major
United Nations conferences and summits.
Mr.  Qamar  (Pakistan):  It  is  with  great  pleasure
that  I  address  this  august  forum  on  the  important
subject  of  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation
of and follow-up to the outcomes of  the  major  United
Nations  conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,
social and related fields.
At the outset, I wish to align our delegation with
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Morocco
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  Pakistan’s
delegation  welcomed 
the  adoption  of  General
Assembly  resolution  57/270  B  on  integrated  and
coordinated  conference  follow-up.  We  call  for  its
immediate and full implementation.
Over  the  years,  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Economic and Social Council have played an important
role  by  contributing  to  the  evolution  of  the  global
economic  and  social  normative 
that
emerged  from  the  major  United  Nations  conferences
and summits of the 1990s. It is now time to move from
policy  to  implementation.  To  that  end,  we  are  happy
that  the  focus  of  the  decisions  contained  in  resolution
57/270 B is on implementation.
framework 
21
A/58/PV.40
in 
the 
taking 
looks  forward 
implementation  of 
We  are  pleased  to  note  that  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  has  been  given 
the  primary
responsibility  to  act  as  the  central  forum  for  system-
wide coordination and annual review and assessment of
conference
progress 
outcomes.  Pakistan’s  delegation 
to
participating  in  discussions  to  develop  a  multi-year
work  programme  for  the  coordination  segment  of  the
Council, 
issues
common  to  the  conference  outcomes  as  well  as
proposals  by  Member  States.  We  believe  that  for  the
optimal results, the substantive review process must be
carried out by the functional commissions. The work of
the  functional  commissions  should  be  analytical  and
must  highlight  key  coordination  issues  relating  to  the
theme of the coordination segment. As it is, the theme
of the future high-level segment would be related to the
theme of the coordination segment, which augers well
for greater synergy and effective follow-up.
into  account 
thematic 
the 
The  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  the
commitments should be across the board and based on
indicators  agreed  upon  through  an  intergovernmental
process.  While  on  this  subject,  may  I  emphasize  the
need to make the mechanisms for reporting by national
Governments simplified and harmonized.
review  of 
the  progress  made 
Of  particular  satisfaction  to  us  is  the  emphasis
placed  by  the  General  Assembly  on  the  need  for
regular 
the
implementation  of  commitments  undertaken  in  major
United  Nations  conferences.  The  Assembly  has  also
stressed the need for indicators to assess progress made
in  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals, 
the  Goal  concerning  a  global
partnership for development.
including 
in 
review  of  progress  achieved 
In  addition,  we  welcome  the  decision  to  hold  a
major  United  Nations  event  in  2005  aimed  at  a
comprehensive 
in
implementing all commitments made in the Millennium
Declaration. We fully endorse the points stressed by the
representative  of  Morocco,  speaking  on  behalf  of  the
Group  of  77  and  China,  that  such  a  review  should  be
undertaken  in  a  balanced  manner  in  terms  of  the
respective  commitments  of  developed  and  developing
countries. Indeed, a 2005 summit would be a welcome
opportunity 
review  of
implementation of conference outcomes, including that
of 
the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  will  initiate  the
preparatory  process  at  an  early  date  to  ensure  the
the  Millennium  Summit.  We 
to  undertake  a  global 
trust 
that 
22
success  of  such  a  summit.  We  look  forward  to
participating in deliberations on this important subject.
Mr.  Zhang  Yishan (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  our  support  for
the statement made earlier by Morocco on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China.
International  Conference  on  Financing 
Since  the  1990s,  the  United  Nations  has  held  a
series  of  major  conferences  and  summits  in  the
development field — such as the Millennium Summit,
the 
for
Development  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development  —  with 
the  aim  of  strengthening
international  development  cooperation  and  achieving
sustainable development and general social progress in
all  countries,  particularly  the  developing  countries.
Those  summits  and  conferences  set  out  goals  and
international  development  cooperation.
targets  for 
Finding  ways 
coordinate
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  is
essential  in  attaining  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.
integrate 
and 
to 
We  welcomed  the  fact  that  last  year,  the  United
Nations took an important step forward in its efforts to
integrate  and  coordinate  follow-up  actions  by  forming
an  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  within 
the  General
Assembly.  In  June  this  year,  the  General  Assembly
adopted  resolution  57/270  B,  on 
integrated  and
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and
summits  in  the  economic  and  social  fields,  which
established  specific  goals  and  focuses  and  which
defined  roles  for  the  United  Nations  and  related
institutions.  That  marked  a  good  starting  point  for
comprehensive  and  balanced  implementation  of  the
outcomes  of  the  relevant  conferences  and  summits.  In
that context, we have taken note of the report submitted
by 
on
implementation of  resolution  57/270  B.  We  appreciate
the  useful  suggestions  put  forward  by  the  Secretary-
General.
Secretary-General 
(A/58/359) 
the 
I  wish  to  make  the  following  points  on  how  to
implement the resolution on follow-up to the outcomes
of the major United Nations conferences and summits.
First,  being  action-oriented  and  placing  priority
on  implementation  are  essential  for  integrated  and
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits.
to 
of 
implement 
particularly 
those  conferences  and 
Development  — 
developing
countries —  has  been  the  common  theme  of  all  the
major United Nations conferences and summits. At the
same  time,  underdevelopment  is  the  major  obstacle  to
developing  countries’  efforts 
those
outcomes. The United Nations should commit itself to
the  development  goals,  principles  and  consensuses
established  by 
summits;
fundamentally change the trend towards making peace
primary  and  development  secondary;  attach  equal
importance to promoting development and maintaining
peace;  establish  a  development  culture;  strengthen
development  agencies;  and  ensure  development
resources.  To  that  end,  we  believe  that  the  United
Nations,  in  formulating  cross-sectoral  themes,  should
take  fully  into  account  the  concerns  of  developing
countries  —  such  as  financial  assistance,  technology
transfer,  capacity-building,  market  access  and  poverty
eradication  —  so  that  development  goals  can  be
effectively addressed and attained in a comprehensive,
concerted and balanced way.
Secondly, 
institutions, 
coordination 
strengthening 
and
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  relevant
agencies and promoting the coherence and coordination
of  international  development  policies  will  guarantee
implementation  of  the  resolution.  In  implementing
international development goals and targets, the United
Nations and other development institutions  —  such  as
the  Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
Organization  (WTO)  and 
the  relevant  funds  and
programmes — all have important but different roles to
play. The United Nations and those institutions need to
strengthen  the  coherence  and  coordination  of  their
policies 
link  development  policies  and
projects and to enhance the coherence and coordination
of 
thus
appreciate the regular dialogue with the Bretton Woods
institutions and the WTO in the General Assembly and
in the Economic and Social Council.
international  development  policies.  We 
to  better 
Thirdly,  more  comprehensive  reform  of 
the
Economic  and  Social  Council  will  lay  the  foundation
for  more  meaningful  development  cooperation.  In
order to better integrate and coordinate United Nations
efforts in that regard, resolution 57/207 B has provided
the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  and  their  functional  bodies  with  a  number  of
reform  measures, 
follow-up
mechanisms  for  development  financing,  streamlining
the  Second  Committee’s  agenda,  holding 
joint
reviewing 
such  as 
A/58/PV.40
meetings  of  the  Second  and  Third  Committees  and
improving 
functional  commissions’  working
methods. Reform leads to efficiency, effectiveness and
responsiveness.
the 
and 
support 
We  welcome 
the  proposals
concerning United Nations reform in the economic and
social  fields.  Here,  I  wish  to  emphasize  two  points.
First,  reform  of  the  Second  Committee  and  reform  in
the economic and social fields are integral parts of the
entire United Nations reform process. Coordinated and
comprehensive  consideration  should  be  given 
to
various reform measures in their entirety. Secondly, the
ultimate  goal  of 
strengthening,  not
weakening, the  economic  development  function  of  the
United 
governmental
responsibility rather than replacing it with partnership;
expanding,  not  diminishing,  the  right  of  developing
in  decision-making;  and
countries 
enabling  civil 
to 
international
cooperation  according  to  relevant  rules  of  procedure,
rather than without rules to follow.
to  participate 
society 
strengthening 
Nations; 
reform 
is 
join 
in 
Finally,  we  support  the  provision  of  resolution
57/270  B  that  automatic  five-year  and  10-year  review
mechanisms  for  a  number  of  major  United  Nations
conferences and summits are to be assessed on a case-
by-case  basis.  We  also  support  the  United  Nations
holding  a  major  event  in  2005  to  comprehensively
review  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of
and follow-up to the major conferences and summits. I
should like to reiterate that, as 2005 — a major year for
the  United  Nations  —  will  also  see  a  review  of  the
Millennium  Summit  and  a  high-level  dialogue  on
financing  for  development,  the  United  Nations  should
conduct consultations at an early date to determine the
level, form, focus and interrelations of those high-level
meetings.
We  are  prepared  to  continue  to  strengthen  our
cooperation and consultations with various parties in a
joint  effort  for  successful,  integrated  and  coordinated
United Nations follow-up actions.
Mr.  Mustapha
(Malaysia):  My  delegation
welcomes  the  decision  of  the  General  Assembly  to
include consideration of this item in the agenda of the
current session.
Most conferences and summits are prompted by a
desire  to  discuss  important  issues  of  common  interest
and  to  explore  solutions  to  problems.  We  attach  great
importance to the implementation of the decisions and
23
A/58/PV.40
goals of all United Nations conferences and summits. It
is imperative that effective monitoring mechanisms be
established  to  ensure  that  conferences  and  summits
achieve their desired goals and objectives.
In  this  connection,  we  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report to the General Assembly. It has
assisted  us  in  identifying  the  core  elements  of  the
framework  that  are  essential  for  integrating  follow-up
processes, as projected in resolution 57/270 B, adopted
by  this  body  four  months  ago.  The  report  also
highlights  issues  that  require  our  immediate  attention.
For its part, the Economic and Social Council, through
its  coordination  segment,  focused  on  its  role  in  this
regard at its 2003 substantive session, bearing in mind
its  crucial 
the  achievement  of
internationally agreed development goals.
to  promote 
task 
to 
respect 
The  question  of 
the  core  elements  of 
the
framework  that  are  essential  for  integrating  follow-up
processes  with 
implementation  was
discussed  comprehensively  during  the  deliberations
leading  up  to  the  adoption  of  resolution  57/270  B,  as
well  as  during  discussions  held  during  the  2003
substantive  session  of 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council. My delegation intends, therefore, to touch on
the 
actions
highlighted in the report.
implementation 
relating 
issues 
to 
The  Secretary-General  has  identified  three  kinds
of implementation actions: first, ongoing activities that
need  to  be  strengthened;  secondly,  decisions  to  be
adopted  in  implementing  specific  provisions  of  the
resolution; and, thirdly, the question of future reviews.
On  the  strengthening  of  ongoing  activities,  resolution
57/270 B has emphasized that a stronger link should be
established  between  policy  guidance  and  operational
activities.  We  concur  with  the  observation  that  the
governing  body  has  the  responsibility  to  ensure  that
relevant  policy  decisions  are 
the
into 
programme of work of the respective organizations.
integrated 
In this regard, the respective Executive Boards of
the  relevant  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  should
undertake  a  more  concerted  effort  to  ensure  greater
coherence  in  the  activities  undertaken  by  them,  in  the
furtherance  of 
their  various
programmes, 
the
implementation  of  outcomes  of  conferences  and
summits  in  an  integrated  and  coordinated  manner.  We
are  also  in  agreement  with  the  assertion  made  by  the
General  Assembly 
interagency
the  objectives  of 
system-wide 
culminating 
ultimately 
that 
in 
24
to 
implement 
coordination  and  cooperation 
the
outcomes of major conferences and summits should be
further  promoted  through  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  System  Chief  Executives  Board  (CEB)  for
Coordination  and  the  United  Nations  Development
Group.
It  is  clear  to  my  delegation  that  the  bulk  of  the
follow-up  activities  would  necessarily  have  to  be
carried  out  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
through  its  various  functional  commissions.  These  are
the bodies that have been entrusted, and even at times
specifically  mandated,  with  the  primary  responsibility
for  the  review  and  assessment  of  progress  made  in
implementing 
the  outcomes  of  United  Nations
conferences and summits. In this regard, the Economic
and Social Council has the responsibility to ensure that
its  functional  commissions  work  in  a  coordinated
manner, especially when deciding on thematic issues to
be considered by its various organs. In this regard, my
delegation commends the Economic and Social Council
for  having  begun,  even  prior  to  the  adoption  of
resolution  57/270  B,  to  have  joint  Bureau  meetings
between 
functional  commissions  and
between  the  functional  commissions  and  the  Council
itself.  Such  meetings  would  prove 
in
allowing  the  relevant  chairpersons  to  discuss  their
multi-year  programmes  of  work,  in  particular  when
deliberating  thematic  issues  for  a  new  term.  As  a
member  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  my
delegation reiterates its full support and commitment to
work  with  other  members  to  ensure  success  in  our
endeavours.
its  various 
invaluable 
for 
Through  resolution  57/270  B,  the  Assembly  had
also  requested  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to
establish  a  multi-year  work  programme 
its
coordination  segment  no  later  than  2004.  The  Bureau
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is  to  initiate
consultations  by  January  2004,  with  the  aim  of
reaching  a  decision  before  the  start  of  its  substantive
session  in  the  same  year.  However,  as  most  of  the
functional  commissions  of  ECOSOC  had  already
adopted  their  multi-year  programmes  of  work  well  in
advance of the adoption of resolution 57/270 B, we are
of  the  view  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
could  begin 
this  regard  by
considering  a  thematic  issue  that  would  involve  the
widest  cross-section  of  the  work  of  its  various  organs
insofar  as  it  is  possible.  The  Economic  and  Social
Council should continue with the consideration of such
its  role 
to  play 
in 
thematic  issues  until  its  functional  commissions  have
exhausted  their  current  multi-year  programmes  of
work.  At  such  time,  the  multi-year  programmes  of
work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its
functional  commissions  could  be  streamlined  so  that
they  would  consider  particular  cross-sectoral  thematic
issues common to each organ.
the 
tendency 
in  mind 
to  overlook 
Having  said  this,  my  delegation  would  like  to
stress that such consideration of common cross-sectoral
issues  should  be  done  in  a  fair  and  balanced  manner,
bearing 
the
consideration of social issues, alternatively  referred  to
as  soft  issues,  when  juxtaposed  with  those  with  an
economic or developmental aspect. We must remember
that  in  developing  countries,  in  particular,  limited
economic  development  will  lead  to  a  situation  where
social policies could not be effectively carried out, thus
preventing the fulfilment of goals set out in the various
outcome  documents  of  United  Nations  summits  and
conferences.  As  such,  one  should  not  overlook  the
importance  of  coherence  and  the  integration  of  social
and economic imperatives.
My delegation reiterates its commitment to fulfil
all  obligations  undertaken  at  various  United  Nations
summits  and  conferences,  and  pledges  its  full  support
to  both  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and
Social  Council,  and  through  the  Council,  its  various
functional  commissions, 
furtherance  and
achievement  of  all  goals  of  the  major  United  Nations
conferences and summits.
the 
in 
took  an  active  part 
Mr.  Chave  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):
Switzerland 
the  General
Assembly’s  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Integrated
and  Coordinated  Implementation  of  and  Follow-up  to
the Outcomes of the Major United Nations Conferences
and Summits in the Economic and Social Fields.
in 
Despite  the  important  work  achieved  by  the
Group, it is our opinion that the emphasis placed on the
Millennium  Development  Goals  as  a  reference  point
for such a coordinated follow-up has fallen short of the
expectations expressed at the Millennium Declaration’s
adoption.  Moreover,  despite  Switzerland’s  conviction
that  a  coordinated  follow-up  must  cover  all  the  major
conferences,  it  is  becoming  evident  that  the  issues
addressed  by 
to  be
integrated  in  a  concrete  way  in  either  policies  or
institutions.
these  conferences  have  yet 
A/58/PV.40
Nevertheless,  Switzerland  is  satisfied  with  the
decisions taken concerning the working methods of the
Economic and Social Council and the improvement in
the  functioning  of  its  subsidiary  organs,  including  the
functional  commissions,  as  well  as  with 
the
suggestions 
the  General  Assembly,
particularly  its  Second  and  Third  Committees.  Each
body is responsible for improving its own effectiveness
and  better  coordinating  its  work,  with  a  view  to  fully
realizing  the  action  plans  elaborated  at  the  major
conferences and the Millennium Goals.
regarding 
To accomplish this, we deem the following points
to  be  of  particular  importance:  more  flexibility  in  the
multi-year  work  programmes  of  the  Council  and  its
functional  commissions;  more  efficacious  working
methods;  greater  coordination  between  the  agenda  of
the  Council  and  those  of  its  functional  commissions;
reorganization  and  simplification  of 
the  Second
Committee’s agenda; improved coordination among the
various  offices  of  the  Secretariat;  regular  reporting  by
all  the  functional  commissions  on 
integrated
follow-up  of  major  conferences  and  summits;  and
improved  coordination  at  all  levels  and  among  all
actors, 
international
organizations  —  in  particular,  the  United  Nations,  the
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade
Organization — civil society and the private sector.
institutions  and 
Governments, 
including 
the 
to 
and 
resources 
necessary 
implement 
conferences 
realization  of 
On another level, we  recognize  the  soundness  of
the Working Group’s observations on the importance of
the
the 
recommendations  of 
summits.
However,  there  are  limits  to  the  resources  made
available  through  official  development  assistance  for
the 
the  Millennium  Declaration’s
commitments.  We  must  come  up  with  new  and
innovative  solutions.  In 
this  respect,  Switzerland
supports  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  make  the
United  Nations  accessible  to  new  actors  and  partners,
who can bring with them new capacities and resources.
Without  seeing  any  need  to  restructure  the  very
foundations  of  the  current  multilateral  architecture,
Switzerland believes that the Monterrey Consensus  —
more specifically its Chapter III — is a step in the right
direction, recognizing the need for collaboration among
all  the  parties  concerned  in  order  to  achieve  the
Millennium Goals. In our view, the specific role of the
United  Nations  in  the  context  of  the  follow-up  to
Monterrey  is  to  contribute  to  improved  cooperation,
transparency  and  coordination  between  Governments,
25
A/58/PV.40
civil  society  and  public  and  private  actors,  as  well  as
multilateral institutions. Switzerland feels that specific
questions  raised  in  the  follow-up  to  Monterrey  should
be  addressed  in  the  Second  Committee,  and  it  looks
forward  to  taking  part  in  its  debates  over  the  coming
weeks.
Mr.  Ayari  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  The
Tunisian  delegation  would  first  like  to  associate  itself
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of
Morocco on behalf of the  Group  of  77  and  China  and
to  acknowledge  our  colleague  Abdellah  Benmellouk,
who presented that statement.
My country welcomes the discussion today on the
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and
related  fields.  At  the  general  debate  of  the  current
session,  most  Member  States  stressed  the  importance
they  attached 
the
undertakings  given  by  the  international  community  at
the  major  conferences  and  summits  that  marked  the
1990s and the beginning of the new millennium with a
view to eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable
development.
to  giving  practical  effect 
to 
in 
the 
in  particular  among 
Those  conferences  and  summits,  including  the
Millennium  Summit,  the  Monterrey  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development  and  the  Johannesburg
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  gave  rise  to  a
international
great  deal  of  expectation 
community, 
the  developing
countries, who were hoping at last to see to the advent
of a stable, fair and united socio-economic order. These
events  have  effectively  charted  a  course  for  us  all  to
follow to combat poverty, promote development and to
ensure that peace, security and justice reign. They also
provided  the  opportunity  to  define  the  key  parameters
and undertake commitments for a global partnership in
order to achieve these targets.
these 
Despite 
commitments,  we  must
acknowledge that many of the development targets set
out in the Millennium Declaration will not be achieved
by  many  countries.  Instead,  we  are  seeing  an  increase
in the number of people living in poverty, particularly
in Africa, a region where achieving these objectives is
the  greatest  challenge.  Therefore,  we  must  pay  close
attention to the fulfilment of  commitments  undertaken
in  the  framework  of  an  implementation  and  follow-up
26
process  that  is  energetic,  systematic  and  results-based
and that avoids duplication and wasted effort.
in 
is  determined 
the  economic  and  social 
In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  the
United  Nations  system 
to  achieve
tangible results. The adoption in June 2003 of General
Assembly  resolution  57/270  B  on  integrated  and
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and
summits 
is
particularly important because in our opinion it reflects
an awareness of the need to stimulate energetic policies
to  promote  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  these
commitments. In that resolution the Assembly defined
the  roles  that  Member  States,  the  United  Nations
system,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  World
Trade Organization, civil society and the private sector
would  play  in  implementing  these  commitments,  all
within  the  context  of  a  partnership  that  requires  each
party to carry its own weight.
fields 
Admittedly,  it  is  the  developing  countries  that
bear  the  primary  responsibility  for  achieving  these
targets,  but  it  is  also  clear  that,  given  the  interwoven
nature  of  national  economies  and  the  world  economic
system, 
the
international  community,  including  the  assistance  of
their developed partners, because most of them will not
succeed  alone.  Success  for  developing  countries  also
depends  on  establishing  an  international  economic
climate that is favourable to them.
their  efforts  require 
the  support  of 
in 
the  General  Assembly 
The role of the Bretton Woods institutions and the
World Trade Organization (WTO) in implementing the
outcomes  of  the  conferences  was  broadly  emphasized
by 
the  aforementioned
resolution,  which  called  for  a  strengthening  of  their
contribution  to  implementing  the  outcomes  of  the
conferences  and  summits.  The  high-level  meeting  of
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  with  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions,  held  on  14  April  2003,  was  an
important milestone in reviewing the progress achieved
and  the  obstacles  encountered  in  implementing  the
Monterrey  Consensus.  We  believe  that  that  meeting
will  effectively  contribute 
the
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  cooperation  with  the
key  partners  in  Washington  and  Geneva.  Furthermore,
the  high-level  dialogue  on  financing  for  development,
to be held on 29 and 30 October, will enable us to think
more in depth about ways and means of translating the
commitments  undertaken  at  Monterrey  into  concrete
actions.
strengthening 
to 
the 
coordination 
With  regard  to  the  role  of  the  Economic  and
Social Council, Tunisia welcomes the emphasis placed
on  the  need  to  strengthen  that  pivotal  body,  which  is
charged  with  promoting 
and
coherence of policies and with the implementation and
comprehensive  and  coordinated  follow-up  of 
the
outcomes of the major international conferences in the
economic  and  social  fields.  We  also  attach  great
importance  to  the  role  played  by  the  functional
commissions,  such  as  the  Commission  on  Sustainable
Development,  and  we  call  for  a  strengthening  of  the
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  relations  with  the
regional commissions. In addition, we call for support
for  the  development  frameworks  established  at  the
regional level, such as the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development.
Moreover,  the  Tunisian  delegation  would  like  to
highlight  the  need  to  enhance  the  capacity  of  national
statistical  systems,  but  that  must  be  accompanied  by
progress in developing international indicators that will
enable  us  to  better  assess  situations  and  results  of
national implementation plans.
The scope of the problems and the complexity of
the  obstacles  that  must  be  overcome  by  developing
countries demand that we be more resolute and devote
more resources — at both the national and international
levels  —  to  ensuring  economic  growth  and  sustained
and lasting development for those countries.
Official development assistance, despite efforts to
better  utilize  it,  continues  to  decline.  The  donor
countries  must  honour  their  commitments  to  increase
official  development  assistance  to  the  level  of  0.7  per
cent  of  gross  national  product.  Increasing  such  aid  is
also  important  to  provide  the  United  Nations  system’s
operational activities with the maximum of success and
effectiveness.  In  that  regard,  we  highlight  the  role  of
United  Nations  funds  and  programmes  —  particularly
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme  —  in
supporting  developing  countries’  efforts,  particularly
A/58/PV.40
with a view to eliminating poverty, as well as the need
to ensure the financing of those funds and programmes
in a more certain and predictable way.
Debt  relief  should  be  more  significant  and  more
rapid.  It  is  also  essential  to  facilitate  and  improve
access  to  world  markets  for  developing  countries’
products,  which  requires  a  reduction  in  agricultural
subsidies and the elimination of tariff barriers. It is also
a  question  of  facilitating  active  participation  by
developing  countries  in  decisions  taken  by  major
international  organizations  —  not  only  the  United
Nations, but also the WTO, the International Monetary
Fund and the World Bank.
to 
importance 
The Tunisian delegation believes that it is of the
utmost 
regularly  assess  progress
achieved  in  implementing  the  outcomes  of  the  major
United Nations conferences and summits. We welcome
the  inclusion  on  the  agenda  of  the  current  General
Assembly  session  of  an  item  entitled  “Integrated  and
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and
summits in the economic, social and related fields”.
Finally, we should like to stress the importance of
organizing  a  summit  in  2005  to  review  progress  in
implementing  all  commitments  undertaken 
the
Millennium Declaration on the basis of a report of the
Secretary-General. We believe it is necessary  to  begin
the preparations for that summit as soon as possible.
in 
Implementing  commitments  undertaken  by  the
international community is the only path that will lead
to  a  better  world.  Let  us  work  together  to  meet  the
challenges  of  underdevelopment,  destitution,  disease
and  malnutrition.  Let  us  do  that  for  the  1.2  billion
people  painfully  surviving  on  less  than  one  dollar  per
day,  for  the  840  million  people  suffering  from  hunger
and  for  the  24,000  people  —  many  of  whom  are
children — who die of starvation every day.
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
27
