United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-eighth session
42nd plenary meeting
Thursday, 23 October 2003, 10 a.m.
New York

A/58/PV.42
Official Records
President:
The Hon. Julian R. Hunte  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Saint Lucia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 15
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the
Security Council
The President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members
of  the  Security  Council  to  replace  those  members
whose term of office expires on 31 December 2003.
The  five  outgoing  non-permanent  members  are
the  following:  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Guinea,  Mexico
and the Syrian Arab Republic. Those five States cannot
be  re-elected.  Their  names,  therefore,  should  not
appear on the ballot papers.
Apart  from  the  five  permanent  members,  the
Security  Council  will  include  in  the  year  2004  the
following  States:  Angola,  Chile,  Germany,  Pakistan
and Spain. The names of those States, therefore, should
also not appear on the ballot papers.
Of  the  five  non-permanent  members  that  will
remain in office in the year 2004, two are from Africa
and Asia, one is from Latin America and the Caribbean
and two are from Western Europe and other States.
Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly  resolution  1991  A  (XVIII)  of  17  December
1963,  the  five  non-permanent  members  should  be
elected  according  to  the  following  pattern:  three  from
Africa  and  Asia,  one  from  Eastern  Europe  and  one
from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  ballot
papers reflect that pattern.
In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is
an understanding to  the  effect  that,  of  the  three  States
to be elected from Africa and Asia, two should be from
Africa and one from Asia.
I  should  also  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that
those  candidates,  their  number  not  exceeding  the
number  of  seats  to  be  filled,  that  receive  the  greatest
number  of  votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those
present and voting will be declared elected. In the case
of  a  tie  vote  for  a  remaining  seat,  there  will  be  a
restricted  ballot  limited  to  those  candidates  who  have
obtained an equal number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret
ballot and there shall be no nominations.
Regarding candidatures, I have been informed by
the  Chairmen  of  the  respective  regional  groups  of  the
following.
For  the  three  vacant  seats  from  among  the
African  and  Asian  States,  there  are  three  endorsed
candidates, namely, Algeria, Benin and the Philippines.
For  the  vacant  seat  from  among  the  Eastern  European
States, 
is  one  endorsed  candidate,  namely,
there 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
03-57573 (E)
*0357573*
A/58/PV.42
Romania.  For  the  vacant  seat  from  among  the  Latin
American and  Caribbean  States,  there  is  one  endorsed
candidate, namely, Brazil.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  the  election  by
secret ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting.
I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of
representatives  during  the  time  of  the  conduct  of  the
elections.  Please  be  reminded  that  during  the  voting
process  all  campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General
Assembly Hall. That means, in particular, that once the
meeting has begun, no more campaign material can be
distributed inside the Hall. I intend to follow that to the
letter. All representatives are also required to remain in
their seats so that the voting process can proceed in an
orderly  manner.  I  would  also  seek  the  Assembly’s
cooperation  and  support  regarding  cellular  phones.
Please put them on “vibrate” if you feel you must have
them  on.  It  is  very  disconcerting,  when  we  are  in  the
middle of serious business, to hear those phones sound
off. I thank you for your cooperation.
We shall now begin the voting process.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now
be  distributed.  I  request  representatives  to  use  only
those ballot papers that have been distributed.
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot
papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asian  States,
the  names  of  the  three  States  for  which  they  wish  to
vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for the Eastern
European  States,  the  name  of  the  one  State  for  which
they wish to vote; and on the ballot papers marked “C”,
for the Latin American and Caribbean States, the name
of the one State for which they wish to vote.
A  ballot  paper  containing  more  names  from  the
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it
will be declared invalid. Names of Member States on a
ballot  paper  that  do  not  belong  to  that  region  will  not
be counted.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Ms.  Alice
Zaunschirm  (Austria),  Mr.  Yusuf  Mammedaliyev
(Azerbaijan),  Mr.  Alfred  Moungara-Moussotsi
2
(Gabon), Mrs. Luisa Fernanda Bonilla Galvão de
Queiroz 
(Guatemala),  Mr.  Philippe  Worré
(Luxembourg)  and  Mr.  Ali  Al-Darmaki  (Oman)
acted as tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  President:  I  now  suspend  the  meeting  for
thirty minutes.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.30  a.m.  and
resumed at 11.50 a.m.
The  President: Before  announcing  the  result  of
the  voting,  I  would  like  to  clarify  that,  in  accordance
with  Article  19  of  the  Charter  and  resolution  58/1,  of
16  October  2003,  two  Member  States  were  not  given
ballot papers.
The result of the voting is as follows:
Group A — African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
Benin 
Philippines
Algeria
Republic of Korea
Group B — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
Number of votes obtained:
182
0
182
0
182
122
181
179
178
1
182
0
182
7
175
117
Romania
Poland
174
1
Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States
182
Number of ballot papers:
0
Number of invalid ballots:
182
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions
4
178
Number of members voting:
Required two-thirds majority:
119
Number of votes obtained:
Brazil
Argentina
177
1
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority,
the following States were elected members of the
Security Council for a two-year term beginning 1
January  2004:  Algeria,  Benin,  Brazil, 
the
Philippines and Romania.
The President: I congratulate the States that have
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  I
sincerely  thank  the  tellers  for  their  assistance  in  the
election.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
item (a) of agenda item 15.
Programme of work
to 
of 
like 
I  would 
revitalization 
The  President: 
remind
representatives  that  on  Monday,  27  October  2003,  the
Assembly will consider the cluster of items concerning
the 
the  General  Assembly,
restructuring  and  reform.  The  Deputy  Secretary-
General will present an introduction at the beginning of
the  meeting.  There  are  over  45  speakers  inscribed  to
speak  on  the  items.  I  appeal  to  members  to  consider
putting 
to  participate
personally  at  that  meeting.  I  would  also  appeal  to
members to limit their statements to seven minutes.
suggestions  and 
forward 
Agenda item 160 (continued)
Global road safety crisis
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/228)
Draft resolution (A/58/L.3)
Mr.  Tan  (Singapore):  As  we  have  just  elected
five members of the Security Council, I would like, on
behalf  of  my  delegation,  to  congratulate  the  five
countries concerned.
At  the  outset,  with  regard  to  the  agenda  item
entitled  “Global  road  safety  crisis”,  I  would  like  to
express our appreciation to the delegation of Oman for
its  efforts  to  bring  that  growing  crisis  to  the  world’s
attention.
Singapore  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  discuss
the  growing  road  safety  crisis.  Motor  vehicles  have
become  such  an  efficient  and  convenient  mode  of
A/58/PV.42
transportation,  as  well  as  an  essential  part  of  our
everyday  lives  in  some  form  or  other,  that  we  often
forget that these high-velocity, moving lumps of metal
and  plastic  are  also  lethal  weapons  and,  indeed  —  as
some  delegations  have  noted  —  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  Every  year  we  pay  a  very  heavy  toll  in
human lives for that convenience.
to 
According 
the  report  (A/58/228)  of 
the
Secretary-General  on  the  global  road  safety  crisis,  an
estimated  1.26  million  people  worldwide  died  as  a
result  of  road  traffic  injuries  in  the  year  2000.  Road
traffic  injuries  accounted  for  2.2  per  cent  of  global
mortality,  and  were  responsible  for  25  per  cent  of  all
deaths due to injury. Also in the year 2000, road traffic
crashes ranked as the ninth leading cause of death. The
World  Health  Organization’s 
(WHO)  projections
suggest that by 2020 road traffic injuries will overtake
HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria  to  rank  third
among the causes of death and disability. Furthermore,
the 
falls
disproportionately  on  people  in  low-  and  middle-
income countries.
injuries 
burden 
traffic 
road 
of 
Apart  from  the  death  toll  and  human  cost,  the
approximate worldwide financial cost of road accidents
is  estimated  at  $500  billion.  That  is  larger  than  the
annual  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  of  many  small-
and  medium-sized  economies.  It  is  further  estimated
that 
the  amount  spent  on  repair  work,  medical
assistance,  investigations  and  other  expenses  incurred
by accidents adds up to approximately 2 per cent of the
GDP  of  developing  countries  annually.  That  is  twice
the  total  overseas  development  assistance  provided  to
those countries.
In addition, the social cost of this growing crisis
cannot  be  measured  in  dollars  and  cents.  Happy
families  end  up  grieving  over  the  untimely  demise  of
loved  ones  or  because  of  those  traumatized  for  life.
Formerly  productive  citizens  become  paralyzed  or  are
marginalized  from  the  workforce.  Innocent  children
become  orphaned,  often  owing 
to  preventable
circumstances,  and  face  a  lifetime  of  hardship  and
adversity.
We,  the  international  community,  have  been
remiss  in  not  recognizing  this  escalating  trend  sooner.
That  is  why  Singapore  values  Oman’s  initiative.  The
WHO’s  decision  to  designate  “Road  safety”  as  the
theme of World Health Day in 2004 is an important but
long-overdue step in the right direction. It is only with
3
A/58/PV.42
greater awareness that we can start to address the crisis
individually and collectively.
through annual events, such as road safety outreach and
anti-drink-and-drive and road courtesy campaigns.
As the Secretary-General’s report notes, it is a sad
fact  that  more  than  one  third  of  road  traffic  deaths  in
2000  —  that  is  435,000  deaths  —  occurred  in  South-
East  Asia.  In  other  words,  more  than  one  third  of  the
total  road  traffic  deaths  in  the  world  occurred  in  a
region with only 8 per cent of the world’s  population.
Clearly  more  needs  to  be  done  to  reverse  this  highly
disturbing trend in our region.
Domestically,  the  Singapore  Government  has
taken  numerous  steps  in  the  last  two  decades  to
improve  road  safety  in  Singapore,  based,  as  some  of
our  fellow  representatives  have  mentioned,  on  the
“three  Es”  approach  to  road  safety  —  engineering,
enforcement and education.
In 
the  area  of  engineering,  experts 
from
Singapore’s  Land  Transport  Authority 
regularly
conduct  road  safety  inspections  to  ensure  that  road
conditions  meet  the  highest  standards  of  maintenance.
Several  engineering  initiatives  —  such  as  alignment
markers,  crash  cushions,  bus-stop  bollards  and  vibra-
lines  to  warn  drivers  driving  too  close  to  the  edge  of
the  road  —  have  also  been  implemented  to  improve
road safety.
Enforcement  also  plays  an  important  role  in
improving road safety. The enforcement of traffic rules
is  necessary  to  stop  reckless  and  irresponsible  road
users  from  causing  accidents  and  harm  to  others.
Irresponsible  road  users  face  fines,  suspension  from
driving and even jail terms.
is 
Ultimately,  however,  education 
the  only
guarantee  for  the  long-term  improvement  in  road
safety. Education is crucial in creating responsible road
users. For instance, anti-smoking campaigns are a good
example  of  how  effective  a  focused  public  education
campaign  can  be  in  changing  mindsets.  Similarly,
relying  on  inventive  and  catchy  slogans,  we  should
consider  such  approaches  to  educate  members  of  the
general public on their responsibilities as road users.
As  part  of  the  continuing  process  of  educating
road  users  on  their  responsibilities,  various  public
education  campaigns,  events  and  programmes  on  road
safety  have  been  organized  to  reach  out  to  all  road
users,  be 
they  drivers,  motorcyclists,  cyclists  or
pedestrians.  Positive  road  habits  are  also  reinforced
4
With the “three Es” approach, Singapore has been
able  to  bring  about  a  steady  drop  in  the  number  of
fatalities  and  serious  accidents  over  the  past  two
decades. Last year, our fatality rate of 4.8 per cent per
100,000 people was the second lowest in 29 years. Any
road  accident  that  causes  death  or  serious  injury,
however,  is  still  one  road  accident  too  many.  We  can
and will work together to further reduce this figure.
countries 
Singapore  also  welcomes  opportunities  to  share
experiences and learn from the best practices of others.
We  have  done  much 
through  consultations  and
briefings  on  road  safety  education  with  visitors  from
such 
as  China,  Thailand,  Malaysia,
Indonesia,  Viet  Nam  and  India.  We  have  also  made
contributions  at  such  forums  as  the  seminar  series  of
the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN)
known as the Global Road Safety Partnership; the Road
Safety  Experts  Group  Meetings  of  the  Asia-Pacific
Economic  Cooperation  forum;  and  the  recent  Asian
Development  Bank/ASEAN  Road  Safety  Programme
Workshop in Singapore. We will continue to cooperate
fully  with  the  international  community  in  combating
this problem.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  underscore  the
seriousness  of 
the  problem  with  another  simple
illustration.  At  the  current  rate  of  deaths  from  road
traffic  accidents,  more  than  10  people  will  have  died
and 30 others been injured in the short duration of my
speech.
(Fiji): 
I 
Mr.  Savua 
join  Singapore 
in
congratulating  the  five  newly  elected  non-permanent
members of the Security Council. We should also like
to  extend  our  appreciation  to  Oman  for  bringing  this
issue  to  the  attention  of  the  international  community
and  for  introducing  the  draft  resolution  before  us,
which we believe calls for all our support.
Agenda  item  160,  “Global  road  safety  crisis”,
aptly  reflects  the  concerns  confronting  all  nations  and
the enormous costs imposed by road traffic injuries in
terms  of  mortality,  mobility  and  social  and  economic
costs.  Road  accidents  are  the  leading  cause  of  death
among people aged 15 to 44; 1.26 million people were
killed on the roads in the year 2000. That is equivalent
to  2.2  per  cent  of  global  mortality.  The  World  Health
Organization  (WHO)  projects  that  road  traffic  injuries
could  rank  third  among  causes  of  death  and  disability
by the year 2020.
the  one  hand,  and  Mobil  Oil,  other  oil  companies  and
public support, on the other.
A/58/PV.42
intervention  were  developed.  While 
The  statistics  contained  in  document  A/58/228
are consistent with these projections. Sadly, most of the
deaths  and  fatal  injuries  could  be  preventable  if
suitable 
the
primary  responsibilities  in  this  connection  lie  with
Member  States,  we  agree  with  the  Secretary-General
that there is a need for investment and partnerships to
be fostered between the Member States and the United
Nations  system  in  sharing  knowledge,  best  practices,
lessons  learned  and  resources.  Regional  coordination
and  cooperation  will  once  again  prove  effective,
especially 
countries,
particularly  those  facing  unique  challenges,  such  as
small  island  developing  States,  like  my  own  country,
Fiji.
developing 
in 
assisting 
In  thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report,
we  rely  on  his  coordination  in  forging  ahead  on  such
cooperation and partnerships, using all avenues that are
at  his  disposal.  We  recognize  in  this  connection  the
efforts  of  the  WHO  in  designating  the  theme  “Road
safety”  for  the  observance  of  World  Health  Day  on  7
April  2004,  as  well  as  the  launching  of  the  World
Report on Road Traffic Injury Prevention. These efforts
need all our full support to ensure that our sacred aims
are  realized.  The  Report  calls  on  nations  to  enact
programmes  and  initiatives  to  arrest  the  runaway
statistics  of  the  carnage  on  our  roads.  All  these
initiatives  are  well-meaning  and  hope  to  do  as  much
they  can.  However,  money  is  always  a  prohibitive
factor. We count on the United Nations to assist us, as
we have already alluded to.
Domestically, 
the  Fiji  National  Road  Safety
Council  was  established  by  an  act  of  Parliament  in
1995. It is tasked with enhancing the safety of all road
users. Educating road users has been a hallmark of the
Council’s  campaign  to  cover  rural  and  urban  areas  of
Fiji.  The  campaign  has  also  covered  road  users  of
different groups, schools, drivers and passengers in the
use  of  all  kinds  of  roads.  The  Council  has  enjoyed
much  success  over  the  years,  as  indicated  by  the
reduction  in  our  road  accident  figures.  Ideally,  we
would  like  achieve  an  accident  rate  of  zero.  However
difficult this may be, the work of prevention will have
to  be  relentless,  continuous  and  versatile  if  it  is  to  be
interesting  and  eye-catching.  The  success  of 
the
National  Road  Safety  Council  is  a  result  of  the
partnership  between  Government  and  the  Council,  on
Our  region  has  made  innovative  progress  in
promoting  road  safety  procedures.  The  State  of
Victoria, Australia, has been assisting the Fiji police in
the  use  of  speed  guns  and  providing  equipment  in
teaching road safety. The Asian Development Bank has
provided  soft  loans  to  help  the  Council  further  in
realizing its designated responsibilities.
The  high-level  plenary  meeting  of  the  General
Assembly scheduled for 14 April 2004 can be attended,
we  trust,  at  the  highest  level  possible  to  give  the  day
proper  recognition  and  to  give  substance  to  all  the
planned  programmes  and  the  development  of  road
safety initiatives. It is our view that a lot of assistance
is already available; the problem is making known the
assistance that can help reduce our road safety figures.
Fiji intends to persevere in its road safety programmes
and is willing to assist other programmes, if wanted.
Mr.  Gilman  (United  States  of  America):  The
United  States  fully  supports  the  initiative  addressing
the global issue of traffic safety in the United Nations
system  and  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  work  with
Member States on the most efficient and effective way
to  coordinate  the  exchange  of  information  and  the
development  of  the  best  road  traffic  safety  practices.
The issue of road safety holds a prominent place in our
national and international agendas.
At the national level, while the United States was
able  to  reduce  its  annual  traffic-related  fatalities  from
55,000 in the late 1960s to 42,000 last year, the fatality
rate  is  still  stagnant  and  the  associated  societal  and
economic costs continue to be too high at $230 billion
a  year.  Moreover,  we  cannot  be  complacent  about  the
annual deaths of some 42,000 United States citizens or
simply  accept  that  significant  loss  as  an  unavoidable
part  of  living  in  a  heavily-motorized  society.  Through
this  initiative,  we  look  forward  to  learning  from  other
nations about their successful strategies and we hope to
offer some of our own.
At the international level, we have stepped up our
activities  to  address  traffic  safety  issues  through  our
participation  in  the  Working  Party  on  Road  Traffic
Safety  within  the  Economic  Commission  for  Europe
(UNECE).  That  group  is  the  only  existing  United
Nations  working  group  that  can  appropriately  respond
to the call for action on this draft resolution.
5
A/58/PV.42
The  United  States  strongly  believes  that  any
coordinated initiatives to address the problem of global
road  safety  should  be  managed  within  the  existing
UNECE  Working  Party.  The 
infrastructure  and
technical  expertise  are  in  place  and  the  UNECE’s
inclusive  of  non-European  countries,
mandate 
including 
strongly
recommend  that  the  Chairman  of  the  Working  Party
and  its  Secretariat  be  present  at  the  14  April  plenary
meetings  in  order  to  discuss  how  all  of  us  can
collectively  use  the  Working  Party’s  mandate  to  its
fullest extent.
economies.  We 
developing 
is 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  49/2  of  19  October  1994,  I  now
call on the observer for the International Federation of
Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
like  on  behalf  of  our  organization 
Mr.  Geleta  (International  Federation  of  Red
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  At  the  outset,  I
should 
to
congratulate the newly elected members of the Security
Council. As we debate this somewhat sad theme today,
and given the speed with which we lose people on the
roads,  I  wonder,  as  some  colleagues  have  done,
whether this theme may not become a Security Council
issue some months from now.
in 
the  secretariat 
At  any  rate,  I  should  like  to  start  by  saying  that
this theme is of very deep concern to our organization,
not  only 
in  Geneva,  but  also
worldwide.  In  many  cases,  as  the  Assembly  knows,
Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  volunteers  are  the  first  to
reach  road  crash  sites,  where  they  provide  first  aid,
psychological  support  and  ambulance  services.  We  do
this  on  a  daily  basis  for  crash  victims  in  communities
around 
the  world.  These  communities  and  our
volunteers  are  deeply  affected  by  the  preventable
tragedies  they  encounter  every  day.  They  strongly
believe  that  this  particular  crisis,  or  disaster,  if  you
like, can be drastically reduced. We therefore welcome
the  attention  being  given  to  this  issue  by  the  General
Assembly and trust that it will lead to concerted action
at the regional and national levels to address the issues
identified in the Secretary-General’s report.
The statistics are so grim that I will not bother the
Assembly  with 
terrifying  figures,  since  previous
colleagues have covered these. I am sure, however, that
many saw yesterday’s BBC report informing us that, in
just one of our beautiful European countries alone, on
6
average  100  people  die  every  day  on  the  roads.  No
comment is needed, I believe.
As  early  as  1998,  we  were  already  raising  the
alarm.  The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and
Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  published  a  study  on
traffic  accidents  in  its  World  Disasters  Report.  This
study  asked  an  unpleasant  question:  Must  millions
more  die  from  traffic  accidents  before  we  act  much
faster? The central message here is that action needs to
be  taken  by  all  of  us  —  Governments,  the  private
sector,  civil  society  and  the  public  at  large  —  to  deal
with this disaster.
In  1999,  during  the  International  Conference  of
the  Red  Cross/Red  Crescent  Movement,  Governments
and  our  national  organizations  committed  themselves
to a plan of action to respond to this growing problem
through 
the  further  development  of  road  safety
measures,  in  partnership  with  other  stakeholders.  The
implementation of the plan of action leaves a lot to be
desired,  particularly  given  the  growing  scale  of  this
crisis.
it  may  be 
IFRC strongly supports the actions undertaken by
many of our national societies and, to a certain extent,
expects  more  from  our  partners,  the  Governments.
Although we are aware that each Government, however
constrained 
technology  and
resources, engages in road safety programmes, only six
responded  to  the  requirements  of  General  Assembly
resolution 57/309, according to the Secretary-General’s
report. However, we would like to make special note of
Oman,  Austria  and  Ethiopia,  which  have  mounted
active road safety campaigns in collaboration with their
national Red Cross and Red Crescent societies.
in  skills, 
Another 
very 
valuable 
illustration 
of
collaboration  is  the  European  Red  Cross  road  safety
campaign,  organized  by  26  European  national
organizations  and  strongly  supported  by  the  European
Commission.  It  is  an  active  and  powerful  campaign,
originally launched in 2002 and hosted by the German
Red Cross. It works and it saves lives.
We recognize that partnerships are a prerequisite
to  the  achievement  of  real  progress  in  addressing  this
crisis. For our part, we are particularly pleased with the
partnership  that  has  been  developed  to  bring  together
our resources with the United Kingdom Department for
International  Development,  the  Swedish  International
Development  Cooperation  Agency 
very
the  World  Health
importantly, 
the  World  Bank, 
and, 
Organization (WHO) and the private sector. The result
was  the  formation  in  1999  of  the  Global  Road  Safety
is  hosted 
Partnership 
at  our
headquarters 
is  an  active  global
partnership  dedicated  to  the  improvement  of  road
safety,  especially  in  developing  countries,  through  the
sharing of information and experience.
(GRSP),  which 
in  Geneva.  It 
in 
the  production  of 
The  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  WHO 
reports  and
documentation  for  this  debate  is  most  welcome.  We
look  forward  to  that  institutional  collaboration  being
taken  to  a  new  level  in  2004,  when  World  Health
Day —  7  April  —  will  have  road  safety  as  its  theme.
We  and  the  Global  Road  Safety  Partnership  are
working actively with the WHO and the World Bank on
the preparation of the key document, the World  report
on road traffic injury prevention, to be launched on that
day. As part of that theme, we urge all Governments to
open  dialogue  with  their  national  Red  Cross  and  Red
Crescent  societies  to  prepare  for  effective  events  to
mark  World  Health  Day  and  to  support  sustainable
partnerships  with  both  civil  society  and  the  private
sector to address national road safety issues.
Furthermore,  the  IFRC  will,  through  its  first-aid
work, take every appropriate opportunity to strengthen
the  capacity  of  communities  to  address  the  crisis  we
are discussing today. In many respects, the work of the
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  on  first  aid  provides  the
most human interface between the aforementioned sad
statistics  of  the  crisis  and  its  impact  on  ordinary
people.  As  the  Assembly  may  be  aware,  in  many
European  countries,  it  is  compulsory  that  everyone
pass  a  Red  Cross  first-aid  course  and  examination
before receiving a driver’s license. We shall also work
to  ensure  that  these  activities  and  the  proposed  high-
level  United  Nations  debate  next  April  are  built  into
the  coordinated  work  to  be  carried  out  within  the
multilateral family.
In  conclusion,  to  rephrase  an  old  American
saying, all roads are paved with good intentions. Let us
work together to make those intentions a reality.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
I  should  like  to  inform  members  that,  at  the
request  of  the  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/58/L.3,
action  on  the  draft  resolution  will  be  taken  at  a  later
date,  to  be  announced  in  the  Journal  of  the  United
Nations.
A/58/PV.42
Agenda item 50 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic,
social and related fields
Report of the Secretary-General (A/58/359)
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  57/29  of  19  November  2002,  I
now call on the Observer for Partners in Population and
Development.
(Partners 
Mr.  Singh 
and
Development):  Thank  you  very  much,  Mr.  President,
for giving us this opportunity to offer a few remarks in
relation to agenda item 50 on behalf of the Partners in
Population and Development.
in  Population 
as 
(ICPD) 
and  Development 
First, let me say a few words about the Partners in
Population and Development. As many members know,
the Partners in Population and Development came into
existence during the 1994 International Conference on
Population 
an
intergovernmental  alliance  of  developing  countries
with  a  record  of  substantial  success  in  reproductive
health  and  population  programmes  and  with  a
commitment  to  share  with  other  developing  countries
their  knowledge  and  experience.  It  now  comprises  19
countries  representing  54  per  cent  of 
the  world
population.  During  the  ICPD+5  process,  in  1999,  the
General Assembly specifically recognized the Partners
as a major South-South initiative, and last year, as was
mentioned,  we  were  granted  Permanent  Observer
status,  which  we  hope  to  utilize  to  work  closely  with
various  United  Nations  agencies  and  programmes
involved in population and development.
The four major areas covered by the Partners are
family  planning  and  reproductive  health,  maternal
mortality and morbidity, issues concerning adolescents,
and HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.
The  modalities  that  have  been  used  to  focus  on  those
themes are policy dialogues, training, research and the
dissemination  of  information,  particularly  on  best
practices and lessons learned. We work closely with the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  and  other
United  Nations  agencies  involved  in  population  and
development.  In  our  view,  the  work  that  we  do
contributes  to  the  furtherance  and  strengthening  of
South-South  cooperation,  which  was  one  of  the  major
7
A/58/PV.42
points  in  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  1994  Cairo
Conference and which, we believe, is one of the major
elements of the promotion of future cooperation among
all countries in relation to strengthening the capacities
of countries in the South.
The  main  topic  we  wish  to  touch  upon  here  is
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and
related fields. We agree that reviews and appraisals of
the  major  United  Rations  conferences  and  summits
should assess the progress made in the implementation
of  the  commitments  and  provide  an  occasion  to
reaffirm  the  goals  and  objectives  agreed  at  those
conferences  and  summits,  share  best  practices  and
lessons  learned,  and  identify  obstacles  and  constraints
encountered,  actions  and  initiatives  to  overcome  them
and important measures for the further implementation
of  their  programmes  of  action,  as  well  as  new
challenges and emerging issues.
to 
We  expect  that  the  ICPD+10  review  —  or  the
Cairo  plus  10  review  —  in  which  we  are  particularly
interested,  will  proceed  fully  along  those  lines.  We
look  forward 
the  country-level  assessment  of
progress  and  constraints  in  implementing  the  ICPD
Programme of Action undertaken by the UNFPA. That
assessment  should  give  us  valuable  insights  into  what
progress  has  been  achieved  towards  the  goals  and
objectives of the ICPD and what further action needs to
be undertaken to achieve those goals by the year 2015.
We  also  await  with  interest  the  outcomes  of  the
regional  meetings 
regional
commissions,  as  well  as  the  initiatives  taken  by  civil
society organizations.
organized 
the 
by 
it 
Though 
that  no  global
intergovernmental  conference  on  population  and
development will take place in 2004, we believe that at
seems 
clear 
relationship  between 
all  levels  —  national,  regional  and  international  —
various  opportunities  within  and  outside  the  United
Nations will be used to refocus worldwide attention on
themes and issues relating to further implementation of
the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action,  with  particular
attention to the issue of resource mobilization. We also
believe  that,  if  it  is  decided  to  organize  a  major
meeting  in  2005  to  examine  implementation  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  issues  related  to
population  and  development  will  form  part  of  the
agenda of such a meeting.
We  see  a  clear 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  the  ICPD  goals
and  objectives.  We  fully  share  the  view  of  the
Secretary-General,  expressed  on  many  occasions,  that
the  overall  Millennium  Goals  of  poverty  eradication
and  gender  equality  are  closely  linked  to  the  goals
adopted  by  the  ICPD  in  1994;  I  refer  in  particular  to
those  relating  to  reproductive  health  and  population.
We  know 
the  UNFPA  has  already  done  a
considerable  amount  of  work  on  that  topic.  I  wish  to
inform  members  that  it  is  our  intention  to  organize  a
number  of  policy  dialogues,  involving  policy-makers
and  programme  managers,  on  various  aspects  of  this
integral  relationship.  We  hope  that  the  outcomes  of
those dialogues, which will be published in the form of
monographs,  will  contribute  to  continuing  discussion
on how such links between population themes and the
Millennium Development Goals are to be established at
the operational level.
that 
The  President: We  have  heard  the  only  speaker
in the debate on this item.
The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its
consideration of agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 12.35 p.m.
8
