United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
30th plenary meeting
Thursday, 14 October 2004, 10 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.30
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 45
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic,
social and related fields
Commemoration of the tenth anniversary of the
International Conference on Population and
Development
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Assembly  will  now  devote, 
in  accordance  with
decision  58/529  of  17  December  2003,  one  day  of
plenary  meetings  to  the  commemoration  of  the  tenth
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on
Population and Development.
the 
Before proceeding further, I should like to recall
that,  on  8  October  2004,  I  transmitted  a  letter  to  the
Chairmen of the regional groups and, through them, to
the Member States, to consult on my intention to invite
the  Executive  Director  of 
the  United  Nations
Population  Fund,  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  to  make  an
introductory  statement  this  morning,  following  the
statement by the Deputy Secretary-General.
As I have received no objection, may I take it that
it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  invite  the
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population
Fund,  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  to  make  an  introductory
statement this morning  following the statement by the
Deputy Secretary-General.
It was so decided.
The President (spoke in French): Ten years have
elapsed since the adoption of the Programme of Action
of  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development, 
are
commemorating today.
anniversary 
whose 
we 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  Cairo  Consensus
ushered in a new era for peoples. Historic resolve was
shown  by  the  179  States  that  met  in  Cairo  on
13 September  1994  to  express  their  commitment  to
improve the daily lives of peoples and to respect their
rights.  The  commitment  undertaken  by  States  during
the Cairo Conference and their interest in empowering
women  and  in  promoting  gender  equality  was  a
decisive  factor  in  improving  the  quality  of  life  of  all
societies.
The  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  has  stood  the
test  of  time.  Indeed,  the  texts  resulting  from  the
International  Conference 
and
Development  have  taken  on  even  greater  relevance
today, at a time when countries are working together to
reduce widespread poverty, hunger, disease and gender
inequality, and to bring about a more stable world.
Population 
on 
In every region, the Programme of Action of the
International  Conference 
and
Development  serves  as  a  reference  document  for
countries  —  one  that  is  essential  to  attain  their
development  goals.  Progress  has  therefore  been  made
Population 
on 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-55249 (E)
*0455249*
A/59/PV.30
in  improving  family  planning  and  in  the  creation  of
institutions  and  the  adoption  of  legislation  aimed  at
eliminating  all  forms  of  discrimination  and  violence
against women.
Likewise,  we  note  that  significant  progress  has
been  made  in  educating  and  informing  young  people
about  reproductive  health  and  about  the  prevention  of
the spread of HIV/AIDS.
I am firmly convinced that the Cairo Programme
of  Action  is  of  crucial  importance  in  the  process  of
implementing  a  coherent  and  effective  approach  to
achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
It goes without saying that we must continue our
efforts  to  ensure,  in  an  integrated  and  coordinated
manner,  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations
adopted  at  the  major  summits  organized  in  the  social
and  economic  fields  by  the  United  Nations  in  the
1990s. That is imperative if we want to make progress
by  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization  in
implementing  the  commitments  we  undertook  and  in
attaining  the  Development  Goals  we  set  ourselves  in
the Millennium Declaration.
to  wait  for 
We  do  not  need 
the  sixtieth
anniversary  to  consider  the  tragic  situation  of  the
nearly  half  a  million  mothers  who  die  each  year
following childbirth. We do not need to wait until next
year to  consider the ravages  caused  by  the  HIV/AIDS
pandemic.  We  do  not  need  to  wait  to  fight  more
effectively  against  extreme  poverty,  which  afflicts
more than a billion people throughout the world.
In  addition  to  the  symbolic  importance  of  the
tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Programme of
Action  of  the  International  Conference  on  Population
and  Development,  this  occasion  should  remind  us  of
the  urgent  need  to  tackle  the  many  problems  that
continue to affect the lives of our peoples, particularly
in the developing world.
We  must  therefore,  swiftly  and  in  cooperation
with  the  international  financial  institutions  and  other
to
development  partners, 
integrate 
population 
national
development strategies. That will depend, above all, on
the mobilization of the resources necessary to attain the
objectives of the Cairo Programme of Action.
take  essential  measures 
concerns 
into 
The  seriousness  with  which  we  implement  that
ambitious Programme and our determination to make it
a  priority  in  the  General  Assembly’s  discussions  and
2
to  meet 
to  our  resolve 
decisions  related  to  development  will  attest,  I  am
convinced, 
the
challenges  that  increasingly  confront  us.  Let  us  act
while  there  is  still  time.  The  future  of  humanity  is  at
stake.  By  doing  that,  we  will  live  up  to  our  promises
and considerably increase our chances of establishing a
more peaceful and more prosperous world.
together 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General.
to 
adopt 
political 
differences 
into  economic  and 
The  Deputy  Secretary-General: Three  decades
ago  in  Bucharest,  the  World  Population  Conference
overcame 
a
groundbreaking,  comprehensive  Plan  of  Action.  That
Plan  gave  the  world  its  first  template  for  integrating
population  concerns 
social
development,  and  it  established  the  basic  principles
guiding  population  programmes  today.  Ten  years  later
in Mexico City, despite serious disagreements on some
questions,  the  International  Conference  on  Population
adopted  additional  recommendations  that  recognized
the  need  for  wider  access  to  family  planning  and
underscored the importance of issues such as the needs
of adolescents and the role of men.
And  then,  of  course,  10  years  ago  in  Cairo,  the
world’s efforts to address the intertwined challenges of
population  and  development  took  another  major  step
forward.  The  Programme  of  Action  adopted  there
situated  population  issues  more  firmly  in  the  broader
quest  for  development  and  for  poverty  reduction.  It
linked 
them  more  prominently  with  sustainable
development,  reflecting  the  results  of  the  United
Nations 
and
Development —  the  Earth  Summit  —  held  two  years
earlier.  It  gave  renewed  prominence  to  education —
particularly  of  girls  —  as  an  agent  of  change.  It
stressed the importance of reproductive health, gender
equality and women’s empowerment, and it gave wide
and  systematic  recognition 
the  role  of  non-
governmental organizations.
Environment 
Conference 
on 
to 
Today, countries throughout the world continue to
use  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International
Conference on Population and Development in forging
the  strategies  and  policies  with  which  they  hope  to
address  population 
the
Millennium Development Goals. And they are making
substantial  progress,  building  on  the  achievements  of
earlier decades.
issues  and 
to  achieve 
The  world  is  beginning  to  see  the  end  of  rapid
population  growth,  which  should  help  in  the  struggle
against  poverty  and  pollution.  Life  expectancy
continues  to  rise  in  all  regions  of  the  world  except
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa  and  Eastern  Europe.
Fertility  continues  to  decline  in  virtually  every  region
of  the  world.  Couples  have  increasing  access  to  the
reproductive  health  programmes,  contraceptives  and
information  they  need  to  choose  the  number  and
spacing  of  their  children.  These  and  other  gains  are
profound and far-reaching, as they involve some of the
most  basic  and  intimate  human  experiences:  birth,
death  and  marriage;  the  joy  of  seeing  grandparents
survive or children spared needless suffering and death
from a preventable disease.
Yet any satisfaction we may feel at the expansion
of  rights  and  freedoms  involving  population  issues
must  be  tempered  by  an  acute  awareness  of  the
unfinished agenda, the fact that  parts of the  world  are
not  sharing 
the  daunting
challenges that have emerged in the meantime.
this  progress,  and 
in 
High  population  growth  remains  a  concern  for
much  of  the  developing  world,  while  some  developed
countries have expressed concern that their population
is  growing 
in  some  cases,  even
declining.
too  slowly  or, 
AIDS  is  taking  a  devastating  toll  —  particularly
in  Africa,  where  it  is  reversing  the  rise  of  life
expectancy  in  some  countries  and  erasing  decades  of
economic and social progress.
Declines in fertility and increased longevity mean
that societies — developed and developing alike — are
now  wrestling  with  the  wide-ranging  implications  of
ageing,  including  the  need  for  health  care,  pensions
and  safety  nets  and  the  need  to  ensure  the  social
integration of older persons.
Rapid  urbanization  is  yet  another  population
challenge.  So  is  international  migration.  Some  175
million  people  now  reside  in  a  country  other  than  the
one where they were born, and people continue to risk
their  lives  in  search  of  opportunity  in  wealthier
countries.  The  vast  majority  of  migrants  are  making
meaningful  contributions.  In  some  cases,  however,
migration  gives  rise  to  economic,  political  and  social
tensions.
And  we  have  yet  to  achieve  universal  access  to
vitally needed reproductive health services  and  family
A/59/PV.30
planning,  which  we  must  do  if  we  are  to  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals and advance the status
of  women.  Instead,  too  many  women  and  girls  go
without,  leading  to  unplanned  or  mistimed  births  that
keep  families  in  poverty,  threaten  maternal  and  child
health, and increase the rate at which girls drop out of
school.  And 
of  widespread
discrimination  and  violence  against  women  and  girls
also  helps  to  perpetuate  the  vicious  circle  of  poverty
and poor health.
persistence 
the 
It is only a little more than a generation since the
international community collectively started addressing
population  and  development  issues.  While  much  has
been  achieved  and  much  has  been  learned,  there  have
also been shortfalls and gaps. In the coming years and
decades, we can and must go much further.
The  regional  review  meetings  that  have  taken
place  during  the  past  two  years  have  shown  strong
support  for  the  Cairo  consensus  in  all  parts  of  the
world.  Civil  society  is  also  deeply  engaged,  including
through such initiatives as the world leaders’ statement
that  was  formally  presented  to  the  United  Nations
yesterday. And our  commemoration here today  should
contribute  to  preparations  for  the  important  events
planned for the next year: the 10-year reviews of both
the Beijing and Copenhagen conferences and the five-
year review of the Millennium Declaration.
I  hope  Governments  are  ready  to  forge  closer
partnerships  and  provide  the  necessary  resources,
notably  to  the  United  Nations  agencies  that  do  such
important  work  on  the  ground,  helping  people  to
improve  their  daily  lives.  As  we  commemorate  the
tenth  anniversary  of  the  International  Conference  on
Population and Development, I would like to commend
the United Nations Population Fund for its tireless and
brave  efforts  in  advancing  the  Cairo  agenda.  As  we
look  ahead,  I  urge  you  to  overcome  your  remaining
differences  on  sensitive  issues,  reaffirm  your  full
commitment 
International  Conference  on
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  Programme  of
Action  and  intensify  our  common  work  towards  a
world of development and well-being for all.
the 
to 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  accordance
with  the  decision  taken  earlier  and  without  setting  a
precedent, I give the floor to the Executive Director of
the United Nations Population Fund for an introductory
statement.
3
A/59/PV.30
Ms. Obaid (United Nations Population Fund): It
gives me great pleasure to address this commemoration
of the tenth anniversary of the International Conference
on Population and Development (ICPD).
turning  point 
Cairo  was  a 
in  development
thinking,  as  it  put  the  focus  where  it  should  be:  on
improving  the  quality  of  life  of  all  people,  no  matter
where  they  happen  to  be  born  and  whether  they  are
women  or  men.  It  put  the  focus  on  protecting  human
rights  and  the  natural  resources  on  which  all  life
depends and bringing our world into greater balance. It
recognized that what happens in one part of the world
affects  what  happens  on  the  other  side,  and  that
migration, 
and
sustainable development are all interconnected.
urbanization, 
poverty 
ageing, 
information  and  services 
All  over  the  world,  in  every  region,  people  are
demanding 
to  prevent
HIV/AIDS and unwanted pregnancy. In every country,
an  increasing  number  of  women  are  speaking  out
against  the  violence  they  face  in  their  lives,  and  a
growing  number  of  men  are  standing  by  their  sides
demanding  that  justice  be  served.  Today  as  never
before,  young  women  are  refusing  to  be  victims  of
genital  cutting,  and  in  more  and  more  cases,  their
parents  and  communities  are  supporting  them  in  this
choice.  Young  people  who 
this  global
information  age  are  demanding  that  they  be  let  out  of
the dark when it comes to information and services to
protect  their  reproductive  health  and  exercise  their
reproductive rights.
live 
in 
Issues  that  were  sensitive  at  the  time  of  the
conference  in  Cairo  are  now  matters  of  open  public
debate.  Never  before,  for  instance,  has  there  been  so
much discussion and outrage about the sexual violence
that  women  face  in  conflict  situations.  There  is
agreement that much more needs to be done to address
these  massive  violations  of  human  rights.  Indeed,  the
time  that  has  passed  since  the  adoption  of  the  ICPD
Programme  of  Action  has  only  confirmed  its  deep
relevance  and vision. For this, much  credit  belongs  to
the  Secretary-General  of  the  ICPD,  Ms.  Nafis  Sadiq,
my  predecessor  as  the  Executive  Director  of  UNFPA.
Today,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  Dr.  Sadiq,  who
was  and  remains  a  tireless  champion  of  the  Cairo
agenda.
The  agenda  is  built  on  a  simple  premise:  that
providing 
and
reproductive  health  services  and  promoting  women’s
education 
universal 
access 
to 
4
families  now 
individuals  and 
If  Governments  make 
empowerment  will  reduce  gender  inequality  and  poor
health,  and  help  break  the  cycle  of  poverty  in  which
millions  of 
find
these  critical
themselves. 
investments  in  people,  and  use  population  data  and
policies, not to count people but to make people count,
then  a  chain  reaction  will  occur,  leading  to  concrete
progress  that  is  not  only  measured  by  scientists,  but
most importantly, by individuals as they go about their
daily lives.
The  links  in  this  chain  reaction  are  increased
choices  and  opportunities,  increased  knowledge  and
freedom from fear and ignorance, increased health and
productivity and the enhanced ability of individuals to
take  control  over  their  lives  and  their  futures.  This  is
what  empowerment  is  all  about,  and  this  gives  real
meaning to the term “sustainable human development”.
The  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  is  a  global
Programme  based  on  universal  ethical  principles  that
reinforce  human  dignity  and  encourage  the  fulfilment
of  human  aspirations.  As 
in
implementing  this  agenda,  UNFPA  is  committed  to
those  human  rights,  and  we  are  taking  a  culturally
sensitive  approach  to  programme  development  and
implementation.  Such  an  approach  does  not  enforce
solutions, but engages the concerned communities in a
process of dialogue, so that they can reach out, out of
their  own  positive  values  and  institutions,  and  bring
about  the  change  that  is  necessary  to  implement  the
Programme of Action.
lead  agency 
the 
We should be proud of the progress that has been
made in implementing the ICPD Programme of Action
during  the  past  ten  years.  Yesterday,  an  incredible
roster  of  supporters  of  the  Cairo  agenda  from  across
sectors  and  regions  of  the  world  was  presented  to  the
United  Nations.  The  support  provided  through  the
world  leaders’  statement  complements  the  renewed
commitment  expressed  by  the  world’s  Governments
and peoples in the regional meetings convened over the
past  two  years  in  preparation  for  the  tenth  year
anniversary. From Asia to Africa, from Europe to Latin
America,  Governments  have  reaffirmed  their  support
of  the  Programme  of  Action,  taken  stock  of  the
progress to date and identified priorities for the future.
However,  while  we  celebrate  our  achievements,
we  must  also  be  realistic.  We  continue  to  face  key
challenges,  which  must  be  urgently  addressed.  We
must  rise  to  the  challenge  of  expanding  the  reach  of
services and programmes to reach all people, especially
the  poorest,  the  young  and  the  most  marginalized.
Where  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  has  been
implemented, we know it is working. We know how to
reduce  maternal  and  child  mortality,  we  know  how  to
reach young people so they can protect their health and
lead  productive  lives,  we  know  how  to  prevent  HIV
infection,  and  we  know  how  to  bring  about  safe
motherhood.
the 
reach 
of 
these 
However, 
effective
interventions  is  limited  by  a  lack  of  human  and
financial  resources.  We  must  mobilize  the  necessary
political  will  to  provide  the  necessary  resources.  We
have to involve more sectors and reach out to ministers
of finance, so that sufficient domestic and international
resources are allocated for population and reproductive
health.
fail 
to  achieve 
Allow me to conclude my statement today with a
warning.  If  greater  action  is  not  taken  to  fully
implement the ICPD Programme of Action, we will not
only  miss  the  opportunity  to  achieve  the  ICPD  goals,
we  will  also 
the  Millennium
Development Goals. Together, we must ensure that the
ICPD agenda is fully reflected in the 2005 Millennium
Declaration  review  process.  Ten  years  ago, 
the
Governments  of  the  world  made  a  promise  to  bring
about  reproductive  health  for  all  by  the  year  2015.
Today,  I  call  upon  all  leaders  to  live  up  to  this
commitment and to keep the promises they made in the
great city of Cairo ten years ago.
(spoke 
in  French):  Before
proceeding  further,  I  should  like  to  turn  to  some
organizational matters pertaining to the conduct of the
meeting.  Members  are  reminded  that  the  list  of
speakers  on  this  item  will  be  closed  this  morning  at
10.55 a.m.
The  President 
I see no objection, it is so decided.
Next, we turn to the length of statements. In my
to  all  permanent
letter  dated  11  October  2004 
representatives,  I  urged  all  speakers  to  limit  their
statements  in  the  debate  to  five  to  seven  minutes,  in
order  to  allow  the  Assembly  to  hear  all  the  speakers
today.  In  view  of  the  large  number  of  delegations
already  inscribed  on  my  list  —  and  there  are  65  so
far —  I  therefore  appeal  to  speakers  to  cooperate  in
this respect.
A/59/PV.30
To assist speakers in managing their time, a light
system  has  been  installed  at  the  speaker’s  rostrum
which  functions  as  follows:  a  green  light  will  be
activated  at  the  start  of  the  speaker’s  statement;  an
orange  light  will  be  activated  30  seconds  before  the
end  of  the  seven  minutes;  and  a  red  light  will  be
activated when the seven minute limit has elapsed.
Mr.  Al-Mahmoud  (Qatar)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
would  like  to  thank  you  for  giving  me  the  chance  to
speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  in  the
Assembly.
that  form 
individuals 
these  basic  events  produce 
Population  issues  encompass  the  most  basic
concerns of human existence. It is the birth, death and
migration  of 
the  essential
components  of  demographic  dynamics.  For  whole
societies, 
rates  of
population  increase  or  decrease  and  form  the  age
structure  of  population  and  the  geographic  pattern  of
human settlements. These patterns have their influence
on  the  social,  economic,  political  and  environmental
issues that are central to the realization of the goals of
sustainable development.
those  related 
To  address  these  concerns  in  a  comprehensive
manner,  the  International  Conference  on  Population
and  Development  (ICPD)  was  convened  in  Cairo  in
1994. The Conference adopted a Programme of Action
that  addresses  the  full  range  of  population  issues,
especially 
to  economic  and  social
development.  The  Programme  of  Action  identified
qualitative  and  quantitative  goals  in  a  number  of  key
areas, including universal access to the knowledge and
means 
reproductive  health;  goals
regarding education, especially for girls; gender equity
and  equality;  mortality  and  health,  stressing  infant,
child  and  maternal  mortality;  and  combating  the
emerging  epidemic  of  HIV/AIDS.  Above  all,  the
Programme  emphasized 
the
the  need 
resources required to meet those goals.
for  achieving 
to  provide 
The  Programme  of  Action  is  not  just  a  set  of
goals;  it  sets  out  a  road  map  of  practical  policy  and
programmatic actions and the ways to reach each goal
with specified time-bound targets. After 10 years, there
is  a  need  to  review  the  progress  made  so  far  and
identify the areas that require further work.
World  population  reached  6.4  billion  persons  in
2004.  The  current  average  annual  growth  rate  of
population is 1.3 per cent, significantly lower than the
rate  of  1.7  per  cent  during  the  period  from  1975  to
5
A/59/PV.30
1990.  Although  there  has  been  significant  gain  in  the
universal reduction of fertility, the progress is uneven.
While  100  out  of  192  countries  have  met  the  goal
contained  in  the  Programme  of  Action  of  a  life
expectancy at birth greater than 70 years in the period
2000  to  2005,  36  countries,  mainly  in  Africa,  remain
with  life  expectancies  at  birth  lower  than  50  years.
Progress  is  by  no  means  uniform,  as  many  countries
have witnessed a stagnation of mortality improvement,
if  not  a  decline  in  life  expectancy.  The  causes  are
related  to  socio-economic  transformations,  the  re-
emergence  of  diseases  such  as  malaria,  tuberculosis
and  cholera,  and 
the  HIV/AIDS
epidemic.
impact  of 
the 
The  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  continues  to  expand
throughout  the  world,  erasing  decades  of  social  and
economic progress and producing a devastating impact
on  population  in  terms  of  increased  morbidity  and
mortality. For some countries, the demographic impact
of  AIDS  is  enormous.  This  has  serious  consequences
for  their  development  prospects,  as  they  are  losing
people in the most productive times of their lives.
Since the ICPD in 1994, migration has become a
major issue of concern for the international community.
As  of  mid-2000,  approximately  175  million  persons
resided  in  countries  other  than  where  they  were  born.
The  ICPD  Programme  of  Action  accorded  particular
importance 
the  basic  rights  of  migrants  and
encouraged  more  cooperation  and  dialogue  between
countries of origin and countries of destination in order
to  maximize  the  benefits  of  international  migration.
Unfortunately, 
curb
immigration  have  also  resulted  in  violations  of  the
basic rights of immigrants.
developments 
recent 
to 
to 
In this respect, the Programme of Action adopted
at ICPD stipulates, in paragraph 10.29, the following:
“The  problems  of  refugees  and  displaced
persons  arising  from  forced  migration,  including
their  right  to  repatriation,  should  be  settled  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  principles  of  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, other international
instruments 
relevant  United  Nations
resolutions.”
The  Group  of  77  and  China  call 
for  a
comprehensive  arrangement  to  address  all  aspects  of
the  issue  of  international  migration.  The  Group  looks
forward to the high-level dialogue on this issue in 2006
and 
6
and  hopes  that  it  will  help  in  forging  greater  global
consensus  on 
international
migration and protecting the rights of all immigrants.
issues  pertaining 
to 
established 
In  the  key  areas  of  reproductive  health,  many
health
countries  have 
programmes, 
including  family  planning,  expanded
access to these programmes and improved their quality.
Nevertheless, millions still lack access to the means of
achieving reproductive health.
reproductive 
The  Programme  of  Action  also  called  for  an
increased  national  capacity  to  enhance  primary  health
care  and  maternal  and  child  health  delivery  networks.
Many countries have made progress in this area but the
pace is slow and there is a need for new impetus.
Infant  and  child  mortality  rates  have  improved,
but 62 developing countries, accounting for 35 per cent
of the world’s population will not meet the goal of an
infant mortality rate of 50 deaths per 1,000 live births
for the period 2000 to 2005. There are still gaps in the
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  and  this
will  have  dire  implications  for  the  realization  of
development  goals,  particularly 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
The  Programme  of  Action  recommended  time-
bound  targets  on  resource  mobilization  —  $17  billion
by the year 2000 and $18.5 billion by 2005. Despite a
steady  but  slow  increase  in  resources  for  population
activities in the last  10  years,  the  target  of  mobilizing
$17 billion was not met; similarly,  attaining the target
of  $18.5  billion  by  2005  remains  a  challenge  for  the
entire world.
In  conclusion  resource  gaps  are  especially  large
in  poor  countries,  and  the  least  developed  countries
depend  entirely  on  official  development  assistance
(ODA). Unless new, additional and sustained resources
are provided to developing countries, it is unlikely that
most  of  the  goals  and  targets  of  the  Programme  of
Action will be met. Instead, there will be a worsening
of  the  population  and  reproductive  health  situation  in
many  poor  countries.  The  need 
the
internationally  agreed 
target  of  0.7  per  cent  of
countries’  gross  domestic  product  allocated  for  ODA
and  to  fulfil  the  commitments  made  at  Monterrey  is
most urgent.
reach 
to 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  believe  that  this
year’s review should lead to a renewed commitment to
the  goals  of  the  Programme  of  Action.  This  issue
to  be  held  next  year,  as 
should also receive high priority at the 2005 high-level
event 
the  Millennium
Development Goals cannot be achieved without the full
implementation of the ICPD goals.
The members of the Group  remain  committed  to
those goals and will make every effort to achieve them
on  time.  We  hope  the  international  community  will
extend its full support to the Group’s efforts to achieve
those goals.
Mr.  Van  den  Broeck  (Netherlands):  I  have  the
honour  to  take  the  floor  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union.  The  candidate  countries  Bulgaria,  Croatia,
Romania and Turkey, the countries of the Stabilization
and  Association  Process  and  potential  candidates
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav
Republic  of  Macedonia  and  Serbia  and  Montenegro,
and  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  countries
Iceland  and  Liechtenstein,  members  of  the  European
Economic Area, align themselves with this statement.
In  view  of  the  long  list  of  speakers  and  the
limited  time  available,  I  will  not  read  out  all  of  my
statement. The full text will, however, be distributed in
the Hall.
We  are  now  at  the  halfway  stage  on  the  journey
that  started  10  years  ago  in  Cairo.  The  International
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD)
was a landmark event in the history of people-centred
development, human freedom and the emancipation of
the individual. The ICPD Programme of Action takes a
rights-based approach in which the well-being and free
choice  of  individuals  —  rather  than  the  population
targets set by policy planners  — are key. In 1994, the
individual freed himself or herself from the population
planners  and  took  centre  stage,  saying,  “I  am  not  a
number; I have rights; and my choice is my own”.
of 
human 
the  case, 
The  Programme  of  Action  is  firmly  rooted  in
principles 
development,  women’s
empowerment and gender equality and in the needs and
rights  of  individuals,  including  young  people.  As  is
often 
responsibility  breed
prosperity.  When  couples  and  individuals  are  enabled
to make a free and informed choice about the number,
timing  and  spacing  of  their  children,  families  are
smaller  and  population  growth  is  slower,  contributing
to  economic  growth,  sustainable  development  and
poverty reduction.
liberty  and 
A/59/PV.30
session  of 
In a series of regional conferences and during the
thirty-seventh 
the  United  Nations
Commission  on  Population  and  Development,  all
marking  10  years  since 
the  ICPD,  Governments
the  world 
throughout 
their
have 
commitment 
the  Programme  of  Action.  The
to 
worldwide  consensus  continues  to  be  both  universal
and strong.
reaffirmed 
But  we  have  not  done  enough.  At  all  times  we
should remember the human beings who have died on
our  watch  during  the  past  10  years  whose  lives  we
could  have  saved  by 
the
commitments  we  made.  They  did  nothing  to  deserve
that, but we have not done enough to prevent it. Let us
be  clear:  up  to  now,  we  —  donors  and  programme
countries  alike  —  have  collectively  failed  to  deliver.
And that is why we failed those people.
living  up 
fully 
to 
Women,  in  particular,  bear  the  burden.  Is  it
because  they  are  women,  whose  deaths  and  ill-health
happen  in  silence  and  out  of  sight?  Would  it  be
different  if  they  were  men?  Still  today,  in  our  age  of
unprecedented  prosperity,  one  woman  dies  during
pregnancy  and  childbirth  every  minute.  That  is  a
double  tragedy,  given  that  millions  of  children  each
year are left without mothers.
Today  is  the  day  that  we  must  reinvigorate  our
commitment.  The  ICPD  gave  us  a  Programme  of
Action,  not  a  programme  of  intention.  If  we  are  to
translate  our  commitment  to  the  achievement  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  into  concrete  results
by  2015,  we  must  dedicate  ourselves  to  the  complete
and improved implementation of the Cairo Programme
of Action. The way to 2015 leads through Cairo.
Before moving ahead, we must look back on the
first  part  of  our  journey  to  see  where  we  stand.
Although our actions have fallen behind our intentions,
progress  has  been  made.  For  example,  important
progress  has  been  made  towards  the  ICPD  goal  of
universal  access  to  reproductive  health  services  by
2015. The use of modern contraception has risen from
55  per  cent  of  couples  in  1994  to  61  per  cent  today.
The  increased  use  of  family  planning  has  contributed
to  the  reduction  in  global  fertility,  with  a  consequent
decline in the annual population growth rate to 1.3 per
cent.
Governments  embrace  the  ICPD  Programme  of
realizing
Action  as  an  essential  blueprint 
development  goals.  Ninety  per  cent  of  countries
for 
7
A/59/PV.30
took 
reporting 
legislative,  policy  or  programme
measures to promote reproductive health and rights, to
protect  the  rights  of  women  and  girls,  to  address
gender-based  violence,  to  reduce  the  gender  gap  in
education and to increase women’s participation.
into 
integrated  population  concerns 
Nearly  all  of  the  developing  countries  reporting
have 
their
development policies and strategies, mostly to address
the 
interaction  of  population  and  poverty.  Three
quarters  of  countries  reported  having  a  national
strategy on HIV/AIDS. One third said they had specific
strategies aimed at high-risk groups. New partnerships,
including  public-private  partnerships,  have  been
formed,  and  the  commitment  of  civil  society  in  the
form  of  non-governmental  organizations  and  trade
unions has been recognized.
However,  we  cannot  afford  to  be  complacent.
Now, 10 years on, the Programme is more relevant than
ever.  We  believe,  in  particular,  that  we  face  the
following challenges.
First,  as  I  stressed  earlier,  maternal  mortality
remains  stubbornly  high.  There  is  no  more  telling
manifestation  of  gender  inequity  than  the  death  of  a
woman  from 
the  complications  of  pregnancy  or
childbirth.  Complications  from  unsafe  abortions  are  a
major  cause  of  maternal  morbidity  and  mortality,
especially  among  young,  poor  and  rural  women.
Millions of women survive childbirth but suffer illness
and  disability.  The  empowerment  of  women,  families
and  communities,  and  the  encouragement  of  a  shared
sense  of  responsibility  for  pregnancy,  are  central  to
addressing  the  political,  socio-economic  and  cultural
factors  that  so  often  prevent  women  from  receiving
good-quality care.
the 
facing 
Secondly,  we  are 
scourge  of
HIV/AIDS.  At  the  time  of  the  Cairo  Conference,  20
million  people  were  infected  with  HIV.  Today,  that
number  has  doubled.  Some  14,000  people  become
infected  with HIV every day, and the vast  majority  of
those  infections  are  transmitted  sexually.  Yet  sexual
transmission  can  be  avoided.  Condoms  constitute  a
simple and affordable, yet life-saving commodity. The
fight  against  HIV/AIDS  cannot  succeed  without  the
universal  provision  of  comprehensive  reproductive
health  services.  People  at  highest  risk  and  most
vulnerable  to  HIV  infection,  such  as  young  people,
men who have sex with men, injecting drug users and
sex  workers,  deserve  our  attention.  Just  like  anyone
8
else, they should be provided with adequate sexual and
reproductive health services, offered without stigma or
blame,  based  on  a  full  recognition  of  their  rights  and
tailored to the realities of their lives.
responsible,  potentially 
Thirdly, the largest generation of young people in
history,  1  billion  strong,  is  now  aged  between  15  and
25 years — they are just entering reproductive life. In a
world battered by HIV/AIDS, they must have access to
reliable information services and supplies if they are to
make 
life-saving  choices.
Almost  half  of  all  new  HIV  infections  occur  among
people  younger  than  25.  It  is  a  fact  of  life  that  some
young people will have sexual relations. We must have
the  courage  to  speak  of  the  everyday  reality  of
sexuality  and  provide  young  people  with 
the
information  they  need.  It  is  not  just  the  right  of
adolescents to be informed; information is essential to
survive. And nowadays silence means death.
Fourthly,  there  is  an  alarming  shortfall  in  the
supply  of  reproductive  health  commodities.  Over  the
past  ten  years,  donor  support  for  reproductive  health
supplies,  including  contraceptives  for  family  planning
and condoms for HIV prevention, has declined. In sub-
Saharan  Africa,  donors  provide  an  average  of  4.6
condoms per man per year. Based on an analysis of 49
countries, 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund
(UNFPA) estimates that the financial shortfall in 2004
amounts  to  $75  million.  The  real  shortfall  is  likely  to
be  triple  that  amount.  Without  the  means  to  exercise
them, rights are meaningless.
to 
inequality 
implementation  of 
Fifthly,  gender 
the 
is  a  continuing
impediment 
the  Cairo
Programme  of  Action  and  an  important  contributing
factor to high maternal mortality ratios and the spread
of HIV/AIDS. Many countries have introduced laws on
gender-based  violence,  but 
these  are  often  not
enforced. Efforts promoting women’s advancement are
often  susceptible  to  budget  cuts.  In  order  to  improve
the status of women, we should, for instance, eliminate
gender gaps in education, increase access to sexual and
reproductive  health  information  and  services,  reduce
discrimination in employment, property ownership and
inheritance and stop gender-based violence.
Sixthly, 
the  complex  challenges  of  ageing
populations,  the  long-term  sustainability  of  pension
systems  and 
internal
migration  and  integration  of  diverse  populations  —
international  and 
issues  of 
also, by the way, part and parcel of the Cairo agenda —
are fully recognized by the EU.
sector  also  has  a  crucial  role  to  play.  Development  is
everybody’s business.
A/59/PV.30
Finally,  reproductive  health  needs  in  conflict
situations  demand  our  attention.  As  a  consequence  of
armed  conflict  and  natural  disaster,  all  the  wrongs  of
society  are  magnified.  One  quarter  of  the  world’s
refugees are women of reproductive age; one in five of
these women is likely to be pregnant. The ICPD drew
attention to the reproductive health needs of people in
crisis  situations.  More  deaths  occur  worldwide  from
preventable complications of pregnancy and childbirth
than from starvation.
As we all know, facing such daunting challenges
requires financial means. That costs money. And that is
why  it  is  essential  that  we  all  live  up  to  the  financial
commitments we made. The numbers 0.7 per cent, the
official development assistance (ODA) promise; and 4
per  cent,  the  ICPD  target  of  allocating  4  per  cent  of
ODA to sexual and reproductive health and rights and
to  population  issues,  will  all  sound  familiar  in  this
context.  Almost  all  of  us,  developed  countries  in
particular, but also developing countries, have failed to
live up to our promises in that regard. However, some
have  done  so  because  they  were  not  willing;  others,
because  they were not able.  The  EU  is  making  steady
progress  in  fulfilling  its  commitment  on  the  ODA
target  announced  at  the  International  Conference  on
Financing for Development.
it 
But 
is  not  all  about  money.  Political
commitment  also  makes  the  world  go  round.  Beyond
all the celebrations and commemorative  events of this
special year, the Cairo agenda must remain high on our
own political agenda. Political leadership is essential if
we are to effectively address the challenges of the next
decade.
To  address 
the  outstanding 
the
Programme  of  Action  is  a  formidable  challenge  by
itself. Indeed, it is a challenge made more difficult by
attempts by some to roll back the ICPD agenda, but the
ICPD stands as relevant today as it did in 1994.
issues  of 
What we need is a global partnership to improve
the  realities  of  people’s  lives.  All  sectors  of  society
must be involved. Governments cannot and should not
go 
it  alone.  The  efforts  of  non-governmental
organizations,  local  community  groups  and  religious
leaders  are  indispensable.  We  want  to  commend  them
and  ask  them  to  keep  up  the  good  work.  The  private
The  global  partnership  for  ICPD  should  ensure
that 
reproductive  health 
issues  are  adequately
addressed  in  all  development  processes,  ranging  from
poverty  education  strategy  papers 
to  next  year’s
Millennium  Development  Goals  event.  As  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  wisely  stated  in  Bangkok  two
years  ago,  “The  Millennium  Development  Goals,
particularly  the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and
hunger,  cannot  be  achieved  if  questions  of  population
and  reproductive  health  are  not  squarely  addressed”.
The  EU  stresses  that  these  issues  must,  therefore,  be
included  in  the  review  of  the  Millennium  Declaration
in  September  2005  and  in  the  Secretary-General’s
reports on progress made in achieving the Millennium
Development Goals.
to 
the  EU 
the  Commission  of 
I  am  proud  to  announce  that  the  25  member
States  and 
intend
collectively  to  fill 
the  entire  reproductive  health
commodities  gap  of  $75  million  in  2004  through  a
special  contribution 
the  UNFPA  Reproductive
Health  Commodity  fund.  The  analytical  work  of  the
UNFPA  has  demonstrated  that  reproductive  health
services  are  some  of  the  most  cost-effective  health
interventions.  A  million  dollars  in  reproductive  health
commodities will avoid the following human tragedies:
360,000  unintended  pregnancies;  150,000 
induced
abortions;  800  maternal  deaths;  11,000  infant  deaths;
and 14,000 deaths of children under five years of age.
After  this  Assembly  session,  we  again  go  home
with  our  work  cut  out  for  us.  After  today,  the  Cairo
agenda  must  remain  high  on  the  international  agenda.
There  is  still  plenty  of  work  to  do  and  there  are  still
plenty  of  goals  to  achieve.  Someone  once  said  that
goals are dreams with deadlines. We can translate these
dreams into reality during this generation. The recipe is
simple,  the  message  is  clear  —  less  ideology,  more
reality; less lip service and more money. Our deadline
is 2015.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before  giving
the floor to the next speaker, I would like to remind the
Assembly  that  we  must  end  our  discussion  today.  We
already  have  an  evening  meeting  planned,  so  if
everyone is going to have an opportunity to speak, and
if  we  are  to  finish  our  work  tonight,  I  would  ask
speakers  to  observe  the  time  limit  for  making  their
statements.
9
A/59/PV.30
I now call on the representative of Barbados, who
the  Caribbean
will  be  speaking  on  behalf  of 
Community (CARICOM).
Mr.  Hackett
(Barbados):  At 
the  outset,
Mr. President,  let  me  thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General, Madame Louise Fréchette, and the Executive
Director  of 
the  United  Nations  Population  Fund
(UNFPA),  Mrs.  Thoraya  Obaid,  for  their  introductory
remarks.
the  statement  delivered  by 
I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) member States of
the  United  Nations  on  this  agenda.  We  fully  associate
ourselves  with 
the
delegation  of  Qatar  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and
China.  We  would,  however,  like  to  provide  some
perspectives  of  the  progress  being  made  in  achieving
the goals and objectives of the Programme of Action of
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development (ICPD) that are unique to the CARICOM
countries.
report  of 
The  2004 
the  United  Nations
Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs  on  the
review and appraisal of the progress made in achieving
the goals and objectives of the Programme of Action of
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development (ICPD) clearly states that much progress
has  been  made  during  the  last  10  years.  Population
growth  has  been  slowed,  the  world  has  experienced
some  reduction  in  fertility  and  infant  mortality  has
been reduced. In the case of the CARICOM countries,
most have been experiencing a reduction in population
growth, as well as a reduction in infant mortality, going
even beyond the ICPD interim goals.
These achievements have been made largely as a
result of national policies that have been put in place in
many of the countries. In these policies, emphasis has
been  placed  on  improving  the  quality  of  life  of  their
populations, 
of
programmes  to  alleviate  poverty,  provide  adequate
health  services  — 
reproductive  health
services  —  adequate  nutrition,  and  the  development
and  enhancement  of  the  status  of  women,  including
ensuring the protection of their human rights.
implementation 
including 
through 
the 
A  rights-based  approach  to  health  has  been
adopted, particularly in respect of reproductive health,
and  the  CARICOM  countries  have  supported  the
implementation of programmes that make health care a
right for all. Indeed, the right to health care is regarded
10
as a fundamental right without which none of the other
rights can easily be achieved. Through programmes on
reproductive  health  and  education,  efforts  have  been
made to bring men and women together to build greater
awareness of gender and reproductive-health matters.
A phenomenon in many Caribbean societies is the
increasingly  high  percentage  of  elderly  people  among
their populations. As a result of improvements in living
conditions, countries in the Caribbean are experiencing
changes  in  the  age  structure  of  their  populations,  and
we  are  observing  an  increase  in  life  expectancy  rates
and hence an increase in the number of older persons.
This  demographic  trend  has  become  a  matter  for
concern for almost all of the countries of the subregion
and  has  necessitated  an  assessment  of  the  capacity  of
countries to provide basic social services such as health
care  and  social  security  to  meet  the  needs  of  the
increasing number of older persons. Based on national
policies  on  ageing,  however,  some  programmes  are
already  in  place  to  provide  social  services  to  the
elderly.
Faced  with  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  and  its
impact,  particularly  on  youth,  in  the  Caribbean,  many
Governments  have  introduced  strategies  designed  to
support  the  capacity  of  the  education  and  health-care
systems, with a particular focus on reproductive health.
They have also sought to  establish national guidelines
for prevention, treatment and care, and to eliminate the
stigma  and  discrimination  against  people  living  with
HIV/AIDS.  Another  area  of  attention  has  been  the
promotion and defence of the human rights of girls and
women  by  making  them  less  vulnerable  to  sexual
violence,  thereby  enhancing  their  capacity  to  protect
themselves from infection.
the 
On  the  issue  of  migration,  one  of  the  most
dominant issues over the last 10-year review period has
been 
increasing  number  of  emigrant  retirees
returning  to  their  countries  of  origin  after  spending
significant  periods  of  time  overseas,  both  in  Europe
and  in  North  America.  This  has  led  to  the  need  for
Governments to put in place policies, programmes and
resources to respond to the needs of that specific group
of the population, given the impact of the dynamics of
on 
population  movement 
socio-economic
conditions of island countries.
the 
There  is  also  a  direct  linkage  between  the  goals
the  Millennium
the  ICPD  and  a  number  of 
those
of 
Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  particularly 
relating  to  achieving  universal  primary  education,
promoting  gender  equality,  reducing  child  mortality,
improving  maternal  health,  and  halting  and  reversing
the spread of HIV/AIDS. We believe that the progress
that has been made in the implementation of the ICPD
decisions  will  contribute  to  achieving  a  number  of
these MDGs as we approach the year 2015.
Indeed,  we  would  argue  that  the  eradication  of
extreme  poverty  and  hunger, 
the
Millennium Development Goals, cannot be achieved if
questions of population and reproductive health are not
fully addressed.
first  of 
the 
levels  of 
the  varying 
Despite the progress that has been achieved in the
implementation  of 
the  Programme  of  Action  by
CARICOM  countries,  a  number  of  constraints  have
affected  the  pace  and  level  of  implementation.  These
the  availability  of  financial  and  human
include 
resources  and 
institutional
capacity of the countries of the subregion. We therefore
see  a  need  for  continuous  and  additional  resources,  in
line with the commitments made by countries in Cairo
10 years ago, in order to ensure the full achievement of
the  ICPD  goals.  Such  resources  will  also  help  to
strengthen  the  institutional  capacity  of  many  of  our
countries. 
In  addition,  partnership  arrangements
between  government,  the  private  sector  and  civil
society,  as  well  as 
regional  and
international  level,  did  not  materialize  to  the  degree
needed  to  lead  to  a  significantly  higher  level  of
implementation.  We  will  certainly  do  more  to  work
with  partners  to  ensure  that  reproductive  health  and
population 
into
national  development  plans  and  that  the  partners
themselves understand the important role that they can
play.
issues  are  more  fully 
integrated 
those  at 
the 
the  ICPD, 
the  United  Nations  would 
CARICOM  countries  are  generally  quite  pleased
with the progress that has been achieved. On this tenth
the  CARICOM  States
anniversary  of 
Members  of 
to
compliment  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund  for
leading  the  global  effort  in  the  implementation  of  the
Cairo  Agenda.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the
further implementation of the Programme of Action in
the  years  to  come.  That  commitment  has  best  been
expressed  by  the  support  of  a  number  of  heads  of
Government of the region for the leadership statement
of the ICPD.
like 
A/59/PV.30
Ms. Sahlin (Sweden): Let me first underline that
the
the  statement  by 
itself  with 
Sweden  aligns 
Netherlands.
(ICPD),  held 
at  Cairo,  was 
The  International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development 
a
groundbreaking event. Issues that used to be taboo are
today  on  the  international  agenda,  in  particular  sexual
and  reproductive  health  and  rights.  Unfortunately,  the
international  community  is  not  providing  sufficient
political support or funding to achieve the ICPD goals.
Implementation  of  the  Cairo  Agenda  is  indispensable
for achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The Swedish Government recently decided that it
will achieve its own goal of allocating 1 per cent of its
gross  national 
income 
to  official  development
assistance by the year 2006.
My  Government  fully  supports  the  work  of  the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA).  While  the
Organization has lost important financial support from
other  donors  such  as  the  United  States  of  America,
Sweden  has  continued  to  increase  its  contribution  to
the  Fund.  Next  year  we  will  continue  to  increase  our
support,  with  an  additional  $11  million.  Sweden  also
supports  the  invaluable  work  of  the  International
Planned  Parenthood  Federation  (IPPF)  and  other  civil
society  organizations.  Without  them,  we  would  not
have come this far, and we will not succeed in reaching
our goals without them.
I would like very briefly and also very openly to
highlight  seven  areas  of  concern.  First,  all  people
should  be  able  to  have  a  satisfying  and  safe  sex  life.
We,  especially 
shoulder  our
responsibility to speak openly about these issues.
the  States,  must 
Secondly,  young  people  need  to  have  the  means
to  protect  themselves  from  unwanted  pregnancy  and
sexually  transmitted  infections,  including  HIV/AIDS.
They need sex education as well as condoms and other
contraceptives.  Too  many  actors 
today  promote
abstinence  only.  For  many  girls  and  women,  that
message  is  not  enough,  in  view  of  the  too-often-
prevailing  perception  of  women’s  subordination  to
men.  Where  rape  and  other  forms  of  sexual  violence
are widespread, abstention is not an alternative, at least
not for women.
Thirdly,  HIV/AIDS  represents  a  huge  threat  to
development.  We  know  that  80  per  cent  of  all  new
HIV/AIDS infections are spread through unsafe sex. It
11
A/59/PV.30
is thus life-threatening and certainly contrary to a pro-
life  philosophy  to  spread  false  rumours  that  condoms
are  dangerous,  as,  for  instance,  actors  within  the
Vatican are doing.
To be successful, we need to integrate HIV/AIDS
and  the  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights
agendas.  Many  of  the  poorest  women  do  not  have
access to sexual or reproductive health services. Many
women  and  girls  are  infected  due  to  sexual  violence,
but  studies  also  show  that  married  women  are  more
likely  to  be  infected  than  unmarried  women.  In
general, more attention must be paid to the role of boys
and men and to their sexuality.
Focusing  on  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  we
often  forget  the  individuals  behind  the  illness.  An
AIDS-positive woman also has rights — rights to help
her  to  make  responsible  choices.  She  needs  access  to
information, education, health care and services, and to
safe and legal abortions. People living with HIV/AIDS
all 
too  often  suffer  from  discrimination.  Several
countries  prohibit  people  infected  with  HIV/AIDS
from entering their country. Why? I can not understand
that,  since  we  all  know 
is  not
transmitted through the air.
that  HIV/AIDS 
Fourthly,  gender  equality,  which  includes  men’s
responsibility,  is  crucial  in  our  common  struggle.
Women  are  still  being  discriminated  against  just
because  we  are  women.  Women’s  empowerment  is  a
key 
sexual  and
reproductive  health  and  rights.  As  long  as  there  is  an
imbalance  of  power  between  women  and  men,  we  do
not have fully democratic societies.
securing  women’s 
factor 
for 
Fifthly,  we  must  improve  maternal  health.  The
goal of decreasing maternal mortality and morbidity is
very far away. Every day more than 400 women die —
I repeat,  every  day  more  than  400  women  die  —  as  a
result  of 
illegal,  unsafe  abortions.  The  Swedish
Government  will  continue  to  argue  that  every  woman
should  have  the  right  to  choose  a  legal  and  safe
abortion, to decide over her own body.
Sixthly,  once  again,  all  people  should  be  able  to
have  a  satisfying  and  safe  sex  life  and  in  all  people  I
include  women,  lesbians,  gay  men,  bisexuals  and
transgender  persons.  Therefore  I’m  very  sad  that
women’s  sexual  actions  as  well  as,  for  example,
lesbians’  and  gay  men’s  sexual  actions  are  often
punished 
is  also  often
sanctioned or condoned by the State.
in  different  ways.  This 
12
Seventh,  persons  with  disabilities  of  course  also
should  enjoy  the  same  sexual  and  reproductive  health
and  rights  as  everyone  else.  The  Vienna  Declaration,
adopted  by  the  World  Conference  on  Human  Rights,
reaffirms  that  “all  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms  are  universal  and  thus  unreservedly  include
persons with disabilities” (A/CONF.157/23).
Finally,  it  is  first  and  foremost  States  that  have
the responsibility to implement decisions of the ICPD.
However,  civil  society  organizations  have  important
roles to play both in implementation on the ground and
advocacy.  We  can  all  learn  from  each  other  and  our
task  will  be  easier  if  we  cooperate.  My  Government
was a strong actor ten years ago  and  I can assure you
that  Sweden  will  continue  to  give  our  full  support  to
the ICPD.
Mr.  de  Silva  (Sri  Lanka):  Let  me  congratulate
you, Sir, on your election as President of this important
session of the General Assembly, and extend to you the
warm best wishes of the Government of Sri Lanka for a
successful stewardship of this meeting.
At  the  outset  I  wish  to  state  that  Sri  Lanka  and
the  Government  of  Her  Excellency  Chandrika
Bandaranaike  Kumaratunga  is  fully  committed  to  the
implementation  of  the  International  Conference  on
Population  and  Development  (ICPD)  Programme  of
Action. In this regard, I wish to take the opportunity to
highlight  some  of  our  achievements  in  the  post-ICPD
period, the challenges we face and the way forward in
meeting  both 
the 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
ICPD  and 
During the past decades, Sri Lanka has continued
to consolidate achievements in the fields of population,
development  and  reproductive  health.  That  period  has
also  seen  an  acceleration  of  population  and  socio-
economic  change.  Sri  Lanka  was  one  of  the  first
countries  to  make  an  early  transition  to  adopt  the
concept  of  reproductive  health  and  to  formulate  a
comprehensive  national  policy  on  population  and
reproductive  health.  Based  upon  that  policy,  an  action
plan  was  developed 
implement  population,
development  and  reproductive  health  activities  in  a
broad-based  and  holistic  manner.  The  concept  of  the
well-woman clinic was introduced as far back as 1996.
Although HIV prevalence is relatively low in Sri
Lanka, 
the
potential  threat  that  it  poses,  and  places  high  priority
on  the  prevention  and  control  of  HIV/AIDS  and
is  concerned  about 
the  Government 
to 
sexually transmitted infections in women. A policy on
blood safety was developed in 1999. A comprehensive
social  support  programme  has  been  developed  and
supplemented  with  grant  assistance  from  the  World
Bank and the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis
and  Malaria,  to  prevent  the  spread  of  HIV  among
vulnerable groups.
Sri  Lanka’s  programme  in  the  population  and
development  field  during  the  past  decades  has  been
significant. The rate of population growth has declined
from  1.5  per  cent  in  the  early  1990s,  to  1.1  per  cent
today. Life expectancy at birth for females and males is
comparable  to  that  of  more  developed  countries,  with
75.4 and 70.7 years, respectively. The infant mortality
rate  has  been  reduced  to  13  per  1,000  live  births  and
the  maternal  mortality  rate  ratio  is  about  50  per
100,000 live births.
Per  capita  income  has  continued  to  increase  at  a
steady  pace.  Continued  reliance  on  open  economic
policies  with  a  human  face  and  greater  emphasis  on
human resource development has enabled Sri Lanka to
achieve an average economic growth rate of 5 per cent
during  the  past  decade,  despite  the  armed  conflict  in
the north and east of the country.
Literacy rates are equally high for both males and
females  —  91  per  cent  and  88  per  cent,  respectively.
This  impressive  indicator  has  placed  Sri  Lanka  in  a
unique  position  in  relation  to  other  countries  at  a
similar level of per capita income.
Considerable  progress  has  been  made 
in
improving gender equity and development. With regard
the
to 
institutional  development,  Sri  Lanka  had 
Women’s  Bureau  since  1978,  even  before 
the
Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination  against  Women.  The  Government
adopted  the  National  Women’s  Charter  in  1993  and  a
separate  ministry  for  women’s  affairs  was  established
in  1997.  Gender  focal  points  have  been  appointed  in
sectoral  ministries.  Amendments  to  the  penal  code
have  been  made  to  enhance  the  punishment  for  rape
and  other  forms  of  sexual  abuse  and  violence.
Trafficking of women and children has also been made
a  criminal  offence.  A  child  protection  authority  has
been  established  under  Her  Excellency,  the  President,
to  protect  the  rights  of  the  children,  particularly  with
regard to sexual abuse and trafficking.
A/59/PV.30
A  draft  bill  on  domestic  violence  is  under
consideration  by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers.  A  bill  on
women’s rights and gender policy is being formulated.
In  spite  of  the  progress  made  in  the  field  of
maternal  health,  still,  two  thirds  of  maternal  mortality
and morbidity are due to preventable causes. Although
maternal and childcare services have reached the great
majority of the population, the quality of service needs
improvement.  The  people’s  demand  for  better  quality
service,  is  the  result  of  both  rising  income  and
education  levels  of  the  population.  Although  the
fertility rate is at replacement level, significant fertility
differences  still  exist  between  socio-economic  groups
and between the various geographic areas.
The  goals  of  the  ICPD  Programme  of  Action
require the precondition of good governance and peace.
In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  state  that  the  impact  of  the
armed conflict in the north and east of the country for
nearly  two  decades,  which  resulted  in  a  large  number
of 
the
provisions  of  health  and  reproductive  health  services,
is gradually declining.
internally  displaced  persons  and  strained 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  benefit  of  the  peace
dividend would be widespread and positive. Population
and  development  issues  are  very  much  interrelated.
International  development  that  brings  about  economic
shocks causes adverse effects on developing countries.
That,  in  turn,  affects  the  implementation  of  the
population and reproductive health programmes.
Therefore, I wish to urge  the  international  donor
community  to  increase  their  contributions  to  enable
developing countries to mitigate such  external shocks,
which are beyond our control, to enable population and
reproductive  health  programmes,  including  poverty
alleviation programmes, to be effectively implemented.
We  all  realize  that  in  order  to  consolidate  the
gains that Sri Lanka has achieved thus far and to move
forward  to  face  emerging  challenges  in  the  coming
years,  a  broader  and  deeper  partnership  between  the
Government,  civil  society  and 
international
community  is  essential.  I  wish  to  state  that  Sri  Lanka
has  effectively  and  efficiently  utilized  domestic  and
international  resources 
the  realization  of  our
population and reproductive health goals.
the 
in 
We  are  indeed  grateful  to  the  donor  community
and  in  particular  to  the  United  Nations  Population
Fund  (UNFPA)  for  the  assistance  extended  to  Sri
13
A/59/PV.30
Lanka  to  implement  its  programmes  effectively.  Such
continued  assistance  will  certainly  enable  us  to  meet
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development  goals  and  the  Millennium  Development
Goals during the given time frame.
on 
Population 
Mrs. Argaña (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): It is
an honour for Paraguay to participate in this important
meeting  commemorating  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the
International  Conference 
and
Development  (ICPD).  The  Paraguayan  Government
attaches special importance to the ICPD and follows it
closely, because of its important recommendations and
conclusions  and,  most  importantly,  in  order  to  assess
how far we have come in ten years of implementation.
Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to continue to
make  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  Cairo
Programme  of  Action  on  population  and  development
of 1994, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs),
the regional implementation strategy for Latin America
and  the  Caribbean,  the  Madrid  International  Plan  of
Action  on  Ageing  and 
reached
subsequently at the regional level, such as the Santiago
Declaration, the Puerto Rico consensus and the Mexico
City  consensus,  which  were  endorsed  recently  at  the
thirtieth session of the Economic Commission for Latin
America  and  the  Caribbean  (ECLAC)  held  in  July
2004.
the  agreements 
Regarding 
the  actions  adopted  by  my  own
country  to  this  end,  I  must  mention  that  we  have
ratified  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All
Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) in
1996.  This  international  instrument  has  promoted
genuine  reform  through  the  formulation  of  domestic
legislation  that  meets  international  standards  through
comprehensive  public  policies  with 
a  gender
perspective  and 
through  a  strengthened  national
network  that  encourages  dialogue  and  cooperation
between  governmental  and  non-governmental  sectors.
The 
international  conferences  on  women,  and
especially the Beijing Platform for Action of 1995 and
its follow-up, have also promoted legal and normative
advances  for  gender  equality  and  equity  in  a  national
context of strengthening democracy.
The  strategic  nature  of  the  Cairo  issues  had
already  drawn 
the  Paraguayan
Government  before  the  conference  itself.  Thus,  our
national  constitution  of  1992 
legal
introduced  on
framework  in  which  articles  were 
the  attention  of 
is  a  basic 
14
a 
for 
legal 
reproductive  health,  maternity  and  paternity,  family
planning  and  maternal  and  child  healthcare.  This
provided 
the  State’s
implementation  of  reproductive  health  and  family
planning policies, with the  participation  of  the  private
sector  and  civil  society  organizations  in  providing
education and services.
framework 
It is important to point out that we have had many
advances  in  public  policies  related  to  gender,  but  we
have also confronted setbacks. The  country has health
policies  basically  in  keeping  with  the  conclusions  of
Cairo  and  Beijing.  We  thus  established  the  National
Reproductive  Health  Council  through  a  1994  decree,
which adopted technical standards for pregnancy, natal
and post-natal care, reproductive health and guidelines
for epidemiological monitoring of maternal health and
mortality.  These  are  the  most  important  advances  in
how to strengthen action aimed at the health of women.
Subsequently,  we  adopted 
the  National  Plan  on
reproductive health for 1997 to 2001, which is a post-
Cairo  version,  the  National  Policy  for  comprehensive
healthcare  for  women  and  the  National  Plan  for
comprehensively  addressing  the  issue  of  adolescence.
The  second  National  Plan  for  equal  opportunity  for
women  and  men  for  2003  to  2007,  adopted  by  decree
number 1958 of 2004,  contains  nine  spheres  of  action
and  one  of 
the  comprehensive
healthcare for women, from the standpoint of gender as
a cross-cutting issue. We also have the second National
Plan  on  sexual  and  reproductive  health  for  2003  to
2008, which will contribute to improving the quality of
life  of  our  country’s  population,  to  the  reproductive
rights of individuals and to social and gender equality.
Paraguay has made very important progress in the
struggle  against  violence  in  the  family.  In  1995,  we
ratified,  through  law  number  605,  the  Inter-American
Convention  on 
the  Prevention,  Punishment,  and
Eradication  of  Violence  against  Women.  In  order  to
implement  the  Convention,  we  developed  a  National
Plan  Regarding  Violence  Against  Women,  which  the
State has been implementing since 1996.
them  relates 
to 
We have a National Programme to combat AIDS
and  a  Strategic  Plan  for  2001  to  2004  to  improve  the
quality of life of those infected. While the incidence of
HIV/AIDS in Paraguay is relatively low in comparison
with  other  countries,  there  is  a  steady  increase  in  the
number  of  women  infected.  This  serves  as  a  warning
and  signals  the  need  to  take  specific  action  for
prevention, care and non-discrimination against women
infected with HIV.
in  2001,  of 
the  beginning, 
In  regard  to  the  subject  of  population,  at  the
beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,  there  were  two
important events in the field of demographics. The first
was 
the  process  of
developing  Paraguay’s  population  policy,  which  was
submitted to the National Congress and to other social
sectors in the country for consideration, in the hope of
reaching  the  broadest  possible  consensus  for  its  final
promulgation.  This  was  designed  as  an  instrument  for
short-, medium- and long-term implementation in order
to  empower  the  population  as  a  strategic  resource  to
promote sustainable development. The second was the
National  Population  and  Housing  Census  of  2002,
which  made  it  possible 
to  gather  more  updated
information  on  the  socio-demographic  situation  of  the
country.
In the field of education, I would like to mention
that,  in  1996,  the  Ministry  of  Education  and  Culture
published  the  strategic  plan  for  educational  reform,
entitled  “Paraguay  2020:  Let  us  face  the  educational
challenge”.  This  document  outlines  our  national
educational  policy.  In  1995,  we  established 
the
National  Programme  for  equal  opportunity  and  results
in  education,  with  a  view  to  including  the  gender
component at all levels and in all types of education as
well as in curriculum reform, in educational materials,
in teacher’s training and in the educational community.
In this regard, we succeeded in introducing into teacher
training  programmes  issues  such  as  gender  roles  and
equal treatment in the structure and role of the family,
sexually  transmitted  diseases,  respect  for  cultural  and
religious diversity. Along the same lines, work is being
done  to  review  and  adjust  guidelines  for  evaluating
textbooks and educational materials.
We  know  that  the  implementation  of  the  Cairo
Programme  of  Action  is  a  basic  prerequisite  for  the
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs).  The  Government,  given  the  international
commitment  to  attain  the  goals  by  the  year  2015,  has
entrusted  the  design  of  a  national  strategy  to  fight
against  poverty,  inequality  and  social  exclusion  to  a
group of institutions. The strategy will be implemented
over several terms of Government.
It  is  also  relevant  to  point  out  that  in  Paraguay,
we  are  committed  to  improving  substantially  the
distribution  and  performance  of  the  social  budget  in
A/59/PV.30
order to meet the Millennium Development Goals. The
Government  enjoys  significant  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations  aimed  at  monitoring  the  social  budget
and at mitigating poverty and inequality.
Another  important  area  of  progress  has  been  the
establishment  in  the  middle  of  2000  of  a  tripartite
commission  to  follow-up  the  Cairo  Programme  of
Action.  That  is  an  important  body  for  dialogue,
agreement and international cooperation and to follow-
up the implementation of the International Conference
on Population and Development (ICPD) Programme of
Action.  It  is  composed  of  institutional  representatives
of  the  Government,  civil  society  and  cooperating
United Nations bodies.
Those  are  just  some  of  the  measures  adopted  by
Paraguay  that  reflect  the  great  importance  that  we
attach  to  the  Cairo  objectives,  the  MDGs  and  the
political will we have to give those objectives concrete
expression.  At  the  subregional  level,  that  includes
technical  cooperation 
international
bodies  that  is  also  given  to  different  countries  of  the
region.
received 
from 
the 
that 
implementation  of 
In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of
Paraguay,  we  believe 
the  United  Nations
Population Fund is a forum of fundamental importance
for  assessing 
the  Cairo
Programme of Action. Ten years after the Conference,
there  remain  shortcomings  in  some  areas  that  require
new efforts, through which — in the case of Paraguay,
through  our  Ministry  for  Women’s  Affairs  and  the
support of the international community  — we hope to
strengthen 
implementation  of  public  policy  and
comprehensive programmes in a number of areas.
Lastly,  we  congratulate  Mrs.  Thoraya  Obaid,  the
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population
Fund,  and  Mrs.  Marisela  Padrón,  Director  of  the
Division  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  of  the
United Nations Population Fund, for their dedication to
the  subject  before  us  and  for  their  contribution  to  the
progress of women in our countries.
Mr.  Kamugisha  (Uganda):  In  1994,  ten  years
ago, in Cairo, we committed ourselves as Governments
to  the  International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development (ICPD) Programme of Action. We agreed
to  put  human  beings at the  centre of our population and
development programmes. We committed ourselves to a
comprehensive reproductive health agenda including
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and HIV/AIDS.
15
A/59/PV.30
We  further  committed  ourselves  to  address  gender
equality, equity and the empowerment of women.
I  am  glad  to  report  that  in  Uganda,  since  Cairo,
we  formulated  a  comprehensive  National  Population
Policy for sustainable development. Our Government’s
health policy has since encouraged a primary health care
approach  that  is  comprehensive  and  pro-poor  people.
Since  1994,  the  reproductive  health  concept  has  taken
root.  A  national  reproductive  health  policy  and
guidelines  that  aim  at  increasing  access  are  now
available.  Reproductive  health  has  been  identified  as  a
priority programme and my Government will continue
to increase funding for reproductive health.
In this regard, the Ministry of Health will continue to
work with the Ministry of Finance to ensure that this is
reflected  in  our  sector-wide  approaches  and  other
reforms such as Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers. In
Uganda, we recognize the complementary role of civil
society  organizations, 
including  non-governmental
organizations  and  cultural  institutions,  and  we  have
worked with them, as well as other development partners
like  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  to  implement
programmes to improve the welfare of our people.
As  a  result  of  those  combined  efforts,  we  have
witnessed,  since  Cairo,  progress  in  some  sectors.  For
example,  in  Uganda,  we  have  witnessed  a  relatively
rapid  decline  in  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  from  a  high
level  of  30  per  cent  in  1992  to  6.2  per  cent  currently.
Uganda recognizes that strong leadership coupled with
a clear, focused policy framework for coordination are
particularly critical to achieving progress.
advantages,  using 
Uganda’s success also  depended  very  much  upon
the Government providing an enabling environment for
all  stakeholders  to  play  their  role  according  to  their
comparative 
a  multisectoral
approach and a strategy that adopted an “ABC” model
(where  A  stands  for  abstinence,  B  for  being  faithful
and C for condom use). Our challenge on the HIV/AIDS
front  is  to  maintain  the  momentum  of  success  without
being complacent, as we roll out a programme to ensure
access to anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs by all those that need
them.
Regarding  gender  equality,  equity  and 
the
empowerment of women, we have involved women in
many aspects of matters of governance. In our national
Parliament, 24 per cent of the seats are occupied by
women  and  25  per  cent  of  the  Cabinet  is  also  made
up  of  women.  In  Uganda,  we  have  women  judges,
16
women  Permanent  Secretaries  and  women  in  others
senior  civil  service  positions.  Since  1997,  our
Universal Primary Education programme has not only
increased primary school enrolment three-fold but has
also  removed  the  disparity  in  enrolment  of  boys  and
girls as well as reducing dropout rates of girls.
Despite  those  achievements,  Uganda,  like  many
other  developing  countries,  especially  in  sub-Saharan
Africa,  continues  to  face  severe  challenges  in  our
development  agenda.  For  example,  in  the  field  of
reproductive  health,  both  infant  and  maternal  mortality
have  not  improved  appreciably.  In  Uganda,  infant  and
maternal  mortality  rates  stand  at  88  per  1000  and
505  per  100,000,  respectively.  Needless  to  say,  these
figures are unacceptably high.
Accessibility  and  affordability  of  HIV/AIDS
drugs  remains  another  challenge.  Our  experience  in
Uganda  is  that  HIV/AIDS  affects  all  categories  of
people.  However,  youth,  women  and  the  poor  are
disproportionately affected.
It is against this background that Uganda believes
that  on  this  occasion,  as  we  commemorate  the  tenth
anniversary  of  the  historic  Cairo  meeting,  we  should
seriously reflect on our past performance as we chart a
new course for the future.
We,  in  developing  countries,  continue  to  face
challenges  in  reproductive  health  and  family  planning,
including  reproductive  health  commodities  and  supplies.
Our  health  services  face  serious  challenges  in  their
capacity  to  deliver  services.  Those  challenges  include
human resources  and  infrastructure.  We  need  to  continue
working  with  our  development  partners  on 
these
particular  concerns,  as  well  as  strengthening  our
South-South  partnerships  in  the  field  of  population  and
development.
Uganda  also 
feels  very  strongly 
that  our
population and reproductive health programmes on the
one  hand,  and  HIV/AIDS  programmes  on  the  other,
need to build strong linkages and collaborative efforts.
and  mainstreaming
The 
reproductive  health 
is
compelling  now  more  than  ever  before,  especially  in
view  of  the  scarcity  of  resources.  Otherwise  these  will
remain as missed opportunities.
in  HIV/AIDS  programmes 
integrating 
case 
for 
Uganda  would  like  to  put  on  record  our  strong
appreciation for the excellent work done by the United
Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  and  our  other
partners in supporting our population and reproductive
health  goals  and  objectives.  Uganda  appeals  to  our
development  partners  to  continue  with  the  support  that
they  have  given  to  UNFPA  in  the  past,  and  to  do  even
more. In  the  same  vein,  Uganda  feels  that  as  we
focus  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to  be
achieved by the year 2015, we need to remember that
they will not be reached unless we attain the goals of
the ICPD Programme of Action.
Ms. Ameline (France) (spoke in French): We  have
gathered  here  at  a  key  stage  in  the  process  begun  10
years ago at the International Conference on Population
and Development (ICPD), a major event in that sphere.
Addressing  issues  related  to  the  development  of
populations worldwide undoubtedly raises the question
of  resolving  poverty,  since  the  link  between  those
issues is clear and winning the fight against poverty is
universally 
the  essential
conditions for sustainable development. It was recently
stated  in  this  Hall  that  the  fight  against  world  poverty  is
essential  for  the  security  of  developed  and  developing
countries alike.
recognized  as  one  of 
How  can  we  fail  to  recall  the  impetus  given  by
President  Jacques  Chirac  and  President  Lula  da  Silva,
President Lagos Escobar and Prime Minister Rodríguez
Zapatero to this fight, which on 20 September resulted
in  the  New  York  Declaration  on  the  Action  against
Hunger and Poverty? How can we fail to welcome the
impetus  generated  by  the  mobilization  around  that
Declaration?  That  initiative  must  be  kept  in  mind  in
addressing the issues that concern us; I will return to it
in a moment.
We fully subscribe to the statement just made by
the  presidency  of  the  European  Union.  I  wish  at  this
point  to  thank  Ms.  Nafis  Sadik,  at  whose  initiative  the
World  Leaders  Statement  in  Support  of  ICPD  was
issued,  signed  by  several  heads  of  State,  other
prominent  individuals  and  institutions,  to  promote  the
implementation  of  the  commitments  undertaken  at
Cairo  10  years  ago.  Her  initiative  and  tenacity  are
encouraging and full of hope.
is  building 
We  are  living  in  a  time  of  global  challenges.
ties  and  cooperation  among
France 
countries,  especially  between  North  and  South,  in  a
spirit  of  fraternity,  in  order,  as  the  President  of  France
has said, “to put our partnership at the service of a world
of justice and peace; a world of growth and well-being;
A/59/PV.30
a world of collective responsibility; a world that shares
knowledge and respect for cultures and identities”.
We  have  a  new  vision  of  international  solidarity.
We  believe  that  the  Programme  of  Action  adopted  in
Cairo  at  the  International  Conference  on  Population
and  Development  was  an  important  turning  point  in
demographic policies.
in 
them  here.  First, 
In  order  to  implement  its  commitments,  France
has undertaken a number of actions with its partners in
the  developing  countries.  I  would  like  to  highlight
two  of 
the  North-South
partnerships on population and development and in the
promotion  of  equality  between  men  and  women,
important work is being done today with our partners in
the countries of the South. Those partnerships are being
developed in diverse sectors at the institutional level, in
the field and in research.
We  have  also 
triangular
cooperation  among  France,  Tunisia  and  Niger  on
women’s and children’s health in the Kollo health district
in Niger. The  organization  Equilibres  et  Populations  is
particularly  involved  in  transmitting  people’s  needs
and in mobilizing them around health and reproductive
issues, in collaboration with parliamentarians.
initiated  effective 
The International Parliamentarians Conference on
the Implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action,
to be held in Strasbourg, France, on 18 and 19 October
2004 will give us an opportunity to reaffirm our support
for  the  ICPD  through  the  mobilization  of  our  partners
from the South.
the 
We  have 
emphasized 
importance  of
preserving  the  achievements  of  the  ICPD  and  its
Programme  of  Action  at  meetings  of  the  United
Nations regional commissions and at the March session
of  the  Commission  on  Population  and  Development,
devoted to this theme. We also reaffirmed it in Geneva,
at  the  European  Population  Forum,  held  in  January
2004.
We  have  also  been  supporting,  since  1988,  the
establishment of scientific partnerships for training and
research in the framework of our Centre for Population
and  Development,  which  encompasses  all  French
demographic  research  institutions  and  our  research
partners from the South.
France’s 
on
population  issues  can  also  be  seen  at  the  international
level. France has long been  firmly  engaged  with those
commitment 
cooperation 
and 
17
A/59/PV.30
issues, in close cooperation with its European partners.
In  those  areas,  the  action  of  the  United  Nations  Fund
for  Population  (UNFPA)  is  essential.  In  our  view,
UNFPA  is  an  effective,  active  agency,  present  in  the
field, and we fully support it.
on 
our 
can 
count 
Its  Executive  Director,  Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  who
has  just  been  reconfirmed  in  a  new  mandate  by  the
Secretary-General, 
active
involvement  in  promoting  and  defending  women’s
rights, especially at regional conferences on population
and  women’s  rights.  We  also  intend  to  continue  our
support  for  UNFPA  action  in  the  field.  In  2002-2003,
we  carried  out 
the
implementation  of  the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action —
in Madagascar and in Côte d’Ivoire — and a project in
Morocco on support for women victims of violence. A
regional project is also being developed in the Horn of
Africa,  in  Eritrea,  with  the  French  non-governmental
organization  Médecins  du  Monde  as  our  partner  and
with UNFPA as the main funder.
joint  projects 
towards 
two 
But  continued  vigilance  is  called  for.  Ten  years
after  the  Cairo  Conference,  the  results  of  the  policies
that have been followed vary widely from one country
to  another.  While  progress  has  been  made, 
the
challenges  nevertheless  remain  enormous.  In  some
cases  —  unfortunately  too  many  —  there  has  been
absolutely  no  forward  movement  because  of  political,
ideological or religious impediments.
I  can  only  express  my  delight  that  the  Nobel
Peace Prize has been awarded to Ms. Wangari Maathai.
The  investment  and  energy  this  woman  has  given  for
conservation  and  improvement  of  the  environment  in
Africa  as  well  as  for  respect  for  fundamental  human
rights,  make  her  a  symbol  and  an  example  for  world
peace  and  democracy  and  for  the  development  of
populations, 
through
reforestation. The award also bears enormous hope and
incentive  for  future  mobilization.  I  pay  tribute  here,
through  Wangari  Maathai’s  action,  to  the  incredible
energy  expended  by  African  women  for  development
and towards strengthening respect for the environment
of their countries.
jobs  created 
through 
the 
Faced with the new challenges of the twenty-first
century  —  fighting  poverty,  protecting  our  planet  and
promoting sustainable development — our partnerships
must  be  universal  and  must  serve  the  sustainable
development  of  populations. 
the
that  spirit, 
In 
18
gatherings  of  2005  oblige  us  to  have  a  true  global
partnership.
I would like solemnly to propose, in the spirit of
next  year’s  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Fourth  World
Conference on Women, held in Beijing, that we create
a real partnership for Beijing to allow us all, together,
to face the great debate of our society at the beginning
of this new century.
France  is  determined  to  meet  the  challenges  of
the  new  century  not  only  with  progress  for  our
societies,  but  also  with  progress  for  our  democracies
and for all humankind. As Gabriel García Márquez put
it,  let  us  not  ask  what  the  century  can  give  us;  let  us
say that it expects everything from us.
Mr. Hussain (Pakistan): First of all, on behalf of
Pakistan’s  delegation  I  would  like  to  briefly  describe
the  demographic  profile  of  Pakistan,  the  sixth  most
populous country in the world. In terms of  population
size,  with  its  current  population  of  151  million,
Pakistan  is  the  fourth  largest  country  in  Asia  and
second  among 
the  South  Asian  Association  for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries. The current
population  growth  rate  of  Pakistan  is  estimated  at  1.9
per cent per annum, its total fertility rate per woman is
4.1  and  the  contraceptive  prevalence  rate  is  34  per
cent.
If  the  same  demographic  characteristics  prevail,
Pakistan’s population will reach around 195 million in
the year 2020. Under that scenario, it will take almost
60-70  years  to  stabilize  the  population  of  Pakistan.
That is  an  alarming situation for Pakistan and  a  cause
of serious concern.
to 
to 
implement 
its  efforts 
signatory 
Population 
Pakistan  was  a  willing 
on 
the
International  Conference 
and
Development  (ICPD)  Programme  of  Action  (POA)  in
1994  in  Cairo.  However,  several  disadvantages  have
hampered 
ICPD-
Programme of Action at the desired pace. Prior to the
ICPD,  Pakistan 
from  weak  political
commitment,  lack  of  adequate  resources,  shifts  in
population  policies,  and  socio-cultural  rigidities.  The
situation  has  changed  substantially  since  1994.  The
present Government attaches the highest priority to the
issue  of  population  and 
to  ensuring  sustainable
development in the country.
suffered 
the 
Elimination of the gender gap in basic education
and  literacy  is  the  cornerstone  of  Government  policy
led 
the 
fact 
that 
We 
reduction 
to  some 
appreciate 
for  social  development  in  general,  and  education  in
particular.  That  has 
in
demographic  pressure,  which  in  the  past  few  decades
had 
impeded  socio-economic  development.  While
Government budgetary allocations since the ICPD have
kept on increasing for the social sector, in particular for
population, we still face resource constraints, although
the  progress  achieved  has  been  good.  Pakistan  has
scarce resources to allocate across competing demands,
at a time when these are most urgently required.
the 
ICPD
recommendations have introduced a new paradigm that
has  heralded  an  era  of  global  population  and
development  initiatives.  Please  allow  me  to  dwell  a
little  bit  on  how  Pakistan  has  tried  to  implement  the
ICPD  agenda.  Pakistan  has  fully  embraced  the  new
paradigm  and  has  reformulated  its  population  and
development  policy,  which  focuses  on  meeting  the
necessities  of  the  people.  The  population  policy  is
designed  to  achieve  social  and  economic  revival  by
curbing  rapid  population  growth  and  thereby  reducing
its  adverse  consequences  for  development.  It 
is
intended  to  achieve  a  reduction  in  dependency  ratios,
to  alleviate  pressures  on  dwindling  resources  and  to
help in the reduction of poverty.
The  population  policy  has  several  wide-ranging
consequences for the economy, the polity, human rights
and  the  long-term  prosperity  of  Pakistan.  It  places
emphasis  on  securing  sustained  political  commitment
and mobilizing broad-based support. At the same time,
it  is  consistent  with  the  country’s  national  laws  and
development  priorities,  and  with  the  religious,  ethical
and  socio-cultural  values  of  the  people.  In  fact,  we
have  adapted  the  principles  of  the  ICPD  to  our  own
social, economic and cultural realities.
through  a  reduction 
We are pursuing the ICPD agenda by creating an
enabling  environment  for  the  implementation  of  our
population  and  development  policy.  The  essential
message of the policy is to improve the quality of life
of  every  Pakistani 
in  rapid
population  growth  by  providing  high  quality  and
readily  accessible  reproductive  health  and  family
planning  services.  The  policy  aims  at  bringing  about
social  and  demographic  change,  particularly  through
improvements in education and the status of women. It
recognizes  the  concerted  efforts  that  are  required  to
address the issue of population and development in its
multiple  facets,  through  the  collaborative  efforts  of  a
broad  range  of  stakeholders,  including  public  and
A/59/PV.30
private 
organizations.
institutions 
and 
non-governmental
Important  elements  of 
the  policy,  directed
towards  the  public  sector  programme,  have  been
incorporated in the current Five Year Plan from 2003-
2008.  That  is  to  ensure  that  the  population  factor  and
such concerns are appropriately included in the process
of development planning. Population and development
interrelationships and inter-linkages have been stressed
not only in the population sector, but also other closely
related sectors such as education, health, employment,
the  development  of  women,  and  the  environment
among other areas.
The population, education and health sectors have
also  been  recognized  as  cross-cutting  issues  in  the
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper  (PRSP)  recently
finalized  by  the  Government  of  Pakistan  with  the  aim
of  reviving  broad-based  equitable  growth  and  the
reduction of poverty in the country.
The  important  area  of  focus  in  the  post-ICPD
period is the transition to reproductive health including
family planning. We have made substantial progress in
improving  reproductive  health  indicators  as  the  total
fertility 
the  contraceptive
prevalence  rate  has  also  increased  considerably.  The
infant and maternal mortality rates have also registered
appreciable decline. Our reproductive health indicators,
however,  still  require  considerable  improvement  to
match international standards.
fallen  and 
rate  has 
a  multisectoral 
As  already  stated,  our  efforts  will  continue  by
the
following 
involvement  of  all  partners  in  the  public  and  private
sectors  in  order  to  advance  the  ICPD  Programme  of
Action  and  achieve  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.
approach  with 
The 1973 Constitution of the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan  clearly  provides  equal  rights  to  men  and
women. We ratified the Convention on the Elimination
of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women
(CEDAW) in 1996, conditional only on the provisos of
our  Constitution. 
ICPD
recommendations,  the  National  Policy  on  Women
Development  and  Empowerment  (NWPD)  has  been
announced  and  is  being  implemented.  The  Policy
comprises three inter-related elements: i) integration of
gender  issues  into  all  sectors  and  programmes  of
action; ii) supporting and expanding the public role of
line  with 
the 
In 
19
A/59/PV.30
women,  and 
management and the implementation of projects.
involving  women 
iii) 
in  planning,
One  third  of  the  seats  have  been  reserved  for
women  in  local  councils,  while  around  20  per  cent  in
the  provincial  and  national  legislatures.  Consequently,
women  have  also  been  elected  against  their  reserved
seats.  Under  the  devolution  plan,  40,000  women  were
elected  as  Councillors  and  Naib  Nazims,  for  the  local
Councils in 2001.
I am confident that Pakistan is ready to accept the
lie  ahead.  Our  goals  are  clearly
challenges  that 
articulated and I am confident that we are on the right
track.  However,  our  success  or  failure  will  depend
ultimately on our ability to operate in an unfavourable
environment 
resource
constraints.  I  am  optimistic  that  donors  and  the
international  community  will  stand  by  us  in  these
difficult times.
because 
severe 
the 
of 
Mrs.  Chancy  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  has
already  been  ten  years  since  more  than  180  countries
adopted  the  Programme  of  Action  of  the  International
Conference on Population and Development (ICPD). It
is now also the time to take stock. On the basis of the
major  goals  set  forth  in  the  Cairo  Programme  of
Action, we can state that there has been progress made.
But much remains to be done.
to 
like 
take 
I  should 
to
congratulate  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,
which is doing a great job. I also take this opportunity
to thank all those who supported my country during the
recent natural disasters.
this  opportunity 
The  problem  of  the  environment  and  population
is  widely  debated,  but  the  main  issue  is  to  establish
coherent  policies  in  that  area.  National  administrative
structures  must  promote  the  coordination  of  those
policies.  I  would  note  that  the  necessary  balance
between  population  and  the  environment  requires  the
resolution of such terrible, pressing problems as hunger
and  poverty,  without  minimizing  other  political  and
social problems.
My  country  is  an  example  of  that.  We  are  now
facing  a  multidimensional  crisis 
the  social,
economic,  political,  environmental,  health  and  other
fields.  I  would  stress  that  the  participation  of  the
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  in  the
disarmament  of  armed  gangs  is  essential  and  I  thank
the international community for its support.
in 
20
The political turmoil that afflicted Haiti from late
2003 to early 2004 ravaged and weakened a population
that  was  already  exhausted  by  a  silent  humanitarian
crisis. In addition to the floods that struck certain parts
of the country in May 2004, a few weeks ago hurricane
Jeanne  hit  the  coast  of  Haiti,  killing  almost  3,000
people and injuring several hundred thousand others.
It  is  essential  that  my  Government  take  all
necessary  steps  to  halt  environmental  degradation  and
to  improve  the  standard  of  living  of  our  people
significantly. If we are to do so, the participation of all
active  members  of  our  society  —  women 
in
particular — is crucial.
I  wish  to  refer  to  the  women  and  young  girls  of
my  country,  who  represent  52  per  cent  of  our
population. A special effort must be made to enable the
women  of  Haiti  fully  to  play  their  part  and  to  be  full
stakeholders  in  finding  and  implementing  solutions  to
promote the country’s development.
In countries like ours, extreme poverty is a major
obstacle  for  women  and  men  alike  when  real  choices,
such  as  the  choice  of  services  and  opportunities  to
improve their lives, have to be  made.  Inequalities  and
discrimination  limit  even  further  the  choices  available
to girls and women. The myriad political and economic
crises in Haiti have impeded our full implementation of
the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action,  particularly  with
regard to access to health services and basic education
and  the  prevention  of  violence  against  women.  By
increasing  services  for  safe  motherhood  —  obstetric
care  in  particular  —  we  can  save  millions  of  lives.
Comprehensive  health  care  for  women  also  means
respect for their physical and mental integrity.
During periods of widespread repression, such as
after  the  1991  coup  d’état  and  during  the  recent
political  upheavals  in  Haiti,  sexual  violence  against
women  has  been  used  as  a  weapon  of  repression  and
deterrence. Such exceptional violence arises out of the
more  widespread  practice  of  day-to-day  violence
against women. If we are to change such behaviour and
to  ensure  that  combating  violence  against  women
remains  an  ongoing  concern,  we  must  invest  in  far-
reaching  education  programmes.  The 
transitional
Government in Haiti — which is seeking, inter alia, to
lead  the  country  towards  free,  fair  and  democratic
elections  in  2005  —  has  identified  four  strategic  axes
for  mainstreaming  gender  equality  in  its  Interim
Cooperation Framework for the period 2004-2006.
For  Haiti,  a  country  with  many  citizens  living
abroad, the issue of migration is of major concern. It is
time  for  the  international  community  to  adopt  a
comprehensive  approach  to  the  issue.  Constructive
dialogue  should  be  initiated  between  the  countries  of
origin and the migrant host countries, enabling us more
coherently  to  address  the  problems  of  xenophobia,
discrimination  and  the  integration  of  migrants.  The
Cairo  Programme  of  Action  is  of  great  relevance  in
that respect, meeting an urgent and real need for Haiti.
Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Haiti,
to thank the international community for pledging, last
July  in  Washington  D.C.,  to  contribute  financially  to
the 
Interim  Cooperation
Framework.  We  should  have  preferred,  however,  that
the  priority  accorded  quite  properly  to  humanitarian
assistance  following  the  recent  natural  disasters  not
delay  disbursements  that  are  already  procedurally  so
long and complex.
implementation  of 
the 
Mr.  Sidibe  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am
delighted  to  speak  at  this  important  plenary  meeting
devoted  to  the  celebration  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development, held on African soil in Cairo, Egypt, and
to offer the contribution of my country, Senegal, to this
collective exercise assessing our common action.
In  fulfilling  that  pleasant  duty,  I  wish  first  to
reiterate to you, Sir, the conviction of the delegation of
Senegal  that,  under  your  enlightened  guidance,  this
session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  confidently
address  the  major  events  that  are  on  our  agenda  for
2005.
at  which  priorities  were 
The  past  decade  was  rich  in  conferences  and
summits 
established,
objectives  agreed,  strategies  developed  and  the  means
of 
the  pursuit  of
sustainable economic and social development.
implementation 
identified 
in 
And  yet,  evaluation  after  evaluation, 
the
conclusion has invariably been the same. The progress
made  since  those  meetings  is  clearly  significant,  but
unfortunately  falls  far  short  of 
the  commitments
undertaken.  The  Conference  whose  tenth  anniversary
we commemorate today is no exception to that rule, as
we  see  from  the  fine  report  recently  published  by  the
Department  of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs 
in
document E/2004/25, containing a review and appraisal
of  the  progress  made  in  achieving  the  goals  and
the
objectives  of 
the  Programme  of  Action  of 
A/59/PV.30
on 
International  Conference 
and
Development.  The  report  highlights  the  disparities
among  regions  and  among  social  sectors  within
countries 
respect  of  successes  achieved  and
difficulties encountered.
Population 
in 
equality,  gender 
With  regard  to  the  specific  situation  of  Africa,  I
had the honour to preside over the regional ministerial
review  conference  held  in  Dakar  in  June.  At  that
meeting,  the  following  nine  subjects  were  discussed:
population,  poverty,  environment  and  sustainable
development; 
the
advancement  of  women;  the  family,  its  role,  rights,
composition  and  structure;  children  and  youth;
reproductive  rights  and  health;  HIV/AIDS;  population
distribution,  urbanization  and  migration;  crises  and
their  effects  on  populations;  and  the  mobilization  of
resources for the implementation of population policies
and programmes.
equity 
and 
On  each  of  those  topics,  we  identified  the
impediments  to  the  implementation  of 
the  Cairo
commitments  and  proposed  relevant  strategies  for
reorienting  our  action.  We  also  adopted  a  declaration
whereby  we  reaffirm  our  countries’  commitment  to
pursuing  the  implementation  of  the  objectives  of  the
Ngor/Diarama declaration and the Cairo Programme of
Action, and the need to strengthen, with respect for the
realities  of  each  country,  our  national
cultural 
programmes  of  action 
in
demographic  growth,  the  promotion  of  the  status  of
women,  the  reproductive  health  of  adolescents,  the
reduction  of  maternal  and  infant/child  mortality,  the
balanced distribution of population across our national
territory, the control of unbridled urbanization and the
protection of vulnerable target groups, such as children
and the elderly.
to  ensure  a  decrease 
Thus,  we  Africans  have  made  a  clear-sighted
diagnosis  and  issued  a  series  of  recommendations,
outlined  in  the  Dakar  declaration.  Can  we  reasonably
expect,  however,  to  attain  the  objectives  of  the  Cairo
Conference 
the
persistence  of  extreme  poverty,  the  high  rate  of
HIV/AIDS  infection  and  the  armed  conflicts  roiling
our countries?
to  counter 
if  nothing 
is  done 
And  yet,  the  means  to  achieve  our  shared
ambitions  do  exist.  They 
involve  a  consistent
mobilization of resources, together with the integration
of our population concerns into our development plans,
and in particular our poverty reduction strategy papers.
21
A/59/PV.30
We  feel  that  this  is  essential  if  we  are  to  avert  the
danger that a large number of  African countries could
miss the 2015 meeting of those countries that will have
achieved the Millennium Development Goals.
In referring to the important role of international
support and the considerable contribution made by the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  to  my
country,  I  cannot  conceal  the  fact  that  the  success  of
our  policies  will  depend  to  a  great  extent  on  a  steady
national  effort  sustained  by  clear-sighted  policy.  The
need for such political far-sightedness explains why the
Government  of  Senegal,  in  implementing  the  Cairo
Programme of Action, has relied not only on traditional
institutional  mechanisms  for  the  coordination  of  its
strengthened
population  policy,  but  also  on  a 
partnership  with  various 
including
parliamentarians,  religious 
journalists  and
traditional communicators.
stakeholders, 
leaders, 
Examples  of  my  country’s  ongoing  efforts
its  health  and  reproduction  programmes,
include 
whereby  special  efforts  are  made 
the
population’s  free  access  to  health  services,  and  our
struggle against HIV/AIDS, the low incidence of which
bears witness to the effectiveness of our early reaction
and  our  continuous  monitoring  of  that  devastating
scourge.
to  ensure 
Today’s meeting is timely in that it is being held
in the context of preparations for the high-level plenary
meeting 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  feel  that  the
concrete  proposals  that  emerge  from  this  discussion
will contribute usefully to that important event.
to  conduct  a 
review  of 
five-year 
In conclusion, I turn to the Executive Director of
UNFPA  and  her  colleagues  in  my  country  to  express
the full satisfaction of the Senegalese Government and
our  President  at  the  effectiveness  and  devotion  with
which they are executing our country programme.
the 
important 
Mr. Tutkushev (Kazakhstan) (spoke in Russian):
I  wish  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  all  members  on
reaching 
tenth
anniversary  of 
International  Conference  on
Population  and  Development.  That  Conference  played
a  decisive  role  in  elaborating  common  international
approaches  to  resolving  problems  in  the  area  of
population and development.
landmark  of 
the 
the 
Over  the  past  10  years,  States  Members  of  the
in
United  Nations  have  made 
some  progress 
22
policies 
national 
developing 
to  mainstream
demographic  and  gender  issues.  Kazakhstan  was  no
exception  to  that  rule.  Our  country  has  consistently
implemented  broad  political,  economic  and  social
reforms  to  create  a  democratic  State  with  a  market
economy.
In  December  2001,  our  Government  adopted  a
strategic  plan  for  the  country’s  development  to  2010,
prioritizing  a  population  development  strategy  within
our  State  policy.  It  seeks  to  improve  life  expectancy,
encourage a higher birth and to reduce maternal, infant
and  child  mortality.  Kazakhstan  has  implemented  a
gender policy concept since 2003. In seeking to resolve
gender-related  issues,  we  have  actively  involved  a
national commission for the family and women, under
the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan.  It  is  a
reliable  mechanism  for  implementing  the  State  policy
of protecting the political rights and legitimate interests
of  the  family,  women  and  children.  The  national
commission and the Government have been  drafting  a
State  gender-policy  strategy,  clearly  delineating  the
main  areas  of  action,  including  the  economic,  social
and  political  spheres.  In  that  context,  we  should  note
the  growing  role  played  by  the  non-governmental
organizations 
life  of
Kazakhstan.
the  public  and  political 
in 
And  yet,  despite  significant  progress  in  ensuring
equal rights and opportunities for women and men, our
Republic still faces a number of problems in that area.
Women  constitute  almost  half  of 
the  working
population  of  Kazakhstan,  and  yet  remuneration  rates
for  men  and  women  differ  significantly,  since  women
tend  to  work  in  poorly-paid  sectors  of  the  economy.
Thus,  one  important  aspect  of  drafting  and  adopting
solutions  for  improving  the  social  status  of  women  is
their  status  in  the  labour  market.  Greater  attention
should  be  given 
the
representation of women among decision makers.
issue  of  enhancing 
the 
to 
As  has  been  noted,  reproductive  health  care
the  reduction  of  maternal  and  child
issues  and 
mortality  are  top  priorities  for  the  Government  of
Kazakhstan.  In  recent  years,  we  have  broadened  the
network of State medical establishments and increased
public  health  funding.  State  programmes  have  been
adopted to develop rural areas up to the year 2010, in
which 
social
infrastructure.  We  have  adopted  laws  on  reproductive
rights,  on  enriching  flour  with  iron  derivatives  and
vitamins,  and  on  the  iodization  of  kitchen  salt.  All  of
is  on  developing 
the  emphasis 
this  will,  I  am  sure,  have  a  positive  impact  on
reproductive  health  and  especially  on  the  health  of
women and children.
from 
anaemia 
The  situation  with  regard  to  reproductive  health
is not entirely  satisfactory. The female health  index  is
relatively  low  and  a  rather  large  number  of  women
suffer 
ecologically
disadvantaged regions of the country, especially in the
Semipalatinsk  and  Aral  Sea  areas.  That  indicator  is
rising continuously.  Maternal  mortality  and  pregnancy
complication 
the
inadequate  availability  and  poor  quality  of  prenatal
care, health care and nutrition for women.
remain  high  because  of 
certain 
rates 
in 
There  is  a  problem  with  HIV/AIDS  infection  in
the  country.  Women  account  for  one  quarter  of  those
infected  and  the  number  of  children  born  to  those
women  is  growing.  We  are  particularly  concerned  at
the  increase  in  breast  cancer,  which  has  recently
become the foremost cancer affecting women.
Mindful  of  the  acute  need  to  address  those
serious  problems,  which  are  directly 
to
population  and  development,  the  Government  and
Parliament  of  Kazakhstan  have  taken  robust  action
comprehensively  and  effectively  to  implement  the
major decisions adopted in Cairo.
related 
of 
the  Asia-Pacific 
In September 2004, Kazakhstan held a summit of
region.
parliamentarians 
Participants in that summit reaffirmed the commitment
of  the  Asia-Pacific  countries  to  implementing  the
undertakings of the Cairo Declaration  and  Programme
of  Action.  The  parliamentarians  all  agreed  that  it  is
possible  to  meet  the  current  challenges  of  population
and  development  only  if  those  serious  issues  are
considered  as  parts  of  a  whole.  The  conference  also
demonstrated that there is an urgent need to develop a
long-term  strategy  in  the  area  of  population  and
sustainable  development  in  the  countries  of  Asia  and
the Pacific. That fact was recognized by all participants
in the summit, who pledged there and then to approach
their Governments with appropriate proposals.
like 
to  draw 
I  should 
In  conclusion, 
the
Assembly’s  attention  to  one  very  important  point.
Kazakhstan  today  enjoys  stable  economic  growth,
essentially because of its export of energy resources. In
order  further  to  promote  the  country’s  economic  and
social  development, 
is  actively
developing  important  social,  State-funded  projects.  To
ensure  their  successful  implementation,  Kazakhstan
the  Government 
A/59/PV.30
its  funds  and  programmes 
and  countries  of  Asia  and  the  Pacific  need  the  expert
consultative  and  technical  assistance  of  the  United
Nations, 
to
consolidate  our  systemic  and  structural  progress.  We
hope to see the active involvement of the entire United
Nations  system.  We  extend  particular  thanks  to  the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  for 
its  ongoing
assistance to my country.
in  order 
Mr. Chuquihuara (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): It is
an  honour  for  me  to  address  the  Assembly  on  the
occasion  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  1994  Cairo
Conference.  The  Programme  of  Action  of 
the
International  Conference 
and
Development  marked  a  fundamental  turning  point  in
population policies by making sexual and reproductive
rights  and  health,  the  empowerment  of  women  and
gender  equality  the  primary  elements  of  development
efforts,  poverty  reduction  and  the  strengthening  of
democracy.
Population 
on 
On 
the 
itself 
in  Cairo 
Peru  committed 
implementation  of 
this  occasion,  Peru 
to  working
towards 
those  agreements,
ensuring the development of individuals’ capacities so
that they might enjoy a healthy, productive life, free of
violence, in a fair and balanced environment.
reiterates 
firm
commitment  to  the  Cairo  principles,  objectives  and
goals  and  to  the  agreements  established  in  the  key
actions  of  1999.  Similarly,  we  emphasize 
the
importance  of  the  resolute  implementation  of  the
Programme  of  Action  in  the  coming  decade,  which  is
indispensable  if  we  are  to  meet  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
its 
Peru has taken basic steps towards implementing
the  recommendations  of  the  Conference.  Progress  has
been made in the implementation of public population
the  recognition  of
and  development  policies; 
reproductive 
the  sexual  and
reproductive health  needs  of  the  population,  including
those  of  adolescents;  in  developing  public  policy  on
the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic;  and  in  combating  violence
against women.
in  meeting 
rights; 
in 
The  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  is  a  reference
point in the fight against poverty, in bridging the social
divide  and  in  the  process  of  decentralization  that
already  incorporates  human  rights,  including  sexual
and  reproductive  rights;  the  full  autonomy  of  women;
the recognition of the multiplicity of ethnic, racial and
cultural  groups;  and  the  recognition  of  the  different
23
A/59/PV.30
the  support  of 
forms  families  can  take.  In  that  process,  I  want  to
emphasize  the  importance  of  the  participation  of  civil
society  and 
the  United  Nations
Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  and  the  United  Nations
system 
the  Cairo
recommendations.  We  have  worked  and  will  continue
to work together to make Cairo a reality. The excellent
leadership of Executive Director Obaid will ensure that
the goal will be met.
implementation  of 
the 
to 
One of the major challenges to our country is the
fight  against  poverty  and  the  reduction  of  social
inequalities — a central issue of development. In Peru,
54  per  cent  of  the  population  lives  in  poverty  and  we
have  a  high  rate  of  maternal  mortality,  particularly
among  adolescent  girls  initiated  into  sexual  life  in  a
violent  way  or  as  a  result  of  sexual  abuse.  Such
children  generally  come  from  sectors  that  suffer  the
greatest  exclusion.  We  are  also  redoubling  our  efforts
to  combat  the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  and  violence
against women.
to 
the 
review 
regional  processes 
In  that  context,  Peru  participated  actively  this
year 
in 
the
implementation of the Programme of Action that were
held  in  Santiago,  Chile,  and  in  Puerto  Rico  on  the
occasion  of  the  tenth  anniversary.  At  both  events,  the
Latin American and Caribbean region reaffirmed Cairo
and  the  need  to  work  together  to  implement  its
principles in the coming decade. We make special note
of  the  outstanding  work  of  Ms.  Marisela  Padron,
Director of the Latin American and Caribbean division
of  UNFPA,  in  organizing  and  preparing  for  those
events.
Peru  recognizes 
that,  while  we  have  made
progress  in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme,
much remains to be done. In that regard, I appeal to the
international  donor 
the
implementation of the programme in the certainty that
our  countries  attach  equal 
the
Programme of Action.
community 
importance 
ensure 
to 
to 
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  say  that  it  has  been  an
honour  for  my  Government  and  for  me  personally  to
preside  over 
the  Commission  on  Population  and
Development this year, in which we celebrate the tenth
anniversary of the Cairo Conference. The Commission
on  Population  and  Development 
the
principles  and  agreements  of 
International
Conference  on  Population  and  Development  and  the
key  actions  as  representing  an  effective  effort  to
reaffirmed 
the 
24
implement  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We
believe  that  we  have  contributed  significantly  to
consolidating  the  work  of  the  past  10  years  and  to
ensuring the viability of concerted work for the decade
to come.
Mr. Wang Guoqiang (China) (spoke in Chinese):
At  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Chinese  delegation  I
would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election as
President of the General Assembly at this session. We
also wish to express our appreciation for the convening
of  this  event  commemorating  the  tenth  anniversary  of
the 
International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development (ICPD).
The Chinese delegation  associates itself with the
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Qatar  on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
set 
the  goal  of 
The  1994  Cairo  ICPD  and  its  Programme  of
Action  put  forward  such  new  concepts  as  all-round
human-centred  development  and  reproductive  health
and 
sustainable  development
coordinated between population and economy, society,
resources and environment, thus ushering in a new era
of  population  and  development  programmes.  In  2000,
the  Millennium
the  Millennium  Summit  adopted 
Declaration,  which 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  The  ICPD  Programme  of  Action
and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  closely
related  to  each  other  and  mutually  promoting.  As
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan 
the
Millennium Development Goals, especially the goal of
eradicating  poverty  and  hunger,  cannot  be  achieved  if
questions of population and reproductive health are not
squarely addressed.
established 
said, 
has 
Proceeding  from  China’s  national  realities,  the
Chinese Government over the past decade has earnestly
honoured its  commitments to the Cairo Programme of
Action  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  By
adopting  a  decision-making  strategy  that  integrates
population  and  development,  China  has  made  distinct
achievements 
its  population  and  development
undertakings.  Despite  an  economy 
is  still
underdeveloped,  China  has  effectively  controlled
excessive population growth, reduced its fertility rates
to  below  the  replacement  rate,  achieved  an  historical
transformation  of  its  population  reproduction  pattern,
and  vigorously  enhanced 
integrated  national
strength,  social  progress  and  the  standard  of  living  of
that 
its 
in 
its  people,  thereby  making  a  positive  contribution  to
stabilizing the world’s population.
To  begin  with,  China  has  focused  on  economic
development  by  accelerating  the  establishment  and
improvement of a socialist market economy, which has
laid a solid material foundation for social progress and
improved living standards.
Secondly,  China  has  adhered  to  its  fundamental
national  family  planning  policy  and  its  sustainable
development  strategy,  and  properly  balanced 
the
relationship between socio-economic development and
the  environment.  The
population, 
Chinese  Government 
symposiums  on
population, resources and the environment each year in
order  to  undertake  comprehensive  research  and  the
coordinated delegation of relevant work.
resources  and 
convenes 
Thirdly, 
The  Chinese  Government 
has
enthusiastically  drawn  upon  advanced  international
philosophies and experiences and integrated them into
the  Chinese  reform  and  implementation  of  population
and  family  planning  programmes.  China  has  set  up  a
benefit-orientated  mechanism  and  a  social  security
system that are conducive to its family planning cause.
Over the past decade, the fertility rate for mothers and
infant mortality have been on the decline and universal
access  to  adolescent  sexual  and  reproductive  health
education enhanced. The Government has provided the
public  with  services  and  benefits  through  its  family
planning  and  reproductive  health  programmes,  which
in  turn  have  led  to  increased  public  satisfaction  with
such services.
to 
Fourthly,  China  has  adhered 
integrated
decision-making  and  to  ensuring  coordinated  progress
in terms of population control, poverty alleviation and
development. By 2003, China had already achieved the
Millennium  Development  Goal  of  halving  the  number
of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty,  ahead  of  the
United Nations schedule.
Fifthly,  the  Chinese  Government  has  placed
education  on  its  list  of  priorities  for  development.  In
2000,  China  achieved,  as  scheduled,  universal  nine-
year  compulsory  education  and  the  elimination  of
illiteracy among people in their prime years.
international
Sixthly,  China  has  boosted 
communication  and  cooperation 
the 
field  of
population and development. In 1997, China joined the
South-South  Partners  in  Population  and  Development
its 
in 
A/59/PV.30
and was elected Chair of the Partners in 2002, playing
an  active 
intergovernmental
cooperation among the Partners.
in  promoting 
role 
China  has  also  carried  out  multiple  cooperation
projects  with  international  organizations  and  non-
governmental organizations in the fields of population,
family planning and reproductive health. In particular,
China  has  completed  a  five-stage  country  programme
in 
in
cooperation with the United Nations  Population  Fund,
which has played a very constructive role in promoting
our population and family planning programme.
family  planning  and 
reproductive  health, 
Despite 
the  general  backwardness  of 
the  remarkable  achievements  of 
its
population  and  family  planning  programmes,  China  is
still encountering numerous difficulties and challenges
on  its  path  to  the  ultimate  realization  of  the  Cairo
Programme  of  Action  objectives  and  the  Millennium
Development Goals. Such problems as the coexistence
of  low  fertility  and  large  quantitative  population
growth,  and 
the
population  will  remain  constraints  for  China  for  some
time to come. At the same time, China is increasingly
frustrated  by  its  structural  population  problems,  the
acceleration  of  population  ageing  and  the  unbalanced
sex  ratio  at  birth,  which  are  still  beyond  effective
control.  Those  problems  exacerbate  employment,  re-
employment and social security pressures; the conflict
of  interests  between  the  ecology,  the  environment,
natural resources and socio-economic development; the
still  arduous  task  of  eradicating  poverty  and  closing
regional gaps; the further advancement of the status of
women;  and 
task  of  HIV/AIDS
prevention and control.
the  protracted 
Moreover,  family  planning  and  reproductive
health  services  have  failed  to  fully  and  effectively
cover  the  underdeveloped  regions,  adolescents,  the
elderly  and  the  migrant  population.  The  coordinating
mechanisms  of 
the  business
community  and  non-governmental  organizations  need
further integration with public resources.
the  Government, 
Faced  with  all  those  challenges,  the  Chinese
Government  has  set  itself  the  goal  of  building  a
prosperous society on all fronts in the new millennium.
To  that  end,  the  Chinese  Government  has  adopted  a
features  a
scientific  development 
comprehensive, 
and
sustainable  approach  to  development.  The  core  of  the
concept 
towards  all-round  human
human-centred 
is  orientation 
integrated, 
strategy 
that 
25
A/59/PV.30
development,  which  will 
harmonious
coexistence  between  man  and  nature  and  coordination
between  socio-economic  development  and  population,
resources and the environment.
promote 
The  Chinese  Government  and 
the  Partners
recently  held  a  successful  international  conference  on
population  and  development 
in  Wuhan,  China,
adopting  the  Yangtze  declaration.  The  declaration
represents  the  voice  of  people  in  the  South,  who
account for 54 per cent of the global population. With
“Peace,  Cooperation  and  Development”  as  its  theme,
the  declaration  embraces  the  spirit  of  sustainable
human  development,  thereby  winning  the  respect,
commitment  and  support  of  all  members  of  the
Partners.  The  declaration  has  been  distributed  to
delegations.
in  developing  countries 
international  agendas  with  a  view 
The  declaration  emphasizes  that  the  population
remains  a  severe
issue 
constraint  on 
socio-economic  development.  The
Partners  call  upon  the  international  community  to
reproductive  health  on
include  population  and 
important 
to
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The
declaration  also  appeals  to  developed  countries  for
increased 
to
developing  countries  in  the  areas  of  family  planning
and  reproductive  health.  It  further  calls  on 
the
developing  countries  to  increase  their  investment  and
enhance  their  management  capacity  in  population  and
development  so  as  to  fulfil  their  commitments  under
the  Cairo  Programme  of  Action  and  to  promote  the
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.
development 
assistance 
official 
relentlessly 
As a member of the Partners, China will continue
to  honour  its  obligations  as  Chair  of  the  alliance  and
shall  work 
promote
intergovernmental  cooperation  and  communication
among members of the Partners, facilitate South-North
dialogue  and  cooperation,  and  implement  the  Cairo
Programme  of  Action,  the  Millennium  Development
Goals and the Yangtze declaration.
further 
to 
in 
While  engaging 
international  affairs, 
the
Chinese  Government  has  always  strongly  felt  that
coexistence,  sharing  and  “win-win”  situations  are  the
common  objectives 
ideals  of  humankind.
Coexistence 
the  continuous
advancement of human society. Large or small, rich or
poor, strong  or weak, all countries should enjoy equal
participation  and  sufficient  decision-making  power  in
is  a  prerequisite  for 
and 
26
international affairs. Sharing is the means for mankind
to achieve common prosperity.
So long as world peace remains indispensable to
the  stability  of  developing  countries,  there  will  be  no
global prosperity without the all-round development of
developing  countries.  Developed  countries  have  the
responsibility  and 
the
developing  world.  Efforts  should  be  made  to  ensure
that all countries and peoples enjoy equal development
opportunities and share the prosperity brought about by
global  development 
in  an  equitable  and  rational
manner.
the  obligation 
to  assist 
The  “win-win”  scenario  is  the  goal  of  human
society for progress on all fronts. Only when each and
every  country  in  the  world  has  fulfilled  the  Cairo
Programme 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  will  the  twenty-first  century  truly
become the century of development for all.
of  Action 
and 
The  Partners  and  the  Chinese  Government  will
continue to fulfil their commitment to the international
community.  We  will  uphold  the  banner  of  peace,
harmony,  cooperation  and  development,  adhere  to  the
path of peaceful development, and enhance and expand
our  communication  and  cooperation  with  all  countries
and regions of the world, in line with the principles of
results-oriented
equality  and  mutual  benefit,  a 
approach, 
cooperation 
and 
common
development. We will join the international community
in  its  efforts  to  strive  for  the  peace,  prosperity  and
progress of mankind.
long-term 
Ms. Benjamin (South Africa): First, allow me to
associate my delegation with the statement made by the
representative of Qatar on behalf of the Group of 77.
the 
tenth  anniversary  of 
My delegation is honoured to address this special
the
commemoration  of 
International  Conference 
and
Development  (ICPD).  We  express  our  appreciation  to
Ms.  Thoraya  Obaid,  Under-Secretary-General  and
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population
Fund, for her leadership on population issues.
Population 
on 
the 
first  major 
The  International  Conference  on  Population  and
Development  was 
international
Conference 
in  which  South  Africa  participated
following our democratic  elections  in  April  1994,  and
we  contributed 
the  ICPD
Programme  of  Action,  which  we  endorsed.  South
Africa  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  ICPD  Programme
the  formulation  of 
to 
the  key  actions  for 
of  Action  and 
the  further
implementation of the ICPD. As a country, we continue
to measure our progress of the past 10 years by how we
implement the outcomes of the ICPD. In March 2004,
we  presented  South  Africa’s 
the
implementation  of 
the  United
Nations  Commission  on  Population  and  Development
and there are some copies available here today.
the  Programme 
report  on 
to 
For us in Africa, the issues of population — such
as  women’s  reproductive  rights  and  health,  gender
equality,  equity  and  development, 
the  care  and
protection  of  children  and  youth  empowerment  —
remain extremely important. We come from a continent
where underdevelopment remains a reality for millions
of  our  people,  particularly  in  rural  areas,  and  the  role
of women and youth in poverty eradication is critical.
In  preparation  for  our  meetings  in  New  York,
South  Africa  participated  in  several  meetings  on
population  at  which 
important  declarations  were
adopted.  In  May  2004,  our  subregion  organized  the
Southern  African  Ministers  Conference  on  Population
and  Development  in  Maputo,  Mozambique.  In  June
2004, we attended the African Ministers Conference on
Population  and  Development  held  in  Dakar,  Senegal.
And  last  week,  the  South  African  Government,  in
collaboration  with  the  scientific  community,  hosted  a
national  joint  population  conference,  at  which  we
recommitted  ourselves  to  the  implementation  of  the
ICPD Programme of Action.
and 
health 
reproductive 
We  gather  here  today  in  order  to  reflect  on  a
decade  during  which  poverty  reduction,  women’s
rights, 
sustainable
development have received the attention of many of the
leaders of the world and of nations. During that period,
we  adopted  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  as  a
framework  that  integrates  the  objectives  of  many
the  United  Nations.
sectoral 
Nonetheless,  we 
concerned 
that  many
developing  countries,  including  a  large  number  in
Africa,  may  not  be  able  to  achieve  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
of 
remain 
programmes 
We do recognize, however, the progress that was
reported  in  this  year’s  “State  of  the  World  Population
Report”.  Particularly,  we  note  the  many  legislative,
policy  and  institutional  reforms  that  resulted  from  the
commitment  of  countries  to  the  ICPD  Programme  of
Action. It has also been reconfirmed that human rights
remain  fundamental  to  the  achievement  of  sustainable
A/59/PV.30
human  development,  together  with  the  empowerment
of women.
the  success  we  have  had 
The  South  African  Constitution  guarantees
human  rights,  entrenches  gender  equality,  protects  the
reproductive  freedom  of  couples,  and  promotes  the
social  and  economic  development  of  our  people.  As  a
result,  our  population  is  becoming  more  educated;
health  care is becoming  more  accessible;  more  people
live  in  formal  houses  and  have  access  to  electricity,
clean  water  and  sanitation;  and  a  wider  choice  of
contraceptives  is  more  freely  available.  In  2001,  our
adult literacy rate was 89 per cent and we are working
towards  universal  literacy  amongst  our  youth.  South
African  women  are  more  literate  and  generally  more
educated  than  men.  As  a  result  of  our  investments  in
people,  the  total  fertility  rate  is  now  estimated  to  be
2.77  children  per  woman  in  her  reproductive  years,
down from a total fertility rate estimated at almost four
a decade ago.
Despite 
the
implementation of the ICPD Programme of Action, we
do acknowledge that many challenges remain and that
even new ones have emerged in the past ten years. The
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  has  become  one  of  the  world’s
most daunting population and development challenges.
In  southern  Africa,  it  has  led  to  a  decline  in  life
expectancy  and  has  taken  the  lives  of  young  and
productive  adults.  In  connection  with  the  pandemic,
many  of  the  countries  in  our  region  and  continent  are
still  struggling  to  reduce  maternal,  child  and  infant
mortality  and  morbidity,  in  spite  of  large  investments
to  improve  mother  and  child  health  services.  We  are
aware  that  we  must  redouble  our  efforts  through
comprehensive 
the
promotion  of  reproductive  rights,  gender  equality  and
equity,  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  Extending
those  services  to  adolescents  has  become  even  more
urgent.  Nevertheless,  we  also  know  that  we  cannot
experience  any  greater  achievements  without 
the
support of the international community.
reproductive  health 
services, 
in 
the 
During 
session  of 
thirty-seventh 
the
Commission  on  Population  and  Development  held
earlier this year, a resolution was adopted highlighting
the  need  for  sufficient  resources 
the
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action.  An
appeal was made for additional resources to developing
countries  so  as  to  ensure  the  effective  implementation
of the Programme of Action. We hope that the 10-year
review  of  ICPD  will  present  an  opportunity  for  the
to  address 
27
A/59/PV.30
donors  to  live  up  to  their  pledges.  In  that  regard,  my
delegation  commends  the  European  Union  for  its
reproductive  health
decision 
commodities  gap  of  $75  million 
for  2004,  as
announced this morning.
the  entire 
fill 
to 
As I indicated  at the beginning of my statement,
South Africa is celebrating 10 years of democracy that
coincide  with  our  involvement  in  implementing  the
ICPD Programme of Action. We are consciously aware
that  we  must  pursue  population  and  development
objectives  through  the  United  Nations  and  other
multilateral organizations, including the African Union
and  the  Southern  African  Development  Community.
The  issues  of  population  and  development  require  a
global  response.  We  are  determined  to  intensify  our
collaboration  with  our  partners  in  addressing  the
challenges we face. Those challenges can be met only
if all the people who live on our beautiful planet have a
share in them.
Ms.  El-Baz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the
outset,  on  this  important  occasion,  to  which  we  have
come from throughout the world, East and West, South
and  North, 
to  assess,
individually  and  collectively,  our  achievements  10
years after the International Conference on Population
and  Development,  I  should  like  to  congratulate  you,
Sir, on your election to your important post.
together  and 
to  celebrate 
I  also  congratulate  the  Executive  Director  of  the
United  Nations  Population  Fund  (UNFPA)  on  the
statement she made this morning.
in 
is 
and  proud 
the  historic 
to  participate 
While  every  delegation  at  this  important  event
has the right to speak about its national experience, the
delegation  of  Egypt  has  more  than  one  reason  to  be
grateful 
today’s
commemoration.  Our  first  reason  is  the  fact  that,  in
1994,  Egypt  hosted 
International
Conference  on  Population  and  Development,  with  all
the  participating  personalities  and  experiences  that
were mobilized for its new ideas, plans and beneficial
programmes.  Our  second  reason 
that  Egypt’s
implementation of the outcome of the Conference and
its  approach 
its  population  and  development
problems in general have been exemplary experiences.
The  1994  Cairo  Declaration  and  Programme  of
Action introduced a qualitative shift in the way issues
of  population  and  development  are 
tackled.  The
concept  of  human  development  was  introduced  where
once  such  issues  were  discussed  solely  on  the  basis
to 
28
conventional demographic indicators. Perhaps the most
important result of the Cairo Conference 10 years ago
has  been  the  integration  of  the  concepts  of  liberation,
empowerment  and  maximum  employment  for  human
capabilities as pivotal axes for progress in the field of
population and development.
Egypt  has  been  implementing  the  Programme  of
Action  and  has  committed  itself  to  carrying  out
population  programmes  and  policies 
for  human
development,  taking  into  consideration  the  specificity
and  social  and  cultural  circumstances  of  Egyptian
society.  In  conformity  with  the  Cairo  Programme  of
Action,  we  promote  full  respect  for  all  moral  and
religious  values,  in  accordance  with  internationally
recognized human rights.
to 
resort 
registered  much  progress 
Of course, challenges and requirements remain in
the  full  implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action,
but  we  have 
and
improvements  in  some  indicators,  such  as  a  reduction
in  fertility  and  in  child  and  maternal  mortality,  and
increased 
family  planning.  Moreover,
comprehensive  reproductive  health  care  has  been
integrated  into  primary  health-care  units  and  great
attention to quality  care has  been  given  to  health  care
for  adults  and  the  most  vulnerable  and  marginalized
sectors.  We  have  programmes  to  eradicate  illiteracy
and a plan to lower the school drop-out rate, especially
for  girls.  The  year  2003  was  declared  the  Year  of  the
Egyptian  Girl,  and  an  initiative  for  educating  girls  in
rural  and  poor  urban  areas  has  been 
launched.
Furthermore, Egypt’s population strategy has sought to
close the qualitative educational gap between boys and
girls and many measures and decisions have been taken
to prevent the circumcision of girls in order to protect
them from forms of violence and indignity.
Egypt also established a higher national women’s
council  in  2000  for  the  advancement  of  women.
Among  its  achievement  are  its  support  for  women
heads of households and training them to manage small
enterprises,  its  promotion  of  women’s  participation  in
politics, its amendment of the citizenship law in order
to give citizenship to the children of Egyptian mothers
in  mixed  marriages,  the  establishment  of  specialized
family  courts,  and  making  women  eligible  to  become
judges.
Despite  all  those  achievements  and  successes  in
the implementation of the Cairo Programme of Action,
many  challenges  and  difficulties  remain  that  require
care, 
the 
include 
treatment  and 
the  economic  and 
technical  assistance.  Those
bold 
challenges 
financial
constraints  on  the  expansion  of  family  planning  and
reproductive  health 
improvement  of
education,  women’s  employment  and  health  care  for
mothers,  infants,  the  elderly  and  the  disabled.  Despite
the  contributions  of  several  national,  regional  and
international  organizations  and  donor  agencies,  and
increased  contributions  from  the  private  and  business
sectors, we still need a great deal of financial resources
and  technical  assistance.  Moreover,  the  conservative
cultural  environment  in  certain  regions  of  the  country
the  necessary  expansion  of  some
has  hindered 
programmes,  especially 
family
planning  and  the  empowerment  of  women,  work,  and
issues  related  to  reproductive  health  and  rights.  The
administrative environment and institutional capacities
will also play a role in achieving the required progress.
We  have  noted  the  importance  of  coordination
among institutions, especially those working in human
resource  development,  population  planning,  and  data
collection  and  analysis.  On  the  other  hand,  we  have
also  noted  the  need  to  keep  the  legislative  councils,
civil society and youth involved.
those 
related 
to 
A/59/PV.30
I  have  offered  a  few  highlights  of  the  Egyptian
experience in human development and population. It is
the  outcome  of  the  efforts  of  national  institutions,
together with the active help and continuous efforts of
the UNFPA office in Cairo. We are confident that such
cooperation  will  continue  and  that  we  will  be  able  to
implement  the  Programme  of  Action  and  to  integrate
its elements with those of the Millennium Development
Goals.
In  that  respect,  Egypt  attaches  great  importance
to the review event to be held in September 2005 and
looks  forward  to  contributing  to  the  follow-up  to  the
Cairo Conference so that we can achieve our common
objectives. There can be no doubt that those objectives
coincide with the policies of our country in its general
development plans and population programmes. We are
hopeful that our meeting 10 years from now will crown
two  decades  of  ongoing  work  in  the  service  of
population,  which  primarily  is  in  the  interests  of  the
individual, society and humankind as a whole.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
29
