United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
37th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 20 October 2004, 10 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.37
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 23
Review of the implementation of the recommendations
of the Third United Nations Conference on the
Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
Note of the Secretary-General (A/59/174)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.4)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Assembly has before it a note by the Secretary-General
(A/59/174) transmitting the report of the Committee on
the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  on 
the
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III).
First of all, I would like to thank the Committee
for  having  drafted 
this  exhaustive  report,  which
presents in detail the progress achieved over the past five
years in the implementation of the recommendations  of
the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the
Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. I would
like also to commend the excellent work done over the
last  two  years  by  the  working  group  set  up  by  the
Committee to produce the report that its Chairman will
be introducing shortly in detailed form.
Development”,  which  was  subsequently  endorsed  by
the  General  Assembly  by  its  resolution  54/68.  The
Vienna  Declaration  presented  a  strategy  for  making
outer  space  the  basis  for  the  main  United  Nations
initiatives to confront global challenges — in particular
poverty, environmental deterioration, natural disasters,
health  and  education  —  through  the  application  of
outer space science and technology.
The Vienna Declaration  calls for the adoption of
measures  supporting  global  and  regional  development
programmes, with a view to increasing the benefits of
those  programmes  for  the  whole  of  society.  In  the
realm of disaster management, for example, I note that
the  joint  initiative  taken  by  space  agencies  under  the
International Charter on Space and Major Disasters has
made  it  easier  to  provide  immediate  assistance  in  the
case of a major natural or technological disaster.
To  date,  five  space  agencies  have  placed  their
space infrastructures at the disposal of civil protection
authorities  tasked  with  intervening  in  case  of  major
disasters,  by  providing  them  free  of  charge  and  in  a
timely  way  with  satellite  images  to  support  their
emergency  operations.  Since  the  Charter  entered  into
force  in  November  2000,  it  has  been  activated  more
than 50 times in response to the devastating effects of
floods, 
landslides,  earthquakes  and  other  natural
disasters,  most  of  which  have  occurred  in  developing
countries.
UNISPACE III, held in Vienna in 1999, led to the
unanimous  adoption  of  a  text  entitled  “The  Space
Millennium: Vienna Declaration on Space  and Human
It  is  also  my  pleasure  to  note  that  the  Office  for
Outer  Space  Affairs  has  a 
remote  operational
assistance service, available 24 hours a day, seven days
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-56294 (E)
*0456294*
A/59/PV.37
a  week,  thanks  to  which  the  competent  bodies  of  the
United  Nations  system  can  activate  the  Charter  on
Space  and  Major  Disasters  in  order  to  obtain  satellite
images that they need for their rescue operations.
In the realm of remote medical care by means of
space  technologies,  I  note,  for  example,  the  progress
achieved in establishing an inter-American network for
using  geographical  information  systems  and  remote
sensing to combat infectious diseases.
Meeting Africa’s particular needs remains one of
the high priorities of the work of the United Nations. In
that  regard,  I  note  with  satisfaction  the  numerous
projects  mentioned  in  the  report  that  are  designed  to
support  sustainable  development  in  the  continent  that
needs it most.
the 
the  one  hand, 
implementation  of 
The measures taken with a view to implementing
the  recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III  should  not  be
seen as isolated initiatives. Indeed, the report before us
gives us the opportunity of creating synergies between,
those
on 
recommendations  and,  on 
the
achievement  of  the  Goals  set  out  in  the  Millennium
Declaration,  of  the  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the
World Summit on Sustainable Development and of the
World  Summit  on 
the  Information  Society.  This
comprehensive approach makes it possible to achieve a
worldwide  consensus  on  the  Development  Goals  and
promotes  global  cooperation 
the
commitments undertaken internationally.
the  other  hand, 
in  honouring 
From this broader standpoint, it is now the task of
the  progress
the  General  Assembly 
achieved over the last five years in the implementation
of  the  recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III  and  to
recommend the road to follow.
to  evaluate 
I understand that the Chairman of the Committee
on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Mr. Adigun Ade
Abiodun,  has  undertaken  consultations  with  interested
representatives on the draft resolution submitted under
this item of the agenda (A/59/L.4).
I  now  call  on  Mr.  Abiodun  to  introduce  the
Committee’s report.
(Nigeria) 
Mr.  Abiodun 
(Chairman  of 
the
Committee on the Peaceful Uses of  Outer  Space):  Let
me begin by thanking the General Assembly for giving
me this opportunity to address it this morning on behalf
of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
and  to  present  the  report  of  the  Committee  on  the
2
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III).
Five  years  have  passed  since  the  Secretary-
General  urged  us  not  to  allow  the  Vienna  Declaration
on Space and Human Development to be simply words,
but  to  make  it  into  a  living  force  that  will  change  the
lives of future generations. I am very pleased to present
this  morning  what  has  been  achieved  in  undertaking
the  actions  called  for  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  and
what we propose to do in the coming years to make the
Declaration  a  true  living  force  to  enhance  human
development around the world.
The  Vienna  Declaration  contains  a  strategy  to
address  global  challenges  through  the  use  of  space
science  and  technology  and  their  applications.  Key
actions called for by the Vienna Declaration cover such
areas  as  protecting 
the  Earth’s  environment  and
managing  its  resources,  using  space  applications  for
human  security,  development  and  welfare,  advancing
scientific  knowledge  of  space,  enhancing  education
and  training  opportunities  and  strengthening  space
activities in the United Nations system.
Through  the  unique  mechanisms  that  it  adopted,
the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space has
played a central role in coordinating the implementation
of the recommendations of UNISPACE III at the global
level.  The  action  teams  established  by  the  Committee
to  implement  those  recommendations  that  Member
States  had  through  a  survey  identified  as  a  priority
proved to be a unique and flexible mechanism. The action
teams — which were under the voluntary  leadership  of
Governments and open to  participation by any  and  all
interested  Member  States  and  intergovernmental  and
non-governmental  organizations  —  made  significant
progress throughout the year without relying too much
on the resources available to the Secretariat.
The structure of the agendas of the Scientific and
Technical Subcommittee and the Legal Subcommittee, as
revised by the Committee itself, facilitated the process of
introducing new subjects to be examined by those bodies
as  part  of  their  agendas  following  UNISPACE  III.
Since  then,  new  agenda  items  have  been  considered
under  well-defined  work  plans  or  addressed  as  issues
to  be  considered  for  one  year  only.  In  addition,  the
Committee  and  its  subsidiary  bodies,  through  their
consideration  of  new  agenda  items,  provided  overall
policy guidance to the work of many of the action teams.
in 
implementing 
to  make  progress 
The  Committee  was  not  alone  in  undertaking
efforts 
the
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III.  A  number  of
countries, 
their  space  agencies  and  space-related
institutions,  as  well  as  United  Nations  entities  and
various 
and  non-governmental
organizations,  carried  out  activities  in  the  past  five
years  that  supported,  complemented  and  strengthened
the efforts of the Committee. The report before us this
morning (A/59/174) is a manifestation of the efforts of
all those entities.
intergovernmental 
in 
to 
transform 
the  coming  years 
Before I highlight some elements contained in the
report,  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  the  Committee,  to
thank its Working Group and its Chairman, Mr. Niklas
Hedman  of  Sweden,  for  the  outstanding  work  that  the
Committee  has  done  over  the  past  two  years  in
preparing  and  finalizing  the  draft  report.  The  flexible
and participatory manner in which the Working Group
carried  out  its  work  resulted  in  an  increased  sense  of
ownership of the report among Committee members. It
also  helped  to  build  a  solid  foundation  for  further
efforts 
the
possibilities enunciated in the Vienna  Declaration into
realities  for  more  countries  and  for  more  people.  I
would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank
Ambassador Walther Lichem of Austria for the sincere
contribution  he  made  to  the  panel  yesterday  by
introducing elements of the report into our discussions.
The report of the Committee consists of six main
chapters,  two  of  which  I  would  particularly  like  to
bring 
IV
underscores the relevance of many of the actions called
for  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  to  the  goals  and
objectives  of  the  Millennium  Summit  of  the  United
Sustainable
Nations, 
Development  and 
the
Information  Society.  The 
implementation  of  such
actions  would  contribute  significantly  to  the  progress
being  made  in  the  follow-up  actions  resulting  from
those global United Nations conferences.
the  Assembly’s  attention.  Chapter 
the  World  Summit  on 
the  World  Summit 
on 
to 
Chapter  VI  of  the  report  outlines  a  strategy  for
the  way  ahead.  It  contains  a  plan  of  action  that
proposes  initiatives  and  actions  to  be  undertaken  by
various  entities  —  as  identified  in  the  plan  —  in  the
coming  years  in  four  main  areas.  Those  areas  are  the
use of space to support overarching global agendas for
sustainable  development;  developing  coordinated,
global  space  capabilities;  the  use  of  space  to  support
specific agendas to meet human development needs at
A/59/PV.37
and 
level; 
global 
overarching 
the 
capacity
development.  Chapter  VI  should  also  remind  us  that
the review we are conducting this year should serve as
a  catalyst  for  further  action  aimed  at  fully  integrating
the  application  of  space  science  and  technology  into
the global development agenda.
That  concludes  my  remarks  to  introduce  the
report of the Committee to the General Assembly.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
the representative of Nigeria, who will introduce draft
resolution A/59/L.4.
two  United  Nations  Conferences  on 
Mr. Wali  (Nigeria):  Nigeria  has  watched  with
keen interest and satisfaction the progress made on the
global  agenda  for  sustainable  development  since  the
first 
the
Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, held in
Vienna  in  1968  and  1982.  We  also  take  note  of  the
importance  of  social,  economic  and  environmental
considerations  in  sustainable  human  development  and
the  role  of  space  technology  in  addressing  challenges
to sustainable development.
To  consolidate  the  achievements  made  by  the
United Nations through the Committee on the Peaceful
Uses  of  Outer  Space  (COPUOS),  the  Third  United
Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful
Uses  of  Outer  Space  (UNISPACE  III)  was  held  in
Vienna at the threshold of the present millennium. The
result of that Conference — the Vienna Declaration on
Space  and  Human  Development  —  was  adopted
unanimously  by  the  participating  countries,  including
Nigeria,  and  endorsed  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its
resolution 54/68. UNISPACE III therefore presented an
opportunity  to  explore  and  exploit  improved  space
capabilities  and  international  cooperation  in  dealing
with  the  challenges  of  the  33  recommendations  of  the
Conference.
in 
implementation  of 
Nigeria  is  the  action  team  leader,  on  behalf  of
Africa  and  many  other  Member  States, 
the
implementation  of  recommendation  11,  “Promote
sustainable  development  by  using  the  results  of  space
research”. Nigeria has continued to play a vital role in
the 
recommendations  of
UNISPACE  III.  We  have  played  that  role  because  we
are convinced of the beneficial impact of space science
and  technology  on  human  development.  We  therefore
commend  all  key  players  in  the  realization  of  the
aspiration  of  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  sustainable
human development globally.
the 
3
A/59/PV.37
We 
acknowledge 
the  previous  efforts  of
COPUOS. Its Subcommittees and their Chairs  — who
worked  tirelessly  to  put  together  the  report  of  the
UNISPACE  III  five-year  review  —  have  done  a  great
and  highly  commendable  service  to  the  cause  of  the
peaceful  uses  of  outer  space.  No  effort  should  be
spared  to  consolidate  the  achievements  of  COPUOS
and  the  implementation  of  recommendations  of  the
World  Summits  on  Sustainable  Development  and  on
the Information Society.
Nigeria  will  intensify  its  cooperation  with  the
member States of COPUOS so that the benefits of the
full implementation of UNISPACE III will be enjoyed
by all United Nations Member States. In line with that
aspiration,  and  as  part  of  our  contribution  to  global
efforts in disaster management, Nigeria has contributed a
satellite called NigeriaSat-1 to a set of satellites belonging
to  Algeria,  China,  Nigeria,  Turkey  and  the  United
Kingdom in a disaster-monitoring constellation.  Nigeria
is  also  participating  in  the  Cospar  Sarsat  international
search  and  rescue satellite system  programme  and  has
put  in  place,  in  a  number  of  West  African  States,
facilities with beacons for search and rescue missions,
especially in the West Africa subregion.
in  Africa 
to  address 
The Government of Nigeria has also approved the
launching  of  a  communications  satellite  in  2006.  The
satellite,  named  NigcomSat-1,  will  have  footprint
coverage 
the  relevant  and
associated  issues  of  information  exchange  and  the
digital divide, not only in Nigeria but also in Africa as
a  whole.  Similarly,  Algeria,  South  Africa  and  Nigeria
are  collaborating  on  a  proposal  to  build  and  launch  a
constellation  of  African  resource  and  environmental
satellites.
That  will  provide  high-resolution,  affordable,
real-time  data  to  tackle  the  challenges  of  boosting
sustainable  food  production  in  Africa.  They  will  be
used also for flood-disaster management and to assess
the extent and rate of desertification and deforestation
and  their  impact  on  food  and  livestock  production.
Other  aspects  of  natural  resources,  as  well  as  their
assessment,  development  and  management,  including
environmental  questions,  will  also  benefit  from  this
programme.  It  is  noteworthy  that  that  initiative  is  in
for  Africa’s
line  with 
Development’s 
for 
scientific
excellence in Africa in order to be globally competitive
and  contribute  to  the  socio-economic  development  of
the continent.
the  New  Partnership 
(NEPAD)  platform 
4
to 
the 
full 
implementation 
Nigeria considers that the development of Africa
is 
strategic 
and
consolidation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  (UNISPACE  III).  We
therefore call on the members of COPUOS to continue
their efforts to ensure that the important conclusions of
past meetings are translated into concrete actions. That
should  reinforce  public  interest  in  and  support  for  the
peaceful uses of outer space.
On behalf of the sponsors, Nigeria would like to
introduce  the  draft  resolution  entitled  “Review  of  the
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space”  (A/59/L.4).  The
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  are  Chile,  Mexico,
Nigeria,  Peru,  Romania  and  Sweden.  In  addition,  the
Netherlands and Canada have also indicated their wish
to be added as sponsors of the draft.
The  draft  resolution  reflects  a  set  of  essential
elements of this comprehensive report of the Committee.
Last week the Fourth Committee’s Working Group of the
Whole  on  international  cooperation  in  the  peaceful
uses of outer space, which is open for participation by
all  interested  Member  States,  reviewed  and  agreed  on
the text of this draft resolution.
I  should  like  to  thank  all  those  representatives
who  participated  in  the  meetings,  and  in  particular
those Member States that are sponsoring the draft.
The  preamble  of  the  draft  and  its  operative
paragraphs  1  through  3  concern  the  background  of
UNISPACE  and  achievements  made  to  date  in  its
follow-up.  By  operative  paragraph  4,  the  General
Assembly  would  endorse  the  Plan  of  Action  as
proposed by the Committee in its report.
in 
Paragraphs  6 
the  Plan  of  Action 
through  12  concern  actions
the
proposed 
programme  of  work  of 
its
subsidiary  bodies,  and  call  on  Member  States  to  take
specific  actions  or  suggest  a  new  mechanism  for
international community in space-related areas.
that  affect 
the  Committee  and 
As regards paragraph 11 of the draft resolution, I
should like to make a technical correction to the text. I
understand that this correction affects all languages. In
the first line, immediately after the word “System”, the
acronym  “GNSS”  should  be  added,  in  parentheses.  In
the second and fourth lines, the word “System” should
be replaced by the acronym “GNSS”.
Paragraphs  13  to  17  relate  to  the  activities  to  be
carried out by the Office for Outer Space Affairs in the
further  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of
UNISPACE III.
Finally,  in  paragraph  18,  the  Assembly  agrees
that  the  Committee  should  continue  to  consider  the
implementation of UNISPACE III recommendations at
its session in 2005.
Mr.  Hamburger  (Netherlands):  I  have 
the
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU).
The  candidate  countries  Bulgaria,  Romania,  Turkey
and  Croatia,  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Bosnia
and  Herzegovina,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia  and  Serbia  and  Montenegro,  and 
the
European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA)  countries
Iceland  and  Norway,  members  of 
the  European
Economic Area, align themselves with this statement.
Today’s review, five years after the Conference in
Vienna, was called for by the General Assembly in 1999.
The European Union considers the application of
space  technology  as  one  of  the  tools  for  improving
human  living  conditions.  Space  activities  have  the
capacity  to  contribute  to  meeting  many  important
development  goals.  The  EU  therefore  welcomes  the
work initiated by the United Nations Committee on the
Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  (COPUOS)  in  the
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III), and we
thank  its  Chairman,  Mr.  Abiodun,  for  the  work  done
and for his introduction earlier in this meeting.
The report of COPUOS provides a good account
of our joint efforts, undertaken for the improvement of
human  living  conditions.  The  Committee,  through  a
working group chaired by Mr. Hedman, has delivered a
comprehensive  and  forward-looking  assessment  of  the
implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE
III. The staff of the Office for Outer Space Affairs has
provided outstanding support in the preparation of the
report and in the overall implementation process so far.
The  report  clearly  demonstrates  the  benefits  of
using 
in  meeting  worldwide
development  goals.  It  pays  special  attention  to  the
synergy  between  the  recommendations  of  UNISPACE
technology 
space 
A/59/PV.37
recommendations  of  UNISPACE 
III  and  the  worldwide  Development  Goals  of  the
Millennium Summit, the World Summit on Sustainable
Development and the  World  Summit  on  the  Information
Society.  The 
III
contribute to meeting some of the challenges laid down
by  these  Summits,  such  as  the  eradication  of  extreme
poverty and hunger; achieving sustainable development
and  protecting  the  environment;  better  managing  and
alleviating  the  effects  of  disasters;  and  strengthening
overarching  capacity  development,  including  bridging
the digital divide.
The  recommendations  for  further  action,  as
contained  in  the  Plan  of  Action  of  the  report,  address
several  important  areas  for  improving  human  living
the  development  of  a  comprehensive
conditions: 
worldwide 
environmental  monitoring 
strategy;
protection of the Earth’s environment and managing its
resources; the use and application of global navigation
satellite  systems  to  support  sustainable  development;
the  use  of 
increase  health-care
coverage,  especially  in  isolated  or  underprivileged
regions;  and  the  coordination  of  space-based  services
for use in disaster management.
telemedicine 
to 
In  that  context,  I  would  like  briefly  to  mention
the  important  role  that  the  European  Space  Agency
(ESA)  plays.  Many  of  the  principles  and  goals  of
UNISPACE  III  correspond  with  the  primary  goals  of
ESA  and  are  the  basis  of  its  cooperation  activities.
Through  its  various  programmes,  ESA  implements
many recommendations of UNISPACE III, for example
by  trying  to  improve  universal  access  to,  and  the
compatibility 
and
positioning  systems;  scientific  knowledge  of  near  and
outer  space  through  cooperative  activities;  and  the
protection  of  the  near-Earth  space  and  outer  space
environments 
through  mitigation  of  space  debris,
which  increasingly  affect  the  development  of  space
activities.
space-based 
navigation 
of, 
Furthermore,  the  European  Space  Agency  is  the
main  financial  contributor  to  the  United  Nations
Programme  on  Space  Applications,  a  programme
which  seeks  to  implement  the  recommendations  of
UNISPACE  III  by  raising  awareness  as  to  the  use  of
space  technologies  for  the  benefit  of  developing
countries.
The European Union attaches great importance to
the  work  done  so  far  and  encourages  all  involved  to
continue to do so with the same effort.
5
A/59/PV.37
Bearing  in  mind  the  importance  that  Member
States,  governmental  and  non-governmental  entities
attach  to  UNISPACE  III  and  the  synergy  between
UNISPACE  III  and  the  aforementioned  summits,  the
European Union is of the opinion that adequate funding
should be made available for the implementation of the
recommendations.
Finally, the method of establishing priorities in the
recommendations of UNISPACE III,  combined  with  the
establishment  of  action  teams  under  the  voluntary
leadership  of  Member  States,  proved  to  be  a  good
mechanism for initiating the implementation process.
Mr. Ishikawa (Japan): At the outset, I would like
to  express  my  gratitude  to  Mr.  Adigun  Abiodun  of
Nigeria  for  his  presentation  of  the  report,  entitled
“Review of the implementation of the recommendations
of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the
Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space”. I would
also like to express my gratitude to Mr. Niklas Hedman
of  Sweden,  who  chaired  the  Working  Group  of  the
Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(COPUOS).  Under  his  great  leadership,  the  report  on
the  five-year  review  of  the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer Space (UNISPACE III) was successfully finalized.
Lastly, I would like to thank Ms. Takemi Chiku of the
United Nations  Office for Outer Space  Affairs  for  her
outstanding work in compiling the report.
Since  1999,  Japan  has  been  making  every  effort
to implement the  recommendations of UNISPACE III,
and I would like to take a moment to express some of
our views on that item.
With regard to the action teams that were created
to  facilitate  the  implementation  of  certain  specific
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III, 
it  was  our
delegation’s great pleasure to have served as a chair of
the  action  team  on  item  17  on  enhancing  capacity-
building  through  the  development  of  human  and
budgetary resources. Action team no. 17 consists of 25
countries and seven organizations, and I would like to
express my sincere appreciation to all of them for their
kind  cooperation  and  valuable  contributions  to  the
team’s  activities.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my
gratitude  to  the  other  countries  and  organizations  that
so graciously and  voluntarily  provided  information  on
their  related  activities  to  our  team.  In  virtue  of  their
contribution, we believe that we could accomplish the
substance of report.
6
Our 
action 
team  proposes 
the 
following
recommendations  on  the  report:  first,  promoting  the
sharing  of  educational  materials  and  information;
secondly,  coordinating 
international  activities  on
to
capacity-building; 
regional 
centre 
enhancing
opportunities  for  ongoing  idea  exchange  on  capacity-
building;  fifthly,  facilitating 
the  augmentation  of
budgetary  resources  and  fellowships;  and  sixthly,
preparing and distributing educational booklets.
increasing  assistance 
thirdly, 
activities; 
fourthly, 
I  would  like  to  request  that  earnest  efforts  be
made  to  promote  capacity-building  in  all  countries,  in
accordance  with  our  recommendations.  Those  efforts
should be made in  close  cooperation  and  coordination
with  COPUOS  member  countries  and  organizations,
including  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific
and  Cultural  Organization,  which  addresses  space
education; 
the  Committee  on  Earth  Observation
Satellites,  which  is  promoting  the  sharing  of  satellite
data for education and the development of a database on
capacity-building;  and  the  International  Astronautical
Federation,  which  has  almost  completed  development
of  a  database  on  capacity-building 
includes
educational  materials.  It  is  our  hope  that,  by  working
together with countries and organizations participating
in  COPUOS,  we  can  contribute  to  the  education  and
training  of  the  next  generation  in  the  fields  of  space
development  and  utilization  and  space  science.  Japan
will  also  contribute  to  international  activities  on
capacity-building  by  continuing  to  implement  our
team’s recommendations.
that 
In addition to item 17, Japan also participated in
and contributed to activities of other action teams, such as
those  on  environmental  monitoring,  natural  resources
management, weather and climate forecasting, disaster
management,  global  navigation 
systems
(GNSS) and near-Earth objects. I would like to express
my appreciation for all the work of those action teams.
Japan will continue to cooperate in order to implement
the recommendations of the action teams.
satellite 
Regarding disaster management, for example, the
Japan  Aerospace  Exploration  Agency  has  applied  to
join International Charter “Space and Major Disasters”
and  is  now  participating  in  Charter  activities  as  an
observer. I believe that Japan can actively contribute to
work 
the
implementation  of  the  recommendations,  as  proposed
by  the  action  team  on  disaster  management.  I  would
also  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the  World
through  actions  such  as 
that  field 
in 
Conference  on  Disaster  Reduction  will  be  held  in
Kobe, Japan, in January 2005. Taking note of the draft
resolution on international cooperation in the peaceful
uses  of  outer  space  that  was  adopted  by  the  Fourth
Committee  on  Monday,  18  October,  I  believe  that  the
outcome  of  the  Kobe  Conference  could  play  an
important role in the future work of COPUOS.
Another  example  of  possible  future  work  in
which Japan could be involved is the establishment of
the  international  committee  on  GNSS,  which  was
proposed  by  the  action  team  on  GNSS.  I  also  believe
that  Japan,  as  one  of  the  GNSS  providers,  will
dynamically contribute to the that committee.
regard 
to 
With 
the
implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE
III and global initiatives, I would like to underscore the
important initiative of the Earth Observation Summit.
synergies 
between 
As  a  reflection  of  the  growing  concern  about
global  environmental  problems,  the  Action  Plan  on
Science  and  Technology  for  Sustainable  Development
was adopted at the Evian G-8 summit last June. The plan
recognizes  Earth  observation  as  one  of  three  important
fields  in  which  efforts  should  be  concentrated  in  the
future.  The  importance  of  Earth  observation  was  also
acknowledged  during 
the  first  Earth  Observation
Summit,  held  in  the  United  States  last  July.  At  the
second  Earth  Observation  Summit,  which  was  held  in
Japan  in  April  this  year,  a  framework  for  a  10-year
implementation  plan  was  adopted.  The  plan  will
provide  for  the  construction  of  the  Earth  observation
system  or  systems,  which  will  advance  many  specific
areas  of  socio-economic  benefit  through  international
cooperation.  During 
third  Earth  Observation
Summit,  to  be  held  in  Belgium  in  February  2005,  a
concrete implementation plan will be adopted.
the 
As  members  know,  the  special  exhibition  on
space  technology  and  human  development  is  now  being
organized here on the occasion of the UNISPACE III + 5
review.  The  Japan  Aerospace  Exploration  Agency  is
contributing  posters 
its  activities  on
education  and  Earth  observation  to  the  exhibition  in
order to celebrate that important milestone.
regarding 
Space is a common frontier for all mankind and,
as  such,  offers  infinite  possibilities.  We  should  look
beyond  national  borders  to  help  bring  the  benefits
derived from space activities not only to the citizens of
the  countries  engaged  in  space  activities,  but  to  all
important
humankind. 
to  make 
hopes 
Japan 
A/59/PV.37
to  global  prosperity  by 
contributions 
actively
participating  in  international  cooperative  activities
based on a broad and long-term vision.
With that in mind, Japan would like to express its
respect  for  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in  those
fields.  Japan  is  determined  to  promote  international
cooperation,  together  with  members  of  the  United
Nations  and  COPUOS,  so  that  the  benefits  derived
from  space  activities  can  be  enjoyed  by  the  people  of
the world.
the 
Mr.  Hodgkins  (United  States  of  America):  In
1958,  soon  after 
launching  of  Earth-orbiting
satellites  imparted  new  intensity  to  the  cold  war,  the
General  Assembly  acted  to  create  the  Committee  on
the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  (COPUOS)  in  the
hope  that  the  use  of  space  could  be  channelled  away
from  military  application  and  harnessed  instead  for
constructive  gain.  Recognizing  space  as  another  new
frontier  of  human  endeavour  that  held  both  promise
and danger in equal measure, nations aimed to erect a
structure  that  would  foster  cooperation  and  shared
benefits.
treaties  and 
In  the  past  four  decades,  COPUOS  has  acted
under  that  mandate  to  develop  and  adopt  five  major
outer  space 
to  promulgate  valuable
standards  that  serve  as  international  principles.  In
doing  so,  the  Committee  has  generated  nothing  less
than  an  entirely  new  branch  of  international  law.
COPUOS  has  also  acted  as  a  catalyst,  promoting
international cooperation in space activities and fostering
a  broad  information  exchange  among  developed  and
developing  countries  on  the  latest  advances  in  space
exploration and their beneficial results.
Like  COPUOS,  the  American  space  programme
was born at the height of the cold war in the context of
a looming rivalry for supremacy in missiles and space.
Fortunately, over time that conflict evaporated, and we
are now able to see our space activities primarily as an
instrument  of  human  advancement  and  international
cooperation.
Against  that  backdrop,  the  States  members  and
observers  of  COPUOS  agreed  that  the  time  had  come
to  chart  a  new  course  for  the  United  Nations  in  the
peaceful  uses  of  outer  space,  in  the  form  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (UNISPACE III).
7
A/59/PV.37
real 
UNISPACE III was the last major United Nations
conference  of  the  twentieth  century.  Member  States
and  the  Office  for  Outer  Space  Affairs  worked  under
severe  time  and  resource  constraints,  but  despite  that,
the  Conference  was  a 
from  an
organizational 
standpoint.  The
Secretariat’s  report  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its
fifty-fourth session (A/54/20 and Corr.1) on the unique
organizational  matters  relating 
to  UNISPACE  III
provides  concrete  examples  for  other  bodies  of  the
United Nations on convening conferences that address
important  global  issues  while  keeping  costs  within
exiting resources.
substantive 
success 
and 
the 
In  addition  to  our  success  in  organizing  the
Conference,  we  were  especially  pleased  with  the
breadth  and  scope  of 
topics  considered  at
UNISPACE  III,  as  well  as  with 
the  extensive
involvement of leading scientists, Government officials
and  private  sector  representatives.  The  emphasis  on
space  applications,  private 
space  activities  and
potential  opportunities  for  cooperation  makes 
the
programme  of  work  highly  relevant  to  the  needs  of
developed and developing countries.
recommendations  and  conclusions 
In  reviewing  the  Vienna  Declaration  and  the
Conference’s report, we were encouraged that the event
that
produced 
include
supported  our  overall  objectives.  Those 
broader  participation 
in  activities  related 
to 
the
monitoring  and  understanding  of  the  Earth  and  its
environment; the identification of new areas conducive
to  international  cooperation;  the  endorsement  of  and
increased support for existing mechanisms utilized for
international  cooperation;  the  strengthening  of  the
space  applications  programme;  the  dissemination  of
information  on  space  research  areas  and  strategies  for
developing  countries;  improved  coordination  and  less
duplication  among  United  Nations  organizations
involved in space activities; the greater involvement of
young  scientists  and  engineers,  as  well  as  of  industry,
in  COPUOS  activities;  strengthened  regional  space
cooperation;  and 
the  promotion  of  civil  and
commercial applications in the use of outer space.
We  have  before  us  a  final  comprehensive  report
(A/59/174) on the review of the implementation of the
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III,  including  a  plan
of  action  consisting  of  a  set  of  concrete  proposals  by
the Committee for specific actions to be undertaken in
further 
those  recommendations.  We
support  the  plan  of  action  and  intend  to  work  at  the
implementing 
8
national and international levels to ensure that as many
of the recommendations as possible are carried out. We
were particularly pleased with the unique  contribution
that the action teams made to those efforts. Under the
voluntary  leadership  of  Governments,  this  innovative
mechanism 
of
governmental  and  non-governmental  entities  in  the
follow-up  to  UNISPACE  III,  while  preserving  the
pivotal role of Member States.
participation 
allowed 
has 
the 
of 
In conclusion, I should like to call to the attention
of representatives the dedication shown by a number of
individuals involved in preparing the report. In the first
former
instance,  Mr.  Karl  Doetsch  of  Canada, 
Chairman 
Technical
Subcommittee,  deserves  our  deep  appreciation  for
being a leading advocate for the concept of the action
teams. Without that mechanism, COPUOS would never
have been in a position to demonstrate the progress in
implementing  the  recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III
as reflected in the comprehensive report.
Scientific 
and 
the 
limitless  capacity  for  hard  work 
The  staff  of  the  Office  for  Outer  Space  Affairs
displayed  a 
in
supporting  the  action  teams  and  drafting  this  report.
Sergio Camacho and Takemi Chiku were exceptional in
that regard.
special 
Finally,  the  Chairman  of  the  working  group
charged with drafting the report, Mr. Niklas Hedman of
Sweden,  deserves 
thanks.  Mr.  Hedman
willingly took on the challenge over one year ago with
the knowledge that he would have to bring together the
work of the action teams, member States, international
organizations  and  non-governmental  entities  into  a
coherent  product.  He  accomplished  the  task  with  a
level of leadership, hard work and vision that we have
all come to admire.
Mr.  Sun  Laiyan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I
would  like  first  of  all  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the
Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(COPUOS) for his introductory statement on this item.
It is becoming increasingly evident that, given the
advances  in  science  and  technology  that  are  being
made, as well as social progress, space technology can
help  us 
the  peaceful
exploration  and  development  of  outer  space.  It  is  one
of  the  most  influential  advanced  technologies  in  the
world today. In this, the space age, it is clear that space
technology 
influence  on
modern  production  processes  and  on  daily  life.  It  has
to  make  great  strides 
is  having  an 
increasing 
in 
In 
also played an important role in our efforts to achieve
sustainable development.
this  context, 
the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space  (UNISPACE  III)  was  held  in  Vienna  in
1999,  on  the  eve  of  the  twenty-first  century.  The
document  entitled  “The  Space  Millennium:  Vienna
Declaration  on  Space  and  Human  Development”  set
out  guiding  principles  and  recommendations  for
utilizing 
to
challenges. 
instrument  with  historic
significance.  Its  positive  impact  will  enhance  the
peaceful  uses  of  space  science  and 
technology,
reinforce  international  space  cooperation  and  promote
economic  development  and  social  progress  for  all
countries, especially the developing countries.
responding 
space 
It 
technology 
is  an 
and 
The  Chinese  Government  has  consistently
supported the peaceful use of outer space, with special
attention  being  given  to  the  implementation  of  the
UNISPACE  III  recommendations.  Since  2000,  the
Chinese  Government,  in  conjunction  with  the  Office
for  Outer  Space  Affairs  and  the  United  Nations
Economic  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  has
hosted  a  number  of  training  courses,  workshops  and
seminars on space technology and applications for the
Asia-Pacific 
takes  place
annually in China in the context of World Space Week,
in order to raise awareness of the peaceful uses of outer
space, as advocated by the United Nations.
region.  This  campaign 
China  has  taken  an  active  part  in  the  COPUOS
disaster  management  multi-year  action  team.  We  co-
chaired  this  action  team  with  Canada  and  France  and
worked  with  other  participating  countries 
to  put
forward  specific  proposals  for  establishing,  within  the
United  Nations  system,  a  global  disaster  coordination
and management mechanism based on space resources.
The  Chinese  Government  has  offered  substantial
human  and  financial  resources  for  the  implementation
of UNISPACE III recommendations.
The  objective  of  human  exploration  and
development  of  outer  space  should  be  for  peaceful
purposes  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  people  of  all
nations.  All  countries  should  enjoy  equal  rights  and
take an active part in the exploration and peaceful uses
of  outer  space.  All  activities  in  outer  space  should  be
conducive  to  international  peace  and  security,  and  to
human  subsistence  and  development.  Therefore,  the
Chinese  Government  advocates  closer  international
A/59/PV.37
space  cooperation,  based  on  equality,  mutual  benefit,
mutual complementarity and common progress.
In  international  space  cooperation,  we  should
abide  by  the  basic  principles  embodied  in  General
entitled
Assembly 
resolution  51/122  of  1996, 
“Declaration  on  International  Cooperation 
in 
the
Exploration and Use of Outer Space for the Benefit and
in  the  Interest  of  All  States,  Taking  into  Particular
Account  the  Needs  of  Developing  Countries”.  China
will  continue  to  reinforce  space  cooperation  with
developing  countries,  actively  promote  Asia-Pacific
regional  cooperation  and  support  space  cooperation
with  other  regions  of  the  world.  We  will  continue  our
cooperation  with  developed  countries  in  order  to
enhance the space capacity-building of the developing
countries  and  to  achieve  economic  and  social  “leap-
frog”  development  by  means  of  space  technology  and
its applications.
China, as a developing country, always defines its
space programme on the basis of realistic needs and the
long-term  strategy  of 
its  national  development.
Building  on  past  achievements,  in  its  next  five-year-
plan China will  focus on satellite applications  and the
development  of  large  capacity,  high  quality  and  long-
lasting  telecommunications  satellites,  so  as  to  gradually
consolidate  China’s 
telecommunications
industry.  We  will  also  devote  further  study  and
exploration  to  a  new  generation  of  non-toxic,  non-
polluting, highly efficient and low-cost launch vehicles
and improve the capacity and reliability of the existing
“Long March” launch vehicles.
satellite 
In addition, China plans to establish an integrated
long-term,  stable,  all-weather,  high-orbit-resolution
earth observation system, composed mainly of smaller
satellites for meteorology, earth resources, ocean, earth
and  environmental  disaster  monitoring.  We  shall
continue  our  research  on  earth-sun  physics,  manned
space  flight  programmes,  lunar  orbiting  engineering
and  deep-space  exploration,  so  as  to  facilitate  the
sustainable development of China’s space programme.
The  twenty-first  century  will  witness  a  vigorous
development of space science and technology and their
applications.  The  world’s 
economic,
scientific, 
links  are
becoming  closer.  New  opportunities  and  possibilities
might  develop  from  our  efforts  to  seek  solutions  to
protracted global problems.
political, 
technological  and  cultural 
9
A/59/PV.37
The  Chinese  Government  will  continue 
its
international  space  cooperation  with  the  rest  of  the
world,  actively  conduct  space  science  study,  promote
space  technology  development  and  reinforce  space
applications  and  their  implementation,  so  that  space
technology will better serve all humankind.
Mr. Sriwidjaja (Indonesia): Sir, allow me at the
outset to commend the Chairman of the Committee on
the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space 
(COPUOS),
Mr. Adigun Ade Abiodun of Nigeria, and the members
of the Bureau for their substantive contributions and to
assure  them  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and
cooperation  in  the  present  deliberations.  Similarly,  we
wish  to  convey  our  gratitude  to  the  Chairmen  of  the
COPUOS  Scientific  and  Technical  Subcommittee  and
the Legal Subcommittee.
in 
for 
health, 
in  outer 
education, 
Progress  and  development 
the  field  of  outer  space  and 
space
activities are occurring at an increasing rate due to the
benefits they offer and the capacity of countries to take
advantage  of  them.  The  development  of  science  and
technology 
its
applications  have  resulted  in  great  and  unprecedented
benefits 
environmental
monitoring,  natural  resources  management,  disaster
satellite
management,  meteorological 
navigation 
the
practical  benefits  of  space  science  and  technology
applications  have  not  reached  all  people  and  nations
equally.  While  space  technology  has  been  extensively
applied  by  the  developed  world,  a  large  part  of  the
developing  world  has  yet  to  benefit  from  space
applications,  and  most  of  the  world  has  only  limited
access in that respect.
communications.  However, 
forecasting, 
and 
Against this backdrop, Indonesia believes that the
positive and significant developments of space science
and technology should be more strongly and primarily
focused  on  the  common  interests  and  welfare  of  all
humankind,  regardless  of  different  political,  cultural
and social systems or levels of economic development.
In  a  similar  vein,  the  Indonesian  Government  also
for
supports 
strengthening 
for
increasing  the  use  of  space  science  and  applications
within and among entities of the United Nations.
the  development  of  mechanisms 
and 
inter-agency 
cooperation 
While  cooperation  under  the  auspices  of  the
United Nations system has been taking place for some
years, it is felt that the pattern and methods of carrying
out  such  cooperation,  especially  in  the  transfer  of
10
resulted 
technology,  have  not  yet 
in  enhanced
technological  capability  and  related  human  resource
development 
countries.
Consequently,  they  are  required  to  undertake  an  ever-
increasing number of self-sustaining space activities by
themselves.
developing 
in  most 
The  industrialization  and  commercialization  of
space activities are the result of the benefits that can be
derived  for  the  progress  and  development  of  space
technology  for  global  society  at  large.  Through  the
efforts  of 
industrialization  and  commercialization,
funds  should  be  made  available  to  finance  the  further
progress  and  development  of  outer  space  technology.
In  fact,  most  developing  countries  that  have  benefited
from  space 
its  applications  are
consumers of space technology products.
technology  and 
In this respect, my delegation has carefully noted
the active and constructive role played by COPUOS, as
a  catalyst  in  efforts  to  fulfil  the  noble  and  common
goals of its member countries. It is indeed our fervent
hope that the Committee will continue to be consistent
and  active  in  promoting  international  cooperation,
particularly  between  developed 
and  developing
countries,  so  as  to  accelerate  social  and  economic
development in the developing countries.
Concerning 
It  is  also  our  expectation  that  through  such
cooperation, the developing countries will have greater
access  to  and  greater  opportunities  to  increase  their
capabilities  in  outer  space  activities.  For  that  reason,
programmes  involving  the  use  of  satellite  remote-
sensing  data,  courses  in  the  application  of  remote
sensing, and training seminars and workshops on space
applications need to be intensified and expanded.
of 
the
the  Third  United  Nations
recommendations  of 
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space 
Indonesia  has
participated in, and sent an expert to become a member
of,  the  expert  group  on  the  implementation  of  an
integrated 
disaster
management  system.  Indonesia  also  supports 
the
programme  and  is  ready  to  contribute  further  towards
its  work  in  cooperation  with  other  countries,  through,
inter alia, exchanges of data and of experts.
implementation 
(UNISPACE 
space-based 
natural 
global 
III), 
the 
My delegation has noted  that  the  Committee  has
acknowledged  a  limited  awareness  among  both  the
general  public  and  policymakers  of  the  benefits  of
outer  space  activities.  There  is  a  definite  relationship
between  that  limited  awareness  and  the  impediments
faced in the implementation of the recommendations of
UNISPACE III, such as limited financial resources and
the  number  of  experts,  which  could  be  larger.  It  has
been  indicated  that  those  challenges  could  also  be
connected to difficulties in calculating the cost-benefit
advantages of space applications.
in 
the 
implementation 
My  delegation  has  also  noted  that,  although  a
large  number  of  States  had  expressed  an  interest  in
participating 
the
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III,  and  although  the
work  of  the  action  teams  was  indeed  open-ended  —
permitting 
to
participate at any point in the process — unfortunately,
various constellations of the impediments I mentioned
earlier  amounted 
their
participation.
interested  States  and  organizations 
to  major  obstacles 
of 
to 
The  Vienna  Declaration  calls  for  a  number  of
actions that are relevant to the goals and objectives of
conferences convened after UNISPACE III, such as the
Millennium Summit, the World Summit on Sustainable
the
Development,  and 
Information  Society.  The 
the
UNISPACE  III  recommendations  would  contribute  to
progress 
these  global
in 
conferences.
the  World  Summit  on 
implementation  of 
follow-up  actions 
to 
the 
between 
activities 
follow-up 
Steps  could  be  taken  to  further  increase  the
synergy 
of
UNISPACE III  and those of global  conferences of the
United  Nations  system.  While  specific  areas  where
space  science  and  technology  and  their  applications
could  play  an  important  role  were  identified  by  the
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  and  the
World Summit on the Information Society, many other
areas  remain  in  which  they  could  contribute  to  the
implementation of the outcomes of those summits and
of the Millennium Declaration.
to 
With  regard 
the  priorities  of  Indonesian
national  development,  our  activities  are  directed
primarily  at  developing  applications  of  outer  space
technology.  These  are  aimed  at  supporting  and
bolstering  the  development  of  space  applications  and
industrial activities.
As  to  activities  related  to  space  science  and
climate  research,  my  country  is  now  developing  an
Indonesian  climate  model  and  studying  the  natural
phenomena  and  specifications  of  the  atmosphere  and
ionosphere-upper atmosphere in connection with Earth
A/59/PV.37
in 
in 
In  order 
to  enhance
environmental  conditions. 
capabilities 
the  area  of  acquiring  data  on
atmospheric phenomena over the equatorial region, the
Indonesian National Institute of Aeronautics and Space
Japan’s  Kyoto
(LAPAN), 
cooperation  with 
University,  has  been  operating 
since  2001  a
meteorological  instrument  in  West  Sumatra  called  the
Equatorial Atmosphere Radar.
Furthermore,  LAPAN 
the  Technical
University  of  Berlin,  Germany,  have  signed  a
Memorandum  of  Understanding  to  develop  the  first
Indonesian  micro-satellite,  called  LAPAN-TUBSAT.
Through  such  cooperation,  Indonesian  engineers  will
have the opportunity to master satellite-building stages,
from designing to implementing, testing, launching and
operating the satellites.
and 
LAPAN-TUBSAT  will  carry  a  remote  sensing,
store and forward communications payload and will be
launched  in  2005.  Our  next  outer  space  programme  is
to  develop  a  remote-sensing  micro-satellite  to  support
national food security in collaboration with the German
Aerospace  Centre  (DLR);  its  launch  is  planned  for
2008. Another memorandum of understanding between
LAPAN and the Space Research Organization of India
on  cooperation 
research
technology  and  development  was  concluded  in  New
Delhi  in  2002;  and  a  memorandum  of  intent  between
LAPAN  and 
the  Russian  Aviation  and  Space
Technology  Application  was  signed  in  Moscow  in
2003. Indonesia expects to expand its cooperation with
other  countries  in  the  maintenance,  exploration  and
peaceful  uses  of  outer  space  for  the  benefit  of  all
nations.
field  of  space 
the 
in 
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  our
full  support  for 
in
promoting international cooperation and in its efforts to
fulfil our common goal of maintaining outer space for
peaceful uses and the benefit of all humankind.
the  Committee 
the  work  of 
international 
environment,  which 
Mr.  Aninat  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The
is
current 
characterized  by 
instability,  uncertainty  and  new
threats, presents a bleak picture which we must address
jointly and creatively, in the context of a globalization
that  is  universal  and  inclusive.  To  seek  to  preserve  a
situation  of  profound  social  exclusion  would  not  only
be  immoral  but  would  also  lead  to  the  continued
erosion of the  fragile  social fabric  of  the  international
community.
11
A/59/PV.37
Placing people at the centre of our concerns is the
great challenge facing us. To succeed, we will need to
achieve  the  proper  synergy  between  diplomatic  action
and  the  scientific  and  technological  approach  —  a
concept  that  is  now  beginning  to  emerge  in  various
forums, debates and study centres.
Space technology, because of its capacity to reach
all points on the planet, is particularly qualified to play
that  role.  Those  responsible  for  making  decisions
cannot  continue 
irresponsibly
present this technology as too sophisticated to meet the
needs  of  common  people.  We  must,  on  the  contrary,
gradually integrate it and place it in the service of the
needy as a means of resolving social and humanitarian
problems whose solutions are long overdue.
to  neglectfully  and 
in 
idea  was  set  out 
Satellite  technologies  are  vital  tools  for  creating
conditions  of  sustainable  development  and  human
security.  That 
the  Vienna
Declaration  on  Space  and  Human  Development,
adopted by the Third United Nations Conference on the
Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(UNISPACE  III).  For  the  first  time,  the  private  sector
and  industry  actively  participated  in  that  important
international  event.  Specifically,  open-ended  action
teams  were  established  in  various  areas  that  have
begun 
the
framework  of  the  Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space  (COPUOS).  My  country  is  a  member  of
the  Action  Team  on  Disaster  Management,  which,  for
obvious reasons, is of particular relevance today.
function  very  effectively  within 
to 
The careful study of the positive effects of space
applications  conducted  by  UNISPACE  III  and  its
recent  review  conference,  UNISPACE  III  +  5,  merely
confirmed  the  existence  of  two  factors  that  are  not
adequately  self-reinforcing:  the  enormous  potential  of
space  technology  to  address  and  resolve  all  those
problems  that  prevent  individuals  and  nations  from
achieving  minimally  acceptable  levels  of  security  and
human  development,  on  the  one  hand,  and,  on  the
other,  persistent 
the  half-hearted
commitment  of  countries  to  prioritizing  that  key  item
on  the  agenda  of  their  concerns,  thereby  markedly
reducing the chances for improvement in the quality of
life  of  their  citizens.  That  holds  true  despite  the  fact
that,  in  an  incipient  but  global  way,  increasingly
effective  and  coherent  international  organs  are  being
developed  that  define  their  development  strategies  to
include the potent presence of the space component.
evidence  of 
12
in 
the  agenda  of 
The  varied  and  dynamic  action  of  organizations
of  the  United  Nations  system,  the  inclusion  of  this
topic 
the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development, the imminent creation of the
geodetic Earth-orbiting satellite, the interest shown by
important  scientific  bodies  as  International
such 
Institute  for  Applied  Systems  Analysis  and 
the
Interdepartmental Committee on Space in Trieste, among
others,  reflects  a  commitment  whose  conclusions  must
be more actively assumed. In the Americas, we cannot
fail 
important  work  of  regional
cooperation on space that has been done by the Space
Conference  of  the  Americas,  whose  fifth  session,
thanks  to  the  positive  initiative  of  the  Government  of
Ecuador, will be held in Quito next year.
to  mention 
the 
At  the  national  level,  mention  must  be  made  of
the  substantial  work  of  disseminating  information  and
promoting  awareness  of  the  theme  of  space  that  has
been  done  by  the  International  Air  and  Space  Fair
(FIDAE),  which  is  held  every  two  years  in  Chile.  Its
importance  has  been  underscored  in  the  relevant
resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  subject.
The next FIDAE will be held in Chile in 2006, with the
theme “Satellites and distance learning”.
Progress  has  therefore  been  made  in  raising
awareness  in  institutions  of  the  United  Nations  and  at
relevant  international  conferences.  It  is  now  up  to
Governments 
the
recommendations into actions and tangible benefits for
their  peoples,  based  on  the  critical  mass  that  is  now
available and which will gradually increase.
themselves 
transform 
to 
to 
We  must  remember  in  that  regard  the  role  of
engine and catalyst played by resolution 56/51 of 2001,
which  took  note  of  the  letter  of  the  Chairman  of
COPUOS 
the  Secretary-General  drawing  his
attention  to  the  subject.  In  response  to  that  call,  the
annual  Inter-Agency  Meeting  prepared  a 
list  of
agencies as recommended in the Plan of Action of the
World Summit on Sustainable Development, as well as
other initiatives of similar scope and content.
The 
lack  of  firm  political  will 
to  develop
appropriate  space-related  plans  and  institutions  is  an
obstacle  to  the  promotion  of  human  development
projects.  On 
the  other  hand,  diplomacy,  which
continues  to  be  strongly  influenced  by  formal  and
doctrinaire  traditional  elements,  requires  —  and  let
there be no doubt about this — urgent updating. It must
include in its scope of action a more vigorous scientific
and  technological  component  to  translate  into  reality
what has already been set out in the 2001 report of the
United  Nations  Development  Programme  on 
the
peaceful use of science and technology for the benefit
of humankind and not for its destruction, as is often the
case in these fateful times marked by war and terrorism.
action 
groups 
established 
it.  The  mapping  of  natural 
To  underscore  in  that  context  the  tremendous
advantages  of  space  applications  is  almost  redundant.
They  are,  moreover,  effectively  underscored  in  the
low-profile  but  very  positive  work  being  done  by  the
aforementioned 
by
UNISPACE III. There is no  human  activity  today  that
cannot be approached using that technology, and most
require 
resources;
migration;  the  control  of  infectious  diseases,  such  as
malaria and cholera; the monitoring of drug trafficking,
small  arms  and 
light  weapons,  and  organized
transnational crime; and the mitigation and prevention
of natural disasters, among other aspects, are examples
of  the  specific  potential  of  that  technology.  In  all  of
them,  the  direct  beneficiary  or  victim,  depending  on
the  use  made  of  the  satellite  images,  is  humankind.
Humankind and its dignity are an issue that falls under
the  concept  of  human  security  and  are  recognized  as
such  by  United  Nations  instruments,  such  as  those
referred  to  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  adopted  by
UNISPACE  III  and  in  the  relevant  human  rights
instruments that are of universal and inalienable scope.
Mention must be made, however, in that context,
of a significant obstacle and structural impediment that
also  requires  a  major  additional  effort  on  the  part  of
Governments.  To  the  extent  that  much  of  mankind
lacks  access  to  knowledge  and  to  equal  and  equitable
education,  any public policy that  is  elaborated  will  be
doomed  to  failure.  The  effort  to  design  technological
models  that  are  appropriate  to  the  needs  of  countries
will  invariably  come  up  against  the  insurmountable
obstacle  of  what  the  economist  Joseph  Stiglitz  has
termed  “imperfect  information”.  Hunger  and  poverty
will persist, paradoxically and cruelly, despite the fact
that space applications  can be used to improve yields,
develop  new  crops,  manage  coastal  resources,  expand
the  horizons  of  biotechnology  and  so  on.  However,  if
the  potential  of  space  does  not  provide  finished  data,
the 
transnational  communications  media  are  not
inclusive  in  their  approach,  and  we  lack  the  human
resources or infrastructure to adequately interpret acts,
we will be  faced  once more with virtual  technologies,
media constructs rather than practical successes.
A/59/PV.37
If we do not face the problems of the social agenda
at the global level, the knowledge gap will continue to
widen and we will continue to create a society of mass
disinformation — a culturally destabilizing weapon —
that we cannot call upon in its situation of despair and
inequality to automatically align itself with supposedly
democratic  values.  The  principal  value  that  we  must
demand  is  the  right  to  life.  Space  technology  is  a
promising  element  for  strengthening  that  essential,
inalienable and sacrosanct right. Access to education and
to  knowledge  in  general  through  telecommunications
assumes,  in  the  aforementioned  context,  special  and
considerable importance.
The  concept  of 
the  common  heritage  of
humankind 
interrelated
interpretation  of  the  relevant  norms  of  space  law  and,
specifically, of the 1967 space Treaty, is the irrefutable
doctrinal  basis 
space
applications to be directed towards the people and their
essential needs to help them attain a decent standard of
living, as set out, moreover, in Article 55 of the Charter
of the United Nations.
aforementioned 
emerges 
from 
that 
an 
for 
the 
Mr.  Lichem  (Austria):  At  the  outset,  Sir,  may  I
articulate  what  many  of  us  here  feel  —  a  sense  of
appreciation  and  thanks  for  your  personally  chairing
these  deliberations,  which  we  consider  to  be  of  great
importance  for  the  future  development  of  the  agenda
on space and the global agenda.
Austria fully endorses the statement presented by
the Dutch presidency of the European Union on behalf
of its member States and would like to briefly elaborate
on  a  few  additional  aspects  of  the  agenda  item  under
consideration.
As we are aware, many, if not most, of the agenda
items  under  consideration  at  the  global  level  —  the
global  agenda  in  general  —  have  an  institutional
dimension.  It  is  no  coincidence  that  the  institutional
adjustment of the way we address the various items on
our global agenda has often become as important as the
substantive  challenges  to  be  addressed.  The  slogan  of
United  Nations  reform  has,  for  many  good  reasons,
accompanied us for many decades.
In that context, it may be of interest to ask — on
the occasion of a  review  of the implementation  of  the
recommendations  of 
the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space  (UNISPACE  III)  —  what  institutional
framework  has  been  evolving  in  the  field  of  space
13
A/59/PV.37
exploration  and  the  peaceful  use  of  space  technology,
with regard to the governance regimes at the national,
regional  and  international  levels  within  the  space
sector, as well as with regard to the existing or desired
linkages  between  space,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the
various challenges on our global agenda, on the other.
to 
and 
space 
exploration 
As  to  the  governance  systems  existing  with
regard 
technology
development, we can observe an institutional evolution
which could almost be described as a model for many
other sectoral management systems at the global level.
Few other sectors of our global agenda have been able
to  demonstrate  similar  achievements  in  innovation,
cooperation  and  support  with  regard  to  the  linkages
among  Government,  the  space  agencies,  the  science
community and academia, parliamentarians, the private
sector,  industry  and  civil  society  organizations  in  the
field  of  outer  space.  That  is  true  at  all  levels  of
governance: the national, the regional and the global.
As a consequence of the necessary economies of
scale  in  space  exploration  and  in  the  application  of
space  technology  capacities,  international  cooperation
has  been  an  evolving  and  essential  element,  with  the
United  Nations  and  United  Nations  specialized
agencies  —  such  as  the  United  Nations  Educational,
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  (UNESCO),  the
World  Meteorological  Organization  and  the  Food  and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) 
— often as initial partners.
Parliamentarians  have  also  taken  an  interest  in  the
development of space capacities. One example is the fifth
European  Interparliamentary  Space  Conference,  held  in
Berlin in November 2003, which concluded that space
and  its  utilization  are  essential  for  a  better  definition
and more efficient implementation of European Union
policies  both  with  regard  to  the  space  sector  and
concerning the application of space technology.
On  the  other  hand,  the  need  for  horizontal
cooperation  has  led  the  Committee  on  the  Peaceful
Uses  of  Outer  Space  —  a  Committee  of  the  General
Assembly  — 
to  accredit  17  non-governmental
international  institutions  from  academia  and  civil
society, in addition to  international  organizations  such
as  the  International  Telecommunication  Union,  FAO,
UNESCO  and 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme, as observers to the Committee.
The  Vienna  Declaration  on  Space  and  Human
Development,  adopted  by  the  Third  United  Nations
14
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space,  provides  an  important,  substantive  new
orientation for the agenda of the space community, and
one  which  also  has  institutional  implications.  The
potential  for  space  to  be  able  to  help  address  the
challenges  faced  by  the  international  community,  and
the
consequently 
to 
achievement  of 
the
Millennium Summit, has been now been recognized.
towards 
the  objectives  defined  by 
support 
efforts 
On  19  October,  the  panel  discussion  on  “Outer
Space  and  the  Global  Agenda”,  which  was  addressed
by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in
addition  to  leading  space  managers  from  France  and
Malaysia  and  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, reflected the new focus
of  the  development  potential  of  space  technology.  It
was the first time in the history of the United Nations
that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  through  its
President,  was  seized  of  the  topic  of  outer  space  and
that the outer space agenda  reached  out  institutionally
to  the  agenda  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.
That  new  orientation  of  our  space  agenda  —  to  meet
human development needs at the global level — is the
fruit  of  UNISPACE  III,  a  trend  that  merits  ever-more
accentuated attention.
In  institutional  terms,  the  challenge  now  is  how
to further develop  the  linkages  between  space  and  the
economic,  social  and  environmental  agendas  at  the
national, regional and global levels. Indeed, significant
steps  have  already  been  taken.  Some  cases  in  point
include  the  Group  on  Earth  Observations  and  the
International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction,  which
are  working  on  the  role  of  space  in  disaster  reduction
management,  already  mentioned  several 
this
morning, and the  European  Space  Agency’s  programme
for Africa — the TIGER Initiative — which uses space
observation for better water resources development.
times 
In  the  context  of  preparations  for  the  second
phase of the World Summit on the Information Society,
efforts  are  currently  under  way  —  and,  in  fact,  a
meeting will be held in Paris next week  —  to explore
and  articulate  the  fundamental  contribution  made  by
space  technology  to  the  evolving  information  society.
It  would  be  hard 
the  evolution  of
information  and  communication  technologies  without
the  achievements  already  made  in  the  application  of
space technology.
imagine 
to 
Reviewing  the  new  policy  focus  that  evolved
from UNISPACE III with regard to space and society,
space  and  development  and  space  and  our  global
agenda,  it  may  be  beneficial  to  consider  further
fostering  the  institutional  and  the  discourse  links
between space  and the  global  governance  discourse  at
an  earlier  phase  of  the  decision-making  process,  both
with  regard  to  intergovernmental  structures  as  well  as
in the context of the broader cooperation existing in the
conceptualization phase.
UNISPACE 
III  has  defined  an 
important
dimension  of  our  new  space  agenda.  That  is  to  be
recognized  also  in  the  context  of  the  achievements  in
the  space  agenda’s  institutional  development.  The
objectives  of  the  Vienna  Conference  of  1999  not  only
remain  valid;  their  relevance  is  constantly  proven  in
the  context  of  our  global  agenda  and  will  be  the
yardstick for the coming years.
Mr.  Brachet  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The
French  delegation  fully  endorses  the  statement  made
earlier by the Netherlands on behalf of the  presidency
of the European Union.
Each of the three United Nations Conferences on
the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
contributed  significantly  to  promoting  international
cooperation  in  the  area  of  space  and  underscored  the
value of space technologies for the development of all
of  humankind.  For  that  reason,  my  delegation  is
pleased  that  the  General  Assembly  has  chosen  to
devote today’s meeting to taking stock of the status of
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  made  in
1999  by  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the
Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(UNISPACE III).
the  protection  of  near-Earth  space.  In 
UNISPACE  III  encouraged  continued  international
cooperation  in  scientific  research  and  space  exploration
and 
that
connection,  it  particularly  stressed  the  importance  of
limiting  space  debris.  Work  is  still  under  way  within
the  Outer  Space  Committee  on  this  subject.  The
conference  also  stressed  the  extent  to  which  space
technology is able to contribute to  a very broad range
of  activities  and  human  needs  beyond  its  well-known
uses 
space  exploration  and
telecommunications.  I  will  simply  mention  a  few
examples.
in,  among  others, 
Space  applications  make  it  possible  to  improve
our knowledge and management of the environment in
A/59/PV.37
the  broadest  sense,  whether  it  be  in  the  field  of
meteorology,  climatology,  predicting  and  managing
natural disasters, agriculture, marine resources or land
development. It provides solutions, making it possible
to meet the needs of vulnerable populations in the field
of  health 
tele-
epidemiology  and  in  the  field  of  education,  thanks  to
remote-teaching  technology.  These  contribute  to  the
improvement  of  safety  in  transportation,  thanks  to
satellite positioning and search and rescue systems.
telemedicine  or 
through 
care 
France has been carrying out many projects in all
the areas I have just mentioned. As a result, we have been
establishing  partnerships  with  most  of  the  countries  that
have  space  agencies.  Outer  space  has,  in  fact,  now
become  a  growing  field  of  intensive  international
cooperation. The report presented today in the General
Assembly is both a summary of  progress  and  a useful
assessment of future prospects. My delegation, like all
the delegations that have spoken before me, would also
like  to  thank  the  principal  contributors  to  the  report,
the Chairman of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of
Outer Space, the chairman of the working group and, of
course, the Office for Outer Space Affairs. France, for its
part,  has  gotten  particularly  involved  with  the  action
team on disaster management, which it co-chaired with
Canada and China, and with the team dealing with new
sources of financing.
In  the  realm  of  disaster  management,  substantial
initiatives  have  already  been  taken  since  UNISPACE
III.  The  International  Charter  “Space  and  Major
Disasters”  has  thus  made  it  possible,  since  the  year
2000, to disseminate space data free of charge in order
to facilitate the work of civil security organizations in
the event of natural or man-made disasters. France has
been resolutely committed to the global coordination of
systems  for  earth  observation,  which  will  make  it
possible,  among  other  advantages, 
intensify
international  cooperation 
the  area  of  disaster
management.
in 
to 
to 
the 
With  regard  to  the  mobilization  of  new  funding
sources,  we  will  also  contribute,  as  stressed  by  the
Committee’s  report, 
increase  of  regional
cooperation in the field of space. My delegation would
like to take this opportunity to stress the major role of
the United Nations  Programme  on  Space  Applications
in support of the objectives decided on at UNISPACE
III. France is making a substantial contribution to this,
particularly  through  the  European  Space  Agency,  of
which we finance more than a quarter of the budget.
15
A/59/PV.37
the 
As  declared  in  the  Vienna  Declaration  on  Space
and  Human  Development, 
relevant  General
Assembly  resolutions  and  the  Outer  Space  Treaty  of
1967,  progress  in  space  exploration  and  the  use  of
space  for  peaceful  purposes  are  in  the  interests  of  the
whole of humankind. With this conviction, France will
continue to play an active part in the implementation of
the  recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III  and  in  the
work of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space.
Mr. Gallardo (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Peru  is
of  the  view  that  the  third  United  Nations  Conference
on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(UNISPACE  III)  represents  a  continuation  of  decades
of efforts by the international community to put space
at the service of all States and to make it an arena that
is  conducive  to  cooperation  for  its  use  for  peaceful
purposes.  Peru  reaffirms  its  conviction  that  the  best
way  to  express  our  commitment  to  avoid  any  form  of
arms race in outer space is to promote the use of space
for the fulfilment of economic and social development
goals,  making  them  concrete  and  visible  realities  for
the population.
UNISPACE  III  presents  a  new 
international
approach  that  sees  space  from  the  vantage  point  of
earth, giving priority to addressing the problems of our
environment,  especially  the  fight  against  poverty  and
social  exclusion.  After  the  cold  war,  the  fast-paced
period of technological change and the acceleration of
the process we now  refer to as globalization, we have
decided  to  act  in  space  to  attain  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  to  achieve  sustainable
development  and 
to  address  our  social  needs,
especially  those  expressed  by  our  fight  against  social
exclusion. Likewise, the peaceful use of outer space is
relevant  in  our  efforts  to  form  a  society  in  which
information  and 
information
increasingly  represent  the  core  of  the  most  advanced
economic  activities.  Acquiring  new 
technologies
improves our capacity for development.
transmission  of 
the 
Accordingly,  Peru  takes  special  interest  in  the
implementation of the recommendations of UNISPACE
III. We welcome the advances achieved thus far. In this
regard,  let  me  stress  that  Peru  has  participated  in  the
work  of  the  action  teams  to  pursue  the  goals  of
UNISPACE  III  with  regard  to  activities  concerning
natural  disasters  and  sustainable  development,  as  an
expression of its commitment to UNISPACE III.
16
Despite 
the  great 
importance  of  achieving
progress  in  the  implementation  of  UNISPACE  III,  we
have encountered. certain obstacles. One of these is the
scant  progress  that  has  been  made  in  increasing
awareness  about  the  new  approach,  including  among
those  who  have  the  responsibility  to  take  political
decisions. In order for that awareness to develop and in
order 
the  other  obstacles
encountered,  we  must  have  greater  resources  and
improved dissemination of information.
to  overcome  some  of 
If we pause to  compare  some  of  the  well-known
and well-funded projects now under way to others that
have not yet taken shape, a question arises: is it really
more important to find water on other heavenly bodies
surrounding the earth than to deal with the problems of
water on our own planet?
Peru  encourages  all  steps  leading  to  a  broader
dissemination  of  our  purposes.  In  that  regard,  we
express  our  full  support  and  satisfaction  with  the
holding of the fifth Space Conference of the Americas,
which,  if  the  authorities  of  Ecuador  so  confirm,  will
take place in Quito. Peru hopes that this experience can
be  institutionalized  and  consolidated  into  an  initiative
that  brings  the  region  into  even  greater  involvement
with the achievements of UNISPACE III.
The UNISPACE III efforts to build an agenda that
links  space  issues  to  social  issues  are  not  only  in  its
own interest, but also in the interest of the international
community.  Accordingly,  Peru 
the
development  of  a  broader  international  agenda  that
would enable us to make headway in areas relevant to
social  development, 
including  health,  education,
information,  poverty  eradication,  disaster  prevention,
environmental  protection,  humanitarian  support  and,
perhaps, assistance in conflict situations.
encourages 
Peru supports the plan of action proposed by the
Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  and
looks forward to its prompt implementation so that we
can move ahead towards the attainment of the goals set
out  in  UNISPACE  III.  We  would  like  to  thank  the
Chairman of the Committee for his report and wish him
every success.
Mr.  Kuzmenkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  warmly  welcomes
the  outcome  of  the  efforts  to  implement  the  decisions
of  the  Third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the
Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(UNISPACE III). It was during that Conference that an
initiative  was  launched  to  observe  World  Space  Week
annually from 4 to 10 October — 4 October 1957 being
the date on which the first Sputnik was launched, and
10 October 1967 being the date of the entry into force
of  the  “charter”  for  space  activity  —  the  Outer  Space
Treaty.
space 
science 
that 
improving 
contribution 
to 
the  development  of 
It  is  with  great  satisfaction  that  we  note  the
and
valuable 
the  welfare  of
technology  make 
humankind 
countries
and 
throughout  the  world.  The  vast  potential  of  space
technology  for  improving  peoples  living  conditions
points  to  the  need  for  the  further  intensification  of
international cooperation in that sphere. Thus, the plan
proposed  for  the  period  to  2017  for  international
cooperation 
includes  forecasting  natural
disasters  and  reducing 
their  consequences,  space
communication  systems,  global  navigation,  distance
education  and  tele-medicine,  as  well  as  the  use  of
space technology in various economic spheres.
in  space 
We are convinced that such work should continue
to  be  carried  out  under  the  auspices  of  the  United
Nations, particularly by the Committee on the Peaceful
Uses of Outer Space. We must agree that that organ of
the General Assembly, with the support and assistance
of informal dedicated working groups specially created
for this task, has already done a great deal of important
work in implementing the decisions of UNISPACE III,
particularly  those  that  are  reflected  in  the  Vienna
Declaration.
In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  thank  Mr.
Hedman for his  efforts with regard to  activities  of the
various working groups and of States and international
organizations,  and  for  so  clearly  presenting 
the
voluminous material related to those efforts, set out in
document A/59/174, which is before the Assembly.
The  Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer
Space,  however,  has  still  not  paid  due  attention  to  its
priority  task  of  preserving  outer  space  for  peaceful
purposes  —  a  requirement  set  out  in  the  Vienna
Declaration.  We  call  for  a  renewal  of  discussions  on
ways  and  means  of  ensuring  that  outer  space  is  used
only  for  peaceful  purposes.  It  would  be  logical  to
integrate such a discussion into a constructive approach
to  resolving  the  issue  of  reviving  a  special  committee
on  space  within  the  framework  of  the  Conference  on
Disarmament.
A/59/PV.37
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  express  our
gratitude to the delegation of Nigeria for preparing the
draft resolution on the review of the implementation of
the  recommendations  of  the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer Space (A/59/L.4). That document fully reflects the
results of the five years of work on the implementation
of  UNISPACE  IIIs  decisions,  and  our  delegation
supports its adoption by the General Assembly.
Mr.  Chaliha  (India):  We  are  happy 
to  be
participating  in  this  event  to  commemorate  the  fifth
anniversary of the Third United Nations Conference on
the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(UNISPACE  III),  held  in  Vienna  from  19  to  30  July
1999.  The  theme  of  the  Conference,  “Space  benefits
for humanity in the twenty-first century”, reflected the
status of the challenges facing the world, as well as the
opportunities provided by developments in the field of
space 
those  challenges.  The  Vienna
Declaration  on  Space  and  Human  Development,
adopted at the conclusion of the Conference, offered a
strategy to address global challenges using space-based
systems and services.
to  meet 
of 
of 
the 
implementation 
The  current  five-year  review  by  the  General
Assembly 
the
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III  was  mandated  by
the Vienna Declaration. We appreciate the efforts made
by the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
(COPUOS)  in  preparing  the  extensive  and  detailed
documentation  for  the  review.  The  Chairman  of  the
Committee, Mr. Abiodun; the Chairman of the Working
Group  which  prepared 
the  draft  document,  Mr.
Hedman; and the Director of the United Nations Office
for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA), Mr. Camacho, and
his staff, deserve our appreciation for their efforts.
The primary  objectives  of  UNISPACE  III,  as  set
out  in  1997  by  the  General  Assembly,  were,  first,  to
promote  effective  means  of  using  space  solutions  to
address  problems  of  regional  or  global  significance;
secondly,  to  strengthen  the  capabilities  of  Member
States, especially developing nations, to use the results
of 
for  economic  and  cultural
development;  and,  thirdly,  to  enhance  international
cooperation  in  space  science  and  technology  and  its
applications.
research 
space 
The current review should help us to evaluate the
extent  to  which  those  primary  objectives  were  met  in
17
A/59/PV.37
implementation  of 
the 
UNISPACE III.
the 
recommendations  of
III  and 
the  World  Summit  on 
We  recognize  the  high  level  of  synergy  between
the 
implementation  of  UNISPACE 
the
recommendations  and  the  outcomes  of  other  major
United Nations conferences and summits. Many of the
targets  set  out  in  the  United  Nations  Millennium
Declaration, the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation,
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
adopted  by 
Development,  and  at 
the
Information  Society  could  be  effectively  met  by
implementing the recommendations of UNISPACE III.
The contributions of the Committee in taking  up
new agenda items in line with the recommendations of
UNISPACE  III  and  of  UNOOSA  in  orienting  the
United Nations Programme on Space Applications to the
priorities set by the UNISPACE III recommendations, as
well  as  the  organization  of  action  teams  to  address
some of the priority recommendations, are commendable.
Experts  from  a  number  of  countries  contributed
to  the  work  of  the  action  teams,  which  translated  the
recommendations 
into
practical  actions  and  pilot  projects.  The  objective  of
increased international cooperation in the field of outer
space  was  given  greater  impetus  as  a  result  of  those
activities.
the  Vienna  Declaration 
in 
We  agree  with  the  assessment  in  the  report  on
progress to date in implementing the recommendations
of  UNISPACE  III.  Considerable  momentum  has  been
generated in realizing the importance of space to meet
development  challenges.  The  activities  carried  out  so
far,  including  the  detailed  work  by  the  action  teams,
can  be  termed  the  initial  phase  of  the  implementation
of the UNISPACE III recommendations.
identified 
the 
in 
the  report  — 
recommendations: 
We  have,  however,  also  noted  the  following
to 
the
challenges  — 
implementation  of 
limited
awareness among policy makers of the benefits of space
activities; limited financial resources to implement the
recommendations;  limited  expertise  in  space  matters,
especially in developing countries; and the challenge of
engaging the private sector to work with Governments
and intergovernmental organizations as partners in the
implementation of the recommendations.
We  should  enable  COPUOS  and  UNOOSA  to
take 
the 
III
recommendations  to  the  next  level.  We  can  take  pride
implementation  of 
the  UNISPACE 
18
for 
in  our  UNISPACE  III  initiative  only  when  concrete
results  have  been  achieved 
the  benefit  of
developing  countries.  In  that  regard,  the  General
Assembly  can  provide  support  at  two  levels:  first,  at
the  political  level,  by  putting  its  weight  behind
COPUOS and UNOOSA; and secondly, by specifically
mandating  the  implementation  of  the  detailed  action
plans recommended by the action teams.
The  effectiveness  of  space  applications 
in
enhancing  national  development 
in  developing
countries  is  an  established  fact.  Space-based  services
and  applications  can  contribute  significantly  to  the
management of Earth’s natural resources by enhancing
communications,  especially  in  rural  or  inaccessible
regions; by supporting  disaster-management  activities;
and  by  making  distance 
tele-health
services  possible.  The  applications  of  space-based
systems  and  services  have  become  an  integral  part  of
India’s  national  development  activities.  We  are  of  the
view that all developing countries should initiate space
applications programmes  and  should  participate  in  the
pilot projects identified by the action teams.
learning  and 
to 
implement 
The  availability  of  funds 
the
recommendations  is  an  important  question  requiring
strong  support  from 
the  General  Assembly.  The
Secretary-General  has  addressed  a  letter  to  all  States
urging them to contribute to the Trust Fund established
to implement the recommendations of UNISPACE III. In
addition  to  renewing  that  appeal,  we  should  call  upon
Member  States  to  encourage  private-sector  industries
in the space field to contribute to the Trust Fund.
establishment  of 
I  shall  now  address  certain  specific  actions
mentioned  in  the  chapter  entitled  “The  way  ahead”.
a  disaster  management
The 
international  space  coordination  organization 
is  a
priority  activity  that  would  benefit  all  countries.  The
amount  of  wealth  being  lost  throughout  the  world
every  year  because  of  natural  disasters  justifies  the
investment  required  to  establish  such  an  organization.
That  would  complement  the  initiative  undertaken  by
some  space  agencies  in  establishing  the  International
Charter “Space and Major Disasters”. While the scope
of  the  Charter  is  limited  to  providing  remote  sensing
data  on  products  in  support  of  disaster  management,
the scope of the proposed organization would be more
inclusive  and  would  address  capacity-building  in  the
area of space systems in disaster management.
The  specific  action  plans  elaborated  by  the
Action  Team  on  Capacity-building  are  practical  and
fall  within  the  scope  of  UNOOSA  and  the  United
Nations  Programme  on  Space  Applications.  Building
the  capacity  of  developing  countries  to  initiate  and
gainfully  benefit  from  space  applications  programmes
would be key to the success of all other initiatives. The
regional  centres  for  space  science  and  technology
education,  established  in  various  regions  of  the  world
and affiliated with the United Nations, could be put to
effective  use 
the
recommendations on capacity-building.
implementation  of 
the 
in 
Many  other  specific  actions  and  pilot  projects
elaborated by the action teams should be implemented
with  the  participation  of  interested  Member  States.
Some  of 
the  proposed  activities  have  particular
relevance  for  certain  regions  of  the  world,  and  others
have global relevance. The specialized agencies of the
United Nations should actively contribute to the action
plans, reaping the benefits for their own programmes.
India strongly supports the activities taken up by
COPUOS  and  UNOOSA  in  the  initial  phase  of  the
implementation of the UNISPACE III recommendations.
Those  initiatives  should  be  continued  with  a  view  to
translating 
the  specific  action  plans
proposed  by  the  action  teams.  Progress  can  result  in
concrete  benefits  for  all  countries  —  especially
developing  countries  —  from  the  implementation  of
the UNISPACE III recommendations.
into  reality 
in 
India  endorses  proposals  by  COPUOS  and
UNOOSA  contained 
the  report.  The  General
Assembly should  mandate  COPUOS  and  UNOOSA  to
pursue  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of
UNISPACE  III  with  the  ultimate  aim  of  promoting
effective  means  of  using  space  solutions  to  address
regional and global challenges.
Ms.  Anguiano  Rodríguez  (Mexico)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  My  delegation  considers  it  very  timely  that,
on  this  occasion,  the  agenda  item  “Review  of  the
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration  and
Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space”  (UNISPACE  III)  is
being  considered  directly  in  the  General  Assembly  in
plenary  meeting.  This  is  a  special  moment,  not  only
because five years have passed since the holding of the
Conference and the adoption of the resolution entitled
“The  Space  Millennium:  Vienna  Declaration  on  Space
and  Human  Development”,  but  also  because  we  are
A/59/PV.37
approaching 2005, the year in which Member States must
take stock of the degree to which the commitments we
assumed  at  the  Millennium  Summit  and  at  various
United Nations conferences have been honoured.
The  Government  of  Mexico  fully  concurs  with
the  conclusion  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations
Committee  on  the  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space
(COPUOS)  (A/59/174)  that  the  implementation  of  the
recommendations of UNISPACE III is closely linked to
the  goals  and  objectives  of  the  Millennium  Summit,
particularly 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
Moreover,  we  believe 
important
synergies  with  the  Plan  of  Implementation  of  the
decisions  of 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development,  with  the  Plan  of  Action  of  the  World
Summit  on  the  Information  Society  and  with  other
global initiatives.
there  are 
that 
to  all 
The  Government  of  Mexico  attaches  great
importance 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting
international cooperation in support of the peaceful uses
of  outer  space.  It  is  important  that  such  cooperation
take  place  both  in  the  sphere  of  the  application  of
science  and  space  technologies  to  the  benefit  of
humankind  and  of 
sustainable  development  —
particularly in developing countries — and with regard
to improving the legal framework that regulates the use
of  outer  space.  Mexico  actively  participated  in  the
preparation of the COPUOS report. At  the  same  time,
we  remain  a  member  of  five  of  the  action  teams
established by the Committee, which are charged with
ensuring the implementation of a substantial part of the
recommendations of UNISPACE III.
One of the teams in which Mexico participates is
entrusted  with  implementing  the  recommendation  to
establish  a  global  natural  disaster  management
system — a subject to which my Government attaches
great  importance.  In  that  regard,  Mexico  believes  that
the  use  of  remote  sensors  and  geo-space  information
systems  are  fundamental 
tools  for  preventing  or
mitigating natural disasters.
The  regional  centres  for  space  science  and
technology education, affiliated to the United Nations,
are fundamental instruments in organizing activities to
strengthen the capacity of developing countries in these
areas.  In  the  past  year  and  a  half,  the  Mexican
Government  has  promoted  the  consolidation  of  the
Regional  Centre  for  Space  Science  and  Technology
Education  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  with
19
A/59/PV.37
campuses in Brazil and in Mexico. The fifth meeting of
the  Centre’s  Governing  Board,  which  is  now  presided
over  by  Mexico,  will  take  place  at  the  end  of  this
month, in São José dos Campos, Brazil.
Among our national initiatives, I wish to mention
the  National  Telemedicine  Programme,  comprising
areas  of  health  and  information  and  communication
technologies.  The  programme  addresses 
remote
medical  care  through  satellite-conveyed  signals  for
audio, video and data.
Finally, 
in  support  of 
the  advancement  of
international cooperation in the peaceful  uses  of  outer
space,  my  delegation  is  sponsoring  draft  resolution
A/59/L.4, which the Assembly will consider today.
Mrs.  Núñez de  Odremán  (Venezuela)  (spoke  in
Spanish): The Government of the Bolivarian  Republic
of  Venezuela  wishes  to  express  its  view  that  outer
space  should  be  considered  the  common  heritage  of
humankind,  with  respect  to  which  no  nation  has  or
should  have  authority  to  claim  subjective  rights  or  to
seek to create unilateral privileges. We are of the view
that exclusively peaceful  use  should  be  made  of  outer
space,  and  that  outer  space  research  and  study  should
serve to support sustainable development.
The  Constitution  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela provides in article 11 that
that  drives 
“The Republic shall have rights in outer space above
it  and  in  areas  that  are  or  can  be  the  common
heritage  of  humankind,  in  accordance  with  the
terms,  extent  and  conditions  provided  for 
in
international agreements and national legislation.”
Our  position  is  consistent  with  the  humanistic
ideology 
the  foreign  policy  of  our
Government, inspired by the principle of the sovereign
equality  of  States.  This  prompts  us  once  again  to
support  the  proposal  made  by  China  and  the  Russian
Federation  at  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  to
establish  an  international  legal  instrument  to  prevent
the weaponization of outer space and the use of space
as a theatre of operations for war or a platform for the
arms race.
Venezuela  has  a  continuing  commitment  to  the
protection of outer space. We have signed three of the
five  United  Nations  treaties  on  this  subject:  the  Outer
Space Treaty, the Rescue Agreement and the Convention
on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space
Objects. My country is also party to other international
20
instruments  relating  to  space,  such  as  the  Treaty
Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in
the  International
Outer  Space  and  Under  Water, 
Telecommunications 
Satellite 
Organization
(INTELSAT) Operating Agreement and the Convention
of the International Telecommunication Union.
The  Government  of  Venezuela  has  set  in  motion
legal machinery to create a national aerospace agency,
which  we  hope  will  begin  its  activities  in  the  near
future.
Our  delegation  also  wishes  to  indicate  that  we
greatly appreciate  the  efforts  of  the  Committee  on  the
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space in the implementation of
the  recommendations  of  the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Exploration  and  Peaceful  Uses  of
Outer  Space  (UNISPACE  III),  and  we  trust  that,  by
putting them in practice, we shall generate benefits for
the developing countries and for humankind in general.
Finally,  Venezuela  reaffirms  its  commitment  to
the effective implementation of the Vienna Declaration
aimed  at  promoting  scientific  cooperation  and  space
technology and to sharing the benefits of the resources
of outer space without discrimination of any kind.
The President (spoke in French): We have heard
the last speaker in the debate on this item.
I  call  on 
the  representative  of  Nigeria 
in
connection with draft resolution A/59/L.4.
Mr.  Wali  (Nigeria):  After  further  consultations
with the sponsors of draft resolution A/59/L.4, I should
like  to  make  two  revisions  to  the  draft  text.  First,  I
should  like  to  insert  a  paragraph  following  paragraph
13. The new paragraph will be numbered paragraph 14,
and  all  subsequent  paragraphs  will  be  renumbered
accordingly. The new paragraph reads as follows:
“Requests 
the  Committee 
implementation  of  UNISPACE 
to  undertake
further 
III
recommendations,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  the
capacity  of  the  developing  countries  to  initiate
space application programmes”.
Next, I should like to modify paragraph 19 — as
newly numbered — to read as follows:
“Agrees that the Committee should continue
to consider in its future sessions, starting with its
forty-eighth  session,  the  implementation  of  the
recommendations  of  UNISPACE  III,  until  the
Committee  considers  that  concrete  results  are
achieved.”
Continued  support  for  the  corrected  and  revised
draft  resolution,  and  its  adoption  without  a  vote,  will
be most appreciated.
Mr.  Aninat  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Very
briefly,  I  just  want  to  support  the  revisions,  which  I
have  had  the  opportunity  to  discuss.  I  believe  they
significantly strengthen the draft resolution and give it
an  evolutionary  character;  in  other  words,  the  process
does  not  end  here;  we  also  need  to  be  aware  that  we
must  continue  to  give  the  international  community  an
account  of  the  important  agreements  achieved  at  the
Third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Exploration
and  Peaceful  Uses  of  Outer  Space  and  its  five-year
review.
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/59/L.4,  as
orally corrected and orally revised.
A/59/PV.37
May I take it that the General Assembly decides
to  adopt  draft  resolution  A/59/L.4,  as  orally  corrected
and orally revised?
Draft resolution A/59/L.4, as orally corrected and
orally revised, was adopted (resolution 59/2).
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I  take  it
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude
its consideration of agenda item 23?
It was so decided.
Programme of work
The President (spoke in French): I should like to
inform  members  that  document  A/INF/59/3/Rev.1,
containing a revised programme of work and schedule
of plenary meetings for the remainder of the main part
of the fifty-ninth session, was issued this morning and
has been distributed in the General Assembly Hall.
I  would  like  to  remind  members  that  the  lists  of
speakers  are  open  for  the  items  listed  in  document
A/INF/59/3/Rev.1.
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m.
21
