United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
18th plenary meeting
Monday, 4 October 2004, 10 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.18
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and
allocation of items: reports of the General Committee
Second report of the General Committee
(A/59/250/Add.1)
Letter from the Chairman of the Committee on
Conferences (A/59/351/Add.1)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  should  first
like  to  draw  the  attention  of  representatives  to  the
report 
second 
the  General  Committee
(A/59/250/Add.1).
of 
the  report, 
In  paragraph  1  of 
the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
an  additional  sub-item,  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the United Nations and the community of Portuguese-
speaking countries”, be included under agenda item 56,
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and 
I,
Organizational, administrative and other matters. May I
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  include
that  additional  sub-item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current
session  as  a  sub-item  of  agenda  item  56  under
heading I?
organizations”, 
other 
under 
heading 
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Committee  further  recommends  that  this  additional
sub-item  be  considered  directly  in  plenary  meeting.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to
consider this sub-item directly in plenary meeting?
the  report, 
It was so decided.
The President (spoke in French): I should like to
inform  members  that  the  new  sub-item  becomes  sub-
item (t) of agenda item 56.
In  paragraph  2  of 
the  General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
an  additional  item,  entitled  “Observer  status  for  the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  in  the
General  Assembly”,  be  included  in  the  agenda  of  the
current  session  under  heading  I,  Organizational,
administrative and other matters. May I take it that the
General  Assembly  decides  to  include  this  additional
item  in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session  under
heading I?
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Committee further recommends that the additional item
be allocated to the Sixth Committee. May I take it that
the  General  Assembly  decides  to  allocate  this  item  to
the Sixth Committee?
It is was so decided.
The President (spoke in French): I should like to
inform  members  that  this  item  becomes  agenda  item
159.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-53226 (E)
*0453226*
A/59/PV.18
In paragraph 3 of the same document, the General
Committee  recommends  to  the  General  Assembly  that
agenda  item  109,  “Programme  planning”,  also  be
allocated  to  the  Third  Committee  with  respect  to
programme 19, Human rights, of the proposed strategic
framework for the period 2006-2007. May I take it that
the General Assembly also decides to allocate this item
to the Third Committee?
It was so decided.
The President (spoke in French): The Chairmen
of the Third and Sixth Committees will be informed of
the decisions just taken by the General Assembly.
I  now  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  members  to
paragraph 4 of the General Committee’s report. In that
paragraph, the Committee took note of the clarification
that, in implementing resolution 58/316 of 1 July 2004
to  consider  item  12,  “Report  of  the  Economic  and
Social Council”, in its entirety in plenary, the relevant
parts  of  chapter  I  of  the  report  that  are  under  agenda
items already allocated to the Main Committees will be
considered  by  the  Committee  concerned  for  final
action by the General Assembly.
The  Assembly  will  now  turn  its  attention  to
document  A/59/351/Add.1,  which  contains  a  letter
dated  27  September  2004  from  the  Chairman  of  the
Committee  on  Conferences  addressed  to  the  President
of  the  General  Assembly  regarding  a  request  by  the
United Nations Administrative Tribunal to meet during
the main  part of the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
Members  are  aware  that,  pursuant  to  section  I,
paragraph  7,  of  Assembly  resolution  40/243,  no
subsidiary organ of the General Assembly may meet at
United  Nations  Headquarters  during  the  substantive
part  of  a  regular  session  of  the  Assembly  unless
explicitly authorized to do so by the Assembly.
In this connection, may I take it that it is the wish
of  the  General  Assembly  to  authorize  the  United
Nations  Administrative  Tribunal  to  meet  during  the
substantive  part  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General  Assembly,  on  the  strict  understanding  that
such a meeting would have to be accommodated within
available facilities and services?
It was so decided.
2
Agenda items 52 and 54
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly
Strengthening of the United Nations system
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/354)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Assembly will consider, in a joint debate, agenda items
52 and 54.
In connection with agenda item 54, the report of
the  Secretary-General  in  response  to  the  report  of  the
Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil
Society  Relations  has  been  circulated  in  document
A/59/354.
I give the floor to the Deputy Secretary-General,
Ms. Louise  Fréchette,  to  introduce  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General: Thank  you,
Mr. President, for having given me this opportunity to
speak  to  the  General  Assembly  about  the  relationship
between  the  United  Nations  and  civil  society.  Two
documents are now before the Assembly: the report of
the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  headed  by  former
President  Cardoso;  and  the  Secretary-General’s  own
response to that report.
As  members  know,  the  relationship  between  the
United Nations and civil society is as old as the Charter
itself.  But  in  the  past  decade,  there  has  been  an
enormous transformation in the nature and importance
of the role played by civil society on the global scene.
Where once global conferences were largely the realm
of Governments, today it would be unthinkable to stage
such  events  without 
the  unique  advocacy  and
mobilization  of  non-governmental 
actors.  Non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) have always been
key partners of the United Nations at the country level,
in  both  development  work  and  in  the  delivery  of
humanitarian  assistance,  but  today  they  are  making
increasingly  important  contributions  to  global  policy
debates  and  intergovernmental  deliberations  in  areas
ranging 
from 
gender
mainstreaming.
environment 
the 
to 
Such  exponential  growth  in  both  numbers  and
influence has created a range of new challenges for the
United Nations. The Secretary-General established the
Cardoso  Panel  to  assess  and  draw  lessons  from  the
interaction of the United Nations with civil society, and
recommend ways to improve it.
The  Panel  consulted  widely  with  Member  States
and  with  a  range  of  networks,  constituencies  and
groups.  I think that members will  agree that its report
is an impressive document. It contains well-considered
and  innovative  recommendations  that  offer  a  solid
basis for discussion and debate. The Secretary-General
hopes  that  his  response  will  assist  the  Assembly  in
taking those proposals forward.
all 
of 
for 
The 
point 
starting 
these
recommendations is that the United Nations is and will
remain  an  intergovernmental  Organization  in  which
decisions are taken by its Member States, and nothing
in either of the reports calls that fundamental principle
into  question.  But  the  Panel  makes  two  important
appeals to Member States.
an 
Secondly, 
to  reach  out 
First,  the  Panel  argues  that  the  United  Nations
even  more  outward-looking
must  become 
Organization, or in the words of the Cardoso report, a
its
“networking”  Organization.  That  means  using 
unique  convening  power 
to  non-
governmental  actors,  especially  where  such  actors
command  great  expertise  or  resources  relevant  to  a
particular  issue.  In  so  doing,  the  Organization  will
expand its global reach and influence.
the  Panel  argues 
the  United
Nations  needs  to  do  more  to  connect  the  global  with
the  local.  By  this,  it  means  preventing  any  disconnect
between 
in
intergovernmental  forums  and  life  as  it  is  lived  by
people in slums, conflict areas and other zones of need
throughout 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  has  helped  to  close
that  gap,  since 
those  Goals  can  guide  national
strategies, which, in turn, can be implemented by local
authorities  and  community-based  organizations.  But
much  more  needs  to  be  done  so  that  people  can  feel
that  their  agenda  is  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations.
The  Secretary-General  welcomes  the  Panel’s  vision,
and supports it.
the  world.  The  articulation  of 
and  policy  discussions 
statements 
that 
In  responding  to  these  appeals,  and  in  adapting
our  Organization,  we  are  not  starting  from  scratch.
Member  States  have  been  very  creative  in  developing
new  forms  of  interaction  with  civil  society.  Round-
table  and  panel  discussions,  open  debates  of  the
Security Council and other such steps are now regular
features of the United Nations calendar.
A/59/PV.18
First, 
The  Panel’s  report  and  the  Secretary-General’s
response  seek  to  embed,  expand  and  deepen  the
participation of different constituencies in the work of
the  intergovernmental  bodies.  The  Secretary-General
suggests action in six main areas.
contribution 
in
intergovernmental  bodies  should  be  built  into  the
regular  business  of  the  Assembly.  The  Secretary-
General  suggests,  for  instance,  that  Member  States
could 
hearings  with  NGO
representatives  before  each  session  of  the  General
Assembly, and before major events, such as next year’s
high-level meeting on HIV/AIDS.
of  NGOs 
interactive 
hold 
the 
representatives  of  NGOs 
Secondly,  the  Secretary-General  will  establish  a
single trust fund in order to facilitate and increase the
participation  of 
from
developing countries. Thirdly, the accreditation process
should  be  improved  and  simplified  by  establishing  a
single  system  of  accrediting  and  streamlining  certain
aspects  of  the  process.  Fourthly,  the  Secretariat’s  own
dialogue  with  NGOs  at  Headquarters  should  be
improved,  including  by  giving  them  easier  access  to
information and documentation.
Fifthly,  engagement  with  NGOs  at  the  country
level should likewise be intensified, including through
better  and  more  regular  interaction  with  the  resident
coordinators,  and  through  steps  to  strengthen  the
capacity  of local NGOs. Sixthly, the  new  Partnerships
tasked  with  ensuring  greater
Office  should  be 
coherence  among 
the  disparate  units  within 
the
Secretariat 
interact  with  different
constituencies.
that  currently 
to  strengthen 
Taken together, the proposals of the Panel and the
Secretary-General  aim 
the  United
Nations,  enrich  intergovernmental  debate  and,  most
importantly,  improve  the  services  that  we  provide  to
the world’s people. They are the  results of  very broad
consultations  among  a  full  range  of  stakeholders  —
governmental  and  non-governmental.  It  goes  without
saying  that  the  implementation  of  the  Assembly’s
decisions can move forward only with the cooperation
of  all  concerned.  The  Secretary-General  hopes  that
members  will  give  positive  consideration 
the
recommendations  he  has  placed  before  them,  and  that
they will be able to reach agreement by the end of the
fall session.
to 
The  contribution  of  civil  society  groups  to  the
United  Nations  has  been  invaluable.  The  time  is  right
3
A/59/PV.18
to take this partnership one step further for the benefit
of  this  Organization  and  the  people  whom  it  was
created to serve.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the
Deputy Secretary-General.
Mr.  Van  den  Berg  (Netherlands):  I  have  the
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU).
The  candidate  countries  Bulgaria,  Romania,  Turkey
and  Croatia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania,
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
the  Former  Yugoslav
Republic  of  Macedonia,  and  Serbia  and  Montenegro;
and  the  European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA)
countries  Iceland  and  Norway,  members  of 
the
European  Economic  Area,  align  themselves  with  this
statement.
Let  me  first  of  all  thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General  for  her  introduction  to  this  debate  and  in
particular  for  her  introduction  of  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General in response to the report of the Panel
of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations (A/59/354).
The European Union welcomes the opportunity of
this joint debate. It underlines the need to address both
the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  itself  and  the
strengthening of its intergovernmental structures. With
25  member  States,  the  European  Union  represents  13
per  cent  of  the  United  Nations  membership.  The  EU
member States contribute more than 36 per cent of the
regular  budget  of  the  United  Nations  and  make  about
50  per  cent  of  all  voluntary  contributions  to  United
Nations funds and programmes. It goes without saying
that  the  EU  attaches  high  priority  to  an  effective  and
efficient United Nations system.
In  the  view  of  the  European  Union,  the  United
Nations  is  uniquely  placed  to  provide  the  framework
for international cooperation. It has no substitute in the
international  community.  But  the  Organization  has  to
adapt to changing conditions, and that requires reform,
not for reform’s sake, but in order to make the United
Nations stronger.
The  European  Union  considers 
the  United
Nations high- level event of September 2005 a logical
culmination 
and
implementation.  The  event  will  review  the  progress
made 
the  Millennium
Declaration  and  related  goals  in  the  field  of  peace,
change 
agree 
in 
the 
implementation  of 
point 
to 
on 
4
governance  and  development, 
the  progress  made
towards  reaching  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,
and  the  follow-up  to  the  major  economic  and  social
conferences  and  summits  on  the  strengthening  of  the
United Nations. At a later date in the plenary, we will
have  a  more  in-depth  discussion  on  the  precise
objectives and modalities of the summit.
Our statement will address three issues related to
today’s debate.
First, we will assess the efforts of the Secretary-
General  in  strengthening  the  Organization,  taking  as
benchmarks in particular  his  far-reaching  proposals  of
1997 and 2002; secondly, we will focus on the concrete
tasks before us to further streamline and strengthen the
work  of  the  General  Assembly;  and,  thirdly,  we  will
give  the  European  Union’s  preliminary  views  on  the
so-called  Cardoso  report  on  relations  between  the
United Nations and civil society.
In  general  terms,  the  European  Union  is  of  the
opinion  that  the  Secretary-General,  sometimes  in  the
face  of  opposition  by  Member  States,  has  managed  to
introduce  courageous  and  constructive  changes  to  the
Organization. Still, a great deal more needs to be done,
and Member States need to fully support the Secretary-
General in achieving further necessary reforms.
In  the  area  of  intergovernmental  reform,  for
which Member States bear primary responsibility, only
limited  progress  has  been  achieved.  Proposals  often
have  been  met  with  resistance  or  with  suspicion.  The
Secretary-General  has  often  been  reluctant  to  give  his
advice  on  intergovernmental  reform,  but,  possibly,
proposals  from  his  side  could  help  to  speed  up  the
process.
Let me touch upon the institutional side of United
Nations  reform.  Many  important  initiatives  have  been
taken by the Secretary-General since he took office: the
“Renewing  the  United  Nations”  report  in  1997;  the
Brahimi  report  in  2000;  and,  most  recently,  the
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations”  report  in  2002.
Let  us  take  a  moment  to  review  what  has  been
achieved.
All  of  the  Secretary-General’s  initiatives  share  a
common purpose: streamlining the internal functioning
of  the  United  Nations  system,  in  order  to  ensure  that
available resources are spent in the most efficient way
possible to achieve the goals of the Organization. Thus,
we should examine whether the Secretary-General has
managed  to  markedly  improve  the  internal  efficiency
of the United Nations since 1997. Let us take a look at
the  progress  made  in  some  of  the  main  areas  featured
in the reports of the Secretary-General.
With  respect  to  the  rationalization  of  the  United
Nations system, today we see a more logical structure
of the United Nations. Departments have been grouped
together, common themes have been identified, and the
creation  of  systemic  linkages  such  as  the  Chief
Executive  Board  have 
improved  communications
within a sprawling Organization.
consolidated 
At  the  country  level,  many  previously  separate
activities  have  been 
the
establishment of shared offices and a stronger Resident
Coordinator  position.  The  United  Nations 
is
increasingly  using  shared  tools  such  as  the  United
Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework  and  the
Common Country Assessment.
through 
As  concerns  peacekeeping  operations,  there  is
now  movement 
towards  a  clearer,  more  concise
planning  process,  aimed  at  improving  the  deployment
of 
further
improvements are needed.
operations.  However, 
peacekeeping 
In  the  area  of  human  rights,  the  Office  of  the
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  has  moved
forward  with  actions  to  improve  both  its  internal
management  and  the  services  it  provides  to  Member
States.  Protecting,  promoting  and  supporting  human
rights  at  the  country  level  remains  a  priority.  The
European Union fully supports the efforts of the Office
of the High Commissioner to strengthen human rights-
related  United  Nations  actions  at  the  country  level
based  on  Action  2  of 
the  Secretary-General’s
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations:  An  agenda  for
further change”.
to 
streamline 
We  welcome  the  efforts  of  human  rights  treaty
bodies 
reporting  procedures.  The
importance  of  an  effective  Commission  on  Human
Rights  as  the  pre-eminent  body  for  the  protection  and
promotion  of  human  rights  is  crucial,  in  particular  in
the light of new threats, challenges and changes.
Turning 
to  human 
resources  management,
measures such as better human resources planning and
greater  adaptability  for 
the  Secretary-General  as
concerns  the  staffing  table  are  clear  steps  to  better
manage  the  Organization’s  most  valuable  asset:  its
staff.
A/59/PV.18
Regarding 
the  budget  cycle,  we  have  seen
adaptations  —  although  in  small  steps  —  to  the
unwieldy budget process. Slowly but surely, the budget
process  is  becoming  better  equipped  to  link  the
Organization’s resource to its priorities. The adaptation
of the principles of results-based budgeting is a further
positive development.
planning 
at 
bodies. 
Integrated 
All this is still a work in progress. There is still a
great deal of overlap in the activities of separate United
Nations 
the
Headquarters level still needs significant improvement.
The  level  of  United  Nations  cooperation  in  the  field
varies  greatly  per  country,  and  many  human  resource
management  instruments  remain  archaic  by  modern
standards.  Several  necessary  changes  to  the  budget
cycle are long overdue. The concerns of the European
Union regarding many of these matters are well known
to all.
However, let us be frank. Much still needs to be
done,  but  we  are  further  along  now  than  many  in  this
room anticipated several years ago. The fact that much
of the work remains to be done can only be attributed
to  indecisiveness  on  the  part  of  Member  States.  We
cannot  only  look  to  the  Secretary-General  for  reform.
Many  of  his  proposals  could  have  been  bold  steps
forward  for  this  Organization,  but  we,  the  Member
States,  seem  too  often  to  prefer  the  lowest  common
denominator.
It is now up to us, the Member States, to provide
the support and to maintain the momentum for change.
We  cannot  get  bogged  down  in  endless  debate.  The
Secretary-General  is  doing  his  part;  we  must  not  lag
behind. The ball is in our court.
The  European  Union  will 
remain  strongly
focused  on  the  reform  process.  This  year,  several
important  institutional  issues  are  before  us.  First,  we
will  have  to  take  decisions  on  a  potentially  major
overhaul  of  the  safety  and  security  policies  of  the
Organization,  both  at  Headquarters  and  in  the  field.
The  EU  looks  forward  to  receiving  the  Secretariat’s
report  on  safety  and  security  and  will  support
appropriate improvements in security measures.
Secondly,  we  will  have  to  approve  the  new
biennial  strategic  framework,  which  will  better  link
resources to the priorities of the Organization.
Thirdly, we must try to improve human resources
management. Better mobility of staff, improvement  of
5
A/59/PV.18
management,  clarification  of  contractual  agreements,
gender balance and rejuvenation of the work force are
some of the issues important to the EU.
I have already stated that we, the Member States,
need to take  an active part in the strengthening  of  the
United  Nations.  Let  me  address  some  issues  of  an
intergovernmental nature, in particular those related to
revitalizing the General Assembly itself.
The EU gives its full support to the changes that
were  agreed  upon  in  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316.
We pay our respect to the determination of the previous
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Julian  Hunte,  and
we  will  rely  fully  on  your  leadership,  Sir,  to  continue
this important work.
Resolution  58/316  clearly  identified  the  further
work to be undertaken and to be concluded during the
fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  key
tasks before us are the following.
by 
First,  we  have  to  further  rationalize  the  agendas
of 
biennialization,
the  Main  Committees 
triennialization,  clustering  and  elimination  of  items.
Recommendations  have  to  be  made  to  the  General
Assembly in plenary meeting. It has to take a decision
by  1  April  2005.  The  Bureaux  have  a  major
responsibility  in  moving  this  process  forward.  The
General  Committee  must  play  a  stimulating  role  in
order  to  ensure  that  the  General  Assembly  can  take  a
decision by April 2005.
Secondly,  the  working  methods  of  the  General
Committee  have  to  be  further  improved.  Here  again,
recommendations have to be made to the Assembly for
its  decision  by  April  2005.  The  General  Committee
should  play  a  more  active  role  in  steering  and
monitoring the effective progress of the Assembly.
issues  for  discussion.  This 
reduced.  There  should  be  core 
Thirdly,  the  burden  of  documentation  has  to  be
reports
further 
highlighting  major 
is
essential  if  all  delegations  are  to  be  in  a  position  to
effectively deal with all matters under consideration by
the  Assembly.  The  General  Committee  has  been
requested  to  make  recommendations  to  this  General
Assembly.
Fourthly,  the  General  Assembly  will  have  to
make  further  efforts  to  streamline  the  agenda  of  the
plenary.  We  took  some  modest  steps.  We  need  bolder
decisions.
6
Fifthly,  and  finally,  the  EU  believes  that  the
General  Assembly  should  streamline  the  number  and
the length of the approximately 300 annual resolutions
with a view to giving the Assembly more impact.
The  EU  stands  ready,  Mr.  President,  to  support
you  fully  in  achieving  concrete  results  in  the  further
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  call  for  a
transparent  but  clearly  practical  process  that  will  lead
to visible and effective results.
Obviously, 
rationalizing 
reforming  and 
the
General Assembly is only one part of strengthening the
intergovernmental system. With  regard to the Security
Council,  the  EU  believes  that  there  is  a  need  for  a
comprehensive  reform  to  make  the  Council  more
representative, more effective and more democratic.
I will now embark on my third issue, the report of
the Panel of Eminent Persons on United Nations-Civil
Society Relations, A/58/817.
Global  policy  issues  are  no  longer  the  realm  of
Governments  alone.  The  EU,  therefore,  welcomes  the
report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United
Nations-Civil  Society  Relations  as  an 
important
contribution  to  the  ongoing  debate  about  giving  civil
society greater opportunities to contribute  to  the  work
of  the  United  Nations.  The  EU  thanks  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  recent  report  contained  in  document
A/59/354  in  response  to  the  report  of  the  Panel  under
the  chairmanship  of  Fernando  Henrique  Cardoso.  The
EU  agrees  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the  world
today is remarkably different from the one in which the
United Nations was founded nearly 60 years ago.
In order to meet the challenges of the twenty-first
century,  the  United  Nations  must  become  a  more
outward-looking  Organization.  It  must  become  more
grounded  in  reality.  Nothing  can  serve  this  purpose
better than closer interaction with civil society.
form  a  good  basis 
The  EU  welcomes  the  broad  vision  of  the  Panel
and  believes  that  the  proposals  of  the  Panel  and  the
Secretary-General 
for  our
discussions. We favour innovative forms of interaction
with  civil  society,  including  hearings  before  major
policy-setting events. Such hearings should be focused,
in  order  to  provide  input  into  our  debates.  We  should
also 
the  possibility  of  allowing  non-
governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  to  take  part  in
certain debates of the General Assembly.
look 
into 
We  share  the  Panel’s  view  that  the  accreditation
process  for  NGOs  is  in  need  of  streamlining.  The  EU
sees merit in introducing elements of greater coherence
and predictability into processes for accrediting NGOs
to various United Nations bodies and conferences, with
pre-screening  of  NGO  applications  by  the  Secretariat.
We would welcome a role for the General Assembly in
this process.
The European Union supports the Panel’s call for
an  even  stronger  participation  of  civil  society
organizations  from  developing  countries.  We  believe
that  the  existing  financing  mechanisms  should  be
further  explored  so  as  to  improve  their  participation.
Given  the  relevant  input  of  women’s  organizations  so
far, their participation deserves further encouragement.
The European Union welcomes the steps already
undertaken  by 
to  enhance
country-level  engagement  with  NGOs.  We  welcome
the  Secretary-General’s  proposal 
the
Partnerships  Office.  In  our  view,  this  proposal  should
be further explored.
the  Secretary-General 
to  enlarge 
looks 
forward 
The  European  Union 
to  a
constructive  debate  on  the  Panel’s  report  and  to  an
outcome  that  will  effectively  enhance  the  relations
between  the  United  Nations  and  civil  society.  Civil
society and other stakeholders mentioned in the report
should be given an opportunity to feed their views and
comments into the debate.
In conclusion, I wish to emphasize the European
Union’s  full  commitment  to  contribute  actively  and
constructively  to  the  ongoing  comprehensive  reform
process of the United Nations. As stated, improving the
efficiency  and  effectiveness of United  Nations  bodies,
policies  and  processes  is  a  priority  for  the  EU.  We
underline  the  need  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations
institutions.  We  wish  to  honour  the  commitments
contained 
the  Millennium
Declaration. There is  clearly  a  window  of  opportunity
for change and improvement — a window that may not
remain  open  indefinitely.  The  high-level  meeting  of
September  2005  may  well  be  a  decisive  moment  for
substantial  change.  We  would  be  rightfully  blamed  if
we were to miss that opportunity.
in  chapter  VIII  of 
Mr. Dauth (Australia): It is my privilege to speak
on behalf of Canada, New Zealand and Australia in this
joint debate  on  agenda  item 52,  “Revitalization  of  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly”,  and  agenda  item  54,
“Strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  system”.  In  that
A/59/PV.18
context,  I  would  like  on  behalf  of  Canada,  New
Zealand and Australia to join with our friends from the
European Union in thanking most sincerely our  friend
the  Deputy  Secretary-General 
for  her  helpful
introduction this morning to the Cardoso report.
Mr.  President,  the  efforts  of  your  predecessor,
Julian  Hunte,  helped  impart  new  energy  into  the
process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly,  which
had, frankly, produced rather little in recent years. Two
resolutions  emerged,  as  members  know,  containing  a
few useful steps and some valuable principles, but we
will need to advance the process again during the fifty-
ninth session and beyond if we are indeed to revitalize
the General Assembly.
As our delegations have said many times before,
the fundamental cause of the malaise in the Assembly
is  an  overloaded,  outdated,  repetitive  and  often
irrelevant agenda. The decision in our last resolution to
arrange  the  agenda  according  to  the  priorities  of  the
medium-term  plan  is  promising  and  can  help  us  to
streamline  our  work  in  a  manner  that  will  make  the
Assembly  a  more  effective  and  relevant  body  in  the
interests  of  all  Member  States.  The  Main  Committees
should  be  rigorous  and  bold  in  the  task  of  making
recommendations 
items  before
30 April  2005.  They  should  clear  away  the  detritus  of
years  past  and  create 
the
contemporary challenges facing us all.
rationalizing 
to  address 
for 
space 
far 
This year, we must also act to stem the vast flow
of documents.  There seems to be wide agreement that
the  United  Nations  produces 
too  many
documents —  at  the  behest  of  Member  States  —  and
that many of them are never read, but we have not yet
acted. The idea that the President and Main Committee
chairpersons  would  consolidate  reporting  requests  at
the end of each session is worth trying, and each of the
Main  Committees  should  curtail 
the  quantity  of
documents  they  request.  They  could  look  at  that  in
conjunction with their review of the agenda. A similar
exercise is needed in the Economic and Social Council
and its subsidiaries.
Finally,  we  must  use  the  General  Committee  to
manage  more  rigorously  and  effectively  the  work  of
the Assembly. Australia and New Zealand are members
of the Committee this session and we look  forward to
assisting in that task.
Canada,  New  Zealand  and  Australia  appreciate
the  work  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Panel  on
7
A/59/PV.18
United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations  for  their  work
on  expanding  and  deepening  the  relationship  between
the United Nations and civil society.
As civil society organizations have grown in their
scope and responsibilities at the global and local levels,
they  have  become  ever  more 
important  actors,
possessing  expertise,  enthusiasm  and  networks  across
the  global  agenda.  Participation  by  non-governmental
organizations  in  intergovernmental  processes  can  lead
to  better  decisions,  better  outreach  and  more  effective
implementation, 
non-
governmental  organizations  on  the  ground  is  essential
for  achieving  our  collective  goals  in  development,
humanitarian assistance and peace and security.
collaboration  with 
and 
We  therefore  agree  wholeheartedly  with 
the
Secretary-General  that  the  United  Nations  and  its
major  organs  will  benefit  from 
interacting  more
extensively  with  civil  society,  and  it  is  timely  to
consider  how  the  Organization  can  best  do  so,  rather
than  to  continue  as  we  presently  are,  on  an  ad  hoc
basis.
We  look  forward  to  discussing  the  proposals
contained  in  the  report  in  more  detail  at  a  subsequent
time and would appreciate your advice, Sir, on how we
will  proceed.  For  now,  I  simply  wish  to  comment  on
four of the proposals before us.
intergovernmental  character  of 
First,  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  allow
non-governmental  organizations  to  participate  in  the
work of the General Assembly could be another step on
the  path  of  revitalization.  Without  detracting  from  the
fundamental, 
the
Assembly,  a  greater  dialogue  with  non-governmental
organizations in formal and informal settings would be
of value. We would, of course, need to define carefully
the  rights  and  responsibilities  that  we  extend  to  non-
governmental  organizations.  I  note  particularly  the
remarks  of  the  Deputy  Secretary-General  in  that
context.
Secondly,  the  proposal  for  a  single  accreditation
process,  with  a  greater  Secretariat  role  in  screening
applications  for  intergovernmental  review,  would  be  a
sensible and welcome reform. Rather than maintaining
different  standards  for 
the  participation  of  non-
governmental  organizations  in  each  intergovernmental
body,  a  single  system  would  be  simpler  and  more
efficient.  If  the  General  Assembly  were  to  assume
responsibility  for  conducting  that  process,  then  the
8
General  Committee  would  be  the  appropriate  body  to
exercise the necessary functions.
the 
recommendations 
Thirdly,  we  note 
for
strengthening  links  between  the  United  Nations  and
national parliaments, but, like the European Union, are
not convinced that the methods proposed are the most
appropriate 
engaging  with  parliaments.  A
mechanism  already  exists 
the
relationship between the United Nations and the Inter-
Parliamentary  Union,  and  we  believe  that  it  would  be
more appropriate to work within existing arrangements
wherever  possible,  rather 
to  establish  new
mechanisms and processes.
form  of 
than 
for 
in 
the 
Fourthly,  the  enlargement  of  the  Partnerships
Office  appears  to  be  a  good  institutional  initiative  to
extend  relations  with  non-governmental  organizations
and  we  look  forward  to  considering  the  details  of  the
proposal in the 2006-2007 budget.
Strengthening the United Nations is, of course, a
process that has many aspects, and it is worth recalling
here  the  importance  of  continuing  progress  towards
making  the  Secretariat  more  effective,  efficient  and
results-oriented.
The  modest  refinements  to  the  budget  process
agreed  last  year  were  much  less  than  Canada,  New
Zealand  and Australia thought were necessary, but  we
are pleased to see that they have helped the Secretariat
to  prepare  a  more  focused  work  plan  for  2006-2007
and 
that  some  duplication  has  been  eliminated.
However,  I  have  to  say  that  we  were  disappointed  —
frankly, 
for
Programme  and  Coordination  failed  to  reform  itself
and  remains  of  negligible  value.  We  need  to  keep
working on that.
the  Committee 
surprised  — 
that 
Results-based  budgeting  —  an  innovation  from
the  Secretary-General’s  first  round  of  reforms  —
continues to progress and is producing a greater focus
on  results  and  performance.  Two  steps  are  needed  to
take this further. First, a system of cost accounting will
allow the Organization to tie results to resources and to
determine  how  limited  resources  will  be  best  utilized.
Secondly, 
improved  evaluation  and  performance
reporting  need  to  provide  a  stronger  framework  for
accountability, improving results and better planning.
Finally,  continued  reform  of  human  resources
policies  and  practices  is  vital  for  strengthening  the
Organization and we must continue to consolidate and
pay 
extend  the  reforms  introduced  a  few  years  ago.  The
work of the International Civil Service Commission on
strengthening
reviewing 
performance 
the  management
capabilities  of  managers  is  critical  to  the  task  of
ensuring that the Organization can meet the challenges
facing it.
conditions, 
improving 
and 
and 
In that regard, we welcome the report of the panel
on  the  strengthening  of  the  international  civil  service
and  look  forward  to  building  on  its  recommendations
to  improve  the  contribution  of  the  International  Civil
Service Commission to the United Nations system.
Mr.  Baali  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM)
Working  Group  on  Reform  of  the  United  Nations  and
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  shall  limit
my intervention to the question of the revitalization of
the work of the General Assembly.
NAM  would  like  to  express  once  again  its
appreciation for the leadership and commitment shown
by  the  former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,
Mr. Julian  Hunte,  concerning 
the
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly.
Indeed,  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316  —  adopted  by
the  General  Assembly  on  19  December  2003  and
1 July  2004  respectively  —  represent  important  steps
for more substantive improvements towards a  genuine
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
issue  of 
the 
NAM 
is  confident,  Sir, 
that,  under  your
presidency  and  with  your  wise  guidance,  Member
States will continue their efforts to advance the process
of  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly. NAM would like to recall that that ongoing
process is aimed at enhancing the authority and role of
the  Assembly  and  at  improving  its  efficiency  and
effectiveness  so  as  to  make  it  the  central  body  of  the
Organization, 
relevant
provisions  of  the  Charter  and  paragraph  30  of  the
Millennium Declaration.
in  accordance  with 
the 
NAM  looks  forward  to  the  follow-up  to  the
provisions  of  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316.  In  that
context, NAM stresses the need to ensure the effective,
full  and  proper  implementation  of  those  resolutions.
NAM stresses that the revitalization of the work of the
General  Assembly  is  a  process,  driven  by  Member
States, that entails transparency and a clear distinction
between  the  role  of  Member  States  and  that  of  the
Secretariat.  The  consultations  on  the  revitalization  of
A/59/PV.18
the  work  of  the  Assembly  should  be  conducted  in  an
inclusive manner, taking into account the views of the
full  membership,  including  those  of  the  regional  and
negotiating groups.
NAM  is  of  the  view  that  the  focus  of  our  work
during  the  fifty-ninth  session  should  be  on  continuing
the  revitalization  process  within  the  framework  of
resolution 58/316. In that connection, NAM would like
to highlight the following points.
First,  with  regard  to  reordering  the  work  of  the
General Assembly, NAM stresses the need to take into
account the views expressed and the suggestions made
by  Member  States  in  the  context  of  the  deliberations
held during the fifty-eighth session.
Secondly,  regarding 
the  organization  of 
the
agenda of the Assembly under headings corresponding
to  the  priorities  of  the  medium-term  plan  or  the
strategic  framework,  NAM  would  like  to  reiterate  its
position  that  that  arrangement  —  which  is  to  be
reviewed  in  its  entirety  by  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
first session — is solely for the purpose of illustration
and will neither prejudge nor adversely affect the way
in  which  the  work  of  the  Assembly  is  organized  and
carried  out,  particularly  regarding 
the  format  of
sessions, the way in which agenda items are considered
in  plenary  and  other  meetings  and  the  way  in  which
draft resolutions are introduced and action is taken on
them.
Thirdly,  concerning  the  practices  and  working
methods  of  the  Main  Committees,  NAM  emphasizes
that all of the Main Committees must be bound by the
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  as  stated
in  section  C,  paragraph  3,  of  the  annex  to  resolution
58/316,  and  that  all  Member  States  must  be  actively
involved  in  the  process  of  implementing  the  various
provisions  of  that  section,  including  paragraph  3  (a),
which  states  that  each  Main  Committee  shall  make
recommendations  on  the  rationalization  of  its  future
agendas  to  the  plenary  Assembly  for  its  decision  by
1 April 2005.
Finally,  with  respect  to  documentation,  NAM  is
of  the  view  that  the  forthcoming  discussions  on  that
issue  should  be  conducted 
the
implementation  of  paragraph  7  of  resolution  58/126
and  paragraph  20  of  resolution  57/300  and 
in
accordance  with  the  principle  of  providing  adequate
and  sufficient  information,  as  agreed  by  Member
States.
light  of 
the 
in 
9
A/59/PV.18
NAM  trusts,  Sir,  that  under  your  presidency,  the
General  Assembly  will  continue  its  efforts  to  ensure
full  implementation  of  the  provisions  of  resolutions
58/126  and  58/316  —  including  those  related  to  the
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Security  Council,  contained  in  section  A  of  the  annex
to resolution 58/126 — thus enabling the Assembly to
play  its  role  effectively  as  “the  chief  deliberative,
policy-making  and  representative  body  of  the  United
Nations”, as stated in the Millennium Declaration.
Bearing  in  mind  that  the  revitalization  of  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly  is  an  ongoing  process
that has as its main objective restoring the authority of
the  Assembly,  NAM  stresses 
importance  of
paragraph  1  of  the  annex  to  resolution  55/285,  which
stipulates that:
the 
“Improvement  of  the  procedures  and  working
methods  of  the  Assembly  is  only  a  first  step
towards  more  substantive  improvements  in  and
revitalization of the Assembly.”
NAM  believes  that,  from  a  methodological  point  of
view, it would be more appropriate to focus during the
current  session  on  the  implementation  of  resolutions
58/126  and  58/316  and  to  address,  as  a  matter  of
priority, all outstanding issues.
in 
issue 
the  whole 
the  context  of 
the  Secretary-General 
At its sixtieth session, the General Assembly will
its
review 
consideration  of  the  comprehensive  report  requested
from 
in  paragraph  3  of
resolution 58/316. Such a review will provide Member
States  with  an  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  what  has
been  achieved  and  to  consider  further  steps  and  new
measures  that  they  deem  necessary  to  advance  the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
In  closing,  NAM  would  like  to  assure  you,
Mr. President,  of  its  full  support  for  your  undertaking
concerning the issue of the revitalization of the work of
the General Assembly.
Mr. Sardenberg  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
have the honour to speak on behalf of the Rio  Group:
Argentina,  Bolivia,  Chile,  Colombia,  Costa  Rica,  the
Dominican  Republic, 
Salvador,
Guatemala,  Guyana,  Honduras,  Mexico,  Nicaragua,
Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Uruguay,  Venezuela  and  my
own  country,  Brazil.  For  the  Group,  the  issue  of  the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly is a
priority,  as  agreed  by  the  Presidents  of  our  member
Ecuador, 
El 
10
countries  at  their  summit  held  in  Cuzco,  Peru.  In  the
light  of 
the  Rio  Group  actively
participated  in  the  negotiating  process  leading  to  the
adoption of resolutions 58/126 and 58/316.
that  mandate, 
to  express 
through  his 
Permit  me,  Sir, 
the  Group’s
the  efforts  of  your  predecessor,
appreciation  for 
Mr. Julian  Hunte,  who, 
tenacity  and
dedication,  gave  fresh  impetus  to  the  process  of  the
revitalization of the work of the Assembly and made an
essential  contribution  to  the  success  achieved.  Thanks
to  his  steadfast  commitment  to  that  cause,  it  was
possible, among other things, to continue the effort  of
biennializing  and  triennializing  the  consideration  of
Assembly  agenda  items,  to  bring  forward  the  election
of the Bureaux of the Main Committees and to have an
agenda  organized  according  to  the  priorities  in  the
medium-term  plan.  We  are  confident  that,  under  your
presidency, we shall be able to make yet more progress
in that process, which is an essential part of the overall
United  Nations  reform  effort.  The  General  Assembly
must recover the ground it has lost.
the 
restrictions 
session.  Given 
Despite  our  best  efforts  during  the  fifty-eighth
session of the General Assembly, it was not possible to
reach  agreement  on  one  of  the  main  proposals  under
consideration,  namely,  the  better  use  by  the  Main
Committees  of  all  the  time  available  throughout  the
Assembly 
on
reconvening  the  Main  Committee  sessions  and  the
resistance  to  having  some  of  the  Main  Committees
hold their  sessions  in  the  spring  instead  of  in  the  fall,
among  other  issues,  it  proved  impossible  to  reach  a
consensus.  Nonetheless,  resolution  58/316  kept  the
issue on the Assembly’s agenda and, as in the past, the
Rio  Group  will  continue  actively  to  strive  for  results
that  allow  for  a  more  effective  allocation  of  available
time  for  the  holding  of  the  meetings  of  the  Main
Committees.
Paragraph  5  in  part  B  of  the  annex  to  resolution
58/126 states,
issues,  so 
“It  would  be  advantageous  for  the  General
Assembly to have a shorter agenda to ensure the
fullest  discussion  of  all 
its
decisions may have greater impact.”
One  option  that  could  be  considered  in  greater
depth  is  the  idea  of  differentiating  the  agenda  of  the
General  Assembly  in  general  from  its  programme  of
work for each specific session, thus avoiding the need
to eliminate items from the agenda. Further efforts are
that 
also  needed  to  ensure  that  the  resolutions  adopted  by
the  Assembly  are  more  concise,  to  the  point  and
action-oriented, in keeping with that resolution.
far,  however, 
The General Assembly now has to deal with some
delicate  questions  about  which  it  was  not  possible  to
reach  agreement  during  the  fifty-eighth  session.  The
results  achieved  so 
that,
regardless  of  the  obstacles,  it  is  possible  to  make
changes that have  a direct bearing on the work of our
Assembly.  As  previous  experience  clearly  indicates,
resolute  and  dedicated  guidance  from  the  President  is
crucial  if  tangible  results  are  to  be  achieved  in  the
revitalization  process.  In  this  regard,  we  are  very
pleased by your statements, Mr. President.
indicate 
With  regard  to  the  strengthening  of  the  United
Nations system, we have before us reports prepared by
the Panel of Eminent Persons on United Nations-Civil
Society  Relations,  chaired  by  Fernando  Henrique
Cardoso,  former  President  of  Brazil,  as  well  as  the
report  that  the  Secretary-General  has  prepared  in
response to it. We stand ready to consider the proposals
contained  in  both  of  those  documents  throughout  the
session.
Among the proposals presented, we are pleased to
note the Secretary-General’s decision to create a fund,
to  which  voluntary  contributions  could  be  made,  to
help representatives of non-governmental organizations
from developing countries to attend intergovernmental
meetings.  The  Rio  Group  will  take  part  in  the
discussions  on  that  issue,  always  bearing  in  mind  the
goal  of  promoting  this  integration  in  a  manner  that
helps  to  strengthen  the  work  of  the  Organization  and
other intergovernmental bodies.
You  may  rest  assured,  Mr.  President,  of  the
unswerving  support  of  the  members  of  the  Rio  Group
in  your  efforts  to  promote  the  common  cause  of  the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly.
Mr. Rahman  (Bangladesh):  The  issue  of  the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly and
the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  system  has
been under discussion at the United Nations for several
years.  Some  progress  has  been  made  but,  obviously,
much more needs to be done.
Certain broad-based perceptions circumscribe any
consideration  of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,
whether  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly or the strengthening of the Security Council.
A/59/PV.18
One  extreme  view  is  that  the  work  of  the  United
Nations has been essentially reduced to three elements:
peacekeeping, 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian
assistance  and  easing  the  passage  of  globalization.
Another  view  is  that  the  United  Nations  today  has
latent strengths that have indeed made it indispensable,
not 
its  universality  of
membership  and  its  extraordinary  position  as  the
central — indeed, the only — body for the cooperative
management of the world’s problems.
least  of  which  are 
the 
Another set of perceptions relates to the practical
realization of what is achievable — that is, realpolitik.
This  revolves  around  the  question  of  embarking  on  a
process  of  radical  change  involving  the  amending  of
the Charter or simply maintaining the basic status quo
through  the  so-called  tinkering  process  to  address
issues 
the
administration, et cetera.
streamlining 
reform, 
of 
budget 
It  would  appear  that  realpolitik  has  a  hugely
constraining  hand.  Be  that  as  it  may,  Bangladesh
believes  that  the  issue  of  the  revitalization  of  the
General Assembly and the strengthening of the United
Nations  system  cannot  be  set  aside.  It  is  vital  that  we
forge  ahead  simultaneously  in  a  number  of  areas.  We
can  accomplish  this  through  a  concerted  effort  on  the
part of Member States. Agreeing to discuss item 52 and
item  54  together  is  an  important  step  in  the  right
direction. We could explore similar opportunities in the
work of the Main Committees through biennialization,
triennialization,  clustering  and 
the  elimination  of
agenda items. That would allow for more focused and
in-depth discussions on issues of relevance, resulting in
actionable outcomes.
that 
We  believe 
the  practice  of  holding  a
“question time” should also be introduced, in the most
appropriate  manner,  in  all  of  the  Main  Committees.
That  would  enable  a  dynamic  and  candid  exchange
among  representatives,  United  Nations  staff, 
the
representatives  of  the  Secretary-General  and  special
rapporteurs.
A key element is to improve the efficiency of the
delivery  system,  particularly  at  the  national  level.
Appropriate steps should be taken to better manage the
human  resources  of  the  United  Nations,  its  budgetary
process,  procurement  procedure  and  monitoring  and
evaluation system.
We  fully  agree  with  the  view  that  much  of  the
to  an
in  our  system 
is  due 
current  malaise 
11
A/59/PV.18
overcrowded,  repetitive  and  irrelevant  agenda,  a  huge
burden  of  documentation  and  the  need  for  meaningful
thematic focus on specific issues.
We  believe  that  rationalization  should  be  a
continuous  process,  enabling  the  Member  States  to
refocus  themselves  to  respond  adequately  to  changing
realities.  We  are  confident  that  the  ongoing  process
will  render  the  Assembly  the  central  and  supreme
deliberative  and  policy-making  body  of  the  United
Nations.
Bangladesh  has  been  consistently  endeavouring
to  contribute  to  this  process  in  its  modest  way.  As
Chairman of the Second Committee for the fifty-eighth
session,  Bangladesh,  along  with  the  Bureau  members,
helped  prepare  recommendations  for  ensuring  a  more
practical  and  coherent  organization  of  work  for  future
sessions  of  the  Committee,  allowing  for  better  focus,
visibility and participation. Many of those suggestions
are  reflected  in  section  C  of  Assembly  resolution
58/316.
We believe that in order to strengthen the United
Nations system, the General Assembly should be made
the focal point of our activities. Both the Charter of the
United  Nations  and  the  Millennium  Declaration  refer
to the central position of the Assembly.
At its fifty-eighth session the Assembly adopted a
resolution  inviting  the  Security  Council  to  submit
special,  subject-oriented  reports  to  the  Assembly  on
issues  of  international  concern.  It  asked  the  President
of the Security Council to regularly brief the President
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  work  of  the  Council
and requested the Presidents of the General Assembly,
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  to  meet  periodically  with  a  view  to  ensuring
increased 
and
complementarity of the work programmes of the three
organs. We urge the President of the General Assembly
to  put  those  recommendations  into  practice.  We  also
call  for  further  strengthening  of  the  office  of  the
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  including  the
increase and the better management of its budget.
coordination 
cooperation, 
The United Nations has seen a dramatic evolution
over  more  than  five  decades.  Two  forces  have  been
pre-eminent. The first is mass awareness of individual
rights, which is behind the progressive development of
humanitarian  laws  and  the  strengthening  of  human
rights.  Secondly,  advances  in  science  and  technology
have  brought  the  liberalization  of  market  forces,
12
mobility of labour, capital and business and the greater
independence  of  all  countries.  The  result  has  been
globalization. Those forces have heralded new players
in  the  international  community:  civil  society,  non-
governmental organizations, transnational corporations
and big cities. In short, this is the age of the non-State
actors.  There  is  a  vital  need  to  praise  and  assess  their
role.
For  the  United  Nations  to  engage  in  debates  on
development  issues  in  a  more  substantive  way,  we
believe it must nurture a healthy relationship with civil
society.  Non-governmental  organizations 
(NGOs)
today  have  a  huge  worldwide  network.  They  are
working  with  Governments  at  most 
levels  of
development,  including  planning  and  execution.  The
United  Nations  can  certainly  benefit  by  drawing  upon
the experiences of the NGOs.
We  agree  with  the  recommendation  of  the  Panel
of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations  (A/59/354)  that  the  United  Nations,  in
essence,  should  endeavour  to  make  itself  a  more
outward-looking  organization.  That  can  be  done  by
encouraging  the  participation  of  various  stakeholders
in the development programmes in different ways. We
believe that the role of the NGOs in the activities of the
General  Assembly,  the  Main  Committees  and  the
Security Council, however, should remain limited to a
consultative role.
On  the  issue  of  reform  of  the  Security  Council,
Bangladesh  favours  increasing  the  membership  of  the
Council  with  a  view  to  its  democratization  and  in
keeping  with  the  increase  in  the  United  Nations
membership. A simple rule of thumb is 10 per cent of
United Nations membership. We believe that reform of
the  Council  should  be  considered  as  a  common
package  encompassing  both  the  composition  of  its
membership and its working methods. Our basic stand
is  to  oppose  the  creation  of  new  centres  of  privilege
and to constrain the use of the veto, while recognizing
the  limitations  in  that  direction.  That  view  emanates
from  the  realization  that  the  fundamental  goal  of  the
reform  exercise  should  be  to  enhance  the  legitimacy,
credibility,  accountability,  efficiency  and  effectiveness
of the Council.
Efforts  at  reform,  particularly  the  expansion  of
the  Council,  should  not  be  bound  by  any  imposed
deadline. We believe that any such expansion should be
addressed  on  the  basis  of  well-defined  criteria,  the
foremost  of  which  should  be  the  track  record  and
performance of the aspirant. That would be judged by
the  concerned  country’s  commitment  to  the  United
Nations and its contribution to international peace and
security,  not  merely  by  the  benchmarks  of  national
wealth  and  military  power.  That  should  ultimately
translate 
greater
responsibility  in  terms  of  financial  resources  and
political  support  for  efforts  undertaken  by  the  United
Nations in the areas of peace, security and sustainable
development.
into  Member  States 
taking 
Certain  aspects,  including  a  country’s  record  in
democracy  and  compliance  with  the  United  Nations
resolutions,  as  well  as  its  avowed  commitment  to
disarmament, should also be taken into consideration.
the 
interests  of 
Any  reform  of  the  Council  should  adequately
reflect 
the  smaller  developing
countries, which constitute a strong numerical block in
the  United  Nations  and  therefore  have  a  vital  stake  in
an  effective  Council.  In  that  regard,  the  case  for  the
democratization of the Council should not be confined
to  the  principle  of  regional  representation  alone.  It
should  also  include  the  principle  of  the  rotational
representation  of  various  economic  groupings  in  an
expanded Security Council.
Arguably,  the  whole  issue  of  reform  of  the
Security  Council  involves  many  complexities  that
cannot  be  resolved  in  a  piecemeal  fashion.  The
ultimate  aim  of  any  reform  exercise  should  be  to
enhance  the  credibility  and  the  democratic  nature  of
the  United  Nations  through  its  working  methods,  its
decision-making  process  and  the  very  substance  of  its
deliberations. It should not result merely in the creation
of new centres of privilege.
Mrs.  Musiviye  (Namibia):  Last  Friday, 
the
General Assembly concluded a rich general debate that
was  addressed  by  an  impressive  number  of  heads  of
State  or  Government.  All  collectively  reaffirmed  the
precious  ideals,  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  need  for  United  Nations  reform  to
reassert the centrality of the United Nations in dealing
with global problems.
It  is  therefore  most  appropriate  that  the  present
joint  debate  should  start  our  plenary  deliberations.
Having  had  the  rare  privilege  of  presiding  over  the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-fourth  session,  Namibia
attaches  great  importance  to  this  discussion.  The
the
revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  and 
A/59/PV.18
the  United  Nations  system  are
strengthening  of 
complementarity 
and 
revitalized
General  Assembly  will  make  the  United  Nations
system  effective.  At  the  same  time,  a  strengthened
United  Nations  system  will  enhance  the  centrality  of
this important organ.
intertwined.  A 
I wish to join others in commending the President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  is  fifty-eighth  session  for
his  devotion  to  the  issue  of  the  revitalization  of  the
Assembly.  His  commitment  has  taken  this  important
issue to a higher level. It is now our duty to sustain the
momentum  and  to  bring  the  process  to  a  meaningful
conclusion.
We trust in your ability, Mr. President, to take the
process  forward,  and  you  have  our  cooperation  and
support in this regard.
the 
The representative of Algeria, speaking on behalf
of 
the  countries  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement
(NAM),  clearly  laid  out  the  NAM  position.  My
delegation  associates  itself  with  the  position  he  just
enunciated. Allow me, however, to make a few remarks
on  some  aspects  of 
revitalization  process.
Streamlining the General Assembly agenda has been an
ongoing process. In fact, some of the Main Committees
have  set  the  pace  on  the  issue.  In  that  context,  a
focused  discussion  among  Member  States  will  further
enhance our work on this subject. In the meantime, the
provisions  of  General  Assembly  resolution  58/316  are
very clear and give us room to observe the practicality
and  suitability  of  rearranging  the  agenda  of  the
Assembly.
We  believe  that  what  has  worked  well  for  the
overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States  as  we
continue  with  the  process  of  revitalization  should
continue  to  work  just  as  well.  For  example,  the
usefulness and necessity of having a general debate in
each of the Main Committees should be viewed in the
context  of  each  Main  Committee’s  work.  Over  the
years,  smaller  delegations  such  as  mine  have  strongly
argued for the retention of this debate.  Our  arguments
have  been  rightly  centred  on  our  limited  capacities.
However, there is another equally important aspect that
we  collectively  tend  to  overlook.  And  since  we  are
deliberating  on  how  to  revitalize  the  work  of  the
Assembly, it is worth pointing out that general debates
in the Main Committees are essential for the following
reasons.  First,  they  add  content  to  the  deliberations;
secondly,  they  provide  focus  for  the  work  of  the
13
A/59/PV.18
session;  and  thirdly,  they  set  the  overall  tone  for  the
Committee’s  work.  The  debates  on  substantive  items,
on the other hand, narrow it down, thus assisting in the
preparation of draft resolutions.
We  cannot  adopt  a  uniform  method  for  all  the
Committees.  Therein  lies  the  wisdom  of  leaving  the
modalities  of  rationalizing  the  work  of  each  Main
Committee to its own member States.
in 
introducing 
We  welcome  the  remarks  made  by  the  Deputy
the  Secretary-
Secretary-General 
the  United
General’s  report  on  strengthening  of 
Nations  system  (A/59/354),  and  we  wish  to  make  the
following  preliminary  comments  on  some  aspects  of
the recommendations of the Panel of Eminent Persons
on United Nations-Civil Society Relations.
of 
The 
contribution 
In  our  view, 
is  unquestionable. 
non-governmental
organizations  (NGOs)  to  the  work  of  the  United
Nations 
the
participation of NGOs is not novel  — at least, not for
the  General  Assembly.  However,  the  participation  of
non-governmental  organizations  has  been  unbalanced,
in  terms  both  of  geographical  representation  and  of
accessibility  to  the  United  Nations  system.  Members
will agree with me that accreditation and participation
of NGOs are two different issues.
My delegation does not concur with the Panel on
the merits of a single system of accreditation. Granted,
we  need  to  continue  to  seek  more  effective  ways  of
carrying  out  our  activities  with  the  inclusion  of  all
relevant  partners.  However,  in  doing  so,  we  must
examine  in  earnest  whether  the  problem  actually  lies
with  the  committee  or  the  NGO,  or  with  the  seeming
erosion  of  the  intergovernmental  character  of  our
Organization.
require  different 
We believe that, in considering the accountability
of NGOs, the particularities of NGOs from developing
countries  need  to  be  taken  into  account.  It  has  been
said,  and  rightly  so,  that  different  United  Nations
bodies 
reform  or
strengthening.  At  country  level,  for  example,  unique
regulatory  frameworks  have  to  be  taken  into  account.
The  participation  of  NGOs  in  operational  activities  at
country  level  cannot  be  made  uniform.  While  broad
guidelines  could  be  common,  surely  the  modalities  of
operation will have to take into account the realities in
given countries.
types  of 
14
between  Governments 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  capacities  of  NGOs,
especially those from developing countries, need to be
enhanced  to  complement  Government  efforts  in  the
development  sphere.  However,  this  must  not  detract
from the fact that what is holding back the attainment
of  development  goals  is  not  a  lack  of  effective
coordination 
non-
governmental  organizations  but  the  lack  of  resources.
The  proposed 
idea  worth
considering. However, in view of the lack of resources
for  development,  would  it  not  be  more  useful  if  the
trust  fund  could  also  complement  the  efforts  of
government in achieving the Millennium Development
Goals,  for  example?  The  operational  word  here  is
“complement”.
trust  fund 
thus  an 
and 
is 
As I mentioned earlier, the contribution of NGOs
to the work of our Organization is beyond doubt and is
well  documented.  But,  while  we  welcome 
their
continued  participation,  we  must  not  compromise  the
intergovernmental  nature  of  our  Organization,  which
derives from the Charter.
the 
as 
58/317, 
Finally, 
adopted 
resolution 
revitalization  of 
the  General
Assembly is the means to an end. During the previous
session, the Non-Aligned Movement introduced a draft
resolution, 
on
reaffirming the central role of the United Nations in the
maintenance of international peace and security and the
promotion of international cooperation. While we seek
to  revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  we
need  to  establish  how  to  enhance  the  role  of  the
Assembly  in  this  regard.  Improving  the  working
methods  of  the  General  Assembly  will  not  in  itself
place  the  Assembly  at  the  centre.  Perhaps  the  time  is
fast approaching for us to look at the authority of this
most deliberative and most representative organ of the
United Nations.
Mr. Kumalo (South Africa): Sir, it is my pleasure
to congratulate you on your election to the presidency
of the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly. It is
particularly  gratifying  to  see  a  distinguished  son  of
Africa leading this body at such an important session. I
wish to pledge the fullest cooperation of South Africa
with you in the year ahead.
Please  allow  me  to  thank  and  congratulate  your
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Julian  Hunte,  for  his
effective  leadership  of  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  I  wish  to  pay  special  tribute  to
Foreign  Minister  Hunte  for  his  efforts  on  one  of  the
items before us today, namely, the revitalization of the
work of the General Assembly.
I  would  also  like  to  associate  myself  with  the
statement  made  by  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-
Aligned Movement.
is 
to  enhance 
its  Committees  and 
the  effectiveness  and 
My  delegation  is  fully  committed  to  improving
the  working  methods  and  the  effectiveness  of  the
General  Assembly,  both 
the
plenary.  We  believe  that  the  purpose  of  the  proposed
reform 
the
substance  of  the  work  of  those  bodies.  For  the  past
couple  of  years  our  delegation  has  had  the  honour  to
assist  in  the  facilitation  of  the  revitalization  process.
During  that  period  we  have  seen  Member  States  take
decisions  on  a  number  of  issues,  which  have  already
made  a  significant  improvement  in  the  work  of  our
Organization.  Already,  there  is  a  fixed  date  for  the
annual  commencement  of  the  general  debate.  The
President  of 
the  General  Assembly 
the
and 
Chairpersons  and  other  officers  of 
the  Main
Committees  are  elected  early  so  that  they  can  prepare
for  their  tasks  in  good  time.  The  General  Committee
has  also  been  engaged  in  discussing  and  deciding  on
the 
the  General
Committee a continuing role in the process of helping
strengthen the Assembly.
revitalization  process,  giving 
At its fifty-eighth session, the General Assembly
adopted  resolution  58/316,  in  which  Member  States
were  able  to  reach  consensus  on  further  reforms
designed  to  revitalize  the  work  of  this  body.  They
included the decision to schedule plenary meetings on
Mondays and Thursdays, so as to make the work of the
whole  General  Assembly  session  predictable.  That
decision has also made it possible for the Committees
to better structure their schedules so as to avoid clashes
with plenary meetings. In addition, certain Committees
have begun implementing some of the proposals made
in the resolution as a way of enhancing their work. In
coming  weeks,  we  look  forward  to  comparing  the
revitalization experiences of different Committees as a
way  of  distilling  and  replicating  best  practices,
wherever possible.
However,  there  is  still  more  to  be  done  if  the
General Assembly is to live up to its description in the
Millennium  Declaration  as  “the  chief  deliberative,
policy-making  and  representative  organ  of  the  United
Nations” (resolution 55/2, para. 30).
A/59/PV.18
raised 
Among 
the  outstanding  matters 
in
resolution  58/316  is  the  issue  of  documentation,  in
particular  the  volume  of  documentation.  We  believe
that documentation has a direct impact on the work of
the  General  Assembly  and  its  Committees  and  my
delegation is ready to participate in discussions on that
issue.
Regarding 
the  strengthening  of 
the  United
Nations, we wish to thank the Secretary-General for his
report in response to the report of the Panel of Eminent
Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations,
which  was  chaired  by  the  former  President  of  Brazil,
Mr. Fernando Henrique Cardoso.
and 
that 
contribution 
that  reason,  we  believe 
South  Africa  places  a  very  high  premium  on  the
role 
non-governmental
organizations  (NGOs)  and  other  elements  of  civil
society  can  play  and  have  played  in  many  aspects  of
that  such
society.  For 
organizations  have  an  important  role  to  play 
in
analysing, evaluating and shaping the world we live in
at  all  levels.  It  is  therefore  important  for  the  United
Nations  to  enhance  its  cooperation  with  that  very
important  sector  of  society;  we  believe  that  the  report
of the Secretary-General contains a number of practical
and useful suggestions that should be pursued further.
of 
re-emphasis 
While it may go without saying, we  concur  with
the 
Secretary-General’s 
the
intergovernmental nature of the United Nations, where
decisions  are  taken  by  its  Member  States.  However,
Member States should be able to draw on the best and
most  up-to-date  information  on  which  to  base  their
discussions  and  decisions;  civil  society  can  play  an
important contributing role in that regard. Civil society
also  continues  to  highlight  topics  and  to  develop  the
debate  around  important  local,  national  and  global
issues. With that in mind, we agree that ways should be
found  to  maximize  the  contribution  that  civil  society
can  make  to  the  work  of  all  the  bodies  of  the  United
Nations,  including  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Security Council.
Speaking from my experience as Chairman of the
Economic  and  Social  Council  Ad  Hoc  Advisory
Groups  on  Guinea-Bissau  and  on  Burundi,  our
interaction with civil society in those countries made a
significant  contribution  to  the  Economic  and  Social
Council’s  understanding  of  both  the  challenges  faced
by  those  countries  and  of  the  different  approaches
available  in  dealing  with  countries  emerging  from
15
A/59/PV.18
conflict. I was thus pleased that during its recent visit
to West Africa, the Security Council mission also made
a  particular  point  of  interacting  with  civil  society
organizations  in  the  countries  that  they  visited,  a  fact
mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report.
While 
those  country-level 
interactions  are
extremely helpful, it is admittedly not possible to have
the  same 
level  of  contribution  from  developing-
country  civil  society  organizations  in  the  work  of  the
United  Nations  here  in  New  York.  We  are  therefore
very glad to see that the Secretary-General will create a
trust  fund  to  provide  financial  support  to  enable
accredited  NGOs  from  developing  countries  to  attend
United  Nations  meetings.  We  hope  that  donors  will
contribute  generously  to  the  trust  fund,  as  that  would
be  a  tangible  way  to  demonstrate  the  importance  that
we attach to the contribution of civil society.
We all have seen the significant contribution that
civil society organizations can make to the work of the
United  Nations  during  summits  and  other  high-level
meetings. That was demonstrated very clearly again to
us  in  Johannesburg,  during  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development, 
in  which  civil  society
participated  fully  both  in  the  preparatory  process  and
the  Summit  itself.  Since  the  Johannesburg  Summit,
civil  society  has  continued  to  contribute  significantly
to enriching the debate and to discussions on  carrying
out the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation.
The  Secretary-General  has  also  highlighted  the
need to find ways to review the accreditation of NGOs
as a way to maximize their participation in the work of
the United Nations. My delegation believes that this is
an important issue, and we look forward to exchanging
ideas with other delegations on this matter.
the  General  Assembly  and 
In conclusion, the fact that we are addressing the
revitalization  of 
the
strengthening of the United Nations system together is
an admission that a lot of work needs to be done. If we
consider  the  agreement  reached  in  resolution  58/316,
there  seems  to  be  a  consensus  that  we  have  not  yet
reached  the  end  of  the  road  of  the  revitalization
process.  And  in  addressing  the  strengthening  of  the
General  Assembly,  it  is  clear  that  that  cannot  happen
through the efforts of Member States alone. We need to
maintain a balance between our enthusiasm to improve
the  working  methods  of 
the  Organization  and
discussions  of  the  actual  substantive  matters  that  we
have  to  deal  with  in  the  Committees  and  in  plenary
16
meetings.  My  delegation  believes  that  that  can  only
happen  as  we  continue  to  address  these  issues  in  the
coming months.
Mr. Aboul Atta (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): First
of  all,  I  would  like  to  associate  myself  with  the
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Algeria  on
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  to  endorse
the  report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United
Nations-Civil  Society  Relations.  We  would  also  like,
once  again,  to  express  our  satisfaction  with  the  role
played by the President of the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth  session  in  guiding  the  consultations  that
led  to  the  adoption  of  General  Assembly  resolutions
58/126  and  58/316.  We  also  look  forward  to  working
with you, Mr. President, during the present session on
these items.
Egypt is convinced that the major objective of the
revitalization of the General Assembly is an important
one: to ensure that, in the relevant areas, the Assembly
plays  its  role  as  a  principal  organ  of  the  United
Nations.  We  must  never  lose  sight  of  that  objective.
Egypt is firmly convinced that the revitalization of the
General  Assembly  must  not  be  short-circuited  or
limited  to  a  simple  procedural  rationalization  of  the
Assembly’s  deliberations.  While  we  attach  particular
importance to this matter, we also think that we should
consider  the  question  of  the  General  Assembly’s
relationships with the other United Nations organs and
develop  those  relationships  in  an  effort  to  achieve  the
most  effective  formulas 
the
authority, efficiency and role of the General Assembly.
At its sixtieth session, the General Assembly will
deal  with  the  question  of  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium Declaration and the comprehensive reform
of  the  United  Nations.  That  should  provide  a  unique
opportunity  for  us 
in  our  collective
international action to enhance the role of the General
Assembly 
and
democracy in international relations.
strengthen  multilateralism 
that  would  enhance 
to  advance 
and 
the 
comprehensive 
We  in  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  therefore
believe that, at the present session, we should consider
carefully 
implementation  of
resolutions  58/126  and  58/316  and  the  elements  that
have  already  been  implemented.  We  believe  that  this
work should be transparent and should fully include all
the regional and other negotiating groups, based on the
principle 
that  are
responsible  for  reforming  the  United  Nations  and,  in
the  Member  States 
that 
it 
is 
particular,  for  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly.  This
must take place on the basis of a painstaking definition
of the roles of all those involved in the discussions. We
will  support  your  efforts,  Mr.  President,  and  will
cooperate with you as you exercise prudent leadership,
in a spirit of partnership and collegiality, to ensure that
we succeed in this process.
I  turn  now  to  the  issue  of  strengthening  of  the
United  Nations  system  and  its  relationship  with  the
civil  society.  We  have  examined 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/59/354)  on  this  matter,  and  we
listened  attentively  to  the  presentation  made  today  by
the Deputy Secretary-General. Here, I thank the Panel
of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations,  chaired  by  former  President  Cardoso  of
Brazil.  My  thanks  go  also  to  the  Secretary-General.
Egypt  has  always  sought  to  strengthen  dialogue  with
non-governmental  organizations,  not  only  because  of
their  role  in  articulating  society’s  conscience,  but
because of the constructive role they play in promoting
the issues of civil society, to the benefit of all people.
Based  on  the  growing  importance  of  this  matter
of  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and
revitalizing  its  organs,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  has
studied  the  report  very  carefully  with  a  view  to  its
implementation.  We  wish  also  to  understand  all  the
responsibilities  and  repercussions  stemming  from  the
implementation 
on
strengthening  the  United  Nations  system.  We  would
like  to  ascertain  what  the  implications  will  be  for  our
societies  and  to  ensure  that  we  act  in  a  manner
compatible  with  the  intergovernmental  nature  of  the
Organization and its Charter.
proposals 
report’s 
of 
the 
Mr.  Noghes  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The
Principality  of  Monaco  welcomed 
the  General
Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  58/316,  which  was
an important first step towards revitalizing the work of
the  General  Assembly.  We  take  this  opportunity,
Mr. President,  to  welcome  the  work  done  in  this  area
by your predecessor.
The  delegation  of  Monaco  supports  the  effort  to
reform the United Nations organ in which all Member
States  may  express  their  views.  In  the  annex  to
resolution  58/126,  the  General  Assembly  reaffirmed
that  the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and
the  Millennium  Declaration  lay  at  the  heart  of  its
concerns.
A/59/PV.18
The  Monegasque  delegation  greatly  appreciates,
in this regard, the rearrangement of the agenda, which
is  now  clustered  around  headings  that  correspond  to
the  Organization’s  priorities.  Rationalizing  the  agenda
in keeping with the medium-term plan for 2002 to 2005
or  the  strategic  framework  of  the  General  Assembly
will give Member States the opportunity to focus their
efforts  on  areas  in  which  they  are  most  competent.
Small delegations such as ours will in this way be able
to make a more significant contribution to the work of
the Assembly.
The  measures 
to  be  strengthened  as 
that  we  have  adopted  are
nonetheless modest in scope. The General Committee’s
role  needs 
the
effectiveness of the Organization  and the  coordination
and management of its work. The representative nature
of  the  General  Committee  gives  Member  States  a
guarantee that the Secretariat will take their views into
consideration.
regards 
We  warmly  welcome  the  practice  of  holding
interactive  debates  and  group  discussions  within  the
Main  Committees,  as  well  as  question-and-answer
meetings  involving  representatives  of  Member  States,
department  officials  and  special  rapporteurs.  Such
informal  exchanges  of  views  will  promote  both
dynamism and transparency.
The  sense  of  urgency  that  should  push  us  to
undertake  the  upcoming  measures  to  revitalize  the
Assembly is as great as that which in September 2003
prompted  the  Secretary-General  to  create  the  High-
level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change.  The
recent  and  simultaneous  upsurge  in  non-traditional
threats  such  as  terrorism,  organized  crime  and  the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  on  the
one  hand  and  the  insufficient  or  patchy  progress  in
reducing  poverty  on  the  other  hand  make  it  necessary
for  the  United  Nations  to  adapt  rapidly  to  the  new
world  context.  Like  the  eminent  persons  of  the  Panel,
we  need  to  formulate  bold  proposals,  setting  out  a
convincing  agenda:  a  set  of  responses  that  can  deal
with  the  world’s  problems.  It  is  up  to  us  to  give  the
General  Assembly  the  authority  it  deserves  and  to
strengthen the role that  falls to it, that of representing
the  international  community  and,  fundamentally,  the
peoples of the world.
In  that  regard,  we  have  taken  note  of  the
recommendations  made  by  the  Panel  of  Eminent
Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations,
17
A/59/PV.18
because, as its Chairman, President Cardoso, has noted,
the  growth  in  civil  society’s  influence  is  one  of  the
major  events  of  our  time.  We  share  the  view  that  the
United  Nations  should  welcome  the  contributions  of
relevant non-governmental organizations in the context
of  their  deliberations.  We  continue  to  believe  that  we
should  be  able  to  avoid  repetitive  debates  and  certain
repetitive  resolutions  and 
to
implementing and honouring the commitments that we
have already undertaken.
to  devote  ourselves 
Mr. President, we are convinced that you will be
able to conduct our work successfully and that we will
thus  make  substantive  progress  before  the  end  of  the
session.
Mr. Aizaz Ahmad Chaudhry (Pakistan): I wish
to  begin,  Sir,  by  extending  to  you  our  congratulations
on  your  assumption  of  the  office  of  President  of  the
General  Assembly  and  by  assuring  you  of  our  fullest
cooperation during your term of office. We would also
like 
the  Deputy  Secretary-General  for
presenting 
the  Secretary  General
report  of 
(A/59/354) this morning.
thank 
the 
to 
Pakistan fully supports the efforts to revitalize the
General Assembly in order to strengthen its role as the
chief  deliberative  organ  of 
the  United  Nations.
However,  our  efforts  will  not  yield  the  desired  result
unless  we  focus  on  both  enhancing  the  Assembly’s
efficiency and restoring its rightful authority.
enhancing 
repetition: 
In  that  regard,  last  year  Pakistan’s  delegation
presented  a  set  of  ideas  for  the  revitalization  of  the
General  Assembly.  One  idea,  which  continues  to
remain  valid,  bears 
the
is  a  political,  not  a  procedural
Assembly’s  role 
exercise.  All  Member  States  would  need 
to
demonstrate their resolve  and  political  commitment  to
ensuring that the Assembly becomes the primary locus
of  the  discussions  and  actions  of  the  United  Nations.
to  commit
The  Member  States  will  also  need 
themselves 
the
Assembly’s resolutions.
to  observing  and 
implementing 
Pakistan  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  of
Algeria made on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement
countries  on  agenda  item  52.  We  endorse  the  call  for
the  provisions  contained  in  resolutions  58/126  and
58/316  to  be  fully  implemented.  We  believe  that
consensual  decision-making  should  be  the  guiding
principle  in  making  progress  on  the  important  issues
the
under  consideration, 
reflection  of 
including 
18
priorities  of  the  Organization  in  the  agenda  of  the
General  Assembly,  the  reordering  of  the  Assembly’s
work,  and 
the  Main
Committees.
the  working  methods  of 
We  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention
to  an  important  provision  of  resolution  58/126,  which
calls  for  greater  interaction  between  the  Presidents  of
the  three  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  We
believe  that  greater  coordination  and  coherence  in  the
work  of  those  three  organs  will  bring  synergy  to  our
work  and  add  to  the  central  role  of  the  General
Assembly, as envisaged in the Charter and reflected in
the Millennium Declaration.
In that context, we welcome the regular meetings
of  the  Presidents  of  the  three  organs  instituted  by  the
former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Mr.  Julian
Hunte, to discuss issues common to the agenda of  the
three organs. We would like to take this opportunity to
recall  Pakistan’s  proposal  of  establishing  ad  hoc
composite  committees  with  membership  drawn  from
the  three  main  organs  in  order  to  address  complex
emergencies.  That  idea  has  already  been  discussed  at
the  meeting  of  the  three  Presidents.  We  hope  that  the
proposal will be further reflected upon in the context of
bringing about greater vitality and synergy in the work
of the three principal organs of the United Nations.
to  strengthening 
In the context of discussions on agenda item  54,
we  would  like  to  state  that  Pakistan  attaches  high
importance 
the  United  Nations
system.  In  that  regard,  Pakistan  has  welcomed  the
establishment  of  the  High-Level  Panel  to  examine  the
major threats and challenges to international peace and
security and to make recommendations for a collective
response.  We  believe  that  the  strengthening  of  the
United Nations system should be based on cooperative
multilateralism  pursued  mainly  through  the  United
Nations  and  based  on  United  Nations  Charter
principles.  United  Nations  reform  should  not  come  at
the cost of United Nations principles.
We  shall  offer  our  specific  views  on  different
aspects  of  United  Nations  reform  under  the  relevant
agenda  items.  At  today’s  meeting,  we  would  simply
like  to  say  that  cooperative  multilateralism  and  a
strengthened United Nations can be realized only if the
General  Assembly  is  enabled  to  play  its  role  as  the
supreme  organ  of  the  Organization,  to  which  the
membership of the more restricted organs, the Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  is
and 
accountable.  Furthermore, 
answerable 
the
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  system  cannot
yield the desired results so long as the United Nations
and  its  family  of  organizations  continue  to  be  denied
adequate financial resources to perform the myriad and
growing tasks with which those organizations are now
being entrusted.
of 
We  would  now  like  to  offer  a  few  comments  on
the report of the Secretary-General on United Nations-
civil society relations. Pakistan regards civil society as
an  integral  part  of  the  political,  social  and  economic
fibre 
societies.  The  wider
participation  of  the  non-governmental  organizations
(NGOs)  is  now  vital  to  ensuring  the  success  of
international  cooperation,  especially  in  the  field  of
socio-economic uplift and the advocacy of the rights of
the vulnerable segments of societies.
contemporary 
The evolution of civil society in the past decades
and  its  increased  participation  in  United  Nations
activities  warrants  a  fresh  look  at  the  institutional
structure  if  that  interaction  is  to  afford  a  meaningful
partnership between the two.  It is in that  context  that,
two years ago, the Pakistan delegation extended its full
support  to  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General,
contained  in  his  report  in  document  A/57/387,  to
strengthen  the  interaction  between  the  United  Nations
and civil society.
We have taken note of the proposals made by the
Secretary-General in response to the report of the Panel
of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations. The report contains a number of useful ideas
and suggestions. However, we believe that the changes
that  we  may  institute  need  our  careful  consideration,
particularly 
legal  and  procedural
implications.  While  we  would  pursue  the  matter  in
greater detail during informal discussions, at this stage
we would like to offer a few general observations.
financial, 
their 
the  need 
to  preserve 
First,  there  is  a  need  to  clearly  define  the  rights
and responsibilities of non-governmental organizations
for their participation in the General Assembly, bearing
in  mind 
the  Assembly’s
intergovernmental  nature.  Secondly,  the  process  of
accreditation  must  continue  to  be  regulated  through
intergovernmental  consideration  and  decisions.  We
agree 
the
accreditation process. In that regard, we would need to
evaluate  whether  the  shifting  of  the  responsibility  for
the  accreditation  of  non-governmental  organizations
to  streamline 
is  a  need 
there 
that 
A/59/PV.18
the  Committee 
from 
on  Non-Governmental
Organizations to the General Committee would achieve
the  desired  efficiency.  Thirdly,  due  respect  has  to  be
shown  for  the  local  laws,  values  and  cultural  ethos  of
the country concerned when strengthening role of civil
society  in  United  Nations-sponsored  activities  in  that
particularly  country.  Equally  important  is  the  need  to
ensure  that  programmes  to  enhance  the  capacity  of
NGOs  at  the  country  level  are  undertaken  with  the
the  host
concurrence  and 
authorities.  Fourthly, 
increased
involvement  of  NGOs  need  to  be  accompanied  by  the
generation  of  additional  funds,  rather  than  by  a  mere
reappropriation of the existing development funds.
involvement  of 
the 
initiatives  for 
full 
In 
supports 
Pakistan 
conclusion, 
the
strengthening  of  the  relationship  between  the  United
Nations and civil society. However, we believe that the
exercise  should  not 
the
Assembly’s  intergovernmental  nature  or  challenge  the
primacy of the Member States at the United Nations.
in  any  manner  erode 
Mr.  Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for
convening today’s meeting.
The revitalization of the General Assembly is an
important part of the reform of the United Nations. The
Chinese  delegation  has 
the
revitalization of the  General  Assembly  with  a  view  to
expanding  the  influence  of  the  Organization  and  to
promoting multilateralism.
supported 
always 
its 
At 
last  session, 
the  General  Assembly
unanimously  adopted  two  important  resolutions  on  its
own  revitalization  that  fully  reflected  the  common
understanding of all parties. We expect that, under your
leadership,  Sir, 
the  General
Assembly will  remain  a  major  priority  at  this  session,
the  healthy  momentum  will  be  maintained  and  further
results achieved. The Chinese delegation is prepared to
join  with  every  member  of  the  General  Assembly  in
giving its full support to your work.
the  revitalization  of 
We are of the view that there already exists a very
good foundation framework for the revitalization of the
work of the General Assembly. The first priority now is
to  implement  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316.  In  that
regard, I would stress the following three points.
First,  with  respect  to  strengthening  the  authority
and  role  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  annex  of
resolution  58/126  invites  the  Security  Council  to
19
A/59/PV.18
submit  periodically  special  subject-oriented  reports  to
the General Assembly on issues of current international
concern and to continue with initiatives to improve the
quality  of  its  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly.
As  one  of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Security
Council,  China  will  work  actively  in  the  Council  to
accomplish those two tasks.
Secondly,  with  respect  to  improving  the  agendas
and  documentation  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Main  Committees, 
in  compliance  with  resolution
58/316,  the  Secretary-General  promptly  submitted  a
General  Assembly  agenda  in  document  A/58/864,
clustering  items  according  to  the  medium-term  plan.
We express our appreciation in that regard. We expect
the  Main  Committees  to  make  their  recommendations
to the Assembly on the rationalization of their agendas
before 1 April 2005. We also expect the Secretariat to
submit  an  updated  note  on  control  and  limitation  of
documentation 
its
consideration so that it can make its recommendations
to the Assembly at an early date.
the  General  Committee  for 
to 
Thirdly, in accordance with resolution 58/316, the
General  Committee  should  continue  to  consider  the
question  of  improving  its  working  methods  and  make
recommendations on the matter to the Assembly before
1 April 2005. We hope that the General Committee will
promptly  study  this  issue  and  come  up  with  ideas  on
how  to  improve  its  working  methods,  including  ways
and  means  to  further  rationalize  the  procedure  for
considering  the  agenda  of  the  Assembly  so  as  to
improve the Assembly’s efficiency and effectiveness.
success 
depends 
Next  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
United Nations. The General Assembly will convene a
summit meeting to commemorate the event and make a
number  of  decisions  on  important  questions.  The
summit’s 
prior
preparations.  The  current  Assembly  session  faces  an
enormous task in that regard. In order to revitalize the
Assembly,  while  no  effort  should  be  spared 
to
implement  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316,  we  should
also  give  comprehensive  consideration 
to  other
relevant  issues  related  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations  in  order  to  promote  the  revitalization  of  the
Assembly.
careful 
on 
The Chinese delegation has also taken note of the
report  by 
the
expanded  participation  of  civil  society  in  the  United
Nations  (A/59/354).  We  thank  the  Panel  of  Eminent
the  Secretary-General  concerning 
20
Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations,
under the leadership of Mr. Cardoso, for its efforts. We
support the consideration of the expanded participation
of 
non-governmental
organizations,  in  the  United  Nations.  We  will  join
others  in  taking  a  positive  and  open  approach  for  the
in-depth study of this question.
including 
society, 
civil 
the 
that 
issue  should  be  given 
The  Chinese  delegation  believes 
the
expanded participation of civil society is necessary for
the  United  Nations  to  meet  the  requirements  of  our
age,  and 
thorough
consideration  in  relation  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations.  Reflection  on  the  expanded  participation  of
civil society should  fully  consider the useful  practices
and  experience  of  the  non-governmental  organizations
that  have  participated  in  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  over  the  last  60  years.  The  views  of  relevant
parties, 
including  non-governmental  organizations,
should be solicited on relevant reform measures, which
should be implemented progressively.
Mr.  Haraguchi  (Japan):  Today,  the  General
Assembly  is  to  discuss  the  critical  issues  of  our  time:
the strengthening of the United Nations system and the
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  take  it  that
placing these issues immediately following the close of
the  general  debate  indicates  the  importance  that  you,
Mr.  President,  attach  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations. I would like to pay tribute to your initiative in
that regard.
With 
its  universal  membership  and  broad
mandate,  the  United  Nations  plays  an  important  and
unique role that no other international organization can
fulfil.  However,  in  the  face  of  the  new  threats  and
challenges  emerging  in  the  international  community
today, the United Nations system must be reformed and
strengthened  in  order  to  maintain  its  relevance  and
effectiveness.  As  Prime  Minister  Koizumi  of  Japan
said 
the  general  debate  on
21 September,  we  need  a  strong  and  effective  United
Nations;  we  must,  in  effect,  create  a  new  United
Nations for the new era.
in  his  statement 
in 
In  that  connection,  the  work  of  the  High-level
Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change is under way.
Its  report,  expected  to  be  completed  this  December,
will  be  the  product  of  the  collective  wisdom  of  the
highly esteemed members of the Panel. We are looking
forward  to  the  Panel’s  insightful  analysis  of,  and
innovative suggestions for solutions to, the threats and
the  challenges  we  are  now  facing.  Nevertheless,  it  is
the Member States that have the final responsibility to
make  political  decisions  on  the  ways  and  means  to
strengthen  the  United  Nations  system.  Therefore,  it  is
imperative  that  we,  the  Member  States,  start  seriously
to  consider  how  best  to  improve  the  existing  United
Nations system and better adapt it to today’s needs.
That  is  a  task  in  which  we  cannot  afford  to  fail.
Unless we succeed, the United Nations will fall behind
the  times  and  gradually  lose  its  relevance  as  an
effective organization. It is our responsibility to reform
and  strengthen  the  United  Nations  so  that  it  can
effectively  fulfil  its  objectives  in  the  face  of  such
emerging  challenges  and  threats,  as  terrorism,  the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  poverty,
environmental  degradation 
spread  of
HIV/AIDS and other pandemics.
and 
the 
throughout 
Reforms  are  needed 
system.  Part  VIII  of 
the  United
Nations 
the  Millennium
Declaration  lays  out  the  various  areas  in  which  the
United Nations needs to be strengthened. Among other
requirements,  the  central  position  of  the  General
Assembly  must  be  reaffirmed;  our  efforts  to  achieve
comprehensive reform of the Security Council must be
intensified;  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  must  be
further strengthened; and the Secretariat must be urged
to  make  the  best  use  of  its  resources.  Japan  is  of  the
view that the core of all our efforts must be the reform
of  the  Security  Council.  I  will  elaborate  subsequently
on  our  views  on  those  individual  issues  under  the
relevant  agenda  items.  Today,  I  would  like  to  touch
upon  some  issues  related  to  the  revitalization  of  the
General  Assembly,  as  well  as  budgetary  and
administrative affairs.
The  President  at  the  fifty-eighth  session,  Julian
Hunte,  regarded  General  Assembly  revitalization  as
one of the priority issues of his term of office. During
his  tenure,  the  Assembly  adopted  two  significant
resolutions,  58/126  and  58/316. 
the
adoption  of  those  two  resolutions  as  a  useful  step
towards the revitalization of the Assembly. What must
follow  now 
to
implement those resolutions.
is  for  Member  States  faithfully 
I  welcome 
Prior  to  the  opening  of  the  current  session,  we
elected  the  President  and  the  Vice-Presidents  of  the
General  Assembly,  the  Chairpersons  and  the  full
Bureaux  of  the  Main  Committees  in  early  June,  as
stipulated  in  resolution  58/126.  The  transfer  of  duties
A/59/PV.18
thus  enabled 
from the outgoing to the incoming bureaux was carried
out  in  an  institutionalized  manner,  with  the  incoming
officials 
the  necessary
preparations  for  their  duties  in  advance.  Therefore,  I
believe,  we  have  made  a  good  start  at  the  current
session in securing the continuity of discussions to take
place  during  future  sessions  and  in  maintaining  the
momentum for further reforms.
to  make 
During the consultations on those resolutions, we
considered the  possibility  of  rescheduling  the  work  of
the  Main  Committees  over  two  substantive  periods
during  the  session.  We  have  learned,  however,  that  it
would be very difficult to realize such an arrangement.
It  was  pointed  out  that,  because  the  conferences,
activities and events, both at Headquarters and outside
New York, are interrelated, reorganizing their working
schedules  would  be  an  immensely  complicated  task.
Some Member States also argued that the work of the
Main  Committees  should  not  be  separated  from  the
general  debate,  a  point  which,  I  believe,  has  merit.  In
order  to  reduce  the  congestion  of  the  work  schedule,
opening  the  general  debate  in  early  September  is  an
alternative that is worth exploring.
What  is  most  urgent  and  important,  however,  is
the  rationalization  and  streamlining  of  our  work
agenda — the key factor in improving the efficiency of
our  work.  I  am  convinced  that  not  only  small-sized
delegations,  but  all  of  us  would  benefit  from  further
rationalization and streamlining of the agenda.
In  that  connection,  we  are  glad  that  the  two
resolutions deal extensively with issues concerning the
agenda.  It  is  my  hope  that  the  new  agenda,  organized
on  the  basis  of  the  resolutions,  will  help  us  to  better
structure  our  work  and  eventually 
to  raise  our
productivity.
In  addition,  the  General  Assembly  carried  out  a
long  overdue  review  of  the  agenda,  and  the  resulting
elimination  of  two  agenda  items  was  certainly  a  good
step  forward.  We  need  to  continue  the  process  of
rationalizing  and  streamlining  the  agenda.  Each  Main
Committee  will  work  on  the  rationalization  of  its
agenda  during  the  session.  I  hope  that  they  will  come
up with bold and substantive results.
In  order  to  realize  a  new  United  Nations  for  the
new  era  and  to  steadily  implement  activities  as
intended,  the  United  Nations  needs  the  backing  of
resources.  We  need  firm  commitments  on  the  part  of
Member  States  to  foot  the  bill  for  projects  and
21
A/59/PV.18
activities  that  are  agreed  to  be  vital  in  enabling  the
United Nations to meet new threats and challenges.
its 
budget 
rationalizes 
However, it is also necessary to recognize the fact
that the capacities of Member States to pay is limited.
Therefore,  we  must  ensure  that  the  United  Nations
further 
strict
prioritization  of  its  activities.  Reallocating  resources
from outdated activities to our new priorities is crucial.
It is also essential that the Secretariat be accountable to
the Member States regarding the resource requirements
for  each  activity  and  its  performance.  It  is  also
important  to  determine  whether  the  burden  is  fairly
distributed among Member States.
through 
In  order  for  the  United  Nations  to  remain  an
effective  system  of  world  governance,  the  obligations
and rights of its Member States need to be balanced. If
the  United  Nations  were  to  be  perceived  as  losing
legitimacy  and  fairness  in  that  respect,  it  would
become difficult to retain the wholehearted support of
Member  States.  In  that  regard  we  believe  that  the
current scale of assessments needs to be adjusted to be
more  balanced,  taking  into  account  each  country’s
status  and  level  of  responsibility  within  the  United
Nations.
The  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  system
requires firm commitment and dedication on the part of
each Member State. Japan is prepared to do its utmost
in  order  to  make  a  significant  contribution  to  the
process.
the  Secretary-General’s 
Mr.  Siv  (United  States  of  America):  The  United
States  has  a  long  tradition  of  supporting  civil  society
participation  at  the  local,  national  and  international
levels, and in particular, within the United Nations. We
welcome 
in
establishing  the  panel  led  by  President  Cardoso.  We
salute  President  Cardoso  for  his  leadership.  In  public
life  he  has  worked  to  create  an  environment  in  which
civil  society  can  flourish;  as  a  private  citizen  he
embodies  the  power  of  civil  society  to  promote
positive change.
initiative 
We  are  studying  the  report  carefully.  While  it  is
not  possible  at  this  time  to  respond  fully  to  all
suggestions, the United States would like to present its
preliminary reactions.
First,  we  strongly  agree  that  non-governmental
organizations  (NGOs)  provide  valuable  input  into  the
work  of  the  United  Nations.  NGOs  are  advocates  and
22
programme implementers at all levels of society. They
bring  a  grass-roots  perspective,  which  enhances  the
work of the United Nations in the social, economic and
humanitarian spheres. However, a compelling case has
not been made that this relationship must be broadened
from the Economic  and Social Council  to  the  General
Assembly.
Consistent  with  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the
Economic and Social Council and its subsidiary bodies
have  been  —  and  continue  to  be  —  the  appropriate
venues  for  the  kind  of  meaningful  NGO  participation
that  the  report  rightly  extols.  We  believe  that  NGOs
have  ample  opportunities 
the
functional  commissions  of  the  Council,  as  well  as  in
United  Nations 
existing
arrangements.
to  participate 
conferences 
under 
in 
The United States requests further clarification on
the establishment of a single trust fund for NGOs. That
relates  in  particular  to  the  replacement  of  established
funds,  and  the  legal  and  funding  issues  that  would
arise.
So  long  as  responsibilities  are  not  transferred
from the Economic  and Social Council  to  the  General
Assembly,  we  warmly  welcome  any  improvements  to
the
the  NGO  accreditation  process.  We  support 
proposals 
the  dialogue  between 
the
Secretariat  and  NGOs.  We  also  encourage  country-
level  engagement  with  NGOs.  Initiatives  to  facilitate
the  inclusion  and  implementation  of  local  points  of
view 
the  functional  commissions  should  be
explored.
improve 
into 
to 
In  light  of  the  report,  we  would  like  to  reiterate
our support for civil-society participation in the United
Nations  system  through  the  Economic  and  Social
Council  and  its  subsidiary  bodies.  We  agree  with  the
Panel 
that  multi-stakeholder  partnerships  are  an
important tool for addressing the challenges before us.
While we are still reviewing the specific proposals, we
welcome  efforts 
In
particular,  we  acknowledge  the  innovative  work  done
by the Commission on Sustainable Development in its
role  as  a  focal  point  for  partnerships  that  promote
sustainable development.
foster  such  partnerships. 
to 
Mr.  Gatan
(Philippines):  The  Philippine
delegation  is  elated,  Sir,  to  note  your  resolve  to  give
priority to the unfinished task of revitalizing the work
of  the  General  Assembly,  as  mentioned  in  your
statement at the opening of the Assembly’s  fifty-ninth
session.
May  I,  at  the  outset,  state  that  my  delegation
associates itself with the statement of Algeria, made on
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement, on agenda item
52  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly.
The  task  of  revitalizing  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly,  entrusted  for  implementation  to  the  fifty-
eighth  session  as  mandated  by  General  Assembly
resolution 58/126, was regrettably not fully completed.
We managed to partially implement the reforms sought
under  that  resolution.  Although  resolution  58/126  was
a  collective  product,  adopted  by  consensus,  we  were
unable to fully live up to the  commitment made.  That
could give rise to criticism that we adopted a rhetorical
or  nonchalant  attitude  towards  the  resolution,  which
could  strengthen  the  belief  of  critics  that  we  continue
to lack a genuine desire to improve and strengthen the
General Assembly.
We  must  prove  the  critics  wrong.  We  should
demonstrate  that  the  General  Assembly  is  not  fast
becoming irrelevant and ineffective in the discharge of
its  mandate  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policy-making
and  representative  body  of  the  United  Nations,  by
concluding,  during 
the  full
implementation  of  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316.  We
must  exercise  the  needed  flexibility,  and  we  must  not
be hamstrung by narrow national or group interests.
the  current  session, 
The  principle  that  form  follows  function  should
always guide us in revitalizing the work of the General
Assembly.  The  test  of  the  relevance  and  effectiveness
of  working  methods  is  whether  or  not  they  contribute
to the effective and efficient performance of goals and
objectives.
A  salient  substantive  point  of  consideration  on
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  —  a  past  concern
that  continues  in  the  present  —  is  the  implementation
of  many  resolutions.  The  General  Assembly  has  a
brilliant record of producing resolutions and decisions,
but, as regards the implementation of those resolutions,
its performance does not seem encouraging.
Our  agreement  to  simplify  the  formulation  of
resolutions  —  which  henceforth  will  be  terse  and
action-oriented  — is an example of how  form  follows
function.  My  delegation  hopes  that,  as  a  result  of  this
agreement, our future resolutions will be so simplified
A/59/PV.18
that  they  will  enable  the  general  public  to  understand
what we decide here and to assess whether we did what
we promised to do. This guide aimed at improving the
quality  of  resolutions  so  that  our  peoples  —  who  are
ultimately  the  beneficiaries  of  our  work  —  can  better
appreciate 
their  performance
represents  significant  progress  in  improving  the  work
of the General Assembly.
assess 
them 
and 
Unlike  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  the
General  Assembly  does  not  report  to  a  higher  body,
being the chief policy-making body itself. In addition,
its decisions  are not binding. However,  we  should  not
forget  that  our  actions  are  scrutinized  by  our  peoples,
who have the final say as to whether or not the General
Assembly is relevant to their concerns and effective in
the advancement of their interests.
Resolution  58/126  also  calls  for  consultations
among  the  three  main  United  Nations  organs  —  the
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
and  the  Security  Council  —  in  order  to  enhance
coordination  on  common  concerns.  There  has  been
compliance  in  that  regard,  but  it  has  left  much  to  be
desired,  since  no  substantive  coordination  is  reported
to have arisen from such consultations. This is an area
that  deserves  further  review  so  that  we  can  reap  the
benefits  from  such  consultations.  Likewise, 
there
should  be  prompt  reporting  of  their  outcomes  for
consideration by the general membership.
that 
In 
the 
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  recognizes  the
difficulties  of  introducing  significant  reforms  in  the
work  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  have  become
ingrained  in  the  nearly  60  years  of  its  existence.  My
delegation believes that, notwithstanding the slow pace
of  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of
important  positive  steps  have
resolution  58/126, 
already  been  agreed  upon. 
regard,  my
delegation  wishes 
importance  of
to  stress 
maintaining  our  collective  resolve  to  swiftly  and
effectively  carry  out  what  we  have  resolved 
to
accomplish: the revitalization of the General Assembly.
Mr. Le Luong Minh (Viet Nam): At the outset, I
would like to express my delegation’s sincere gratitude
to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  report  (A/59/354)
before us today for consideration. We highly value the
strong  commitment  and  the  efforts  of  His  Excellency
Mr. Julian Hunte, President of the General Assembly at
its fifty-eighth session, in further revitalizing the work
of the General Assembly during that session.
23
A/59/PV.18
My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the
statement made earlier by the representative of Algeria
on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  Working
Group  on  Reform  of 
the  United  Nations  and
Revitalization of the General Assembly.
fully 
recognizes 
My  delegation 
the  vital
importance  of  the  process  of  reform  initiated  by  the
Secretary-General,  which  has  been  under  way  for
nearly  a  decade  now.  The  success  of  that  process  of
reform is crucial if the United Nations is to play its role
more  effectively  in  the  light  of  the  many  new  and
major  challenges  and  threats  —  including  war  and
armed  conflict,  hunger,  poverty,  terrorism  and  the
spread  of  deadly  diseases  —  facing  the  nations  of  the
world today.
We have noted with satisfaction that, according to
the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization  (A/59/1),  approximately  85  per  cent  of
the  reform  packages  proposed  in  1997  and  2002  have
been  either  fully  or  partly  implemented.  I  wish  to
assure  the  Secretary-General,  the  Secretariat  and  all
other delegations of our full cooperation in carrying on
that important endeavour.
My  delegation  believes  that  the  revitalization  of
the work of the General Assembly remains among the
most  essential  elements  of  the  process  of  United
Nations  reform  and  therefore  should  be  accorded
continued priority. Efforts must be taken to enable the
General  Assembly  to  play  its  role  as  the  chief
deliberative, policy-making and representative organ of
the  United  Nations,  as  stated  in  the  Millennium
Declaration by heads of State or Government in 2000.
We particularly welcome the adoption of two new
resolutions  —  resolutions  58/126  and  58/316  —  that
put  forth  specific  measures  and  proposals  in  that
regard. Such measures as the periodical submission by
the Security Council of special subject-oriented reports
to  the  General  Assembly  for  its  consideration,  on
issues  of  current 
regular
briefings  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  to
the President of the General Assembly on the work of
the  Council;  and  periodic  meetings  among 
the
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to
discuss ways to improve cooperation and coordination
are highly worthwhile.
international  concern; 
In his four special reports (A/59/CRP.3, 4, 5 and
6),  the  Secretary-General  provides  useful  information
24
the  priorities  of 
the  General  Assembly, 
and  detailed  analysis  on  the  working  methods  of  the
Main Committees, the conceptualization of the agenda
of 
the
Organization  and  the  reordering  of  the  work  of  the
Assembly.  We  support  the  option  to  reschedule  the
work  of  the  Main  Committees  over  two  substantive
periods during the session rather than the current three-
month  period,  because  that  would  help  to  reduce  the
burden  on  the  small-  and  medium-sized  missions  and
allow them to participate more effectively in meetings
and consultations. However, given the different nature
and scope of each Committee, my delegation is of the
view  that  it  would  be  best  for  each  Committee  to
examine and decide its own working methods.
While positive progress has been made in certain
areas, my delegation is cognizant of the problem of the
delay  in  implementation  and  the  non-implementation
of  resolutions  related  to  the  revitalization  of  the  work
of 
the  General  Assembly.  We  pledge 
join
coordinated actions to address this situation.
to 
Right from the start, when the process of reform
of  the  United  Nations  was  put  in  place,  not  only  the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, but
also  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  always
been  high  on  the  agenda,  perhaps  the  subject  of  the
most  serious  debates  and  proposals.  In  2000,  at  the
Millennium  Summit, 
for
comprehensive  reform.  This  is  a  very  important  issue
indeed. The events of the past few years have made it
even more so.
leaders 
called 
our 
What my delegation wishes to emphasize here is
that,  while  pushing  ahead  on  efforts  to  reform  the
Security Council, we must not forget that strengthening
the  United  Nations  system  calls  for  reform  and
revitalization of the work of all of its main bodies. We
must  not  lose  sight  of  the  need  to  strengthen  the
Economic  and  Social  Council,  whose  work  is  of
paramount  importance  to  all  countries,  especially
developing countries, and whose work and methods of
deliberation  have  revealed  serious  flaws.  In 
that
connection,  we  fully  support  the  initiatives  aimed  at
strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s  role
as  the  mechanism  for  system-wide  coordination  in
social  and  economic  matters,  especially  with  other
international  institutions  such  as  the  Bretton  Woods
institutions and the World Trade Organization, in order
to  make  the  Council  more  effective  in  addressing  the
development agenda of the United Nations.
report 
in 
In  his 
in  document  A/59/354, 
the
Secretary-General  makes  a  number  of  concrete
suggestions  for  increasing  the  participation  of  non-
governmental  organizations 
intergovernmental
bodies,  including  suggestions  for  their  involvement  in
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  My
delegation  recognizes  the  significant  contributions  by
non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  to  the  cause
of  economic  and  social  development 
in  many
developing countries, ours among them. We recognize,
as  well,  their  contributions  to  the  work  of  our
Organization. My delegation holds the view that these
concrete suggestions should be studied and considered
carefully by Member States so as to ensure not only the
increased  participation  of  NGOs,  but  also 
the
avoidance  of  abuse  by  those  engaging  in  illegitimate,
politically-motivated 
sovereign
Member  States,  as  we  have  often  witnessed.  We
support the proposal to draw up a code of conduct for
NGOs  that  participate  in  United  Nations  activities,
with  a  view  to  ensuring  their  responsibility  and
accountability.
activities 
against 
The  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly and the strengthening of the United Nations
system  are  aimed  at  making  the  United  Nations
stronger and more effective in facing and responding to
both traditional and new global threats and challenges.
Resolution  58/269,  entitled  “Strengthening  of 
the
United  Nations:  an  agenda  for  further  change”,  and
resolution  58/317,  entitled  “Reaffirming  the  central
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security  and  the  promotion  of
international  cooperation”,  were  adopted  by 
the
General Assembly with an overwhelming majority last
August  and  gave  new  impetus  to  our  endeavours.  We
hope  that  our  debate  today  will  help  unite  our  minds
and bring us closer to our common goal.
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):
There is no need to dwell here on the importance that
Switzerland  attaches  to  a  strong  and  effective  United
Nations  that  is  capable  of  taking  up  the  challenges
presented by the modern world, especially in the fields
of  security,  respect  for  human  rights  and  sustainable
development  in  all  its  aspects.  The  continuing  reform
process  of  the  United  Nations  is  one  of  the  keys  that
will  allow  us  to  achieve  this  objective  and  to  forge  a
more effective multilateralism.
A/59/PV.18
experts.  Switzerland  welcomes 
The  Secretary-General  wishes  to  revitalize  this
process of reform by establishing two review panels of
high-level 
this
innovative approach and is looking forward to studying
the  report  of 
the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,
Challenges  and  Change  in  December.  We  are  pleased
today to be able to respond to the report of the Panel of
Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations.
Switzerland  has  noted  with  great  interest  the
contents of the Cardoso report on civil society relations
and  supports  the  thrust  of  the  Secretary-General’s
proposals.  My  country  is  open  to  the  participation  of
civil  society  and  we  believe  that  the  United  Nations
would  strengthen  its  legitimacy  by  involving  civil
society more in its work.
Encouraging partnerships is undoubtedly one way
of  strengthening  the  United  Nations:  partnerships
between the United Nations and regional organizations,
as well as parliaments, non-governmental organizations
and private companies.
Within  the  framework  of  specific  measures  to
strengthen the interaction between civil society and the
United  Nations,  Switzerland  supports  the  proposal  by
the Secretary-General to organize interactive meetings
with 
and
parliamentarians before important  events  are  held.  We
therefore  support  the  idea  of  testing  the  feasibility  of
such  meetings  by  holding  one  before  the  high-level
meeting  on  HIV/AIDS,  which  is  to  be  held  on  2  June
2005.
non-governmental 
organizations 
Relations  with  civil  society  should  not  be
constrained by a bureaucratic and centralized approach.
The  ability  of  the  specialized  agencies, funds  and
programmes  to  manoeuvre  and  take  initiatives  should
be  preserved,  while  maintaining  positive  existing
practices.  In  this  context,  Switzerland  would  like  to
emphasize 
initiatives
developed in this field in Geneva, in some cases over a
period  of  several  decades.  My  country  is  therefore
willing  to  study  the  formal  and  informal  modes  of
interaction  that  take  place  in  Geneva  between  civil
society,  NGOs  and  the  United  Nations,  and  to  select
the  best  practices  and  lessons  learned  in  this  area  and
share them with interested actors.
that  exists 
interest 
the 
in 
As  for  the  establishment  of  the  Partnerships
Office, we take note of the progress made in setting it
25
same direction and with the same success, in particular
on the central issue that still remains open for the fifty-
ninth  session  — 
the  General  Assembly
schedule.
that  of 
I  would  like  to  make  some  observations  on  this
last  point.  Switzerland  is  not  convinced  of  the  added
value of distributing the work of the Main Committees
throughout  the  session.  Such  dispersal  of  work  could
encourage the postponement of decisions and lead to a
prolongation  of  sessions  or  even  to  a  need  for  more
plenary  meetings,  which  would  involve  additional
costs.  Moreover,  the  question  of  synchronization  with
the budgetary cycle has not yet been resolved.
Switzerland wishes to stress that it advocates the
successive  holding  of  meetings  of  the  six  Main
Committees  from  the  beginning  of  September  to  the
end  of  December.  Such  a  solution  would  afford  all
Committees  the  same  weight  and  importance  and
encourage synergies among them.
In  the  course  of  this  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General  Assembly,  Switzerland  intends  to  continue  to
support  and 
the
revitalization  process  of  the  Assembly  and  to  the
strengthening of the United Nations in general.
its  contribution 
to  make 
to 
The meeting rose at 12.55 p.m.
A/59/PV.18
up,  and  we  would  appreciate  it  if  the  concept  of  such
an office could be developed further by the Secretariat.
Moreover,  Switzerland  reiterates  its  belief  that
the  Global  Compact must 
completely
autonomous.  The  specific  nature  of  its  activity  vis-à-
vis  companies,  which  it  tries  to  convince  of  the
fundamental values of the United Nations in the fields
of  human  rights,  social  rights,  protection  of  the
environment  and  the  fight  against  corruption,  requires
that it should retain maximum independence.
remain 
For Switzerland, the revitalization of the work of
the  General  Assembly  is  a  cornerstone  of  the  United
Nations  reform process.  The  Assembly  needs 
to
recover  its  central  role  and  should  operate  more
effectively and more efficiently. A very important step
in this direction was taken in July, with the adoption of
resolution  58/316  on 
the
Assembly’s working methods. We are  pleased that the
majority  of  the  measures  proposed  are  now  being
implemented.
improvement  of 
the 
Mr.  President,  at  this  point  I  would  like  to  pay
tribute  to  the  work  of  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Julian
Hunte, without whose perseverance we would probably
not  have  achieved  such  results.  We  have  every
confidence  that  you  will  continue  his  efforts  in  the
26
