United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
8th plenary meeting
Thursday, 23 September 2004, 3 p.m.
New York

A/59/PV.8
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by Mr. Henrique Pereira Rosa, President of
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau.
Mr.  Henrique  Pereira  Rosa,  President  of  the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Henrique
Pereira  Rosa,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea-
Bissau, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
from  French 
text  provided  by 
President  Pereira  Rosa  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
interpretation 
the
delegation):  Thirty  years  ago,  my  country  attained  its
national  sovereignty.  Indeed,  it  was  on  17  September
1974  that  the  young  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  was
admitted  to  the  United  Nations  as  a  full-fledged
Member  State.  Three  decades,  to  be  sure,  is  a  short
time in terms of nation-building. But it is a long time if
you consider that in most African countries, including
my  own,  life  expectancy  does  not  exceed  50  years.
That  bitter  reality  is  the  true  measure  of  the  time  that
has elapsed and of what my country has achieved since
independence.  Hence,  for  us  in  Guinea-Bissau,  this  is
an 
for
reflection, 
important 
time 
for 
indeed 
introspection,  in  the  light  of  recent  events  and  of  the
successive crises we have confronted of late.
I  address  the  Assembly  today  as  the  transitional
President  of 
the  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau.
Addressing the Assembly gives me particular pleasure,
Sir,  because  you  (cid:151)  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  the  outstanding
Minister  of  State  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the  brotherly  and  friendly  Gabonese  Republic  (cid:151)  are
presiding  over  the  Assembly(cid:146)s  work  with  the  skill,
experience and talent we all know so well.
We  have  come  to  New  York  in  search  of  new
ideas for innovative and resolute action, ideas that will
affect the way we think and will have a positive impact
on  our  joint  efforts  to  create  a  new  world  of  peace,
freedom and social justice for all countries and peoples
represented here.
It  was  with  great  attention  and  interest  that  we
listened  to  the  outstanding  statement  made  here  two
days  ago  by  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  (see
A/59/PV.3). His  observations  were  thought-provoking.
For  our  part,  we  share  his  vision  of  the  world  as  it  is
today  and  as  it  should  be  tomorrow.  Above  all,  we
appreciate his dedication and determination at the head
of 
is
increasingly evident throughout the world.
the  Organization,  whose 
irreplaceable  role 
We  live  today  in  a  world  of  ever  more  striking
contrasts,  imbalances,  contradictions  and  inequalities.
On  the  one  hand,  we  are  witness  to  increasingly
marvellous scientific  and technological progress,  from
which  certain  countries  benefit  greatly.  On  the  other
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-51995 (E)
*0451995*
A/59/PV.8
hand,  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  continue  to  live
precarious  lives  and  to  suffer  from  malnutrition  and
endemic  disease.  This  situation  is  not  only  inhuman
and immoral, it is dangerous. It is sowing all the seeds
that  provoke  frustration  and  despair,  fuel  rancour  and
hatred  and  lead  to  irrational  behaviour  and  to  actions
endangering peace and international security.
Combating  poverty  and  epidemics 
such  as
HIV/AIDS throughout the world does not mean kindness
or charity; it is common sense that requires that together
we mobilize our actions to combat those scourges. I am
gratified by the initiative of certain heads of State (cid:151) in
particular,  President  Lula  da  Silva  (cid:151)  in  recalling  to
each of us our responsibilities in the fight to eradicate
hunger and destitution in a world as interdependent as
the  one  in  which  we  live  today.  It  is  critical  here  to
understand  that  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  act,  and  to
act properly. Above all, let us not wait for more reports
or  analyses  to  be  submitted  to  us  first,  regardless  of
how  visionary  or  relevant  they  may  be.  Thousands  of
women,  children  and  infants  die  every  day  because
they lack a pill or a vaccination. That is unjust; that is
immoral.
We  must  pool  our  efforts  to  establish  more
equitable  relations  among  States.  International  trade
must  be  better  regulated,  just  as  globalization  and  its
effects  on 
the  world  economy  must  be  better
controlled, to allow for a more equitable distribution of
the  riches  of  the  world.  Rather  than  leaving  the
underdeveloped countries to suffer  from  the  effects  of
globalization,  let  us  create  for  them  the  conditions
necessary  for  their  integration  into  the  process,  which
is  utterly  beyond  their  control  and  whose  social
dimension must be the subject of specific measures so
as to mitigate negative consequences.
Today it is clear to everyone that to ensure peace
throughout  the  world  there  is  a  need  to  promote  the
development  of  the  poorest  countries  and  to  improve
the  living  conditions  of  populations,  in  particular  by
guaranteeing them access to drinking water, health and
education  (cid:151)  especially  for  girls.  Above  all  there  is  a
need to create a social and political environment that is
stable  and  is  likely  to  release  that  creative  energy  of
each  and  every 
the
participation  of  all  citizens  in  the  management  of  the
affairs of State of their country.
individual  and 
to  promote 
The  rights  of  each  and  every  person  must  be
respected, and all liberties provided by the law must be
2
guaranteed  without  any  impediment.  The  rule  of  law
must  be  consolidated  to  allow  each  institution  to
function  properly  and  effectively.  I  am  thinking  in
particular of justice, which must be able to act with full
independence  and  with  scrupulous  respect  for  the
separation of executive, legislative and judicial powers.
Guinea-Bissau,  unfortunately,  has  not  escaped
from  the  cycle  of  violence  and  political  crisis  that
seems  today  to  have  become  a  prerogative  of  the
African  countries.  Our  country  has  recently  suffered
from  the  disastrous  consequences  of  an  economic
policy  that  is  poorly  adapted  to  the  real  needs  of  the
population.  The  domestic  conflict  we  have  been
experiencing  in  Guinea-Bissau  since  1998  could  have
been  avoided.  It  has  further  impoverished  a  country
that is among the least developed countries and where
everything  must  still  be  built  because  nothing  could
resist  destruction.  We  are  aware  of  the  seriousness  of
the situation and of the need to pool our efforts to make
the necessary changes, which our people have a right to
expect from their leaders.
Our  people  have  suffered  too  much  and  for  too
long  and  have  made  too  many  sacrifices.  We  must
create  new  conditions  that  provide  reasons  for  hope.
We have successfully initiated national dialogue based
on mutual respect and taking into account the national
interest. We have created a new culture of peace based
on  our  affiliation  with  one  single  country  with  all  its
diversity  and  social  and  cultural  riches.  We  have
decided to make democracy an immutable reality.
However,  we  are  aware  that  democracy  is  not
easy to build in a poor country where the illiteracy rate
is still high and where the fundamental infrastructure is
still severely lacking. Nevertheless, we  continue  to  be
inspired  by  the  courage  of  our  people  and  by  the
support  of  other  countries  (cid:151)  those  of  the  Economic
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  the
Union  (cid:201)conomique  et  MonØtaire  Ouest-africaine
(UEMOA) and the Community of Portuguese-speaking
Countries  in  particular  (cid:151)  and  the  European  Union,
China  and  the  rest  of  the  international  community.
Thus  last  March  we  were  able  to  organize  legislative
elections  that  the  international  community  considered
just and credible and to establish a new parliament, the
role  of  which  is  fundamental  in  any  democracy.  We
will  also  be  organizing  presidential  elections  in  April
2005,  as  agreed  in  the  Charter  of  Transition,  thus
allowing for the restoration of constitutional order.
the  assistance  of 
Guinea-Bissau  needs 
the
international  community  to  meet  the  many  enormous
challenges confronting it. That assistance is urgent and
important.  We  have  created  mechanisms  for 
the
rigorous  control  of  State  revenues  and  expenditures
and, with the  assistance  of  the  UNDP  and  the  Bretton
Woods  institutions  in  particular,  all  the  necessary
conditions  for  the  transparent  management  of  public
property, which allows us to combat corruption.
To enable us to relaunch our economy rapidly, we
are  planning  to  hold  a  round  table  in  December.  We
hope  that  India,  Brazil  and  South  Africa  will  be
assisting  us  in  that  initiative  to  combat  poverty  and
helping  us  in  the  organization  we  have  created  in  our
country.
We  have  here  a  great  opportunity  to  express  our
gratitude  for  the  commitment  and  dynamic  action  of
the  Economic  and  Social  Council(cid:146)s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory
Group  on  Guinea-Bissau  and 
its  partners,  an
indispensable  instrument  for  advancing  constructive
dialogue  between  Guinea-Bissau  and  its  partners  for
development, 
the
International  Monetary  Fund.  I  should  like  to  thank
them from this rostrum for their continued support. So,
too, we wish to reaffirm our great appreciation for the
members  of  the  Security  Council  who  visited  our
country last June and showed their great interest in it.
the  World  Bank  and 
including 
For  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security  Guinea-Bissau,  speaking  before  the  great
majority  of  the  Members  of  the  Organization,  hopes
that the Security Council(cid:146)s part will be strengthened by
enhancing  its  membership  to  better  reflect  the  world
situation.  From  this  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  say  how
grateful  we  are  to  those  who  supported  us  in  the  first
phase of our transition.
inhabit  our  planet  share 
Humanity  is  one  and  indivisible.  The  men  and
women  who 
the  same
aspirations:  peace  and  well-being.  Every  individual,
whatever  the  continent  he  belongs  to,  feels  the  same
frustration  when  confronting  injustice,  impunity  and
violations  of  the  rights  of  the  human  being.  There  is
not  a  single  child  who  does  not  feel  the  need  to  be
loved and protected by his or her parents and who does
not  hope  to  grow  up  in  a  home  where  peace  and  love
reign.  How  can  we  protect  them  if  nothing  is  done  to
guarantee  the  rights  of  women  and  give  a  suitable
education  to  young  women?  How  can  we  prevent  the
mother,  and  the  child  she  brings  into  the  world,
A/59/PV.8
becoming victims of an endemic illness such as AIDS,
tuberculosis  or  malaria  at  a  time  when  most  poor
countries are incapable of providing basic health care?
Tomorrow(cid:146)s world is being built today. Thanks to
the  awareness  of  the  real  challenges,  in  this  planetary
village in which we all live, with its advantages and its
problems,  our  human  condition  must  be  the  common
denominator on which and around which all people of
good  will  should  come  together  in  order  to  make  our
world  more  fair,  more  tolerant  and  based  more  on
solidarity.
Whether we  are discussing crises  in  Africa  or  in
the  Middle  East,  or  the  fight  against  terrorism  (cid:151)  a
fight that requires us all to mobilize our efforts  (cid:151) we
must  be  animated  by  the  same  determination  to  seek
lasting solutions based on consensus.
The  peoples  we  represent  expect  us  to  take
concrete  actions.  They  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to
overcome our differences and pool our efforts so as to
respond to their most urgent needs. Many praiseworthy
initiatives  to  eradicate  hunger,  poverty,  malnutrition
and  illiteracy  have  been  undertaken.  We  must  involve
non-governmental organizations and other elements of
civil  society.  In  other  words,  we  must  appeal  to  all
people of goodwill.
The  nations  of  the  world  all  share  the  planet
Earth,  on  which  we  all  live.  It  is  our  responsibility  to
protect it so that  we  can  provide  our  children  and  our
children(cid:146)s  children  with  the  conditions  for  a  healthy
life lived in dignity.
Environmental  protection  alone  is  not  enough.
We must also create a climate of peace throughout the
world.  That  cannot  be  done  without  the  help  of  each
Member  State:  it  must  be  a  collective  effort  in  which
dialogue and agreement take precedence and where the
rule of law prevails in international relations. None of
our  peoples  can  live  in  isolation  in  the  self-reliant
manner of the past. The interdependence of the global
economy  is  now  a  reality  for  all  of  us.  Let  us  take
advantage  of  the  resources  of  the  Earth  without
abusing  our  ecosystems,  because  the  future  of  the
planet depends on our capacity to think in terms of the
collective  interest.  Let  us  act  in  a  spirit  of  humanism
and  solidarity  whenever  the  poorest  of  the  poor
confront  calamity  and  natural  disasters  (cid:151)  disasters
such  as  those  that  have  recently  afflicted  Haiti,  the
Dominican Republic and other Caribbean countries.
3
A/59/PV.8
the 
Let  us  understand 
true  dimension  and
meaning  of  the  spiritual  force  that  resides  in  each
human being (cid:151) a force to which we can turn at times
of doubt and discouragement in order to regain the will
and the energy we need to overcome our challenges.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the Republic of Guinea-Bissau for the statement he has
just made.
Mr.  Henrique  Pereira  Rosa,  President  of  the
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted from the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Al Hadji Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh,
President of the Republic of the Gambia
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of the Gambia.
Al Hadji Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, President of the
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the United Nations His Excellency Al Hadji Yahya A.
J. J. Jammeh, President of the Republic of the Gambia,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
like,  Sir, 
President  Jammeh: I  should 
to
congratulate you on your assumption of the presidency
of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. This
session  might  well  prove  to  be  epoch-making  in  that
this body will be called upon to consider and to make
far-reaching  decisions  on  what  ought  to  be  done  to
revitalize  our  Organization  and  to  better  align  it  to  fit
today(cid:146)s  imperatives  for  global  security,  peace  and
development. I have no doubt that you will  live  up  to
our expectations and that, given your wisdom and vast
experience,  you  will  guide  our  deliberations 
to  a
successful outcome. You may rest assured, Mr. President,
that you will receive my delegation(cid:146)s fullest cooperation.
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay
tribute  to  your  predecessor,  the  very  energetic  and
dynamic outgoing President, Mr. Julian E. Hunte, who
conducted the business of the fifty-eighth session with
gusto,  dedication  and  courage,  and  who  helped  us  to
address  some  difficult  issues.  My  delegation  wishes
him all the very best in his future endeavours.
4
To  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  I
express  my  deep  appreciation  for  yet  another  year  of
dedicated  service  to  the  Organization  (cid:151)  indeed,  to
humanity at large. Some of the problems that were laid
before  him  were  not  easy  to  resolve  but,  as  expected,
resolved they were. I hope that his efforts to ensure the
triumph  of  multilateralism,  the  resolution  of  disputes
and  the  pursuit  of  meaningful  cooperation  among
nations will be further bolstered during the session that
is just beginning.
I stand here representing the young people of the
world.  My  statement  is  very  long,  and  is  divided  into
two  parts:  one  part  will  be 
to
representatives; I will read out the other part.
circulated 
World leaders have stood at this rostrum on many
occasions,  addressing  the  world.  We  made  pledges  to
the  children  of  the  world  during  the  twenty-seventh
special  session  (cid:151)  the  children(cid:146)s  summit  (cid:151)  in  2002.
During  that  special  session,  we  pledged  to  create  a
better  world  and  an  environment  conducive  to  the
wellbeing  of  the  children  of  the  world.  We  have  also
come up with objectives for global development so as
to make the world a better place for humanity by 2015.
So far, there is no indication that those objectives will
be achieved in the next 2,000 years.
What  are  the  problems?  Since  the  children(cid:146)s
summit  took  place,  we  have  seen  the  condition  of  the
world(cid:146)s  children  become  more  and  more  desperate.
Children  are  being  butchered  throughout  the  world.
Children(cid:146)s rights are being violated. Children are being
sold  into  slavery,  and  they  are  being  terrorized  by
adults (cid:151) we, who are supposed to take care of them.
We  have  seen  the  economies  of  small  States
collapse as a result of rising oil prices. I come from a
volatile  part  of  the  world,  but  I  do  not  represent  only
Africa; I represent the young people of the world, whose
future is very bleak if the status quo is not addressed.
What are the problems of humanity today? They
are  man-made  problems,  and,  because  they  are  man-
made, we will be able to resolve them. The solution to
those  problems 
lies  with  us,  human  beings  (cid:151)
irrespective of race, colour, creed or religion.
The  problem  of  development  can  best  be
summarized thus: as long as there is violence and as long
as there is no peace or  global  security,  we,  the  poorer
parts of humanity, will always become poorer and poorer,
while the richer nations will become richer and richer.
There  cannot  be  any  development  without  peace
and stability. There cannot be peace or stability without
democracy,  justice  and  equality.  The  main  problem  of
humanity  today  (cid:151)  which  is  creating  all  our  other
problems  (cid:151)  is  a  result  of  four  human  tendencies:
greed, double standards, intolerance and hypocrisy.
None  of  us  here  can  look  into  the  faces  of  our
children and assure them of a bright future or of their
safety. Because of greed, human life has been reduced
to  naught.  People  want  to  become  rich  at  the  expense
of  human  life.  Greed  can  come  in  many  forms.  The
insatiable 
and
intolerance (cid:151) those are things that face humanity today.
for  world 
appetite 
domination 
Our problem is not a confrontation between Islam
and  other  religions.  The  problem  of  terrorism  is  a
human  characteristic.  No  good  Muslim  would  ever
commit  a  terrorist  act.  But,  because  the  world  has
become so bad, lawlessness is rampant, and those who
want  to  take  out  their  frustrations  on  other  human
beings  can  do  so  in  the  name  of  Islam  or  any  other
religion.
I have listened to my colleagues who have spoken
here.  But,  as  long  as  certain  issues  are  not  addressed,
there will be no peace, and the war against terror will
become an elusive fight that we will always lose.
Some of us believe that, because we disapproved
of  the  war  in  Iraq  in  the  beginning,  it  is  not  our
business  to  help  solve  it  now.  But  let  me  assure  the
Assembly  that  the  war  in  Iraq  has  more  far-reaching
consequences for humanity (cid:151) and particularly for the
children  whom  we  pledged  to  support  at  the  World
Summit  for  Children  (cid:151)  than  for  anything  else.  We
have  seen  our  economies  collapse  because  of  high  oil
prices  that  rise  higher  every  day.  It  is  our  collective
responsibility to put an end to the war in Iraq. We have
seen  the  rise  of  global  terrorism;  the  world  is  a  more
dangerous  place  today  than  during  the  cold  war.  The
war  in  Iraq  (cid:151)  regardless  of  whether  or  not  we
supported it (cid:151) is a human tragedy, and it is not in our
interests,  as  the  human  race,  to  let  that  war  continue
because  we  disapprove  of  what  has  happened.  Two
wrongs  cannot  make  a  right.  Even  if  we  believe  that
the war was wrong, it is the responsibility of the entire
human  race  to  help  put  an  end  to  the  suffering  of  the
Iraqi people. We have seen children being butchered in
Beslan,  Russia;  we  have  seen  Palestinian  and  Israeli
children  being  butchered.  The  problem  is  not  a
religious  problem  but  a  political  one,  because  we,  the
A/59/PV.8
leaders  of  the  world,  want  to  teach  others  a  lesson  by
making them suffer. That is a human tragedy.
We cannot be diplomats here if we want to solve
the world(cid:146)s problems. It is amazing that, when certain
actions  that  are  described  as  terrorist  acts  are  carried
out  by  other  parties,  they  are  described  as  retaliation
for  something.  An  unlawful  act  that  destroys  human
life  is  a  terrorist  act,  regardless  of  its  objective  or  the
rationale behind it.
If  poverty 
there  will  be
desperation  and  hunger.  And,  if  human  beings  are
desperate, they can resort to actions that are horrific to
the  rest  of  us.  We  have  seen  that  some  parts  of  the
world  are  very  rich  and  that  other  parts  (cid:151)  including
Africa, where I come from (cid:151) are becoming poorer and
poorer. If the world(cid:146)s wealth is not distributed equally,
there will be imbalances and inequities, and there will
be  people  who  are  desperate.  If  people  are  desperate,
they will do anything to survive.
is  not  addressed, 
However, that does not mean that one can justify
violence. I do not justify violence in any form, because
I believe that peace and stability would augur well for
our  children.  The  fight  against  terror  is  global.  Let  us
be mindful of the consequences of allowing terror to be
seen as a legitimate act.
We  have  seen  double  standards  being  applied
when resolutions are adopted for the good of humanity
by the international community (cid:151) which is represented
here  (cid:151)  and,  in  some  cases,  are  enforced  to  the  letter,
whereas  a  few  States  are  above  international  law  and
United Nations resolutions.
That  brings  me  to  the  issue  of  nuclear  weapons.
As a human being and as a peacemaker, I believe that,
following  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  no  nation  should
have  been  able  to  justify  the  possession  of  nuclear
weapons,  much  less  become  a  new  nuclear  Power.  If
powerful  nations  continue 
their  nuclear
weapons (cid:151) and there are many double standards in the
way we deal with one another (cid:151) that will only become
an  enticement  for  others  to  opt  for  nuclear  weapons
because  they  think  such  weapons  will  serve  as  an
insurance policy against attacks.
to  keep 
I  know  that,  during  the  1980s,  there  was  a
campaign  to  promote  nuclear  disarmament.  Today,  in
the  new  millennium, 
that  campaign  should  be
strengthened  through  a  United  Nations  resolution
making 
to  possess  nuclear
illegal  for  anyone 
it 
5
A/59/PV.8
weapons.  We  have  seen  conflicts  simmering  that  will
have  drastic  consequences  for  humanity  (cid:151)  conflicts
aimed  at  preventing  certain  States  from  acquiring
nuclear weapons. Now that the Soviet empire no longer
exists,  all  nuclear  weapons  (cid:151)  whether  they  are
possessed  by  the  Gambia  or  by  any  other  country  (cid:151)
should  be  eliminated.  Just  imagine  one  bomb  killing
millions of people. And here we stand, telling everyone
that the world will be a better place for mankind. I believe
in the peaceful resolution of all conflicts. Indeed,  as  far
as  I  know,  there  is  no  licensing  authority  for  the
possession  of  nuclear  weapons;  therefore,  no  one  can
decide who should and who should not have them.
We should take a bold step to ensure that no one
has  nuclear  weapons.  In  this  forum,  on  behalf  of  the
world(cid:146)s  children,  I  appeal  to  those  who  aspire  to
possess nuclear weapons that that is the wrong path to
take. Peace and stability cannot be ensured through the
possession  of  nuclear  weapons.  The  strength  of  a
nation  is  not  based  on  its  firepower  or  its  nuclear
arsenal,  but  is  determined  by  its  ability  to  make  the
world  a  better  place  for  humanity,  including  its  own
citizens. Nuclear weapons are not a solution.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Republic  of  the  Gambia  for  the  statement  he  has
just made.
Al Hadji Yahya A. J. J. Jammeh, President of the
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ricardo Maduro Joest, President of
the Republic of Honduras
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Honduras.
Mr.  Ricardo  Maduro  Joest,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricardo
Maduro  Joest,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Maduro Joest (spoke in Spanish): For
the  second  time,  I  have  this  special  opportunity  of
appearing  before  you  in  the  common  home  of  the
6
nations of the world. Everyone knows that we live in a
time  of  great  risks  and  problems,  but  also  of  great
opportunities.  Allow  me  to  refer  to  two  challenges,
which  in  my  opinion  are  the  most  important:  the  lack
of security and the existence of poverty.
First of all, I must refer to the lack of security. I
believe that it is obvious to everyone that the durability
of our democratic system and the alleviation of poverty
require us to provide for the security of each one of our
citizens.  My  Government  is  committed  to  that.  The
safety  of  my  compatriots  is  my  first  priority.  I  am
committed  to  ensuring  respect  for  human  rights  and,
within  that  concept,  I  am  even  more  committed  to
ensuring the protection and the security  of  honest  and
hard-working  citizens.  If  we  all  strive  to  provide
security  and  reduce  our  citizens(cid:146)  level  of  poverty,  we
will  also  be  combating  terrorists,  and  we  will  be
winning the battle against those who take advantage of
the  positive  qualities  of  democracy  to  destroy  it
through terror.
Combating  terrorism  begins  by  combating  crime
and delinquency in our countries. We are committed to
this struggle, and we know that we are not alone. This
is, in fact, a universal challenge. We know that we can
only confront it if we are together. Crime, delinquency
and  terrorism  have,  in  effect,  already  undergone
globalization  and  our  actions,  therefore,  must  be
equally based on international cooperation.
Organized  crime  appears  in  many  shapes  and
forms.  However,  few  are  as  degrading  as  drug
trafficking. Few crimes generate as much corruption or
so  thoroughly  destroy  the  core  of  our  society  and  our
values than drug trafficking. My country is on the drug
trafficking  route.  We  are  right  in  the  middle  of  the
corridor that links the producers to the consumers. We
are  victims  of  the  greed  of  the  producers  and  the
perverted  desires  of  the  consumers.  Over  the  past  18
months  in  Honduras,  we  have  impounded  more  drugs
than in all the previous nine years, but this is obviously
still not enough. Combating organized crime and drug
trafficking, if we are alone, will be almost impossible.
The  Governments  of  the  countries  in  which  drugs  are
produced,  the  countries  that  are  used  to  transport  the
drugs  and  the  countries  in  which  the  drugs  are
consumed  must,  together,  confront  this.  If  we  are
alone,  the  poor  countries  have  very  few  chances  of
succeeding. If we remain alone, we will have to divert
resources  that  we  need  to  combat  poverty  towards
combating  drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime.  We
A/59/PV.8
need more resolute, direct and substantial support if we
are to confront this tremendous challenge. I would like
to say to the wealthy countries: let us work together to
confront this scourge of our time.
Security also implies the rule of law and, for over
three years, we have worked to bring it about. We have
combated  corruption  by  closing  businesses 
that
engaged  in  tax  evasion,  eliminated  the  immunity  of
public servants and promoted a responsible use of State
resources.  We  have  achieved  a  great  deal,  but  we
recognize  that  a  great  deal  remains  to  be  done.  We
recently  adopted  a  property  law,  which,  for  the  first
time  in  our  history,  enables  the  poor  to  hold  deeds  to
their land. This may seem simple and almost trivial in
developed  countries,  but  on  our  continent,  by  and
large,  the  poor  have  not  enjoyed  the  benefit  of  these
valuable  deeds.  Eighty-four  per  cent  of  Honduras(cid:146)
citizens do not have a title to the plot of land on which
they  live.  We  are  opening  new  pathways,  and  before
my  Government  completes  its  mandate,  we  hope  that
hundreds of thousands of poor people will hold, for the
first time, registered titles to their property.
Security  also  implies  peaceful  relationships  with
our  neighbours.  For  the  first  time  in  our  history,  our
land  borders  have  been  defined,  and  they  are  now
being  conclusively  demarcated.  What  is  even  more
important  is  that  this  was  achieved  without  spilling
blood and without bellicose threats. We resorted to the
International  Court  of  Justice  in  The  Hague  and  we
have  complied  with  its  rulings.  As  far  as  Honduras  is
concerned,  solving  a  border  dispute  is  not  something
that can be achieved through violence. It can be achieved
peacefully, through international jurisprudence.
Having  now  consolidated  our  land  borders,  we
are  defining  our  maritime  borders,  and  we  have  once
again had recourse to the International Court of Justice.
In our opinion, the time has now come to take the
next step. The time has come to declare Central America
a  zone  of  peace,  a  zone  that  renounces  violence  as  a
means  of  resolving  disputes.  To  consolidate 
this
process  with  the  support  of  the  Organization  of
American  States,  we  have  already  eliminated  all  the
landmines  that  were  placed  around  our  country  years
ago,  and  we  can  now  say  with  pride  that  we  are  a
country that is entirely free of landmines. To bring this
process  to  completion,  we  now  propose  reducing  the
number  of  weapons  of  war  throughout  the  region.  To
lend  credibility  to  this  process,  we  invite  the  United
Nations to accompany us and to certify compliance on
the  part  of  each  of  our  countries.  We  also  invite  the
international community to join us in this process.
We propose that the process of arms reduction be
supported  with  fresh  resources  to  combat  poverty.  We
propose an exchange: weapons of war in exchange for
funding  for  poverty  alleviation.  Please  support  us.
Poverty,  and  even  more,  hunger  and  malnutrition,  are
the most fearsome enemies of our democratic systems.
A  democracy  based  on  empty  stomachs  is  an  empty
democracy. All the  research  that  has  been  carried  out,
including  studies  by  the  United  Nations,  tell  us  that,
today  as  never  before,  formal  democracy  prevails
throughout  our  continent,  in  Latin  America.  However,
the  same  studies  tell  us  that,  today  more  than  ever,
dissatisfaction with our democratic systems is rampant.
Poverty  undermines  our  democracies  and  hunger
erodes  them.  We  know  that  combating  poverty  and
hunger  is  an  effort  that  must  be  shared  by  all.  In  our
case, in Honduras, with much participation on the part
of  our  citizens,  we  have  devised  a  strategy  to  combat
poverty that incorporates the Millennium Development
Goals. This legacy has been refined and perfected over
the  past  two  years.  The  strategy  to  combat  poverty  is
the  very  foundation  of  our  vision  as  a  country  and  of
our planning as a nation.
However,  alone  and  in  isolation,  our  efforts
undoubtedly will not be able to produce the hoped-for
results  for  our  people.  We  require  the  support  of  the
international  community.  International  cooperation  is
not a handout; it is an investment. Everyone, absolutely
everyone, derives benefit from it. Our small economies
are open to international trade and to globalization. We
do  not  fear  this  challenge;  in  fact,  we  see  that  it
provides tremendous opportunities to us.
However,  we  will  not  be  able  to  overcome  our
poverty  if  the  rules  of  international  trade  are  not  fair.
We  firmly  believe  that  protected  markets  lead  only  to
stagnation and the growth of poverty. It is not fair that
while we are opening our markets, other countries are
giving subsidies to their producers.
We welcome the decision of the United States to
return  to  the  International  Coffee  Organization,  but  at
the same time we ask that the hundreds of thousands of
families that grow coffee in rural areas be paid better.
Let  me  give  you  an  example.  Five  years  ago,  our
farmers earned 40 per cent of the price of coffee served
to the final consumer. Today, they earn only 9 per cent,
7
A/59/PV.8
while the companies in developed countries pocket the
difference. I invite the presidents and heads of State of
coffee-producing  countries  to  work  together  until  we
achieve a better price for all of our farmers. Together,
producers and consumers, we can make sure that coffee
is not a bitter drink for the producers.
If  the  price  of  coffee  can  have  a  rapid  and
massive  impact  on  the  struggle  against  poverty,  the
price  of  oil,  when  it  rises,  rapidly  makes  our  poverty
much  worse.  In  the  case  of  my  country,  over  the  past
year  the  increased  bill  for  oil  is  12  times  what  we
spend on providing school lunches to 870,000 boys and
girls  who  used  to  go  to  school  without  eating  every
day.  This  is  12  times  what  it  took  us  years  and  many
sacrifices  to  achieve.  The  world  has  seldom  seen  so
massive  a  transfer  of  resources  from  poor  importing
countries to wealthy oil-exporting countries.
I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to
international  conscience,  and  in  particular  to  the
conscience  of  oil-exporting  countries,  that  we  may
establish a trading system that brings about a reduction
in the price of oil  and helps to stabilize it. We need a
system  that  takes  account  of  poverty  in  countries  and
of the efforts that are being made to combat it. We need
a  system  that  enjoys  United  Nations  supervision  to
ensure that it is used properly.
I  am  making  a  formal  request  to  the  United
Nations  to  take  the  lead  in  this  matter.  I  am  not
exaggerating  when  I  say  that  there  are  few  other
actions  we  could  take  that  would  make  such  a  great
contribution  to  reducing  poverty.  I  would  also  like  to
appeal  to  the  developed  countries  to  use  oil  like  a
scarce  resource.  Let  them  continue  to  improve  fuel
efficiency  and  to  establish  taxes  that  reflect  the  true
cost of oil. Let them coordinate measures to make sure
that  demand  does  not  grow  unduly  and  make  prices
grow too fast. They should make prudent use of a non-
renewable resource to which we should all have access.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  appealing  to  all  to
strengthen the United Nations system. That is the only
way  we  can  achieve  peace  in  the  world.  Let  us
subordinate  our  individual  agendas  in  order  to  find
agreed solutions here in the United Nations. The well-
being of the world demands that we act in this manner.
I  would  also  add  that  we  support  reforming  the
Security  Council  by 
the  number  of
permanent  and  non-permanent  members.  This  will
make  it  possible  for  countries  such  as  Japan  to
increasing 
8
participate,  as  well  as  a  representative  for  Latin
America.  This  will  lend  greater  legitimacy  to  the
Council(cid:146)s decisions. We also support an all-embracing
approach for the United Nations, which, in our opinion,
means  that  we  should  find  a  way  of  enabling  the
Chinese  people  in  Taiwan  to  participate  in  the  United
Nations processes.
As I said at the beginning, we are living in difficult
times,  but  this  is  also  a  time  of  great  opportunity.  We
hold  out  our  hand  in  friendship  to  everyone.  All  that
we ask in exchange is to be treated fairly.
The President (spoke in French): On behalf of the
General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the
Republic of Honduras for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ricardo  Maduro  Joest,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Honduras,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Jorge Batlle IbÆæez, President of the
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Eastern Republic of Uruguay.
Mr. Jorge Batlle Ibáñez, President of the Eastern
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jorge  Batlle
IbÆæez,  the  President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of
Uruguay, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Batlle  IbÆæez  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Today no one denies that globalization is here and that
it is here to stay. Not only has it changed the world of
communications so that now everything happens at the
same time throughout the world, but more importantly,
it  has  made  historical  borders  irrelevant.  The  young
generation  has  more  contact  with  other  young  people
living  thousands  of  miles  away  than  they  have  with
their own neighbours or family.
It  is  absolutely  true  that  a  global  culture  is
emerging  in  this  world.  While  this  is  happening,
countries  are  still  living  on  their  nationalisms,  their
secular  habits,  their  own  interests  and  their  parochial
projects  that  are  often  alien  to  the  new  realities.  The
question  that  we  leaders  ask  ourselves  (cid:151)  especially
inexorable  change  can  be  handled  by 
those of us who represent small nations  (cid:151)  is whether
this 
the
organizations  that  we  have  created,  or  whether  those
organizations  still  have  a  long  way  to  go  in  terms  of
adapting  to  the  new  reality.  When  we  look  at  the
impressive  success  achieved  by  the  United  Nations
since San Francisco in 1944, two things seem clear.
the 
First, 
institutions 
that  we  have  created
represent  the  greatest  and  most  successful  effort  ever
made by mankind to organize peaceful coexistence and
to endow the planet with the best possible instruments
for  dealing  with  the  important  aspects  of  human  lives
within human society.
Secondly,  it  is  equally  clear  that  the  world  has
changed  so  much  that  the  current  reality  now  far
exceeds  the  capacity  of  the  institutions  that  were
created  to  address  and  resolve  past  issues,  issues  that
today  have  taken  on  totally  different  characteristics.
Suffice  it  to  recall  that  the  founding  Members  of  the
United  Nations  numbered  51  and  that  today  there  are
191  Member  States.  More  important,  the  world(cid:146)s
population at that time was only half  what it is today.
And the total is inexorably rising towards 9 billion.
Furthermore,  over  the  past  40  years,  scientific
advances and the ensuing technological applications have
increased the resources of a very small group of nations,
leaving far behind many other countries, some of which
only  recently  gained  their  independence  and  most  of
which  are  rich  in  natural  resources  but  lack  the  basic
structures  needed  to  achieve  sustainable  growth  (cid:151)
countries, moreover, where, no doubt as a consequence
of  this,  the  population  is  increasing  at  very  high  rates
and where the resulting emigration to other continents
will soon create serious problems of coexistence.
Uruguay  has  been  a  Member  of  the  United
Nations  since  its  foundation  and  believes  in  the
Organization  and  in  the  varied  multilateral  agencies
that  support  its  efforts;  we  understand  the  need  to
consider  Charter  revision  so  that  nations  that  did  not
then  carry  the  weight  they  carry  today  can  assume
greater  obligations  in  the  inescapable  tasks  that  the
situation of mankind now imposes on us. It is time for
them  to  share  the  responsibility  with  the  five  nations
that assumed it nearly 60 years ago.
been 
in
peacekeeping operations for many years. Uruguay is one
of the largest troop contributors, and is the very largest
if the ratio of its small population (cid:151) 3.4 million (cid:151) to
participating 
Uruguay 
has 
also 
A/59/PV.8
peacekeepers  is  taken  into  consideration.  We  have
participated in operations in Asia and in Africa, and we
are  currently  deployed  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
the Congo, Haiti, Eritrea and elsewhere.
Uruguay  acknowledges  and  welcomes  the  wise
European Union effort to bring  equality  at the highest
level  to  European  nations  with  marked  differences  in
income  compared  with  the  richest  countries.  The
examples  of  Ireland,  Portugal,  Spain  and  Greece,
which will surely be emulated for new European Union
members, indicate what we in the United Nations must
do for the Congo and Haiti.
There is no point in achieving peace if the United
Nations lacks funds that can immediately be spent for the
practical  benefit  of  peoples 
in  extreme  economic
difficulties.  We  must  create  global  and 
largely
autonomous financial instruments to achieve those goals.
That is the only way for the United Nations to succeed.
A  tiny  nation  like  Haiti  (cid:151)  of  27,000  square
kilometres and 9 million inhabitants, where the average
number of  children per mother is 4.7 and which  lacks
the institutional and material infrastructure it needs (cid:151)
cannot  and  will  not  resolve  its  problems  merely
because a contingent of military forces from countries
of the Common Market of the South (MERCOSUR) is
keeping the peace.
Travelling  in  the  Congo  with  the  troops  we
recently  dispatched,  we  see  exactly  the  same  thing
happening:  a  nation  of  2.2  million  square  kilometres
and  a  population  of  50  million  does  not  have  a  road
going from one end of the country to the other. Without
autonomous,  ready  and  independent  means  of  coping
with  and  transforming  that  state  of  affairs,  the  United
Nations will not have solved anything at all even five,
10,  15  or  20  years  from  now.  Yet  only  the  United
Nations can handle such tasks.
Just more than three years since the fateful day of
11 September 2001 and just over six months since the
tragedy  in  Madrid,  new  and  terrible  forms  of  violence
continue  assailing  other  parts  of  the  world,  claiming
hundreds of innocent victims (cid:151) as we have recently seen
in Russia and as we see in the Middle East. This reveals
the destructive power that poses a permanent threat to the
world as a whole, a source of inescapable sadness and
a cause for despair about the human condition itself.
Terrorism  (cid:151)  and  a  genuine  commitment  to
combat and defeat it (cid:151) must therefore be the first item
9
A/59/PV.8
on our international agenda. Each State, each nation, each
community  and  each  human  being  must  contribute  to
this  endeavour;  that  is  how  we  can  help  the  United
Nations to fulfil its role as universal guarantor.
Combating this and other evils (cid:151) hunger, poverty,
underdevelopment, marginalization, exclusion (cid:151) requires
a  United  Nations  that  is  more  united,  nimbler  and  more
effective.  That  is  why  the  Organization  must  be  more
representative,  more  balanced  and  more  reliable:  so
that it can continue to be a reference point for the weak
and a restraining influence on the strong.
Here, our country has recently adopted legislation
strengthening  the  system  of  prevention  and  control  of
money  laundering  and  the  financing  of  terrorism.  We
are in compliance with nearly all current treaties in this
area, and our legislation improves our mechanisms for
international  cooperation  against  money  laundering
and the financing of terrorism.
At  the  Millennium  Summit  and  in  the  Doha
Declaration  and  Monterrey  Consensus  we  agreed  on
principles,  goals  and  priorities,  and  we  made
commitments  which  we  reaffirmed  a  few  days  ago  at
the  summit  of  world  leaders  for  the  Action  Against
Hunger and Poverty. If we are to attain those goals, we
need  more  just  and  equitable  rules  of  international
trade.  That  is  how  to  ensure  that  this  becomes  a  key
stage  in  the  march  towards  the  social  and  political
stability that is today in serious jeopardy.
This  is  particularly  important  since  it  is  well
known  that  States  that  vociferously  preach  free  trade
and  demand  open  markets  (cid:151)  which  in  our  case  are
already entirely open (cid:151) themselves impose and institute
obstacles to trade, subsidize their production in distorting
ways and compete with countries such as mine and many
others, which have nothing to offer the world except the
labour of their people in the commodity and industrial
sectors, which further enriches the rich countries.
importance 
Uruguay  attaches  fundamental 
to
financial  and  trade  issues.  In  all  international  forums,
Uruguay calls for freer, more open markets. We favour
a  single  market  from  Alaska  to  Tierra  del  Fuego;  we
support  the  Doha  Agreement;  we  support  the  opening
of markets. We believe in freedom, but we believe also
that  freedom  is  indivisible:  there  can  be  no  political
freedom without economic freedom, and we think there
can be no economic freedom that does not go hand in
hand with political freedom.
10
We believe, therefore, that peoples can be strong
only  if  they  can  create  their  future  in  freedom.  We
cannot  build  and  stabilize  democracies  if  women  and
men cannot find an honest job to which to devote their
energies. That goal cannot be achieved with economic
assistance  alone  or  with  loans  that,  in  the  poorest
countries,  are  paid  back  only  with  great  difficulty.  It
can be brought about only with free trade (cid:151) something
that the world experienced in the nineteenth century.
ratified.  We 
In  conclusion,  Uruguay  will  continue  to  be
committed  to  the  international  system  and  to  the
progressive development of international law, the most
recent  expression  of  which  was  the  establishment  of
the  International  Criminal  Court,  whose  Statute  we
have 
that
multilateralism  is  the  main  principle  on  which  the
conduct  of  international  affairs  must  be  based.  We
express  the  hope  that  our  region  and  the  world  as  a
whole  will  pool  their  efforts  and  work  together  in  a
realistic and committed manner. We continue to believe
in the United Nations as the collective instrument best
suited to our search for peace.
reaffirm  our  conviction 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  for  the  statement  he
has just made.
Mr. Jorge Batlle Ibáñez, President of the Eastern
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by The Right Honourable Pakalitha
Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister and Minister
for Defence and Public Service of the Kingdom
of Lesotho
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and
Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of 
the
Kingdom of Lesotho.
The  Right  Honourable  Pakalitha  Bethuel
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  The  Right
Honourable Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the
Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the
General Assembly.
to 
join  previous 
Mr. Mosisili (Lesotho): I would like, on behalf of
in
my  delegation, 
speakers 
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to 
the
presidency of the General Assembly at this session. At
the same time, I would like to extend our compliments
to your predecessor, Mr. Julian Hunte, as well as to the
Secretary-General, for a job well done.
If  there  has  been  one  consistent  and  predictable
area  of  convergence  in  our  debates  during  General
Assembly  sessions  of  the  past,  as  well  as  during  the
current session, it is the compelling need for a peaceful
and stable world (cid:151) a world where humankind lives in
harmony,  mutual 
the
collective benefit. For if we have peace and stability at
the  national, 
levels,
humankind  will  be  able  to  concentrate  on  the  real
issues of the development of this, our only world.
tolerance  and 
regional  and 
international 
respect 
for 
Never  before  has  our  world  been  so  insecure  or
faced such enormous challenges. Sadly, this insecurity
results  from  man(cid:146)s  inhumanity  and  his  insensitivity  to
human life. Yet it is also through man(cid:146)s efforts that the
effects  of  such  challenges  can  and  must  be  mitigated
or (cid:151) better still (cid:151) defeated.
It is common knowledge that the root cause of the
world(cid:146)s  insecurity  today  is  international  terrorism  and
armed conflict. Terrorist actions continue to haunt and
to  shock  us.  The  recent  murder  of  innocent,  young,
defenceless  school  children  in  Beslan,  Russia;  the
bombings  in  Indonesia;  and  daily  killings  in  Iraq,
Palestine  and  Israel,  are  simply 
to
countenance.  Equally,  the  recent  massacres  of  men,
women  and  children 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Burundi  and  the
Sudan are not only dastardly in the extreme, but stand
in stark contrast to everything that modern civilization,
humanity and morality espouse.
refugee  camps 
too  ghastly 
in 
in 
Our world will continue to be insecure for as long
as terrorists continue to be harboured and financed by
some States Members of the United Nations. We must
recognize  that  none  of  us  is  immune  from  terrorism.
But a more honest and practical solution would be for
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  commit
A/59/PV.8
themselves not to harbour or finance terrorists and their
organizations.  In  that  way,  terrorists  would  have  no
safe  haven,  thus  rendering  it  possible  to  chase  them
from  pillar  to  post  until  terrorist  organizations  are
eliminated from our world.
We  submit  that  yet  another,  equally  pragmatic,
solution  may  be  found  in  the  answer  to  the  question:
what  is  it  that  drives  an  inherently  good  human  being
to  commit  such  inhuman  and  senseless  acts  of  State
terrorism,  organizational 
individual
terrorism?  In  short,  we  must  confront  the  causes  of
terrorism, honestly and without malice to anybody.
terrorism  or 
Lesotho  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  fact  that
armed conflicts continue to cause suffering and hinder
economic  growth  in  Africa  and  elsewhere.  However,
we  commend  the  United  Nations  for  all  its  efforts
aimed  at  the  elimination  of  human  suffering  in  armed
conflict  situations.  When,  in  July  2003,  the  Assembly
adopted 
the
prevention  of  armed  conflict, 
that
multilateral  cooperation,  under  the  auspices  of  the
United Nations, could be an effective means to prevent
armed  conflict  and 
root  causes.
Furthermore, it acknowledged the responsibility of the
United  Nations  to  stand  up  to  the  challenge  of
preventing, rather than just responding to, conflict.
resolution  57/337,  on 
it  recognized 
its  historic 
to  address 
its 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
my delegation(cid:146)s appreciation to the Secretary-General,
for  the  comprehensive  report  to  be  presented  at  this
session  on 
important
resolution.
implementation  of 
that 
the 
For years now, the situation in Somalia has posed a
threat to international peace and security. The swearing-
in  of  Somalia(cid:146)s  transitional  parliament  on  22  August
2004,  in  Nairobi,  Kenya,  paves  the  way  for  genuine
recovery  for  Somalia.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation
compliments  the  Government  of  Kenya,  the  Inter-
Governmental  Authority  on  Development,  the  African
Union  and  all  other  stakeholders  for  their  efforts  to
bring  about  normalcy  in  Somalia.  We  must  not  allow
the  momentum  to  decrease,  or  the  process  to  be
derailed by those who seek to fuel hatred, division and
the  killing  of  the  people  of  Somalia,  including  as  a
result  of  the  smuggling  of  arms,  which  takes  place
despite the arms embargo.
The  humanitarian  and  security  crises  engulfing
the Darfur region in the Sudan are a cause for serious
concern  to  all  of  us.  A  lot  has  been  said  about  that
11
A/59/PV.8
grave situation, but not much has been done to contain
the humanitarian and political crises.
However,  my  delegation  is  hopeful  that  words
will  finally  translate  into  action.  We  had  hoped  that,
with  the  help  of  the  African  Union  mediators,  the
representatives of the Government of the Sudan and the
two rebel groups (cid:151) the Sudan Liberation Army (SLA)
and the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) (cid:151) could
be  persuaded  to  sign  and  respect  the  protocol  on
security.  We  reiterate  our  call  to  all  concerned  parties
to  enter  into  negotiations.  We  wish  to  remind  the
Government  of  the  Sudan  that  it  is  its  primary
responsibility, first and foremost, to protect the civilian
life of its nationals.
The  Great  Lakes  region  remains  politically
volatile.  This  situation  has  been  exacerbated  by  the
recent  massacre  of  refugees  from  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo at the Gatumba refugee camp in
western Burundi. We hope that the fact that the Forces
(FNL)  have 
for  National  Liberation 
claimed
responsibility 
killings  would  make
the 
for 
investigations easier.
The peace process in the Democratic Republic of
the  Congo  remains  elusive,  at  a  time  when  we  had
thought  that  the  gains  that  had  been  made  from  the
Congolese  dialogue, 
in  South  Africa,  could  be
consolidated.  We  reiterate  the  call  by  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, for renewed commitment by
the  Transitional  Government 
the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  the  Security  Council  and  the
international community to work in full partnership to
see 
to  elections
scheduled for 2005.
transitional  process 
through 
the 
in 
It is worth mentioning that, at the regional level,
the  Southern  African  Development  Community
(SADC) heads of State or Government,  at their  recent
summit  in  Mauritius,  mandated  the  SADC  Organ  on
Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation actively to
remain  seized  of  the  situation  in  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo.
My delegation has never condoned the killings of
Israelis  by  the  Palestinians  or  of  Palestinians  by  the
Israelis. We have always considered the root causes of
the  problem  in  the  Middle  East,  which  is  the  illegal
occupation of Palestinian lands by Israel. That problem
has been exacerbated by the construction by Israel of a
separation  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.
the  principal
The  International  Court  of  Justice, 
12
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  on  9  July  2004
rendered  its  advisory  opinion  that  such  construction
was contrary to international law. We therefore appeal
to Israel to implement the important resolution adopted
by  the  General  Assembly  in  view  of  the  Court(cid:146)s
advisory  opinion.  Moreover,  it  is  our  submission  that,
unless  and  until  the  issue  of  the  inalienable  rights  of
the Palestinian people is addressed vigorously, urgently
and  truthfully,  peace  and  security  will  remain  elusive
in the Middle East.
in 
We should perhaps recall that, four years ago, we
gathered 
this  very  Hall  with  hope  for,  and
anticipation  of,  a  better  life  for  all  humankind  in  the
twenty-first  century,  as  we  adopted  the  Millennium
Declaration  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
We 
for
combating,  inter  alia,  poverty,  hunger,  disease,  the
spread  of  HIV  and  AIDS,  illiteracy,  environmental
degradation 
against  women.
Needless  to  say,  we  are  today,  as  we  were  then,
committed to the achievement of those goals.
time-bound  and  measurable  goals 
and  discrimination 
set 
However,  we  did  not  anticipate  that,  as  we
approach  the  comprehensive  review  in  2005,  the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  would  have  become  the  greatest
threat to life itself, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa.
Undoubtedly,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  threatens  to
render  futile  and  irrelevant  all  our  efforts  at  the
betterment  of  humankind,  including  the  attainment  of
the Millennium Development Goals.
As  early  as  the  year  2000,  Lesotho  had  declared
HIV/AIDS  a  national  disaster,  and  various  measures
were  being  taken  at  the  national  level  to  control  and
manage the pandemic. We have not been alone in that
fight,  fortunately.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  wish  to
recognize and appreciate the dedication of Mr. Stephen
Lewis,  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for
HIV/AIDS in Africa, and of Mr. James Morris, Special
Envoy for Humanitarian Needs in Southern Africa.
Through  his  advocacy,  Mr.  Lewis  has  helped
Lesotho  start  a  robust  programme  of  antiretroviral
treatment,  while  Mr.  Morris(cid:146)s  initiatives  have  ensured
food  supply  for  vulnerable  and  orphaned  children.
Interventions  of  this  nature  give  credence  to  the  lofty
declarations  adopted  at  various  international  summits
on  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  as  they  complement  and
strengthen our own initiatives and limited resources.
My  delegation  reiterates  the  call  for  increased
for  Africa(cid:146)s
the  New  Partnership 
for 
support 
Development  (NEPAD),  the  framework  for  achieving
the Millennium Development Goals in Africa. It is yet
another  mechanism  that  will  enable  African  countries
to fight the HIV/AIDS pandemic, to  eradicate  poverty
and to reduce the high unemployment rate.
is 
In  the  same  context,  the  Millennium  Challenge
Account 
indeed  a  worthy  and  commendable
initiative  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of
America to launch the least developed countries on the
road to sound and sustainable development.
The  prevailing  situations  in  Western  Sahara  and
in Cuba continue to be of major concern. My de1egation
will (cid:151) because it must (cid:151) repeat the statement we have
made  on  many  previous  occasions:  that  the  people  of
Western  Sahara  have  suffered  long  enough.  We  have
therefore 
latest
reaffirmation by the Security Council of its support for
the  1991  settlement  plan,  allowing  the  nations  of
Western Sahara to determine the future of the disputed
territory in a referendum. We hope that the referendum
will be held soon, and urge that this be the case.
noted  with 
appreciation 
the 
By  the  same  token,  the  unilateral  economic
embargo  against  Cuba  is  causing  untold  misery  to  the
people  of  that  country.  My  delegation  believes  that,
when two countries are at war with each other, or when
a  country  has  been  condemned  by  the  international
community 
for  gross  misconduct,  an  economic
embargo  could  be  justifiable.  However,  we  are  not
aware that any war has been declared against Cuba, or
that  the  Government  of  Cuba  has  compromised  or
broken  international  law.  We  therefore  remain  in  the
dark  as  to  what  might  justify  the  victimization  of
millions  of  Cubans  by 
the  unilateral  economic
blockade,  for  we  contend  that  it  is  the  sovereign,
democratic  and,  indeed,  sacred  right  of  the  people  of
Cuba  to  determine  the  system  of  Government  most
appropriate for their country. Accordingly, we urge that
normalcy  be  restored  to  Cuba  through  the  removal  of
the economic blockade.
The  coming  into  operation  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  signifies,  in  our  view,  an  end  to
impunity.  We  are  elated  that  there  now  exists  an
international  body  that  can  take  over  when  national
courts are unable or unwilling to try perpetrators of the
most  egregious  violations  of  human  rights.  We  would
indeed live in a safer world if State parties to the Rome
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  adhered  to
it, and if the  Court  attained  universal  jurisdiction.  My
A/59/PV.8
delegation encourages States that have not yet ratified
the Statute to do so as a matter of urgency (cid:151) indeed,
as a matter of common sense.
We  are  pleased 
the  ICC  has
commenced investigations in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and Uganda. We congratulate both these
sister countries for their cooperation with the ICC.
to  note 
that 
In order for the United Nations family to address
today(cid:146)s  challenges  effectively,  the  Organization  must
be  reformed,  with  the  Security  Council  being  the
central focus of that effort. The Security Council must
reflect the reality of the international community in the
twenty-first  century.  That  must  be  done  against  the
background  of  multilateralism,  upon  which  international
peace and security is premised. In that regard, allow me
to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr. Julian  Hunte,
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-eighth
session,  for 
the  hard  work  and  commitment  he
displayed  as  the  Chair  of  the  Open-ended  Working
Group on the Reform of the Security Council.
In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  that  it  is  only
through solidarity, unity of purpose and honesty among
us Member States that the United Nations will defeat in
our 
face
humankind.  Otherwise,  as  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  stressed  in  his  opening  statement,  history  will
indeed judge us harshly.
the  greatest  challenges  ever 
time 
to 
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime
Minister  and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service
of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for  the  statement  he  has
just made.
The  Right  Honourable  Pakalitha  Bethuel
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister 
for
Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the  Kingdom  of
Lesotho, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by the Honourable Lawrence Gonzi,
Prime Minister of the Republic of Malta
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the
Republic of Malta.
The Honourable Lawrence Gonzi, Prime Minister of
the Republic of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Lawrence
pleasure 
13
A/59/PV.8
Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Malta,  and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Gonzi  (Malta):  I  would 
to
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election to the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth
session.  You  have  an  important  and  challenging  task
ahead. In executing your duties you can be assured of
my full support and that of the Maltese delegation.
like  first 
I take this opportunity to express our appreciation
to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
eighth session, His Excellency Mr. Julian Hunte. Over
the  last  twelve  months  he  has  successfully  guided  the
Assembly(cid:146)s  work  with  exemplary  dedication  and
initiative.
I would also like, at the outset of my intervention
this  afternoon,  to  take  the  opportunity  to  express  the
solidarity  of  the  Maltese  people  with  those  countries
and people who have suffered loss of life and damage
to property as a result of the recent spate of hurricanes
and  tropical  storms,  particularly  the  people  of  Haiti.
We, the Maltese people, pledge our support in this hour
of need.
It  is  a  source  of  particular  satisfaction  for  me  to
address  the  Assembly  for  the  first  time  as  Prime
Minister of Malta, and also for Malta in its new role as
a member of the European Union. The President of the
Union(cid:146)s  Council  of  Ministers,  the  Foreign  Minister  of
the Netherlands, has already laid before the Assembly
the objectives and priorities of the 25 members of the
Union for the coming months.
The  upholding  and  development  of  international
law  and  effective  multilateralism  are  central  to  the
European  Union(cid:146)s  external  actions.  The  role  of  the
United  Nations  is  vital  in  this  regard.  Malta  has
consistently  supported  the  view  that  the  international
community needs this universal forum within which it
can  collectively  deliberate  and  act  upon  the  many
problems  that  confront  it.  Our  membership  in  the
European  Union  gives  renewed  scope  and  added
dimension  to  our  commitment  to  the  United  Nations
and its role in international affairs.
Recent events have raised urgent questions about
the extent to which the United Nations is fulfilling the
role envisaged for it under the Charter. Inevitably this
leads to some serious concerns about the effectiveness
of our Organization. Nevertheless, the questions which
have been raised do not diminish the case not only for
14
its continued existence but also for its strengthening as
a world body. As we survey the latest developments in
crises spots around the globe, the realization intensifies
that  solutions  to  the  major  problems  of  our  age  are
beyond  the  grasp  and  control  of  any  single  nation  or
particular  group  of  nations,  however  powerful  and
determined.
The 
is 
international  system 
itself  frequently
overwhelmed by the immensity and complexity of many
of the problems it faces. The United Nations is indeed at
the  forefront  of  action  in  the  most  critical  areas  (cid:151)
furthering development, relieving suffering, safeguarding
human 
fighting
environmental  degradation,  fostering  sustainability,
resolving  conflicts,  promoting  peace  and  disarmament
and upholding the rule of international law.
combating 
terrorism, 
rights, 
Each  year  we  derive  a  measure  of  comfort  from
the knowledge that some progress is being recorded in
certain  areas.  In  this  year(cid:146)s  report  the  Secretary-
General  mentions  last  July(cid:146)s  Framework  Agreement
that put the Doha Round of trade negotiations back on
track; he refers to the contribution that United Nations
peace  missions  are  making 
the  gradual
improvement of the situation in Liberia, Sierra Leone,
Somalia and the Central African Republic, as well as in
Afghanistan, Papua New Guinea, Guatemala and Haiti.
He  records 
important  new
programme  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS;  he  notes
that for the second consecutive year the global refugee
figure  has  decreased  by  nearly  1  million,  and  he
believes  that  meeting  the  Millennium  Development
Goals by the target date of 2015 remains achievable.
launching  of  an 
towards 
the 
At the same time, however, the Secretary-General
highlights  a  bewildering  array  of  areas  on  which  no
visible  progress  can  be  registered,  in  spite  of  the  fact
that,  as  the  Secretary-General  reminds  us,  there  are  at
present  more  than  56,000  uniformed  personnel  and
some 11,000 civilian staff from 97 countries serving in
16 United Nations missions worldwide, and in spite of
the  fact 
the  whole  United  Nations  system,
including  the  specialized  agencies,  is  wholeheartedly
engaged in the work of promoting economic and social
progress and development.
that 
The  humanitarian  crisis  in  Darfur,  in  western
Sudan,  is  one  stark  manifestation  of  an  apparently
unbridgeable gap between intention and execution. The
daily  visions  on  television  screens  throughout  the
world  of  thousands  of  refugees  suffering  and  dying
the 
impact 
overwhelm 
that  a  steady  but  slow
diplomacy may be making in its own right. In Iraq, in
Palestine  and  in  Israel,  the  fact  that  in  those  difficult
realities  hardly  a  single  day  goes  by  without  news  of
people  dying  violently  in  armed  actions  is  in  sharp
contrast  with  the  limited  reports  on  continuing  efforts
to  find  peaceful  and  viable  solutions.  Silently,  across
our  globe  of  plenty  with  its  advanced  technology,  the
fact  remains  that  in  spite  of  our  collective  efforts
millions  of 
them  children,
continue  to  suffer  and  die  in  conditions  of  absolute
poverty, malnutrition and disease.
individuals,  many  of 
special  opportunity 
Over the next 12 months two events will provide
a 
the  United  Nations
membership  to  focus  on  the  key  issues  that  challenge
the vitality and effectiveness of our Organization. The
High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change,
appointed by the Secretary-General last year, will soon
produce  its  report.  The  Secretary-General  expects  that
the  Panel,  after  examining  the  threats  we  face  and
evaluating  our  existing  policies,  processes  and
institutions,  will  make 
practicable
recommendations. It will be up to us as Member States,
collectively  and  individually,  to  be  equally  bold  and
practical in responding to those recommendations.
bold 
for 
and 
The Panel(cid:146)s report will be followed in 2005 by a
high-level  meeting  on  the  five-year  review  of  the
Millennium Declaration, as well as the commemoration
of the sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Five
years after what was expected to be the dawn of a new
era, the time will be  ripe  for  some  dramatic  results  to
emerge, not least at the institutional level.
issues 
involved 
High  on  the  agenda  in  this  context  is  the  reform
of  the  Security  Council.  As  currently  constituted,  the
Council  suffers  from  three  noticeable  weaknesses.
First, it has limited means of adequately addressing the
development 
in  security  matters.
Secondly,  the  regional  distribution  of  authority  in  the
Council  is  severely  lopsided.  And,  thirdly,  the  great
majority of Member States, especially the smaller ones,
are  underrepresented 
the
Council. Urgent remedies need to be found for all these
weaknesses  for  the  Council  to  be  able  to  continue  to
play a relevant role in the twenty-first century.
the  deliberations  of 
in 
In its turn, the General Assembly needs to greatly
intensify  current  efforts  to  enhance  the  strengths
inherent 
the
time-consuming  procedures  and
debilitating  and 
its  universality,  while  discarding 
in 
A/59/PV.8
working  methods  that  such  universality  has  bred.  The
major  organs  and  specialized  agencies  of  the  United
Nations  system  also  need  to  devise  improved  ways  of
harmonizing,  through  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
their  many  impressive,  but  often  disparate,  efforts  to
foster sustainable social and economic development.
One  of  the  underlying  strengths  of  the  United
Nations  system  lies  in  the  manner  in  which  it  permits
action  at  the  regional  level  to  insert  itself  into  global
efforts towards peace, security and cooperation. In recent
years, the progressive strengthening of the African Union
has added a welcome partner to the regional framework,
in what is, unfortunately, the region of greatest need.
The  recently  enlarged  European  Union  has  also
been  progressively  enhancing  its  cooperation  with  the
United Nations  at  both  the  regional  and  higher  levels.
The Secretary-General refers in his report on the work
of the Organization (A/59/1) to the significant progress in
EU/United  Nations  cooperation  on  conflict  prevention,
peace-building  and  post-conflict  reconstruction,  as  well
as in crisis management activities.
One area in which the EU and the United Nations
are active and important partners concerns the question
of  Palestine.  As  members  of  the  Quartet,  the  EU  and
the United Nations play a significant role by injecting a
much-needed  balance  and  objectivity  into  an  issue
tormented  by  violence  and  passion.  Both  the  EU  and
the  United  Nations  are  by  right  major  stakeholders  in
the issue. History and geographical proximity underpin
the  special  interest  of  all  EU  member  States  in  the
prosperity  and  well-being  of  both 
Israelis  and
Palestinians.  The  creation  and  peaceful  coexistence  of
two neighbouring States, Israel and Palestine, was one
of the United Nations very first, but unfortunately still
unfulfilled, recommendations.
After  decades  of  bitterness  and  wrong  turns,  the
issue of Palestine remains jeopardized by the forces of
extremism  and 
intransigence.  But  extremism  and
intransigence (cid:151) as manifested by both the perpetrators
of  Palestinian  suicide  bombings  and  Israeli  advocates
of  a  continuing  and  forceful  military  occupation  of
Palestinian  territories  (cid:151)  do  have  a  counterbalance  on
both  sides,  as  manifested  by  the  Geneva  Initiative  of
late  last  year,  among  many  other  examples.  The  EU
and the United Nations need to continuously exert their
influence and pressure on both sides to persuade them
to  give  greater  heed  and  credibility  to  the  voices  of
reason which lie in their midst.
15
A/59/PV.8
The  path  to  legality  and  reconciliation  has  been
defined in the road map, in the many resolutions of the
Security Council and the General Assembly and, most
recently,  in  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International
Court of Justice. Even in the face of constant setbacks
on  the  ground,  the  EU  and  United  Nations  Quartet
partners  need  to  remain  steadfast  in  their  insistence
that  the  road  to  peace  can  only  be  set  within  those
parameters.
Malta  looks  at  the  problem  both  from  its  tragic
humanitarian  dimension  as  well  as  from  its  far-
reaching  implications  for  peace  and  security.  One
important  concern  for  us  in  that  regard  is  the  impact
that the problem has on issues of peace and security in
the Middle East in general and the Mediterranean area
in particular.
is 
to  promote 
the  development, 
One  of  the  primary  objectives  of  the  European
Union 
through
partnership, of a common zone of peace, prosperity and
progress in the Mediterranean and the Middle East. In
recent  months  the  Union  has  elaborated  a  policy
agenda for that strategic partnership linking together a
number of instruments and mechanisms that have been
put  in  place  over  the  years.  The  Euro-Mediterranean
Partnership (cid:151) the Barcelona or Euromed process (cid:151) and
the European Neighbourhood Policy are the frameworks
of that policy. A key element in the EU approach is the
parallel 
the  processes  of
security-building  and  to  cooperation  in  the  social,
economic, cultural and humanitarian fields. In that way
it  ensures  that  the  evolving  relationships  in  the  Euro-
Mediterranean area are tailored to the specific concerns
and needs of the individual countries and regions.
importance  assigned 
to 
For  the  Balkan  region,  the  framework  provided
by  the  European  Neighbourhood  Policy  (cid:151)  and  the
prospect  of  consolidating 
the
European  Union  which  it  implies  (cid:151)  constitutes  an
important  contributory  factor  towards  growth  and
stability. With the exception of the situation in Kosovo,
which  remains  disturbing,  and  some  other  examples,
progress in the Balkan region is encouraging.
relationships  with 
The  almost  decade-long  EuroMed  process  has
gradually but steadily put into place a useful structure
for the strengthening and consolidation of relationships
among  the  countries  of  the  Mediterranean.  It  not  only
contributes to the economic and social development of
individual  countries,  but  also  provides  a 
stable
background in which some of the wider problems may be
16
tackled,  taking  into  account  the  strong  linkage  that
exists between security and cooperation in Europe and
in  the  Mediterranean.  It  needs  strengthening  and
broadening,  and  in  that  context,  the  participation  of
Libya  in  the  Barcelona  Euromed  process  would  be
particularly welcome.
One  such 
issue  concerns 
the  question  of
migration  from  the  southern  to  the  northern  shores  of
the Mediterranean. As in other parts of the world, that
issue needs to be tackled from the economic, social and
political,  as  well  as  the  humanitarian,  perspective.
Because  of  its  geographical  location  and  small  size,
Malta  has  a  special  sensitivity  to  the  many  problems
and complexities of the issue. We are hopeful that the
spirit of cooperation and understanding provided by the
EuroMed  process  can  help  countries  in  our  region  to
successfully tackle the challenges involved.
few  months,  an 
important
development took place in our region in the context of
disarmament.  Libya(cid:146)s  decision 
its
programme  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  has  been
welcomed  by  all.  As  a  longstanding  friend  and  close
neighbour  of  Libya,  Malta  has  particular  reasons  to
welcome 
increased
opportunities  it  now  creates  for  Libya  to  play  a
significant  role  in  the  process  of  Euro-Mediterranean
security and cooperation.
this  development 
renounce 
and 
the 
Over 
the 
last 
to 
to  Libya(cid:146)s  decision 
It  is  reasonable  to  argue  that  the  framework  of
regional  stability  and  cooperation  provided  by  the
that
Euro-Mediterranean  process  was  one 
contributed 
its
programme.  Nevertheless,  problems  relating  to  the
development of weapons of mass destruction still exist
in  other  regions  of  the  world.  The  role  that  can  be
played by initiatives encouraging regional stability and
economic  and  social  development  in  the  resolution  of
these problems should not be underestimated.
factor 
to  renounce 
We must also look at the  problems raised by the
threat  of  new  weapons  of  mass  destruction  as  part  of
the  wider  issue  of  disarmament  in  its  many  aspects.
The  continuing  commitment  to  the  major  multilateral
treaties  and  increased  efforts  to  intensify  measures  of
verification and compliance are of paramount importance
in this regard. Equally important is the need to bring the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  into  force
without further delay.
The  problem  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons,
especially weapons of mass destruction, has in our day
assumed  a  new  and  frightening  dimension  in  its
possible  linkage  with  terrorism.  In  this  regard,  as  the
Secretary-General 
effective
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution  1540
(2004),  adopted  earlier  this  year,  should  complement
ongoing  efforts  to  strengthen  existing  multilateral  and
non-proliferation regimes.
points 
out, 
the 
The fight against terrorism involves all of us and
needs to be pursued with firmness and tenacity. At the
same  time,  the  struggle  must  take  place  on  our  terms
and  not  those  of  the  terrorists.  As  the  Secretary-
General  takes  every  opportunity  to  remind  us,  this
struggle  must  not  take  place  at  the  expense  of  the
fundamental freedoms and basic dignity of individuals,
neither  must  we  allow  the  legitimate  concern  to
eradicate  terrorism  in  all  its  aspects  to  distract  the
commitment of the global community in its endeavour
towards  the  economic  and  social  development  of  the
less advantaged regions of the world.
In conclusion, our concerns for the safety of our
people must be counter-balanced by the assurances that
those responsible for these threats will be dealt with by
a coherent and effective system of trans-frontier justice
that  reflects 
law.  The
international  community(cid:146)s  endeavours  in  recent  years
have  found  fruition 
the
International  Criminal  Court,  a  functioning  institution
that increases its effectiveness the more widely all the
members of the family of nations subscribe to it.
the  establishment  of 
rule  of 
respect 
in 
for 
the 
In encouraging reflection on these topical issues,
I  feel  confident  in  the  credentials  offered  by  my
country,  whose  level  of  commitment  to  the  United
Nations certainly makes up for any physical limitations
we  may  have.  Malta  has  been 
in
developing the concept of common heritage, in relation
both  to  the  high  seas  and  to  climate  change,  and  we
have  emphasized  the  importance  of  intergenerational
solidarity,  as  evidenced  not  only  by  our  initiatives  on
ageing but also as the host country for the International
Institute on Ageing.
instrumental 
As  in  previous  years,  the  issues  before  of  the
General Assembly are many and complex. The density
and variety of the agenda we have before us are both a
challenge  and  an  opportunity  for  our  Organization.  I
trust that under your  able guidance, Mr. President, we
will  find  the  energy  and  wisdom  to  meet  these
challenges and exploit these opportunities. Humanity is
counting on all of us.
A/59/PV.8
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime
Minister of the Republic of Malta for the statement he
has just made.
The Honourable Lawrence Gonzi, Prime Minister
of  the  Republic  of  Malta,  was  escorted  from  the
rostrum.
Address by Alhaji Aliu Mahama, Vice-President
of the Republic of Ghana
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will now hear an address by the  Vice-President  of  the
Republic of Ghana.
Alhaji  Aliu  Mahama,  Vice-President  of 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Alhaji  Aliu
Mahama, Vice-President of the Republic of Ghana, and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
the
Mr. Mahama (Ghana): I have the distinct honour
to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  a  distinguished
African diplomat, on your election to preside over the
fifty-ninth  session  of  this  Assembly  and  to  wish  you
success  in  your  undertaking.  I  would  also  like  to
commend  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Julian  Hunte,  for  the
dedication and commitment that he brought to bear on
his stewardship of the fifty-eighth session.
Three  years  ago,  a  terrible  tragedy  hit  this  city.
The  unprecedented  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September
resulted in the death of thousands of innocent people of
many  nationalities,  including  some  from  my  own
country,  Ghana.  The  whole  world  shared  the  pain  and
sorrow  of  New  York  in  the  aftermath  of  those
atrocities. The whole world also rose in solidarity with
the  people  of  the  United  States  to  ensure  that  such
tragedies would not happen again.
11  September  reminds  us  of  the  importance  of
seeking  a  multilateral  and  peaceful  means  for  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,
especially  now,  when  it  has  become  evident  that  only
collective, multilateral efforts will suffice to defeat the
new scourge of mankind, global terrorism.
The  United  Nations  has  an  indispensable  role  to
play,  being  the  most  universal  and  representative
intergovernmental organization  and the best forum  for
the practice of multilateralism. However, the success of
17
A/59/PV.8
multilateralism  and  collective  security  will  depend  on
how  the  reforms  of  the  United  Nations  system  are
implemented.  In  this  regard,  we  applaud  the  initiative
of  our  illustrious  compatriot,  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan,  in  setting  up  the  United  Nations  High-Level
Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change,  to  make
proposals  on  how  the  United  Nations  can  best  be
reformed to meet the new challenges of our world.
We,  in  Africa,  agree  that  the  objectives  of  the
United Nations reforms, including the revitalization of
the  General  Assembly  and  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  are  aimed  at  enhancing  the  role  of  the
Organization  and  its  capacity  to  overcome  current
threats  and  emerging  challenges.  The  reforms  should
be  in  conformity  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the  process  must  be
based  on  full  consultations  in  a  democratic  and
transparent manner. To this end, we  look forward to a
revitalized  General  Assembly  that  would  assume  its
rightful  position  as 
the  most  authoritative  and
representative organ of the United Nations.
With  regard  to  the  Security  Council,  the  African
position emphasizes the need to democratize and ensure
equitable  geographical  representation,  with  Africa
allotted no less than two permanent seats and five non-
permanent seats in the expanded Security Council.
and 
the  promotion  of 
in  developing  countries 
I  wish  to  address  the  crucial  issue  of  poverty
sustainable
eradication 
development 
in  which
widespread  poverty  is  endemic,  particularly  in  Africa.
As we strive to overcome our current economic woes,
we  need  the  world(cid:146)s  solidarity,  resources,  technical
know-how  and  support.  The  historic  Millennium
Summit of the United Nations, which brought together
189  nations  in  September  2000  and  adopted  the
Millennium Declaration, was a clarion call for action to
solve  these  problems  and  set  forth  the  Millennium
Development Goals with measurable goals and  targets
for combating them. On that occasion, the international
community  pledged  to  spare  no  effort  to  free  our
fellow  men,  women  and  children  from  the  abject  and
dehumanizing conditions of extreme poverty.
Africa has adopted the New Partnership for Africa(cid:146)s
Development  (NEPAD),  which  reaffirms  our  belief  that
Africans  have  the  primary  responsibility  to  solve  the
problems  of  poverty,  hunger,  disease  and  illiteracy
afflicting  the  majority  of  our  population  and  to  stem
Africa(cid:146)s marginalization from global markets. In tandem,
18
we  are  striving  to  foster  political  stability,  accountable
and  transparent  governance  under  the  rule  of  law,
because  we  believe  it  is  the  right  thing  to  do.  Ghana
has  volunteered  as  the  first  country  in  Africa  for  the
African Peer Review Mechanism, and my Government
is  cooperating  with  the  review  panel  to  facilitate  the
preparation of the review report, because we in Ghana
cherish very much our democracy and our commitment
of respect for human rights and the rule of law.
fully  with 
Our  renewed  resolve,  within  the  context  of
NEPAD,  to  accelerate  the  sustainable  development  of
the  continent,  dovetails 
the  avowed
commitment  of  the  international  community  to  help
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  was,
therefore,  a  very  welcome  and  positive  development
when  the  General  Assembly,  in  its  resolution  57/7  of
4 November  2002,  urged  the  international  community
to  organize  support  for  African  countries  within  the
framework  of  the  principles,  objectives  and  priorities
of  NEPAD.  However,  for  this  convergence  of  vision
and  effort  to  yield  the  desired  results,  there  must  be
genuine 
the
international community.
between  Africa 
partnership 
and 
The  implementation  of  NEPAD  and  the  creation
of institutions such as the Pan-African Parliament, the
Peace and Security Council, the Economic, Social and
Cultural  Council,  and  various  commissions  of  the
recently  established  African  Union,  reflect  Africa(cid:146)s
determination to be the architect of its own future. The
the  Economic  Community  of  West
initiatives  of 
African  States, 
the  West  African  regional  body
currently chaired by the President of Ghana, Mr. John
Agyekum  Kufuor,  in  dealing  with  the  conflicts  that
have recently plagued our region are good examples of
this  development.  Accra  has  been  the  venue  for
successful  peace  talks  concerning  Liberia  and,  most
recently,  on  29  July  2004,  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire,  which  has
revived  hopes  for  a  durable  peace  in  that  important
West African country.
The important decisions taken at the last summit
of the African Union in Addis Ababa have given cause
for  cautious  optimism  as  the  political  leadership,
Governments,  the  public,  civil  society  and  the  private
sector  now  seem  to  have  embarked  upon  a  journey  of
collaborative  effort  to  put  an  end  to  conflicts  and  to
focus  instead  on  the  promotion  of  peace,  security  and
sustainable development for the benefit of the peoples
of the continent.
the 
the  good 
intentions  of 
It  is  disheartening,  though,  to  observe  that,
despite 
international
community, as exemplified at the various international
forums  that  have  followed  the  Millennium  Summit,
there has not  been  any  significant  achievement  due  to
the  absence  of  genuine  global  partnership 
for
development. There continues to be an agonizing paradox
between  the  summit  and  conference  declarations  of  a
new  global  partnership  and  the  persistence  of  an
asymmetrical global system that works largely  against
the interests of developing countries.
trade  system,  particularly 
Quite evidently, the laudable long-term initiatives
to halve hunger and poverty by the year 2015 cannot be
achieved  without  a  fundamental  restructuring  of  the
global 
in  agricultural
products.  Such  an  initiative  should  include  developed
countries(cid:146)  dismantling  subsidies  and  lowering  tariffs,
thereby  helping  to  uphold  and  safeguard  an  open,
equitable,  rule-based,  predictable,  non-discriminatory
trading  and 
financial  system.  The  concerns  of
developing  countries  have  been  reiterated  in  this
Assembly  over  the  years;  we  therefore  urge  our
developed partners to act now.
the 
implementation  of 
For  many  countries  in  Africa,  stable  long-term
planning  will  be  impossible  without  more  systematic
and sustained debt relief. Despite the progress recorded
the  enhanced  Heavily
in 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  and 
the
provision of substantial debt relief by bilateral official
creditors,  achieving  long-term  debt  sustainability  and,
at  the  same  time,  a  reduction  in  poverty  as  targeted,
remains  a  major  problem  for  many  African  countries.
We,  therefore,  welcome  the  initiative  of  British  Prime
Minister  Tony  Blair 
the  African
Commission.
in  setting  up 
sources  of 
role 
financing 
to  play  an  essential 
Official development assistance (ODA), as we are
in
aware,  continues 
complementing  other 
for
development and creating a congenial environment for
private  sector  activity.  Although  ODA  flows,  which
decreased in the 1990s, have picked up in recent years,
the  fact  that  these  flows  remain,  on  average,  still  far
below  internationally  agreed  targets  is  a  major  cause
for concern. In this connection, it is pertinent to recall
that  an  additional  $50  billion  a  year  in  development
assistance would be required as a minimum to meet the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  fundamental
question facing the international community is whether
it  is  committed  to  the  indispensable,  challenging,  but
A/59/PV.8
ultimately  rewarding  global  partnership,  which  alone
can make this dream come true.
threat 
to  achieving 
The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  a  global  emergency
and  a  key 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals,  especially  for  countries  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa.  The  pandemic  has  caused  untold
suffering  and  death  in  our  countries,  destroying  entire
communities,  reversing  development  gains  and  posing
a serious security threat.
Unfortunately,  despite  the  substantial  measures
taken  by  the  Government  in  combating  the  scourge,
Ghana(cid:146)s  efforts  have  been  severely  constrained  by  a
lack  of  adequate  resources  required  to  prevent  new
infections,  provide  care  and  support  for  people,
particularly  women 
living  with
HIV/AIDS.  We  wish 
international
community  to  provide  the  needed  resources  for  the
fight against this global emergency.
children 
the 
to  urge 
and 
to 
Ghana 
importance 
attaches  great 
the
empowerment  of  women  to  make  them  equal  partners
in the formulation and implementation of development
policies. Since the adoption of the Beijing Declaration
and  Platform  for  Action  and  the  outcome  of  the
twenty-third  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly,
gender  equality  has  been  an  essential  element  of
Ghana(cid:146)s efforts to attain sustainable development. The
active involvement of women in political processes and
decision-making at all levels and in all sectors is being
vigorously pursued. Impediments such as discrimination
and  violence  against  women  are  being  dealt  with
through education, advocacy and legislation.
Despite 
the  strong  political  will  within 
the
international  community  to  create  a  world  fit  for
children, the reality in many parts of the world is a far
cry  from  the  ideals  voiced  at  the  twenty-seventh
special  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  on  children.
We  call  for  the  adoption  of  effective  policies  to
eradicate poverty, to ensure access to education and to
provide  families  with  support  to  guarantee  the  well-
being of children. Decisive international cooperation is
also  required  to  strengthen  legal  and  other  preventive
mechanisms 
increasing
practice  of  child 
for  unconscionable
exploitative purposes.
tackle  effectively 
trafficking 
the 
to 
Ghana believes that the staff of the Organization,
who  make  sacrifices  daily  to  maintain  peace  and
security in zones of conflict and humanitarian disaster,
deserve  to  be  provided  with  a  secure  and  safe
19
A/59/PV.8
environment  in  which  to  operate.  In  that  regard,  we
will  continue  to  condemn  all  attacks  against  United
Nations personnel and call for firm action by States to
establish  conditions  that  prevent  such  attacks,  in
fulfilment of the obligations of host countries towards
the United Nations and its personnel.
Ghana,  as  a  major  troop-contributing  country,
will  continue  to  support  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations  globally,  as  well  as 
in  Africa.  That
commitment, which began with our participation in the
United Nations Operation in the Congo in 1960, is born
of  the  firm  moral  conviction  in  our  solidarity  for
humanity  and  the  knowledge  that  a  lack  of  peace  and
stability  anywhere  can  be  a  real  threat  to  peace  and
security for all of us.
In conclusion, I urge Member States to rededicate
themselves  individually  and  collectively  to  the  ideals
that underpin the Organization and provide it with the
commensurate  resources  as  it  strives  to  fulfil  the
aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the  world.  We  cannot,
should not and must not fail in that undertaking.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-
President of the Republic of Ghana for the statement he
has just made.
Mr.  Alhaji  Aliu  Mahama,  Vice-President  of  the
Republic of Ghana, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mrs. Sandra Pierantozzi, Vice-
President and Minister of Health of the
Republic of Palau
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will now hear an address by the  Vice-President  of  the
Republic of Palau.
Mrs.  Sandra  Pierantozzi,  Vice-President  and
Minister of Health of the Republic of Palau, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great
pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Sandra
Pierantozzi,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Palau,
and inviting her to address the General Assembly.
Mrs.  Pierantozzi  (Palau):  This  is  a  momentous
year for our country as we celebrate, on 1 October, the
tenth  anniversary  of  our 
independence  and  our
membership  in  this  institution.  Palau  was  the  last
country to emerge from the Trusteeship System, having
20
been  administered  by  the  United  States  under  the
supervision  of  the  United  Nations  longer  than  any
country  in  the  world.  It  was  the  United  Nations  that
provided  Palau  with  a  willing  forum  in  which  to
express and ultimately achieve our right to sovereignty,
and  for  that  we  are  ever  thankful.  I  am  also  happy  to
observe,  on  this  tenth  anniversary,  that  this  year  we
established,  for  the  first  time,  a  permanent  mission  in
New  York  so  that  we  can  enhance  our  ability  to  meet
our international responsibilities.
It  was 
through 
the  United  States, 
its
administration  and  willing  cooperation  during  our
peaceful emergence into independence, that assured us
the liberty and the values that guide us today. For that
extraordinary  legacy,  we  today  express  our  deep
gratitude to the United States of America.
it  coincides  with 
This  is  a  good  year  for  Palau  to  deepen  its
involvement,  since 
the  world(cid:146)s
preparation  for  the  Mauritius  conference  and  the
increased emphasis at the United Nations on the unique
challenges  facing  small 
island  developing  States.
While  images  of  swaying  palm  trees  and  white  sand
beaches  prevail  in  the  world(cid:146)s  imagination,  they  are
only  part  of  the  story.  In  truth  and  in  fact,  the
remoteness  and  the  isolation  of  Palau  make  it  a  very
difficult  place  to  develop  a  self-reliant  economy,
provide  medical  care  and  education  to  its  people  and
deter aggression and terrorism. Fuel and transportation
prices  are  among  the  highest  in  the  world.  After  four
successive  colonial  administrations,  our  infrastructure
is  quite  incomplete,  and  our  most  promising  hope  for
the development of a sustainable economy, our pristine
environment,  is  threatened  by  factors  beyond  our
control,  such  as  the  failure  of  all 
industrialized
countries  to  reach  agreement  on  implementing  the
Kyoto Protocol.
We  have  created  a  democratic  society  and
ensured  human  rights  for  our  people,  but  without
international focus, we will not be able to provide hope
and  opportunity  to  our  children,  and  we  will  continue
to  watch  as  they  leave  their  homeland  to  seek  an
education  and  a  career  elsewhere.  For  no  matter  what
statistics  may  be  advanced,  what  references  to  gross
national product may be debated, until we can provide
our  children  with  the  incentive  to  stay  and  help  build
our  country,  we  will  have  lost.  Thus,  the  Mauritius
process  is  critical  for  Palau,  and  we  trust  that  the
developed countries of the world will embrace it.
Similarly,  we  trust  that  United  Nations  agencies
will sharpen their focus on the small island developing
States  and  correct  what  we  view  as  a  current
imbalance, in support of the fragile small States of the
world.  We  applaud  the  recent  efforts  of  the  Global
Environmental  Facility  (GEF)  to  streamline  assistance
to  Palau  through  the  creation  of  an  innovative  North
Pacific  subregional  programme  that  will  build  our
capacity  to  protect  our  environment  and  create  a
sustainable economy.
We are troubled, however, by a growing tendency
in the donor community to demand that small countries
like  ours  prove  our  capacity  before  assistance  can  be
delivered. This is a catch-22 situation that threatens to
halt our development. The only way we  can build our
capacity to execute projects that will save, for example,
our unique biodiversity is to experience the hard work
of  completing  projects  and 
from  our
experience.
learning 
This  observation  does  not  mean  that  we  are
reluctant  to  accept  the  obligations  and  responsibilities
inherent  in  receiving  assistance.  We  are  willing  and
eager to be monitored by  the  international  community
in  our  performance.  We  firmly  believe  that  we  should
be  held  accountable 
the
transparency of our efforts.
the  quality  and 
for 
It is ironic that tiny countries such as ours, where
so  many  of  the  world(cid:146)s  environmental  treasures  exist,
are denied the assistance they need due to a perceived
lack of capacity to navigate the unwieldy bureaucracies of
the  international  organizations  charged  with  protecting
those very treasures.
to 
As already noted, the failure of the world to come
to agreement on implementing the Kyoto Protocol will
contribute 
the  destruction  of  our  marine  and
terrestrial  resources.  Palau,  like  many  other  small
island  developing  States,  is  a  window  on  the  world(cid:146)s
future  in  this  regard  and  must  be  carefully  observed.
We  urge  the  GEF  to  create  real  funding  opportunities
for  adaptation  and  mitigation  measures  in  a  proactive
and streamlined fashion before it is too late.
In a similar vein, we are increasingly aware of the
particularly  damaging  fishing  practice  of  deep-sea
bottom  trawling.  Increasingly  employed  on  the  high
seas  as  coastal  fisheries  are  depleted,  this  technique
entails  dragging  heavy  equipment  along  the  seabed,
completely  destroying  established  coral,  sponge  and
related  communities  that  have  taken  centuries  to
A/59/PV.8
develop.  We  are  a  culture  of  fishing  people  and  find
this practice unacceptable. As we participated with our
Pacific colleagues in eliminating drift-net fishing some
years  ago,  we  now  call  upon  the  world  to  join  us  in
declaring  a  moratorium  on  deep  sea  bottom  trawling
before this practice does any more irremediable damage.
Last  month,  Palau(cid:146)s  accession  to  the  Group  of
Asian  States  created  the  largest  regional  grouping  in
the  United  Nations.  Two  critical  issues  involving  our
Asian region also have great global significance.
in 
represented 
First,  for  the  United  Nations  to  be  effective  at
ensuring  international  peace  and  security,  all  nations,
large  and  small,  should  be 
its
deliberations. The Republic of China on Taiwan should
no  longer  be  kept  on  the  sidelines  of  the  most
important  international  Organization.  The  principle  of
universality  should  be  applied  so  that  the  23  million
people  of  Taiwan  can  bring  their  talents,  their  energy
and 
the
organizations,  bodies, 
and
programmes of the United Nations, thereby  aiding the
rest of the world in pursuing our mutual agenda.
their  principled  democratic  positions 
to 
agencies 
specialized 
to 
to 
the 
reflect 
reality  of 
Secondly, and also in pursuit of the most effective
means  to  strengthen  the  credibility  of  the  United
Nations, Palau urges the United Nations to  reform the
Security  Council 
the
international community in the twenty-first  century so
that countries that play a major role in the maintenance
of  international  peace  and  security  always  participate
in the decision-making process of the Security Council.
Palau  believes  that  the  Security  Council  should  be
expanded 
include  additional  developing  and
developed countries as new members, and that Japan(cid:146)s
stellar record of contribution is a solid basis for Japan(cid:146)s
assumption  of  permanent  membership  of  the  Security
Council.  Japan  has  been  a  leader  in  international
initiatives for many years, and it is for that reason that
Palau takes this strongly felt position.
Much  of  my  presentation  today  has  focused  on
the  enormous  threats  to  vulnerable  island  States  like
Palau.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General,  who
observed  in  his  opening  remarks  to  the  high-level
segment  of  the  twelfth  session  of  the  Commission  on
Sustainable  Development,  held  at  United  Nations
Headquarters  from  28  to  30  April  2004,  that  (cid:147)high-
level  political  attention  has  been  diverted  from
sustainable development by the recent emphasis given
to terrorism, weapons of mass destruction and the war
21
A/59/PV.8
in Iraq(cid:148). But Palau also understands that the scourge of
global  terrorism  and  its  immoral  violence  against
innocent people must be defeated. We are proud of our
sons  and  daughters  serving  in  the  United  States
military.  Only  last  week,  one  of  those  sons,  a  Marine
fighting side by side with Coalition forces in Iraq, paid
the ultimate price, marking the first death of a Palauan
in  the  struggle  with  global  terrorism.  Our  forces  are
small in number but, like Corporal Ngirmidol, large in
loyalty,  commitment  and  idealism.  No  one  should
make any mistake about that.
Palau is grateful to the United States for allowing
us  to  achieve  our  independence  and  thus  to  join  the
international  community(cid:146)s  quest  for  world  peace.
Nonetheless,  a  balanced  international  agenda  which
includes a determined focus on sustainable development
is  required  if  Palau  is  to  achieve  some  measure  of
economic self-reliance, and if the world as we know it
is to survive.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice
President  and  Minister  of  Health  of  the  Republic  of
Palau for the statement she has just made.
Mrs.  Sandra  Pierantozzi,  Vice-President  and
Minister of Health of the Republic of Palau, was
escorted from the rostrum.
Address by His Serene Highness Prince Albert,
Crown Prince of the Principality of Monaco
The  President (spoke  in  French):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Serene Highness Prince
Albert, Crown Prince of the Principality of Monaco.
His Serene Highness Prince Albert, Crown Prince
of the Principality of Monaco, was escorted to the
rostrum.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  have  great  pleasure 
in
welcoming His Serene Highness Prince Albert, Crown
Prince of the Principality of Monaco, and inviting him
to address the Assembly.
Crown  Prince  Albert  (Monaco)  (spoke 
in
French):  It  is  with  great  pleasure  that  I  congratulate
you,  Sir,  on  your  unanimous  election  to  preside  over
the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  an
election  that  offers  Africa  its  tenth  presidency.  The
Gabonese  Republic 
the
international  community  the  recognition  it  deserves
thus  has  received  from 
22
and the French-speaking countries are delighted to see
one  of  our  own  guiding  our  debates.  Be  assured  that
the  delegation  of  Monaco,  which  I  am  leading,  will
fully support you in your noble mission in the service
of peace and development. I would also like to hail the
Secretary-General  for  his  courage  and  his  unwavering
commitment to peace.
A  long  time  ago,  the  Organization  began  a
process  of  thinking  through  the  reforms  that  are
required to improve its functioning. In that connection,
I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  outgoing  President  of
the Assembly, Mr. Julian Hunte, on his work during the
fifty-eighth  session;  his  perseverance  made  possible
the adoption of new measures to revitalize the work of
the General Assembly. While welcoming that progress,
we know that we must continue along that path.
Dedication  to  democracy  and  to  the  rule  of  law,
unswerving confidence in the virtues of multilateralism
and  respect  for  our  differences  allow  us  to  move
forward in a spirit of harmony and to continue to adapt
the Organization to meet the challenges of our time. It
is  vital  that  the  Organization  be  provided  with  the
means  to  better  respond  to  the  expectations  of  the
peoples of the world.
This  is  why  the  Principality  supports  initiatives
aimed  at  improving  the  Organization(cid:146)s  methods  of
work  and,  in  particular,  those  regarding  Security
Council  reform.  Enlargement  of  the  Council,  in  both
permanent and non-permanent seats, will strengthen its
capacity to contribute to the essential objectives of the
maintenance  of  peace  by  providing  more  equitable
representation of the diverse  regions that compose the
international community.
The  fifteenth  International  AIDS  Conference,
held  in  Thailand  last  July,  once  again  highlighted  the
devastation caused by this terrible pandemic as well as
its  disastrous  social  consequences.  However, 
the
Conference  also  demonstrated  that  when  international
organizations,  Governments  and  civil  society  agree  to
work 
this  scourge  more
effectively.  In  that  struggle,  the  role  of  women  is
crucial.  In  my  country,  Her  Serene  Highness  Princess
Stephanie, my sister, created and chairs the Fight AIDS
Monaco  association  that  gives  moral  and  material
support  to  AIDS  patients  and  their  families  while
promoting information and prevention programmes.
together,  we  can  fight 
For my part, I have expressed the wish that all of
the Principality(cid:146)s school children participate in marking a
world  day  for  children  orphaned  by  AIDS,  to  show
their  solidarity  with  these  vulnerable  children  whose
number could reach 100 million by the year 2010.
twenty-sixth  special  session  of 
Once  again  this  year,  my  country  has  been
contributing  to  the  Global  Fund 
to  fight  AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, which was created following
the 
the  General
Assembly, the first to be devoted to a disease. We have
been providing regular support for the activities of the
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS
(UNAIDS)  since  its  creation,  and  I  am  pleased  to
announce 
to
strengthen 
the
Programme. We hope that the creation within UNAIDS
of  the  Programme  Acceleration  Fund  will  allow  us  to
meet  specific  needs  defined  by  the  recipient  States
themselves. In effect, we are convinced of the necessity
for  States  to  strengthen,  on  the  one  hand,  their
capacities 
terms  of  basic  social  services  and
adequate sanitation facilities and on the other hand, to
pursue public awareness and information campaigns.
the  Principality  has  decided 
financial 
cooperation  with 
that 
its 
in 
Upon  the  initiative  of  His  Serene  Highness  the
Sovereign  Prince,  my  father, 
the  Principality  of
Monaco has always expressed its solidarity to the most
underdeveloped populations. We share the concerns of
world  leaders  regarding  the  adverse  impact  that  the
persistence  of  extreme  poverty 
is  having  on
international security.
We  shall  therefore  consider  most  carefully  the
elaboration  of  a  new  global  partnership  designed  to
eliminate hunger and poverty and to advance economic
development and social justice, as a continuation to the
commitments  undertaken  at  the  Millennium  Summit
and during the Monterrey Conference.
Terrorism,  unfortunately,  has  become  a  daily
reality,  as  is  attested  to  by,  among  others,  the  tragedy
that took place in Beslan, which is repugnant to all of
us. Our determination to fight it must remain unshaken
and  that  is  why  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  an
executive  directorate  of 
the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee. In that domain, international cooperation is
an  essential  element  for  effective  action.  No  State,
regardless  of  its  size,  can  be  a  weak  link  that  might
endanger the efforts we are conducting together.
Therefore, the Principality intends to play its role
in the battle which our Organization is waging against
terrorism. Thus, Monaco has become a party to all of the
twelve  conventions  designed  to  eradicate  international
A/59/PV.8
terrorism  and  has  adopted,  as  domestic  legislation,
appropriate measures for their implementation.
But the battle against terrorism also requires that
we  act  irreproachably  in  terms  of  our  respect  for
human  rights.  Accordingly,  the  Principality  is  making
every  effort  to  guarantee  them  on  its  territory;  hence
Monaco(cid:146)s forthcoming accession to the Convention on
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women.
The  number  of  refugees  and  displaced  persons
who are displaced within their own countries continues
to  increase,  and  our  response  to  the  unbearable
suffering  of  those  human  beings  cannot  be  limited  to
our  moral  indignation.  As  in  any  urgent  and  complex
emergency situation, civilians and the most vulnerable
among them are the targets of harm and the worst types
of abuse. The humanitarian disaster which continues to
take  place  under  our  very  eyes  in  Darfur  has  shown,
once  again,  how  limited  we  are  in  our  capacity  to
enforce  respect  for  human  rights  and  for  international
humanitarian law.
to  earmark 
In response to the appeal launched by the Office
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
for
of 
Refugees  (UNHCR)  during  the  special  session  of  the
General Assembly on children in 2002, the authorities
of  Monaco  decided 
traditional
contribution to UNHCR towards primary education for
refugee  children.  We  hope  to  provide  those  children,
whose  world  has  been  brutally  shattered  overnight,  a
substitute for their traditional educational environment,
by allowing them to escape, albeit a little, those terrible
conditions  of  daily  life  dominated  by  promiscuity  and
the anguish of having forever lost their homes.
their 
in  keeping  with 
Championing the interests of the child has always
been  one  of  our  major  concerns.  To  build  a  world  fit
for  children, 
the  commitments
undertaken  during  the  May  2002  special  session  on
children, the World Association of Children(cid:146)s Friends,
presided  over  by  my  sister,  Her  Royal  Highness  the
Princess  of  Hanover,  organized  in  the  Principality  in
April  2003, 
subject.
Unfortunately,  the  need  is  becoming  clearer  each  day,
to strengthen the area of international law designed to
guarantee the rights of children and to assure that those
laws are more effectively applied.
table  on 
round 
a 
that 
Thus,  do  not  those  particularly  heinous  crimes
require  an  exceptionally  strong  response?  Do  we  not
need  to  ensure  that  the  most  serious  violations  of  the
23
A/59/PV.8
rights  of  children  do  not  fall  under  a  statute  of
limitations and do we not need to extend the powers of
the  national  jurisdictions  by  providing  them  with
universal competence in that area?
The  Principality  of  Monaco  urges  you  to  give
thought to this, in other words, to plan for the adoption
of a legal instrument which will make it possible here,
to  react  against  the  impunity  which  continues  to
prevail, concerning the enrolment of child soldiers, the
sexual exploitation of children and the despicable trade
of which they are victims (cid:151) to mention only the most
revolting of those crimes.
to 
the 
reaffirm 
those  horrendous 
The debate held last June in the Security Council
served 
timely  nature  of  such
considerations. By abolishing the statute of limitations
for 
crimes,  we  would  be
strengthening their prevention, as well as fulfilling our
duty  to  honour  the  memory  of  the  victims.  By
expanding 
national
jurisdictions  so  that  borders  no  longer  serve  to  limit
our  actions,  we  will  be  better  able  to  cope  with  the
development  of  the  transnational  organized  crime
network  which  defies  our  States  and  the  legal  order
they are trying to establish.
competences 
the 
of 
our 
I  am  fully  aware  that  this  essentially  moral
struggle  (cid:151)  to  ensure  respect  for  the  rights  of  the
child  (cid:151)  gives  rise,  given 
the  present  state  of
international law, to numerous legal difficulties. But is
it not our duty to act when that legislation is no longer
adapted  to  meet  the  challenges  of  our  time,  at  a  time
when the international community is clearly closing its
unified  ranks,  to  put  an  end  to  those  practices  which
are abhorrent to all of us?
foresighted 
Let  us  be  courageous  and 
in
championing  the  most  noble  cause  that  exists  (cid:151)  the
defence  of  innocents.  Let  us  respond  to  the  appeal  of
Albert Einstein made so long ago that (cid:151) there will be
no progress in this world as long as there are unhappy
children.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Crown
Prince of the Principality of Monaco for the statement
he has just made.
Crown  Prince  Albert,  Crown  Prince  of 
the
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  from  the
rostrum.
24
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  G(cid:252)l,  Deputy  Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Turkey.
Mr.  G(cid:252)l  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  start  by
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session.  I
pledge  the  full  support  of  my  delegation  for  your
endeavours.  I  would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  your
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Julian  Hunte  for  his
able presidency.
We are world leaders at a time when our globe is
undergoing  an  important  phase  of  adaptation  to  new
realities, opportunities and challenges.
As the Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Kofi
Annan,  frequently  states,  we  now  possess  the  know-
how to address our common concerns. The Millennium
Summit,  which  was  the  largest  gathering  of  world
leaders,  produced  a  historical  document  (cid:151) 
the
Millennium  Declaration  (cid:151)  which  charts  the  right
course for humanity in the new millennium.
that 
The  goals 
the  Millennium  Declaration
defined  for  humanity  are  ambitious,  yet  achievable.
Reducing  hunger  and  extreme  poverty,  spreading
universal primary education, halting infectious diseases
and  reducing  child  mortality  within  15  years  continue
to be urgent tasks.
Universal  humanitarian  challenges  and  chronic
political-military  conflicts  are  compounded  with  new
and  asymmetrical  threats  such  as  terrorism,  narcotic
drugs, organized crime, the proliferation of weapons of
mass destruction and environmental problems.
On 
the  other  hand, 
racism,  anti-Semitism,
prejudicial  attitudes  against  the  tenets  of  certain  creeds
and cultures, among them those of Islam, and xenophobia
add fuel to those menaces. In addition, the special and
urgent  needs  of  the  African  continent  continue  to
require a collective response.
The United Nations system should be encouraged to
intensify its role in addressing those issues. Confidence in
the  international  order  and  in  international  institutions
should not be undermined. A more effective and credible
United  Nations  would  be  better  able  to  face  the
common  challenges  of  today.  The  Security  Council
should  have  a  more  representative  and  balanced
character;  indeed,  representation  in  the  Council  must
be inclusive  and  fair. That will increase its  legitimacy
and  efficiency.  In  that  respect,  I  would  like  to
commend the efforts of the Secretary-General.
The  correlation  between  good  governance  and
peace  and  prosperity  is  valid  both  domestically  and
internationally.  Therefore,  a  global  agenda  for  reform
should  cover  all  aspects  of  domestic  and  international
life. Each member of the international community has
a stake in, and responsibility for, the implementation of
such an agenda.
and 
our 
deepened 
democracy 
On  our  part,  my  Government,  fully  conscious  of
that correlation, has carried out sweeping political and
economic reforms in the past two years. We have thus
upgraded 
and
consolidated  an  accountable,  transparent  and  efficient
administration  and  a  dynamic  civil  society  upholding
the rule of law and human rights. The expectations of
our people, as well as the relevant United Nations and
European  Union  standards,  inspired  us  in  our  reform
drive. I take pride in the fact that many observers, both
in the west and in the east, have seen in our experience
the  perfect  embodiment  of  modernity,  progress,
identity and tradition.
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  confirm
Turkey(cid:146)s  candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the
Security Council for the term 2009-2010. In spite of its
substantial contributions to peace and security, Turkey
has not been a member of the Council for almost half a
century.  Therefore  we  rightfully  expect  the  support  of
the General Assembly for our candidacy.
Our bid for a non-permanent seat is in tune with
Turkey(cid:146)s  larger  efforts  to  secure  peace,  stability  and
security  in  its  region  and  beyond.  Turkey  figures
prominently in humanitarian activities, from Palestine to
Darfur. We have been contributing increasing numbers to
international  peacekeeping  missions  whose  geographical
distribution ranges from Bosnia to Afghanistan.
Turkey has a unique position as the only member
of  the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  that  is
also  a  candidate  for  membership  in  the  European
Union. That position enables us to facilitate interaction
and dialogue between the Islamic world and the West.
Turkey  has  numerous  achievements  to  its  credit
in  the  process  of  helping  to  create  an  environment
conducive to development, stability and progress in our
region  and  beyond.  The  Black  Sea  Economic
Cooperation,  the  Economic  Cooperation  Organization
and the Stability Pact are good examples to that effect.
A/59/PV.8
My  Government  has  been  taking  a  peaceful  and
problem-solving  approach  to  world  affairs.  On  the
chronic 
issue  of  Cyprus,  my  Government  fully
supported  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan(cid:146)s  good-
offices  mission,  and  we  cooperated  closely  with  him.
The Secretary-General(cid:146)s settlement plan was the result
of  four  years  of  serious  negotiations  between  the  two
sides.  They  were  conducted  on  the  basis  of  a  new
bi-zonal  partnership  with  a  federal  Government  and
two  constituent  States.  The  plan  was  put  to  separate
referendums,  with  the  prior  agreement  of  all  parties
concerned.  The  Annan  plan  was  overwhelmingly
accepted  by  the  Turkish  Cypriots,  but  the  Greek
Cypriot leadership chose to reject it.
Mr.  Sevilla  Somoza  (Nicaragua),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
I profoundly regret the fact that an opportunity to
resolve  the  longstanding  problem  of  Cyprus  was  thus
missed. As a result, a chance to grant fresh credibility
to  the  United  Nations  was  lost.  A  possible  source  of
inspiration  for  peacemakers  elsewhere,  in  the  Middle
East or the Caucasus, also disappeared.
in  his  report 
The  Secretary-General, 
the
Security  Council,  clearly  stated  that  the  referendums
drastically  changed  the  situation  on  the  island.  It
confirmed, once again, the existence of two equal peoples
and their separate rights to decide their own fate.
to 
The  Secretary-General  also  called  on 
members of the Security Council to
the
in 
impeding 
international  bodies, 
(cid:147)give a strong lead to all States to cooperate both
bilaterally  and 
to
eliminate  unnecessary  restrictions  and  barriers
that  have  the  effect  of  isolating  the  Turkish
Cypriots  and 
their  development(cid:148)
(S/2004/437, p. 2).
Turkey remains committed to a lasting settlement
in Cyprus. Five months have passed since the Turkish
Cypriots,  responding  to  the  call  of  the  international
community, voted courageously in favour of the United
Nations  plan.  However,  they  have  yet  to  be  rewarded
for expressing their will to reunify the island. We urge
the  Security  Council  positively  to  respond  to  the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  call.  We  also  appeal  to  United
Nations  Member  States  to  take  concrete  steps,  at  the
bilateral  level,  to  put  an  end  to  the  isolation  and
punishment  of  the  people  of  the  Turkish  Republic  of
Northern Cyprus.
25
A/59/PV.8
Turkey  has  been  strongly  supporting,  and  will
continue  to  support,  the  preservation  of  peace  and
stability in south-east Europe.
We are glad to note that considerable progress has
been  achieved  in  this  region  thanks  to  the  sustained
efforts  of  the  international  community  and  of  the
Balkan countries themselves.
Turkey is determined to sustain the promising and
constructive  atmosphere  in  our  relations  with  Greece.
We  hope  that  the  improvement  in  bilateral  relations
will  continue  in  the  coming  period.  Our  wide-ranging
cooperation  is  expanding  in  every  field.  That  will
facilitate  the  settlement  of  all  pending  issues.  It  will
also result in a climate of cooperation beneficial to the
two countries, as well as peace, stability and security in
the region as a whole.
towards  eliminating 
Turkey believes that it is high time to start taking
concrete  steps 
the  existing
(cid:147)frozen(cid:148)  conflicts  in  the  southern  Caucasus,  such  as
those 
in  Nagorno-Karabakh,  Abkhazia  and  South
Ossetia.  As  a  neighbouring  country,  we  are  actively
contributing to efforts aimed at achieving stability and
prosperity  in  that  region.  To  that  end,  we  have  been
encouraging all the parties concerned while facilitating
the  ongoing  process  of  dialogue.  We  hope  that  the
Abkhazian  conflict  and the problems  in  South  Ossetia
will  be  overcome  by  peaceful  means,  within  the
framework  of  the  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty
of Georgia.
My  Government  supports  a  just  and  lasting
solution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict on the basis
of  the  fundamental  principles  of  international  law,  the
territorial integrity of Azerbaijan and good-neighbourly
relations. We expect the Armenian Government to fully
comply with the relevant United Nations resolutions to
reach such a solution.
The Middle East problem and the situation in Iraq
and Afghanistan are the major conflicts responsible for
compounding instability in the world and are leading to
increasingly serious consequences.
The road map is the only available framework for
a  comprehensive  settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian
problem.  Benefiting  from  its  traditional  ties  with  the
parties,  Turkey  has  already  offered 
its  active
contribution to the implementation of the road map. We
also  support  every  effort 
initiated  and
coordinated in that context.
that 
is 
26
We  join  the  call  made  by  the  Quartet  yesterday.
The resumption of the negotiating process between the
two  parties  should  remain  the  central  objective  of
current efforts. It is important, likewise, that both sides
fulfil their performance criteria as laid out in the road
map.  Terrorist  attacks  against  the  Israeli  people  must
stop.  So  must  the  deliberate  destruction  of  Palestinian
lives  and  properties.  The  process  of  the  reform  of
Palestinian 
institutions  must  be  advanced.  Israeli
settlement  activities  must  be  immediately  halted.  The
ruling  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  must  be
respected. And the living conditions of the Palestinians
need to be urgently improved.
Any  settlement  would  be  incomplete  without
progress on all tracks, including those involving Syria
and Lebanon.
My Government is focused on contributing to the
improvement of the situation in Iraq. We appreciate the
massive  resources  and  political  efforts  mobilized  by
the  United  States  Administration  and  the  international
community for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
Iraq. We sincerely hope those efforts yield the desired
results  soon.  However,  the  humanitarian,  political  and
security  difficulties  faced  by  the  people  of  Iraq
continue  to  adversely  affect  one  another.  It  goes
without  saying  that  developments  in  Iraq  are  also
affecting  my  country  and  causing  suffering  for  my
people, while, as we are a neighbouring country, most
of  Iraq(cid:146)s  humanitarian  needs  are  being  supplied
through Turkey.
The  Iraqi  transition  is  not  only  about  the  fate  of
the  Iraqi  nation.  It  is  about  the  future  of  peace  and
prosperity  in  the  whole  region  and  beyond.  That  is  the
motive  for  Turkey(cid:146)s  strong  support  of  a  united,
territorially intact and democratic Iraq (cid:151) an Iraq that is at
peace  with  itself  and  with  its  neighbours.  That  should
and can only be achieved with the full participation and
support  of  the  Iraqi  people  as  a  whole.  More  United
Nations  involvement  would  facilitate  that  task.  The
series of neighbouring countries meetings, initiated by
Turkey,  is  also  a  valuable  instrument  to  be  taken  into
account.  After  all,  as  Iraq(cid:146)s  success  will  be  our
collective  success,  so  its  failure  will  also  be  a
collective failure. For its part, Turkey will continue to
support  the  Iraqi  interim  Government(cid:146)s  efforts  in
paving the way to normalcy and democracy.
Turkey(cid:146)s 
the  Afghan
people  will  continue.  The  establishment  of  security,
traditional  support  for 
task.  Freeing 
stability  and  a  democratic  system  in  Afghanistan  is
another  urgent 
from
terrorism,  extremism  and  narcotics 
is  of  crucial
importance for the international community. We should
all work to  make  the  upcoming  elections  a  significant
step towards those ends.
that  country 
We all agree that terrorism has no justification. It
can  never  claim  to  respect  any  religion,  nation  or
cause.  Indiscriminate  killing  of  innocent  people,  be  it
in New York, Istanbul, Baghdad, Beslan or elsewhere,
is  a  crime  against  humanity.  We  condemn  those
terrorist atrocities in the strongest terms.
that  has 
As  a  country 
long  suffered  from
terrorism, Turkey calls for more intensified multilateral
cooperation.  The  United  Nations  system 
is  an
important  platform  in  that  respect  and  we  extend  our
full support to efforts under its aegis.
We  also  strongly  believe  in  the  urgent  need  to
strengthen  the  control  regimes  for  weapons  of  mass
destruction  and 
their  delivery  systems.  We  will
continue  to  support  ongoing  work  to  ensure  full
adherence  to  the  legal  instruments  in  that  field.  The
creation  of  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  is  an  important
way  of  strengthening  peace  and  security  in  the  world
and in all regions, including the Middle East.
Turkey  is  determined  to  use  every  effort  and
deploy  all  the  means  at  its  disposal  in  order  to
strengthen  peace  and  stability  in  its  immediate  region
and  beyond.  We  will  try  to  use  the  influence  of  our
multidimensional  ties  and  deep-rooted  relations  to
achieve  that  goal.  We  remain  strongly  committed  to
translating  into  reality  the  universal  validity  of  the
noble  values  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  United
Nations Charter.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call on Her Excellency Mrs. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria.
Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner (Austria): I should like to
begin  by  congratulating  Mr.  Jean  Ping  on  his  election
as  President  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  He  may  be  sure  that  Austria  will  fully
support him in carrying out his important task.
I  fully  subscribe  to  the  statement  made  by  the
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Netherlands  on
behalf  of  the  European  Union,  which  expressed  the
position  of  the  European  Union  regarding  the  various
global and regional challenges we face today. I would
A/59/PV.8
like to emphasize a few additional points from our own
perspective.
Over the past few years we have had to reassess
key concepts of our national and international security
environment. With the emergence of new and complex
threats, in particular terrorism in combination with the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  the
international 
unprecedented
challenges 
legitimate
responses.  Just  recently,  we  witnessed  the  horrifying
terrorist  attack  against  innocent  school  children  in
Beslan.  This  was  only  the  last  of  a  whole  series  of
heinous  attacks  in  all  regions  of  the  world  targeted
against innocents.
community 
for  which 
faces 
to 
it  has 
find 
Austria  is  committed  to  full  cooperation  with
other  States  and  United  Nations  bodies  involved  in
counter-terrorism and is working to promote the whole
range  of  United  Nations  action  against  terrorism.  In
Vienna, the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime
and its Terrorism Prevention Branch make an important
contribution by rendering assistance to Member States
legislation  required  by
in 
Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  and 
in
building their national capacity to do so.
implementing  national 
is 
Austria 
convinced 
that  only 
effective
multilateralism based on the rule of law can address the
new  and  complex  challenges  that  the  international
community  faces  today.  We  support  the  efforts  of  the
Quartet in the Middle East peace process, and we urge
Israel  and 
their
respective obligations. The road map remains the only
way forward towards a just, comprehensive and lasting
settlement  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  leading  to  two
States living side by side in peace and security.
the  Palestinians 
implement 
to 
The  United  Nations  continues  to  play  a  key  role
in  South-Eastern  Europe,  especially  in  Kosovo.  We
welcome  the  recent  appointment  of  Mr.  Słren  Jessen-
Petersen as Special Representative for Kosovo. In that
regard, within the European Union, the countries of the
regional  partnership  (cid:151)  the  Czech  Republic,  Hungary,
Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and my country, Austria (cid:151)
presented  concrete  proposals  with  regard  to  security,
economic  development,  decentralization  and 
the
protection  of  minorities  and  of  religious  sites.  We  are
confident  that  they  can  contribute  to  progress  in
Kosovo.
International  and  regional  efforts  are  essential  if
we  are  to  contain  and  resolve  the  various  conflicts  in
27
A/59/PV.8
other  regions  of  the  world.  The  dramatic  situation  in
Darfur highlights the need for better harmonization of the
international efforts of the United Nations, the African
Union, the EU, the  League of  Arab  States,  the  United
States  and  other  actors.  We  will  have  to  examine
carefully the results of the current mission to Darfur of
the new Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide
and the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Such  missions  and  mechanisms  are  indeed  the
tools that the United Nations needs if it is to effectively
address  emerging  crisis  situations.  Strengthening  the
rule of law, human rights, democratic participation and
economic  development  will  reduce  the  chance  of
conflicts  within  societies  and  among  States  turning
violent.  In  order  to  be  a  credible  player,  the  United
Nations  must  be  given  the  necessary  institutional
framework to enact effective strategies at all stages of
a conflict.
Austria 
therefore  welcomed 
the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s call for reform, in particular his initiative to
establish  a  High-Level  Panel  of  eminent  persons  to
propose  specific  measures  for  institutional  innovation
by  the  end  of  the  year.  I  was  happy  to  meet  with  the
members  of  the  Panel  when  it  held  its  meeting  in
Austria earlier this year.
One  item  on  the  Panel(cid:146)s  agenda  is  Security
Council  reform.  Austria,  like  many  other  countries,  is
concerned  about 
the
Council(cid:146)s current composition on the one hand, and the
changing  political,  economic  and  social  reality  of  the
community of nations on the other.
the  growing  gap  between 
It 
is  essential 
to  enlarge  and  balance 
the
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as  to
increase  its  transparency.  In  order  for  all  peoples  to
identify  with  its  decisions,  we  must  ensure  that  the
Security  Council  is  a  body  that  truly  reflects  the
diversity  of  the  world(cid:146)s  cultures  and  regions  by  an
improved  representation  of  regions  such  as  Africa,
Asia and Latin America.
As you know, Sir, it is my personal vision that, in
the  longer  term,  the  European  Union  should  also  be
represented  in  the  Security  Council.  I  pointed  out
during  the  general  debate  last  year  that  that  would  be
the logical consequence of further European integration
in the field of common foreign and security policy.
The  United  Nations  has  been  at  the  centre  of
Austria(cid:146)s  foreign  policy  since  we  became  a  Member
28
after regaining our full independence in 1955. We have
always strongly supported  the  principles  and  purposes
of the United Nations, and we remain committed to the
goals of the Charter.
Austria feels honoured and privileged to host one
of  the  headquarters  of  the  United  Nations.  This  year,
we celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of  the  opening
of the Vienna International Centre, home to many United
Nations  institutions.  The  work  of  the  International
Atomic Energy Agency and the Preparatory Committee
of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty
Organization with respect to nuclear non-proliferation;
the work of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization  on  development  cooperation;  and  the
fight against the so-called uncivil society by the United
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  contribute
substantially to the international community(cid:146)s efforts to
confront the world(cid:146)s new security threats.
In this spirit of full and honest commitment to the
United Nations, I would like to recall that Austria is a
candidate  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security
Council  for  the  term  2009-2010.  Our  candidature,
announced over five years ago  (cid:151) in 1999 (cid:151) is based
on  our  willingness 
to  contribute  actively  and
constructively  to  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security.  We  fully  recognize  the  heavy
responsibility  which  Security  Council  membership
entails and we are ready to assume it.
Over  the  past  50  years,  Austria  has  sought  to
contribute effectively to the work of the United Nations,
in  particular  in  the  fields  of  peace  and  security,  human
rights,  development,  disarmament  and  international
law. We are a significant contributor to United Nations
peacekeeping  operations  and  have  traditionally  been
among  the  largest  European  troop  contributors.  Since
1963, over 50,000 Austrians have served in more than
50 United Nations missions worldwide.
Security, as we see it, means human security. It is
the kind of security that  all human beings are looking
for, among them millions of civilians in all parts of the
world  affected  by  armed  conflict  (cid:151)  the  majority  of
them  women  and  children  (cid:151)  and  40  million  people
living  with  the  HIV  virus.  Human  security  transcends
the  concept  of  hard  threats  and  soft  threats.  If  we  see
those  threats  through  the  prism  of  the  human  beings
concerned,  it  becomes  clear  that  for  the  afflicted
individual, all such threats (cid:151) war, hunger, terrorism or
deadly disease (cid:151) deprive them of their security.
Austria  is  honoured  to  chair  the  first  Review
Conference  of  States  Parties  to  the  Anti-personnel
Mine-Ban Convention in Nairobi later this year, where
the international community will chart a course for the
solution of the landmine problem in the coming years.
The Mine-Ban Convention has become a true example
of  a  successful  and  effective  multilateral  approach  to
address  a  global  problem.  I  encourage  all  States  to
participate  at  the  Nairobi  Summit  at  the  highest
possible level.
As a member of the Human Security Network, we
cooperate with others to promote human security in the
world.  To  provide  one  concrete  example,  Austria  (cid:151)
together  with  Slovenia  and  Jordan  (cid:151)  initiated  and
funded an aid project for traumatized children in Iraq. I
am  convinced 
that  applying  a  human  security
perspective to international problems  has the potential
of  preventing  or  resolving  conflict  and  promoting
peace and development.
We  also  need  to  reflect  further  on  how  best  to
ensure respect for human rights during conflict, how to
incorporate  human  rights  into  preventive  policies  and
how  to  formulate  post-conflict  strategies  likely  to
achieve lasting reconciliation and build a firm basis for
the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance.  In  that  respect,
human  rights  education  is  an  important  element  in
getting to the root of conflict and breaking the vicious
circle of human rights violations.
to 
tends 
Violence  between  ethnic  groups  and  religious
communities has shaken countries across the globe. In
particular, the disregard for the needs and the rights of
minorities 
fuel  violent  conflict.  Our
endeavours for the protection of the rights of minorities
are  still  highly  needed,  not  the  least  to  ensure  that
ethnic  cleansing  or  genocide  will  never  happen  again.
We know that the Secretary-General feels very strongly
about the need for speed of action to prevent the most
heinous crimes. I share his concerns.
The  Austrian  Government  is  convinced  that  it  is
an essential responsibility of the United Nations and its
Member  States  to  address  the  root  causes  of  conflict.
Global  poverty,  inequality,  competition  for  scarce
resources, environmental degradation and the spread of
infectious diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, are among the
ingredients  that  fuel  the  outbreak  of  conflicts  both
within countries and among States.
The  Austrian  Development  Policy  has  placed  a
particular  focus  on  poverty  reduction,  maintenance  of
A/59/PV.8
peace  and  the  protection  of  the  environment.  I  am
pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  Austria  has
increased its development aid by 35 per cent this year.
In the area of environment and sustainable energy, we
have  initiated  and  promoted  the  Global  Forum  for
Sustainable Energy, which aims at providing access to
energy for people in developing countries. We consider
issues  such  as  climate  change, 
the  decline  of
biodiversity  and  other 
forms  of  environmental
degradation  as  essential  aspects  of  our  comprehensive
security agenda.
Let  me  finally  highlight  an  issue  which  the
Secretary-General made a central theme of his address
to  the  General  Assembly.  The  key  guarantee  for
creating  and  maintaining  peace  and  security  in  the
world has been and will continue to be an international
system based on the rule of law. This was the very idea
of the founders of the United Nations.
I  particularly  welcome  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
pledge  two  days  ago  that  he  will  make  the  United
Nations  work  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  and
transitional 
in  conflict  and  post-conflict
societies  a  priority  for  the  remainder  of  his  tenure.
Particularly for smaller and medium sized countries, an
international  order  based  on  the  rule  of  law  is  of
paramount importance.
justice 
With this in mind, I would like to announce today
that  I  have  launched  a  discourse  on  the  role  and
function  of  the  Security  Council  in  strengthening  a
rules-based  international  system.  As  a  first  step,  we
will  organize  in  November  a  panel  of  international
legal  experts  during  International  Law  Week  at
Headquarters,  which  will  analyse  the  increasing  law-
making tendency of the Security Council.
This  is  my  last  speech  as  Austrian  Foreign
Minister.  As  you  may  know,  I  have  been  nominated
Commissioner  of  the  European  Union  for  External
Relations  and  European  Neighbourhood  Policy.  This
function will, of course, keep me in close contact with
many Assembly delegates and with the United Nations.
I would therefore like to use this opportunity today to
thank  all  colleagues,  members  of  delegations  and,  in
particular,  the  Secretariat,  in  which  I  myself  had  the
honour to work, for the support that has been extended
to  me  and  my  staff  here  in  New  York  over  the  past
years. A special and warm expression of gratitude and
respect  goes  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan.  To  the
President  of  the  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  extend  my
29
A/59/PV.8
best  wishes  for  a  successful  and  constructive  fifty-
ninth session of the General Assembly.
(spoke 
Mr.  Lavrov
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Sergey Lavrov, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.
(Russian  Federation) 
in
Russian): I am addressing the Assembly today at a most
difficult time for our country, when tears are still being
shed  by  those  who  lost  their  children  and  loved  ones
during the horrific terrorist attack in the Russian city of
Beslan.  I  would  like  from  this  rostrum  to  take  this
opportunity  to  express  once  again  my  gratitude  to  all
those  who  have  shown  their  solidarity  with  Russia  in
these tragic days. Our special thanks go to the States and
international  organizations  that  extended  their  helping
hand to the victims and the bereaved families (cid:151) to all
those who have suffered from this outrage.
to 
the 
remaining  as 
I  am  also  addressing  the  Assembly  at  a  moment
of  truth,  when  there  cannot  possibly  be  any  doubt
whatever 
true  nature  of
international  terrorism  and  the  challenge  it  has  flung
down  before  the  world  community.  With  their  actions
throughout  the  world,  the  terrorists  have  once  and  for
all  placed 
to  civilized
mankind.  In  fact,  having  made  the  mass  murder  of
people  an  end  in  itself,  they  have  knowingly  violated
all norms of human morality.
in  opposition 
themselves 
Russia  has  drawn  harsh  conclusions.  They  have
been set forth in the 4 and 13 September addresses by
the  President  of  the  Russian  Federation,  Vladimir  V.
Putin.  We  will  not  allow  anyone  to  encroach  on  the
sovereignty of our State. We will resolutely strengthen
the  unity  of  the  country  and  its  people  in  order  to
counter terror and to guarantee a secure and decent life
for our citizens in freedom and democracy.
to  achieve 
the  basis  of  our 
The  measures  announced  by 
the  Russian
these  objectives  will  be
President 
implemented  on 
country(cid:146)s
Constitution;  and  we  will  continue  to  defend  our
legitimate  interests  throughout  the  world,  not  through
confrontation,  but  by  means  of  equitable  dialogue,
cooperation  and  partnership.  Moreover,  a  readiness  to
engage  in  honest  cooperation  in  fighting  terrorism
without  double  standards,  is  becoming  one  of  the  key
criteria in our relations with any and all States.
We must enter into a qualitatively new and critical
stage  in  the  activities  of  the  anti-terrorist  coalition.  The
30
the 
strong  determination  of 
the  Security  Council  of  1  September
meeting  of 
demonstrated 
the
international  community  to  continue  its  fight  against
terrorism  in  a  consistent  way.  It  is  important  now  to
translate  this  commitment  into  practical  actions  as
quickly as possible.
In  the  three  years  that  have  passed  since  the
terrorist  attacks  in  New  York  City  and  Washington,  a
lot  has  been  done  to  develop  effective  partnership  in
this  sphere.  However,  compared  to  the  scale  of  the
threat, far from enough has been done. It is important
to  learn  lessons  from  the  experience  gained  and  to
draw conclusions for the future.
First, the global nature of the terrorist threat testifies
to  the  fact  that  security  in  today(cid:146)s  world  is  indivisible.
Consequently,  only  collective  responsibility  can  make
the  world  secure.  The  fight  against  terrorism  should
unite States rather than pit them against each other. We
can  deal  with  this  evil  only  on  a  multilateral  basis  by
combining our efforts and acting in the spirit of solidarity.
As  President  Putin  has  declared,  Russia  considers  the
objective of strengthening the anti-terrorist coalition to
be one of our most important tasks.
A  special  emphasis  here  should  be  placed  on
intensifying  the  cooperation  among  our  special  services,
which,  we  are  convinced,  must  now  be  raised  to  a
qualitatively new level of trust and coordinated action.
Secondly,  a  clear  strategy  and  a  generally
acceptable  legal  framework  are  the  prerequisites  for
success  in  combating  terrorism.  Such  a  framework  is
enshrined  in  resolution  1373  (2001)  and  in  other
decisions of the Security Council. But now, additional
efforts  are  needed.  They  include  making  necessary
amendments 
to
international  anti-terrorist  conventions  and  finalizing
new international counter-terrorism legal instruments.
legislation,  acceding 
to  national 
In  circumstances  where  international  terrorism
has  declared  war  on  our  entire  civilization, 
the
determination  of  States  to  use  their  right  of  self-
defence  in  conformity  with  Article  51  of  the  United
Nations Charter is of particular importance. Of course
international  law  is  clearly  not  an  inalterable  dogma.
The  fight  against  terrorism  calls  for  its  development
and improvement.
Thirdly,  the  time  has  come  to  renounce  double
standards  once  and  for  all  when  it  comes  to  terror,
regardless  of  the  slogans  in  which  it  may  be  cloaked.
Those who slaughtered children in Beslan and hijacked
aeroplanes to attack America are creatures of the same
ilk.
Harbouring  terrorists,  their  henchmen  and  their
sponsors  undermines  unity  and  mutual  trust  among
those that form part of the anti-terrorist front, serves as
justification  for  the  actions  of  terrorists  and  indeed
encourages  them  to  commit  similar  crimes  in  other
countries. I would recall that United Nations decisions
require  States  granting  political  asylum  to  carefully
examine  the  personal  records  of  each  individual  to
make  sure  that  he  or  she  has  no  links  to  terrorism.
Attempts  to  use  the  fight  against  terrorism  in  various
geopolitical  games  are  even  more  counterproductive
and dangerous.
Fourth,  the  utter  atrociousness  of  the  recent
terrorist  attacks  proves  there  is  the  need  for  reliable
safeguards against terrorists gaining access to weapons
of mass destruction. Russia is prepared for the closest
kind  of  international  partnership  in  that  area.  Our
country  was  one  of  the  sponsors  of  Security  Council
resolution  1540  (2004).  It  is  a  participant  in  the
Proliferation Security Initiative and a co-sponsor of the
Group  of  Eight 
(G-8)  Action  Plan  on  Non-
Proliferation. Those initiatives are complementary and
are designed to increase the effectiveness of the regime of
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
something which is especially relevant on the eve of the
2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
Fifth, drug trafficking is increasingly interwoven
with  terrorism.  The  drug  flow  from  Afghanistan  has
acquired  global  significance.  The  implementation  of  a
set of social, economic and law-enforcement measures
both  within  and  outside  the  borders  of  that  country  is
now more urgent than ever. One of the key elements of
that strategy lies in strengthening the existing anti-drug
security belts and creating new ones.
Russia 
is  making  an 
formulation  of  specific 
important  contribution
towards resolving the drug problem, including through
the 
legal,  political  and
operational  measures  within  the  framework  of  the
Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Collective
Security Treaty Organization (CSTO). We are ready to
coordinate 
of
Afghanistan,  and  with  the  multinational  and  coalition
forces operating in that country.
the  Government 
actions  with 
A/59/PV.8
Sixth, 
international 
terrorists  have  neither
nationality  nor  religion.  In  fact,  it  is  specifically
religion  and  national  culture  that,  today  as  never
before,  require  protection  from  the  devastating  impact
of  extremism  of  any  kind.  There  is  a  need  for
respectful  dialogue  among  various  religions  and
civilizations.  Russia,  which  is  open  both  to  the  West
and to the East, is ready to play its part in that process,
which is intended to prevent a split in civilization.
it  essential 
Another  pressing  task  today  is  the  saving  of
world spiritual and cultural monuments from attacks by
extremists.  We  deem 
to  establish
cooperation  in  that  area  between  the  United  Nations
and  its  specialized  agencies,  primarily  the  United
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural
Organization (UNESCO). Failing to act here (cid:151) as well
as  standing  by 
the  desecration  of
memorials  to  Second  World  War  heroes  and  victims
and at attempts to rehabilitate fascists (cid:151) can only play
into  the  hands  of  those  who  wish  to  incite  extremist
trends in society.
in  silence  at 
Scientific 
Seventh, Russia believes that the United Nations
must  continue  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in  uniting  the
efforts  of  the  international  community  in  its  fight
against  terrorism.  As  Chair  of  the  Security  Council(cid:146)s
Counter-Terrorism  Committee  (CTC),  our  country
intends to actively contribute to speeding up the reform
of that Committee. We propose drafting a new Security
Council resolution that would ensure the most effective
possible functioning of the CTC, so as to identify, in a
timely  manner,  weak 
the  anti-terrorism
network and increase practical cooperation between the
CTC  and  international  and  regional  organizations,
including  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent  States
(CIS), 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization.
the  CSTO  and 
links 
in 
The  CIS  summit  held 
in  Astana,
Kazakhstan,  reaffirmed  the  strong  potential  of  CIS
regional  structures  in  all  areas,  from  anti-terrorist
activities 
to
intensifying economic integration.
collective 
ensuring 
recently 
security 
and 
in  an 
Certainly, 
increasingly 
interdependent
world,  the  war  on  terrorism  cannot  be  considered  in
isolation  from  other  pressing  issues  facing  mankind.
This 
the  settlement  of
conflicts,  which  for  decades  have  been  destabilizing
the situation at the regional and global levels. Through
its  decisions,  the  General  Assembly  must  promote  a
is  especially  relevant 
to 
31
A/59/PV.8
Middle  East  settlement  on  the  basis  of  commitments
made by the parties under the road map. Yesterday, the
Quartet of international mediators spoke out to that end.
accordance with the decision of President Vladimir V.
Putin  we  are  now  engaged  in  serious  consideration  of
ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.
is  ready 
The  situation  in  Iraq  is  a  source  of  serious
concern.  Russia 
to  render  all  possible
assistance  towards  attaining  a  political  settlement
aimed  at  preserving  Iraq(cid:146)s  territorial  integrity  and
ensuring  its  political  sovereignty  and  a  genuinely
democratic  post-war  recovery.  The  search  for  national
reconciliation  within  Iraq  is  of  key  significance;  here,
the  Iraqis  could  be  assisted  by  the  holding  of  an
international  conference  with  the  participation  of  all
major  Iraqi  political  forces,  friendly  States,  Security
Council  members  and  the  League  of  Arab  States  and
other organizations.
We  must  remain  vigilant  with  regard  to  Kosovo,
which  is  a  dangerous  hotbed  of  tension.  There  is  no
room  for  complacency.  We  must  work  to  ensure  that
universally  recognized  standards  of  human  rights  and
the  rights  of  national  minorities  are  applied  in  the
region.  We  also  need  to  make  full  use  of  existing
mechanisms for conflict settlement within the CIS.
Consolidating  the  peacemaking  capacity  of  the
international  community  is  crucial  to  overcoming
regional  crises.  A  collective  response  to  humanitarian
crises,  in  particular  those  on  the  African  continent,  in
full compliance with the United Nations Charter and in
a  spirit  of  partnership  with  regional  structures,  would
leave  no  doubt  that  the  Charter  remains  a  universal
basis for the effective solution of such problems.
The  United  Nations  must  continue  to  focus  its
attention  on  other  global  threats  to  security  and
sustainable  development  as  well.  Those  include  the
eradication  of  poverty  and  illiteracy  as  a  breeding
ground  for  extremism.  Annually,  our  country  grants
1,000 scholarships to students from African  countries.
Russia has contributed $7.5 million to the Global Fund
to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  and  has
provided bilateral humanitarian assistance to a number
of African countries.
Among  the  challenges  and  threats  is  that  of
finding ways to bridge  the  gap  between  poor  and  rich
States.  Russia  has  been  making  its  contribution  there;
between 1998 and 2002 it wrote off the debt of African
countries equivalent to $11.2 billion.
is  ensuring  environmental
like 
in
to  confirm 
that 
Another  challenge 
security.  Here  I  would 
32
include  preventing 
The  challenges  also 
the
transformation  of  outer  space  into  a  theatre  of  armed
confrontation. Together with China, we are calling for the
conclusion of a comprehensive agreement to that end. We
call upon all countries with space capability to join in that
initiative.  There  is  also  a  growing  need  to  elaborate  a
United Nations convention on outer space law.
A  further  challenge  is  the  fight  against  gross
violations of human rights, with a view to ensuring the
security  and  dignity  of  the  individual.  The  United
Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in  Europe, 
the  Council  of  Europe  and  other
organizations  should  not  remain  passive  spectators
when,  in  some  countries,  a  considerable  part  of  the
population is deprived of citizenship and consequently
of basic political, social and economic rights.
On  Russia(cid:146)s  initiative,  the  General  Assembly,  at
its  fifty-seventh  and  fifty-eighth  sessions,  adopted
resolutions  57/145  and  58/16 
respectively,  on
establishing,  under  the  aegis  of  the  United  Nations,  a
comprehensive approach to countering new threats and
challenges. The resolutions contain specific guidelines
for  bringing  the  international  community  closer  to  a
new  security  model  that  would  meet  the  global
challenges of the twenty-first century.
Those  are  the  lines  along  which  the  High-level
Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change,  established
by  the  Secretary-General,  is  organizing  its  work.  We
hope that its recommendations will pave the way for a
genuine enhancement of the effectiveness of the United
Nations. At the same time, reform of the Organization,
and  particularly  of  the  Security  Council,  should  be
based  on  the  broadest  possible  agreement  and  should
not provoke the alienation of States.
The  international  community  is  undergoing  a
complex period in its establishment of a new system of
international relations. It is already clear that this will
be  a  long-term  process  with  an  uncertain  future  and
one that, so far, is difficult to predict. At the same time,
there  is  an  enormous  increase  in  the  number  of  new
unresolved problems and new dangerous challenges to
security and the development of mankind. We still lack
a  collective  strategy  and  universally  applicable
mechanisms for responding to those challenges. In fact,
we  have  to  constantly  improvise  and  use  makeshift
means to ensure world stability.
A  question  arises  as  to  whether  we  could  soon
find ourselves in a situation in which events start to go
out  of  control.  Is  it  not  time  for  the  international
community to assume an active role in impacting upon
global  processes  and 
to
establish a more secure and just world order? Russia is
fully  determined,  together  with  other  countries,  to
build  such  a  world  order  and  take  its  proper  place
therein as a free and democratic State.
targeted  actions 
taking 
More than half a century ago, the civilized world
put aside all its disputes and differences and mobilized
its  efforts  to  counter  the  deadly  threat  of  Nazi
enslavement.  The  enemy  that  opposes  us  today  is  no
less dangerous and no less merciless. Russia sincerely
hopes  that  the  forthcoming  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
end  of  World  War  II  and  the  establishment  of  the
United Nations will become a historic milestone on the
path to a world order in which the twenty-first century
sees  the  noble  principles  of  peace,  stability  and
development  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter
hold sway.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call  on  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable  Jack
Straw,  Secretary 
and
Commonwealth  Affairs  of  the  United  Kingdom  of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
for  Foreign 
of  State 
Mr.  Straw  (United  Kingdom):  Mr.  President,  I
offer  my  congratulations  and  those  of  my  country  on
your election as President  of the General Assembly at
its fifty-ninth session.
Eighteen  months  ago,  the  United  Nations  faced
divisions  more  serious  than  any  since  the  Cuban
missile crisis of October 1962. We all worried whether
the strength and unity which we had built up since the
end of the cold war could survive.
Then last year we watched, as Secretary-General
Kofi Annan stood at his now famous fork in the road.
In the year since, almost instinctively, we have decided
to  follow  our  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  directions.  This
Organization has not been plunged, as some predicted,
into  paralysis;  instead,  I  have  felt  a  powerful  if
unspoken  determination  to  make  the  United  Nations
work, and to work more effectively, to fulfil its central
task: to secure peace around the world.
A/59/PV.8
Over the last 12 months we have dealt with new
crises  such  as  that  in  Darfur  in  the  Sudan,  where  we
have set clear tasks for both the Sudanese Government
and the rebel groups. We have tackled the situation in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Great
Lakes;  mobilized  international  support  for  the  new
Iraq;  and  addressed  a  long  list  of  hugely  important
subjects which rarely receive the coverage they should
in 
the  media  (cid:151)  Haiti,  Georgia,  Timor-Leste,
Bougainville and Western Sahara.
We  have  shown  in  those  actions  the  unity  of
purpose  which  is  one  of  the  strongest  weapons  in  our
hands to defeat the evils which today affect the globe.
And the search for consensus has not been confined to
the Security Council.
I  am  proud  that  just  a  few  months  after  the
difficult times of early last year, France, Germany and
the  United  Kingdom  came  together  to  work,  as  we
continue 
the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
the  Iran  dossier  before 
to  do,  on 
I  recognize,  of  course,  the  frustrations  which  all
of  us  feel,  not  least  over  the  Israel-Palestine  conflict,
where  the  clear  path  to  peace  set  out  in  the  road  map
and endorsed by the Security Council remains elusive.
But all in all we have shown the will to make collective
action work, though we know, too, that we need to go
further.
In  particular,  we  need  to  get  better  at  tackling
threats  which  have  changed  dramatically  since  the
founding  of  the  United  Nations.  Today  the  greatest
threats  to  our  security  often  come  not  from  other
functioning  sovereign  States,  but 
terrorist
organizations,  from  failing  States  and  from  man-made
shocks to  our environment like  climate change, which
can  exacerbate  State 
internal
instability.
failure  and  breed 
from 
the  Secretary-General 
The High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and
Change  appointed  by 
is
preparing its recommendations on ways to address the
various challenges. We should remember in all this that
we  have  one  great  advantage.  Though  its  institutions
and  the  founding  text  of  the  Charter  has  hardly
changed  in  60  years,  the  United  Nations  is  not  an
organization set in stone, but a set of living institutions
based  on  a  shared  will  to  make  collective  security
work.  The  United  Nations  has  adapted  in  the  past  (cid:151)
with the development of peacekeeping, a greater focus
on individual rights and the setting of global targets for
33
A/59/PV.8
development (cid:151) and I am confident that it can adapt in
the future.
time.  Today 
Of course, institutional change is part of that. At
the  United  Nations  foundation,  one  eighth  of  its
members  could  expect  to  be  elected  members  of  the
Security  Council  at  any  one 
that
proportion  is  less  than  one  eighteenth.  The  United
Kingdom  has  long  supported  the  case  for  expanding
the  Security  Council  to,  say,  24  members,  and  for
including  amongst  the  permanent  members:  Germany
and  Japan, 
them
contribute  28  per  cent  of  the  budget  of  the  United
Nations; India, which represents one sixth of the entire
world(cid:146)s  population;  and  Brazil,  which  just  missed
permanent membership back in 1945.
two  countries  which  between 
But  we  should  not  see  an  expansion  of  the
Security  Council,  or  other  institutional  change,  as  a
panacea.  The  biggest  need  is  to  adapt  our  common
understanding  (cid:151)  the  United  Nations  jurisprudence,  if
you like (cid:151) and its operational effectiveness so that we
can  respond  more  quickly  and  more  thoroughly  to
today(cid:146)s new threats.
Let  me  highlight  three  areas  which  to  me  seem
particularly  important:  first,  our  approach  must  be
broader and must tackle threats to the most vulnerable,
including 
environmental
degradation; secondly, we must build a new consensus by
expanding the scope of collective action; and, thirdly, we
must deal with the threat of terrorism, which menaces
us all and everything for which we stand.
poverty, 
disease 
and 
Let me now take these three points in turn. First,
there  is  the  need  for  a  broader  approach  which
addresses  the  complex  and  interdependent  nature  of
security  today.  Here,  we  have  to  do  more  to  meet  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
to  promote
sustainable  development,  especially  in  Africa.  We
cannot  have 
security  without  development  or
development without security.
As 
the  Secretary-General  highlighted 
in  his
speech this week, we have to do more to entrench the
rule of law and justice, especially in States recovering
from  conflict.  The  United  Kingdom  will  pursue  work
on  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  report  during  its  Security
Council presidency next month.
We  could  also  use  the  United  Nations  better,  to
agree to monitor and help implement globally accepted
norms of good governance.
34
And  we  need  to  act  together  quickly  on  climate
change,  perhaps  the  greatest  long-term  threat  to  our
world  in  terms  of  stability  and  security.  We  have  to
implement  Kyoto  (cid:151)  and  I  greatly  welcome  what  my
colleague, His Excellency Sergey Lavrov had to say on
that today (cid:151) and agree to emission reductions beyond
2012.
My  second  point  is  the  need  to  build  a  new
consensus  on  the  scope  of  collective  action.  We  all
represent independent, sovereign states. But even as we
founded 
that
sovereignty  was  a  trust  in  the  hands  of  a  nation(cid:146)s
government:  there  to  be  respected,  not  abused,  from
either without or within.
the  United  Nations  we  recognized 
The Charter set out arrangements so that an abuse
from without could be dealt with through the inherent
right  of  self-defence  recognized  in  Article  51  of  the
Charter.  But  it  also  said  that  an  abuse  from  within
which  threatens  the  peace  could  and  should  be  dealt
with  by  the  Security  Council,  under  the  powers
enshrined  in  the  other  articles  of  Chapter  VII  of  the
Charter,  and  by  the  many  conventions  concluded
within  the  United  Nations  framework,  including,  for
example,  the  1948  Geneva  Convention.  No  longer  (cid:151)
we  all  said  (cid:151)  could  or  should  the  world  turn  away
from unspeakable barbarities like that of the Holocaust.
But  we  have  not  always  lived  up  to  those  high
expectations,  as  the  tragedies  of  Rwanda  and  Bosnia
ten  years  ago  reminded  us.  Today  we  must  resolve  to
do  so  and  to  engage  in  situations  of  humanitarian
catastrophe  or  grave  violations  of 
international
humanitarian law and to act in the face of other threats
to international peace and security.
The  principle  of  non-interference  has  to  be
qualified  by  a  duty  to  protect,  especially  where
Governments are failing in that duty.
We  therefore  need,  for  example,  to  be  ready  to
support  greater  use  by  the  Secretary-General  of  his
powers under Article 99 of the Charter, to bring threats
to peace to the Security Council(cid:146)s attention. We have to
act quickly in response, because prevention is far better
than  cure.  We  should  look  to  work  more  closely  with
regional  organizations,  as  we  are  doing  with  the
African Union in Darfur. We need more discussion on
the  criteria  as  to  when  the  international  community
might have to intervene with military force in extreme
circumstances. We must  get  better  at  engaging  for  the
in  countries  recovering  from  conflict,
long 
term 
coordinating  our  efforts  in  response  to  locally  agreed
priorities.
to  protect  citizens  from  abuse  by  States,  not  by
terrorists.
A/59/PV.8
My  third  point  is  the  urgent  need  to  combat
global terrorism, a menace directed at us all. If we have
learned anything in the three years since 11 September
2001 it is that international terrorism is indiscriminate
in its targets and merciless in its hatred. Christian, Jew,
Hindu,  Buddhist,  Sikh,  Muslim,  people  of  no  religion
or  any  religion,  and  of  every  or  no  shade  of  political
opinion,  all  have  died  through  the  terrorists(cid:146)  bullet  or
bomb.
My  friend  Sergey  Lavrov  spoke  eloquently  a
moment  ago  about  the  tears  still  wet  for  the  terrible,
unspeakable  massacre  of  the  young  and  innocent  that
took  place  in  Beslan.  Sergey,  your  tears  are  my  tears;
Russia(cid:146)s  tears  are  the  world(cid:146)s  tears.  We  are  all  in  the
fight against terrorism together.
Today  in  Iraq  we  are  seeing  again  the  depths  to
which  the  terrorists  plumb.  The  vast  majority  of  the
victims  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  are  Iraqis.  Our  thoughts
and  condolences  are  with  the  Government  and  people
of Iraq and with their families. But some of the victims
of  terrorism  in  Iraq  are  foreigners  who  are  helping
Iraqis  to  build  a  more  stable  and  prosperous  country.
One of them is Kenneth Bigley, a British engineer held
hostage  by  terrorists  who  have  already  barbarically
murdered  his  two  American  comrades.  Our  thoughts
and prayers are with their families. We continue to do
all we can to secure Mr. Bigley(cid:146)s release.
I  know  (cid:151)  how  could  I  forget  (cid:151)  that  opinions
have  differed  over  the  rightness  of  the  military  action
taken  in  Iraq  18  months  ago.  But  I  warrant  that  no
nation  is  in  favour  of  the  terrorist  insurgency  now
occurring there. For we all recognize that what is being
attempted by the terrorists in Iraq is an attack both on
the  Iraqi  people  and  on  everything  for  which  the
Organization stands: safety, security and human rights.
We  have  to  come  together  to  defeat  the  terrorists  and
their despicable aims.
The  threat  of  terrorism  confronts  democratic,
properly  functioning  States  with  an  acute  dilemma,
namely, how to fight those who recognize none of the
values  for  which  we  stand  while  remaining  true  to
those  values.  Our  commitments  under  international
conventions  express  many  of  those  values  and  the
importance  that  we  attach  to  them.  But  equally,  those
conventions  cannot  be  allowed 
those
involved  in  terrorism.  The  conventions  were  designed
to  shelter 
The  1951  Convention  relating  to  the  Status  of
Refugees  protects  those  with  a  well-founded  fear  of
persecution. I am proud that the United Kingdom and so
many other nations have offered that protection when and
where  it  was  required.  But  as  the  1951  Convention
itself sets out, asylum is not an unqualified right. It does
not apply  to  anyone  who  has  committed  a  war  crime,  a
crime  against  humanity  or  other  serious  crime;  nor
does it  apply to anyone who  is  guilty  of  acts  contrary
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
We must never stoop to the level of the terrorist (cid:151)
to  torture,  mistreatment  or  unjustified  incarceration  (cid:151)
nor  will  any  country  within  the  European  Union  be
party  to  the  return  of  suspects  to  such  conditions,  nor
to  face  the  death  penalty.  But  we  cannot  let  terrorists
exploit  a  protection  designed  for  the  persecuted,  not
the  persecutors.  We  in  the  United  Kingdom  shall
therefore  be  working  closely  with  Russia  on  its
important draft Security Council resolution, to see how
best  we  can  prevent  those  who  commit,  support  and
finance  terrorism  from  sheltering  behind  a  refugee
status  to  which  they  are  not  entitled.  Along  with  the
Russian  Federation  and  other  partners  in  the  Security
Council,  we  also  wish  to  look  at  ways  to  ensure  the
speedier extradition of such individuals.
again 
here 
to 
review 
We,  the  United  Nations,  have  over  the  last  year
begun  to  show  a  new  determination  to  come  together
and to make collective action work. A year from now,
we  will  meet 
the
recommendations  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,
Challenges  and  Change,  as  well  as  the  Millennium
Development  Goals,  and  to  set  the  United  Nations
agenda  for  the  next  decade.  The  United  Kingdom(cid:146)s
chairmanship  of  the  G-8  next  year  will  focus  on
tackling  climate  change  and  on  Africa,  on  which  the
Independent Commission for Africa will be producing
recommendations  as  to  how  best  we  can  support  the
radical  agenda  for  change  and  development  designed
by  Africa  itself  through  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa(cid:146)s  Development  and  the  African  Union.  Our
presidency of the European Union will help us to lead
efforts 
the  Doha
Development  Round,  and  for  building  the  European
Union(cid:146)s crisis-management capabilities.
for  a  successful  outcome 
in 
More  than  ever,  global  security  is  our  shared
responsibility.  In  the  year  ahead,  as  we  continue  to
35
A/59/PV.8
adapt  to  today(cid:146)s  threats  and  challenges,  we  must  find
renewed  determination  and  political  will  to  make
collective  security  work.  The  United  Kingdom  is
determined to play its full part in that endeavour.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call on His Excellency Mr. Brian Cowen, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Ireland.
Mr.  Cowen  (Ireland):  I  first  addressed 
the
General  Assembly  in  the  year  2000.  The  millennium
year was a time of great hope, reflected in the outcome
of  the  Millennium  Summit.  World  leaders  committed
the peoples of the planet to a new beginning in which
the  dawn  of  the  twenty-first  century  would  mark  a
break  from  the  past,  with  a  new  sharing  of  burdens,
and  a  new  common  dedication  to  peace  and  human
progress.
Today the light of that new dawn is obscured by
the  dark  clouds  of  war,  terror,  ethnic  violence  and
continuing abuse of human rights. Twelve months ago
and again this week, the Secretary-General pointed out
that  the  Organization  is  at  a  fork  in  the  road  and  that
we have to decide on the way forward. Much work has
been undertaken since the Secretary-General laid down
that  challenge.  The  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,
Challenges  and  Change  is  working  on  its  report.  I  am
pleased to recall that the European Union (EU) made a
detailed  submission  to  the  Panel,  drawn  up  during
Ireland(cid:146)s recent presidency of the Union. We also took
a  decision 
issue  of  effective
multilateralism  in  the  Union(cid:146)s  discussions  with  other
regional groups.
to  mainstream 
the 
We  await  the  Panel(cid:146)s  report  and  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  recommendations  that  will  follow.  In  his
address  on  Tuesday,  the  Secretary-General  expressed
the hope that when the heads of State and Government
meet  next  year  to  review  progress  on  the  Millennium
Declaration  they  will  be  ready  to  take  bold  decisions.
They must, because the longer we linger at the fork in
the road, the more difficult will be the road ahead.
We  cannot  afford  to  postpone  action.  More  and
more citizens of the world are questioning whether the
United  Nations  has  the  capacity,  or  even  the  will,  to
prevent  conflict  and  protect 
the  vulnerable  from
injustice. They are becoming increasingly disillusioned
with  an  Organization  which  either  cannot 
take
decisions  or  whose  decisions  are 
ignored  with
impunity. They see  the  politics  of  the  lowest  common
denominator  in  operation,  with  strong  and  sensible
36
draft  resolutions  watered  down  to  mere  platitudes.
They  hear  the  United  Nations  being  denigrated  by
those  who  make  a  virtue  of  their  determination  to  put
national  interests  above  all  other  considerations.  They
fear  that  the  Organization  is  no  longer  driven  by  the
determination and idealism of the founding fathers.
My  Prime  Minister,  Taoiseach  Bertie  Ahern,
made  clear  last  year,  when  he  addressed  the  General
Assembly,  where  the  fault  lies.  It  lies  with  us,  the
Governments of the Member States. We have a strong
and much respected Secretary-General in Kofi Annan.
We have brave and dedicated officials. Many have put
their  lives  on  the  line  for  the  Organization  and  what  it
stands for. Some have made the ultimate sacrifice. United
Nations staff deserve better protection in the future.
It is time for the Governments of Member States
to act. We need, as the Secretary-General put it, to seek
common  solutions  to  common  problems.  That  will
require  political  will  and  effective  structures.  Neither
one on its own will suffice. The  essential  requirement
is a more effective system of collective security. Such a
system  requires  the  unique  legitimacy  offered  by  an
effective United Nations and its Charter.
no 
longer 
reflects 
accurately 
It  is  clear  that  the  composition  of  the  Security
Council 
global
geopolitical  realities.  In  Ireland(cid:146)s  view,  a  modest  and
regionally balanced increase in its membership, both in
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories, 
is
justified. Increased representation from the developing
world  would  enhance  its  legitimacy,  and  thereby  its
effectiveness.
But  a  more  effective  Security  Council  will  need
more  than  a  change  in  structures.  There  has  to  be  a
change in attitudes. Those States that sit on the Security
Council  have  a  responsibility  to  rise  above  national  or
regional  interests  and  act  in  the  wider  interests  of
mankind.  That  is  an  obligation  that  rests  on  each  and
every  member  of  the  Council.  But  those  who  either
assert or aspire to positions of world leadership (cid:151) and
there is no shortage of  candidates  (cid:151)  bear a particular
responsibility to act in the global interest.
Putting  national  interests  first  is  not  an  effective
answer to the challenges that confront us. It may be a
clichØ to say that our planet is shrinking, but that does
not make it any less true. While most of us continue to
wish to organize and govern ourselves primarily within
the  framework  of  the  nation-State,  we  must  recognize
economic
that 
technological 
development 
and 
integration  are  impairing  the  effectiveness  of  the
nation-State as a defensive bastion.
Power and influence must be used in the interests
of the international community as a whole, rather than
for  the  pursuit  of  narrow,  short-term  interests.  States
and  regions  have  broad  and  varied  interests,  both
individual 
system  must
accommodate  and  reconcile  those  interests.  Otherwise
we  are  doomed  to  division  between  those  who  would
impose hegemony and those who would resist it.
collective.  Our 
and 
the  world 
towards 
In  his  report  on  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium  Declaration,  the  Secretary-General  has
its
warned 
that 
performance 
the
Millennium Development Goals. In sub-Saharan Africa
especially, many countries are caught in a poverty trap
and face the crippling challenges of unsustainable debt
and HIV/AIDS, often compounded by instability.
in 
falling  short 
achievement  of 
is 
the 
Ireland  fully  recognizes  the  seriousness  of  the
shortfall in development funding that faces us, which is
presently  estimated  at  (cid:128)50  billion  per  year.  The  best
means  of  bridging  that  gap  is  for  donor  nations  to
recommit  themselves  to  reaching  the  United  Nations
target  for  official  development  assistance  of  0.7  per
cent  of  gross  national  product.  The  Irish  Government
remains  committed  to  that  goal.  Ireland,  which  has
increased  its  official  development  assistance  very
substantially  in  recent  years,  will  continue  working
actively with its developing country partners to build a
strong global partnership for development.
Economic  and  social  development  is  the  means
by which the world(cid:146)s poorer countries can be lifted out
of poverty. An open international trading regime aimed
at  facilitating  investment  is  an  integral  part  of  our
multilateral  system,  and  fair  market  access  is  an
essential  part  of  that.  Some  developing  countries
estimate  that,  in  a  best-case  scenario,  a  successful
outcome to the Doha Round could help raise up to 500
million  people  out  of  extreme  poverty.  Fairer
international trading arrangements are imperative if we
are  to  address  the  problems  of  underdevelopment.
Ireland and its European Union partners are determined
not  to  be  found  wanting  in  the  task  of  bringing  the
Doha Round of multilateral trade negotiations, finally,
to  a  conclusion,  with  an  agreement  that  meets  the
essential concerns of all sides.
Over the past year we have once again seen that
the  failure  of  State  institutions  is  a  major  source  of
A/59/PV.8
conflict  and  human  misery.  The  responsibility  for
protecting  people  from  conflict  and  the  effects  of
conflict,  and  from  humanitarian  catastrophe, 
lies
primarily  with  the  Governments  concerned.  However,
it  has  been  well  demonstrated  that  events  within  a
particular country can threaten international peace and
security  and  spread  misery  far  beyond  its  borders.
Where Governments are unable or unwilling to take the
necessary  steps  to  prevent  catastrophe  in  their  own
country, I believe that the international community has
responsibilities to protect in those circumstances.
It  is  increasingly  evident  that  instability  very
frequently  arises  from  situations  where  human  rights
are abused or denied. The abuse of human rights is also
at  the  root  of  poverty  and  underdevelopment.  Respect
for  human  rights,  on  the  other  hand,  is  an  essential
element of good governance, and must be at the centre
of  efforts  to  prevent  conflict,  and  of  post-conflict
reconstruction.  Presently,  40  per  cent  of  conflicts  that
appear  to  have  been  resolved  break  out  again  within
five  years.  We  simply  must  do  better  in  identifying
emerging  problems  sooner.  We  also  need  to  put  in
place policies and structures that are effective within a
new, enforceable legal framework.
I  hope,  therefore,  that  the  High-level  Panel  will
address the serious questions involved in international
intervention,  and  put  forward  recommendations  that
will act as a basis for consensus. We trust that they will
also give full and careful consideration to the policies
and  structures  that  we  need  in  order  to  carry  out  our
responsibilities  towards  States  and  societies  at  risk  of
instability.  Any  such  structures  must  facilitate  a
sustained engagement with those States, to ensure that
they receive whatever assistance is needed (cid:151) political,
humanitarian and economic (cid:151) to avert instability or a
return to conflict. In addressing those problems on the
basis  of  the  report  of  the  High-level  Panel,  let  us  not
sacrifice substance on the altar of process.
Ireland  welcomes  the  increasing  role  of  regional
and  subregional  organizations  in  crisis  management,
under the overall authority of the Security Council. The
European  Union  is  engaged  in  developing  its  role  in
conflict prevention and crisis management, while fully
recognizing the central role and authority of the United
Nations.  I  am  pleased  to  state  that  during  Ireland(cid:146)s
recent  presidency  of  the  European  Union,  important
progress  was  achieved  in  implementing  the  Joint
Declaration  on  United  Nations-European  Union
Cooperation  in  Crisis  Management.  It  was  agreed  in
37
A/59/PV.8
June,  during  our  presidency,  that  the  European  Union
will make a rapid response capability available, and at
the service of the United Nations. That will take effect
on an initial basis in 2005, with the full complement of
1,500 troops being ready and available by 2007.
The  efforts  of 
the  African  Union  and 
the
Economic Community of West African States in crisis
management  have  been  particularly  valuable  and
deserve  support.  The  African  Union(cid:146)s  involvement  in
Darfur,  where  it  currently  has  120  monitors  with  a
protection  force  of  300,  is  an  extremely  positive
development.  It  is  fully  supported  by  the  European
Union,  including  through  the  African  Peace  Facility,
established  during  Ireland(cid:146)s  recent  presidency  of  the
Union.  The  African  Union  is  planning  to  augment  its
contingent in Sudan, where it is estimated that a force
of  at  least  5,000  may  be  necessary  to  assure  a  secure
environment  for  the  people  of  Darfur.  The  European
Union  is  ready  to  increase  its  backing  for  the  African
Union(cid:146)s effort accordingly.
Whatever political difficulties may have arisen in
Darfur,  the  people  there  did  not  deserve  to  suffer
massacre, rape and famine, or to see their villages and
crops  destroyed  and  their  livestock  driven  off.  When
the depredations of the ruthless militias were unleashed
upon  them,  they  looked  in  vain  for  the  even-handed
protection of their Government.
I want to recognize the efforts of United Nations
agencies  and  non-governmental  organizations  (cid:151)
including  Irish  organizations  such  as  GOAL,  Concern
and  Tr(cid:243)caire  (cid:151) 
that  responded  so  quickly  and
generously  to  the  humanitarian  crisis  in  Darfur.  The
dedication  of  humanitarian  aid  workers  must  also  be
applauded.
The  humanitarian  needs  in  Darfur  still  remain
immense.  I  appeal  for  continued  support  from  the
international community to meet the funding shortfall.
Ireland  has  contributed  almost  (cid:128)6  million 
in
Government-funded  aid  so  far  this  year  to  assist  the
humanitarian  effort 
through  United  Nations
agencies as well as through Irish and international non-
governmental  organizations.  The  Irish  people  have
been greatly moved by the suffering in Darfur and have
been generous in providing additional, non-government
financial support for the relief effort.
there 
I also wish to pay tribute to the leadership of the
insisting  on  an  appropriate
Secretary-General 
response  from  the  Security  Council.  I  welcome  the
in 
38
recent  adoption  by  the  Security  Council  of  resolution
1564  (2004),  although  it  is  a  matter  of  regret  and
bewilderment  to  many  that  the  resolution  did  not
receive the unanimous backing of Council members. I
hope  that  the  Council  will  now  unite  in  seeking  to
assert its will and bring an end to a situation that is an
affront to humanity.
I urge the authorities in the Sudan to  fulfil, with
the  utmost  urgency,  the  obligations  that  have  been
imposed  on  them  by  the  Security  Council.  They  must
cooperate  closely  with  the  monitors  deployed  by  the
African  Union.  They  must  ensure  that  the  Janjaweed
militia are brought under control and disarmed and that
persons responsible for crimes and serious violations of
human  rights  are  brought  to  justice.  And  they  must
ensure  that  secure  conditions  are  restored  so  that
people  can  return  voluntarily  to  their  homes.  I  also
urge  all  parties  in  the  Abuja  talks,  including  the  rebel
groups,  to  show  flexibility  and  goodwill  so  that  the
underlying  problems  of  Darfur  can  be  resolved  in  a
peaceful manner.
Once  again,  we  meet  in  the  General  Assembly
Hall  under  the  shadow  of  terrorism.  The  recent
appalling 
images  from  Beslan  provide  a  further
emphatic  demonstration  of  the  moral  bankruptcy  of
terrorism. The fact that those attacks targeted innocent
children,  along  with  the  consequent  trauma  caused  to
children  worldwide  who  saw  the  torn  bodies  of  the
children  and  mothers  of  Beslan  on  their  television
screens,  make  them  all  the  more  heinous.  They
reinforce,  if  reinforcement  were  needed,  the  absolute
duty  of  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations  to
cooperate  effectively  in  identifying  and  bringing  to
justice  those  who  plan,  direct,  finance,  facilitate  and
carry out terrorist acts.
Terrorist acts are always reprehensible, and those
who  carry  them  out  bear  full  responsibility  for  them.
That is true irrespective of any underlying factors that
might  exist,  such  as  national  or  civil  conflict  or
oppressive  economic  or  social  conditions.  We  must
show  determination 
to  confront  and  face  down
terrorists  when  they  test  our  resolve  through  their
involvement  in  heinous  acts  of  violence  designed  to
terrorize  the  public  into  conceding  to  their  distorted
view of the world. But we also have to be smart to win.
Terrorism  can  rarely  be  defeated  by  exclusively
military  or  security  means,  although  those  means  are
obviously  a  very  necessary  component  in  the  fight
in 
the  General  Assembly 
against  terrorism.  It  is  necessary,  at  the  same  time,  to
address the root causes of terrorism. I made that point
when  I  addressed 
the
aftermath of the atrocities of 11 September, and I make
no  apologies  for  repeating  it  today.  Let  there  be  no
misunderstanding.  I  offer  no  excuses  for  terrorism.
Terrorism is evil. But it is my strong belief that people
are  not  born  evil.  At  a  certain  point  in  their  lives,
something  (cid:151)  perhaps  a  particular  event  or 
the
experience of indoctrination (cid:151) causes them to embrace
evil. To seek to address that root cause is not to be soft
on  terrorism,  it  is  the  intelligent  way  to  attack
terrorism.
Terrorism  tests  the  effectiveness  of  our  national
and  collective  security  systems,  but  it  also  tests  the
quality  of  our  institutions,  including  our  systems  of
justice,  and  the  strength  of  our  values.  As  we  seek  to
protect  ourselves,  we  must  ensure 
those
institutions  remain  strong,  that  democratic  values  are
not  undermined,  that  our  systems  of  justice  are  not
compromised and that our struggle is conducted in full
respect  for  international  law  and  human  rights  norms.
If  we  fail  to  do  that,  any  success  we  achieve  over
terrorists  will  be  at  the  expense  of  the  way  of  life  we
seek to protect.
that 
The  people  of  Israel  and  Palestine  continue  to
suffer  from  violence  that  is  as  futile  as  it  is  tragic.  The
root cause of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is a struggle
over  land.  The  land  must  be  shared  by  agreement
arrived  at  through  negotiation  between  the  parties  to
the  conflict.  The  continuing  unilateral  expansion  of
settlements  and  the  construction  and  maintenance  of
the  separation  barrier  on  the  West  Bank  will  make  the
conflict more difficult to resolve. The entire international
community  (cid:151)  particularly  Israel(cid:146)s  friends  (cid:151)  need  to
send that clear and unambiguous message to the Israeli
Government and the people of Israel.
indeed 
the  right, 
Ireland  acknowledges 
the
responsibility,  of  the  Israeli  Government  to  protect  its
people,  including,  if  it  so  wishes,  by  a  security  fence
along its recognized borders. However, the building of
the fence in the West Bank serves to divide Palestinian
communities  and  creates  severe  hardship  for  them.  It
will also serve to perpetuate the so-called facts on the
ground,  and  make  it  more  difficult  to  reach  a  final
settlement.  The  advisory  opinion  of  the  International
Court of Justice has given clear guidance on the fence
that  should  be  given  careful  consideration  by  those
whose policies and actions it addresses.
A/59/PV.8
The  Palestinian  Authority  must  also  assume  its
responsibilities  under  the  road  map,  notwithstanding
the  difficulties  it  faces.  Effective  and  responsible
leadership is required. The Palestinian people can best
achieve 
restoring  national
discipline and rejecting the path of violence.
sovereignty  by 
their 
Ireland, 
in  common  with 
its  EU  partners,
continues  to  believe  that  the  only  way  to  reach  a
comprehensive settlement of the conflict is through the
Quartet road map. In the Tullamore Declaration, issued
during  Ireland(cid:146)s  recent  presidency  of  the  European
Union, EU ministers welcomed the expressed intention
of  Prime  Minister  Sharon  to  withdraw  from  Gaza  and
acknowledged  the  impetus  that  such  a  withdrawal
could  give  to  the  peace  process,  as  long  as  it  met
certain  conditions,  including  that  it  take  place  in  the
context of the implementation of the road map.
I 
therefore  urge  Israel  and 
the  Palestinian
Authority  to  cooperate  closely  with  the  Quartet  to
ensure  that  the  withdrawal  from  Gaza  is  accompanied
by the full and effective assumption by the Palestinian
Authority of its responsibilities in the territory, and that
a  momentum  towards  the  full  implementation  of  the
road map is developed.
the 
international  community  on 
The passage of Security Council resolution 1546
(2004) and the subsequent establishment of the Interim
Government  of  Iraq,  represented  a  crucial  coming
together  by 
the
importance of reconstruction in Iraq. It is vital that that
Government  should  be  able  to  move  ahead  and
establish  a  full  democratic  mandate.  However,  the
security  situation  in  Iraq  remains  a  matter  of  grave
concern  to  us  all,  and  the  challenges  facing  the  new
Government  are  great.  An  end  to  the  lethal  violence
that  is  disrupting  the  normal  development  of  that
country is essential.
Ireland  has  always  seen  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  as  central  to  the  issue  of  reconstructing  Iraq.
We  therefore  welcome  the  forthcoming  return  of  the
United  Nations  mission.  Ireland  and  its  EU  partners
will  seek  to  ensure  that  that  mission  is  provided  with
the  necessary  security  to  allow  it  to  carry  out  its
functions.
The  Irish  and  British  Governments  continue  to
work  in  close  partnership  to  consolidate  peace  and
political  stability  in  Northern  Ireland.  Since  the  Good
Friday  Agreement  of  1998,  considerable  progress  has
been  made  in  improving  and  normalizing  life  in
39
A/59/PV.8
Ireland. 
Northern 
the  complete
implementation of the Good Friday Agreement remains
definitively the best way forward.
In  our  view, 
The  elections  to  the  Northern  Ireland  Assembly
last  November  gave  leadership  mandates  to  the  Sinn
Fein  party  and  the  Democratic  Unionist  Party  in  their
respective nationalist and unionist  communities. Since
then,  both  Governments  have  engaged  in  intensive
discussions  with  all  the  parties  to  finally  resolve  the
key  issues  of  confidence  that  have  thus  far  frustrated
the full achievement of peace and political stability in
Northern  Ireland.  Those  key  issues  include  ending
paramilitary  activity  in  all  its  forms;  completing  the
process  of  decommissioning  Irish  Republican  Army
weapons; 
the  British
Government of the agreed programme of normalization
and  demilitarization;  ensuring  that  the  new  policing
service  is  supported  by  all  sections  of  the  community
and  resolving  the  related  issue  of  the  devolution  of
justice 
obtaining
commitments from all parties to fully participate in the
institutions of the Agreement.
implementation 
policing 
powers; 
and 
and 
the 
by 
the 
Those  were  the  issues  that  were  addressed  in
three  days  of  intensive  talks  that  were  convened  by
both  Governments  in  Leeds  Castle  in  England  last
week.  Substantial  progress  was  made  in  the  talks
regarding 
issues  of  paramilitarism  and  arms
decommissioning.  As  Prime  Minister  Blair  said  after
the talks, the contours of the paramilitary question are
now in sight  of being  resolved, to be accompanied  by
subsequent  demilitarization,  as  agreed  in  the  joint
declaration 
Irish
Governments  last  October.  In  addition,  significant
progress  was  made  with  regard  to  the  policing  issue
and  the  devolution  of  those  powers  to  devolved
institutions in Northern Ireland.
the  British 
issued  by 
and 
the  parties 
themselves  on 
it  was  not  possible 
to  achieve
Regrettably, 
agreement  among 
the
question of the operation of the political institutions of
the  Agreement.  Talks  are  continuing  in  Belfast  this
week  to  see  if  the  gaps  between  the  parties  on  that
issue  can  be  resolved.  The  gaps  are  narrow  and  can,
and must, be overcome at the earliest possible date. It
was  noteworthy  in  that  regard  that  the  leader  of  the
Democratic  Unionist  Party,  Mr.  Ian  Paisley,  made  the
point 
that  a  golden
opportunity  has  been  available  to  realize  a  stable  and
entirely  peaceful  future.  For  our  part, 
the  Irish
Government is open to considering changes that would
immediately  after 
talks 
the 
40
the 
the  workings  of 
improve 
institutions  while
maintaining  compliance  with  the  fundamentals  of  the
Agreement, and we have brought forward proposals in
that regard. But, I reiterate, as the Taoiseach emphasized
last  weekend,  such  changes  must  not  disturb 
the
fundamental balance of the Good Friday Agreement, in
particular its key power-sharing provisions.
The  resolution  of  those  institutional  questions
would  allow  both  Governments  to  bring  forward  a
comprehensive  package  providing  a 
template  for
political  stability  in  Northern  Ireland.  It  would  be  a
tragedy  if  the  failure  to  bridge  the  remaining  gaps  on
that 
the  goal  of
definitively removing the issue of arms from politics in
Northern  Ireland.  The  people,  rightly,  would  not
understand  why  that  long-awaited  prize  was  denied
because of a reluctance to fully embrace the structures
of partnership and power-sharing.
institutional  matter 
frustrated 
If,  on  the  other  hand,  those  institutional  issues
can  be  resolved  and  a  comprehensive  agreement  then
brought  forward,  we  can  finally  liberate  partnership
politics  in  Northern  Ireland  and  allow  its  committed
and  talented  politicians  (cid:151)  from  all  sides  of  the
community  (cid:151)  to  collectively  get  on  with  the  job  of
providing  better  governance,  a  prospering  economy
and a fair society for all of the people.
I  will  conclude  where  I  began,  on  the  need  to
rededicate ourselves to the reinvigoration of this great
Organization.
Next  year  will  be  a  year  in  which  important
decisions on the future of the  United Nations  must  be
taken. We need to rededicate ourselves to the principles
and purposes for which this Organization was founded.
We need to restore the sense of ambition and idealism
that illuminated the United Nations at its inception. We
need, above all, to build an Organization that is results-
oriented  and  that  can  demonstrate  that  politics  is  the
most effective means of resolving conflict. Let us make
2005  the  year  in  which  the  United  Nations  is  reborn
strong, effective and respected, as the founding fathers
intended it to be.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mustafa  Osman
Ismail, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of
the Sudan.
Mr. Ismail (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): It gives me
sincere
extend  my 
delegation(cid:146)s 
to 
pleasure 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Jean  Ping  on  his  deserved
election to the  presidency  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of
the  General  Assembly.  Given  the  issues  that  we  must
consider  during  this  session,  and  in  view  of  the
important  tasks  we  must  face  in  the  coming  year,  we
particularly  welcome  the  President(cid:146)s  experience  and
skills, which are familiar to us in the African arena.
the 
Last  year  from 
We  would  also  like  to  extend  our  thanks  and
appreciation  to  Mr.  Julian  R.  Hunte,  the  outgoing
President,  for  the  great  efforts  he  made  in  conducting
the work of the Assembly, as well as to the Secretary-
General for leading the work of the Organization.
this  rostrum  I  stated 
that
negotiations  between  the  Government  and  the  Sudan
People(cid:146)s  Liberation  Movement/Army,  under 
the
auspices  of 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on
Development  (IGAD)  and  Kenya(cid:146)s  chairmanship,  and
with the support of the IGAD partners, had made great
progress and peace had become imminent. I am glad to
say  that  the  last  round  of  negotiations  resulted  in  the
signing, in the first week of June 2004, of six protocols
dealing  with  security  arrangements,  cessation  of
hostilities,  distribution  of  wealth,  power-sharing  and
the  conflict  in  the  Nubian  mountains  region,  the  Blue
Nile  and  Abiai.  We  decided  to  hold  the  last  round  of
negotiations on 7 October 2004 to complete the details
of  a  comprehensive  peace,  which  will,  it  is  hoped,  be
signed at the end of this year.
We  stand  on  the  threshold  of  peace.  The  new
challenge before us now is to overcome the differences
of  the  past,  start  reconstruction  and  rehabilitation,
concentrate  on  development  and  strengthen  the  pillars
of  peace  and  national  unity  on 
the  basis  of
compatriotism  and  equality  of  rights  and  duties.  For
that reason, my Government declares its firm intention
of  conducting  a  national  dialogue  with  all  political
forces, inside and outside the Sudan, in order to make
peace a national objective that can be achieved through
a national charter.
It also gives me pleasure to say that in addition to
the  talks  in  Naivasha  and  Abuja  my  Government
started a third forum in Cairo, under the auspices of the
Egyptian  Government,  to  engage  in  dialogue  with
factions  of  the  national  opposition,  headquartered  in
Asmara.
Because  war  has  devastated  all  sectors  of  the
country,  reconstruction  efforts  are  especially  difficult.
We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the
A/59/PV.8
international  community  for  the  humanitarian  assistance
they  provided  during  the  war.  We  now  appeal  to  the
international  community  to  help  in  the  reconstruction
process: to ameliorate the living conditions in the areas
devastated  by  war  all  over  the  Sudan;  to  aid  in  the
resettlement  of 
internally  displaced  persons  and
refugees; and to participate in development projects in
order to achieve peace and stability.
We  were  at  the  threshold  of  peace  in  the  south
when another war broke out in Darfur as the result of a
rebel  movement  begun  by  some  tribes  and  supported
by  foreign  forces.  The  rebel  movement(cid:146)s  terrorist
action  was  not  directed  against  the  Government  only,
but against those tribes that refused to join them. That,
in turn, pushed those tribes to train and arm militias to
defend 
the  rebels.  The  rebel
movement  targeted  the  security  apparatus,  sowing
death and destruction, which led to the release of criminal
Janjaweed groups from prisons. The aggression continued
against civilians and Government institutions.
themselves  against 
The  root  causes  of  Darfur  go  back  to  conflicts
among the tribal communities in the region. Previously,
those  conflicts  were  settled  according  to  traditional
customs and  norms.  But  the  growth  in  population  and
the number of livestock, coupled with a decrease in the
water  supply  owing  to  desertification,  led  to  tense
struggles  between  grazing  land  tribes  and  farmers.
There were other causes for regional conflict: an influx
of arms and the interference of neighbouring countries
that  tried  to  exploit  the  tense  situation,  encouraging
rebellions  against  the  Government  by  training  and
arming certain groups.
relief  workers 
The  present  conflict  in  Darfur  started  in  March
2003, when rebels started inciting dissension and strife,
attacking  highways,  plundering  livestock  and  taking
international 
as  hostages.  The
Government tried to convince them to abandon military
action,  but  they  insisted  on  occupying  cities  and
villages and terrorizing tribes, forcing them into armed
service.  Everyone  had  to  carry  weapons  for  self-
defence.  Then,  the  Government  intervened  to  try  to
halt  the  hostilities,  impose  law  and  order  and  prevent
civil war.
This  conflict,  which  was 
the
Government,  has  created  extremely  complicated  and
dire humanitarian conditions. The Government took the
necessary measures. It sent food relief to Darfur. Next,
it eliminated all the administrative, legal and technical
imposed  on 
41
A/59/PV.8
arrangements  that  impeded  relief  work,  it  allowed
relief  organizations  to  enter  Darfur  unimpeded,  and  it
curtailed certain regulations, such as visa requirements,
in  order  to  provide  protection  to  camps  of  displaced
persons.  The  Government  deployed  police  and
reopened  legal  offices  destroyed  by  the  rebels.  The
process  of  bringing  all  of  those  accused  of  violating
human  rights 
the
Government 
international
community  by  signing  a  joint  communiquØ  with  the
Secretary-General  that  includes  a  number  of  measures
to deal with the situation in Darfur and, together with
Jan  Pronk,  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General for the Sudan, I headed a Joint Implementation
Mechanism mission to the area.
to 
cooperated  with 
justice  began.  Furthermore, 
the 
Furthermore,  out  of  its  belief  in  a  peaceful
settlement  as  a  strategic  choice,  the  Government
entered  into  negotiations  with  the  rebels  under  the
auspices of the President of Chad, which culminated in
the Abashi agreement in 2003, but that agreement was
later  violated  by  the  rebels.  However,  this  did  not
weaken  the  Government(cid:146)s  resolve  to  continue  its
efforts,  until  we  attained  the  ceasefire  agreement  in
N(cid:146)Djamena.  In  order  to  cooperate  with  the  African
Union,  we  sent  a  high-level  delegation  to  the  first
round  of  negotiations  at  Addis  Ababa;  our  delegation
was given full authority to reach a peaceful settlement
with the rebels. But the rebels boycotted the talks.
The  Government  redoubled  its  efforts  at  all
levels (cid:151) political, security and humanitarian (cid:151) out of
its responsibility for the people, and it cooperated fully
with  the  United  Nations  so  as  to  implement  the
agreement  that  had  been  reached  with  the  Secretary-
General.  Then,  on  30  July  2004,  the  Security  Council
adopted  resolution  1556  (2004),  which  gave 
the
Government only one month to deal with the problem
and  threatened  the  imposition  of  sanctions.  It  is
regrettable  that  this  resolution  sent  an  erroneous
message,  thus  encouraging  the  rebels  to  give  up
negotiations  with  good  intention.  They  insisted  on
conditions that were impossible to implement. And this
led  to  the  collapse  of  negotiations  in  Addis  Ababa,  in
spite of the African Union(cid:146)s great efforts.
Notwithstanding  the  faults  and  impracticality  of
this  Security  Council  resolution,  my  Government,
abiding 
and
responsibility  for  its  people,  will  continue  to  do  its
utmost to find the shortest way for the return of peace,
stability and security to Darfur. My Government signed
international 
legitimacy 
by 
its 
42
a working plan for Darfur with the United Nations; this
plan  included  detailed  arrangements  for  humanitarian
aid,  security  and  protection  of  displaced  persons  and
their voluntary return. We assigned extra police forces,
numbering  10,000.  We  also  signed  an  agreement  with
the  International  Organization  for  Migration  on  the
return of refugees.
Within  the  framework  of  a  political  settlement,
and despite the intransigence and lack of seriousness of
the  rebels,  my  Government  accepted  the  invitation
extended by President Obasanjo of Nigeria, the current
Chairman  of  the  African  Union.  We  then  sent  another
high-ranking delegation to Abuja on 23 August out of
our  belief  in  the  political  settlement  as  a  strategic
the  Addis  Ababa
option.  As 
negotiations, 
its
resolution  1564  (2004)  last  Saturday,  18  September,
which gave more incentive to the rebels and sent them
an  erroneous  message  to  continue  their  intransigence.
This led to the failure of the negotiations.
it  happened 
the  Security  Council  adopted 
in 
Security  Council  resolution  1564  (2004)  did  not
consider  my  Government(cid:146)s  efforts  to  contain  the
humanitarian  crisis  in  Darfur,  which  led  to  dØtente  in
the  situation. 
to  my
Government(cid:146)s  warning  about  the  negative  impact  of
any  measures  that  would  hamper  the  efforts  made  by
the  African  Union  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the
question of Darfur.
It  did  not  pay  attention 
We  call  upon  the  international  community  to
provide  assistance  to  the  needy  population  in  Darfur.
At the same time, we ask for support and promotion of
the African Union(cid:146)s efforts and that the situation on the
ground  not  be  further  complicated  or  the  Union(cid:146)s
efforts undermined.
Believing  in  our  own  principles,  our  sense  of
responsibility  and 
the  attention  my  Government
attaches to human rights questions, we have cooperated
with  international  and  voluntary  organizations  for  the
development  and  enhancement  of  human  rights  in  my
country.  We  have  ratified 
the  African
Children(cid:146)s  Initiative  and,  over  the  past  months,  we
have  received  some  independent  experts  and  special
rapporteurs  sent  by  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  (OHCHR).  In
cooperation with OHCHR, we have deployed a team of
human  rights  observers  in  Darfur.  Sudan(cid:146)s  doors  will
be open for all those who want to know the truth. We
have  nothing  to  hide.  Our  efforts  were  not  limited  to
this  year 
cooperating with the international community. We have
taken  some  measures  at  the  local  level,  and  we  have
established  a  national 
to
investigate  allegations  of  human  rights  violations  in
Darfur. Also, there are other committees to investigate
the  other  claims  of  rape  in  the  Darfur  region  besides
our efforts to provide protection, peace and security to
our citizens.
independent  committee 
Since the beginning of the crisis, my Government
has  not  hesitated  to  recognize  that  there  has  been  a
humanitarian problem in Darfur and a security problem
that  ought  to  be  dealt  with  through  a  comprehensive
political  solution,  despite  the  fact  that  the  rebel
movement led to this problem by starting violence and
fighting.  Then  we 
international
community  in  general  and  the  African  Union  and  the
League of Arab States in particular.
resorted 
the 
to 
the 
that 
We  hope 
international  community,
especially the Security Council, will cooperate with us
to  find  a  solution  instead  of  issuing  threats  and
condemnations. The last Security Council resolution is
a living example of such threats.
is 
for 
the 
responsible 
We  welcome 
international  community(cid:146)s
investigation  of  the  Darfur  violations.  As  I  said,  we
have  nothing  to  hide.  What  we  all  want  from  the
Secretary-General,  who 
the
establishment of this committee, and from the Security
Council  is  confirmation  of  the  credibility  of  the
international  organization  so  that  this  international
committee  would  be  neutral  and  professional.  We  do
not  want  a  committee  like  that  headed  by  Richard
Butler,  who  prepared  his  report  at  another  location
where  it  was  signed  and  submitted  to  the  Security
Council  indicating  that  it  represented  the  position  of
the Organization.
We hope that the voices of those who took certain
positions  regarding  Darfur  will  be  silent  until  the
international  committee(cid:146)s  report  is  issued.  We  face  a
very  delicate  situation  and  developments  in  the  world
today,  and  we  need  to  face  such  challenges  by
garnering  the  political  will  to  enhance  the  role  of  the
United  Nations  and  its  agencies  in  order  to  carry  out
their  functions  within 
the  framework  of  a  real
democracy  that  would  express  the  interests  and  hopes
of  all  peoples  and  confront  the  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century.
We  must  accelerate  our  current  efforts  that  have
been  going  on  for  a  decade  now  for  Security  Council
A/59/PV.8
the 
justice.  Among 
reform and to develop its methods  of  work.  The  body
that is responsible for international peace and security
is composed of permanent members, whose monopoly
of the veto reflects a great imbalance over the simplest
criteria  of 
five  permanent
Members, there are three from one geographical group;
two  of  them  are  from  Western  Europe.  There  is  no
representation whatsoever for entire continents, such as
Africa  or  Latin  America,  and  vast  regions  of  Asia.
Therefore,  any  discussion  about  submitting  another
candidate  from  Western  Europe  before  taking  these
continents  into  consideration  would  be  a  consecration
of 
the  West(cid:146)s
hegemony over the affairs of this Organization.
imbalanced  equation  and  of 
this 
time 
there 
the  same 
Terrorism  and  extremism  are  among 
the
challenges facing the world today. We declare our total
this  destructive
rejection  and  condemnation  of 
phenomenon;  but  at 
is  an
unacceptable misunderstanding and confusion between
terrorism  and  the  struggles  of  people  to  achieve  their
independence  and 
foreign
occupation.  This  misunderstanding  culminates  in  the
extreme  when  terrorism  is  linked  to  followers  of  a
certain religion or culture. Terrorism has no religion or
homeland. We stand with the international community
and cooperate with it in its fight to eliminate terrorism,
and  we  call  for  an  international  agreement  on  a
definition  of  terrorism  and  to  find  the  best  means  to
face this plague through collective efforts.
themselves  of 
rid 
to 
The  gap  between  the  rich  and  poor  countries  is
widening  within  a  system  of  globalization  that  further
enriches the wealthy and impoverishes the poor. It has
become  an  obstacle  for  the  international  community
and  the  aspirations  to  a  free  and  dignified  life  of
billions  of  people 
in  developing  countries.  The
imbalance  in  today(cid:146)s  world  economy  and  free  trade  is
obvious. It will have an adverse effect not only on the
developing  countries  but  will 
total
catastrophe  in  the  whole  world.  We  need  to  have
political  resolve,  as  stated  by  world  leaders  in  the
Millennium  Declaration  four  years  ago,  and  later  at
Monterrey and Johannesburg.
lead  also 
to 
Developing and least developed countries are still
suffering from hunger and poverty.
Let us renew hope for the hundreds of millions of
poor  and  hungry  people  by  translating  that  political
will into concrete action in order to provide them with
education and drinking water and to eliminate hunger,
43
A/59/PV.8
destitution  and  disease  by  focusing  on  the  goals  and
programmes that we have repeatedly agreed on. In this
connection,  we  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the
international  initiative  on  the  new  Action  Against
Hunger and Poverty.
there, 
the  demolition  of  houses, 
Israel(cid:146)s  oppressive  policies  against  unarmed
Palestinian  people,  the  imposition  of  closures  on
occupied  Palestinian  land,  the  extrajudicial  crimes
committed 
the
starvation  and  intimidation,  the  increased  settlement
activities and the besieging of the Palestinian President
all  require  that  the  international  community  bring
pressure to bear on Israel to stop those acts. The Sudan
welcomes  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International
Court of Justice on the illegality of the separation wall
and  on  compensation  for  all  losses  caused  by  it.  We
welcome  resolution  ES-10/15,  adopted  by  the  General
Assembly  at  its  tenth  emergency  session,  on  20  July
2004, demanding that Israel abide by that opinion. An
international,  comprehensive  and  just  peace  in  the
Middle  East  will  be  reached  only  when  Israel
withdraws from all occupied Arab lands, including the
Syrian Golan Heights and the Lebanese Shali(cid:146)a farms.
There will be no peace or stability until the Palestinian
people  recover  their  legitimate  rights,  including  their
right to establish an independent Palestinian State with
Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and  the  right  of  refugees  to
return to their lands.
The  difficult  situation  facing  the  Iraqi  people
makes  it  necessary  to  assist  them  to  overcome  their
problems. Here we reaffirm the unity and independence
of the Iraqi people and their right to self-determination.
We hope that the restoration of those rights will lead to
security  and  stability  and  to  a  return  to  normality  in
Iraq and that it will enable the Iraqi people to exercise
their  right  to  choose  their  own  political  leadership
through  free  and  fair  elections.  We  call  upon  the
international 
Iraqi
provisional  Government,  to  help  in  the  reconstruction
of Iraq and to support any initiative that would enable
the Iraqis to live in dignity in their own country.
community 
support 
the 
to 
Our  efforts  complement  those  efforts  of  the
African Union to achieve stability and development in
our  continent,  a  continent  so  rich  natural  and  human
resources  and  capabilities.  We  have  resolved  to  settle
our conflicts and crises, which squander such resources
and  capabilities,  and  to  work  instead  to  promote
economic  and  social  development  through  the  New
Partnership for Africa(cid:146)s Development (NEPAD).
44
In  conclusion,  we  reaffirm  our  determination  to
achieve  a  comprehensive  and  just  peace  that  would
lead  to  stability  and  well-being  for  the  people  of  the
Sudan and would bolster African Union efforts towards
economic and social integrity. We look forward to the
United  Nations  playing  its  role  in  establishing  justice
in  international  relations  based  on  understanding,
cooperation  and  mutual 
interests  and  avoiding
confrontation  and  sanctions,  which  have  proven  to  be
harmful to people.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Per  Stig  Moeller,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Denmark.
Mr.  Moeller  (Denmark):  When  we  met  a  year
ago, there was widespread concern that we had reached
an  impasse  that  threatened  to  paralyse  the  United
Nations.  I  am  happy  to  note  today  that  this  looming
threat of division is receding and is being replaced by a
renewed commitment to multilateralism.
In  that  spirit,  Denmark  welcomes  the  Security
Council(cid:146)s  unanimous  adoption  of  its  resolution  1546
(2004), on Iraq. The resolution is, first and foremost, of
great  significance  for  the  prospects  of  peace  and
stability in Iraq and throughout the region. It is also of
great  importance  for  the  Security  Council(cid:146)s  ability  to
perform its role as the custodian of international peace
and security.
The  United  Nations  must  play  a  leading  role  in
the  political  process  and  in  the  reconstruction  of  Iraq.
The wisdom and skill of the Secretary-General and his
Special  Adviser  have  advanced  this  process,  and  we
hope that the advisory  role of  the  United Nations will
be  further  enhanced.  We  urge  all  Member  States  to
support 
in 
its
endeavours to establish peace and security in Iraq.
interim  Government  of  Iraq 
the 
is 
The year 2005 will be the year in which Member
States(cid:146)  willingness  to  work  towards  a  strong,  united
and  effective  United  Nations  will  be  tested.  The
challenge 
to  develop  credible,  effective  and
comprehensive United Nations responses to the threats
and challenges of the new millennium, whether they be
conflict  prevention,  conflict  resolution  and  peace-
building,  or 
the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  or
respect for human rights and international law, last but
certainly  not 
the  enormous  challenge  of
achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
the  fight  against 
terrorism  and 
least, 
Denmark strongly supports the Secretary-General(cid:146)s
High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change and
looks forward to its report later this year. Efforts to reform
the Organization, including enlarging the membership of
the  Security  Council,  must  continue  if  the  United
Nations  is  to  meet  the  new  challenges.  Democracy  is
also  a  question  of  representation,  and  if  large  parts  of
the  world  do  not  feel  represented  in  the  Security
Council there is a risk that they will not feel bound by
its  decisions.  The  Security  Council  must  reflect  the
realities of the world of today, not those of the past.
and 
non-military 
We  live  in  a  world  in  which  the  distinction
between  military 
is
increasingly blurred. Most current threats are complex
and  combine  elements  of  both.  Creating  synergies
among development, political and security components
will  be  the  key  to  the  success  of  the  United  Nations.
Denmark will endeavour to assist in this process across
the full range of United Nations activities.
threats 
Denmark  is  a  candidate  for  election  to  the
Security  Council  during  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly. If elected, the focus of Denmark(cid:146)s tenure in
the  Council  will  be  to  seek  new  and  more  effective
ways  of  integrating  security  and  development  and
strengthening  international  law.  In  that  connection,  I
welcome  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  important  opening
statement  in  this  debate  (see  A/59/PV.3),  in  which  he
outlined  the  fundamental  principles  for  a  world  order
based on international law.
Greater  coherence  is  needed  in  international
peace  operations.  We  firmly  believe  that  the  United
Nations  needs  to  give  civilian  crisis  management  the
same  priority  that  is  accorded  to  military  crisis
management.  More  than  40  per  cent  of  countries
emerging  from  conflict  slide  back  into  conflict.  In
order  to  build  sustainable  peace,  much  more  attention
needs  to  be  given  to  the  civilian  aspects  of  crisis
management.  This  includes  the  demobilization  and
reintegration  of  combatants  as  well  as  the  social,
economic and legal reconstruction of war-torn societies.
We  must  make  State-building  a  central  goal  of
conflict management and peace-building, alongside the
provision  of  basic  security.  Whatever  mechanism  we
set up, the challenge is to ensure the involvement of all
stakeholders.  That  includes  national  Governments,  the
Secretariat,  United  Nations  development  funds  and
programmes,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  regional
organizations and bilateral donors.
A/59/PV.8
In  order  to  improve  compliance  with  Security
Council  resolutions,  the  process  towards  targeted  and
smarter  sanctions  should  be  continued.  The  challenge
is twofold. First, the Security Council must rigorously
implement 
they
stipulate  serious  consequences 
in  case  of  non-
compliance. Secondly, the countries concerned must be
given  positive 
those
resolutions.
to  comply  with 
including  when 
resolutions, 
its 
incentives 
Terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction  are  serious  threats  to  peace  and
security  and  impede  progress  towards  stability  and
prosperity.  Terrorists  threaten  the  everyday  life  and
values  of  millions  of  innocent  individuals.  Terrorists
must  be  stopped  by  hard  power  and  by  soft  power  to
prevent decades of unrest and terror.
Countering  new  threats  requires  a  multifaceted,
integrated  response  by  the  United  Nations  and  its
partners. Success demands synergy, a finely tuned mix
of  diplomacy,  aid,  police  efforts,  intelligence,  legal
assistance  and  (cid:151)  if  need  be  (cid:151)  military  power.  The
United  Nations  must  take  a  leading  role  in  the  fight
against  terrorism,  providing  both  the  framework  for
global efforts and the legitimacy for collective action.
Terror must not lead to isolation; it must not stop
globalization.  In  the  world  of  today,  huge  global
disparities  in  resources  have  become  apparent  to
everybody.  Social  and  economic  exclusion,  as  well  as
deficient  democracies,  the  absence  of  the  rule  of  law
and  lack  of  respect  for  human  rights,  contribute  to
political 
religious  extremism.
Ensuring  that  new  generations  have  access  to  the
benefits  of  globalization  (cid:151)  such  as  democracy  and
hope for a better future (cid:151) is a global challenge.
radicalization  and 
The main responsibility for fighting terrorism lies
with  individual  States.  This  includes  compliance  with
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  as  well  as
ratification  and  implementation  of  the  12  United
Nations  conventions  against 
terrorism.  Denmark
supports  efforts  to  reinvigorate  the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  (CTC).  We  support  efforts  to  renew  and
upgrade  the  offer  of  technical  assistance  to  countries
that  need  it.  The  work  of  the  CTC  must  be  better
focused  and  linked  with  the  assistance  extended  to
countries that have the will (cid:151) but lack the means (cid:151) to
meet  the  requirements  of  Security  Council  resolution
1373 (2001).
45
A/59/PV.8
as 
Just 
important,  we  must 
strengthen
international agreements to prevent the proliferation of
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Denmark 
therefore
supports Security Council resolution 1540 (2004), and
looks forward to its full implementation.
the  core 
international  human 
The  United  Nations  has  been  instrumental  in
establishing 
rights
conventions.  This  year  we  are  celebrating  the  twenty-
fifth  anniversary  of  one  of  those  conventions  (cid:151)  the
Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of
Discrimination against Women. The importance of the
elimination  of  discrimination  against  women  and  of
ensuring  respect  for  the  right  of  women  to  decide
freely  over  their  own  lives  (cid:151)  including  in  matters
relating 
and
HIV/AIDS (cid:151) is self-evident. This main message of the
Cairo  Programme  of  Action,  adopted  10  years  ago,  is
as relevant today as ever.
reproductive  health 
to  marriage, 
With a view to eradicating torture, Denmark calls
upon all States to sign and ratify the Optional Protocol
to  the  Convention  against  Torture,  so  that  it  can  enter
into force at an early date.
We are now in the era of implementation of those
human rights commitments that have been undertaken.
As  the  main  body  in  its  field,  the  Commission  on
Human Rights has a crucial role to play in this respect
and should be further strengthened.
in 
2005  will  be  a  defining  moment  for  the  United
Nations. World leaders will meet in New York to take
stock  of  progress 
the
Millennium  Declaration.  That  meeting  will  provide  a
unique  opportunity  to  break  new  ground,  push  ahead
with  the  interlinked  agenda  of  peace,  security  and
development  and  follow  up  the  recommendations  of
the High-level Panel.
implementation  of 
the 
results  so 
A  key  priority  for  Denmark  will  be  to  speed  up
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  The 
far  are  not  sufficiently
encouraging  (cid:151)  especially  with  regard  to  Africa.
Denmark  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  Africa(cid:146)s
development and would like the situation there and its
prospects to be high on the agenda at the 2005 summit.
In  order  to  reach  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  an  effective  partnership  will  be  required
between developed and developing  countries. The  gap
between  goals  and  resources  must  be  closed.  We  are
deeply  concerned  about  the  inadequacy  of  the  current
46
level  of  development  financing.  Further  resources  are
needed, as is better coordination in their allocation.
Last  year,  Denmark  took  the  lead  in  making  our
commitments  transparent  in  a  Millennium  Development
Goals  report.  A  new  report  will  be  published  next
month. We call on all other States to do likewise.
Development  efforts  and  conflict  resolution  in
Africa  must  go  hand  in  hand.  Progress  achieved  in
economic  and  social  development  will  be  sustainable
only  if  we  manage  to  put  an  end  to  conflict  on  the
African  continent.  We  stand  ready  to  support  the
significant  and  sustained  efforts  undertaken  by  the
Africans  themselves  in  this  regard.  There  is  a  need  to
further  strengthen  the  African  security  architecture  in
cooperation  with 
the  African  Union,  subregional
African  organizations, 
the
European  Union  and  Governments  acting  bilaterally.
We also need to strengthen the regional approaches of
the United Nations in the field. Denmark stands ready
to contribute actively.
the  United  Nations, 
The 
has 
as 
such 
climate 
change, 
Furthermore, recent natural disasters illustrate the
importance of dealing with international environmental
issues 
biodiversity,
deforestation and desertification.
Secretary-General 
great
leadership  in  pressing  for  strengthened  and  effective
multilateralism, and things are slowly starting to come
together. Our common voyage will not be over with the
2005  summit  (cid:151)  far  from  it.  The  High-level  Panel(cid:146)s
report, a renewed focus on post-conflict intervention, and
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  can  herald  a  new  age  of  strong  and  effective
multilateralism if, collectively, we rise to the challenge.
shown 
The task of this generation is to hand the world to
the next generation in better shape than we received it.
Denmark  will  spare  no  effort  in  its  endeavours  to
translate that vision into reality.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Solomon  Passy,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria.
Mr.  Passy  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like,  on
behalf of Bulgaria, to offer my sincere congratulations
to  Mr.  Jean  Ping  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency
(cid:151)  a  position  of  great  responsibility.  Given  his  great
experience in multilateral diplomacy, I sure that he will
lead  the  deliberations  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General  Assembly  to  a  successful  outcome.  I  would
also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the
work  done  by  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Julian  Hunte,  to
reform and revitalize the Assembly.
(spoke in English)
This is the first year that the Republic of Bulgaria
has  taken  part  in  the  deliberations  of  the  General
Assembly as a full-fledged member of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and as a State which has successfully
concluded  its  negotiations  on  joining  the  European
Union.  We  are  fully  aware  of  the  great  responsibility
which we bear this year in discharging our mandate as
the  Chairman-in-Office  of 
for
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe.  All  those  factors
encourage Bulgaria to redouble its efforts in support of
the  United  Nations.  We  shall  continue  our  efforts
aimed  at  strengthening  the  authority  and  role  of  the
United  Nations.  We  shall  support  the  constructive
proposals for reforms within the United Nations, which
should enhance its capacity and effectiveness.
the  Organization 
Today  the  United  Nations  faces  new  challenges,
which  require  resolute  joint  action  and  coordination.
The  United  Nations  and  its  bodies,  as  well  as  the
specialized institutions within its system, will continue
to  make  an  important  contribution  aimed  at  dealing
with 
achieving
sustainable  development,  containing  and  eliminating
violence  and  human  rights  abuses  and  affirming  the
rule of law, good governance and democratic values.
extreme  poverty 
and  hunger, 
International  terrorism  poses  the  most  serious
threat to international peace and security. This requires
coordinated  and  resolute  action  by  all  States  and  the
entire  international  community.  Nothing  can  justify
terrorist  acts.  It  is  essential  that  terrorists  do  not  get
hold  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  nor  distract  us
from  our  agenda,  as  outlined  by  the  Millennium
Declaration.
This  month  the  world  remembers  the  victims  of
the 
terrorist  acts  of  11  September,  marking 
the
anniversary  of  those  tragic  events.  We  all  watched  in
horror, anguish and anger the cold-blooded massacre of
innocent  children  and  their  parents  in  the  school  in
Beslan. That is terrorism at its ugliest.
is 
firmly 
too, 
Bulgaria, 
that
international  terrorism  threatens  all  States  and  that  it
can  be  dealt  with  only  through  joint  efforts.  It  is  for
that  reason  that  the  people  and  the  Government  of
Bulgaria have whole-heartedly supported our country(cid:146)s
convinced 
A/59/PV.8
active  participation  in  the  global  coalition  against
terrorism.  We  are  committed  to  pursuing  that  policy
steadfastly,  even  though  we  have  suffered  human
losses and sustained damage.
Within  the  United  Nations  system,  the  Security
Council  and  its  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  (CTC)
are vested with the task of ensuring success in the fight
against international terrorism. We share the view that
Security  Council  resolution  1535  (2004)  and  the
creation  of  the  new  Counter-Terrorism  Committee
Executive  Directorate  have  improved  coordination  in
this  field.  The  Al  Qaeda  and  Taliban  Committee,
beefed  up  in  2004  with  the  Monitoring  Group  and
Sanctions  Enforcement  Support  Team,  should  also
continue to wield its positive influence.
Within  the  framework  of  the  Organization  for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Bulgaria
has  been  assisting  in  the  joint  initiatives  of  the  CTC
and  OSCE  and  of  the  United  Nations  Office  for  Drug
Control and Crime Prevention.
invaluable.  Through  activities 
The OSCE has been involved in several countries
in  south-east  Europe  for  many  years  now,  and  its
commitment  to  fostering  peace  and  stability  in  the
region,  through  its  field  missions  in  Macedonia;
Croatia; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Albania; Serbia and
Montenegro; and Kosovo, Serbia and Montenegro, has
proved 
such  as
institution-  and  capacity-building,  promoting  and
supporting legislative reform, respect for human rights,
and  (cid:151)  in  cooperation  with  the  Office  of  the  United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR)
and  other  international  actors  (cid:151)  the  repatriation  of
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons,  the  OSCE
has made clear its comparative advantage in the region.
But, while this work is essential, it cannot be done
effectively  without  enhanced  efforts  by  the  international
community to address the region(cid:146)s lagging infrastructure.
The  development  of 
infrastructure  and  political
stability  must  go  hand  in  hand.  The  people  of  the
region are isolated from each other and from the rest of
the region. Indeed, it can take longer to fly from Sofia to
Tirana  than  to  cross  the  Atlantic.  There  is  a  desperate
need 
infrastructure
corridors  to  bring  the  people  of  the  region  closer
together.  Bulgaria  knows 
the
importance  for  the  people  of  south-eastern  Europe  of
having the prospect of full integration into mainstream
European political and economic structures.
from  experience 
for  highways, 
railways  and 
47
A/59/PV.8
Sustained  efforts  must  be  made  by 
the
international community to stimulate economic growth
in  that  region  and  to  offer  young  people  in  particular
tangible hope for the future.
in  spite  of 
the  positive  changes  and 
Bulgaria  has  always  regarded  the  stability  and
security  of  south-east  Europe  as  one  of  its  priorities.
Yet, 
the
acceleration  of 
the  European  and  Euro-Atlantic
integration  of  the  States  in  the  region,  the  events  that
took place in Kosovo last March  revealed that serious
risks and latent threats still exist. Bulgaria supports the
emergence of a democratic, multi-ethnic, multi-cultural
and  multi-religious  society 
in  Kosovo.  We  will
continue to cooperate actively with the United Nations
Mission  in  Kosovo  so  that  this  aim  can  finally  be
attained.
the 
standards, 
together  with 
Bulgaria  is  in  favour  of  the  full  implementation
of  Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  and  its
(cid:147)standards  before  status(cid:148)  policy.  An  agreement  on
those 
forthcoming
negotiating  process,  will  be  decisive  for  Kosovo(cid:146)s
future. We welcome the Secretary-General(cid:146)s initiatives,
and  in  particular  the  comprehensive  review  of  the
political  situation  in  Kosovo  prepared  by  Ambassador
Kai  Eide.  We  will  continue  to  lend  our  active  support
to  Mr.  Soren  Jessen-Petersen,  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
newly appointed Special Representative. We hope that
the elections next month will prove to be an important
step  forward  in  the  context  of  the  social  and  political
processes  under  way  and  towards  reaching  a  durable
solution to the Kosovo problem.
Bulgaria  is  firmly  convinced  that  the  United
Nations  must  play  a  key  role  in  the  stabilization  and
restoration  of  Iraq,  in  the  ongoing  political  and
constitutional  process,  based  on  Security  Council
resolution  1546  (2004),  and  in  the  preparations  for
democratic  and  free  elections.  We  welcome  the  first
steps  taken  in  Baghdad  by  Mr.  Ashraf  Qazi,  the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  Special  Representative,  as  well  as
the mandate of the United Nations Assistance Mission
for Iraq (UNAMI).
There  have  been  encouraging  developments  in
the  resolution  of  conflicts  in  certain  hot  spots  in  the
world,  such  as  Sierra  Leone  and  Timor-Leste.  At  the
same  time,  there  are  complicated  situations  in  other
regions, particularly in Africa. The situation in Darfur
is of serious concern. Security Council resolution 1556
(2004) and the recently adopted resolution 1564 (2004)
48
must be complied with in order to avoid a repetition of
the tragedy in other parts of the African continent, similar
to the events that occurred during the last decade.
During Bulgaria(cid:146)s chairmanship of the OSCE, we
have been making concerted efforts to spur and further
develop  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the OSCE. We have been encouraged by the Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  specific  initiatives,  aimed  at  improving  the
synchronization  of 
and
exchange  of  information  with  regional  organizations.
We  give  very  high  marks  to  United  Nations-OSCE
cooperation  in  the  western  Balkans,  the  region  of  the
Caucasus and in Central Asia.
communication 
actions, 
Contemporary  geopolitical  realities  require  not
only  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
OSCE, but also cooperation with the European Union,
NATO,  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  Commonwealth  of
Independent States and relevant international agencies.
In  my  view,  closer  interaction  between  them  is  of
crucial  importance  to  security,  stability,  democratic
prosperity and tolerance throughout the world.
to  avert  possible  crisis  situations 
The developments in Georgia have been followed
the  Bulgarian  OSCE
with  close  attention  by 
chairmanship.  We  have  also  been  actively  involved  in
efforts 
the
autonomous region of Ajaria. We note with satisfaction
the  encouraging  changes  that  have  taken  place  in
Azerbaijan and Tajikistan, including the decision of the
President  of  Azerbaijan,  announced  in  March,  to
release  129  prisoners,  as  well  as  the  June  decision  by
the  President  and  the  Parliament  of  Tajikistan  to
impose a moratorium on the death penalty.
in 
through 
The  OSCE, 
its  outreach  activities,
attaches great importance to assisting the normalization
of  Afghanistan  and 
towards
democracy  and  respect  for  human  rights.  We  express
our  satisfaction  at  the  fact  that  the  OSCE  will
contribute 
in
Afghanistan.
the  monitoring  of 
its  steady  progress 
elections 
to 
In  adapting  ourselves  to  current  geopolitical
realities,  we  envisage  building  a  bridge  of  confidence
over the Black Sea (cid:151) an endeavour which can lay the
groundwork  for  future  security,  cooperation  and
tolerance in Europe, in Asia and the rest of the world.
We are deeply convinced that the Black Sea dialogue is
of special importance not only for participating nations
but also because it can set a positive example for other
parts of the world.
It 
for  sustainable  development. 
Respect  for  and  observance  of  internationally
recognized  standards  of  human  rights  by  Member
States is  a prerequisite  both  for  their  national  security
and 
is  also  a
prerequisite  for  international  peace  and  security.  The
protection  of  basic  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms  worldwide  is  a  priority  in  the  policy  of  the
Bulgarian  Government.  Our  historical  experience
teaches  us  that,  in  the  quest  to  achieve  prosperity  and
security in any society, it is necessary to have not only
an  adequate  legal  system  and  mechanisms  for  its
effective implementation, but also a spirit of tolerance.
We must not tolerate only one minority and ignore the
others.  Anti-Semitism,  anti-Islamism,  anti-Arabism,
anti-Europeanism,  anti-Americanism  and  even  anti-
globalism ought to be equally and totally rejected.
Bulgaria  welcomes  the  progressive  reintegration
of Libya into the international community. However, my
country  believes  that  a  compelling  message  from  the
Libyan authorities about their respect for human rights
and human values could only be communicated through a
just  solution  to  the  well-known  case  of  the  medical
workers (cid:151) six Bulgarians and one Palestinian (cid:151) who
have been held behind bars in Tripoli and Benghazi for
almost  six  years.  In  this  regard,  we  call  upon  the
United  Nations  to  redouble  its  efforts  in  the  fight
against  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  in  Africa,  which  we
believe  is  the  cause  of  these  tragic  developments
concerning these seven innocent people.
regards 
Bulgaria 
issues  concerning  women,
children and persons belonging to vulnerable groups of
the population, including elderly and disabled persons,
as  inseparable  parts  of  the  entire  complex  of  human
rights.  The  Bulgarian  Government  fully  supports  the
strict  implementation  of  the  documents  of  the  World
Conference  against  Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,
Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
twenty-
seventh  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on
children, the World Assembly on Ageing, as well as the
ongoing efforts of the international community to draft
and adopt a convention on the protection of the rights
and dignity of disabled persons.
the 
The  measures  aimed  at  revitalizing  all 
the
activities  of  the  United  Nations  are  of  extraordinary
importance  for  the  current  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  The  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  United
Nations bodies, particularly the General Assembly, the
Security  Council  and 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council,  is  fundamental  for  solidifying  the  all-around
A/59/PV.8
role  of  this  world  Organization.  The  sooner  we  do  it,
the better, and all the more so since next year we will
be  celebrating  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United
Nations. Let us hope that we will at that time be able to
congratulate  ourselves  on  the  adoption  of  these  badly
needed reforms. Taking all  this  into  consideration  and
acting on the basis of the political will of all Member
States, as declared at the Millennium Summit, we give
our  support  to  the  common  efforts  for  speeding  up
United Nations reform and for strengthening the ties and
coordination  among  the  United  Nations,  the  Bretton
Woods institutions and the World Trade Organization.
The United Nations plays a principal and pivotal
role  in  the  Republic  of  Bulgaria(cid:146)s  foreign  policy,  as
stated  at  the  fifty-eighth  session  of  the  General
Assembly  by  our  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Simeon  Saxe-
Coburg-Gotha.  To  this  end,  we  shall  continue  our
efforts  to  promote  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and
enhance  its  efficiency  and  organizational  structure  in
order  to  promote  peace,  development,  democracy  and
the rule of law.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  Sheikh  Mohammad  Al-Sabah  Al-
Salem  Al-Sabah,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
State of Kuwait.
Mr.  Al-Sabah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  am
pleased to  convey my  congratulations to the President
elected  to  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  I  likewise  take  this  opportunity  to  express
our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  for  the  great  efforts  he  has  been  exerting  to
restructure and reform the United  Nations, to improve
its methods of work and revitalize its role in all fields
in  order  to  face  the  demands  and  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century.
Reform  and  restructuring  of  the  United  Nations
system  have  become  imperatives,  since  this  world
Organization  remains  the  ideal  mechanism  to  address
the urgent problems of the world, by way of combating
poverty  and  hunger,  ensuring  the  non-proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  achieving  disarmament
and resolving armed conflicts, combating diseases that
take  the  lives  of  millions,  such  as  AIDS  and  malaria.
The  United  Nations  has  organized  numerous
international  conferences  and  summits  in  the  last  10
years,  such  as  the  Millennium  Summit,  the  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in  Johannesburg
and  the  International  Conference  on  Financing  for
49
A/59/PV.8
to 
address 
in  Monterrey 
Development 
those
multilateral  problems.  The  international  community
may not have been able to achieve enough progress in
addressing  some  of  these  issues,  but  this  should  not
prevent  us  from  redoubling  our  efforts  to  implement
the  international  treaties,  resolutions  and  programmes
of  action  of  such  United  Nations  conferences.  This
must  be  done  in  order  to  ensure  respect  for  the
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  international
law,  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
primacy in preserving international peace and security
and in the strengthening of international cooperation in
the economic, social and cultural spheres.
Terrorism  is  one  of  the  major  challenges  the
United  Nations  faces  in  this  millennium.  Its  negative
effects are extremely serious and touch upon all States
without  exception,  although 
to  varying  degrees.
Terrorist  attacks  such  as  those  of  11  September  2001,
the  attacks  against  the  brotherly  kingdom  of  Saudi
Arabia and the events in Jakarta and Beslan emphasize
the fact that this phenomenon affects us all. Its targets are
all peoples of the world, not any one State in particular.
fully 
therefore, 
cooperate 
We  must, 
and
collectively in addressing the roots of terrorism and not
simply deal with its tragic effects. Kuwait has endorsed
all  of  the  United  Nations  resolutions  to  combat
terrorism. Terrorism, however, is not related to any one
ethnic  group,  culture  or  religion.  It  is  an  international
phenomenon  that  must  be  addressed  by  the  United
Nations,  as  the  ideal  framework  for  diagnosing  its
causes  and  arriving  at  the  necessary  solutions  needed
to contain it.
wishes  to  see,  namely,  the  preservation  of  Iraq(cid:146)s
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  unity.  Kuwait
supports  the  interim  Government  of  Iraq,  which  is
expressing  the  will  of  the  Iraqi  people  to  build  a
tolerant  Iraq  that  cares  about  peace,  based  upon
democracy,  the  building  of  constitutional  institutions
and  respect  for  and  pursuit  of  its  internal  political
process,  which  would 
the
establishment  of  the  Iraqi  National  Congress  that
would  build  such 
formulate  a  new
constitution,  and  conduct  new  and  free  elections.
Kuwait  aspires  to  strong  brotherly  relations  with  the
new,  free  Iraq,  based  on  mutual  respect,  good
neighbourliness,  respect  for  bilateral  agreements  and
resolutions under international law.
institutions, 
embodied 
be 
in 
We welcome, likewise, the creation  of  a  tribunal
for  former  military  officers  responsible  for  crimes
against  the  Iraqi  people  and  the  people  of  Kuwait
committed  during  the  invasion  of  Kuwait,  as  well  as
for  the  killing  of  Kuwaiti  prisoners  of  war  and  third-
country persons.
to 
We  express  our  appreciation 
the  United
Nations and international and regional organizations (cid:151)
such  as  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Organization
of  the  Islamic  Conference,  the  League  of  Arab  States
and the Gulf Cooperation Council (cid:151) for their support
and their condemnation of the old regime, which killed
prisoners  of  war  and  concealed  that  crime  for  more
than  a  decade  in  flagrant  violation  of  international
humanitarian 
interim
Government,  which  is  seeking  to  investigate  what  has
happened to those prisoners of war.
law.  We  also 
thank 
the 
A  year  and  a  half  after  the  fall  of  Saddam
Hussein(cid:146)s  dictatorship,  the  situation  in  Iraq  continues
to be  a delicate one of uncertainty and  insecurity,  due
to  terrorist  acts  carried  out  by  armed  groups  and  the
remnants  of  the  old  regime.  This  is  hampering  the
efforts  of  the  interim  Iraqi  Government,  which  is
endeavouring to rebuild what the old regime destroyed
through its policy of aggression.
Convinced as we are that security and stability in
Iraq  mean  security  for  the  region  as  a  whole,  Kuwait
supports  the  efforts  of  the  Iraqis  to  rebuild  their
country  in  these  difficult  times,  so  that  Iraq  may
resume its positive international and regional roles. We
are sure that the Iraqi people will be able to do this. In
that  regard,  we  support  Security  Council  resolution
1546  (2004),  which  supports  the  effort  that  everyone
We  are  following  with  great  concern  the  tragic
situation faced by the Palestinian people in the occupied
Arab territories as a result of Israeli policies and practices
that contravene international and humanitarian law.
We  reaffirm  our  support  to  the  struggle  of  the
Palestinian people and their legitimate claim to recover
their  political  rights.  We  therefore  call  upon  Israel  to
respect  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338
(1973),  and  1515  (2003),  the  principle  of  land  for
peace,  the  road  map  and  the  dismantling  of  the  racial
separation  wall.  That  is  part  of  our  integral  vision  for
resolving the situation in the Middle East, which must
be  based  on  mutual  respect  and  cooperation  between
all parties.
To  ensure  stability  in  the  Middle  East,  we  must
also  work  to  eradicate  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
50
and all parties need to pursue the path of understanding
and  dialogue  to  implement  the  noble  principles  of  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  governing  inter-State
relations and relations among the peoples of the world.
We  reiterate,  in  that  regard,  that  the  dispute  between
the United Arab Emirates and the Islamic Republic of
Iran  concerning  the  three  islands  that  belong  to  the
Emirates  should  be  resolved  by  peaceful  means.  We
urge the two parties to resolve that dispute as rapidly as
possible.
Regarding Darfur, we are all concerned about the
humanitarian tragedy there. We believe that the Sudan
is  striving  to  find  a  reasonable  solution  to  that
humanitarian dilemma.
to  achieve  peace  and  security 
Kuwait  is  pursuing  international  and  regional
efforts 
in  both
Afghanistan  and  Somalia,  which  for  many  years  have
suffered from a lack of authority and the deterioration
of  their  economic  and  political  situation  owing  to  the
conflicts between various local forces and factions. We
support  the  good  offices  of  the  United  Nations  and
regional  organizations 
that  have  made  progress
possible  at  the  political  level.  We  hope  that  those
efforts  will  continue  so  that  national  reconciliation  in
those brotherly nations can be achieved.
to 
The 
in  order 
information 
revolution  and 
take  advantage  of 
the  vast
technological  progress  in  the  areas  of  trade  and
communications  have  brought  about  interdependence.
The world has become a little village, every corner of
which  can  now  be  reached.  Many  States,  and
developing  countries  in  particular,  have 
therefore
undergone  fundamental  changes  in  their  economic
framework 
the
phenomenon  of  economic  globablization  and  ensure
progress  and  development  for  their  peoples.  Despite
the benefits of those policies, such as the liberalization
of  international  trade  and  the  lowering  of  tariff
barriers, many countries, especially the least developed
among  them,  are  suffering  from  marginalization  and
many  aggravated  social  problems,  such  as  poverty,
hunger  and  the  spread  of  diseases  resulting  from  the
deterioration  of  their  economies.  For  that  reason,  we
call  upon  the  international  financial  institutions,  and
the  World  Trade  Organization  in  particular,  to  give
special  attention  to  the  developing  countries  and  to
consider  providing  financial  support  to  improve  their
economic  and  social  situations.  We  call  upon  the
developed  countries  to  increase  their  development
assistance,  to  open  access  to  their  markets,  and  to
A/59/PV.8
continues 
to  strengthen 
they  are  able 
reduce the debt  burden  of  the  developing  countries  so
that 
their  economic
infrastructure.
Kuwait 
support  development
projects in many developing countries through regional
and international institutions and organizations, as well
as  through  the  Kuwaiti  Fund  for  Arab  Economic
Development, which we had the honour of establishing
over  four  decades  ago  and  through  which  we  have
provided more than $11 billion to over 100 countries.
to 
At  the  Millennium  Summit  our  leaders  laid  out
the paths to be followed and goals to be attained. Let us
work together to achieve a better future for all peoples.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
the
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk  Dra(cid:154)ković, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Serbia and Montenegro.
Mr.  Dra(cid:154)ković (Serbia  and  Montenegro)  (spoke
in  Serbian;  English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):
Allow me at the outset to convey the greetings and best
wishes of the people of my country to  Member  States
and their people, and to the Secretary-General.
War,  oppression,  crime,  hatred  and  suffering
plague  hundreds  of  millions  of  men  and  women  all
over the world today. In pursuit of the ideals of peace,
democracy  and  happiness,  the  United  Nations  is  the
united  conscience  of  humankind.  In  order  to  achieve
the  goals  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  our
Organization  must  be 
structurally,
economically and spiritually.
strengthened 
that  based  on 
Serbia  and  Montenegro  therefore  supports  both
the  initiatives  for  the  enlargement  of  the  Security
for 
Council, 
the  need 
equal
representation  of  all  continents,  and 
that  which
the  most  developed
concedes  a  special  role  for 
countries,  without  whose  support  the  United  Nations
would be unable to fulfil its noble goals.
The  fight  against  global  terrorism  in  all  its
manifestations,  such  as  anti-Semitism  and  anti-
Islamism,  is  our  primary  responsibility  today.  Those
who perpetrated, masterminded and bankrolled terrorist
atrocities  in  New  York,  Washington,  Moscow,  Beslan,
Jerusalem, Madrid, Istanbul  and  other places have not
only  declared  war  against  all  nations,  but  also  against
God himself, who is the same God for all people.
In 
the 
is
unavoidable,  but  prevention  is  what  we  need  most.
terrorism, 
against 
force 
fight 
51
A/59/PV.8
Politicians, international religious and spiritual leaders
and  the  media  must  constantly  emphasize  that  the
killing of children and of innocent civilians are crimes
that  the  terrorists  are  perpetrating  against  their  own
religions and nations and that God will neither forgive
them  nor  reward  them  with  paradise  for  such  crimes.
Multilateralism  is  the  only  means  to  prevent  the
catastrophe  of 
and
civilizations.  At  the  same  time,  terrorism  must  be
condemned with equal resolve by everyone. There can
be  no  acceptable  terrorists,  nor  should  terrorists  be
proclaimed as (cid:147)freedom fighters(cid:148) anywhere.
clash  between 
faiths 
the 
Serbia and Montenegro is a small country that has
been  confronted  with  most  of  the  world(cid:146)s  current
problems  and  misfortunes.  The  recent  wars  that  saw  the
break-up of Yugoslavia (cid:151) one of the founding members
of the United Nations (cid:151) have had immense and painful
consequences:  unemployment;  poverty; 
tragic
plight  of  some  600,000  refugees;  hopelessness  among
young people, which breeds drug dependence; a rising
suicide  rate;  and  the  desperate  position  of  Serbs  in
Kosovo and Metohija.
the 
The reality of Kosovo and Metohija today is both
dramatic  and  grim.  Over  the  past  five  years,  the
international  administration  and  dominance  of  the
Albanian majority of this Serbian province have led to
the  killing  or  abduction  of  more  than  2,500  Serbs,
including  many  children,  and  to  the  destruction  of
1,500-year-old 
and
approximately  40,000  homes.  As  a  result  of  terrorism
and  massive  violations  of  basic  human  rights,  nearly
200,000  Serbs  and  other  non-Albanians  have  been
expelled from Kosovo and Metohija.
and  monasteries 
churches 
The  hopes  of  suffering  victims  are  directed
towards the United Nations, particularly its bodies and
specialized agencies. I take this opportunity to express
my  most  profound  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General
and  to  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO  for  the
decision  to  convene,  in  November,  an  international
donor  conference  aimed  at  funding  the  reconstruction
of destroyed churches and monasteries in Kosovo. We
are  also  grateful  for  the  principled  position  that  all
homes must be rebuilt, that conditions must be created
for  the  return  of  all  of  those  who  have  been  expelled
and  that  the  Serbs  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija  must  be
guaranteed 
to  freedom  of
movement and all civil, national and religious freedoms.
the  right 
life  and 
to 
52
The spirit of a united Europe and a united world
lives  in  the  hearts  of  Serbs  and  Montenegrins.  While
we respect the existing State borders that we share with
our neighbours, we wish to erase them in everyday life
and  to  build  a  common  European  future  based  on
dialogue, reconciliation and equality among all nations.
We are fully confident that, with the strong support of
the United Nations, we will attain that goal.
But  the  insistence  by  some  on  the  creation  of  a
sovereign  State  of  Kosovo  amounts  to  a  call  for  the
break-up  of 
the  sovereign  State  of  Serbia  and
Montenegro. Such an objective breeds new hatred and
misery  and 
tenets  of
international  law  and  to  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations. We will not agree to the violation of the rights
of our State and its citizens.
is  contrary 
the  basic 
to 
By applying consistent standards in addressing all
crimes, the United Nations will assist the efforts of the
democratic  Government  in  Serbia  and  Montenegro  to
fulfil  our  obligations  to  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, which is something
we must do. The nation is innocent; responsibility rests
on  the  individual,  and  none  of  those  who  have  been
indicted  for  war  crimes  has  the  right  to  hold  a  nation
hostage.
All  of  us  on  this  planet  are  brothers  and  sisters.
Gens una sumus: we are all one family. Therefore, the
primary  obligation  of  any  majority,  whether  religious,
racial  or  ethnic,  is  to  fully  protect  the  rights  of
that  my
minorities.  I  can  assure 
Government 
to 
that
principle.
the  Assembly 
is  unreservedly  committed 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for
this meeting. I call on the representative of Spain, who
wishes to speak in exercise of the right of reply. May I
remind  members  that,  in  accordance  with  General
Assembly  decision  34/401,  statements  in  exercise  of
the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first
intervention  and  five  for  the  second  and  should  be
made by delegations from their seats.
listened  attentively 
Mr. Palacio (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): Yesterday,
the
the  Spanish  delegation 
statement  of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Equatorial  Guinea,
His  Excellency  Mr.  Miguel  Abia  Biteo  Boric(cid:243),  before
the General Assembly. His words, as far as references to
Spain  are  concerned,  were  received  by  my  delegation
with  astonishment.  The  extremely  grave  accusations
to 
in  Equatorial  Guinea 
made against Spain (cid:151) that it supposedly participated with
financing  and  logistical  support  in  an  attempted  coup
d(cid:146)Øtat 
last  March  (cid:151)  are
unacceptable  in  every  respect.  Those  accusations,
which  Spain  vigorously  rejects,  are  being  made
repeatedly  by  members  of 
the  Government  of
Equatorial Guinea without having thus far presented to
the  Assembly  or  to  any  other  forum  the  slightest
evidence to support them.
Many times, the Spanish Government has denied,
before  the  Government  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  any
involvement  in  the  facts  reported  and  has  reaffirmed
our strong commitment to ensure that no activities are
carried  out  from  Spanish 
to
destabilize  or  overthrow  any  foreign  Government  by
violent or anti-democratic means.
friendly 
relations  with  all
countries  of  the  world  and,  of  course,  with  Equatorial
Guinea,  based  on  the  principles  of  international  law,
among 
for  sovereignty  and  non-
Spain  maintains 
territory 
that  seek 
them 
respect 
A/59/PV.8
interference in the internal affairs of other States.  The
Spanish  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm
our  Government(cid:146)s  willingness  to  maintain  the  best
relations  of  friendship  and  cooperation  with 
the
authorities  of  Equatorial  Guinea.  We  believe  that
sufficient channels exist between the two Governments
to appropriately address and resolve any issue that may
be a source of concern.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  call
on the representative of Equatorial Guinea, who wishes
to speak on a point of order.
Ms. Nchama Nsue (Equatorial Guinea) (spoke in
Spanish):  On  the  basis  of  the  statement  in  exercise  of
the  right  of  reply  just  made  by  the  representative  of
Spain concerning the statement made yesterday by my
country(cid:146)s Prime Minister before the General Assembly,
my  delegation  reserves  the  right  to  present  a  reply,
which will be made at the appropriate time.
The meeting rose at 8.30 p.m.
53
