United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
7th plenary meeting
Thursday, 23 September 2004, 10 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.7
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Address by Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the
Republic of Senegal
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Senegal.
Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of
Senegal, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
The President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdoulaye
Wade,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Senegal,  and  to
invite him to address the General Assembly.
President Wade (spoke in French): The delegation
of Senegal would like to congratulate you very warmly,
Mr. President, on your election to the presidency of the
fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure
you  of  our  full  support  as  you  carry  out  your  noble
work.  I  also  wish  to  extend  my  congratulations  and
encouragement to all the members of the Bureau.
I would also like to recognize the commitment of
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  whose  tireless  efforts
to  make  the  United  Nations  a  strong,  working  and
credible Organization reflects his faith in the ideals of
peace,  development  and  concord  among  peoples.  We
must now continue to breathe life into these ideals, so
that current and future generations will have a peaceful
and  safe  world,  a  world  without  absurd  hatred  or
gratuitous  violence.  This  vision  should  lead  us  to  re-
invigorate  the  values  of  multilateralism  and  universality
that are epitomized by our Organization. In other words,
the world needs now, more than ever, a United Nations
that is strong and strengthened in its legitimacy.
We  welcome,  therefore,  the  decision  of  the
United  Nations  Secretary-General  to  establish  a  panel
of  eminent  persons  on  threats,  challenges  and  change,
whose conclusions will be presented next December. In
this respect, we recall the African position on reform of
the  Security  Council,  which  advocates  among  other
things,  the  assignment  to  Africa  of  at  least  two
permanent  seats  and  two  extra  non-permanent  seats.
Africa  would  choose  the  recipients  of  those  seats
according to a process that has yet to be determined.
its  major  democratic  system  and 
As I extol universality, I feel it is unfair that the
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  with  its  23  million
inhabitants, 
its
impressive  economic  vitality,  would  still  be  sidelined
from  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  whose  Charter
does rightly enshrine the essential principles of justice
and universality.
This  denial  of  justice  also  affects  the  valiant
people of Palestine, who, under the legitimate authority
of  President  Yasser  Arafat,  have  been  deprived  of  its
fundamental 
sovereignty  and  ongoing
existence. The defiant attitude of the occupying Power
vis-à-vis 
recently
illustrated by the Israeli authorities’ refusal to abide by
the  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice
requiring Israel to immediately stop the illegal building
international 
community, 
right 
to 
the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-51989 (E)
*0451989*
A/59/PV.7
to 
the 
in 
international  community  and, 
of the separation wall in Palestinian territory, imperils
the  foundations  of  international  legality.  I  solemnly
appeal 
in
particular, to the members of the Quartet, asking them
to  persevere 
immediate
resumption of dialogue, so that we may achieve a fair,
equitable and lasting solution to this disagreement. The
peoples  of  Palestine  and  Israel,  needless  to  recall,  are
condemned by history and geography to live together.
their  efforts 
for  an 
For  our  part,  Senegal,  which  chairs  the  United
Nations  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable
Rights of the Palestinian People, will continue, with its
people,  to  unfailingly  support  the  Palestinian  people,
battered by this crisis that has lasted far too long. As a
contribution to the quest for peace, I suggested that we
conduct a special meeting, outside our regular work, on
the situation in Palestine aimed at enhancing the work
launched  by  the  Quartet  and  in  the  spirit  of  the  road
map,  in  order  to  establish  by  2005  a  sovereign  and
viable  Palestinian  State,  living  side  by  side  with  the
State  of 
internationally
recognized borders guaranteed for the two States. This
initiative,  which  has  already  been  endorsed  by  the
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  African  Union,  will
provide  an  opportunity  to  mobilize  the  international
community around the effective implementation of the
road map.
Israel,  within  safe  and 
In  awarding  me  yesterday  the  2004  Human
Rights  Award,  the  International  League  for  Human
Rights  in  fact  honoured,  through  Senegal’s  head  of
State, all of the Senegalese people, a people attached to
freedom  and  to  the  respect  of  human  dignity.  My
Government  will  continue  to  work  to  promote  and
protect  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  good  public
and private governance. In talking about human rights,
I  am  naturally  thinking  of  the  fundamental  rights  of
women,  children,  disabled  persons,  seniors  and  all
vulnerable  people.  This  deep  commitment  to  mankind
motivated my decision to submit draft legislation to the
Senegalese  national  assembly 
to  abolish  capital
punishment in Senegal.
Almost  60  years  after  the  establishment  of  our
Organization, our world, which is  so  fragile,  still  sees
longstanding dangers such as nuclear proliferation and
the  emergence  of  new  dangers  such  as  terrorism  and
AIDS, which represent a serious threat to international
peace and security. I must remind Members here of the
need to do more to strengthen, under the leadership of
the  Security  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism  Committee,
2
the mechanisms  that  already exist for cooperation and
technical assistance in order to provide those countries
who  so  wish  human,  technical  and  adequate  financial
resources  to  combat  terrorism.  This  initiative,  of
course, must be paired with States’ increased adherence
to treaties and  protocols in this key area.  It is  for  this
purpose  that  the  African  Union  adopted  last  July  an
additional  protocol  to  the  Organization  of  African
Unity’s  Algiers  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and
Combating  of  Terrorism,  proposed  by  Senegal  on
17  October  2001  at 
the  African  conference  on
terrorism, held in Dakar.
This  collective  approach  should  also  be  adopted
to tackle the difficult problem of small arms and light
weapons. Senegal supports making the moratorium on
the  importation,  exportation  and  production  of  small
arms  and  light  weapons  of  the  Economic  Community
of  West  African  States  into  a  convention  in  West
Africa,  since  these  arms  are  truly  weapons  of  mass
destruction in our subregion.
In  accordance  with 
There are other destructive scourges. I would like
to  speak  about  AIDS. 
the
declaration that we adopted in 2001, we must act more
quickly  and  more  vigorously  in  critical  areas  such  as
prevention and access to antiretroviral treatments if we
really  do  wish  to  stop  this  disease  and  its  devastating
effects. Since antiretroviral medication is now free for
all  those  who  are  afflicted,  thanks  to  our  tenacity,
Senegal  has  remained  a  success  story  in  combating
AIDS.
Another  seemingly  ignored  ill  is  poliomyelitis,
which  we  have  completely  eliminated  in  Senegal.
However, this scourge remains as serious as ever in the
rest of Africa.
During  this  second  trimester  of  2004,  the  North
and  West  parts  of  Africa  have  witnessed  the  invasion
of  swarms  of  locusts,  the  dreaded  scourge  which  has
infested  large  agricultural  areas  in  the  region  of  the
Sahel  and  some  North  African  countries.  This  threat,
which has already destroyed entire civilizations, is now
compromising  the  lives  of  tens  of  millions  of  people
right  before  harvest  time.  At  the  very  beginning,  I
personally  sounded 
the
international  community  in  Rome  last  March.  Despite
another appeal by the Director-General of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO),
assistance  was  late  in  coming  and  is  only  now  under
way, but in ways that are not very effective.
the  alarm,  speaking 
to 
Whatever the case may be, Senegal has begun to
work  on  this  issue,  and  today  we  are  succeeding  in
containing  this  danger.  Together  with  neighbouring
countries,  the  countries  bordering  the  Sahel,  we  are
trying  to  launch  an  extensive  campaign  for  the  final
elimination  of  these  locusts.  In  this  regard,  we  note
with  great  satisfaction  the  involvement  of  African
countries,  including  Algeria,  Morocco,  Nigeria,  South
Africa,  Libya  and  Egypt  in  this  issue.  Today,  our
people  remain  concerned  about  the  possible  migration
of these locusts, carried by the wind, to other areas in
the  region,  in  particular  to  the  Maghreb.  We  are  also
pleased to  announce that  we have received  substantial
support by the World Bank, among other international
organizations.  This  means  that  we  have  a  shared
responsibility 
the
international  community  against  locusts  and,  if  we
succeed  in  saving  the  crops,  to  completely  eliminate
them, starting at their source.
and  mobilize 
to 
strengthen 
The task at hand in this area should not make us
lose sight of the huge field of work that remains to be
tackled,  namely  combating  the  poverty  that  strikes
millions  of  people  throughout  the  world,  in  particular
in the least developed countries so that we can achieve
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
terms  of
agriculture. I must say here that I am satisfied with the
outcome of the meeting that was held on the initiative
of President Lula, the President of Brazil.
in 
Yet we all see and are concerned that, as has been
emphasized  by  the  Secretary-General  and  others,  in
spite  of  the  relative  improvement  in  the  economic
situation  in  Africa  since  1995,  the  chances  of  our
continent  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals  are  still  rather  low  given  the  lack  of  progress  to
date. Implementation of those Goals is particularly at risk
even at a time when the world economy is progressing
in  an  encouraging  way:  Africa  continues,  mainly
because of the export subsidies of developed countries,
to be marginalized in world trade. It is a truism to say
that 
impoverish  African
producer countries and increase unemployment.
those  subsidies  help 
to 
Another  problem  is  the  thorny  issue  of  African
debt. The continent has dedicated itself to resolution of
this  problem:  next  year  we  will  hold  a  major  summit
preceded  by  a  technical  meeting  on  ending  Africa’s
indebtedness.
The  Extraordinary  Summit  of  the  African  Union
on Employment and Poverty Alleviation in Africa, just
A/59/PV.7
held in Ouagadougou on 8 and 9 September, illustrates
our  continent’s  determination  to  continue  to  devote
special  attention  to  the  fight  against  unemployment,
which  is  a  key  priority  for  development.  A  successful
outcome — in keeping with the outcomes of the various
summits  which  have  given  direction  to  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  —
requires 
to  make  a
stronger  commitment,  alongside  Africa, 
to  help
materialize this important partnership programme. And
that is why I say that I am pleased to see the progress
we have made on NEPAD financing since the Group of
Eight (G-8) meeting in Kananaskis, Canada.
international  community 
the 
Although  insufficiently  highlighted,  efforts  for
African  development  made  under  NEPAD  and  the
support  actions  of  the  international  community  —
particularly  those  taken  by  the  G-8  and  the  United
Nations system  — are still in evidence, which pleases
me.  We  have  made  basically  two  proposals.  The  first
has to do with the convening in Senegal’s capital of an
agricultural  forum,  on 
the  Davos
economic forum, for the purpose, inter alia, of closing
the world agricultural gap.  It will be held in February
2005 in Dakar.
the  model  of 
The  ever-growing  digital  divide  separates  the
developed  countries  from  the  developing  countries.  In
December  2003  in  Geneva,  the  Secretary-General
convened  The  World  Summit  on  the  Information
Society.  On  that  occasion,  Africa  proposed,  through
myself, the idea of digital solidarity among peoples and
the establishment of a digital solidarity fund based  on
volunteer efforts and not funded by any mandatory tax.
That idea was received with unanimous enthusiasm by
developing  countries  —  Africa,  Asia,  Brazil,  the
Middle  East  —  and  by  a  developed  country:  France.
Subsequently,  the  inaugural  congress  for  the  United
Cities and Local Governments organization was held in
Paris  in  May  2004;  participants  officially  announced
their participation in the digital solidarity fund. To the
cities already mentioned elsewhere, I could add Rome,
Paris, Lille and Bilbao.
We  are  pleased  that  the  Secretary-General  has
established  a  task  force  on  financing  the  information
society  under 
the  decision  adopted  at  Geneva.
Providing Africa with the hardware and other computer
technology it needs is the only way to give us access to
the  knowledge 
that  accelerates  development  and,
which, in turn, will help to close the digital divide.
3
A/59/PV.7
the 
strengthen 
foundations  of 
As  members  can  see,  the  challenges  we  face  are
enormous, numerous and pressing. The time has come
to 
international
cooperation and, once  and  for  all,  to  exorcize  the  risk
of  social  bipolarization  throughout  the  world  where
affluence  rubs  elbows  with  the  most  extreme  poverty
and  where  the  values  of  solidarity  and  respect  for  the
sacredness  of  human  life  become  vain  words.  That  is
why  I  suggested 
international
conference in Dakar on an Islamic-Christian dialogue,
whose objectives would be to help us better understand
one  another, 
to  strengthen  peaceful  coexistence
between  Muslims  and  Christians  and  to  promote  a
dialogue among cultures.
that  we  hold  an 
living 
Thus, by hosting the eleventh Islamic Summit in
2006,  Senegal,  which  has  a  majority  Muslim
population 
their
Christian  brothers,  will  continue  its  action  to  promote
fruitful 
the
sacrosanct  principle  of  respect  for  the  cultural  and
religious identities of all peoples.
in  perfect  harmony  with 
inter-religious  dialogue 
focused  on 
The President (spoke  in  French): On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Republic  of  Senegal  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly
Hall.
Address by Mr. Tassos Papadopoulos, President of
the Republic of Cyprus
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will now hear an address by the President of Cyprus.
the
the
Mr.  Tassos  Papadopoulos,  President  of 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tassos
Papadopoulos,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Papadopoulos: I  wish,  Sir,  to  express
to  you  my  most  sincere  congratulations  on  your
election  as  President  of  this  session  of  the  General
Assembly and to wish you every success in steering the
work  of  this  body.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  our
thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  fifty-
4
eighth session of the General Assembly, especially for
his  inspired  efforts  to  promote  so  vigorously  the
agenda of United Nations reform and the revitalization
of the General Assembly.
As this is the last session of the General Assembly
before the 2005 major event, we must proceed to evaluate
the prospects for attaining the ambitious targets we set
at the turn of the millennium. The major event will be
the  first  real  assessment  of  our  progress  towards  the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  of  the
outcomes of major world conferences and of initiatives
such as the action launched by the Presidents of Brazil,
France  and  Chile  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  Spain  to
eradicate  poverty  and  hunger,  and  the  initiative  of  the
Presidents  of  Finland  and  Tanzania  on  the  social
dimensions of globalization.
to 
of  Cyprus 
The  Republic 
Specifically  with  regard 
the  Millennium
Development Goals, we believe that the ability to make
development on the ground an issue of global concern
as  a  result  of  those  pledges  will  be  a  measure  of  the
ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  induce  significant
change and advances where they are most needed.
supports 
the
strengthening of the United Nations system through the
reform process that is under way and looks forward to
the  report  of 
the  High-Level  Panel  on  Threats,
Challenges  and  Change  and  the  recommendations  of
the Secretary-General. We attach particular importance
to the revitalization of the General Assembly and to the
reform of the Security Council so that its structure will
reflect  contemporary  political  realities  and  a  more
balanced  geographical  representation.  In  the  spirit  of
those  two  principles,  and  with  the  aim  of  reinforcing
the  legitimacy  and  efficacy  of  the  Council,  Cyprus  is
supportive  of  increasing  both  the  permanent  and  the
non-permanent membership. In that respect, we believe
that  the  joint  French  and  German  position  on  the
enlargement  of  the  Council  could  provide  a  basis  for
achieving the aforementioned objectives.
We share the assessment of the Secretary-General
that consolidating effective multilateralism in a flexible
and versatile United Nations is the best way to address
the complete spectrum of global crises and ensure that
preventive mechanisms exist to avert such crises. Such
consolidation  applies  also  to  security  deficits  and
particularly  terrorism,  whose  underlying  causes  we
have  been  unable  to  eliminate  despite  our  concerted
efforts.  We  consider 
the  conclusion  of  a
that 
comprehensive  United  Nations  convention  against
terrorism  is  important  in  order  to  address  more
resolutely,  within 
international
legality, the threat posed by terrorism.
the  framework  of 
Addressing other deficiencies in the international
system  —  particularly  those  that  give  rise  to  crisis
situations and to humanitarian disasters — should also
be  considered  a  matter  of  both  urgency  and  priority.
One  such  crisis  is  Darfur,  which,  following  many
others like it, keeps Africa at the heart of our concerns.
It  demonstrates  not  only  why  we  should  focus  the
majority 
and
peacekeeping efforts on Africa, but also why we should
undertake  every  possible  effort  to  make  sustainable
development a global reality.
humanitarian 
resources 
our 
of 
The  Middle  East  is  another  region  that  remains
volatile,  despite  growing  global  concern  and  despite
many  attempts  to  restore  the  peace  process  in  the
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  We  deem  to  be  necessary
more  active  involvement  by  the  Quartet  in  the  efforts
to implement the road map and put an end to the cycle
of  violence.  More  emphasis  should  also  be  placed  on
the  task  of  improving  living  conditions  in  order  to
normalize people’s lives to the greatest possible extent.
Our support remains focused on ending the occupation,
achieving a just and viable settlement based on United
Nations 
the
Palestinian  people’s  aspirations  for  the  establishment
of an independent State, living side by side with Israel
in conditions of sustainable peace and security.
resolutions,  and 
realization  of 
the 
full 
respect 
for  human 
The  aspirations  of  humanity  revolve  around  the
achievement  of 
rights,
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  The  collective  vision
and  effort  required  to  fulfil  that  massive  endeavour
demands  the  contribution  of  all,  to  the  extent  of  their
capabilities. Cyprus is prepared to play its part from its
vantage  point  in  the  European  Union,  while  drawing
upon its traditional participation in forums dedicated to
promoting  agendas  pertaining  to  those  values.  That
affiliation  has  been  a  source  of  support  for  us  since
Cyprus’s independence, and its impact not only makes
us  grateful  but  also  has  endowed  us  with  sensitivities
that  will  continue  to  be  an  integral  part  of  our
approach.
I would like to emphasize how proud we are that
Cyprus is now a member of the  European Union.  The
Union  has  outlined  an  extensive  set  of  priorities  for
this session of the General Assembly. As the statement
A/59/PV.7
delivered  Tuesday  by 
the  Dutch  presidency  has
delineated those priorities, I will not elaborate on them
any further.
This year marks 30 years since the occupation of
37  per  cent  of  Cyprus’s  territory  as  a  result  of  the
invasion of the island by Turkish troops. It also marks
30 years of relentless efforts by the Greek Cypriots to
achieve a just and peaceful settlement, with the support
of the international community, for which I would here
like to express our deep appreciation.
The  Secretary-General’s  most  recent  effort  to
solve  the  Cyprus  problem  resulted  in  a  plan  that  was
described  by  some  as  a  historic  opportunity  to  solve
one of the most long-standing international problems. I
will  outline  only  briefly  why,  despite  the  hard  work
invested  in  the  process  by  everyone  involved,  the  end
product  of  that  effort  was  judged  to  have  been
inadequate  and  to  have  fallen  short  of  minimum
expectations for a settlement for Greek Cypriots.
First,  the  Annan  Plan  was  not  the  product  of
negotiation,  nor  did  it  constitute  an  agreed  solution
between  the  parties.  Secondly,  the  Plan  did  not  place
the  necessary  emphasis  on  achieving  a  one-State
solution  with  a  central  Government  able  to  guarantee
the  single,  sovereign  character  of  Cyprus.  Thirdly,  it
failed  to  address  the  serious  concerns  of  the  Greek
Cypriot  community  regarding  their  security  and  the
effective implementation of the Plan.
In  rejecting  the  Plan  as  a  settlement  for  the
Cyprus problem, the Greek Cypriots did not reject the
solution  or  the  reunification  of  their  country;  they
rejected 
this  particular  Plan  as  not  effectively
achieving  that  objective.  We  remain  committed  to  a
solution  that  will  ensure  the  reunification  of  our
country, its economy and its people.
We  are  committed  to  reaching  a  solution  on  the
basis  of  a  bizonal,  bicommunal  federation.  There  are,
however,  a  number  of  essential  parameters  on  which
the  Greek  Cypriot  community  insists  such  a  solution
must be founded: the withdrawal of Turkish troops and
settlers  and  respect  for  the  human  rights  of  all
Cypriots,  the  underlying  structures  for  a  functioning
economy, the functionality and workability of the new
state of affairs, the just resolution of land and property
issues 
the
European  Court  of  Human  Rights,  and  respect  for  the
right  of  return  of  refugees.  To  that  end,  we  welcome
the recent Pinheiro progress report on the restitution of
in  accordance  with 
the  decisions  of 
5
A/59/PV.7
property  in  the  context  of  the  return  of  refugees  and
internally displaced persons. Simultaneously, it distresses
me  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  Assembly  that
certain provisions of the Annan Plan have encouraged
the  unprecedented  unlawful  exploitation  of  properties
in occupied Cyprus that belong to Greek Cypriots.
The most paramount  feature of any settlement  is
the  ability  to  instil  a  sense  of  security  among  the
people. In that regard, the mistakes of the past must not
be repeated. Cyprus must, in its future course, proceed
without any grey areas with regard to its sovereignty or
its relations with third-party States. If the people feel that
their needs have not formed the basis of any solution that
has  been  reached  or  that  the  characteristics  of  that
solution  have  been  dictated  by  the  interests  of  third
parties,  then  that  solution  will,  unsurprisingly,  be
rejected.  Indeed,  in  spirit  and  in  practice,  effective
multilateralism  not  only  encompasses  but  also  derives
from  the  comprehension  and  consideration  of  local
realities and particulars, on which it must then proceed
to formulate proposals.
In  the  framework  of  the  European  Union,  and
with 
the  aim  of  promoting 
reunification  and
reconciliation, my Government — despite the obstacles
created  by  the  current  status  quo  —  is  consistently
pursuing  policies  aimed  at  enhancing  the  economic
development  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots.  We  believe  that
such  policies,  while  not  intended  to  serve  as  a
substitute for a solution, are the most effective way to
foster  maximum  economic  integration  of  the  two
communities and to increase contact between them, so
as to ensure the viability of a future solution.
The  Cyprus  problem  is  not  always  perceived  in
its correct  context. The fact  remains  that  this  problem
is the result of a military invasion and of the continued
occupation of part of the territory of a sovereign State.
That  fact  should  not  be  conveniently  overlooked  by
concentrating  on  peripheral  matters.  Any  initiative  to
solve the problem must have at its core that most basic
and fundamental fact and must be based on the premise
that  international  legality  must  be  served  and  the
occupation ended.
Unfortunately,  the  fundamentals  of  the  situation
on the ground have remained unchanged for the past 30
years,  since  the  Turkish  invasion  in  Cyprus.  That
situation  comprises  severe  violations  of  the  most
fundamental  human  rights.  The  still-unresolved  issue  of
missing  persons  —  an  issue  of  a  purely  humanitarian
6
nature  —  and  that  of  the  enclaved  of  the  Karpass
peninsula  are  in  themselves  an  indication  of  the
enduring  suffering  of  Cyprus.  That  not  only  should
point  us  towards  the  specifics  of  the  solution  to  be
pursued, but also must guide our actions with regard to
managing  the  status  quo.  For  instance,  the  United
Nations  Peacekeeping  Force  in  Cyprus  (UNFICYP),
assigned  the  task  of  managing  the  status  quo  inflicted
30 years ago, should remain specific to the situation on
the ground.
The accession of Cyprus to the European Union,
in conjunction with the lack of an agreement aimed at
settling the Cyprus problem — despite our efforts and
our  preference  for  a  settlement  prior  to  accession  —
signifies the end of one era and the beginning of a new
one.
I  firmly  believe  that  the  new  context  defined  by
the accession of my country to the European Union and
by  the  expressed  will  of  Turkey  to  advance  on  the
European  path  offers  a  unique  opportunity  and  could
have  a  catalytic  effect  in  reaching  a  settlement  in
Cyprus. Our vocation is to be partners, not enemies.
Hence, in this new era, we call upon Turkey to join
us  in  turning  the  page  and  in  seeking  ways  to  discover
mutually beneficial solutions to the various aspects that
compose the Cyprus problem. The mere realization that
peace and stability in our region serve the interests of
both our countries is ample evidence to prove that what
unites us is stronger than what divides us.
The President (spoke in French): On behalf of the
General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the
Republic of Cyprus for the statement he has just made.
the
the
Mr.  Tassos  Papadopoulos,  President  of 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Festus Mogae, President of the
Republic of Botswana
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Botswana.
Mr.  Festus  Mogae,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Botswana,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
into 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Festus Mogae,
President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  and  to  invite
him to address the Assembly.
ready  to  answer,  hopefully  in  the  affirmative,  whether
we are doing enough to meet the targets that we set for
ourselves for the first five years of this millennium.
A/59/PV.7
President Mogae: Let me start by congratulating
you, Sir, on your election to the presidency of the fifty-
ninth session of the General Assembly. Your election is
a tribute not only to yourself, but also to your country,
Gabon,  with  which  Botswana  enjoys  the  most  cordial
of  relations.  1  assure  you  of  the  full  support  and
cooperation of my delegation in the discharge  of your
onerous duties and responsibilities.
tribute 
We  also  pay 
to  your  predecessor,
Mr. Julian Hunte of Saint Lucia, for his stewardship of
the fifty-eighth session of the General Assembly. Saint
Lucia  is  another  country  with  which  Botswana  enjoys
excellent  relations.  Come  to  think  of  it,  we  can
understand why countries of the world can be friendly
with each other, as Botswana is friendly to them all.
Our  words  of  congratulations  are  addressed  also
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his
visionary  leadership  of  the  Organization  and  for  his
enduring  spirit  in  the  face  of  the  complex  challenges
that the United Nations is called upon to address across
our common universe.
I take this opportunity to join other delegations in
extending our condolences to the Government and the
people of  the  Russian  Federation  on  the  tragic  loss  of
life in Beslan. There can never be any justification for
such  a  savage  attack  on  innocent  children,  men  and
women.  Botswana  joins  the  rest  of  the  international
community in condemning that horrendous act.
We  also  extend  our  sympathies  and  condolences
to  our  dear  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Caribbean  and
the  southern  part  of  the  United  States  of  America  on
the  loss  of  life  and  the  destruction  of  property  caused
by recent hurricanes.
We are gathered here today, 12 months before the
first 
review  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  an
unprecedented compact made by world leaders to unite
in  action  in  addressing  the  problems  bedevilling
humanity. It is our hope that we will use this gathering
to reflect on whether we have done enough to achieve
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  to  ask
ourselves,  individually  and  collectively,  whether  the
enthusiasm  and  political  commitment  with  which  we
endorsed  the  Declaration  is  being  translated  into
programmes  and  projects.  Simply  put,  we  must  be
Let  us  recall  that  pessimists  proclaimed  the
Millennium  Summit  a  talking  shop  and  poured  scorn
on its intended outcome. Are we doing enough to prove
them  wrong?  We  owe  it  to  the  millions  of  our  people
who look up to us to mitigate their suffering. Thus far,
the  available  evidence  suggests  that  our  performance
has  been  disappointing.  Unfortunately,  time  is  not  on
our side. There is need to act with vigour if we are to
meet our commitments.
My delegation is fully aware that a multiplicity of
factors  combined  to  constrain  and  to  thwart  some  of
our efforts in the past few years. There is no doubt, for
instance, that major international conflicts, such as the
war  in  Iraq,  have  been  a  drag  on  the  international
community’s efforts to focus on the Goals. As a result
of  the  war,  oil  prices  have  skyrocketed,  putting
tremendous  pressure  on  the  world  economy,  and  in
particular  on  the  vulnerable  economies  of  developing
countries.
is 
fundamental 
the  human  spirit,  and 
In  spite  of  those  challenges,  we  have  abiding
faith 
therefore  remain
in 
convinced  that  it  is  not  beyond  the  capacity  of  the
international community to implement those ideals.
The  Millennium  Declaration  recognized 
that
poverty  eradication 
to  achieving
sustainable  development,  but  many  of  our  people  still
live in conditions of abject poverty. The alleviation of
poverty and its eventual eradication therefore remain a
top  priority  for  us.  Official  development  assistance
levels continue to fall in real terms to below the agreed
target of 0.7 per cent of gross domestic product. I must,
however,  commend  the  few  countries  that  have  met
that  target.  They  have  demonstrated  that  the  target  is
realistic and achievable.
The  continuing  debt  burden 
is  contributing
significantly  to  the  failure  to  deal  effectively  with  the
problem  of  poverty.  Most  developing  countries  have
undertaken courageous measures to implement painful
structural  reforms.  The  commendable  steps  taken  to
introduce  sound  macroeconomic  management  and
principles  of  good  governance  deserve  an  urgent,
positive  and  appropriate 
It  must  be
acknowledged that some of the reforms can, in the short
term, worsen the plight of the poor for a very long time
before the benefits of the sacrifices are realized.
response. 
7
A/59/PV.7
Structural  reforms  have  not  been  confined  to
budgetary  matters  alone.  They  cover 
the  whole
economic  spectrum,  including  the  creation  of  an
environment  conducive  to  the  growth  of  the  private
sector  and  development,  as  well  as  to  the  flow  of
foreign  direct  investment.  A  number  of  developing
countries  have  promulgated  legislative  and  regulatory
frameworks 
sector
participation  in  their  economies.  It  is  only  natural,
given 
that
developing  countries  should  expect  some  positive
reaction  in  the  form  of  flows  of  foreign  direct
investments, which at the moment are, regrettably, still
very low.
stimulate  greater  private 
reform  measures, 
to 
the  scope  of 
the 
In  the  area  of  trade,  we  are  concerned  about  the
slow  progress  in  multilateral  trade  negotiations.  As
developing  countries,  we  have  more  to  gain  from  a
more  just,  fairer  and  rule-based  international  trading
system  that  would  facilitate  the  integration  of  our
economies into the global economy. We urge the major
players in those negotiations to show a greater sense of
urgency and commitment.
We are concerned at the fact that, in spite of the
strong  commitments  expressed  at  the  Millennium
Summit,  almost  half  of  the  people  in  sub-Saharan
Africa  continue  to  survive  on  a  dollar  a  day.  That
reflects  no  change  in  the  statistics  of  1990.  One
hundred  twenty-one  million  children  are  still  out  of
school; and the under-5 mortality rate is still as high as
174 per 1,000 live births.
The  resources  provided  to  fight  the  HIV/AIDS
epidemic  remain  inadequate,  yet  we  all  agree  that
HIV/AIDS  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  of  our
time.  Combating  the  scourge  of  HIV/AIDS  must
therefore remain a high priority for action, because the
epidemic  has  a  debilitating  impact  on  everything  that
we do to improve the human condition. In 2003, it was
reported that about 40 million people around the world
were  living  with  the  virus,  and  that  well  over  26
million of them were in sub-Saharan Africa alone. The
epidemic  has  killed  over  2.3  million  people  in  sub-
Saharan Africa, out of a total of 3 million people who
died of AIDS-related illnesses around the world.
In Botswana, our various intervention programmes
are  beginning  to  bear  fruit.  We  are  indebted  to  our
friends  internationally,  whose  partnership,  support,
assistance  and,  indeed,  solidarity  have  combined  to
save  lives  and  give  hope  to  many  of  our  people.
8
However,  a  lot  still  needs  to  be  done.  Our  immediate
challenge  is  the  lack  of  capacity  to  provide  the
antiretroviral  therapy  programme  to  all  who  need
assistance.  We  shall  therefore  continue  to  rely  on  the
international  community  for  consistent  and  assured
support, if we are to assist our people in time.
International  peace  and  security  are  under
constant  threat.  Our  collective  memory  appears  to  be
failing  to  draw  appropriate  lessons,  even  from  the
recent horrors of conflicts in Rwanda, Afghanistan and
the Balkans. Millions of people continue to suffer and
die  needlessly  in  Africa  and  elsewhere  because  of
unnecessary  conflicts.  It  is  once  again  Africa  that  has
had to bear the brunt of those conflicts.
We  are  concerned  by  the  protracted  conflicts  in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sudan, Burundi
and  Côte  d’Ivoire.  As  Africans,  we  accept  our
responsibility to find solutions to those conflicts. That
is why we established the Peace and Security Council
of  the  African  Union  in  May  of  this  year.  In  its  short
history, the Council has already deployed peacekeepers
in Burundi and peace monitors in the Darfur region of
Sudan,  and  has  sent  mediators  and  peace  envoys  to
help in negotiating solutions to conflicts elsewhere on
the continent.
One thing is clear: Africa is an integral part of the
international  community.  The  problems  of  Africa  are
global  problems.  We  cannot  isolate  ourselves,  nor  be
isolated from the rest of the world, and be expected to
single-handedly  find  solutions  to  such  conflicts.  We
need consistent and continued international support. In
that  regard,  we  acknowledge 
important  and
commendable role that the United Nations is playing in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire
and Burundi.
the 
The peace process in the Democratic Republic of
the  Congo  is  at  a  critical  stage.  The  international
community has a duty and a responsibility to assist the
Government and people of the Democratic Republic of
the Congo in the search for national reconciliation and
a  lasting  political  settlement  to  the  problems  facing
that  country.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  international
community  will  provide  the  necessary  financial  and
material  support 
the
international  conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  region,
which  is  to  be  held  in  Arusha,  United  Republic  of
Tanzania, at the end of this year.
the  success  of 
to  ensure 
In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  everything  possible  must  be
done  to  maintain  peace  and  stability,  as  well  as  to
promote  national  reconciliation,  by  ensuring  that  the
parties 
of  National
Reconciliation.
the  Government 
accept 
Regarding  the  situation  in  the  Darfur  region  of
Sudan,  the  international  community  must  take  urgent
measures  to  arrest  the  deteriorating  security  and
humanitarian  situation  in  that  country.  The  people  of
Darfur  should  be  assisted  to  return  to  their  homes  in
safety and  dignity.  We  urge  the  Government  of  Sudan
to  be  receptive  to  the  proposals  contained  in  the
Secretary-General’s  report  and,  above  all,  take  due
cognizance of Security Council resolution 1564 (2004),
and in particular to facilitate the speedy delivery by the
international community of much-needed humanitarian
assistance.
We  are  troubled  by  the  escalating  conflict  in  the
Middle  East,  which  is  a  serious  threat  to  international
peace  and  security.  How  long  can  humanity  stand  the
sight  of  human  suffering  that  we  see  daily  on  our
television  screens?  For  how  long  can  generations  of
mothers  mourn  the  loss  of  their  sons  in  combat?  For
how long should succeeding generations fight wars that
their forebears fought? We ask those involved in those
conflicts,  descendants  of  old  civilizations  that  made
enormous contributions to the growth and development
of modern  civilization, to live and let live  and  to  find
in  themselves  the  courage  to  resolve  their  differences
through  dialogue  rather  than  through  indiscriminate
violence.
Terrorism  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  to
international  peace  and  security.  No  one  country  can
defeat that scourge, which has caused the loss of many
lives across the world. The activities of terrorists have
become  very  complex  and  sophisticated.  We  need
united,  stronger  and  concerted  action  by  all  the
countries  of  the  world  to  defeat  that  scourge,  which
knows no boundaries.
In  conclusion,  I  reaffirm  the  importance  that
Botswana  attaches  to  the  revitalization  of  the  General
Assembly  and the reform of  the  Security  Council.  We
commend  the  President  of  the  fifty-eighth  session  of
the  General  Assembly  for  his  practical  proposals  in
that  area.  We  were  disappointed  that  the  Assembly
could  not  reach  consensus  on  those  proposals.  My
delegation will contribute in whatever small way it can
to the building of such consensus.
A/59/PV.7
Regarding the reform of the Security Council, we
are concerned that, after 11 years of consultations, not
much progress has been achieved. The solution to that
vexing question rests on the ability of Member States,
in particular the permanent members of the Council, to
muster the political will to compromise. We should not
tolerate  this  paralysis  any  longer.  It  is  therefore  my
hope  that  action  will  be  taken  at  this  session  to
continue  the  process  of  democratizing  the  Security
Council  and  make  it  more  representative  of  the
membership of the United Nations.
the 
implementation  of 
Finally, I once again make a special appeal to the
general Membership of the Organization to do more to
facilitate 
the  Millennium
Declaration. We must do all we can to transform hope
into reality. Together we have the resources, the skills
and 
the
Declaration  have  meaning  in  the  lives  of  our  peoples.
Botswana is committed to doing its part.
the  science  and 
technology 
to  make 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  would  like  to  thank  the
President  of 
the
statement he has just made.
the  Republic  of  Botswana  for 
Mr. Festus G. Mogae, President of the Republic of
Botswana,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo, President of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Federal Republic of Nigeria.
into 
Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo, President of the Federal
Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted 
the
General Assembly Hall.
The President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Olusegun
Obasanjo, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,
and to invite him to address the General Assembly.
President  Obasanjo:  On  behalf  of 
the
Government and people of Nigeria, and in my capacity
as the current Chairman  of the African Union  (AU),  I
would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you,
Mr.  President,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the
fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  assure
you of the support and cooperation of Africa, of which
9
A/59/PV.7
you are an illustrious son. I would also like to express
appreciation  to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  The
Right  Honourable  Julian  R.  Hunte,  Minister  for
External Affairs of Saint Lucia, for the dedication and
skill  with  which  he  presided  over  the  affairs  of  the
fifty-eighth  session.  I  commend  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  for  his  effective  leadership  and  for  his
efforts to  maintain  the  status  of  the  United  Nations  in
the face of enormous global challenges.
Nigeria  remains  unshakeable  in  its  commitment
to and support for the strengthening of the United Nations
and the protection of its cherished ideals, in particular the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and
cooperation  among  States  to  resolve  international
economic,  social,  cultural  and  humanitarian  problems.
The  problem  posed  by  the  unremitting  conflicts  in
various  regions  of  the  world  and  the  increasingly
difficult  task  of  finding  solutions  to  them  continue  to
pose serious challenges to the world body.
Nigeria  and  the  African  Union  (AU)  commend
the  United  Nations  for  its  determined  engagement  in
crisis  resolution  and  peacekeeping,  particularly  in
Africa. We have noted with appreciation the changes in
the concept of peacekeeping. Nevertheless, we believe
that  some  improvements  are  still  necessary  to  enable
United  Nations  peace  operations  to  address  the  social
and  economic  challenges 
inevitably  confront
from  conflict.  Those  socio-
countries  emerging 
economic  issues  invariably  form  an  important  part  of
the original causes of the conflict.
that 
We also appeal for continued enhancement of the
capacity of regional organizations to undertake initiatives
on  crisis  resolution  in  their  respective  regions.  For  its
part,  the  African  Union  has  worked  to  improve  its
Mechanism  for  Conflict  Resolution,  and  in  May  this
year established a Peace and Security Council.
The  first  challenge  the  AU  Peace  and  Security
Council  has  faced  has  been  the  situation  in  the  Darfur
region of western Sudan, which aroused world attention
because of the reported carnage there. On behalf of the
AU,  I  want  to  thank  the  international  community  for
the  humanitarian  intervention  being  undertaken.  As  is
well known, the AU has deployed troops to the region
to monitor a ceasefire between the Government of the
Sudan  and  the  opposing  movements  —  the  Sudan
Liberation  Movement/Army  and 
the  Justice  and
Equality  Movement.  Moreover,  the  first  substantive
peace talks took place under the auspices of the AU in
10
the  Nigerian  capital  of  Abuja  from  23  August  to
18  September  2004.  At  that  meeting,  the  Sudanese
parties reached agreement on the first of the four points
on the agenda, namely, humanitarian issues. They also
made  progress  on  the  second  point,  security  issues,
before  adjourning  for  consultations.  A  follow-up
meeting  is  expected  to  be  convened  in  Abuja  around
21  October  2004  on  the  other  issues:  political  and
economic and social issues. I am closely following the
developments, in consultation with the Chairperson of
the Commission of the African Union and others, and I
now call upon the international community to continue
to  lend  us  its  support  in  resolving  the  Darfur  conflict
and its consequences.
It is cheering to note the progress being made in
Somalia,  particularly  in  constituting  the  Parliament.
The  efforts  of  the  regional  countries,  which  are
demonstrating  unprecedented  collaboration  in  helping
the  Somalis  to  move  the  process  forward,  should  be
applauded.  The  Somalis  themselves  must  continue  to
demonstrate their commitment to repair past errors and
to make their country a respectable member of the AU
and the United Nations.
The  Great  Lakes  region  remains  a  flash  point  of
violence,  as  exemplified  by  the  recent  massacre  of
more  than  150  persons  in  a  refugee  camp  in  Burundi.
On  25  June  2004,  President  Kabila  of  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  President  Kagame  of
Rwanda  met  in  Abuja  at  my  invitation  and  agreed  to
activate  the  Joint  Verification  Mechanism.  Thereafter,
with  the  participation  of  the  Secretary-General,  a
meeting  of  all  stakeholders  was  held  during  the  third
African Union Summit, held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,
from  6  to  8  July  2004,  in  order  to  accelerate  the
activation  of  the  Joint  Verification  Mechanism.  I  am
hopeful that this renewed process will facilitate a better
understanding  of  how  to  stem  the  spate  of  massacres
and  engender  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  protracted
crisis in the Great Lakes region.
With  regard  to  the  West  African  subregion,  the
African  Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African States (ECOWAS) are continuing their efforts,
with  the  constant  support  of  the  United  Nations,  to
ensure  steady  progress  in  the  peace  processes  in  Côte
d’Ivoire  and  Liberia.  To  that  end,  and  in  order  to
address  the  standstill  in  the  implementation  of  the
Linas-Marcoussis  Agreement  on  Côte  d’Ivoire,  an
extraordinary  summit  was  held  under  ECOWAS
auspices  in  Accra,  Ghana,  on  29  July  2004.  The
meeting  benefited  from  the  presence  of  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  and  some  non-ECOWAS  African
heads  of  State.  If  the  agreements  reached  at  that
summit  are  faithfully  implemented,  an  end  to  the
conflict should be in sight.
problems 
that  were 
In  the  margins  of  the  Accra  summit,  we  also
addressed 
the
implementation  of  the  Liberian  Comprehensive  Peace
Agreement.  In  discussions  with  all 
the  Liberian
leaders,  we  agreed  decisions  on  the  main  issues,  and
we  have  since  witnessed  encouraging  signs  that  those
decisions are being implemented.
retarding 
Here, I should like to remark once again that the
delay in providing the resources promised by countries
during the Liberian pledging conference held at United
Nations  Headquarters  in  February  2004  constitutes  an
avoidable  hindrance  to  the  advancement  of  peace  in
Liberia.  I  therefore  call  on  all  our  well-meaning
partners  who  were  kind  enough  to  make  pledges  to
kindly redeem them.
the 
While the United Nations  is  justifiably  seized  of
the  issue  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  such  as
nuclear, chemical and biological weapons — the question
of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  can  no  longer  be
ignored.  While 
threat  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction is awesome, small arms and light weapons
are  killing  people  every  day  at  a 
that,
cumulatively,  amounts  to  monumental  destruction.
Nigeria  and 
the
commencement  of  negotiations  on  a  legally  binding
international instrument to enable States to identify and
trace illicit small arms and light weapons globally. Of
particular  interest  to  Africa  is  the  enormous  potential
that  such  a  legally  binding  instrument  can  have  on
peace  and  security  in  our  region.  We  should  therefore
not relent in our efforts.
the  African  Union  welcome 
rate 
Let me take this opportunity to soundly condemn
the  totally  unacceptable  role  of  mercenaries  and  their
sponsors  in  Africa.  The  recent  attempted  invasion  of
Equatorial  Guinea  and  other  such  attempts  go  against
every  imaginable  rational  effort  at  promoting  stability
and democracy on the continent. We call on the United
Nations to join the African Union in sending the right
signals of condemnation to those mercenaries and their
sponsors.
Our  quest  for  global  peace  and  security  will
prove  unsuccessful  unless  we  intensify  international
cooperation  for  development  and  the  reduction  of
A/59/PV.7
four  years  ago,  we  adopted 
poverty.  Just 
the
Millennium Development Goals, which pointedly fixed
the  target  of  reducing  by  half  the  number  of  those
living  in  poverty  by  2015.  Yet  by  now,  the  alarm  is
being raised that, if present trends continue, that target
may  not  be  met,  particularly  in  Africa,  which  aside
from  the  challenges  of  development,  is  also  being
ravaged by pandemic diseases.
Speaking  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union  as  its
current Chairperson, I should like to assure the General
Assembly that we Africans are determined to exert all
our efforts to overcome those obstacles to development
that  are  within  our  control.  To  that  end,  we  are
pursuing,  with 
and
involvement  of  our  heads  of  State  and  Government
themselves, the implementation of the priorities set out
in  our  flagship  programme,  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
the  personal 
commitment 
In  that  context,  we  appreciate  the  conclusion  in
the  Secretary-General’s  second  consolidated  report  on
progress  in  implementation  and  international  support
for NEPAD that
“African  countries  have  demonstrated  their
commitment  to  advancing  the  implementation  of
NEPAD  by  earmarking  financial  allocations  to
selected sectoral priorities.” (A/59/206, para. 67)
The report also concludes that
“The  development  partners  of  Africa  can
give  further  practical  expression  to  their  support
for  the  efforts  of  African  countries  by  taking
action in three important areas:  first,  by  creating
an  enabling  international  environment  that  is
supportive of growth and development in Africa;
second,  by  bringing  much  needed  coherence  to
trade,  aid  and  debt  policies,  so  that  African
countries are the net beneficiaries of international
actions  in  those  areas;  and  third,  by  undertaking
concrete 
the
implementation of NEPAD by making significant
financial  outlays 
the  key  sectoral
priorities of NEPAD.” (ibid., para. 68)
I  believe  that  the  message  to  our  development
partners is very clear. To demonstrate our commitment
to the principles of good governance, transparency and
the  rule  of  law,  23  African  countries  have  already
subscribed  to  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  It
should  be  recalled  that  the  Mechanism  represents
accelerate 
measures 
fund 
to 
to 
11
A/59/PV.7
Africa’s voluntary commitment to a set of performance
codes  and  standards  to  foster  best  practices  and  share
lessons  in  the  management  of  national  affairs.  The
promotion  of  agriculture  is  being  vigorously  pursued
both for its export potential and for poverty alleviation.
Encouraging  growth  rates  in  agricultural  production
are already being recorded in several African countries.
Simultaneously,  we  are  intensifying  our  efforts  in  the
promotion of agro-based industries.
To  further  our  efforts  at  self-help,  the  heads  of
State  and  Government  of  the  African  Union  held  the
Extraordinary  Summit  on  Employment  and  Poverty
Alleviation  in  Ouagadougou,  Burkina  Faso,  from  5  to
9  September  2004.  We  adopted  a 
far-reaching
declaration and programme of action. We also adopted
mechanisms for implementation and monitoring at  the
national, regional and continental levels.
lifting 
important  area  for 
What may act as an obstacle to implementation in
this  most 
the  African
population  out of poverty  and misery is  the  inevitable
issue  of  having  adequate  resources  for  meeting  our
otherwise  realistic  goals.  On  behalf  of  the  African
Union, I appeal to our partners to act once again in the
interest of our shared, common global interdependence
and common humanity.
to  ensure 
Africa requires a genuine partnership anchored on
the  principle  of  mutual  benefits 
the
attainment  of  sustainable  development.  One  area  of
partnership  concerns  Africa’s  external  debts.  The
negative  impact  of  debt  on  the  economic  situation  of
African  countries,  particularly  the  least  developed
countries,  can  no 
longer  be  denied.  We  remain
convinced that comprehensively resolving the lingering
debt  crisis  through  innovative  action  would  brighten
the prospects of development in Africa.
Africa  welcomes  the  consensus  that  emerged
from 
the  recent  meeting  of 
the  United  Nations
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  in  São  Paulo,
Brazil. That consensus reflects a shared conviction that
the Organization can continue to coordinate our views
on  trade  and  development  matters.  This  cannot  be
otherwise if the Millennium Development Goals are to
be achieved and the benefits of expanding trade are to
be enjoyed by all peoples and societies.
By launching a new initiative to commence a new
round  of  multilateral  trade  negotiations,  developing
countries  have  issued  a  challenge  to  our  development
12
partners to exploit global opportunities for growth and
development. We hope they will respond.
Africa remains committed to the fight against the
HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria, tuberculosis and related
diseases.  Since  the  last  series  of  high-level  plenary
meetings  on  implementation  of  the  Declaration  of
Commitment on HIV/AIDS,  we have taken  bold  steps
to  deal  with  the  pandemic.  Towards  that  end,  we  in
Nigeria  have  established  a  national  scientific  institute
for  research  on  HIV/AIDS  and  intensified  public
awareness  programmes. 
that  connection,  we
welcome  the  outcome  of  the  recent  International
Conference  on  HIV/AIDS  in  Bangkok,  Thailand.  We
thank the United Nations agencies and all stakeholders
for  their  collective  efforts  to  stem  the  spread  of  the
disease worldwide.
In 
Last  year, 
With regard to other deadly preventable diseases,
such  as  malaria,  tuberculosis,  polio  and  whooping
cough, my Government has stepped up its efforts. In a
few  days,  on  2  October  2004,  my  Government  will
once  again  embark  on  a  polio 
immunization
programme, in coordination with six African States —
Chad,  the  Sudan,  Cameroon,  Niger,  Burkina  Faso  and
Côte  d’Ivoire  —  to  ensure  maximum  effectiveness.
These  are  countries  where  polio  has  been  reported
fairly  recently.  Significantly  and  symbolically,  the
programme’s 
launch,  with  all  my  brothers  and
colleagues present, will take place in Kano.
the  Secretary-General 
launched  a
United  Nations  reform  initiative  that  we  all  warmly
commended. In pursuit of that initiative, the Secretary-
General appointed last year a high-level Panel of Eminent
Personalities  to  examine  ways  of  strengthening  the
United  Nations 
institutional  reforms  and
processes. We are looking forward to the report of the
Panel. Nigeria — and indeed the rest of Africa — holds
the view that the Security Council should be expanded in
its permanent and non-permanent categories to make it
more 
representative,  more  effective  and  more
acceptable.  We  hope  that  those  regions  of  the  world
that  are  not  currently  represented  in  the  permanent
membership  category  will  be  given  membership.
Africa,  whose  issues  occupy  a  substantial  part  of  the
Security Council’s time, ought to be  accorded  priority
consideration for permanent membership, and Nigeria,
I strongly believe, is a well-qualified candidate.
through 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria  for  the  statement  he
has just made.
Mr. Olusegun Obasanjo, President of the Federal
Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Manmohan Singh, Prime
Minister of the Republic of India
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the
Republic of India.
Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of India, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great
pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Manmohan
Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  India,  and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Singh (India): Allow me to congratulate you,
Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. May I assure you of
India’s full support in ensuring its success.
As  we  gather  here  in  the  sixtieth  year  since  the
United  Nations  was  founded,  we  might  perhaps  pause
to  reflect  on  the  fate  of  the  ideas  and  ideals  of  the
international community that inspired its creation. The
post-war generation had already become aware that the
world  which  had  emerged  from  the  ashes  of  a  global
war  could  no  longer  be  a  peaceful  world  unless  the
underlying 
addressed
effectively  by  the  entire  community  of  nations  as  a
collectivity. Nations were therefore united to make the
world  a  safer  and  more  peaceful  place  —  a  world  in
which  free  peoples  could  pursue  together  a  destiny  of
shared prosperity.
conflict  were 
forces  of 
The 
impulse  behind 
the  creation  of  global
institutions  nearly  60  years  ago  has  become  an  even
more pressing  reality today. If we look  around us,  the
single most defining characteristic of our contemporary
world  is  the  global,  transnational  character  of  the
challenges we confront, whether these are in the realm
of  international  security  or  in  that  of  development.
Virtually  every  major  issue  that  we  face  as  nation-
transnational
States  has  both  a  domestic  and  a 
A/59/PV.7
dimension.  It  is  becoming  increasingly  apparent  as
never before that, unless we fashion a global response
to  those  challenges  based  on  a  meaningful  consensus,
we  will  not  succeed  in  creating  a  world  that  truly
manifests the ideals of the United Nations.
Terrorism  is  one  such  challenge  for  which  many
of  us  have  paid  an  unacceptable  price.  We  shall  not
forget  that,  three  years  ago,  it  was  this  great  city  that
witnessed  the  single  most  horrendous  terrorist  act  in
human  history.  Approximately  three  weeks  ago,  in
Russia,  the  world  saw  another  brutal  act  of  terror
which took the lives of hundreds of innocent civilians,
including a large number of young children.
Terrorism  exploits  the  technologies  spawned  by
globalization, recruits its foot soldiers on ideologies of
bigotry  and  hatred,  and  directly  targets  democracies.
And  yet,  it  is  a  sad  reality  that  international  networks
of  terror  appear  to  cooperate  more  effectively  among
themselves than the democratic nations that they target.
We  speak  about  cooperation,  but  we  often  seem
hesitant to commit ourselves to a truly global offensive
to root out terrorism with the pooling of resources, the
exchanging  of  information,  the  sharing  of  intelligence
and the unambiguous unity of purpose that is required.
That  must  change.  We  do  have  a  global  coalition
against  terrorism;  we  must  now  give  it  substance  and
credibility, avoiding selective approaches and political
expediency.
I now turn to other challenges that we face today,
such as the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
There  is  an  increasing  reliance  on  restrictive  regimes
and on the use of punitive action to confront this threat
to  international  peace  and  security.  Although  India  is
firmly opposed to proliferation and has an impeccable
record in that respect, we believe that it is only a global
consensus of willing nations that will ultimately prove
to be truly effective in that regard.
rather 
than 
institutions, 
The  Chemical  Weapons  Convention  is  a  good
model to follow with respect to other weapons of mass
destruction,  including  nuclear  weapons.  It  is  through
representative 
through
exclusive  clubs  of  privileged  countries,  that  we  can
address  global  threats  posed  by  the  proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  their  means  of
delivery.  As  far  back  as  1988,  Prime  Minister  Rajiv
Gandhi outlined  a series of  specific  steps  in  an  action
plan,  whose  central  proposition  remains  valid  even
today — that progressive steps towards the elimination
13
A/59/PV.7
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  must  be  based  on  a
balance of obligations between those who possess such
weapons and those who do not.
environmental degradation in many parts of our planet,
but  we  also  have  available  safe  and  environment-
friendly technologies.
It is quite evident today that a global discourse is
required 
for  evolving  a  more  cooperative  and
consensual  international  security  order.  India  believes
that  such  consensus  must  differentiate  between  States
whose  actions  strengthen  non-proliferation  and  those
that weaken the realization of its objectives.
Let me now turn to the central theme for the vast
majority of United Nations Members; the challenge of
development  and  the  eradication  of  mass  poverty.
Globalization  has  undoubtedly  brought  enhanced
effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  the  functioning  of  our
economies.  It  has  integrated  marketplaces,  higher
standards  of 
in  global
connectivity.
living  and  a  revolution 
But  there  is  also  the  phenomenon  of  widening
economic disparities, both within and among countries.
Connectivity  also  means  that  the  people  are  painfully
aware — in real time — of how far and how fast they
are  falling  behind  in  their  relative  living  conditions.
Development today is no longer a function of domestic
resources  and  national  policies  alone.  It  is  a  process
that  is  vitally  linked  to  the  international  economic
environment that the developing countries face.
The  international  community  must  find  ways  to
contract  those  circles  of  exclusion.  We  need  to  find
innovative  sources  of  financing  and  access  to  new
technologies that are necessary to assist those who are
on  the  margins  of  globalization.  Just  as  prosperity
cannot be sustained by being walled in, poverty cannot
be banished to some invisible periphery. Development
must  therefore  return  to  the  centre  of  the  global
discourse.  We  must  evolve  equitable  and  rule-based
regimes to manage global trade, investment  flows  and
the movement of services.
Four  years  ago,  at  our  Millennium  Summit,  we
adopted ambitious global development goals, but it is a
matter of concern that we have already fallen behind in
their implementation.
While 
globalization 
has 
generated 
new
challenges,  it  has  also  given  us  new  technologies  to
deal  with  those  massive  challenges.  The  world  faces
ominous  pandemics  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  but  it  today
also  possesses  remedies  and  skills  that  can  rid  the
world  of 
face  problems  of
that  scourge.  We 
Many countries are  beset  by  problems  of  hunger
and malnutrition, but we possess modern techniques of
food production and processing to make a hunger-free
world  a  credible  and  realistic  dream.  Although  our
excessive dependence on hydrocarbons raises concerns
about  the  long-term  availability  of  energy  and  about
the security of supplies, technology has made available
many  environmentally  sound  alternative  technologies.
What we lack, however, is a truly global agreement and
a  mobilization  of  the  international  community  to
overcome the massive challenges.
The experience of the decades since the inception
the  United  Nations  demonstrates 
the  great
of 
significance  of  democracy  as  an 
instrument  for
achieving  both  peace  and  prosperity.  While  it  is
gratifying 
the  frontiers  of  democracy  have
expanded  dramatically  in  the  last  decade  and  a  half,
they still exclude significant numbers.
that 
Only  a  few  months  ago,  in  India’s  fourteenth
general  election,  our  country  went  through  the  largest
exercise  of  popular  will  in  the  world.  I  can  therefore
assert  with  confidence,  the  importance  that  national
articulations  in  global  forums  have  in  truly  reflecting
the  democratically  expressed  will  of  their  people.  We
choose  to  overlook  the  absence  of  democracy  in  too
many cases for reasons of political expediency.
Democracy’s  representative  nature  validates  the
commitments  we  take  on  as  countries;  it  should  also
determine  the  manner  in  which  the  architecture  of
international institutions evolves.  What is required  for
the  international  community  to  successfully  deal  with
global  challenges  —  whether 
they  be  security
challenges,  economic  challenges  or  challenges  in  the
sphere  of  the  environment  —  is  the  existence  of
international  institutions  and  a  culture  of  genuine
multilateralism.
The  United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies
are  the  only  instruments  available  for  responding
effectively  to  the  challenges  we  face  collectively.  But
what  is  missing  is  our  sustained  commitment  to
democratizing the functioning of the United Nations.
It is common knowledge that the United Nations
is often unable to exert an effective influence on global
economic  and  political  issues  of  critical  importance.
14
That  is  due  to  what  may  be  called  its  democracy
deficit,  which  stands  in  the  way  of  an  effective
multilateralism  based  on  a  democratically-evolved
global consensus.
initiated  a  composite  dialogue  to  resolve  all  issues,
including  that  of  Jammu  and  Kashmir.  I  reaffirm  our
determination  to  carry  forward  that  dialogue  to  a
purposeful and mutually acceptable conclusion.
A/59/PV.7
Therefore, reform and restructuring of the United
Nations  system  can  alone  provide  a  crucial  link  in  an
expanding  chain  of  efforts  to  refashion  international
structures,  imbuing  them  with  a  greater  degree  of
participatory decision-making so as to make them more
representative of contemporary realities.
recognized 
Our  Millennium  Declaration 
the
urgency  of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  Security
Council.  An  overwhelming  majority  of  the  world’s
population cannot be excluded from an institution that
today  legislates  on  an  increasing  number  of  issues,
with  an  ever-widening  impact.  The  expansion  of  the
Security  Council,  in  the  categories  of  both  permanent
and  non-permanent  members,  and  the  inclusion  of
countries like India as permanent Members would be a
first step in the process of making the United Nations a
truly representative body.
I  would  like  to  make  brief  references  to  two
countries with which India has had historically friendly
ties and whose early return to political normalcy is the
focus of the world’s attention.
The situation in Iraq causes us great concern. The
United Nations has a central role to play in erasing the
discord of the recent past and in ensuring that the Iraqi
people  can  soon  exercise  effective  sovereignty,
preserving  the  country’s  unity  and  territorial  integrity.
An  end  to  the  suffering  of  the  Iraqi  people  and
recognition  of  their  aspirations  should  be  the  guiding
objectives.  Consistent  with  our  longstanding  ties  of
friendship  with  the  Iraqi  people,  India  will  contribute
to Iraq’s humanitarian and economic reconstruction.
In 
the 
the  past 
three  years, 
international
community  has  assisted  Afghanistan  in  pulling  back
from  the  brink  of  chaos  and  chronic  instability.  We
sincerely hope that the upcoming presidential elections
and  the  subsequent  parliamentary  elections  will  allow
the  Afghan  people  to  express  their  will,  free  from
interference  and  intimidation.  India’s  assistance  to
Afghanistan’s  reconstruction  and  development  will
continue.
Relations between India and Pakistan have been a
matter  of  attention  for  the  international  community.  It
is  known  that  in  January  this  year  India  and  Pakistan
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm  India’s
commitment  to  the  principles  that  have  brought  us
together  in  this  Organization.  Those  principles  retain
their  relevance  and  validity  even  while  the  global
economy and the international political order pose new
and  very  different  challenges.  All  of  us  have  to  grow
out  of 
the  predictable,  discard
constraining habits of thought, and move forward with
confidence to meet the demands of the present and the
future.  Each  of  us  has  to  be  prepared  to  take  on  new
obligations  and  larger  responsibilities  relevant  to  the
needs of our time.
the  comfort  of 
economic, 
technological 
I  deem  it  a  privilege  to  say  unhesitatingly  that
India is conscious of the responsibilities that lie ahead.
I speak of an India on the move — on the cutting edge
of 
and  developmental
transformations.  This 
is  an  India  endowed  with
outstanding  human  resources,  and  we  are  putting  in
place  policies  which  will  respond  to  emerging  and
critical tasks. We have the capabilities and capacity to
take these on, and to participate in the restructuring of
a just and dynamic world order. We are confident that,
in the inextricably interdependent world we live in, our
the  common  good,  which 
commitment 
this
Organization embodies, will be resolute and full.
to 
In 
inspired  by 
this,  we  are 
the  vision  of
internationalism bequeathed to us by India’s first Prime
Minister,  the  great  Jawaharlal  Nehru  —  a  vision  of  a
world  order  whose  pillars  are  peace,  harmony,
cooperation  and  development.  That  vision  needs  to
the  world
reanimate 
community  for  a  new  partnership 
the
unprecedented challenges we face.
the  collective  wisdom  of 
to  meet 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime
Minister of the Republic of India  for the  statement he
has just made.
Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of India, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Joschka  Fischer,  Deputy  Federal
Chancellor  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Germany.
15
A/59/PV.7
Mr.  Fischer  (Germany)  (spoke 
in  German;
English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let  me  first
of  all  congratulate  you,  President  Ping,  on  your
election  and  wish  you  every  success 
in  your
responsible post, and express my sincere thanks to the
outgoing President for his dedicated work.
I  endorse 
the  statement  of 
European Union presidency.
the  Netherlands
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, the world
is  changing  at  dramatic  speed.  In  just  a  few  decades,
humanity  will  have  reached  the  8  billion  mark.  With
the  networking  of  world 
trade  and  with  global
communication technologies, we are growing ever closer.
We are going to become increasingly interdependent in
economic, technical and ecological terms.
At  the  same  time,  we  all  face  a  host  of  new
challenges  and  new  dangers  which  threaten  us  all  —
the  South  and  the  North,  the  developing  and  the
developed world alike.
On the one hand, there are threats to national and
global security such as the proliferation of weapons of
mass  destruction,  the  nuclear  threat,  the  danger  posed
by failed States or, as we all painfully remember in this
city,  by  terrorism,  which  does  not  respect  humankind
or human dignity.
On  the  other  hand,  there  are  also  so-called  soft
threats,  such  as 
far-reaching  environmental  and
climatic changes, poverty, major shortfalls in education
and training and the negative  aspects of globalization,
refugee  flows,  and  diseases  and  epidemics  such  as
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  They  are  a  threat  to  security
and stability and take a heavy toll.
The  two  —  hard  and  soft  threats  —  are  closely
connected.  After  all,  we  know  that  the  causes  of  war
and  violence,  poverty,  need  and  oppression  are
multifaceted and deep-rooted. We also know that crises
are  the  fruit  of  poverty  and  a  sense  of  hopelessness,
and  vice-versa.  We  will  have  no  peace  without
development,  nor  indeed  development  without  peace,
so  we  have  comprehensively  to  secure  peace  and
stability  —  above  all  through  economic  and  social
development.
economic, 
The States of the world have to work together to
shape 
ecological
globalization and rise to the resulting challenges. They
will  not  be  able  to  do  so  without  close  cooperation.
Indeed,  that  is  now  beyond  the  tools  of  traditional
technological 
and 
16
diplomacy  alone.  Their  ability  to  secure  and  stabilize
the  international  system  on  their  own  will  in  future
prove less and less adequate.
What  we  need  is  a  far-reaching  reform  of  the
international  system  and  its  institutions  that  takes  due
account  of  these  changes.  That  is  a  reform  we  need
urgently,  because  we  have  to  create  an  effective
multilateral system which  enables us to work together
to  prevent  crises  and,  where  that  does  not  work,  find
long-term solutions.
There have already been promising developments
at the regional level. With their sometimes painful history
very  much  in  mind,  the  States  of  Europe  have  joined
together in the European Union and thus have reached
a  new  level  of  multilateralism.  This  political  and
economic  community,  now  embracing  25  States,  has
become an anchor of stability for Europe and beyond.
Since  its  foundation  the  African  Union  has  been
impressively  shouldering  its  shared  responsibility  for
preventing  humanitarian  disasters  and  resolving  major
regional  conflicts.  This  is  a  courageous  and  key  step
forward.  This  breakthrough  of  multilateralism  on  the
African  continent  will  develop  an  ever  more
pronounced dynamism.
Given  global  interdependencies  and  connections,
we  need  a  world  organization  that  has  close  links  to
these  regional  structures  and  can  thus  boost  the
efficiency  of  joint  action.  The  United  Nations  is  the
most important forum for setting global rules. Its might
is  the  might  of  the  right,  as  the  Secretary-General
highlighted in his impressive speech at the opening of
this General Assembly session. With its legitimacy we
have  a  unique  and  universal  competence  for  solving
problems  together.  Since  the  breaking  of  the  internal
blockade  caused  by  the  cold  war,  the  United  Nations
has  been  playing  an  increasingly  significant  role.  The
international community is making more and more use
of  it  as  a  forum  for  tackling  the  major  challenges
facing humanity.
For millions of people today the Blue Flag means
quite tangible help, often on essential issues, and hope
for  a  better  future.  For  this,  we  are  all  very  much
indebted to the Organization and its staff. They are on
the  ground  in  many  crisis  regions  in  Latin  America,
Europe, Africa and Asia.
It 
that  different
approaches  must  be  found  to  prevent  or  resolve  each
is  becoming  ever  clearer 
individual  crisis.  The  commitment  of  the  United
Nations in all crisis areas is the proof. In Afghanistan
and  in  the  Balkans,  in  Haiti  and  in  the  Great  Lakes
region 
is  already  making  a
considerable  contribution.  But  we  must  realize  that
there will not be fewer conflicts in the future, and the
demands made of the Organization will grow.
the  United  Nations 
Against this backdrop the question arises whether
the  structures  given  to  the  United  Nations  at  its
foundation almost sixty years ago are still suited to this
mandate,  whether  its  work  enjoys  the  international
acceptance 
the  disputes
concerning  the  Iraq  crisis  highlighted  this  problem
once again.
In  particular, 
it  needs. 
We  are  convinced  there  is  no  alternative  to  a
world  acting  multilaterally.  To  make  this  multilateral
cooperation  sustainable  and  capable,  we  need  a
courageous  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  United
Nations that faces up to the challenges we are facing.
It  was  the  Secretary-General  himself  who  took
the initiative, and for this we extend our thanks. To that
end,  he  appointed  a  panel  of  high-level  international
experts  who  are  to  present  him  with  reform  proposals
at  the  end  of  the  year.  We  look  forward  to  that  report
and the ensuing debate with great interest.
What is at stake is a new, shared understanding of
the  Charter  system.  How  can  we  shape  prevention  to
make  it  more  effective,  and  peace-building  to  make  it
more  sustainable?  How  can  we  further  implement  the
proposals on the reform of peacekeeping? What exactly
do we understand by the right of self-defence? How do
we  define  terrorism?  The  answer  to  this  question  in
particular seems clear, yet real agreement would take us,
the international community of States, a step forward.
A  number  of  very  concrete  proposals  on  the
reform of the United Nations institutions have already
been presented. Let me therefore outline some thoughts
on this matter.
I  want  to  start  with  the  General  Assembly.  It  is
the  central  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  the  only  one
with  universal  membership.  For  this  very  reason,  the
Assembly has to be more than an annual forum where
we  just  go  through  the  motions.  What  we  need  to  do
first  is  focus  our  topics  more  carefully.  We  have  to
discuss  the  truly  crucial  issues  —  otherwise,  essential
questions will be dealt with in other forums. Secondly,
we need more efficient working methods.
A/59/PV.7
The  Economic  and  Social  Council  has  to  finally
become the central organ in the United Nations system
for consultation and decision-making on economic and
social  issues.  We  believe  that  the  Council  has  at  two
levels vast potential that has yet to be fully tapped. On
the  one  hand,  that  body  maintains  a  network  of
expertise  unequalled  in  the  world.  We  have  to  make
better  and  more  targeted  use  of  it.  On  the  other  hand,
we  see  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a  partner
for  the  Security  Council  for  peacekeeping,  as  laid
down  in  Article  65  of  the  Charter.  When  it  comes  to
fighting  the  causes  of  conflicts  and  to  post-crisis
rehabilitation, the Economic and Social Council has an
important  role  to  play  that  can  support  Security
Council  efforts  for  conflict  prevention  and  peace-
building.  We  should  grant  the  Economic  and  Social
Council more competences in the operative sphere.
After  all,  the  efforts  we  make  in  peace  missions
will  be  successful  only  if  the  military  commitment  is
followed  by  a  longer  phase  of  stabilization,  and  very
often that phase turns out to be the most difficult one.
The Economic  and Social Council  advisory groups on
post-crisis  rehabilitation  in  Africa  are  a  step  in  the
right direction. That is what the decisive link between
conflict  management  and  development  cooperation
could indeed look like.
Such 
an 
approach 
all-embracing 
needs
appropriate  financial  resources.  The  instrument  of
voluntary  contributions  has  proven  insufficient  in
everyday  life,  and  therefore  I  propose  earmarking  a
certain share of the United Nations peacekeeping budget
for  post-crisis  rehabilitation.  This  means  we  could
achieve what we have long been trying,  a “prevention
share”, which  —  let  us  remember  Haiti  —  could  help
us save the costs of conflicts flaring up again.
Many criticize the proliferation of subsidiary and
subordinate  organizations  of  the  United  Nations.  Of
course,  a reduction  cannot be  an  end  in  itself.  But  we
ought to exercise enough self-criticism to ask ourselves
whether it would not be better to pool competences in
some cases.
However,  there  are  also  spheres  that  need  to  be
better equipped. I am thinking here, for example, of the
handling of environmental issues in the United Nations
system. We thus support the proposal made by French
President  Jacques  Chirac  last  year  to  upgrade  the
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP)  to  a
specialized  agency  with  universal  membership.  That
17
A/59/PV.7
could  considerably  strengthen  UNFP’s  contribution  to
sustainable development.
in  complexity. 
At the heart of the reform of the United  Nations
is  the  organ  shouldering  the  central  responsibility  for
international peace: the Security Council. Conflicts are
on the increase. They stretch across all continents, and
they  are  growing 
the
responsibility  and  competences  of  the  Council  have
expanded  constantly.  Crisis  prevention  will  play  an
increasingly  important  role.  And  for  peace-building,
ever more comprehensive strategies, closer cooperation
and  additional  resources  will  be  needed.  This  will
mean  more  and  more  decisions  that  entail  long-term
obligations,  create  new  international  law  and  make
major inroads into State sovereignty.
turn, 
In 
If we really want Security Council decisions to be
accepted as legitimate and implemented effectively, we
have  to  reform  the  Council.  It  has  to  more  broadly
represent  a  world  organization  that  today  embraces
more than 191 countries. That is inconceivable without
increasing  the  number  of  seats  —  for  permanent  and
non-permanent  members  alike.  The  reasons  behind
such a move speak for themselves.
A  Council  with  more  members  would  enjoy
greater acceptance internationally as a basis for greater
authority.  The  more  balanced  and  comprehensive
representation  of  all  continents  —  also  among  the
permanent members — would lead to a better sense of
ownership  of  the  Security  Council  for  all  States.
Similarly,  an  enlargement  would  considerably  bolster
the motivation of the new Council members to make a
long-term  contribution  to  realizing  the  goals  of  the
United Nations.
The  enlargement  must  adequately  reflect  sea
changes such as decolonization, the end of the cold war
and  globalization.  The  composition  of  the  Council
must  ultimately  mirror  the  current  geopolitical  reality.
That means that all major regions of the South must be
represented  by  permanent  members  in  the  Security
Council. At the same time, account has to be taken of
Members  that  can  and  want  to  make  a  particularly
meaningful and sustainable contribution to maintaining
world peace and international security and to realizing
the  purposes  of 
twofold
approach  would  increase  the  Council’s  efficiency  and
its ability to act and to assert itself.
the  Organization.  That 
For  40  years,  the  composition  of  the  Security
Council  has  remained  unchanged.  I  believe  it  is  high
18
time to adapt it to the new global reality. Half-baked or
interim  solutions  are  neither  necessary  nor  helpful.
Like Brazil, India and Japan, Germany too is ready to
take on the responsibility associated with a permanent
seat  in  the  security  Council.  But  it  is  especially
important 
the  African  continent  be
represented among the new permanent members.
to  us 
that 
A second aspect also has to be taken into account
in Security Council reform. All in all, a greater number
of  Member  States  that  are  engaging  themselves  in  the
work of the United Nations should be able to get more
involved in the work of the Security Council. For that
to happen, additional non-permanent seats also have to
be created. That would mean that the balance between
permanent  and  non-permanent  members  could  be
retained.
theme  of 
As  I  said  before,  United  Nations  reform  will  be
the  central  and  defining 
this  General
Assembly session. I thus call upon Member States: let
us  use  the  fifty-ninth  session,  right  up  until  the  next
session  in  2005,  to  launch  the  overdue  reforms  and
achieve tangible results. We, the  Member  States,  have
to  muster  the  political  insight,  the  will  and  the
creativity  to  adapt  the  Organization  to  the  global
reality.  Germany  is  ready  to  make  a  committed
contribution.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Silvan  Shalom,  Deputy  Prime
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel.
Mr. Shalom (Israel): I would like to congratulate
you,  Sir,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Gabon,  upon  your
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly
and to wish you much success.
The  United  Nations  was  established  out  of  the
devastation of the Second World War in order to build
a world of unity and of peace. Today, 60 years after the
Organization came into being, we must  ask  ourselves:
What are we united for and what are we united against?
Are  we  united  for  peace  and  security?  Are  we  united
for  fairness and justice?  Are we united against terror?
Are we united against tyranny?
ideals  on  which 
Or  are  we,  sadly,  united  only  in  cynical  and
immoral  majority  votes  that  make  a  mockery  of  the
noble 
this  body  was  founded?
Tomorrow is Yom Kippur, the holiest day of the Jewish
calendar,  when  all  Jews  stand  before  God  to  account
for  their  actions.  It  is  an  appropriate  time  for  all
nations,  separately  and  together,  to  engage  in  such  an
accounting.
I sense  a change in the world. In  the  face  of  the
global  campaign  of  terror  which  has  left  no  country
free of its devastating impact, the world is beginning to
realize  what  we  in  Israel  have  long  known:  that
terrorism  is  a  challenge  to  humanity  as  a  whole,  not
just  to  individual  countries;  that  the  response  to  that
global threat must also be global if it is to be effective;
that  the  threat  of  terrorism  anywhere  is  a  threat  to
freedom  everywhere;  that  fighting  terror  is  crucial  to
our ability to bring peace.
There  was  a  time  when  the  problems  of  terror,
Islamic  fundamentalism  and  Iranian  nuclear  ambition
were  seen  as  local  problems  —  Israel’s  problems  —
not  challenges  which  threatened  the  community  of
nations as a whole. Today, however, our community of
nations  is  more  united  than  ever  in  the  battle  against
terrorism,  whose  sole  objective 
to  undermine
everything  that  we  seek  to  build:  peace,  stability,
prosperity and opportunity for all.
is 
Today  we  are  also  more  united  than  ever  in
opposition  to  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction. The international community now realizes
that Iran — with missiles that can reach London, Paris,
Berlin  and  southern  Russia  —  poses  a  threat  not  only
to the security of Israel, but to the security and stability
of the whole world. Indeed, Iran has replaced Saddam
Hussein  as  the  world’s  number-one  exporter  of  terror,
hate and instability.
The  international  community  now  also  realizes,
as  reflected 
in  Security  Council  resolution  1559
(2004),  that  Syria’s  occupation  of  Lebanon  and  its
support for Palestinian terror must end if our collective
aspirations are to be fulfilled.
And  the  international  community  now  realizes
that  terror  and  tyranny  are  the  twin  enemies  of  the
individual freedoms and human rights — including the
right to life itself — which define our humanity.
Today,  the  community  of  nations  knows  that
securing freedom and democracy for all the peoples of the
world must be our collective goal. The pictures of human
flesh  torn  apart  by  the  terrorists,  from  New  York  to
Beslan — and just yesterday, once again, in Jerusalem
— are waking us up to the challenge we face.
In that spirit of unity, and in the name of all those
in the world who suffer from terror and tyranny, I call
A/59/PV.7
on  the  Assembly  to  refocus  its  aspirations  and  its
priorities.  I  call  on  the  Assembly  to  end  its  obsession
with Israel and to ensure that United Nations resources
are  allocated  more  equally  and  more  effectively.  Our
United  Nations  must  provide  solutions  to  the  global
challenges  of  hunger  and  poverty,  of  disease  and
trafficking  and
weapons  proliferation,  of  drug 
sustainable  development.  We  must  not 
the
Palestinian  desire  to  vilify  Israel  distract  our  global
community from the obligation to address the needs of
all peoples.
let 
I  call  on  the  Assembly  to  address  head-on  the
active  involvement  of  Iran  and  Syria  in  terrorism  and
Syria’s continued occupation of Lebanon. There can be
no  place  in  the  community  of  nations  for  those  who
promote the killing of children. I call on the Assembly
to  promote  practical  measures  to  help  nations  cut  off
all financial and political lifelines of terror.
forms  of 
I  call  on  the  Assembly  to  address  the  growth  of
racism  and
anti-Semitism  and  other 
intolerance.  I  urge  you,  Mr.  President,  and 
the
Secretary-General, to  convene  a special session  of  the
Assembly  on  that  crucial  matter.  We  all  share  the
responsibility to educate our children to understanding
and tolerance rather than to hatred and incitement.
We  must  build  a  united  and  global  coalition  to
fight  terrorism,  racism  and  anti-Semitism.  We  must
build a united front against the cold-blooded murderers
of  our  children.  In  that  battle,  there  is  no  middle
ground. There is no room for explanations or excuses.
There  are  no  mitigating  circumstances.  Declarations
and condemnations are very important, but they are not
enough. Every nation, every Government, every leader
has the responsibility to act. Those who choose instead
to support and sponsor terror must be isolated and held
to account for their crimes.
When I speak of terror and its dangers to life and
freedom,  I  speak  from  bitter  personal  experience.  My
own home town of Beersheva suffered a double suicide
bombing just three weeks ago. Sixteen innocent people
were killed when their commuter buses were blown up.
In  the  middle  of  an  important  meeting  with  visiting
officials,  I  rushed  to  call  my  mother  and  brother  to
check  that  they  were  alive.  Hamas,  which  operates
freely  from  Palestinian  territory  and  receives  support
and  safe  haven  from  the  regimes  in  Damascus  and
Tehran, proudly claimed responsibility for that horrific
attack.
19
A/59/PV.7
Again  yesterday,  as  I  was  meeting  with  the
Secretary-General to discuss peace in the Middle East,
I was passed a note informing me of a suicide atrocity,
in which two more Israelis were blown to pieces by a
Palestinian terrorist. And this morning, once again, yet
more  Palestinian  murderers  took  the  lives  of  three
young Israelis in an attack on Morag.
In  the  last  year  alone,  150  Israelis  have  been
killed  and  thousands  more  injured  in  more  than  40
separate  suicide  bombings  and  other  cold-blooded
attacks.  More  than  200  additional  suicide-bombing
attempts were blocked by our defensive measures.
No Israeli mother is free of the fear that her child
may  be  lost.  No  Israeli  child  is  immune  to  the
terrorists’  plans.  In  the  name  of  God  above  and  all
humanity here on Earth, this killing must stop.
Palestinian  terrorism  is  the  key  reason  that  the
dream of peace in the Middle East has not yet become
a  reality.  Combating  this  terror  is  crucial  to  the
prospects  for  peace  in  our  region.  No  peace  initiative
can survive if terrorists continue to enjoy a free hand to
undermine it.
The  road  map  recognizes  this,  calling,  in  phase
one, for sustained Palestinian action against terror, the
dismantling  of  terrorist  organizations  and  the  end  of
incitement in schools and the media. Sadly, the current
Palestinian  leadership  has  refused  to  fulfil  those
fundamental obligations, preferring to blame Israel for
all its failures. The Palestinian side spends more energy
fighting  Israel  here  at  the  United  Nations  than  it  does
fighting the terrorists in its own territory.
In  the  post-11-September  world,  this  is  not
acceptable.  The  Palestinians  are  not  exempt  from  the
imperatives  of  the  global  war  on  terror.  On  the
contrary, it is in their clear interest to join it. To stand
up against Hamas and Islamic Jihad is to stand up for
Palestinian rights, not against them.
We urge the international community to recognize
this  reality  and  help 
the  voices  of  reform  and
moderation  within  Palestinian  society  to  emerge.  The
future of the Palestinian people will be determined  by
the  choices  that  the  Palestinians  and  their  leadership
make  on 
the
Palestinians  and  Israelis  as  one  —  lie  in  Gaza  and
Ramallah, not in The Hague or New York.
the  ground.  The  solutions  —  for 
Israel  is  acting  in  both  the  diplomatic  and  the
security  arenas  to  deal  with  the  consequences  of  this
20
chronic  failure  of  the  Palestinian  leadership.  On  the
diplomatic front, Israel accepted the road map in May
2003,  and  we  remain  committed  to  its  realization.  At
this time, however, we have no responsible Palestinian
partner  ready  to  join  us  in  this  effort.  Israel  is  now
planning  to  implement  the  disengagement  plan  as  a
means  of  enhancing  security  and  establishing  a  new,
more  promising  platform  for  a  return  to  negotiations.
We  are  in  constant  contact  with  the  donor  community
and the World Bank in a joint effort to rebuild Gaza in
the wake of Israel’s withdrawal.
On the security front, Israel is building a security
fence  to  stop  the  unchecked  wave  of  Palestinian
attacks.  After  20,000  terrorist  attacks,  we  deserve  to
protect  our  people.  No  other  country  would  act
otherwise  after  20,  let  alone  20,000,  terrorist  attacks.
The  fence  does  not  take  lives.  It  saves  them.  Where
there  is  a  fence,  there  is  no  terror.  Where  there  is  no
fence,  there  is  terror.  The  modified  route  of  the  fence
reflects  the  necessary  balance  between  the  security  of
our  citizens  and 
the  Palestinian
population,  as  called  for  by  Israel’s  Supreme  Court.
Most important, the fence is reversible. The lives taken
by terror are irreversible. By helping take terrorism out
of the equation, the fence contributes to the prospect of
a return to negotiations and the realization of the road
map’s vision of peace.
the  welfare  of 
I call on the Assembly to acknowledge this truth
and  to  reject  the  continued  Palestinian  effort  to  have
delegations  address  Israel’s  response  to  terrorism,
instead of addressing the terrorism itself.
Ultimately,  we  need  real  contact  and  dialogue,
based on mutual respect for the humanity of the other
if we are to resolve the conflict in the Middle East. The
Government of Israel is ready for such contact. We are
ready to talk to any leadership — from Syria, Lebanon
or  the  Palestinians  —  that  comes  to  the  table  without
terror  and  with  the  genuine  intention  of  finding
mutually acceptable solutions to our differences.
Tomorrow,  Yom  Kippur,  is  a  day  of  prayer,
fasting and soul-searching for the Jews.  In Beersheva,
in a synagogue named after my father, I will be praying
together  with  those  who  have  recently  buried  their
murdered  children.  I  will  pray  that  our  collective
aspiration  for  life  and  freedom  will  prevail  over  the
terrorists and those who sponsor them. I will pray that
God will deliver peace on earth, for all humanity. And
I  will  pray  that  mankind  can  unite  —  through  the
United  Nations  —  to  help  make  this  dream  become  a
reality.
And  I  would  like  to  say  in  Hebrew,  Happy  New
Year.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Albert  Shabangu,
Deputy Prime Minister of Swaziland.
Mr. Shabangu (Swaziland): Allow me to convey
to all members of the United Nations family the warm
greetings 
of  His  Majesty
King  Mswati  III,  Her  Majesty  the  Indlovukazi,  the
Government and, indeed, the entire Swazi nation.
best  wishes 
and 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  congratulates  you,
Sir, on your election to the presidency of this session.
We are especially proud that a fellow African has been
elected 
that  demanding  position,  and  we  are
confident that your diplomatic skill and experience will
help  you  to  lead  the  Assembly  towards  a  successful
conclusion of its deliberations.
to 
In the aftermath of 11 September 2001, the world
is  understandably  preoccupied  with  the  question  of
security  and  the  war  on  terror.  The  Kingdom  of
Swaziland  continues  to  condemn,  in  no  uncertain
terms,  terrorism  which  constantly  threatens  world
peace, security and stability. As part of our support for
the  alliance  against  terrorism,  the  Government  of
Swaziland  is  currently  studying  the  United  Nations
conventions that deal with terrorism, to ensure not only
the adaptation of such important conventions, but also
compliance with them. The Parliament of the Kingdom
of Swaziland will be debating, and will hopefully pass,
its  long-awaited  anti-terrorism  bill  during  its  next
session.
Future  world  stability  is  also  threatened  by  the
continuing spread of weapons of mass destruction. Our
failure as an Organization in that regard thus far is due
to  inability  to  agree  on  a  time  frame  suitable  to  all
Members for arms control and nuclear disarmament.
The  Treaty  on  the  Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons  (NPT)  and the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban Treaty (CTBT) were designed as an essential first
step  towards  a  world  free  from  the  danger  that  such
weapons  pose.  We  clearly  need  to  find  a  way  to
strengthen the non-proliferation regime and to prevent
the  flow  of  conventional  weapons  and  anti-personnel
landmines  into  zones  of  conflicts  or  into  the  hands  of
terrorists.  The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  therefore  calls
A/59/PV.7
of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
upon the Conference on Disarmament to implement the
proposal 
by
establishing,  as 
its  highest  priority,  an  ad  hoc
committee  to  begin  negotiations  on  a  programme  for
the  complete  and  time-bound  elimination  of  nuclear
weapons from those countries that have them.
While  the  possibility  of  global  conflict  has
diminished since the end of the cold war era, it is a fact
that  there  has  been  a  corresponding  increase  in  the
internal  conflicts  and  cross-border
incidence  of 
disturbances,  arising 
from  a  variety  of  causes,
including ethnic and religious confrontation.
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is  inevitably  at
the  centre  of  the  debate  on  peace  and  security.  The
Kingdom of Swaziland pledges the continuation of our
support for all initiatives and efforts aimed at resolving
that situation and at bringing peace and stability to the
Middle East. We sincerely believe that the vital role of
the  United  Nations  continues  to  be  critical  to  the
resolution of the Middle East conflict.
The  creation  of  the  African  Union  and  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  and
the  great  strides  that  have  been  taken  in  the  past  two
years, are a clear indication that we are moving in the
right direction. We are convinced that, with the support
of the international community and in the spirit of the
true partnership that is demonstrated by mutual respect,
we  shall  succeed  in  our  objectives,  initiatives  and
efforts to raise the living standards of our peoples.
We  have  placed  our  trust  in  NEPAD  to  be  the
vehicle for that shift away from the underdevelopment
and conflict of the past by addressing the fundamental
root  causes  of  our  problems.  The  ongoing  integration
of  our  initiatives  and  programmes  within  the  African
continent  will  make  possible  sustainability  and  true
growth 
in  unity  of
purpose, we shall succeed. In that regard, we welcome
the  establishment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the
Advisory  Panel  on  International  Support  for  NEPAD,
which will, in our view, help us to be more effective in
our efforts to promote Africa’s development.
in  our  economies.  Together, 
Our  united  effort  is  also  addressing  the  conflicts
that  continue  to  threaten  peace,  stability  and  security
on the African continent. We realize that, without those
elements, our development goals will continue to elude
us,  especially  because,  apart  from  resources  that  are
wasted  on  arms,  our  people  can  be  productive  and  be
able to trade among themselves and with the rest of the
21
A/59/PV.7
world  only  under  conditions  of  peace,  stability  and
security.
The  establishment  of  the  Peace  and  Security
Council  of  the  African  Union  is  a  landmark  event  in
our efforts to manage our conflicts. In particular, allow
me  to  single  out  for  commendation  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  highlight  and
address  African  problems.  We  look  forward  to  the
complete  resolution  of  the  dispute  in  Somalia,  and  in
particular to the resolution of the dispute in the Darfur
region of the Sudan.
The  complex  challenges  facing  the  world  today
lend greater significance and urgency to initiatives for
the  reform  of  our  Organization.  The  Kingdom  of
Swaziland  believes  that  those  reforms  are  essential  if
the  United  Nations  is  to  retain  the  global  credibility
and  authority  that  are  so  necessary  to  its  operations.
Our  aim  must  be  to  transform  the  Organization  into  a
structure that is truly representative of all Members and
that is transparent and efficient in its operations, while
remaining  consistent  with  the  purposes  and  objectives
of  our  founding  Charter.  We  believe  that  achieving
balanced  representation  in  the  principal  organs  of  the
United Nations should be a priority.
In  that  regard,  we  support  an  increase  in  both
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  in  the  Security
Council.  The  Security  Council  in  particular  requires
reform  in  order  to  strengthen  its  legitimacy.  Its
composition must reflect the plurality and diversity of
the membership of the United Nations, to recognize the
profound geopolitical changes that have taken place in
recent history. However, due to a lack of political will
on 
the
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  progress  in  the
reform agenda remains unattainable.
the  part  of  some  Members 
increase 
to 
to 
in 
the  United  Nations 
Turning now to the question of development, we
believe  that  the  Millennium  Declaration  marked  a
turning point in  carrying out the mission unanimously
entrusted 
the  area  of
sustainable  development.  Indeed,  for  the  first  time,
heads of State or Government agreed on specific goals
and  targets  in  the  social,  economic  and  educational
fields,  up  to  the  year  2015.  In  our  view,  the  leaders
were  correct  to  make  the  related  topics  of  peace,
development 
security, 
eradication
to  be  addressed,  because  future  world
priorities 
stability  depends  on 
ability  of  national
Governments to increase the momentum for economic
poverty 
and 
the 
22
development and their capacity to improve the delivery
of  job  creation  and  essential  services  such  as  health
and education.
in 
Developing  countries  have  been  facing  special
difficulties  in  responding  to  the  challenges  brought
about  by  globalization.  As  a  result,  many  developing
countries,  especially  the  least  developed  ones,  have
remained  marginalized 
the  globalizing  world
economy.  Consequently,  the  benefits  of  globalization
are  unevenly  distributed.  In  that  regard,  the  Kingdom
of  Swaziland  believes  that  in  order  to  maximize  the
benefits of globalization, the process of integration into
the  world  economy  should  take  into  account  the  level
of  economic  development  of  each  country  and  the
capacity  of 
In
particular, specific national development potentials and
socio-economic  circumstances,  as  well  as  differing
initial 
resource
endowments,  economic  structure  and  location,  should
be considered. It is also necessary to take into account
the specific development, financial and trade  needs  of
developing countries, in view of the fact that there can
be no one-size-fits-all trade development strategy.
institutions  and  enterprises. 
conditions 
relating 
size, 
its 
to 
I believe that I speak on behalf of many from the
developing world when I say that small economies are
not  receiving  fair  treatment  in  global  trade.  The
proposed  removal  of  preferential 
terms  for  our
agricultural products and the continuation of subsidies
for such products from the developed world is bound to
deal a fatal blow to many of our weak economies. We
request understanding and appreciation of our situation
by  our  developed  partners.  We  are  asking  for  a
partnership  that  will  take  into  account  our  unique
situations  as  developing  economies  so  that  we  can
participate  effectively  in  the  global  market.  For  our
part,  as  small  economies,  we  pledge  quality  and  high
standards for our products. Our farmers are more than
ready  to  deliver  the  best  to  international  markets.  It
should  be  noted  that  agricultural  incomes  are  the
cornerstone of development for our rural communities.
For  our  part  in  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,
poverty  alleviation  remains  the  number-one  priority.
Sixty-six  per  cent  of  our  people  are  living  below  the
internationally 
line,  yet  our
classification  as  a 
lower-middle-income  country
prevents our access to many of the funds and resources
that  are  available  to  those  in  different  categories.  We
will be working with the United Nations to ensure that
this situation is corrected.
recognized  poverty 
In the meantime, we are focusing our efforts and
available  resources  on  programmes  that  meet  the
challenges  of  poverty  in  a  sustainable  and  equitable
manner.  Our  national  development  strategy,  which  is
the  result  of  direct  consultation  with  all  stakeholders,
has  incorporated  all  eight  priority  United  Nations
Millennium  Development  Goals  so  as  to  provide  us
with  a  blueprint  for  government  action 
towards
achieving the vision of improving the livelihood of our
people by 2022.
Despite  all  our  best  efforts  and  our  limited
success in many areas, we are restricted in our capacity
to meet our objectives due to a multitude of problems
that are affecting us simultaneously and that we cannot
overcome  on  our  own.  As  is  the  case  with  all
developing  countries,  we  are  particularly  at  risk  in
times  of  global  economic  difficulties  and  are
particularly vulnerable to disease and to the  effects of
changing weather patterns.
including  malaria  and 
Weakening  our  efforts  to  meet  our  development
challenges  is  the  threat  posed  by  multiple  health
hazards, 
tuberculosis,  but
especially  HIV/AIDS.  AIDS  continues  to  claim  the
lives of many of our people. No sector of development
has been spared the ravaging impact of the HIV/AIDS
pandemic, with enormous strain placed on our financial
and  human  resources  as  we  make 
the  required
interventions.  We  are  attacking  the  enemy  on  various
fronts,  with  priority  on  prevention,  care,  counselling
and  treatment.  Our  National  Emergency  Response
Committee has had some success with regard to home-
based  and  community-based  care  for  those  already  ill
as a result of infection.
Unfortunately,  we  are  currently  experiencing  an
exodus of qualified nurses, who are being employed in
the  developed  world.  The  exodus  has  adversely
affected  our  capacity-building  efforts.  That  exodus,
together  with  other  wider  impacts  of  HIV/AIDS,  has
dealt our economy a heavy blow.
including 
The Kingdom of Swaziland continues to make the
welfare of children a priority in our development strategy.
In  that  regard,  both  the  Government  and  the  private
sector, 
organizations
(NGOs),  have  responded  with  zeal  and  determination
to the plight of orphans and other vulnerable children,
resulting  from  the  effects  of  the  pandemic.  The
Government is providing bursaries for such children in
order  to  ensure  that  their  education  is  not  disrupted.
non-governmental 
A/59/PV.7
The  Government  and  the  business  community,  in
partnership  with  NGOs,  are  providing  school  feeding
schemes  in  order  to  improve  their  nutritional  balance.
We are also using our traditional structures to cater for
their  material  and  emotional  needs;  this  includes  the
provision  of  local  reporting  structures  to  prevent  the
abuse  of  those  children.  The  chiefdoms  also  provide
fields  where  communities  grow  food  for  orphans  and
other vulnerable children.
Let me take this opportunity to express the most
profound  gratitude  of  the  entire  Swazi  nation  to  the
United Nations and to all our development partners for
the  support  we  continue  to  receive  as  we  face  that
killer  disease.  The  support  we  have  received  from  the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
continues  to  prop  up  and  sustain  our  programmes  and
strategies  in  our  fight  against  this  scourge.  Fellow
members, we shall be forever grateful to you all.
The Kingdom of Swaziland is fully committed to
the principles of good governance and the rule of law.
The nation has just completed debating the Kingdom’s
draft constitution, and the draft will soon be submitted
to Parliament for final consideration before the end of
this year.
is 
excluded 
to 
record 
For  more 
nonetheless 
than  30  years, 
the  Kingdom  of
Swaziland has been enjoying excellent relations with a
nation  which,  despite  an  outstanding 
in
international  development  assistance  and  despite
fulfilling  every  requirement  for  membership  in  the
Organization, 
from
participation  in  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  I
am referring here to the issue of the 23 million people
of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  who  are  denied
the  right 
initiatives
undertaken  by  this  world  body.  The  Government  and
the  people  of  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  have
made  enormous  advances  in  economic,  social  and
political terms, and they have shown themselves ready
and  able  to  share  their  experience  and  advice  with  all
the  nations  of  the  world.  The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,
therefore,  proposes  to  the  Assembly  that  the  time  has
come to revisit this issue so as to ensure the inclusion
of the Republic of China on Taiwan in the activities of
the United Nations and its associated agencies.
to  contribute 
the  global 
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
this
opportunity  to  express  the  deep  gratitude  of  His
Majesty  the  King,  the  Indlovukazi,  the  Government
and the people of Swaziland to the United Nations and
take 
like 
to 
23
A/59/PV.7
its  agencies  for  the  many  programmes  of  assistance
undertaken  in  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  since  our
independence.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations,  as  the  only
truly  global  Organization,  remains  the  only  hope  for
overcoming  the  many  complex  challenges  facing  the
world  today.  Despite  the  setbacks,  and  despite  the
obstacles to achieving our collective aims, there can be
no doubt that the world could be a more troubled place
without the combined efforts of all of us. The Kingdom
of  Swaziland, 
in
reaffirming  our  commitment  to  the  principles  and
ideals set out in the Charter, and we ask Almighty God
to  watch  over  and  guide  us  in  the  challenging  times
ahead for our Organization.
takes  great  pride 
therefore, 
The  President (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Petros  Molyviatis,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Greece.
Mr. Molyviatis (Greece): Mr. President, I would
like to begin by congratulating you upon your election
to  your  challenging  office.  Under  your  able  guidance,
the Assembly will take forward its relentless pursuit of
peace,  security  and  prosperity  throughout  the  world.  I
can assure you of Greece’s unwavering support in your
efforts.  Our  thanks  go  also  to  the  outgoing  president,
Mr.  Julian  Hunte,  for  his  exemplary  efforts  and
achievements  in  revitalizing  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly, as well as on many other issues.
The  Greek  Government  fully  subscribes  to  the
statement  delivered  two  days  ago  by  the  Foreign
Minister of the Netherlands on behalf of the European
Union  (EU)  (see  A/59/PV.3),  as  well  as  to  the  EU
priorities presented to this General Assembly.
At  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century,
events  of  great  importance  changed  the  world  we  live
in.  From  the  most  shocking  tragedy  of  11  September
2001 to the bombing attacks in Madrid and the recent
acts  of  unspeakable  brutality  in  Beslan,  a  dark  parade
of  acts  of  blind  violence  has  caused  immense  human
suffering.
This has increased our responsibility and cemented
our  will  to  work  in  solidarity  for  a  safer,  fairer  world.
Fighting  international  terrorism  has  become  the  most
pressing  task  among  our  priorities.  In  that  fight,  we
must  prevail.  Besides 
terrorism,
however,  there  are  many  other  challenges  and  grave
problems  that  afflict  humanity.  The  proliferation  of
the  scourge  of 
24
crime, 
failing  States, 
trafficking,
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  human 
organized 
environmental
catastrophes,  social  and  economic  crises,  pandemic
diseases,  large-scale  humanitarian  disasters,  hunger
and  poverty  constitute  the  core  problems  we  have  to
face  in  solidarity  regardless  of  our  geography,  culture
or religion.
Last  year,  the  Secretary-General  announced  the
creation  of  a  High-Level  Panel  of  eminent  persons  to
assess  the  new  threats  and  challenges  and  to  suggest
ways  to  deal  with  them,  including  through  reform  of
the  multilateral  international  system.  We  fully  support
those efforts. We are eager to contribute constructively,
to  the  best  of  our  ability,  towards  making  the  United
Nations  as  effective  as  possible  for  the  twenty-first
century.
(spoke in French)
The  major  challenges  and  threats  confronting  us
are a source of profound concern — for us and for the
peoples we represent. Nonetheless, it is my conviction
that,  at  any  cost,  we  must  avoid  being  drawn  into
pessimism  and  anxiety  about  the  future.  I  share  with
millions  of  people  worldwide  the  hope,  optimism  and
determination  that  were  recently  seen  during  the
Olympic and Paralympic Games in Athens.
In  Athens,  athletes  of  the  world  devoted  their
efforts to a noble cause and showed us that competition
does  not  necessarily  mean  tension,  friction,  crisis  or
conflict.  To 
the
aspirations of all sides can not only coexist peacefully
but  can  also  lead  to  a  strengthening  of  friendship,
solidarity  and  cooperation  among  individuals  and
nations.
the  contrary, 
they  proved 
that 
ravaging 
The ancient ideal of the Olympic Truce embodies
modern humanity’s hope for the peaceful settlement of
the  conflicts 
the  world.  The  General
Assembly  has,  on  many  occasions,  unanimously
endorsed  the  Olympic  Truce  and  has  appealed  to
Member  States  to  respect  it  during  the  Games.  It  is
now  a  question  of  transforming  that  appeal  into  a
tangible reality.
(spoke in English)
Multilateral  cooperation  is  the  safest  way  to  a
better  world.  We  all  should  contribute 
the
enhancement  and  effectiveness  of  the  international
multilateral system. In that context, Greece fully shares
the  view  of  the  Secretary-General  that  we  have  to
to 
move  rapidly  from  the  existing  culture  of  reaction  to
one of prevention.
Peace  and  development  are 
The peaceful resolution of all disputes at an early
stage, on the basis of the United Nations Charter, is of
fundamental  importance  to  my  country.  We  strongly
believe  that  the  United  Nations  system  of  conflict
prevention  and  its  preventive  potential  should  be
further enhanced to respond better to future challenges.
two  mutually
reinforcing  sides  of  the  same  coin.  Persistent  poverty
cheats nations out of progress and provides a breeding
ground for both internal and regional crises. Four years
ago, with the adoption of the Millennium Declaration,
a  landmark  decision  was  taken  to  embark  upon  long-
term  global  evolution.  We  committed  ourselves  to
achieve  by  the  year  2015  the  Goals  that  were  set.  It
would be a disgrace to mankind if we did not succeed
in  bringing  about  stable  and  sustainable  development
and in eradicating hunger and poverty.
However,  there  are  growing  indications  that,
despite  some  progress,  we  are  lagging  in  fulfilling
agreed  targets.  Collectively,  we  have  to  explore  new,
innovative  ways  of  financing  development.  Particular
attention  should  be  paid  to  the  development  problems
of Africa and of small island States.
In  line  with  the  Millennium  Declaration,  and
despite  the  enormous  outlay  of  resources  necessary  to
finance the Olympic Games and their security, Greece
has  made  a  point  of  increasing  its  development
assistance.
In the context of that effort, Greece welcomes the
proposals  to  combat  hunger  and  poverty  made  by  the
President of Brazil and co-sponsored by France, Chile,
Argentina  and  Spain.  We  shall  continue  to  work
towards  a  constructive  and  effective  system  that  will
allow  smooth  cooperation  between  recipients  and
donors  and  between  developing  and  developed
countries.
A 
look 
close 
at  Greece’s 
immediate
neighbourhood  reveals  that,  despite  the  considerable
progress  made  over  the  last  few  years,  the  situation
still  remains  fragile  in  parts  of  the  western  Balkans.
Unemployment and the lack of economic prospects are
in  some  cases  a  social  and  political  time  bomb.  The
situation in Kosovo remains a source of instability.
With  the  proactive  support  and  involvement  of
the  international  community,  we  are  working  hard  to
A/59/PV.7
transform the Balkans into a region of democracy, peace,
stability and prosperity, focused on a common European
future.  We  believe  that  genuinely  regional  initiatives
such  as  the  South-East  European  Cooperation  Process
constitute 
enable
participating  countries 
their  efforts
towards reform, progress and good neighbourliness.
vehicle 
to  coordinate 
appropriate 
the 
to 
In  recent  years,  the  climate  of  our  bilateral
relations  with  Turkey  has  been  constantly  improving.
Both  the  Greek  and  the  Turkish  Governments  have
undertaken sincere efforts to set bilateral relations on a
new  track.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress
achieved  so  far  in  certain  areas  of  our  bilateral
cooperation and express our determination to expand it
further.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  clearly  support
Turkey’s European perspective.
In Cyprus,  reunification  remains  our  unwavering
goal  through  a  mutually  agreed,  lasting,  fair  and
functional  settlement,  based  on  the  relevant  Security
Council  resolutions  and  the  plan  of  the  Secretary-
General  and  compatible  with  the  European  Union
Community acquis and European Union principles.
During the last 30 years of military occupation of
more than one third of the territory of Cyprus, Greece
has strongly  supported  every  attempt  and  initiative  by
the United Nations, including the most recent one, for
the  achievement  of  a  just,  viable  and  functional
solution of the Cyprus problem. Unfortunately, the last
round of talks did not lead to an agreed comprehensive
solution.  In  the  referendum,  which  followed  in  April,
an overwhelming majority of Greek Cypriots rejected a
specific version of the Annan plan, but they still deeply
cherish the goal of a reunited island.
The 
international  community  can  contribute
decisively in that direction by keeping the window for
a  solution  open  and  by  avoiding  any  action  which
could lead to the deepening of the division of the island
or could fail to provide incentives for its reunification.
The  horizon  over  the  Middle  East  remains  dark.
The  Greek  Government  is  convinced  that  only  the
implementation  of  the  road  map  can  lead  to  the  two-
State solution: Israel and Palestine coexisting in peace
and  security.  Half  measures  can  only  complicate
matters  and  add  new  sources  of  tension.  Essential
progress  in  the  peace  process  cannot  be  achieved
without  a  comprehensive  cessation  of  all  kinds  of
violence, especially violence directed against civilians.
Terrorism  cannot  be  a  weapon  to  achieve  political
25
A/59/PV.7
goals,  and  terrorist  attacks  cannot  be  justified  by  any
means.
As  to  Iraq,  we  are  deeply  committed  to  the
territorial integrity and unity of the country in a federal
system. We are deeply worried by the ongoing violence,
and we hope for progress in the political process, which
will  lead  to  a  stable  and  prosperous  democratic
country,  allowing  all  of  its  citizens  to  enjoy  the  fruits
of peace and exploit the country’s enormous potential.
(spoke in French)
In the light of the great challenges on the African
continent,  we  note  with  great  satisfaction 
the
dedication  shown  and  the  results  achieved  by  the
African Union, an organization that is only 3 years old.
Greece and its European partners want to help to improve
through  development  assistance,
Africa’s  prospects 
humanitarian 
support.
Moreover,  we  support  the  prospect  of  strengthened
political  cooperation  with  African  countries  and  with
the continent’s regional organizations.
assistance 
logistical 
and 
I 
to 
take 
express 
this  opportunity 
the
congratulations  of  my  Government  and  of  the  Greek
people on the tenth anniversary of the establishment of
democracy  in  the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  a  historic
event of pan-African significance.
(spoke in English)
My country has applied for a non-permanent seat
on  the  Security  Council  for  the  period  2005-2006.  I
wish to express our deep  appreciation to the members
of the Group of Western European and other States for
their endorsement. Elections are taking  place in a  few
weeks’  time.  We  are  asking  for  the  support  of  the
Assembly, which we would greatly appreciate. Let me
assure  Members  that  we  shall  respect  its  mandate  and
that  we  remain  strongly  committed  to  contributing
constructively to the maintenance of peace and security
and to the preservation of the multilateral order.
remains  completely  devoted 
the
promotion of democratic principles of government, the
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes,  strict  adherence  to
international law and respect for human rights. We are
determined,  should  we  be  elected,  to  devote  all  our
efforts  and  all  our  capacity 
that
responsibility and honouring the trust of this Assembly
of all nations.
fulfilling 
Greece 
to 
to 
26
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Franco  Frattini,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Italy.
Mr.  Frattini  (Italy): This  year’s  general  debate
unfolds  against  an  international  backdrop  in  which
terrorist  acts  of  great  ferocity  have  become  all  too
common.  The  latest,  heinous  form  of  terrorism  is
hostage-taking, which has caused deep sorrow to many
of  our  nations.  Again  and  again,  the  international
community  has  been  caught  off  guard,  unable  to
respond  quickly  or  effectively.  New  humanitarian
catastrophes have afflicted some of the world’s poorest
peoples.  Difficult  stabilization  processes  are  still  under
way in many regions where the international community
is implementing United Nations resolutions.
Some areas of the world have seen economic and
social  progress.  Yet  we  cannot  ignore  the  fact  that
entire  regions  —  especially  in  Africa  —  are  crippled
by poverty, malnutrition, disease and illiteracy. That is
why Italy takes a leading role in combating those ills in
multilateral forums and through bilateral means.
Our  peoples  demand  security.  We  must  join
forces  to  strengthen  international  cooperation  and  to
confront  the  common  threat  of  terrorist  organizations.
The  false  prophets  of  terror  are  able  to  spread  their
message  of  death  as  a  result  of  ignorance  among
cultures.  To  counter 
their  distortions,  we  should
mobilize people’s consciences and strengthen dialogue
among  civilizations  with  different  histories  but  shared
values and a common belief in human dignity.
Peace and development — the agenda of security
and human promotion — are related goals that require
a coordinated approach carried out through multilateral
institutions  and  in  a  spirit  of  equal  partnership  with
developing  countries.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to
stress the fundamental importance of a major event that
will take place in 2005. That initiative will be a unique
opportunity  for  a  comprehensive  review  of  progress
towards the attainment of the Millennium Development
Goals.
In 
our 
globalized, 
interdependent  world,
international  organizations  are  expected  to  provide
leadership  not  only  through  abstract  formulations  of
general  principles,  but  also  through  effective,  shared
initiatives  supported  by  broad  consensus.  Our  priority
is 
to
reinvigorate the role of the United Nations. That is the
responsibility that the Secretary-General set out for us
the  multilateral  system  and 
to  strengthen 
at the last session of the General Assembly. There are
two conditions for success: a sounder understanding of
the  threats  we  face  and  a  broad  consensus  on  the
policies 
them.  Effective
multilateralism  depends  much  more  on  political  will
and shared goals than on structures and procedures.
confronting 
aimed 
at 
The  multilateral  system  —  which  demands
responsibility  and  commitment  —  is  judged  by  the
results it enables us to achieve. That is why the whole
international  community  must  be  involved,  starting
with  the  States  that  command  greater  resources  and
capabilities. Multilateral decisions can be difficult, but
that is no excuse for inaction.
The starting point for United Nations reform is a
review  of  the  Organization’s  policies.  Italy  welcomes
the reform of United Nations peacekeeping and peace-
building, which we — as the sixth largest contributor to
the United Nations budget and one of the top contributors
of  troops  to  peacekeeping  operations  over  the  past  10
years  —  support.  Strengthening  that  critical  sector  will
help to prevent the recurrence of conflicts, to consolidate
the gains of peace, to re-establish the rule of law and to
guarantee  freedom  for  all.  Italy  will  also  continue  to
support  the  growing  financial,  operational  and  training
demands  of  new  missions,  particularly  in  Africa  —
here, I am also thinking about the New Partnership for
Africa’s Development — and elsewhere.
Crisis  management  is  a  United  Nations  priority
that  demands  greater  coordination  of  its  components
and  a  stronger  commitment  on  the  part  of  Member
States  to  protect  human  beings  and  to  uphold  their
dignity. We thus look forward to the report of the Panel
of  Eminent  Personalities  appointed  by  the  Secretary-
General. The membership  will have to examine it and
discuss its recommendations thoroughly and openly.
A  firm  agreement  on  the  policies  of  the  United
Nations  must  be  upheld  by  institutions  that  enjoy  the
consensus and participation of the membership. We are
encouraged  by  the  results  achieved  so  far  with  regard
to improving the functioning of the General Assembly.
On  Security  Council  reform,  we  have  not  yet
been  able  to  find  an  agreement  that  reconciles  the
various approaches on the table. That should not deter us
from seeking solutions that are not divisive. Any decision
imposed upon Member States would seriously undermine
the credibility of the Council and the legitimacy of its
action.  Confronted  with  global  challenges  of  great
A/59/PV.7
magnitude,  the  international  community  cannot  afford
profound divisions within its ranks.
Italy  is  in  favour  of  a  Security  Council  reform
inspired  by  the  principles  of  greater  inclusiveness,
effectiveness,  democratic  participation  and  geographic
representation,  starting  with  the  developing  countries.
We  are  firmly  convinced  that  the  best  way  to  pursue
such a reform is to establish new non-permanent seats.
Since States would occupy those  seats  on  the  basis  of
periodic  elections,  they  would  be  accountable  to  the
general membership.
new 
through 
permanent, 
sow  division, 
Some  Member  States,  however,  have  advocated
the addition of new permanent seats — for themselves.
We  do  not  believe  the  Council’s  difficulties  can  be
resolved 
irrevocable
appointments  and  national  mandates.  Such  a  move
would 
and  perhaps
disengagement,  among  the  membership.  Important
areas of the world would be left without representation.
For one, there would be no seat at the Council table for
the  Arab  and  Islamic  world.  Can  the  international
community  really  afford  this  at  a  time  when  we  are
trying  to  broaden  the  dialogue  among  different  faiths
and cultures?
frustration, 
On the other hand, if a broad consensus emerges
with  full  respect  for  the  sovereign  equality  of  all
Member  States,  we  are  willing  to  contemplate  more
frequent  rotation  or  longer  terms  for  countries  that
make  a  greater  contribution  to  the  objectives  of  the
United  Nations.  Should  reflections  of  the  High-level
Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change be driven by
such  a  bold  and  innovative  approach,  we  would
strongly  support  their  endeavour.  I  am  convinced  that
many other countries would also be ready to accept it.
In  addition,  a  closer  relationship  should  be  built
between  elected  members  and  their  regional  groups.
That  would  enhance  the  accountability  of  elected
members  and  would  make 
the  Council  more
representative and its deliberations more legitimate.
the 
recognized 
importance  of 
Already  in  San  Francisco  in  1945  the  founding
fathers 
regional
organizations, whose relations with the United Nations
are  governed  by  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter,  and
whose  role  has  grown  steadily  in  the  years  that
followed.  Increasingly,  States  belonging  to  the  same
region  have  felt  a  sense  of  common  responsibility  for
crises 
regional
all.  Moreover, 
affecting 
them 
27
A/59/PV.7
arrangements  provide  small  to  mid-size  States  with  a
greater say in the decisions of international forums.
for harnessing that mobilization and translating it into
collective action.
the  European  Union, 
More should be done to express those realities at
the  United  Nations  and  in  the  Security  Council.  As  a
founding  member  of 
the
depositary  of  its  treaties  and  the  host  for  the  solemn
signature  of  the  new  European  Constitution,  Italy
believes that today’s 25-member European Union has a
fundamental  contribution  to  make  to  the  objectives  of
the  United  Nations.  We  have  always  worked  to  allow
the  European  Union  to  speak  with  a  single,  more
influential,  voice.  We  realize,  of  course,  that  we  are
dealing with a gradual process. Nevertheless, we must
stay the course  and  not  jeopardize  the  achievement  of
our goal in the interests of all Europeans.
Let  me  conclude  with  a  final,  strong  appeal  to
States  Members.  Let  us  join  forces,  abandon  national
ambitions and seek the least  divisive ways  to enhance
multilateralism.  That  is  the  only  way  the  international
community can meet the global challenges of the new
millennium. In deciding between the satisfaction of the
few and the inclusion of the many, the wrong choice is
a luxury that the United Nations — at the very heart of
the international system — can ill afford to make.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Michel  Barnier,  the  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of France.
Mr. Barnier (France) (spoke in French): I would
like  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your
election.  We  are  pleased  that  a  man  of  your  ability,  a
Francophone  representative  of  a  friendly  country,  is
directing our proceedings.
I  also  wish  to  warmly  applaud  our  Secretary-
General. We have heard his message on respect for the
rule of law. And through the Secretary-General, I wish to
commend  the  entire  staff  of  this  institution,  here  and
everywhere in the world: their courage and commitment
are a credit to our ideals and to the organizations they
serve  —  sadly,  sometimes  at  the  cost  of  their  own
lives.
How  are  we  to  meet  the  challenges  facing  the
world?  That  is  the  question  we  all  keep  asking
ourselves,  one  after  another,  from  this  rostrum.  And
how are we to meet the world’s expectations unless we
all  mobilize?  More  than  ever,  the  United  Nations
remains  the  one  irreplaceable,  legitimate  framework
We  have  much  to  do:  conflicts  remain  unresolved,
while others are breaking out; poverty is declining all too
slowly; people are destroyed by wars; refugees are torn
from  their  land;  and  the  threat  of  terrorism  is  not
fading. Yes, we have much to do. Yes, we have a duty
to act, and an obligation never to give up.
The United Nations is acting — on all fronts, on
the  front  line.  To  resolve  conflicts  and  prevent  them
from flaring up  again, it  is  present  everywhere,  on  all
continents, in Haiti, Kosovo, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, in Côte d’Ivoire, Afghanistan and many
other  fronts,  deploying  over  50,000  Blue  Helmets.  It
provides  assistance  to  17  million  people  protected  by
the  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees.  Through  the
World Food Programme, it feeds more than 100 million
individuals. And it helps, especially through the United
Nations  Development  Programme,  170  States  or
territories to develop.
United  Nations  activities  —  our  activities  —
continue  to  expand.  Thus,  the  Organization  is  called
upon  to  be  at  the  centre  of  the  counter-terrorism
measures that the international community is putting in
place.  The  threat  of  terrorism,  now  a  global  one,
calling  for  a  global  response.  That  is  why  France
committed  itself  here  to  the  fight,  and  did  so  again
recently  by  supporting 
the
Counter-Terrorism Committee.
the  strengthening  of 
The  tragedy  of  11  September,  which  I  refer  to
with  feeling  here  in  New  York  City,  was  an  attack  on
us all. Since then, terrorism has continued to strike: in
Europe, in Madrid, six months ago; and in Asia, in Bali
and Jakarta. Cowardly attacks are mounted against the
weakest. How can we not be appalled at the tragedy of
the  school  in  Beslan  where  children  —  the  symbol  of
innocence — were violently massacred?
We  are  waging  a  merciless 
fight  against
terrorism.  Let  us  at  the  same  time  address  its  roots.
That  means  putting  an  end  to  situations  that  terrorists
exploit;  giving  the  world’s  excluded  hope  again;
restoring  dignity  to  those  peoples  deprived  of  it;  and
ensuring 
that  dialogue  and  cooperation  among
civilizations, cultures and religions prevail, rather than
conflict and intolerance.
Global  threats  require  a  strong,  and  always
collective, response. The threat of proliferation, which
28
could  merge  with  that  of  terrorism,  calls  for  resolute
and sustained action. The non-proliferation regime has
been  seriously  undermined  by  the  combined  action  of
certain  States  and  non-State  actors.  That  is  why
strengthening  existing  instruments  is  today  essential.
The  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) Review Conference in 2005 will be an
opportunity to do so.
A  safer  and  freer  world  is,  first,  a  more  just
world. That is why we must act relentlessly to resolve
conflicts. I am, of course, thinking, first and foremost,
of the Middle East, where — in the wake of the hopes
raised  by  Madrid,  Oslo,  Camp  David  and  Taba  —  the
absence  of  any  prospect  is  today  breeding  despair,
extremism  and  violence  of  every  kind.  This  central
crisis  can  be  resolved  only  through  a  negotiated
settlement  based  on  international  law,  enabling  all  the
peoples — I repeat, all the peoples — of the region to
live in dignity and security.
The  road  map,  which  the  parties  have  accepted
and which the Security Council has endorsed, must be
implemented  in  full  and  in  good  faith.  France  hopes
that  the  withdrawal  from  Gaza  is  a  first  step  in  that
direction.  It  will  make  every  effort  to  get  the  peace
process under way again. It will continue to act vis-à-
vis  all  the  leaders  —  the  elected  and  legitimate
leaders — of that region.
Let  us  make  no  mistake:  building  peace  in  the
Middle  East 
is  a  historic  responsibility  for  our
generation.  Europe  —  the  European  Union  —  in
partnership  with  the  United  States,  Russia  and  the
United Nations, is determined to play a political role in
order to stimulate this process.
In Iraq, violence is exploding. It seems to us that
only  when  the  Iraqis  themselves  take  control  of  their
future, and when the political  process provided  for  by
the  Security  Council  is  pursued,  will  the  country  be
able to escape the chaos that is destabilizing the entire
region. France, as everyone knows, did not approve of
the  conditions  in  which  the  conflict  was  unleashed.
Neither  today  nor  tomorrow  will  it  commit  itself
militarily in Iraq. However, it reaffirms its willingness,
with its European partners, to assist the Iraqi people in
rebuilding 
their
institutions.
their  country  and 
in 
restoring 
Who  can  fail  to  see  that,  in  the  Middle  East,
everything is fragile and everything is interconnected?
Who  can  fail  to  understand  that  the  only  path  —
A/59/PV.7
everywhere  —  is  sovereignty  and  justice  for  peoples?
Only  then  will  they  make  progress  towards  peace  and
the  economic  and  political  modernization  to  which
they are entitled.
Africa, too, is where we will win or lose the battle
for  justice.  Without  justice,  there  will  be  no  peace.
Without peace, there will be no lasting development. The
future  of  the  African  continent,  and  its  stability  and
development, are a vital objective for us all.
Today,  with  the  impetus  of  the  United  Nations,
longstanding  crises  have  been,  or  will  be,  settled  —
Mozambique,  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia.  Others,
however,  have  broken  out,  and  together  we  must
prevent  them  from  worsening  or  spreading:  in  Côte
d’Ivoire, the Central African Republic, and Darfur. The
Great  Lakes  region  is  slow  to  find  the  path  to  peace,
just  as  the  conflict  between  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  is
slow  to  die,  and  the  Somali  question  remains  to  be
resolved.
facing 
On  that  great  continent,  which  is  undergoing
threats  but  also
profound  change, 
real 
considerable  potential,  political 
leaders  are 
today
demonstrating  a  genuine  determination  to  commit  to
working  to  resolve  conflicts  and  crises.  That  can  be
seen  from  the  implementation  of  the  New  Partnership
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD); 
the  resolute
commitment of the African Union on the political front
and  in  the  field;  and  the  growing  role  of  regional
organizations. We resolutely support that commitment.
For development, but also for peace-building, we wish
to  bring  about  the  conditions  for  an  effective  and
coherent partnership between North and South.
Given  the  magnitude  of  the  goals  and  needs  of
the  continent,  I  firmly  believe  in  the  importance  of
pooling the efforts of the Europeans with those of our
African  partners,  under  United  Nations  auspices,
whenever  necessary. 
that  our
experience  of  European 
integration  —  without
attempting to teach any lessons — can simply be useful
to that continent, and that is the sense of the statement
made  on  our  behalf  by  the  representative  of  the
presidency of the European Union, Bernard Bot, before
the Assembly the day before yesterday.
I  am  convinced 
France  has  long  been  involved  in  strengthening
African  peacekeeping  capacities.  Today,  the  European
Union intends to make a commitment immediately and
with  determination.  Operation  Artemis, 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  is  proof  of  that
in 
29
A/59/PV.7
commitment.  The  creation  of  the  European  Peace
Facility  now  provides  major  support 
to  African
organizations. We are willing, if the African Union so
wishes,  to  assist  it  in  its  action  for  peace,  as  in  the
Sudan.
and with all non-governmental organizations. The time
has come, it seems to us, to conclude the negotiation of
a conventional instrument on forced disappearances, to
recognize  the  rights  of  indigenous  peoples  and  to
mobilize against all forms of modern slavery.
Mr.  Olhaye  (Djibouti),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
Justice  and  conflict  prevention  cannot  be
dissociated 
to  promote
development.  The  Millennium  Goals  —  to  which  the
developing  countries,  donor  States  and  multilateral
institutions are committed — are an overriding obligation
for us all, especially the wealthiest countries.
collective 
action 
from 
for 
More  than  $50  billion  a  year  is  still  needed  to
achieve those objectives  — a fact of which we all are
aware.  On  Monday,  100-odd  countries  endorsed  the
New  York  Declaration  on  Action  Against  Hunger  and
Poverty. Together they ask that additional resources be
provided 
through
innovative mechanisms. This is a powerful movement,
launched  in  this  very  forum  of  the  United  Nations,
aimed at generating the necessary resources for justice
and for development. It is an important milestone. My
country is proud to have contributed to it, through the
voice  of  the  President  of  the  Republic,  and  it  will
continue to do so.
development, 
including 
But France is also fighting for a more controlled,
and  therefore  most  just,  globalization  that  would  give
everyone a chance. We advocate the establishment of a
political body, in which the United Nations must have
its due place — to improve coordination of multilateral
action in the economic, social and environmental fields
and to provide the necessary impetus. This is one of the
major issues that we must consider in coming months,
especially on the basis of  the  proposals  that  the  Panel
on reform is expected to make.
Again, a more just world is a world that respects
human dignity and freedom. Fundamental human rights
are  universal.  Each  man,  woman  and  child  has  these
inherent rights, and it is up to us to see that they thrive
and are respected.
It 
to 
fight 
to  us 
is  also  up 
firmly  and
uncompromisingly  against  all  manifestations  of  violence
and  discrimination  based  on  race,  origin,  gender  or
religion.  Our  resolve  in  the  area  of  human  rights,  as
elsewhere, must  remain  absolute  and  constant.  I  mean
that we need a genuine dialogue with the civil society
Let  us  not  rule  out  the  use  of  force,  in  certain
cases and on the appeal of victims, to prevent massive
human  rights  violations  and  acts  of  violence  against
civilians.  The  Security  Council  has  the  honour  of
assuming  this  responsibility,  in  accordance  with  the
United Nations Charter.
Let us also continue putting in place mechanisms
to  combat  impunity,  often  the  prerequisite  for  durable
peace  and  lasting  reconciliation.  The  establishment  of
the International Criminal Court specifically meets this
objective.  We  welcome  the  major  milestone  reached
with the entry into force of the Rome Statute.
The  dignity  of  humankind  and  peoples  also
requires due respect for cultures in their diversity. The
sense of loss of identity contributes to the frustrations
that  breed  a  good  many  conflicts.  The  unity  of  the
international community, it goes without saying, cannot
be synonymous with uniformity.
The  negotiation  of  a  convention  on  cultural
diversity,  which  has  just  started  at  the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  is,
therefore, in our view, a key objective. It must produce
a  concrete  result,  as  planned,  before  the  2005  general
conference.
Our planet is dangerous; it is also in danger. The
earth is showing signs of strain; we are not maintaining
it;  in  fact,  we  are  plundering  it;  the  climate  is
deteriorating.  And  yet,  we  should  remember,  scarcity
of  resources  has  at  all  times  been  a  factor  in  conflict.
For the future of our children, we must act while there
is still time.
Is there among us, for that matter, one single issue
that  more  obviously  ignores  borders  than  ecology  and
ecological  security  and  requires  coordinated  action  —
that is, multilateral action? International governance in
environmental  matters  is,  it  seems  to  us,  inadequate
today.  We  must  simplify  and  strengthen  the  existing
international  regime  on  environmental  issues,  develop
monitoring,  and  early  warning  expertise,  and  increase
financing, especially for developing countries.
Let  us  be  clear-sighted.  For  the  environment,  as
for  so  many  other  issues,  prevention  costs  less  than
30
cure.  In  this  regard,  we  hope  the  establishment  of  a
United  Nations  organization  for  the  environment  will
be considered, based on the achievements of the United
Nations Environment Programme. We propose that this
great undertaking, which is one of the Millennium Goals,
be on the agenda of the September 2005 summit.
In  a  world  —  our  world  —  where  800  million
people do not have enough to eat, where more financial
resources are devoted to weapons than to development,
where millions of men, women and children are forced
to leave their land to escape destitution or massacres, the
international  community  has  a  duty  to  act  and  to  show
imagination. It is here at the United Nations where we
can meet to take initiatives, to fight misfortune and to
apportion the tasks, all of them urgent.
The United Nations system, which is unique and
more indispensable than ever, also has an obligation to
reform itself to meet new needs and new threats, and to
make the most of new technologies merely in order to
live  in  our  times.  The  Secretary-General  got  down  to
this  problem  at 
the  start  of  his  first  mandate.
Considerable  work  has  already  been  done.  The
proposals  of  the  high-level  panel  will  be  the  basis  for
the next, still more ambitious, stages. France has made
proposals  on  many  issues,  such  as  peacekeeping
operations, human rights and development financing.
We  have  also  indicated,  with  Germany,  how  the
representativity  and  legitimacy  of  Security  Council
action might be improved. We advocate enlargement in
both  categories  of  members,  permanent  and  non-
permanent;  and  we  have  expressed  support  for  the
aspirations of Germany, Japan, Brazil and India, which
should be accompanied by a country from Africa.
In  a  complex  and  unpredictable  world,  it  is  our
joint responsibility to maintain and strengthen the one
institution  where  all  nations  can  work  together,  where
they  can  unite  to  shape  and  control  their  common
destiny.  Through  its  legitimacy  and  ever-increasing
effectiveness, 
the
instrument of universal conscience for which it remains
the crucible.
the  United  Nations  must  be 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  M.  Morshed  Khan,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh.
Mr.  Khan  (Bangladesh):  Sir,  allow  me 
to
congratulate  you  most  warmly  on  your  well-deserved
election.  I  am  confident  you  will  build  upon  the
A/59/PV.7
excellent  work  done  by  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Julian
Robert Hunte, and lead us to a very successful outcome
of this session. Special tribute is due to our Secretary-
General, Kofi Annan, for his dedicated leadership.
that 
In  Bangladesh,  we  believe 
the  United
Nations  provides  an  essential  political  and  diplomatic
framework for the actions of all its Members, including
the  most  powerful.  The  use  of  force  without  the
authorization  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council
cannot render the United Nations meaningless. We laud
the  United  Nations  for  its  strong  advocacy  against
unilateralism in the interest of a just global order. Our
spontaneous  endorsement  of 
in
conformity  with  the  fundamentals  of  our  foreign
policy.
this  principle 
is 
It 
is 
also 
security. 
collective 
The  United  Nations  is  not  only  a  system  for
providing 
a
comprehensive  international  network  of  systems.  It
deals  with  the  work  of  myriad  specialized  agencies,
establishing  norms,  standards,  codes  and  guidelines
and  buttressing  the  rule  of  law  and  the  rights  of
individuals.  It  embraces  the  world’s  trading,  financial
and  monetary  systems  and  promotes  the  cause  of
development.  In  our  globalized  world,  there  is  no
substitute  for  the  United  Nations.  It  is  the  only  forum
that  can  deal  with  the  cooperative  management  of
problems that recognize no frontiers.
The thirtieth anniversary of our admission to the
United  Nations  this  year  marks  a  major  milestone  in
our partnership with the Organization. It is a sobering
moment  as  much  as  it  is  one  for  rejoicing;  for  it  is  a
record of our progress as a sovereign independent State.
From  the  very  outset,  Bangladesh  pursued  two  pre-
eminent  objectives,  strengthening  responsibility  at  home
and enhancing our contribution abroad. Our relationship
with  the  United  Nations  has  been  mutually  rewarding
in promoting peace and advancing development.
laid 
embraced 
philosophy 
Shaheed  President  Ziaur  Rahman 
the
foundations  of  our  national  development  in  the  late
1970s.  His 
reinforcing
democracy  with  development.  Our  achievements  are
largely due  to  this  pursuit.  It  reflects  our  commitment
to  human  rights,  good  governance  and  empowerment
of 
ideas
flowing  from  our  own  intellectual  resources  were
harnessed,  with  the  cooperation  and  support  of  our
development  partners  and,  of  course,  the  United
Nations system. A free press and a vibrant civil society
the  poor,  especially  women.  Innovative 
31
A/59/PV.7
backed our efforts. The outcome was positive: it was to
invoke  what  the  World  Bank  described  as  the  silent
revolution that is Bangladesh. We are aware that much
more remains to be done.
Natural  disasters  have  often  proved 
to  be
impediments 
to  our  development.  The  excessive
flooding this year is a case in point. Two thirds of the
country  was  under  water,  and  many  lives  were  lost.
Over  2  million  people  became  homeless  and  our
infrastructure 
damage.  Better
preparedness prevented greater losses. The courage and
resilience  of  the  Bangladeshi  people  in  facing  the
situation  were 
remarkable.  We  deeply
appreciate  the  support  and  solidarity  that  we  received
from the international community this time.
sustained 
indeed 
severe 
It 
is 
The  peculiarities  of  our  geography 
render
flooding  a  seasonal  occurrence. 
therefore
imperative that we seek measures that will address this
recurrent problem in a sustained and enduring manner,
through  proper  management  of  the  water  resources  in
the 
long-term
rehabilitation and reconstruction measures also require
international support.
analysis, 
region. 
final 
the 
In 
Despite 
sanitation 
setbacks,  we 
those  occasional 
social  and  economic 
in
Bangladesh  can  point  to  progress  in  a  number  of
important 
fields.  Poverty
reduction  has  been  a  central  goal.  We  have  reduced
population growth by half, curbed child mortality by a
third,  achieved  food  self-sufficiency  for  our  people,
improved 
standards  with  home-grown
methods,  and  reduced  ozone-depleting  substances  and
vehicular  pollution  overall.  Education  has  remained  a
major  thrust  of  our  Government’s  policy.  Our  school
enrolment 
the
developing world, particularly for girls. Free schooling
for  girl  children,  gender  mainstreaming  and 
the
empowerment  of  women  have  helped  create  a  vibrant
and  progressive  society.  In  addition,  ideas  like  micro-
credit  and  non-formal  education  have  made  famous
beginnings in Bangladesh.
rates  are  among 
the  highest 
in 
We would be happy to share our experiences with
other comparable societies, and the United Nations can
be an effective conduit for doing so. We encourage the
United  Nations  in  its  role  as  a  locator,  collator  and
transmitter  of  best  practices.  That  is  how  the  United
Nations  can  really  help  developing  countries,  by
passing  the  litmus  test  of  relevance,  not  in  drafts  and
32
declarations  alone  but  also 
implementation.
in  operations  and
The  past  decade  has  witnessed  many  important
United  Nations  conferences  focused  on  our  critical
aspirations.  The  leaders  of  the  world  agreed  on  the
Millennium Development Goals. However, the success
of  the  Goals  will  largely  depend  on  an  enabling
international economic environment, particularly in the
areas of trade, finance, official development assistance
and technology transfer.
Extreme  poverty  is  a  gross  denial  of  human
rights.  The  disturbing  experiences  of  recent  years,
including  the  rise  in  senseless  terrorism,  warn  us  that
failure  in  development  is  not  an  option,  that  poverty
can  breed  extremism  and  that  to  rid  the  world  of  its
tragic consequences effectively its root causes must be
addressed.
In  today’s  world,  trade  remains  a  crucial  vanguard
for  development.  Our  active  participation  in  the  World
Trade Organization and the United Nations Conference
on  Trade  and  Development  conforms  to  that  maxim.
Unhindered market access and special and preferential
treatment  for  the  products  of  developing  countries
should be at the heart of multilateral negotiations.
Managed migration is an important phenomenon.
However,  the  root  causes  of  cross-border  migratory
flows need to be addressed in earnest.
Greater  focus  must  be  placed  on 
the  full
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action
for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the  Decade
2001-2010.  The  goals  of  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation  and  the  Monterrey  Consensus  should
be pursued with determination.
While  it  is  important  to  set  targets,  it  may  be
more  important  to  create  the  means  to  achieve  them.
For the cause of development to progress, we need an
environment  of  peace  worldwide.  Sadly,  that  is  still
lacking in many parts of the world.
We are concerned about the persistent violence in
Iraq.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  return  of  the  United
Nations  to  the  scene.  We  now  expect  the  United
Nations  to  play  a  central  role  in  facilitating  the
democratic  process  and  in  the  reconstruction  and
humanitarian work in that country.
In Afghanistan, the holding of a successful election
next month will be critical to the country’s stability.
Our people cherish their close bond of friendship
with the people of Iraq and Afghanistan. We pray that
their travails will be over soon.
A  core  issue  in  the  Middle  East  remains  the
unresolved problem of Palestine. The Palestinians have
suffered  far  too  much  for  far  too  long,  and  the  wall
now only exacerbates that suffering. Perhaps there can
be  a  two-State  solution  on  the  basis  of  the  pre-1967
borders,  with  an  independent  Palestine  that  has  East
Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Until  that  is  achieved,  there
must be respect for international law, and all peoples in
the  region  must  be  able  to  live  in  peace  and  security,
free from violence, destruction and acts of terror.
Wherever  it  has  been  possible,  Bangladesh  has
not fought shy of contributing to post-conflict stability.
We have always done so under the aegis of the United
Nations. We are near the top of the list of participating
countries  with  regard  to  peacekeeping.  Over  the  past
20 years, we have been involved in 28 United Nations
peacekeeping operations across 4 continents. Currently,
we  are  participating  in  12  of  the  16  United  Nations
missions.  We  have  done  so  because  we  see  this  as
advancing our role and perception as a constructive and
stabilizing  international  actor.  We  do  not  do  it  out  of
convenience; we do it out of our conviction.
We  believe  that  there  is  a  direct  relationship
between disarmament and development. Bangladesh is
party to all major international conventions and treaties
on  disarmament.  Our  geographical  location  makes
nuclear  weapons  a  direct  and  legitimate  cause  for
concern  to  us  in  the  South  Asia  region.  Bangladesh
therefore  supports  all  measures,  partial  and  otherwise,
towards  arms  control  and  conventional  and  nuclear
disarmament.
has 
Bangladesh 
international
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We
remain  an  active  coalition  partner  in  the  war  against
terrorism.
condemned 
Bangladesh  has  been  playing  an  active  role  in
many  important  committees  and  commissions  of  the
United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the  reform  of  the
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  that  is
currently being discussed can truly help re-energize the
system  and  enable  those  institutions  to  reflect  the
A/59/PV.7
realities  of  the  contemporary  world.  Consultations
should be broad-based and should not be guided by the
perceived interests of a few alone. Bangladesh believes
that  any  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Council
should  be  based  on  certain  criteria,  including  respect
for the principle of equitable geographical distribution
and  the  aspirant’s  contribution  to  international  peace
and  security,  its  proven  track-record  in  democracy,  its
its
compliance  with  United  Nations 
avowed  commitment 
its
profile  as  a  major  partner  in  development  and  its
contribution as a voice of economically disadvantaged
countries.  Bangladesh  believes  that  the  ultimate  focus
of  any  reform  exercise  should  be  on  enhancing  the
Council’s credibility and democratic profile through its
working methods and its decision-making processes.
resolutions, 
to  nuclear  disarmament, 
The quest for world order must begin at our own
doorstep.  Bangladesh  is  committed  to  maintaining  the
credibility of the South Asian Association for Regional
Cooperation  (SAARC)  to  provide  its  socio-economic
mandate  and  to  reduce  tension  and  create  a  broad-
based climate of confidence-building. Bangladesh will
take  over  as  chairperson  of  the  thirteenth  SAARC
summit  in  January,  next  year.  The  occasion  will  mark
the 20th anniversary of SAARC, and we look forward
to celebrating the occasion with due solemnity as well
as  maintaining 
forward-moving
momentum.  Our  overarching  commitment,  of  course,
remains  poverty  alleviation.  All  in  all,  we  aspire  to
expand  our  collective  agenda  for  peace,  progress  and
development in South Asia and beyond.
positive 
and 
I firmly believe that nations big and small, weak
and powerful,  all need  the  United  Nations as much  as
the United Nations needs them. It is only by combining
our endeavours and uniting our resolve that we will be
able  to  achieve  our  objectives  of  peace,  security  and
development.
The power of humanity does not lie in the size of
its armies but rather in the strength of its ideas, not in
its ability to destroy but in its capability to build, not in
its  tendencies  to  despair,  but  in  its  propensities  for
hope. Our ability to tap this power for our own benefit
will  shape  our  future  in  these  times  marked  by
difficulties but also possibilities.
The meeting rose at 1.45 p.m.
33
