United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
39th plenary meeting
Thursday, 21 October 2004, 3 p.m.
New York

A/59/PV.39
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 56 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and
regional and other organizations
(a) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the African Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(b) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.1)
(c) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Association of South-East Asian Nations
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.6)
(d) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(e) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Caribbean Community
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(f) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Council of Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(g) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Economic Community of Central African States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Economic Cooperation Organization
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.3)
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
International Organization of la Francophonie
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-56446 (E)
*0456446*
A/59/PV.39
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.5)
(k) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Latin American Economic System
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(l) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the League of Arab States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(m) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/297)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.8)
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization for Security and Cooperation
in Europe
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(o) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of American States
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(p) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Organization of the Islamic Conference
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.12)
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Pacific Islands Forum
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.11)
2
(r) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/296)
Draft resolution (A/59/L.7)
(s) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Southern African Development Community
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/303)
(t) Cooperation between the United Nations and the
Community of Portuguese-Speaking Countries
Mr.  Tjitendero  (Namibia):  This  being  my  first
statement  to  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session,  let
me take this rare opportunity to personally congratulate
you, Sir, on your election as President of the Assembly.
The consolidated report of the Secretary-General
(A/59/303)  before  us  points  to  the  comprehensive
nature  of  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
areas  of  peace  and  development,  as  well  as  to  the
importance  of  information-sharing  and  experience-
sharing among regional organizations.
(NEPAD),  which 
The cooperation between the United Nations and
the African Union (AU) is something that we in Africa
value  greatly.  United  Nations  assistance  to  the  AU
during  its  transition  from  the  Organization  of  African
Unity has been of great importance. In that context, we
welcome the increased interaction between the Office of
the Special Adviser on Africa with the AU Commission.
As  Africa  continues  to  implement  the  New  Partnership
for  Africa’s  Development 
is  a
partnership with the rest of the world, the  Office  of  the
Special  Adviser  on  Africa  is  well  placed  to  advocate
progress  on  the  implementation  and  mobilization  of
support for NEPAD through the United Nations system.
Now that the Commission of the African Union is fully
functional,  we  believe  that  the  assistance  rendered
during the transition should be translated into concrete
programmes of cooperation. In that regard, we applaud
the concrete steps taken by the World Food Programme
(WFP) to enhance cooperation with the African Union,
and  we  call  for  support  in  the  four  key  priority  areas
jointly agreed upon with the African Union.
Cooperation between the United Nations  and the
African  Union  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  and
particularly in peacekeeping missions and in brokering
peace,  is  enhancing  security  in  Africa.  But  it  must  be
stressed that peacekeeping operations must go hand in
hand  with  humanitarian  efforts.  That  is  true  not  only
for the conflict situation in Darfur but for other conflict
situations  as  well.  When  the  international  community
is  reluctant  to  respond  generously  to  humanitarian
appeals for Africa’s conflict and emergency situations,
it  regrettably  sets  back  peace  efforts  and  further
aggravates  those  situations.  Therefore,  it  is  important
that  cooperation  be  deepened  between  the  Security
Council  and  the  African  Union’s  Peace  and  Security
Council, as well as between the United Nations system
as a whole and the African Union Commission.
I  wish  to  point  out  that  the  challenges  and  the
level  of  experience  of  regional  organizations  varies
from region to region. That sharing of information and
experience will save scarce resources, prevent us from
reinventing  the  wheel  and  enable  us  to  adapt  success
stories  to  regional  circumstances.  In  that  respect,  the
quarterly magazine, Africa Renewal, continues to be an
effective 
It  not  only
disseminates information on developments in Africa to
the world but also enables the five subregions of Africa
to  remain  informed  on  developments  in  their  own
region and on the continent as a whole.
information. 
source  of 
Mr.  Dauth  (Australia),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
I  shall  say  a  few  words  on  the  Southern  African
Development Community.  In this  regard,  we  associate
ourselves  with 
the
representative of the Republic of Botswana, who spoke
on behalf of all of us.
comments  made  by 
the 
The  Southern  African  Development  Community
(SADC)  has  long-standing  relations  with  the  United
Nations  that  go  back  as  far  as  the  struggle  for
decolonization 
in  Southern  Africa.  SADC,  as  a
community, continues to contribute to the realization of
the purposes and principles of the United Nations and
thus  benefits  immensely  from  this  comity  of  nations.
SADC has therefore requested the Secretary-General to
grant  it  accreditation  as  an  observer  to  the  General
Assembly.  We  are  confident  that  we  can  count  on  the
support  of  all,  in  particular  the  regional  organizations
represented in the Assembly.
In  March  this  year,  SADC  Heads  of  State  and
Government  adopted  its  regional  indicative  strategic
development  plan.  In  formulating  that  plan,  SADC
A/59/PV.39
the 
launching  of 
level,  economic  challenges 
technological  constraints.  Thus, 
took  into  account  the  ongoing  transformation  of  the
African  Union  and 
the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). At the
global 
facing  SADC
include  the  process  and  the  effects  of  globalization,
which encompass, among other things, financial, trade
and 
the  regional
indicative  strategic  development  plan  is  aligned  with
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  SADC  continues
to  cooperate  with  the  United  Nations  system  through
various  programmes  in  areas  such  as  peace  and
security,  health,  education, 
the  environment  and
sustainable 
trade.  We
appreciate  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  system
and  call  for  increased  resources  for  the  Economic
Commission for Africa.
resource  management  and 
The  adverse  climatic  conditions  of  Southern
Africa result in recurring droughts and floods, leading
to  emergency  situations  including  food  shortages.  In
that  context,  we  welcome  the  establishment  of  the
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs
(OCHA)  Regional  Support  Office  for  Southern  Africa
and  the  Regional  Inter-Agency  Support  Coordination
Office,  which  is  proving  to  be  effective  in  delivering
and  coordinating  humanitarian  assistance.  Let  me
emphasize  that  the  OCHA  regional  office  can  only
coordinate  delivery.  Assistance  to  complement  the
efforts  of  SADC  must  come  from  the  international
community at large.
As  the  item  under  discussion  is  cooperation
between the United Nations and regional organizations,
I would be remiss if I did not express my delegation’s
thanks and appreciation to the European Union and other
development  partners,  which  continue  to  assist  the
development efforts of SADC countries in our region.
This brings me to a topic that is very close to my
heart  and  for  which  I  have  worked  for  a  number  of
years  since  the  independence  of  Namibia,  namely,  the
Inter-Parliamentary Union.
The  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  has  always
advocated  a  strong  and  effective  multilateral  system
with the United Nations at its centre. After all, IPU is
comprised of parliamentarians  from  Member  States  of
our Organization, the United Nations.
Following Namibia’s birth in 1990, IPU was one
of  the  first  international  organizations  my  country
joined. For the past 14 years, Namibia has been a loyal
member of IPU and has been privileged to witness the
3
A/59/PV.39
exciting developments of the organization, particularly
in  the  area  of  reform  and,  more  importantly,  its
cooperation with the United Nations. As we all know, the
Union, founded in 1889, is an international organization
under which the world’s parliaments assemble.
The  pre-eminent  role  played  by  the  United
Nations in peacekeeping and in authorizing the use of
force  is,  for  us,  a  fundamental  principle.  Apart  from
cases  of  legitimate  defence,  force  may  be  used  only
with the approval of the Security Council.
The  topic  of  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  is  indeed
very  much  in  order,  given  the  fact  that,  while  the
United  Nations  represents,  for  the  most  part,  the
executive  arm  of  Member  States,  IPU  represents  the
legislative arm of Member States. It is therefore critical
that  we  applaud  the  observer  status  that  the  United
Nations  has  accorded  IPU  and  the  continued  effort
aimed  at  improving  the  relationship  between  the  two
organizations.
Over  the  past  years,  member  parliaments  of  IPU
have asserted that it is important to approach solutions
to  global  conflicts  in  a  multidimensional  manner  to
support  and  strengthen  the  United  Nations  system.  As
indicated  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on
cooperation between the United Nations and regional and
other organizations (A/59/303), IPU has been addressing
issues similar to those  concerning the United  Nations.
Parliamentarians  of  the  world,  through  IPU,  have  had
to  deal  with  issues  of  conflict,  as  witnessed  in  Iraq,  the
Great Lakes region of Africa, the Middle East and other
hot  spots  in  the  world.  In  its  different  forums,  IPU  has
addressed  issues  relating  to  trade  and  development,
information  society,  terrorism  and  the  protection  and
the  promotion  of  human  rights  throughout  the  world.
We  look  forward  to  the  recommendations  of  the  High-
level Panel to be issued later this year. Furthermore, as we
move towards the mid-term review of the implementation
of the Millennium Development Goals, IPU, through the
second Conference of Speakers and Presiding Officers of
Parliament,  will  pronounce 
that  very
important development issue.
itself  on 
In  conclusion,  we  support  the  conclusions  of
Secretary-General’s report relating to this question.
Mr.  Bieri  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  The
importance of cooperation between the United Nations
and  the  other  international  organizations  hardly  needs
to  be  stressed.  The  aim  is  to  achieve  a  better
distribution  of  tasks  between  the  United  Nations,
which is the most important organization of a universal
nature,  and  regional  and  sectoral  organizations,  which
have the goal of finding  the  best  possible  solutions  to
particular problems of our time.
4
Our conception of the nature of relations between
the United Nations and regional organizations is based
on another principle — that of subsidiarity. With its 26
cantons  and  2,800  communes,  Switzerland  puts  the
principle of task-sharing into practice on a daily basis.
Thus we enable actors on the ground to formulate and
then  to  implement  —  in  cooperation  with  higher
authorities  —  solutions  that  best  respond  to  the  needs
of the local population.
in 
the 
institutions  of 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  major  contemporary
challenges 
the  fields  of  security,  sustainable
development  in  all  its  aspects  and  respect  for  human
rights  need  to  be  discussed  at  the  international  level
within 
the  United  Nations.
Nevertheless, regional  and  sectoral  organizations  have
an essential role to play in the search for solutions that
are  appropriate  to  specific  regional,  social  or  cultural
contexts  and  to  the  implementation  of  such  solutions.
In  our  view,  organizations  with  a  parliamentary
dimension,  such  as  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  at
the  global  level  and  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE)  at  the  regional  level,  have  a  special  role  to
play in this context.
Swiss  institutions  have  traditionally  taken  an
open  approach  to  civil  society  as  a  whole.  Elected
representatives,  in  particular  members  of  parliament,
play  a  key  role  in  conveying  the  aspirations  and  the
concerns of civil society. We are therefore particularly
interested  in  the  recent  proposals  to  make  the  United
Nations  more  open  to  national  parliaments  and  hence
to  new  partners  from  civil  society,  the  private  sector
and  non-governmental  organizations.  We  also  noted
with  great  interest  the  recommendations  of  the  recent
Cardoso 
in  particular,
improved  participation  by  national  parliaments  in  the
work  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  essential  that  the
voice of the people be heard, and historical experience
has  shown  that  it  is  parliaments  that  are  best  able  to
articulate the aspirations of peoples to live together in
peace, with respect for their identity.
report,  which  advocates, 
The  Council  of  Europe  is  an  example  of  a
regional  organization  that,  thanks  to  a  strong  network
of conventions, is able to ensure an increasingly close
union among its members. Since the fall of the Berlin
Wall, the OSCE has been working hard to bring a new
era  of  democracy,  peace  and  unity  to  the  European
continent.
Since  Switzerland  became  a  full  member  of  the
United  Nations  as  a  result  of  an  initiative  and  a
decision  by  the  Swiss  people,  the  federal  parliament
has shown great interest in the activities of the United
Nations.  My  country’s  Government  has  been  keeping
parliament  informed  and  consulting  with  it  on  the
positions  that  it  takes  in  the  United  Nations.  It
encourages  parliamentarians  to  participate  in  General
Assembly debates, which is why I have the honour  of
addressing  the  Assembly  now,  as  chairman  of  the
Swiss  delegation  to  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union
(IPU) and as a member of the official Swiss delegation.
The  opportunities  for  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  IPU  —  the  “parliament  of
parliaments”  —  are  enormous,  and  deserve  to  be
developed.  The 
the  draft  resolution  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU,
which will be submitted to the General Assembly, lays
the  foundation  for  strengthening  cooperation  between
the  two  organizations  and  underscores  the  increasing
parliamentary  contribution  and  support  that  the  IPU
can bring to the United Nations.
text  of 
The  decision  to  hold,  in  September  2005,  a
second conference of speakers of national parliaments,
is an important symbol of this cooperation. It will be a
joint United Nations-IPU meeting to consider possible
ways  of  strengthening  the  parliamentary  dimension  of
international  cooperation  in  the  fields  of  peace  and
security, economic and social development, international
law, human rights, democracy and gender equality.
That  is  a  specific  example  of  collaboration
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU,  aimed  at
enabling  us  to  find  global  solutions  to  the  problems
confronting  us  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-first
century  —  problems  such  as  war,  hunger,  disease,
unemployment  and  the  inequitable  distribution  of
wealth and of knowledge. My country, Switzerland, is,
of  course,  prepared  to  play  its  part  in  resolving  those
enormous problems.
Mr. Løvald  (Norway):  Norway,  as  a  founding
member  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  has  always  given
that  organization  high  priority.  During  our  current
chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the
A/59/PV.39
Council of Europe, we have worked to further enhance
and strengthen the cooperation between the Council of
Europe and other organizations. It is in that spirit that
we welcome this opportunity to review the status of the
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United  Nations.  We  welcome  the  report  prepared  by
the  Secretary-General.  It  serves  as  a  useful  basis  for
discussions  on  the  development  of  relations  between
the two organizations.
The Council of Europe has been implementing, in
Europe, the ideas and principles of the United Nations.
European instruments and mechanisms work to secure
the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule
of law for more than 800 million people. Those shared
ideas  and  principles  have  been  applied  through  close
cooperation between the Council of Europe and United
Nations  organizations  such  as  Office  of  the  United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  Office
of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural
Organization,  the  United  Nations  Human  Settlements
Programme,  the  World  Health  Organization  and  the
International Labour Organization.
Scientific 
the 
We  welcome 
further  development  of
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United Nations family. In an increasingly interdependent
world, the international political agenda is dominated by
the threat of terrorism. The Council of Europe and the
United Nations share the view that the global threat of
terrorism must be met with a global response. Security
Council  resolution  1566  (2004)  is  an  important  step
towards  further  consolidating 
international  efforts
against terrorism. The Council of Europe believes that
any response to terrorism should be in accordance with
the  values  of  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  We
believe the Council of Europe’s Committee of Experts
on  Terrorism  will  become  an  ever-more  important
partner  for  the  Security  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism
Committee in the global fight against terrorism.
The Council of Europe is committed to promoting
intercultural  dialogue.  Only  through  dialogue  can  we
promote human rights, tolerance, good governance and
economic  development  and  thereby  promote  stability
and  secure  prosperity.  Through  increased  cooperation
with  regional  and  subregional  organizations,  we  can
improve  the  interaction  between  various  partners  to
build  democratic  societies  based  on  the  rule  of  law.
The  Council  of  Europe,  the  United  Nations  and  the
5
A/59/PV.39
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
have, since 1994, met annually in a high-level tripartite
meeting.  Several  other  organizations  and  institutions
have,  over  the  years,  contributed  to  that  meeting.  We
look forward to further developing the annual meeting
as an arena for dialogue.
We  note  that,  in  his  opening  statement  to  the
General  Assembly  at  this  session,  the  Secretary-
General  stressed 
law
nationally,  as  well  as  internationally.  His  perspective
for  exploring
provides  us  with  a  good  basis 
possibilities 
the  cooperation
between our two organizations.
importance  of  rule  of 
further  enhance 
the 
to 
to 
like 
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
this
opportunity  to  emphasize  once  again  the  close  and
comprehensive  cooperation  between  the  Council  of
Europe  and 
the  United  Nations.  The  Norwegian
chairmanship  looks  forward  to  this  opportunity  to
further develop these relations.
take 
Mr. Atkinson (United Kingdom): I would like to
start  by  thanking  the  representative  of  Norway,  who
has just spoken on behalf of the member States of the
Council of Europe, and to fully endorse that statement.
I would like to speak specifically about relations
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe
as  an  example  of  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and regional organizations.
The  United  Kingdom  is  pleased  that  this  year’s
draft  resolution  on  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe  recognizes  the
important  role 
in
promoting and protecting human rights, the rule of law
and  pluralist  democracy  throughout  Europe,  thereby
helping  to  pursue  the  aims  and  ideals  of  the  United
Nations.
the  Council  of  Europe  plays 
I  was  particularly  pleased  to  see  that  the  draft
resolution also notes the constructive interest shown by
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe
in the reform of the United Nations. I say this because I
have  the  honour  to  be  a  member  of  the  Parliamentary
Assembly and of its Political Affairs Committee, which
produced 
entitled
“Strengthening of the United Nations”.
this  year 
earlier 
report 
a 
That  report  encourages  the  United  Nations  to
make full use of the expertise of regional organizations
such  as  the  Council  of  Europe  in  addressing  global
threats  and  in  implementing  the  various  programmes
6
and activities of the United Nations. The experience of
the  Council  of  Europe  in  specific  areas  such  as
developing  democratic  security  and  stability, 
its
activities in the promotion and the protection of human
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  confidence-building
measures, 
the  protection  of  national  minorities,
promoting  equal  opportunities  between  women  and
men  and  the  fight  against  racism  can  only  strengthen
and  complement  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  as  it
seeks  to  respond  to  the  new  global  threats  of  the
twenty-first century.
The  report  also  calls  for  the  introduction  of  a
parliamentary  dimension  to  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly.  The  long  experience  of  the  Parliamentary
Assembly  of  the  Council  of  Europe  reinforces  the
message  that  elected  members  of  national  parliaments
can  come  forward  with  solutions  to  problems  that
Governments —  and the United Nations itself  — may
intergovernmental
have  difficulty  solving.  Where 
activity  and  diplomacy  have  failed  at 
top,
conversations  between  parliamentarians  can  start
initiatives that can succeed at the bottom.
the 
Relations between the Council of Europe and the
United  Nations  go  back  over  50  years,  and  our
cooperation  continues  to  improve.  This  cooperation
takes  many  forms,  including  meetings  between  bodies
of  our  two  organizations.  An  example  of  that  was  a
meeting in Paris last February between a Parliamentary
Assembly  delegation  and  members  of  the  Secretary-
General’s High-level Panel on Threats, Challenges and
Change. This exchange of views proved beneficial for
both  sides,  as  it  highlighted  the  role  that  regional
organizations  such  as  ours  could  play  —  not  as
autonomous players, but in cooperation with the United
Nations in responding to global threats and challenges.
Kosovo  provides  other  examples  of  cooperation
as once again, at the request of United Nations Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK)  and  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE),  the  Council  of  Europe  will  be  mounting  an
election  observation  mission  for 
the  forthcoming
elections  to  the  Kosovo  Assembly.  UNMIK  has  also
recently signed two agreements that will pave the way
for two Council of Europe human rights conventions to
be  applied  to  Kosovo.  These  are  the  Framework
Convention  for  the  Protection  of  National  Minorities
and  the  European  Convention  for  the  Prevention  of
Torture  and  Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or
Punishment.
illustrates, 
As  UNMIK’s  recent  signing  of  the  two  Council
of  Europe  agreements 
the  Council  of
Europe’s  principal  contribution  to  human  rights  is  its
legal  instruments.  The  most  well  known  is,  of  course,
the  European  Convention  on  Human  Rights,  which
built upon the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The  Council  of  Europe’s  Framework  Convention  for
the Protection of National Minorities is another legally
binding  instrument  based  on  principles  established  in
United Nations texts.
I  should  also  highlight  the  Tripartite  High-Level
Meeting held in Vienna in February this year between
representatives  of  the  United  Nations,  the  Council  of
Europe and the OSCE. That meeting discussed how to
respond  to  threats  to  security  and  stability  in  the
twenty-first  century  and  how  to  improve  cooperation.
The  participants  agreed  to  step  up  the  fight  against
racism,  xenophobia,  all  forms  of  religious  intolerance
and  discrimination.  They  also  highlighted  the  Council
of  Europe’s  conventions  and  monitoring  mechanisms
in  this  field  and  urged  closer  cooperation  between
partner organizations.
Participants at the meeting also underlined the need
for a common and effective framework to combat acts of
terrorism,  which  gravely  impact  on  the  enjoyment  of
human rights, in particular the right to life, and stressed
the  need  to  respect  human  rights  under  international
law.  In  that  regard,  they  welcomed  the  Council  of
Europe’s  Guidelines  on  Human  Rights  and  the  Fight
against Terrorism and the work currently under way.
We  in  Europe  do  not  forget  that  we  too  have
experienced our 9/11s, most recently on 3/11 this year
in Madrid, 8/24 in the air over Russia, followed by 9/3
at  Beslan.  Which  of  our  Member  States  here  will  be
next?  To  win  this  war  requires  the  support  of  every
member of the United Nations.
The  Council  of  Europe’s  Committee  of  Experts
on  Terrorism  recently  concluded  that  the  Council  of
Europe  could  bring  further  added  value  to  the  fight
against  terrorism  through  focused  and  specifically
targeted  instruments  dealing  with  the  prevention  of
terrorism  and  covering  existing  gaps  in  international
law on action against terrorism.
legal 
framework  aimed  at
combating terrorism is already extensive, and the highest
priority should be given to obtaining the widest possible
ratification  and  implementation  of  existing  agreements.
The United Kingdom remains of the view that the most
international 
The 
A/59/PV.39
valuable additional legal instrument would be a United
Nations comprehensive convention on terrorism.
These  are  just  a  few  of  the  areas  of  cooperation
that exist between our two organizations. I am sure that
the  good  relations  that  exist  will  continue  and  will
improve  in  the  coming  years.  The  Council  of  Europe
puts  much  emphasis  on  improving  synergies  between
international 
any
duplication  that  may  exist.  That  is  why  cooperation
with  international  organizations  will  be  on  the  agenda
for the third Council of Europe Summit, which will be
hosted by Poland next year.
organizations 
reducing 
and 
In conclusion, the Council of Europe looks to the
United  Nations  to  take  the  lead  on  global  conflict
prevention  and  human  rights  issues.  In  turn,  the
Council  of  Europe,  as  the  only  truly  pan-European
organization,  can  enhance  the  ideals  laid  down  by  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  make  important
contributions  in  advancing  the  universal  goals  and
values of the United Nations throughout Europe.
I  reiterate  on  behalf  of  the  United  Kingdom  the
need  for  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
regional  and  other  organizations  to  continue  and
improve  where  possible,  and  for  the  United  Nations  to
make full use of the expertise of regional organizations,
such  as  the  Council  of  Europe,  in  addressing  global
threats  and  in  making  the  United  Nations  a  more
effective organization.
Mr.  Diarra  (Mali)  (spoke 
in  French):  My
delegation  also  associates  itself  with  the  statement
made  by  the  delegation  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the
African  Union.  Allow  me 
the  great
appreciation  of  my  delegation  for  the  high  quality  of
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  other
organizations (A/59/303) now under consideration.
to  express 
My  delegation’s  observations  will  be  primarily
focused  on  cooperation  with  the  African  Union,  with
the  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  and,
finally, on the relationship between the United Nations
and the International Organization of la Francophonie.
At  the  outset,  my  delegation  welcomes  the
existence of a framework for consultation between the
United  Nations  Secretary-General  and  the  heads  of
regional organizations. The review of that mechanism,
planned  for  2005,  will  provide  an  opportunity  to  lay
down plans for practical follow-up for the future.
7
A/59/PV.39
The  United  Nations  contribution  to  establishing
the  newly  created  African  Union  institutions  has  been
concrete  and  important.  The  Office  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  has  actively
participated  in  formulating  the  strategic  framework  of
the  Union  and  in  mobilizing  international  efforts  for
the implementation of the New Partnership for Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD).  The  contribution  of 
the
Secretary-General’s  inter-institutional  Advisory  Panel
has also made it possible to strengthen capacities in the
area of NEPAD sectoral policies.
The  new  regional  and  international  context  calls
for  the  creation  of  an  African  defence  and  security
system  and  for  reorienting  the  scope  and  missions  of
subregional  and  continental  security  institutions.  We
welcome the participation of United Nations experts in
establishing the AU Peace and Security Council and in
drawing up the Common African Defence and Security
Policy. The strengthening of the capacity of the Peace
and Security Council to act promptly and to coordinate
its actions requires a sustained United Nations effort to
promote the implementation of the early warning system,
the creation of an African standby force and the drawing
up  of  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on  relations
between the African Union and subregional mechanisms
for conflict prevention, management and resolution.
The spread of small arms and light weapons is a
major  source  of  concern  in  terms  of  security  on  the
continent.  The  assistance  provided  by  the  United
Nations  Development  Programme, 
its
Programme  for  Coordination  and  Assistance  for
Security  and  Development,  for  the  implementation  of
the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
Moratorium on Small Arms and Light Weapons should
be  strengthened  and  expanded  to  other  subregions  of
the continent.
through 
The  adoption  of  the  African  Union’s  Plan  of
Action for the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism
and  the  establishment  of  the  African  Centre  for  Study
and  Research  on  Terrorism,  inaugurated  in  October
2004 in Algeria, are Africa’s most recent responses to
the threat of international terrorism. To succeed, these
initiatives  require  the  support  and  the  technical  and
financial  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  system.
Moreover, 
are
characterized  by  the  forced  recruitment  of  children
under  the  age  of  18.  The  United  Nations  and  the
African  Union  must  work  to  pool  their  actions  in
managing this situation.
in  Africa 
situations 
conflict 
8
The  report  under  consideration  highlights  the
cooperation  now  existing  between  the  United  Nations
system and the AU in peacekeeping efforts. Regarding the
specific  situation  in  Somalia,  the  establishment  of  a
transitional parliament and the election of Mr. Abdullahi
Yusuf Ahmed as President of the Republic of Somalia
opens the way to the restoration of peace and security
that  country.  United  Nations  support 
in 
the
consolidation of that process is urgently needed.
in 
More  generally  speaking,  we  encourage 
the
United  Nations  to  conclude  arrangements  with  the
African  Union  and  subregional  organizations, 
to
involve them in planning and strategic management for
United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa.
Furthermore,  my  delegation  welcomes 
the
contribution  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  towards  strengthening
capacity  in  the  area  of  human  rights,  particularly  the
rights  of  women  and  children,  including  by  providing
assistance  for  the  establishment  of  an  African  human
rights documentation centre.
Support of the United Nations system to Africa in
the  areas  of  humanitarian  assistance,  the  management
of natural disasters, food security and the dissemination
of information is essential to alleviate the suffering of
the  most  vulnerable  population  groups.  We  hail  the
opening  in  Addis  Ababa  of  a  World  Food  Programme
liaison office to the African Union.
the 
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  constructive
cooperation  existing  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Conference  on
political, economic, social and humanitarian issues. In
particular, we believe that the two organizations should
shoulder  primary 
the
Palestinian people in its legitimate quest to recover its
inalienable  right  to  self-determination  and  to  the
creation  of  an  independent  State.  To  that  end,  the
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the Palestinian People and the Division for Palestinian
Rights must be supported and strengthened.
for  assisting 
responsibility 
The 
record  of 
cooperation  between 
the  United  Nations  over 
the
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  (OIF)
and 
the  period  under
consideration  is  instructive.  Whether  it  be  in  the  area
of early warning, conflict prevention and management,
supervision  of  elections,  strengthening  capacity  for
international  negotiations,  advancement  of  gender
issues or the creation of education-for-all programmes,
the OIF has proved itself to be a dynamic organization.
The OIF contribution to a successful first phase of the
World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society,  held  in
Geneva,  augurs  well  for  the  success  of  the  second
phase, planned  for Tunis in November  2005.  The  OIF
is  making  a  significant  contribution  to  strengthening
multilingualism in the United Nations system. That is a
noble effort, and it deserves to be supported.
Mr.  Vila  Coma  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  French):  I
have the honour of speaking under agenda item 56 (j),
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU),  as  discussed  in  Part
Five  of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/59/303)
before  us  today.  In  that  connection,  allow  me  to
underscore  the  interest  shown  in  a  May  2004  letter
from our Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed to the
Secretary-General  (A/59/97,  annex).  In  that  letter,  he
stated the position of the Government of Andorra.
the  IPU.  My  country’s  support 
Andorra  fully  supports  the  Secretary-General’s
efforts  to  strengthen  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and 
is
manifested  also  in  the  backing  our  parliamentary
delegation  has  given  to  the  IPU’s  recommendations
concerning  the  conclusions  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent
Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations,
which were discussed at the 110th Inter-Parliamentary
Assembly, held in Mexico from 15 to 23 April 2004.
Andorra  also  supports  the  consultations  devoted
to  defining  a  common  conception  of  how  to  bring  a
parliamentary  dimension  into  the  work  of  the  United
Nations.  We  also  welcome  the  significant  increase  in
the  contribution  made  by  parliaments  when  dealing
with various United Nations subjects.
We should like to stress four points in particular.
First, the developing cooperation between the IPU and
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization  in  the  realm  of  education  seems  to  us
ever more relevant.
Secondly,  in  the  realm  of  peace  and  security,  I
should  like  to  highlight  the  superb  teamwork  between
the  IPU  and  the  United  Nations  system  in  fighting
terrorism.
Thirdly,  in  the  realm  of  social  development,  I
want  to  hail  the  cooperation  between  the  IPU  and  the
Committee  on 
the  Elimination  of  Discrimination
against Women, with a view to ensuring more in-depth
consideration of gender-specific issues.
A/59/PV.39
Finally,  as  regards  sustainable  development,  the
full panoply of cooperation and joint work done by the
United  Nations  and  the  IPU  is  helpful  not  only  in
analysing how far we have come towards attaining the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  also  in  preparing
for 
the  second  World  Conference  of  Speakers  of
Parliament, scheduled for September 2005 in New York.
The  Andorran  Government  welcomes  the  role
played  by  the  IPU  in  all  these  realms  and  is  happy  to
make  its  contribution  to  development  assistance;  next
year  we  will  reach  the  goal  set  three  years  ago  of
expanding that assistance.
for 
support 
In conclusion, I should like to stress the Andorran
Government’s 
cooperation  between
Governments  and  parliaments  in  the  international
setting  of  the  United  Nations.  Andorra  has  always
joined in sponsoring a variety  of draft resolutions and
will continue to do so in pursuit of the goal of actively
supporting  such  cooperation.  We  should  like  to  pay
tribute to the Chilean delegation for its coordination on
this item.
relations.  Cooperation  with 
Mr. Severin (Romania): Today we are addressing
one  of  the  main  issues  in  the  contemporary  debate  on
international 
regional
organizations is a key issue for the United Nations with
regard 
to  maintaining  world  peace  and  security,
ensuring  opportunities  for  development  and  tackling
the new threats and challenges to our society. With the
support  of  regional  organizations,  the  United  Nations
can  build  a  more  stable  foundation  for  peace  and  a
better  life  in  all  regions  of  the  world.  The  synergetic
partnership  of 
the  United  Nations  with  regional
organizations  invites  optimal  use  of  resources  and
capabilities.
The  world  is  not  yet  a  truly  global  place;  or,
better  put,  the  world  is  global  but  is  not,  and  will  not
be,  homogeneous.  The  world  is  truly  global  to  the
extent  that  the  most  important  phenomena,  processes
and trends are interlinked, and major events are echoed
and have repercussions far from where they take place.
The world is also global because ideas and information
circulate  freely,  thereby  making  people  aware  of  one
another and, eventually, dependent on one another.
On  the  other  hand,  the  sources  of  danger,  the
opportunities  and  the  challenges  are  local,  as  are  the
cultural,  familial  and  societal  background  against
which  one  reacts  to,  and  copes  with,  those  dangers,
opportunities and challenges. The conjunction of these
9
A/59/PV.39
facts  and  factors  provides  global  relevance  to  local
realities.  The  enhancement  of  political  power  and  the
rationale  behind  it  might  be  global,  but  the  resources
that  are  the  basis  of  any  power  are  local.  Therefore,
ultimately,  any  political  action  is  local.  In  fact,  any
global action is a local action with a universal impact.
Globalization  therefore  imposes  local  empowerment,
regional  integration,  inter-regional  cooperation  and,
more generally, subsidiarity.
Against  that  backdrop,  regional  organizations
have  certain  unique  advantages  —  faster  deployment
capabilities,  better  use  of  resources,  closer  knowledge
of  political  realities  on  the  ground,  among  others  —
that  make  them  the  United  Nations  partners  of  choice
in  dealing  with  the  whole  spectrum  of  objectives  on
today’s  international  agenda.  That  point  is  central  to
Romania’s  vision  of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations
and  of  international  relations.  Recently,  in  July  2004,
Romania  organized  a  Security  Council  debate  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations 
(see
S/PV.5007). That was not a one-time event, but will be
followed up as a dominant theme of Romania’s elected
mandate in the Security Council.
stabilization 
processes 
in 
Recent remarkable examples of good cooperation
between the United Nations and regional organizations
include 
the  European  Union  peace  enforcement
mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
NATO’s  taking  over  command  of  the  International
Security Assistance Force and the field activities of the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE)  and  the  European  Union  in  South-Eastern
Europe  and  the  southern  Caucasus.  Those  examples
illustrate  the  numerous  advantages  of  cooperation
between the United Nations and regional organizations,
as  well  as 
inter-
institutional  arrangements.  I  would  also  like  to  point
out  the  cooperation  that  exists  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  as  I  also  hold  the
chairmanship of the Council of Europe’s Parliamentary
Assembly Subcommittee on External Relations.
the  wide  variety  of  possible 
and 
in  many 
Those two organizations have worked closely on
several  missions 
international
conferences.  I  would  mention  just  a  few  by  citing  the
cooperation measures with  the  United  Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo, most notably in the
areas  of  human  rights,  legal  reform,  education  and
culture; the cooperation between the Council of Europe
and  the  former  United  Nations  Mission  in  Bosnia  and
10
Herzegovina  on  legal  and  human  rights  programmes,
the  implementation  of  the  European  Convention  on
Human Rights and the reform of prisons and detention
institutions;  and  the  increased  mutual  contribution  to
international efforts against terrorism.
the  Council  of  Europe 
On  the  recommendation  of  its  Parliamentary
Assembly, 
is  currently
intensifying  its  relationship  with  the  United  Nations.
The  members  of 
the  Subcommittee  on  External
Relations are all here in New York to exchange views
with  United  Nations  officials  on  common  issues  of
concern  and  on  how  to  reinforce  cooperation  between
our organizations. The Council of Europe has built up
broad  experience  on  key  issues  on  the  global  agenda.
Within the United Nations, we are committed draw the
best  possible  value  from  that  experience  and  to  be  an
active part of the United Nations and the adaptation of
the international framework to today’s new realities.
security, 
It  is  obvious  that  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  have  common  goals  and  many
similar  visions,  but  different  means.  They  could
therefore develop their respective effectiveness through
synergy. Among many other things, the United Nations
could make use of the Council of Europe’s concept of
its  unique  mechanism  of
democratic 
transnational  parliamentary  monitoring 
its
experience in transnational enhancement of the rule of
law  and  human  rights  through  the  European  Court  of
Human Rights and recognizing an individual’s right to
have  recourse  to  it.  It  could  also  make  use  of  the
Council  of  Europe’s  practices 
the
development  of  local  self-government  on  the  basis  of
the 
and
subsidiarity and on structured dialogue and cooperation
among local communities within the Congress of Local
and Regional Authorities.
ideas  of  decentralization,  devolution 
concerning 
and 
While the need for enhanced cooperation between
the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  is
widely  recognized  and  welcomed,  the  best  way  to
achieve that is still under consideration. Romania trusts
that this topic will feature prominently in the report of
the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and
Change.  In  that  context,  I  should  also  mention  the
importance of the hearings organized this year in Paris
by  the  Council  of  Europe’s  Parliamentary  Assembly
General  Committee  on  Political  Affairs  and  Security
with  the  members  of  the  High-level  Panel.  We  hope
that  the  conclusions  of  those  debates  will  be  reflected
in the final document of the Panel.
that, 
Similarly, 
I  should  mention 
from  a
cooperative  perspective,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly
of  the  Council  of  Europe  has  adopted  a  number  of
resolutions  and  recommendations  on  the  subject  of
strengthening  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  it
would  be  fair  and  wholly  justified  for  similar  ideas
coming from regional organizations such as ours to be
taken into consideration by the United Nations and that
relevant  United  Nations  documents  make  explicit
reference to those contributions.
in 
As  we  search  for  best  modes  of  cooperation  we
must keep in mind that the differing  characteristics  of
regional  organizations 
terms  of  membership,
resource availability and institutional capacity, as well
as the uniqueness of each particular situation, defy the
construction  of  a  universal  model  of  cooperation.
Nevertheless,  as  we  have  heard  today,  some  general
principles should guide cooperative processes, namely,
the primacy of Chapter VIII of the Charter  and of the
role of the United Nations and the Security Council in
preserving  international  peace  and  security.  Likewise,
one  should  accept  as  universal  the  principle  that
measures to increase security and protect stability must
not be taken at the expense of respect for human rights
and individual freedoms.
in 
also 
determine 
the  most 
the  evaluation  of 
should  be  based  on 
If our discussions today are to serve a meaningful
purpose,  cooperation 
the
comparative  advantages  of  the  United  Nations  and  of
regional  organizations.  Those  comparative  advantages
should 
appropriate
organization  to  be  used  in  a  given  conflict  situation.
For  that  reason,  cooperation  must  be  an  ongoing
process  culminating 
lessons
learned and best practices. We therefore regret the fact
that General Assembly resolutions on cooperation with
regional organizations still lack substance, vision and a
pragmatic  approach.  We  are  thinking  in  particular  of
documents  referring  to  United  Nations  relations  with
the  Council  of  Europe,  the  OSCE  and  the  European
Union.  We  recognize  that  the  system  of  fundamental
values  promoted  by  those  European  organizations  —
especially by the Council of Europe — is not shared by
all  United  Nations  Member  States.  We  should  also
admit that — apart from the basic rights and freedoms
which  are  universal  — 
there  exists  a  kind  of
democratic  variability  that  reflects  different  cultural
backgrounds.
However,  the  goal  of  the  United  Nations  should
be to develop respect for diversity in such a way as to
A/59/PV.39
lead 
the  same 
to 
make  universal  values  more  vibrant,  and  not  more
irrelevant.  We  therefore  believe  that  United  Nations
documents  should  highlight  the  virtues  of  the  values
defined  and  developed  within  various 
regional
organizations  such  as  the  European  ones  I  have  just
time,  United  Nations
mentioned.  At 
documents  should 
the  establishment  of
appropriate  forums  in  which  regional  organizations
could present, explain and defend their specific values.
Reinforcing  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and regional organizations also requires innovative and
pragmatic  efforts  to  pool  together  all  the  resources
available  to  make  optimal  and  rational  use  of  those
resources  in  any  given  situation.  There  is,  however,  a
greater  need  to  develop  the  capacity  of  regional
organizations to make full use of their potential assets.
We can thus identify the most relevant issues for
the debate on how  to  increase  cooperation  and,  where
needed,  coordination  between  the  United  Nations  and
regional  organizations: 
comparative
effective
advantages, 
coordination 
and
exchange  of  information,  regional  capacity-building,
oversight  and  feedback.  A  benchmark 
for  such
increased  cooperation  would  be  to  make  progress  in
conflict prevention, in the management of post-conflict
situations and in advancing the settlement of so-called
frozen crises.
funding,  mechanisms 
and 
communication 
subsidiarity, 
linkage, 
of 
in 
the  Euro-Atlantic  area, 
In  that  connection,  there  are  several  frozen
conflicts 
in  Nagorny
Karabakh,  Transdniestria  and  South  Ossetia,  among
others.  These  crises  clearly  need 
regional
organizations  to  enhance  their  approaches,  under  the
general  oversight  of  the  United  Nations  and  the
Security Council.
the 
There  is  growing  cooperation  among  regional
organizations  themselves,  as  witnessed  by  partnership
agreements  for  logistical  and  military  support.  A
praiseworthy illustration of effective multilateralism at
work  is  the  trilateral  cooperation  that  is  developing
among the African Union, the European Union and the
United  Nations,  which  is  aimed  at  alleviating  the
suffering of the over 2 million people who are in need
as a result of the Darfur crisis.
As  the  world  body  responsible  for  international
peace  and  security,  the  Security  Council  has  a  clear
role to play in assisting capacity-building and funding
for the regional organizations that need it. The Council
11
A/59/PV.39
might  thus  consider  appealing  for  more  energetic
support  from  the  international  donor  community  for
regional peace and security initiatives.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of
involving inter-parliamentary regional assemblies, such
as  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of
Europe, in the cooperation between the United Nations
and  regional  organizations.  Generally  speaking,  the
development  of  a  parliamentary  dimension  within  the
United Nations is very much needed. As part of such a
project,  I  would  suggest  that  the  United  Nations
establish  advisory  councils 
inter-
parliamentary  assemblies  and  for  elected  local  and
regional  authorities.  In  that  respect,  I  would  like  to
express support for the proposal included in the report
of  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-
Civil  Society  Relations 
(A/58/817  and  Corr.1)
concerning the establishment by the Secretary-General
of an elected representatives liaison unit, which, among
other  missions,  should  have  the  capacity  to  organize
communication with — and integrate the contributions
of — regional inter-parliamentary assemblies.
regional 
for 
Before  ending,  I  would  like  to  comment  on  the
stability  and  democratization  of  my  own  country  and,
indeed,  of  Eastern  and  Central  Europe  in  general,
which  are  largely  due  to  the  dynamics  of  regional
integration. Support from the European Union and the
North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization,  and  Romania’s
emulation of governance patterns in countries members
of  those  organizations  has  strengthened  our  advance
towards democracy and the rule of law. Not only were
we  recipients  of  multilateral  expertise  in  the  field  of
economic  development  and 
regional  peace  and
stability, but we ourselves gradually became promoters
of  cooperative  frameworks  and  initiatives  aimed  at
enhancing  regional  cohesiveness  in  addressing  the
security climate in the Balkans.
Given  our  membership 
in  —  and  2001
chairmanship  of  —  the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation in Europe, our current membership in the
South-East European Cooperation Process and our bid
for  European  Union  membership,  Romania  rightly
values  regional  undertakings  and  can  contribute  to
identifying  within 
the  most
adequate  means  to  foster  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional organizations in peace and
security  and  development  activities.  The  stakes  are
very  high.  We  must  reach  the  kind  of  cooperation
between  our  universal  Organization  and  our  regional
the  United  Nations 
12
undertakings that will enable us to address every issue,
to respond to every crisis and to end any conflict.
Mr.  Kafando  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French):
Before delving into the heart of the matter, I would like
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  exhaustive
report  he  has  made  available  to  us  (A/59/303),  which
will  be  the  essential  underpinning  for  our  discussions
of  agenda  item  56,  entitled  “Cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional and other organizations”.
We  would  have  liked  to  speak  of  all  the  themes
that  make  up  this  agenda  item,  as  they  all  seem
important  to  us.  Obvious  time  constraints,  however,
compel  us  to  be  selective  and  thus  to  confine  our
statement  to  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  African  Union  (AU),  the  Inter-Parliamentary
Union  (IPU)  and  the  International  Organization  of  la
Francophonie (OIF).
In 
the 
fact,  over 
the  years, 
Given  its  geographical  size,  the  AU  is  the
broadest of regional political  organizations.  Its  impact
on  the  way  in  which  world  affairs  are  addressed  is
therefore far from negligible; I would venture say it is
decisive. 
former
Organization of African Unity, which has since become
the  AU,  has  proven  an  aptitude  and  capacity  for
contributing  to  peacekeeping  and  the  settlement  of
conflicts.  The  latest  of  these  initiatives  was  the
dispatching of African troops to Darfur. Strengthening
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  AU
could  thus  only  serve  the  cause  of  peace,  as,  through
the  logistical  and  financial  assistance  the  United
Nations  could  provide,  it  would  enhance  Africa’s
potential  for  becoming  involved  in  shouldering  its
international responsibilities.
In  other  areas,  such  as  the  economic,  social,
humanitarian  and  cultural  spheres,  this  cooperation,
which remains limited, should also be stepped up. It is
to  the  credit  of  the  United  Nations  that  it  has  already
taken  on  board  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  programme  to  fight
HIV/AIDS  while  waiting  for  the  2005  summit  on  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  to  definitively
specify its level of commitment in fighting poverty.
In  recent  years,  we  have  seen  a  strengthening  of
the  ties  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Inter-
Parliamentary Union. There is no need to dwell on all
that has been undertaken, but I  cannot  fail  to  mention
the  historic  Millennium  Summit,  held  here  in  2000,
which  began  to  draw  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU
closer together and which led to the IPU being granted
observer status.
What  parliaments  can  contribute  to  the  United
Nations  therefore  seems  to  no  longer  be  a  question.
Indeed,  through  their  decisive  involvement  in  the
current vital issues facing humankind  —  the quest  for
peace,  cooperation  for  development  and  fighting
poverty, among others — parliaments have shown that
they have become indispensable actors in international
life, leading some to speak of parliamentary diplomacy.
On  19  and  20  October,  a  Parliamentary  Hearing
was  held  at  United  Nations  Headquarters,  with  an
interactive debate on major issues such as arms control,
peacekeeping  operations  and  the  role  of  women,
particularly in post-conflict rebuilding. The outcome of
the  Hearing  strongly  confirmed  that  involvement,  as
did that of the 111th Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, just
held  in  Geneva,  which  clearly  set  out  the  role  of
parliaments 
non-
proliferation  mechanisms,  in  preserving  biodiversity
and  in  the  resolute  support  they  must  provide  to  the
Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action.
strengthening  multilateral 
in 
My  delegation  supports  the  IPU’s  request  for
more  time  to  consider  the  proposals  contained  in  the
report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United
Nations-Civil Society Relations — the Cardoso report.
We  would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Permanent
Observer  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  and  his
team for their hard work in advancing the ideals of IPU
here in the United Nations.
In a few weeks, Burkina Faso will host the tenth
Summit  of  la  Francophonie  under  the  theme  of  “La
Francophonie:  a  united  community 
that  supports
sustainable  development”.  That  theme  is  meant  to
remind  the  francophone  family  —  and,  indeed,  all  of
humanity — that only sustainable, united development
of  the  entire  planet  constitutes  the  best  response  for
ensuring 
security.  The
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  thus
adopts one of the Millennium Development Goals that
is  a  key  objective  of  the  United  Nations:  to  promote
sustainable  development  for  our  world,  which  is  the
only way to discourage conflicts forever and to ensure
international peace.
international  peace  and 
This  is  not  the  first  example  of  the  commitment
of the Organization of la Francophonie to issues at the
heart  of  United  Nations  concerns.  In  fact,  since  its
creation  the  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  has
A/59/PV.39
undertaken  several  initiatives  in  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations,  all  of  which  have  promoted  greater
rapprochement among peoples and assisted in the daily
struggle  for  the  well-being  of  humanity.  One  example
of such cooperation deserving of encouragement is the
Observer  Mission  of 
la
Francophonie  to  the  United  Nations,  which  should  be
commended  for  its  efforts  to  further  strengthen  and
give greater importance to those relations.
the  Organization  of 
We  must  recognize  that  regional  organizations
provide an ideal springboard for achieving the goals of
the  United  Nations.  In  that  spirit,  my  delegation
sincerely  hopes  that  the  draft  resolutions  submitted  in
the context  of  agenda  item  56  to  enhance  this  kind  of
partnership will be adopted by consensus.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  upon  the
representative  of  Congo  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the
Economic Community of Central African States.
Mr. Ikouebe (Congo) (spoke in French): It is my
honour today to address the General Assembly on item
56 (g), cooperation between the United Nations and the
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States
(ECCAS),  a  community  that  groups  the  following  11
countries  of  Central  Africa:  Angola,  Burundi,
Cameroon,  Gabon,  Equatorial  Guinea,  the  Central
African  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Chad and my
country,  the  Congo,  which  is  the  current  Chair  of  the
subregional organization.
First,  let  me  emphasize  the  great  interest  and
importance  my  delegation  attaches  to  this  debate  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations, which is an expression of the necessary
interaction  among  all  entities  that  must  work  together
to build peace, settle conflicts and promote all aspects
of development.
In associating myself with the statement made by
Nigeria on behalf of the African Union, I would like to
reaffirm  our  continent’s  gratitude  to  the  international
community,  in  particular  the  United  Nations  system,
for the support given to Africa in its efforts for peace,
security and development.
Forty-eight  hours  ago,  in  this  very  Hall,  we
participated in a debate on international support for the
New  Partnership 
a
programme  that  gives  a  major  role  to  the  African
regions, in particular the economic communities. Thus,
for  Africa’s  Development, 
13
A/59/PV.39
I  shall  speak  about  one  of  those  communities  —  the
Economic Community of Central African States.
With  respect  to  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  ECCAS,  I  would  first  like  to  thank  the
Secretary-General  for  his  excellent  report  on  this
question  (A/59/303)  and  reaffirm  our  commitment  to
strengthening 
the  United
Nations and our subregional organization, especially at a
time  when  the  geopolitical  situation  is  developing  in  a
positive direction in a subregion that only yesterday was
considered to be one of the most troubled in Africa.
the  partnership  between 
the 
relevant 
The multidisciplinary mission that the Secretary-
General sent to our region from 8 to 22 June 2003 opened
up  many  perspectives.  We  await  with  great  interest
implementation  of 
recommendations
contained  in  the  report  issued  following  that  mission.
Last January’s ECAAS Summit in Brazzaville focused
particularly  on  those  recommendations  and  entrusted
the head of State of the Congo with pursuing steps with
the Secretary-General to  establish  a  permanent  United
Nations office in Central Africa. The office would be a
strong  political  presence,  aimed  at  strengthening  that
partnership  and  promoting  a  comprehensive  and
integrated approach to the problems of peace, security
and development in the subregion.  In that context, we
welcome  the  response  of  the  Secretary-General,  who
has  committed  himself  to  undertaking  an  intensive
study to assess thoroughly all aspects of this question.
for 
the 
the  preparations 
It  was  in  that  spirit  that  the  Brazzaville  Summit
welcomed 
international
conference on the Great Lakes and expressed its hope
that all ECCAS members would be fully involved in it.
Today,  a  few  weeks  before  the  convening  of  the
conference in Dar es Salaam on 19 and 20 November,
we welcome the fact that all countries neighbouring the
Democratic  Republic  of 
a  State
strategically  located  at  the  heart  of  the  problem  area,
have  been  invited  to  participate  fully  in  that  meeting,
which  should  open  up  new  horizons  for  coexistence
and cooperation in that region. We place great hopes in
that  long-awaited  meeting,  and  we  wish  to  assure  the
United  Nations  and 
the  co-
organizers of the event, of our commitment and that we
will make our most positive contribution.
the  African  Union, 
the  Congo, 
As was underlined in the report of the Secretary-
General,  and  in  the  light  of  the  conclusions  presented
by  the  multidisciplinary  mission  that  I  have  just
mentioned, 
reference
areas  provide 
several 
a 
14
framework for cooperation between the United Nations
and ECCAS. I shall cite only a few of urgent concern for
our Governments as they seek to strengthen subregional
integration and to make existing mechanisms effective.
First,  assistance  is  required  to  ensure  the  proper
functioning  of  our  system  for  collective  security:  the
Council  for  Peace  and  Security  in  Central  Africa  and
its  support  organs,  the  Central  African  early  warning
system and the Multinational Force for Central Africa.
We also await assistance in planning and equipment
for  organizing  joint  military  exercises  to  carry  out  a
simulation of peacekeeping operations. After the success
of  the  first  joint  exercise,  known  as  Biyongho  2003,
organized  at  Franceville,  Gabon,  in  the  presence  of  a
military  adviser  of  the  United  Nations  Department  of
Peacekeeping Operations and with the participation of
military contingents of the subregion, we plan to repeat
that experience in Chad in 2005 and hope for substantial
assistance from the international community.
the  support  of 
In  our  efforts  to  create  a  free-trade  zone,  we  are
counting  on 
the  United  Nations
Development  Programme,  which  could  assist  us  in
strengthening the free movement aspect of our project
for integration.
In  many  countries  of  the  subregion,  there  is  a
need  to  implement  disarmament,  demobilization  and
reintegration  programmes  to  consolidate  the  peace
processes under way.
Finally, the battle against poverty, HIV/AIDS and
malaria  is  a  priority  that  gained  the  attention  of  the
multidisciplinary  mission  and 
that  should  receive
increased  support  of  the  international  community,  in
particular the United Nations system.
With  respect  to  the  aforementioned  areas  for
cooperation,  we  can  conclude  that  Central  Africa
expects  a  great  deal  from  the  United  Nations,  which
has already provided it with two instruments necessary
for its integration strategy: the United Nations Standing
Advisory Committee on Security Questions in  Central
Africa,  which  for  us  is  the  appropriate  framework  for
cooperative  action,  and  the  Subregional  Centre  for
Human  Rights  and  Democracy  in  Central  Africa.  We
believe that continued support for those two bodies, as
well  as  technical,  material  and  financial  assistance  to
the secretariat of the Economic Community of Central
African States, will strengthen the partnership between
the United Nations and our region.
In conclusion, it is on the basis of the experience
gained  within  the  framework  of  cooperation  with  the
United Nations, and in view of the numerous challenges
that  remain  to  be  met,  that  we  are  submitting  a  draft
resolution  designed 
the  partnership
between  the  United  Nations  and  our  community.  We
hope that this text will have the backing of all Member
States, so that such international consensus can serve to
encourage us to move forward and make progress.
to  strengthen 
Mr.  Samy  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Chapter
VIII  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  lays  the
groundwork for cooperation between international and
regional organizations in the area of peacekeeping and
international  security.  Experience  has  shown  the  need
to  strengthen  such  cooperation  to  include  economic
and social development in the developing countries.
Here Egypt would like to cite several examples of
and  frameworks  for  the  importance  of  dynamic  and
coordinated  interaction  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  regional  organizations  while  emphasizing  the
specific  nature  and  scope  of  the  membership  of  the
United Nations and of regional organizations.
the 
regional  and 
subregional  organizations 
Let  me  begin  with  Africa.  I  cannot  overstate  the
importance of cooperation between the United Nations
and 
in
strengthening  peace,  security  and  stability  on  the
continent.  The  development  of 
relationship
between 
Security  Council 
regional
organizations is of particular importance. It is clear that
the peoples and States involved in a given conflict in a
particular region are in the best position to have a more
comprehensive  and  in-depth  understanding  of  the
issue.  African  regional  and  subregional  organizations
are  therefore  likely  to  come  up  with  important  and
innovative 
the  most  appropriate
framework for a lasting political settlement.
ideas 
find 
the 
and 
to 
of 
aspect 
interesting 
The  most 
these
developments  is  the  variety  of  relationships  between
the United Nations, the African Union and subregional
organizations.  The  African  organizations  and 
the
United  Nations  have  participated  side  by  side  in
political  mechanisms  designed  to  implement  peace
agreements  in  transitional  stages.  We  have  also  seen
the  smooth  transformation  of  the  peacekeeping  forces
of  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African  States
(ECOWAS)  and  of  the  African  Union  under  the
umbrella  of 
two  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations — in Côte d’Ivoire and in Burundi.
A/59/PV.39
The African countries have shown a strong sense
of  responsibility  in  coping  with  armed  conflicts  that
have tribal, ethnic or other political aspects within their
States.  Indeed,  the  contribution  of  ECOWAS  was
important  and  effective  in  coping  with  the  emerging
conflicts in Sierra Leone, Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire at
the political and security levels.
The Inter-Government Authority on Development
has  also  played  an  extremely  important  role  in  the
peace  process  in  Somalia  and  in  the  Sudan,  with
concrete  assistance  from  the  League  of  Arab  States.
The  African  Union  has 
important
responsibilities in peacekeeping in Burundi and is now
defining  the  central  role  which  will  be  given  it  in  the
Sudan, Somalia and elsewhere.
shouldered 
The multidimensional contribution of Africa must
take  place  within  the  context  of  a  genuine  interaction
between 
the  Security  Council  and  regional  and
subregional  African  organizations,  in  order  further  to
develop effectively the relationship between the United
Nations  and  those  organizations.  To  enhance  the
effectiveness  of  the  process,  we  will  be  asking  the
Security Council to tackle conflicts around the world at
a subregional level, pinpointing the causes of conflicts
while 
interests  or
considerations.
transcending  narrow  political 
We  hope  that  the  United  Nations,  through  its
three  major  bodies,  will  devise  the  means  to  bring
about peace  and security in Africa  on  the  basis  of  the
International  Conference 
Security,
Democracy and Development  for  the  Great  Lakes  and
by  dealing  effectively  and  constructively  with  the
problems in the Sudan and Somalia in East Africa.
Peace, 
on 
In  discussing  the  importance  of  strengthening
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and  subregional  organizations,  we  must  recall  the
special and historical ties that bind the United Nations
and the League of Arab States. The  two  organizations
have  all  along  faced  similar  historical,  economic,
political  and  social  challenges.  Egypt  has  coped,  and
continues 
international
responsibilities  in  order  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the
Arab League and enable it to attain its objectives.
to  cope,  with 
important 
Here we would emphasize the need to strengthen
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
League of Arab States at all levels, in particular in the
political, social and economic areas. The objectives of
such  strengthened  cooperation  are  the  maintenance  of
15
A/59/PV.39
international 
regional  and international peace and  security;  full  and
lasting respect for the principles of the Charter and of
provisions  of 
law;  and  support  for
disarmament  efforts,  decolonization  and  the  right  to
self-determination 
foreign
occupation,  in  particular  the  right  of  the  Palestinian
people  to  self-determination  and  to  the  establishment
of an independent State.
of 
peoples 
under 
Egypt,  which  has  the  honour  of  hosting  the
League  of  Arab  States,  wishes  to  urge  the  greatest
possible  support  for  the  role  played  by  the  League  of
Arab States. There is no doubt that the responsibility of
the  members  of  the  League  and  of  its  secretariat  is
extremely  important,  given  present  circumstances  and
the serious challenges facing it.
In that respect, Egypt hopes to obtain the support
of Member States for the draft resolution that has been
submitted on the strengthening of cooperation between
the United Nations and the League of Arab States.
Allow  me  to  mention  another  framework  of
interaction  with  the  Organization  in  the  context  of
cooperation  between  the  developing  countries  and  the
United  Nations  — 
the  Asian-African  Legal
Consultative  Organization  (AALCO).  For  nearly  five
decades now, that organization has been playing a key
role in strengthening cooperation between African and
Asian  countries  in  the  area  of  international  law.  Its
initiatives  have  been  favourably  received  at  various
United Nations conferences, in particular those dealing
with  treaty  rights  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  That
organization has made a specific contribution to efforts
to achieve an international global regime that is based
on equality and equity among States.
the  United  Nations  and  other 
During  its  fortieth  session  in  the  year  2000,  the
organization recognized the Bangkok Principles on the
status  and  treatment  of  refugees.  It  also  defined  the
shared  interests  of  African  and  Asian  countries  on  a
number  of  recent  relevant  issues  under  consideration
by 
international
organizations with which it has concluded cooperative
agreements  on  various  aspects  of  international  law.
That  has  allowed  it  to  make  a  contribution  to  the
creation  of  a  global  legal  regime  that  is  equitable  and
based  on the principles of equality  and  cooperation  in
international relations.
It should be noted that AALCO has set itself the
task  of  making  its  expertise  available  to  the  States  of
16
Asia  and  Africa  and  to  supply  them,  on  request,
advisory services in the area of international law.
We  would  like  to  stress  Egypt’s  gratitude  to  the
Secretary-General  and  to  the  Secretariat  and  staff
members for their efforts to enable the Organization to
fulfil  its  mission  and  develop  and  modernize  its
methods  of  work.  Egypt  would  like  also  to  urge
members  to  adopt  the  draft  resolution  contained  in
draft  resolution  A/59/L.1  on  cooperation  between  the
Asian-African Legal Consultative Organization and the
United Nations.
In conclusion, we wish to emphasize the need for
an  increased  awareness  of  the  fact  that  there  exists  a
shared  set  of  values  and  customs  that  are  universally
recognized,  as  expressed 
in 
in
the  Charter  and 
international  conventions  of 
the  United  Nations
system. That is why we emphasize the fact that, while
it  is  important  to  strengthen  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional organizations at all levels,
nevertheless the particular values of each country make
it impossible to impose specific regional values on all
Members of the United Nations.
Mr.  Butagira  (Uganda):  I  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  (A/59/303)  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and other organizations. In my statement, I will confine
myself to a few areas of the report.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  strengthened  and
dynamic  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the African Union (AU) — in particular the AU Peace
and Security Council — in various fields. The African
Union  has  established  a  standby  force  to  deal  with
conflicts on the continent. More resources, in the form
of  logistics,  will  be  required  to  make  that  force
effective, and the United Nations can play a vital  role
in  mobilizing  the  necessary  resources.  The  AU  has
assumed  ownership  of  conflict  resolution  on  the
continent.  However,  it  should  be  stressed  that  the
primary  responsibility  for  international  peace  and
security still rests with Security Council. Therefore, the
AU’s  involvement  should  not  mean  abdication;  there
should be complementarities.
The  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa
should  be  strengthened  by  staffing  it  with  highly
qualified and experienced people so that it can play an
effective role as an advocate for increased assistance to
Africa,  especially  in  the  economic  field.  The  Office
should  also  help  in  various  capacity-building  efforts
undertaken by the African Union.  The  United  Nations
has  helped  to  mainstream  programmes  of  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  into  national
poverty  reduction  strategy  papers.  My  delegation
commends  the  Special  Adviser,  Mr.  Ibrahim  Gambari,
for his tireless efforts in that direction.
The  United  Nations  should  also  strengthen  the
role  of  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme
(UNDP)  Resident  Coordinator  at  the  country  level  by
providing his office with adequate financial resources.
There should be more coordination and harmonization
among the various United Nations agencies represented
at  the  country  level,  under  the  overall  coordination  of
the  UNDP  Resident  Coordinator.  Civil  society  actors
should also be involved in an advisory capacity in the
work of United Nations agencies and of Governments.
The  Secretary-General  initiated  meetings  with
heads  of  regional  organizations  in  1994  to  discuss
thematic  topics  such  as  poverty,  organized  crime  and
peace  and  security.  The  outcomes  of  those  meetings
have  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  work  of  the
United  Nations 
fields.  My  delegation
commends that initiative and would like it extended to
the  regional  heads  of  the  East  African  Community.
That  organization  was  granted  observer  status  in  the
General  Assembly  last  year.  For  the  moment,  the
Community  consists  of  Kenya,  Tanzania  and  Uganda;
Rwanda  and  Burundi  are  about  to  join.  It  is  pursuing
regional  integration  in  all  fields  —  the  economic;  the
political, including the coordination of defence policy;
the  cultural  and  others.  In  such  a  dynamic  institution,
the  United  Nations  has  a  strong  and  reliable  partner
with which to attain its goals.
those 
in 
the 
relationship  with 
Moreover, the United Nations should enhance its
working 
Intergovernmental
Authority  on  Development  (IGAD).  Already,  that
organization  is  playing  a  vital  role  in  the  conflict
resolution  area  with  regard  to  the  Sudan  and  Somalia
peace talks. We expect a greater United Nations role in
post-conflict 
reconstruction,
especially 
the  recent  successful
in 
conclusion of the Somalia peace talks in Nairobi. More
should be done to expedite the peace talks between the
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Sudanese  People’s
Liberation  Army  and  Movement.  The  peace  dividend
in  the  southern  Sudan  will  have  a  welcome  ripple
effect in Uganda.
peace-building 
the  wake  of 
and 
A/59/PV.39
My delegation welcomes the cooperation between
the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  and  the  United
Nations. The importance of involving parliamentarians
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  can  hardly  be
overemphasized.  Such  cooperation  was  strengthened
when  IPU  was  granted  observer  status  by  General
Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November  2002.
Parliaments, 
the  Millennium
Development Goals, can play an important role in their
implementation.  This  would  also  be  true  of  the
outcomes of major United Nations conferences such as
the Monterrey Consensus.
internalizing 
by 
to 
and 
they 
before 
conventions 
include  parliamentarians  both 
Very often, parliamentarians scrutinize international
agreements 
are
“domesticated”  as  municipal  laws.  It  is  therefore
important 
in
governmental delegations to the General Assembly and
in  delegations  negotiating  multilateral  treaties.  In  that
way, parliamentarians would be meaningfully involved
in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  My  delegation
welcomes the annual parliamentary hearings at United
Nations  Headquarters  in  New  York  as  yet  another
useful forum for cooperation between the IPU and the
United Nations.
Mr. Sawar (Pakistan): This statement deals with
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  (OIC)  and
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO).  I  shall
also  take  this  opportunity  to  speak  about  future
cooperation between the United Nations and the South
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC).
Pakistan has the privilege of being a founding member
of all three of those organizations.
The  Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference  is
one  of  the  largest  intergovernmental  organizations.  Its
57 members and three observer States come from Asia,
Africa  and  Europe.  As  the  collective  voice  of  the
Muslim  world,  the  OIC  has  been  engaged  over  the
years  in  a  constructive  and  cooperative  relationship
with the United Nations, reinforcing common efforts in
pursuit of peace and development.
and 
The  OIC  has  endeavoured  to  promote  better
understanding 
various
civilizations and cultures. It has undertaken significant
measures  aimed  at  fostering  peace,  promoting  social
and economic development, combating ethnic or racial
intolerance  and  seeking  an  end  to  the  causes  of
dialogue 
among 
17
A/59/PV.39
injustice  and  instability,  which  are  constant  threats  to
world peace and security.
the OIC each year. This formal interaction will further
enhance cooperation between the two organizations.
the 
in 
In 
the 
joined 
the  OIC, 
the  aftermath  of 
tragic  events  of
11  September  2001,  the  Islamic  world,  under  the
auspices  of 
international
community  in  our  common  fight  against  international
terrorism.  The  OIC  has  been  emphatic 
its
condemnation of terrorism; it has adopted a convention
aimed  at  dealing  with  that  scourge.  The  Convention
provides a  comprehensive  framework  for dealing  with
this  problem  while  upholding  the  Charter’s  cardinal
principle  of  self-determination,  and  acknowledges  the
legitimacy  of 
foreign
occupation and alien domination.
freedom  struggles  against 
We  are  pleased  to  refer  to  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  (A/59/303),  which  recapitulates  the
progress  achieved  during  the  past  year  by  the  United
Nations system and the OIC in promoting their shared
goals  of 
security  and
development.  We  welcome  the  effective  contacts  and
consultations 
two  organizations  have
maintained over the past several years.
international  peace  and 
that 
the 
role 
and  determination 
The  two  organizations  have  regularly  interacted
on  a  number  of  political  issues,  and  their  mutually
supportive 
to  promote
negotiations  to  resolve  conflict  continue  to  receive
wide  international  support.  Representatives  from  the
United  Nations  attended  the  Tenth  Session  of  the
Islamic  Summit  Conference  in  Malaysia  in  2003  and
the  Islamic  Conference  of  Foreign  Ministers  held  in
Tehran and Istanbul in 2003 and 2004, respectively. We
would  like  to  see  the  two  organizations  work  more
closely  in  addressing  and  resolving  some  of  the
conflicts  in  the  Muslim  world,  including  Palestine,
Iraq, Afghanistan and Kashmir. More work needs to be
done  by  all  concerned  to  address  the  root  causes  of
these conflicts and to promote justice and peace.
Pakistan  has  the  proud  privilege  of  chairing  one
of  the  two  main  committees  of  the  OIC,  namely  the
Standing  Committee  on  Scientific  and  Technological
Cooperation.  The  Pakistan-based  Committee 
is
responsible  for  promoting  cooperation  in  the  field  of
science  and  technology  among  the  Muslim  countries.
Pakistan  is  also  host  to  the  Islamic  Chamber  of
Commerce and Industry.
The  Economic  Cooperation  Organization  (ECO)
is  another  major  regional  cooperation  organization
seeking to promote the socio-economic development of
its member States on the basis of their common needs
and  in  keeping  with  the  challenges  on  the  global
economic  scene.  The  organization  was  founded  by
Pakistan,  Iran  and  Turkey  as  the  successor  to  the
Regional  Cooperation  for  Development  organization.
In  1992,  it  was  expanded  to  include  Afghanistan  and
the  newly  established  Central  Asian  States  of
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Turkmenistan,  Uzbekistan
and Tajikistan, as well as Azerbaijan.
and 
important  role 
The  ECO  has  played  an 
in
strengthening 
promoting  multidimensional
regional  economic  cooperation  among  its  member
countries.  It  has  identified  four  priority  areas  for
intense  regional  cooperation,  namely,  trade,  transport,
communication  and  energy.  The  project-oriented
Almaty  Outline  Plan  underscores  the  importance  that
ECO  member  States  attach  to  the  development  of  the
transport  and  communications  infrastructure  linking
the ECO member States with one another and with the
outside  world.  The  conclusion  of 
important
agreements  —  the  ECO  Transit  Trade  Agreement  and
the  Transit  Transport  Framework  Agreement  —  has
given  further  impetus  to  the  expansion  of  regional
trade and economic cooperation.
two 
We  are  of  the  view  that  the  two  parties  should
continue  to  examine  ways  and  means  of  further
expanding  and  diversifying 
their  cooperation  by
identifying new areas. We welcome the meeting held in
Vienna in July 2004, which identified several proposals
for  joint  projects  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
OIC.  Cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  has
taken place on numerous occasions in the past, and we
would  like  to  encourage  the  regularization  of  this
trend,  with  at 
least  one  general  meeting  of
representatives  of  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  and
The  ECO  region  covers  territory  of  more  than  7
million  square  kilometres  with  a  population  of  nearly
350  million  people.  The  region  has  immense  natural
resources,  and  its  members  have  the  political  will  to
tap those resources for the mutual advantage of all. The
presidential  elections  in  Afghanistan  constitute  an
important  landmark  in  the  peace  process  and  augur
well for peace and stability in Afghanistan. Peace and
stability in Afghanistan need to be bolstered by socio-
economic  development  and  the  integration  of  the
Afghan economy with those of its neighbours.
18
The Economic Cooperation Organization can serve
as a vehicle not only for the post-war reconstruction  of
Afghanistan,  but  also 
the  development  and
integration of the economies of the region, which have
borne the brunt of the conflict in Afghanistan.
for 
The  ECO  already  has  in  place  the  blueprints  for
the 
region-wide  development  of 
transport  and
communications  infrastructure,  facilities  for  trade  and
investment,  banking  and 
insurance,  culture  and
education  and  the  effective  use  of  the  region’s  vast
energy resources. We expect the United Nations system
and the international community to support the efforts
of  the  ECO  and  its  member  States  in  order  to  realize
these blueprints, for the benefit not only of the region
but also of the world at large.
the 
(SAARC), 
representing 
The  South  Asian  Association 
for  Regional
Cooperation 
seven
countries of South Asia — Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
Maldives,  Nepal,  Pakistan  and  Sri  Lanka  —  was
launched in  Dhaka in  December 1985 at the  first-ever
Summit Meeting of the South Asian Heads of State or
Government. SAARC seeks  to promote the welfare of
the peoples of South Asia and to improve their quality
of 
life  by  accelerating  economic  growth,  social
progress  and  cultural  development  in  the  region.
SAARC  also  aims  at  strengthening  cooperation  with
other  developing  countries  and  with  international  and
regional organizations with similar aims and objectives.
The  highest  authority  of  the  Association  rests
with  the  SAARC  heads  of  State  or  Government,  who
meet annually at the summit level. To date, 12 summits
have  been  held.  The  twelfth  SAARC  Summit,  held  in
Islamabad in January 2004, raised hopes and opened up
new avenues for regional cooperation among the South
Asian 
are
developing  modalities  for  dialogue  partnerships  with
other  regions.  SAARC  countries  have  also  decided  to
seek observer status in the United Nations.
countries.  SAARC  member  States 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  our  hope
and  confidence  that  United  Nations  cooperation  with
both the OIC and the ECO will continue to flourish, to
the  mutual  benefit  of  the  three  organizations.  We  also
hope  that  a  new  chapter  will  soon  begin  in  the
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  SAARC.
Pakistan, as a proud member of the United Nations, the
OIC,  the  ECO  and  SAARC,  will  remain  actively
involved in the work of all four organizations.
A/59/PV.39
Ms. Napoli (Italy) (spoke in Italian; English text
furnished by the delegation): Allow me, first of all, to
reiterate Italy’s heartfelt support for the action that the
European  Union  (EU)  has  been  undertaking  for  some
time now to strengthen cooperation between the United
Nations and the national parliaments of Member States,
which  are  brought  together  in  their  international
assembly, the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).
In  line  with  the  orientations  of  the  EU,  Italy
devotes  great  attention  to  that  issue,  including  at  the
national  level.  That  is  illustrated  by  the  fact  that  my
country  has  decided  to  become  a  sponsor  of  the  draft
resolution  presented  by  Chile  on  the  question  of
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU.
The draft constitutes another major step towards more
intense  cooperation  between  our  two  organizations.
The foundations of that cooperation were  established by
the  1996  cooperation  agreement  and  were  significantly
enhanced  by  resolution  57/32,  of  19  November  2002,
whereby  the  IPU  was  granted  observer  status  in  the
work of the General Assembly.
My  delegation  believes  that  our  common  efforts
aimed at forging a true, productive partnership between
the  United  Nations  and 
the  IPU  have  produced
important results in recent years. However, work needs
to  be  done  to  ensure  that  the  achievements  we  have
made will provide the basis for further progress. In that
regard, I wish to recall the recent adoption by the IPU
Executive Committee of a document that identified the
priority  areas  on  which  to  focus  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations 
Italian
parliamentarians worked hard to achieve that outcome,
which  will  make  it  possible  to  better  structure  the
IPU’s contribution to the work of the United Nations.
few  years. 
the  next 
in 
The IPU has an important role to play in ensuring
that  members  of  parliaments  throughout  the  world
realize the importance of United Nations peacekeeping,
as  well  as  the  enormous  political,  logistical  and
financial 
entails.
Parliamentarians  can  encourage  the  Governments  of
Member  States  to  help  the  Organization  to  overcome
shortfalls 
thereby
supporting  the  peace  processes  in  countries  where
peacekeeping operations have been deployed.
in  commitment  and  equipment, 
peacekeeping 
challenges 
Moreover,  I  am  pleased  to  note  that,  in  the
conclusions  contained  in  his  report  on  cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  IPU,  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  recognized  the  role  that  the  IPU
19
A/59/PV.39
plays in contributing to reaching the main objectives of
the  international  community,  and  hoped  for  more
systematic involvement on the part of parliamentarians,
parliaments and the IPU in the activities of the United
Nations.  Many  of  the  recommendations  contained  in
the  report  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  United
Nations-Civil  Society  Relations  — 
the  so-called
Cardoso Panel — took that same approach.
in 
that 
the  establishment  of 
On  that  last  point,  it  is  nonetheless  important  to
inter-
specify  clearly 
parliamentary  mechanisms  and  structures 
the
framework of an inter-governmental organization such
as  the  United  Nations  must  include  strict  respect  for
the  principles  of  independence  and  separation  of
powers,  and  that  it  is  necessary  to  avoid  useless
duplication of mechanisms that already exist in the IPU
framework.  Those  features  of  the  Cardoso  Panel’s
recommendations were the subject of talks between the
IPU  President,  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  and
Fernando  Cardoso,  Chairman  of  the  Panel  of  Eminent
Persons.  Consultations  in  that  regard  are  under  way
with  the  presidents  of  various  national  parliaments.
The President of the Italian Chamber of Deputies, The
Honourable  Pier  Ferdinando  Casini,  has  already
participated  in  those  meetings.  He  has,  moreover,
pointed  out 
to
understand  the  United  Nations,  parliaments  are,  and
remain, an irreplaceable filter, and the IPU  can play a
great role to that end.
if  we  want  public  opinion 
that 
My delegation believes that the second Conference
of Presiding Officers of National Parliaments, which will
take  place  in  September  2005,  represents  the  most
suitable  forum  to  convey  to  the  United  Nations  the
assessments of the world parliamentary community on
such issues.
of 
dimension 
parliamentary 
It is the firm conviction of my delegation that we
must maintain our commitment to further strengthening
the 
international
cooperation and the involvement of parliamentarians in
the  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that
because that dimension, by virtue of the natural role of
parliamentarians  as  a  trait  d’union  between  civil
society  and  national  Governments,  can  provide
precious  added  value  to  efforts  aimed  at  attaining  the
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  with  regard  to  the
great issues of peace and security, economic and social
development,  international  law  and  human  rights,  and
democracy  and  equal  opportunity.  The 
Italian
Parliament and its members are ready, together with all
20
their colleagues in the IPU, to meet that challenge with
enthusiasm, as is undoubtedly the United Nations.
Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Austria):  As  a  host  country  to
the United Nations and other international and regional
organizations,  Austria  has  always  worked  for  closer
inter-organizational dialogue, especially on the policy-
making  level.  It  has  also  been  our  policy  to  promote
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations in the field of peacekeeping.
For  the  past  35  years,  Austria,  together  with  the
International  Peace  Academy,  has  organized  annual
seminars  in  Vienna.  This  year,  representatives  of
Africa,  the  European  Union  and  the  United  Nations
discussed peace operations in Africa. In 2005, we plan to
discuss peacekeeping partnerships in Africa, with special
emphasis  on  cooperation  between  the  European  Union
and  the  United  Nations.  We  are  convinced  that  those
seminars will continue to make a useful contribution to
improving  inter-organizational  cooperation,  and  we
intend to keep the focus of the seminar on Africa.
the  United  Nations  with 
I  should  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  the
cooperation  of 
the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
(OSCE),  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty
Organization (CTBTO), the Council of Europe and the
Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Let  me  turn  first  to  the  OSCE.  Next  year  will
mark  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  Helsinki  Final
Act.  We  are  proud  to  host  the  OSCE,  the  only
inclusive,  multidimensional  forum  for  comprehensive
political  and  security  dialogue  which  brings  together
55 States, from Vancouver to Vladivostok.
is  able 
to  combat 
rights,  democracy  and  peace.  That 
Today’s  threats  to  security  and  stability  are  of
such  a  complex  and  diverse  nature  that  no  single
institution  or  country 
them
effectively  alone.  The  OSCE  and  the  United  Nations
have  always  been  close  partners  in  efforts  to  promote
human 
is
particularly  true  of  the  work  of  both  organizations  in
the 
important
contribution as an essential part of the United Nations
Interim  Administration  in  Kosovo,  in  particular  for
capacity-  and 
the  field  of
democratization,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  as
well as in the area of basic and advanced training for a
multi-ethnic, community-based Kosovo Police Service.
field.  The  OSCE 
institution-building 
is  making  an 
in 
There  is  also  cooperation  between  the  OSCE  in
Abkhazia and in South Ossetia. The role of the OSCE
in  elections  support  and  monitoring,  most  recently  in
Afghanistan,  and  in  preparing  the  Kosovo  Assembly
elections is another example.
and 
the 
fight 
Counter-terrorism 
against
trafficking in human beings are priority activities of the
OSCE.  It  works  very  closely  with  the  United  Nations
in  promoting  and
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime 
implementing 
terrorism-related
conventions and protocols.
the  12  universal 
Secondly, turning to the Comprehensive Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  Organization,  let  me  say  that  the
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT)  has
been  one  of  Austria’s  main  priorities  in  the  field  of
disarmament since the Treaty was opened for signature
eight  years  ago,  in  1996.  As  the  host  country  for  the
Preparatory  Commission  for  the  CTBTO,  Austria  has
assumed  a  special  responsibility  for  the  successful
preparation for the entry into force of the CTBT.
Since  the  provisional  technical  secretariat  of  the
CTBTO  Preparatory  Commission  took  up  its  work  at
the  Vienna  International  Centre  in  1997  under  the
leadership  of  Executive  Secretary  Wolfgang  Hoffman,
much  progress  has  been  achieved.  The  impressive
number of signatures and ratifications demonstrates the
growing  support  for  that  Treaty.  A  total  of  173  States
have  signed,  and  119  States  have  deposited  their
instruments  of  ratification.  Unfortunately,  the  number
of States whose ratification is required for the CTBT’s
entry  into  force  stagnates  at  33.  We  must  therefore
intensify  our  efforts  to  convince  those  countries  to
ratify the Treaty.
In  that  context,  Austria  welcomes  the  joint
ministerial statement of 23 September in support of the
CTBT.
Thirdly,  with  respect  to  the  Council  of  Europe,
Austria appreciates the high quality of the cooperation
of the United Nations with the Council of Europe and
supports  the  ongoing  work  involving  the  Council  of
Europe  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights as well as the Office
of 
for
Refugees,  both  of  which  cover  areas  which  are  dealt
with  at  the  regional  level  by  the  Council  of  Europe.  I
am  confident  that  the  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  States  members  of  the  Council  of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner 
A/59/PV.39
Europe will continue to support and intensify dialogue
between the two organizations.
the 
Fourthly,  concerning 
Inter-Parliamentary
Union, two years ago Austria supported the resolution
on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  and  the  observer  status  of
the  IPU.  By  including  the  IPU  in  its  debate,  the
General  Assembly  acknowledges  the  voices  of  the
elected  representatives and the  fact that  it  will  benefit
from  their  valuable  contributions  and  gain  additional
democratic legitimacy. Austria therefore welcomes the
strengthening  of  the  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union  and
supports this year’s draft resolution on the IPU.
the 
Mr.  Mabhongo  (South  Africa):  My  delegation
welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the
agenda item entitled “Cooperation between the United
Nations  and 
regional  and  other  organizations”,
contained  in  document  A/59/303.  We  hope  that  this
debate  will  help  us  in  our  joint  efforts  to  review  our
achievements  and  also  inform  decisions  on  future
cooperation.
My delegation associates itself with the statement
made  by  Mr.  Abubakar  Tanko,  Minister  of  State  for
Foreign  Affairs  of  Nigeria,  in  his  capacity  as  current
Chairperson of the African Union.
We have observed the remarkable development of
the  cooperation  between  the  African  Union  and  the
United  Nations,  which  has  resulted  in  a  number  of
positive developments that have been important in the
evolution  of  the  African  Union.  We  commend  the
developments  that  have  taken  place  during  the  period
under  review.  We  wish  in  particular  to  note  the
following.
Let  me  turn  first  to  the  establishment  of  the
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa.  Since  its
establishment, the head of that Office  has  participated
in a series of meetings organized by the Chairperson of
the  African  Union, 
the
formulation  of  the  vision  and  strategic  framework  of
the African Union.
thereby  contributing 
to 
In  addition,  the  Office  has  held  discussions  with
the  African  Union  on  a  project  to  monitor  capacity-
building  efforts  that  will  enable  African  countries  to
respond effectively to conflicts.
The United Nations hosted a training programme
the
the  drafting  of 
the  Protocol  relating 
to 
on 
21
A/59/PV.39
establishment of the Peace and Security Council of the
African Union together with its rules of procedure. The
Peace and Security Council was officially launched in
Addis Ababa in May 2004.
Commendable  work  has  also  been  done  in  the
following  areas:  the  provision  of  ongoing  support  in
the  area  of  HIV/AIDS  to  the  African  Union;  the
establishment  of  a  World  Food  Programme  liaison
office  to  the  African  Union;  the  operationalization  of
the  third  phase  of  the  support  provided  by  the  United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to the Peace
and Security Directorate of the African Union; and the
provision of public information services to the African
continent.
The  United  Nations  has  also  contributed  to  the
strengthening  of  the  structures  of  the  African  Union.
We are proud of this and of the other forms of support
provided  by  the  United  Nations  to  our  continental
organization.  We  believe  that  the  strengthening  of  the
structures of the African Union will give it the capacity
it needs to address the challenges facing our continent.
We  are  encouraged  to  note  that  more  African
the  African  Peer  Review
countries  are 
Mechanism — a voluntary self-evaluation mechanism.
The recent launch of the Pan-African Parliament in
Johannesburg, South Africa, in September 2004, heralded
the dawn of a new era on the African continent. We are
pleased that the first speaker of this important body is a
woman.  This  and  the  allocation  of  50  per  cent  of  the
commissioner posts of the African Union to women are
an indication of the determination of African leaders to
promote the empowerment of women.
joining 
for  Africa’s  Development 
We believe that our debate today should not only
focus  on our achievements, but  also help  us  jointly  to
identify  areas  that  need  further  improvement.  In  this
regard, I wish to refer to the integrated socio-economic
programme  for  the  development  of  Africa,  the  New
Partnership 
(NEPAD).
Through NEPAD we hope to confront the challenges of
poverty  and  underdevelopment  in  our  continent.  A
number  of  important  pledges  to  provide  resources  to
NEPAD have been made. Unfortunately, those pledges
have  not  yet  been  fulfilled.  We  note  the  role  of  the
Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa  in  advocating
in  favour  of  NEPAD.  We  hope  that  this  Office  will
continue to promote the provision of resources for the
implementation of NEPAD programmes.
22
Africa 
is  still 
faced  with  several  conflict
situations  which  hinder  progress  towards  peace  and
prosperity.  We  believe  that  the  Peace  and  Security
Council  of  the  African  Union  will  be  a  useful  tool  to
promote  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the  African  Union  in  the  area  of  conflict  prevention
and resolution.
the  United  Nations 
forces 
The  African  Union  has  demonstrated 
its
willingness to tackle issues of conflict on the continent
in  support  of 
the
deployment  of 
in  new  and  expanding
peacekeeping activities, within both the United Nations
context  and  the  regional  framework.  To  enhance  its
regional  framework,  the  African  Union  is  also  in  the
process  of  establishing 
its  own  regional  African
Standby Force.
through 
is 
a 
In 
there 
conclusion,  while 
clear
demonstration  of  political  will  on  the  part  of  African
leaders to confront the challenges facing our continent,
the African Union still faces a shortage of financial and
technical 
that
improved cooperation with the United Nations can also
help in this regard.
resources.  We  believe, 
therefore, 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/59/303)
has  appropriately  reflected  the  progress  that  has  been
made  by  African  subregional  organizations.  South
Africa will continue to contribute to the strengthening
of  the  Southern  African  Development  Community
(SADC).  The  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and
Government  of  SADC 
the
Community  should  apply  for  observer  status  in  the
United  Nations.  We  strongly  believe  that  this  is  a
positive  step  that  will  further  enhance  the  existing
cooperation between the United Nations and Africa.
took  a  decision 
that 
As stated in the report of the Secretary-General, a
draft resolution sponsored by the Permanent Mission of
Mauritius  in  its  capacity  as  Chair  of  SADC  has  been
submitted  to  the  United  Nations  Secretariat.  We  urge
all countries to support this draft resolution when it is
presented for action.
Mr.  Pourgourides
item  concerning  cooperation  between 
(Cyprus):  Thank  you,
Mr. President, for giving me the floor on this important
agenda 
the
United  Nations  and  regional  and  other  organizations.
There is an increased need to intensify this cooperation
in  order 
the
international community today.
the  challenges 
to  address 
facing 
First of all, I would like to align myself with the
previous  speakers 
in  expressing  my  delegation’s
appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report on
agenda item 56.
As a member of the delegation of the Republic of
Cyprus  to  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council
of  Europe  and  Chairman  of  the  Subcommittee  on
Human  Rights  of  the  Assembly,  I  will  focus  on  the
relationship  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
United Nations.
I am pleased to note, as outlined in the Secretary-
General’s  comprehensive  report  on  the  cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe,
that there has been productive and fruitful cooperation
between  the  two  organizations  in  the  period  under
review.
the 
two  organizations 
The  Council  of  Europe  and  the  United  Nations
emerged  at  a  similar  point  in  history  and  share  a
common  set  of  values  and  goals  in  promoting  peace
and  prosperity  and  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.
Cooperation  between 
is
longstanding, dating back to the creation of the Council
in 1949. The United Nations and the Council of Europe
are  complementary  and  mutually  reinforcing  in  their
endeavours 
to  protect  and  strengthen  democracy,
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  and  the  rule
of  law.  The  two  organizations  both  have  long  and
noteworthy  experience 
in  promoting  peace  and
contributing 
to  conflict  prevention,  confidence-
building  and  long-term  post-conflict  peacebuilding  in
many  countries.  Both  organizations  are  particularly
involved in the fight against discrimination, terrorism,
racism  and  xenophobia  and  strive  to  promote  equal
opportunity and equal treatment for men and women in
order  to  secure  a  better  future,  based  on  universally
held values and rights.
The protection of human rights is at the forefront
of  the  Council  of  Europe’s  work.  The  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights  is  one  of  the  most
significant and effective human rights treaties currently
in  force.  It  is  mandatory  for  all  member  States  of  the
Council  of  Europe,  each  of  which  has  accepted  the
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  European  Court  of
Human Rights.
A/59/PV.39
attaches  great  importance  to  the  effective  functioning
of  the  Court,  which  has  delivered  some  landmark
decisions on cases concerning human rights, including
decisions  affecting  Cyprus,  such  as 
the  seminal
Loizidou case.
the 
judgements  of 
This brings me to the crucial issue of the speedy
disposal  of  cases  before  the  Court,  as  well  as  the
effective  implementation  of  its  decisions,  matters  to
which  I  am  duty-bound  to  refer  in  my  capacity  as
chairman of the Subcommittee on Human Rights of the
Council  of  Europe.  The  speedy  disposal  of  cases  and
the  prompt  execution  of 
the
European  Court  of  Human  Rights  are  essential  to  the
credibility 
the  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights  as  a  constitutional
instrument  of  European  public  order  that  significantly
contributes to the democratic tradition of the continent.
Smaller States, for which international legality is
of  utmost  importance  and  which  must  rely  heavily  on
the  full  implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  Court
for  their  protection,  are  particularly  supportive  of  the
role of the European Court of Human Rights.
effectiveness  of 
and 
The  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Council  of
Europe  is  also  very  much  interested  in  the  reform
process of the United Nations. To that end, we debated
in our Assembly the report on strengthening the United
Nations 
adopted  Parliamentary  Assembly
resolution  1373  of  2004,  which  contains  important
proposals  for  strengthening  the  United  Nations.  Our
aim  in  the  Parliamentary  Assembly  is  to  use  all
available  means  at  our  disposal  to  assist  in  giving  a
parliamentary dimension to the world Organization.
and 
As  already  stated,  the  Council  of  Europe  is
predominantly a human rights organization. We believe
that without respect for human rights, the world cannot
enjoy peace and security. We in the Council of Europe,
of course, share the United Nations concern for threats
to international peace and security caused by terrorism,
but we strongly believe that the fight against terrorism
must  be  conducted  in  ways  and  with  means  that  fully
respect  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  The
fight  against  terrorism  must  never  be  allowed  to
degenerate  into  torture  and  inhuman  or  degrading
treatment, the prohibition of which is absolute.
The  European  Court  of  Human  Rights  provides
an  effective  way  of  safeguarding  the  human  rights  of
millions  of  European  citizens.  Like  all  the  other
member  States  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  my  country
In  July  2003,  Protocol  No.  13  to  the  European
Convention  on  Human  Rights  entered  into  force.  The
effect  of  that  historic  protocol  is  to  abolish  the  death
penalty  in  all  circumstances.  The  European  continent,
23
A/59/PV.39
with  one  sad  exception,  no  longer  imposes  the  death
penalty.  We  regard  that  as  a  great  achievement.  Both
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  and  the  Committee  of
Ministers are currently engaged in an ongoing dialogue
with those observer States that retain the death penalty.
In  the  Council  of  Europe,  we  are  also  actively  taking
steps  against  racism.  We  look  forward  to  a  continent
free  of  racial  discrimination  and  are  also  working
methodically  against  the  trafficking  of  human  beings
and for the effective protection of national minorities.
In conclusion, I am convinced that the Council of
Europe  and  the  United  Nations  can  benefit  mutually
from  one  another’s  work.  The  overlap  existing  on
subjects  examined  by  the  two  organizations  need  not
mean  the  repetition  of  the  same  work  but,  rather,
complementarity  and  reinforcement  in  their  respective
fields  of  action.  Especially  with  regard  to  promoting
peace, stability and the rule of law, we believe that the
already  close  cooperation  between  the  Council  of
Europe  and  the  United  Nations  could  and  should  be
further enhanced.
for  his 
excellent 
Mr.  Menon  (Singapore):  At  the  outset,  my
delegation  would  like  to  thank  and  commend  the
Secretary-General 
report  on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and  other  organizations  (A/59/303),  and  for  his
initiative in promoting such cooperation over the years.
We  would  also  like  to  welcome  the  biennialization  of
this  agenda 
the
Secretary-General’s reports into a single report.
the  consolidation  of 
item  and 
The Secretary-General’s report shows how wide-
ranging  United  Nations  cooperation  with  regional  and
other  organizations  has  been.  In  my  own  region,  the
Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), an
organization  comprising  10  member  States,  has  been
broadening  and  deepening  its  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations.  Details  of  this  cooperation  can  be
found  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  and  in  the
statement  delivered  by  the  distinguished  Permanent
Representative  of 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic
Republic  on  behalf  of  ASEAN,  with  which  my
delegation fully associates itself.
It  is  also  clear  from  the  report  that  the  United
Nations  does  not  conduct 
the  same  cooperative
activities  with  each  regional  organization.  To  do  so
would not make sense because every region has its own
unique  characteristics,  priorities  and  needs,  depending
on  its  philosophy  and  stage  of  development.  The
24
cultural  and  political  diversity  of  different  regions
brings  a  certain  richness  to  the  various  cooperative
activities with the United Nations. We are all the better
because of it. It is also interesting to learn from the draft
resolutions  initiated  by  different  regional  organizations
on  this  subject  and  the  statements  of  various  Member
States that the Assembly heard today, what they value
in their cooperation with the United Nations.
However, on the  subject  of  draft  resolutions,  my
delegation is sad to observe that in recent years, some
draft  resolutions  on  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations  and  regional  organizations,  instead  of  being
adopted by consensus, are voted upon. To those who do
not  know  the  background  to  such  votes,  it  can  create
the  wrong  impression  that  some  Member  States  are
opposed  to  United  Nations  cooperation  with  those
regional  organizations,  when,  in  reality,  there  is  no
such opposition. The United Nations as a whole and its
component entities have always sought to work within
their mandates.
something 
Having  said  that,  one  would  assume  that  those
tabling  the  draft  resolutions  are  proud  of  what  their
regional  organizations  are  doing  in  cooperation  with
the United Nations. In that regard, having a vote  on a
draft resolution on cooperation with the United Nations
is 
regional
organizations  concerned  should  try  to  avoid.  It  is  not
difficult to achieve a consensus draft resolution. All it
takes  is  to  keep  the  text  brief  and  focused  on  what
one’s  regional  organization  values  in  its  cooperation
with  the  United  Nations,  leaving  contentious  and
divisive  issues  aside,  especially  issues  that  do  not
enjoy an international consensus.
that  members  of 
the 
Why  then  do  we  keep  seeing  votes  on  some  of
these  draft  resolutions?  First,  my  delegation  has
observed that some countries seem to believe that it is
natural  for  the  General  Assembly  to  endorse,  pay
tribute to, acknowledge or take note of certain values,
standards  and  practices  of  common  cultural  heritage
within  their  regional  organization  of  which  they  are
particularly  proud.  Those  countries  do  not  seem  to
understand 
in  an  organization  comprising
Members from all over the world, others of a different
heritage  do  not  necessarily  share  the  same  views  on
those  values,  standards  and  practices.  Sadly,  some  of
them  would  go  so  far  as  to  insist  on  those  elements,
even after other countries have expressed concerns and
reservations.  Under  those  circumstances,  for  countries
that  do  not  agree,  the  only  way  for  them  to  express
that 
their reservations and concerns is to call for a vote on
the  draft  resolution  or  at  least  on  the  problematic
elements of the draft.
Secondly,  my  delegation  has  observed  that  some
countries  seem  to  rare  for  the  occasional  fight,  and,
thanks  to  their  creativity  every  year,  certain  divisive
issues  keep  coming  up  in  various  forms  in  draft
resolutions  in  the  Main  Committees  and  the  plenary.
The unfortunate net result is to distract the Assembly’s
attention from the important subjects in question and to
deny consensus on the relevant draft resolutions, as in
the  case  of  the  drafts  on  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional organizations.
It  is  the  fervent  hope  of  my  delegation  that
wisdom will prevail and that we will all recognize, for
our  common  good,  that  there  is  a  time  and  a  place  to
debate issues that are clearly divisive in a constructive
manner  and  that  we  will  all  recognize  that  scoring  a
victory  through  a  narrow  vote  on  contentious  issues,
issues on which there is no international consensus, not
only  achieves  nothing  but  generates  acrimony  and
discredits this institution that we all profess to cherish.
Mr.  Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/59/303),  which  describes
cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-
African  Legal  Consultative  Organization  (AALCO).
We  are  pleased  to  see  the  ever-stronger  relationship
and the gradual expansion  of  cooperation  between  the
two organizations.
the  spirit  of 
Borne  out  of 
the  Bandung
Conference,  AALCO  is  the  only  intergovernmental
legal  consultative  institution  in  the  Asian-African
region.  Over  the  years,  AALCO  has  closely  followed
the latest developments in international law, carried out
in-depth studies on international law issues of common
concern  to  its  member  States,  provided  advice  on
international  law  to  its  member  States  and  provided
them  with  a  forum  for  cooperation  on  legal  issues  of
common interest. AALCO has thus provided guidance
to  Asian  and  African  States  in  their  participation  in
international  legal  practice  and  has  contributed  to  the
progressive 
of
international law. AALCO has now become a regional
international organization with unique influence in the
field of international law. We believe AALCO will see
its  influence  grow  further  with  the  increase  in  its
membership and the expansion of its activities.
development 
codification 
and 
A/59/PV.39
Since 
it  attained  United  Nations  Permanent
Observer status in 1980, AALCO has seen its cooperation
with  the  Organization  grow  increasingly  close.  Several
United  Nations  organs 
international
organizations are regularly present at AALCO’s annual
sessions  and  make  topical  presentations.  Likewise,
AALCO  has  attended  relevant  meetings  within  the
United Nations system and participates  actively in the
consideration of relevant items.
and  other 
A quick review of its agenda reveals the priority
that  AALCO  consistently  accords  legal  issues  and
other  matters  of  concern  to  the  United  Nations.  At  its
forty-third  annual  session,  held  in  June  in  Bali,
Indonesia,  AALCO  considered  such  agenda  items  as
the  law  of  the  sea,  recent  developments  related  to  the
International  Criminal  Court,  an  international  anti-
corruption  legal  instrument,  jurisdictional  immunities  of
States and their property, the World Trade Organization as
a  framework  agreement  and  code  of  conduct  for  world
trade,  and  cooperation  aimed  at  combating 
the
trafficking  of  women  and  children.  The  session
strengthened  understanding  in  the  area  of  cooperation
among its member States on those agenda items.
is 
The  cooperation  between  AALCO  and 
the
International  Law  Commission 
particularly
noteworthy.  Regular  attendance  by  AALCO  and  the
Commission at each other’s annual or regular sessions,
the  presentation  of  reports  on  the  progress  of  their
respective  work  and  exchanges  of  views  have  helped
Asian  and  African  States  keep  abreast  of  the  most
recent  developments  in  international  legislation  and
have enabled them to make their own contributions to
the  progressive  development  and  codification  of
international law.
those 
between 
cooperation 
As  a  member  of  both  the  United  Nations  and
AALCO,  China  is  pleased  to  see  the  constantly
expanding 
two
organizations.  It  is  our  hope  that  cooperation  between
AALCO  and  the  United  Nations  aimed  at  promoting
the  progressive  development  and  codification  of
international  law  and  in  other  areas  of  common
concern  will  be  further  strengthened  and  that  it  will
become  a  model  for  closer  cooperation  among  global
and  regional  organizations  aimed  at  further  promoting
world 
development.  The  Chinese
Government  will,  as  always,  continue  to  help  to
enhance  AALCO’s  role, 
impact  and
promote  closer  cooperation  between  it  and  the  United
Nations.
increase 
peace 
and 
its 
25
A/59/PV.39
the  work  of 
Mr.  Laotegguelnodji  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):
My  delegation  is  always  greatly  pleased  and  justly
proud  to  see  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  a  noble  son  of  Central
Africa,  presiding  over 
the  General
Assembly.  For  more  than  three  years,  my  delegation
has observed that each time issues  concerning Central
Africa  have  been  considered  —  whether  it  be  in  the
General  Assembly,  in  the  Security  Council  or  even  in
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  —  a  son  of  Central
Africa has always presided over the debate. Again this
year,  we  have  not  broken  with  tradition,  since  here
Mr.  Ping  is  at  the  helm  of  the  General  Assembly,  and
for  an  entire  year  of  leadership.  In  the  view  of  my
delegation,  those  are  positive  signals  that  destiny  is
sending to the countries and peoples of Central Africa,
brought together in the Economic Community of Central
African States (ECCAS), so that they can be heard and so
that  bilateral  partners  and  the  international  community
will support them in their development efforts.
That  is  why,  in  expressing  my  delegation’s
support  for  the  statements  made  by  the  representative
of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union  and  by  the
representative  of  the  Congo  on  behalf  of  the  member
States  of  ECCAS,  I  should  like  to  say  that,  yes,  the
States  of  Central  Africa  have  certainly  been  heard,
judging by the complexity and depth of the Secretary-
General’s  report  before  us  with  regard  to  cooperation
between the United Nations and ECCAS.
it 
The 
is  addressing 
report,  whether 
the
continental organization — the African Union — itself
or ECCAS — one of the Union’s subregional pillars —
highlights all the  salient characteristics of cooperation
between  those  two  African  institutions,  emphasizing
the concrete achievements resulting from that dynamic
cooperation.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  sincerely
congratulates  the  Secretary-General  on  his  significant,
comprehensive report.
All of the Organization’s efforts in the past three
years to benefit Central African countries culminated with
the  sending  in  2003,  at  the  initiative  of  the  Security
Council,  of  an  interdisciplinary  fact-finding  mission  of
the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  to  the  11  ECCAS
member  countries.  One  of  the  mission’s  conclusions
and recommendations that my delegation would like to
emphasize is the proposal to appoint a special envoy of
the Secretary-General for Central Africa.
Although  the  interim  report  of  the  assessment
mission  (S/2003/1077)  was  considered  in  a  public
26
integrated  and 
lasting  strategy 
meeting of the Security Council — the 4871st meeting —
on  24  November  2003,  my  delegation  would  like  to
reiterate  that  we  hope  the  appointment  of  a  special
envoy would be only an intermediate step. In fact, the
mission  recommendation  with  respect  to  a  special
envoy  could  eventually  lead  to  the  establishment  of  a
comprehensive, 
in
subregional  and  United  Nations  organs
which 
operating in Central Africa would work together on all
political,  economic  and  humanitarian  issues  affecting
all  the  States  of  the  subregion.  From  that  perspective,
the  opening  of  a  United  Nations  office  in  Central
Africa to efficiently coordinate all issues related to the
development  and  consolidation  of  peace  in  Central
Africa would be welcome. In the light of my country’s
experience in conflict settlement in Central Africa and
its  geo-strategic  situation  in  the  subregion,  Chad’s
authorities  have  authorized  me 
their
readiness to welcome and host a United Nations office in
Central Africa should such a noble and useful project see
the light of day in the months or years to come.
to  express 
I  used 
the  phrase  “consolidation  of  peace”
because  we  find  that  nearly  all  of  Central  Africa’s
hotspots  of  conflict  either  have  been  or  are  in  the
process  of  being  extinguished,  one  after  another.
Therefore,  we  have  reasons  for  hope.  The  eventual
adoption  by  consensus  of  the  draft  resolution  on
cooperation between the United Nations and ECCAS —
of  which  my  country  is  a  sponsor  —  would  likely
strengthen the benefits of such cooperation.
In conclusion, my delegation hopes to see all the
States  members  of  ECCAS,  without  exception,
participate actively in the preparations for holding and
following  up  the  forthcoming  international  conference
on the Great Lakes region.
Mr. Kaludjerovic (Serbia and Montenegro): It is
with  pleasure  that  I  take  this  opportunity  to  address
two specific issues on our agenda: cooperation between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Security
and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  and  cooperation
between the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
The issues on the agendas of those organizations
are closely connected; that is why cooperation between
them  is  of  vital  importance.  The  same  goes  for  their
cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  aimed  at
facilitating the resolution of some of the problems that
we  are  facing  in  today’s  Europe  —  even  more  so,
because  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security requires a multidisciplinary approach with the
participation and active contribution of a large number
of international institutions.
At this point, I would like to emphasize the very
useful  cooperation  established  among 
three
organizations  in  my  country,  especially  among  the
United  Nations,  OSCE  and  Council  of  Europe  offices
in Belgrade, Podgorica and Pristina.
the 
in 
the  strengthening  of 
As  a  partner  with  the  Government  of  Serbia  and
Montenegro,  the  OSCE  has  been  actively  involved  in
the  reform  of  election  systems,  the  judiciary  and  the
police,  and 
institutions,
particularly the role of Parliament, the rule of law and
law  enforcement.  In  southern  Serbia, 
the  OSCE
mission played a key role in containing potential ethnic
conflicts  by  creating  conditions  for 
the  peaceful
development  of  that  part  of  Serbia.  Moreover,  OSCE
has  been  a  promoter  of  regional  activities  in  border
management,  in  line  with  the  decisions  of  the  Ohrid
Conference on Balkan Border Security.
system  of 
the  United  Nations 
As stated in the Secretary-General’s report, there
is  a  special  form  of  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and OSCE and other regional organizations in
our  province  of  Kosovo  and  Metohija.  Through  the
Pillar 
Interim
Administration  Mission  in  Kosovo  (UNMIK),  the
OSCE  has  been  particularly  involved  in  institution-
building, 
the  promotion  of  human  rights,  police
training,  media  and  elections.  We  are  fully  confident
that  the  further  promotion  of  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the OSCE, as well as OSCE offices
on  the  ground,  will  contribute  to  better  minority
protection,  the  faster  return  of  refugees  and  internally
displaced  persons  and  establishment  of  the  fate  of
missing persons.
As  regards  the  United  Nations  and  Council  of
Europe, we are convinced that the further advancement
of  their  already  extensive  cooperation  will  help  avoid
overlapping of activities and enable the more efficient
use  of  resources  and  knowledge,  thus  making  it
possible  to  address  even  more  of  the  needs  of  the
countries in which they operate.
Joint  United  Nations  and  Council  of  Europe
activities  in  the  field  of  the  restoration  and  protection
of  cultural  heritage  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija  are  of
immense  importance  to  my  country,  especially  in  the
context  of  the  work  of  the  Independent  International
Commission  for  Cultural  Heritage  in  Kosovo,  jointly
A/59/PV.39
set  up  by  the  Council  of  Europe,  the  European
Commission  and  UNMIK  after  the  March  violence  in
Kosovo and Metohija. We expect that that cooperation
will  further  benefit  from  the  active  participation  of
those  organizations  at  the  forthcoming  international
donors  conference  for  the  restoration  of  destroyed
cultural  monuments  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija,  to  be
held under UNESCO auspices at the very beginning of
next year.
I would like to take this opportunity to underline
the importance of the efforts of the Council of Europe
concerning  decentralization  in  Kosovo  and  Metohija,
which in many of its aspects converges with the plan of
the Republic of Serbia.
Here  let  me  touch  on  some  activities  that  in  our
view  merit  particular  attention  and  the  need  for  a
common approach. First is the area of the fight against
organized  crime  and  border  management.  The  United
Nations and the OSCE held a joint conference devoted
to  those  issues  in  Vienna  this  year  to  promote
cooperation and assess the needs of countries in order
to strengthen their capacities in those areas.
Next,  there  is  ample  room  to  strengthen  existing
cooperation  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  by  clearly
dividing the roles among organizations and making the
best use of their complementary advantages. In the first
half of 2004, a joint United Nations-OSCE conference
devoted  to  the  fight  against  terrorism  was  held  in
Vienna.  Indeed,  on  the  OSCE  Permanent  Council’s
agenda  for  today  is  the  fight  against  terrorism  and
cooperation between United Nations and OSCE in that
regard.
The  field  of  environmental  protection 
is  a
particularly  promising  area  for  United  Nations-OSCE
cooperation, as United Nations experience can be used
to strengthen existing OSCE mechanisms in that field.
In  that  context,  a  memorandum  of  understanding
between  the  OSCE,  the  United  Nations  and  the
Economic  Commission  for  Europe  is  currently  being
worked  out  in  order  to  provide  a  legal  framework  for
future joint activities.
Of  no  less  importance  is  the  expansion  of
cooperation  between  the  Council  of  Europe  and  the
specialized agencies of the United Nations, particularly
those dealing with issues similar to those considered by
the Council of Europe, such as the Office of the United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  (UNHCR),
UNESCO  and  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
27
A/59/PV.39
in 
the  meetings  of 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  In  2003,  at  the
initiative of my country, it was agreed that the UNHCR
representative  participate 
the
Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe  and
its  working  bodies  when  issues  of  importance  to  both
organizations  were  discussed  —  such  as  refugees  and
internally displaced persons — with a view to stepping
up  cooperation  between  the  two  bodies  and  avoiding
overlap.
the  OSCE  and 
In view of the fact that the activities of the United
Nations, 
the  Council  of  Europe
converge and complement each other in many respects,
we  are  confident  that  by  strengthening  the  existing
cooperation  they  could  provide  additional  assistance
not  only  to  my  country  but  to  the  region  of  South-
Eastern Europe as a whole.
this  opportunity 
Mr.  Amayom  (Kenya):  Thank  you,  Mr.  President,
to  make  a  brief
for  giving  me 
intervention  on  cooperation  between 
the  United
Nations  and  the  African  Union  (AU),  as  well  as  on
cooperation between the United Nations and the Asian-
African Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO).
and 
other 
Regional 
organizations 
have
undoubtedly become pillars of development. They have
contributed  on  all  multisectorial  issues,  including  the
promotion  and  preservation  of  international  peace,
stability  and  security,  and  sustainable  development.
Consequently, 
those  organizations  have  gained
recognition  for  the  work  they  have  done  and  for  the
role  they  have  played  in  complementing  the  functions
of  the  United  Nations.  My  delegation  therefore  aligns
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  delegation  of
Indonesia when introducing draft resolution A/59/L.1, on
cooperation between the United Nations and AALCO.
Kenya  believes  that  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional and other organizations is
important  and  needs  to  be  encouraged.  We  hold  the
view that the challenging issues facing the world can best
be addressed collectively. My delegation appreciates the
enormous  achievement  realized  from  the  continued
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and other organizations as indicated in the report of the
Secretary General contained in document A/59/303.
The African Union has been actively involved in
the  fields  of  capacity-building,  promotion  of  peace  in
conflict  areas  and  sustainable  development  and  has
also  collaborated  with  the  United  Nations  Office  for
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  on  those
28
issues.  The  two  organizations  have  also  cooperated  in
peacekeeping,  protection  and  promotion  of  human
rights,  conflict  management,  health  and  poverty
eradication, as well as children’s issues. In that regard,
we  would  like  to  note  our  appreciation  for  the
assistance  provided  by 
in
peacekeeping  and  crisis  management  on  the  continent
of Africa.
the  United  Nations 
is 
in 
line  with 
As  a  regular 
troop-contributing  country,  we
welcome the decision by the AU to establish a standby
force.  That 
the  Brahimi  report
(A/55/305),  which  called  for  complementing  United
Nations efforts with regional peacekeeping forces. My
delegation  looks  forward  to  the  Secretary-General’s
report  on  implementation  of  the  recommendations  of
the Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations to
enhance  African  peacekeeping  capability.  We  call  on
the international community to assist the AU to realize
the establishment of that desired  force.  My  delegation
also  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  Ad  Hoc
Working Group on Conflict Prevention and Resolution
in  Africa,  which  will  undoubtedly 
strengthen
cooperation between the two organizations.
We welcome the overwhelming support accorded
to  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
initiative  by  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community.  We  take  the  view  that  the  successful
implementation  of  its  objectives,  as  well  as  the
fulfilment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  are
contingent on the support that will be accorded by our
development  partners.  The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  and
other debilitating diseases, as well as endemic poverty
and unfair trade  practices,  continue  to  militate  against
sustainable development.
We  note  with 
the
continuing  efforts  of  AALCO  towards  strengthening
the role of the United Nations and its various organs in
the  areas  of  combating  corruption, 
international
terrorism and drug trafficking, as well as human rights
issues. It is also working to enhance the rule of law, to
ensure  wider 
international
instruments and to promote the objectives and principles
set out in the United Nations Millennium Declaration.
satisfaction,  however, 
adherence 
related 
to 
In view of the important role played by AALCO,
we  support  initiatives  to  expand  and  enhance  its
cooperation with the United Nations and welcome draft
resolution  A/59/L.1,  introduced  this  morning  by  the
Ambassador of Indonesia.
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  extend  its
appreciation  to  the  Government  of  Indonesia  for
successfully hosting the forty-third session of AALCO
in  June  2003.  Kenya  has  been  honoured  with  the  task
of  taking  up  the  chairmanship  of  AALCO  for  the
period  2005-2006.  We  shall  endeavour  to  ensure
greater  cooperation  between  AALCO  and  the  United
Nations.  Consequently,  Kenya  will  be  hosting
AALCO’s forty-fourth session in Nairobi in June 2005,
at  a  time  when  the  organization  will  be  observing  its
fiftieth 
this
opportunity  to  invite  all  member  States  to  Nairobi  for
the forty-fourth session.
anniversary.  My  delegation 
takes 
In  conclusion,  Kenya  remains  supportive  of  the
Secretary-General; we must pool resources with a view
to fostering fruitful cooperation in the search for long-
term solutions to global challenges.
Mr.  Grigore 
(Republic  of  Moldova):  My
delegation  endorses 
the  statement  made  by 
the
delegation of Ukraine on behalf of the States members
of 
the  GUUAM  group  —  Georgia,  Ukraine,
Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Moldova. We would like to
address  several  additional  points  that  are  of  particular
interest to my country.
I would like to join other delegations in thanking
the Secretary-General for his comprehensive report on
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
and other organizations (A/59/303). It provides a clear
and meaningful overview, and forms an excellent basis
for  our  debate  today.  My  delegation  supports  the
approach  taken  to  conduct  a  single  joint  debate  on  all
the  agenda  items  concerning  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and regional and other organizations. It
allows  us  to  make  a  general  assessment  of  best
practices  with  a  view  to  ensuring  complementarity
between the efforts of the United Nations and regional
and other organizations in tackling the most important
issues on the global agenda, as well as to deciding on
the way forward for enhanced cooperation.
We  believe  that  the  debates  in  the  General
Assembly  on  this  issue  should  not  only  address  the
technical  issues  of  interaction  between  the  United
Nations  and  various  regional  and  other  organizations,
but  also  allow  for  scrutiny  of  the  results  of  their
common  efforts,  because  only  progress  made  towards
accomplishing  shared  goals  can  be  considered  a
measure of the effectiveness of their cooperation.
A/59/PV.39
My 
the 
remains 
the 
leading 
delegation  welcomes 
efficient
collaboration between the Secretariat, as well as United
Nations  bodies  and  agencies,  and  the  Council  of
Europe,  which 
regional
organization  in  promoting  democracy,  human  rights
and  the  rule  of  law.  The  Republic  of  Moldova,  as  the
country that held the chairmanship of the Committee of
Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  the  second  half
of 2003, is well aware of the value of this cooperation.
We also acknowledge, as does the report, the contribution
of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  to  achieving  the  major
goals and objectives of the international community, and
are  looking  forward  to  the  Second  Conference  of
Speakers of Parliaments in 2005.
As an active member of the Black Sea Economic
Cooperation  Organization  (BSEC),  the  Republic  of
Moldova appreciates the initiation of joint programmes
pertaining  to  fields  of  common  interest  for  both  the
United  Nations  and  BSEC.  We  value  the  improved
cooperation, including in the area of peace and security
on  the  African  continent,  between  the  United  Nations
and the International Organization of la Francophonie,
of which Moldova is a member.
I would like to single out the issue of cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for
Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which is
of  the  utmost  importance  for  my  country.  The  United
Nations  and  the  OSCE  have  shared  interests  on  the
European continent — to strengthen the rule of law and
democracy  and 
rights  and
fundamental  freedoms,  as  well  as  to  contribute  to
conflict prevention and post-conflict peacebuilding.
to  promote  human 
Although very concise on this issue because of its
new  format,  the  report  takes  stock  of  the  important
efforts  that  both  organizations  have  made  to  improve
their interaction, at the level of secretariats, as well as
among  their  missions  in  the  field,  as  is  the  case  in
Kosovo and Georgia. Some significant steps have also
been  taken  within  the  framework  of  the  tripartite
process  of  informal  consultations  among  the  United
Nations,  the  OSCE  and  the  Council  of  Europe  with  a
view  to  enhancing  cooperation  in  areas  such  as
combating terrorist acts and human trafficking, curbing
organized crime and corruption and fostering economic
and  environmental  cooperation.  There 
is  good
interaction  between  the  OSCE  and  the  Economic
Commission  for  Europe,  the  Office  of  the  United
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees,  the  United
Nations Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  the  Office  of  the
29
A/59/PV.39
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
and the United Nations Development Programme.
issues, 
the  OSCE  remains 
With  its  unique  and  comprehensive  approach  to
security,  stressing  human  rights,  as  well  as  political
military 
the  primary
instrument for early warning, conflict prevention, crisis
management  and  post-conflict  rehabilitation  in  the
region.  This  aspect,  however,  is  reflected  less  in  the
report,  probably  because  the  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the OSCE on the issue of conflicts
that are not dealt with by the Security Council is only
sporadic.
There  are,  however,  many  unresolved  issues  on
the OSCE security agenda that deserve close attention
from  the  United  Nations.  One  of  those  issues  is  the
continued existence of so-called frozen conflicts in the
Black  Sea-South  Caucasus  region  —  in  Moldova,
Georgia  and  Azerbaijan.  Those  conflicts  have  far-
reaching 
international  peace  and
security,  regional  stability  and  development.  Despite
OSCE  efforts,  international  mediation  has  not  been
successful  in  resolving  those  conflicts.  The  OSCE
Chairman-in-Office  acknowledged  the  threat  posed  by
the frozen conflicts during his briefing to the Security
Council  in  May  2004,  and  appealed 
to  Council
members to contribute to their resolution.
implications  for 
As my delegation has pointed out during previous
sessions,  United  Nations  bodies  and  agencies  and  the
OSCE  could  and  should  discover  new  areas  of
cooperation  to  facilitate  the  settlement  of  frozen
conflicts.  All  the  capabilities  of  both  organizations
must be used to that end; they must not be hindered by
concerns about the so-called division of labour.
It  is  increasingly  evident  that  we  must  urgently
step up joint efforts to deal with the political conflict in
the  eastern  part  of  my  country.  The  Republic  of
Moldova  has  systematically  informed  the  relevant
international organizations of the danger posed by this
protracted conflict and of our efforts to resolve it. Over
the years, the Republic of Moldova has worked in good
faith  with  all  the  actors  involved  in  the  settlement
process. While working in a spirit of compromise, the
Moldovan  authorities  have  firmly  maintained  that  any
settlement proposal or solution to the political conflict
must  be  based  on  the  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and
territorial 
the
constructive  approach  of  the  Moldovan  authorities  in
their  dialogue  with  the  self-appointed  Transdniestrian
the  country.  Despite 
integrity  of 
30
leaders  and  with  other  participants  in  the  multilateral
negotiating  framework,  the  lack  of  tangible  results  after
12 years of negotiations has demonstrated the inefficiency
of the existing regional settlement mechanism.
Also, it has become clear that the self-proclaimed
Transdniestrian  authorities  do  not  sincerely  desire  the
country’s  reintegration.  Backed  by  influential  foreign
actors,  the  separatist  leaders  have  manipulated  the
negotiating  process  towards  other  ends  than  those  set
the
initially.  The  failure 
withdrawal  of 
and
armaments,  as  stipulated  in  the  1999  Istanbul  OSCE
Summit  documents,  has  also  not  facilitated 
the
complete settlement of this political conflict.
troops,  munitions 
the  process  of 
to  end 
foreign 
in 
situation 
The  overall 
the 
region  has
in  2004,  when
significantly  worsened,  especially 
separatist  paramilitaries  continuously  attempted 
to
consolidate  their  presence  in  some  portions  of  the
security  zone  and  to  take  control  of  a  number  of
villages, railways stations and other property currently
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  constitutional  authorities.
The  separatist  regime  systematically  violates  most
human  rights,  even  children’s  right  to  education.  This
region  remains  an  area  of  illegal  production  and
trafficking  of  arms  that  are  likely  to  reach  other
conflict  zones,  a  lawless  territory  of  smuggling  and
ultimately  a  threat  to  regional  security  and  stability.
This is why the Republic of Moldova calls for a more
active and result-oriented involvement on the part of the
United  Nations  and  European  regional  organizations,  in
particular the OSCE and the European Union.
We  believe  that  it  is  essential  to  deploy  an
international monitoring mission under the auspices of
the  OSCE  and  EU  along  the  porous  Transdniestrian
segment of the eastern border of Moldova with a view
to curbing the illegal activities of the separatist regime.
We deem it necessary to modify the components of the
existing peacekeeping mechanism, which is lacking in
effectiveness and impartiality,  and  to  replace  it  with  a
new one under a clear international mandate.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  is  strongly  committed
to solving this political conflict peacefully, on the basis
of  the  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  territorial
integrity of the country. By launching an initiative for a
stability  and  security  pact  for  Moldova,  President
Vladimir Voronin invited all concerned parties to reach
consensus  in  order  to  guarantee  the  independence,
sovereignty  and  integrity  of  a  democratic  Moldovan
State, embarked upon the path to European integration.
Holding an international conference on this issue could
provide useful insights on the measures to follow.
implementation  of 
My delegation also believes that both the United
Nations and the OSCE should insist on ensuring strict
and  full 
their  resolutions  and
decisions  with  relevance  to  the  conflict  situations.
Noting  with  concern  the  halt  in  the  withdrawal  of
foreign military forces from the territory of Moldova in
2004,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  once  again  the
urgency of completing this process in accordance with
the  1999  OSCE  Summit  decisions,  which  the  General
Assembly specifically upheld by adopting the relevant
provisions  in  its  resolutions  of  1999,  2000,  2001  and
2002  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and
the OSCE.
Finally,  my  delegation  looks  forward  to  the
adoption  at  the  current  session  of  a  meaningful  and
substantive  resolution  on  the  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  OSCE  that  would  candidly
assess  the  situation  on  the  ground  and  contribute  to
solving  the  difficult  problems  existing  in  the  OSCE
region.
The Acting President: In view of the long list of
speakers still inscribed on my list, we will prolong this
evening’s meeting until 6.30 p.m.
Mr.  Aliyev  (Azerbaijan):  My  delegation  fully
associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the
representative  of  Ukraine  on  behalf  of  the  Georgia,
Uzbekistan, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Republic of Moldova
Group 
item  entitled
“Cooperation between the United Nations and regional
and  other  organizations”.  I  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity  to  present  our  national  perspective  on  the
item  under  consideration,  and  in  particular  on  sub-
items (d), (f), (n) and (p).
(GUUAM)  on 
the  agenda 
On  sub-item  (n),  the  cooperation  between  the
United  Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and
Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  we  took  note  of  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/59/303),  which  is,
regrettably, more statistical than analytical or thought-
provoking. We were surprised that, even in the reported
enumeration  of  the  joint  activities  of  the  United
Nations  and  the  Organization  for  Security  and  Co-
operation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  we  failed  to  find  any
reference 
two
organizations  in  the  field  of  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security,  except  for  counter-
the  cooperation  between 
the 
to 
A/59/PV.39
is 
logical  question 
is 
there  any  cooperation,  or  at 
the
terrorism  measures.  The 
following: 
least
interaction, between the United Nations and the OSCE,
as defined by Article 52 of Chapter VIII of the United
Nations  Charter  on  regional  arrangements  with  the
main purpose of “dealing with such matters relating to
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security”?
If  yes,  then  why  is  the  authority  to  deal  with  evident
threats to the peace and security of its Member States,
entrusted  to  the  OSCE  by  the  General  Assembly,  not
covered in the report as a matter of priority?
It  is  also  worrisome  that  both  organizations,  in
their  cooperation,  pay  inadequate  attention  to  existing
threats  to  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of
their  member  States.  Having  studied  the  report  and
other  relevant  documents  for  the  past  several  years,
Azerbaijan has not noticed any serious consideration or
assessment  of  the  settlement  processes  of  the  armed
conflicts existing in the OSCE area, or, at least, none in
the  consultations  held  on  a  regular  basis  at  all  levels
between the United Nations and the OSCE.
security 
the  OSCE  are 
Here,  I  wish  to  express  a  note  of  caution.  The
United  Nations  and 
the  only
international  organizations  that  are  responsible  for
maintaining  peace  and 
in  Azerbaijan.
Therefore,  we  are  justified  in  expecting  the  OSCE  to
fulfil its mandate and in expecting the United Nations
Security  Council  to  utilize  this  regional  arrangement
for  implementing  Council  resolutions  upholding  the
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  this  United
Nations Member State. For that reason, it is incumbent
on both organizations to respond to the appeals of their
member  States  and  effectively  counter  the  threats  to
these States’ security.
Nevertheless, it is encouraging to see the range of
activities specified in the report. They are diverse and
vary  from  putting  an  end  to  the  trafficking  of  human
beings to fighting corruption. Azerbaijan would like to
request  that  this  list  of  activities  be  substantially
amended  through  analyses  of  and  reports  on  the
achievements  and,  perhaps,  failures  of  the  negotiation
processes  seeking  to  resolve  conflicts  in  the  OSCE
area, in particular of those processes based on Security
Council 
and
implications  of 
the  peace  and
development  of  the  affected  countries  are  devastating
and  merit  serious  consideration  and  appropriate
cooperative actions by both organizations.
the  conflicts  for 
consequences 
resolutions. 
The 
31
A/59/PV.39
Another important sphere of cooperation between
the  United  Nations  and  the  OSCE  concerns  the
humanitarian dimension. Unfortunately, while this sort
of  activity  is  ongoing  in  the  field,  the  report  does  not
mention it at all.
Azerbaijan  also  believes  that  the  transition  from
relief  to  development  could  represent  a  truly  practical
opportunity  for  coordinating  the  activities  of  the
United  Nations  and  the  OSCE,  given  the  latter’s
experience 
post-conflict
rehabilitation in the Balkans.
stabilization 
and 
in 
We are pleased to see noted in the report that the
United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for  Europe
(ECE) enjoys a close working relationship with OSCE
in  the  economic  and  environmental  areas.  Azerbaijan
hopes  that  that  relationship  will  result  in  target-
oriented projects to be implemented on the ground.
Turning  to  sub-item  (d),  cooperation  of  the
the  Black  Sea  Economic
United  Nations  with 
Cooperation  Organization 
(BSEC)  offers  great
opportunities  for  fostering  growth  and  promoting
sustainable development. The role and potential of that
organization should be reviewed in light of the ongoing
development  in  the  region,  including  the  enlargement
of  the  European  Union.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the
positive  trends  in  BSEC  development.  In  our  view,
extended  inter-agency  dialogue,  partnerships  with  all
stakeholders  and  financial  support  will  have  a  direct
impact  on  BSEC  institutional  capacities  and  make  it
more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  region,  which
members are looking forward to.
in  effective  and 
We recognize the vital role inter-agency dialogue
and  collaboration  plays 
timely
implementation  of  the  development  agenda  of  the
Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization. In that
specific context, we would like to underline the role of
the United Nations. We appreciate the strengthening of
collaborative arrangements between BSEC and United
Nations system organizations and fully concur with the
recommendation  of  the  Secretary-General  to  continue
that  cooperation  in  fields  of  common  interest  and  his
call  on  the  specialized  agencies  to  formulate  and
implement joint programmes.
The  further  contribution  of  the  United  Nations
and  the  ECE  to  the  work  of  BSEC  in  the  field  of
transportation  is  crucial.  In  the  meantime,  we  look
forward to the expansion of cooperation between ECE
and BSEC to include the areas of trade facilitation and
32
sustainable energy. We would also like to highlight the
progress  in  cooperation  between  BSEC  and  the  Food
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations,
which we believe is making a good contribution to the
sustainable  development  of  agriculture  in  the  region
and,  ultimately,  to  strengthening  the  capacities  of  BSEC
member  States  in  achieving  their  common  objective  of
eradicating hunger and poverty. The dialogue between
BSEC  and  the  World  Bank  and  the  World  Trade
Organization should also be further promoted.
places 
special 
emphasis 
Azerbaijan 
on
cooperation  with  BSEC.  During  our  two  consecutive
chairmanships  of  BSEC,  we  pursued  a  priority-based
approach  and  contributed  to  translating  that  approach
into operative targets. Based on the resources available
and existing comparative advantages, we identified the
strengthening of inter-State cooperation in the fields of
energy  and  development  of  transport  networks  as
priorities.  We  fully  welcome,  therefore,  the  adoption
and further implementation of the Baku Declaration on
energy and cooperation. For our part, we are resolved to
further  contribute 
to  energy  supply  security  and
development of oil and gas pipeline networks, including
through  the  Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  pipeline,  on  which
we have recently witnessed substantive progress.
The  delegation  of  Azerbaijan  would  like  to
extend  its  support  to  the  draft  resolution  to  be
submitted  under  this  agenda  sub-item  and  invites
Member States to consider co-sponsoring it.
that 
(OIC),  Azerbaijan  believes 
Turning  to  sub-item  (p),  on  cooperation  between
the United Nations and the Organization of the Islamic
Conference 
the
determination of the United Nations and OIC to further
strengthen existing cooperation, by developing specific
proposals in designated priority areas is crucial. In that
regard,  we  welcome  the  information  contained  in  the
Secretary-General’s report, in particular concerning the
meeting held in Vienna from 13 to 15 July 2004, which
evaluated the existing United Nations-OIC cooperation
mechanisms  and  produced  a  number  of  proposals  to
enhance  that  cooperation.  In  order  to  deepen  the
relations between the two organizations and in view of
the  scope  of  the  regions  affected  by  conflicts,  we  are
convinced that the two organizations should cooperate
more closely in conflict prevention, crisis management
and post-conflict rehabilitation.
On  sub-item  (f),  regarding  cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of  Europe,  my
country  highly  appreciates  the  continued  practice  of
direct  contacts  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe,  carried  out  by  the  secretariats  and
specialized  agencies  of  both  organizations.  Both
organizations pursue the same aims and ideals, namely,
to maintain international peace and security, to develop
friendly  relations  among  nations  and 
to  achieve
international  problems,  as
cooperation 
enshrined 
the  United  Nations.
Expressing our support for the draft resolution on this
topic,  we  believe  that  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  could  cooperate  more  actively  in
conflict  prevention,  crisis  management  and  post-
conflict  peace-building,  each  of  them  through  their
own instruments. By doing so they would complement
each other’s activities.
the  Charter  of 
in  solving 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with
General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November
2002,  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Sergio  Páez,  President  of  the
Council of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Mr.  Páez  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  For  many  years,  the  Inter-Parliamentary
Union  (IPU)  has  been  engaged  in  developing  a  wide-
ranging  programme  of  cooperation  with  the  United
Nations and support for its agenda. We believe that that
is a natural evolution for two organizations that pursue
the  same  objectives,  albeit  from 
their  respective
institutional standpoints and interests.
Two  years  ago,  in  recognition  of  its  standing  as
the  world  organization  of  national  parliaments,  the
Assembly  granted  observer  status  to  the  IPU.  Since
that  time,  the  relations  between  the  two  organizations
have taken on  new  impetus  and  significance,  and  it  is
our intention to continue to build on those foundations
in the future.
This is a time when the United Nations is seeking
to  reinforce  its  links  with  the  legislative  branches  of
Government. It is not alone is seeking to do so. In fact,
it 
times.  Many  multilateral
organizations 
elected
representatives  in  the  hope  of  narrowing  the  gap
between  peoples’  hopes  and 
the  requirements  of
effective global governance.
is  a  sign  of 
are 
the 
turning 
to  publicly 
I will not dwell here on the subject of the recent
report  published  by  the  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on
United  Nations-Civil  Society  Relations,  known  as  the
Cardoso  Panel  (A/58/817  and  Corr.1).  The  matter  has
already  been  addressed  in  the  General  Assembly
A/59/PV.39
to  which 
debate.  What  is  more,  the  report  is  essentially  about
civil  society,  a  category 
the  world’s
legislatures do not belong. I would, however, like to set
out my vision of what cooperation between the United
Nations and IPU is, and what it is destined to become.
In 2000, IPU mobilized the leaders of the world’s
parliaments for a ground-breaking conference that took
place  in  this  Assembly  Hall  on  the  eve  of  the
Millennium  Summit.  The  declaration  that  emanated
from  that  historic  gathering  stressed  the  wish  of  the
world’s  parliaments 
international
cooperation,  with  the  United  Nations  and  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  at  the  core  of  their  efforts,  and
that  point  was  acknowledged  by  the  world’s  heads  of
State and Government.
to  contribute 
to 
its 
first 
five-year 
As  we  approach  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the
Millennium,  IPU  is  preparing  once  again  to  mobilize
speakers  and  presiding  officers  of  parliaments  for  the
second  World  Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliaments,
to be held here in New York in September 2005. I need
not tell you that the year 2005 will be an important one
in  the  history  of  this  world  Organization.  The  United
Nations will be celebrating its sixtieth anniversary and
carrying  out 
the
Millennium  Declaration.  It  will  thus  be  a  time  when
the  Organization  will  be  gauging  its  own  progress  on
reform,  which  has  become  a  matter  of  increasing
urgency for its membership.
context, 
that
parliamentarians help to bring about change and play a
more  dynamic  and  decisive  role  in  all  fields  of
international  cooperation,  in  addition  to  supporting  a
multilateralism 
and
comprehensive.  In  that  context,  the  second  World
Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliaments,  to  be  held  in
2005, will be of singular importance.
review  of 
is  more 
important 
effective 
that 
that 
In 
it 
is 
its  goals,  make 
its  case  and  meet 
In  the  effort  to  assist  the  United  Nations  to
achieve 
its
challenges,  parliamentary  bodies  constitute  a  rich
resource  and  an  invaluable  institutional  support.  The
success  achieved  to  date  in  the  implementation  of  the
Millennium Development Goals already owes much to
them.  That  is  why  we  believe  that  the  report  that  we
will  be  presenting  on  the  structure  and  functioning  of
context 
parliamentary  mechanisms 
of
multilateral  cooperation  will  be  both 
timely  and
valuable for the international system.
the 
in 
33
political  thought  held  a  rich  and  active  exchange  of
views.
the 
and 
the  United  Nations 
Through this multiplicity of activities, as set forth
the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  cooperation
in 
between 
Inter-
Parliamentary  Union,  as  well  as  others  to  which  I
referred earlier, the IPU is bringing the parliaments to
the  United  Nations,  and  the  United  Nations  to  the
parliaments.  Throughout  we  have  maintained  that  this
is  a  two-way  relationship.  One  the  one  hand,  the  IPU
mobilizes 
those  parliamentarians  with  practical
expertise in dealing with specific issues and helps them
interact  with  each  other  and  with  relevant  United
Nations bodies. On the other, the United Nations takes
steps  to  improve  understanding  and  knowledge  of  its
aims and objectives, thereby enabling parliamentarians
to serve as its political arm.
I  feel  in  duty  bound  to  take  this  opportunity  to
reiterate the IPU’s commitment systematically and with
the  necessary  political  resolve  to  work  every  day  to
strengthen  peace  processes  the  world  over,  promoting
formal education in support of lasting peace and taking
initiatives  to  ensure  peaceful  coexistence  at  the  local
and global levels.
Collective  security  is  today  a  specific  moral
imperative  and  a  pressing  need  on  the  part  of  our
peoples,  to  which  we  must  respond  quickly  and
effectively.  This  solid  and  tangible  commitment  to
peace and collective security will be a key priority for
the  world’s  parliaments, 
their
humanistic principles and their fundamental values and
with  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations.
in  keeping  with 
The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m.
A/59/PV.39
Against the backdrop of those broader questions,
it  should  not  be  forgotten  that  the  IPU  is  an  action-
oriented organization — one that is constantly aware of
people’s day-to-day needs. Indeed, the IPU is involved
whenever major political nation-building initiatives are
under way and whenever the United Nations is hard at
work helping countries emerge from conflict. That was
the  case,  for  example,  in  Timor-Leste,  where  we
worked  hard  to  help  establish  the  new  Legislative
Assembly. An IPU needs-assessment mission will be in
Afghanistan  assisting  in  a  programme  aimed  at  the
consolidation  of  the  new  Parliament  in  Kabul.  Yet
another mission will be in Amman, working with Iraq’s
Interim  Assembly  in  preparing  the  ground  for  the
Constitutional  Assembly  that  will,  God  willing,  be
elected at the beginning of next year.
Drawing  on  this  extensive  practical  experience
and  on  the  efforts  made  by  the  IPU  over  the  years  to
develop  the  normative  aspects  of  democracy,  we  are
also working on a systematic framework of democracy
indicators  within  countries.  The  framework 
thus
legitimate 
created  will 
representation
mechanisms 
institutional  practices  of
parliaments  that  allow  them  to  operate  as  effective
legislative and oversight institutions.
identify 
the 
and 
Over the past two days, the Annual Parliamentary
Hearing  at  the  United  Nations,  which  traditionally
brings  together  the  members  of  Parliament  present  in
the General Assembly, has been debating the theme of
disarmament, 
post-conflict
reconstruction.
lasting 
peace 
and 
Speakers of Parliaments, legislators from all over
the world, high-level officials from the United Nations
and  eminent  experts  representing  a  broad  range  of
34
