United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
36th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 19 October 2004, 3 p.m.
New York

A/59/PV.36
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Aliyev
(Azerbaijan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 38 and 46 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress
in implementation and international support
(a) New Partnership for Africa’s Development:
progress in implementation and international
support
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/206)
(b) Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable
peace and sustainable development in Africa
Report of the Secretary-General (A/59/285)
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/261)
Mr. Bshaina (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya) (spoke in
Arabic):  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  President
for  organizing  this  very  important  meeting.  I  also
express  our  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his
interest  in  African  issues  and  his  ongoing  efforts  to
establish  and  strengthen  peace  and  to  promote  all
development initiatives in Africa.
African  heads  of  State  and  Government  reaffirm
their  resolve  and  total  commitment  to  the  success  of
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD).  They  have  pledged  to  undertake  effective
and specific actions to implement NEPAD, which they
view  as  a  truly  African  initiative  that  responds  to  all
their aspirations for full development.
in 
the 
The  convening  of  this  meeting  to  review  both
progress 
implementation  of  NEPAD  and
international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  clearly
demonstrates  that  the  international  community  is  now
trying  to  meet  Africa’s  needs  and  to  implement  the
commitments  and  the  declarations  adopted  in  many
international  forums,  in  particular  the  Millennium
Declaration.
Africa  knows  that,  first  and  foremost,  it  is  up  to
Africans  to  carry  out  NEPAD.  However,  international
support  is  crucial.  Thus,  we  urge  the  United  Nations
and the international community as a whole to work for
the  attainment  of  the  NEPAD  objectives  by  taking
practical,  concrete  steps  such  as  mobilizing  financial
resources,  implementing  pledges  and  commitments,
increasing  official  development  assistance  and  direct
investment  and  reducing  the  debt  burden.  Other  steps
should include a new initiative giving African exports
access  to  world  markets,  in  particular  the  markets  of
developed  countries,  assistance 
for  strengthening
human  resources,  in  particular  through  investment  in
the  areas  of  health  and  education,  drinking  water  and
the  creation  of  infrastructure  necessary  for  economic
development.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-56312 (E)
*0456312*
A/59/PV.36
To make this new partnership truly effective and
positive, our partners must first respect the will, history
and  culture  of  Africans.  That  means  not  imposing  on
countries  political  or  other  conditions  or  impositions
that  ignore  the  specificities  and  distinctiveness  of
African  societies  or  that  do  not  take  into  account  the
fact that development is a historical process and cannot
be achieved by making political decisions.
Secondly, priority must be given to infrastructure
projects,  in  particular  communications  projects  and
projects  creating  good  road  networks  that  would  help
development  in  all  its  aspects.  That  will  promote
stability and strengthen peace and security in Africa.
Thirdly,  special  attention  should  be  given  to
projects  that  improve  water  resources.  We  need  to
promote  the  best  possible  use  of  all  Africa’s  water
resources  for  various  purposes,  such  as  agriculture,  in
order  to  radically  solve  food  supply  problems  and  to
end poverty in all African countries.
is  a  need 
to  eliminate  all
restrictions  on  technology  transfers  for  development
activities of a socio-economic nature.
Fourthly, 
there 
Fifthly, the African tragedy needs to be taken into
account. Over the past centuries, we have suffered the
pillaging  of  African  material  resources.  Bear  in  mind
the role that those resources played in the development
of some countries.
it  by 
Sixthly,  our  partners  in  the  donor  community
should  realize  that  in  contributing  to  the  financing  of
this partnership they are benefiting their own societies
materially  and  socially.  Reducing  emigration  or
preventing 
legislative  and  administrative
measures  will  not  serve  a  purpose.  Investing  in
development projects in the countries where emigration
originates would help keep people in place and prevent
mass migration to other countries. Seven, dealing with
one  of    the  most  serious  problems  facing  Africa:  the
brain  drain  of 
the  developed
countries,  due  to  a  number  of  interlocking  factors.
Creating  a  favourable  environment 
in  Africa  for
African  talent  so  that  those  people  can  play  the  role
intended  for  them  by  their  countries,  which  spend  a
great  deal  of  money  on  their  education,  would  be
beneficial  for  NEPAD  and  would  enable  us  to  avoid
untold losses and expenses.
towards 
its 
talent 
Mr.  Sardenberg
(Brazil):  The  Brazilian
delegation associates itself with the statement made by
2
the Permanent Representative of Qatar on behalf of the
Group of 77 and China.
My delegation also wishes to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  two  reports  on  the  items  we  are
discussing today — and yesterday — namely, the New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable
peace and sustainable development in Africa.
Since  last  year’s  report  (A/58/352)  and  debate,
some  further  progress  has  been  achieved,  both  in  the
implementation  of  NEPAD  and  in  the  promotion  of
peace  in  Africa,  as  highlighted  in  the  reports  and
acknowledged by many previous speakers.
stakeholders, 
Brazil  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate  all  those  who  were  responsible  for  those
achievements,  mainly  African 
the
Secretary-General  and  the  United  Nations  system,  as
well  as  Africa’s  development  partners.  We  wish  to
convey a special message of recognition and support to
the  African  Union,  its  previous  Chairman,  President
Joaquim  Chissano  of  Mozambique,  and  its  current
Chairman,  President  Olusegun  Obasanjo  of  Nigeria,
and  his  African  peers  for  their  commitments  to  the
the
advancement 
establishment  of 
sustainable
development  by  ensuring  peace  and  security  in  the
whole Continent.
in 
the  conditions 
particular 
for 
of  NEPAD, 
In  that  connection,  Brazil  highly  praises  and
welcomes the unequivocal determination of the African
Union  to  resolve  the  crisis  in  Darfur,  which  we
consider  to  be  a  laudable  and  timely  act  of  African
ownership and leadership.
In  his  report  (A/59/285),  as  many  delegations
have stressed, the Secretary-General acknowledges that
fewer countries in Africa are now suffering civil strife
or  conflict.  That  welcome  development  nonetheless
takes  place  in  the  context  of  the  perseverance  of
several situations of instability that must be adequately
addressed,  preferably  by  means  of  conflict-prevention
or peacebuilding mechanisms aimed mainly at the root
causes of the conflicts.
Providing 
for  a  common  understanding  of
potentially  risky  situations  that  can  be  addressed  in  a
peaceful  manner  is,  in  our  view,  a  clear  improvement
in 
the  African
continent, bearing in mind that post-conflict situations
and internal turmoil can easily turn into new conflicts
terms  of  building  relations  with 
if  a  number  of  measures  and  policies  are  not
implemented in a timely fashion.
It is certainly a positive development that, today,
there  is  a  clear  recognition  that  Africa,  in  partnership
with  the  international  community,  has  better  equipped
to manage — and preferably avoid — conflicts on the
continent’s  soil.  That  is  so,  first  of  all,  because
democracy  is  highly  valued  on  the  continent  and
democratic  African  Governments  are  fully  committed
to  encouraging  their  brothers  and  sisters  to  join  the
democratic world and share the dividends of peace and
security  in  a  democratic  system.  Through  concerted
efforts  either  by  the  African  Union  or  by  regional
organizations,  all  corners  of  the  continent  are  now
under the close scrutiny of responsible African leaders
who  do  not  hesitate  to  provide  their  support  for
building peace and promoting democracy.
Nonetheless,  for  peace  and  democracy  to  be
sustained,  democratic  Governments  must  be  able  to
address  the  high  expectations  and  legitimate  demands
of  their  peoples  in  terms  of  development,  since  both
social  and  economic  development  and  democracy  are
highly  prized  values  on  the  continent,  and  since  both
are  closely  associated.  Development  and  democracy
must come hand in hand to the continent, and the New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  is  the
appropriate  framework  to  provide  them  with  the
necessary  impetus.  The  international  community  and
all  those  who  support  NEPAD  should  devote  equal
attention and priority to both issues.
Secondly,  conflicts  can  be  managed  or  avoided,
since  many  helpful  assessments  exist 
regarding
remedies  to  be  applied  to  different  situations.  After
decades  of  trying  to  apply  the  same  prescriptions  to
different  maladies,  the  international  community  and
Africans  themselves  are  fully  aware  of  best  practices
social
and 
management  policies  have 
in
accordance  with  the  needs  of  each  country  and  each
circumstance.  Again,  the  partnership  with  African
organizations provided by NEPAD is the best course of
action to be followed.
specific  hindrances.  Economic  and 
to  be  developed 
As  a  non-permanent  member  of  the  Security
Council, Brazil is now witnessing increasing efforts by
Council  members,  together  with  the  Secretariat,  to
develop  multidisciplinary  mandates  for  peacekeeping
operations  tailored  to  each  situation.  There  is  a  long
way  to  go  before  these  operations  can  better  address
A/59/PV.36
the  need  to  properly  manage  the  challenges  of  peace
and  security  and 
the  creation  of  a  sustainable
environment  for  development  and  long-term  stability.
However,  as  mentioned  in  the  Secretary-General’s
report,  the  partnership  that  is  being  built  between  the
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council
gives us all hope that we are on the right path.
to  marshal 
Unfortunately,  recent  developments  in  Guinea-
Bissau  show  us  that,  despite  laudable  efforts  by  the
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory
Group  on  Guinea-Bissau 
increased
international  support  —  in  particular  financial  and
economic support — for that country, the resurgence of
instability could not be avoided. Brazil regrets that the
response  of  the  international  community  to  the  many
steps taken by the authorities of Guinea-Bissau towards
democracy  was  not  sufficient.  The  only  possible
solution  must  therefore  be  found  through  sustaining
our 
the
recommendations  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Group  on
Guinea-Bissau  concerning  renewed  support  for  that
country,  including  by  revising  the  mandate  of  the
in
United  Nations  Peace-building  Support  Office 
Guinea-Bissau 
the
capabilities  of  the  United  Nations  system  in  the
country 
increased  bilateral
assistance.
in  coordination  with 
implementing 
(UNOGBIS) 
and 
increasing 
efforts 
and 
fully 
As  mentioned  yesterday  by  the  representative  of
India  (see  A/59/PV.33),  the  India-Brazil-South  Africa
initiative  has  selected  Guinea-Bissau  as  the  first
beneficiary  of  a  programme  of  cooperation  to  be
undertaken by the three countries. We are ready to start
implementing this programme, and we would like other
Member States to join us. Without urgent international
support,  Guinea-Bissau  may  not  be  able  to  surmount
the  current  obstacles  it  faces  in  advancing  in  its
transitional phase towards democracy and peace.
We highly appreciated the recent report prepared
by  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  for  Africa  on
South-South cooperation. Many of the initiatives taken
by  Brazil  are  listed  in  the  document.  Brazil 
is
launching programmes in Africa, mainly together with
Portuguese-speaking  countries,  that  are  closely  linked
to  the  priorities  of  NEPAD.  Literacy  and  education;
health,  particularly  in  the  area  of  prevention  and
treatment  of  HIV/AIDS;  job  creation;  agriculture;  and
science  and  technology:  those  are  some  of  the  areas
covered  by  bilateral  and  multilateral  programmes  of
the
cooperation,  many  of 
them  conceived  under 
3
A/59/PV.36
auspices  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-Speaking
Countries (CPLP).
Moreover, in 2004, CPLP countries will hold the
fourth  round  of  joint  military  exercises  among  the
armed  forces  of  all  member  States,  five  of  which  are
African. We believe this is an important contribution to
enhancing  African  capabilities  regarding  preparation
and capacity-building for participation in peacekeeping
operations. Brazil is strengthening its cooperation links
with  other  African  countries  as  well,  particularly  in
agriculture and health. However, allow me to stress our
understanding  that  the  strongest  ties  between  Brazil
and  Africa  are  still  being  developed  in  multilateral
forums.  By  forging  strong  alliances  with  African
countries  in  international  negotiations,  such  as  those
conducted  in  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the
World  Health  Organization,  regarding,  for  instance,
market access and drug licenses, Brazil believes we are
actively  supporting  African  efforts 
the
implementation of NEPAD.
towards 
We 
that 
fully 
recognize 
efforts  by 
the
international community complement those taken at the
national level. That is the reason we insist on the need
for a free and more equitable multilateral trade system
in  order  to  generate  the  jobs  and  wealth  that  are
essential for the development of countries in Africa, as
well as in Latin America and parts of other continents.
Lastly,  allow  me  to  recall  the  initiative  launched
by  President  Lula  and  his  counterparts  from  France,
Chile  and  Spain,  concerning  the  fight  against  hunger
and poverty. Twenty-six African countries have joined
the  initiative  and  await  its  development.  Eradicating
food  deficiencies  and  ending  poverty  are  our  main
goals.  As  President  Lula  stated  in  September  here  in
New York, African countries and peoples are the ones
who  will  profit  the  most  from  the  positive  results  we
are  expecting  from  this  effort  of  the  international
community,  an  effort  that  has  been  embraced  by  120
countries.  Brazil  is  fully  engaged  in  the  campaign
against  hunger  and  poverty,  which  is  the  first  of  the
Millennium Development Goals.
In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  stress  that  the  Brazilian
delegation looks forward to the report of the High-level
Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change.  We  hope
that the report will provide a major contribution to the
ongoing  discussion  on  ways  of  strengthening  the
United  Nations  through  reform  of  its  institutions  and
processes.  We  are  sure  that  an  expanded  Security
4
Council,  with  permanent  members  from  Africa,  Latin
America  and  other  regions,  will  increase  the  chances
for African peace and development.
itself  with 
Mr.  Moutari  (Niger)  (spoke  in  French):  The
delegation  of  Niger  associates 
the
statements  made  yesterday  by  Qatar  on  behalf  of  the
Group of 77 and China and by Nigeria on behalf of the
African  Union.  We  echo  the  praise  and  appreciation
expressed for the reports submitted to us under agenda
items  38  and  46.  Those  reports  clearly  reflect  the
efforts  made  by  Africa  and  its  partners  in  conflict
settlement, 
the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and in
the  struggle  against  malaria  and  also  underscore  the
current and future challenges.
implementation  of 
the 
in 
is  by 
My  delegation  will  not  dwell  on  the  content  of
the  reports,  as  they  have  already  been  analysed  in  the
statements  to  which  I  just  referred.  I  will  simply  add
that  the  decision  taken  to  jointly  discuss  NEPAD,  the
causes  of  conflict  in  Africa  and  malaria  seems  to  us
extremely appropriate. I would like to say how pleased
Niger 
initiatives  being
undertaken  by  the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special
Adviser  for  Africa,  Mr.  Ibrahim  Gambari,  to  promote
NEPAD  within  the  United  Nations  system  and  with
Africa’s  partners.  These 
should  be
encouraged  through  substantial  financial  support  and
the effective strengthening of the Office of the Special
Adviser.
the  many 
initiatives 
timely 
organizations 
In spite of the progress achieved in the settlement
of conflicts in Africa, six hotbeds of tension remain: in
Côte  d’Ivoire,  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo,  in  Burundi,  in  the  Sudan,  in  Western  Sahara
and  between  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia.  The  countries  and
regional 
have  made
commendable  efforts to promote peace, through peace
agreements  or  by  establishing  structures  such  as  the
Peace and Security Council, the Committee of the Wise
and a continental early-warning body. The international
community  must  strongly  support  these  initiatives
through  appropriate  contributions,  both  financial  and
logistical.
of  Africa 
the  conflict 
With  respect  to 
in  Darfur,  we
welcome the support given by the United Nations, and
particularly  by  the  Security  Council  and  its  members,
to the African Union mediation efforts under the aegis
of  President  Olusegun  Obasanjo  of  Nigeria.  However,
we 
that  humanitarian
feel  compelled 
recall 
to 
assistance must be strengthened not only for the Darfur
region  but  also  for  the  Republic  of  Chad,  whose
enormous  sacrifices  are  often  forgotten  as  it  bears  the
burden  of  over  200,000  refugees  from  the  Sudan,
which  could  endanger  the  internal  stability  that  it  has
so painstakingly achieved.
the 
capacities 
of 
and 
good 
democracy 
strengthening 
Together with timely peace efforts, many African
countries have endeavoured to  eliminate the causes  of
conflict  by  seeking  broader  participation  of  their
populations  in  public  affairs,  by  consolidating  and
expanding 
governance,
guaranteeing  the  independence  of  the  justice  system
and 
their
administrations.  We  believe  that  it  would  be  fair  for
these  countries  in  return  to  reap  the  dividends  of
democracy  that  are  so  often  promised.  For  those
countries,  official  development  assistance  should  be
increased  and  accompanied  by  a  greater  openness  of
the  markets  of  the  industrialized  countries  to  their
products,  through  the  dismantling  of  tariff  and  non-
tariff  obstacles  and  through  initiatives  such  as  the
African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Act.  To  supplement
this North-South endeavour, it would be appropriate to
more forcefully encourage South-South cooperation in
fields as important to the implementation of NEPAD as
education,  water, 
and
technology.
agriculture 
and 
science 
I take this opportunity to express Niger’s heartfelt
thanks  to  the  developing  countries  that  are  already
giving us considerable assistance each year in the form
of  admissions  or  scholarships  to  their  educational
institutions.  Those  admissions  amount  to  more  than
1,000  for  a  country  such  as  the  Federal  Republic  of
Nigeria, and to hundreds for countries such as Algeria,
Burkina  Faso,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Egypt,  Mali,  Morocco,
Pakistan,  Senegal  and  Tunisia,  to  mention  just  a  few.
Other  countries,  such  as  the  People’s  Republic  of
China,  give  us  considerable  support,  inter  alia  by
helping us in our efforts to provide drinking water for
all.  Those 
if
demonstration  were  needed  — 
that  South-South
cooperation has enormous potential that still remains to
be mobilized and placed at the service of NEPAD.
examples  demonstrate  — 
few 
Yesterday,  the  representative  of  India  described
two initiatives that seemed to us particularly worthy of
support.  One  relates  to  the  linkage  of  53  African
countries  through  satellite  and  fibre-optic  networks.
The  other  relates  to  the  transfer  of  technology  to
Western  Africa.  In  addition,  the  tripartite  initiative  of
A/59/PV.36
India,  Brazil  and  South  Africa  (IBSA)  deserves  to  be
supported and made more widespread.
Another sector that could help give impetus to the
implementation  of  NEPAD  is  the  mobilization  of
African  expatriates  who,  according  to  some  statistics,
are already providing over $43 billion to the continent.
In  addition  to  these  financial  resources,  their  talents
can and should be channelled appropriately towards the
economic development of Africa.
In  conclusion,  I  would 
three
comments  that  relate  to  points  made  in  the  report.  I
believe  these  are  of  particular  importance.  First,  the
United  Nations  should  have  additional 
financial
resources,  because  the  lack  of  financing  limits  United
Nations action at the very time when the Organization
is called upon to undertake a growing number of joint
programmes and new initiatives.
to  make 
like 
Secondly, the United Nations system should make
use of existing coordination mechanisms at all levels to
strengthen  the  coherence  of  the  support  given  to
NEPAD.
Thirdly,  development  partners  must  create  an
international  environment  that  is  conducive  to  the
growth  and  development  of  Africa  and  ensure  that
trade, assistance and debt policies are consistent, which
is vital so that the African countries can at last benefit
directly from international decisions in those fields.
in 
the
implementation  of  and  international  support  for  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),
as  described  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General
(A/59/206), is as exciting as it is timely.
(Grenada):  Progress 
Mr.  Stanislaus
The  New  Partnership  recalls  what  Victor  Hugo
wrote more than a century ago: “There is nothing more
powerful  than  an  idea  whose  time  has  come”.  If  this
idea with respect to Africa’s development is translated
into  reality,  the  twenty-first  century  could  very  well
become  the  century  of  Africa.  That  presupposes,
however,  that  the  requirements  of  the  Partnership  will
be  fulfilled  and  that  the  commitments  made  will  be
honoured, based upon the following precepts. First, the
primary  responsibility  for  NEPAD’s  ownership  is
vested  in  Africa.  Secondly,  the  developed  partners,
especially those countries that have had a historical and
economic involvement in Africa from which they have
profited for many centuries, must now “come up to the
plate  and  bat”  for  the  development  of  the  continent.
5
A/59/PV.36
Thirdly,  peace  and  security  are  vital  to  Africa’s
development,  and  in  that  connection  Africa  bears
primary  responsibility  for  assuring  that  the  causes  of
conflict  are  mitigated.  Fourthly,  the  African  Peer
Review  Mechanism  affords  the  best  hope  for  the
aforementioned  by  ensuring 
that  a  culture  of
prevention takes precedence over a culture of reaction.
Fifthly, 
improved  coordination  and  collaboration
among United Nations organs and agencies, such as the
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United
the  United  Nations
Nations  Children’s  Fund, 
Environment  Programme, 
the  United  Nations
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  the
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the
International  Labour  Organization,  to  mention  a  few,
are  indispensable  to  NEPAD’s  success.  Sixthly,  and
most  important,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
can serve as a blueprint for Africa’s development.
NEPAD  cannot  be  promulgated  successfully
without some passing reference to the history and early
civilization of Africa, much of which  has  been  lost  to
antiquity,  through  no  fault  of  Africa’s.  Nevertheless,
since the past is the best prophet of the future, NEPAD
must  take  into  account  the  wealth,  wisdom  and
womanhood  potential  of  Mother  Africa.  This  can
provide  a  solid  foundation  and  can  be  the  lodestar  in
the new development partnership arrangement.
In light of the above, my delegation can envisage
Africa as the breadbasket of the world if its potential is
developed  and  utilized  properly.  Add  to  this  Africa’s
geographical  position  as  the  most  centrally  located  of
all  the  continents,  and  we  have  the  makings  of  an
awakened giant with limitless possibilities.
As  part  of  the  separated  brethren  of  the  African
diaspora,  brought  about  by  the  forced  dispersion  of  a
people  with  whom  my  delegation  has  a  common
ancestry,  a  common  history,  and  a  common  struggle,
my  delegation  remains  excited  about  the  success  of
NEPAD.  Even  with  Grenada’s  very  limited  resources
and its present heavy rebuilding responsibilities due to
the  ravages  of  Hurricane  Ivan,  Grenada  pledges  its
support for NEPAD in whatever way possible.
Returning  to  the  theme  of  “an  idea  whose  time
has come”, I want to suggest that the time has come for
the  Caribbean  Community  to  forge  a  loose  structural
arrangement  here  at  the  United  Nations  with  the
African Group. We have so much in common by reason
of consanguinity, affinity and spiritual relationship that
6
we  can  no  longer  afford  to  let  the  opportunity  for
closer association go by.
Let  me  conclude  with  the  inspirational  words
uttered  by  a  great  pan-African  Jamaican 
leader,
Mr. Marcus  Mosiah  Garvey,  here  in  New  York  at  the
beginning of the twentieth century, during a meeting of
what  was 
Improvement
Association,  where  he  said,  “Up  you  mighty  people.
Climb Jacob’s ladder, higher, higher, higher.”
the  United  Negro 
then 
Mr.  Mahiga  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  At
the outset I would like to  thank  the  Secretary-General
for  his  comprehensive  reports  contained  in  documents
A/59/206  and  A/59/261.  We  find  the  information
contained in the reports very informative and valuable.
We  would  also  like  to  associate  ourselves  with
the  statements  made  by  Nigeria,  on  behalf  of  African
Union,  and  Qatar,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  77  and
China.
its  positive  response 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the
United  Nations  for 
the
implementation  of  activities  in  Africa  related  to  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).
Tanzania  recognizes  the  significance  of  NEPAD’s
development framework in complementing the political
vision of the African Union, as well as its institutional
architecture.  NEPAD  underscores  the  importance  of
economic  development  in  addressing  some  of  the
underlying  causes  of  conflicts  in  Africa  and  the
necessity  of 
economic
development in order for peace and stability to prevail
in  Africa.  It  was  therefore  a  logical  and  necessary
decision  by  African  leaders  to  make  NEPAD  an
integral part of the African Union.
sustainable 
social 
in 
and 
and 
development 
In  the  context  of  the  ongoing  socio-economic
reforms  and  the  Government’s  Development  Vision
2025,  Tanzania  has  drafted  priority  programmes  for
promoting  and  implementing  the  NEPAD  agenda.
Tanzania  has  integrated  NEPAD  into  its  national
policies 
through
institutional  arrangements  to  manage  the  process  at
sectoral  and  national  levels  and  through  national  and
regional development programmes and projects. There
are five pivotal sectoral committees, two of which are
related  to  peace,  security  and  good  governance,  while
three  are  in  the  areas  of  infrastructure  and  social  and
economic development. These sectoral committees are
coordinated  by  the  President’s  Office  in  order  to
framework 
provide  NEPAD  with  the  needed  technical  attention
and political guidance.
Consistent with its political and public reforms at
home  to  institutionalize  democracy,  good  governance,
transparency  and  accountability,  Tanzania  joined  the
African Peer Review Mechanism on 8 July 2004. This
decision  was  announced  at  the  Summit  of  African
Heads of State  and  Government  held  in  Addis  Ababa.
Tanzania  believes  that,  in  the  spirit  of  sovereign
equality and mutual trust, the Peer Review Mechanism
is  a  very  useful  tool  for  consolidating  the  values  of
democracy and respect for human rights in Africa as a
basis  for  development,  as  well  as  for  consolidating
peace, stability and solidarity in Africa.
In the areas of infrastructure, trade, industry  and
related  activities,  Tanzania  has  given  priority 
to
NEPAD  programmes  and  projects  which  complement
national  development  priorities  and  promote  regional
integration  and  cooperation  in  Southern  and  East
Africa.  Such  projects 
regional
integration; 
income
contribute 
generation and wealth creation; reflect higher regional
content  and  geographical  balance;  consolidate  peace
and  enhance  regional  harmony;  and  fulfil  basic  social
needs and poverty reduction objectives.
should  enhance 
employment, 
to 
It  should  be  noted  that  while  integrating  and
implementing  the  NEPAD  agenda,  Tanzania  has  also
integrated  the  objective  of  achieving  the  Millennium
Development Goals at national levels with the support
of  NEPAD  programmes  in  areas  such  as  poverty
eradication, 
and  malaria
eradication.
fighting  HIV/AIDS 
In  its  resolution  58/237  of  23  December  2003,
entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa”,  the
General  Assembly  took  note  of  the  plan  of  action  on
the Roll Back Malaria initiative, which was adopted at
the  Extraordinary  Summit  of  Heads  of  States  and
Government of the Organization of African Unity, held
in  Abuja  in  the  year  2000, and  which  is contained  in
the Abuja Declaration.
The  resolution  called  upon  the 
international
community  to  continue  to  support  the  Roll  Back
Malaria partner  organizations,  including  the  World
Health  Organization 
vital
complementary  sources  of  support  for  the  efforts  of
malaria-endemic countries to combat the disease.
and  UNICEF, 
as 
A/59/PV.36
In  Africa,  malaria  is  the  second  largest  killer  of
our people, especially children, taking more lives than
HIV/AIDS.  Malaria  is  the  leading  cause  of  outpatient
and  inpatient  health  services  attendance  for  all  ages
and  the  leading  cause  of  death  in  both  children  and
adults  in  all  regions  of  Tanzania.  In  Tanzania,  the
disease 
indirectly
responsible  for  about  16  million  malaria  episodes  and
125,000 deaths per year, of which 70,000 to 80,000 are
children under five years of age.
to  be  directly  or 
is  believed 
The  onset  and  spread  of  HIV/AIDS  has
compounded the fight against malaria. Malaria  further
weakens  the  immune  system  and,  as  a  result,  people
infected  by  HIV  are  more  susceptible  to  malaria.
Children who have acquired the infection from mothers
are  the  most  vulnerable  and  succumb  to  death  faster.
The  combination  of  malaria,  HIV  and  tuberculosis
infection  is  lethal  and  ought  to  be  attacked  in  an
integrated manner by  Governments, non-governmental
organizations and the private sector.
The President took the Chair.
In  implementing  Millennium  Development  Goal
6, and in the spirit of the Abuja Declaration, Tanzania
has  been  in  the  forefront  of  the  war  on  malaria.  We
have waived taxes on mosquito nets and other products
for  the  containment  and  rolling  back  of  malaria.  We
have received the support of the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  which  has  enabled
Tanzania 
insecticide-impregnated
mosquito nets that have significantly reduced infection
among pregnant women and babies. However, we have
learned that all those efforts can only succeed if people
avail 
the
international  community  redoubles  its  efforts  to  assist
the malaria-affected countries such as Tanzania. In that
regard,  an  advocacy  and  awareness  campaign  to  fight
malaria  is  an  important  undertaking  that  deserves
serious consideration by us all.
those  opportunities  and 
themselves  of 
subsidize 
to 
The  importance  of  developing  effective  vaccines
and new medicines to prevent and treat malaria and the
need for further research can never be overemphasized.
We reiterate the call by the Assembly at its fifty-eighth
session  to  pharmaceutical  companies  to  take  note  of
the 
combination
treatments  for  malaria,  particularly  in  Africa,  and  to
form  alliances  and  partnerships  to  help  ensure  that  all
people  at  risk  have  access  to  prompt,  affordable,
quality treatment.
increasing  need 
effective 
for 
7
A/59/PV.36
Finally,  Tanzania  commends  and  appreciates  the
international  response  garnered  by  United  Nations
efforts  to  combat  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  The  Global
Fund  is  also  a  useful  mechanism,  but  as  we  all  know,
the  resources  thus  far  made  available  to  it  lag  far
behind  the  needs  and  challenges  posed  by  those  two
scourges.  We  urge  and  encourage  deliberate  and  bold
initiatives,  spearheaded  by  the  United  Nations,  to
invest  more 
in  curative
medicines and preventive vaccines for both HIV/AIDS
and  malaria.  The  world  has  dedicated  scientists  who
only  require  concerted  political  encouragement  and
resources to bring their talents to bear in liberating the
world from those serious threats to human security and
sustainable development.
resources 
research 
for 
for  his  comprehensive 
for  Africa’s  Development: 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  We  thank  the
report
Secretary-General 
in  document  A/59/206,  entitled  “New
contained 
Partnership 
second
consolidated report on progress in implementation and
international  support”.  It  is  our  view  that  that  report
the
provides  useful 
implementation 
under
consideration.
the  progress  of 
insight 
of 
agenda 
item 
into 
the 
We  associate  ourselves  with 
the  statements
delivered by the representative of Nigeria, on behalf of
the African Union, and by the representative of Qatar,
on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
to  be  supported  by 
We  all  know  that  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development (NEPAD) is an African initiative
that  needs 
international
community. We thank the United Nations for the steps
taken  so  far  towards  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,
particularly 
the  adoption  of  General  Assembly
resolution  57/7,  which  gave  special  momentum  to  the
process.  It  is  that  kind  of  process  and  impulse  that
African countries expect to see in the years ahead.
the 
Though it provides us with important information
on  the  actions  taken  so  far,  the  Secretary-General’s
report  clearly  recognizes  that  a  lot  more  still  needs  to
be done. African countries are determined to gradually
achieve  policy  coherence  in  the  implementation  of
NEPAD. Above all, we are all making an effort to align
budgetary expenditures with NEPAD priorities.
Angola  recognizes  and  commends  the  efforts
undertaken  by  the  Special  Adviser  on  Africa,  Under-
Secretary-General  Ibrahim  Gambari,  and  his  Office.
We hope the Office of the Special Adviser will be well
8
provided with the adequate resources — both financial
and  human  —  in  order  to  carry  out  its  mandate
promptly and efficiently. Indeed, we expect no less.
We think that the United Nations agencies should
continue  to  play  a  major  role  in  coordinating  and
mobilizing  international  support  to  NEPAD.  We  thank
those  agencies already working  with  NEPAD  for  their
collaboration  with  and  support  for  activities  that  give
high  priority  to  the  implementation  of  that  important
initiative.  We  would  especially  like  to  encourage
continued  UNDP  support  for  NEPAD  institutions  and
for  its  secretariat,  in  particular,  during  the  elaboration
of its programme of work and the start-up phase of the
African Peer Review Mechanism.
Angola  commends  the  excellent  work  of  the
Economic Commission for Africa in strengthening the
African Peer Review Mechanism, which constitutes an
important step in the establishment of the institutional
framework  for  mutual  accountability  and  policy
coherence  in Africa.  Angola  is proud to  have  recently
joined  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  and  we
seize this opportunity to appeal to all African countries
to do likewise.
in 
they  face 
strengthened  partnership  with 
In  its  conclusions  and  recommendations,  the
report  clearly  recognized  that  there  had  been  minor
progress  by  African  countries  in  overcoming  the
enormous  difficulties 
implementing
NEPAD.  A 
the
international community is needed in order to meet the
minimum  goals  and  to  give  NEPAD  a  major  impetus.
One  should  not  forget 
that  NEPAD  goals  and
objectives  are  the  same  as  those  set  forth  in  the
Millennium Declaration. Their particularity rests on the
African 
states,
development  partners  of  Africa  need  to  give  practical
expression  to  their  support  for  the  continent.  We  are
glad  to  have  heard  the  representative  of  the  European
Union  yesterday,  stating  that  the  Union  is  very  much
on 
its  official  development
assistance  to  0.39  per  cent  of  its  members’  gross
national incomes in 2006, as part of longer-term efforts
to  raise  official  development  assistance  contributions
to  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income.  We  call  on
other developed countries to take similar actions.
reality.  As 
increasing 
further 
report 
track 
the 
in 
Angola  has  adopted  a  poverty  reduction  strategy
paper  aimed  at 
the  macroeconomic
framework  and  the  structural  and  social  policies  to
foster  growth  and  reduce  poverty.  The  Ministry  of
improving 
Planning  is  the  focal  point  for  matters  regarding  the
implementation of NEPAD at the national level, and it
is sparing no effort to honour its responsibilities when
it  comes  to  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  objectives.
Angola  stands  ready  to  continue  its  participation  in
regional and subregional programmes that will enhance
the  capacity  of  African  countries  to  better  respond  to
the challenges of our initiative, which is a requisite for
fostering  peace  stability  and  economic  growth  on  the
continent.
We support the recommendations contained in the
Secretary-General’s  report  and  we  will  work  closely
with all partners in order to bring complete success to
NEPAD and peace to Africa.
The  Secretary-General’s 
report  contained 
implementation  of 
in
document  A/59/285,  on 
the
recommendations contained in his report on the causes
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and
sustainable  development  in  Africa,  states  that  armed
conflicts  remain  a  major  cause  of  death  in  our
continent.  We  commend  the  efforts  made  by  African
countries  and  regional  organizations,  in  particular,  in
dealing  with  the  scourge  of  conflict  and  in  promoting
peace  negotiations  and  brokering  peace  agreements.
The  establishment  of  the  African  Peace  and  Security
Council and the Committee of the Wise, as well as an
early-warning system, seem to be the right and timely
solution.
The  recommendations  included  in  the  report
clearly  reflect  the  current  status  of  the  problems  and
constraints that the majority of countries are still facing
today. Six years after the publication of the Secretary-
General’s  first  assessment  of  the  causes  of  conflict  in
Africa  (A/52/871),  we  are  glad  to  note  the  substantial
reduction of conflicts. However, ongoing conflicts still
deserve our keen and special attention.
The  report  recommends  that  special  attention  be
given to other potential sources of conflict. We concur
that there is a need to address the challenges faced by
young  people  in  order  to  prevent  new  conflicts,  or
setbacks  in  countries  in  which  war  has  ended.  In
Angola, 
the  Government  has  started  a  special
programme to address those problems. Last month, the
country  held  a  national  conference  dedicated 
to
examining such difficult problems.
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
thank our development partners for their support in the
fight  to  roll  back  malaria  in  Africa.  We  hope  that  the
A/59/PV.36
fight  to  find  a  cure  for  malaria  and  other  endemic
diseases  will  achieve  better  results  in  the  years  to
come.  We  hope  and  believe  that,  given  the  efforts,
commitment and political will of African countries and
the support of the international community, we can win
this battle.
(spoke 
(Venezuela) 
Mr.  Toro  Jiménez
in
Spanish):  The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  fully
supports  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of
Qatar  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  We
would 
to  make  a  few  comments
regarding our Government’s position on this important
agenda item.
like,  however, 
The report of the Secretary-General  contained  in
document A/59/285 underlines — and we welcome this
in a spirit of solidarity — the political measures taken
and the initiatives adopted by the African countries and
organizations 
the  New
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD).
implementation  of 
in 
the 
In  recognizing  the  efforts  being  made  by  the
African  Union  in  support  of  peace  and  security  in  the
region,  our  country  reaffirms 
importance  of
multilateralism  as  the  only  tool  for  tackling  the  major
challenges confronting our peoples in their struggle to
achieve  political  self-determination  and  to  overcome
hunger  and  poverty.  Such  challenges  cannot  be
resolved  through  the  pernicious  use,  from  afar,  by
powerful  States  and  international  organizations,  of  a
great variety of unilateral measures and modalities that
reflect  private  economic  and  political  interests.  These
interests  disregard  the  fact  that  millions  of  human
beings  living  in  extreme  poverty  are  excluded  and
subjected to a global economic model that is proving to
be unsustainable for human beings.
is 
and 
of  State 
As can be seen from the report of the Secretary-
the
General,  peace  of  Africa 
involvement 
agents,
intermediaries and individual companies in the service
of  the  arms  traffickers  of  the  countries  of  the  North.
Our  country  joins  with  the  Secretary-General’s  appeal
for the urgent adoption of measures to prevent, combat
and eradicate the illicit trade in arms.
threatened  by 
non-State 
The  African  Union  has  set  an  example  for  the
international  community 
to
confront  the  conflicts  of  the  region.  It  is  with  interest
and  support 
that  we  view  home-grown  African
solutions  to  these  conflicts.  Our  country  has  been
resolute  in  expressing  its  support  for  the  struggle
its  decision 
through 
9
A/59/PV.36
against hunger and poverty and for the urgent creation
of 
sustainable
development of peoples.
conditions 
necessary 
the 
for 
The  Government  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela  offers  its  help  and  cooperation  for  the
enhancement  and  continuation  of  all  assistance
programmes  and  cooperation  activities  aimed  at
facilitating  active  participation  so  as  to  improve  the
economic  and  social  conditions  of  the  peoples  of
Africa. That is vital for the consolidation of peace and
security in the continent.
At 
the  Monterrey  Summit, 
the  Bolivarian
Republic  of  Venezuela  proposed  the  establishment  of
an international humanitarian fund. This year, we took
an  important  step  in  that  direction,  contributing  seed
capital  of  $30  million  for  cooperation  with  poor
countries  of 
the  Latin  American,  Caribbean  and
African regions with a view to supporting the efforts of
those countries to seek ways and means of confronting
poverty  and  of  promoting 
social  and  human
development. This is  intended,  specifically,  to  address
the  financial  shortfalls  facing  the  poor  countries,  so
that  their  people  can  receive  assistance  for  natural
disasters,  pandemics,  post-conflict  situations  and
widespread  famine  —  phenomena  that  endanger  the
poorest sectors.
Zimbabwe 
is  pleased 
itself  with 
the  statement  made  by 
Mr. Chidyausiku  (Zimbabwe):  I  would  like  at
the outset to commend you, Mr. President, for the able
manner  in  which  you  have  been  guiding  our  work
during  this  session.  My  delegation  would  like  to
associate 
the
representative  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African
Union,  as  well  as  with  that  of  the  representative  of
Qatar on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
to  participate 
this
assessment  the  past  year’s  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development (NEPAD) and in the consideration of the
causes of conflicts and promotion of durable peace and
sustainable development in Africa. Both sub-items are
the subjects of excellent reports to the Assembly by the
Secretary-General,  contained  in  documents  A/59/206
and  A/59/285,  respectively.  The  joint  consideration  of
these  two  sub-items  underscores  the  intrinsic  link
between peace and development and the urgent need to
initiate  a  dual  approach  to  the  challenge  Africa  needs
to face.
in 
10
The founding document of NEPAD highlights the
fact  that  it  is  the  new  agenda  for  the  renewal  of  the
African  continent,  based  on  African  ownership  and
leadership. NEPAD is a comprehensive socio-economic
renewal  programme  that  is  anchored  on  the  three
interdependent  and  mutually  reinforcing  pillars  of
sustainable  development  —  economic  development,
social  development  and  environmental  protection.
NEPAD’s  primary  objectives  are  to  accelerate  the
eradication  of  poverty  and  to  place  African  countries,
both  individually  and  collectively,  on  a  path  to  high
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development.  The
goals  African  countries  seek 
through
NEPAD  are 
internationally  agreed
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  NEPAD  process
deepens  ownership  by  African  countries  of  their
development agenda and also provides a framework for
action at the national, regional and international levels.
Despite  the  progress  made  by  African  countries
in several areas in the implementation of NEPAD in the
past  year,  Zimbabwe  concurs  with  the  Secretary-
General’s report that international support should entail
more aid, debt  relief, and foreign investment and trade
opportunities.  International  support  should  involve
greater  consistency 
that
advances  on  one  front  are  not  undercut  by  lags  on
another.
in  external  policies  so 
to  achieve 
those  of 
the 
It is vital for development partners to ensure that
their  aid  and 
trade  policies  are  complementary.
Zimbabwe  welcomes  numerous  commitments  and
initiatives  of  its  development  partners,  notably  by  the
Group of Eight (G-8) and other bilateral arrangements.
However,  international  action  is  too  dissipated.  There
is  a  need  for  better  coherence  in  the  actions  of  these
numerous  players  as  well  as  an  urgent  need  to  bridge
the gap between political undertaking and development
financing.  Zimbabwe  also  welcomes  the  fact  that  the
Tokyo 
on  African
Development  attaches  great  importance  to  NEPAD’s
role 
a 
for  Africa’s
development.
International  Conference 
framework 
reference 
as 
Although  Africa  has  witnessed  an  increase  in
official  development  assistance,  it  remains  far  too
small,  as  compared  to  the  levels  of  the  1990s.  Africa
should  not  rely  on  official  development  assistance
alone;  Zimbabwe  believes 
improving  market
access  for  Africa’s  agricultural  and  non-agricultural
goods is the key to its ability to finance development.
This is a matter of priority. Developed countries should
that 
trade  barriers  for  African  exports,  and 
phase out subsidies to agricultural products and remove
other 
in
particular,  remove  non-tariff  barriers  to  products  of
interest to African countries.
related to Africa. We hope that the Office will be given
the necessary financial and human resources support in
order  to  enable  it  to  discharge  its  mandate  more
effectively.
A/59/PV.36
report  also 
The  Secretary-General’s  report  concludes  that
improved  coherence  promises  to  be  a  virtuous  link  in
the cycle of increased and effective aid, reformed trade
policies and debt relief by developed countries towards
Africa.  The 
takes  note  of  African
Governments  that  are  seeking  to  gradually  align  their
budgetary  spending  with  NEPAD  practice.  However,
this  is  a  very  slow  process,  since  most  African
countries  face  severe  fiscal  constraints  and  are  bound
by  budgetary  agreements  negotiated  with  external
financial institutions.
NEPAD  bears  the  hope  of  the  rebirth  of  the
African  continent.  What  Africa  needs  today  is  not  a
diagnosis  of 
the  causes  of  underdevelopment  or
prescriptive advice, but a strong helping hand from the
international  community  to  ensure  NEPAD’s  success,
through  enhanced  official  development
especially 
assistance  provided  without  conditionalities, 
the
redemption  of  pledges  to  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor
Countries Trust Fund and the provision of aid without
any strings attached.
Zimbabwe  greatly  appreciates 
the  assistance
provided  to  Africa  by  the  United  Nations  specialized
agencies  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security,  poverty
alleviation,  socio-economic  development,  governance
and  infrastructure  development.  However,  much  more
needs  to  be  done  in  support  of  NEPAD  to  strengthen
the  capacity  of  regional  economic  communities,  the
the  African  Union
NEPAD 
secretariat 
Commission.  With 
through
enhanced  official  development  assistance,  increased
investment,  a  durable  solution  to  the  external  debt
burden and unhindered market access, the objective of
integrating  African  countries  into  the  global  economy
and 
the  goals  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable
development can certainly be realized.
international  support 
and 
Finally,  Zimbabwe  welcomes  the  work  being
done  by  the  recently  established  Office  of  the  Special
Adviser  on  Africa,  currently  headed  by  Mr.  Ibrahim
Gambari, whose mandate includes coordinating global
advocacy  in  support  of  NEPAD,  coordinating  all
reports to the General Assembly and the Economic and
Social  Council  on  NEPAD,  and  following  up  on  the
recommendations  of  global  conferences  and  summits
I wish now to turn to agenda item 38 (b), “Causes
of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and
sustainable  development  in  Africa”.  I  once  more
underscore  the  inextricable  link  between  peace  and
development that has been eloquently elaborated in the
Secretary-General’s  report.  Causes  of  conflicts  are
multiple; however, poverty and marginalization remain
the key issues.
and 
regional 
including 
The complexity of the conflict in Africa warrants
the  involvement  of  a  number  of  players  in  conflict
resolution, 
subregional
organizations.  Zimbabwe  commends  the  work  of  the
African Union and subregional organizations. The role
of  the  Union,  the  Economic  Community  of  West
African  States,  the  Southern  African    Development
Community  and  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on
Development  deserve  our  appreciation  and  need
concerted  support  to  strengthen  that  capacity  in  the
prevention and management of conflicts.
that  are  mortgaging 
No  assessment  of  Africa’s  situation  can  ignore
the  numerous  conflicts 
the
continent’s  future  growth  and  development.  Building
lasting peace is a long-term undertaking, to the success
of  which  no  effort  must  be  spared.  This  is  an  era  in
which  humankind  has  yet  to  find  a  way  to  save  itself
from  such  urgent  problems  as  the  scandal  of  poverty
and 
and
humanitarian  disasters,  the  ravages  of  HIV/AIDS  and
related infectious diseases, threats to the environment,
the  impact  of  the  digital  divide  and  the  perils  of
terrorism.  The 
list  goes  on.  The  promotion  of
sustainable development in Africa will remain illusory
as long as conflicts continue to ravage our continent.
tragedy  of 
exclusion, 
conflicts 
the 
African  leaders  have,  therefore,  established  the
Peace and Security Council as a mechanism to prevent,
manage and resolve conflicts in Africa. My delegation
calls  for  the  establishment  of  a  strategic  partnership
between  the  United  Nations  Security  Council  and  the
Peace  and  Security  Council  of  the  African  Union  to
ensure the complementarity of efforts.
Conflict  and  development  are 
incompatible.
African  countries  must  work  together  and  use  the
mechanism  within  NEPAD  to  prevent  and  resolve
armed  conflict  and  bring  political  stability  to  Africa.
11
A/59/PV.36
it  wastes  vital  resources;  and 
Conflict  remains  a  serious  obstacle  to  development
because 
long-term
consequences  such  as  refugees,  internally  displaced
persons, landmines and the proliferation of small arms
often  exacerbate  conflicts.  Also,  the  proliferation  of
illicit arms remains a source of continued instability in
Africa, as articulated in the Secretary-General’s report.
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  agrees  with  the
Secretary-General’s  report  that,  although  there  should
be  African  ownership  of  the  African  development
process, international partnership also has an important
role to play in extending comprehensive and integrated
assistance  to  African  countries.  African  development
can be achieved only by the concerted efforts of Africa
and its development partners.
on 
report 
consolidated 
Mr. Shacham  (Israel):  Israel  welcomes 
progress 
the
second 
in
implementation  of  and  international  support  for  the
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).
The  report  comprehensively  outlines  the  progress  that
is  being  made  on  this  important  global  issue.  Israel
appreciates all the work that was invested in the report,
which  details  the  actions  taken  by  African  countries
themselves,  the  responses  and  contributions  of  the
international  community  and  the  actions  taken  by  the
United Nations system. It offers a very useful analysis
of both the successes and the challenges implicit in this
joint  endeavour,  and 
thus  acts  as  a  record  of
achievement, as well as a blueprint for further action.
Israel  welcomes  the  commitment  of  the  United
Nations  to  strengthen  collaboration  and  coordination
among 
the
necessary  support  for  the  effective  implementation  of
NEPAD,  and  endorses 
recommendations  as
specified in the report.
its  components 
to  provide 
in  order 
the 
Once  again,  Israel  wishes  to  reiterate  its  strong
support  for  the  actions  taken  by  the  African  Union
itself  in  its  efforts  to  allow  the  troubled  continent  to
rise  above  its  difficult  past.  The  African-led,  -owned,
and  -managed  initiatives  provide  clear  examples  of
how countries and regions relying on their own energy
can  help 
to  pursue
development. The short-term priorities in infrastructure
outlined  by 
the  NEPAD  Heads  of  State  and
Government  Implementation  Committee  are  worthy
goals,  and  Israel  hopes  that  they  provide  the  stepping
stones  for  future  projects.  The  progress  that  has  been
made in the water and sanitation sectors is particularly
their  potential 
to  harness 
12
important,  as  this  can  only  serve  to  protect  the
continent’s vulnerable health situation, as well as help
to nourish its population.
Israel commends the progress that has been made
in  moving 
the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism
process  forward  and  is  pleased  to  note  that  the  work
programme  and the rules of procedure for the African
peer  review  panel  of  eminent  personalities  were
adopted  in  February  in  Kigali,  Rwanda,  and  that  a
separate  secretariat  and  a 
trust  fund  have  been
established  for  the  Mechanism.  The  fact  that  the
number  of  countries  that  have  signed  on  to  the
Mechanism has now risen to 23 highlights the fact that
our efforts are paying off and that African nations have
a real desire to help to realize the potential of NEPAD
by  acting  on 
its  promises  —  good  governance,
democracy, peace and security, human rights and sound
economic  management.  Israel,  of  course,  encourages
other countries to join the Mechanism.
the 
countries, 
Israel  would  also  like  especially  to  note  its
satisfaction  that  science  and  technology  is  a  NEPAD
area  of  priority,  and  it  hopes  that  more  effort  will  be
made  by  African 
international
community  and  the  United  Nations  system  to  move
forward with the possibilities that that offers. Israel has
always  believed 
through  science  and
technology  that  countries  can  pull  themselves  up  into
new  strata  of  achievements  and  standards  of  living.  It
is through education and training that that is possible at
all. In this context, Israel is very proud of, and has high
hopes for, the contributions that are being made by its
own Centre  for  International  Cooperation,  also  known
as MASHAV.
that 
it 
is 
education 
Israel  has  a  long  tradition  of  profound  relations
with  Africa.  From  the  late  1950s,  while  it  was  itself
still  a  developing  country,  Israel  built  development
partnerships with the newly independent States of sub-
Saharan Africa, exchanging and providing information
and  know-how  in  food  security,  the  empowerment  of
women, 
and  health.  Our  MASHAV
programme  carries  on 
its  basic
orientation rooted in our own development experience.
In 2003, trainees from over 30 African countries came
to  Israel  to  gain  new  skills  to  take  back  to  their  own
countries.  In  addition,  Israel  held  on-the-spot  courses
in  14  different  African  countries  in  such  fields  as
agriculture,  community  development,  medicine  and
public health.
tradition, 
this 
Over  the  past  year,  the  trauma  and  emergency
units  constructed  by  MASHAV  at  the  Komfo  Anokye
Hospital in Ghana became fully operational,  and local
staff  were  trained  in  the  maintenance  and  running  of
these facilities. Other MASHAV projects in Africa this
year  include  a  cancer  treatment  centre  in  Mauritania,
the  Kibwezi  Agricultural  Demonstration  Farm 
in
Kenya,  the  Ogongo  Drip  Irrigation  Demonstration
Centre  in  Namibia,  the  Fossil  Valley  Agricultural
Demonstration Project in Senegal and the Hatcliff Drip
and Micro-Irrigation Demonstration Plot in Zimbabwe.
Israel  looks  forward  to  making  further  additions
to that list, and to working with African countries, and
countries from elsewhere, to help Africa help itself.
it. 
to 
In  addition 
its  aid  and 
We  are  committed  to  working  together  with  the
international community to continue to aid in ensuring
NEPAD’s  success  and  in  overcoming  the  challenges
facing 
training
programmes, Israel also actively supports international
initiatives,  such  as  the  World  Bank’s  International
Development Association programmes and the Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Debt  Initiative  for
debt reduction. Israel has already forgiven the debt of a
number  of  African  countries,  and  debt  relief 
to
additional States is expected in the near future.
As  a  nation  of  barely  6  million  citizens,  which
itself  carries  a  heavy  financial  burden  arising  from  a
constant need to defend its very existence, Israel’s per
capita contribution to Africa’s future is among the most
significant  in  the  world.  The  reason  is  simple.  As  a
State  comprising  a  people  that  has  undergone  and
overcome immense historic challenges, Israel feels that
history  has  taught  us  that  the  challenges  of  nation-
building  are  never  insurmountable.  So  if,  in  our  own
humble  way,  we  can  be  of  assistance  to  other  nations
striving  to  realize  their  national  potential,  and  if,  by
diverting  some  of  our  own  scarce  resources,  we  can
help to fulfil their national goals, then we ourselves as
a nation can only be strengthened.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  call  on  the
observer of the Holy See.
Archbishop Migliore (Holy See): My delegation
is glad to have been given the opportunity to speak on
this  item  —  progress  in  the  implementation  of  and
international  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  The  context  is  the
duty  of  the  international  community,  especially  the
more  powerful  countries,  to  redress  the  economic
A/59/PV.36
imbalances  that  penalize  Africa  and  to  help  the
continent  to  resolve  its  regional  and  national  conflicts
in a way that goes beyond the mere discussion of their
causes.  Conflicts  in  Africa  are  well  known.  The
reasons  for  them,  however,  are  complex,  and  the
motives of the relevant actors can be traced not only to
African States or factions but also to other regions and
interests beyond Africa.
My  delegation  recognizes  that,  with  regard  to
peacebuilding,  common  security,  the  prevention  of
conflicts,  peacemaking  and  peacekeeping,  Africa  is
doing  more  and  more,  notwithstanding  the  many
adversities  that  it  faces  and  its  lack  of  means  to
overcome them. The report of the Secretary-General on
the  implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained
in  his  report  (A/59/285)  on  the  promotion  of  durable
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa  gives  a
good  overview  of  the  results  of  the  effective  ongoing
political  and  military  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations,  the  African  Union  and  subregional  agencies,
such  as  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African
States, 
on
Development and many other organizations.
Inter-Governmental  Authority 
the 
the 
The  management  of  conflicts  in  Western  Africa
also  deserves  special  mention.  The  current  trend  in
harmonization  at 
regional  and
subregional  levels  is  not  simply  a  measure  of  the
success  achieved  by  the  members  of  the  African
Union;  there  have  also  been  valuable  lessons  for
solving  crises  in  other  parts  of  the  world  and  for  the
reform of the United Nations itself.
international, 
At  the  national  level,  it  must  be  acknowledged
that there are many examples of good governance, rule
of  law  and  the  fight  against  corruption  under  the
impetus  of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  the
African  self-monitoring  mechanism  established  by  the
African Union in order to promote NEPAD, to which a
number  of  countries  have  already  adhered.  This
management of Africa’s affairs by Africans themselves
will allow important advances in the provision of basic
necessities, such as clean  water, food, housing,  access
to  health  care  and  reduction  in  the  spread  of  malaria
and HIV, not to mention a safe environment in which to
live, work and bring a family into the world. Parallel to
regional cooperation for peace, the helpful role that the
peer  review  process  can  play  in  promoting  sound
national  policies  and  practices  exemplifies  and  sets  a
precedent for other regions of the world.
13
A/59/PV.36
The adoption of the “July Package” by the World
Trade  Organization  (WTO),  which  reopened 
the
negotiations of the Doha Development Round, is to be
welcomed, especially since it has taken on board some
of  the  difficulties  expressed  by  African  nations.  The
realization of economic policies suitable for Africa, for
the well-being of urban and rural families alike and for
the  preservation  of  African  values  is  surely  an  urgent
international obligation. And so it is regrettable that the
recent  meeting  of  the  Boards  of  Governors  of  the
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  and  the  World
Bank, as well as the meeting of the Group of Eight (G-
8)  Ministers  of  Finance  that  preceded  the  Board
meetings,  failed  to  agree  on  the  total  cancellation  of
debt of the 27 poorest countries. At least it can be said
that consensus was reached for the first time in history
on the necessity of eliminating such debt.
On  another 
further  attention,  both 
front,  management  of  natural
resources  deserves 
from
Africans  and  from  the  international  community.  As
conflicts  come  to  an  end,  the  durability  of  peace  will
depend greatly on the capacity of each Government to
take  control  of  its  natural  resources  and  manage  the
wealth  of  the  nation  in  a  transparent  manner  that  will
benefit  all  the  people.  Moreover,  the  international
community should increase its support for mechanisms
that  prevent  the  introduction  of  war-fuelling  products
into 
the
Kimberley  Process  on  the  trafficking  of  diamonds  is
both  a  significant  achievement  and  an  important
precedent that should be extended to other strategic or
high-value products.
international  markets. 
regard, 
this 
In 
Much  still  remains  to  be  done  to  rebuild  trust
among the peoples  and  ethnic  groups  in  each  country,
so that a new framework of solidarity can pave the way
towards  development.  Evidence  of  the  recent  active
role  of  Africans  themselves  in  the  resolution  of
conflicts  shows  that  African  solutions  to  African
problems have started to emerge. The rich patrimony of
friendship  and  family  solidarity  in  Africa  could,  if
allowed to flourish, also play a role in solving conflicts
and  building  peace.  The  promotion  of  greater
cooperation among religions in Africa could also be a
decisive factor in peacebuilding and peacekeeping.
that 
the
collaboration  for  peace  undertaken  by  the  United
Nations,  the  African  Union  and  other  regional  and
subregional  groups,  as  well  as  the  NEPAD  initiative,
will  become  a  true  alliance,  founded  on  a  common
sincerely  hopes 
My  delegation 
14
sense  of  responsibility.  Africa’s  present  difficulties,
which are not any different from what other regions of
the  world  have  also  undergone,  should  be  seen  as  a
window  of  opportunity  to  create  a  new  paradigm  of
global solidarity.
The  United  Nations  should  seize  this  chance  to
demonstrate that it is indeed a family of nations, ready
to assist those in need.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  accordance
with  General  Assembly 
resolution  54/195  of
17 December  1999,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources.
Mr. Bhagwat-Singh (International Union for the
Conservation  of  Nature  and  Natural  Resources):  The
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),
adopted by the African Union (AU) as its programme,
seeks to lift Africa out of poverty and steer it towards
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development.  The
the  determination  of
programme 
Africans 
and
marginalization  in  an  increasingly  globalized  world.
The NEPAD also promotes the building of partnerships
that  will  give  Africa  a  chance  to  participate  in  the
global economy.
in 
underdevelopment 
is  anchored 
to 
confront 
of 
and 
agriculture, 
infrastructure 
Initiative  of  NEPAD 
In order to fulfil its vision, NEPAD  has  outlined
and  developed  several  action  plans,  especially  in  the
areas 
the
environment.  The  Environment  Action  Plan  (EAP)  of
a
the  Environment 
comprehensive  plan 
the
environmental 
the
continent  while  combating  poverty.  The  Action  Plan
was  developed  under  the  guidance  of  the  African
Ministerial  Conference  on  the  Environment,  together
with  the  NEPAD  secretariat.  The  process  involved
consultations with a wide range of stakeholders.
is 
to  address 
facing 
that  seeks 
challenges 
currently 
The  International  Union  for  the  Conservation  of
Nature  and  Natural  Resources  (IUCN)  is  keen  to
support  NEPAD,  especially  through  the  Environment
Action Plan at the regional and subregional levels. The
IUCN commends the United Nations for its support to
NEPAD  through  United  Nations  General  Assembly
resolutions  57/2  and  57/7.  The  IUCN  urges  continued
the
support  and  encouragement,  particularly 
Secretariat  of  NEPAD,  which 
the
partnership for sustainable development across Africa,
even  though  currently  overstretched.  The  IUCN  also
to 
is  facilitating 
notes  the  work  of  the  secretariat  of  the  Environment
Component  of  NEPAD,  set  up  by  the  Government  of
Senegal,  and  commends  its  efforts  to  further  the
NEPAD Environment Action Plan.
The  Environment  Action  Plan  is  a  practical
vehicle  for  conservation  and  sustainable  development,
which,  like  the  wider  NEPAD  programmes,  seeks  to
involve  the  subregional  economic  commissions  in  the
implementation  and  coordination  of  the  Plan.  The
regional  economic  commissions  are  seen  as  effective
vehicles  for  the  development  and  integration  of  the
aspirations  of  the  African  continent,  and  calls  have
been  made  for  the  strengthening  of  their  coordination
and implementation role. To this end, and with support
from  the  Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF),  the
IUCN  will  work  together  with  the  regional  economic
commissions 
the  development  of  subregional
environment action plans.
in 
The  IUCN  supports  the  concept  of  subregional
environment  action  plans  as  a  sensible  mechanism  to
foster  sustainable  development  through  environmental
awareness and action. We hope that the United Nations
system  will  continue  to  support  this  process  and  to
raise  awareness  of  its  value  through  such  agencies  as
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP),
especially  through  its  Regional  Office  for  Africa,  and
the  series  of  publications  in  the  Africa  Environment
Outlook  report.  Other  United  Nations  agencies  and
specialized  programmes  are  also  encouraged 
to
continue  and  expand  their  support  of  NEPAD  and  the
Environment Action Plan.
and 
organizations 
The IUCN would like to see more involvement of
all  African  stakeholders  —  namely,  Governments,  the
private  sector  and  civil  society  in  general,  including
women’s 
community-based
organizations  —  in  NEPAD’s  implementation.  In  this
context,  the  IUCN  would  also  like  to  take  this
opportunity to congratulate Professor Wangari Maathai
for her Nobel Peace Prize and for demonstrating what
women  and  community-based  groups,  such  as  the
Green Belt movement, can do for Africa’s environment
and people and for peace in broader terms. The Nobel
Laureate  spoke  eloquently  of  her  work  earlier  this
month  at  a  meeting  of  the  International  Union  for  the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN)
Academy  of  Environmental  Law  in  Nairobi,  and  we
look  forward  to  welcoming  her  to  the  third  World
Conservation Congress in Bangkok next month.
A/59/PV.36
Lastly,  the  IUCN  would  also  like  to  encourage
bilateral  and  multilateral  aid  agencies 
to  further
increase their support for NEPAD. We look forward to
working with the Millennium Development Goals five-
year review process, the follow up to the Financing for
Development Initiative, and the Group of Seven (G-7)
process  as  opportunities  to  manifest  this  increased
support.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  accordance
with  General  Assembly  resolution  49/2  of  19  October
1994,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr.  Gospodinov  (Observer  for  the  International
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):
Thank  you  for  giving  me  the  floor  and  allowing  the
International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red
Crescent Societies (IFRC) to address this item. As we
see on our television screens every day, the Red Cross
and  Red  Crescent  Movement  has  never  been  out  of
Africa,  for  there  is  so  much  humanitarian  work  to  be
done  there,  including  in  Chad,  as  my  colleague  from
Niger just mentioned a few minutes ago.
On the subject of today’s theme, partnerships for
development  and  for  social  and  economic  progress  in
Africa  are  a  very  high  priority  for  us.  Moreover,  it  is
our  wish  to  intensify  our  cooperative  work  with  the
United  Nations  family  in  the  period  ahead.  We  also
wish to intensify our cooperation with NEPAD and its
processes,  with  the  African  Union,  and  with  other
regional  organizations.  We  believe  the  work  done  in
Africa in recent years, especially through the growth of
NEPAD  and  the  creation  of  the  African  Union,
demonstrates  an  African  vitality 
the  whole
international community should welcome and support.
We  say  this  because  working  throughout  Africa
with  our  network  has  provided  us  with  both  the
knowledge and the talent to support what Governments
are  doing.  Our  national  members  brought 
their
programming  and  priorities  to  the  attention  of  the
United  Nations  General  Assembly  in  2000  after  their
fifth  Pan-African  Conference  in  Ouagadougou.  My
purpose  today  is  to  inform  you  of  the  work  done  to
consolidate  those  priorities  at  the  sixth  Pan-African
Conference, held in September this year in Algiers.
that 
It is our hope that sincere interest and willingness
to go forward, as evidenced by the Secretary-General’s
report  A/59/206,  will  be  matched  by  a  readiness  to
work  with  African  communities  and  civil  society
15
A/59/PV.36
in 
the  design  and 
leadership 
implementation  of
programmes that meet real African priorities. This will,
we  believe,  significantly  improve  the  prospects  of
Africa achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
The  African  National  Red  Cross  and  Red
Crescent  Societies,  meeting  in  Ouagadougou  in  2000,
committed  to  four  basic  objectives.  In  brief,  these
were:  making  a  major  difference  to  the  health  of
vulnerable  people  by  adopting  the  health  initiative;
massively  scaling  up  their  response  to  the  HIV/AIDS
pandemic; making food security a strategic priority for
the decade; and enhancing the National Red Cross and
Red  Crescent  Societies’  capacity 
to  function  as
auxiliaries  to  their  Governments  in  the  humanitarian
field.
Four  years  later,  at  their  meeting  in  Algiers  in
September 2004, our African members adopted  a plan
of  action  to  take  the  Ouagadougou  commitments
forward, and to build effective partnerships with other
national and international actors.
The  Algiers  Plan  of  Action  brings  together  the
Ouagadougou  commitments with  the  objectives  set  by
the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration  and  the
Millennium Development Goals.
The  Plan  itself  will  soon  be  circulated  to  all
member  States  and  organizations  concerned,  and  will
be  introduced  to  the  United  Nations  system.  We  are
also planning a special briefing session with all African
Permanent Missions and other interested organizations
to  ensure  that  they  are  aware  of  the  assets  that  our
movement  brings  to  this  important  set  of  strategic
tasks. In the meantime, I shall elaborate on those points
most  relevant  to  the  United  Nations  for  the  benefit  of
this debate.
In  Algiers,  our  African  member  Societies
expressed  their  great  concern  at  the  increase  in  the
number  of  natural  disasters  and  conflicts  on  their
continent  and  the  huge  crises  faced  because  of  food
insecurity, HIV/AIDS and other growing health threats.
They  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  strengthening
their  capacities,  and  in  particular  their  volunteer  base.
They  appreciated 
the  partnerships  available  with
Governments,  the  African  Union,  United  Nations
agencies,  civil  society  and  corporations.  They  also
expressed their concern  for  the  people  affected  by  the
humanitarian crisis in Darfur, and their solidarity with,
and  respect  for,  the  efforts  of  the  Sudanese  Red
Crescent Society.
16
the  conjunction  of 
the  United  Nations 
Partnership  opportunities  and  shared  objectives
framed  by 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  with  our  own  strategy  were  a
major  topic  at  the  Algiers  conference.  We  were  very
pleased with the energy and dedication provided by the
representatives  of 
system,
specialized  agencies  and  the  African  Union  at  the
conference. We saw, for example, that the World Food
Programme  (WFP)  is  keen  to  support  Africa  in  the
commitment  given  to  our  movement  when  Mr.  James
Morris  addressed  the  International  Conference  of  the
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  in  December  2003  in
Geneva.  We  are  now  engaged  in  a  detailed  discussion
with  the  WFP  in  order  to  improve  the  links  between
our National Societies and the WFP.
Similar discussions are under way with Office of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees
(UNHCR) and are also starting with the World Health
Organization  (WHO).  We  intend  vigorously  to  pursue
partnership opportunities, which connect Governments,
agencies and others devoted to progress in this region,
with the African Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies
and their community outreach structures. The results of
those partnerships are already visible: our network has
now  vaccinated  more  than  140  million  children  in  29
countries against measles, and WHO reports show that
the  incidence  of  measles  in  Africa  has  dropped  by  47
per cent since the start of our vaccination initiative four
years ago.
We intend to build these opportunities to achieve
results  through  very  close  cooperation  with  regional
and  subregional  organizations.  Our  partners  see  how
our  unique  status  as  an  international  organization,
combined  with  the  government  auxiliary  status  of
National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, builds
a  framework  for  progress  and  benefit  for  the  most
vulnerable. This is, we believe, vital for achieving the
Millennium Development Goals. But their achievement
will  depend  on  the  degree  to  which  communities  and
the  vulnerable  people  themselves  become  involved  in
the  design  of  the  programmes  and  in  implementing
them.  This  is  essential  —  as  the  Secretary-General
himself has recognized.
It  is  particularly  opportune  that  we  are  bringing
the  outcomes  of  the  Pan-African  Red  Cross  and  Red
Crescent  Conference  to  the  attention  of  the  General
Assembly  now.  The  documents,  which  will  be
disbursed  in  the  near  future,  illustrate  the  strength  we
have acquired within the United Nations and its system
the 
of  specialized  agencies.  It  is  a  strength  that  has  been
significantly  facilitated  by  the  decision  of  the  United
Nations General Assembly exactly ten years ago today
to  grant  observer  status  to  the  IFRC.  That  decision,
adopted  at 
thirty-eighth  plenary  meeting  on
19  October  1994  and  contained  in  resolution  number
49/2,  has  created  opportunities  for  many  partnerships
that have made a real difference in the lives of the most
vulnerable people. Together we can save and are saving
lives. It is in that  context that we are speaking to  you
today.
Permit me, Mr. President, on the occasion of the
tenth anniversary, to thank the General Assembly once
again  for  its  decision,  and  to  express  our  hope  that  in
the  next  ten  years  we  will mark  even  better  and  more
fruitful  cooperation  with  both  Governments  and  the
United  Nations.  We  stand  ready  to  play  our  part
globally  and  locally.  We  will  continue  to  develop  the
African  priorities  as  identified  in  Ouagadougou,  and
taken forward in Algiers.
We  trust  that  the  Federation’s  Algiers  Plan  of
Action will be seen as a valuable addition to our joint
work  and  an  essential  tool  for  all  of  those  who
sincerely  wish  to  see  Africa  rise  above  poverty  and
despair,  and  build  prosperity  amidst  real  human
dignity.
In  conclusion,  Sir,  I  would  like  to  go  back  one
week,  when  the  Nobel  Committee  decided  to  award  a
brave Kenyan environmentalist this year’s Nobel Peace
Prize. She plants trees. If we will follow this example
and,  through  our  partnerships,  plant  a  tree,  build  a
school, save a  life,  or  help  a  child  in  Africa,  then  our
discussion today will have significant meaning.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  accordance
of
with  General  Assembly 
10 November  1978, 
of
and 
18 December 1998, I now  call on the observer  for the
International Organization of la Francophonie.
resolution 
decision 
33/18, 
53/453, 
Mr.  Bouabid  (International  Organization  of  la
Francophonie) (spoke in French): This is the first time
I  have  taken  the  floor  at  this  session.  Allow  me,
therefore,  to  convey  to  you,  Sir,  on  behalf  of  the
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  (OIF)
and  its  Secretary  General,  President  Abdou  Diouf,
heartfelt  congratulations  on  your  election 
the
presidency  of  this  important  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
to 
A/59/PV.36
of 
The 
International 
Organization 
la
Francophonie (OIF) is happy again, this year, to speak
to  the  General  Assembly  and  discuss  the  agenda  item
concerning 
for  Africa’s
Development:  progress 
and
international support.
the  New  Partnership 
implementation 
in 
We first wish to renew our solidarity with our 29
African member States and with Africa in general. The
International Organization of la Francophonie has been
and will  remain a place for  cooperation  and  solidarity
where Africa will always be given special attention.
The  development  of  Africa  requires,  inter  alia,
the  success  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development (NEPAD). We are fully aware of that and
are  working  in  close  cooperation  with  our  African
brothers and with the other international partners.
like 
I  would 
to  congratulate 
Because of his long experience with the problems
of development in Africa, the Secretary-General of the
OIF,  President  Abdou  Diouf,  has  always  believed  that
NEPAD  was  a  crucial  stage  in  the  ownership  of
Africa’s development by the African States themselves.
the  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations  on  the  high  quality  of
his  second  report  on  the  progress  in  implementation
and  international  support  for  NEPAD,  which  is  now
before  us  today.  La  Francophonie  is  a  partner  in  that
endeavour  and 
that,  despite
difficulties,  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  is  moving
ahead  resolutely.  It  is  doing  so  because  Africa  has
demonstrated its long-term commitment to NEPAD and
its ownership of that programme.
is  happy 
to  note 
We  see  the  practice  of  setting  objectives  for
expenditures  in  priority  areas  set  by  NEPAD  as  a
guarantee  of  the  consistency  between  the  statements
and  the  actions  of  African  Governments  in  favour  of
that enormous endeavour.
I  would  like  to  outline  some  aspects  of  the
implementation of NEPAD, of which La Francophonie
is  particularly  mindful.  I  will  begin  with  information
and  communication  technologies,  which  are  essential
tools  for  building  the  future.  The  OIF  continues,
through the Francophone Institute for new information
technologies and training, to work to reduce the digital
divide that still separates the North from the South and
puts Africans in a very unfavourable situation. We thus
support the integration of Africa into the globalization
process  by  facilitating  ownership  of 
information
17
A/59/PV.36
technologies  so  as  to  make  them  part  of  global
development  policies,  and  by  promoting  adaptation  to
the  specific  cultural  and  linguistic  traits  of  African
countries.
in 
initiatives 
The programme of the Intergovernmental Agency
of la Francophonie for 2004-2005 includes support for
African  strategic 
the  framework  of
information  technology,  including  inter-governmental
initiatives  that  have  been  planned  or  designed  by
NEPAD.  The  agency  also 
to  strengthen
international synergies to help formulate regional plans
during  the  second  phase  of  the  World  Summit  on  the
Information Society to be held in Tunis in 2005.
intends 
The  development  of  new  technologies  is  crucial
in order to truly integrate Africa into the economic and
commercial  relations  that  were  born  of  globalization.
But  that  is  not  enough.  La  Francophonie  is  therefore
lending  its  assistance  to  strengthen  the  education  and
negotiating  capacities  of  its  African  members.  That
will  help  in  the  design  and  execution  of  economic
strategies  aimed  at  mobilizing  investments  —  without
which 
implementation  of  NEPAD  would  be
seriously handicapped.
the 
Likewise,  support  for  the  Organization  for  the
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA) is
part  of  a  two-fold  approach  —  on  the  one  hand,  it  is
meant  to  promote  the  development  of  enterprise  and,
on  the  other  hand,  to  provide  a  solid  basis  for  the
African Peer Review Mechanism.
Education  is  certainly  a  sector  where  activities
carried  out  by  La  Francophonie  will  help  implement
NEPAD.  Achieving 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals  (MDGs)  concerning  basic  education,  improving
the  quality  of  teaching  and  helping  to  rebuilding
educational  facilities  —  particularly 
in  countries
emerging  from  conflict  —  are  all  concerns  that  La
Francophonie shares with NEPAD.
Our  Organization  will  continue  to  support  the
formulation  of  national  education  policies,  as  well  as
professional and technical training in Africa. Ministers
of Education of the French-speaking countries, who are
meeting  now  in  Africa,  in  Mauritius  at  the  fifty-first
Conference  of  Francophonie  Ministers  of  Education
(CONFEMEN), are now working to attain those goals.
Culture  has  always  been  an  important  field  for
the French-speaking community. We are happy that our
18
La  Francophonie 
work in that area is consonant with the NEPAD plan of
action to develop cultural tourism in Africa.
trying 
to  foster
African  arts  and  develop  cultural  industries  in  our
member countries. As an example, I refer to the Market
for African Performing Arts in Abidjan, which is now a
well-known  event  among professionals on  the  African
artistic scene.
is  always 
Last  week  in  Cotonou,  our  senior  manager
organized  a  seminar  to  train  people  in  publishing  and
in  managing  cultural  events.  Our  programmes  to
support  travelling  live  performances  and  audiovisual
production in the South, and to help distribute African
films to theatres, supplement the regular support of La
Francophonie 
the
African  cinema  world.  Of  course,  there  has  been
support  for  the  Pan  African  Film  and  Television
Festival of Ouagadougou (FESPACO) and the Carthage
international film festival in Tunis, but also the “Ecrans
libres”  festival  in  Mali,  the  “Quintessence”  festival  in
Benin and “Ecrans noirs” in Cameroon.
important  events 
to  several 
in 
NEPAD’s  goal  is  sustainable  development  in
Africa,  within  the  framework  of  solidarity  —  African
solidarity and international solidarity with Africa. With
that framework in mind, La Francophonie will hold its
tenth  summit  next  month  in  Ouagadougou,  at  the
invitation  of  the  Government  of  Burkina  Faso,  to
discuss,  specifically,  La  Francophonie  —  a  unified
space for sustainable development.
identify  points  of  convergence  between 
In the lead-up to the summit, whose theme works
so  well  with  the  central  objective  of  NEPAD,  we
organized a seminar last May in Ouagadougou in order
to 
the
programmes  of  La  Francophonie  and  those  in  the
framework of NEPAD, in particular in the areas of the
economy  and  sustainable  development.  Fourteen  joint
intervention areas were identified at that time.
Like  several  other  initiatives,  the  meeting  of  the
Forum on Economic  Intelligence  and Development  on
the New Partnership for Africa’s Development in Paris
in  November  2003  demonstrated  the  determination  of
the 
its
lend  adequate  harmonized
responsibilities  and 
support  for  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  at  a  time
when  Africa  is  trying  to  carry  out  the  necessary
restructuring that is its responsibility.
community 
to 
international 
shoulder 
to 
But,  as  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General
stresses, much remains to be done by the international
community to support NEPAD, particularly with regard
to  creating  an  enabling  international  environment  to
support  Africa’s  development  and 
to  promote
investment  to  finance  the  main  sectoral  priorities  of
NEPAD.
The  OIF  appreciates  the  increasing  role  of  the
African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  that  was  established
within  NEPAD.  This  proves 
the  commitment  of
African countries to improve governance and to adopt
transparent  and  stringent  management  criteria,  which
should  make 
fund  projects  and
programmes  of  regional  interest  and  to  appeal  to
private  investors.  For  our  part,  we  will  continue  to
support  our  member  countries,  with  a  view  to  making
strides in that area.
it  possible 
to 
War  and  conflict  have  been  undermining  efforts
to  develop  Africa.  The  OIF  remains  committed  to
peace,  to  preventing  and  peacefully  resolving  crises
and  conflicts  and  to  strengthening  democracy,  rights
its  African  member  countries.
and  freedoms 
Likewise,  we  will  continue 
to  support  electoral
processes and to promote human rights and democratic
culture within the context of the implementation of the
Bamako  Declaration,  to  which  French-speaking  heads
of State or Government committed themselves at their
ninth summit, held in Beirut in 2002.
in 
Furthermore,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  national
and  regional  political  structures  that  are  needed  to
implement  NEPAD,  the  OIF  will  continue  to  promote
synergy  with  international  partners,  including  the
United Nations and the African Union. Jointly with the
United  Nations,  the  OIF  intends  to  organize  a  new
dialogue  with  relevant 
international  and  regional
organizations, to study the possibility of more dynamic
cooperation  to  promote  early  warning  as  the  best  way
to prevent conflicts.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  appealing  for  a  more
sustained,  consistent  and  lasting  commitment  on  the
part  of  the  international  community  to  NEPAD  and  to
the development of Africa. As Africans and as partners
of  Africa,  we  are  well  aware  that  this  is  an  important
time  in  the  history  of  the  continent.  This  is  an
unprecedented,  highly  symbolic  time  for  the  new  face
of  Africa  and  for  the  hopes  and  aspirations  that  it
cherishes.  In  the  daunting  challenge  of  implementing
NEPAD,  Africa  certainly  bears  primary  responsibility,
A/59/PV.36
it  cannot  meet 
but 
international support.
that 
responsibility  without
of 
The 
International  Organization 
La
Francophonie  is  there  to  support  this  major  initiative
by making available its French-speaking expertise and
experience  in  the  areas  of  peace,  security,  democracy,
good  governance,  human 
rights  and  sustainable
development.  Those  are  all  areas  where  the  OIF  has,
over  the  years,  acquired  some  experience  and  real
expertise.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General
Assembly has just concluded its joint debate on agenda
item  38  (New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:
progress  in  implementation  and  international  support)
and its sub-items, and on agenda item 46  (2001-2010:
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries,
Particularly in Africa). Sixty-four speakers participated
in the debate.
Many representatives emphasized the importance
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD)  as  a  framework  for  renewal  and  for  the
economic,  social  and  political  development  of  Africa.
In  that  regard,  they  placed  emphasis  on  the  African
Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  an  instrument  to  support
African efforts to establish sound political institutions,
good  political  and  economic  governance,  respect  for
the rule of law and the promotion of human rights, with
a  view  to  establishing  the  conditions  needed  for
Africa’s growth and development.
Many  speakers  welcomed  the  efforts  made  to
integrate the gender  approach  into  the  implementation
of  NEPAD.  It  was  in  that  framework  that  the  Solemn
Declaration on Gender Equality in Africa was adopted
at the African Union summit held in July 2004 at Addis
Ababa.
The  international  community’s  support  for  the
implementation  of  NEPAD  was  welcomed,  especially
regarding  debt  alleviation, 
in  official
to  markets  and
development  assistance,  access 
assistance 
speakers
emphasized the importance of South-South cooperation
as  an 
international
cooperation for development.
indispensable  complement 
capacity-building.  Many 
increase 
in 
to 
Others 
praised 
Secretary-General’s
establishment  of  the  Advisory  Panel  on  International
Support 
for  Africa’s
Development. They also expressed their support for the
the  New  Partnership 
the 
for 
19
Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Groups  as  part  of  a  comprehensive
approach 
and
development.
reconstruction 
post-conflict 
to 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 
On  item  46,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll  Back
Malaria 
in
Africa”,  speakers  recognized  that  diseases  such  as
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  not  only  severely  put  Africa’s
health  systems  to  the  test,  but  also  constitute  a  major
threat  to  the  development  of  the  continent.  Many
speakers  welcomed  the  efforts  undertaken  by  African
countries  to  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.
Nonetheless,  they  emphasized  that  Africa  needs  the
support  of  the  international  community  in  order  to
its  health  challenges.  Africa’s  development
meet 
partners  reiterated 
the
continent confront its range of health problems.
their  commitment 
to  help 
In  conclusion, 
thank  all
participants  for  the  interest  they  have  shown  and  for
their participation in the debate on these items.
I  would 
like 
to 
The  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  the  present
stage of its consideration of agenda items 38 and 46.
The meeting rose at 5.10 p.m.
A/59/PV.36
activities  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Adviser  on
Africa.
In  connection  with  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item
38,  “Causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable
peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa”,  a
number of speakers noted the  favourable  development
of the situation of peace and security in Africa during
the  past  year,  including  with  the  reduction  of  the
number of conflicts in the region, the development of a
common  security  and  defence  policy  and  the  efforts
undertaken  to  organize  an  international  conference  on
the Great Lakes region.
Representatives of Africa’s development partners
highlighted  the  measures  they  had  taken  to  help  the
African  Union  build  its  capacities  in  peacekeeping.
Emphasis  was  also  placed  on  the  need  to  provide  the
African  Union  with  the  resources  it  needs  to  play  a
vanguard role in addressing crisis situations in Africa,
in partnership with the United Nations.
Many  speakers  emphasized  the  great  importance
of  post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  welcomed 
the
establishment  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s
20
