United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
50th plenary meeting
Monday, 8 November 2004, 9.30 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.50
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 9.40 a.m.
Agenda item 16
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and
other elections: election of seven members of the
Committee for Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/131)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Pursuant  to
General  Assembly  decision  42/450  of  17  December
1987, 
the
Committee for Programme and Coordination upon their
nomination by the Economic and Social Council.
the  Assembly  elects 
the  members  of 
The  Assembly  has  before  it  document  A/59/131,
which  contains  the  names  of  the  countries  nominated
by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  fill  the
vacancies in the Committee that will occur  as a result
of  the  expiration,  on  31  December  2004,  of  the  terms
of  office  of  China,  Ethiopia,  Japan,  Nigeria,  the
Republic of Korea, Tunisia and Uruguay.
Those  States 
re-election.
are 
eligible 
for 
immediate
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after
1  January  2005,  the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Committee:  Argentina,  Armenia,  the
Bahamas,  Benin,  Brazil,  Canada,  the  Central  African
Republic, 
the  Comoros,  Cuba,  France,  Gabon,
Germany,  India,  Indonesia,  the  Islamic  Republic  of
Iran,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Nicaragua,  Pakistan, 
the
Republic  of  Moldova,  the  Russian  Federation,  South
Africa,  Switzerland,  Ukraine,  the  United  Kingdom  of
Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  the  United  States
of America and Zimbabwe.
Therefore, those 27 States are not eligible in this
election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the
following Member States have  been  nominated  by  the
Economic and Social Council.
The three African States, for three vacancies, are
Algeria, Ghana and Kenya.
The  three  Asian  States,  for  three  vacancies,  are
China, Japan and the Republic of Korea.
The one Latin American and Caribbean State, for
one vacancy, is Jamaica.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot,
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard,
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a
given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-60481 (E)
*0460481*
A/59/PV.50
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Since  the
number  of  States  nominated  from  among  the  three
regional groups  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to
be filled in each of those groups, may I therefore take
it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  declare  those  States
nominated  by  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  from
among  the  African  States,  the  Asian  States  and  the
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  —  namely,
Algeria, China, Ghana, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya and the
Republic  of  Korea  —  elected  members  of 
the
Committee for Programme and Coordination for three-
year terms of office beginning on 1 January 2005.
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  congratulate
the seven States that have been elected members of the
Committee for Programme and Coordination.
We  have  thus  concluded  our  consideration  of
agenda item 16.
Agenda item 17
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs
and other appointments
(g) Appointment of members of the Committee
on Conferences
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/107)
The President (spoke in French): As indicated in
document  A/59/107,  and  as  the  terms  of  office  of
Austria, Ethiopia, Jamaica, Jordan, Nepal, Tunisia and
the  United  States  of  America  will  expire  on
31  December  2004,  the  President  of  the  General
Assembly is required to appoint, during this session of
the  General  Assembly,  seven  members  to  the  vacant
seats  on  the  Committee  on  Conferences.  The  new
members  will  take  up  their  functions  for  a  period  of
three years, beginning on 1 January 2005.
After holding consultations with the Chairmen of
the  regional  groups  of  the  African,  Asian,  Latin
American  and  Caribbean  and  Western  European  and
other  States,  I  have  appointed  Austria,  China,  Egypt,
Jamaica,  Kenya,  Nepal  and  the  United  States  of
America as members of the Committee on Conferences
for a term of office commencing on 1 January 2005.
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes
note of those appointments?
2
It was so decided.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I  take  it
that  the  General  Assembly  decides  to  conclude  its
consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 17?
It was so decided.
(h) Appointment of members of the Joint
Inspection Unit
Note by the Secretary-General (A/59/108)
The President (spoke in French): As indicated in
document A/59/108, the General Assembly is required,
during the fifty-ninth session, to appoint four members
to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit  that
will arise  from the  expiration of  the  term  of  office  on
31  December  2005  of  Ms.  Doris  Bertrand-Muck
(Austria), Mr. Ion Gorita (Romania), Mr. Wolfgang M.
Münch 
and  Mr.  Louis-Dominique
Ouédraogo (Burkina Faso).
(Germany) 
As  is  also  indicated  in  document  A/59/108,  in
accordance with article 3, paragraph 1, of the Statute of
the Joint Inspection Unit, the President of the General
Assembly shall consult with Member States to draw up
a  list  of  four  countries  that  would  be  requested  to
propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint
Inspection Unit.
After  holding 
the  necessary  consultations,  I
should  like  to  communicate  to  the  Assembly  that  the
information that I have received from the Chairmen of
the respective Groups of States.
For  the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of
African  States,  the  Group  has  nominated  Senegal.  For
the  single  seat  from  among  the  Group  of  Eastern
European  States,  the  Group  has  nominated  Hungary.
For  the  two  seats  from  among  the  Group  of  Western
European  and  other  States,  the  Group  has  nominated
France and Turkey.
In  accordance  with  article  3,  paragraph  1,  of  the
Statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  France,  Hungary,
Senegal  and  Turkey  will  therefore  be  called  upon  to
submit  the  names  of  candidates  and  their  curricula
vitae  highlighting  their  relevant  qualifications  for  the
posts to be filled.
After holding the necessary consultations referred
to by article 3, paragraph 2, of the Statute of the Joint
Inspection  Unit, 
the
President of the Economic and Social Council and with
the  Secretary-General  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of
including  consultations  with 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for
Coordination, I shall propose to the Assembly a list of
qualified  candidates  for  appointment  to  the  Joint
Inspection Unit.
We have thus concluded the  current stage  of  our
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 17.
Agenda item 25
Implementation of the resolutions of the
United Nations
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  my
understanding  that  there  is  no  request  to  consider  this
item during this session.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General
Assembly  to  defer  consideration  of  this  item  to  the
sixtieth  session,  and  to  include  it  in  the  provisional
agenda of the sixtieth session?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 56 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and
regional and other organizations
(i) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the International Organization of
la Francophonie
Draft resolution (A/59/L.19)
(j) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union
Draft resolution (A/59/L.5/Rev.2)
(q) Cooperation between the United Nations and
the Pacific Islands Forum
Draft resolution (A/59/L.11)
(t) Cooperation between the United Nations
and the Community of Portuguese-
speaking Countries
Draft resolution (A/59/L.14)
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Members  will
recall that the Assembly held the debate on this agenda
A/59/PV.50
item and its sub-items (a) through (t) at its 38th to 40th
plenary meetings, on 21 and 22 October 2004.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Chile  to
introduce draft resolution A/59/L.5/Rev.2.
Mr.  Donoso  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  have
the honour to announce to the General Assembly that,
following  intensive  and  fruitful  consultations  among
the interested parties, we have reached a consensus on
resolution  A/59/L.5/Rev.2,  on  cooperation
draft 
between 
Inter-
Parliamentary Union. We wish to thank the more than
100 sponsors of the draft resolution from all regions of
the world. The following countries have joined the list
of 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Estonia, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Tunisia.
sponsors:  Australia,  Burundi,  Cyprus, 
the  United  Nations 
and 
the 
that 
We  understand 
the  phrase  “the  usual
courtesies”  in  operative  paragraph  3  of  the  draft
resolution means that there will not be any exclusion of
the  second  World  Conference  of
participants 
Speakers 
Parliaments 
at  United  Nations
Headquarters in September 2005.
in 
of 
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor
to  the  representative  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  to
introduce draft resolution A/59/L.14.
Mr. Ferreira (Sao Tome and Principe): On behalf
of  Angola,  Brazil,  Cape  Verde,  Guinea-Bissau,
Mozambique, Portugal, Timor-Leste and Sao Tome and
Principe,  I  have 
introduce  draft
resolution A/59/L.14 under agenda item 56 (t), entitled
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries”.
the  honour 
to 
of 
The 
Community 
Portuguese-speaking
Countries  (CPLP)  was  founded  on  17  July  1996  and
became  a  United  Nations  observer  on  18  November
1999. The CPLP brings together 240 million people in
eight  countries  on  four  continents.  Its  member  States
belong to regional organizations such as the European
Union, 
the  Organization  of
American  States  and  the  Association  of  South-East
Asian Nations.
the  African  Union, 
The  CPLP  is  devoting  special  attention  to  the
political  situation  in  Guinea-Bissau.  Last  week,  the
CPLP Council of Ministers met in Lisbon and decided
to establish a temporary CPLP office in Guinea-Bissau.
That  office  will  assist  Guinea-Bissau  in  its  national
dialogue and reconciliation and also in determining its
3
A/59/PV.50
specific and urgent needs so that the country can return
to the path of stability.
In  collaboration  with  the  Economic  Community
of  West  African  States  and  the  Special  Representative
of  the  Secretary-General  for  Guinea-Bissau,  we  are
helping to rebuild confidence at the national level. The
CPLP  is  certain  that  the  United  Nations  and  the
regional organizations to which Guinea-Bissau belongs
will  work  in  close  cooperation  to  rescue  the  country
from  the  cycle  of  violence,  poverty,  instability  and
isolation.
The  actions  of  the  CPLP  demonstrate  that  we
have  been  implementing  the  rules  of  multilateralism
and  have  been  cooperating  with  the  United  Nations.
Now  we  want  to  formalize  that  role  and  broaden  that
cooperation  by  contributing 
to  development  and
international  security.  For  example,  we  would  like  to
see  the  establishment  of  fruitful  cooperation  with  the
United Nations, so that the CPLP can contribute to the
implementation  of 
the  Millennium
Declaration.
the  goals  of 
In  operative  paragraph  1  of  the  draft  resolution,
the General Assembly invites the Secretary-General to
undertake  consultations  with  the  Executive  Secretary
of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries,
with a view to promoting cooperation between the two
secretariats.  In  that  regard,  joint  efforts  aimed  at
political 
in  Guinea-Bissau,
constitute one area that could be explored.
facilitation,  such  as 
In  operative  paragraph  2,  the  Assembly  requests
the  specialized  agencies  and  other  bodies  and
programmes of the United Nations to cooperate to this
end  with  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Executive
Secretary of the CPLP. I wish to draw the attention of
members to the fact that the CPLP has  already  signed
cooperation  agreements  with  a  number  of  United
Nations  organs  and  agencies  —  namely,  the  United
Nations  Educational, 
and  Cultural
Organization,  the  World  Food  Programme  and  the
United  Nations  Conference 
and
Development  —  but  that  much  more  work  remains  to
be done.
Scientific 
Trade 
on 
Finally,  the  draft  resolution  asks  the  Secretary-
General  to  submit  a  report  on  the  implementation  of
the  present  resolution  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its
sixty-first session.
4
The  members  of  the  CPLP  are  introducing  this
draft  resolution  to  the  Assembly  for  its  consideration.
Our  delegations 
for
considering the draft resolution. We hope that it will be
adopted by consensus.
thank  all  Member  States 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the
floor  to  the  representative  of  Lebanon  to  introduce
draft resolution A/59/L.19.
to 
take 
the  floor  on  behalf  of 
Mr.  Assaf  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have
the  honour 
the
francophone group and the sponsors to introduce draft
resolution  A/59/L.19,  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Organization
of la Francophonie”.
Lebanon  —  which  had  the  honour  to  host  the
Ninth Summit  of  la  Francophonie  in  2002,  devoted  to
the theme “Dialogue of cultures” — remains faithful to
its  francophone  heritage  and  will  continue  to  play  its
role 
la
Francophonie (IOF).
International  Organization  of 
the 
in 
I  should  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for
the  high  quality  of  his  report  (A/59/303)  submitted
under  agenda  item  56,  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the  United  Nations 
and  other
organizations”  —  particularly  section  X  of  the  report,
on the International Organization of la Francophonie. I
should  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  of  the
IOF for his constant efforts to promote both the role of
the  IOF  and  the  development  of  its  relations  with  the
United Nations.
regional 
and 
relations  and 
The  draft  resolution  before  us  was  sponsored  by
77  countries.  It  includes  a  10-paragraph  preambular
part and a 16-paragraph operative part. The preambular
part reflects the importance of regional cooperation in
multilateral 
the  establishment  and
development  of  democracy,  as  well  as  respect  for  the
dialogue  among  civilizations  and  for  cultural  and
linguistic  diversity.  It  recalls  the  importance  of  the
fight  against  poverty  and  the  principles  on  which
cooperation between the IOF and the United Nations is
based.
The  operative  part  underscores 
the  positive
participation  of  the  IOF  in  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  and 
two
organizations in conflict prevention and other fields of
mutual  interest,  as  well  as  the  role  of  the  IOF  in
the  cooperation  between 
the 
international  conferences,  under  the  auspices  of  the
United Nations.
The operative part also welcomes the fact that the
tenth  summit  conference  of  la  Francophonie  will  be
devoted  to  solidarity  for  sustainable  development.  It
reflects  the  cooperation  that  exists  between  the  IOF
and  the  United  Nations  and  between  the  IOF  and  the
specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  system  to
promote development and the elimination of poverty.
Lastly,  on  behalf  of  the  sponsors,  it  is  my
pleasure to invite the General Assembly to give its full
support to draft resolution A/59/L.19.
take  a  decision  on  draft 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now 
resolutions
A/59/L.5/Rev.2, A/59/L.11, A/59/L.14 and A/59/L.19.
We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/59/L.5/Rev.2,
entitled “Cooperation between the United Nations  and
the Inter-Parliamentary Union”.
Since  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,
Cameroon has joined the list of sponsors.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/59/L.5/Rev.2 without a vote?
Draft  resolution  A/59/L.5/Rev.2  was  adopted
(resolution 59/19).
The President (spoke in French): We turn now to
draft 
resolution  A/59/L.11,  entitled  “Cooperation
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Pacific  Islands
Forum”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Chief,  General  Assembly  Affairs
for  General  Assembly  and
Branch,  Department 
Conference  Management):  I  would  like  to  inform
representatives  that  in  operative  paragraph  17  of  draft
resolution  A/59/L.11,  the  Assembly  would  call  upon
the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for  Human  Rights  to  provide  technical  support  to
Pacific  Islands  Forum  members  to  contribute  to  the
regional efforts in promoting awareness and knowledge
of all international human rights treaties.
It  is  envisaged  that  this  activity  would  be
financed  from  extrabudgetary  resources.  Hence,  the
adoption  of  the  draft  resolution  would  not  entail  any
additional appropriation for the biennium 2004-2005.
A/59/PV.50
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Before  taking
action  on  draft  resolution  A/59/L.11,  I  would  like  to
inform  the  Assembly  that  since  its  introduction,  the
following  countries  have  joined  the  list  of  sponsors:
Armenia, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, the
Czech  Republic,  Grenada,  India,  Indonesia,  Iceland,
Ireland, Japan, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lithuania,  Malaysia,  Nepal,  the  Republic  of  Korea,
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Suriname,  Thailand  and
Ukraine.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/59/L.11 without a vote?
resolution  A/59/L.11  was 
adopted
Draft 
(resolution 59/20).
The  President 
in  French):  Draft
resolution A/59/L.14 is  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the United Nations and the Community of Portuguese-
speaking Countries”.
(spoke 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/59/L.14 without a vote?
resolution  A/59/L.14  was 
adopted
Draft 
(resolution 59/21).
The  President 
in  French):  Draft
resolution A/59/L.19 is  entitled  “Cooperation  between
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Organization
of la Francophonie”.
(spoke 
Before  we  take  action  on  the  draft  resolution,  I
would  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  since  its
introduction,  the  following  countries  have  joined  the
list  of  sponsors:  Costa  Rica,  Liechtenstein  and
Thailand.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/59/L.19 without a vote?
resolution  A/59/L.19  was 
Draft 
(resolution 59/22).
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  May  I  take  it
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude
its  consideration  of  sub-items  (i),  (j),  (q)  and  (t)  of
agenda item 56?
adopted
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 10.10 a.m.
5
