United Nations
General Assembly
Fifty-ninth session
5th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 22 September 2004, 10 a.m.
New York

A/59/PV.5
Official Records
President:
Mr. Ping  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Gabon)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Address by Mr. Sulejman Tihić, Chairman of the
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr.  Sulejman  Tihić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Sulejman Tihić,
Chairman  of 
and
Herzegovina,  and 
the
Assembly.
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia 
to  address 
invite  him 
to 
President  Tihić (spoke  in  Bosnian;  English  text
provided by the delegation): I wish to greet you all and
express my great pleasure at having this opportunity to
address this Assembly. I also wish to thank the United
Nations,  once  again,  for  everything  it  has  done  and  is
doing  for  my  country.  Specifically,  I  would  like  to
stress the importance of giving support to the returnees
who were expelled from their homes.
Bosnia and Herzegovina is a multi-ethnic country
in  which  Bosnian  Muslims,  Orthodox  Serbs,  Catholic
Croats, Jews and many other ethnicities lived in peace
and tolerance for hundreds of years. In Sarajevo and in
most  other  Bosnian  towns,  one  can  find  mosques,
Orthodox  and  Catholic  churches  and  Jewish  temples
that have stood side by side for hundreds of years. For
this reason, Sarajevo is called the Jerusalem of Europe.
Preserving  the  multi-ethnic  structure  of  Bosnia
and  Herzegovina,  with  all  its  characteristics  and
diversities,  presents  an  historic  challenge,  not  only  to
Europe,  but 
the  whole  world.  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  is  the  foremost  meeting  point  of  world
cultures and religions. It therefore refutes the theory of
the clash of civilizations.
to 
I would like to update you on the situation in my
country,  which  has  made  significant  progress  over  the
last nine years.
increased  14 
The  infrastructure  destroyed  in  the  war  has  been
rebuilt and macroeconomic stability has been achieved,
with only 1 per cent inflation. The banking system has
been consolidated and foreign debts are being paid off.
Since  the  post-war  period,  the  gross  domestic  product
has  increased  three  times  over  and  national  reserves
have 
times  over.  Foreign  currency
reserves and savings are constantly increasing as well.
We  are  on  the  right  path  to  meeting  all  the
the
requirements 
European  Union  (EU)  on  stabilization  and  association
agreements.  Due  to  the  Republika  Srpska  entity(cid:146)s
failure  to  cooperate  with  the  International  Criminal
Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  we  have
been unable to gain Partnership for Peace membership,
although we meet all of the requirements.
starting  negotiations  with 
for 
Strong  reforms  are  under  way  in  the  areas  of
education,  customs,  taxes,  security  and  the  defence
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
04-51775 (E)
*0451775*
A/59/PV.5
system.  Many  new  central  institutions  have  been  set
up,  such  as  the  Defence  and  Security  Ministry,  the
intelligence service, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Joint
Military  Command  and  others.  Compared  with  the
approximately  500,000  soldiers  of  the  three  separate
armies  in  1995,  the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  military
forces  now  have  12,000  soldiers.  The  North  Atlantic
Treaty Organization (NATO) had some 70,000 soldiers
in Bosnia in 1996, and the Stabilization Force (SFOR)
now  has  about  7,000.  The  security  situation  is  stable;
the  peace  has  never  been  broken.  Since  the  Dayton
Peace Accords were signed, not a single foreign soldier
has been killed in Bosnia. Instead of being a consumer
of 
is
increasingly  becoming  a  participant  in  international
peace  missions,  such  as  those  in  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Liberia,
Timor-Leste, Haiti and others.
international  aid,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
The  common  foreign,  security  and  defence
policies of the European Union have enabled the EU to
take  the  leading  role  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina.  By
the end of this year, EU military forces will take over
from SFOR in Bosnia.
The  positive  stabilization  process  (cid:151)  as  well  as
the overall progress made not only in Bosnia, but also
in  the  other  countries  created  after  the  dissolution  of
the former Yugoslavia  (cid:151) is being slowed down by an
inappropriate  attitude  towards  war  crimes  and  war
criminals. Some public and political officials are trying
to find an excuse for the war crimes, saying they were
committed in the interest of vital ethnic protection. Yet
war criminals are treated as national heroes. This must
be changed. Only on the basis of truth and justice can
we  build  confidence  and  reconciliation  among  the
people  and  friendly  relations  among  our  respective
countries.
The  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
the
Former Yugoslavia has an irreplaceable role to play in
that process. We deeply appreciate the work it has done
so  far.  In  our  view,  it  must  finish  the  trials  that  have
already  begun,  particularly  those  of  the  highest-level
officials.  Some  of  the  cases  not  yet  completed  can  be
transferred only to courts of countries where the crimes
happened. This can be done only when those countries
are prepared to guarantee fair and correct trials.
Full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  must  be  an
unavoidable requirement for accession to Euro-Atlantic
institutions.  Moreover,  it  is  not  enough  to  arrest  and
2
prosecute only war criminals on the ICTY(cid:146)s list. Local
courts  in  our  respective  countries  must  prosecute
thousands of other war criminals who are still at large,
who  constitute  a  destabilizing  factor,  who  hinder
positive  processes,  and  who  are  often  connected  with
organized crime.
In  my  country,  we  are  going  to  establish  within
the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  Court  a  war  crimes
chamber.  The  chamber  will  take  over  some  of  the
Hague Tribunal(cid:146)s cases, but it will also prosecute many
other  criminals.  It  is  going  to  be  The  Hague  in
miniature.  We  will 
technical  and
financial  support,  and  we  will  have 
involve
international judges and prosecutors with experience in
such  trials,  above  all  those  who  have  worked  at  The
Hague Tribunal.
therefore  need 
to 
Next  year  will  be  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the
genocide  against  Bosnian  Muslims  in  the  United
Nations  safe  havens  of  Srebrenica  and  Zepa.  The
people  most  responsible  for  that  genocide,  as  well  as
for  all  other  war  crimes  committed  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  (cid:151)  Radovan  Karadzic  and  Ratko
Mladic (cid:151)  have  not  yet  been  arrested.  Those  two  men
are responsible for the death of about 200,000 people.
From  this  rostrum,  I  call  on  all  in  authority  to  arrest
them.
The  outstanding  issue  of  about  15,000  missing
persons,  whose  bodies  are  spread  among  numerous
mass graves throughout the country, 320 of which have
been found so far in Bosnia, presents a big problem for
my  country.  We  need  help  in  finding  the  missing  and
identifying them.
The  political  system  set  up  by  the  Dayton  and
Washington  Agreements  played  a  positive  role  in
establishing  peace,  reconstruction  and  progress  in  my
country. However, they are now increasingly becoming
an  obstacle  to  further  development  and  progress.  The
current  administration  in  Bosnia,  with  a  federation
composed  of  10  cantons,  a  republic  and  a  district  (cid:151)
strong entities and a weak State (cid:151) is an obstacle in our
way 
is  an
extremely  complicated  and  expensive  system  that  is
barely  operational.  The  people,  both  in  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina  and  outside,  are  aware  of  this  to  varying
degrees.
towards  Euro-Atlantic 
integration.  It 
I believe the time is coming for domestic political
representatives  to  start  to  discuss  the  revision  of
its  compliance  with
Bosnia(cid:146)s  constitution  and 
international  conventions.  We  have 
to  create  an
efficient State with institutions and mandates that will
enable  us  to  become  a  full  member  of  the  EU  and
NATO.  I  hope  we  will  get  support  and  help  from
friendly countries and the international community as a
whole.  A  good  opportunity  for  this  will  be  next  year,
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  Dayton
Peace  Accords.  It  is  time  for  Bosnia  to  turn  from  the
Dayton phase to the Brussels phase.
for  sovereignty, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  sincerely  and  firmly
committed  to  strengthening  friendly  relations  with  the
neighbouring Republic of Croatia and the State  Union
of  Serbia  and  Montenegro  on  the  basis  of  mutual
respect 
integrity  and
equality.  Our  geographical  location,  history,  ethnic
composition 
infrastructure
connections are leading us towards overall cooperation.
We  are  aware  that,  without  a  resolution  of  disputed
issues,  we  cannot  proceed 
to  European
integration; we already have achieved some progress in
this regard.
economic 
further 
territorial 
and 
and 
The  countries  of  South-Eastern  Europe  have
made huge individual and joint efforts to achieve great
progress  in  changing  the  stereotype  of  the  region  as  a
backward,  problematic  and  conflict-ridden  area  of  the
European  suburbs.  Regional  cooperation 
is  being
promoted  in  the  areas  of  defence,  security,  border
control, 
regimes,  combating
corruption  and  organized  crime  and  the  protection  of
ethnic and religious minorities.
free  markets,  visa 
The  issue  of  borders  in  the  region  cannot  and
must  not  be  opened  again.  We  have  to  arrange  such
matters 
in  compliance  with  European  standards.
However,  we  have  to  open  the  issue  of  cooperation
with  respect  to  borders,  since  it  is  in  our  common
interest.
I  think  that  the  Iraqi  crisis  needs  to  be  resolved
simultaneously with the Palestinian issue. We therefore
support  the  initiative  of  the  Quartet  and  the  road  map
as a basis for setting up a sincere dialogue between the
two  States,  with  United  States  mediation.  We  also
strongly condemn all terrorist acts, as well as execution
without  trial  of  Palestinian  religious  leaders.  We
strongly condemn the Israeli side(cid:146)s construction of the
protection wall.
We are happy with the consensus among Security
Council  members  on  the  transfer  of  sovereignty  from
coalition  forces  to  the  legitimately  elected  legal  and
A/59/PV.5
law.  The 
executive  authorities  in  Iraq.  We  think  the  United
Nations  should  take  the  leading  role  in  shaping  the
future  of  Iraq.  The  Iraqi  people  need  to  govern  their
own  country,  and  the  military  forces  that  control  the
territory  must  respect  the  Geneva  Conventions  and
humanitarian 
integrity  and
sovereignty  of  Iraq  must  be  preserved,  including
sovereignty  over  its  natural  resources.  We  call  for
protection of Iraq(cid:146)s world heritage civilization and holy
places,  such  as  Karbala  and  the  Imam  Ali  mosque  in
Najaf.  With  a  view  to  helping  the  people  of  Iraq  and
contributing  to  the  establishment  of  peace  there,
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  has  sent  a  unit  to  Iraq  to
destroy mines and unexploded devices.
territorial 
My country is sincerely committed to combating
international  terrorism  and  is  an  active  participant  in
the  international  anti-terrorist  coalition.  Terrorism  is
not only a threat to peace and security; in our view, it is
immoral and counterproductive.  It  is  immoral  because
innocent people are killed,  and it is counterproductive
because  terrorism  cannot  resolve  problems.  It  only
produces  new  ones.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to
highlight here the  example of Bosnian Muslims, since
we  were  the  major  victim  of  the  aggression  against
Bosnia between 1992 and 1995. We managed to defend
ourselves, but  both  during  and  after  the  war  we  never
turned our hands to revenge or terrorism.
Allow me to review the issue of Security Council
reform,  as  well  as  that  of  strengthening  the  efficiency
of the mechanisms of the United Nations. The citizens
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  know  from  their  own
experience  what  a  lack  of  proper  and  efficient  United
If  United  Nations
Nations  action  can  mean. 
mechanisms  were  more  efficient, 
the  aggression
against  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  would  not  have
happened or, at least, the war would not have been so
long. If they were more efficient, then genocide would
not  have  been  committed  in  the  United  Nations  safe
havens of Srebrenica and Zepa. For that reason, I want
to remind everyone of the Organization(cid:146)s obligation to
assist the survivors in those areas.
When  considering  the  situation  in  the  world
today, the question of efficient cooperation in the area
of  security  is  inevitably  raised.  The  Security  Council
needs to be the leading factor for peace and stability in
the  world.  It  has  to  have  at  its  disposal  mechanisms
that can be operated with efficiency and speed in order
to prevent conflicts from becoming military clashes.
3
A/59/PV.5
Among other proposals, we support the initiatives
to enlarge the Security Council(cid:146)s membership.
Bosnia and Herzegovina wants to become a non-
permanent member of the Security Council. In terms of
Security  Council  efficiency,  our  experience  has  been
mostly a negative one. Through our participation in the
work of the Council, we hope to prevent a repetition of
our  experience  elsewhere  in  the  world.  Therefore,  we
take  this  opportunity  to  confirm  our  intention  of
putting  forth  our  candidature  for  the  2010-2011  term.
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  deserves  that  honour  and  we
are determined to prove our worth.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the  statement  he  has
just made.
Mr.  Sulejman  Tihić,  President  of  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the  General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Alejandro Toledo Manrique,
President of the Republic of Peru
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Peru.
Mr.  Alejandro  Toledo  Manrique,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alejandro
Toledo  Manrique,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Peru,
and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Toledo  Manrique  (spoke in Spanish):
Allow  me  to  join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating
you  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  fifty-
ninth session of the General Assembly.
in 
of 
is  unified  globally 
The  world  of  the  twenty-first  century  faces  a
paradox.  It 
the  areas  of
production,  such  as  trade,  finance  and  in  the  digital
revolution 
communication
technology  (cid:151)  yet  it  is  divided  by  the  increase  in
conflicts,  civil  strife  and  transnational  terrorism,  as
well  as  cultural  and  ethnic  violence.  The  world  is
unified by universal values, such as democracy, human
rights  and  respect  for  freedom  of  expression  and  the
information 
and 
4
environment  (cid:151)  yet  it  is  divided  when  democracy
clashes  with  social  demands  for  more  jobs  and  less
hunger.
Those  contradictory  trends  of  globalization  and
fragmentation  jeopardize  governance  not  only  at  the
international  level,  but  also  within  nations.  Conflicts
sharpen; many poor States are rocked by domestic and
external violence; terrorist organizations and traffickers
in  drugs,  weapons  and  persons  are  emerging  and
amassing devastating global power.
Since the end of the cold war, more than 30 civil
conflicts  have  caused  approximately  5  million  deaths
and  created  almost  17  million  refugees.  In  2004,  the
United  Nations 
15
peacekeeping  operations  and  15  special  political
missions.  That  means  that  16  per  cent  of  Member
States  are  affected  by  issues  undermining  peace  and
international security.
administering 
been 
has 
In a context in which no single Power can assure
global  governance,  in  a  world  where  fragmentation
abets nuclear threats, both nations and peoples demand
urgent  decisions  (cid:151)  decisions  ensuring  global
governance  based  on 
increased
respect  for  the  United  Nations,  within  a  renewed  and
strengthened multilateralism, and the reinforcement of
the values of peace and international justice.
international 
law, 
In  the  global  era,  the  world  requires  broad
consensus. Peru considers that the best solution is to be
found  through  both  change  and  continuity.  We  must
stabilize  the  world  political  situation  and  generate  an
international  alliance  for  development  and  social
justice.  We  call  for  continuity  in  order  to  attain  the
goals  of  the  United  Nations.  We  call  for  peace,
security,  juridical  equality  of  States,  the  non-use  of
force,  the  prohibition  of  aggression,  the  international
relations  among  States,
rule  of 
international 
social
development  and  respect  for  human  rights  (cid:151)  all  of
which are more necessary and have more validity today
than ever before.
law  governing 
cooperation, 
economic 
and 
We  also  propose  a  change  of  tools,  mechanisms
and measures. The reform of the Security Council must
be  tackled  realistically,  bearing  in  mind  its  role  as  a
mechanism for collective security for the international
community  as  a  whole.  The  people  want  a  Security
Council  with  guarantees  of  legitimate  and  effective
decisions.
the 
has 
century, 
nineteenth 
to  promote  peace 
Peru  is  a  country  whose  diplomatic  tradition,
since 
supported
multilateralism  as  the  best  means  for  international
decisions,  particularly 
and
development.  Peru  participates  in  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations.  My  country  is  contributing
military  troops  in  Cyprus,  on  the  border  between
Ethiopia and Eritrea and in the Democratic Republic of
the  Congo,  and  we  are  participating  in  Liberia  and  in
C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire.  Recently,  my  Government  decided  to
send  a  fully  equipped  company  to  help  achieve
stability,  security  and 
the  reinstitutionalization  of
democracy in the Republic of Haiti.
As  a  result  of  our  long-standing  participation  in
maintaining  peace  and  security  and  in  promoting
development,  Peru  has  announced  its  candidacy  for  a
non-permanent seat on the Security Council during the
period 2006-2007. We are grateful for the considerable
support  that  we  have  received  and  for  the  favourable
consideration given to our candidacy.
Today, 2.8 billion people live on $2 per day; 1.3
billion people subsist  on  $1  per  day.  Moreover,  in  the
1990s,  social  inequality  became  more  pronounced
throughout  the  world.  According  to  the  Worldwatch
Institute,  that  increase  in  inequality  affected  not  only
personal  incomes,  but  also  access  to  water,  food  and
energy  (cid:151)  public  goods  essential  for  civilized  life  and
socio-political stability. Today, the decrease in personal
incomes  and  the  increase  in  inequality  are  colliding
like 
tremors  of  social
disintegration and international conflict.
tectonic  plates,  producing 
Therefore,  we  in  the  international  community
must  understand  that  the  peace,  security  and  stability
of the world system  are not related solely to political,
military  or  strategic  aspects.  Peace  and  security  have
social  and  economic  components.  Poverty  and
exclusion  militate  against  peace, 
security  and
democracy.  Social  exclusion  produces  violence,
instability and national and international fragmentation
and  renders  democracy  fragile.  We  cannot  overcome
that situation if we do not cause globalization to have a
human  face  and  to  become  a  positive  force  that
provides tangible benefits to all nations and all human
beings.
The  rule  of  law  and  the  international  legal  order
must guarantee access to justice and respect for human
rights.  The  rule  of  law  must  prevent  impunity.  At  the
same 
societies  must  make
democratic 
time, 
A/59/PV.5
hijacked 
democracy, 
the  process  of  recovering 
transparency  and  the  fight  against  corruption  true
policies of the State.
Peru,  before 
its
democracy,  was  captive 
to  corruption,  systematic
human  rights  violations  and  the  subjugation  of  justice
to  political  power.  The  corrupt  and  authoritarian
Government 
tortured
systematically  and  made  corruption  a  tool  of  political
power. Today, the free consciences of Peru demand that
those  responsible  be  brought  to  justice.  Therefore,  I
appeal  to  the  Government  of  Japan  to  contribute  to
access  to  justice  by  authorizing  the  extradition  of
former  President  Alberto  Fujimori  for  the  crimes
against  humanity  with  which  Peruvian  justice  has
charged  him,  including  his  alleged  responsibility  for
acts  of 
forced  disappearances,  summary
executions  and  acts  of  corruption.  Democratic  Peru
guarantees a fair trial and due process under the rule of
law. I make  this  appeal  in  the  conviction  that  the  rule
of law and the international legal order must guarantee
access to justice. To deny such access is tantamount to
enshrining 
the
international order is not prepared to consider itself an
accomplice  to  such  impunity.  We  hope  that  that  will
not happen.
impunity,  and 
torture, 
I  am 
sure 
that 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Republic  of  Peru  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr. Alejandro Toledo Manrique, President of the
Republic of Peru, was escorted from the General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of the
Republic of Namibia
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Sam  Nujoma,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Namibia, was escorted into the General Assembly
Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Nujoma,
President of the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
5
A/59/PV.5
President  Nujoma:  It  is  a  source  of  pride  for
Africans and our friends alike to see you, Sir, presiding
over the demanding business of the fifty-ninth session
of the General Assembly. You bring to your high office
the  immense  wisdom  and  experience  you  have  gained
over  the  years  as  a  dedicated  public  servant  and
Cabinet  minister  of  the  Gabonese  Republic.  You  hold
in your capable hands the mandate given to you by the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to  give  new  impetus  to
the promotion of peace, human security and sustainable
development  throughout  the  world.  I  congratulate  you
warmly  and  pledge  Namibia(cid:146)s  full  support  to  you
personally and to your Bureau.
You will recall, Mr. President, the renewed spirit
and  firm  resolve  for  change  demonstrated  by  African
leaders  in  July  2002  in  Durban,  South  Africa.  There,
we stressed a new beginning for Africa in transforming
the  Organization  of  African  Unity 
(OAU)  and
launching the African Union and its development arm,
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development
(NEPAD).  We  also  reiterated  our  commitment  to
embrace  the  African  diaspora  in  consolidating  and
transforming our continent.
to  note 
that 
I  am, 
therefore,  delighted 
the
outgoing  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  His
Excellency  Mr.  Julian  Hunte,  hails  from  the  sister
country  of  Saint  Lucia  in  the  Caribbean.  I  pay  tribute
to  him  for  his  excellent  and  successful  service  to  the
United Nations. During his tenure of office, he showed
leadership and dedication to world peace, security and
sustainable development.
We  are  gathered  once  again  at  United  Nations
Headquarters to reaffirm the precious ideals, principles
and  purposes  of  the  Organization,  and  to  transform
them into action towards ending armed conflict, saving
our  children  and  investing  resources  to  eradicate
hunger, disease and poverty in the world.
Our 
illustrious  and  hardworking  Secretary-
General, my dear brother Kofi Annan, has left no stone
unturned in his tireless efforts to exert his authority in
conflict situations. His insistence on the centrality and
legitimate  responsibility  of  the  Organization  to  be  on
the  side  of  the  poor,  the  weak  and  the  needy  in  the
world  should  be  commended.  In  his  annual  report  on
the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/59/1),  the  Secretary-
General  once  again  reminds  Member  States  of  the
terrible  state  of  the  world,  and  offers  real  alternatives
for  world  peace  and  security,  social  development
6
financing  and  the  mitigation  of  the  effects  of  the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic  and  other  infectious  diseases.  I
commend 
for  his  worthy
interventions and effective leadership.
the  Secretary-General 
During  the  1999-2000  period,  Namibia  had  the
rare  honour  and  privilege  of  serving  the  Organization
in  two  capacities.  My  country  served  both  as  a  non-
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  and,
simultaneously, as President of the fifty-fourth session
of  the  General  Assembly,  whose  task,  among  others,
was  to  prepare  for  the  Millennium  Summit  and  the
adoption of the historic Millennium Declaration. I was
thus called upon to co-chair that Summit together with
my  Finnish  counterpart,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tarja
Halonen.
At  that  memorable  Summit,  the  largest  ever
gathering  of  world  leaders  unanimously  endorsed  the
far-reaching  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
targets. Today we all remain bound by that historic and
unique  undertaking.  Member  States  collectively
pledged,  among  other  things,  to  eradicate  extreme
poverty  and  hunger;  achieve  universal  primary
education;  promote  gender  equality  and  empower
women;  reduce  child  mortality  and  improve  maternal
health;  combat  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis  and
other  diseases;  ensure  environmental  sustainability;
and  develop  a  global  partnership  for  sustainable
development.
By  endorsing  those  Development  Goals  and
targets,  our  Governments  have  made  a  serious  and
irrevocable commitment, through reliable public policy
interventions,  to  care  for  the  millions  of  our  children
all  over  the  world  who  are  asking  for  nothing  more
than love, protection and a peaceful childhood.
In  this  undertaking,  we  cannot  ignore  the  ever-
widening  income  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor,
between  the  industrialized  North  and  the  developing
South.  This  situation  represents  a  dangerous  time
bomb, which the world can ill afford to let take its own
course. Our planet Earth is too small to perpetuate the
unacceptable 
juxtaposition  of  abject  poverty  and
abundant  prosperity.  We  will  deal  with  this  situation
effectively only when we promote mutually  beneficial
commercial  trade  between  the  North  and  the  South
within the framework of North-South and South-South
cooperation.
I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  the  Millennium
Development Goals and targets by themselves are only
declarations of intent. Our Governments must translate
them  into  sustainable  policies,  buttressed  by  adequate
financial  and  technological  resources,  to  make  a  real
difference in the lives of our peoples.
For  its  part,  Namibia,  in  cooperation  with  the
relevant  United  Nations  agencies,  has  adopted  a
countrywide programme to implement  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and 
to
deploying  our  own  resolve  and  capabilities,  we  call
upon  other  development  partners  to  assist  us  in  our
national efforts towards nation-building, reconciliation
and transformation.
In  addition 
targets. 
At the initiative of President Luiz InÆcio Lula da
Silva  of  the  Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  world
leaders  converged  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  on
20  September  2004  to  exchange  views  and  find
workable solutions aimed at bringing an end to hunger
and  poverty  in  the  world.  We  commend  him  for  that
important  initiative,  in  which  we  participated.  At  the
end  of  the  meeting,  a  declaration  was  adopted,  which
Namibia  fully  supports.  We  call  upon  Member  States
and  other  stakeholders  to  implement  it  with  due
urgency.
and 
defeat 
hunger 
poverty, 
The world has enormous resources with which to
fight 
and
underdevelopment.  In  this  process  of  dialogue,  we
must  insist  on  a  realistic  balance  between  the  total
world spending on war and weapons technology on the
one  hand  and  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  targets  on  the  other.  What  is
required is political will and compassion on the part of
world 
leaders.  The  debate  on  weapons  of  mass
destruction  must  not  divide  United  Nations  Member
States,  but  should  lead  nations  to  find  and  enhance
peaceful  coexistence  and  cooperation.  Developed
countries should consider their support to the countries
of  the  South  as  an  act  of  enlightened  contribution  to
regional  and  global  stability,  and  as  a  purposeful
incentive  to  encourage  increased  mutually  beneficial
commercial trade and investment among all nations.
the  current  session  of 
I  wish  to  underline  the  significance  of  my
presence  at 
the  General
Assembly.  Attached  to  my  attendance  are  a  long
history,  a  personal  journey  and  an  unbroken  link
between  Namibia  and  the  United  Nations  over  many
years. I entered this building for the first time in 1960,
as  a  petitioner  before  the  Fourth  Committee  of  the
General Assembly.
A/59/PV.5
and 
conferences 
That  was  my  first  humble  but  determined
emergence on the diplomatic scene. I have spent many
years  since  then,  attending  various  United  Nations
debates 
the
decolonization  of  Namibia  and  negotiations  on  self-
determination  and  independence.  During  those  many
years,  I  addressed  some  of  the  Security  Council
meetings  held  in  respect  of  the  question  of  Namibia,
starting  in  1971,  as  the  first  freedom  fighter  accorded
such an opportunity.
that  dealt  with 
I  got  to  meet  and  know  many  distinguished
statesmen,  diplomats,  fellow  petitioners  and  eminent
international civil servants in New York, Geneva, Paris
and  other  important  conference  venues.  My  Namibian
colleagues  and  I  will  always  treasure  the  advice,
support  and  solidarity  we  received  from  the  United
Nations family, and from friends the world over. Many
friendly  nations  of  the  world  stood  firm  and  rendered
moral,  material  and  diplomatic  support  to  the  noble
cause of our freedom and independence.
Many 
world-renowned 
revolutionaries,
particularly on the African continent, rendered selfless
sacrifices,  not  only  towards  the  independence  of  our
motherland, but also to free the African continent from
colonial exploitation and apartheid.
I  therefore  would  like  to  salute  and  pay  homage
to  the  visionary  leaders  of  the  African  continent  who
shaped the  vision of African unity  and  the  continent(cid:146)s
emancipation  from  the  yoke  of  colonialism,  foreign
occupation  and  apartheid.  Among  them,  I  pay  special
tribute  to  Kwame  Nkrumah,  the  first  President  of
Ghana;  Ahmed  Ben  Bella,  the  first  Prime  Minister  of
Algeria;  Gamal  Abdel  Nasser  of  Egypt;  Julius
Kambarage  Nyerere  of  Tanzania;  Kenneth  Kaunda  of
Zambia;  General  Murtala  Mohammed  of  Nigeria;
Antonio Agostinho Neto of Angola; and other African
leaders and pan-Africanists.
Namibia(cid:146)s  protracted 
liberation  struggle  was
bloody  and  bitter.  It  caused  the  untold  suffering  and
sacrifices of our people inside the country and those of
us  who  were  forced  to  spend  many  decades  in  exile.
international
After  many  years  of  struggle, 
community 
the
legitimacy  of  our  cause  for  freedom,  equality  and
justice,  led  by  our  national  liberation  movement,  the
South-West Africa People(cid:146)s Organization (SWAPO) of
Namibia.
recognized  and  endorsed 
finally 
the 
7
A/59/PV.5
became 
the 
Namibia 
principally 
legal
responsibility of the United Nations, and in that way a
unique  partnership  was  forged  for  a  common  cause
between  the  world  Organization  and  the  struggling
Namibian  people,  which  endured  for  30  daunting  and
eventful years.
On  21  March  1990,  His  Excellency  Javier  PØrez
de  CuØllar,  then  Secretary-General  of  the  United
Nations,  swore  me  in  as  President  of  the  Republic  of
Namibia.  Later  in  September  of  the  same  year,  I
returned  to  the  United  Nations  to  address  the  General
Assembly  and,  on  behalf  of  my  people,  to  thank  the
United  Nations  for  the  special  partnership  and  the
principled  support  in  various  forms  that  eventually
gave  birth 
the  160th  State  Member  of  our
Organization.
to 
I  paid  tribute  to  those  United  Nations  civil
servants and members of the United Nations Transition
Assistance  Group  (UNTAG)  who  served  diligently  to
ensure  the  full  implementation  of  Security  Council
resolution 435 (1978). I also paid homage to those who
died in the course of their duty in Namibia.
from 
friendly  countries. 
those  many  organizations, 
I  wish  to  recall  with  appreciation  that  my  initial
access  to  the  United  Nations  was  made  possible  by
non-governmental  organizations,  church  groups,  a
handful  of  United  Nations  staff  members  and
concerned  diplomats 
I
sincerely  thank  them  all.  The  Namibian  people  salute
them and will forever honour the memories we shared.
Among 
to
particularly  single  out  and  pay  deserved  tribute  to  the
Africa-America Institute  for  its exceptional  dedication
to  provide  and  expand  educational  opportunities  to
Africans  across  our  continent,  including  Namibians,
both  before  and  after  our  independence.  I  join  other
African  leaders  in  welcoming  the  Africa-America
Institute(cid:146)s  fiftieth  anniversary  education  partnership
campaign,  which  I  wholeheartedly  recommend  for
global support.
I  wish 
By my own decision and in compliance with our
Constitution,  I  will  be  serving  as  President  of  the
Republic  only  until  20  March  2005.  I  will  then  bid
farewell to my State duties and public functions. I am
looking forward to a less hectic life, but I will remain a
fully  engaged  private  citizen.  I  intend  to  undertake
certain causes that are dear to my heart and be ready to
assist  national,  regional  and 
international  efforts,
especially  in  the  areas  of  poverty  eradication,  people
8
with  disabilities,  food  production  and  infrastructure
development.
At  the  beginning  of  my  statement,  I  referred  to
the launch of the African Union, NEPAD and Africa(cid:146)s
resolve to pursue a new beginning. I now want to add
another crucial dimension, that of gender equality and
the  empowerment  of  women  in  decision-making  and
their  election  to  national,  regional  and  international
institutions.
Our  subregional  organization, 
the  Southern
African  Development  Community,  spearheaded  this
new thinking, and we are happy that the African Union
has  also  started  implementing  this  progressive  and
forward-looking agenda.
The  recent 
inauguration  of 
the  Pan-African
Parliament,  which  is  hosted  by  South  Africa,  is  a
litmus test for Africa(cid:146)s renewal. We must not delay or
fail in our joint venture to achieve the total integration
of our continent.
The  recognition  and  the  full  participation  of
women in decision-making are fundamental to Africa(cid:146)s
transformation and industrialization. With that in mind,
we proudly acknowledge the election of Mrs. Gertrude
Mongella  of Tanzania, who became the first  President
of the Pan-African Parliament. There is no shortage of
competent and experienced African women to lead the
way forward. The African Union Commission includes
female commissioners from various  African countries.
Africa  must  place  at  the  top  of  its  agenda  the
involvement and support of women as leaders and role
models.
Since  the  days  of  the  Organization  of  African
Unity,  the  United  Nations  and  Africa  have  been  true
partners. In the process, they have offered one another
mutual  support  and  ever  increasing  cooperation  in  the
vital  fields  of  conflict  resolution,  peace-building,
humanitarian  relief  and  social  development.  Now  that
the  African  Union  has  established  its  Peace  and
Security Council, in addition to NEPAD, we envisage a
wider scope for cooperation and resource mobilization
to  plan  for  the  prevention  of  armed  conflicts  and
human suffering in Africa.
With  the  attainment  of  sustained  peace  and
stability,  Africa(cid:146)s  economic  growth  and  poverty
eradication  will  become  a  reality  and  the  hopes  and
aspirations of our people will be realized. To that end,
we  need  continued  and  strong  partnership  with  the
United Nations.
reaffirmed  our  belief 
From  this  podium  and  in  various  other  forums,
we  have 
in  a  peaceful,
democratic,  transparent  and  just  international  system.
We have advocated a system that would bring the poor
and the rich of the world together to save the lives of
millions  and  pursue  sustainable  development  and
human security.
To  achieve  that  noble  objective,  the  United
Nations,  in  particular  the  Security  Council,  cannot
continue  operating  on  the  basis  of  undemocratic
structures  of  decision-making.  The  Council  should  be
reformed  without  delay;  political  will  is  what  is
lacking.  We  can  do  better.  Now  is  the  time.  Africa
needs its place as a key player in this world body. We
demand our share of responsibility.
The  current  war  in  Iraq  has  divided  the  world,
causing  enormous  human  suffering  and  undermining
international  peace  and  security.  There  is  widespread
distrust  among  nations,  and  the  danger  of  nuclear
proliferation makes the situation even more alarming.
the  Sudan,  continue 
Millions  of  people  in  Africa,  especially  in  the
Great  Lakes  region  and 
to
experience  untold  suffering  due  to  conflict  and  war.
Namibia is deeply concerned about the killings and the
human  rights  violations  against 
innocent  women,
children  and  the  elderly  in  the  Darfur  region  of  the
Sudan.  We  call  on  all  parties  concerned,  in  particular
the  Government  of  the  Sudan,  to  implement  without
delay  all  the  agreements  and  commitments  they  have
made.
should 
full 
assume 
Against  that  background,  my  Government  fully
supports  Security  Council  resolution  1564  (2004)  of
18 September 2004. While we support the efforts of the
African Union to find a peaceful solution to that highly
volatile  situation,  we  feel  strongly  that  the  Security
Council 
in
accordance  with  the  Charter.  This  problem  can  be
resolved  only  through  a  Security  Council  resolution
establishing  a  peacekeeping  mission  for  Sudan,  in
particular  to  deal  with  human  suffering  in  Darfur.  In
that  context,  as  a  product  of  the  United  Nations
ourselves,  and  in  the  light  of  our  commitment  to  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,
Namibia is prepared to contribute a battalion to such a
United Nations mission.
responsibility 
A/59/PV.5
The  United  Nations  Settlement  Plan  for  Western
Sahara  must  be  implemented  immediately.  Likewise,
the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people must be
realized.  We,  the  international  community,  owe  it  to
them.
Namibia  reiterates its call  for  the  immediate  and
unconditional  lifting  of  the  United  States  embargo
against  Cuba  in  order  to  allow  the  people  of  the  two
countries to coexist peacefully.
The  global  security  situation  is  being  further
threatened  by  the  emergence  of  mercenaries,  who
legitimate  Governments.  The  African
undermine 
continent  has  not  been 
this  ugly
phenomenon,  which  should  be  condemned  by  the
international community.
spared  by 
through  multilateral  negotiations 
needs 
The United Nations is the ideal place for finding
and
solutions 
compromise.  The  Secretary-General 
the
unwavering  support  of  all  Member  States  in  order  to
play  an  effective  role  in  the  Middle  East  and  Africa
and  in  conflict  situations  around  the  world.  Whether
fighting  poverty,  HIV/AIDS  or 
the
international community must act as one. We must stop
human  suffering  and  promote  security  and  prosperity
for all.
terrorism, 
Namibia  stands  for  peace,  unity,  stability  and
economic  partnership.  Our
mutually  beneficial 
Constitution  is  the  primary  guide  we  rely  on  in  those
pursuits.
My  Government  is  implementing  Vision  2030
and  the  successive  national  development  plans  in
stages,  with  a  view  to  further  enhancing  economic
growth  and  improving  the  living  conditions  of  our
people,  including  by  transforming  our  villages  into
viable socio-economic participants. Poverty, education,
skills
health 
care, 
development, 
the
protection  of  children  and  assistance  to  people  with
disabilities  are  among  the  urgent  national  priorities
covered 
government
in 
interventions.
unemployment,  HIV/AIDS, 
the  empowerment  of  women, 
people-centred 
those 
We  carry  them  out  in  partnership  with  business,
labour and those representing civil society. Happily, the
competent  United  Nations  agencies  and  international
experts based in Namibia are working closely with my
Government  to  bring  prosperity  and  transformation  to
Namibia  and  the  subregion.  When  we  succeed,  Africa
9
A/59/PV.5
will  benefit  and  the  world,  too,  will  acknowledge  the
shared rewards of development partnerships.
I  conclude  my  statement  in  the  confidence  that,
through  the  United  Nations,  humanity  will  triumph
over  the  challenges  that  confront  us  today  so  that  the
future  generations  will  live  in  peace,  free  from  the
scourges of war, poverty, hunger and disease. I believe
strongly  that  our  common  goals  and  objectives  are
achievable because a people united, striving to achieve
a common good for all members of society, will always
emerge victorious. Long live the United Nations!
The  President  (spoke  in  French): On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Republic  of  Namibia  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr.  Sam  Nujoma,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Namibia,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of the
Republic of South Africa
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of South Africa.
Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,
President of the Republic of South Africa, and to invite
him to address the General Assembly.
President  Mbeki:  There  are  some  matters  on
which we all agree. One of these is that, later this year,
we will receive the important report that will be tabled
by  the  High-Level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and
Change,  which  was  constituted  by  our  Secretary-
General. The other is that, next year, we will mark the
tenth  anniversaries  of  the  Copenhagen  World  Summit
on  Sustainable  Development  and  the  Beijing  World
Conference on Women and discuss their outcomes. The
third matter on which we all agree is that, next year, we
will observe the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the
historic Millennium Declaration.
We  will  also  agree  that  we  took  all  these
initiatives (cid:151) the convening of the social, women(cid:146)s and
10
millennium  summits  and  the  constitution  of  the  High-
Level  Panel  (cid:151)  because  we  were  of  one  mind  that  we
had a number of problems that needed to be solved. In
the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  used  inspiring  words
to sum up our response to these problems. We said:
(cid:147)We have a collective responsibility to uphold the
principles  of  human  dignity,  equality  and  equity
at  the  global  level.  As  leaders  we  have  a  duty
therefore to all the world(cid:146)s people, especially the
most vulnerable and, in particular, the children of
the  world, 
to  whom 
future  belongs.(cid:148)
(resolution 55/2, para. 2)
the 
We went on to say:
(cid:147)We are determined to establish a just and lasting
peace  all  over  the  world  in  accordance  with  the
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.(cid:148)  (ibid.,
para. 4)
We  also  said  that  our  efforts  to  make  globalization
fully inclusive and equitable
(cid:147)must  include  policies  and  measures,  at  the
global  level,  which  correspond  to  the  needs  of
developing countries and economies in transition
and  are  formulated  and  implemented  with  their
effective participation(cid:148). (ibid., para. 5)
To this we added the commitment that
from 
the  right 
to  making 
(cid:147)We  will  spare  no  effort  to  free  our  fellow  men,
women  and  children 
the  abject  and
dehumanizing  conditions  of  extreme  poverty(cid:133)
We  are  committed 
to
development a reality for everyone and to freeing
the  entire  human  race  from  want.(cid:148)  (ibid.,
para. 11)
Naturally, we have no choice but to agree that we
did  say  all  these  things  and  would  undoubtedly  agree
that  we  meant  what  we  said.  I  trust  that  this  will  not
mark  the  end  of  the  range  of  issues  over  which  we
would speak with one voice. I say this because, when I
have asked myself the question (cid:147)Have we achieved the
goals  we  set  ourselves?(cid:148),  I  have  found  it  impossible
not to answer that we have failed. There may very well
be others among us who will take a different view and
say that a good beginning has been made and therefore
that it is too early to say we have failed.
But  I  am  certain  that  if  we  say  to  those  affected
by  violence  and  war  that  we  have  made  a  good
beginning  towards  the  establishment  of  a  just  and
lasting  peace  all  over  the  world,  they  will  not  believe
us. I am equally certain that if we say to those who go
to  bed  hungry  every  day  that  we  have  made  a  good
beginning towards freeing the  entire  human  race  from
want, they will also not believe us.
I  would  make  bold  to  say  that  the  vision  of
human  dignity,  equality  and  equity  at  the  global  level
that  we  enunciated  in  this  imposing  forum  four  years
ago  resonates  among  the  ordinary  people  who  are
victims  of  hunger  and  war  as  a  beautiful  dream  that
will inevitably be deferred.
Does this mean that, when we made the promises
we  made,  we  deliberately  intended  to  tell  the  billions
of ordinary people a lie? The answer to that question is
obviously  (cid:147)no(cid:148).  Did  we  speak  as  we  did  simply
because  talk  is  easy  and  cheap?  Again,  the  answer  to
that  question  is  obviously  (cid:147)no(cid:148).  The  question  must
therefore arise as to why the grandeur of our words and
the  vision  they  paint  (cid:151)  of  a  world  of  peace,  free  of
war, a world characterized by shared prosperity, free of
poverty  (cid:151)  has  not  produced  the  grand  results  we
sincerely sought and seek.
It  would  seem  to  me  that  the  answer  to  that
question  lies  in  the  fact  that  we  have  as  yet  not
seriously  confronted  the  difficult  issues  that  relate  to
the uses and perhaps the abuses of power. Yesterday, in
his  statement  on  his  report  on  the  work  of  the
Organization,  our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,
spoke  eloquently  about  the  3,000-year-old  Code  of
Hammurabi,  and  said:  (cid:147)That  code  was  a  landmark  in
mankind(cid:146)s struggle to build an order where, instead of
might  making 
right  would  make  might(cid:148)
(A/59/PV.3). We took it that the Secretary-General was,
in  his  own  elegant  way,  drawing  our  attention  to  the
central  question  of  our  day:  the  uses  and  abuses  of
power.
right, 
Contemporary human society  is  characterized  by
a gross and entrenched imbalance in the distribution of
power.  That  power  is  held  and  exercised  by  human
beings.  As  human  beings,  the  powerful  share  many
things  with  the  powerless.  Together,  the  powerful  and
the  disempowered  share  the  common  human  needs  to
eat, to drink water, to be protected from the elements,
to dream, to love, to laugh, to play, and to live.
But  life  itself  tells  us  that  all  of  that  describes
only  what  human  beings  share.  The  rest,  the  relations
among  us  as  social  beings,  is  defined  by  our  varied
access to power and its exercise.
A/59/PV.5
Without fear of contradiction, I have said that we
all agree that later this year we will receive the report
of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and
Change.  I  am  equally  convinced  that,  depending  on
where we stand relative to the power equation, we will
hold  radically  different  views  about  what  constitutes
humanity(cid:146)s  most  serious  threats  and  challenges,  and
therefore  what  must  be  changed  to  respond  to  that
perceived reality.
Both  the  powerful  and  the  disempowered  will
undoubtedly  agree  that  terrorism  and  war  represent  a
serious threat to all humanity. They will agree that we
were right to make the commitment in the Millennium
Declaration to work for
(cid:147)a  just  and  lasting  peace  all  over  the  world  in
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of
the Charter(cid:148) (resolution 55/2, para. 4).
Many  of  those  who  have  already  addressed  the
Assembly  have  correctly  drawn  our  attention  to  many
instances  of  terrorism  and  war,  to  which  we  are  all
opposed.  They  have  spoken  of  the  bombings  of  the
United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and of
the  African  and  American  lives  those  claimed;  of  the
heinous  11  September  outrage  in  this  city;  and  of  the
acts of terrorism in Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Morocco,
Spain,  Israel,  Gatumba  in  Burundi,  Beslan  in  the
Russian Federation, and elsewhere.
the 
They  have  correctly  drawn  our  attention  to  the
violent conflicts in the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Burundi, 
Iraq,
Afghanistan,  Chechnya,  Abkhazia,  South  Ossetia  and
elsewhere,  and  to  other  unsolved  problems,  such  as
self-determination  for  the  people  of  Western  Sahara,
that cry out for a solution.
Palestine, 
Sudan, 
Israel, 
Both  the  powerful  and  the  disempowered  agree
that  the  international  community  must  act  together
successfully  to  confront  these  situations  and  therefore
the threat and challenge of terrorism and war.
that 
However, 
the  powerful  will  also  make 
the
additional  determination 
terrorism  and  war
constitute the central and principal threat and challenge
that  human  civilization  faces.  They  will  make  that
determination  because,  almost  by  definition, 
the
terrorists 
they  are
powerful;  they  have  no  logical  choice  but  to  identify
terrorism  as  the  central  and  principal  threat  and
challenge they face, and to which they must respond.
them  simply  because 
target 
11
A/59/PV.5
Because  of  their  place  in  the  power  equation,
what  they  decide  will  necessarily  represent  the  global
decision  of  what  constitutes  the  central,  principal  and
most  urgent  threat  and  challenge  to  human  society,
necessitating  various  changes  in  the  global  system  of
governance.  What  they  decide  will  translate  into  a  set
of  obligatory  injunctions,  issued  by  this  Organization,
which  all  Member  nations  will  have  to  accept  and
implement.
Again,  both  the  powerful  and  the  disempowered
will  undoubtedly  also  agree  that  poverty,  want  and
underdevelopment  constitute  serious  problems  that  all
humanity  must  confront.  Many  of  those  who  have
already  addressed  the  Assembly  have  correctly  drawn
our  attention  to  the  reality  of  poverty,  which  billions
across the globe continue to experience.
things, 
Among  other 
they  have  correctly
reminded us of the fact that some countries are poorer
today than they were a decade ago. They have pointed
to  the  virtual  certainty  that  we  will  fail  to  meet  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  we  set  ourselves  four
years ago.
threat 
and 
Both  the  powerful  and  the  disempowered  agree
that  the  international  community  must  act  together
successfully  to  confront  this  situation,  and  therefore
the 
and
underdevelopment.  However,  the  disempowered,  who
are  also  the  poor  of  the  world,  will  also  make  the
additional 
and
underdevelopment  constitute  the  central  and  principal
threat and challenge that human civilization faces.
determination 
challenge 
of 
poverty 
that 
poverty 
They  will  make  the  determination  that,  because
they  are  the  daily  victims  of  deprivation  and  want,
which  claim  the  lives  of  millions  every  year  (cid:151)
translating  into  cold  statistics  about  shortened  life
expectancy  (cid:151)  deprivation  and  want  represent  the
central  and  principal 
that
humanity  faces,  necessitating  changes  in  the  global
system of governance in order effectively to respond to
that reality.
threat  and  challenge 
But because they are powerless, those billions (cid:151)
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  same  humanity  that
needs  to  eat,  to  drink  water,  to  be  protected  from  the
elements, to dream, to love, to laugh, to play, to live (cid:151)
will  have  no  possibility  of  persuading 
this
Organization,  laughably  described  in  the  Millennium
Declaration  as  (cid:147)the  most  universal  and  most
representative  Organization  in  the  world(cid:148),  to  translate
12
what  they  have  concluded  into  obligatory  injunctions,
issued by this Organization, which all Member nations
will have to accept and implement.
If,  for  a  moment,  we  resist  the  temptation  to
speak in parables or in tongues, for fear that we might
be punished for telling the truth, we must say that this
stark  and  simple  reality  reflects  the  distribution  of
power and wealth in contemporary human society.
The  wealthy  and  powerful 
feel,  correctly,
mortally  threatened  by  the  fanatical  rage  of  the
terrorists.  They  have  the  power  to  respond  to  this
present and immediate danger with all their might, and,
because  they  are  mighty,  they  can  determine  for  all
humanity  that  the  principal  threat  to  them  is  the
principal threat that all humanity faces.
The  poor  and  powerless  feel  threatened  by  a
permanent  hurricane  of  poverty,  which  is  devastating
their  communities  as  horrendously  as  hurricane  Ivan
destroyed the Caribbean island State of Grenada.
But, tragically, because they are poor, they do not
have  the  means  to  respond  to 
this  present  and
immediate  danger.  Neither  do  they  have  the  power  to
determine for all humanity that what they decide is the
principal  threat  they  confront,  is  also  the  principal
threat 
the  rich  and
powerful, faces.
that  all  humanity, 
including 
In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  spoke  of  the
need to implement
(cid:147)policies and measures, at the global level, which
correspond  to  the  needs  of  developing  countries
and  economies  in  transition  and  are  formulated
and 
implemented  with 
effective
participation(cid:148) (ibid., para. 5).
Perhaps the mistake we made was to assume that
the  contemporary  distribution  of  power  in  human
society would permit this outcome, and that, regardless
of this fundamental consideration, it would be possible
for the concerns of the poor to take precedence on the
global agenda and the global programme of action.
their 
We  comforted,  or  perhaps  deluded,  ourselves
with  the  thought  that  this  Organization  is  (cid:147)the  most
universal  and  most  representative  organization  in  the
world(cid:148) (cid:151) afraid to ask the question, is it?
Every year many of us who have spoken, and will
speak, from this rostrum make an annual pilgrimage to
this  great  and  vibrant  city  to  plead  the  cause  of  the
poor of the world, hopeful that this time our voices will
be heard. Every year, after a few days, we pack up our
bags  to  return  to  the  reality  of  our  societies,  whose
squalor stands out in sharp contrast to the splendour of
New  York  and  this  majestic  precinct  that  constitutes
the headquarters of the United Nations.
In  the  aftermath,  resolutions  are  passed.  Again
and  again  our  permanent  representatives,  with  their
extraordinary  and  plenipotentiary  powers,  report  that
those resolutions oblige us to  act  to  thwart  the  deadly
plans  of  murderous  terrorist  gangs.  Again  and  again
they  report  that  yet  another  appeal  has  been  made  to
the mighty and the lowly alike, voluntarily to respond
to the cries of the wretched of the earth.
We  are  truly  proud  and  inspired  to  see  you,
Mr. President,  presiding  over  the  proceedings  of  the
General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session, because we
know that you will discharge your obligations as a son
of the poor of the world should. We are moved by the
fact that you had  as your  predecessor  President  Julian
Hunte,  who  also  understood  intimately  what  must  be
done to ensure that the United Nations can become, in
reality,  the  indispensable  common  house  of  the  entire
human family.
As  an  Israeli  said  to  us  at  our  headquarters  in
Pretoria a fortnight ago, it is perhaps time that we, the
poor  and  powerless,  abandon  our  wheelchairs  and
begin to walk unaided. Perhaps that will help to build
the  social  order  of  which  Hammurabi  (cid:151)  and  Kofi
Annan  (cid:151)  spoke,  in  which  right  makes  might  and  not
might, right.
Mr.  Mwanawasa  (Zambia),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
The Acting President: On behalf of the General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of South Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General
Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ismail Omar Guelleh, President of
the Republic of Djibouti
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of
Djibouti.
A/59/PV.5
Mr. Ismail  Omar  Guelleh,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Djibouti,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The Acting President: On behalf of the General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ismail  Omar  Guelleh,
President of the Republic of Djibouti, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
President  Guelleh  (spoke 
in  French): The
protracted  period  of  tension  that  the  international
community  is  currently  experiencing  underscores  the
need  for  greater  cooperation  and  commitment.  It  is
fortunate,  therefore,  that  during  the  past  year  the
General Assembly benefited from the capable guidance
of President Julian Hunte. The wealth of experience of
his  successor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  together  with  his  great
diplomatic  acumen  and 
to  feel
confident that he is in the right place at the right time.
insight, 
lead  us 
We pay tribute to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan,  for  the  exemplary  manner  in  which  he  has
promoted  the  United  Nations  and  maintained  and
increased  its  relevance  for  the  most  critical  issues  of
the  day.  The  degree  to  which  the  United  Nations  is
consulted on and participates in pivotal events and the
resolution of crises throughout the world is a tribute to
Mr. Annan(cid:146)s selfless dedication to the Organization.
He  is  also  to  be  commended  for  the  closer
working  relationship  that  he  has  been  able  to  foster
with  the  private  sector  and  civil  society  through  the
global  compact,  with  the  aim  of  offering  help  and
expertise to needy communities and young people.
As the Secretary-General stated in his most recent
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  the  United
Nations (cid:151) indeed, the world (cid:151) has had a very difficult
and  challenging  year.  Many  of  us  have  been
traumatized  by 
the  brutal  acts  of
repression  that  are  taking  place  in  many  parts  of  the
world  and  by  the  tense  situation  and  developments  in
Iraq.
terrorism,  by 
For the majority of the world(cid:146)s people, however,
the  most  immediate  threats  are  those  of  hunger,
lack  of  drinking  water,  environmental
poverty, 
degradation  and  endemic  or 
infectious  diseases,
including  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  Overall, 
the
that  we  have  departed
Secretary-General  notes 
considerably  from 
the
Millennium  Declaration  of  2000,  which  embodied  the
the  vision  and  spirit  of 
13
A/59/PV.5
aspirations  of  our  time:  a  world  united  by  common
values, with the primary goal of providing better living
conditions  for  humanity,  in  an  environment  of  peace
and security.
Unfortunately,  as  the  Secretary-General  notes,
events  related  to  terrorism  have  shaken  our  sense  of
common  purpose.  The  tragedy  of  11  September  2001,
the  wars 
the  ongoing
bloodshed  in  the  Middle  East  and  other  disturbing
incidents 
the  world  have  profoundly
divided  the  international  community  about  how  to
ensure our collective security.
in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq, 
throughout 
While  we  have  seen  many  examples  of  State
terrorism,  terrorism  has  become  essentially  stateless
and  nebulous  in  nature,  and  is  able  to  spread  without
regard to borders or nationalities. Although there is no
disputing  the  fact  that  terrorism  must  be  confronted
promptly  and  vigorously,  the  knee-jerk  reaction  of
attempting  to  crush  it  militarily  fails  to  address  its
many manifestations or get to its root causes.
We  must  pay  special  heed  to  our  prejudices  and
fears  as  we  endeavour  to  resolve  difficult  political
problems that may have been building for decades.
We  must  also  accept  that  terrorism  is  not  a  faith
or an ideology. It may well be a tactic or a strategy of
last  resort  on  the  part  of  those  who  view  themselves,
their  faith,  their  beliefs  or  their  physical  environment
as  endangered.  While  we  must  act  resolutely  in
confronting  acts  of  terrorism,  to  do  so  precipitately,
without examining the underlying causes,  could  prove
destructive  or  even  fatal.  No  one  should  excuse  the
brutal and heinous crimes that are being committed in
so  many  places  today,  but  we  must  acknowledge  that
the situation requires us to find a solution.
The international community is threatened by the
instability  that  this  phenomenon  entails.  We  must  not
underestimate  the  importance  of  realistic  foreign  and
development policies directed at resolving tensions and
reducing  poverty.  We  must  find  a  way  to  bring  the
world  together  to  reconcile  differences  and  eliminate
reasons for misunderstanding. The words and thoughts
of the late American President, Franklin D. Roosevelt,
are  relevant  here.  For  him,  security  meant  not  only
safety  from  attack  by  outside  aggressors,  but  also
economic,  social  and  moral  security.  As  he  said,
essential to such a peace is a decent standard of living
for  all  individuals,  for  freedom  from  fear  is  eternally
linked with freedom from want.
14
We are all aware of the commitments we made at
the Millennium Summit in 2000. The critical needs and
ills  confronting  mankind  were 
that
Summit,  and  we  committed  to  resolving  them  in
various ways and according to a specific timetable. The
eight  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)
represent  a  worldwide  quest  to  eliminate  poverty  and
hunger while improving health care, education and the
environment.
identified  at 
Sadly, an evaluation of progress towards reaching
these  goals  by  the  target  dates  reveals  that  we  are
making  erratic  progress.  A  recent  study  in  Geneva
found that the world is scarcely  making  a  third  of  the
effort  necessary  to  achieve  these  modest  targets.  In
particular,  the  eighth  goal,  which  calls  for  a  global
partnership of rich and poor countries for development,
envisioned 
official
development  assistance 
reduction  or
cancellation  of  debts,  the  removal  of  protectionist
barriers for agricultural products and free access to the
markets  of  the  industrialized  countries.  Needless  to
say,  progress  on  this  goal  has  been  limited.  It  is  the
only  goal  lacking  a  deadline  or  timetable  and  is
hampered  by  the  apparent  reluctance  of  developed
countries to keep their commitments.
increase 
(ODA),  a 
substantial 
a 
in 
transition.  Attempts 
Of  the  50  least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  34
are  in  Africa.  Although  five  or  six  African  countries
are  close  to  transitioning,  only  one  has  successfully
made  a  smooth 
to  mobilize
domestic  resources  through  the  private  sector  will
require more time and funds. Low levels of savings and
investment rates testify to the huge decline in resources
needed  for  development.  Undoubtedly,  there  is  an
urgent  need 
increase  development
assistance to this group of countries.
to  continually 
Africa(cid:146)s  need  for  development  assistance  has
created  the  impression  that  the  continent  is  a  major
financial  burden  to  the  international  community.  In
fact,  while  Africa  is  disproportionately  aid-dependent,
it  does  not  receive  a  disproportionate  amount  of  aid.
Overall,  as  things  stand,  LDCs  will  not  be  able  to
reduce poverty, achieve universal primary education or
reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015. A report by
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and
Development  (UNCTAD)  describes  LDCs(cid:146)  woeful
deficits 
to  growth,  public
investment  and  essential  services.  The  report  also
states  that  the  conclusion  is  unequivocal  and  that  on
in  savings  dedicated 
the basis of domestic resources alone, LDCs cannot lift
themselves out of poverty.
Today,  in  a  post-11-September  world,  a  new
rationale  for  aid  is  emerging.  Aid  is  increasingly  seen
as  a  potent  force  in  the  war  on  terror  by  providing
support  to  both  front-line  States  and  weak  States  in
which  terrorism  could  breed.  Additionally,  there  is  a
mounting  recognition  of  endemic  poverty  and  of  the
inequalities  that  threaten  national  security  interests.
Despite 
realization,  however,  development
assistance  programmes  have  become  more  selective,
aimed  at  a  small  group  of  countries  that  are  in  some
way  qualified.  Nevertheless,  many  countries  fail  to
qualify for this aid. Concrete actions must be taken for
the  sake  of  the  millions  suffering  in  those  countries.
We ignore them at our own risk.
this 
Common  sense  tells  us  that  conflict  is  endemic
and  hardly  any  region  in  the  world  has  escaped  its
violence. However, the reality is that no new civil wars
have broken out recently, and there has been a decline
in  the  number  of  drawn-out  conflicts  within  and
between States. We notice that although the number of
victims  has  risen  sharply,  the  number  of  terrorist
incidents has in fact declined. That said, fewer people
are  being  killed  by  war  than  at  almost  anytime  in  the
past  century.  Few  wars  are  beginning  and  many  old
ones  are  ending.  This  is  particularly  true  in  Africa,
where  some  seven  millions  souls  perished  in  the
conflicts  of  Angola,  Congo,  Sudan,  Sierra  Leone,
Liberia and Somalia. With the exception of the Darfur
region  in  the  Sudan,  each  one  of  those  conflicts
appears  to  be  either  coming  to  an  end,  winding  down
or stabilizing. Of course, we are all deeply saddened by
the scale of the tragedy in Darfur. This issue, however,
needs  to  be  tackled  with  the  greatest  care,  clarity,
fairness  and  seriousness.  We  must  be  cautious  about
making  generalizations  and  forming  prejudices  too
soon.  We  need  to  direct  our  efforts  towards  the  right
solutions.
Conflicts,  of  course, 
require  weapons,  and
reducing this threat  requires a  halt  to  arms  shipments.
These  shipments  divert  vital  resources  from  other
critical  needs.  The  countries  of  Asia,  Latin  America,
the Middle East and Africa spend some $22 billion on
arms  each  year,  that  is,  more  than  two  thirds  of  arms
sales worldwide.
Solidifying  peace  in  the  world  calls  for  more
preventive  diplomacy,  peacemaking  and  additional
A/59/PV.5
peacekeeping  missions.  Unless  fully  supported  by  the
international  community  through  additional  resources,
further  operations  would  strain  United  Nations
planning,  pre-positioned  forces, logistics, procurement
and  command  and  control  capabilities.  What 
is
required,  therefore,  is  greater  assistance  for  regional
peacekeeping capabilities, particularly in Africa.
Any action undertaken must necessarily have the
approval  of  the  United  Nations.  This  is  the  only  path
that confers a degree of legitimacy on any undertaking.
Action  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  implies  the
approval of the Security Council. Here it must be noted
that  the  Council  continues  to  operate  in  accordance
with the legacy of the Second World War in terms of its
structure.
Furthermore,  the  exponential  growth  in  United
Nations  membership  is  not  reflected  in  the  Council.
There  is  an  urgent  need  for  the  developing  world  to
have a stronger voice in the Council. The Council must
have  a  more  equitable  and  realistic  distribution,  in
terms of both representation and composition. Security
Council reform is long overdue and there  is an urgent
need  to  expand  the  reform  in  both  the  permanent  and
non-permanent  categories,  embracing  developing  and
developed  countries.  We  are  pleased  with 
the
establishment  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the  High-
Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change. Some
of  its  initial  soundings  cover  the  expansion  of  the
Security  Council,  recalling  members(cid:146)  commitment  to
contribute  to  national  and  international  peace  and
security. We deem auspicious the projected full review
of  the  Council(cid:146)s  work  at  the  end  of  every  decade,
including  a  review  of  the  manpower  and  financial
resources  of  peacekeeping  missions.  We  await  the
Panel(cid:146)s report this December to the Secretary-General,
and  we  will  consider  his  comments  during  the  next
session of the Assembly.
several 
years 
Assembly 
The President returned to the Chair.
Following  the  Arta  Peace  Conference,  which  we
initiated  and  the  outlines  of  which  I  presented  to  this
very 
the
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  (IGAD)
member States considered it necessary to complete this
process by broadening its base. Since then, and to date,
the  Somali  reconciliation  conference 
in  Nairobi,
Kenya,  under  the  auspices  of  IGAD,  has  achieved
tangible  progress,  which  we  welcome.  Particular
recognition  should  be  addressed  to  all  IGAD  member
ago, 
15
A/59/PV.5
States  for  their  self-sacrifice  and  devotion,  especially
to  our  brothers  from  Kenya,  whose  good  offices,
patience and determination allowed the negotiations to
continue even in the most critical moments. Indeed, the
Somali  representatives,  spurred  by  the  will  of  the
region  and  the  convergence  of  political  and  financial
support  of 
international  community,  worked
relentlessly  to  set  up  the  first  pillar  of  the  Somali
Government  institutions  (cid:151)  that  is,  the  Transitional
Parliament.  This  first  stage,  welcomed  by  the  Somali
people within the country and in the diaspora, and the
international  community  as  a  whole,  finally  brought  a
glimmer  of  hope  that  the  reign  of  anarchy  and  chaos
would soon come to an end in Somalia.
the 
The divergences of view that prevailed for a long
time  among  the  countries  of  the  region  on  ways  of
resolving  the  Somali  conflict  have  now  yielded  to
common  sense  and  collective  resolve,  to  work  in
harmony  and  to  collaborate  in  a  sincere  and  fraternal
spirit towards  the  ultimate goal of  helping  our  Somali
brothers achieve legitimate and lasting peace.
The 
and 
misunderstandings 
difficulties
encountered  during  the  process  have  provided  an
opportunity for a fresh review of the statements of the
various  regional  actors  for  a  clear-eyed  and  in-depth
analysis,  imbued  with  the  genuine  desire  to  show  the
solidarity of IGAD countries towards Somalia, and has
made  it  possible  to  underscore  the  common  need  to
help  the  Somali  people  to  establish  a  broad-based
Government that is representative and legitimate. This
Conference  has  culminated  in  a  Somali  Parliament,
where  all  the  factions  and  various  components  of
Somali  civil 
such  as
intellectuals,  professionals,  women  and  others.  Last
week,  the  members  of  Parliament  elected  a  Speaker,
and 
they  are  electing  his  deputies  before
proceeding on 10 October to elect the President of the
Transitional Government.
today 
society  are 
represented, 
Without  a  doubt,  and  very  importantly  so,  the
facts  bear  out  that  we  are  today  in  a  significantly
different  mood  than  the  past,  because  this  time  the
Somali  people  are  more  determined  to  deepen  their
dialogue  and  the  reconciliation  process.  And  as  a
region  we  are  convinced  that  we  must  work  together
towards achieving the goals agreed upon. It is also the
responsibility of the international community to act in
a strong and decisive manner to assist Somalia.
16
In  the  first  place,  the  international  community
must  provide  the  necessary  financial  and  political
support to rapidly enable the new Government to create
the  conditions  for  achieving  the  rehabilitation  of
facilities  needed  to  house  the  new  Government;  the
provision of direct budgetary support to pay wages and
other  administrative  expenditures;  and  the  tackling  of
security 
the
implementation  of  demobilization,  disarmament  and
reintegration programmes (DDR).
in  particular,  with 
issues  head-on, 
In  this  first  six-month  critical  phase,  the  actions
undertaken by the new Government will determine the
authority of its legitimacy as it proceeds to consolidate
the gains obtained from the reconciliation process, with
the  aim  of  addressing  the  formidable  expectations  of
the Somali people.
In  the  second  place,  at  the  political  level,  it  is
assumed  that  the  new  Transitional  Parliament  will  be
an all-inclusive body; it will agree to swear in members
of  this  National  Assembly;  and  all  its  members  will
accept  the  primacy  of  the  rule  of  law,  responsible
norms  of  behaviour,  disarmament  and  demobilization.
Any  contrary  attitudes,  actions  or  activities  that  could
undermine the efforts to pacify the country or frustrate
the effectiveness of the new Government should not be
tolerated  or  accepted  by 
the
international community.
the  region  or  by 
In  this  respect,  the  Security  Council,  the  unique
body  entrusted  with  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security,  may  be  called  upon  to  take
necessary  measures  in  conformity  with  the  United
Nations  Charter  to  apply  the  following  measures  in
case  the  new  State  faces  a  resurgence  of  obstacles  to
the  reconciliation  process  or  restoration  of  the  State.
These  would  be  the  implementation  of  a  list  and  a
systematic  regime  of  sanctions  directed  against  those
who  would  continue  to  undermine  the  Government(cid:146)s
peace efforts.
We  are  deeply  convinced  that  this  is  a  unique
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  finally
resolve the long-lasting conflict in Somalia. We need to
acknowledge  the  changes  that  have  taken  place.  The
Somalis  are  determined,  and  the  region  is  united.  We
should, at all costs, avoid repetition of the scenario we
have  experienced  in  the  past.  Let  us  seize  this
opportunity. Let us, together, help our Somali brothers
and sisters in their quest for peace, stability, and unity.
Until 
innumerable 
now, 
initiatives  and  peace  processes 
resolutions,
commitments, 
to
resolve the long-festering Middle East conflict  remain
at  best  rhetorical.  A  clear-cut  vision  of  the  two-State
solution  (cid:151)  a  secure  Israel  side  by  side  with  a  viable
Palestinian State (cid:151) rings hollow in the wake of a large
expansion of illegal Israeli settlements in the occupied
Palestinian  territories  of  the  West  Bank,  with  the
building  of  thousands  of  houses  on  land  confiscated
from  Palestinian  families.  All  this  sounds  familiar.
Over 
three-and-a-half  decades,  we  have
witnessed  the  blatant  confiscation  of  Palestinian  land,
farmlands  and  water  resources.  The  daily  oppression
and  repression  of  Palestinian  victims 
is  beyond
comprehension. Nevertheless, the Palestinians continue
to  struggle  against  all  odds 
to  maintain  some
semblance of civil order.
the 
last 
Israel, 
even  worse, 
Making  an  already  untenable  and  explosive
situation 
in  defiance  of
international law and public opinion, has embarked on
building  a  separation  wall,  which  is  penetrating  and
dividing  Palestinian  territory  in  two,  well  beyond
Israel(cid:146)s 1967 borders, thus creating facts on the ground.
And, as we all know by now, Israel(cid:146)s proposed tactical
withdrawal  from  Gaza  is  not  a  prelude  to  Palestinian
statehood. All these violent and deliberate actions have
made a mockery of the road map, and thus, rendered it
worthless;  this  is  the  same  fate  that  met  the  Oslo
Accords.
Abandoned  by  the  international  community,  the
Palestinians  are  struck  with  indefinite  deprivation,  a
sense of hopelessness and statelessness. That being the
case,  this  Assembly  has  perhaps  the  sad  duty  to
pronounce  itself  incapable  of  constraining  Israel,  a
Member  State  of 
than
continuing  to  give  false  hope  to  a  people  that  has
already lost everything.
this  Organization,  rather 
Djibouti,  strategically  situated  at  a  crossroad  of
the  seas,  and  serving  as  a  gateway  to  the  growing
African  and  Middle  Eastern  markets,  has  been
fortunate  in  achieving  a  period  of  sustained  growth,
stability  and  improved  governance.  Many  of  our
facilities 
considerable
improvements to  respond to,  and  to  take  advantage  of
the  growing  demands.  A  new  modern  port  is  under
construction,  the  first  phase  being  an  oil  terminal
expected to be operational by next year, followed by a
are  presently  undergoing 
A/59/PV.5
major  container  terminal,  and  finally  by  an  industrial
free  zone  that  will  be  the  first  of  its  kind  in  Africa,
offering light manufacturing and value-added facilities
and 
including
warehousing, storage and distribution.
in  a  duty-free 
services 
setting, 
In this respect, we wish to express deep gratitude
to the inspiring and pragmatic leadership of Dubai, our
key  partner 
that  will
undoubtedly  put  Djibouti  on  the  map  of  international
trade and shipping.
this  visionary  venture, 
in 
its 
improving 
labour  force 
in  education, 
Djibouti  seeks  to  improve  its  private  sector
development by reducing the cost of creating or doing
business,  by 
through
investments 
training,  health,  social
protection  and  eliminating  gender  disparities.  The
Government is also working to strengthen institutional
capacity  and  governance,  while  developing 
its
absorptive  capacity  to  better  manage,  as  well  as
effectively utilize, donor support.
The Horn of Africa has seen its share of conflict
and  natural  disasters.  Together  with  our  friends  in  the
region,  we  are  resolutely  engaged  in  mitigating  the
plight  of  our  people,  reducing  tensions  and  conflict,
developing  cooperation  in  the  areas  of  transport,
communications, health and the environment. Regional
and international security issues and, in particular, the
fight  against  terrorism,  are  of  primary  concern  to  the
countries  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Together  with  our
international  partners,  we  are  doing  all  we  can  in  the
fight against that scourge. The same holds true for the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  tuberculosis  and  malaria.  Our
region  has  no  other  alternative  than  to  strengthen
cooperation in all areas (cid:151) from economic development
to improving confidence-building measures.
Djibouti, friend to all, enemy of none, will spare
no  effort  to  further  intensify  the  search  for  greater
regional  harmony  and  cooperation,  while  promoting  a
pluralistic, open, and healthy society at home.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Republic  of  Djibouti  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr.  Ismail  Omar  Guelleh,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Djibouti,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
17
A/59/PV.5
Address by Mr. Nicanor Duarte Frutos, President of
the Republic of Paraguay
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Republic of Paraguay.
Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Nicanor Duarte
Frutos,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to
invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Duarte  Frutos  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Today  our  continent  is  experiencing  a  time  of  great
opportunity,  yet  it  is  also  beset  by  serious  threats,
including  a  falling  standard  of  living  for  the  masses,
radical  adjustment  measures, 
the  globalization  of
financial  capital  and  a  lack  of  access  to  markets  in
developed  countries  (cid:151)  all  of  which  have  not
contributed  to  generating  sustained  economic  growth,
and  even  less  to  reducing  poverty  and  inequality.  The
great  challenge  before  us  is  to  redouble  our  efforts
daily  to  eradicate  this  cancer  by  strengthening  public
institutions and forging a new social ethic, as well as a
new  international  order  with  multilateral  bodies  that
truly contribute to peace throughout the world, human
development and the sharp reduction of poverty, social
inequalities  and  the  exploitation  of  man  by  man  and
nation by nation.
The  United  Nations,  this  noble  institution,  must
not  lose  sight  of  its  historic  memory,  its  raison  d(cid:146)Œtre
and the objectives that led to its creation, if its efforts
currently  under  way  are  to  result  in  healthy  attitude
changes  and  a  greater  political  capacity  to  institute
regulatory frameworks that can put a stop to economic
Darwinism and conflicts throughout the world.
free 
from 
just  world, 
Today, more than ever, the possibility of building
a  more 
such  painful
contradictions,  depends  upon  the  inclusion  of  the  less
developed countries in the globalized economy and the
political  will  to  overcome  pure  market  forces.  The
industrialization  of  the  United  States,  Germany  and
Japan  in  the  nineteenth  century  could  be  described  in
similar  terms,  as  could  their  emergence  from  their
relative  backwardness  compared  with  Great  Britain,
the pioneer nation of that time.
18
The  failure 
impediments 
is  frequently  due 
throughout  almost  all  of  Latin
America  to  overcome  its  backwardness,  poverty  and
dependency 
to  selfishness  and
to  advantageous  connections
historic 
between  our  national  economies  and  the  worldwide
market. If this seems to be a  recurrent condition, then
we should constantly keep in mind the message of the
Consensus  of  Brazil:  we  must  govern  globalization  if
we are to turn it into a source of opportunity for all, if
globalization is not to be what it has become (cid:151) a force
synonymous  with  marginalization,  exclusion  or
conquest,  dependent  on  markets  and  cheap  labour,
which  leads  to  a  form  of  semi-slavery  in  many
countries.
I  wish  to  propose  to  the  General  Assembly  joint
action that can be taken in four areas.
First,  social  investment  throughout  the  continent
must  reach  levels  that  will  make  it  possible  to  attain
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  To  that  end,  the
poorest  countries,  which  clearly  cannot  obtain  such
levels  of 
to  a
counterpart  fund  for  social  equity  with  soft  financing
coming from international organizations and unilateral
contributions.
investment,  could  have  recourse 
to  carrying  out 
Secondly,  we  realize  that  not  everything  can  be
solved  with  money.  Money,  when  it  is  misused,
weakens  and  corrupts.  Accordingly,  we  must  also
commit  ourselves 
the  necessary
institutional  reforms  to  ensure  the  proper  formulation,
implementation and assessment of social policies. And
we  must  be  ready  to  ensure  that  access  to  the
aforementioned  funds  will 
to  wide-reaching
innovations 
public
administration,  demonstrable  by  means  of  indices  on
efficiency and transparency.
the  management 
lead 
in 
of 
Thirdly, 
international 
organizations  must
increasingly  realize  that  economic  and  social  reform
must  flow  from  the  experience  and  wisdom  of  those
countries themselves, with their own formulas that are
in  keeping  with  their  cultural  standards  and  that
involve all the representatives of civil society.
to  meet 
Fourthly,  with  growing  levels  of  poverty  it  is
the  burden  of  external  debt
impossible 
servicing.  There  must  be  a  new,  realistic  policy  that
will  put  forward  rational  terms  on  future  payment  of
debt,  terms  that  will  make  it  possible  to  lay  the  basis
for  sustained  and  equitable  development,  terms  which
allow us to meet our commitments without pushing our
people into irreversible poverty. It is important to place
the  needs  of  the  poor  and  dispossessed  over  the
repayment of the debt.
That is why we must imaginatively  and  skilfully
devise  alternative  financing  mechanisms  for  the  fight
against hunger and extreme poverty. That task requires
greater  intellectual  resources  and  technical  expertise
and  a  new  and  fair  financial  architecture,  not  the
accumulation  of  wealth,  worship  of  the  market  or  the
promotion of globalization that does not allow the just
distribution  of  the  wealth  produced  by  all  of  us
throughout  the  world.  We  need  a  new  financial
architecture  that  enables  us  to  reduce  poverty  and  to
work  for 
the  world(cid:146)s  emerging
democracies.
the  stability  of 
inherited  a
One  year  ago,  my  Government 
situation  characterized  by  economic 
stagnation,
recession  and  spreading  poverty  and  by  weak  and
unreliable  public  institutions,  resulting  in  timid  social
policies  that  could  hardly  tackle  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
Two major challenges face my country. First, the
indigenous  population  (cid:151)  which  in  Paraguay  is  not
large, totalling no more than 100,000 (cid:151) lacks access to
its  most  vital  needs  and  faces  the  disintegration  of
much of its natural lands owing to the historical rule of
indolent  landowners,  and  most  recently  to  a  type  of
agrarian  modernization  that  was  insensitive  to  human
dignity.
Secondly,  the  unconscionable  face  of  extreme
poverty  in  my  country  is  that  of  the  peasants.  Today,
two out of three Paraguayans continue to belong to that
social  sector.  Likewise,  one  of  the  most  significant
causes  of  that  critical  national  problem  is  the  very
unjust  distribution  of  land  that  has  existed  for  many
years in Paraguay. That is not only an urgent and very
shocking  social  problem,  but  also  a  political  and
ethical  problem  that  is  manifested  in  a  repeated  and
increasingly grave struggle for land.
In  the  light  of  that  situation,  we  propose  a  State
with  social,  fiscal  and  environmental  responsibility:
social  responsibility  in  the  sense  of  guaranteeing
health,  education  and  basic  services  and  avoiding
concentration of profit and wealth; fiscal responsibility
to  avoid  a  deficit  and  chronic  indebtedness,  which
ultimately punish social investment; and environmental
responsibility 
reproductive
to  preserve  nature(cid:146)s 
A/59/PV.5
capacity  and to ensure for future generations  the  right
to enjoy resources not created by man.
We also propose the implementation of a national
anti-poverty strategy that will channel the domestic and
external  resources  necessary  to  meet  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  The  national  Government  has
defined  as  a  top  budget  priority  an  increase  in  social
spending to resolutely address the problems of poverty,
destitution  and 
the  objective  of
reaching  40  per  cent  of  the  central  administration(cid:146)s
total public spending for next year, 2005.
inequality,  with 
for 
the 
treatment 
For  development,  cooperation  is  not  enough;
there  must  also  be  access  to  markets  on  preferential
terms, liberalization of the agricultural product markets
and  special 
least
developed  countries,  such  as  Paraguay,  punished  by
history  and  geopolitics,  which  make  our  foreign  trade
more 
reduce  our
competitiveness.  There  needs  to  be  a  compensatory
framework to place my country, Paraguay, on an equal
footing  with  other  nations  in  terms  of  international
trade.
significantly 
landlocked 
expensive 
and 
In the international context, we join in the appeal
for  a  more  just  and  humanized  international  order  in
which the least developed are not always condemned to
discrimination,  indifference  and  backwardness.  With
that  objective,  we  must  move  towards  an  inclusive
multilateralism  that  will  offer  equality,  rationality  and
justice in international relations.
Similarly  (cid:151)  and  in  keeping  with  Paraguay(cid:146)s
position  on  Taiwan  in  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)  we  once
more  reaffirm  our  conviction 
the  brotherly
Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  should  become  a  full-
fledged  Member  of  the  Organization,  in  accordance
with  the  principle  of  universality  and  with  norms  of
international law.
that 
taken 
Today we have heard more of the same things we
hear every year in the Assembly. But we hope that this
time we can return to our countries and share with our
peoples the news that finally, in New York, the world(cid:146)s
leaders  have 
in
alleviating  (cid:151)  even  if  just  a  little  (cid:151)  the  pain,  sorrow
and hopelessness of the millions of human beings who
live on Earth. I am confident that God will give us the
wisdom  and 
lead  our
countries  on  the  path  of  freedom,  peace,  development
and justice.
the  strength  necessary 
important  steps 
forward 
to 
19
A/59/PV.5
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the Republic of Paraguay for the statement he has just
made.
Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by General Pervez Musharraf, President of
the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
General  Pervez  Musharraf,  President  of  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  into
the General Assembly Hall.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  General  Pervez
Musharraf,  President  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of
Pakistan, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President Musharraf: Allow me at the outset to
express  to  you,  Sir,  our  warm  felicitations  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
fifty-ninth  session.  We  congratulate  Mr.  Julian  Hunte
on  his  successful  stewardship  of 
the  fifty-eighth
session  of  the  Assembly.  I  also  reaffirm  our  deep
appreciation  for  the  wise  leadership  of  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, and his services for the cause
of peace and progress in the world.
A  profound  transformation  is  under  way  in
international  relations.  The  dangerous  balances  of  the
cold  war  have  been  replaced  by  the  complex  and
equally  dangerous  realities  of  our  world  today.  It  is  a
world  marked  by 
intensifying  globalization  of
economies,  production,  trade  and  information,  on  one
side; and by terrorist violence, poverty and disease, on
the other.
in 
security: 
the 
growing 
the  dispensing  of 
The growing asymmetries in power among States,
discrimination 
international
justice,  repression  of  peoples(cid:146)  legitimate  aspirations
and 
have
precipitated  new  threats  to  international  peace  and  to
international 
terrorism,
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  and
imploding  States.  The  world  today  sees  turmoil  and
upheaval everywhere, especially in the third world, and
socio-economic 
threats  of 
disparities 
20
more  specifically  in  the  Muslim  world.  Too  many
fronts have been opened and too many battle lines have
been drawn. The time for closing fronts has come. The
world  today  is  crying  for  peace,  reconciliation  and
reform. Our objective today has to be harmony through
reconciliation  and  accommodation,  globally  and
regionally.
Terrorism  poses  the  most  urgent  threat  to  many
countries,  including  the  most  powerful  States.  For
many of us, the terrorist threat is very close and may be
very  personal.  Terrorism  threatens  Pakistan(cid:146)s  vital
national 
thus
participated  actively 
the  unprecedented  global
campaign  against  it.  Pakistan  has  led  the  way  in  that
campaign. Our counter-terrorist campaign is ongoing.
interests  and  objectives.  We  have 
in 
Global  cooperation  against  terrorism  has  been
highly successful. Determined and collective action has
contained  and  disrupted  the  violent  agendas  of  the
terrorists.  We  are  winning  the  battle  against  terrorists.
However, what we are doing is insufficient to win the
ultimate war against them. The immediate anti-terrorist
response  has  to  be  accompanied  by  a  clear  long-term
strategy that strikes at the root of the problem if we are
to ensure final success against this scourge.
I  have  proposed  a 
two-pronged  strategy  of
enlightened  moderation  to  overcome  terrorism  and
prevent  a  clash  of  civilizations.  The  most  recent
Islamic  Summit,  in  Malaysia,  endorsed  that  plan,
which  involves,  on  the  one  hand,  internal  socio-
economic  reform  in  the  Muslim  world  and,  on  the
other, active support from the major Powers to  ensure
political  justice  and  socio-economic  revival  for  all
Islamic peoples. While the Islamic world has taken its
first  step  in  the  form  of  nominating  a  Commission  of
Eminent Persons to propose measures for a renaissance
in  the  Muslim  world,  the  major  Powers  of  the  West
have  yet  to  show  movement  in  seriously  trying  to
resolve  internationally  recognized  disputes  affecting
the Muslim world.
The 
industrialized  world  must  support 
the
endeavour  to  bring  about  an  Islamic  renaissance,
especially  through  adequate  financial  and  technical
assistance  and 
trade  opportunities.  More
important, justice must be offered to Islamic peoples in
the 
resolution  of  all  outstanding
international  disputes  which  affect  Muslims.  There  is
no time to lose. Action has to be taken before an iron
form  of 
larger 
the 
curtain  finally  descends  between  the  West  and  the
Islamic world.
The  tragedy  of  Palestine  is  an  open  wound
inflicted  on  the  psyche  of  every  Muslim.  It  generates
anger  and  resentment  across 
the  Islamic  world.
Continued Israeli violence and the Israelis(cid:146) erection of
the  illegal  separation  wall,  usurping  more  Palestinian
land,  as  well  as  suicide  attacks  by  misguided
Palestinians, are frustrating the prospects of peace and
prolonging the agony of the Palestinian people. While
Pakistan  stands  for  peace,  recognizing  the  right  of
Israel  to  exist  as  also  the  right  of  the  Palestinians  to
have  their  own  homeland,  we  can  never  accept  the
usurpation of additional Palestinian land. Israel has no
right  to  erect  its  separation  wall  beyond  its  1967
boundaries.  Pakistan  calls  on  Israel  to  withdraw  the
wall from all occupied Palestinian lands, taking it back
to  the  pre-1967  boundaries.  We  also  call  on  Israel  to
stop  the  daily  atrocities  against  Palestinians.  Pakistan
also  appeals  to  President  Yasser  Arafat  to  use  his
influence  to  reciprocally  halt  the  intifada  and  give
peace a chance.
A major responsibility rests with the Quartet, and
in  particular  with  the  world(cid:146)s  greatest  Power,  the
United States, to secure a fair and peaceful solution to
the  problem,  realizing  the  vision  of  two  States,  Israel
and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in  peace,  harmony
and security. The United States can and must  play the
role  of  a  just  broker  of  peace.  Peace  must  succeed  in
the Middle East; failure is no longer an option.
It  has  always  been  my  conviction  that  Pakistan
and  India  can  resolve  all  their  differences,  including
over Jammu and Kashmir,  through  a  sincere  dialogue.
The  dangerous  confrontation  of  2002  and  the  three
wars  prior  to  that  between  our  two  countries  have
demonstrated  that  there  is  no  military  solution  to  our
problems.  The  aspiration  to  peace  enjoys  popular
support  in  Pakistan  and,  I  believe,  in  India  as  well.
Neither country can achieve its ambition for social and
economic  progress  in  the  absence  of  peace.  We  must
achieve peace for the sake of the impoverished people
of South Asia (cid:151) for their development and prosperity.
After several aborted attempts, Pakistan and India
have  been  able 
initiate  confidence-building
measures and a composite dialogue this year to address
all  outstanding 
this
process  with  complete  sincerity,  giving  bilateralism  a
final  chance.  We  feel  that  the  dual  channels  of
issues.  Pakistan  has  pursued 
to 
A/59/PV.5
resolving  all  disputes  with 
confidence-building measures and the dialogue process
must proceed in tandem. We also are firmly committed
to 
India  peacefully,
including  the  Kashmir  dispute.  That  issue  cannot  be
ignored.  Its  resolution  cannot  be  delayed  inordinately.
We  desire  a  resolution  for  Kashmir  which  is  just  and
acceptable 
the  people  of
Kashmir.
to  India,  Pakistan  and 
We  also  seek  strategic  stability  with  India.  I  am
glad to say that up until now, the normalization process
has progressed well, in a cordial atmosphere. Now that
the  negotiations  are  entering  the  difficult  stage  of
grappling  with  solutions  to  previously  irreconcilable
disputes, Pakistan hopes that India will show the same
sincerity,  flexibility  and  boldness  that  Pakistan  will
demonstrate.  I  look  forward  to  my  meeting  the  day
after tomorrow with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.
I would like to convey to him that this is the moment
for peace; we must not allow it to slip away.
Iraq has taken a serious turn, to the anguish of the
entire  world  community.  It  is  imperative  that  together
with closing the Palestine and Kashmir fronts, we also
wind  down  the  Iraq  confrontation.  Pakistan  stands  for
restoration  of  peace  and  stability  in  Iraq  to  ensure  its
unity  and 
integrity.  That  can  only  be
achieved through handing over governance authority to
the people of Iraq and allowing them full control over
their  natural  resources.  Internal  law  and  order  and
security can be best promoted by local Iraqi police and
militia, who need to be built up expeditiously.
territorial 
At  an  opportune  time,  and  at  the  request  of  the
people  and  Government  of  Iraq,  the  Muslim  world
could play a role in bringing peace and harmony to this
conflict-torn nation.
The forthcoming elections in Afghanistan will be
an  important  landmark  in  the  country(cid:146)s  progress
towards democracy and stability. Pakistan will do all it
can  to  prevent  terrorists  from  using  our  territory  to
disrupt  the  Afghan  election  process.  The  subsequent
parliamentary elections in April 2005 would also augur
well  for  self-governance  in  Afghanistan.  While  the
political  channel  is  progressing  well  (cid:151)  and  we  wish
President Karzai all success (cid:151) the process of building
the  Afghan  National  Army  and  reconstruction  efforts
need to be accelerated in order to install durable peace
in Afghanistan.
In  our  globalized  world,  peace  and  development
are interdependent, now more than ever before. Despite
21
A/59/PV.5
dynamic growth in some parts of the developing world,
economic and social disparities are increasing. The rich
are richer; the poor are poorer. Over 2 billion people on
our  planet  (cid:151)  a  quarter  of  the  world(cid:146)s  population  (cid:151)
live in abject poverty, afflicted by hunger, disease and
conflict. Islands of peace and prosperity cannot coexist
for long within oceans of instability and poverty.
A bold and innovative global strategy is required
to redress the growing inequalities in the world. Good
governance is a precondition for development; but the
need to rectify the glaring inequities and imbalances in
the international financial and trade systems is equally
essential.
the 
financial 
required 
resources 
Official development  assistance can  and must be
doubled.  Innovative  ways  can  and  must  be  adopted  to
generate 
for
development.  The  billions 
transferred  abroad  by
corrupt  leaders  should  be  returned  to  the  looted
countries to finance poverty alleviation, education and
health.  International 
investment  flows  should  be
consciously  directed 
the  poorer  developing
to 
countries,  where  such  funds  could  unleash  the  latent
power of the poor for consumption and production.
We also know by now that trade, and not just aid,
is  the  way  to  promote  growth  and  to  benefit  from
globalization.  However,  it  has  to  be  made  more
equitable.  Unfair  agricultural  subsidies  should  be
eliminated  and  high  and  escalating 
that
discriminate against the products of the poor should be
removed.  Special  and  differential  treatment  should  be
offered  to  disadvantaged  developing  countries.  In  my
view, we need more than a level playing field; we need
a field tilted in favour of the developing countries.
tariffs 
Unless  the  world(cid:146)s  leaders  generate  the  political
will  required  to  agree  and  implement  those  measures
urgently,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will
remain a mirage.
the  way 
In  Pakistan,  we  are  well  on 
to
transforming  our  country  into  a  modern,  progressive,
tolerant, democratic, Islamic state, reflecting the vision
of our founding father, Quaid-e-Azam. Democracy has
been  restored  in  Pakistan.  The  people  have  been
empowered  through  a  revolutionary  local  government
system.  Our  women  have  been  empowered.  However,
like  other  developing  countries,  Pakistan  confronts
several  challenges.  But,  we  are  confident  of  success.
Our  governance  is  good.  Our  national  priorities  are
absolutely clear.
22
Today, there is welcome resurgence of support for
multilateralism.  This  must  be  a  multilateralism  based
on  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  a
cooperative  and  democratic  multilateralism.  It  must
seek  just,  peaceful  and  durable  solutions  to  conflicts
and disputes. It must promote a programme for nuclear
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  It  must  foster
global development and global prosperity.
All our collective aspirations can best be pursued
within  this  world  Organization.  The  United  Nations
must be strengthened and revitalized to respond to the
challenges of twenty-first century.
The  United  Nations  Security  Council  should
become more effective, democratic and representative.
There is no agreement on the aspiration of a few States
to  acquire  permanent  membership  in  the  Security
Council.  The  overwhelming  majority  of  States  are
against  the  creation  of  new  centres  of  privilege.  The
Council should be enlarged to ensure the representation
of  the  mostly  small  and  medium  States  which  have
joined  the  United  Nations  over  the  last  three  decades.
We have to consider new ideas to craft a consensus on
the enlargement of the Security Council.
Pakistan believes that a new consensus on peace,
security and development, can and should be achieved
on  the  occasion  of  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
United  Nations  next  year.  The  summit  meeting
suggested by the Secretary-General for next year must
lead  to  a  negotiated  final  document  adopted  through
consensus.  That  historic  summit  will,  I  hope,  and
Pakistan  hopes,  create  a  new  paradigm  to  achieve
universal peace and prosperity.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan  for  the  statement  he
has just made.
General  Pervez  Musharraf,  President  of  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  was  escorted  from
the General Assembly Hall.
Mr.  Fayssal  Mekdad  (Syrian  Arab  Republic),
Vice-President, took the Chair.
Address by Mrs. Vaira Vike-Freiberga, President of
the Republic of Latvia
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of
the Republic of Latvia.
Mrs.  Vaira  Vike-Freiberga,  President  of 
the
Republic of Latvia, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to
welcome 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency
Mrs. Vaira Vike-Freiberga, President of the Republic of
Latvia, and to invite her to address the Assembly.
to 
President  Vike-Freiberga:  I  wish  I  could  begin
this  address  on  a  more  optimistic  note,  but  since  we
last  convened  at  the  General  Assembly  one  year  ago,
many dramatic and disconcerting events have occurred
on  the  world  stage.  I  refer  in  particular  to  the
indiscriminate  and  brutal  terrorist  attacks  on  civilians
all over the world: in Russia, Spain, Iraq, Israel, Saudi
Arabia, Indonesia and many other countries. I  refer to
the  targeting  of  children  and  their  parents  at  schools,
on buses and on aeroplanes. I refer to the almost daily
bomb  blasts  on  busy  city  streets,  in  marketplaces  and
in residential apartment buildings. I refer to the sadistic
pride and relish with which terrorists have been filming
the  shooting,  throat-slashing  and  decapitation  of  their
victims.
The  purposeful  torture  and  killing  of  civilians  is
one  of  the  basest  forms  of  human  barbarity.  It  is  a
crime  against  humanity,  along  with  ethnic  cleansing
and  genocide.  Unfortunately, 
is  not
disappearing  from  the  news  headlines  of  the  twenty-
first  century.  Instead,  it  is  becoming  the  principal
method of warfare used by disaffected groups seeking
to achieve their political ends and to blackmail national
Governments.  Nothing  can  justify  the  use  of  such
means.  Any  seemingly  noble  ends  can  only  be
discredited by using terrorism to further them.
terrorism 
Frequently, countries facing terrorist attacks have
been using vastly superior military capabilities to strike
hard  at  real  or  perceived  terrorist  targets.  Too  often,
however,  those  strikes  have  had  an  undesirable  side
effect of their own: the further wounding and killing of
civilians  and  the  additional  destruction  of  property.
Such  strikes  have  done  nothing  to  diminish  the  deep-
seated 
disaffected
populations.  The  events  of  the  past  few  years,  and
indeed  of  the  past  few  decades,  point  to  the  stark  and
sobering  reality  that  the  military  option  alone  has  not
been  effective  in  rooting  out 
that
terrorism has not been an effective means for achieving
political aspirations and goals.
terrorism  and 
resentment 
feelings 
of 
of 
A/59/PV.5
Such never-ending cycles of killing and mounting
mutual hostility will cease once and for all only when
the parties involved forsake the use of violence. In the
Middle  East,  Latvia  views  the  road  map  for  peace  as
the  only  feasible  means  of  obtaining  a  cessation  of
hostilities  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  My
country  encourages  the  interested  parties  to  do  their
utmost  to  de-escalate  tensions  and  resume  the  peace
process.
In  Iraq,  the  United  States-led  coalition  forces
have handed over power to an interim Government, but
security problems  are  hampering  the  reconstruction  of
the  country  and  threaten  the  viability  of  free  and  fair
elections  this  coming  January.  The  transition  in  Iraq
will  require  continued  international  assistance,  and  I
encourage the United Nations to assume an active role
in that regard.
Afghanistan  is  due  to  experience  its  first  ever
elections  next  month.  Latvia  hopes  that  the  historic
event will not be derailed by violent attempts to disrupt
the democratic process in that country. Latvia is ready
to  continue  supporting  international  efforts  to  provide
peace and security in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
Ten years after the human catastrophe in Rwanda,
we  are  again  confronted  with  the  systematic  rape,
torture and killing of civilians, in the Darfur region of
the Sudan. Those crimes have occurred on such a wide
scale that they might be classifiable as ethnic cleansing
and genocide. Latvia welcomes the mediation efforts of
the African Union and encourages all parties involved
to ensure that no further harm comes to the civilians of
the  region.  My  country  supports  Security  Council
resolution  1564  (2004)  of  18  September,  which  urges
the Sudanese Government to act decisively to stop the
violence.
The  United  Nations  faces 
the  prospect  of
establishing  a  new  peacekeeping  mission  in  Sudan,  in
addition  to  the  17  field  operations  already  on  the
ground.  During  the  past  few  months  alone,  two  new
Missions were established, in Burundi and Haiti, while
a  third  was  expanded  in  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire.  The  United
Nations peacekeeping budget for next year may nearly
double as a result.
Latvia is deeply committed to the United Nations
and to effective multilateralism as a central element of
United  Nations  activities.  Latvia  believes  that  the
United  Nations  must  maintain  its  crucial  role  in  the
mediation  of  international  disputes  and  that  Member
23
A/59/PV.5
States  must  summon  the  collective  political  will  to
support the United Nations as a truly credible force for
peace.
The  Security  Council  has  been  the  principal
forum  in  which  the  countries  of  the  world  deliberate
together  on  matters  of  peace  and  security.  Latvia
believes  that  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on
Security  Council  Reform  must  continue  its  activities
and  come  forth  with  proposals  on  how  to  make  the
Council  more  representative  of  today(cid:146)s  political  and
economic  realities,  how  to  provide  the  Council  with
greater legitimacy and how to render it more effective.
A  serious  debate  should  be  continued  regarding  the
enlargement  of  the  number  of  permanent  and  non-
permanent members of the Security Council. Countries
such  as  Japan  or  Germany  can  and  should  play  an
increasingly stronger role in this framework in view of
their  substantial  contribution 
to  United  Nations
activities and commitments.
Proposals for enhancing coordination between the
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
and  the  Security  Council  have  made  little  progress.
Overlapping  mandates  and  the  duplication  of  efforts
continue to reduce the efficiency of the United Nations.
The  economic  and  social  programmes  of  the  United
Nations  need  to  be  reformed,  as  well.  For  example,
why are the issues of the Economic and Social Council
reviewed four times a year, when twice a year might be
sufficient?  Combined  with  the  restructuring  of  the
Economic 
functional
commissions,  such  a  reduction  of  redundancy  in  the
review process could free up vital financial and human
resources 
social
development  programmes  in  the  developing  countries
that need them most.
important 
economic 
Council(cid:146)s 
Social 
and 
and 
for 
international  organizations 
Latvia recognizes the important role of the United
in
Nations  and  other 
promoting  worldwide  development  and 
reducing
poverty.  Having  regained  its  independence  only  13
years ago, Latvia is gradually completing the transition
from a receiving to a donor country. We are grateful for
the  valuable  assistance 
the  United  Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) has provided to our
country since 1993, and we are pleased that UNDP has
extended  its  mandate  until  the  end  of  2005.  Although
the  amount  that  Latvia  is  contributing  to  worldwide
development  assistance 
the
moment,  we  are  committed  to  allocating  no  less  than
one third of 1 per cent of our gross national product to
is  not  very 
large  at 
that 
24
for 
civil 
priority 
Latvia(cid:146)s 
development assistance by 2006, as required of all the
European Union(cid:146)s member States.
areas 
development
cooperation centre around the promotion of democratic
and 
development,
environmental  protection  and  other  issues  in  the
countries 
the  European  Union,
particularly  Belarus,  Georgia,  Moldova,  Russia,
Ukraine and Uzbekistan, to name some of the countries
to which Latvia has already provided bilateral technical
assistance.
neighbouring 
economic 
societies, 
this  society 
the 
is  evolving 
Latvia is eager to reduce the divides between the
developed  and  the  developing  world.  The  industrial
society 
into  which  we  were  born  has  been
characterized  by  the  heavy  machinery  and  tools  that
last 
have  marked  human  progress  over 
two
centuries.  Now 
into  an
information and knowledge society, with innovation as
an  important  engine  of  growth.  Latvia  has  been
actively involved in the United Nations World Summit
on the Information Society (WSIS) and considers it an
honour  to  chair  the  Preparatory  Committee  of  the
second  phase  of  the  Summit,  which  will  take  place  in
Tunis in November 2005. The WSIS process should be
an integral part of the international community(cid:146)s efforts
to  eradicate  poverty  as  outlined  in  the  Millennium
Development  Goals,  which  will  be 
reviewed
periodically until 2015.
Although  the  delegations  here  today  come  from
many  different  backgrounds,  practice  different  faiths
and  speak  different  languages,  all  of  us  in  this  room
share  the  same  desire  to  make  our  world  a  better,
cleaner,  more  peaceful  and  more  prosperous  place  to
live in. We share a world view on what it means to be a
human  and  on  the  inherent  value  of  each  human  life.
The  more  we  strive  to  enshrine  such  values  as
tolerance,  compassion  and  mutual  respect,  the  more
human and the more humane our societies will become.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
President  of  the  Republic  of  Latvia  for  the  statement
she has just made.
Mrs.  Vaira  Vike-Freiberga,  President  of 
Republic  of  Latvia,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.
the
the
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the
Republic of Zimbabwe
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of
the Republic of Zimbabwe.
into 
Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency
Mr. Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Zimbabwe,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the  General
Assembly.
to 
I 
am 
delighted 
President  Mugabe: 
to
congratulate  Mr.  Ping,  a  distinguished  son  of  Africa,
upon his election as President of the General Assembly
at  its  fifty-ninth  session.  Indeed,  at  a  time  when  the
community  of  nations  has  committed  itself  to  paying
due  attention  to  issues  that  relate  to  development  in
Africa  through  support  for  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa(cid:146)s  Development  and  other  mechanisms,  his
presidency  gives  us  the  hope  and  confidence  that  our
concerns  and  aspirations  and  those  of  others  will
remain  high  on  the  agenda  of  this  body.  Let  me  also
express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  his  predecessor,
Mr. Julian  Hunte,  for  the  efficient  and  exemplary
manner in which he conducted the business of the fifty-
eighth session.
At  the  fifty-eighth  session,  I  spoke  alongside
others about the need to reform the United Nations and
its related bodies so as to make them more democratic.
I  stressed  the  perils  inherent  in  the  status  quo,
particularly  with  regard  to  the  dominance  of  global
politics  by  one  super-Power  and  its  closest  allies.
While we welcome the current debate on enhancing the
authority  and  role  of  the  United  Nations,  we  wish  to
stress  the  need  to  address  the  core  issue  of  the
democratization of international governance. Debate on
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  been  too  long
drawn  out  because  of  attempts  calculated  to  protect
those whose interests are best served by the status quo.
Ironically,  it  is  some  of  those  same  forces  that,
since last year, have been raining bombs and hellfire on
innocent Iraqis purportedly in the name of democracy.
Iraq today has become a vast inferno created by blatant
and  completely  illegal  and  defiant  acts  of  aggression
A/59/PV.5
by the United States, Britain and their allies, in the full
trail of which the world has witnessed mass destruction
of  both  human  lives  and  property,  and  with  them  our
human  rights,  values,  morality  and  the  norms  of
international  law  as  enshrined  in  our  Charter.  We  are
now being coerced into accepting and believing that a
new  political-cum-religious  doctrine  has  arisen,
namely,  that  there  is  but  one  political  god  (cid:151)  George
W. Bush (cid:151) and that Tony Blair is his prophet. It is the
Koran writ anew in Baghdad.
The United Nations Charter remains the only and
most sacred document and proponent of the relations of
our nations. Anything else is political heresy.
We  note  that  the  Secretary-General  has  placed
before the General Assembly the report of the Panel of
Eminent  Persons  on  United  Nations-Civil  Society
Relations.  While  civil  society  makes  a  significant
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  we
hope  that  any  arrangements  that  will  eventually  be
agreed  upon  will  recognize  that  the  United  Nations
remains an inter-State and intergovernmental body. It is
also our expectation that the conclusions of the debate
will  recognize  the  different  levels  of  development  of
civil society in different parts of the world.
As  we  prepare  for  the  mid-term  review  of  the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  in
September  2005,  it  is  apparent  that  many  developing
countries,  including  my  own  country,  Zimbabwe,  may
be  unable  to  meet  the  goals  and  targets  set,  as  our
subregion  of  southern  Africa  has  in  recent  years
experienced  extended  and  successive  periods  of
inclement  weather,  principally  droughts,  that  have
wreaked  havoc  upon  our  economies  and  accordingly
diminished  our  capacity  to  achieve  the  Millennium
Declaration  targets.  The  situation,  particularly  with
regards  to  the  health  and  education  sectors,  has  also
been  worsened  by  the  brain  drain  and  the  devastating
effects of the HIV and AIDS pandemic.
In 
that 
regard,  Zimbabwe  welcomes 
the
continuing efforts of this community of nations to find
solutions  to  the  scourge  of  HIV  and  AIDS  that  has
ravaged  our  peoples  and  economies.  At  the  national
level,  we  have  taken  measures,  within  our  limited
means, 
the  pandemic.  We  are  also
coordinating  our  efforts  at 
the  Southern  African
Development  Community  (SADC)  level.  Regrettably,
we  continue  to  see  an  unfortunate  and  futile  tendency
to  use  assistance  in  this  area  as  a  reward  for  political
to  combat 
25
A/59/PV.5
compliance  and  malleability,  making  it  unavailable  to
countries  whose  Governments 
deemed
(cid:147)inconvenient(cid:148).  Let  it  be  realized  that  the  pandemic
does not respect boundaries and that these self-serving,
selective  approaches  will  have  little  or  no  meaningful
results.
are 
has 
arrogantly 
Prime  Minister, 
Zimbabwe has also had to withstand unprovoked
declared and undeclared sanctions, imposed by Britain
and  its  allies,  which  are  bent  on  bringing  down  our
legitimately  elected  Government.  Mr.  Tony  Blair,  the
British 
and
unashamedly  announced  in  his  Parliament  that  his
Government was working with Zimbabwe(cid:146)s opposition
party  to  bring  about  regime  change.  Once  again,  the
lawless  nature  of  that  man  who,  along  with  his
Washington master, believes he is God-ordained to rule
our  world,  has  shown  itself.  Regime  change  is  the
inalienable  right  of  the  Zimbabwean  people,  who,
through their sovereign vote, can make and unmake our
Governments.
In  any  case,  we  reject  completely  the  assertions
of, and pretence to, democracy by our former colonial
masters,  whose  undemocratic  regimes  we  taught  the
lesson  of  one  man  (cid:151)  or  one  woman  (cid:151)  one  vote
through our armed liberation struggles.
As we in Africa look at the situation  here  in  the
United States, we  are aware of the plight  of  the  black
people  (cid:151)  Afro-Americans  (cid:151)  of  both  yesterday  and
today and of the semi-slave, half-citizen status that has
been  their  burden.  Do  the  blacks  in  the  United  States
have the same political, social and economic rights and
status  as  their  white  counterparts?  When  we  will  we
ever have a black (cid:151) African-American (cid:151) President of
the United States? Never, ever. Why?
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the
appreciation of my Government and that of the people
of  Zimbabwe  for  the  humanitarian  assistance  we
received  from  the  international  community  during  our
period  of  need.  Without  such  support,  we  would  not
have been able to avert a major catastrophe.
I am pleased to inform you, Sir, that we have, in
spite of the sanctions and evil wishes of Britain and its
allies, now emerged from that difficult phase. We had a
relatively  good  agricultural  season  this  year,  and  our
land 
to  make  a
significant  contribution  towards  the  turnaround  of  our
economy.  Despite  the  partial  drought  at  the  beginning
of  the  season,  we  have  managed  this  year  to  realize  a
reform  programme  has  begun 
26
good  harvest  (cid:151)  certainly  one  good  enough  to  ensure
that  we  meet  our  food  requirements  until  the  next
season. We plead with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF)  to  stop  its  strange  political  mouthings,  lies  and
fabrications  about  our  situation.  Our  own  regional
organizations know the truth about Zimbabwe. We urge
the IMF to listen to them, and, for once, to be clean.
is  determined 
My  Government 
to  eliminate
corruption  and 
its  corrosive  effects  on  national
development  efforts.  After  signing  the  International
Convention  against Corruption in  November last year,
we put in place legal and administrative measures that
have  already  arrested  a  growing  and  deliberate
tendency  to  circumvent  normal  business  practices,
particularly  in  the  financial-services  sector.  We  have,
however,  experienced  some  setbacks  in  our  efforts,  as
some  countries,  particularly  in  the  developed  West,
continue to provide safe havens for  fugitive economic
saboteurs from our country.
elections 
In March next year, Zimbabwe will be holding its
sixth  democratic  parliamentary 
since
independence  in  1980.  Those  elections,  like  others
before them, will be conducted in accordance with our
national laws and the SADC principles and  guidelines
governing  democratic  elections,  recently  adopted  by
our  subregion.  We  do  not  need  any  lessons  from  the
Netherlands or its imperialist allies from the European
Union  on 
indeed
welcome  to  the  elections  those  observers  whose  sole
and  undivided  purpose  is  to  observe  the  process  and
not to meddle in the politics of the country.
this  question.  Zimbabwe  will 
The  fight  against  international  terrorism  has
exposed  the  duplicity  and  insincerity  of  erstwhile
leading  democracies  and  human  rights  monitors  with
regard  to  the  question  of  the  observance  of  human
rights.  We  have 
international
conventions thrown to the dogs, and resolutions of the
General Assembly and other United Nations bodies on
this issue have come to naught.
seen  established 
We  are  seriously  concerned  at  the  fact  that  the
United  Nations,  the  pre-eminent  instrument  for  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,
watched helplessly while Iraq was unlawfully attacked
and  plundered  by 
the  United  States  and  United
Kingdom-led  so-called  coalition  of  the  willing.  Such
belligerent, gunslinging diplomacy and the illegitimate
territorial occupation of the State of Iraq are blemishes
on the fair-play image of the United Nations.
While  the  sadistic  scenes  from  Abu  Ghraib
remain vivid in our minds, other places in Iraq, as well
as  Guantanamo  Bay,  have  provided  useful  samples  of
the  Western  concept  of  respect  for  human  rights.  Let
me say once again that the West should spare us their
lessons  on  human  rights.  They  do  not  have  the  moral
authority to speak about, let alone parade themselves as
torch-bearers of, human rights.
Zimbabwe  remains  deeply  concerned  about  the
situation  in  the  Middle  East.  We  continue  to  be
revolted  by  a  situation  where  the  collective  decisions
and  authority  of  the  United  Nations  are  disregarded
with  impunity  on  account  of  big-brother  support.  We
demand an immediate lifting of all restrictions illegally
imposed  on  the  Palestinian  people,  which  have  seen
President  Yasser  Arafat  remain  a  virtual  prisoner  of
foreign  occupation.  We  welcome  the  recent  opinion
given  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  that  found
the  construction  of 
in
contravention  of  international  law,  and  the  subsequent
General  Assembly 
that  demanded  an
immediate halt to that monstrosity.
Israeli  wall 
resolution 
the 
to  be 
As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  the  African  Union
earlier this year established its own Peace and Security
Council  to  seek  and  promote  African  solutions  to
African  problems.  Already,  the  Council  is  seized  with
the matter of the crisis in western Sudan. Those efforts
need the support of the international community.
Let  me  conclude  by  assuring  Mr.  Ping  of  my
country(cid:146)s  support  as  he  presides  over  the  work  of  the
General  Assembly  at  this  session.  I  wish  also  to
reiterate  my  country(cid:146)s  commitment  positively 
to
contribute to the fulfilment of the aims and purposes of
the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
President  of  the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe,  Mr.  Robert
Mugabe, for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of
Zimbabwe,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of
the Republic of Malawi
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of
the Republic of Malawi.
A/59/PV.5
the
the
Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency
Mr. Bingu wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of
Malawi, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
to 
President  Mutharika:  I  am  delighted  to  be
participating,  for  the  first  time,  in  the  deliberations  of
the  General  Assembly  as  head  of  State  and
Government of the Republic of Malawi.
I should like to begin by joining others who have
spoken  before  me  in  congratulating  Mr.  Jean  Ping  on
his  assumption  of  the  high  office  of  President  of  the
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session.  I  have  no
doubt  that  his  election  will  provide  an  opportunity  to
increase  global  awareness  of  the  enormous  challenges
that  Africa  and  other  less  developed  regions  of  the
world  are  facing.  I  hope  that,  through  him,  the
opportunity  for  the  poor  countries  to  fully  participate
in world economic prosperity will be enhanced.
I also wish to avail myself of this opportunity to
pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Julian Robert Hunte,
for  guiding  the  work  of  the  fifty-eighth  session  with
admirable skill and pragmatism.
We  also  salute  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  for  the  dynamic
leadership skills that he continues to display in steering
the affairs of the Organization.
I  have  entitled  my  statement  (cid:147)Sharing  global
prosperity(cid:148). I have done so in  order  to  underscore  the
fact that one of the most daunting challenges facing the
international community today  is to  achieve a balance
in  economic  transformation  and  growth  between  the
rich  and  the  poor  countries  so  as  to  eradicate  poverty
among the latter.
In looking at the future of the United Nations, we
need  to  take  stock  of  the  response  to  world  poverty.  I
am aware that several attempts have been made by the
international community to alleviate poverty (cid:151) and the
goal is still being pursued (cid:151)but the results so far have
been dismal. During the past 30 years, for example, the
number of least developed countries has risen from 25
to 49. This means that globally, economic growth is in
reverse gear. Among the questions we are asking with
regard  to  the  sharing  of  global  prosperity  is  this:  why
27
A/59/PV.5
are the industrialized countries more prosperous, while
in  Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  developing  countries
increasing?  In  other  words,  why  has
poverty  is 
globalization  failed 
to  achieve  a  more  equitable
distribution of global prosperity?
Malawi is cognizant of the  fact that our  national
vision  must  be  fully  supported  by  the  international
community.  That  is  why  Malawi  joins  the  call  for
better  market  access  and  lower  tariff  and  non-tariff
barriers to trade in industrialized countries.
In  Malawi  we  have  discovered  that  we  need  to
seriously transform our economic structures in order to
begin to provide and produce new wealth. This can be
achieved  by  transforming  the  abundant  agricultural
commodities,  raw  materials  and  minerals  into  goods
that can be traded globally. It is only by  creating new
wealth  in  rural  areas  that  we  can  effectively  eradicate
poverty.
Our  major  strategy  is  to  gain  a  share  in  global
prosperity  by  transforming  Malawi  from  being  an
importing  and  consuming  country 
to  being  a
predominantly  producing  and  exporting  country.  In
other words, we must begin to position our economy to
take  full  advantage  of  global  trade.  This  will  be
achieved  through  intensive  industrial  research  and  the
application  of  science  and  technology  to  the  specific
conditions in my country.
Malawi  (cid:151)  as  in  the  case  of  most  African
countries  (cid:151)  is  richly  endowed  with  a  wide  range  of
agricultural primary commodities, good soil and water
resources  that  can  enable  us  to  develop  viable  agro-
processing  and  manufacturing  industries.  The  critical
issue for us in Malawi, therefore, is the creation of new
wealth as the basis for poverty reduction. In order to do
that,  we  must  encourage  significant  domestic  savings,
as  well  as  inflows  of  resources,  especially  foreign
direct investment.
We  in  Malawi  estimate  that  in  order  to  alleviate
poverty, we need to achieve an annual growth rate of at
least  6  per  cent  over  the  next  decade.  In  order  to
achieve that, we are determined to create conditions for
sustainable 
through
fundamental  policy  reforms  to  improve  economic  and
political  governance.  We  have  put  in  place  measures
for  the  reform  of  the  public  sector,  the  agricultural
sector and the private sector.
macroeconomic 
growth 
to 
We  are  also  determined 
improve  good
governance  by  stamping  out  corruption.  To  that  end,
we have adopted a zero-tolerance stance with regard to
corruption.  I  am  therefore  happy  to  have  signed,
yesterday,  the  United  Nations  Convention  against
Corruption.
28
Malawi would therefore like to stress the need to
advance the dialogue in the Doha development agenda.
For  their  part,  the  industrialized  nations  need  to
seriously  address  the  major  concerns  of  the  poor
economies.  The  challenge  for  industrialized  countries
is  therefore  to  share  with  the  poor  countries  the
prosperity  that  comes  about  through  globalization,  by
assisting  us  to  stand  on  our  own  and  to  develop
appropriate 
our
agricultural  raw  materials,  minerals  and  other  natural
resources  into  wealth.  In  Malawi,  we  believe  that  a
partner who walks with you side-by-side down the road
is  better  than  one  whom  you  have  to  carry  on  your
shoulders.  We  want  to  walk  with  the  industrialized
nations;  we  do  not  want  to  be  carried  on  their
shoulders.
transforming 
technologies 
for 
Some  positive  efforts  that  Malawi  welcomes
towards  global  equity  include  the  various  initiatives
taken  by  the  Group  of  Eight  countries  aimed  at
addressing  some  of  the  concerns  to  which  I  have  just
referred.  Among  those  are  the  United  Kingdom(cid:146)s
decision  to  significantly  increase  its  aid  and  technical
assistance to Africa; the reaffirmation of strong support
for the New Partnership for Africa(cid:146)s Development; the
decision  by  the  United  States  Government  to  extend
the African Growth and Opportunity Act from 2008 to
2015;  and  the  European  Union(cid:146)s  (cid:147)Everything  But
Arms(cid:148) initiative, which seeks to enhance opportunities
for  increased  access  for  African  exports  into  the
European market.
Those  initiatives  are,  indeed,  encouraging,  and
my  Government  fully  appreciates 
them.  I  wish,
however,  to  appeal  for  those  noble  promises  and
commitments to be matched by action. We need proof
that actions speak louder than words.
The  management  of  foreign  debt  is  another
positive way in which global prosperity can be shared.
Our  concern  is  that,  in  spite  of  numerous  initiatives
aimed  at  finding  a  durable  solution  to  the  debt
problem,  the  world  is  nowhere  near  that  solution.  My
Government  is  still  allocating  a  significant  amount  of
our  resources  to  debt-servicing  at  the  expense  of
investment  in  infrastructure,  production  and  income
generation. Such diversion of resources has led, among
other things, to the deepening of poverty and a lack of
significant macroeconomic growth.
However,  Malawi,  like  other  eligible  African
countries,  had  welcomed  arrangements  for  debt  relief
under  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)
Debt  Initiative.  But  the  conditions  for  reaching  the
decision  and  completion  points  are  so  arduous  that
only  a  few  countries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  have
managed to reach the completion stage. We believe that
the  preconditions 
Initiative  are
unrealistic. Surely, less stringent conditionalities would
have enabled more countries to succeed.
the  HIPC 
for 
That  notwithstanding,  Malawi  welcomes 
the
measures  by  some  bilateral  donors  to  respond  to  the
external  debt  crisis.  In  particular,  I  must  mention  the
Government  of  Japan,  which,  a  few  weeks  ago,
cancelled  a  debt  Malawi  owed  it,  amounting  to  $256
million.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Japan  most
sincerely  for 
that  other
industrialized countries will follow this example.
that  gesture.  We  hope 
that 
the  New  Partnership 
I  referred  earlier  to  the  need  for  adequate  donor
support to sustain national initiatives. In that regard, I
believe 
for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development  (NEPAD)  provides  a  framework  for
sharing  the  responsibility  for  economic  development
between  Africa  and  the  rich  countries.  It  is  for  that
reason  that  Malawi  has  acceded  to  NEPAD(cid:146)s  African
Peer  Review  Mechanism  in  a  bid  to  put  in  place
internationally  accepted  political  and  economic  good
governance. Our accession to the African Peer Review
Mechanism  is  also  a  demonstration  of  our  confidence
in the NEPAD programme as a tool to enhance Africa(cid:146)s
effective participation in global prosperity.
is 
Let  me  now  turn  to  a  global  challenge  that
threatens  all  development  efforts.  This 
the
HIV/AIDS  pandemic.  The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic
continues  to  pound  incessantly  upon  the  African
economies,  destroying  the  capacity  of  many  countries
to achieve sustainable economic development. Because
it  affects  the  most  productive  segment  of  our  labour
force,  we  are  losing  more  qualified  and  experienced
personnel much faster than we can train new ones.
The  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  is  a  human  tragedy  of
unimaginable  proportions.  Experience  in  dealing  with
this  disaster 
that
HIV/AIDS  is  a  medical  crisis,  an  economic  crisis,  a
social crisis and a political crisis. It is a medical crisis
in  my  country  has 
taught  us 
A/59/PV.5
capacities 
resources 
our 
for  development  while 
national 
for 
because no cure has yet been found for HIV/AIDS. It is
an economic crisis because it is depleting financial and
also
human 
devastating 
good
governance. HIV/AIDS is a social crisis because of the
stigma that makes the affected unable to be integrated
into normal day-to-day relations as well as in the work
places.  HIV/AIDS  has  also  created  a  large  number  of
orphans  that  need  to  be  cared  for.  HIV/AIDS  is  a
political  crisis  because 
threatens  democratic
institutions  by  killing  politicians  and  others  who  are
the voice of the people.
it 
Therefore,  in  order  to  deal  with  this  pandemic,
we  have  learned  the  imperative  of  adopting  a  holistic
approach.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  appeal  to  the
United  Nations  to  collectively  raise  new  awareness,
new  assumptions  and  new  solutions.  To  that  end,  the
United  Nations  ought 
in
providing  support,  care,  treatment  and  prevention  of
HIV/AIDS,  alongside 
the  provision  of  adequate,
nutritious food and a proper diet.
to  redesign 
its  policy 
Before  concluding  my  statement,  I  wish  to  raise
another  concern I have  concerning  the  efforts  towards
sustainable  growth  and  the  development  of  the  world.
This  relates  to  the  need  for  world  peace.  One  can
hardly  emphasize  enough  that,  without  global  peace,
there  cannot  be  global  prosperity.  In  that  regard,  I
would  like  to  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the
Secretary-General, jointly with the Security Council, in
taking  a  number  of  decisive  steps  towards  conflict
prevention,  resolution  and  management  around  the
globe.
Turning to the specific issues of peace in Africa, I
am  concerned  that  sub-Saharan  Africa  has  been  and
continues to be one of the most unstable and conflict-
prone regions of the globe. The region also happens to
be home to most of the world(cid:146)s poorest people, who are
living below the international poverty line.
in  Sudan(cid:146)s  Darfur 
in
particular,  is  yet  another  sad  chapter  in  the  history  of
sub-Saharan Africa and one that the African people can
ill afford. Africa and the international community must
find  quick  and  lasting  solutions  to  the  crisis  in  the
Darfur region.
The  conflict 
region, 
I  would  like  to  conclude  my  statement  by
assuring  the  General  Assembly  that  my  Government
fully  endorses  the  proposals  to  reform  the  United
Nations. We share the belief that a more representative
29
A/59/PV.5
and  democratic  United  Nations  will  enhance  the
efficiency and credibility of this global Organization. It
will  also  enhance  the  efforts  towards  a  just  and  more
equitable sharing of global prosperity.
May God bless the United Nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
President of the Republic of Malawi for the statement
he has just made.
Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
Address by The Right Honourable Paul Martin,
Prime Minister of Canada
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime
Minister of Canada.
Mr. Paul Martin, Prime Minister of Canada, was
escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have
great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency The Right
Honourable  Paul  Martin,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada,
and inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr. Martin (Canada): I want to talk today about
United  Nations  reform,  particularly  about  the  way  we
should serve and the way we should do business if the
United Nations is to play the role we want it to in the
twenty-first century.
The  world  is  organized  into  independent  States
and  the  primary  obligation  of  Governments  is  to  look
after  their  own  people.  This  presents  us  with  a
fundamental  dilemma, 
for  unless  we  also  act
collectively on the basis of our common humanity, the
rich  will  become  richer,  the  poor  will  become  poorer,
and  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  will  be  at  risk.
Thus, we need institutions whose primary obligation is
to our common humanity. Herein lies the importance of
the United Nations. It comprises Member States, but its
mission  is,  indeed,  to  serve  the  world(cid:146)s  peoples.  Its
Charter makes this very clear:
30
(cid:147)We the peoples of the United Nations [are]
determined  (cid:133)  to  reaffirm  faith  in  fundamental
human  rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the
human  person,  in  the  equal  rights  of  men  and
women.(cid:148)
Others,  quite  properly,  will  talk  about  structural
reform.  But  today  I  want  to  talk  about  reforms
designed to put our common humanity at the centre of
the agenda of the United Nations.
Canada  sees  five  areas  where  bold  steps  are
to
required.  The  first  area 
protect  (cid:151)  the  need  to  develop  the  rules  and  the
political  will 
international
community  to  intervene  in  countries  to  prevent  a
humanitarian catastrophe.
that  would  allow 
the 
is 
the  responsibility 
is  a  human 
Darfur 
proportions.
(spoke in French)
tragedy  of 
immense
We  welcome  the  Security  Council(cid:146)s  support  for
expanded  engagement  there,  although  we  believe  the
international  response  should  be  more  robust.  The
African  Union,  which  has  agreed  to  lead  that  effort,
must have the  unswerving support of the international
community.  Canada  is  offering  $20  million  to  assist,
and we call on others to join in now.
(spoke in English)
It  is  good  that  the  international  community  is
finally  moving,  but  it  has  taken  far  too  long.  The
Security  Council  has  been  bogged  down  in  debating
the issue. It has looked at whether Darfur is a threat to
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  considering
whether  the  tragedy  qualifies  as  genocide,  because
either  could  provide  justification,  under  international
law,  for  intervention.  The  fact  is,  though,  that,  while
the international community struggles with definitions,
the  people  of  Darfur  struggle  with  disaster.  They  are
hungry,  they  are  homeless,  they  are  sick,  and  many
have  been  driven  out  of  their  own  country.  Tens  of
thousands  have  been  murdered,  raped  and  assaulted.
War  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  are  being
committed.
We must not let debates about definitions become
obstacles to action. We should not have to go through
such painful exercises to figure out how to respond to
humanitarian catastrophe. We need clear principles that
will  allow  the  international  community  to  intervene
much faster in situations like the one in Darfur.
Our  common  humanity  should  be  a  powerful
enough  argument,  and  yet  that  is  precisely  what  is
missing. Put simply, there is still no explicit provision
in  international  law  for  intervention  on  humanitarian
grounds. The (cid:147)responsibility to protect(cid:148) is intended to
fill that gap. It says that we should have the legal right
to 
the  grounds  of
humanitarian  emergency  alone.  We  should  be  able  to
do  so  when  the  Government  of  a  country  is  unwilling
or unable to protect its people from extreme harm as a
result  of  internal  war,  repression  or,  simply,  State
failure.
in  a  country  on 
intervene 
The primary responsibility for the protection of a
State(cid:146)s  own  population  lies  with  that  State  itself.  We
are not arguing for a unilateral right to intervene in one
country  whenever  another  country  feels  like  it.  It  is
always  preferable  to  have  multilateral  authority  for
intervention  in  the  affairs  of  a  sovereign  State.  What
we  seek  is  the  evolution  of  international  law  and
practice  so  that  multilateral  action  may  be  taken  in
situations of extreme humanitarian emergency.
to 
sovereignty 
to  encompass 
International law is moving in the right direction.
the  Convention  on
Existing 
instruments  such  as 
treaties  acknowledge
Genocide  and  human  rights 
States(cid:146)  obligations 
their  own  people.  The
establishment  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and
criminal  tribunals  are  further  steps  forward.  Thus
customary  international  law  is  evolving  to  provide  a
solid  basis  in  the  building  of  a  normative  framework
for  collective  humanitarian  intervention.  To  speed  it
along,  however,  Member  States  should  now  adopt  a
General Assembly resolution recognizing the evolution
of 
international
responsibility  to  people.  In  turn,  the  Security  Council
the
should  establish  new 
international 
civilian
populations  face  extreme  threats;  and  for  exploring
non-military  and,  if  necessary,  proportionate  military
options  to  protect  civilians.  The  responsibility  to
protect  is  not  a  license  for  intervention;  it  is  an
international guarantor of political accountability.
is 
the
(cid:147)responsibility  to  deny(cid:148),  which  encompasses  the  need
to  ensure  that  weapons  of  mass  destruction  do  not
under  any  circumstances  spread  to  States  or  terrorists
prepared  to  use  them,  especially  against  innocent
The  second  area  I  would  speak 
for  when 
that 
thresholds 
judges 
community 
the 
to 
A/59/PV.5
civilians.  Non-proliferation  and  disarmament  remain
fundamental  pillars  of  the  commitment  of  the  United
Nations to international peace and security.
In  both 
cases,  multilateralism  has  been
challenged by dramatic changes in the security climate,
and there is a clear need to make our systems stronger
and more responsive. Strict verification is the key.
The  United  Nations  nuclear  watchdog, 
the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency,  needs  stronger
tools,  and  it  needs  political  support.  We  need  more
rigorous  controls  on  sensitive  nuclear  technology,  and
the  Security  Council  must  be  prepared  to  deal  with
non-compliance  effectively.  The  fact  is  that,  as  we  all
know,  determined  proliferators  have  been  able  to
circumvent their treaty obligations. The United Nations
should 
and
verification  mechanism 
reinforce  and
supplement existing verification systems.
a  permanent 
inspection 
that  can 
establish 
to 
deny, 
More generally, and to show how far we have to
the
the  disarmament  agenda,  and  on 
go  on 
the  Conference 
on
responsibility 
Disarmament,  charged  with 
the  responsibility  for
negotiating new multilateral instruments, has not  even
been  able  to  agree  on  a  work  plan  since  1998.  Surely
the Conference must get back to productive work.
(spoke in French)
The  third  area  is  the  (cid:147)responsibility  to  respect(cid:148)
human  beings,  their  dignity,  their  freedom  and  their
culture. I would like to talk about a broader notion of
human  rights  -  one  that  can  encompass  individual
rights, the protection of collective rights and pluralism,
as reflected in the concept of cultural diversity. In fact,
the  United  Nations  Development  Programme(cid:146)s  recent
Human  Development  Report  stresses  that  cultural
diversity is also tied in with freedom. That is why we
support  a  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and
Cultural  Organization 
cultural
promotion.
Since 
the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, humanity has
made  remarkable  strides  in  the  area  of  human  rights.
Conventions  are  now  in  place  to  protect  a  number  of
rights:  civil,  political,  economic,  social  and  cultural.
But we must remain vigilant in the face of new forms
of abuse, such as international trafficking of people and
the horrifying child sex trade.
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
instrument 
on 
31
A/59/PV.5
to 
and 
to  denounce 
aspirations.  Entire 
In addition to the protections afforded individual
rights,  various  conventions  have  also  been  concluded
to  better  protect  minorities, 
racial
combat  marginalization.
discrimination 
Nevertheless,  it  is  apparent  that  the  most  divisive
conflicts result, more often than not, from attempts by
one group to prevent other groups from realizing their
perfectly  legitimate  economic,  religious,  social  or
political 
are
threatened. Violence, civil strife and even failed States
ensue.  Kosovo,  Bosnia,  the  Great  Lakes  region  in
Africa,  and 
the  most  chilling
examples.  The  international  community  must  take
vigorous  action  to  protect  individuals  as  well  as
minority  communities.  It  is  not  enough  to  simply
possess  various  legal  instruments;  they  must  be  put
into practice. Institutions responsible for human rights
must reveal to the entire world those guilty of abuse (cid:151)
be they armed groups, communities or Governments (cid:151)
and take the necessary measures. The United Nations is
our moral conscience and it is up to us to act.
today  Darfur  are 
communities 
The fourth area is the responsibility to build. The
objectives  of  the  Millennium  Summit  on  poverty,
disease and global insecurity will come to naught if we
do  not  follow  up  on 
the  Monterrey  Consensus,
according  to  which  genuine  development  requires  a
holistic approach to such issues as debt, market access
and social investment.
institutions.  We  must  build 
That being said, as we have seen in Haiti over the
past 10 years, all the aid in the world will have only a
fleeting  effect  if  a  country  does  not  have  functioning
public 
countries(cid:146)
governance capacities and take the time to do it right.
The same is true for economic institutions. Those that
work  well  marshal  the  creative  energies  of  local
entrepreneurs.  That  is  the  message  of  the  United
Nations  Commission  on 
the  Private  Sector  and
Development:  a  thriving  economy  is  the  product  of
citizens(cid:146)  trust  in  their  country(cid:146)s  public  institutions.  In
brief, development depends on governance.
Lastly,  there  is  responsibility  for  the  future,
which is to say the obligation we have to leave a better
world  for  our  children.  That  is  no  small  challenge.  It
involves  all  aspects  of  our  common  heritage:  health,
the  environment,  oceans,  space.  The  new  pandemics
demand  our  most  urgent  attention.  AIDS,  SARS  and
the  Ebola  virus  are  sounding  a  terrifying  alarm,  but
scientists  are  predicting  even  worse  diseases.  The
its
World  Health  Organization  must 
bolster 
32
surveillance  systems. 
job
coordinating  its  actions  with  those  of  other  United
Nations bodies.
It  must  do  a  better 
Beyond  health  issues  lies  the  whole  question  of
managing  our  environment.  It  is  gravely  threatened.
Only international cooperation and technical assistance
can bring lasting solutions to such problems as access
to clean air and water. Furthermore, we need an oceans
policy that allows us to rebuild our fish stocks. Access
to fisheries must be better regulated under international
law.  Simply  put,  the  pillage  of  those  global  resources
must stop.
Space is our final frontier. It has always captured
our  imagination.  What  a  tragedy  it  would  be  if  space
became  one  big  weapons  arsenal  and  the  scene  of  a
new arms race. In 1967, the United Nations agreed that
weapons  of  mass  destruction  must  not  be  based  in
space.  The  time  has  come  to  extend  that  ban  to  all
weapons.
(spoke in English)
one  more: 
let  me  mention 
I  have  talked  today  about  responsibilities.  In
conclusion, 
the
responsibility  to  act.  We  await  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General(cid:146)s  High-Level  Panel 
and  we
anticipate  substantial  recommendations  for  reform.
Many  countries  are  focused  on  the  Security  Council
and we should support reforms that will make it more
effective and will permit those countries which actively
support  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  development
and  other  activities  to  continue  to  have  a  meaningful
opportunity to serve.
also 
look 
forward 
But  we  must 
to
recommendations  that  go  well  beyond  the  Security
Council.  For  example,  there  is  a  need  to  set  out
measures  to  facilitate  an  integrated  response  to  the
diverse  range  of  security  challenges  that  each  of  us
faces, from the proliferation of terrorism to improving
United  Nations  coordination  on  development,  health
and  the  environment.  As  individual  countries,  as
individual  members  of  regional  organizations,  and  as
participants  in  various  international  groups  that  form
around specific interests, we all must act to bridge the
differences that divide us and to forge an international
consensus for reform of the United Nations.
In  another  context,  for  instance,  Canada  has
proposed a special meeting at which leaders from 20 or
so  countries  in  the  developed  and  developing  worlds
would get together to discuss our collective challenges
and  responsibilities.  This  could  very  well  include
providing  a  major  boost  to  United  Nations  reform
efforts.
in 
In any event, no matter how one comes at it, the
time  has  come  for  real  reform  of  the  United  Nations.
All  of  us 
in  our  respective
Governments must put aside narrow interests and work
to  common  purpose 
this  universal
institution, whose activities give force to our common
humanity.
this  Hall  and 
to  strengthen 
Four  years  ago,  at  the  Millennium  Summit,  the
leaders of the world agreed that (cid:147)we have a duty (cid:133) to
all the world(cid:146)s people, especially the most vulnerable(cid:148)
(resolution  55/2,  para.  2).  That  duty  will  not  be
discharged  unless  we  as  Governments  speak  to  the
dignity  and  to  the  freedom  of  every  human  being  on
Earth, here at the world(cid:146)s meeting place of nations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the
Prime Minister of Canada for the statement he has just
made.
The  Honourable  Paul  Martin,  Prime  Minister  of
Canada, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Issam Fares, Deputy Prime
Minister of Lebanon.
Mr.  Fares  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As  the
head of Lebanon(cid:146)s delegation to the General Assembly,
I am pleased to congratulate Mr. Ping on his election as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth
session.  I  wish  him  success  in  his  presidency.  I  also
want  to  acclaim  the  special  relationship  that  my
country  has  with  his  and  to  express  our  gratitude  for
the  support  which  his  country,  Gabon,  gives  to  our
large Lebanese community working there and enjoying
its hospitality.
I  also  wish  to  thank  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Julian
Hunte,  for  his  effective  leadership  as  President  of  the
Assembly at the fifty-eighth session.
Secretary-General  Annan  has  earned  our  respect
and appreciation for the efforts he has made to further
the  United  Nations  goal  of  working  for  a  just,  secure
and peaceful world.
In past years, we in Lebanon used to come to this
forum  seeking  United  Nations  help.  The  United
Nations  has  always  come  to  our  support,  adopting
independence,
resolutions 
Lebanon(cid:146)s 
affirming 
A/59/PV.5
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  We  must  express
our gratitude to the United Nations for dispatching the
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, stationed on
our  frontiers  with  Israel,  and  for  the  continuing  and
effective  aid  we  get 
the  Organization(cid:146)s
specialized agencies.
from 
Today,  we  come  to  this  forum  with  a  different
objective. Our country is in good shape. It has regained
its  position  in  the  region.  We  have  moved  from
destruction to construction, from rule by the militias to
the rule of law, from anarchy to stability and security,
and  from  division  to  unity.  In  the  1970s  and  1980s,
(cid:147)Lebanonization(cid:148)  became  a  bad  word.  It  stood  for
anarchy 
however,
(cid:147)Lebanonization(cid:148)  has 
true,  original
meaning  as  a  term  standing  for  democracy,  freedom,
pluralism and recognition of the other.
Now, 
its 
infighting. 
regained 
and 
Early this month, the Security Council adopted its
resolution  1559  (2004),  concerning  Lebanon.  The
resolution has two dimensions, one regional, the other
internal.  As  for  the  regional  dimension,  the  resolution
calls  for  the  withdrawal  of  all  foreign  forces  still  in
Lebanon.  There  are  Israeli  forces  occupying  part  of
Lebanon: the Sheba(cid:146)a farms and the surrounding area.
Together with the rest of the Assembly, we call for the
immediate  withdrawal  of  those  forces.  From  this
rostrum,  we  also  call  upon  Israel  to  halt  its  daily
violations of our airspace.
There  are  also  Syrian  forces  in  Lebanon.  Those
forces  are  on  our  territory  at  the  request  of  the
Lebanese  Government  and 
in  accordance  with
agreements  signed  by  the  two  parties.  Lebanon  will
accept  the  presence  of  those  troops  as  long  as  the
security situation in the region merits it. It is Lebanon(cid:146)s
policy  that  not  a  single  non-Lebanese  soldier  should
remain  on  its  soil.  Our  disagreement  with  the  United
Nations  concerning  the  withdrawal  of  Syrian  forces
lies  in  the  timing  of  the  withdrawal;  it  is  not  a
disagreement  on  the  principle  of  withdrawal.  The
timing  is  under  continuous  discussion  between  the
Lebanese  and  Syrian  Governments;  it  will  depend  on
their assessment of the security situation in the region.
It is also the policy of Lebanon to support the national
resistance  movement,  which  played  an  important  role
in forcing Israel to withdraw from southern Lebanon.
As 
for 
the  Council(cid:146)s 
internal
dimension  (cid:151)  relating  to  the  amendment  of  our
Constitution  (cid:151)  we  consider 
it  an  unacceptable
intervention  in  our  internal  affairs.  Our  Constitution,
which  was  promulgated  in  1926,  may  be  the  oldest
resolution(cid:146)s 
33
A/59/PV.5
democratic  constitution  in  the  entire  Middle  East.
Successive  Lebanese  Parliaments  have  amended  it
many  times,  always  in  accordance  with  its  own
amendment mechanisms and by absolute majorities.
Lebanon  is  a  civilized  democratic  country.  It
abides  by  international  law  and  reveres  the  moral
principles and values on which it is based. My country
was a founding Member of the United Nations in 1945.
It  played  a  leading  role  in  the  formulation  of  the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. And,
from  this  rostrum,  Lebanon  has  exposed  and  opposed
all  destructive 
and
ideologies 
movements 
the  course  of
impeded 
civilization and the future of humanity.
and  disruptive 
that  we  felt 
Today, we stand together with the United Nations
in  opposing  international  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.
Lebanon  has  witnessed  the  horrors  of  terrorism  on  its
soil; it has witnessed innocent people being kidnapped,
tortured  and  killed.  It  knows  what  terrorism  is  all
about,  and,  as  a  result  of  first-hand  knowledge,  it
condemns  it  in  the  strongest  terms.  We  also  condemn
those who wilfully confuse terrorism with the struggle
for  national  liberation  and  independence.  There  are
those  who  exploit  the  universal  revulsion  against
terrorism  to  smear  national  liberation  movements  by
branding them as terrorist. National liberation is a right
and an honour; terrorism is a crime and cowardice.
Lebanon has recovered its stability and  freedom.
We are not here to ask anything specific for ourselves.
We  do,  however,  ask  that  the  United  Nations  devote
more attention to our region. The region is in turmoil,
and  it  looks  to  the  United  Nations  to  help  establish
peace.  The  Organization  has  been  granted  legitimacy
by all nations in its quest to ensure peace and stability.
We ask the following of the United Nations. First,
the Organization should increase its efforts to solve the
Middle East problem. It should do so by implementing
its resolutions concerning Israel(cid:146)s withdrawal from the
territories 
the
Palestinians  an  independent  sovereign  State  and  by
ensuring  the  return  of  Palestinian  refugees  to  their
homeland.  The  more  the  Middle  East  conflict  is
allowed to fester, the more difficult it will be to resolve
and  the  more  danger  and  war  there  will  be  in  the
region.
in  1967,  by  giving 
it  occupied 
Secondly,  the  United  Nations  should  assume
greater  responsibility  in  resolving  the  violent  conflict
in Iraq and in restoring peace, stability and unity to the
Iraqis.  The  Iraqis  have  suffered  greatly,  and  they
deserve strong and continuing support from the United
34
Nations  so  that  they  can  build  a  free,  just  and
democratic order.
Thirdly, the Organization should help the Middle
East region to achieve a new stable order based on just
and  equitable  solutions  and  on  the  right  to  self-
determination, since that region is the birthplace of the
three  monotheistic  religions.  The  United  Nations
should  also  put  an  end  to  the  arms  race  and  to  the
waste of capabilities and rid the region of weapons of
mass destruction.
Fourthly,  the  United  Nations  should  encourage
the establishment of civil organizations as a necessary
first step in the process of reform and democratization.
It  is  difficult  to  build  an  accountable  democratic
system without diverse and pluralistic civil institutions.
Democracy  is  based  on  political  parties,  trade  unions,
civil 
institutions,  humanitarian  organizations  and
associations of all kinds, which are the foundations of
reform and democracy.
Lebanon has a clear vision about the future of the
region and of its civilization. It wants to play a decisive
role  in  that  future,  as  it  did  in  forging  an  Eastern
civilization in  the  region,  based  on  the  most  profound
principles of Christianity and Islam.
Lebanon  is  an  international  country,  bigger  than
its  size  and  population,  due  to  its  emigrants,  who
inhabit every nook and cranny of the world. Wherever
they may be, the Lebanese are emissaries of innovation
and  production.  Some  countries  may  take  pride  in
exporting  weapons  and  in  deploying  armies,  but
Lebanon, since the dawn of history, has prided itself on
exporting  its  precious  young  people,  who,  in  all
continents,  assume  the  highest  posts  in  universities,
research centres, industries and businesses.
Lebanon  supports  the  United  Nations  because  of
its  universal  views  on  humanity  and  its  future.  In  the
past, my  country may  have suffered  precisely  because
of  its  universalism,  its  openness  and  its  freedom.
Because  Lebanon  has  given  much,  Lebanon  deserves
much.
Finally,  I  wish  the  General  Assembly  and  its
Main  Committees  every  success  in  addressing  the
many  important  items  on  the  agenda.  Lebanon  will
participate actively in all these proceedings, in any way
that  will  help  to  attain  the  objectives  of  the  United
Nations  and  advance  the  universal  cause  of  freedom
and peace.
The meeting rose at 2.05 p.m.
