United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
54th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 November 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.54
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 75
Oceans and the law of the sea
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Mr.  Sardenberg  (Brazil):  Once  again  this  year,
under  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda  item  75,  Brazil  has  had
the  honour  to  coordinate  informal  consultations  on
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  On  behalf  of  its
sponsors,  I  have  the  pleasure  today  to  introduce  draft
resolution  A/60/L.22,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law  of
the sea”.
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/60/63 and
Add.1 and Add.2 and A/60/91)
Report of the United Nations Open-ended
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and
the Law of the Sea at its sixth meeting (A/60/99)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.22)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
relating to the Conservation and Management
of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/189)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.23)
The  President: 
I  give 
to 
the
representative  of  Brazil  to  introduce  draft  resolution
A/60/L.22.
floor 
the 
to 
I  wish 
inform  members 
the
publication  of  the  draft  resolution,  the  following
countries  have  also  become  sponsors:  Australia,
Greece,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Madagascar,  Micronesia,  the
Russian Federation and Tonga.
that  since 
to 
like 
The  draft  resolution  is  the  result  of  constructive
and  creative  discussions.  I  would 
thank
Mr. Vladimir  Golitsyn,  Director  of  the  Division  for
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, and his staff for
their  highly  professional  assistance,  which,  as  usual,
contributed  decisively  to  the  success  of  our  work.  I
also take this opportunity to express our appreciation to
Ms.  Holly  Koehler  of  the  delegation  of  the  United
States for coordinating the draft resolution on fisheries.
The  draft  resolution  and  today’s  debate  are
expressions  of  the  commitment  of  the  United  Nations
to  this  multidisciplinary  and  complex  item  on  the
agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  under  which  the
international community has been making efforts in the
areas  of  cooperation  and  the  integration  of  activities
and  regulatory  measures  required  by  the  landmark
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The
pre-eminent 
is  clearly
recognized by the draft resolution, which refers to it as
the  Convention 
role  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-61846 (E)
*0561846*
A/60/PV.54
the  legal  framework  within  which  all  activities  in  the
oceans and seas must be carried out.
The  draft  resolution  emphasizes  the  role  of  the
Convention  in  the  maintenance  and  strengthening  of
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  in  the
sustainable  development  of  the  uses  of,  and  activities
in, the oceans and seas. It also reflects the importance
of capacity-building for developing States so that they
can implement the Convention, fulfil their obligations,
benefit  from  ocean  resources  and  participate  in  all
forums  and  processes  dealing  with  issues  related  to
oceans and the law of the sea.
including 
environment, 
Among other important achievements reflected in
the draft resolution, I would like to underline, first, the
launching  of  the  start-up  phase  of  the  regular  process
for global reporting and assessment of the state of the
marine 
socio-economic
aspects, as agreed in the Plan of Implementation of the
World Summit on Sustainable Development; secondly,
the  review  and  renewal  of  the  mandate  of  the  United
Nations Open-ended Informal Consultative Process on
Oceans and the Law of the Sea, with recommendations
that  its  discussions  at  its  next  meeting  be  focused  on
the topic “Ecosystem approaches and oceans”; thirdly,
the  agreement  reached  on  participation  in  the  Ad  Hoc
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  on  marine
biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
I  now  wish  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  behalf  of
the delegation of Brazil.
Brazil  has  a  coastline  7,500  kilometres  long.  Its
continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles,  which  is
currently under examination by the Commission on the
Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,  is  estimated  to  be
953,525  square  kilometres.  More  than  90  per  cent  of
Brazil’s 
seas.  Such
characteristics 
our
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the
Law  of  the  Sea,  which  is  increasingly  known  as  the
constitution  of  the  oceans,  as  well  as  to  efforts  to  put
its  provisions  into  practice  —  provisions  that  are
already becoming part of customary law.
the 
underscored 
through 
always 
trade  occurs 
have 
It  has  been  23  years  since  the  adoption  of  the
Convention  and  11  years  since  its  entry  to  force.
Following the adoption of the 1994 Agreement relating
to the Implementation of Part XI of the Convention and
the  1995  Agreement  for  the  Implementation  of  the
Provisions  of 
the
Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling  Fish
the  Convention 
relating 
to 
2
Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  we  have
justifiably  high  expectations  as  to  active  participation
in the discussions of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal
Working Group on marine biodiversity beyond national
jurisdiction. That  seems  to  us  the  most  important  step
that the international community has taken in this area
in the last 10 years.
engage 
research, 
scientific 
In  our  view,  it  is  essential  that  the  international
in  discussions  on  marine
community 
biodiversity  and  marine 
in
accordance  with  the  Convention,  in  order  to  better
understand and manage ocean resources and activities.
Under the Convention, activities in the Area are to be
carried  out  for  the  benefit  of  mankind  as  a  whole,
taking  into  particular  consideration  the  interests  and
needs of developing States. Biological resources in the
Area  cannot  be  depleted  or  appropriated,  but  must  be
used  for 
the  benefit  of  present  generations  and
preserved for future generations.
Brazil  welcomes  the  commitment  to  launch  the
start-up phase of the regular process recommended by
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation.  We  expect
that its work will be fruitful and that States will bear in
mind  the  need  for  integration  and  coordination  efforts
aimed at the conservation of the oceans. We recognize
the importance of the Informal Consultative Process in
facilitating  this  General  Assembly  debate  by  making
possible  a  better  understanding  of  the  broad,  complex
and multifaceted issues related to oceans.
that 
We are, however, very concerned about the topic
to  be  focused  upon  next  year,  given 
the
international  community  has  been  unable  to  agree  in
other  multilateral  forums  on  any  definition  of  an
ecosystem approach. The next one-week meeting of the
Informal  Consultative  Process  must  be  organized  in  a
very objective way so as to allow adequate time for the
discussion of other important issues to be considered in
the  Secretary-General’s  annual  comprehensive  report
on oceans and the law of the sea.
The  draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  is
inspired  by  our  common  goal  of  establishing
appropriate conservation and management measures to
make fisheries a sustainable activity. But our challenge
is to implement such measures and to encourage States
to  comply  with  them  in  order  to  stop  the  depletion  of
fish stocks and the destruction of marine biodiversity.
Brazil  attributes  the  problem  of  excess  fishing
capacity  not  only  to  the  illegal,  unreported  and
unregulated fisheries, but also to the oversized fishery
fleets  of  some  developed  States.  That  should  not
jeopardize the efforts of developing States to engage in
sustainable  fishery  activities,  including  by  renovating
their fishery fleets.
As we highlight the achievements and the current
challenges  related  to  ocean  issues,  let  us  take  this
opportunity 
the
international  community  as  a  whole  to  the  task  and
vision that  we set ourselves  in  1982,  the  year  that  the
Convention was concluded.
to  rededicate  our  countries  and 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America  to
introduce draft resolution A/60/L.23.
the  honour 
Mr.  Bolton  (United  States  of  America):  My
delegation  has 
to  co-sponsor  draft
resolution  A/60/L.22,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law  of
the  sea”.  We  also  have  the  honour  to  introduce,  on
behalf  of  our 
resolution
A/60/L.23,  on  sustainable  fisheries.  I  would  like  to
announce that the following delegations have agreed to
be  additional  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/60/L.23:
Australia, France, Greece, Madagascar, Micronesia, the
Russian Federation and Tonga.
fellow  sponsors,  draft 
The United States is very pleased with these draft
resolutions.  We  believe  that  they  will  contribute
significantly 
international
community to deal with pressing challenges in the field
of oceans and fisheries.
the  efforts  of 
the 
to 
is 
A key element of the fisheries negotiations again
this  year 
the  protection  of  certain  sensitive
underwater features and vulnerable marine ecosystems
from  the  impacts  of  fishing  activities.  We  view  the
enhanced 
resolution  as
underscoring 
international
community  of  addressing  this  issue  and  safeguarding
the  biodiversity  of  these  fragile  and  rare  marine
ecosystems.
importance 
the  draft 
language 
the 
in 
to 
the 
regional 
In particular, the draft resolution continues to call
upon  States  and 
fisheries  management
organizations to urgently take action to regulate bottom
impacts  of  destructive  fishing
fisheries  and 
practices 
the 
appropriate
conservation  and  management  measures.  The  draft
resolution  also  strengthens  provisions  calling  for  a
report  on  this  issue  for  consideration  by  the  General
Assembly next year.
the 
through 
adoption  of 
A/60/PV.54
The  United  States 
is  encouraged  by  recent
progress  made  by  both  States  and  regional  fisheries
management organizations in addressing the impacts of
fishing  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems.  We  will
continue  to  work  cooperatively  with  all  States  in
international  bodies  engaged  in  regulating  fisheries  to
give effect to those provisions.
This year’s draft resolution on fisheries continues
to  lay  the  foundation  for  the  review  conference
mandated  by  the  1995  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks
Agreement. The review conference represents the best
opportunity  we  have  to  strengthen  the  implementation
of  that  vital  Agreement  with  the  goal  of  securing
sustainable  fisheries 
is
imperative  that  we  seize  that  opportunity.  The  United
States  strongly  supports  increasing  membership  in  the
Agreement  and  hopes  that  all  States  that  have  not  yet
done so will consider becoming parties to it in advance
of the review conference next May.
the  world.  It 
throughout 
We  also  support  the  calls  in  this  year’s  draft
resolution  on  fisheries  for  renewed  efforts  to  achieve
sustainable  aquaculture,  to  combat  illegal,  unreported
and  unregulated 
fishing
overcapacity and harmful subsidies.
fishing  and 
to  address 
In  addition,  the  United  States  is  pleased  that  the
fisheries draft resolution more explicitly addresses the
critical issue of marine debris and derelict fishing gear,
which  adversely  affect  marine  living  resources  and
their  habitats.  We  view  as  an  important  step  forward
the  calls  for  specific  action  to  prevent  the  decline  of
sea 
turtles  and  seabird  populations  by  reducing
bycatch.  We  applaud 
the  draft
resolution dealing with the conservation of sharks, and
we  look  forward  to  continuing  to  work  with  all
interested  States 
the  Food  and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
international plans of action for sharks and seabirds, as
well as the recent FAO guidelines on sea turtles.
implementing 
language  of 
the 
in 
Turning to the draft resolution on oceans and the
law of the sea, we are pleased with the progress made
this year on an array of diverse issues. The February ad
hoc 
informal  open-ended  meeting  on  marine
biodiversity  beyond  national  jurisdictions  will  be  an
opportunity for the international community to discuss
some complex issues. We look forward to a productive
exchange of information and ideas.
We are pleased with the decision, provided for in
this year’s draft resolution, to renew the mandate of the
3
A/60/PV.54
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea. The annual
meetings of the Consultative Process have proved to be
helpful  in  expanding  the  international  community’s
knowledge and awareness of emerging issues affecting
the world’s oceans. Our decision to focus on ecosystem
approaches and oceans at next year’s meeting will, we
believe,  continue  in  that  helpful  mode.  We  thank  our
Canadian colleagues for suggesting that topic.
the  Commission  on 
This  year’s  draft  resolution  recognizes  that  the
work  of 
the
Continental Shelf will become increasingly significant
as  more  States  initiate  the  process  of  establishing  the
boundaries  of  their  continental  shelves.  We  look
forward  to  further  clarity  with  respect  to  information
offered for the Commission’s consideration.
the  Limits  of 
Among all of the positive outcomes of this year’s
draft resolution, however, there is one regarding which
we feel compelled to note a concern for possible future
trends. In our view, this draft resolution is not the best
or  most  appropriate  vehicle  for  the  complex  issue  of
the  trans-shipment  of  radioactive  materials.  Although
we  recognize  the  importance  that  many  delegations,
particularly those from small island developing States,
attach to  this  issue,  it  is  such  a  technical  and  difficult
one  that,  to  be  given  fair  consideration,  it  must  be
raised in organizations better equipped to do so. Those
organizations  are  the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency  and  the  International  Maritime  Organization.
We  would  encourage  all  Member  States  particularly
interested in the issue to join those organizations.
to 
like 
The  United  States  would 
that  worked  with  good  will 
thank  all
delegations 
and
cooperation  to  achieve  the  balanced  and  constructive
texts  of  both  these  draft  resolutions.  We  particularly
appreciate  the  assistance  given  to  my  colleague  Holly
Koehler,  the  member  of  the  United  States  delegation
who this year coordinated the negotiations on the draft
resolution  on  fisheries.  We  also  appreciate  very  much
the  efforts  of  Commander  Marcos  de  Almeida  of
Brazil, who very skilfully coordinated the negotiations
this year on the draft resolution on oceans.
Mr.  Bradshaw  (United  Kingdom):  I  have  the
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union and
the European Community as a party to the Convention
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  The  following  countries  have
aligned  themselves  with  this  statement:  the  acceding
countries Bulgaria and Romania, the candidate country
4
the  countries  of 
Croatia, 
the  Stabilization  and
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Bosnia
and  Herzegovina,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of
Macedonia  and  Serbia  and  Montenegro,  as  well  as
other aligning countries, Moldova and Ukraine.
their 
resources,  both 
The European Union attaches great importance to
the 
international  community’s  development  of  a
coherent,  integrated  and  equitable  approach  to  the
sustainable  management  and  conservation  of  oceans
and 
the
responsibility of coastal States and beyond the limits of
national 
European  Union’s
determination  to  play  its  part  is  demonstrated  by  its
recent  publication  of  its  Thematic  Strategy  on  the
Protection 
the  Marine
Environment  —  the  Marine  Strategy  —  together  with
the proposal for its legislative underpinning.
and  Conservation 
in  areas  under 
jurisdiction. 
The 
of 
That must be seen in the wider context of an all-
embracing maritime policy for the European Union, on
which 
the  European  Commission  will  publish  a
consultation  document  in  the  first  half  of  2006.  The
European  Union  looks  forward  to  discussing  that
document  with  both  the  Members  of  the  United
Nations  and  relevant  organizations  of  the  United
Nations.
The European Union attaches the highest priority
to 
improving  oceans  and 
fisheries  governance,
including in areas beyond national jurisdiction. We see
that as a key theme in the very substantive work of the
General  Assembly  towards  a  comprehensive  set  of
recommendations  and  commitments  in  this  year’s
oceans and fisheries draft resolutions. They provide an
excellent  account  of  the  many  issues  that  need  urgent
attention from the international community.
(IUU) 
importance:  combating 
Among them, two governance issues straddle the
two  draft  resolutions,  to  which  the  European  Union
attaches  particular 
illegal,
unregulated  and  unreported 
fishing,  and
addressing 
the  conservation  of  vulnerable  marine
ecosystems.  IUU  fishing  is  a  fundamental  threat  to
sustainable  fisheries  and  ocean  ecosystems.  It  also
represents  a  major  loss  of  revenue  to  States,  notably
developing 
in
addressing the problem is being made in certain areas,
particularly in southern oceans. That demonstrates that
combating IUU fishing effectively is indeed possible if
parties act decisively on their commitments. However,
much remains to be done.
Significant 
countries. 
progress 
We welcome the important work being developed
by the Food and Agriculture Organization and the Task
Force  on  High-Seas  Fishing.  We  also  look  forward  to
continuing  our  efforts, 
in  cooperation  with  our
counterparts, 
to  reinforce  control  schemes  within
regional  fisheries  management  organizations.  In  that
regard, the European Union places particular emphasis
on the need of major markets for fish and fish products
to take measures to  eliminate the  commerce  on  which
IUU fishing fleets rely. It is also necessary to continue
and enhance assistance to developing States to develop
control  and  management  capacities  that  will  allow
them to contribute to this global effort. There must also
be  a  firm  commitment  by  all  parties  to  reinforce
controls  at  port  and  to  effectively  regulate  trans-
shipment at sea.
Most importantly, we need to address the crucial
issue  of  the  genuine  link  between  States  and  their
flagged  vessels  —  an  issue  that  is  much  broader  than
IUU  fishing  alone.  The  key  in  that  regard  is  that  flag
States must exercise effective control over ships flying
their  flags,  taking  all  necessary  measures  to  establish
effective  maritime 
ensure
compliance.  In  that  connection,  the  European  Union
looks forward to the introduction later this year, at the
International  Maritime  Organization,  of  the  Member
State Audit Scheme.
administrations 
to 
With  regard  to  the  protection  of  vulnerable
marine ecosystems, the European Union would like to
draw the Assembly’s attention to two key processes set
out  in  these  draft  resolutions.  The  first  concerns
addressing  the  impacts  of  fishing.  We  believe  that
every  effort  must  be  made  to  ensure  a  successful
outcome of the two-year process foreseen in paragraph
71  of  resolution  59/25,  as  confirmed  this  year.  States
must  be  ready  to  take  full  account  of  the  outcome  of
that  exercise,  with  a  view  to  a  frank  discussion  at  the
sixty-first session of the General Assembly.
jurisdiction.  We  see 
The  second  key  process 
is  next  February’s
meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended
Working Group on marine biodiversity in areas beyond
national 
the  meeting  as  an
opportunity  to  engage  with  all  key  stakeholders  about
the way forward. We recognize that, as well as tackling
immediate 
international
community  may  need  to  take  additional  integrated
measures, 
including  establishing  marine  protected
areas. In that context, the European Union has already
expressed its support in principle for the elaboration of
sectoral 
threats, 
the 
A/60/PV.54
implementation  agreement  consistent  with 
an 
the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. We
also recognize the need to address the issue of genetic
resources.
To ensure progress, the review of the state of play
that  will  be  undertaken  by  the  meeting  in  February
must be rigorous. Again, States  must  be  ready  to  take
full account of the outcome of the meeting, with a view
to  frank  discussion  at  the  sixty-first  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  It  is  imperative  that  the  General
Assembly be able at that time to effectively address the
protection  of  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national
jurisdiction,  as  well  as  any  shortcomings  in  the
international  fisheries  management  regime  that  might
be  identified  in  that  context.  The  European  Union
hereby  declares  its  commitment  to  contribute  actively
to the attainment of those objectives.
transit  passage 
The  European  Union  (EU)  would  like  to  stress
the 
importance  of 
the  principle  of  freedom  of
navigation,  including  the  rights  of  innocent  passage
and 
for
international navigation. In addition, port States should
exercise their right with regard to access to their ports
in  a  manner  that  is  non-discriminatory  and  consistent
with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea and international law.
straits  used 
through 
On  the  issue  of  security  and  safety  at  sea,  the
European  Union  would  like  to  highlight  the  adoption,
on 14 October 2005, of the two protocols amending the
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts
against  the  Safety  of  Maritime  Navigation  and  the
Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against
the  Safety  of  Fixed  Platforms  Located  on 
the
Continental Shelf. The European Union  considers  that
the  2005  protocols  add  important  provisions  to  the
existing 
against
terrorism, and recommends their early ratification. The
EU  also  urges  States  to  take  appropriate  measures  to
ensure their effective implementation.
instruments, 
enhancing 
efforts 
The  European  Union  fully  supports  the  renewal
of  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nation’s  Informal
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
(ICP).  The  Consultative  Process  has  contributed
positively,  inter  alia,  and  by  facilitating  the  annual
review of the Secretary-General’s report on oceans and
the law of the sea. At the same time, we recognize that
some improvement in the workings and contents of the
Consultative  Process  need  to  be  made.  We  look
5
A/60/PV.54
to 
the  early  appointment  of 
the 
the  next  meeting  of 
two
forward 
co-chairpersons 
the
Consultative  Process,  so  that  they  can  begin  effective
preparations  in  conjunction  with  States  and  relevant
bodies.
for 
In that connection, we would note, however, that
the  European  Union  attaches  great  importance  to
resolving the discrepancy that currently exists between
the observer status of the European Community and its
competencies  —  whether  exclusive  or  mixed  —  with
respect  to  many  issues  that  have  been  discussed  in
previous ICP meetings. The European Community is a
contracting party to the United Nations Convention on
the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the  United  Nations  1995  Fish
Stocks  Agreement  in  its  own  right,  and  has  thus
accepted  legal  obligations  with  respect  to  oceans  and
law  of  the  sea  that  are  particularly  relevant  to  the
Consultative  Process.  Although  no  solution  could  be
found  this  year,  we  welcome  the  commitment  of
delegations  to  continue  negotiations  bilaterally  with  a
view to resolving the problem in the near future.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  decision  to
launch  the  first  regular  phase  of  the  Global  Marine
Assessment  (GMA).  We  see  the  Assessment  as  an
important  vehicle  for  improved  cooperation  between
the agencies of the United Nations and other bodies, as
well  as  a  firm  basis  for  improved  oceans  policy-
making.
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  express  our
appreciation  for  the  annual  report  on  oceans  and  the
law  of  the  sea  provided  by  the  Secretariat.  It  is  an
invaluable compilation of recent developments. Let me
reiterate  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  that  we
consider  the  General  Assembly  to  be  the  appropriate
place to discuss the report.
Mr.  Neil  (Jamaica):  I  have  the  honour  today  to
speak on behalf of the member States of the Caribbean
Community  (CARICOM).  We  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/60/63),  which,  as  usual,
provides  a  comprehensive  overview  of  recent  and
ongoing activities relating to oceans and the law of the
sea.
We  also  take  the  opportunity  to  commend  the
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, as
well  as  its  partners,  such  as  the  United  Nations
Institute  for  Training  and  Research  (UNITAR),  for
continuing to provide guidance and support to Member
States  in  implementing  the  provisions  of  the  United
6
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  look
forward  with  interest  to  the  Division’s  plans  to  take  a
more proactive approach in assisting States to face the
challenges  of  implementing  the  Convention  and  of
deriving its benefits.
the  overall 
CARICOM  member  States  welcome 
the
opportunity to reaffirm the integrity of the Convention
as 
legal  framework  governing  ocean
activities.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  progress  made
towards universal adherence to the Convention, and we
are  pleased  to  see  that,  since  our  last  debate,  the
number  of  ratifications  has  increased,  raising  the
number of States parties to 148. We are pleased that, at
the  meeting  of  the  States  parties  in  June  of  this  year,
the  Secretary-General  for  the  first  time  presented  a
report 
the
Convention.
in  accordance  with  article  319  of 
in  developing 
to  make  progress 
Over  the  past  year  the  three  institutions  created
by the Convention covered new ground in carrying out
their  mandates.  The  International  Seabed  Authority
continued 
the
framework  for  cooperation  in  the  area  of  seabed
resources.  It  is  moving  closer  to  realizing  the  goal  of
elaborating 
the  prospecting  and
exploration  of  polymetallic  sulphides  and  cobalt-rich
crusts  in  the  international  seabed  area  and  for  the
conservation  of  biodiversity  in  the  seabed.  As  that
process  evolves,  it  is  important  that  States  parties
remain  actively  engaged  by  ensuring 
full
participation  through  attendance  at  sessions  of  the
Authority.
regulations 
for 
their 
for 
the  Authority 
We  also  commend 
its
continuing  role  in  providing  training  through  annual
workshops  on  the  scientific  and  technical  aspects  of
seabed  mining  and  also  on 
the  critical  area  of
protection and preservation of the marine environment.
We have also seen progress and increased activity
in  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the
Continental  Shelf,  which  is  now  considering  several
new  submissions,  with  a  number  of  additional  ones
forthcoming  in  the  near  future.  We  also  wish  to  make
special  mention  of  the  trust  funds  for  assisting  with
submissions and for participation and support. We call
for  additional  resources  to  be  made  available  to
facilitate  the  fullest  participation  in  the  work  of  the
Commission.
The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea
has established a reputation for addressing, in a timely
and  efficient  manner,  the  submissions  received  from
States for the settlement of disputes relating to various
provisions  of  the  Convention.  The  range  of  cases  for
which  judgement  is  sought  is  also  an  indication  of
growing  confidence  in  the  Tribunal.  We  welcome  the
signing  of  the  Headquarters  Agreement  between  the
Tribunal  and  the  Government  of  Germany,  providing
stable arrangements for the functioning of the Tribunal.
Special emphasis has been given in the Secretary-
General’s report to the importance of marine scientific
research,  which  was  brought  into  painful  and  sharp
relief  by  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  of  December  last
year. The States of the Caribbean Community have also
recognized  the  link  between  that  often  overlooked
aspect  of  the  Convention  and  the  use  of  marine
resources 
the
improvement 
its
contribution  to  the  prevention  of  disasters,  especially
in the development of early warning systems.
development, 
and 
navigational 
sustainable 
safety 
for 
of 
The 
report 
also  highlights  many 
recent
developments  relating  to  the  safety  of  navigation,  the
welfare  of  seafarers  and  the  protection  of  the  marine
environment,  as  well  as  capacity-building  activities.
Those  are  matters  of  prime  importance  to  CARICOM
States  from  the  standpoint  of  economic  and  social
development and security interests.
to 
on 
Strategy 
carrying 
themselves 
the  Mauritius 
The  Caribbean  Community  places 
special
importance 
for
Implementation,  adopted  at  the  International  Meeting
to  Review  the  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of
Action  for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small
Island  Developing  States,  held  in  January  this  year.
the  Mauritius  Strategy,  CARICOM  States
Under 
commit 
further
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  in  areas
such  as  integrated  ocean  and  coastal  management,
maritime  delimitation,  the  management  of  coral  reefs
and  associated  ecosystems, 
the  development  and
implementation  of  waste-management  strategies  and
the  strengthening  of  sustainable  and 
responsible
fisheries  management  mechanisms.  We  reiterate  the
call  in  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  international
community to provide the necessary support to  enable
small  island  developing  countries  to  undertake  their
implementation activities effectively.
out 
We  are  convinced  of  the  need  to  strengthen
marine  scientific  research  in  coastal  States  and  are
therefore  pleased  at  the  evident  increase  in  interest  in
A/60/PV.54
to 
to 
the  region  and 
this  area.  In  October  this  year,  a  Chinese  research
vessel  made  a  visit 
the
headquarters  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  as
part of the vessel’s first-ever round-the-world research
mission,  which  began  in  April  2005.  States  of  the
Caribbean Community continue to make a contribution
to  global  marine  scientific  research.  However,  we  are
developing  countries  and  there  is  a  need  to  ensure
stable  financial  and  technical  support  to  our  countries
if such efforts are to be sustained.
The  Caribbean  Community  has  a  special  interest
in 
the  protection  of 
the  Caribbean  Sea.  Our
Governments  have  long  expressed  concern  about  the
transportation  of  hazardous  materials 
the
Caribbean Sea, given the risk of serious damage to its
fragile  ecosystems  and  marine  resources,  which  are
vital  to  our  existence.  Of  special  concern  is  the
transportation  of  nuclear  waste  materials,  which  we
have  consistently  opposed.  We  continue  to  urge  the
parties  concerned  to  refrain  from  the  use  of  the
Caribbean Sea as a transit route for such shipments.
through 
At the broader level, we recognize the importance
of continuing to work towards the further development
and  strengthening  of  international  regulatory  regimes
for the transportation of hazardous materials by sea. In
this respect, encouraging progress is being made in the
implementation  of  the  Action  Plan  for  the  Safety  of
Transport  of  Radioactive  Material,  which  was
approved  by 
the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  in  March  2004.
We urge  the  States  concerned  to  continue  their  efforts
in the implementation of all areas of the Action Plan.
the  Board  of  Governors  of 
The  past  year  also  saw  a  number  of  activities  in
the  development  and  implementation  of  measures  to
strengthen  maritime  transport  safety  and  security.
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  commend  the
International  Maritime  Organization  for  its  efforts,
particularly 
improving  flag  State
control.  We  urge  the  organization  and  its  member
States  to  continue  to  elaborate  regulations  to  improve
safety standards for ships and to establish an effective
compensation regime in the event of accidents.
those  aimed  at 
We  join  with  other  States  in  expressing  concern
about the continued incidence of piracy, armed robbery
and  smuggling  at  sea  and  at  the  increasing  level  of
violence  associated  with  those  activities.  We  urge  all
States to take seriously those threats to maritime safety
and  to  continue  to  collaborate  with  all  relevant
7
A/60/PV.54
stakeholders,  including  the  shipping  industry,  coastal
communities  and 
to
properly address those concerns.
international  community, 
the 
We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of
ensuring cooperation in interdiction and other security
measures  to  restrict  illegal  activities  in  the  Caribbean
Sea.  That  should  not  be  confined  to  concerns  about
drug  trafficking  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  but
should  also  extend  to  the  illicit  traffic  in  small  arms
and light weapons, which constitute a serious danger to
stability in the region. We would also urge that creative
methods  be  found  to  assist  CARICOM  States  in  their
interdiction  efforts,  particularly  in  the  acquisition  of
equipment  and  vessels,  in  the  light  of  the  extreme
difficulties  of  accessing  concessional  financing  for
such purposes.
to 
through 
region’s 
The  CARICOM  States  wish 
express
appreciation for the ongoing work of the Regional Seas
Programme  of 
the  United  Nations  Environmental
Programme, 
the  Caribbean  Environment
Programme,  which  continues  to  assist  in  coordinating
the 
the  Cartagena
Convention for the Protection and Development of the
Marine  Environment  of  the  Wider  Caribbean  Region.
We  have  taken  steps  to  implement  action  plans  and
advance  work  in  focus  areas  such  as  coral  reef
management,  sustainable  tourism  and  environmental
education.
implementation  of 
There  is  growing  awareness  in  the  region  of  the
impact  of  land-based  sources  of  marine  pollution,
which  is  estimated  to  be  responsible  for  about  80  per
cent  of  all  pollution  entering  the  oceans.  The  concept
of  marine  protected  areas  is  also  gaining  greater
understanding  and  support,  with  several  territories  in
the  region  having  been  designated  such  areas.  The
Secretary-General’s  report  highlights 
the  growing
problem of marine  debris  and  its  link  with  land-based
sources  of  pollution,  as  well  as  the  issue  of  noise
pollution.  We  will,  of  course,  do  everything  in  our
power,  subject 
to
investigate  and  address  those  two  issues,  and  we
support the call on States in the draft resolution before
us  to  integrate  the  issue  of  marine  debris  with  waste
management.
resource  constraints, 
to  our 
There  is  a  need  for  stronger  financial  and
technical  support,  as  well  as  investment,  on  terms
favourable  to  CARICOM  States,  so  as  to  enable  them
8
to  establish  and  improve  port  reception  facilities  in
their territories.
The  CARICOM  Regional  Fisheries  Mechanism,
which was recently formed, has already begun to make
a  positive  contribution  to  the  collaborative  effort  to
improve  capacity  in  fisheries  management  in  the
region. In this regard, we should mention that there is
still  a  great  deal  of  concern  about  the  persistence  of
illegal  and  unregulated  fishing  in  Caribbean  waters,
which is challenging the economic and social viability
of  our  fisheries  and  undermining  the  effectiveness  of
conservation  management. 
those
activities  are  damaging  the  ecological  systems  of  the
Caribbean Sea.
In  some  areas 
While CARICOM States have demonstrated their
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the
Law  of  the  Sea  by  ratifying  it,  their  ability  to
effectively implement the provisions is constrained by
inadequate resources. In this context, we are requesting
that 
International  Hydrographic  Organization
intensify  its  efforts  to  build  capacity  in  developing
countries  for  the  production  of  electronic  nautical
charts to provide data and information that can be used
in  fisheries  activities  and  for  other  uses,  such  as  the
delimitation of maritime boundaries.
the 
With  so  many  delimitation  negotiations  of  great
complexity  to  be  undertaken  and  completed  in  the
region, broader regional cooperation is needed. In that
connection,  we  welcome  the  Conference  on  Maritime
Delimitation  in  the  Caribbean,  an  initiative  of  the
Government of Mexico. It is our hope that the States of
our  region  will  take  advantage  of  that  mechanism
created to assist the region’s coastal States in preparing
for  maritime  delimitation  negotiations  in  accordance
with the provisions of the Convention.
States 
their
appreciation 
that  have
contributed  technical  and  financial  assistance  to  the
States of the Community over the years. We emphasize
the need for continued support for capacity-building in
order  to  effectively  implement  the  Convention  and  all
associated  programmes  in  the  area  of  oceans  and  the
law of the sea.
the  various  partners 
Finally,  CARICOM 
express 
to 
Ms.  Takaku  (Papua  New  Guinea):  As  Papua
New Guinea is the current Chair of the Pacific Islands
Forum,  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of
Australia,  Fiji,  Kiribati,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall
Islands,  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  Nauru,
New Zealand, Palau, Samoa, Solomon  Islands,  Tonga,
Tuvalu,  Vanuatu  and  my  own  country,  Papua  New
Guinea.
cultures 
societies, 
Issues concerning oceans, fisheries and the law of
the sea are of great importance to Pacific Island Forum
countries.  Our  history, 
and
economies  are  heavily  dependent  on,  and  integrally
linked  to,  the  sea.  Although  we  differ  in  certain
respects,  the  members  of  the  Pacific  Island  Forum
share  a  strong  and  unifying  collective  interest  in  the
ocean spaces that connect us. We have a common role
as joint custodians of the sea and a common objective
of realizing, over the long-term, the enormous value of
its resources.
We  are 
firmly  committed 
the  proper
conservation  and  management  of  the  oceans.  We  are
pleased 
resolutions  under
consideration today.
to  support 
the  draft 
to 
Members  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum  launched
the  Pacific  Islands  Regional  Ocean  Framework  for
Integrated  Strategic  Action 
the  Mauritius
International  Meeting  in  January  this  year.  We  are
pleased  with  that  initiative  and  look  forward  to
providing 
implementation
undertaken  at  the  national  level  to  achieve  better,
integrated  oceans  management  in  the  Pacific  Islands
region.
updates 
regular 
at 
on 
In  the  context  of  integrated  oceans  management,
Pacific Island Forum members welcome the renewal of
the  mandate  of 
the  United  Nations  Open-ended
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law
of  the  Sea.  The  focus  of  the  Informal  Consultative
Process  on  cross-cutting  and  practical  oceans  issues
makes an invaluable contribution to the annual oceans
debate.
We  consider  that  the  current  broad  participation
in the Informal Consultative Process, including by non-
governmental  organizations  and 
inter-governmental
organizations,  is  important  and  ensures  a  rich  and
informed  discussion.  Civil  society  participation  in
United  Nations  discussions  on  oceans  and  fisheries
issues has brought new perspectives and challenges to
the  positions  of  States.  We  look  forward  to  the
productive and balanced continuation of that dialogue.
We also look forward to ongoing improvements in the
functioning of the Informal Consultative Process.
A/60/PV.54
that 
The annual debate and resolutions on oceans and
law of the sea are important and must continue. We see
them  as  part  of  the  ongoing  strengthening  of  oceans
governance.  We  believe 
the  unique  Pacific
perspective  must  be  incorporated  into  and  reflected  in
that process. However, participation in the whole menu
of  United  Nations  negotiations  and  consultations
presents a continuing challenge for smaller States. We
are  pleased  that,  in  this  year’s  draft  resolution  on
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  the  General  Assembly
has  addressed  the  problem  of  scheduling  clashes  in
concrete  terms.  We  also  support  limiting  the  time
frame for consultations next year to four weeks. Pacific
Islands  Forum  members  encourage  United  Nations
Member  States  to  do  their  utmost  to  ensure  that  the
time allocation is used efficiently and effectively.
We  also  note  that  the  oceans  and  fisheries  draft
resolutions continue to grow in length. While it is good
that lively  discussion  on  those  issues  grows,  the  same
does not apply to resolutions. Much impact is lost with
added 
to
consider  innovative  ways  to  ensure  that  the  draft
resolutions  remain  concise  and  salient  expressions  of
current oceans concerns.
length.  We  encourage  Members  States 
We, the 14 members of the Pacific Islands Forum,
support  the  establishment  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended
Informal  Working  Group  on  marine  biodiversity
beyond  national  jurisdiction,  which  will  meet  in
February  2006.  The  whole  range  of  issues  falling
within the mandate of the Working Group are of great
importance  to  us.  We  hope  that  the  meeting  will  help
us  to  identify  ways  the  international  community  can
work 
the  conservation  and
management of the ocean’s biodiversity.
improve 
together 
to 
As  we  have  said  in  the  past,  Pacific  Islands
Forum  members  come  from  a  region  that  has  a  high
concentration  of  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,
including  coral  reefs  and  underwater  seamounts.  We
are  well  aware  of  the  need  to  take  urgent  action  to
prevent, and manage the effects of, destructive fishing
practices,  including  bottom  trawling,  which  have  an
adverse  impact  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  and
we  firmly  support  such  action.  We  are  seriously
concerned  about  the  destruction  caused  by  those
activities.  In  the  communiqué  issued  by  the  Pacific
Islands  Forum  in  October  this  year,  Forum  leaders
noted  the  call  for  a  moratorium  on  deep-sea  bottom
trawling  and  for  the  creation  of  a  legal  framework  to
manage  that  method  of  fishing  in  order  to  protect
9
A/60/PV.54
biodiversity  in  the  high  seas.  Forum  leaders  are
seriously concerned about the problem and have agreed
to  develop  an  appropriate 
for
consideration  in  2006  and  are  giving  thought  to  an
appropriate  legal  framework  within  our  region  to
address that concern.
framework 
legal 
Closely  related  to  issues  of  governance  of  the
high seas, Pacific Islands Forum members  continue to
view illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing
with concern. We regard it as one of the greatest threats
to  the  future  sustainability  of  our  regional  marine
resources  and  environment.  While  significant  effort  is
being  expended  in  various  forms  to  address  the
problems  caused  by  IUU  fishing,  we  believe  that  we
must do more. Further study of the overall governance
of  the  high  seas  is  necessary  if  we  are  to  move  the
issue  forward.  We  continue  to  urge  our  partners  to
cooperate with us to achieve that end.
We  welcome  the  review  of  the  United  Nations
Fish  Stocks  Agreement.  In  particular,  we  encourage
greater 
effective
implementation of, the Agreement.
participation 
and 
the 
in, 
We  note  the  important  work  of  the  Commission
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. This past year,
the Division of Ocean Affairs and the Law  of the Sea
has  undertaken  valuable  capacity-building  efforts  in
the  Pacific  region  connected  with  the  Commission’s
work.  We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  point
out  the  continued  challenges  faced  by  small  island
developing  States 
their
submissions to the Commission.
the  preparation  of 
in 
Pacific Island Forum members welcome the focus
given  this  year  to  the  particular  needs  of  small  island
developing  States  with 
the  use  and
development of fisheries within their jurisdiction.
regard 
to 
Pacific  Island  Forum  countries  have  shown
leadership in the conservation  and  management  of  the
world’s  rich  ocean  resources.  We  continue  to  look
forward  to  working  with  others  towards  that  common
objective.
thank 
in  which 
the
Finally,  we 
effective  manner 
the
negotiations, as well as all of the staff of the Division
of  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their
greatly valued support.
the  coordinators  for 
they  conducted 
10
Mr.  Navoti  (Fiji):  Fiji  associates  itself  with  the
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Papua  New
Guinea on behalf of the Pacific Islands Forum.
The future of our planet and our security depend
upon an intimate understanding of ocean processes and
their interaction. That has always been our belief in the
Pacific,  and  it  has  ensured  our  continued  existence  in
our aquatic continent since time immemorial.
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports
issued  regarding  this  agenda  item  and  commend  the
staff of the Division of Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of
the  Sea  (DOALOS)  for  their  continued  assistance  in
matters  relating  to  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  Fiji
also  acknowledges  the  contribution  of  other  United
Nations  agencies  and  bodies,  non-governmental
organizations  and 
interest  groups,  which  have
continued  to  contribute  to  ensure  that  our  relationship
with  the  sea  and  its  resources  remains  one  that  offers
perpetual mutual benefits to all humanity.
the 
like 
others, 
recognizes 
Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
Fiji, 
inter-
dependability  of  fisheries  and  food  security  and  their
importance for the attainment of national economic and
social  goals  and  the  well-being  and  livelihoods  of
fishing  individuals  and  families.  The  rural  fishery
centres, established in recognition of that fact, are part
of  an  ongoing  development  programme  that  aims  to
facilitate better market access for our local fishermen.
The  sale  of  ice  and  ongoing  subsidy  programmes  to
assist  rural-based  fishermen  with  one-  to  two-thirds
funding  assistance  for  boats  and  engines  are  two
further initiatives to that end.
In order to conform with the universally accepted
principle of sustainable fisheries management, the Fiji
ministry responsible for fisheries has set itself four key
targeted  outcomes:  the  sustainable  use  of  all  fisheries
products; the creation of livelihoods through small and
micro-enterprise  development;  support  for  community
livelihoods  through  competitive  exports  and  efficient
food  security;  and 
the  promotion  of  equitable
participation by all in priority areas of socio-economic
development.
The Government of Fiji continues to consider  as
well spent the allocation of money or other resources to
fisheries,  particularly  given  that  an  investment  of
$5.9 million  in  2004  realized  a  return  to  the  local
economy of $347 million in the same year.
The  acknowledgement  by  the  Secretary-General
in  his  report  contained  in  document  A/60/63  that  the
concept  of  the  precautionary  approach  has  received
wide  recognition  and  that  the  increased  adoption  of
marine protected areas is an important tool for fishery
conservation  and  management,  indeed  represents  a
welcome and encouraging development. We have been
working  with  other  organizations  in  the  establishment
of  marine  protected  areas  in  Fiji.  Earlier  this  month,
the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) awarded Fiji
to  commend  our
the  WWF  Leadership  Award, 
commitment 
conservation 
and 
sustainable
development.
to 
Fiji  also  understands  the  importance  of  the
interaction  between  fishing  activities  and  ecosystems,
particularly as concerns its long-term impact, including
the adverse effects of removing numerous species from
the  marine  environment.  To  that  end  and  despite  the
fact  that  the  export  of  tuna  constitutes  about  94  per
cent of all export earnings of fish, Fiji has reduced the
number  of  tuna  fishing  licenses  issued  annually  from
103  in  2002  to  72  in  2005.  Furthermore,  we  are  now
looking  at  the  feasibility  of  declaring  all  of  Fiji’s
archipelagic  and 
territorial  waters  a  reserve,  of
restricting  the  use  of  longliners  and  purse-seiners  and
of  enhancing  game 
the  context  of
recreational fisheries as a viable option.
fishing 
in 
Coral  reef  ecosystems  are  invaluable  human
treasures.  They  support 
the  most  diverse  marine
communities and beautiful seascapes on the planet and
provide  wave-resistant  structures  and  resources  for
local  communities,  fisheries  and  tourism.  That  is  true
for Fiji.  It is  disheartening  to  note  that  coral  reefs  are
now  under  serious  threat  of  collapse  owing  to  over-
fishing  and  the  development  of  coastal  zones,  which
includes  dredging,  landfills  and  terrestrial  run-off,  as
well 
act
synergistically  to  stress  coral  reefs,  leading  to  severe
bleaching and extensive coral mortality.
change.  Such 
activities 
climate 
as 
Fiji  notes  the  need  for  the  mainstreaming  of
sustainable  coral-reef  management 
into  national
development  strategies.  We  support  the  International
Coral Reef Initiative and acknowledge the work carried
out  under  the  Jakarta  Mandate  on  Marine  and  Coastal
Biological  Diversity.  Local 
conservation
initiatives  carried  out  in  Fiji  and  in  other  parts  of  the
coral 
A/60/PV.54
world  by  concerned  and  independent  international
organizations,  such  as  the  United  Kingdom-sponsored
Coral  Cay  Conservation  Trust,  to  name  but  one,  are
also worthy of our recognition. We make these remarks
knowing full well that coral reefs add economic value
to our tourism industry.
Regulations  relating  to  reserves,  conservation,
sustainable  development,  the  reduction  of  fishing
licences  and  so  forth  cannot  be  enforced  without  the
cooperation and commitment of our near, as well as our
distant, neighbours. This also requires a change in the
attitude  of  unscrupulous  businessmen,  who 
think
nothing  of  the  damage  sustained  by  the  sea  and  focus
solely on profit.
and 
global, 
regional 
cooperative 
implementation  of 
International  cooperation  is  essential  for  the
successful 
the  United  Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).
Continued 
subregional
partnerships  will  improve  our  understanding  of  ocean
processes  and  ensure  that  its  resources  are  preserved
for  the  enjoyment  of  our  children.  Fiji  acknowledges
the 
fisheries
management organizations towards this partnership and
encourages 
information
between  them  for  our  general  betterment.  We  would
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  the
valuable  contribution  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum
fisheries  agencies  and  other  oceans  and  fisheries
organizations in the Pacific for the advice they provide
to Governments in our region on oceans and fisheries-
related matters.
the  sharing  of  scientific 
regional 
efforts 
of 
into 
the  entry 
force  of  UNCLOS, 
While  many  small  island  developing  States  have
integrated  the  management  of  coastal  and  marine
resources  into  broader  ocean-management  strategies
since 
the
implementation  of  the  Convention  continues  to  be
impeded  by  financial  constraints  and  lack  of  capacity.
Fiji  has  acknowledged,  and  will  continue 
to
acknowledge,  all  capacity-building 
initiatives  and
assistance rendered by Member States, United Nations
bodies  and  agencies,  international  organizations,  non-
governmental  organizations  and  others  that  focus  on
the  sustainability  and  development  of  our  national
competencies.
Fiji  is  mindful  of  all  its  obligations  under  the
Convention, in particular those relating to the limits of
the  continental  shelf.  The  first  regional  workshop  on
the continental shelf — held in Fiji earlier this year and
11
A/60/PV.54
organized  by  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the
Law of the Sea, the South Pacific Applied Geoscience
Commission  and  the  Commonwealth  Secretariat  —
helped enhance the knowledge and skills of our people
and  develop  an  in-depth  understanding  of  the  full
procedure for preparing the submission of the required
technical and scientific data. In addition, various fields
of  expertise  have 
to  prepare
submissions  that  are  in  conformity  with  the  technical
and  scientific  requirements  of  article  76  of 
the
Convention  and  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines
prepared  by  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the
Continental Shelf. For that, we are indeed grateful.
to  be  combined 
We  reiterate  our  concern  at  the  insufficiency  of
scientific information on the destructive environmental
impact  of  deep  sea  fishing  practices,  in  particular
bottom  trawling.  Pacific  Island  leaders  have  noted  a
proposal by the Republic of Palau for a moratorium on
deep sea bottom trawling and for the creation of a legal
framework  to  manage  that  method  of  fishing  in  order
to  protect  biological  diversity  on  the  high  seas,  and
they agreed to develop an appropriate legal framework
for consideration by the Pacific Islands Forum in 2006.
The  Pacific  Islands  Forum  Fisheries  Agency  and  the
Secretariat of the Pacific Community were tasked with
implementation of that decision. We are keeping a keen
eye on further developments on that matter.
Fiji  welcomes  and  supports  the  decision  to
continue  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
for  the  next  three  years.  We  have  always  found  that
forum useful and are looking forward to continuing our
participation in it. We also commend all delegates who
have  worked  in  cooperation  to  finalize  this  session’s
draft resolutions on oceans and the law of the sea and
on  sustainable  fisheries.  We  endorse  the  content  of
those draft resolutions and recommend their adoption.
The  sea  has  always  provided  us  with  food  to
sustain us, sea lanes to facilitate our trade, minerals to
provide  power,  medicines  to  cure  our  many  ills  and  a
natural moat to curb our warlike nature. How long that
common  heritage  of  mankind  can  continue  to  be  kind
to  us  is  a  question  to  which  we  must  all  find  a
collective  solution.  It  has  always  been  our  contention
that the sea can survive without us, but we cannot live
without the sea.
Mr.  Rodríguez  Zahar
in
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  we  thank  the  coordinators  of
(Mexico) 
(spoke 
12
the  two  draft  resolutions,  Mr.  Marcos  Almeida  and
Mrs.  Holly  Koehler.  We  also  thank  the  Division  for
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for their various
reports and for administering various capacity-building
programmes for developing countries.
Progress  has 
certainly  been  made.  But,
regrettably, we continue to see signs of deterioration of
the  marine  environment  and  States’  failure  to  fulfil
their  obligations  in  adhering  to  and  implementing  the
international legal regime of the law of the sea. In that
context,  we  believe  that  cooperation  and  coordination
at all levels, the establishment of interdisciplinary and
comprehensive  focal  points  for  carrying  out  ocean-
related  polices  and  recognition  of  the  jurisdiction  of
the  competent  legal  organs  for  providing  peaceful
solutions  to  disputes  will  ensure  the  effectiveness  of
the  legal,  technical  and  political  tools  at  our  disposal,
in  particular  the  1982  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the
Sea.
is 
the  ecosystem  approach 
One  of  the  technical  tools  that  requires  priority
attention 
in  oceans
management. For that reason, we welcome the fact that
the  next  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law
of  the  Sea  will  focus  on  that  theme.  It  is  essential  to
reach  international  consensus  on  the  nature  and  the
scope of that tool and its application in various sectors,
such as fisheries management.
In  that  regard,  we  note  that  although  a  single
theme  was  chosen  for 
the
Consultative Process, it is Mexico’s understanding that
themes  should  be  selected  according  to  their  nature,
complexity and scope. The decision to address a single
theme should be an exception.
the  next  meeting  of 
Mexico  underlines  the  valuable  work  of  the
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf,
and we express our concern at the logistic implications
that the Commission’s significantly increased workload
will have in the foreseeable future. States parties to the
Convention should reflect on the options for addressing
the problems created by the additional workload.
for  prospecting  and  exploration 
Mexico  considers  it  important  that  the  draft
for
regulations 
polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich ferromanganese
crusts now being negotiated in the International Seabed
the  principles  of  contemporary
Authority  reflect 
international 
international
environmental  law,  with  the  aim  of  establishing  an
particular 
law, 
in 
objective  regime of liability  for damage  to  the  marine
environment of the  Area.  We  believe  it  important  that
the  Authority  consider  the  possibility  of  changing  the
dates of its meetings in order to improve attendance in
Kingston.  It  is  essential  that  the  meetings  continue  to
be held at the Authority’s headquarters.
Mexico  reaffirms  the  importance  of  promoting
capacity  in  the  preparation  of  reliable  nautical  charts
that ensure navigational safety and the protection of the
environment, 
vulnerable  marine
ecosystems  such  as  coral  reefs.  It  is  essential  for
financial  institutions  to  provide  resources  for  the
transition to electronic nautical charts.
particular 
in 
The international community should give special
attention  to  the  protection  of  the  human  rights  of
seafarers, especially because of the frequent violations
of  their  right  to  due  process.  Thus,  the  Convention’s
provisions  on  the  prompt  release  of  vessels  and  their
crews,  penalties  for  the  pollution  of  the  marine
environment  by  foreign  vessels  and  the  recognized
rights of the accused must be respected.
the  maritime 
transport  of
radioactive materials and the lack of adequate regimes
to establish responsibility and compensation in the case
of accidents, while we recognize progress made in the
framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA), we share the Caribbean Community’s opinion
that more effective steps should be taken to address the
concern of small island and other coastal States.
respect 
With 
to 
With  respect  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  national
jurisdiction,  we  look  forward  to  the  outcome  of  the
efforts  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Working  Group,
which  meets  next  February.  We  believe  that  all  issues
within 
the  Working  Group’s  mandate  should  be
examined in detail. In addition, we want to emphasize
that, in accordance with resolution 59/25, consideration
of substantive  questions  associated  with  the  impact  of
deep-sea  bottom 
trawling  on  vulnerable  marine
ecosystems shall not be resumed until next fall.
Mexico believes it essential that States not parties
to the 1995 Fish Stocks Agreement participate on equal
footing  in  the  Agreement’s  review  conference  and  its
preparatory  process.  The  conference’s 
rules  of
procedure  should  fully  respect  article  36  of  the
Agreement  by  allowing  only  intergovernmental  and
non-governmental  organizations 
to  participate  as
A/60/PV.54
observers.  Hearing  the  concerns  of  non-parties  is  the
only way to achieve the Agreement’s universality.
Responsible  international  commerce  is,  without
doubt,  crucial  to  ensuring  that  fishing  contributes  to
sustainable  development.  Essential  to  achieving  that
goal are the proposed systems for certification and eco-
labelling,  provided  that  they  are  in  conformity  with
international  law.  Real,  non-discriminatory  access  to
markets is needed, while unnecessary and hidden trade
barriers  and  distortion  must  be  eliminated, 
in
accordance  with  the  principles  contained  in  the  Code
of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries.
Mexico  wishes  to  stress  that  it  interprets  the
reference to marine protected areas in paragraph 75 of
the draft resolution on sustainable fisheries as referring
to  areas 
that  serve  purposes  of  protection  and
conservation  in  fisheries  management,  in  accordance
with paragraphs 100 to 103 of the report of the twenty-
sixth session of the Committee on Fisheries (COFI) of
the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO). That sense is covered in Mexican legislation.
the 
Mexico  attaches  special  importance  to  the  topic
transfer  of  marine
of  capacity-building  and 
technology.  We  therefore  commend  the  fact  that  the
draft  resolution  on  sustainable  fisheries  notes  the
importance of capacity-building in helping developing
countries to participate in high seas fishing. Similarly,
Mexico believes that capacity-building and cooperation
at the regional level are crucial. Keeping that in mind,
Mexico has continued to provide financial resources to
the  assistance  fund  of  the  Caribbean  Conference  on
Maritime Delimitation.
In  that  respect,  we  are  pleased  by  the  recent
election  of  Jamaica  as  President  of  the  Conference.
Furthermore, Mexico believes it is crucial that there be
specialized  technical  mechanisms  which,  through  the
coordination  of  various  competent  agencies,  can
address the problems of oceans. Therefore, we support
the establishment of United Nations Ocean and Coastal
Areas  Network,  whose  results  should  be  circulated  to
all  States  and  whose  deliberations  should  take  into
account  the  views  of  Member  States,  in  particular  in
the work of its task forces.
We  are  pleased  that  agreement  has  been  reached
on  the  start-up  phase  for  the  submission  of  periodic
reports  and  evaluation  of  the  status  of  the  world’s
oceans  —  including  socio-economic  aspects,  where
there  must  be  significant  participation  by  developing
13
A/60/PV.54
countries  in  the  group  of  experts  to  be  formed  by  the
agencies that will lead that phase. We welcome the fact
that the General Assembly has called upon the United
Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP)  and  the
Intergovernmental  Oceanographic  Commission  of  the
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural
Organization  (UNESCO)  to  participate  in  that  work.
However, we wish to note that in subsequent stages of
the process, we should consider which agencies should
deal with the task.
The scale and great variety of subjects covered by
both  draft  resolutions  are  clear  proof  of  the  strategic
importance  of  ocean  affairs  in  the  world  in  recent
years.  The  continued  productivity  of  oceans  depends
on whether the international community uses them in a
sustainable  manner,  and  requires  that  we  properly
recognize  that  the  problems  of  oceans  are  closely
interrelated and must be considered as a whole.
Given  that  the  international  community  is  faced
at  present  with  new  challenges  concerning  oceans,
currently as well as in the past, the Convention on the
Law  of 
to  provide 
legal
framework and focus for all ocean activities.
the  Sea  continues 
the 
Mr.  Chaabani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  At
the outset I would like to take the opportunity to thank
the  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  for  his
comprehensive  reports  on  fisheries  and  on  the  oceans
and  the  law  of  the  sea.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the
coordinator  of  the  informal  consultations  on  the  draft
resolutions  that  are  before  us,  as  well  as  the  Division
for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  for  their
ongoing  contributions  and  their  commitment  to  the
success of our work.
We also wish to take this opportunity to note with
pleasure  the  role  and  the  work  of  the  institutions  that
have been set up under the United Nations Convention
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea:  the  International  Seabed
Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea  and 
the
Continental Shelf.
the  Commission  on 
the  Limits  of 
Next year will be an important one for the oceans
and the law of the sea, in particular with the launching
of  a  process  to  establish  a  global  international  legal
framework governing biological resources in sea areas
beyond national jurisdictions.
Next  year,  we  will  also  see  the  holding  of  a
review  conference  on  the  1995  Agreement  on  the
14
management  and  conservation  of  fish  stocks,  which
complements the Montego Bay Convention.
The  current  debate  and  the  draft  resolutions
before  us  assert  the  commitment  of  the  General
Assembly  to  the  issues  concerning  the  oceans  and  the
law  of  the  sea  in  a  context  marked  by  the  fear  of  the
serious  implications  for  future  generations  of  the
deterioration  of  marine  ecosystems  and  the  excessive
exploitation of marine biological resources.
there 
As is shown by the outcome of the World Summit
is  a  growing
on  Sustainable  Development, 
awareness of the importance of the oceans and the seas
for land-based ecosystems. They play a critical role in
ensuring  global  food  security  —  in  particular  in
developing  countries  —  by  maintaining  economic
prosperity and contributing to the well-being of current
and future generations.
We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly  should
play  a  role  in  protecting  and  ensuring  the  sustainable
use  of  fisheries  resources,  in  particular  by  managing,
coordinating  and  controlling  programmes  put  in  place
by the specialized bodies and institutions.
In  that  context,  my  country  is  following  with
interest the efforts aimed at establishing a moratorium
on  deep-sea  bottom  trawling.  However,  my  country
believes  that  fisheries  beyond  national  jurisdictions  in
partially closed seas, such as the Mediterranean, should
be  controlled  within 
the  framework  of  regional
fisheries organizations on the basis of work and studies
carried out by those bodies.
Here,  we  support  the  unanimous  decision  taken
by 
the
the  General  Fisheries  Commission 
Mediterranean,  which  bans  trawling  in  the  high  seas
where  the  sea  depth  is  greater  than  1000  metres.  The
protection  and  preservation  of  the  marine  area  and  its
resources  is  a  source  of  constant  concern  for  Tunisia,
which is a developing coastal country whose territorial
waters are adjacent to the high seas.
for 
In  that  context,  Tunisia  has  adopted,  last  June,  a
law  that  creates  an  exclusive  economic  zone  on  its
shores,  in  line  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and
following  similar  declarations  made  by  various
countries  in  the  region.  We  will,  as  necessary,  delimit
the  outer  limits  of  that  zone  through  joint  work  with
the neighbouring States concerned.
In  creating  a  regime  for  exploiting  the  seabed
beyond  national  jurisdictions  that  provides  for  fair
sharing  of  the  resources,  the  Convention  reflects  the
desire  for  a  fair  and  equitable  international  economic
order to control the oceans. The concept of humanity’s
common  heritage,  as  expounded  upon 
the
Convention,  embodies 
the  hopes  of  developing
countries for a world based on peace, justice, solidarity
and progress for all.
in 
For that reason, while we understand the reasons
given  for  reconsidering  some  of  the  aspects  of  the
regime as set out in the Convention, including adapting
the  Convention  to  current  economic  and  political
realities,  Tunisia  stresses  the  interest  of  developing
countries to preserve the spirit of the Convention.
We therefore look forward to the launching of the
work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working
Group, whose mandate is to study questions relating to
the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine
biological  diversity  in  those  areas  beyond  national
jurisdiction.
thanks 
the  Secretary-General 
Mr.  Shin  Kak-soo  (Republic  of  Korea):  My
for  his
delegation 
comprehensive  and  informative  report  on  oceans  and
the  law  of  the  sea  (A/60/63).  We  also  commend
Mr. Vladimir  Golitsyn,  Director  of  the  Division  for
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, and his staff for
their dedicated work and their invaluable assistance to
Member  States.  Finally,  we  would  like  to  thank
Mr. Marcos  Lourenço  de  Almeida  of  Brazil  and
Ms. Holly  Koehler  of  the  United  States  for  their
excellent work in coordinating the two draft resolutions
before us.
Currently,  the  number  of  parties  to  the  United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)
stands  at  149,  while  the  number  of  parties  to  the
Agreement relating to the implementation of Part XI of
the  Convention  has  increased  to  122.  Given  the
centrality  of  the  Convention  as  the  global  legal
framework for the governance of the oceans and seas,
it is important that all activities in the oceans and seas
be  carried  out  within  that  framework  and  that  the
integrity  of  the  Convention  be  maintained.  We  join
other States in urging those that have not yet done so to
accede to the Convention and to the Agreement as soon
as possible.
As 
the
Convention,  the  International  Seabed  Authority,  the
implementing  mechanisms  of 
the 
A/60/PV.54
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf
have all played important roles. The Republic of Korea
has  been  actively  participating  in  their  work  and  will
continue to do so. Because the omnibus draft resolution
encourages  all  States  parties  to  the  Convention  to
attend 
International  Seabed
Authority, wider participation should be ensured.
the  sessions  of 
the 
of 
and 
vital  means 
The oceans and seas are invaluable to the welfare
of  humanity,  providing  living  and  non-living  marine
resources 
transportation.
Unfortunately, however, maritime security is  a serious
concern for many seafaring States. In particular, piracy
and  armed  robbery  at  sea  require  vigilance  at  the
subregional,  regional  and 
levels.  To
eradicate  the  scourge  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery
against  ships  currently  plaguing  the  waters  of  South-
East  Asia,  16  countries  have  adopted  a  Regional
Cooperation  Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and
Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia. As one of those
16 countries, the Republic of Korea is in the process of
completing 
the  domestic  process  of  signing 
that
Agreement and advancing its early entry into force.
international 
is  crucial 
The  development  of  marine 
in  providing 
science  and
technology 
the  data  and
evidence  to  enable  the  international  community  to
optimize  its  resources  for  carrying  out  necessary
measures. In that regard, my delegation underlines the
importance  of  scientific  and  technical  cooperation  in
ocean  affairs,  including  the  exchange  of  information,
as well as joint research activities.
to  prevent,  deter  or  eliminate 
To  achieve  the  conservation,  management  and
sustainable use of living marine resources, States must
cooperate 
illegal,
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  activities.  In
enhancing 
international
community  should  set  priorities  for  the  measures  that
must be taken.
cooperation, 
such 
the 
The  Republic  of  Korea  has  put  in  place  a
framework  to  prevent  the  operation  of  substandard
vessels  and  to  exercise  effective  control  over  vessels
flying  its  flag  in  order  to  prevent  or  deter  them  from
engaging in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
We  are  faithfully  adhering  to  the  international  plan  of
action  of  the  United  Nations  Food  and  Agriculture
Organization  (FAO)  against  illegal,  unreported  and
unregulated fishing. We will continue to work together
with  other  States,  international  organizations,  such  as
15
A/60/PV.54
the  FAO  and  all  regional  fisheries  management
organizations,  to  achieve  responsible  fishing.  The
Republic  of  Korea  is  also  continuing  to  implement
measures 
the  marine  environment  by
preventing or reducing pollution from vessels and land-
based sources.
to  protect 
The  United  Nations  Open-ended 
Informal
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
held  its  sixth  meeting  this  year.  Among  the  topics
discussed was the very pertinent issue of fisheries and
their contribution to sustainable development. With its
third three-year cycle beginning next year, the Informal
Consultative Process should maintain its relevance and
usefulness, as well as its inclusiveness and open-ended
nature.
Coordination  and  cooperation  among  various
United  Nations  agencies,  programmes  and  funds  and
other  bodies  related  to  international  conventions  are
essential  for  the  effective  management  of  marine
issues.  In  that  regard,  we  expect  that  the  Oceans  and
Coastal  Areas  Network  will  continue  to  strengthen  its
work.
The  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  demonstrated  clearly
that there is a strong need to establish an early warning
and  rapid  response  system  for  such  disasters.  To  that
end,  the  international  community  should  engage  in
capacity-building  cooperation 
to  help  developing
countries strengthen their ocean-related infrastructures.
The  Republic  of  Korea  is  doing  its  part  to  enhance
international  cooperation  by 
transferring  marine
technology  to  developing  countries  through  the  Korea
International  Cooperation  Agency’s 
funding  and
internship programmes.
In  conclusion,  the  international  community  has
long  been  collaborating  to  find  common  ground  for
ensuring  safe  transport  and  the  sustainable  use  and
management  of  marine  resources.  The  United  Nations
has  been  a  vital  forum  where  States  can  engage  in
constructive  dialogue  on  these  important  issues.  As  a
responsible maritime State, the Republic of Korea will
continue to participate actively in the ongoing process
of ensuring sound governance of the oceans and seas.
Ms. Banks (New Zealand): New Zealand warmly
associates  itself  with  the  statement  presented  by  the
representative  of  Papua  New  Guinea  on  behalf  of  the
States  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  of  which  New
Zealand is a member.
16
New Zealand is pleased to once again co-sponsor
both  the  omnibus  oceans  draft  resolution  and  the
sustainable fisheries draft resolution. We would like to
add  a  few  additional  comments  to  the  debate  on  our
own behalf.
We  all  know  that  2006  will  be  a  busy  year  for
work  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  States  will
tackle  important  cross-cutting  oceans  issues,  such  as
marine  biodiversity 
areas  beyond  national
jurisdiction, the review of the effectiveness of the 1995
United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and 
the
implementation  of  actions  called  for  in  last  year’s
Assembly  resolution  59/25  with  respect  to  vulnerable
marine ecosystems.
in 
in 
In  February  next  year,  an  ad  hoc  open-ended
working  group  will  meet  to  discuss  complex  issues
relating  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of
marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of  national
jurisdiction. It is clear to us that more must be done to
protect  marine  biodiversity 
those  areas.  New
Zealand looks forward to the chance to discuss, under
General  Assembly  auspices,  the  full  range  of  issues
arising within the mandate of the working group and to
begin  consideration  of  the  mechanisms  necessary  to
ensure  proper  protection,  for 
term,  of
biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction. New Zealand
reaffirms its  readiness  to  engage  seriously  with  others
to  work 
to  enhance
protection of the marine environment.
the  relevant 
through 
the 
long 
issues 
New Zealand is  a strong supporter  of the United
Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  and  urges  wide
participation in next year’s review conference to assess
the  effectiveness  of  the  Agreement  in  securing  the
conservation and management of straddling fish stocks
and  highly  migratory  fish  stocks.  New  Zealand
strongly  encourages  appropriate  application  of  the
Agreement’s  general  principles  to  discrete  fish  stocks
in the high seas.
New  Zealand  warmly  welcomes  the  renewal  of
the mandate for the Informal Consultative Process. We
continue  to  believe  that  that  forum  provides  an
invaluable  opportunity  for  integrated  discussion  on
important  oceans  issues.  It  is  a  positive  signal  that
States,  while  recognizing  the  need  to  strengthen  and
improve the efficiency of the Consultative Process, are
supportive of its role.
New  Zealand  is  concerned  about  the  negative
impacts of illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing,
to  which 
the  extent 
particularly 
it  undermines
conservation  and  management  measures  adopted  by
regional  fisheries  management  organizations  and,
ultimately,  the  sustainability  of  fish  stocks.  We  are
pleased  to  see  support  for  increased  coordination  and
cooperation in important areas such as data collection,
information-sharing,  capacity-building  and  training.
We  hope  those  efforts  will  contribute  to  greater
compliance  with  conservation  and  management
measures.
New  Zealand  continues  to  believe  that  action  to
address  the  adverse  impacts  of  fishing  activities  on
vulnerable marine ecosystems is necessary and urgent.
Last  year  we  noted  that  New  Zealand  was  taking  its
first steps towards the establishment of a new regional
fisheries  management  organization  in  the  Tasman  Sea
area  —  the  area  adjacent  to  New  Zealand’s  waters.
This  year  we  are  pleased  to  advise  that  in  February
2006, New Zealand, with the support of Australia and
Chile, will host the first intergovernmental meeting  to
discuss 
the  establishment  of  a  regional  fisheries
management  organization  in  the  South  Pacific  to
regulate 
those  species  not  covered  by  existing
organizations.  We  see  that  initiative  as  an  important
step  in  extending  the  geographical  coverage  of  such
organizations  and  facilitating  the  adoption  of  robust
conservation and management measures.
The Pacific Islands Forum addressed the need for
management of deep-sea bottom trawling at its Leaders
meeting  in  October.  Like  all  members  of  the  Pacific
Islands  Forum,  New  Zealand  is  seriously  concerned
about the need to protect biodiversity from the adverse
impacts of that activity. We will also actively engage in
the  regional  context  to  ensure  better  protection  of
vulnerable marine ecosystems.
During  next  year’s  General  Assembly,  Member
States  will  meet  to  review  progress  on  action  taken
concerning the impact of fishing on vulnerable marine
ecosystems.  Together  with  regional  organizations,  we
as  Member  States  must  take  the  time  to  provide
comprehensive 
the  Secretariat  on
actions  taken  to  regulate  destructive  fishing  practices
and  bottom  trawling  that  have  adverse  impacts  on
vulnerable  marine 
ecosystems.  Comprehensive
reporting  by  States  and  regional  organizations  will
ensure  that  next  year’s  review  is  meaningful  and  that
future decisions on further measures are well-informed.
We  look  forward  to  the  first  draft  of  the  Secretary-
information 
to 
A/60/PV.54
General’s report, in July next year, on actions taken by
States.
Finally,  we  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his
report, which is, as always, comprehensive and of great
assistance  to  delegations  and  to  the  wider  oceans
constituency.  We  participated  in  the  consideration  of
the  report  during  the  Informal  Consultative  Process
earlier  this  year,  which  identified  key 
issues  of
concern.  As  a  sponsor,  we  fully  support  the  reflection
of those concerns and the conclusions reached in both
draft resolutions under the agenda item.
the  Secretary-General’s 
Mr.  Sen  (India):  My  delegation  welcomes  the
comprehensive  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  on
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  have  studied  with
interest 
issues
relating  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of
marine  biodiversity  beyond 
areas  of  national
jurisdiction, which was made available to assist the Ad
Hoc Open-ended informal Working Group in preparing
its agenda. We appreciate its high quality and are sure
that the  Ad-Hoc  Working  Group  will  benefit  from  the
diverse information offered in the report.
report  on 
The  fisheries  sector  occupies  an  important  place
in  the  socio-economic  development  of  India.  It  is  a
powerful income and employment generator, stimulates
the growth of a number of subsidiary industries and is
a source of cheap and nutritious food, besides being a
foreign  exchange  earner.  Most  importantly,  it  is  the
source  of  livelihood  for  many  economically  marginal
communities.
Harvesting of marine fish resources in India takes
place  at  three  levels,  namely,  subsistence  fishing,
small-scale fishing and industrial fishing. The recently
adopted  marine  fishing  policy  of  the  Government  of
India  advocates  the  protection  and  encouragement  of
subsistence fishermen, technology transfer to the small
scale sector, and infrastructure support to the industrial
sector.  The  policy  also  emphasizes  that  efforts  should
be  made 
international
requirements  in  post-harvest  care  of  catch,  so  as  to
achieve the highest standards of food safety.
comply  with 
fully 
to 
India  attaches  high  importance  to  the  effective
functioning  of  the  institutions  established  under  the
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea
(UNCLOS).  Given  the  geography  of  India,  with  a
coastline extending 4,000 miles and with 1,300 islands,
we  have  a  traditional  and  abiding  interest  in  maritime
and  ocean  affairs.  The  large  population  in  our  coastal
17
A/60/PV.54
areas  and  in  the  islands  has  always  looked  to  the  sea
for  sustenance.  We  will  continue  to  extend  our  full
cooperation and participate actively and constructively
in  all  activities  pertaining  to  the  Convention  and
related agreements.
India’s accession this month to the Agreement on
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and to the Protocol on
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  International
Seabed  Authority  demonstrates  our  commitment  to
work closely with the institutions established under the
Convention.
institutions  under 
the
All  of 
Convention, 
International  Seabed
Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea  and 
the
Continental Shelf, have made considerable progress in
their respective areas of work over the past year. India
has been working closely with all of those institutions.
We  have 
the  exploration  of
minerals  in  the  deep  seabed.  We  continue  to  incur
considerable expenditure for the collection of data as a
primary investor and now as a Contractor.
the  subsidiary 
namely, 
the 
the  Commission  on 
invested  heavily 
the  Limits  of 
in 
The  International  Seabed  Authority  is  currently
involved  in  the  development  of  a  legal  regime  for  the
prospecting  and  exploration  of  polymetallic  sulphides
and  cobalt-rich  crusts.  We  appreciate  the  role  of  the
Authority  in  the  conservation  of  biodiversity  in  the
Area,  especially 
rules,
regulations  and  procedures  to  ensure  the  effective
protection  of  the  marine  environment,  the  protection
and  conservation  of  the  natural  resources  of  the  Area
and  the  prevention  of  damage  to  its  flora  and  fauna
from  harmful  effects  that  may  arise  from  activities  in
the Area.
the  elaboration  of 
the 
We  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress  made  by
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.
The Commission becomes active as four coastal States
have  submitted  their  claims  under  article  76  of  the
Convention  and  a  number  of  countries  have  indicated
the  coming  submission  of  their  claims  between  2005
and  2008.  The  developing  countries  that  are  in  the
process  of  preparing  submissions  to  the  Commission
might  require  help  in  some  cases  to  enhance  their
capacity.  In  that  regard,  we  appreciate  the  regional
training  courses  conducted  by  the  Division  for  Ocean
Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  Fiji  and  Sri  Lanka
18
and  welcome  the  efforts  made  by  the  Division  to
organize training courses in Ghana and Argentina.
We  believe  that  States  that  have  expertise  in  the
delineation of the outer limits of the Continental Shelf
should  also  extend  such  cooperation  by  providing
assistance to developing States that require expertise to
submit their claim under article 76 of the Convention.
In that regard, we would like to reiterate that India has
the  requisite  expertise  for  assessment  and  mapping  of
the continental shelf. We have been and are willing to
extend  cooperation 
in 
training  other  developing
countries for that purpose.
We also welcome in that context the efforts of the
Division  in  publishing  a  training  manual  to  assist
States in developing the requisite knowledge and skills
in  preparing  their  submission  in  respect  of  the  outer
limits  of  the  continental  shelf.  We  are  happy  to  note
that the checking of the comprehensive training manual
has  been  completed  and  its  final  version  will  be
available shortly.
The International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea
has  been  active  as  an  independent  judicial  body
established  by  the  Convention  to  adjudicate  disputes
arising  out  of  its  interpretation  or  application.  It  has
decided a number of cases involving a wide variety of
issues,  such  as  freedom  of  navigation  and  other
internationally lawful uses of the seas, the enforcement
of customs laws, refuelling vessels at sea, the right of
hot  pursuit,  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  fish
stocks,  provisional  measures  and  matters  involving
land 
reclamation.  The  Tribunal  enjoys  a  high
reputation  for  fairness  and  integrity.  We  congratulate
the  newly  elected  judges  to  the  International  Tribunal
for the Law of the Sea and its new President.
and 
the 
resources, 
conservation 
issues  relating 
the  past  year  on 
The  international  community  has  continued  to
focus  over 
to
navigation, the conservation and management of living
marine 
and
management  of  the  biological  diversity  of  the  sea-bed
in areas beyond national jurisdiction. The discovery of
highly  complex  and  diverse  ecosystems 
in  areas
beyond national jurisdiction, coupled with advances in
the  biotechnology  sector,  have 
increasing
interest  and  activities  in  relation  to  genetic  resources
beyond  national  jurisdiction.  As  a  corollary  to  those
developments, the general debate over the  legal  status
of  genetic  resources  located  in  the  sea-bed  in  areas
led 
to 
beyond  national 
increasing intensity.
jurisdiction 
is  also 
taking  on
national 
jurisdiction 
cannot 
to  promote 
The  need  to  devise  new  approaches  within  the
confines  of  UNCLOS 
international
cooperation  aimed  at  the  conservation  and  sustainable
use  of  living  resources  of  the  high  seas  and  benefit-
sharing  of  sea-bed  resources  located  in  the  areas
beyond 
be
overemphasized.  The  participation  of  developing
countries  in  devising  such  new  approaches  greatly
depends  on  the  scientific  information  available  to
them. The promotion of the flow of scientific data and
information,  and  the  transfer  of  knowledge  resulting
from  marine 
research, 
to
developing States, is therefore needed.
especially 
scientific 
In  the  area  of  navigation,  we  would  like  to
express  our  serious  concern  over  the  escalation  of
piracy  and  robbery  at  sea.  Recent  incidents  involving
the  killing  of  crew  members,  hostage-taking  and  the
hijacking  of  a  ship  chartered  by  the  World  Food
Programme  carrying  food  aid  for  Somali  survivors  of
the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  represent  grave  threats  to
maritime  security.  The  international  community  must
find ways and means to end this menace.
It  is  a  matter  of  serious  concern  that  efforts  to
improve  the  conservation  and  management  of  the
world’s  fisheries  have  been  hampered  by  the  increase
in  illegal,  unregulated  and  unreported  (IUU)  fishing
activities  on  the  high  seas,  in  contravention  of  the
conservation  and  management  measures  adopted  by
regional fisheries organizations and arrangements, and
in  areas  under  national  jurisdiction,  in  violation  of
coastal States’ sovereign right to conserve and manage
their marine living resources.
the  amount  of 
Fishing  over  capacity  is  another  negative  factor
which  is  responsible  for  creating  a  situation  in  which
the  harvesting  exceeds 
resource
available  to  harvest.  Any  action  that  would  help  in
reversing the trend of over-fishing in many areas would
help in the reduction of IUU fishing and guarantee the
enforcement of the rights of developing coastal States.
Another way of eliminating IUU fishing is to eliminate
subsidies  that  contribute  to  illegal,  unreported  and
unregulated fishing.
In the context of sustainable fisheries, the need to
enable  developing  countries 
to  develop  national,
regional,  and  subregional  capacities  for  infrastructure
and integrated management and  the  sustainable  use  of
A/60/PV.54
fisheries 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  A  better
understanding of the oceans through the application of
marine  science  and  technology  and  a  more  effective
interface  between  scientific  knowledge  and  decision-
making  are  central 
the  sustainable  use  and
to 
management of the oceans.
Marine  scientific  research  can  lead  to  a  better
understanding  and  utilization  of  the  ocean  and  its
resources  in  almost  all  aspects,  including  fisheries,
marine  pollution  and  coastal  zone  management.
Accordingly,  it  is  vital  that  developing  countries  have
access  to  and  share  in  the  benefits  of  scientific
knowledge  on  the  oceans.  Developing  countries  also
need to be provided assistance for capacity-building, as
well  as  for  the  development  of  information  resources
and  related  skills,  to  manage  the  oceans  for  their
economic  development.  We 
therefore  particularly
support  operative  paragraph  16  of  the  draft  resolution
(A/60/L.23)  on  sustainable  fisheries,  which,  inter  alia,
invites  States  and  international  financial  institutions
and  organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  to
provide assistance to developing States to enable them
to  develop  their  national  capacity  to  exploit  fishery
resources.
Mr.  Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
Maintaining  and  strengthening  the  international  order
for  the  oceans  and  seas  and  promoting  ocean-related
activities contribute to achieving the goals of peace and
security  as  laid  down  in  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations;  to  the  promotion  of  cooperation  and  friendly
relations  among  all  countries  on  the  basis  of  fairness
and justice; and to global economic growth and social
harmony. Endeavours in that regard are in keeping with
humankind’s desire, as evidenced today, to achieve the
goals of peace, cooperation and development. We hope
that consideration of the agenda item on oceans and the
law of the sea at this session of the General Assembly
will  make  a  further  contribution  to  the  attainment  of
those goals.
The  Chinese  delegation  believes  that  the  legal
regime set out in the 1982 United Nations Convention
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  remains  the  legal  basis  for  the
contemporary  international  order  for  the  oceans.  We
are pleased to note that the number of States parties to
the  Convention  has  increased  to  149,  evidence  of  the
growing  universality  of  the  Convention.  We  hope  to
see more States accede to it.
19
A/60/PV.54
the  development 
Three  issues  are  of  particular  importance  in  the
context of international ocean affairs: first, the further
implementation  of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention
pertaining  to  the  protection  and  conservation  of  the
marine environment and research in marine science and
in 
transfer  of  marine
technologies;  secondly,  building  up  the  capacity  of
developing  countries  so  as  to  enable  them  to  utilize
more  effectively  marine  resources  and  make  a  greater
contribution  to  international  ocean  affairs;  thirdly,  the
full  use  of  relevant  international  organizations  and
mechanisms  and  the  strengthening  of  cooperation  and
coordination among them.
and 
Ocean-related  issues  are  closely  interlinked  and
must be addressed in an integrated and holistic manner.
The  United  Nations  is  the  most  appropriate  and
authoritative  forum  for  dealing  with  these  issues,
which  are  of  common  concern  to  all  countries.  We
support the Open-ended Informal Consultative Process
on Oceans and the Law of the Sea set up by resolution
54/33  and  extended  by  resolution  57/141.  In  the  past
six  years,  that  Process  has  served  as  an  important
forum in which all States, including non-parties to the
Convention,  can  discuss  issues  about  oceans  and  the
law  of  the  sea  and  coordinate  their  positions.  It  has
therefore  contributed positively to  the  deliberations  of
the General Assembly.
Experience  has  shown  that  the  principles  set  out
in resolution 54/33 for the Process have been critical in
ensuring  that  the  wisdom  of  all  participants  is  pooled
and  in  advancing  the  consideration  of  agenda  items.
We  support  the  extension  of  the  Process,  based  on
existing  principles,  for  another  three  years  and  agree
that there is a need to improve its working methods in
order to enhance its efficiency.
The  protection  of  the  marine  environment  calls
for  urgent  action.  The  Chinese  Government  attaches
great  importance  to  the  protection  of  the  marine
environment  and  to  the  promotion  of  sustainable
development. It took an active part in the 2002  World
Summit on Sustainable  Development  and  supports  the
early  establishment  of  the  regular  process  for  global
reporting  and  assessment  of  the  state  of  the  marine
environment, including socio-economic aspects, within
the  United  Nations  framework,  while  making  full  use
of  existing  regional  assessment  mechanisms.  We
welcome  the  outcome  of  the  second  international
workshop  held 
the
“assessment of assessments” begin at an early date on
this  June  and  hope 
to  see 
20
that  basis,  so  that  the  process  can  be  launched  soon.
China  is  ready  and  willing  to  participate  directly  in
efforts  towards  that  end  and  to  contribute  to  the
process.
With  regard  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable
use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond  areas  of
national jurisdiction, the Chinese delegation welcomes
the  establishment  by  resolution  59/24  of  an  ad  hoc
open-ended  informal  working  group.  We  believe  that
the protection of biodiversity beyond areas of national
jurisdiction  should 
take  full  account  of  existing
regimes concerning the high seas and international sea-
bed  and  give  full  play 
the  role  of  existing
international  organizations  and  institutions.  This  is
very important work, and China will actively take part
in it.
to 
The  Review  Conference  of  the  1995  United
Nations Fish Stocks Agreement will be held next year
to  evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  the  Agreement  in  the
conservation and management of straddling fish stocks
and highly migratory fish stocks. Pursuant to article 36
of  the  Agreement,  the  Secretary-General  will,  at  that
time,  invite  to  the  Conference  all  States  parties  to  the
Agreement  and  States  and  entities  entitled  to  become
parties,  as  well  as 
intergovernmental  and  non-
governmental  organizations  entitled  to  participate  as
observers in the Conference.
The Chinese delegation will seriously prepare for
and  actively  participate  in  the  Review  Conference,  as
well  as  in  the  preparatory  meeting,  and  will  play  a
constructive  role.  The  Chinese  Government  believes
that  the  entry  into  force  of  the  1995  Agreement  has
made  it  easier  to  regulate  fishing  conduct  on  the  high
seas and to make it more uniform.
The key to the implementation of the Agreement
is  to  be  found  at  the  regional  level.  Regional  fishery
management  organizations  and  arrangements  should
continue  to  play  a  significant  role,  act  according  to
their  respective  circumstances  and  formulate  and
implement 
and
fishery-related 
management  measures  on 
full
consultations.
conservation 
the  basis  of 
China  is  one  of  the  developing  countries  that
have  the  largest  number  of  fishermen  and  fishing
fleets.  Our  fisheries  are  of  vital  importance  to  food
security,  social  stability  and  poverty  reduction  in
China.  For  the  past  decade  or  so,  China,  as  a
responsible  fishing  State,  has  done  a  great  deal  to
strengthen the conservation and management of fishery
resources  and  has  curbed  its  harvesting  as  much  as
possible in the interests of the sustainable development
of global fisheries.
countries to uphold the spirit of the Convention, abide
by  international  commitments  and  work  for  the  cause
of ocean affairs, as well as for peace, justice, harmony
and the progress of humankind.
A/60/PV.54
The  Chinese  delegation  believes 
that  when
considering fishery issues, the international community
should  aim  at  regulating  conduct  and  achieving
sustainable development. For those purposes, we need
to  achieve  an  appropriate  balance  in  the  relationships
between, first, fishery production and the conservation
of  fishery  resources;  secondly,  the  conservation  of
fishery  resources  and  the  protection  of  the  marine
environment; 
the  present
generation  and  those  of  future  generations;  fourthly,
coastal  fisheries  and  high-seas  fisheries;  and,  fifthly,
the practice of “first-come-first-served” and the need to
ensure 
right  of  all  countries,  particularly
developing countries, to share fishery resources.
the  needs  of 
thirdly, 
the 
In  the  view  of  the  Chinese  delegation,  building
the  marine  capacity  of  the  developing  countries  is  a
major  issue  confronting  the  international  community.
Many  developing  countries  must,  as  a  matter  of
urgency,  build  up  their  capacities  in  the  areas  of
nautical 
the
protection  of  the  marine  environment,  marine  science
research and development, law enforcement at sea and
the combating of maritime crimes.
ship-building, 
production, 
charts 
fair  and 
In  order 
to  enhance 
the  capacity  of 
the
developing  countries 
in  marine  conservation  and
management,  the  developed  countries  should  actively
facilitate  the  transfer  of  marine  technologies  to  the
developing  countries  under 
reasonable
conditions, and the relevant international organizations
should  assist  the  developing  countries  in  carrying  out
regional  or  multilateral  cooperation, 
in  securing
appropriate  international  funding  for  marine  research
and  development  and 
training.  The
Chinese  Government  and  people  have  had  some
success in the area of marine capacity-building, and we
are  more  than  willing  to  share  our  experiences  with
other developing countries.
in  personnel 
Since ancient times, the oceans and the seas have
confronted  the  human  race  with  numerous  difficulties
and  challenges,  while  yielding  bountiful  harvests  and
providing  for 
its  well-being.  We  need  sufficient
courage  to  overcome  the  difficulties  and  challenges
and  sufficient  wisdom  to  enjoy  the  harvests  and  the
state  of  well-being.  China  is  ready  to  join  with  other
Ms. Juul (Norway): The General Assembly is the
universal forum for discussing current issues regarding
ocean affairs and the law of the sea. That is underlined
by the breadth of the issues currently being dealt with
within  the  broader  framework  of  the  Assembly.  It  is
essential  that  all  important  discussions  on  the  broader
developments  of  the  law  of  the  sea  should  take  place
within  this  representative  forum,  and  we  believe  that
the United Nations will continue to have an important
role to play.
In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  commend  the
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea on
the  excellent  job  that  it  is  doing  to  provide  the
Assembly with the necessary input on the topics under
discussion.  This  year,  as  always, 
the  Secretary-
General’s  reports  on  the  law  of  the  sea  and  related
issues  are  of  the  highest  quality.  Those  reports  are
invaluable 
dynamic
developments in ocean affairs.
evaluating 
tools 
for 
the 
the  evaluation  of 
I will focus on three main topics in my statement
today: 
the  1995  Fish  Stocks
Agreement,  the  sustainable  management  of  living
marine 
the  marine
environment, and maritime security.
resources  and  protection  of 
The  1995  Fish  Stocks  Agreement  is  an  essential
contribution  to  the  law  of  the  sea  as  regards  the
management  of  straddling  and  highly  migratory  fish
stocks.  We  will  evaluate  the  Agreement  during  a  one-
week  conference  in  May  next  year,  only  four  years
after  it  came  into  force.  The  Agreement  must  be
regarded  as  an  infant  in  the  context  of  international
law, and we must keep that in mind when we review it.
So  far,  only  56  States  have  become  party  to  the
Agreement.  That  means  that  several  important  fishing
nations are still outside that cooperation. At this stage,
the  rather  low  number  of  parties  is  the  Agreement’s
main  weakness.  The  conference  will  provide  an
opportunity  to  take  a  closer  look  at  what  is  keeping
States  from  joining  and  what  measures  we  can  take
collectively 
to  get  more  States  on  board.  The
conference  should  take  advantage  of  that  opportunity
and  develop  a  systematic  approach  for  encouraging
more States to join. Let me also take this opportunity to
21
A/60/PV.54
encourage all States that are not party to the Agreement
to join as soon as possible.
control measures is also crucial in order to effectively
combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
An  important  task  for  the  conference  will  be
evaluating the implementation of the provisions of the
Agreement in the national legislation of the parties and
in  the  mandates  of  the  regional  fisheries  management
organizations  of  which  they  are  members.  Those
organizations  and 
their  parties  have  a  heavy
responsibility  as  regards  a  broad  range  of  challenges
related  to  ecosystem-based  resource  management  and
the conservation of biodiversity. States must make sure
that  their  regional  fisheries  management  organizations
and other arrangements have the mandates they need in
order 
to  make  all  necessary  management  and
conservation decisions.
At the conference we must also consider what we
can  do  to  expand  the  network  of  regional  fisheries
management organizations and other arrangements, for
example by establishing new such bodies for areas that
are  not  currently  covered  by  any  organization  or
arrangement.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of
the  Sea  recognizes  the  responsibility  of  coastal  States
for  the  sustainable  management  of  living  resources  in
their  maritime  zones.  Through  the  Agreement,  States
the  management  of
are  obliged 
straddling  and  highly  migratory 
In
discharging  those  responsibilities,  the  coastal  States
and  the  regional  fisheries  management  organizations
are afforded a wide range of discretion when choosing
the most appropriate management measures.
to  cooperate 
fish  stocks. 
in 
However 
responsible  and  precautionary 
the
coastal States and such organizations might be in their
management,  the  full  purpose  will  not  be  served  as
long  as  we  are  struggling  with  illegal,  unreported  and
unregulated  (IUU)  fishing.  Such  fishing  is  the  single
most  serious  threat  to  the  world’s  marine  resources
today.  Curbing  such  fishing  is  therefore  among  the
most important measures we can take to protect marine
resources.  The 
so
unquestionably  rests  with  each  and  every  State
involved  in  fishing  or  the  fish  trade  in  one  way  or
another.  Here,  obviously,  a  huge  responsibility  rests
with  the  flag  States.  Unfortunately,  some  States  allow
vessels  to  fly  their  flag  without  ensuring  that  the
fishing  practices  of  those  vessels  are  legal  and  sound.
The  substantial  strengthening  of  targeted  port  State
responsibility 
doing 
for 
Recently,  in  the  international  debate  on  the
sustainable  management  of  marine  resources  and  the
protection  of  marine  ecosystems,  there  has  been  a
strong  focus  on  the  high  seas.  There  are  substantial
challenges  related  to  biodiversity  in  areas  outside
national  jurisdiction.  However,  the  high-seas  focus
must  not  mislead  us  into  thinking  that  the  greatest
challenges 
resource  management  and
conservation are to be found on the high seas. Rather,
the main problems are still to be found within national
zones.  The  greatest  challenge  is  to  encourage  the
necessary  political  will  so 
that  States  will  deal
effectively with their domestic problems.
related 
to 
While  the  main  problems  related  to  the  marine
environment  and 
to  marine  resources  are  within
national  zones,  there  are  also  obvious  and  huge
challenges  on  the  high  seas.  In  that  regard,  we  have
discussed  the  legal  basis  for  taking  measures  in  those
areas. Some claim that the problem is that no State or
organization  has  the  jurisdiction  to  deal  effectively
with  these  problems.  That  has  led  to  calls  for  the
negotiation of new legal instruments. Some call for the
formation of some kind of body with the authority to,
for example, establish marine protected areas. I would
like to make a few points in that regard.
jurisdiction 
regulate
activities carried out by their subordinates on the high
seas.
First,  States  have 
to 
Secondly,  there  are  several  organizations  that
already  have  regulatory  competence  on  the  high  seas.
Regional  fisheries  management  organizations  and  the
International  Maritime  Organization 
are
examples  of  entities  that  can  make  decisions  of  a
binding  nature  regarding  activities  on  the  high  seas
within  their  respective  mandates.  The  International
Seabed  Authority  can  and  is  supposed  to  regulate
mining  activities  in  the  Area  in  such  a  way  that  any
negative  effects  on 
the  marine  environment  are
minimized or avoided.
(IMO) 
Thirdly,  our  focus  should  be  on  identifying
practical measures to deal with specific problems. The
challenge 
instruments  and
mechanisms  to  the  fullest  extent  possible  within  their
current  mandates  in  order  to  manage  and  conserve
marine biodiversity in these areas.
to  utilize  existing 
is 
22
the 
Fourthly,  the  limits  on  measures  that  may  be
implemented  within 
framework  of  existing
instruments  and  mechanisms  are  determined  by  the
political will of States. Negotiating new instruments is
time-consuming  and  difficult,  and  it  diverts  valuable
resources  and  focus  from 
implementation  of
specific measures that will have practical results in the
short  term.  Rather  than  focusing  on  developing  new
instruments, States should cooperate more closely so as
to utilize existing possibilities.
the 
The  Secretary-General’s  latest  report  on  oceans
and the law of the sea refers to a large number of actual
and  attempted  acts  of  piracy  and  armed  robbery.  It  is
reported  that  the  level  of  violence  has  escalated  and
that  the  areas  most  affected  are  in  the  Far  East.  This
threat to seafarers and the shipping industry is of great
concern to my Government. We commend those Asian
Governments  that  have  taken  an  active  interest  in
developing  cooperation  to  curb  this  problem,  and  we
stand ready to cooperate further in an attempt to make
shipping  more  secure.  The  IMO  also  deserves  praise
for  its  efforts.  We  encourage  that  organization  to
continue its engagement in this field.
An 
important  step 
to  prevent  and  suppress
terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction  at  sea  was  taken  in  London  last  October,
when  the  IMO  Diplomatic  Conference  adopted  a
protocol to amend the Convention for the Suppression
of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the  Safety  of  Maritime
Navigation.  Those  amendments  provide 
the
criminalization of additional international terrorist and
non-proliferation  offences  and  a  boarding  regime  for
interdiction  on 
is  a  major
contribution to the implementation of Security Council
resolutions 1368 (2001), 1373 (2001) and 1540 (2004)
against  terrorism  and  proliferation.  I  would  like  to
commend the International Maritime Organization on a
job  well  done,  and  I  encourage  all  parties  to  sign  and
ratify the protocol as soon as possible.
the  high  seas.  That 
for 
Mr.  Al-Mutairi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
should like at the outset to thank the Secretary-General
for  his  comprehensive  reports  on  agenda  item  75,
regarding  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law
of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  and  the  commitments  set  out
therein.
The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes 
the  steady
increase  in  the  number  of  parties  to  the  Convention,
which  has  now  reached  149.  We  urge  those  countries
A/60/PV.54
that  have  not  yet  joined  the  Convention  to  expedite
their  accession  to  the  Convention  in  view  of  its
universality  and  importance.  We  also  wish  to  express
our  appreciation  for  the  progress  made  by  all  the
the  Convention’s
institutions 
provisions,  particularly 
International  Seabed
Authority, the International Tribunal for the Law of the
Sea  and 
the
Continental Shelf.
the  Commission  on 
established  under 
the  Limits  of 
the 
Stressing  the  importance  of  full  implementation
of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  as  the  legally
agreed  framework  for  the  peaceful  uses  of  the  oceans
and  seas,  we  express  our  belief  that  building  the
capacities  of  States  parties  is  key  to  the  successful
implementation  of  the  Convention,  because  it  will
enable  developing  nations  to  more  effectively  manage
and conserve their marine resources.
to 
in  addition 
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of
the  Sea  defines  the  legal  framework  within  which  all
activities  relating  to  the  oceans  and  seas  should  be
carried  out.  It  stipulates  the  limits  of  regional  waters,
areas  of  national  jurisdiction  and  the  limits  of  the
continental  shelf, 
the  freedom  of
navigation  beyond  the  limits  of  national  jurisdiction
and the right of transit in regional waters and in straits
used  for  international  navigation.  It  also  supports
friendly relations and cooperation among all countries.
Such integration in the provisions of the Convention is
the  basis  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  law  of  the  oceans
and  the  seas.  The  State  of  Kuwait  therefore  calls  for
enhanced cooperation and coordination at all levels in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Convention,  in
order  to  address  all  aspects  of  integrated  management
and sustainable development of the seas and oceans.
the  marine  environment  and 
We attach great importance to the protection and
conservation  of 
its
biodiversity. Therefore, we must redouble our efforts to
combat  and  limit  the  pollution  and  degradation  of
marine ecosystems. In  that  context,  we  must  take  into
consideration  the  proposals  of  the  Johannesburg  Plan
of  Implementation  adopted  at  the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable  Development,  which  calls 
the
maintenance  of  the  productivity  and  biodiversity  of
important  and  vulnerable  marine  and  coastal  areas,
including 
in  areas  within  and  beyond  national
jurisdiction.  We  should  also  put  an  end  to  the  use  of
fishing  techniques  that  are  harmful  to  the  marine
environment. We also join all delegations in calling for
for 
23
A/60/PV.54
taking  necessary  measures  to  put  an  end  to  illegal
fishing, in accordance with international law.
Convention now form part of the corpus of customary
international law.
The  State  of  Kuwait  is  fully  committed  to  the
issue of oceans and the law of the sea  and acceded to
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
in 1986 and to several other conventions, including, in
2002 the  Agreement relating to  the  implementation  of
Part XI of the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea.
Kuwait  is  also  party  to  the  Protocol  concerning
Marine  Pollution  Resulting  from  Exploration  and
Exploitation  of  the  Continental  Shelf.  Kuwait  is  also
considering  acceding  to  the  1995  United  Nations  Fish
Stocks  Agreement,  as  well  as  other 
relevant
instruments. In  April  2005, Kuwait submitted  a  report
on the matter to the Secretary-General.
At this time we would like to note that Kuwait is
the  host  country  of  the  Regional  Organization  for  the
Protection  of  the  Marine  Environment  (ROPME),
which was established by regional agreement in 1978,
in  order  to  promote  cooperation  in  protecting  the
marine environment from pollution. It is an agreement
that  seeks  to  coordinate  the  efforts  of  all  countries  of
the Gulf region  for the  protection  and  conservation  of
marine resources.
Kuwait  is  also  involved  in  other  programmes
with  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)
for the protection of the marine environment.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that my
delegation  hopes  to  undertake  joint  efforts  to  improve
the  lives  of  all  peoples  of  the  world  through  the
optimum  exploration  and  exploitation  of  marine
resources  and  their  conservation,  which  would  enable
each  and  every  country  to  realize  the  environmental
sustainability it seeks to achieve.
Mr.  Ray  (Australia):  A  year  ago  we  marked  the
important  milestone  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the
entry  into  force  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on
the  Law  of  the  Sea.  Year  by  year,  we  have  seen  a
strengthening  in  the  status  of  the  Convention  as  the
foundation of the global community’s interaction with,
and use of, the ocean and its resources.
Since last year, we have moved closer to realizing
the objective of universal adherence to the Convention,
and Australia congratulates those States that acceded in
the  past  year:  Burkina  Faso,  Estonia  and  Latvia.  It
cannot  be  denied  that  significant  portions  of  the
oceans 
governance 
the  Convention  and 
In coming years, we should continue to focus on
through
ensuring 
effective 
implementation  of 
related
instruments.  We  also  need  to  continue  our  work  in
identifying  any  gaps  in  the  regime  for  high  seas
governance  and  work  towards  building  cooperative
mechanisms  to  properly  conserve  and  sustainably
manage the living resources of the oceans.
Given  the  importance  we  attach  to  as-broad-as-
possible  participation  by  States  in  informal  meetings
for 
the  preparation  of  General  Assembly  draft
resolutions,  Australia  wishes  to  express  its  concern  at
the numerous scheduling conflicts with other essential
meetings  this  year.  Those  clashes  have  made  our  and
other  delegations’  effective  participation 
the
informal  preparatory  process  extremely  difficult,  and
we  call  on  the  Secretary-General  to  ensure  that  the
situation is not repeated in coming years.
in 
We express our thanks to the coordinators and the
Secretariat,  whose  jobs  seem  to  get  harder  every  year
as  the  resolutions  get  longer  and  longer.  There  are
many  topical  aspects  of  the  law  of  the  sea  and
international  fisheries  that  are  worthy  of  our  close
attention, but their prominence is only obscured by our
collective insistence on repeating the same things year
after  year.  We  urge  again  that  all  Members  endeavour
to shorten the draft resolutions in future.
As  usual,  Australia  will  co-sponsor  and, 
if
necessary,  vote  in  favour  of  both  draft  resolutions
before  us.  We  are  pleased  with  the  attention  given  to
the  issues,  such  as  maritime  security,  the  sustainable
management  and  conservation  of  marine 
living
resources,  and  the  work  of  the  Commission  on  the
Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS).
Threats  to  maritime  security  cannot  be  ignored.
The potential impact of threats to maritime security on
sea transportation, safety of navigation and the marine
environment, as well as the threat posed to human lives
and property, calls for effective countermeasures at the
international, regional and bilateral levels.
For that reason, Australia welcomes paragraph 50
of  the  omnibus  draft  resolution,  and  looks  forward  to
working with other States to continue to address threats
to  maritime  security.  We  welcome  and  support
practical  measures  to  improve  maritime  security  and
24
would  be  ready  to  explore  requests  for  technical
assistance and capacity-building.
process  of  planning  or  preparing 
submissions.
their  own
A/60/PV.54
In particular, we welcome the recent adoption by
the International Maritime Organization in October this
year  of  two  protocols  amending  the  1988  Convention
for  the  Suppression  of  Unlawful  Acts  against  the
Safety  of  Maritime  Navigation  and  its  1988  Protocol
relating to fixed platforms on the continental shelf.
When 
implemented, 
the  new  definitions  of
offences  under  those  Protocols  will  represent  an
important  tool  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  and  the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Australia
will  give  early  consideration 
signing  and
implementing  the  protocols  in  accordance  with  its
domestic  treaty-making  processes,  and  urges  other
States to do the same, as soon as possible, in respect of
both the original Convention on the safety of maritime
navigation and the fixed platforms Protocol, as well as
the recently adopted amending protocols.
to 
In  addition,  Australia  welcomes  the  adoption  in
November  2004  of 
the  Regional  Cooperation
Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and  Armed  Robbery
against  Ships  in  Asia.  The  Agreement  provides  a
transparent  means  of  engaging  countries  in  the  Asia-
Pacific region in maritime security through information
sharing.
Australia welcomes paragraph 35 of the omnibus
draft  resolution.  Last  year,  Australia  lodged  with  the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf its
submission on the outer limit  of the shelf  beyond  200
nautical miles from the territorial sea baseline. We look
forward  to  working  with  the  Commission  in  the
coming  months  as  it  formulates  the  recommendations
on  which  our  final  and  binding  outer  limit  will  be
based.
We  are  confident  that  those  recommendations
will  emerge  within  a  reasonable  timeframe.  However,
we  are  concerned 
the
Commission’s  control,  it  will  not  necessarily  be  the
case  for  States 
the
Commission now only has the capacity to deal in detail
with two submissions concurrently.
that,  for  reasons  beyond 
that  follow  us,  given 
that 
We welcome the work of the Division for Ocean
Affairs and the Law of the Sea in assisting to build the
capacity  of  States  preparing  submissions.  From
Australia’s  viewpoint,  we  are  pleased  to  be  able  to
share our experiences with other States undertaking the
Turning  to  fisheries,  Australia  welcomes  the
accession, since our last session, of four more States to
the  vitally  important  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks
Agreement: Belize, Guinea, Kiribati and Liberia. Wide
acceptance  of  the  Agreement’s  provisions  will  add  to
their  impact  in  enhancing  the  international  law  of
fisheries.
the 
Moreover, 
review  conference  on 
the
Agreement  coming  in  May  2006  will  provide  an
important opportunity for States to take stock, critically
assess the effectiveness of the Agreement and promote
cooperative  and  sustainable  fisheries  management  and
the international law of the sea more generally.
Regional  organizations  play  an  important  role  in
the  management  of  responsible  and  ecologically
sustainable  fishing,  especially  in  areas  where  no
management  regime  currently  exists.  We  welcome
various  developments 
region  with
respect to regional fisheries management organizations.
The Western and Central Pacific Ocean Fisheries
Commission (WCPFC), currently chaired by Australia,
held  its  first  meeting  in  the  Federated  States  of
Micronesia  in  December  2004.  The  second  meeting
will be held in a few days.
in  Australia’s 
that 
to  ensure 
to  work  hard  with 
The stocks of the Western and Central Pacific are
a significant natural resource for Pacific coastal States.
Australia  will  continue 
its
neighbours 
this  regional  fisheries
management organization employs world best practice
in the sustainable management and the conservation of
highly  migratory  species.  We  warmly  welcome  the
accessions to the Honolulu Convention this year of the
Philippines,  Japan,  Canada,  Vanuatu  and  France.  It  is
particularly gratifying to see such a broad participation
in the Commission by coastal States and distant-water
fishing interests.
the 
southern 
We  look  forward  to  the  adoption  in  the  near
future  of 
fisheries
agreement.  It  too  should  bring  best  international
practice 
the  sustainable
management  of  all  fish  stocks  in  the  relevant  part  of
the Indian Ocean.
the  conservation  and 
Indian  Ocean 
to 
Australia is also pleased to inform members of a
recent initiative of Australia, New Zealand and Chile to
commence  negotiations  on  a  new  regional  fisheries
25
A/60/PV.54
to 
regulate 
management  organization 
currently
unregulated  fish  stocks  in  the  South  Pacific,  which  is
one of the last remaining areas of the high seas without
a comprehensive international management regime  for
discrete  and  straddling  stocks.  The  first  formal
negotiating  conference  will  be  held  in  Wellington  in
February  2006,  and  we  invite  all  States  and  entities
with  a  genuine  interest  in  fishery  to  consider  actively
participating in the new regional fisheries management
organization at the earliest possible stage.
The recommendations of the sixth meeting of the
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  are  the
source  of  much  of  the  new  language  in  the  draft
resolutions before the Assembly. That further attests to
the value of the Oceans Process and the role it plays in
enhancing and informing the Assembly’s debate.
Australia  supports  and  welcomes  the  renewed
mandate  of  the  Oceans  Process  and  hopes  that  it  will
continue  to  bring  focused  and  expert  deliberation,
including  from  civil  society,  to  complex  issues  facing
oceans and the law of the sea.
Australia  has  been  a  longstanding  champion  of
high  seas  biodiversity  conservation  and  is  seriously
concerned  about  the  impact  of  a  range  of  human
activities  on  the  vulnerable  ecosystems  of  the  high
seas.  Damaging  impacts  are  caused  by  a  range  of
destructive  fishing  techniques  and  by  the  ever-present
scourge of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
We  should  not  limit  our  focus  simply  to  the  issue  of
bottom trawling.
The  efficacy  of  measures  taken  will  depend  in
part  on  the  willingness  of  flag  States  to  properly
regulate  and  control  the  activities  of  their  nationals.
Australia  will  continue  to  ensure  that  fishing  is
conducted responsibly and managed through the use of
appropriate  measures.  We  will  also  continue  to  work
hard  to  improve  governance  on  the  high  seas  more
generally.
Australia  welcomes  the  participation  of  non-
governmental  organizations,  industry  representatives
and  scientists  in  the  planned  February  meeting  of  the
Ad hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group studying
the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine
biological  diversity 
areas  beyond  national
jurisdiction.  Those  areas  cover  about  half  of  the
world’s surface, and their unique biodiversity has been
the  subject  of  much  international  discussion  in  recent
in 
26
years. We hope that the meeting in February will help
identify  options  for  better  conserving  and  sustainably
managing that biodiversity.
We  welcome  the  language  on  marine  debris.
Discarded fishing nets and other gear, such as plastics,
constitute a significant danger to marine mammals and
turtles 
in  Australia’s  region  and  more  generally.
Greater international cooperation is required. The first
phase  of  the  Global  Marine  Assessment  —  the  so-
called assessment of assessments — will be important.
Better  scientific  information  is  crucial  for  improving
our  decision-making  and  for  better  focusing  our
conservation-based initiatives.
Australia would like to underline its strong desire
for enhanced measures to tackle illegal and unregulated
fishing.  We  continue  to  act  firmly  against  unlicensed
vessels 
in  Australian  waters  and  have
responded  promptly  to  situations  of  apparently  illegal
or  unregulated  vessels  in  areas  regulated  by  regional
fisheries  management  organization,  in  turn  raising
awareness among Member States.
fishing 
Australia  recently  boarded  a  vessel  suspected  of
fishing  illegally  in  the  Australian  exclusive  economic
zone,  with  the  express  consent  of  the  flag  state,
Cambodia.  The  Australian  Government  is  grateful  to
the  Government  of  Cambodia  for  its  cooperative
approach,  which  sets  an  example  for  other  States  that
become  aware  of  illegal  conduct  by  their  flagged
vessels.
Consistent  with  the  United  Nations  Fish  Stocks
Agreement,  it  is  Australia’s  strong  view  that  States
have  an  obligation  either  to  join  relevant  regional
fisheries  management  organizations  where  entitled  to
do  so  or,  otherwise,  to  refrain  from  fishing  in  areas
regulated by such fisheries organizations, unless those
relevant  conservation
States  agree 
measures.  Australia  does  not  view 
the  general
obligations  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on
the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  customary  international  law
with  respect  to  the  conservation  and  the  sustainable
management  of  marine  living  resources  as  merely
aspirational  or  amorphous.  They  are  concrete  and
substantive obligations with direct application.
to  apply  all 
resolution 
Australia welcomes the reference in the omnibus
draft 
the  Ministerial
Declaration  of  the  May  2005  Conference  on  the
Governance  of  High  Seas  Fisheries  and  the  United
Nations Fish Agreement, entitled “Moving from Words
(A/60/L.23) 
to 
to  Action”  and  held  in  St.  John’s,  Canada.  The
Declaration  calls  on  States  to  take  practical  steps  to
end  unsustainable  fishing  practices  and  reinforces  the
commitment  of  all  nations  to  manage  fisheries  in  a
sustainable  fashion.  Australia  welcomes  the  impetus
the Declaration gives to fleshing out the meaning of a
genuine  link  between  the  flag  State  and  the  vessel  in
the  registration  of  fishing  vessels  and  would  welcome
greater transparency in fishing vessel ownership across
the globe.
Finally,  Australia  would  like  to  leave  other
members with the thought that perhaps treating illegal,
unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing  as  a  single
problem,  which  gets  reduced  to  the  acronym  “IUU”,
has outlived its usefulness. After all, IUU fishing is not
just  one  problem  but  three,  each  of  which  requires
separate international responses. Those responses must
focus  on  flag  States’  responsibility  over  their  vessels
when  fishing  on  the  high  seas  or  in  the  exclusive
economic 
zones  of  other  States.  Flag  State
accountability should be the focus of our efforts.
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  At  the  outset  I  would
like to commend the Secretariat, in particular the able
staff of the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of
the  Sea,  headed  by  Mr.  Vladimir  Golitsyn,  for  their
comprehensive reports on oceans and the law of the sea
(A/60/63  and  A/60/91)  and  on  sustainable  fisheries
(A/60/189). 
to  express  our
appreciation  for  the  other  activities  of  the  Division,
which  reflect  the  high  standard  of  assistance  provided
to Member States by the Division.
I  would  also 
like 
Let me furthermore acknowledge the professional
manner in which the coordinators, Commander Marcos
de Almeida  of  Brazil  and  Ms.  Holly  Koehler  of  the
United States, conducted the informal consultations on
the  omnibus  and  fisheries  draft  resolutions.  The
consultations  were  both  lengthy  and  challenging  this
year,  and  we  wish  to  thank  all  participants  for  their
constructive  contributions.  As  reflected  in  the  draft
omnibus  resolution,  one  of  the  conclusions  of  the
informal  consultations  was  that  their  efficiency  would
have  to  be  further  improved  in  the  future  by  limiting
the period of consultations on both draft resolutions to
a maximum of four weeks in total and by ensuring that
the  consultations  are  scheduled  in  such  a  way  as  to
avoid  overlap  with  the  period  in  which  the  Sixth
Committee is meeting.
A/60/PV.54
the  United  Nations,  provides  a 
The Convention on the Law of the Sea, which is
without  doubt  one  of  the  greatest  achievements  in  the
history  of 
legal
framework  for  all  of  our  deliberations  on  the  oceans
and  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  welcome  the  recent
ratification of the Convention by Latvia, Burkina Faso
and  Estonia,  bringing  the  number  of  States  parties  to
149,  and  urge  those  States  that  have  still  have  not
ratified  the  Convention  to  do  so,  with  a  view  to
achieving the ultimate goal of universal participation.
the 
satisfaction 
We  note  with 
It  is  imperative  that  the  Convention  be  fully
implemented and that its integrity be preserved. Issues
that  were  settled  at 
the  Third  United  Nations
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  should  not  be
reopened. In this respect, it needs to be borne in mind
that  the  conclusions  of  the  Conference  were  regarded
as a package, with individual States prevailing in some
areas but having to compromise in others.
that 
three
institutions  established  under  the  Convention  on  the
Law of the Sea are functioning well. The International
Seabed  Authority  is  actively  preparing  for  the  future
exploitation  of  mineral  resources  in  the  international
seabed area. The International Tribunal for the Law of
the Sea has already adjudicated a number of disputes in
this  field.  It  is  clear,  however,  that  the  jurisdictional
powers of the Tribunal have not yet been fully utilized,
and  we  welcome  the  Tribunal’s  initiative  to  promote
knowledge  of  its  various  procedures.  One  example  of
that  initiative  is  the  organization  of  a  round-table
discussion  to  take  place  here  at  the  United  Nations
tomorrow 
“Advisory
proceedings  before  the  International  Tribunal  for  the
Law of the Sea”.
afternoon,  on 
the 
topic 
We are pleased to note the progress in the work of
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.
The  Commission  is  currently  considering  three  new
submissions  regarding  the  establishment  of  the  outer
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical
miles,  and  a  number  of  coastal  States,  including
Iceland,  have  advised  it  of  their  intention  to  make
submissions in the near future.
We welcome the steps taken by the Secretariat to
improve  the  facilities  for  the  use  of  the  Commission
and  urge  the  Secretary-General  to  take  all  necessary
actions  to  ensure  that  the  Commission  can  fulfil  the
functions  entrusted  to  it  under  the  Convention  in  the
light  of 
increasing  workload.  We
rapidly 
its 
27
A/60/PV.54
furthermore  encourage  States 
to  make  additional
contributions  to  the  two  voluntary  continental  shelf
trust funds established by resolution 55/7.
The United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement is of
paramount  importance,  as  it  strengthens  considerably
the framework for the conservation and management of
straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks
by  regional  fisheries  management  organizations.  The
provisions of the Agreement strengthen in many ways
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law
of  the  Sea,  and  some  of  the  Agreement’s  provisions
represent  the  further  development  of  international  law
in  this  area.  We  welcome  the  encouragement,  in  the
draft  fisheries  resolution,  to  States  to  recognize,  as
appropriate, 
the
Agreement should apply also to discrete fish stocks in
the high seas.
the  general  principles  of 
that 
in  securing 
We look forward to taking part in the fifth round
of  informal  consultations  of  States  parties  to  the
Agreement in March and in the Review Conference in
May, the role of which is to assess the effectiveness of
the  Agreement 
the  conservation  and
management  of  straddling  and  highly  migratory  fish
stocks. In the view of Iceland, the effectiveness of the
Agreement  depends  primarily  on  its  broad  ratification
and  implementation.  We  welcome  the  ratification  of
the  Agreement  this  year  by  Belize,  Kiribati,  Guinea
and  Liberia,  bringing  the  number  of  States  parties  to
56,  and  urge  those  States,  in  particular  fishing  States,
that  still  have  not  ratified  the  Agreement  to  do  so  as
soon as possible.
With  respect 
to 
the 
implementation  of 
the
Agreement,  we  encourage  States  to  make  additional
contributions to the Assistance Fund under Part VII of
the Agreement. In fact, we encourage capacity-building
in developing countries in order to enable them to reap
the benefit of fisheries within and beyond areas under
their national jurisdiction.
The  world  community  does  not  lack  the  tools  to
ensure  the  conservation  and  sustainable  utilization  of
living marine resources. In addition to the Convention
on the Law of the Sea and the Fish Stocks Agreement,
Chapter  17  of  Agenda  21,  the  Code  of  Conduct  for
Responsible  Fisheries  of  the  Food  and  Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations and the Convention
on  Biological  Diversity  all  exemplify  such  tools,
providing  States  with  the  means  to  develop  their
fisheries management systems in a sustainable manner.
28
While  global  instruments  are  often  called  for,  we
should  bear  in  mind  that  the  responsible  management
of  living  marine  resources  is  best  carried  out  at  the
local and regional levels, in partnership with those who
are  closest  to  and  depend  on  the  resources  for  their
livelihood.
It is the firm view of the Government of Iceland
that  the  General  Assembly,  in  its  deliberations  on  the
oceans and the law of the sea, should focus on specific
issues that have global implications, and not on issues
that  fall  within  the  purview  of  the  sovereign  rights  of
States  or  that  are  under  the  responsibility  of  regional
fisheries  management  organizations.  The  Assembly
should address issues that are global in nature and that
can  be  solved  only  through  global  cooperation.  We
should  thus  address,  for  example,  marine  pollution,
which  respects  no  boundaries  and  must  therefore  be
met with global action.
The  conservation  and  sustainable  utilization  of
living  marine  resources  is,  on  the  other  hand,  a  local
and  regional  matter.  We  cannot,  therefore,  accept  the
opening of the door to the global micromanagement of
fisheries,  which  are  subject  to  the  sovereign  rights  of
States  or  under  the  responsibility  of  regional  fisheries
management organizations.
In  that  context,  we  were  satisfied  with  the
outcome of the thorough consultations on the fisheries
resolution  last  year  with  respect  to  the  impact  of
fishing on vulnerable marine ecosystems. The relevant
paragraphs of resolution 59/25, which are reaffirmed in
the  draft  resolution  on  fisheries  this  year,  recognize
that it is for States and regional fisheries management
organizations,  as  appropriate,  to  regulate  fisheries  and
their  impact  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  and  to
take  decisions  on  any 
long-term
management measures.
interim  and 
In  the  case  of  regional  fisheries  management
organizations without such competence, their members
are  called  upon  to  expand  their  competence,  where
appropriate,  and  in  the  case  of  high-seas  areas  not
covered  by  such  organizations,  relevant  States  are
called  upon  to  establish  them,  where  necessary  and
appropriate.
Iceland,  like  many  other  coastal  States,  has  for
many  years  been  applying  area  restrictions  and
closures as one of its fisheries management tools. The
Icelandic  authorities  continue  to  work  on  protecting
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  within  their  national
jurisdiction. We are now in the process of closing five
areas,  covering  a  total  of  80  square  kilometres,  to
fishing  with  gear  which  adversely  affects  the  seabed,
with  the  aim  of  protecting  vulnerable  cold-water
corals.  We  are  working  on  the  basis  of  scientific
information, and we address the issue of protection on
a  case-by-case  basis.  That  approach  ensures  that  we
give  proper  protection  to  the  areas  that  need  to  be
protected,  while  not  disrupting  responsible  fishing
practices in other areas.
As 
the  protection  of  vulnerable  marine
ecosystems is often presented as an issue on which the
fisheries  sector  and  environmental  protection  clash,  it
should  be  pointed  out  that  the  approach  followed  in
Iceland  makes  such  a  clash  unnecessary.  Rather  than
imposing blanket closures of vast areas, we work with
the fisheries sector to determine which areas should be
protected.  In  fact,  consultations  with  the  fisheries
sector  have  resulted  in  an  increase  in  the  size  of  the
areas  that  are  now  being  closed,  compared  to  the
suggestions  made  in  original  proposals  from  our
scientists.
Iceland  is  certainly  not  the  only  State  that  is
protecting  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems  within  its
national jurisdiction; this is being done by many States
all  over  the  world.  But  this  work  is  not  being  carried
out  only  at  the  national  level;  regional  fisheries
management  organizations  are  also  addressing  this
important issue.
Last  year,  Iceland  took  part  in  establishing  an
interim measure for the protection of vulnerable deep-
water  habitats  in  the  high  seas  of  the  North  Atlantic
ocean.  The  North  East  Atlantic  Fisheries  Commission
(NEAFC)  agreed  on  an  interim  prohibition  of  fishing
with  gear  which  adversely  affects  the  seabed  on  a
number of seamounts and in a section of the Reykjanes
ridge  for  a  three-year  period.  During  this  interim
period, NEAFC will assess its work on this issue, seek
further 
possible
enforcement  issues  that  may  arise,  with  the  aim  of
having  appropriate  conservation  and  management
measures  in  place  by  2008.  NEAFC  has  shown  its
commitment  to  taking  the  necessary  action  to  protect
vulnerable  habitats  on  case-by-case  and  scientific
bases.
scientific 
advice 
assess 
and 
At  NEAFC’s  recent  annual  meeting,  a  proposal
by  Iceland  to  develop  criteria  and  procedures  within
the Commission for the protection of vulnerable areas,
A/60/PV.54
international 
relevant 
criteria 
including  area  closures  for  certain  types  of  fisheries,
was  approved.  The  annual  meeting 
furthermore
recommended that a performance review of NEAFC be
established. The purpose of such a review is to provide
for  a  systematic  check  of  the  performance  of  the
Commission  and  its  consistency  with  the  NEAFC
Convention, the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement
other 
and 
instruments.
Assessment 
the
performance  review,  including  terms  of  reference  for
the  review,  will  be  developed,  if  appropriate,  in
consultation  with 
and  Agriculture
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO)  and  other
regional  fisheries  management  organizations.  This
regional  approach  is  in  accordance  with  the  draft
fisheries  resolution,  which  encourages  States,  through
their  participation  in  regional  fisheries  management
organizations, 
their
to 
performance review.
the  Food 
procedures 
processes 
initiate 
and 
for 
for 
to 
issues 
relating 
We deem very important the meeting in February
of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group to
study 
the  conservation  and
sustainable  use  of  marine  biological  diversity  beyond
areas of national jurisdiction. In our view, a major role
of the meeting is to provide the General Assembly with
an  overview  of  the  various  issues  falling  under  its
broad  scope,  described  in  omnibus  resolution  59/24.
This is particularly relevant in the light of the fact that
many  intergovernmental  organizations  and  bodies  are
involved  in  work  on  these  issues,  resulting  in  some
overlap.  We  look  forward  to  a  substantive,  well-
informed and non-polemic discussion in February.
its 
At 
session, 
fifty-seventh 
the  General
Assembly  decided  to  continue  for  three  years  the
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea. We would
like to thank the co-Chairmen of this period, Mr. Philip
Burgess  of  Australia,  Mr.  Felipe  Paolillo  of  Uruguay
and Mr. Cristián Maquieira of Chile, for their valuable
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  Consultative  Process.
We  welcome  the  continuation  of  the  Process  for  the
next  three  years  on  the  same  informal  basis  but  note
the  need  to  strengthen  and  improve  its  efficiency,  as
recognized  in  the  draft  omnibus  resolution.  In  our
view, the meetings of the Consultative Process need to
be  restructured 
to  have  more  focused
discussions and to give sufficient time for consultations
on the elements to be suggested to the Assembly. The
preparatory  meeting  for  the  seventh  meeting  of  the
in  order 
29
A/60/PV.54
Consultative  Process  provides  a  good  opportunity  in
that respect.
develop their own plans of action, be it at the national
or regional level, based on sound scientific advice.
The  Second  Intergovernmental  Review  of  the
Global  Programme  of  Action  will  be  held  in  Beijing
next year. This will be a valuable opportunity to review
the  progress  made,  address  future  challenges  and  set
priorities for the next five years.
Efforts 
to  strengthen 
international  action 
to
protect the oceans from land-based pollution and other
man-made  threats  have  been  hampered  by  the  lack  of
information readily accessible to policy-makers on the
state  of  the  marine  environment.  The  lack  of  a
comprehensive  overview  is  arguably  one  of  the  main
reasons  why  measures 
the  marine
environment  have  not  been  focusing  on  real  priority
issues.  The  decision  in  omnibus  resolution  57/141  to
establish  a  regular  process  under  the  United  Nations
for global reporting and assessment of the state of the
marine 
socio-economic
aspects, which is based on article 200 of the Law of the
Sea Convention, acknowledges that international action
is needed to protect the marine environment from land-
based  pollution  and  other  human  activity  that  causes
pollution or the physical degradation of the ocean.
environment, 
to  protect 
including 
to 
the  relevance  of 
Two  years  ago,  in  this  very  forum,  Iceland  drew
attention 
the  Arctic  marine
environment.  The  warming  of  the  Arctic  and  the
growing demand for the natural resources of the region
are  leading  to  a  rapid  increase  in  navigation  in  areas
previously  considered 
to  commercial
shipping.  That  trend  calls  for,  among  other  things,  a
unified  international  approach  to  rights  of  navigation
as  well  as  cooperation  on  environmental 
issues,
adaptation and emergency response.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
inaccessible 
During recent discussions on oceans issues, much
attention  has  been  devoted  to  integrative  approaches,
including an ecosystem approach to the management of
the  marine  environment.  Iceland  fully  subscribes  to
such  an  approach,  which  forms  the  basis  of  our  own
marine strategy, issued last year. Let me also take this
opportunity  to  note  in  this  context  the  European
Marine Strategy, adopted by the European Commission
last month, which represents a significant contribution
to our joint efforts to ensure the sustainable use of the
world’s oceans. The General Assembly recommends in
its  draft  omnibus  resolution  that  the  Consultative
Process  should,  at 
its
discussions  on  the  topic  “Ecosystem  approaches  and
oceans”.  We  look  forward  to  a  constructive  and
informative  discussion  in  June  on  the  application  of
ecosystem approaches.
its  next  meeting, 
focus 
Iceland  has  actively  encouraged  an  open
discussion  on  marine  pollution, 
issue  of
international concern. It has long been recognized that
one  of  the  most  serious  and  extensive  threats  to  the
health of the marine ecosystem is pollution from land-
based sources.
an 
As the implementation of the Global Programme
of Action for the Protection of the Marine Environment
from  Land-based  Activities  has 
fallen  short  of
expectations,  national  or  regional  plans  should  play  a
leading  role  in  redressing  that  issue.  Only  a  few
countries have as yet adopted such plans, but a number
of countries are in the final stages of adopting national
action  plans.  However,  more  efforts  are  needed,  and
Iceland  strongly  urges  States  that  have  not  done  so  to
30
