United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
23rd plenary meeting
Friday, 23 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.23
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President:
I  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Momodu Koroma, Minister for Foreign Affairs and
International  Cooperation  of  the  Republic  of  Sierra
Leone.
Mr.  Koroma  (Sierra  Leone):  The  delegation  of
the  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  wishes  to  express  its
profound  appreciation  for  the  significant  contribution
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
ninth  session  to  the  work  of  the  Assembly  and  to
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption  of  the
leadership of this body at its sixtieth session. You and
your  predecessor  will  always  have  a  special  place  in
the  history  of  the  United  Nations  as  Presidents  of  the
General  Assembly  at  the  height  of  the  Organization’s
reform process.
small  — 
for 
The United Nations was founded on the principle
of  multilateral  cooperation  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  For  60  years,  it  has
been  the  focus  of  its  Members  —  rich  and  poor,  big
and 
critical
responsibility.  Today,  for  many  of  its  Members,  the
Organization  is  the  great  hope,  not  only  for  the
achievement  of  peace  and  security,  but  also  for  the
attainment  of  every  objective  of  human  aspiration,
particularly  development,  human  rights,  freedom  and
democracy.
carrying  out 
that 
The  United  Nations  was  designed  to  serve  the
world of  the  aftermath  of  the  Second  World  War  —  a
world different in many ways from today’s world. That
is  why  my  delegation  has  welcomed  with 
total
commitment  reforms  in  the  United  Nations  system  to
reflect  the  realities  of  today’s  world,  and  we  will
continue to participate fully in the reform process.
last  week’s  summit  and  applaud 
We  welcome  the  outcome  document  (resolution
60/1)  of 
the
negotiations that led to its adoption by consensus. The
success  of  those  negotiations  indicate  that,  in  spite  of
our  differences  and  individual  sovereign  interests,
Member States  recognize  that  we  have  more  things  in
common than things that divide us and that, for a better
world,  common  interests  must  enjoy  precedence  over
individual interests.
impressive  and 
The  rhetoric  that  has  accompanied  the  outcome
document  has  been 
reassuring,
especially  for  developing  countries  and  countries  in
conflict  or  emerging  from  conflict.  If  those  soothing
statements  are  matched  by  action,  this  year’s  United
Nations  summit  and  General  Assembly  session  will
have a landmark effect on the Organization and on the
world. We are optimistic that it will.
This  is  the  last  Assembly  session  before  the
completion  of  the  withdrawal  of  the  United  Nations
Mission  in  Sierra  Leone  (UNAMSIL)  at  the  end  of
December. UNAMSIL has  achieved successes that are
unique  in  the  history  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping
efforts.  Sierra  Leoneans  will  forever  remember  the
positive  difference  that  the  Mission  made  in  their
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-52105 (E)
*0552105*
A/60/PV.23
country’s  crisis  and  in  their  lives.  For  that,  we  can
never  sufficiently  thank  the  United  Nations  and  the
entire  international  community  for  coming  to  our
rescue and for standing by us when we could not stand
alone.  In  particular,  we  are  profoundly  grateful  to
countries  that  contributed  troops  to  UNAMSIL  and
countries that financially supported the Mission.
With a tremendous feeling of relief, we welcome
the proposal to constitute an integrated United Nations
office  to  succeed  UNAMSIL,  with  the  objective  of
supporting  Sierra  Leone  in  continuing  to  address
critical  areas  of  concern,  including  the  causes  of  the
conflict,  consolidating 
rights,
development,  legal,  judicial  and  governance  reforms,
the rule of law and security. That measure has allayed
the 
that  UNAMSIL’s
departure  would  create  a  security  vacuum  and  would
mark  the  end  of  programmes  associated  with  the
Mission.  We  eagerly  look  forward  to  yet  another
success in the United Nations peacekeeping experiment
in Sierra Leone.
fears  of  Sierra  Leoneans 
the  peace,  human 
Today, the Organization is preparing to transform
its  peacekeeping  functions  in  Sierra  Leone  to  meet
some of the post-conflict needs of the country. That is
a  landmark  decision  that  could  serve  as  a  model  for
effective  coordination  of  strategies  and  programmes
among 
its  agencies  and
programmes,  and  organizations  and  development
partners in countries emerging from conflict.
the  United  Nations, 
We  note  with  interest  that  the  architecture  and
plans  for  the  operation  of  the  new  integrated  office
were based on close and extensive cooperation among
relevant  parties  of  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  and
various United Nations agencies and organizations that
constituted  the  country  team.  Sierra  Leone  hopes  that
that  process  of  consultation  and  cooperation  will
continue. We urge the United Nations Mission to work
closely  with  existing  national  institutions  and  with
other initiatives that we have set up over the past five
years  to  tackle  post-conflict  problems.  We  have  no
doubt  that  the  new  office  will  provide  a  “guinea  pig”
for 
the  proposed  United  Nations
Peacebuilding Commission, to which we will spare no
effort to lend support.
the  work  of 
As  members  are  aware,  it  is  not  enough  to
establish  these  short-term  yet  essential  post-conflict
bridges;  what  we  desperately  need  is  the  mobilization
of  resources,  including  those  required  for  capacity-
2
economic 
and 
for 
sustainable 
building 
social
development. The objective is not merely to ensure that
Sierra  Leone  and  other  countries  emerging  from
conflict  do  not  slide  back  into  conflict;  rather,  the
ultimate  objective  must  be  to  ensure  that  Sierra
Leoneans do not remain in abject poverty.
The  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission
will be in consonance with the views expressed by my
country’s  President  five  years  ago  when,  from  this
rostrum at the Millennium Summit, he spoke about the
imperative  of  adaptation  by  the  United  Nations.  He
pleaded with the Organization to continue to adapt and
equip  itself  to  deal  with  the  perennial  problems  and
new  manifestations  of  human 
and
underdevelopment.  He  also  spoke  about  some  of  the
ways in which Sierra Leone had tested the capacity of
the  United  Nations  to  adapt  itself  to  respond  to  local
and global challenges.
insecurity 
The  three  main  elements  —  development,  peace
and  security  and  human  rights  —  highlighted  in  the
Secretary-General’s report entitled “In larger freedom”
(A/59/2005)  and  in  the  outcome  document  (resolution
60/1) of last week’s High-level Plenary Meeting are all
interrelated.  However,  as 
states,
development is a central goal by itself. That is why no
one  should  be  surprised  at  the  importance  that  Sierra
Leone  —  a poor  country emerging from a devastating
conflict  —  attaches  to  the  development  cluster  of  the
outcome  document,  including  the  section  on  ways  in
which to meet the special needs of Africa.
the  document 
The  people  of  Sierra  Leone  continue  to  attach
importance  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs) and to the commitments our heads of State or
Government made in the Assembly five years ago. The
principal  purpose  of  the  just-concluded  High-level
Plenary  Meeting  was  to  renew  our  determination  to
fulfil those commitments.
The  General  Assembly  would  be  interested  to
know  that  the  food  security  objective  of  ensuring  by
the  year  2007  that  no  Sierra  Leonean  goes  to  bed
hungry  is  consistent  with,  and  directly  linked  to,  the
MDGs; so are the objectives embodied in our Poverty
Reduction  Strategy  Paper.  We  are  determined 
to
continue  to  work  with  our  development  partners  to
achieve those objectives.
For  the  overwhelming  majority  of  us,  “freedom
the  collective  national  and
to  eradicate  extreme
from  want”  means 
international 
responsibility 
poverty,  the  collective  responsibility  to  ensure  that
people  in  all  regions  of  the  world  enjoy,  first  and
foremost, their human right to food, basic health care,
education, clean water and other amenities that sustain
life.  As  we  see  it,  “freedom  from  fear”  means  the
collective  responsibility  of  all  States  to  remove  and
eliminate  threats  to  the  safety  and  security  of  people
everywhere, such as the illicit traffic and use of small
arms  and  the  accumulation  of  nuclear  and  other
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  “Freedom  from  want”
and  “freedom  from  fear”  also  imply  the  responsibility
to  accept  without  reservation  the  relationship  between
disarmament and development.
Furthermore, “freedom to live in dignity” implies
the collective responsibility of all States to ensure that
their peoples are treated with dignity. This includes the
protection of all the economic, social, cultural, political
and civil rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration
of  Human  Rights.  In  our  view,  that  responsibility
implies cooperation and assistance where necessary to
enhance the capacity for prevention and protection. In
this  connection,  Sierra  Leone  is  grateful  for  the
assistance  it  continues  to  receive  from  the  United
Nations in the field of human rights.
in 
then, 
Since 
2002. 
Sierra Leone has continued to make giant strides
in all areas of human endeavour since the end of armed
conflict 
presidential,
parliamentary and local elections — the latter ushering
in a revival of local government that had been dormant
for  nearly  30  years  —  have  been  held  in  conformity
with  democratic  principles  and  practice.  We  are  now
preparing  for  the  2007  presidential  and  parliamentary
elections  to  consolidate  further  our  gains  in  the
democratic process.
Sierra  Leone  believes  that  children  are  the  best
investment  to  ensure  a  bright  future  for  our  country.
Consequently, we hold the view that development  and
respect  for  human  rights  start  with  them  and  that  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  a  critical  tool  for
achieving  those  goals.  That  is  why  we  have  increased
the  space  devoted  to  education,  as  indicated  by
enrolment  figures  that  have  jumped  from  659,503  in
the  2001-2002  academic  year  to  1,158,399  in  2003-
2004  —  this  in  a  country  whose  total  population  is
5 million.
We  believe  that  the  sound  administration  of
justice, in particular strict adherence to the rule of law
and human rights, is indispensable to attaining durable
A/60/PV.23
has 
re-established 
and  political 
stability.  Accordingly, 
the
peace 
Government 
authority
throughout  Sierra  Leone  through  the  reopening  and
strengthening  of 
law  enforcement
institutions, and we are in the process of establishing a
national human rights commission.
judicial  and 
civil 
Two 
transitional 
institutions, 
the  Truth  and
Reconciliation  Commission,  which  has  just  published
its  report,  and  the  Special  Court,  have  contributed
immensely to the peace process. It is the Government’s
intention 
Commission’s
recommendations, to which we attach great importance
as a crucial instrument of durable peace.
implement 
to 
the 
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  appeal  to  the
United  Nations,  the  international  community  and  our
friends  to  support  the  Special  Court  to  enable  it  to
accomplish its mandate.
the 
tribunals, 
international 
There is no doubt that the United Nations and the
international  community  have  made  important  strides
in  addressing  impunity.  However,  it  is  our  belief  that
the  international  community  should  do  more  than
support 
and
reconciliation commissions and other mechanisms of a
transitional  justice  system.  It  is  our  fervent  hope  that
the process of peace and reconciliation in Sierra Leone
will  not  end  with 
the  Truth  and
Reconciliation  Commission  or  the  end  of  the  work  of
the Special Court. Reconciliation would be incomplete
without addressing the special needs of  the  victims  of
the  heinous  crimes  that  were  perpetrated  on  civilians
during the armed conflict.
the  report  of 
truth 
I solemnly appeal to the international community
to  assist  us  in  supporting  victims  of  war  crimes  and
crimes  against  humanity.  Within  its  limited  resources,
the  Government  has  made  every  effort  to  address  the
special  needs  of  the  victims  of  the  heinous  crimes
committed during the 11-year rebel armed conflict. But
we  need 
these  victims
through, for instance, the Special Fund for War Victims
envisaged under the 1999 Lomé Peace Agreement and
the National Commission for War-Affected Children.
international  support  for 
This  address  would  be 
incomplete  without
reference  to  the  security  situation  in  the  West  African
subregion.  While  Sierra  Leone  is  enjoying  relative
peace  and  stability  and  the  capacity  of  its  security
forces  continues  to  be  enhanced  by  the  International
Military Advisory and  Training  Team,  there  is  still  an
air  of  uncertainty  in  the  neighbourhood  and  the
3
A/60/PV.23
subregion.  Because  of  the  porosity  of  the  borders  and
the  historically  fluid  nature  of  the  conflict  in  the
subregion,  we  will  feel  safe  and  secure  only  in  a
conflict-free region.
In the light of this, I would like to  appeal to the
United  Nations,  the  international  community  and  our
friends  to  continue  to  support  measures  to  resolve  the
conflicts  that  have  plagued  the  subregion  for  so  long
and  diverted  scarce  resources  and  energy 
from
development.  But  let  me  remind  members  about  the
imperative of recognizing the fact that the achievement
of  lasting  peace  requires  wholesome  measure  for  the
entire  subregion.  In  particular,  we  recommend  a
subregional  approach  by  the  United  Nations,  the
African  Union,  the  European  Union,  the  Economic
Community of West African States and other interested
parties 
including
to 
disarmament, 
reintegration,
security-sector reform and post-conflict peacebuilding.
Finally,  at  the  time  of  the  debate  of  the  sixtieth
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we  should  be
reminded that the United Nations is and should remain
at the centre of efforts to harmonize activities to attain
its common objectives. This Organization belongs to us
all  and  operates  in  the  larger  interest  of  all  its
members.  Let  this  sixtieth  anniversary  be  a  time  for
recommitment  to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the
Charter,  a  time  for  renewed  determination  to  build  on
the successes of this great Organization.
post-conflict 
demobilization 
activities, 
and 
The President: I now have the honour of giving
the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mamadou  Bamba,
Minister  of  State  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire.
Mr.  Bamba  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in  French):
On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  wish  to  express  my
sincere congratulations on your election as President of
the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  May  I
wish  you  and  the  members  of  the  Bureau  full  success
and  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and
cooperation.
I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,
Mr.  Jean  Ping,  who  during  his  mandate  substantially
contributed  greatly  to  reviving  discussion  of  United
Nations  reform  and  activities  for  development  and
international  cooperation. 
to
congratulate  warmly  the  Secretary-General  for  his
courageous  initiatives  to  give  our  Organization  new
I  would  also 
like 
4
momentum  and  further  the  fundamental  ideals  and
principles of the United Nations.
Mr.  Hachani  (Tunisia),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
This  session  is  of  special  importance  for  the
Member  States  and  the  Organization  itself  because  it
takes  place  at  a  time  when  States  are  asked  to  speak
about  thorough-going  reforms  of  the  Organization  in
order  to  permit  it  to  deal  with  the  triple  challenge  of
development,  peace  and  security  and  the  promotion
and defence of human rights. The summit just held on
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development
Goals (MDGs) was not as successful as we had hoped
it  would  be.  We  can  be  gratified,  however,  that  we
were  able,  despite  the  difficulties,  to  adopt  a  final
document  reaffirming  the  Goals  and  the  Monterrey
Consensus  on  Financing  for  Development,  adopted  in
2002. For the first time, we were also able to condemn
all  acts  of  terrorism,  regardless  of  motive,  of  who
commits  them  and  of  where  they  are  committed.  My
delegation  hopes  that  we  will,  during  this  sixtieth
session,  be  able  to  adopt  a  general,  comprehensive
convention  on  international  terrorism  and  set  up  a
Human Rights Council.
Efforts  to  achieve  greater  justice  in  international
economic  relations  have  not  been  as  successful  as  we
had  hoped.  The  gap  between  the  developed  and
developing  countries  is  widening.  The  economies  of
the developing countries are deteriorating and, in some
cases,  their  citizens  are  becoming  pauperized  on  a
broad scale. The countries of the third world are being
thwarted in their efforts to develop, labouring under the
weight  of  indebtedness,  the  volatility  in  commodity
prices,  barriers  to  access  to  the  markets  of  developed
countries,  inadequate  official  development  assistance
and  scarce  financial  resources,  not  to  mention  the
conflicts  and  various  pandemics  afflicting  our
populations. I would like to point out that indebtedness
is  a  form  of  bondage  and  indebted  economies  are
economies  that  function  under  constraints.  Finding  a
durable, innovative and daring solution to this problem
is  one  of  the  prerequisites  for  any  resumption  of
growth,  not  only  in  heavily  indebted  countries,  but  in
most developing countries. This is why my delegation
welcomes the recent decision to  cancel the  debt  of  18
developing  countries,  while  we  deplore,  as  other
delegations have, the limited scope of that decision. We
would like it to be extended to all African countries.
in 
resources 
sufficient 
to  agriculture 
The  effective  liberalization  of  international  trade
can  generate 
for  African
economies and thus fund various education, health and
infrastructure programmes. Unfortunately, customs and
trade  barriers  that  bear  down  on  African  exports,  as
well  as  subsidies 
the  Western
countries,  cancel  out  the  development  efforts  of  the
African  countries  that  are  already  labouring  under  the
burden of debt. Debt alone  consumes  four times more
budget resources than those we need for education and
health.  That  is  why  I  would  like  to  associate  my
country’s  voice  with  the  call  for  justice  and  equity  in
seeking sustainable solutions to problems arising from
the  multilateral  trade  system.  Here,  I  draw  particular
attention  to  access  for  our  products  to  developed
markets and the subsidies and other forms of domestic
support  granted  by  the  wealthy  countries  to  their
farmers,  which  impair  the  competitiveness  of  our
products on world markets.
The  great  challenges  facing  the  world  cannot  be
met unless we do it in the overall context of sustained
solidarity. That is why Côte d’Ivoire is glad to see new
initiatives  put  forward  by  Member  States  to  mobilize
additional  funds  or  increase  funds  aimed  at  fostering
development  in  poor  countries.  We  congratulate  the
proponents  of  those  initiatives.  We  would  like,  inter
alia, to mention the allocation of special drawing rights
and  coordinated  measures  to  encourage  voluntary
private contributions, the international financial facility
presented  by  the  British  Government,  which  has  been
supported  by  some  developed  countries,  and  a
reduction  in  the  price  of  transferring  funds  from
migrants  to  their  countries  of  origin.  In  some  States,
those  remittances  constitute  65  per  cent  of  all
development assistance. We would also like to mention
the contribution of a solidarity surcharge on air tickets
in  favour  of  sustained  development,  a  proposal
presented  by  Germany,  Brazil,  Chile  and  France  in
September  2004  that  seeks  to  combat  hunger,  poverty
and  fund  sustainable  development,  in  particular  as
regards  combating  HIV/AIDS  and  other  pandemics.
We  hope  that  such  new  sources  of  financing  along
with,  and  as  a  complement  to,  traditional  financing
resources  will  effectively  contribute  to  combating
poverty in the world and bring us closer to attaining the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Attaining  the  MDGs  is  a  source  of  hope  for  the
Côte  d’Ivoire,  which  has  for  some  years  now  been
trying to emerge from the socio-political crisis that has
A/60/PV.23
in 
regard 
to  each  of 
ravaged our country. In the first national Ivorian report
on the MDGs, which was issued in 2003 based on the
data  provided 
the  eight
development  goals,  it  clearly  appears  that  the  Goals
will be difficult to achieve by 2015 if the international
community  does  not  continue  to  provide  financial
support,  including  the  cancelling  of  our  considerable
foreign debt. So, I would like to reiterate the appeal of
the  Government  of  National  Reconciliation  to  the
United  Nations  and  to  development  partners,  both
bilateral and multilateral, to help us more in facing the
new challenges of rebuilding the country, in particular,
reintegrating 
and
rehabilitating  our  infrastructure,  be  they  educational,
health-related, cultural, or environmental.
internally 
displaced 
persons 
it, 
No country can develop and protect its population
from need, if it cannot take effective measures against
the  diseases  devastating 
such  as  malaria,
tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and other contagious diseases,
which  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  entire  world,
particularly  the  poor  countries,  and  which  represent
obstacles to the realization of development goals. That
is  why  my  delegation  feels  that  the  international
community  should  intensify  and  coordinate  its  efforts
aimed  at  providing  access  to  generic  medicines  for
patients 
including
antiretrovirals.  When  the  time  comes,  Côte  d’Ivoire
will fully support the world initiative to be launched in
2006  aimed  at  strengthening  the  health  systems  in
developing countries by 2010.
developing 
countries, 
in 
last  July, 
As  regards  human  rights,  my  delegation 
is
gratified  by  efforts  made  by  the  United  Nations  to
bring  about  respect  for  the  human  person  and  to
combat  impunity  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  We  particularly
appreciate  the  visit  by  the  High  Commissioner  for
Human  Rights 
the  visits  by  various
commissions to investigate the situation  and  the  visits
by  Special  Rapporteurs.  The  Government  is  still
waiting  to  hear  the  results  of  the  latest  international
investigation,  carried  out  by  the  United  Nations  from
July  through  September  2004,  covering  important
issues  such  as  impunity,  serious  violations  of  human
rights, international humanitarian law and mercenaries.
Trafficking in children has become an increasing
problem  in  Africa  and  particularly  in  the  countries  of
West Africa. West African leaders are aware that only
by  fighting  together  against  this  shameful  trafficking
will  they  be  able  to  overcome  it.  That  is  why,  in
addition to the bilateral agreements already established
5
A/60/PV.23
cooperation 
and at the initiative of Côte d’Ivoire, nine West African
States, meeting on 27 July 2005 in Abidjan, adopted a
multilateral 
combat
trafficking in children in West Africa. This multilateral
legal instrument contains binding obligations on all the
States Parties and specific obligations  for  countries  of
origin  and destination of children who  are  the  victims
of child trafficking.
agreement 
to 
As  regards  the  resolution  of  conflicts  on  the
African  continent,  there  has  been  notable  progress
throughout  the  year.  We  are  encouraged  by  positive
developments in Sudan, Burundi, Liberia, Sierra Leone
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  which
includes,  in  some  cases,  the  satisfactory  holding  of
elections.  Nevertheless,  despite  progress  in  conflict
settlement,  we  must  remain  aware  of  the  fact  that  the
situations,  generally  speaking,  remain  fragile.  The
international  community  must 
therefore  act  more
resolutely  to  help  countries  in  conflict  tackle  the
genuine  causes  of 
the  conflict,  while  combating
poverty,  consolidating  democratic 
institutions  and
promoting 
those  countries’  economic  and  social
development.
rejoice  at 
legitimately 
While  we  can 
the
resolution  of  certain  conflicts,  we  must  note  that,
deplorably,  certain  situations  are  still  far  from  settled.
This is the case in my country, which has not yet found
the road to peace, despite the many efforts made by the
international  community  through  various  initiatives
over  the  past  three  years,  in  particular  the  Linas-
Marcoussis,  Accra  and  Pretoria  Agreements.  The
United  Nations,  through  the  Security  Council,  has
invested  a  great  deal  of  energy  in  strengthening  the
peace  and  reconciliation  process  in  my  country.  We
welcome  all  the  measures  taken  thus  far  by  the
Security  Council  and  are  particularly  encouraged  by
the fact that more blue helmets have been sent and that
Mr.  Antonio  Monteiro  has  been  appointed  as  the
United Nations High Representative for the elections in
Côte d’Ivoire.
the 
international  community, 
I would like to avail myself of this opportunity to
thank 
in  particular
President  Thabo  Mbeki  of  South  Africa  and  other
regional  and 
subregional  heads  of  State  and
organizations,  for  their  readiness  to  help  and  for  their
untiring efforts to bring about a peaceful solution to the
Ivorian crisis.  As I  stand  here  before  you,  the  process
is practically at a deadlock and the presidential election
planned for 30 October will not be held on that date.
6
Holding free, fair and transparent elections within
a reasonable time frame remains the main objective to
be attained if we are to have sustainable peace in Côte
d’Ivoire.  Nevertheless,  the  following  priority  tasks
must first be carried out: disarming and dismantling of
militias  throughout  the  country;  the  disarmament,
demobilization  and  reintegration  of  ex-combatants,
following  an  initial  pre-assembly;  the  restoration  of
State  administration  throughout  the  national  territory;
the  identification  of  electors  and  the  establishment  of
electoral  rolls  —  and,  in  that  connection,  the  soon-to-
be-operational  Independent  Electoral  Commission  is  a
bright  note;  and 
for
disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and the
electoral process.
the  provision  of 
funds 
the 
the 
international  community  not 
Despite  the  current  stagnation  in  the  peace  and
Ivorian  Government
reconciliation  process, 
implores 
to  be
overcome  by  disappointment,  discouragement  or
irritation.  We  invite  it  to  participate  more  intensively
and  resolutely  in  finding  solutions  to  the  fundamental
problems of the crisis, which, alone, can guarantee the
return of a lasting and stable peace in my country and
reconcile all our sons and daughters.
In that regard, the Security  Council  must  remain
actively  seized  of  the  case  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  which
must be kept on its agenda. In the same connection, the
United  Nations  should,  in  my  delegation’s  opinion,
seriously  consider  imposing  sanctions  on  all  persons
who  are  guilty  of  serious  human  rights  violations,
inciting  hatred  and  violence,  obstructing  the  peace
process  or  violating  the  arms  embargo  throughout  the
country.
The  Ivorian  people  need  peace.  We  realize  that
this is primarily the responsibility of the Ivorian people
themselves. Nevertheless, without the steadfast support
of the international community, peace will be difficult
to  achieve.  Therefore,  I  call  upon  our  common
Organization 
responsibilities  and
become  even  more  involved  and  more  active  in  our
national  peace  and  reconciliation  process.  That  is  its
mandate and the goal of its commitment under Chapter
VII of the Charter.
to  shoulder 
its 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call on His Excellency Mr. Allam-Mi Ahmad, Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  African  Integration  of  the
Republic of Chad.
Mr. Ahmad (Chad) (spoke in French): On behalf
of my delegation and on my own behalf I would like to
extend our warm congratulations to President Eliasson
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General
Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session  and  to  ensure  him  of
our  cooperation  in  carrying  out  his  noble  mission.  I
would  also  like  to  congratulate  his  predecessor,  His
Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  who  guided  our  work  with
tact, skill and competence throughout his term, in spite
of  the  delicate  and  complex  issues  that  were  on  the
agenda during the fifty-ninth session.
It is clear that the results that we have reached in
recent years, both in terms of peacekeeping and in our
approach  to  development  issues,  have  been  made
possible  by 
the  commendable  commitment  and
devotion  of  each  and  every  Member,  at  all  levels  of
engagement  and  responsibility.  I  would  specifically
like 
the  valuable  contribution  of
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  to  whom  I  pay  a  well
deserved tribute.
to  underscore 
In his report, entitled “In larger freedom: towards
development,  security  and  human  rights  for  all”
(A/59/2005),  our  Secretary-General  submitted  specific
proposals  that  we  rightfully  believe  are  appropriate
solutions 
concerns.  Effective
implementation  of  those  measures  will  enhance  the
effectiveness and credibility of the United Nations and
will  help  us  to  meet  the  myriad  challenges  facing
today’s world.
shared 
our 
to 
and 
their  national 
A  few  days  ago 
the  heads  of  State  and
Government  reviewed  the  international  situation  from
the  standpoint  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  adopted
in  2000  and  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  The  conclusions  clearly  indicate
the  magnitude  of  the  task  that  still  remains  to  be
accomplished,  despite  the  efforts  made  by  Member
States 
constituents.  Those
conclusions,  which  corroborate  the  analysis  of  the
Secretary-General, tell us that times have changed and
that  the  world  —  while  it  still  bears  scars  from  the
past — has  already  entered  into  the  future.  Today,  we
are  seeing  the  unparalleled  impoverishment  of  many
countries and peoples, as well as the emergence of new
abhorrent  phenomena, 
and
transboundary  crime,  not  to  mention  the  pandemic  of
HIV/AIDS  and  the  resurgence  of  other  communicable
diseases.  Given  those  formidable  developments,  it  is
absolutely  necessary  to  build  a  new  international
terrorism 
such 
as 
A/60/PV.23
society  that  is  more  caring,  more  just  and  better
managed, with the United Nations at its centre.
For  its  part,  the  Government  of  Chad,  since  the
establishment  of  democracy  in  1990,  has  planned  and
implemented  a  vast  programme  of 
institutional
transformation  that  promotes  social  and  economic
development,  peace  and  security,  both  domestic  and
external.  Moreover,  we  held 
constitutional
referendum 
to  amend  a  number  of
provisions — a  clear  demonstration  of  our  concern  to
adapt  our  institutions  to  present-day  demands,  as  well
as  an  opportunity  for  our  people  to  renew  their
confidence in those institutions.
June 
in 
a 
While  our  country  has  achieved  sufficient
stability within, that is not true of our borders. We are
suffering  from  the  impacts  of  an  insecurity  that  is
prevalent  among  our  neighbours,  particularly  in  the
Central  African  Republic  and  the  Sudan,  with  which
Chad shares very long borders. Therefore, prompted by
our  border  security  concerns,  we  have  undertaken
mediation  initiatives  to  reconcile  the  belligerents.  For
those  reasons,  the  Government  of  Chad  took  the
initiative to bring together the parties to the conflict in
Darfur, at Abéché, Chad, in September 2003, to  make
them listen to reason. Since then, the Government has
worked  continually  and  actively  towards  helping  to
reach  a  negotiated  solution  to  that  conflict,  with
support from the African Union and representatives of
the international community. Moreover, in spite of his
heavy  schedule,  President  Idriss  Deby  has  become
personally  involved  in  trying  to  bring  about  a  pacific
settlement to that fratricidal conflict.
Chad’s  mediation  led  to  the  conclusion  of  the
N’Djamena  and  the  Abuja  agreements  in  Nigeria,
where talks are still under way to find a comprehensive
political agreement and to put an end once and for all
to the crisis that has gone on for far too long. Chad will
continue  to  act  as  a  mediator  so  that  one  day  the
western region of the Sudan can at long last regain its
calm and stability.
We deplore the violations of the ceasefire that are
currently taking place in Darfur and hope that they will
cease.  We  must  welcome  the  formation  of  the  new
Government of the Sudan  and  we  are hoping that that
will be an opportunity for an acceleration of the peace
process of Abuja.
In  Chad,  we  are  duty-bound  to  work  with  our
brothers  in  the  Sudan,  with  whom  we  have  historical
7
A/60/PV.23
toll, 
in  particular  on 
and geographic ties. But we should not lose sight of the
impacts  and  consequences  of  the  conflict,  which  have
taken  a  heavy 
the  border
populations. For instance, Chad took a fully sovereign
decision  to  welcome  more  than  200,000  Sudanese
refugees  and  is  providing  many  forms  of  support  to
other humanitarian institutions that are operating in the
affected  zone.  Indeed,  the  disruption  of  trade,  the
deterioration  of  major  roads  by  humanitarian  convoys
and all the other costs eat up our meagre resources and
are the most common source of political unrest among
our  own  people,  who  feel  that  they  have  been
abandoned. Given the scarcity of our resources and the
immense needs of refugees and populations in refugee
is  counting  on
areas, 
substantial 
international
community.
the  Government  of  Chad 
assistance 
from 
the 
in 
The positive developments in the situation in the
Central African Republic are facilitating the restoration
of  constitutional  order 
that  brotherly  country.
However,  the  incidence  of  crime  spilling  across  that
country’s common borders with Chad and Cameroon is
increasing. That phenomenon has caused a new flow of
Central  African  refugees  into  Chad  and  they  live  in
very difficult conditions. We call upon the international
community to devote greater attention to their plight.
We welcome the initiative taken in that regard by
the United Nations Peacebuilding Support Office in the
Central  African  Republic,  which  brought  together
representatives  of  Cameroon,  Chad  and  the  Central
African  Republic  at  Yaoundé  on  26  and  27  August  to
consider 
their
common borders and to find solutions to it.
the  phenomenon  of 
insecurity  on 
Of  course,  the  insecurity  on  our  borders  should
not cause us to lose sight of other crises in Africa and
throughout  the  world.  In  Africa,  we  welcome  the
developments  in  Guinea-Bissau,  Burundi  and  Liberia,
to  mention 
countries.
Undoubtedly, the issue of their reconstruction will have
an  important  place  on  the  agendas  of  those  countries,
of the African Union and of the rest of the world.
brotherly 
those 
only 
On the other hand, the situation in Côte d’Ivoire
continues  to  concern  us.  President  Mbeki’s  mediation
has  not  been  able  to  lead  —  as  had  been  hoped  —  to
the  immediate  holding  of  presidential  elections.  We
urge our Ivorian brethren to engage in dialogue.
In the Middle East, the persistence of the Israeli-
Arab  conflict  continues  to  poison  relations  in  the
8
subregion,  even  while  the  withdrawal  from  the  Gaza
Strip is a tangible element in recent developments. We
are  convinced  that  it  is  only  through  dialogue  that  a
just and lasting solution to that conflict can be found.
With  regard  to  the  disagreement  between  the
People’s Republic of China and Taiwan, we appreciate
Taiwan’s  tireless  efforts  to  reach  a  peaceful  solution.
The  international  community  must  encourage  the  two
parties to accept each other. The readmission of Taiwan
into  the  United  Nations,  which  we  believe  to  be  a
legitimate demand of that country,  would  be  the  point
of departure for such acceptance.
interdependence  of 
concepts  of
development,  peace  and  security  is  the  basis  of  our
country’s  support  for  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  (MDGs).  The  Millennium  Declaration  was
undoubtedly  a  strong  signal  from  the  partnership  of
rich  and  poor  countries  in  favour  of  a  fairer,  more
balanced and more united world. In itself, it is a great
endeavour  that  could  lead  to  the  consolidation  of
global efforts.
The 
the 
My country has set for itself the same objectives
in its development strategies, plans and programmes as
are  found  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  particularly
our  national  poverty  reduction  strategy  and  our
national  strategy  for  good  governance.  Undoubtedly,
for  most  of  our  countries,  achieving  the  MDGs  is  not
very likely, particularly in the areas of promoting peace
and security, good governance and economic and social
reforms.
There is in Chad, however, a consensus regarding
the need  for sustained progress on those issues and in
other  areas  related  to  social,  economic  and  political
life. The Government of Chad is, therefore, focusing in
particular  on  activities  relating  to  the  protection  of
children, 
the
education  of  girls  and  the  social  and  professional
integration  of  underprivileged  groups,  particularly
women, 
that
connection,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  partnership
between  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  is  being
strongly encouraged.
the  promotion  of  maternal  health, 
the  elderly  and 
the  disabled. 
In 
I  am  not  unaware  that  many  delegations  may
wonder  about  the  current  situation  with  regard  to
socio-economic  development  in  Chad  following  the
exploitation of oil there. The fact that Chad joined the
small  circle  of  oil  exporting  countries  two  years  ago,
although  it  caused  some  euphoria  in  my  country,  has
financial 
the  expected 
not  attracted 
resources.
Unfortunately, Chad, under the agreements linking it to
the  oil  consortium,  benefits  from  only  a  small
proportion  of  the  revenues  resulting  from  its  oil.  We
continue  to  need  the  cooperation  and  assistance  of
friendly  countries  to  supplement  our  resources,  which
still  fall  short  of  our  needs.  Such  cooperation  is
essential  if  we  are  to  carry  out  our  development  and
anti-poverty programmes.
are 
aware,  my 
As  members 
country’s
development depends partly on the cotton crop, which
unfortunately  is  in  a  state  of  crisis  that  is  becoming
endemic. That crop, which provides a living for much
of Chad’s population, is dangerously threatened by the
protectionist  practices  of  developed  countries.  In  fact,
our cotton producers are victims of the subsidy policies
of countries that are supposed to comply with the rules
of international trade. Measures must be taken to limit
the  effects  of 
is
increasingly  restricting  our  weak  economies.  We
believe  that  well-regulated  economic  trade  would
ensure sustainable development for the least advanced
countries  and  would  help  to  build  confidence  among
States.
the  market  economy,  which 
We  are  uncertain  of  reaching  a  political  solution
to  the  cotton  problem,  despite  the  hopes  placed  in
continued  multilateral  trade  negotiations  within  the
framework  of  the  Doha  Round.  It  is  no  longer  certain
that  developed  countries  will  agree  to  abandon  their
subsidy practices and implement radical changes in the
current  system  to  meet  the  expectations  of  African
cotton  growers.  That  would  leave  no  choice  but  to
resort to political and legal action under the provisions
of 
the  World  Trade
Organization  with  a  view  to  regulating  the  cotton
market  through  measures  to  compensate  the  losses
suffered by our producers.
the  statutes  and 
rules  of 
Most Member States had  hoped  that  this  sixtieth
session of the General Assembly would finally achieve
the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations.  That  does
not  yet  seem  to  be  the  case.  But  we  must  not  lose
momentum,  and  we  must  continue  to  work  to  ensure
that  that  objective  is  attained  in  the  near  future.  The
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  of  the
Economic and Social Council and the transformation of
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  into  an  important
United  Nations  body,  as  suggested  by  the  Secretary-
General,  would  enable  the  Organization  to  be  more
effective.  In  such  a  restructuring,  which  remains
A/60/PV.23
to  Member  States,  particularly 
relevant, the issue of Security Council expansion is of
interest 
those  of
Africa — and quite rightly, because we know that since
the creation of the United Nations in 1945, no African
State  has  had  a  seat  on  the  Council  as  a  permanent
member  with  the  right  of  the  veto.  That  injustice
seriously  mars  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations,
and it is time to rectify it.
Our  position  regarding  a  new  configuration  for
the  Security  Council  remains  that  which  has  been
reaffirmed many times by the African Union. It reflects
our  firm  will  to  participate  in  the  efforts  of  the
international 
community  under  United  Nations
auspices  aimed  at  ensuring  the  maintenance  of  peace
and  security,  which  are  guarantees  for  sustainable
economic and social development.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call on His Excellency The Honourable Godfrey Smith,
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,  Defence  and  National
Emergency Management Organization of Belize.
Mr.  Smith
(Belize):  We  congratulate 
the
President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  assumption
of  his  office.  His  extensive  experience  in  multilateral
affairs  will  undoubtedly  be  an  invaluable  asset  in  our
work.
The 2005 world summit has clearly demonstrated
in  five  years,  we  have  not  given  poverty
that, 
eradication  the  highest  priority  on  our  international
agenda.
It  is  clear  that  in 
too  many  countries 
the
Millennium Development Goals will not be realized; in
some, the situation is worse than five years  ago.  How
then do we assure the marginalized people of our world
that  we  are  serious  about  achieving  the  Millennium
Development Goals by the year 2015? The only way is
by showing that there is the global political will to use
the outcome document as a platform for action.
In  his  report  “In  larger  freedom”,  Kofi  Annan
stressed  that  the  priority  objectives  of  the  United
Nations over the coming years should be to secure for
people “freedom from want” and “freedom from fear”.
What is often not recognized is that a person who is not
free from want can only live in fear.
The  greatest  evil  —  the  most  effective  and
consuming  terrorism  of  our  age  —  is  the  terrorism  of
abject  poverty.  It  is  a  poverty  in  which  millions  of
people live in terror because they know that sooner, not
9
A/60/PV.23
later,  they  might  die  from  hunger  or  from  preventable
diseases.
Every  day  in  our  region  of  Central  America  and
the  Caribbean,  our  people  face  threats  to  their  human
security:  from  AIDS,  drug  trafficking,  trafficking  in
human  persons,  crushing  poverty  and  growing
inequality.
these 
threats.  We  must  promote 
A  new  security  approach  is  therefore  required  to
contain 
the
humanization of security rather than embark on efforts
to militarize globalization. We must focus on stopping
the  deaths  that  occur  every  day,  most  often  from
preventable causes. Global security cannot be built on
a minefield of poverty and disease.
Prioritizing  human  security  does  not  mean
neglecting  national  sovereignty  or  State  security.  As
part  of  our  national  security  strategy,  we  remain
committed  to  fostering  a  culture  of  peace  and  the
peaceful resolution of conflicts.
In  the  Middle  East,  we  are  encouraged  by  the
Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. We join others
in  calling  upon  the  Government  of  Israel  to  continue
the withdrawal from all Palestinian territories. We look
forward  to  the  implementation  of  its  commitments  in
accordance  with  the  road  map  that  will  lead  to  the
realization  of  two  independent  States,  Palestine  and
Israel, coexisting side by side in peace and security.
The 23 million people on Taiwan also deserve to
live  in  peace  and  security.  We  therefore  continue  to
urge the United Nations to take up the plea of Taiwan
to participate in this world body. Taiwan has earned its
place among the community of nations.
Belize 
continues 
to  be  plagued  by 
an
anachronistic claim to its territory from our neighbour
Guatemala.  But,  encouragingly,  earlier  this  month
Belize  and  Guatemala  signed  a  new  agreement  under
the  auspices  of  the  Organization  of  American  States.
Under  that  agreement,  if  we  are  unable  to  resolve  the
dispute  through  negotiations,  the  Secretary-General  of
the  Organization  of  American  States  can 
then
recommend  that  we  submit  our  differences  to  an
international juridical body. We therefore hope that we
can ensure the early and final resolution of this dispute,
so  that  we  can  cooperate  more  effectively  to  combat
our common problems of poverty and underdevelopment.
We  all  recognize  that  there  can  be  no  security
without  development.  The  world  summit  outcome
10
in 
the  vision  of  development
document  maintains 
the
elaborated 
Monterrey  Consensus, 
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation  and  other  outcomes,  including  the
Mauritius Strategy.
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
If  we  are  to  make  measurable  progress 
in
development,  we  must  urgently  implement  the  global
partnership  for  development.  That  global  partnership
involves  returning development issues to the  forefront
of  trade  negotiations.  Without  a  deeper  commitment
from  developed  countries  to  trade  regimes  that  are
more just, the future of the sugar and banana industries
in  countries  such  as  Belize  hangs  in  the  balance.  We
must therefore spare no effort to  ensure that the latest
Doha  development 
concludes  on 
terms
favourable to developing countries like Belize.
round 
As a  coastal nation  with  a  significant  population
in low-lying areas, my country emphasizes the need for
new  action  to  ensure  environmental  sustainability,
particularly  as  it  relates  to  climate  change.  We  agree
with the Secretary-General that:
in 
the 
increased 
life-threatening  weather 
“One  of  the  greatest  environmental  and
twenty-first
development  challenges 
century  will  be  that  of  controlling  and  coping
with climate change.” (A/59/2005, para. 60)
The 
temperatures  occasioned  by
climate  change  are  likely  to  lead  to  greater  frequency
of 
systems.  The  most
vulnerable  to  these  changes  will  be  small  island
developing States and coastal nations like Belize. It is
therefore incumbent upon the international community
to  improve  the  framework  for  action  to  cope  with
climate change. The eleventh session of the Conference
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework
Convention  on  Climate  Change  is  an  opportunity  to
forge wider and more inclusive cooperation to address
that grave danger.
So much of what we hope to achieve depends on
a  United  Nations  that  is  effective  and  credible.  Some
recent  reports  point  to  systemic  problems  throughout
the  United  Nations  Organization.  These,  in  our  view,
provide evidence of an Organization  that  is  flawed  —
not one that is irrelevant. Belize therefore continues to
view 
indispensable
Organization.  It  is  the  only  global  Organization  that
has the capacity to meaningfully foster peace, security
and  sustainable  development  for  the  peoples  of  our
world.
the  United  Nations  as  an 
But  the  United  Nations  must  reinvent  itself  to
meet the needs of today’s geopolitics and unique global
challenges.  The  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic
and  Social  Council  must  be 
and
strengthened.  Similarly,  the  Security  Council  must  be
reformed  to  make  it  more  accountable,  inclusive  and
representative of the current membership of the United
Nations.
revitalized 
of 
The 
establishment 
Peacebuilding
Commission  and  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  are
important,  but  we  must  define  ways  in  which  these
bodies  can  reinforce  the  work  of  the  other  principal
organs of the United Nations.
the 
In the five years that have elapsed since the year
2000,  our  collective  lack  of  political  will  has  resulted
in the loss of millions of children, women and men to
hunger,  disease,  HIV/AIDS  and  other  preventable
causes. But we can halt and reverse that trend. We must
give  a  reformed  United  Nations,  as  the  ultimate
expression  of  multilateralism,  the  means  to  carry  out
its mandate, as set out in Article I of the Charter: “To
achieve international cooperation in solving international
problems  of  an  economic, 
social,  cultural  or
humanitarian character”.
Our world is besieged by such problems. We can
carry  out  this  mandate  by  implementing  all 
the
commitments we have made since the year 2000, or we
can  ignore  them  and  condemn  many  millions  more  to
live in misery or die in pain. The choice is ours.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rogatien  Biaou,  Minister
for Foreign Affairs and African Integration of Benin.
Mr. Biaou (Benin) (spoke in French): Allow me
first of all to pay tribute to Mr. Jean Ping, who guided
the  work  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly  with  great  energy.  He  had  the  tremendous
responsibility  of  negotiating 
the  United  Nations
reforms adopted by our heads of State or Government
on  Friday,  16  September.  We  commend  him  on  his
courage,  his  faith  in  the  future  of  the  United  Nations
and  the  wisdom  and  vision  with  which  he  discharged
his functions.
The  tasks  facing  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  are  inspiring
and  crucially  important.  His  presidency  marks  the
beginning  of  the  implementation  phase  of  the  major
decisions  taken  by  our  heads  of  State  or  Government
A/60/PV.23
on  reform.  We  are  grateful  to  him  for  focusing  the
work of the sixtieth session on this topic.
My  delegation  has  another  good  reason  to  be
pleased at seeing Mr. Eliasson presiding over our work:
the  importance  his  country  attaches  to  development
issues  and  its  very  sizeable  contribution  to  the  efforts
of  the  international  community  to  eliminate  poverty
throughout  the  world.  Our  two  countries,  Benin  and
Sweden, 
the  General
Assembly’s Open-ended Working Group on an Agenda
for  Development.  All  of  this  bodes  well  for  this
session.
successfully 
co-chaired 
The eradication of poverty tops the priority list of
the  Benin  Government.  In  this  context,  we  negotiated
and  adopted,  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  a
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper. 
Its  effective
implementation, jointly with our Government’s plan of
action and our national studies on long-term prospects,
entitled  “Benin  2005:  ALAFIA”,  should  set  into
motion progress that will bring about the achievement
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  However,  it
will  still  be  necessary  for  the  efforts  carried  out  with
our  bilateral  and  multilateral  development  partners  to
converge to improve the situation in the seven critical
areas  for  making  aid  to  least  developed  countries
effective. These are: substantially reducing the external
debt  burden  of  least  developed  countries  so  they  can
devote  greater  domestic  resources 
to  eliminating
poverty;  strengthening  institutional  capacity  to  attract
foreign  direct  investment  and  develop  free  enterprise;
diversifying 
foreign  direct
investment;  promoting  public  sector/private  sector
partnership  in  least  developed  countries  to  promote
rural  development;  strengthening 
impact  of
remittances from our diaspora; the promotion of South-
South 
the  availability  of
products  on  markets;  and,  strengthening  the  potential
of microcredit to eliminate poverty.
the  destinations  of 
investment 
improve 
the 
to 
taken 
the  decision 
We  are  gratified  at 
in
Gleneagles,  Scotland,  by  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  to
completely cancel the debt of 18 highly indebted poor
countries,  13  of  which  are  least  developed  countries.
We  urgently  appeal  to  donor  countries  to  seriously
consider the possibility of extending the benefit of this
new positive measure to all least developed countries.
The Coordinating Bureau of the Least Developed
Countries,  which  my  country  has  had  the  honour  of
chairing  since  2002,  will  continue  consulting  with
11
A/60/PV.23
the 
in  close 
cooperation  with 
international  financial  institutions  and  development
partners 
the  High
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries,
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island
Developing States, to bring about meaningful progress
in all these areas. This is the context of the ministerial
conference  of 
least  developed  countries  on
remittances from migrant workers. The conference will
be  held  in  Cotonou,  Benin,  in  February  2006,  not  in
October  2005  as  originally  planned.  In  the  context  of
this  conference,  the  50  least  developed  countries  are
planning to set up an international monitoring body for
funds transfers  by  migrant  workers;  it  will  be  open  to
all  States.  We  urge  all  United  Nations  Member  States
to  support 
to
strengthen the impact of these transferred resources on
the development of recipient countries.
initiative,  which 
intended 
this 
is 
In  addition  to  these  considerations  that  directly
affect the least developed countries, there is an urgent
need  to  promote  and  give  appropriate  weight  to  the
development agenda within the  context  of  multilateral
trade negotiations in the World Trade Organization and
to  translate  into  deeds  the  firm  commitments  by  the
countries  concerned  on  the  elimination  of  agricultural
subsidies,  in  particular  those  for  cotton,  to  which  my
country attaches particular importance. Such a measure
would  remove  a  considerable  handicap  on  developing
countries’  efforts  to  fully  take  advantage  of  their
comparative  advantages  in  order  to  become  fully
integrated into the world economy. We reaffirm that it
is  indispensable  that  access  to  world  markets  be
coupled  with  measures  to  strengthen  the  supply  of
products  from  developing  countries  through  adequate
support for the local processing of commodities.
No  initiative,  no  measure,  no  activity  and  no
decision in the field of development can be successful
without  peace.  It  is  of  particular  concern  that,  on
essential  matters  such  as  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  the  United  Nations
cannot forge the required consensus to secure the long-
term survival of our planet in view of the potential for
self-destruction  that  has  built  up.  These  questions
should  be  considered  calmly,  with  the  higher  interests
of  humankind  in  mind,  setting  aside  the  particular
interest  of  any  country  in  pursuing  some  hypothetical
power  that  would  reduce  security  for  each  and  every
one of us.
Benin  has  no  objection  to  the  peaceful  use  of
nuclear power to serve the energy needs of the planet,
12
it  feels 
that  any  effort 
but 
to  divert  peaceful
programmes to military programmes runs counter to a
vision  of  collective  security  based  on  promoting
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of
mass destruction.
Our  heads  of  State  or  Government  decided  to
confirm  the  Security  Council’s  key  role  as  the  organ
with  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security. We urge all members
of the Assembly to commit themselves to ensuring that
the  Security  Council  is  expanded  to  make  it  more
representative  and  better  able  to  counter  old  and  new
threats to international peace and security.
In  the  60  years  of  existence  of  the  United
Nations, the Security Council has with varying degrees
of  success,  worked  to  manage  and  settle  armed
conflicts.  It  has  been  able  to  respond  to  breaches  of
international  peace  and  security,  but  it  has  not  always
been  able  to  take  action  to  stop  or  reverse  events  that
have led to an explosion of violence or armed conflict.
Given 
the  massive
destruction of property as a result of current threats, it
is  high  time  for  the  Security  Council  to  attach  higher
priority  to  conflict  prevention,  in  the  spirit  of  Article
34 of the Charter, which states that
loss  of  human 
life  and 
the 
“The  Security  Council  may  investigate  any
dispute,  or  any  situation  which  might  lead  to
international friction or give  rise  to  a  dispute,  in
order to determine whether the continuance of the
dispute  or  situation  is  likely  to  endanger  the
maintenance of international peace and security”.
If  we  look  at  the  spirit  and  the  letter  of  this
provision, the Security Council is definitely competent
to analyse and monitor situations involving the risk of
conflict or a breach of the peace anywhere in the world
and  to  become  actively  involved  in  managing  crises
before conflict breaks out or threats materialize. It is in
that 
that  we  must  view  Security  Council
resolution  1625  (2005),  adopted  at  the  14  September
2005  Council  summit  at  the  initiative  of  the  three
African  members  of  the  Security  Council,  led  by  my
country, Benin.
light 
In  the  context  of  Security  Council  reform,  the
General  Assembly  should  consider  the  subject  of  a
proactive  approach  and  reflect  on  how  to  structure
support  mechanisms  in  order  to  enable  the  Council  to
effectively  play  its  role  in  the  prevention  of  conflicts
and of threats to international peace and security.
Peace  remains  an  invaluable  and  incalculable
good. We share the concerns expressed recently by the
Secretary-General  at  the  launch  of  his  Alliance  of
Civilizations  initiative.  That  constructive  initiative
should  be  made  part  of  the  framework  of  activities  to
counter  threats  to  our  world,  including  terrorism,
whose  predominant  religious  ties  lend  credence  to
theories  of  a  clash  of  civilizations  leading  to  certain
chaos.  Benin  supports  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations
initiative, which aims to restore peace in our hearts and
among religions so that weapons will fall silent and our
peoples  will  be  able  to  express  their  aspirations  for
peace.
We join the quest for peace of those peoples who
lack  peace  today.  We  express  our  solidarity  with
peoples suffering armed conflicts in Africa, the Middle
East,  Asia,  Latin  America 
and  Europe.  The
Organization  must  redouble  its  efforts  to  help  them
procure national concord, understanding and cohesion.
In that context, we are pursuing a thoroughgoing
campaign  against  the  recruitment  and  the  use  of
children  in  armed  conflicts.  Now  that  the  Security
Council  has  adopted  its  resolution  1612  (2005),  the
General  Assembly,  for  its  part,  should  establish  an
open-ended  working  group  to  consider  proposals  for
actions  to  redefine  that  scourge  as  a  crime  against
humanity  instead  of  a  war  crime.  We  are  counting  on
everyone’s support to make that initiative a reality.
the  withdrawal  of 
the
occupying  Power  from  the  Gaza  Strip  and  part  of  the
West Bank brings us closer, fortunately, to our common
vision of an independent State of Palestine living side
by  side  with  the  State  of  Israel  within  secure  and
internationally recognized borders. We believe that the
Quartet’s road map can lead the Israeli and Palestinian
peoples  to  that  goal.  We  call  upon  their  leaders  to
remain committed to the route of peace.
In  the  Middle  East, 
We ask the same of Iraqi leaders and urge them to
spare  no  effort  to  ensure  that  all  Iraqi  communities
participate  in  the  transition  process  leading  to  the
restoration  of  peace  and  the  strengthening  of  the
country’s  unity.  We  make 
to
Afghanistan, Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire, among others.
In  the  same  spirit  of  dialogue,  we  welcome  the
significant progress made in  resolving  the  conflicts  of
West  Africa  through  the  cooperation  between  the
United Nations and the Economic Community of West
dynamic
African  States 
the  same  appeal 
promoting 
aimed 
at 
A/60/PV.23
peacebuilding  processes  for  the  gradual  return  of
normality in the countries affected by  conflict  and  for
preventing 
through  an
integrated, regional approach.
spread  of  conflict, 
the 
We  invite  all  Ivorian  parties  to  overcome  their
differences  of  view  and  give  peace  and  stability  a
chance  in  the  West  African  subregion.  The  holding  of
the  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes
Region  and  the  remarkable  success  achieved  by  the
transition  processes  in  the  Central  African  Republic
and  Burundi  have  restored  the  prospects  of  the  entire
region. We encourage the countries concerned to reach
a 
for  peace,  security,  good
governance  and  development  in  the  framework  of  the
second  regional  summit,  to  be  held  in  Nairobi,  and  to
scrupulously  implement  that  agreement  in  order  to
promote peace, stability and prosperity in the region.
regional  agreement 
Those 
regional 
initiatives 
require  enhanced
assistance  from  the  international  community  if  the
transition in the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is
to be a success. In that context, Benin intends to pursue
its  policy  of  active  participation  in  peacekeeping
operations.  Our  country  stands  ready  to  increase  its
contribution to the international community’s efforts in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  order  to
support the democratic transition process under way.
In  East  Africa,  the  United  Nations  and  the
African  Union  have 
formed  an  unprecedented
partnership  to  restore  peace  in  the  Sudan  and  put  an
end to the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, in the spirit of
Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter.  Such  a  partnership  is
essential  also  in  Somalia.  In  that  context,  it  is  in  the
interest  of  the  United  Nations  to  assist  the  African
Union  in  establishing  and  organizing  its  peacekeeping
capacities, in particular by strengthening the structures
for  planning  and  for  training  national  and  subregional
contingents of the African standby force.
Another  essential  element  to  which  we  attach
great  importance,  and  which  we  hope  to  see  realized
promptly, relates to the decision taken by our heads of
State or Government on the establishment of a standing
police force. The establishment of such a force should
take  into  consideration  the  need  for  linguistic  balance
in  accordance  with  short-term  and  medium-term
deployment  needs.  The  modalities  of  the  force’s
composition  should  be  defined  promptly.  To  that  end,
we  propose  carrying  out  a  rapid  evaluation  of  present
worldwide  human  resources  and  of  Member  States’
13
A/60/PV.23
capacity  to  train  police  officers.  A  rational  process  in
that  area  would  consist  of  taking  best  advantage  of
those capacities and giving all Member States an equal
opportunity for participation in the new force.
Beyond  peacemaking  action,  the  need  to  help
countries emerging from armed conflict remain on the
path  of  peace  and  overcome  the  risk  of  relapse
constitutes  a  real  challenge 
to  which  we  have
adequately  responded  through  our  reflections  on  the
role  of  the  United  Nations.  That  is  the  reason  behind
the Peacebuilding Commission. The consensus on this
question  does  honour 
the  Organization.  The
Commission  must  become  operational  as  soon  as
possible  to  strengthen  action  to  assist  countries  that
have  undertaken  particularly  difficult  democratic
transitions,  such  as  Burundi,  the  Central  African
Republic  and  Guinea-Bissau,  if  their  Governments
request such assistance.
to 
Countries  facing  an  ongoing  state  of  social
emergency  can  improve  their  chances  for  lasting
stability only if the international community mobilizes
the  necessary  resources  to  help  restore  a  minimum  of
normality  by  ensuring  that  those  States  can  exercise
their  sovereign  rights  in  the  areas  of  security  and  the
provision  of  essential  social  services  such  as  health
care, child education, transport and access to financial
resources.
in  all 
their  aspects 
The  success  of  disarmament,  demobilization  and
reintegration  programmes 
is
decisive  for  making  a  peace  process  irreversible  and
for  guarding  against  the  risk  of  the  spread  of  conflict
caused  by  the  dispersion  of  former  combatants  that
have not successfully reintegrated into productive civil
society. The international community must ensure that
the reintegration component of those programmes also
receives adequate financing.
In  the  same  context,  the  Human  Rights  Council
must  take  its  place  in  the  machinery  of  the  United
Nations.  Its  mandate,  size,  structure  and  operational
procedures must take into account the requirements of
representativity,  credibility  and  effectiveness  by
drawing  all  lessons  from  the  experience  and  the
practices of the Commission on Human Rights,  which
it  is  intended  to  replace.  In  that  regard,  the  new
Council  must  become  the  preferred  instrument  for
identifying cases in which the international community
should 
protect
populations. In that regard, the Human Rights Council
responsibility 
exercise 
its 
to 
14
also  has  a  crucial  role  to  play  as  an  early-warning
structure  within  the  United  Nations  system  and  as  a
key element of its conflict-prevention machinery.
We  cannot conclude without underlining our  full
support  for  the  excellent  idea  of  the  Government  of
Sweden to create a network of heads of State and other
world  leaders  to  monitor  effective  implementation  of
United Nations reform.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now
call  on  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Rita  Kieber-Beck,
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Principality  of
Liechtenstein.
Mrs.  Kieber-Beck  (Liechtenstein):  One  week
ago,  the  world  summit  sent  a  message  of  hope  for
peace, development and human rights for all, and took
a  number  of  steps  towards  institutional  reform  at  the
United  Nations.  The  summit  meeting  has  achieved
much. It has also left a lot undone and has not met our
expectations  in  several  areas.  We  agree  with  the
General Assembly President’s assessment that only the
work we do over the next few months will allow us  a
final assessment of the value of the outcome document.
the
comprehensive  breakthrough  we  had  hoped  for.  We
the
therefore 
President’s 
and
implementation  and  welcome  the  fact  that  he  has
started  this  process  immediately.  Institutional  change
must  be  the  focus  of  our  attention  over  the  next  few
months,  both  through  the  creation  of  new  bodies  and
the adaptation of existing ones. We will give particular
attention  to  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the  Security
Council, the General Assembly and the Secretariat.
The  summit  certainly  did  not  achieve 
to  working  under 
follow-up 
guidance 
forward 
look 
on 
the 
We  shared  the  general  relief  at  the  last-minute
agreement  on  the  outcome  document,  since  a  lack  of
such  agreement  would  have  been  disastrous.  We  had
created  expectations  that  were  much  higher  than  what
we  could  have  possibly  achieved,  at  a  time  when  the
United  Nations  seemed  more  in  need  of  reform  than
ever  before.  The  reputation  and  the  worldwide  image
of  the  United  Nations  is  clearly  not  what  it  used  to
be — the  oil-for-food 
sexual
exploitation  by  United  Nations  peacekeepers,  inaction
in  the  face  of  mass  crimes  and  humanitarian  crises
have  overshadowed  the  many  success  stories  that  this
Organization has to tell.
scandal,  cases  of 
It  is  important  to  move  on  from  the  oil-for-food
scandal.  Moving  on,  however,  must  not  mean  that  we
ignore,  yet  again,  the  fact  that  the  massive  abuse  and
mismanagement revealed in the Volcker reports are but
one  expression  of  what  is  a  systemic  problem.  Too
much  went  wrong  in  the  oil-for-food  programme,  and
everybody  involved  failed  in  their  responsibilities  in
one way or another, including the Security Council. No
bureaucracy can be changed overnight, as we all know
from our national experience; but it is clear that only a
more  accountable  Secretariat,  one  that  works  without
undue pressure from us, the Member States, can restore
the confidence of the peoples it is meant to serve.
Accountability  must  also  be  a  key  principle  for
the intergovernmental bodies  and thus guide us in our
work on the relevant reforms. We are concerned at the
increasingly  skewed  institutional  balance  within  the
Organization.  The  Security  Council  has  clearly  taken
on a role that goes far beyond the central place it was
given  under  the  Charter.  Indeed,  its  activities  are
increasingly  venturing  into  the  domains  reserved  for
the General Assembly, in particular.
This  entails  a  twofold  risk.  On  the  one  hand,
many countries increasingly feel a lack of ownership of
the  Organization,  although  collective  ownership  based
on  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  is  one  of  the
cornerstones  of  the  Organization.  On  the  other  hand,
the Security Council is at risk of being paralysed by the
sheer  amount  of  issues  on  its  agenda.  The  answer  to
this  challenge  is  clear:  we  need  a  stronger  General
Assembly that asserts its central role and carries out its
functions  effectively.  In  parallel,  the  Security  Council
must  become  more  transparent  and  accountable  in
order  to  truly  carry  out  its  functions  on  behalf  of  the
entire membership.
The  lack  of  a  solution  to  the  complex  issue  of
Security  Council  reform  is  a  disappointment  to  many.
Enlargement  and  a  more  representative  Council  are
clear necessities, and we will do our part to achieve an
early  solution,  with  the  strongest  possible  political
support. In addition, and not less importantly, we must
also  improve  the  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council,  as  stated  in  the  World  Summit  Outcome
(resolution  60/1).  Transparency,  accountability  and
stronger involvement of States that are not members of
the  Council  are  of  decisive  importance  to  enable  it  to
truly act on behalf of the membership, as mandated by
the Charter. We will  work  hard for  early  and  concrete
A/60/PV.23
results, since effective changes in the daily workings of
the Council would benefit the entire membership.
We routinely repeat our annual call for a stronger
General  Assembly.  Small  steps  are  taken  every  year,
and  all  of  them  are  important.  It  appears  to  us,
however, that the most essential efforts to revitalize the
General  Assembly  do  not  come  from  measures
contained  in  General  Assembly  resolutions.  Rather,
Member States must ensure that the Assembly is seized
with  truly  relevant  topics  that  are  treated  efficiently
and effectively. We may deplore the migration of topics
to  the  Security  Council  that  we  think  should  be  dealt
with  instead  by  the  General  Assembly.  This  trend,
however,  will  continue  unabated  unless  the  Assembly
proves to be a central decision-making body that takes
its responsibilities seriously. The Assembly is what we,
as  Member  States,  want  it  to  be.  A  genuine  and
sustained effort is, therefore, required from all of us.
We  continue 
to 
fully 
support 
standing  body 
the  early
establishment  of  a  Human  Rights  Council  to  replace
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights.  Like  others,  we
were  disappointed  at  the  meagre  substance  on  this
topic  that  found  its  way  into  the  outcome  document.
The  Organization  needs  a 
that
effectively  promotes  human  rights  worldwide,  swiftly
responds  to  gross  and  systematic  violations  of  human
rights  and  reflects  the  importance  of  human  rights  for
this  Organization.  Close 
a
strengthened  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for
Human Rights will be essential. The Council must not
duplicate  the  work  carried  out  by  other  bodies,  in
particular the General Assembly. It must, therefore, not
be a remake of the Commission on Human Rights with
a  new  label.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  the
presidency  towards  an  early  solution  that  would  add
concrete  value  for  the  protection  and  promotion  of
human rights.
cooperation  with 
Mr. Loizaga (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the
Chair.
We consider the recognition of the “responsibility
to protect” as one of the most positive elements in the
outcome  document.  The  main  obligation  for 
its
implementation naturally falls to the Security Council.
The  Council  has  to  ensure  that  disgraceful  inaction,
such as in the case of the genocide in Rwanda, cannot
ever occur again. When the lives of innocent civilians
are  at  stake,  such  a  responsibility  must  not  be
compromised  by  political  considerations.  Collective
15
A/60/PV.23
action  to  prevent  and  respond  to  genocide,  crimes
against  humanity  and  war  crimes  must,  therefore,  not
be made impossible by a veto or threat of veto by one
of  the  permanent  members  of  the  Council.  We  hope
that  the  Council  will  stand  up  to  the  challenge  raised
by the summit. The membership as a whole clearly has
a shared obligation in this respect.
Our achievement in the Summit Outcome  on  the
“responsibility  to  protect”  stands  in  stark  contrast  to
our silence on the importance of fighting impunity for
the  worst  crimes  of 
international  concern.  More
progress  has  been  made  in  this  area  in  the  past  few
years  than  in  almost  any  other  area  of  international
relations.  Transitional  justice  is  now  an  inevitable
element of any serious effort to help societies in post-
conflict  situations.  There  is  now  a  close  and  well-
established  relationship  between 
the  International
Criminal  Court  and  the  United  Nations,  in  particular
after  the  Security  Council  decision  to  mandate  the
Court to investigate the crimes in Darfur. We trust that
efforts to fight impunity will remain a high priority for
the  Organization,  recognizing  the  central  role  of  the
International Criminal Court in that respect.
a 
Peacebuilding 
While  it  may  be  premature  to  pronounce  a  final
judgement on the value of the outcome document, one
thing  can  be  said  with  certainty:  that  document  is  a
reflection  of  what  is  agreeable  five  years  after  the
Millennium  Summit.  It  is  remarkable  how  uneven
progress  has  been  in  several  areas.  Major  advances,
such  as  the  decision  to  fill  an  institutional  void  by
creating 
are
accompanied by major failures, such as the absence of
any  agreement  in  the  area  of  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation.  We  have  no  choice  but  to  build  on  the
positive  elements  of  the  Summit  Outcome  and  to  find
early  solutions  to  institutional  questions,  in  particular.
Progress in those areas should help us to intensify our
work  and  eventually  to  find  agreement  on  unresolved
questions in vital areas such as disarmament and non-
proliferation.  In  this  way,  we  can  make  the  summit  a
turning point in the history of the United Nations.
Commission, 
Two  years  ago,  the  Secretary-General  said  that
we had reached a fork in the road; that observation was
repeated  many  times  during  the  process  leading  up  to
the  summit.  So  where  are  we  today?  Looking  back  at
what we have achieved, it seems that we have taken the
advice  of  Yogi  Berra,  one  of  the  great  legends  of  the
City  of  New  York,  who  said:  “When  you  come  to  a
fork in the road, take it!”
16
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lyonpo  Khandu
Wangchuk,  Minister 
the
Kingdom of Bhutan.
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Mr. Wangchuk (Bhutan): Allow me to  begin  by
extending  my  delegation’s  warmest  congratulations  to
the President upon his assumption of the office  of  the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth
session. We have full confidence in his ability to guide
our deliberations to a successful conclusion. I also pay
tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  for  skilfully
conducting  the  work  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the
General  Assembly  and  for  his  efforts  in  preparing  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  held 
to
16 September 2005.
from  14 
It  is  appropriate  that  the  theme  for  the  sixtieth
session of the General Assembly is “For a stronger and
more  effective  United  Nations:  the  follow-up  and
implementation  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  in
September 2005”.
Indeed,  this  session  has  the  responsibility  to
implement  the  decisions  of  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting. Our leaders have clearly pronounced that the
goals  and  objectives  of  the  Millennium  Summit  and
other  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits
represent the minimum required to deal with the issues
and challenges of our time. Their message is that 2005
should be a year for concrete action to deliver on those
goals  and  objectives.  We  must,  therefore,  summon
political will and assume moral  responsibility to work
truly for the benefit of our peoples on whose behalf we
gather at the United Nations year after year.
In 
larger 
freedom: 
the  report  “In 
towards
development,  security  and  human  rights  for  all”
(A/59/2005),  the  Secretary-General  argues  that  the
principles  and  purposes  of 
the  United  Nations
contained  in  the  Charter  remain  as  valid  and  relevant
today  as  they  were  in  1945  and  that  what  is  now
required is for practice and organization to move with
the  times.  My  delegation  fully  agrees  with  that  view.
Our  work  must  always  be  guided  by  the  Charter,  but
our  approach  must  adapt  to  changing  circumstances
and  challenges.  In  doing  so,  we  must  move  beyond
narrow national perspectives and interests and treat all
issues in a balanced and holistic manner.
As I stated at the High-level Plenary Meeting last
to
week,  my  delegation  supports  all 
strengthen  the  United  Nations  and  its  institutions.  Of
initiatives 
is 
interest 
to  my  delegation 
significant 
the
strengthening  of  this  Assembly,  which  is  the  only
universal body in the United Nations. There is a  clear
consensus  within  the  membership  on  the  need  for
urgent and wide-ranging reform of the United Nations,
although differences remain on the nature and extent of
reform.  The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  has
entrusted  the  sixtieth  session  with  implementation  of
certain  reform  decisions  and  at  the  same  time  with
carrying  out  further  discussions  and  negotiations  in
areas where consensus has not been reached. We must
continue  with  our  efforts  to  find  consensus  in  those
areas.
enlarge 
the  permanent 
Among  the  issues  that  are  unresolved  is  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  have  debated  this
issue for well over a decade, but have not yet reached a
decision. My country continues to call for early action
to 
and  non-permanent
membership of the Security Council and to improve its
working  methods.  In  this  context,  we  reiterate  our
support to include Brazil, Germany, India and Japan as
permanent  members. 
have
demonstrated  their  capacity  and  will  to  contribute  to
world  peace  and  security.  We  also  believe  that  Africa
should  be  adequately 
represented  by  permanent
membership on the Council.
countries 
Those 
Development is the most immediate and pressing
issue for the vast majority of Member States. No other
issue  can  be  as  central  as  development  when  millions
live  in  deprivation  and  despair;  and  global  peace  and
security  cannot  be  truly  achieved  without  advancing
development. In fact, partnership in other areas cannot
be sustained without genuine international cooperation
in development.
to 
The  shortfalls 
in  our  commitments 
the
Millennium  Summit  and  other  major  United  Nations
conferences and summits are all too clear. More needs
to  be  done  urgently 
the  hurdles  of
development, which range from finance to debt, trade,
systemic 
global 
the
environment and science and technology.
governance 
to  address 
issues, 
and 
Adequate and predictable sources of financing are
crucial  for  the  success  of  development  efforts.  We
therefore  welcome  ideas  for  innovative  sources  of
funding  and  calls  for  increased  official  development
assistance (ODA). In this regard, my delegation would
like to commend those countries that have achieved or
exceeded  the  ODA  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross
A/60/PV.23
national  product  (GNP).  We  welcome  the  timetable
established  by  some  countries  to  achieve  the  ODA
target by 2015 and urge others to do so expeditiously.
We also urge that 0.2 per cent of GNP be allocated to
least developed countries to enable them to achieve the
goals  and  objectives  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of
Action  and 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs). The recent decision  of  the  Group  of  8  (G-8)
to cancel the external debt of 18 highly indebted poor
countries,  including  13  least  developed  countries,  is  a
welcome move. My delegation is hopeful that the same
consideration  will  be  given  to  all  least  developed
countries.
As  a  small,  least  developed  and  landlocked
country, Bhutan sees official development assistance as
its primary source of financing for development. In this
regard, my delegation would like to place on record its
deep  appreciation  of  the  bilateral  and  multilateral
partners  that  are  actively  supporting  our  development
efforts.  Despite  a  significant  increase  in  its  own
resources,  my  country  will  have  to  rely  on  ODA  for
some time in its efforts to realize the MDGs as well as
for overall development.
the 
The  continued  support  of 
international
community for our development efforts is crucial at the
present  juncture.  Decades  of  gradual  but  deliberate
change  in  the  system  of  governance  of  the  country,
spearheaded  by  His  Majesty  King  Jigme  Singye
Wangchuck,  are  entering  a  critical  phase.  A  draft
is  currently  under
constitution 
discussion.  Its  adoption 
the  near  future  will
transform the country into a parliamentary democracy.
For  this  system  of  governance  to  succeed,  it  is
imperative  that  the  country  be  able  to  maintain  the
current  level  of  progress  in  the  social,  economic  and
other fields.
the  country 
for 
in 
My  country  attaches  great  importance  to  the
conservation  and  protection  of  the  environment,  as
human  life  is  fundamentally  dependent  on  natural
systems  and  resources.  There  cannot  be  sustainable
development  without  environmental  sustainability.  We
must  commit  ourselves  to  meeting  the  goals  of,  inter
alia,  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,
Agenda 21 and the Kyoto Protocol. In Bhutan, we have
made  serious  efforts  to  integrate  the  principles  and
practices  of  environmental  sustainability 
into  our
development  policies  and  programmes.  As  a  result  of
our  conservation  efforts,  Bhutan  has  successfully
maintained  72.5  per  cent  of  its  land  area  under  forest
17
A/60/PV.23
cover.  Our  modest  achievement  in  this  area  was  duly
recognized  by 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme (UNEP) in April 2005 when it awarded to
His  Majesty  the  King  and  the  people  of  Bhutan  a
UNEP Champions of the Earth 2005 award.
My country fully supports the establishment of a
worldwide  early  warning  system  for  all  natural
hazards. Situated in a very fragile mountain ecosystem,
Bhutan  is  prone  to  glacial  floods  and  other  natural
disasters, including earthquakes. The solidarity that the
international  community  demonstrated  last  year  when
many  countries 
the  Indian  Ocean  rim  were
devastated by the tsunami was exemplary and is worth
replicating in other areas.
in 
It 
cannot 
be 
under 
justified 
terrorism 
Terrorism  is  a  pernicious  threat  to  peace  and
security. 
any
circumstances.  It  is  imperative  for  the  international
community  to  act  resolutely  to  root  out  this  menace.
We  condemn 
forms  and
manifestations. Bhutan supports all efforts to conclude
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism
and  other  initiatives.  Small  and  poor  developing
countries are particularly vulnerable and are in need of
international  support  to  fight  terrorism.  They  are  also
vulnerable  to  transnational  crime  and  need  assistance
to deal with it.
in  all 
its 
International  migration  is  on  the  increase  today.
Migration  offers  opportunities  and  at  the  same  time
presents serious challenges to both source and recipient
countries.  Associated  with  it  is  the  problem  of  illegal
immigration,  which  presents 
serious  challenges,
particularly  to  small  countries  such  as  my  own.  It  is
therefore 
important  for  a  high-level  dialogue  on
international migration and development to be held by
the  General  Assembly  in  2006  to  address  all  issues
associated with migration.
My  delegation  supports  the  Secretary-General’s
continuing efforts to organize annual multilateral treaty
events in conjunction with General Assembly sessions.
In  this  context,  we  are  pleased  to  report  to  the
Assembly that Bhutan acceded to the following treaties
last  week:  the  United  Nations  Convention  against
Corruption; the Optional Protocol to the Convention on
the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children
in  Armed  Conflict;  and  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  the  Sale  of
Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.
18
all 
treaties 
relevant 
international 
Bhutan,  as  a  responsible  Member  State,  fully
upholds 
and
conventions. However, our desire to accede to them is
consistently  constrained  by  lack  of  capacity  to  deal
with  the  range  of  issues  they  contain  and  by  the
difficulties of meeting reporting and other obligations.
This is a serious hurdle faced by many small countries,
especially least developed countries. There is a genuine
need  to  look  at  ways  to  simplify  reporting  and  other
obligations  and  to  provide  technical  and  financial
assistance to countries in need.
We  must  heed  the  call  of  the  Secretary-General
who has said,
“Our  action  must  be  as  urgent  as  the  need,
and  on  the  same  scale. 
...  Only  by  acting
decisively now can we both confront the pressing
security challenges and win a decisive victory in
the  global  battle  against  poverty  by  2015”.
(A/59/2005, para. 23)
We believe that the time to act is now. We must not let
the  opportunity  slip.  I  wish  the  General  Assembly
continued success at this session.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Rosemary Banks,
chairperson of the delegation of New Zealand.
Ms.  Banks  (New  Zealand):  Sixty  years  ago,
Prime  Minister  Peter  Fraser  of  New  Zealand  told
representatives to the San Francisco Conference that its
sole aim should be
“the  setting  up  of  a  world  organization  that  will
really  work,  and  that  will  be  the  background  for
an  orderly  progress  towards  security,  prosperity
and happiness for all the people of all nations”.
The new organization would only work, he said, if its
members  were  determined 
their
commitments and principles.
stand  by 
to 
Today the essential concept of the United Nations
remains  robust.  We  can  be 
its
achievements  in  many  areas  including  humanitarian
assistance,  development  and  peacekeeping.  But  we
have collectively underperformed in others, sometimes
with tragic results.
justly  proud  of 
Our task this sixtieth anniversary is twofold: first,
to  recommit  ourselves  as  Member  States  to  the
enduring  vision  and  values  of 
the  Charter  and,
secondly,  to  retool  the  United  Nations  machinery  to
meet the challenges of the twenty-first century.
The  Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  provides
the blueprint for the way forward. New Zealand would
have liked more progress in a number of areas, such as
more  detailed  agreement  on  the  establishment  of  the
Human  Rights  Council  and  more  authority  to  the
Secretary-General  to  manage  resources  in  return  for
greater  accountability.  We  deeply  regret  the  failure  to
endorse  further  disarmament  and  non-proliferation
measures.
But  we  are  encouraged  by  the  many  significant
advances,  including  recognition  of  the  need  for  more
and  better  aid,  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding
Commission, a doubling of resources for the Office of
the  Commissioner 
the
recognition of our shared “responsibility to protect”.
for  Human  Rights  and 
We have as our theme for the General Assembly
implementation of our summit undertakings. We share
accountability for getting the job done. I shall confine
my comments here to the results of the summit.
New  Zealand 
is  pleased  with 
the  Summit
Outcome  as  it  relates  to  development.  It  represents  a
shared  commitment  by  all  Member  States  to  the
and
Millennium  Development  Goals 
recognizes 
between
developed and developing countries in the effective use
of aid.
partnership 
important 
(MDGs) 
the 
increased 
This  year  New  Zealand  has 
its
development  assistance  by  23  per  cent.  Our  official
development assistance (ODA) programme has a focus
on poverty elimination, with a core, but not exclusive,
focus  on 
to  address  aid
effectiveness,  the  particular  problems  faced  by  small
island developing States, HIV/AIDS, the empowerment
of  women,  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights,
education  for  all,  sustainable  development  and  trade
access.
the  Pacific.  We  strive 
On  trade,  we  look  forward  to  an  ambitious
outcome  across  all  aspects  of  the  Doha  Development
Agenda,  including  in  agriculture,  improved  market
access, 
the  elimination  of  export  subsidies  and
substantial  reductions  in  trade  distorting  domestic
support. Improving the coherence of trade policies and
development  initiatives  remains  a  critical  element  in
achieving the MDGs.
A/60/PV.23
New  Zealand  welcomes  the  decision  to  establish
a Peacebuilding Commission to help break the cycle of
conflict  by  better  coordinating  long-term  international
recovery  efforts  and  ensuring  sustained  political
attention  to  those  who  need  it.  We  must  now  move
swiftly  to  get  the  Commission  up  and  running  by
December this year. We look to the General Assembly
President  to  take  a  lead  in  holding  consultations  to
achieve this. The core elements of the framework have
already  been  discussed  at  length  and  in  detail.  With
good  will  and  determination,  we  can  surely  arrive  at
agreement  within  the  next  few  weeks  on  a  package.
This  should  ensure  balanced  membership  and  flexible
reporting  arrangements.  We  would  caution  against
raising  the  bar  for  assistance  too  high,  and  we  hope
that all States in need of help will be able to approach
the Commission.
on 
the 
negotiations 
Our  leaders  have  spoken  with  one  voice  and
unequivocally  to  condemn  all  forms  of  terrorism.  We
must  build  on  this  and  honour  our  undertaking  to
conclude 
comprehensive
convention  on  international  terrorism  at  this  session.
New  Zealand  will  continue  to  work  closely  with  our
friends in the Pacific region  to improve our  collective
abilities  to  identify,  prevent  or  respond  to  terrorist
threats.  Consolidating  reporting  requirements  created
by Security Council resolutions would, we believe, be
one  step  towards  enhancing  the  counter-terrorism
programme  of  the  United  Nations.  We  think  it  very
important  that  Member  States  should  now  support  the
Secretary-General’s counter-terrorism strategy.
One of the most far-reaching achievements of the
summit, as many countries have  acknowledged, is our
collective  acceptance  that  there  is  a  responsibility  to
protect  populations  from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity.  We  must  now
all  be  prepared  to  assist  the  United  Nations  in
establishing the early warning capability referred to in
our  outcome  document.  It  is  vital  that,  when  the  need
arises,  we  give  effect  to  our  resolve  and  follow  the
principles we have agreed upon.
impunity 
to  ending 
In  this  context,  New  Zealand  wishes  to  reaffirm
its  commitment 
those
responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of  concern  to
the  international  community.  Adoption  of  the  Rome
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  was  an
historic  moment  for  the  United  Nations  and  one  that
demonstrated the breadth and depth of political will to
end impunity and to secure the rule of law.
for 
19
A/60/PV.23
The absence of any reference to a commitment to
end  impunity  or  of  any  acknowledgement  of  the
International  Criminal  Court’s  central  contribution  to
this  goal  is  one  of  several  telling  silences  in  our
summit outcome.
We  are  particularly  pleased  that  leaders  have
recognized  the  need  to  conclude,  during  this  session,
negotiations on the draft protocol to the Convention on
the Safety of United Nations and Associated Personnel.
This will be a major priority for New Zealand. We call
on  all  Member  States  to  contribute  constructively  to
this  process,  so  that  we  can  reach  agreement  on  a
protocol and demonstrate our full support for the work
of United Nations personnel in the field.
New  Zealand  welcomes  the  emphasis  on  human
rights in the outcome document. That the budget of the
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights is
to  be  doubled  and  her  Office  strengthened  is  an
overdue recognition of the gap between expectations of
delivery and resourcing.
While  progress  has  been  made  through  the
summit decision to establish a Human Rights Council,
we  regret  that  the  opportunity  was  lost  to  reach
agreement  on  details  of  the  Council’s  mandate  and
operation,  despite  the  support  of  a  great  majority  of
Members for such a package. A small minority cannot
be allowed to veto the establishment of the Council.
Over the next weeks we must redouble our efforts
to  translate  that  broad  support  into  specifics  on  what
the Council will look like and on its mandate. We shall
look to the President to set a work programme that will
aim for agreement on the details.
Our second human rights priority for the sixtieth
session  is  to  see  negotiations  completed  on  the  draft
convention  on  the  rights  of  persons  with  disabilities.
The  constructive  and  collegial  spirit  of  delegations  in
the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  on  the  rights  of  persons  with
disabilities  has  been  extraordinary.  New  Zealand  is
confident  that  it  will  be  possible  to  conclude  the
negotiations  in  2006  if  the  Ad  Hoc  Committee  is
enabled to meet for three weeks next January.
Our  ability  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations
across  the  board  in  development,  security  and  human
rights  will  be  enhanced  by  implementing  summit
undertakings  on  Secretariat  and  management  reform.
We  need  particularly 
the  managerial
effectiveness  and  accountability  of  the  Secretary-
improve 
to 
20
General. He should  be  given,  as  he  has  requested,  the
tools that he needs to manage the Secretariat.
We  strongly  support  the  review  of  all  budgetary
and  human  resource  rules  and  regulations  and  the
review  of  mandates.  We  support  also  the  increased
focus  on  ensuring  ethical  conduct  on  the  part  of  all
United  Nations  personnel.  We  believe  a  system-wide
code  of  ethics  and an independent ethics office  would
facilitate 
the
commitment 
the  United  Nations
Office of Internal Oversight Services.
that.  New  Zealand  also  welcomes 
to  strengthening 
The  outcome  document  calls  for  early  reform  of
the  Security  Council,  and  the  General  Assembly  is  to
review  progress  on  this  issue  by  the  end  of  the  year.
New  Zealand  continues  to  believe  that  the  Security
Council  needs 
to  be  more  effective  and  more
representative for the twenty-first century, although we
have  no  illusions  about  the  difficulties  of  reaching
agreement on this.
We  should  in  the  meantime  renew  our  efforts  to
improve the working methods of the Security Council.
For  those  many  Member  States  who  rarely,  if  ever,
occupy  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Council,  there
should  be  other  ways 
in  Council
decisions and contribute to discussions.
to  participate 
We,  as  Member  States,  have  shown  in  finalizing
the  summit  outcome  a  mixture  of  courage  and
creativity  on  the  one  hand  and  of  stubbornness  and
hesitation  on  the  other.  The  implementation  period
ahead gives us a second chance to make good on those
moments when we allowed agreements to slip through
our fingers. We put our trust in our President to set up
the  structures  for  ongoing  work  and  to  be  the  catalyst
to motivate and energize us.
In closing, I would like to acknowledge the much
valued  contribution  that  former  President  Ping  made
over the last year, and we thank him.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
call  on  His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Lorin  Robert,
Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Federated
States of Micronesia.
Mr.  Robert  (Federated  States  of  Micronesia):  I
take this opportunity to congratulate President Eliasson
on  his  election  to  lead  our  deliberations  during  this
very  important  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I
would also like to pay tribute to our outgoing President
of  the  fifty-ninth  session,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean
Ping,  and  our  Secretary-General  for  their  tireless
efforts  and  very  considerable  contributions  to  the
successful outcome of the High-level Plenary Meeting
that concluded just a week ago.
at 
This  year, 
this  historic 
session,  we
commemorate  a  milestone  in  the  rich  history  of  the
Organization  as  we  celebrate  its  sixtieth  anniversary.
For  us  in  Micronesia,  the  occasion  also  marks  the
fifteenth anniversary of our joining the United Nations.
We  are  proud  and  motivated  to  be  part  of  this  great
Organization.
Our  celebrations,  however,  should  have  a  noble
purpose  beyond  honouring  the  past  and  the  present.
This occasion should give focus to the long road ahead
of us.  Inspired  by  the  accomplishments  of  the  past  60
years, we must forge ahead with strong determination,
confidence  and  vigour  to  meet  the  challenges  that  the
future holds for the Organization.
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  does  not
pretend to believe that the problems that we are called
upon  to  tackle  are  easy;  they  are  not.  But  while  we
have  differences  of  opinion  as  to  how  they  may  be
effectively  addressed, my delegation  is  encouraged  by
the broad consensus that was reached during the high-
level  panel  meetings  last  week  that  the  reform  of  the
United  Nations  and  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  must  be  addressed  one
way or another and sooner  rather than  later. No  doubt
the  consensus  was  forged  in  the  conviction  that  the
United  Nations,  with  all 
its  shortcomings,  still
represents  the  best  hope  for  humankind  to  solve  its
problems at the multilateral level. If that is the case, as
my country firmly believes it is, the Organization must
be  reformed  to  reflect  present  day  realities  and  to
effectively  and  efficiently  achieve 
its  enduring
objectives as enshrined in the Charter. For the sake of
our  Organization’s  credibility, 
long-term
sustainability, and for the millions of people around the
globe  that  pin  their  hopes  on  the  United  Nations,  the
Organization  must  be  reformed.  My  delegation  fully
supports the call that has been made within the General
Assembly Hall for its comprehensive reform.
for 
its 
Consequently, let us give full consideration to the
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century demand that we should do so. With
the  indulgence  of  members,  I  do  not  wish  to  go  into
details here, as the position of my Government on the
issue  has  already  been  made  known  on  several
A/60/PV.23
occasions.  I  would  only  reiterate  our  call  for  the
inclusion of Japan and Germany, among the developed
countries,  as  permanent  members  of  the  Council,
because  we  believe  they  will  contribute  greatly  to  the
maintenance  of  peace  and  security.  For 
those
aforementioned reasons, we  also support the inclusion
of India, a developing country, as a permanent member
of the Security Council. Moreover, we will support the
inclusion  of  other  developing  countries  from  other
regions, if that reflects the choice of those regions. We
urge Member States to take bold and decisive action on
this issue.
The time has come for the “enemy State” clauses
in  the  United  Nations  Charter  to  be  removed.  They
have  long  become  obsolete.  The  outcome  document
rightfully reflects that fact.
The  sixtieth  General  Assembly  could  not  have
been  more  timely.  It  can  take  up  the  noble  but
incomplete  task  of  reinforcing  and  facilitating  the  full
implementation of the outcome of last week’s summit.
We  have  little  choice  but  to  complete  that  which  was
left unfinished.
Consistent  with 
to  affordable  and 
the  broader  agenda  of 
the
debates, we wish to reiterate the great importance that
we attach to the second phase of the World Summit on
the Information Society (WSIS) to be held in Tunisia in
November.  For  my  country,  whose  population  is
dispersed on many islands scattered over a vast area of
the  Pacific,  access 
reliable
information and communication technologies (ICTs) is
critical  to  the  socio-economic  advancement  of  its
people.  But  harnessing  the  power  of  ICTs  does  not
benefit  only  a  few.  In  the  end,  it  is  a  win-win
proposition for us all — for developing and developed
countries  alike.  The  responsible  use  and  effective
dissemination  of  meaningful  information  is  the  key  to
emancipation  from  human  ignorance  and  is  therefore
essential  to  socio-economic  progress.  It  follows  that
the  means  of  collecting,  evaluating,  and  transmitting
information must be shared and placed at the service of
humankind.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  my  country
continues to add its voice to those of other countries in
urging universal cooperation in the WSIS process. It is
a step forward along the road to achieving the MDGs.
Without it, the MDGs will mean little.
It  is  for  the  same  reason  that  my  Government
and
view,
the  Community  of  Democracies 
activities. 
supports 
participates 
our 
in 
its 
In 
21
A/60/PV.23
democratization  of  the  institutions  of  governance  and
transparency  in  public  policymaking  —  with  due
regard  to  local  conditions  —  are  inseparable  from
economic  progress  and  collective  security.  After  all,
the  work  of  the  Community  does  not  contradict  but
further reinforces the MDGs and, in a larger sense, the
time-honoured  objectives  incorporated  in  the  Charter
of the United Nations.
It does not take a great deal of wisdom to realize
that, as a small island developing State, my country is
vulnerable  to  the  extremely  adverse  impact  of  global
climate  change.  For  the  15  years  we  have  been  a
Member  of  the  United  Nations,  we  have  been  vocal
here and elsewhere on the issue of climate change and
its  adverse  impact  on  small  island  developing  States.
For us, it is an issue of security and survival. I reiterate
our appeal to those countries that have not yet ratified
the  Kyoto  Protocol  to  do  so  immediately  and  without
further delay.
A  week  ago  during 
the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting,  President  Joseph  Urusemal, 
like  other
Micronesian Presidents  before  him,  called  attention  to
the  daunting  challenges  facing  our  country  and  other
small  island  developing  States  in  pursuing  sustainable
development and achieving the MDGs. I reaffirm their
calls here once again, and stress the urgent need for the
international  community 
to  fully  and  effectively
implement  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  further
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing
States.  The  Strategy  provides  a  way  forward  for  these
countries  and  plays  a  crucial  role  in  our  ability  to
achieve sustainable development and meet the MDGs.
As if the plethora of challenges I have spoken of
are not daunting enough for my country, the escalating
cost  of  fuel  and  its  negative  impact  on  our  efforts  to
meet  development  goals  and  pursue  sustainable
development  is  a  major  cause  of  concern.  That  crisis
brings  to  the  fore  the  need  identified  by  small  island
developing  States 
research  and
development and a sharing of technologies in the areas
of  renewable  and  alternative  sources  of  energy.  We
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  assist  us  in
those areas.
for  accelerated 
I  take  this  opportunity  today  to  reiterate  the  call
made  by  my  President  during  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting to further strengthen cooperation and linkages
between  the  United  Nations  and  countries  of  the
22
the  United  Nations  system  and 
Pacific, like mine. The need  for  the  physical  presence
of 
its  sustained
engagement  in  our  development  process  is  now  more
compelling than ever. We cannot accept the notion that
our country is undeserving of the substantive presence
of the United Nations.
Over 
the  past  few  months  we  have  seen
encouraging  signs  in  the  Middle  East.  The  historic
disengagement of Israel from the Gaza Strip and parts
of  the  West  Bank  is  a  step  in  the  right  direction  and
should be commended. My Government appreciates the
political  obstacles  faced  by  the  two  parties  and
encourages them to stay the course towards a peaceful
settlement  of  what  has  been  a  long,  complex  and
unpleasant  experience.  We  call  upon  both  parties  to
spare no effort to actively pursue peaceful negotiations.
They should not be satisfied until the day comes when
Israeli  and  Palestinian  children  can  play  side  by  side
and live in peace, without fear.
As  a  young  country  that  graduated  from  the
trusteeship  regime  of  this  Organization,  my  country
places  high  hopes  in  the  United  Nations.  At  60,  the
United  Nations  should  not 
to  be  contemplating
retirement.  Instead,  the  time  has  come  for  this  great
Organization  to  strengthen  and  rededicate  itself  in
order to effectively and efficiently meet the challenges
of the new millennium.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Phesheya
the  floor 
Mbongeni  Dlamini,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  the
Kingdom of Swaziland.
Mr.  Dlamini  (Swaziland):  It  is  an  honour  and
privilege for me to present my country’s statement, as
commanded by His Majesty King Mswati III.
I  am  happy  to  convey  the  greetings  and  best
wishes  of  His  Majesty  King  Mswati  III,  Her  Majesty
the Queen Mother, and the entire Swazi nation.
I  wish 
On  behalf  of  my  delegation, 
to
congratulate  Mr.  Eliasson  on  his  election  as  President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session.  The
Kingdom of Swaziland is confident that his diplomatic
skills  and  vast  experience  in  international  affairs  will
guide 
to  a
successful  conclusion  as  it  faces  the  daunting  task  of
reform and change.
the  General  Assembly 
the  work  of 
We  wish  also  to  recognize  the  work  done  by  his
predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister of Foreign Affairs
of Gabon, who ably steered the last session so as to set
the  stage  for  change  in  the  year  2005.  He  hands  over
the leadership of this body at a crucial time  — a time
when we have to take concrete and firm action to effect
such  change.  We  wish  him  well  and  every  success  in
his future endeavours.
This 
is  a  momentous  occasion,  as  we  are
celebrating  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United
Nations  at  a  time  when  we  are  charting  a  course  and
adopting clear guidelines for adapting the Organization
to the effective role it must play in the new century. We
have  also taken on the  responsibility  and  challenge  of
ensuring  that  the  United  Nations  of  the  twenty-first
century can make real improvements in the lives of the
peoples of the world.
Given the contributions of the United Nations to
world peace, economic and social development and the
observance  of  human  rights,  we  are  reaffirming  our
faith in the Organization, and we will continue to work
to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the  Charter  through  the
strengthening  and  revitalization  of  the  United  Nations
system.
In the last five years, the international community
has  witnessed  a  mixed  bag  of  successes,  trials  and
tribulations whose consequences have been felt  across
the  globe.  The  scale  of  some  of  these  man-made
problems  and  natural  disasters  —  such  as  terrorism,
war,  the  tsunami  and  Hurricane  Katrina  —  was
unprecedented.
It is  because  of  some  of  these  incidents  that,  for
the  first  time  in  its  existence,  the  United  Nations  has
been  challenged  in  its  pivotal  role  of  maintaining
global  peace,  security  and  safety.  Fortunately,  the
United  Nations  has  remained  undeterred,  and  that  is
due  in  particular  to  the  astute  leadership  of  our
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  whose  diplomatic
skills  and  efforts  to  unite  —  tested  as  they  have
been —  have  managed 
the  Organization
focused  as it  deals  with  the  critical  issues  confronting
the international community today.
to  keep 
For  those  reasons,  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland
believes that this session presents an opportunity for us
to advance further the reform process in order not only
to  make  the  Organization  efficient  and  effective,  but
also to ensure that the programmes of action adopted at
past global conferences are fully implemented.
A/60/PV.23
We therefore  welcome  the  decisions  taken  at  the
recently  concluded  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs)  review  summit.  These  will  indeed  set  us  on
course to have a significant impact on each and every
country’s socio-political and economic development.
Our quest for a safer and secure world continues
to  be  challenged.  The  recent  spate  of 
terrorist
bombings  in  various  parts  of  the  world  is  a  clear
indication  that  we  have  to  fight  that  growing  scourge
with  urgency.  The  adoption  of  the  13  conventions
covering  different  aspects  of  terrorism  demonstrates
our unwavering commitment to this course.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland 
Secretary-General’s  call 
comprehensive 
collectively and effectively fight terrorism.
instrument 
supports 
the
the  drafting  of  a
to
for 
that  will  enable  us 
Tensions  and  conflicts  within  and  among  States,
which are detrimental to development and productivity,
continue  to  affect  many  parts  of  the  world.  Such
conflicts are fuelled by the ever-growing illicit trade in
small  arms  and  light  weapons,  which  cause  the  death
and  displacement  of  thousands  of  innocent  people
every year.
In 
efforts 
that  regard, 
the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland
enhance
supports  United  Nations 
international  cooperation 
to  prevent,  combat  and
eradicate  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light
weapons.  We  further  call  for  stern  action  to  be  taken
against the mass production of such arms and weapons,
in  the  same  manner  as  we  would  deal  with  drug
producers.
to 
In this age of globalization, collective action will
be  necessary  given  that  no  single  nation  can  find  its
own  solutions  to  the  challenges  that  we  face.  In  that
context,  we  welcome  the  various  initiatives  currently
that  are  aimed  at  engaging  regional
under  way 
organizations 
to
challenges within their regions.
in  responding 
their  part 
to  do 
These partnerships have been taking shape, and it
is now up to us to give them substance by establishing
appropriate  frameworks,  harmonizing  methods  and
pooling capacities and resources for our work.
We  in  Africa  consider  cooperation  between  the
African Union and the United Nations as being of great
value.  For  example,  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding
missions  continue  to  enhance  peace  initiatives  in  our
region.  However,  I  would  like  to  stress  here  that
23
A/60/PV.23
peacekeeping  operations  must  go  hand  in  hand  with
humanitarian  efforts,  with  all  of  the  urgency  such
situations require.
African leaders have demonstrated  their  political
will,  but  they  lack  the  resources  to  resolve  crises  in
Africa.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  appeal  to  the
international community to increase its support for the
African  Union,  so  as  to  enhance  its  capacity  and
response mechanism.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  supports  the  call  for
an  integrated  approach  to  conflict  resolution  on  our
continent, and we also support the idea that the African
Union is the organ best suited to mobilizing the efforts
of 
to
undertaking  preventive  action  before  a  situation
deteriorates.
its  members,  and,  most 
important  of  all, 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  remains  concerned,
however,  by  the  conflict  in  the  Middle  East,  which
continues  to  threaten  international  peace  and  security.
We  believe  that  the  road  map  holds  the  key  to  a
positive outcome on the matter and urge the Quartet to
continue  its  efforts  to  bridge  the  differences  between
the parties.
While  welcoming  the  positive  efforts  by  the
Government  of  Israel  to  withdraw  from  some  parts  of
the occupied territories, we would urge both parties to
make  a  commitment  to  a  comprehensive  cessation  of
all violence, particularly that aimed at civilians, or else
real  progress  will  remain  elusive.  We  remain  hopeful
that a solution to the conflict is imminent and continue
to  urge  both  parties 
remain  pragmatic  and
constructive in their quest for a solution.
to 
The recent MDG follow-up summit succeeded in
highlighting  the  plight  of  Africa  with  unprecedented
clarity.  The  paradox  of  Africa  is  the  extreme  and
increasing  poverty  of  its  people,  who  face  many
problems,  including  ill  health,  in  a  land  so  richly
endowed  with  natural  resources.  This  has  become
increasingly  visible  over  the  past  decade,  while  we
have  seen  evidence  of  a  decline  in  poverty  in  other
parts of the world.
In  much  of  Africa,  one  of  the  major  causes  and
consequences of poverty is disease, mainly malaria and
HIV/AIDS. These diseases continue to compromise the
health  situation  in  African  countries,  halting  and  even
reversing  health  gains  achieved  in  earlier  years.  The
poor are caught in a complex poverty trap in which low
24
income leads to low consumption, which in turn results
in low capacity and low productivity.
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  believes  that  there
are  relatively  affordable  technologies  in  our  modern
world  that  can  mitigate  the  effect  of  disease  on  the
poor. Experience has shown that proven strategies and
health  interventions  can  effectively  and  dramatically
reduce the toll of these killer diseases. Fortunately, the
MDGs point the way forward.
We believe that the creation of a world solidarity
fund to eradicate extreme poverty and an accord within
the  framework  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  on
patents are imperative  and would be steps in the  right
direction,  so  that  our  countries  can  provide  medicines
to all.
Health 
is  a  strong  entry  point  for  poverty
reduction,  and  alleviating  the  disease  burden  on  the
poor will contribute to the improvement of their social
status.
This  year  also  marks  another  milestone  in  the
calendar  of  the  movement for  gender  equality  and  the
advancement  of  women:  the  10-year  review  of  the
Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action.  In  1995
women  gathered  in  Beijing  and  took  a  giant  step
forward.  At  that  point,  gender  equality  came  to  be
recognized  as  a  critical  element  of  development  and
peace  for  each  and  every  country.  Some  progress  has
been  made.  For  example,  many  more  girls  are  now
enrolled  in  primary  education.  Investing  in  women  is
paramount 
for  ensuring  sustainable  development.
During  this  session,  we  must  strive  to  meet  the
challenge  that  the  Charter,  established  60  years  ago,
articulated: the equal rights of men and women.
As  we  note  this  progress,  we  acknowledge  the
newer challenges that have emerged, such as the effects
of the HIV/AIDS pandemic  on  both  women  and  girls.
The  HIV/AIDS  scourge  continues 
to  plague  our
communities  in  Africa.  The  pandemic  is  as  much  a
medical crisis as it is an economic, social and political
crisis. With no cure insight, it will continue to deplete
the essential financial  and human  resources  so  critical
for development. For its part, my Government has been
collaborating  with  local  communities  to  find  home-
grown  solutions  to  this  problem.  We  continue  to  be
to  Fight  AIDS,
grateful 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  and  other 
international
agencies for the assistance and support they continue to
provide us in our fight against this killer disease.
the  Global  Fund 
to 
There  is  no  doubt  that  developing  countries  are
determined  to  fight  poverty  by  creating  jobs  for  our
people.  As  we  play  our  part  in  the  mobilization  of
domestic  resources,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  the
developed  world 
its  commitments  by
supporting us. Effective assistance by the international
community to enhance the quality of economic choices
is  necessary,  as 
firm  commitment  without
conditionalities.
to  meet 
is 
The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  believes  that  the
Doha  Development  Agenda  needs  to  be  seriously
advanced,  with  industrialized  countries  addressing  the
needs of developing countries. We call for better access
to  markets,  in  particular  preferential  markets  with
lowered  tariff  and  non-tariff  barriers  to  trade  with
industrialized countries.
On the question of reform of the United Nations,
the Kingdom of Swaziland supports the wide range of
proposals put forward to revitalize our Organization in
its management of our affairs. We are of the view that
the role of the General Assembly must be significantly
strengthened  to  enable  it  to  fulfil  the  tasks  originally
assigned to it by the Charter. The General Assembly, as
the  most  democratic  and  representative  body  of  the
United  Nations,  should  seize  this  opportunity  to  take
the  lead  and  thus  demonstrate  that  it  can  express  the
political will of the people of the world.
In  this  regard,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council
too should be strengthened and given decision-making
powers  to  implement  the  United  Nations  development
agenda.  We  also  believe  that  the  Council  should
continue 
the  overall  coordinator  of  all
development  activities, 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
including 
to  be 
As  we  discuss  greater  representation  and  wider
participation  in  the  United  Nations  system,  and  as  we
celebrate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization,
allow  me  to  remind  all  of  us  gathered  here  that  the
more than 23 million people of the Republic of China
remain hopeful that their voice in quest of participation
in the very important United Nations system will soon
be heard and positively responded to,  so  that  they  too
can  make 
the
management  and  prosperity  of  world  affairs.  In  the
meantime,  it  is  our  continued  hope  that  the  existing
issues between the parties will be resolved peacefully.
their  valuable  contributions 
to 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now
give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alisher  Vohidov,
A/60/PV.23
Chairman  of 
Uzbekistan.
the  delegation  of 
the  Republic  of
Mr.  Vohidov  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian):
First of all, let me take this opportunity to congratulate
Mr. Jan Eliasson on his election to the high position of
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  wish  him
every  success  in  guiding  the  work  of  the  session.  I
would also like to thank his predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping,
for his able leadership as the President of the General
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session.
the  entire 
system  of 
It  is  obvious  that  the  years-long  process  of
reorganizing 
international
relations,  in  particular  reform  of  the  United  Nations,
has been unreasonably delayed. The 2005 summit was
an  important  stage  in  exploring  mutually  acceptable
formulas and in adopting goals whose  implementation
will  lead  us  to  the  achievement  of  development  and
security.
Some  of  the  decisions  taken  at  the  summit  were
medium-term  and  others  long-term  in  nature.  But,  in
our  view,  our  primary  task  is  to  ensure  their  full
implementation and not to allow inertia to impede this,
as has been the case in the process of implementing the
Millennium Development Goals.
Strengthening the capacity of the United Nations
to achieve its goals in the three areas of development,
security  and  human  rights  requires  appropriate  and
active  adaptation  of  the  entire  United  Nations  system.
In this connection we consider it important to make the
following  comments.  First, 
regardless  of  how
important  it  is  to  reform  and  modernize  the  United
Nations,  there  is,  at  present,  no  alternative  to  the
Organization.
Secondly,  further  delay  in  reform  of  the  most
important  bodies  of  the  Organization  will  negatively
impact  its  role  in  the  modern  world.  There  is  a  real
danger that if the United Nations fails to take action, its
coordinating 
to  other
international structures, which lack the degree of broad
representation that the United Nations enjoys.
role  will  gradually  pass 
Thirdly,  the  reform  of  three  main  bodies  of  the
United Nations  — the General Assembly, the Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  —
should provide balance in their work. In that regard, we
consider it  to  be  in  our  common  interest  that  Security
Council  reform  not  be  prolonged.  It  should  be  carried
25
A/60/PV.23
out during the main part of the sixtieth session, before
the year is out.
Fourthly,  regional  approaches  should  be  given
priority  in  dealing  with  development,  security  and
human rights issues. The effectiveness of the principle
of  moving  from  regional  to  global  approaches  has
already been proved on many occasions.
is 
reforms  and 
implementing 
taking  measures 
At  present,  Uzbekistan 
its
national goals for economic development. It is carrying
out  economic 
to
strengthen  regional  economic  cooperation.  However,
any  national  efforts  need 
to  be  supported  by
international  economic  structures.  It  is  important  that
genuine  conditions  for  an  equal  and  fair  international
economic  order  be  established.  International  donors
must  provide 
regional
cooperation,  and  interested  developing  countries,  in
turn, need to make that kind of cooperation an integral
part of their national strategy.
support 
their 
full 
for 
it 
We  believe 
important  for 
the  concerned
regional  commissions  of  the  United  Nations  —  the
Economic  Commission  for  Europe  and  the  Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific  — to
strengthen  their  work  to  assist  economic  development
in Central Asia, with a view to the greater and broader
region 
involvement  of 
in
international  economic 
investment
cooperation.  We  are  of  the  view  that  the  international
community,  including  the  United  Nations,  should  pay
serious  attention  to  the  question  of  creating  a  Central
Asian common market capable of ensuring the rational
and effective use of the rich potential and resources of
the region.
the 
relations  and 
the  countries  of 
Uzbekistan 
supports  all  efforts 
to  ensure
sustainable  development.  Member  States  should  pool
their  efforts  to  tackle  problems  of  environmental
degradation, shortages of water resources and drinking
water 
environmental
conditions  in  cities  and  industrial  zones.  The  global
environmental agenda also calls for the pressing issues
of  desertification,  biodiversity  and  climate  change  to
be addressed.
the  deterioration  of 
and 
Acts  of  terrorism  carried  out  in  many  regions  of
the  world,  including  Central  Asia,  have  once  again
reminded us of the need for a critical assessment of the
practice  of  international  cooperation,  including  within
the  United  Nations,  to  counter  that  plague  of  the
twenty-first  century,  which  threatens  rich  and  poor
26
those 
States  alike.  It  is  unacceptable  to  further  delay  taking
measures  against 
international  centres  of
terrorism  and  extremism  that  —  under  the  guise  of
espousing  universal  human  values  —  in  fact  develop
and  disseminate  ideologies  of  fanaticism.  In  that
connection,  we  welcome  the  Security  Council’s  most
recent  counter-terrorism  resolution  —  resolution  1624
(2005) of 14 September 2005 — on the suppression of
incitement  to  terrorist  acts.  At  the  same  time,  we
believe it is crucial not to allow double standards in the
implementation 
Those
considerations  should  also  be  concerns  in  the  process
of  drafting  a  universal  convention  on  international
terrorism.
instrument. 
that 
of 
in  reducing  drug  production 
A powerful accomplice of international terrorism
is  drug  trafficking.  Unfortunately,  no  actual  progress
has  been  seen 
in
Afghanistan. On that issue, we need  to  move  urgently
from  words  to  action.  In  that  connection,  we  are
counting on the international community’s firm support
for Uzbekistan’s initiative to establish a Central Asian
regional information and coordination centre to counter
transboundary crimes related to drug trafficking.
The President returned to the Chair.
Together  with 
the  pressing  problems  of
development  and  security  there  is  the  issue  of  human
rights.  That  issue  is  central  to  forging  a  new  path  in
international  relations,  and  to  United  Nations  reform,
larger  freedom”
in  particular.  In  his  report,  “In 
(A/59/2005), 
that
international treaties adopted over the past six decades
form  an  impressive  normative  basis  for  ensuring  full
international  acknowledgement  and  respect  for  human
rights and freedoms. There is no doubt that protection
of  human  rights  needs  to  be  one  of  the  core  tasks  for
the United Nations.
the  Secretary-General 
notes 
to  all 
Uzbekistan 
is  a  party 
instruments  and 
the  major
international  human  rights 
is
steadily moving towards democracy and the formation
of a civil society. One important step in that  direction
was  the  decision  to  abolish  the  death  penalty  in  the
country,  as  proposed  by  Uzbekistan’s  President  Islam
Karimov.
it 
We  are  convinced  that  reform  of  the  United
Nations  human  rights  system  needs  to  be  carried  out
step  by  step,  consistently,  and  taking  into  account  the
concerns of  all interested  parties.  Along  with  political
rights, it is necessary to strengthen other human rights,
including  socio-economic  and  environmental  rights.
We  reiterate  our  position  that  it  is  unacceptable  to
politicize the issue of human rights or to be selective in
reviewing human rights situations, even more so when
United Nations bodies or mechanisms are involved.
In 
step 
towards 
restoring 
in  Afghanistan 
is  of  strategic  value 
that  context,  we  welcome 
The  establishment  of  a  stable  and  long-lasting
peace 
for
Uzbekistan. 
the
parliamentary  elections  that  were  held  in  Afghanistan
on  18  September.  That  event  has  become  another
important 
to
Afghanistan.  Uzbekistan  supports  the  efforts  aimed  at
the prompt stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan.
Considering  Afghanistan  to  be  a  part  of  the  Central
Asian  region,  we  encourage  its  active  participation  in
regional integration processes. Uzbekistan is providing
broad  support  to  the  Afghan  people,  as  well  as  to
relevant  mechanisms  of  the  United  Nations  and  other
international  organizations,  to  aid  the  reconstruction
process in that country.
statehood 
Five years after the Millennium Summit, Member
States  have  adopted  an  historic  decision  to  launch
reform  and  renovate  the  mechanisms  of  the  United
Nations.  We  have  a  unique  opportunity  to  carry  out
more far-reaching reforms to adapt the Organization to
new realities. The aim of those reforms is to ensure the
well-being and prosperity of all our peoples. Today the
time has come to make decisions and take action. Any
protraction of the process could seriously paralyse the
system  of  international  relations,  allow  current  threats
and  challenges  to  become  irreversible,  and  lead  to  a
situation  in  which  the  international  community  is
unable to take timely and appropriate measures.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the
readiness  of  Uzbekistan  to  cooperate  actively  with
other States in creating more effective and just United
Nations.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Vsevolod  Grigore,  Permanent  Representative  of
the Republic of Moldova.
Mr.  Grigore  (Republic  of  Moldova):  At  the
outset,  I  should  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
election  as  President  of  the  sixtieth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  My  delegation  is  confident  that
your  knowledge  and  vast  professional  experience  will
ensure  strong  and  competent 
the
Assembly.
leadership  of 
A/60/PV.23
the 
through 
Let  me  also  pay  well-deserved  tribute  to  your
predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  whose  tireless  efforts
guided  Member  States 
difficult
negotiations  that  resulted  in  the  adoption  of  the
outcome document of the High-level Plenary Meeting.
A  few  days  ago,  speaking  from  this  rostrum,
President  Vladimir  Voronin  of 
the  Republic  of
Moldova  reaffirmed  my  country’s  unwavering  support
for  the  United  Nations  and  its  commitment  to  work
together  with  other  Member  States  to  renew  and
strengthen  the  United  Nations  system.  We  need  an
effective United Nations, a richly diverse organization
that  is  united  in  its  resolve  and  able  to  address  the
challenges  and  threats  confronting  the  contemporary
world.
The 2005 World Summit Outcome provides a fair
assessment  of  the  threats  and  challenges  facing  us  in
the  areas  of  peace,  security,  development  and  human
rights  and  rightly  emphasizes  their  interconnected
nature.  World  leaders  agreed  on  a  number  of  concrete
actions and steps that need to be undertaken in all those
areas.  Those  measures  might  not  meet  everyone’s
expectations,  but  they  reflect  a  degree  of  consensus
that is both challenging and inspiring.
Since  one  of  the  world  summit’s  aims  was  to
assess  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,
it  is  heartening  to  see  the  strong  and  unambiguous
commitment  of  donor  and  developing  countries  to
achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
The  measures  outlined  in  the  areas  of  financing
for  development,  debt  cancellation,  trade  promotion,
investment  and  other  specific  areas  of  development
need 
implemented.  Developed  and
developing  countries  must  build  their  declared  global
partnership  for  development  on  the  basis  of  mutual
trust and respect, while the effectiveness and quality of
aid  can  be  ensured  through  a  balance  of  appropriate
financing, good governance and sound policies.
to  be 
fully 
In the area of peace and security, the Republic of
Moldova  welcomes  the  unequivocal  condemnation  of
terrorism  and  supports  the  call  to  conclude  and  agree
on, during the current session of the General Assembly,
a comprehensive convention on international terrorism
containing  a  legal  definition  of  terrorism.  During  the
2005  summit,  the  Republic  of  Moldova  signed  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
of  Nuclear  Terrorism,  which  is  further  proof  of  our
ongoing  commitment  to  multilateral  efforts  aimed  at
27
A/60/PV.23
strengthening  the  United  Nations  counter-terrorism
legal framework.
My  country  welcomes  the  decision  to  create  a
Peacebuilding  Commission,  which  it  considers  to  be
one  of  the  main  achievements  of  the  summit.  As
envisioned, that body has the potential to bring much-
needed  coherence  to  our  strategies  for  post-conflict
peacebuilding  and  recovery,  provided  that  we  succeed
in making it operational by the end of this year.
Unfortunately,  the  outcome  document  pays  far
to  conflict  prevention  and  conflict
less  attention 
resolution, especially  with regard to internal conflicts.
Many  regional  organizations  have  been  entrusted,
under  the  provisions  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter,
with dealing with a number of conflicts that are at the
centre  of  the  Security  Council’s  attention.  But,  as  the
report  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges
and Change (A/59/565) rightly pointed out, the efforts
of  regional  organizations  do  not  absolve  the  United
Nations  of  its  primary  responsibilities  for  peace  and
security.  The  United  Nations  needs  to  reach  out  more
systematically  to  those  regional  organizations,  and
steps  should  be  taken  to  increase  their  accountability,
particularly 
the  case  of  protracted  or  frozen
conflicts,  where  a  situation  does  not  improve  or  even
worsens over the years.
in 
the  role  of 
the  United  Nations 
We  would  also  like  to  recall  the  High-level
Panel’s  proposals  aimed  at  enhancing  the  capabilities
and 
in  conflict
mediation,  which  were  set  aside  in  the  discussions.
One of those proposals was to give the Department of
Political Affairs additional resources and to restructure
it in order to provide more consistent and professional
mediation support. No  conflict in the  world should  be
left  without  the  attention  of  the  United  Nations,
regardless  of  whether  it  is  on  the  Security  Council’s
agenda or not.
Like  many  Member  States,  we  regret  the  failure
to  reach  agreement  on  a  section  on  non-proliferation
and  disarmament  in  the  summit  outcome  document.
But  that  must  not  preclude  further  common  efforts  to
the  global  nuclear  non-
build  consensus  around 
proliferation 
regime  and 
the  pursuit  of  nuclear
disarmament.
We  appreciate  the  outcome  document’s  support
for the implementation of the Programme of Action to
Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in
Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. But
28
to  make  a  real  difference,  Member  States  should
expedite  and  conclude  negotiations  on  legally  binding
agreements  on  the  marking  and  tracing  of  small  arms
and  light  weapons,  as  well  as  their  brokering  and
transfer.
The  Republic  of  Moldova  fully  endorses  the
commitment  to  create  a  Human  Rights  Council.  We
look forward to speedy and productive negotiations on
the Council’s mandate, size, membership and  working
procedures. We have high expectations of that standing
body’s  ability  to  protect  and  even  enforce  respect  for
fundamental  human  rights,  especially  in  cases  of
humanitarian  crimes  and  violations  in  conflict  zones
outside  the  control  of  sovereign  States.  My  country
also  supports  the  decision  to  strengthen  the  Office  of
the High Commissioner for Human Rights and its field
offices.
As  a  country  that  has  placed  the  concepts  of
democracy  and  rule  of  law  at  its  core  since  gaining
independence, the Republic of Moldova  welcomes the
reaffirmation of democracy as a universal value in the
outcome  document  and  the  creation  of  the  new
Democracy Fund.
The success of United Nations reform depends on
the  ability  of  Member  States  to  implement  measures
that  revitalize  the  General  Assembly  and  enhance  the
effectiveness of the Economic  and Social Council and
the  Secretariat.  Although  the  issue  of  the  enlargement
of the Security Council proved to be highly divisive, an
enormous  amount  of  work  has  been  done  to  explore
different  options.  We  all  agree  that  the  expanded
Council  should  be 
representative,  efficient  and
transparent.  We  should  continue  to  seek  consensus
based on those principles.
The  triangle  of  development,  peace  and  freedom
is of direct relevance to the Republic of Moldova. Our
young  democracy  is  struggling  with  the  difficulties  of
transition  and  suffers  —  as  it  has  for  more  than  13
years  —  from  a  protracted,  unsolved  conflict  inspired
and  supported  from  abroad.  It  sees  the  fundamental
freedoms  of  a  significant  number  of  its  citizens
violated by an aggressive separatist regime.
As representatives of my country have stressed in
the  Assembly  over  the  years,  settling  the  internal
conflict  in  the  Transnistrian  region  of  the  Republic  of
Moldova is our greatest priority. Separatism is not only
the main threat to our  country’s  peace  and  security;  it
is also the main obstacle to the further consolidation of
the independence and the statehood of the Republic of
Moldova and a hindrance to its economic development.
The  reintegration  of  the  country,  with  respect  for  the
principle  of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty,  is  a
prerequisite  for  a  stable  and  prosperous  Republic  of
Moldova  able  to  achieve  its  internal  and  external
strategic objectives.
for 
First,  our  Government  has  called 
the
complete, unconditional and transparent withdrawal of
foreign  troops  and  munitions  from  the  territory  of
Moldova, in accordance with the relevant decisions of
the  OSCE  Istanbul  Summit.  The  foreign  military
presence  is  used  as  external  pressure  and  provides  a
political shield for the separatist authorities.
A/60/PV.23
The  Republic  of  Moldova  has  worked  faithfully
and  constructively  towards  that  end  for  many  years,
looking  for  a  peaceful,  just  and  lasting  solution  to
political  conflict  and  fostering  dialogue  with  the  self-
appointed  Transnistrian  leaders,  with  the  help  of
mediating  countries  and  the  Organization  for  Security
and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Unfortunately, all
efforts  have  been  in  vain  and  have  only  demonstrated
the ineffectiveness of the old format. With support and
encouragement from abroad, the separatist leaders have
been using the negotiation process to claim legitimacy
for themselves as the representatives of the will of the
inhabitants of the Transnistrian region of the Republic
of Moldova, and have promoted the idea of a  pseudo-
State, for which there are no ethnic, religious or other
plausible  grounds.  In  the  meantime,  the  region  has
become  a  centre  of  illegal  and  criminal  economic
activity,  trafficking,  arms  production  and  proliferation
and a threat to the stability and security of that part of
the  European  continent.  The  region’s  multinational
population  lives  under  constant  pressure  from  the
separatist 
the
surveillance of its security structures. The people of the
region are constantly being intimidated and harassed.
regime’s  propaganda 
and  under 
That situation cannot go on indefinitely. There is
a  growing  sense  of  urgency  in  Moldovan  society,
expressed  in  the  unprecedented  consensus  and  the
resolve of all political parties with respect to the ways
and means of settling the conflict. Political momentum
is growing, as Ukraine has advanced a new plan for a
settlement. Following that development, the Parliament
of the Republic of Moldova passed several laws related
to 
law  on
fundamental  regulations  of  the  special  legal  status  of
settlements  on  the  left  bank  of  the  Nistru  River  —
Transnistria — of 22 July, 2005.
the  Ukrainian  plan, 
including 
the 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  has  been  calling  for  a
number of concrete actions to create the conditions for
a 
lasting  solution 
the
following elements.
the  conflict, 
including 
to 
Secondly,  it  has  called  for  the  establishment  of
transparent and effective control over the Transnistrian
segment of the Moldovan-Ukrainian border. We highly
appreciate the decision of the European Union to assist
in  monitoring  that  border  segment,  which  should  help
curb illegal commercial activities and all trafficking. In
that  context,  we  support  the  early  signing  of  the
the  European
memorandum  of  understanding  on 
Commission  Border  Assistance  Mission 
the
Republic of Moldova and Ukraine, and we express our
satisfaction  at 
readiness  of 
the  Ukrainian
authorities to cooperate in that respect.
the 
to 
and 
of 
demilitarization 
Thirdly,  the  Government  has  called  for  the
democratization 
the
Transnistrian  region  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova
through  the  development  of  civil  society,  political
parties and a free press, as well as through respect for
human  rights  and  freedoms,  the  disarmament  and
dismantlement  of  illegal  military  units,  militias  and
security  structures.  Only  after  creating  a  vibrant  and
politically  open  society  —  a  process  that  should  be
carried  out  under 
the
international  community  —  can  one  envisage  the
in
possibility  of 
Transnistria 
responsible
representatives of the population of the region.
free  and  democratic  elections 
the  close  monitoring  of 
establish 
genuine, 
to 
The Republic of Moldova has been pleading for a
new  negotiating  format  by  connecting  the  European
Union  and  the  United  States.  New  inputs,  ideas  and
practical contributions are needed to move the process
forward. The same is true of the current peacekeeping
mechanism,  which  is  far  from  meeting  the  recognized
standards  of  an  unbiased  attitude  and  should  be
replaced by an international mechanism of military and
civil observers under an OSCE mandate.
to  our  efforts 
The reintegration of the country would give new
for  sustained  economic
impetus 
development.  The 
economic
performance,  reflected  in  its  stable  and  sustained
economic  growth  over  the  past  four  years,  as  well  as
the  quality  of  our  country’s  poverty  reduction  and
country’s 
strong 
29
A/60/PV.23
fully 
commitment 
economic growth strategy paper and the Government’s
steady 
it,
demonstrate  that  the  Republic  of  Moldova  is  on  the
right track to increasing the well-being of our citizens
socio-economic
and 
indicators, 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
through  achievement  of 
implementing 
improving 
including 
country’s 
to 
the 
The Republic of Moldova has irreversibly chosen
the  path  of  European  integration  as  the  strategic
objective of its foreign policy. We are aware of the full
extent of changes, reforms and improvements we have
to  achieve  internally  to  meet  the  rigorous  European
standards 
good
governance,  democracy,  political  freedom  and  human
rights.  Our  optimism  with  respect 
to  Moldova’s
successful  achievement  of  its  aspirations  is  rooted  in
the  firm  will  of  the  entire  society  to  mobilize  our
resources to achieve that objective.
development, 
economic 
for 
Successful  and  complete  implementation  of  the
EU-Moldova Action  Plan  will  give  us  the  opportunity
to rise to a new level of contractual relations with the
European  Union,  as  set  out  in  that  document.  It  will
also be decisive for  achieving  further  internal  reforms
and  general  progress  in  the  country.  The  recent  first
evaluation  of  the  implementation  of  the  EU-Moldova
Action  Plan  showed  encouraging  results  and  steady
progress.  The  Government  is  committed  to  the  full
implementation  of 
that  comprehensive  document,
which  will  open,  we  hope,  a  clear  European
perspective for our country.
My  country  is  ready  to  work  tirelessly  to  make
our  Organization  stronger,  more  efficient  and  able  to
fulfil the ambitious goals set by our leaders at the 2005
world  summit.  Only  through  collective  action  carried
out in a spirit of global partnership will we be able to
create  a  better,  more  secure  world  for  the  generations
to come.
The  President:  I  now  call  His  Excellency
Mr. Crispin Gregoire, chairman of the delegation of the
Commonwealth of Dominica.
of  Dominica, 
Mr.  Gregoire  (Dominica):  Mr.  President,  please
allow  me,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the
Commonwealth 
our
congratulations  to  you  on  your  assumption  of  the
presidency  at  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  My  delegation  is  confident  that,  with  your
experience and diplomatic skills, you will preside over
the Assembly with the effectiveness and the dedication
extend 
to 
30
required  to  take  us  through  the  agenda  of  the  sixtieth
session. We extend to your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping
of Gabon, our sincere appreciation for his stewardship
of the fifty-ninth  session and for his tireless  efforts to
guide  the  preparation  of  the  outcome  document.  Our
warm  tribute  is  also  due  to  the  Secretary-General  for
his unqualified dedication to this institution.
Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  convey  our  deepest
sympathies and condolences to the Government and the
people of the United States of America in the wake of
the  deaths  and  widespread  destruction  caused  by
Hurricane  Katrina.  We  remain  concerned  about  the
potential  devastation  that  Hurricane  Rita  is  likely  to
unleash in coming days.
One week ago, world leaders gathered here at the
historic  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  and  demonstrated
their  collective  political  will  to  overcome  the  many
challenges  facing  the  world.  They  charted  a  clear
direction  for  a  future  of  peace  and  prosperity  for  all
humankind.  They  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs),  underscored  the  continuing  relevance  of  the
United  Nations  and  its  indispensable  role  in  the
collective management of the many problems faced by
the 
clear
recommendations for the reform of the Organization.
community, 
provided 
global 
and 
The outcome document, while falling short of our
expectations,  presents  a  platform  for  multilateral
solutions to the broad range of global problems related
to  development,  peace  and  security,  human  rights,  the
rule  of  law  and  the  reinvigoration  of  the  United
Nations.  The  Commonwealth  of  Dominica 
is
committed  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
embraces  the  renewed  pledge  to  save  humanity  from
the  scourge  of  war,  disease,  famine  and  poverty.  We
will  work  with  all  Member  States  to  ensure  a  future
based on hope and prosperity instead of one of despair
for  the  poor  and  the  marginalized  of  this  world.  We
now  have  before  us  the  monumental  task  of  ensuring
implementation and tangible outcomes.
Fulfilling  that  task,  which  our  esteemed  leaders
have accorded to us, requires the determined will of all
Member  States.  It  will  also  require  a  commitment  to
the  collective  will  and  a  retreat  from  preoccupation
with  self-interest  and  narrow  national  agendas.  If
nothing  else,  the  sixtieth  session  should  go  down  in
history as the session at which we, the Member States,
renewed our commitment to the ideal that inspired the
visionary founders: building a peaceful and prosperous
world  in  which  all  peoples  live  together  in  harmony,
free from want and fear.
Dominica,  a  small 
island  developing  State,
welcomes the particular attention given in the outcome
document  to  the  special  needs  and  vulnerabilities  of
small  island  developing  States.  It  is  a  source  of  great
encouragement  to  us  that  the  Member  States  of  the
United  Nations  have  demonstrated  an  appreciation  of
the challenges that confront all small island developing
States.
for 
The  Mauritius  Strategy 
the  Further
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action
is  a  realistic  and  attainable  blueprint  that  underscores
the pivotal areas for interventions to build the capacity
of  small  island  developing  States  to  confront  their
various 
sustainable  development  challenges.  We
appreciate the support of our friends and development
partners and appeal for their continuing commitment to
the  proper  and  effective 
the
Mauritius Strategy.
implementation  of 
Progress  in  the  development  arena  will  require
strong  political  will  for  the  implementation  of  the
commitments  we  have  undertaken  and  which  we
reaffirmed  together  in  the  outcome  document  of  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  These  concern  primarily
the  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  and 
international
partnership 
the  attendant
mobilization  of  financial  resources,  as  well  as  the
fulfilment  of 
the  commitment  made  by  many
developed countries to reach the target of 0.7 per cent
of their gross national product for official development
assistance by 2015. Dominica takes this opportunity to
express its appreciation to those countries that affirmed
their intention to fulfil their obligations in that regard.
the  revitalization  of 
for  development,  with 
the 
in 
My  delegation  feels  strongly  that  the  consensus
we 
reached 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting
represents  a  good  foundation  for  a  greater  consensus
towards  achieving  the  development  priorities  of  the
developing countries. The United  Nations must play a
pivotal  role  in  ensuring  that  the  issues  of  trade,  debt
relief, investment and industrial modernization receive
the highest priority if the global objective is to raise the
standard  of  living  of  the  people  of  the  developing
countries.
We  congratulate  the  Group  of  Eight  for  the
commitment adopted at the Gleneagles Summit, giving
A/60/PV.23
much-needed  debt  relief  to  18  heavily  indebted  poor
countries. However, a similar initiative is now required
for  small  island  developing  States  and  middle  income
developing countries that are being strangled by heavy
debt  burdens  and  the  simultaneous  erosion  of  their
preferential trading arrangements.
South-South  cooperation  has  been  growing  over
the  last  two  decades,  and  through  that  mechanism
many  avenues  have  opened  for  enhanced 
trade
relations  and  cooperation  in  the  transfer  of  know-how
and technology. Dominica welcomes the establishment
of the South Fund for Development and Humanitarian
Assistance  and  the  generous  initial  pledges  of  the
Governments  of  Qatar,  India  and  China  to  this  Fund.
Equally  deserving  of  commendation  is  Venezuela’s
initiative  in  the  Caribbean,  called  Petrocaribe,  which
will  help  Caribbean  countries  to  respond  to  the
challenges posed by the high price of oil.
Aid without trade  cannot be  a viable proposition
for  small  island  States  like  Dominica.  We  are  fully
cognizant  that  only  trade  can  be  the  engine  of  growth
and  development.  Dominica  and  other  banana-
producing States in the Caribbean have had difficulties
responding  to  the  stance  of  multinational  corporations
from  the  United  States  and  allied  Latin  American
countries  that  have  challenged  the  preferential  access
for  our  bananas  in  the  European  Union.  We  hope  that
reason will prevail, as we count on a fair resolution of
the  present  banana  trade  impasse  in  Europe.  Only  a
positive  outcome  will  avert  a  future  of  persistent
poverty  for  banana  farmers  and  workers 
the
Caribbean.
in 
Let  me  reiterate  that  small,  vulnerable  island
States  like  Dominica  need  time  to  adjust  to  the
transition  to  a  fully  liberalized  global  trading  regime.
Dominica  has  made  admirable  progress 
towards
realization  of  the  MDGs,  but  such  gains  could  simply
vanish  like  a  thief  in  the  night  if  we  lose  the
preferential  access  to  the  European  market  for  our
bananas  in  2006.  For  this  reason  we  appeal  to  the
international  community  to  demonstrate  the  necessary
political  will  to  ensure  that  the  Doha  Development
Round  takes  these  concerns  into  account  in  the  quest
for  a  fair  and  equitable  trading  system  for  the  benefit
of all our people.
The frequency of devastating storms in Asia, the
Caribbean  and  the  southern  United  States  and  long
periods of drought in Africa require a more coordinated
31
A/60/PV.23
and  organized 
international  response.  The  United
Nations  needs  to  significantly  enhance  its  capacity  to
respond  in  a  timely  manner  to  disasters  in  the  more
vulnerable  developing  countries.  Last  year  many
Caribbean  countries  were  battered  by  hurricanes,  and
the  Eastern  Caribbean  nation  of  Grenada  was  in  the
unfortunate  situation  of  facing  the  onslaught  of  two
major  hurricanes  in  one  calendar  year.  Grenada  still
needs  additional  assistance  from  the  international
community, and we appeal to all Member States to lend
such assistance.
to  mitigate 
Dominica  has  had 
its  share  of  hurricane
devastation. Late last year we experienced devastation
from a series of earthquakes which inflicted significant
damage on our fragile infrastructure. We continue to be
vigilant  and  have  put  in  place  a  national  disaster
strategy 
the  adverse  effects  of  such
disasters on our population. My delegation once again
reiterates  the  appeal  made  last  year  in  this  Hall  by
Prime  Minister  Roosevelt  Skerrit  for  the  creation  of  a
global insurance fund to assist countries devastated by
natural  disasters.  We  call  on 
international
community  to  fully  implement  the  Hyogo  Framework
for  Action  2005-2015,  adopted  at  this  year’s  World
Conference on Disaster Reduction.
the 
Climate  change  is  wreaking  havoc  on  small
island  developing  States.  It  is  time  for  all  Member
States  to  accept  that  climate  change  and  global
warming  are  real  and  that  they  are  caused  by  human
activity.  All  Member  States  must 
the
provisions of the Kyoto Protocol.
implement 
in  which  Haiti  finds 
My delegation is concerned about the continuing
instability  in  Haiti.  We  support  the  role  of  the  United
Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti,  but  we
appreciate  that  its  limited  size  and  resources  are
inadequate  to  respond  to  the  complicated  political
situation 
itself.  Caribbean
Community  and  Common  Market  (CARICOM)  States
have  already  committed  technical  assistance  for  the
elections and are cognizant that elections alone will not
bring  stability  to  Haiti.  Stability  will  require  the
accelerated 
financial
resources,  more  rapid  implementation  of  social  and
economic  project 
and  peacebuilding
initiatives.
disbursement 
activities, 
pledged 
of 
Terrorism  remains  a  great  threat  to  peace  and
security  at  the  national,  regional  and  international
levels.  Dominica  condemns  all  acts,  methods  and
32
practices  of  terrorism.  The  recent  attacks  in  London
and in Egypt underscore the danger of terrorism, which
transcends  national  boundaries 
and  does  not
distinguish  between  peoples,  cultures  or  religions.
Dominica  is  making  a  great  effort  to  comply  with  the
obligations 
counter-terrorism
conventions and pledges its support for the conclusion
of  the  comprehensive  convention  on  international
terrorism.
various 
the 
of 
to 
in 
non-proliferation 
My delegation regrets the failure of the  outcome
document 
address 
and
disarmament 
the  area  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  Relative  stability  in  today’s  world  should
not make us complacent and lead us to compromise on
the need for total disarmament. Our continuing lack of
action  on  this  issue  has  not  served  to  enhance  global
security  with  respect  to  the  threat  posed  by  these
weapons.
Small  arms  and  light  weapons  pose  a  great
challenge  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in
the Caribbean region. Narcotics trafficking has brought
with  it  increased  circulation  of  small  arms  and  light
weapons,  which  has  led  to  a  sharp  increase  in  crime
and  fatal  injuries.  Dominica  therefore  welcomes  the
agreement  on  an  international  instrument  that  would
enable States to identify and trace illicit small arms and
light weapons in a timely and reliable manner. What is
still needed, however, is a legally binding international
instrument  that  will  regulate,  control  and  monitor  the
illicit  trade  in  small  arms,  including  their  transfer  to
non-State actors.
Dominica 
the  recognition
accorded 
the  outcome
document.  As  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  Second
International Decade of the World’s Indigenous People,
my  delegation  will  work  with  other  Member  States
towards  the  submission  to  the  General  Assembly  of  a
draft declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples.
is  appreciative  of 
indigenous  people 
in 
to 
the  Security  Council  and 
in 
The future of the United Nations depends on full
implementation  of  an  institutional  reform  agenda  that
addresses  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,
reform  of 
improved
governance 
the  Secretariat.  General  Assembly
revitalization  must  result  in  the  strengthening  of  the
Assembly’s  vital  role  as 
the  chief  deliberative,
policymaking  and  implementation-monitoring  body  of
the  United  Nations.  The  Secretariat  needs  to  urgently
address  eroding  public  confidence  through  timely
implementation of the proposals for improvement in its
management  and  oversight.  Reform  of  the  Security
Council  must  be  pursued  to  enhance  the  Council’s
accountability, 
transparency  and  efficiency.  Such
reform  must,  at  a  minimum,  ensure  that  the  Council’s
membership  is  more  representative  and  remedy  the
continuing imbalance in the representation of Africa in
the permanent membership.
the 
initiative 
We  welcome 
to  establish  a
Democracy  Fund.  Consistent  with  our  support  for  the
promotion of fundamental human freedoms and values,
we  support  the  establishment  of  a  Human  Rights
Council.  We  also  support  the  proposed  Peacebuilding
Commission as an advisory body.
that 
Let me conclude by saying that we have a loaded
agenda  for  the  next  decade,  and 
there  are
numerous challenges ahead. We wish to emphasize that
that  agenda  can  be  realized  only  through  multilateral
action.  As  we  look  ahead  to  2015,  we  have  the
honourable duty to make the United Nations truly serve
the  people  of 
the
obligation to ensure that we the peoples of the United
Nations can truly live our lives in larger freedom.
this  global  village.  We  have 
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
the
Mr.  Martin  Belinga-Eboutou,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Republic of Cameroon.
Mr.  Belinga-Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
in
French): I  am  particularly  pleased  to  express  to  you,
Sir,  Cameroon’s  heartfelt  congratulations  on  your
election to the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at
its  sixtieth  session.  I  wish  you  every  success  in
carrying out your noble mandate and assure you of my
delegation’s  full  cooperation.  I  pay  a  warm  tribute  to
your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping,
Minister  of  State  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs,
Cooperation  and  Francophonie  of 
the  Gabonese
Republic.  His  great  talent,  consummate  negotiating
skill  and  competence  contributed  decisively  to  the
success  of  the  work  of  the  fifty-ninth  session.  To  the
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  I
once  again  express  Cameroon’s  full  appreciation  for
his tireless efforts and dedication in the service of the
Organization and its ideals.
At your wise suggestion, Mr. President, the main
theme of our debate is the implementation and follow-
up  of  the  outcome  document  (resolution  60/1)  of  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.
That  reflects  the  great  importance  of  this  debate  —
A/60/PV.23
importance clearly shown by the strong participation in
it. My country is pleased to add its voice to those of the
representatives  of  184  other  countries,  who  have
already spoken during this exercise.
Cameroon  fully  supports  the  outcome  document
adopted at the end of that historic summit. Some would
have preferred that it be stronger, others that it be more
proactive.  Cameroon  believes  it  is  a  balanced  and
realistic  document  with  regard  to  all  the  major  global
concerns now considered to be priorities. Furthermore,
it  is  a  document  that  reflects  a  new  consensus  on  the
role  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  place  in  today’s
international system.
Our  heads  of  State  or  Government  took  stock  of
the  main  challenges  of  our  time  and  of  the  priority
actions  that  we  must  take  together  to  build  a  genuine
global  partnership  for  development  and  to  ensure
lasting collective peace and security. They also set out
guidelines  to  be  followed  over  the  next  decade  to
complete  the  whole  United  Nations  renewal  process
and  the  effective  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  time  has  come  to
move  from  words  to  action.  Indeed,  it  is  only  by
implementing those commitments that we can measure
their value, force and relevance.
It  is  indisputable  that  the  world  has  made
considerable  progress  in  implementing  some  of  the
MDGs. But there is another undeniable fact that is far
less encouraging: the situation in Africa. Africa is  the
world’s  only  region  that,  with  10  years  until  the
deadline,  is  alarmingly  behind  in  implementing  the
MDGs.  If  it  does  not  receive  substantial  external
assistance  very  soon,  most  of  the  Goals  will  not  be
attained  by  2015.  Most  of  them  may  remain  a  mirage
for a long time.
We  are  aware  that  the  current  economic  growth
rate in our countries averages approximately 3 per cent
.  That  is  not  sufficient  to  create  the  macroeconomic
conditions  necessary  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Today  —
particularly  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  —  without  large-
scale  job  creation,  revenue  creation,  a  massive  inflow
of private capital or official development assistance, an
effective global and sustainable solution to the nagging
issue  of  debt,  and  equitable  participation  in  world
trade, our efforts will be doomed to failure.
For  their  part,  the  Governments  of  African
countries, who have the primary responsibility for their
own  development,  are  implementing  national  poverty
33
A/60/PV.23
reduction strategies in keeping with the need to achieve
the  MDGs.  With  specific  regard  to  Cameroon,  the
that  with  determination.
Government 
Furthermore, 
its  Poverty
Reduction  Strategy  Paper  is  supported  by  the  donor
community.
implementation  of 
tackling 
is 
the 
My  country  has  begun  to  review  its  strategy  to
ensure  that  it  is  fully  in  line  with  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  It  is  also  implementing,  with  the
same  determination, 
its  national  programme  of
governance.  Thus,  the  Government  of  Cameroon  has
stepped  up  its  efforts  to  combat  corruption  and  has
committed  itself  to  a  more  transparent  and  effective
management of public finances.
My  country  would  have  liked  to  see  more
ambitious  and  courageous  commitments  adopted
together with a specific timetable for the development
of  Africa.  Nevertheless,  if  the  commitments  made  by
world  leaders  in  the  outcome  document  are  speedily
implemented,  Africa  would  make 
considerable
progress  in  implementing  most  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  could  even  —  depending  on
the  adequate  mobilization  of  national  and  external
resources  and  the  political  will  to  take  action  —
achieve all those goals by the agreed date.
During  a  recent  crisis,  the  United  Nations  was
nearly  shaken  to  its  very  foundations.  During  those
events,  our  sometimes  differing  views  about  our
system of peace and collective security became openly
apparent.  Fortunately,  given  the  need  to  overcome  all
the global threats that weigh on our collective security,
the  summit  reached  a  healthy  consensus  on  the
essential nature of joint actions that we need to take for
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  counteracting
terrorism  and  the  maintenance  and  consolidation  of
peace.
Nonetheless, 
the  process  of  revitalizing 
the
Organization will remain incomplete until we are able
to  agree  on  the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council.
May  I  recall  that,  as  the  President  of  Cameroon,  His
Excellence  Mr.  Paul  Biya,  declared  on  14  September,
Cameroon  remains  faithful  to  the  African  position  on
reform  of 
is
necessary  and  must  take  place  soon,  bringing  nations
together  rather  than  dividing  them.  This  is  the  firm
conviction of Cameroon, and my country will continue,
however  long  it  takes,  to  work  with  other  States  to
the  Security  Council.  This  reform 
34
overcome  our  differences  and  forge  a  solid  consensus
in order to achieve this very important reform.
Recourse  to  law  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of
disputes has, necessarily, as a corollary, the obligation
to  implement  fully,  willingly  and  in  good  faith  the
decisions of the  International Court of Justice. This  is
how we understand the reference made in the outcome
document concerning “the obligation of States to settle
their  disputes  by  peaceful  means  in  accordance  with
Chapter VI of the Charter, including, when appropriate,
by  the  use  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice”
(resolution 60/1, para. 73).
Implementation  of  a  decision  of  a  court  through
positive  negotiations  is  based  first  and  foremost  on  a
peaceful course of action, specifically on the basis of a
deep  commitment 
the  values  and  principles
enshrined  in  the  Charter.  In  no  case  may  that  be
interpreted  as  an  open  possibility  to  renounce  even
partially  the  fundamental  elements  of  that  decision.
Very much to the contrary.
to 
the  Organization  within 
The outcome document of the High-level Plenary
Meeting  allows  for  coordinating  the  activities  of  the
principal  bodies  of 
the
framework  of  their  mandate  under  the  Charter  for  the
prevention  of  armed  conflicts  and  settlement  of
disputes. Cameroon therefore believes it desirable that
we  should  find  ways  to  ensure  that  Member  States,
through  the  Security  Council  and  in  the  General
Assembly,  are  informed  formally  of  the  status  of
implementation  of  judgements  handed  down  by  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  as  they  are  of  the
Court’s annual activities.
The  Secretary-General  could  thus  inform  the
Security  Council  regularly  and  in  detail  and  report  to
Member  States  as  is  done  in  his  report  to  the  General
Assembly on the activities of the Organization.
Good  practices  in  this  area  would  take  root  and
inspire us all. In that way, we would be able to identify
potential  sources  of  conflict  at  a  very  early  stage
through  difficulties  identified  and  to  make  timely
recommendations to prevent them.
Cameroon,  which  looks  forward  to  the  rapid
creation  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the
Human  Rights  Council,  counts  on  your  wisdom  to
ensure  that  the  negotiating  process  that  will  lead  to
their creation will be open, transparent and inclusive.
During the present session, which coincides with
the  Organization’s  sixtieth  anniversary,  we  should  be
inspired  by  the  visionary  dynamism  provided  by  the
heads  of  State  and  Government.  This  is  a  new
opportunity,  perhaps  one  of  the  best  opportunities,
along with the Millennium Summit, to make a decisive
contribution  to  improving  the  human  condition  and
achieving  an  ideal  world  where  all  women,  men  and
children live free from fear, hunger and disease.
It is our responsibility here and now to fulfil the
generous promises made by our leaders to humanity a
week  ago.  Let  us  do  so  without  making  excuses,
without seeking loopholes. Let us do it now.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the  general  debate.  Several 
representatives  have
requested to exercise the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind
members that statements in the exercise of the right of
reply are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention
and  to  five  minutes  for  a  second  intervention  and
should be made by delegations  from  their  seats.  I  call
on the representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
Mr.  Irhiam  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in
Arabic):  Let  me  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on
your vast experience and competence in presiding over
our discussions, and I wish you every success. I would
also like to point to the excellent relations between the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and friendly Sweden.
The  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of
Foreign Affairs of Bulgaria mentioned the situation of
the  Libyan  children  who  were  deliberately  and
grievously  afflicted  by  the  Bulgarian  nurses  and  the
Palestinian  physician  with  the  AIDS  virus.  He  also
referred to the protection of human rights.
It  is  true  that  describing  the  deaths  of  a  few
children and the injuries of many as a tragedy does not
fully  reflect  the  suffering  of  their  families  and  loved
ones. It is more than a tragedy — it is a major disaster
in every possible meaning of the word. It is a disaster
unprecedented in the annals of human history. Thus, if
we  are  to  truly  protect  human  rights,  the  rights  of
Libyan  children  must  first  and  foremost  be  protected,
along with those of their families and relatives, but not
those  of  the  Bulgarian  nurses  and  the  Palestinian
physician. The disaster has affected not only Benghazi
city,  but  all  of  the  decent,  generous  people  of  Libya,
who were deeply shocked by that horrible tragedy.
A/60/PV.23
The  President  of  Bulgaria  and  other  foreign
officials  who  were  visiting  Libya  at  the  time  saw  the
extent of the tragedy. They were informed of the legal
procedures  established  to  deal  with  the  accused.  The
trials  were  fair  and  transparent,  and  included  the
participation  of  Bulgarian  representatives  and  several
representatives  of  diplomatic  missions  in  Libya.  The
trial  lasted  several  months  and  resulted  in  a  just
conviction.  The  results  of  the  appeal  to  the  Supreme
Court are pending.
I  would  recall  that  international  conferences
organized  under  United  Nations  auspices  have
consistently  reaffirmed  the  supremacy  of  law  and  that
there  can  be  no  good  governance  without  respect  for
the law and the judiciary.
in  French):  Two  days  ago, 
Mr.  Ileka  (Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo)
(spoke 
the  General
Assembly heard Mr. Sam Kutesa, Minister for Foreign
Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  describe  at  length
his  country’s  view  of  the  situation  in  the  Great  Lakes
region and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. My
delegation  deeply  regrets  the  fact  that  Mr.  Kutesa’s
comments  were  disrespectful,  discourteous  and  totally
unacceptable.
into  question 
the 
The representative of a country that has produced
and  continues  to  produce  the  most  Ubu-like  dictators
that  our  region  has  ever  seen  has  nothing  to  teach
anyone.  By  calling 
the  sacrosanct
principle  of 
inviolability  of  borders  since
decolonization,  Mr.  Kutesa  merely  revealed  what  we
all  knew  already:  his  country’s  irredentist  designs  on
the Democratic Republic of the Congo with the purely
mercantilist  aim  of  making  a  grab  for  the  eastern
provinces of my country. The objective of the Ugandan
authorities,  which  has  been  denounced  here  at  the
United  Nations, 
the
purposes of attaining economic domination and control
of  significant  sources  of  raw  materials  in  Congolese
territory,  which  have  considerable  reserves  of  raw
materials and strategic minerals.
to  dismember  Africa  for 
is 
The  Ugandan  sponsors  of  the  pillaging  of  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo’s natural  resources
and  other  wealth  are  well  known.  Their  names  figure
prominently  in  every  report  of  the  relevant  United
Nations expert groups.
Mr.  Kutesa’s  statement  also  demonstrated  his
country’s  lack  of  sincerity  and  involvement  in  the
peaceful  settlement  of  the  crisis  in  the  Great  Lakes
35
A/60/PV.23
region.  Uganda  seems  to  be  seeking  a  new  pretext  to
justify  its  negative  and  harmful  interference  in  the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Coming  at  a  time
when,  thanks  to  the  concerted  efforts  of  the  countries
of  Central  Africa,  most  of  the  countries  of  the  Great
Lakes  region,  the  African  Union,  the  United  Nations
and  interested  bilateral  partners,  a  happy  end  to  what
might be called the first African world war is at hand,
Mr. Kutesa’s remarks were most unfortunate.
The  wise  Mr.  Kutesa  has 
revolutionized
international  law  with  his  introduction  of  the  concept
of so-called provisional immunity. Nevertheless, in our
view, all Ugandan nationals who have Congolese blood
on their hands and whose armed groups pursue a policy
of  terrorism  against  our  civilian  populations  will
ultimately have to answer for their actions before either
the International Criminal Court or ad hoc tribunals.
Moreover,  Uganda’s  Congolese  puppets  —  the
very  people  Mr.  Kutesa  wishes  to  see  integrated  into
the  armed  forces  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  —  are,  like  Colonel  Kakolele  Bwambale,
comfortably  ensconced  in  Kampala.  These  are  rebel
officers who had been nominated in the context of the
integration of the armed forces command; they include
leaders  of  armed  groups  in  Ituri  and  mere  warlords.
They  have  all  gone  to  Uganda  to  seek  the  support  of
the  official  authorities  and  to  organize  themselves  in
preparation  to  attack  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo and roil the transition process there.
All  those  Congolese  puppets  and  their  Ugandan
masters  are  also  responsible  for  terrible  large-scale
massacres  of  men,  women  and  children;  they  practice
summary  and  extrajudicial  executions  and  systematic
rape;  engage  in  major  violations  of  human  rights  and
international  humanitarian  law;  and  deliberately  and
criminally  spread  HIV/AIDS.  Fortunately,  with  the
help  of  the  international  community,  those  Congolese
puppets and Ugandan bandits will not be with us much
longer.
Mr.  Kutesa  dared  to  refer  to  the  difficulty  of
disarming the so-called negative forces. I would recall
here that, at the height of Uganda’s aggression, when it
occupied  more  than  half  of  our  territory,  it  was
incapable  of  arresting  even  one  Ugandan  rebel.
Moreover,  the  supposedly  powerful  Uganda  army  was
ignominiously  defeated  on 
three  occasions,  most
notably in the martyr city of Kisangani.
36
the  relationships  of  friendship, 
Clearly,  everyone  in  the  Great  Lakes  region  has
suffered that futile and senseless war for too long. Our
entire  population  hopes  for  peace  in  which  we  can
renew 
trust  and
peaceful coexistence of the past. I assure the Assembly
that  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  firmly
committed  to  the  peace  process  because  it  is  in  our
interests and in the interests of the entire  Great  Lakes
region.
In conclusion, my country believes that, in order
to persuade Uganda sincerely to embark on the road to
peace, the international  community, represented  by  all
Member  States  present  here,  must 
impose  a
comprehensive  embargo  on  the  sale  of  arms  and
suspend  bilateral  and  multilateral  assistance  to  that
country in order to cut the link between that assistance
and  the  conflict,  which  is  being  fought  to  perpetuate
the 
illegal  exploitation  of  our  country’s  natural
resources  and  other  wealth.  We  must  take  care,
however, not to penalize the Ugandan people.
The  international  community  should  also  adopt
protective  measures,  including  the  freezing  of  assets
and  a  travel  ban  for  high-ranking  officials  of  the
Ugandan  oligarchy.  The 
international  community
should  call  on  Uganda 
the  various
to 
commitments it has made in all freedom, be they in the
framework  of  existing  United  Nations  mechanisms  or
the quartet under United States leadership.
respect 
to 
the  Armenian 
Mr.  Mammadov  (Azerbaijan):  I  am  taking  the
floor  to  respond  to  the  Armenian  representative’s
misstatement  in  reply  to  the  statement  made  by  the
Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Azerbaijan  on
18 September.
Contrary 
representative’s
presentation  —  or,  rather,  misrepresentation  —  the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Azerbaijan did not refer
to  the  territories  surrounding  the  Nagorny  Karabakh
region of Azerbaijan, but to the occupied territories of
Azerbaijan.  Azerbaijan  has  never  resorted  to  military
aggression.  Armenia,  having  failed  to  achieve  its
political  goal  of  obtaining  the  secession  of  Nagorny
Karabakh  from  Azerbaijan,  started  the  expulsion  of
Azerbaijanis from Armenia and resorted, subsequently,
to military aggression in order to acquire, forcibly, the
territory of the Nagorny Karabakh region of Azerbaijan
and  to  institute  ethnic  cleansing  in  the  occupied
Azerbaijani territories. The culmination of those acts of
savagery  was  the  Khojaly  massacre  —  the  brutal
slaughter of about 700 innocent civilians.
is  an 
Like  the  Security  Council,  the  Parliamentary
Assembly of the Council  of Europe  —  in a  resolution
adopted  this  January,  the  text  of  which  is  annexed  to
document A/59/689 — specifically established the fact
of  the  Armenian  occupation  of  the  territories  of
Azerbaijan. That resolution unequivocally reconfirmed
integral  part  of
that  Nagorny  Karabakh 
Azerbaijan,  decisively  called  for  respect  for 
the
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan  and
its  internationally  recognized  borders,  underlined  the
inadmissibility of the use of force for the acquisition of
territory  and  resolutely  demanded  an 
immediate,
complete  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of  all
occupying forces from all occupied areas of Azerbaijan
and the establishment of conditions for the safe return
of  displaced  persons  to  their  places  of  permanent
residence.
The  fact-finding  mission  of  the  Organization  for
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  that  was
dispatched to the occupied territories of Azerbaijan —
the  report  of  which  the  Armenian  representative  also
misinterpreted  —  was  made  feasible  by  the  General
Assembly’s  just  and  fair  approach  in  response  to  the
grave  concern  expressed  by  Azerbaijan.  The  fact-
finding  mission  confirmed  the  fact  of  the  Armenian
settlement of the occupied territories of Azerbaijan, the
regional  population  of  which  had  been  completely
expelled. In their conclusions and recommendations, as
contained  in  annex  I  to  document  A/59/747,  the  Co-
Chairmen  of  the  OSCE  Minsk  Group  requested  that
any  further  settlement  of  the  occupied  territories  of
Azerbaijan  should  be  discouraged  and  urged  that
changes be avoided in the demographic structure of the
region, which would make difficult any further efforts
to achieve a negotiated settlement of the conflict in and
around  the  Nagorny  Karabakh  region  of  the  Republic
of Azerbaijan.
Out of goodwill, Azerbaijan suggested the use of
the  so-called  Lachin  corridor  as  a  road  of  peace  by
both sides in both directions. The rejection of the road
of  peace  is  further  proof  of  the  destructive  Armenian
position.  However,  Azerbaijan  still  hopes  that  the
Armenian side will not miss this chance to advance the
negotiation  process,  with  the  assistance  of  the  OSCE
Minsk Group Co-Chairmen, in accordance with the key
understanding reached within the Prague process.
A/60/PV.23
The President: The general debate of the General
Assembly  has  now  concluded.  On  behalf  of  the
Assembly, I should like to thank all of the speakers for
their contributions.
interventions  on 
The theme of the debate was the follow-up to and
implementation  of  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome.
Over  the  past  seven  days  we  have  heard  many
thoughtful  and  constructive 
that
subject. As at the world summit, speaker after speaker
stressed  the  need  to  make  faster  and  more  substantial
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
Time  after  time,  as  Members  may  recall,  speakers
emphasized  the  fact  that  the  battle  against  poverty  is
one that we must all fight — and win — together. The
strong  message  is  that  the  political  momentum  for
development  —  life  and  dignity  for  all  —  which  has
grown this year, must be maintained and strengthened.
In recognition of that, we should explore ways in
which  we  can  speed  up  progress  on  development  in  a
way  that  complements  the  work  of  other  parts  of  the
United  Nations  and  other  international  economic  and
social bodies.
in 
to  make  progress 
this  debate.  Many  emphasized 
in  establishing 
There  were  other  widely  shared  concerns
the
expressed 
necessity 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights
Council  and  in  moving  management  reform  forward.
Terrorism and the responsibility to protect populations
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and
crimes  against  humanity  were  also  highlighted.  Many
expressed  disappointment  that  a  text  on  disarmament
and  non-proliferation  was  not  included  in  the  Summit
Outcome document.
However,  we  should  note  and  welcome  the
widespread recognition that development, security and
respect  for  human  rights  are  interconnected  and  that
the  peoples  of  the  world  —  our  peoples  —  need  and
want a reformed and rejuvenated United Nations.
Understandably, there has not been consensus on
how  every  item  on  our  agenda  should  be  taken
forward.  But  there  has  also  been  a  widely  held  view
that the General Assembly now needs to move quickly
on follow-up and implementation, so that the  political
energy  generated 
the  outcome  document
negotiations, the summit and the general debate is not
lost.
through 
37
A/60/PV.23
Over the next few days, I will reflect carefully on
the  points  made  during  the  debate.  I  will  also  make
myself  available  next  week  to  meet  Member  States,
either  individually  or  in  groups,  to  hear  more  of  their
views  on  priorities  and  ways  of  working.  I  would
encourage  any  Member  State  which  has  further
thoughts  on  follow-up  and  implementation  to  contact
me or my Office as early as possible next week.
Taking into account the views expressed, I intend
to  write  to  all  Member  States  before  the  end  of  next
week  outlining  the  proposed  way  forward.  Shortly
thereafter,  I  plan  to  convene  an  open  meeting  to
involve all Member States in the final consolidation of
the proposed programme of work.
Once  that  process  of  consultation  is  completed,
work on follow-up will have to begin without delay. As
I said when I opened the debate on 17 September, the
world will be watching us closely. The extent to which
we — all of us in the Assembly — can muster a spirit
of  urgency  and  common  purpose  in  the  coming  days
and weeks will ultimately determine whether the world
summit  will  go  down 
in  history  as  a  missed
opportunity  for  the  United  Nations  or,  as  I  hope,  the
start  of  the  most  substantial  reform  programme  in  the
history of the Organization.
We  will  need  to  work  efficiently,  with  civility,
discipline  and  a  readiness  to  compromise  for  the
greater good. I want to assure members that I intend to
conduct  this  work  with  transparency,  fairness  and
respect for the General Assembly’s central and crucial
role in these negotiations. It is here, and only here, that
negotiations  will  take  place  and  decisions  will  be
made.  I  look  forward  to  working  with  all  members  in
that  spirit  as  we  shoulder  our  historic  responsibility
together.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
8? I see no objection.
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m.
38
