United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
46th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 8 November 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.46
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Gaspar
Martins (Angola), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 81
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/60/177)
The  Acting  President:  I  call  on  Mr.  Philippe
Kirsch, President of the International Criminal Court.
Mr.  Kirsch  (International  Criminal  Court):  It  is
an  honour  and  a  pleasure  for  me  to  speak  to  the
Assembly  today  on  the  occasion  of  the  first  report  of
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  to  the  United
Nations.  The  United  Nations,  and 
the  General
Assembly  in  particular,  have  always  been  closely
linked  to  the  Court.  In  1989,  this  body  began  the
process  of  establishing  the  ICC  with  a  request  to  the
International  Law  Commission.  In  the  mid-1990s,  the
General Assembly was the driving force behind efforts
to  develop  a  statute  for  a  court,  and  it  was  this  body
that  convened  the  Rome  Conference  in  1998,  which
would adopt the statute of the ICC.
The Court welcomes its observer status before the
General  Assembly  and  the  opportunity  to  submit
reports  on  our  activities  in  accordance  with  the
Relationship  Agreement  between  our  institutions.  In
my  remarks  today,  I  would  like  first  to  update  the
Assembly on where the Court stands, and secondly, to
speak  about  the  cooperative  relationship  between  the
Court and the United Nations.
Since the Court submitted its written report, there
have been two significant developments. First, Mexico
deposited  its  instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Rome
Statute  with  the  Secretary-General  on  28  October.
Mexico is thus the 100th State to become a party to the
statute.  That  is  an  important  milestone  in  the  Court’s
development.  Secondly,  the  Court  has  issued  its  first
arrest warrants. On 8 July, Pre-Trial Chamber II issued
the first arrest warrants of the Court in the situation in
Uganda.  Warrants  have  been  issued  for  five  members
of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  for  alleged  crimes
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  Subject  to  the
necessary  cooperation  in  the  arrest  and  surrender  of
persons, the first trials could begin next year.
The  Court  is  now  well  into  the  judicial  phase  of
its activities, involving both operations in the field and
courtroom  proceedings.  As  members  know,  four
situations have been referred to the Court’s Prosecutor.
Three  States  parties  have  referred  situations  on  their
own  territories  and  the  Security  Council,  acting  under
Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, has referred
the  situation  in  Darfur,  in  the  Sudan,  to  the  Court.  In
addition, Côte d’Ivoire, a non-State party, has declared
its  acceptance  of  jurisdiction  over  crimes  on  its
territory. The Prosecutor has opened and is conducting
investigations 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Darfur.  The
statute  specifies  the  criteria  to  be  considered  by  the
the  situations 
into 
in  Uganda, 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-59248 (E)
*0559248*
A/60/PV.46
Prosecutor  in  selecting  situations.  The  Prosecutor  has
indicated that gravity is a major factor and that Uganda
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  are  the
gravest situations under the treaty-based jurisdiction of
the  Court.  The  Prosecutor  has  also  indicated  that  the
Darfur  situation,  referred  by  the  Security  Council,  is
graver still.
success of the Court. I hope that other States will soon
conclude other such agreements with the Court.
(spoke in French)
I should like to refer briefly to  a particular  form
of  cooperation  that  is  of  specific  interest:  cooperation
between the Court and the United Nations.
Each  situation  referred  to  the  Court  has  been
assigned  to  a  pre-trial  chamber  consisting  of  three
judges.  The  pre-trial  chambers  have  responsibility  for
the 
the
investigations phase. The pre-trial chambers have held
hearings  and  issued  decisions  on  a  number  of  issues,
including the arrest warrants.
situations  during 
aspects  of 
judicial 
We must remember that the Court’s investigations
are  occurring  in  situations  of  ongoing  conflict.  The
security  of  Court  staff,  victims,  witnesses  and  others
who  could  be  affected  by  the  Court’s  activities  are
paramount  concerns.  Field  operations  also  present
challenges in terms of establishing reliable and secure
logistics,  transportation  and  communication  in  three
different  situations.  Each  situation  individually  also
presents  its  own  specific  needs,  such  as  in  terms  of
local 
requirements.  Those
circumstances present practical challenges not only for
the  Prosecutor  in  his  investigations,  but  also  for  the
Court’s  other  related  field  activities.  Those  activities
include  protecting  the  rights  of  defence,  conducting
outreach 
local
populations,  and  carrying  out  the  Court’s  specific
mandate in relation to victims and witnesses.
to  affected 
to  explain 
the  Court 
language 
capacity 
The Court does not have a police force of its own.
Instead,  the  Court  relies  on  the  cooperation  of  States
and other actors to carry out many essential functions. I
have  already  mentioned  that  the  cooperation  of  States
will  be  required  in  arresting  persons  wanted  by  the
Court. I must be very clear on that point — cooperation
in  arrest  and  surrender  of  persons  is  essential  if  there
are to be trials.
Other  forms  of  cooperation  will  be  equally
important. The Court has negotiated and is negotiating
a  range  of  agreements  with  States  and  international
organizations on both general cooperation and specific
issues.  The  Court  has  concluded  several  agreements
with  States  on  the  relocation  of  witnesses.  The  Court
recently  concluded  the  first  agreement  with  a  State
party  regarding  the  enforcement  of  sentences.  A
network  of  effective  cooperation  is  critical  to  the
2
The  Rome  Statute,  which  defines  the  Court’s
activities,  reaffirms  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
United  Nations  Charter.  The  statute’s  preamble
explicitly  sets  forth  several  specific  objectives  that
overlap  with  those  of  the  United  Nations.  Those
objectives  include,  first  and  foremost,  the  prevention
and  punishment  of  the  most  serious  international
crimes,  including  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity
and  war  crimes.  Secondly,  through  prevention  and
punishment, 
the
maintenance and restoration of international peace and
security.  Thirdly,  the  Court  was  designed  to  help  in
compliance  with 
of
international law.
the  Court  should  contribute 
implementation 
and 
the 
to 
In  order  to  achieve  our  common  objectives,  our
institutions  must  work  together.  That  is  already  being
done in practice. Indeed, positive cooperation is under
way  in  the  Court’s  current  activities,  which  for  the
most part are being carried out in the field. The Court’s
activities  in  the  field  are  often  undertaken  in  regions
where  the  United  Nations  is  already  present.  In  such
situations,  cooperation  requires  both  the  sharing  of
information  and  coordination  on  such 
issues  as
security, transportation and logistics. The Court and the
United  Nations  also  cooperate 
the  area  of
institutional relations. In that field, the broad sharing of
information is essential to providing the Court and the
United Nations with precise  and  continuously updated
information  on  their  respective  activities.  The  Court’s
report before the Assembly today is one aspect of that
cooperation.
in 
The  Court  intends  to  pursue  and  strengthen  its
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  in  all  spheres  —
in  the  field,  procedural  matters  and  our  institutional
relations.  Such 
cooperation  will  benefit  both
institutions  by  enabling  each  to  refine  and  fulfil  its
objectives.
Cooperation is  important  because  both  the  Court
and  the  United  Nations  are  part  of  an  interdependent
system  of  international  law  and  justice.  In  his  2004
in 
report  to  the  Security  Council  on  the  rule  of  law  and
transitional justice, the Secretary-General observed that
“Our  experience 
the  past  decade  has
demonstrated  clearly  that  the  consolidation  of
peace  in  the  immediate  post-conflict  period,  as
well  as  the  maintenance  of  peace  in  the  long
term, cannot be achieved unless the population is
confident  that  redress  for  grievances  can  be
obtained  through  legitimate  structures  for  the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the  fair
administration of justice.” (S/2004/616, para. 2)
The  Court  has  a  natural  role  to  play  in  such
situations.  Other  discussions  in  the  Security  Council
and  the  General  Assembly  have  also  focused  on  the
respective contributions of various institutions, such as
the International Criminal Court, and of our collective
efforts  to  protect  individuals  against  the  most  serious
crimes of concern to the international community as a
whole.  As  I  have  noted  today,  such  collective  efforts
are  made  possible  by  regular,  concrete  and  absolutely
essential cooperation.
(spoke in English)
Over 50 years ago, in the wake of the Holocaust,
the newly created United Nations first took up the issue
of  a  permanent  international  criminal  court.  The
Genocide  Convention,  adopted  by 
this  General
Assembly in 1948, envisioned that that crime of crimes
could  one  day  be  punished  by  an  international  penal
tribunal. The dream of a permanent international court
was deferred for far too long. Now, however, we have
the  opportunity  to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  the
worst  atrocities  no  longer  benefit  from  impunity,  to
deter  future  perpetrators,  and  to  build  a  culture  of
accountability. We cannot afford to fail.
Mr.  Llewellyn  (United  Kingdom):  I  have  the
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. The
following  States  align  themselves  with  this  statement:
the  acceding  countries  Bulgaria  and  Romania;  the
candidate  countries  Croatia  and  Turkey;  the  countries
of  the  Stabilisation  and  Association  Process  and
potential candidates Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  and
Serbia  and  Montenegro;  the  European  Free  Trade
Association  country  Iceland,  member  of  the  European
Economic  Area;  and  other  aligning  countries  Ukraine
and Moldova.
A/60/PV.46
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  first  annual
report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  and  we  warmly
welcome  the  President  of  the  Court,  Judge  Philippe
Kirsch, and thank him for his presentation today.
The European Union is a strong supporter of the
ICC,  has  consistently  and  actively  defended 
the
integrity of the Rome  Statute,  and  will  continue  to  do
so.  The  establishment  of  the  ICC  is  beyond  doubt  the
most  significant  development  in  recent  years  in  the
long struggle to eradicate impunity for the most serious
international  crimes  and  thereby  advance  the  cause  of
justice and the rule of law. We also view the ICC as an
essential  instrument  for  the  prevention  of  genocide,
crimes against humanity and war crimes.
ICC, 
including  by  promoting 
The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  determination
to  obtain  the  widest  possible  international  support  for
the 
the  universal
acceptance of the Rome Statute. More than half of the
United Nations Members are now parties. We  urge all
other  States  also 
to  accede  without  delay.  We
particularly welcome the  100th  ratification  by  Mexico
on  28  October  2005.  We  also  call  on  all  States  to
become parties to the Agreement on the Privileges and
Immunities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  The
European  Union  will  continue  to  defend  the  integrity
of the Rome Statute and we recall the set of principles
that we have established in that regard.
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  substantial
progress that has already been made in making the ICC
fully  operational.  As  the  President  has  highlighted
today,  now  that  it  is  operational  the  ICC  is  dependent
on the support and cooperation of all States parties, as
well  as  other  States,  international  organizations  and
civil  society, 
task  of
prosecuting  the  most  serious  international  crimes  of
concern 
international  community.  We  are
determined to help the Court carry out that task and we
call on all concerned to give that cooperation fully.
to  carry  out 
in  order 
its 
to 
the 
The ICC is well and truly up and running. It has
begun to play an important role in our common efforts
to establish the rule of law, to promote and encourage
respect  for  human  rights  and  to  restore  and  maintain
international  peace  and  security.  The  judges  and  the
Prosecutor  took  office  in  2003,  and  the  Court  is  now
its  operations.  The
into 
Prosecutor,  Mr.  Moreno-Ocampo, 
actively
investigating  situations  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of
judicial  phase  of 
the 
is 
3
A/60/PV.46
the  Congo  and  in  northern  Uganda.  He  launched  an
investigation into the situation in Darfur, in the Sudan,
shortly  after  the  historic  decision  by  the  Security
Council  to  refer  that  situation.  Another  milestone  was
the  unsealing  on  14  October  this  year  of  the  first
warrants of arrest concerning five senior leaders of the
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  for  crimes  against  humanity
and war crimes committed in Uganda. Those were the
first  warrants  of  arrest  to  be  unsealed  by  the  Court.
Those  decisions 
to
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international
concern.
send  very  clear  messages 
The European Union commends the Court for its
outreach activities in the field, which are carried out in
relation  to  those  cases.  It  is  indeed  crucial  that  the
Court  also  be  a  reality  for  the  victims  of  the  most
horrendous crimes. The Rome Statute contains several
unique  victims-based  provisions  that  are  aimed  at
providing  victims  with  the  opportunity  to  have  their
voices heard and to obtain justice. A Trust Fund for the
benefit  of  the  victims  and  their  families  has  been  set
up, and we would like to encourage Member States to
contribute  to  the  Fund  and  to  thank  those  States  that
have already done so. We recall the meeting earlier this
year  of  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of
Aggression,  which  is  open  to  all  States  on  an  equal
footing,  whether  or  not  they  are  parties  to  the  Rome
Statute.  We  commend  Ambassador  Wenaweser  of
Liechtenstein for his skilful work in moving that Group
forward  and  we  will  continue  to  work  together  with
him to elaborate  proposals  on  the  crime  of  aggression
by 2008.
The  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  are  now
looking forward to the next Assembly of States Parties,
which  will  take  place  in  The  Hague  at  the  end  of
November  and  resume  in  New  York  during  January
2006.  We  urge  all  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations to attend that meeting.
The  European  Union  emphasizes  the  importance
the  conclusion 
the
of 
in  October  2004  and 
implementation  of 
the  Relationship  Agreement
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  ICC,  which
provides  for  close  cooperation  and  consultation.  We
thank the Secretary-General and his staff for their work
in  negotiating  and  implementing  the  Agreement,  both
at Headquarters and in the field.
The  2005  report  of  the  ICC  to  the  General
Assembly  is  a  very  useful  update  and  we  very  much
4
appreciate the opportunity to discuss it here today with
the  President  of  the  Court.  We  look  forward  to
receiving  such 
the  General
Assembly, and we welcome very much the presence of
the  ICC  at  the  General  Assembly  in  the  capacity  of
observer  and  look  forward  to  its  participation  in  next
years General Assembly debate.
reports  annually 
in 
Mrs. Ferrari (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines):
I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM).
We  wish 
the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Philippe
Kirsch, for his earlier presentation.
the  President  of 
thank 
to 
The  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,
today,  details  significant
which  we  are  debating 
progress in the journey of the Court towards proving its
worth  as  a  functional  and  effective  institution.  The
Court,  after  its  genesis  and  organizational  period,  has
now entered the judicial phase of its operations. Three
States parties have referred situations to the Prosecutor
of  the  Court,  while  the  Security  Council,  in  keeping
with  its  responsibility  under  the  Charter  for  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  has
referred one situation to the Prosecutor. Investigations
into  situations  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, Uganda and the Sudan are continuing, and just
last  month  the  Court  unsealed  five  warrants  of  arrest
against  senior  leaders  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army
for crimes against humanity and war crimes committed
in  Uganda  since  July  2002.  The  warrants  include
allegations  of  murder,  abduction,  sexual  enslavement,
mutilation, rape and the forced enlistment of  children.
That chilling list of some of the crimes most repugnant
to  mankind  is  exactly  the  kind  of  criminal  behaviour
that the Court was designed to deter. Global  events in
the recent past have reinforced, rather than diminished,
our  support  for  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Rome
Statute.
In order to enhance its capacity to bring to justice
the perpetrators of genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,
war  crimes  and,  when  included  by  the  Assembly  Of
States  Parties,  the  crime  of  aggression,  it  is  essential
that the Court  receive  full  cooperation  from  a  number
of  critical  partners,  such  as  States  parties,  States
regional  and  non-
concerned,  and 
governmental  organizations, 
in 
as
preserving and providing evidence, sharing information
and securing the arrest and surrender of persons to the
international, 
areas 
such 
Court. It is the earnest hope of CARICOM States that
such cooperation will be willingly given to enable the
Court to fulfil its mandate and to meet the complex and
multitudinous challenges it will face in the months and
years ahead. The Court must also be able to rely on the
political support of States, which will guarantee justice
to  the  victims  of  crimes  against  humanity  and  put  an
end to the culture of impunity which was so prevalent
in the past in respect of such crimes. In that regard, we
welcome 
first
Enforcement  of  Sentences  Agreement  with  the  Court
on 27 October 2005, as provided for by article 103 of
the  Statute,  and  wish  to  commend  the  Government  of
Austria  for  that  tangible  demonstration  of  support  for
the ICC.
signing  by  Austria  of 
the 
the 
to  gain 
continues 
credibility 
Effective  collaboration  between 
the  United
Nations and the Court remains of critical importance as
the  Court 
and
respectability.  The  Rome  Statute  recognizes  specific
roles for the United Nations and the Security Council.
The  Relationship  Agreement,  signed  one  year  ago  by
the President of the Court and the Secretary-General on
behalf  of  their  respective  institutions,  affirms  the
independence  of  the  Court,  while  at  the  same  time
establishing  a  framework  for  cooperation.  CARICOM
trusts that such collaboration will be forthcoming from
all quarters of the United Nations.
We view as a significant step in the consolidation
of the work of the Court the Council’s decision to refer
the situation in Darfur to the Prosecutor. That decision,
contained  in  resolution  1593  (2005),  demonstrates  the
importance of cooperation between both institutions in
the  quest  for  international  peace  and  justice.  It  is  our
hope  that  that  major  step  forward  will  form  the  basis
for developing a closer, constructive relationship in the
future,  which  will  ultimately  benefit  the  victims  of
crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court.
CARICOM is pleased at the progress made in the
intersessional  meeting  of  the  Special  Working  Group
on the Crime of Aggression and urges the participants
in the Working Group to redouble their efforts towards
the  completion  of  their  mandate,  to  demonstrate  the
necessary  political  will  and  to  strive  to  overcome  the
difficulties  that  stand  in  the  way  of  consensus.  We
should bear in mind that the review conference will be
held  in  the  not-too-distant  future  and  should  therefore
endeavour  to  complete  our  work  well  in  advance  of
that conference.
A/60/PV.46
CARICOM  continues  to  support  the  work  of  the
Board  of  Directors  of  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims.  We
wish  to  underline  the  critical  importance  that  the
adoption of the draft regulations of the Trust Fund for
Victims will have for the effective achievement of the
objectives  of  the  Trust  Fund,  since  those  regulations
will govern key aspects of the work of the members of
the  Board,  to  whom  we  have  entrusted  the  significant
task  of  establishing  and  directing  the  activities  of  the
Trust  Fund  and  the  allocation  of  the  property  and
money available to it.
In  light  of  that,  we  urge  all  States  parties  and
other  participants  in  the  working  group  of  the  bureau
on  that  issue  to  make  every  effort  to  reach  agreement
on the key outstanding issues in advance of the fourth
Assembly of States Parties, which will be held in The
Hague  later  this  month.  We  wish  to  express  our
appreciation 
that  have
contributed  generously  to  the  Trust  Fund,  including
one  CARICOM  State  party,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and
encourage  all  States  parties 
favourable
consideration  to  making  voluntary  contributions  of  a
substantial nature to the Trust Fund.
those  Governments 
to  give 
to 
ratification  marks  an 
CARICOM  warmly  welcomes  Mexico’s
ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  on  31  October.  That
100th 
important  milestone
towards universal support of the International Criminal
Court.  CARICOM  wishes  once  again  to  encourage  all
other States that have not yet ratified the Rome Statute
to do so as soon as possible. In addition, it is important
that  States  parties  adopt,  in  a  timely  manner,  the
necessary  implementing  legislation  that  will  enable
them to render assistance and cooperation to the Court.
to  ratify  and
We  also  encourage  States  parties 
implement 
the  Privileges  and
Immunities  of  the  Court,  which  is  an  important  and
necessary  corollary  to  the  proper  functioning  of  the
Court.  CARICOM  also  wishes  to  remind  signatories
and  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  need  to
preserve  the  integrity  of  the  instrument  by  honouring
their  obligations  under  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the
Law  of  Treaties  so  as  to  maintain  the  object  and
purpose of the statute.
the  Agreement  on 
In closing, the CARICOM member States wish to
reaffirm  our  support  for  and  commitment  to  the  ICC.
We were deeply involved in the process of the Court’s
creation,  through  its  historic  establishment  as  the
international  bastion  safeguarding 
the  victims  of
crimes  that  shock  the  conscience  of  mankind.  But  we
5
A/60/PV.46
should  not  become  complacent.  We  must  continue  to
be  resolute  and  vigilant  in  safeguarding  the  ideals  of
the Court so that it can become what it  was meant  by
its creators to be: the upholder of international criminal
law  and  an  institution  capable  of  bringing  an  end  to
impunity for perpetrators of the most heinous crimes.
Mr.  Wali  (Nigeria):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  African  States  parties  to  the  Rome
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC):
Benin,  Botswana,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  the  Central
African Republic, the Congo, the Democratic Republic
of  the  Congo,  Djibouti,  Gabon,  the  Gambia,  Ghana,
Guinea,  Kenya,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Malawi,  Mali,
Mauritius,  Namibia,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Senegal,  Sierra
Leone,  South  Africa,  Uganda,  the  United  Republic  of
Tanzania and Zambia. We congratulate the President of
the  International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Philippe
Kirsch,  for  his  elaborate  report  (A/60/177)  on  the
activities of the Court.
The ICC has made enormous strides in the period
under  review.  Given  the  background  to  the  Rome
Statute,  it  is  indeed  remarkable  that  the  number  of
States parties has risen to 100 within such a short period
of  time.  We  welcome  the  newest  States  parties —
Mexico, the Dominican Republic and Kenya  — to the
ICC. We urge other United Nations Member States that
have not yet done so to become States parties.
It is gratifying to note that the Court has recorded
tremendous success in the area of its primary mandate,
the  judicial  phase.  The  report  indicates  that  work  in
that  area  has  begun  in  earnest.  We  note  that  the  three
Pre-Trial  Chambers  have  been  established.  It 
is
encouraging  that  investigations  have  so  far  led  to  the
issuance of five warrants of arrest.
It is evident that the remarkable accomplishments
of the Court in so short a period would not have been
possible without the exceptional leadership qualities of
Judge  Kirsch  and  we  commend  him  for  that.  We  also
commend  the  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Luis  Moreno-Ocampo,
and  his  team  of  investigators  for  their  collaborative
efforts. We acknowledge the role of some international
and  regional  organizations, 
the  United
Nations and the African  Union.  We commend Uganda
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  for  their
cooperation  with  the  Court.  We  appreciate  Austria
having  become  the  first  country  to  conclude  an
agreement with the Court to enforce its judgements.
including 
6
We  recognize  that  the  Court  does  not  have  its
own police force to execute its orders. The cooperation
of  States  parties  and  of  international  and  regional
organizations  such  as  the  United  Nations  and  the
African Union is therefore crucial to ensure the timely
execution of the Court’s orders. It is for that reason that
we  welcome 
the  negotiations
between  the  African  Union  and  the  ICC  on  a  Court-
wide cooperation agreement. Accordingly, we urge the
relevant  parties  to  sign  the  agreement  as  a  matter  of
urgency.  We  believe  that  it  will  facilitate  cooperation
between the Court and the African Union.
the  conclusion  of 
It is our view that the growth of the Court should
be  accompanied  by  a  strategic  vision  and  positioning
for  future  relevance  and  benefits  for  itself  and  States
parties. We are convinced that the benefits for, and the
obligations  of,  all  stakeholders  should  be  clearly
spelled  out.  It  is  therefore  gratifying  to  note  that  the
Court  has  made  it  a  priority  to  establish  a  strategic
planning  process  to  define  its  strategic  goals  on  the
basis  of  a  five-year  cycle.  In  that  regard,  we  wish  to
make  some  preliminary  suggestions  concerning  the
way forward.
First,  we  consider  it  advisable  that  the  Court
adopt a strategy that is based  on resources rather than
on  demand.  Consequently,  the  Court  may  wish  not  to
overstretch its work schedule in the field at any given
time. Its complement of staff and its projected growth
should be commensurate with its capacity.
Secondly, the Court’s strategy should ensure that
justice  is  actually  done.  For  that  purpose,  we  believe,
trials  should  —  to  the  extent  that  local  circumstances
permit  it  —  be  carried  out  in  the  localities  where
crimes  have  taken  place.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome
the fact that the Court already has two field offices in
affected countries. We hope that those offices will also
explore  the  possibility  of  holding  hearings  in  the
affected regions.
Thirdly,  it  is  necessary  that  the  issue  of  the
Court’s  permanent  premises  be  linked  to  its  strategic
planning process.
jurisprudence 
for 
Finally,  the  strategic  planning  process  should
address  the  need  for  the  ICC  to  leave  a  legacy  of
enforcement  of
lasting 
international 
in 
the  affected
countries.  We  note  that  Africa  is  currently  the  sole
theatre  for  the  Court’s  operations.  It  is  our  hope  that
the  justice  rendered  by  the  ICC  will  usher  in  stability
the 
justice,  particularly 
and  sustainable  peace  and  that  it  will  permanently
address the menace of impunity on the continent. That,
in our view, would enhance the much-needed economic
development in the affected countries.
is 
that 
With  regard  to  organizational  issues,  our  first
preliminary  comment 
the  site  for  future
meetings  of  States  parties  should  alternate  between
New  York  and  The  Hague.  That,  in  our  view,  would
ensure  the  widest  possible  participation  and  attract
more  observers,  especially  at  this  early  stage  of  the
Court’s  operations.  Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  fact
that the Committee on Budget and Finance has largely
accepted  the  option  paper  of  the  Bureau  of  the
Assembly  of  States  Parties  on  the  establishment  of  a
liaison  office  in  New  York.  We  also  call  for  the
establishment of an appropriate negotiating mechanism
to  finalize  the  negotiations  on  the  regulations  for  the
trust  fund  for  victims.  Finally,  we  call  for  adequate
measures  to  ensure  that  the  staffing  of  the  Court  is
geographically representative of the membership of the
Assembly of States Parties.
In closing, the African States parties to the Rome
Statute  reaffirm  their  confidence  in  the  Court.  We  are
certain  that  the  committed  execution  of  the  Court’s
mandate  remains  a  main  pillar  for  the  promotion  and
sustenance  of  the  rule  of  law,  good  governance,
democracy,  human  rights  and,  above  all,  the  fight
against 
our
unwavering support for the Court.
impunity.  We 
therefore 
reaffirm 
Mr.  Malpede  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
The  Government  of  the  Argentine  Republic  wishes  to
thank the President of the International Criminal Court,
Judge Philippe Kirsch, for his statement, as well for his
substantial and successful efforts during this key stage
of consolidating the Court. We also wish to extend our
recognition  to  the  work  of  the  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Luis
Moreno-Ocampo, in this complex and challenging task.
His  efforts,  under  great  pressure,  have  effectively
helped advance the cause of justice and the objectives
of the Rome Statute. We appreciate the progress made
in the work of the International Criminal Court during
the  past  year, 
its
organization  and  administration,  as  well  as  to  the  full
and active exercise of its competences.
in  matters  connected  both 
to 
As Latin Americans, we welcome the election of
Ambassador  Bruno  Stagno  Ugarte,  Permanent
Representative of Costa Rica to the United Nations, as
A/60/PV.46
President  of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  for  the
period from 2005 to 2007.
We also welcome the decision of the Government
of  Mexico  to  ratify  the  Rome  Statute.  Mexico’s
ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  represents  a  historic
moment for the Court, as it brings the number of States
parties  to  100,  and  this  reaffirms  and  strengthens  the
commitment  of  the  international  community  to  fight
impunity.
that 
resolution  1593 
Argentina  has  always  underlined 
the
International  Criminal  Court  is  the  most  appropriate
forum  in  which  to  combat  impunity  and  to  bring  to
justice  those  who  have  committed  the  most  serious
crimes against the international community as a whole.
We  wish  to  stress  the  historic  importance  of  Security
Council 
the
situation in Darfur. It is the first time that the Council
has made use of article 13 of the Rome Statute and has
referred  to  the  Prosecutor  a  situation  where  it  appears
that  the  crime  committed  is  under  the  jurisdiction  of
the Court. It is a fundamental prerequisite that we put
an end to impunity, in the framework of the rule of law
and  with  the  legitimacy  that  the  independence  and
impartiality of the Court provides.
(2005)  concerning 
As  we  have  expressed  in  the  Security  Council,
Argentina  opposes  any  agreement  that,  in  general
terms, would exclude the nationals of a State from the
jurisdiction of the Court. This would affect the basis of
the jurisdiction of the Court, and it would run counter
to  the  objectives  and  purposes  of  the  Rome  Statute.
The  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Rome  Statute  must  be
respected,  and  the  balance  between  its  provisions  and
the legitimate concerns of States must be preserved.
We are also satisfied with the development of the
investigation processes in the cases of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Uganda and Darfur. Moreover,
Argentina  wishes  to  highlight  the  importance,  for  the
consolidation  of  the  Court  as  an  international  legal
institution,  of  the  recent  warrants  of  arrest  for  leaders
of  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  (LRA)  for  crimes
against  humanity  and  war  crimes  committed 
in
Uganda. These warrants of arrest constitute a milestone
in  one  of  the  inquiries  of  the  Prosecutor  and  are  the
first arrests in the history of the Court. We call upon all
countries,  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  and  the
international  community  to  coordinate  efforts  in  order
to ensure the arrest of the suspects.
7
A/60/PV.46
We  want  to  commend  the  work  of  the  Board  of
Directors  of  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims.  We  also
welcome the recent contributions made to this Fund.
In  this  connection,  we  wish  to  reiterate  the
importance that we  attach to the labour of the Special
Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of  Aggression,  open  on
equal  conditions  to  all  States,  as  well  as  to  the
possibility  of  holding  their  meetings  be  held  at  the
United  Nations  Headquarters,  as 
indicated  by
resolution 58/79.
that 
We  believe 
the  establishment  of 
the
International Criminal Court notably enriches the legal
structure of the international community and the rule of
law at a global level and will complement the efforts of
national  jurisdictions  in  order  to  confront  crimes
against humanity.
in  compliance  with 
the  United  Nations  and 
International  Criminal  Court 
Mr.  Maurer  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):
Switzerland welcomes President Philippe Kirsch to the
General Assembly and also welcomes the first report of
the 
submitted  by
President  Kirsch,  which  has  been  presented  to  the
the  Relationship
Assembly 
Agreement  between 
the
International  Criminal  Court  adopted  last  year.  The
report  shows  the  importance  and  the  impressive  scale
of  the  Court’s  activities  a  mere  three  years  after  the
Rome Statue came into effect. The fact that three States
parties  have 
the
International Criminal Court and that a non-party State
has  recognized  its  competence  in  accordance  with
Article 12, paragraph 3, demonstrates very clearly that
this 
the
international community.
institution  meets  a 
real  need 
situations 
facing 
referred 
their 
to 
The  referral  of  the  situation  in  Darfur  to  the
International  Criminal  Court  by  the  Security  Council
last March proves that the Court has become, in a very
brief time, an indispensable pillar in the architecture of
international peace and security.
All  the  situations  currently  being  dealt  with  by
the  Court  are  extremely  serious  and  characterized  by
brutality  which,  at  times,  can  only  be  described  as
monstrous.  Switzerland  welcomes  the  strategy  of  the
Prosecutor,  which  aims,  in  its  first  phase,  to  identify
those  people  at  the  highest  levels  responsible  for  the
worst crimes. Switzerland is aware of the very difficult
conditions on the ground under which the Court has to
work, in particular at the human, security and logistical
levels. It  encourages  all States  to  cooperate  fully  with
8
the  Court  and  to  help  it  as  much  as  possible  to  carry
out its mandate.
Concerning  the  relationship  between  the  United
Nations and the International Criminal Court, it seems
to  be  of  paramount  importance  that  the  Agreement,
which came into effect last year, be fully implemented
in the mutual interests of both institutions. Switzerland
welcomes,  in  particular,  the  approach  that  the  Court
adopts in its relations with States, based on cooperation
and  positive 
is
encouraged  by  the  way  in  which  the  Court  associates
all of its partners — States, international organizations
and  non-governmental  organizations  —  in  its  courses
of  action.  The  experience  gained  in  the  area  of
transitional 
to
coordinate  all  activities  developed  in  conflict  or  post-
conflict situations.
complementarity.  My 
increased  need 
justice  reveals 
country 
the 
In the execution of its mandate, the International
Criminal  Court  has  proven  to  be  sensitive  to  the
political  context  in  which  it  operates.  It  is,  however,
clear that coordination efforts are limited by the degree
of  respect  accorded  to  the  Court’s  independence,  the
Court’s independence being the basis of its legitimacy.
From  Switzerland’s  perspective,  in  this  initial  phase,
the  Court,  and  in  particular  the  Prosecutor,  have
pursued a just line of action that is beyond reproach.
Through its commitment to transparency, honesty
and professionalism, the Court has earned wide respect
and  enjoys  increasingly  strong  support  within  the
international  community.  In  a  short  period  of  time,  it
has  become  a  true  cornerstone  of  the  fight  against
impunity  at  the  international  level.  Today,  more  than
half of all the States of the world have become parties
to the treaty. I would like to commend Mexico, which
just ratified the Rome Statue a few days ago, making it
the hundredth country to become a party to the statute.
Switzerland calls on all States that have not yet done so
to join the Rome Statute as soon as possible.
Mr. Butagira (Uganda): From the outset, Uganda
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  of  the  African  Group
delivered by the representative of Nigeria.
One  cannot  help  but  recoil  in  horror  at  the
conjectured picture of thousands of children ruthlessly
kidnapped  from  their  homes,  their  parents,  and  their
communities  and  subjected  to  witnessing  gruesome
killings, many even forced to take part in those horrific
killings,  some  raped,  others  mutilated,  and  all  having
their  innocence  and  sense  of  security  irrevocably
shattered  at  a  tender  age.  One  cannot  also  help  but
weep  for  the  parents,  relatives  and  communities  who
were helpless to protect them — parents, relatives and
tribesmen who may also have, in the process, had parts
of  their  bodies  butchered  or  mutilated  in  the  worst
possible  way  imaginable,  many  of  the  raped  suffering
not  only  from  stigma  and  isolation,  but  also  forced  to
birth  and  nurse  the  children  of  their  tormentors,  the
majority infected by HIV/AIDS.
It is with regard to the plight of victims, such as
those  I  have  described,  at  the  hands  of  the  so-called
Lord’s  Resistance  Army  (LRA)  in  northern  Uganda
and  all  the  other  victims  elsewhere  of  similar  abuses
occasioned by crimes against humanity, war crimes and
genocide  since  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome
Statute,  that  this  Assembly  is  gathered  here  today  to
take stock of what the international community and the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  have  done  and  are
likely  to  do  to  redress  some  of  those  despicable
inhuman acts. The damage inflicted may never be truly
repaired,  but  with  the  intervention  of  the  Court  and
relevant organs, such as the Trust Fund for Victims, it
may at least be mitigated. That is our hope.
I now turn to the report of the ICC circulated by
the  Secretary-General 
the
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  My  delegation
appreciates  the  depth  with  which  the  activities  of  the
Court are dealt with therein.
accordance  with 
in 
Allow me also to thank the President of the ICC,
Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his  succinct  and  detailed
introduction of the report and for the excellent manner
in which he has been handling the affairs of the Court.
However,  before  I  delve  into  the  details  of  the
said  report,  on  behalf  of  all  the  victims  of  the  Lord’s
Resistance Army and the peoples of Uganda, I wish to
congratulate the Court upon the issuance of warrants of
arrest to five members of the top leadership of the LRA
after the conclusion of the investigations carried out by
the office of the Prosecutor. We appreciate the fact that
the wheels of justice sometimes turn slowly, but in this
case 
into
consideration.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  the
people of northern Uganda, as well as to the healing of
the  whole  nation,  that  the  leadership  of  the  LRA  be
tried  by  the  ICC.  We  call  upon  our  neighbours  to  do
everything  in  their  power  to  help  apprehend  the
indictees and we thank the Governments of the Sudan
factors  had 
so  many 
to  be 
taken 
A/60/PV.46
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  for  their
efforts to date.
We  beg  to  differ  with  those  opposing  the  arrest
warrants  on  the  premise  that  they  will  hamper  peace
prospects 
in  northern  Uganda.  Both  Mrs.  Betty
Bigombe’s and the Government of Uganda’s overtures
to  the  LRA  leadership  have  been  snubbed  in  the  past
and  all  indicators  have  proved  that  the  leaders  of  the
LRA  have  no  interest  in  giving  up  their  heinous  war
and  grave  crimes  against  humanity.  We  urge  the
Assembly to consider the situation were Kony and his
henchmen  to  be  allowed  to  continue  committing
atrocities  unchallenged.  So  far,  tens  of  thousands  of
Ugandan  children  have  been  abducted  to  serve  as
soldiers, porters and sex slaves. Many have been forced
to  kill  their  fellow  children  in  cold  blood.  Almost  l
million  Ugandans  have  been  displaced  and  forced  to
live  in  camps  for  internally  displaced  persons.  Even
there,  they  are  not  spared  the  vicious  attacks  of  that
barbaric  group,  and  members  may  recall  the  horrific
massacre  at  a  place  called  the  Barlonyo  Camp  for
internally  displaced  persons,  where  250  people  were
mercilessly hacked to death and their huts and property
burnt. Some victims were even cooked and eaten.
justice.  The 
indictment  of 
There can be no lasting prospects for sustainable
peace  without 
those
criminals  will  serve  as  a  stark  deterrent  to  would-be
perpetrators  of  such  crimes  when  they  see  that  the
Court means business. It will also strengthen the Court.
Definitely, the three referrals before it are evidence of
the  international  community’s  growing  confidence  in
the Court. The confidence is further testified to by Côte
d’Ivoire’s  lodging  of  a  declaration  accepting  the
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  even  though  it  is  not  a  State
party to the Rome Statute.
In that vein, we wish to salute the Member States
parties that have contributed to the 100 ratifications of
the  Rome  Statute.  The  100th  ratification  submitted  by
Mexico  is  indeed  a  milestone  towards  achieving  the
universality of the Court. We are equally pleased by the
announcement  that  Austria  has  signed  an  Agreement
with the ICC on the enforcement of the sentences to be
handed down by the Court. We urge other States parties
in a position to do so to offer similar support. That will
serve  to  render  the  Court  even  more,  if  not  fully,
operational.
While  we  appreciate  the  Court’s  quest  to  recruit
highly  qualified  staff,  we  urge  it  to  ensure  fair
9
A/60/PV.46
to  note 
that,  of 
geographical  distribution  of 
top  and  mid-level
managerial  positions  to  highly  qualified  persons.  We
are  extremely  concerned 
the
professional  staff,  an  overwhelming  70  per  cent  come
from  Western  countries,  with  only  12  per  cent  from
Africa  and  a  paltry  3  per  cent  from  Asia.  It  is  not
enough for the Court to request Member States to assist
it 
the
underrepresented  States.  The  Assembly  of  States
Parties  must  formulate  more  equitable  criteria  for  the
hiring  of  professional  staff,  as  the  present  criteria,
which are based on the United Nations model, leave a
lot to be desired.
identifying  qualified  candidates 
from 
in 
We commend the Court for the procedures it has
set  in  motion  to  ensure  its  viability  and  sound
management,  such  as  the  elaboration  of  a  five-year
strategic  plan,  the  adoption  of  a  charter  for  internal
audit,  and  the  setting  up  of  the  Coordination  Council.
With specific regard to the Registry, we commend the
latter  for  developing  a  legal  aid  scheme  to  ensure
sufficient means for the defence and due respect of the
rights of the accused, finalizing the revised draft code
of  professional  conduct  for  counsel  and  undertaking
training  programmes  for  relevant  bodies 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda.
in 
the  Court 
We  applaud 
the  efforts  of 
to
continuously  consult  with  civil  society  and  other
experts on issues related to the participation of victims
in  the  proceedings  before  the  Court.  That  will  help
them operationalize the provisions of the Rome Statute
and the relevant rules of procedure and evidence.
to  reach  out 
Further,  we  note  with  appreciation  the  Court’s
endeavours 
to  heads  of  State  and
Government,  Government  officials,  parliamentarians
international  and  regional
and  representatives  of 
organizations.  That  will 
enhance
the  Court.  The
acceptance  and  understanding  of 
Court’s  practice  of 
stakeholders  and
consulting with various leading experts, States parties,
the 
non-governmental
organizations  will  deepen  its  understanding  of  critical
issues and help build efficiency and relevance.
indeed  help 
involving 
Nations 
United 
and 
We thank the Prosecutor for briefing the Security
Council  on  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor’s  activities  in
Darfur  and  all  for  similar  cooperation  whenever
deemed  appropriate.  We  stress  the  importance  of
continued  effective  cooperation  between  the  Security
Council and the Court.
10
We  commend  the  Court  for  establishing  a  field
office  in  Uganda,  together  with  a  field  office  and  a
field  presence  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo. Once trial proceedings begin, it may be in the
interests  of  the  Court  and  natural  justice  to  hold  such
proceedings  in  the  vicinity  where  the  crimes  were
committed.
On its part, Uganda is doing its best to cooperate
with the Court, as has been acknowledged in the report.
The  Government  has  embarked  on  several 
joint
activities  with  civil  society  to  sensitize  the  public  on
the  work  of  the  ICC,  especially  in  regard  to  the
proceedings  against 
the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army.
Further, it has elaborated a national bill on the ICC to
implement the Rome Statute, which has been presented
to Parliament.
some 
When the Trust Fund for Victims was established,
Ugandan victims rejoiced. We, too, rejoiced, especially
when  we  witnessed 
countries’  generous
contributions  to  the  Fund.  However,  we  have  noted
with  dismay  the  trend  the  negotiations  to  elaborate
criteria  to  disburse  the  funds  are  taking.  Whereas  we
understand the concerns of some leading common-law
countries  regarding  monies  being  made  available  to
victims  before  the  conviction  of  alleged  perpetrators,
we  nonetheless  appeal  to  them  to  recognize  some
victims’  immediate  collective  needs.  That  is  all  the
more  poignant  given  that  some  damage,  such  as
psychological  trauma,  if  not  addressed  immediately
can  become  irreparable,  not  to  mention  the  dark
despair of disillusionment.
On a final note, the Ugandan Government wishes
to  reiterate  its  support  for  the  Court  and  urges  the
United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council  in  particular
to cooperate  closely with it so that, together, they can
promote adherence to and protection of the rule of law
in order to deal a death blow to impunity regarding the
most  serious  and  nefarious  crimes  in  the  history  of
mankind.
Mr. Morote (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to
thank  Mr.  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court,  for  his  comprehensive
and  detailed  presentation  of  his  report  on  the  Court’s
work.  We  welcome  the  fact  that  the  President  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  has  addressed 
the
Assembly for the first time.
Peru reiterates its support for and commitment to
ensuring  that  the  International  Criminal  Court  can
effectively  fulfil  its  mandate  and  to  promoting  the
integrity of its statute. The creation of the International
Criminal Court with the adoption of the Rome Statute
and  its  subsequent  entry  into  force  on  1  July  2002
undoubtedly  represented  a  historic  moment  in  which
the  international  community  decided  that  it  would  not
tolerate 
the  most  serious  crimes:
genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
impunity 
for 
The Court was conceived not only as a solid and
effective  instrument  for  ensuring  that  the  perpetrators
of  such  crimes  should  enjoy  no  impunity;  its  very
existence  was  intended  to  deter  future  perpetrators  of
such atrocities. In carrying out the sensitive tasks that
have been entrusted to it by its States parties, the Court
shall  fulfil  its  mission  and  thus  help  to  achieve  the
goals  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  respect  for
human  rights  and  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security.
It 
We  can  be  proud  that  we  have  a  Court  that  is
fully  operational. 
currently  undertaking
investigations into cases in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Uganda and the Sudan, and has unsealed its
first  arrest  warrants,  which  marks  a  milestone  in  the
fight against impunity.
is 
to  refer 
the  report  of 
In the case of Darfur, the Sudan, we welcome the
Security  Council’s  decision,  through  resolution  1593
(2005), 
the  International
Commission  of  Inquiry  on  Darfur  to  the  International
Criminal Court. Having considered other options, Peru
believes that, given current circumstances, the decision
to refer the matter to the Court was correct and hopes
that  the  Council  will  pursue  that  sound  practice  in
situations where it is deemed necessary.
We  know  that  the  investigations  carried  out  by
the  International  Criminal  Court  often  run  up  against
security  problems  on  the  ground.  In  that  respect,
cooperation between the Court and the United Nations
is critical. The Relationship Agreement signed in 2004
between  those  two  organizations  is  the  framework
instrument  in  that  regard.  Moreover,  as  stated  in  its
report, the Court does not have its own police force to
implement  its  decisions  and  warrants.  That  is  why
cooperation between States is necessary and important
in  such  areas  as  the  gathering  of  evidence,  the  arrest
and  surrender  of  individuals,  and  the  enforcement  of
sentences.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent
signing by the Government of Austria of an Agreement
on the Enforcement of Sentences.
A/60/PV.46
The Rome Statute recalls the role to be played by
victims  in  the  processes  of  the  International  Criminal
Court.  The  voluntary  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  was
established to that end. Peru stresses the importance of
the work of the Fund’s Board of Directors and appeals
to  those  States  that  are  in  a  position  to  do  so  to
contribute to the Fund. Peru also wishes to emphasize
the  work  of  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime
of  Aggression,  a  body  open  in  full  equality  to  all
Member  States.  We  hope  that  that  issue  will  continue
to be considered pursuant to the Rome Statute.
responsible 
jurisdictions,  which  are 
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  a  crucial
institution  In  the  struggle  against  impunity.  We  must
not forget, however, that it complements the efforts of
national 
for
responding to criminal acts that have been identified as
falling  within the Court’s competence.  In  that  respect,
we call on States to bring to justice the perpetrators of
crimes  that  fall  within  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  and  to
provide expeditious legal assistance in such situations.
to  welcome
Mexico’s  recent  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute,
becoming the twentieth State of Latin America and the
Caribbean  to  accede  to  the  International  Criminal
Court and bringing the number of States parties to that
international  instrument  to  100.  We  trust  that  more
countries  will  join  the  large  group  of  States  parties  to
the International Criminal Court in the future.
Before  concluding,  allow  me 
Mr. Ozawa (Japan): At the outset, my delegation
would  like  to  thank  President  Philippe  Kirsch  for  his
in-depth report on the current work of the International
Criminal Court (ICC).
Japan  congratulates  the  ICC  on  entering  into  its
operational  phase.  In  2005,  the  ICC  initiated  an
investigation into the situation in Darfur, the Sudan, in
addition to the investigations into the situations in the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  northern
Uganda. When the Security Council voted on referring
the  situation  in  Darfur  to  the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC,
Japan,  as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  voted  in
favour  of  the  resolution.  That  resolution,  we  believe,
was  a  significant  step  towards  putting  an  end  to
impunity  for  one  of  the  most  serious  crimes  in  the
international community today.
In order for the ICC to win the trust of the wider
international community, it is essential for the Court to
demonstrate  its  fairness,  impartiality  and  efficiency.
The activities of the ICC are increasingly drawing the
11
A/60/PV.46
attention  of  the  world  at  large,  especially  since  some
are  now  shifting  from  the  investigatory  to  the  judicial
phase.  In  that  regard,  the  ICC  is  facing  a  crucial
moment  in  its  efforts  to  increase  support  for  its
activities within the international community.
Although  Japan  has  yet  to  accede  to  the  Rome
Statute, it has actively participated as an observer in all
the ICC-related meetings. Currently, we are taking part
in  such  activities  as  the  discussion  on  drafting  the
regulations for the Trust Fund for Victims and the task
force  for  the  draft  code  of  professional  conduct  for
counsel.  Those  are  important  activities  which  will
contribute to the further development of the ICC.
As mentioned on a number of occasions, Japan is
seriously  considering  accession  to  the  Rome  Statute.
We  are  assessing  all  possible  implications  for  our
domestic criminal code system. We are also evaluating
what  the  financial  implications  of  accession  would  be
against 
the  background  of  Japan’s  serious  fiscal
deficits.  We  are  aware  of  the  growing  need  for
budgetary  expansion  as  the  ICC  begins  full-scale
operations.  It  is  also  true,  however,  that  financial
discipline must be maintained in order for the Court to
enjoy 
international
the 
community.
support  of 
the  wider 
Japan welcomes the fact that the number of States
parties to the Rome Statute has reached 100. Japan, as
a  State  which  is  considering  becoming  a  party  to  the
Statute, would like to emphasize the importance of the
transparency and effectiveness of the work of the ICC.
We  hope  that  the  Court  will  become  a  truly  universal
organization 
the
international community as a whole.
that  commands 
trust  of 
the 
philosophical and a practical level, those two important
elements of international justice can work together.
We  applaud  the  General  Assembly’s  decision  to
consider  directly  in  plenary  reports  submitted  by  the
Court  under  its  Relationship  Agreement  with  the
United  Nations  in  a  manner  similar  to  the  plenary’s
consideration  of  reports  of  the  International  Court  of
Justice  and  the  United  Nations  Ad  Hoc  Tribunals  for
Rwanda  and  the  former  Yugoslavia.  My  delegation
looks  forward  to  good  cooperation  between  the  two
bodies  after  the  ICC  is  granted  observer  status  in  the
General Assembly. We will closely follow the progress
of  the  Court  through  its  annual  reports  to  the  General
Assembly.
Going through the ICC report, one cannot fail to
appreciate  that  the  main  pillars  of  the  Court  —  the
Presidency,  the  Judiciary,  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor
and the Registry — have all been set up and are in the
process  of  being  firmly  established  on  the  ground.
Some,  like  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  have  already
started  preliminary  as  well  as  substantive  operations.
We  commend  all  who  have  been  involved  in  that
groundwork.
launched 
investigations 
What  is  most  significant  is  the  fact  that  the  ICC
has  entered  the  judicial  phase  of  its  operations.  The
Prosecutor  has 
the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and in the Republic
of  Uganda  upon  referrals  by  the  two  Member  States.
Furthermore, in a historical event in June this year, the
Security  Council  referred  the  Darfur  situation  to  the
ICC. The Prosecutor therefore is also investigating the
situation  in  Darfur.  It  is  significant  that  arrests  and
indictments might be forthcoming in the near future.
in 
Mrs.  Kasyanju  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):
The United Republic of Tanzania associates itself with
the statement made by the representative of the Federal
Republic  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African  States
parties to the Rome Statute.
My delegation would like to thank Judge Philippe
Kirsch,  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC), for the report in document A/60/177. The report
has  been  submitted  in  accordance  with  provisions  of
the  Relationship  Agreement  between 
the  United
Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We
believe 
and
institutionalizes  the  relationship  between  the  United
Nations  and 
that,  on  both  a
the  ICC,  ensuring 
the  Agreement 
reinforces 
that 
12
the 
including 
That  is  where  the  issue  of  cooperation  of  States
parties  and 
international  community  becomes
crucial.  It  will  be  the  duty  of  States  parties  and  the
international community to execute the arrest warrants
issued  by  the  ICC.  The  cooperation  is  not  limited  to
arrests,  but  cuts  across  all  spheres  of  activity  of  the
ICC, 
the  capacity  of
Member States in building local networks, the field of
security,  the  establishment  of  logistics,  information
dissemination,  and  other  areas  and  matters.  We
therefore  applaud  the  Court’s  initiative  in  developing
the so-called case matrix, which, among other services,
provides  on-line  commentaries  on  how  to  define  and
prove  the  offences  under  the  Rome  Statute.  We  look
forward  to  accessing  those  digital  tools,  which  we
in  strengthening 
believe  will  support  our  domestic  efforts  to  promote
the rule of law.
it  gets 
largely  depend  on 
from  Member  States, 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  success  of  the  ICC’s
the  extent  of
activities  will 
cooperation 
the
international  community  and  other  entities,  including
international  and  regional  organizations.  We  appeal  to
all  United  Nations  Member  States  to  grant  the  much-
needed cooperation to the ICC. In the same respect, we
congratulate  Mexico  on  becoming  the  100th  party  to
the Rome Statute, and we urge more countries to ratify
and accede to the Statute, taking a further step towards
the universalization of the Court.
its  commitment 
to  and  support  for 
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  would  like  to
reaffirm 
the
International  Criminal  Court,  which  has  been
established  to  fight  impunity  by  trying  individuals
accused of the most serious violations of international
humanitarian and human rights law. The ICC is meant
to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  as
genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity will
be tried either in their national jurisdictions or through
the  ICC.  We  believe  that  the  ICC  is  the  most
significant  international  mechanism  ever  created  to
implement international standards of justice.
Lastly,  my  delegation  strongly  supports 
the
General Assembly draft resolution on the International
Criminal Court.
Mr.  Shin  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  would  like  to
begin  by  thanking  the  President  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his
presentation of the report of the Court to the plenary of
the General Assembly.
On  28  October,  Mexico  became  the  100th  State
party  to  the  ICC,  marking  an  important  milestone  on
the  road  towards  universal  ratification  of  the  Rome
Statute.  The  Republic  of  Korea  strongly  supports  that
goal. It is our belief that there must be a seamless web
of justice throughout the world.
Currently,  however,  there  are  only  12  Asian
States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  My  delegation  is
eager  to  see  more  Asian  States  become  parties  to  the
Statute  as  soon  as  possible.  Asian  States  should  also
become  partners  for  international  criminal  justice,
which  would  serve  the  interests  of  peace  and  security
in  the  region.  We  hope  that  the  Court,  as  well  as  the
States parties, will provide assistance to Asian States to
A/60/PV.46
enable  them  to  prepare  for  accession  to  the  Rome
Statute.  The  Republic  of  Korea  will  do  its  part  by
engaging 
to
encourage  more  Asian  States  to  join  the  International
Criminal Court.
in  outreach  and  advocacy  efforts 
fully 
judicial 
functional 
My delegation is pleased to note that the Court is
now  a 
institution.  The
Prosecutor  of  the  Court  is  currently  investigating
situations  in  Uganda,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  and  Darfur,  the  Sudan.  In  addition,  analysis  of
eight  situations  on  four  continents  is  under  way,
including  those  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and
Côte  d’Ivoire.  Operational  presences  are  being
established. Pre-Trial Chamber II has recently unsealed
the arrest warrants for five senior leaders of the Lord’s
Resistance  Army  in  Uganda  on  counts  of  crimes
against  humanity  and  war  crimes.  Trials  are  expected
to begin in 2006.
Such  progress  will  not  only  bring  to  justice
perpetrators  of  heinous  crimes  but  also  serve  as  a
deterrent  to  future  atrocities.  The  Court’s  success  will
send  a  strong  message  throughout  the  international
community  that  there  will  be  no  impunity  for  those
who commit crimes against humanity, genocide or war
crimes.
How  the  Court  handles  the  cases  referred  to  it
will  be  an  important  determiner  of  the  Court’s  future
and  of  whether  it  will  be  embraced  by  the  entire
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  To  ensure  the
Court’s  best  possible  performance,  States  should
provide  it  with  the  financial,  logistical  and  political
support it needs to perform its work, thus enabling the
Court to realize the rule of law and to end impunity for
crimes  against  humanity,  genocide  and  war  crimes.
States  Parties  must  ensure  that  assessed  contributions
are  paid  in  full  and  on  time.  We  also  encourage
voluntary  contributions  as  an  important  source  of
resources.
it 
In 
terms  of 
the  Court’s  functioning, 
is
important to note that the Court does not have its own
enforcement  arm.  The  Court  needs  the  assistance  and
cooperation  of  States  to  apprehend  indictees,  collect
evidence and execute its sentences. Thus, it is critically
important  that  the  Court  receives  the  full  cooperation
of  States,  relevant  regional  organizations  and  United
Nations operations.
The  Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United
Nations  and  the  Court  provides  many  avenues  for
13
A/60/PV.46
mutually beneficial cooperative efforts to establish the
rule  of  law  and  end  impunity.  Particularly  important
areas  of  cooperation  in  the  field  are  communications,
transportation,  logistics  and  security,  including  the
protection  of  victims,  witnesses  and  investigators,  as
well  as  the  provision  of  access  to  suspects  and  the
collection of evidence and documents.
Each of those areas requires the cooperation and
the support of the United Nations. Information-sharing
between the United  Nations  and  the  Court  is  essential
both  at  Headquarters  and  in  the  field.  To  facilitate
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
International  Criminal  Court,  my  delegation  strongly
supports  the  establishment  of  a  Court  liaison  office  at
the  United  Nations  and  the  allocation  of  adequate
resources for its effective functioning.
It 
in 
We also urge the continued participation of States
in  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of
Aggression. 
that  States  actively
participate 
the
definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression,  including  the
conditions  under  which  the  Court  would  exercise  its
jurisdiction.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  further
progress on that issue in coming years.
important 
important  discussion  on 
is 
that 
and 
impartiality 
effectiveness  of 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  increasing  trust  of
the  international  community  in  the  independence,
fairness, 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  That 
trust  was
demonstrated  by  the  referral  of  the  situations  in
Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the
Central  African  Republic  to  the  Court  by  the  States
themselves.  The  first  referral  to  the  Court  by  the
Security  Council,  namely,  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the
Sudan,  is  strong  testimony  to  the  fact  that  peace  and
justice,  often  misunderstood  as  being  mutually
exclusive, can work hand-in-hand.
With  those  positive  developments  in  mind,  the
Republic 
unswerving
commitment  to  support  the  International  Criminal
Court in achieving its noble goals.
of  Korea 
reaffirms 
its 
(spoke 
(Mexico) 
Mr.  G(cid:243)mez  Robledo
in
Spanish):  After  five  years  of  intense  and  prolonged
deliberations,  on  28  October,  Mexico  deposited  its
instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute.  It  was
not  easy  for  Mexico  to  become  a  State  party.  It
required  a  complex  process  of  constitutional  reform,
which  in  turn  entailed  a  very  broad  debate  within  our
society. That debate was probably not unlike those that
14
have  taken  place  in  other  countries  that  have  had  to
take  a  position  with  respect  to  the  International
Criminal Court.
In  effect,  a  highly  conservative  vision  of
sovereignty and the principle of non-intervention have
always provided a powerful arm for those who oppose
the Court. That vision cannot admit that the concept of
the threat to international peace  and security has  been
expanded  to  make  of  human  rights  legal  rights  to  be
monitored by the international community as a whole.
instrument 
for  achieving  progress 
That debate, however, had a distinctive feature in
Mexico.  While  the  Rome  Statute  was  perceived  as  a
powerful 
in
strengthening  the  institutions  for  the  protection  of
human rights, it aroused all types of fears owing to its
supranational nature and to the competences the Rome
Statute grants to the Security Council. The principle of
complementarity on which the jurisdiction of the Court
is  based  was  something  that  could  not  be  understood.
The  situation  demonstrated  that  becoming  a  party  to
the  Statute  entailed,  essentially,  improving  national
justice 
the
International  Criminal  Court  to  be  a  deterrent  to  the
commission  of  the  most  grave  crimes,  but  it  is  also  a
motor  for  promoting  the  rule  of  law  within  our
countries.
short,  we  understand 
systems. 
In 
The  democratic  transition  undergone  by  Mexico
in recent years was decisive for reaching the objective
set  by  President  Vicente  Fox  on  the  first  day  of  his
term.  The  executive,  legislative  and  judicial  branches
of 
non-governmental
organizations and civil society as a whole participated
in 
the  stage,  first,  for
constitutional  reform  and,  secondly,  for  ratification  of
the Statute.
the  debates  held 
government, 
universities, 
to  set 
the  Court; 
None  of  that  would  have  been  possible  without
the constant support of the countries that have become
friends  of 
they  constantly  gave  us
encouragement  through  their  experience  and  advice.  I
want  particularly  to  underline  the  role  played  by  the
European Union and the Council of Europe, as well as
by  committed  individual  experts,  such  as  the  current
President of the Sixth Committee.
Of  course,  I  wish  also  to  refer  to  organizations
such  as  the  Coalition  for  an  International  Criminal
Court  and  No  Peace  Without  Justice  as  well  as  to
international  institutions  such  as  the  International
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  (ICRC),  which  took  an
active  part  in  discussions  with  the  various  Mexican
representatives involved in that undertaking.
also 
in  order 
and  who 
to  hold  discussions  with 
I  should  like  to  pay  special  tribute  to  President
Philippe  Kirsch,  who  visited  Mexico  on  a  number  of
occasions 
its
Congress 
received  Mexican
parliamentarians at The Hague. His confidence and his
tireless efforts were crucial in overcoming  last-minute
resistance and in dispelling any remaining doubts.
the  Statute  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court  therefore  represents  the
culmination  of  a  genuine  act  of  State.  We  are  certain
that  this  one-hundredth  ratification  of  the  Statute  will
bring  about  further  action  aimed  at  achieving  the
Court’s universality.
Mexico’s  accession 
to 
Mexico  welcomes  the  submission  to  the  General
Assembly  of  the  first  report  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  and  would  like  to  thank  the  Court’s
President  for  having  presented  it.  The  report  provides
us  with  an  opportunity  to  become  better  acquainted
with  the  Court’s  activities  over  the  past  year,  to
identify  difficulties  and  to  determine  the  manner  in
which  the  international  community  can  best  cooperate
in order to realize its dream of eradicating impunity for
the  commission  of 
the  most  serious  crimes  of
international significance.
is 
recently, 
We  are  pleased  to  see  that  the  Court,  despite
having  been  established  only 
fully
operational. While further progress is required made in
the  consolidation  of  its  structures  and  guidelines,
which  will  provide  it  with  the  full  array  of  tools
necessary  to  its  operation,  the  results  achieved  so  far
are  commendable.  Mexico  reiterates  its  support  in
ensuring the consolidation of the Court by the earliest
possible date.
The  International  Criminal  Court  has  put  into
operation the machinery envisaged in its statute for the
activation of its jurisdiction. Three States parties  have
referred  to  the  Prosecutor  situations  relating  to  events
on their own territory. Moreover, the Security Council,
using  the  powers  granted  it  by  the  statute,  has  also
referred to the Court the situation in Darfur. One State
non-party  —  Côte  d’Ivoire  —  has  deposited  a
declaration stating that it accepts the jurisdiction of the
Court.  Thus  we  can  see  that  the  Court  is  operating
smoothly,  in  the  manner  that  was  envisaged  by  the
Statute — no more, no less.
A/60/PV.46
The  report  submitted  by  the  President  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  refers  to  the  situations
that are currently being investigated by the Prosecutor.
It also indicates that, for reasons related to the situation
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  one  or  two
cases  received  priority  in  2005  because  of  their
extreme  gravity,  and  that  the  other  cases  will  be
addressed 
reasons
underlying  the  selection  of  cases  on  the  basis  of  their
gravity.  However,  extreme  caution  must  be  used  in
carrying  out  such  an  exercise  so  as  to  ensure  that
selection does not become selectivity, which would run
counter to the principles of objectivity and impartiality
which should guide the actions of the Court.
later  on.  We  understand 
the 
The Security Council’s referral of the situation in
Darfur  under  resolution  1593  (2005)  is  particularly
relevant in that respect. Thus, in using the mechanism
provided  for  in  article  13,  paragraph  b,  of  the  statute,
the  Security  Council  is  fulfilling  its  Charter-mandated
responsibilities.  Resolution  1593  (2005)  establishes  a
delicate  balance  allowing  the  Court  and  the  Security
Council to fulfil their responsibilities in a coordinated
manner.  Therefore,  any  referral  made  by  the  Security
Council  must  strictly  accord  with  the  letter  and  the
spirit of the Charter and, of course, the Rome Statute.
to 
regard 
supporting  national 
It is important to highlight the role that the Court
the  principle  of
has  played  with 
judicial
complementarity  by 
actions where possible. The objectives enshrined in the
Rome Statute require that the international community
as  a  whole  and  the  International  Criminal  Court
shoulder 
through
cooperation  and 
the
principles governing such cooperation.
responsibilities 
the  application  of 
common 
through 
their 
The principle of complementarity is the keystone
of  this  system.  Not  only  does  it  serve  to  decide  when
the  Court’s  jurisdiction  should  be  activated,  but  also,
and  more  important,  the  fact  that  the  statute  accords
States  parties  jurisdictional  supremacy  strengthens
national  judicial  systems.  Mexico  welcomes  the  fact
that  the  Court,  in  its  work,  has  strictly  abided  by  the
principle of complementarity.
Other  important  developments  have  taken  place
with  respect  to  the  work  of  the  Court,  which  must  be
continued in order to ensure that the Court has  all the
instruments  it  needs  in  order  fully  to  discharge  its
mandate.  The  adoption  of  practical  measures  that  will
help  provide  effective  and  comprehensive  access  by
15
A/60/PV.46
in  strengthening 
victims  to  reparations  is  a  sine  qua  non  condition  for
achieving  progress 
the  system
established by the Court. We congratulate the Court on
the  progress  that  has  been  made  to  date  as  well  as  on
the establishment of a Trust Fund for victims. We hope
that  the  work  on  regulations  will  be  concluded  by  the
next session of the General Assembly.
My country attaches particular importance to the
situation  of  victims  and  to  the  recognition  of  their
rights.  Effective  cooperation  on  the  part  of  all  is
necessary  to  ensure  that  they  can  participate  in  the
relevant  processes,  that  they  receive  support  and
protection,  and  that  they  are  able  to  seek  redress
beyond financial compensation.
Mexico  has  made  voluntary  contributions  to  the
Fund  which,  while  modest,  reflect  my  country’s
commitment to providing support to the victims of war
crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.
Mr.  Cordovez  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Ecuador  is  pleased  with  the  progress  made  by  the
International  Criminal  Court.  Through  the  substantive
work done over the past year, it has fully reaffirmed its
judicial institutional character and operational capacity.
The  Court’s  work  has  eliminated  any  scepticism  that
might  have  arisen  concerning 
its  effectiveness,
independence and impartiality. It has restored the hope
that  crimes  against  humanity  will  never  again  go
unpunished.
The beginning of the Court’s judicial phase with
respect to the cases of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo,  Uganda  and  the  Central  African  Republic,
which  voluntarily  referred  the  situations  of  their
respective  territories  to  the  Court,  as  well  as  the
statement  made  by  Côte  d’Ivoire  accepting 
the
jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  demonstrate  the  confidence
in 
that  States  parties  and  non-parties  have 
this
institution  as 
instrument 
to  fight
impunity and to assign responsibility for crimes against
humanity.
the  best-suited 
The  most  important  event  in  that  context  was
without  a  doubt  the  Security  Council’s  referral  of  the
situation  in  Darfur.  That  act  showed  clearly  that
circumstances  exist  in  which  the  gravity  of  a  crime
gravity and the complexity of the surrounding political
situation  surpass  the  capability  of  national  judicial
systems,  and  that,  consequently,  the  only  way  to
guarantee  that  the  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  are
punished  is  by  submitting  their  respective  trials  to  an
international judicial process.
that 
the
Security  Council  and  the  Court  must  be  strengthened
and that there is a need to give full effect to the power
granted the Council by the Rome Statute to refer to the
Court situations of extreme gravity.
Ecuador  believes 
the 
ties  between 
In  that  context,  I  wish  to  highlight  the  valuable
contribution that the trust fund is making on behalf of
the victims and to express gratitude for the outstanding
work of the members of the Board of Directors, whose
efforts  have  made  possible  the  full  operation  of  the
fund.  Ecuador  hopes  that  during  the  fourth  session  of
the Assembly of States Parties, we will be able to reach
a comprehensive agreement to approve the regulations
for the trust fund.
My  country  is  convinced  that  fighting  impunity
and  ensuring  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human
rights  will  contribute  mightily  to  the  strengthening  of
international  peace  and  security.  We  therefore  believe
that  in  order  to  guarantee  the  Court’s  future  and  its
effective  operation,  it  is  essential  that  we  achieve
universal adherence to and full application of the Rome
Statute. If we are to build the better world that  we  all
want,  we  must  participate  fully  in  the  institutions  that
we have created for that purpose.
My  country  wishes  to  emphasize  the  need  to
promote  dialogue  with  all  States,  with  their  relevant
actors  and  with  the  organizations  associated  with  this
cause. Let us not forget that a country’s full application
of the Statute and its ratification of the  Agreement on
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  Court  depend
fundamentally on its level of support and cooperation.
Willingness  to  ratify  the  Agreement  will  not  in  itself
ensure  being  able 
to  overcome  difficulties  and
pressures.
I wish to congratulate the Government of Mexico
on its decision to ratify the Rome Statute, as well as to
highlight  the  willingness  and  commitment  of  Latin
America and the Caribbean concerning this issue. That
is  why  we  pledge  to  support  the  future  efforts  of
Ambassador  Bruno  Stagno  Ugarte,  Permanent
Representative  of  Costa  Rica.  We  are  certain  that  his
talent and leadership will facilitate new progress for us.
Finally,  I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  to
Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Hussein  of  Jordan  for  his
outstanding  work  as  President  of  the  Assembly  of
16
States  Parties.  His  valuable  efforts  over  the  past  three
years have undoubtedly opened the way forward for us.
Mr.  Stagno  Ugarte  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  I  should  like  at  the  outset  to  thank  the
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),
Mr. Philippe Kirsch, for the skilful presentation he just
gave  us  on  the  Court’s  work  over  the  past  year.  We
trust that the presentation of reports by the President of
the  Court  to  the  General  Assembly  will  become  a
regular practice on the basis of the draft resolution that
we will adopt in the next few days.
The creation of the ICC is one of the international
community’s  greatest  achievements  in  recent  years.  It
has served to fill the void that  existed in international
law  concerning  individual  responsibility  for  criminal
acts that violate the international legal order. It reflects
the  firm  and  irrevocable  commitment  of  all  States  to
bring  to  justice  those  who  assault  human  dignity  and
the conscience of the international  community.  In  that
context, we welcome the fact that the Rome Statute has
achieved  the  milestone  of  100  ratifications  thanks  to
Mexico’s  recent  deposition  of 
legal
instrument.
the  relevant 
Indeed, 
the  Court 
represents  a 
formidable
instrument  for  combating  impunity  and  a  powerful
deterrent  against  the  future  commission  of  atrocities,
war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  It  has
18  judges  of  the  highest  quality,  impartiality  and
professionalism.  Its  Prosecutor  is  known  throughout
the  world  both  for  his  courage  and  for  his  legal  and
political realism. The strategy he is implementing as he
leads  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  guarantees  that  the
Court  will  contribute 
to  post-conflict  peace  and
reconciliation  as  it  dispenses  justice.  The  principle  of
complementarity,  enshrined 
the  Rome  Statute,
assures us that the Court will act — as a last resort —
only when a State is unable or unwilling to judge those
who commit the most serious crimes.
in 
In  that  connection,  we  are  very  pleased  that  the
Court  has  already  begun  its  judicial  activities  by
issuing  the  first  arrest  warrants  against  the  leaders  of
the Lord’s Resistance Army for the commission of war
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  in  Uganda.  We
also  welcome  the  progress  made  by  the  Office  of  the
Prosecutor  in  investigating  and  preparing  for  criminal
trials in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in
Darfur,  gathering 
and
interrogating  potential  witnesses  and  victims.  In
the  necessary 
evidence 
A/60/PV.46
addition,  we  are  pleased  that  the  Office  of  the
Prosecutor  is  preparing  detailed  studies  on  seven
situations of concern, including the reports of possible
crimes committed in the Central African Republic. My
Government  particularly  appreciates  the  readiness  and
good  will  shown  by  Uganda  and  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo in referring domestic situations
to  the  jurisdiction  of  this  new  international  justice
mechanism.
Moreover, we welcome the fact that the ICC and
the Security Council are developing increasingly close
ties.  Clearly,  the  Court  coordinates  directly  with  the
mandate of the Council to promote international peace
and  security.  Its  role  as  a  deterrent  against  the
commission  of  atrocities  and  war  crimes  broadly
supplements  the  Council’s  work  to  ensure  respect  for
international humanitarian law and to promote the rule
of law. In that context, we are pleased that on 31 March
2005,  the  Security  Council,  acting  under  Chapter  VII
of the Charter, decided in its resolution 1593 (2005) to
refer the situation in Darfur to the Court.
The  Court’s  future  effectiveness  will  depend  on
the cooperation it receives from all States and from the
United  Nations.  United  Nations  cooperation  at  the
operational  level  on  the  ground  is  essential  to  enable
investigate  crimes
the  Prosecutor 
committed  under 
jurisdiction.  State
cooperation is also necessary both to implement arrest
warrants and to facilitate the Court’s functioning at The
Hague.
to  effectively 
the  Court’s 
Therefore, I should like to conclude my statement
by calling upon all States to reaffirm their commitment
to the International Criminal Court.
Mr. Duarte (Brazil): I should like to congratulate
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC),  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  on  his  report.  His
thorough  presentation  offers  a  useful  view  of  the
Court’s activities and will certainly help to ensure that
the ICC is able to function effectively.
The  universality  and  integrity  of  the  Rome
Statute  must  be  the  permanent  concern  of  those  who
helped to establish the Court. In that connection, Brazil
welcomes the decision of the Mexican Government  to
ratify  the  Rome  Statute  on  28  October  2005.  In
becoming  the  one-hundredth  State  party  to  the  Rome
Statute,  Mexico  not  only  helped  to  strengthen  the
Court’s  legitimacy,  but  also  reaffirmed  our  region’s
commitment to the fight against impunity. Now, all but
17
A/60/PV.46
four Latin American countries have joined the Court. It
is  an  outstanding  achievement  in  the  short  history  of
the  institution  to  date  and  a  source  of  pride  for  our
region.  Brazil  also  welcomes 
the  election  of
Ambassador Bruno Stagno Ugarte to the presidency of
the Assembly of States Parties for the 2005-2007 term.
His  able  leadership  will  certainly  be  essential  to  the
Court in a period of intense work. I would also like to
thank  Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  for  his  invaluable
contribution  as  Chairman  of  the  Assembly  of  States
Parties for the past three years.
The investigations in the Democratic Republic of
Congo, Uganda and Darfur are important developments
for the Court. Regarding Uganda, Brazil considers that
the  issuing  of  the  first  arrest  warrants  marks  a
significant  step  in  the  fight  against  impunity  in  that
country.
the  preliminary  measures 
With regard to  Darfur, my delegation would  like
to  welcome 
taken  by
Prosecutor Moreno-Ocampo concerning the referral of
the  International  Commission  of  Inquiry  report  to  the
ICC.  Justice  is  crucial  for  establishing  peace  and  for
ending  violence  in  Darfur.  I  should  recall  that  Brazil
abstained in the voting on Security Council resolution
1593  (2005),  given 
in  our  view,  our  full
commitment  to  the  Court  could  not  be  adequately
reflected  in  that  text.  Yet,  Brazil  has  always  endorsed
the  authority  of  the  ICC  as  the  only  acceptable
international  criminal  institution  to  deal  with  the
situation in Darfur.
that, 
The  referral  was  a  historic  step  in  the  field  of
international  criminal  law;  equally  important  will  be
the outcome of the investigations and the promotion of
justice. We reiterate our full support for the ICC during
the  investigations  and  we  will  follow  closely  the
reports  of  the  Prosecutor  to  the  Security  Council
pursuant to the provisions of resolution 1593 (2005).
The  ICC’s  claim  to  universality  is  firmly  rooted
in  the  elaborate  system  of  checks  and  balances  built
into  the  Statute.  That  regime  provides  the  necessary
safeguards  against  possible  abuses  and  politically
motivated  misuse  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  In  that
sense,  my 
despite
overwhelming  support,  the  ICC  was  not  mentioned  in
the outcome document of the 2005 High-level Plenary
Meeting.
delegation 
regrets 
that, 
I would like to stress that assistance to victims is
an  important  component  of  the  strategy  to  fight
18
impunity.  In  that  regard,  the  Brazilian  delegation
welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  Board  of  Directors  in
strengthening  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  and  urges
States and other entities to continue contributing to the
voluntary Fund.
Finally,  Brazil  is  confident  that  the  presence  of
the  ICC  at  the  General  Assembly  as  an  observer  will
strengthen  the  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the
United Nations.
today 
the  report  of 
Mr.  Hmoud  (Jordan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  are
the  International
discussing 
Criminal  Court  (ICC),  the  first  to  be  submitted  to  the
General Assembly in accordance with the Relationship
Agreement  between 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  That,  in  and  of  itself,  is
an important event because it represents the beginning
of  interaction  between  those  two  bodies  to  serve  their
common  goals, 
the  maintenance  of
international peace and security.
the  United  Nations  and 
including 
throughout 
the  world  have  proven 
Past  experience  and  events  of  the  past  several
decades 
the
importance of creating effective mechanisms to combat
the  most  serious  crimes,  including  genocide,  war
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity.  The  perpetrators
of such crimes have always imagined that their actions
would go unpunished and that they enjoy impunity as a
result of their status or of an international situation that
might  allow  them  to  do  whatever  they  want.  That,  in
turn, has led to violations of the sanctity of human life
and dignity and contributed to the eruption of wars and
lawlessness in many parts of the world. For more than
60  years  following 
the
international  reaction  to  the  commission  of  the  most
serious crimes was limited.
the  Second  World  War, 
The  Security  Council,  convinced  that  impunity
for  the  perpetrators  of  such  crimes  contributes  to
threats  to  international  peace  and  security,  established
ad  hoc  international  tribunals  in  a  limited  number  of
situations. Such tribunals have been signally successful
in  bringing  perpetrators  to  justice.  However,  the
decisions  to  establish  and  support  such  tribunals  were
primarily  political  and  selective.  It  became  clear  in
recent  years  that  there  was  a  need  to  create  an
independent 
judicial  body  with  a  comprehensive
mandate and jurisdiction that would reflect the goal of
making  everyone  subject  to  law  without  regard  to
political  considerations 
the
administration of international justice.
that  might 
impede 
the  defence,  and  high 
That is what we hoped to achieve by establishing
the  International  Criminal  Court,  the  rules  of  which,
including  its  statute  and  rules  of  procedure  and
evidence,  guarantee  fair  trials,  the  rights  of  both  the
accused  and 
international
standards.  Furthermore,  the  ability  of  the  victims  to
seek compensation from an international judicial body
is  a  precedent  in  the  history  of  international  justice.
Previously, a victim would be able to make claims only
before  national  courts  or 
through  non-judicial
collective settlements that entailed a loss of rights.
All of that has persuaded us to support the Court
in  order  to  achieve  the  purposes  for  which  it  was
established.  If  it  is  endowed  with  the  necessary
resources,  the  ICC  can  subject  all  cases  under  its
jurisdiction to the rule of law, deter the commission of
international  crimes,  ensure  respect  for  international
humanitarian  law  and  put  an  end  to  wars.  Giving  the
Court  a  chance  to  achieve  that  and  removing  the
obstacles  it  faces  will  be  an  important  test  of  our
seriousness  about 
law.
Cooperation between the United Nations and the Court
will  facilitate  the  latter’s  work  and  expedite  justice
without  prejudice  to  the  independence  of  the  two
bodies.  The  same  applies  to  cooperation  between  the
ICC  and  States,  which  contributes  to  the  Court’s
capacity  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction  and  implement  its
resolutions and decisions.
implementing 
the  rule  of 
its  officers, 
the  election  of 
Jordan welcomes the report submitted by the ICC
to the General Assembly, which contains a summary of
the  significant  achievements  that  have  been  made
within  a  very  brief  period  of  time.  Those  include  the
creation of the Court, the election of its judges and the
establishment  of  its  divisions  and  chambers.  Jordan
also  appreciates  the  efforts  of  the  Office  of  the
Prosecutor,  since 
in
formulating strategies for investigation and prosecution
and  initiating 
the
creation of the Coordination Council, comprised of the
President  of 
the
Registrar, and reiterate the importance of that Council
in ensuring the smooth functioning of the Court’s work
and  the  development  of  its  strategic  plans.  We  further
consider  the  Court’s  creation  of  an  internal  oversight
mechanism  to  be  key  to  ensuring  transparency  and
confidence  in  the  Court’s  abilities.  We  consider  the
Court’s  establishment  of  an 
internal  oversight
mechanism  to  be  key  to  ensuring  transparency  in  its
implementation.  We  note 
the  Prosecutor  and 
the  Court, 
their 
A/60/PV.46
working  methods  and  confidence 
abilities.
in 
the  Court’s
Jordan would like to reaffirm its ongoing support
for the International Criminal Court, stemming from its
belief in the purposes for which it was created. We also
believe  that  an  International  Criminal  Court  that
functions  well 
an
implementable  statute  serves  the  national  interests  of
Jordan.
effectively, 
and  with 
and 
Finally, Jordan welcomes Mexico’s ratification of
the Rome Statute and calls upon all States that have not
yet done so to ratify or accede to the statute.
Mr.  Kaludjerović  (Serbia  and  Montenegro):  I
wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International
Criminal  Court,  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch, 
for  his
presentation 
the  Court
(A/60/177).
report  of 
today  of 
the 
Serbia and Montenegro fully aligns itself with the
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  United
Kingdom on behalf of the European Union.
international 
Serbia  and  Montenegro  welcomes  the  report  of
the International Criminal Court as an important step in
the  evolution  of 
the
historic milestone  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome
Statute.  We  also  welcome  Mexico’s  accession  to  the
Rome  Statute  as  its  one-hundredth  State  party  truly
committed to the universal values of the statute’s noble
goals.
law,  following 
We especially welcome the unsealing by Pre-Trial
Chamber II, on 14 October, of the first five warrants of
arrest  against  senior  leaders  of  the  Lord’s  Resistance
Army  for  crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes
committed in Uganda. We expect further action on that
case, as well as on the other two cases, which concern
the  tragic  events  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  and  in  the  Darfur  province  of  the  Sudan.  We
welcome  the  Security  Council’s  referral  of  the  Darfur
file to the Court, which we consider a significant step
towards  establishing  the  International  Criminal  Court
as  a  custodian  of  international  criminal  justice.  We
remain  ready  to  support  all  efforts  aimed  at  ensuring
that  the  perpetrators  of  the  worst  crimes  known  to
contemporary humanity are brought to justice. To that
end,  we  believe  that  the  upcoming  session  of  the
Assembly of States Parties will have an important role
in facilitating the Court’s development as a cornerstone
of  justice  and  the  protection  of  the  most  fundamental
19
A/60/PV.46
values that we all share. That role cannot be forsaken,
and no one has a moral right to deny it.
Serbia and Montenegro is proud to be among the
founders  of  an  institution  in  which  high  expectations
have been placed for making the world a more just and
better place. In my country, that sentiment is especially
strong,  following  the  scourge  of  ravaging  wars  and
atrocities  committed  in  the  territory  of  the  former
Yugoslavia, as well as the experiences with the United
Nations  ad  hoc  Tribunal.  We  will  do  our  utmost  to
respect  and uphold our international obligations  under
the  Rome  Statute 
full
implementation  of  all 
the
International  Criminal  Court  in  our  domestic  legal
system.  That  process  has  been  ongoing  through  the
relevant provisions of the Constitutional Charter of the
State  Union  and  through  amendments  to  national
legislation.
ensure 
legal  decisions  of 
in  order 
to 
Through 
their  cooperation  with 
the  United
Nations  ad  hoc  Tribunal,  the  Belgrade  District  Court,
its  War  Crimes  Chamber  and  the  Office  of  the
Prosecutor  for  War  Crimes  have  demonstrated  their
professional  and  technical  ability  to  process  the  most
complex  cases 
international
standards of justice. Furthermore, the Belgrade District
Court  has  expressed  its  readiness  to  contribute  to  the
establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court
database  compiling  all  judicial  decisions  and  cases
pertaining  to  the  substance  of  international  criminal
law,  that  is,  the  crime  of  genocide,  crimes  against
humanity and war crimes.
in  accordance  with 
Serbia  and  Montenegro  supports 
the  further
strengthening  of  the  institutional  capacity  and  the
activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  will
continue to do  so both  as  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute
and  as  a  member  of  the  current  Bureau  of  the
Assembly  of  States  Parties.  It  has  participated  in  the
work  of  the  group  of  like-minded  countries  known  as
the friends of the International Criminal Court and will
continue  to  provide  input  through  that  group.  We
believe  that  the  only  way  to  further  develop  the
the
activities  and 
International  Criminal  Court 
further
cooperation  and  support  by  all  States  parties  to  the
Rome  Statute,  and  of  all  Members  of  the  United
Nations, with a view to ensuring the Court’s universal
acceptance.
institutional  capacity  of 
through 
the 
is 
20
seen 
important 
developments 
Mr.  McIvor  (New  Zealand):  This  year  has  once
again 
the
International  Criminal  Court.  We  welcome  Mexico  as
the one-hundredth State party to the Rome Statute, and
we  warmly  congratulate  it,  along  with  the  Dominican
Republic  and  Kenya,  for  joining  the  fight  to  end
impunity.
for 
The  fact  that  a  majority  of  United  Nations
Member  States  have  now  become  party  to  the  Rome
Statute  highlights  the  vital  contribution  that  the  Court
will  make  to  our  common  goal  of  enhanced  security,
justice and the rule of law. Accordingly, New Zealand
continues to support efforts towards universalization of
the  Rome  Statute,  and  we  urge  other  States  to  follow
the example of those that have recently become parties.
Last  year,  New  Zealand  urged  the  Security
Council  to  recognize  the  role  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  —  if  that  is  what  the  circumstances
require  —  to  ensure  that  the  perpetrators  of  the  most
serious  crimes  do  not  evade  justice.  New  Zealand
welcomes 
the
situation in Darfur to the Court in March this year. We
also  welcome 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  Central
African Republic in referring their particular situations
to the Court. We celebrate the fact that the Prosecutor
has  launched  formal  investigations  into  each  of  those
situations,  and  we  welcome  the  issuing  of  the  Court’s
first arrest warrants, against five senior members of the
Lord’s Resistance Army.
the  Security  Council’s  referral  of 
the  examples  set  by  Uganda, 
New Zealand is pleased that work on the crime of
aggression  is  progressing  well.  We  urge  States  to
participate  actively  in  that  work,  which  constitutes  a
fundamental element of the Court’s mandate.
Despite 
those  achievements,  New  Zealand
recognizes  that  the  Court  still  faces  challenges.  In  the
world summit outcome document (resolution 60/1), the
absence  of  reference  to  the  commitment  to  end
impunity  or  of  any  acknowledgement  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court’s  central  contribution  to
that  goal  was  a  significant  silence.  While  we
understand  the  sincerity  of  those  few  States  that  have
reservations about the International Criminal Court, in
our  view  the  Rome  Statute  contains  a  comprehensive
range of checks and balances to protect against abuse.
Accordingly,  while  we  respect  the  decision  of  those
States  that  have  decided  not  to  become  parties,  we
request  them  to  accord  equal  respect  to  the  rights  of
States which have chosen to become party to the Rome
Statute  —  in  order  to  nurture  the  Court  and  to  ensure
that  it  continues  to  be  a  responsible  and  effective
judicial mechanism.
New  Zealand  continues  to  believe  that  the  true
test  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  its  actions.
We remain firmly committed to the Court, and we will
continue to work with others to ensure that it continues
to be given an opportunity to carry out its mandate. We
are  confident  that  time  will  demonstrate  that  the
International Criminal Court is worthy of our trust.
Mr.  Lłvald  (Norway):  I  would  like  to  begin  by
expressing  Norway’s  recognition  of  the  continued
preparatory  work  carried  out  by  the  International
Criminal  Court  over  the  past  year.  We  have  closely
followed  the  Court’s  transition  from  its  establishment
to  the  commencement  of  prosecutorial  and  judicial
functions. The basic structures required for the Court’s
initial proceedings are  in  place,  and  the  Court  is  fully
operational.  These  important  achievements  mark  yet
another milestone in the administration of international
criminal  justice,  thus  motivating  States  to  fulfil  their
duty  to  bring  to  justice  persons  who  have  committed
mass atrocities.
Norway welcomes the ICC’s first annual report to
the  General  Assembly, 
the
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations
and  the  ICC.  We  thank  the  President  of  the  Court,
Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  for  his  presentation  of  the
report, which describes those achievements.
in  accordance  with 
As a country dedicated to the mission of the ICC,
Norway  notes  with  satisfaction  that  today  more  than
half of United Nations Member States are States parties
to  the  Rome  Statute.  It  is  no  small  achievement  that,
only  three  years  after  the  establishment  of  the  Court,
we are welcoming State party number 100 — Mexico.
At  the  same  time,  Norway  strongly  hopes  that  the
number  of  States  parties  will  continue  to  rise  at  the
same rate until we achieve universal adherence.
Over  the  last  year,  significant  steps  have  been
the  court  operational.  Important
taken 
to  make 
landmarks  have 
included 
the
Prosecutor  to  launch  investigations  in  Uganda  and  in
the Democratic Republic of Congo; the referral of the
situation  in  Darfur  by  the  Security  Council;  and  the
launching of an investigation there as well.
the  decision  by 
A/60/PV.46
Those  are  indeed  important  steps.  However,  as
highlighted  in  the  report  before  us  as  well  as  by  the
President  of  the  Court,  the  ICC  will  need  cooperation
from States in these and other areas. Norway therefore
calls on all States and all peoples to cooperate with the
Court. We must not allow the perpetrators of genocide,
crimes  against  humanity  and  war  crimes 
to  go
unpunished.
We  emphasize  that  the  ICC  cannot  operate
effectively without the protection of the Agreement on
Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  Court.  Norway  was
the first country to ratify the Agreement — a  tangible
demonstration of the priority we attach to the effective
operation  of  the  Court  and  to  the  promotion  of  its
purposes. We invite all other States parties to ratify or
accede  to  the  Agreement  as  soon  as  possible.  This  is
particularly  important  given  that  the  Prosecutor  is
already engaged in three different investigations.
It  is  therefore  with  great  expectations  that  we
await  the  resumption  of  the  fourth  session  of  the
Assembly  of  States  Parties  at  the  end  of  November.
Norway  urges  all  States  to  grasp  this  opportunity  to
make a joint effort to promote the development of this
universal institution, bearing in mind that no institution
can ever be more than the sum of the efforts invested in
it.
It  is  with  great  satisfaction  that  we  note  the
developing  relationship  between  the  ICC  and  the
United Nations in their pursuit of the common goal of
international peace and security.
Let me reiterate Norway’s firm and longstanding
commitment to the Rome Statute and to the ICC as an
effective,  credible  and  responsible 
instrument  of
justice,  which  we  hope  will  enjoy  the  support  of  all
States. We believe that it is in the long-term interests of
all  nations,  irrespective  of  size,  region  or  political
orientation, to work for the strengthening of the rule of
law.  This  reflects  not  only  our  consistent  approach  to
achieving  lasting  peace  and  reconciliation  through
justice,  but  also,  we  believe,  a  realistic  assessment  of
the needs of today’s interdependent world.
Mr. Mukongo Ngay (Democratic Republic of the
Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  After  more  than  five  years
of  occupation  of  the  eastern  part  of  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  an  occupation  marked  by
massive,  systematic  and  clear  violations  of  the  basic
norms  of  international  humanitarian  law  and  by  grave
violations of human rights that resulted in the deaths of
21
A/60/PV.46
than  4  million  of  my  compatriots, 
more 
the
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  remains  a  major
challenge  in  order  to  break  the  cycle  of  violence,  put
an  end  to  impunity,  address  the  root  causes  of  the
conflict  and  lay  the  foundations  of  a  truly  democratic
society in my country.
twentieth  century  —  a  century 
With the imminent  end of the political  transition
under  way,  this  grim  picture  of  the  situation  in  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo can be relegated to
the 
tainted  by
genocides,  deportations  and  massacres,  including  a
large  number  of  crimes  of  State,  but  a  century  that
nevertheless  saw  the  emergence  of  the  age-old  dream
of  global  justice,  with  the  adoption  of  the  Rome
Statute, its entry into force, the election of judges, the
inauguration  of  the  Court  and  the  election  of  its
Prosecutor.
Today not only has the Court become operational,
with  the  opening  by  the  Prosecutor  of  the  first
investigations,  including  the  referral  by  the  Security
Council  of  the  case  of  Darfur  and  the  issuance  of  the
first  arrest  warrants  against  five  high-ranking  officials
of the Lord’s Resistance Army, but it has also crossed
the  Rubicon  on  its  path  to  universality,  with  the  one-
hundredth ratification by Mexico on 28 October last.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  activism  of  the
International  Criminal  Court  and  of  the  Office  of  the
Prosecutor,  which,  since  the  latter  announced  his
decision  to  open  an  initial  ICC  inquiry  into  the
situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has
launched numerous initiatives to help my country in its
efforts to restore the rule of law and of State authority,
which has been compromised by years of war.
We  welcome 
the  dynamic  nature  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court  which,  in  the  context  of
the  ongoing  inquiry  into  crimes  in  the  Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo,  has  devoted  a  procedural
hearing  — 
the  well-known  so-called  arraignment
hearing  —  to  an  investigation  by  the  Prosecutor  into
crimes  committed  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo.  This  is  the  first  hearing  in  its  history  to  be
devoted to the contents of a case.
In  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  the
deterrent effect of the International Criminal Court has
begun  to  be  felt,  with  the  announcement  by  the
Prosecutor  of  the  first  inquiry  of  the  ICC  on  its
territory.  That  event  has  turned  out  to  be  deeply
reassuring for the people, who have been trauamatized
22
by 
the  consequences  of  war  and  who  are  now
convinced  that,  once  the  Court  gets  going,  those  who
are  continuing  to  engage  in  massacres  against  the
civilian population and in massive violations of human
rights and international humanitarian law, as well as all
those  who  might  be  planning  to  repeat  their  tragic
exploits in the commission of such acts, will know that
such crimes will not go unpunished.
In 
that  context,  helping 
The war in my country has done enormous harm
to  the  civilian  population,  which  has  paid  a  heavy
price. 
the  victims,  as
emphasized  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report
(S/2004/616)  of  23  August  2004  on  justice  and  the
restoration  of  the  rule  of  law  during  the  transition
period,  requires  of  us  well-thought-out  compensation
plans that ensure that justice is done not only for those
who  are  guilty  but  also  for  also  those  whom  the
perpetrators have made to suffer.
the 
return  of 
through 
the  action  of 
This  issue  is  of  the  greatest  concern  to  the
victims,  who  hope, 
the
International  Criminal  Court,  to  obtain  the  necessary
reparations, 
their  property  and
compensation  equal  to  the  losses  incurred,  especially
since  it  is  acknowledged  that  the  Court  itself  can  set
the  reparations  amount  without  the  victims’  having
made  an  explicit  request  in  that  connection  when  the
Court deems that they are not in a position to do so.
Above  and  beyond  all  of  the  decisions  already
taken,  my  delegation  believes  that  the  Court  can  earn
its reputation only when it has met the expectations of
those  peoples  in  far-flung  regions  of  the  world  who
have been sorely tried and who are craving justice. The
expectations  of  the  Congolese  people  are,  of  course,
high  ones,  but  it  is  important  to  see  to  it  that  the
population is aware of the limits, for obvious reasons,
of  the  Court’s  action  —  reasons  ranging  from  the
application  either  of  the  principle  of  complementarity
or  that  of  the  non-retroactivity  of  the  Statute  to  the
average duration of an inquiry, which can vary from six
months  to  three  years,  whereas  a  trial  itself  can  last
from one to three years.
At  any  rate,  it  is  important  to  provide  objective
information  to  the  Congolese  people  about  the  basic
rules of the Statute of the International Criminal Court
and  about  its  rules  of  procedure  and  evidence.  This
should  be  done 
campaigns,
workshops and scientific meetings, so that the  people,
aware of the rights to which they are entitled, can limit
through  outreach 
their  claims  accordingly.  I  am  especially  thinking  of
the  right  of  victims  to  participate  in  all  stages  of  the
trials  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  order  to
express  their  views  and  to  present  their  requests  for
restitution, compensation, rehabilitation and redress.
For that reason in particular, my delegation urges
that the legal experts working for the Court should be
broadly  representative  of  the  regions  involved  in  the
Court’s investigations.
that 
Because 
it  has  been  established 
the
International  Criminal  Court  cannot  replace  national
justice,  recourse  to  the  jurisdiction  of  national  courts
will  remain  the  rule,  in  accordance  with  the  principle
of  complementarity.  For  that  reason,  our  draft  law  on
the  implementation  of  the  Rome  Statute  has  been
studied in detail by the Council of Ministers, which has
submitted  it  to  Parliament  for  adoption.  It  is  also  for
that  reason  that  the  current  process  for  the  reform  of
our  judicial  system  deserves  special  support  and
attention from the international bodies.
I  take  this  opportunity  to  recall  my  delegation’s
interest  in  the  discussions  of  the  Special  Working
Group on the Crime of Aggression, whose conclusions
will be useful in complementing article 5, paragraph 2,
of the statute, which states that the Court shall exercise
jurisdiction  over  the  crime  of  aggression  once  a
provision  is  adopted  in  accordance  with  articles  121
and  123  defining  the  crime  and  setting  out  the
conditions  under  which 
the  Court  shall  exercise
jurisdiction with respect to that crime.
Reaffirming  my  delegation’s  determination  to
ensure  respect  for  the  integrity  of  the  statute  of  the
Court, I call on those States that have not yet done so
to join the International Criminal Court, which ensures
the universality of our fight against impunity.
In  conclusion,  I  thank  the  President  of  the
International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,
for his comprehensive and highly instructive report and
assure  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  cooperation  in  the
framework of the relations between my country and the
Court.
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to
thank the President of the International Criminal Court
for  presenting  the  first  report  of  the  Court  to  the
General  Assembly  (A/60/177).  It  gives  us  great
satisfaction to see the enormous progress that the Court
has made. Three States  and the Security Council have
A/60/PV.46
situations  are  being  monitored  by 
referred  situations  to  the  Court,  and  three  of  those
cases  are  under  investigation  by  the  Prosecutor.  The
first  indictments  have  been  issued,  and  a  number  of
further 
the
Prosecutor.  Those  are  truly  historic  achievements  that
underscore  the  Court’s  role  in  the  framework  of  our
multilateral  efforts  to  end  impunity  for  the  worst
crimes  known  to  mankind:  genocide,  crimes  against
humanity and war crimes. They are also the fruit of the
highly  committed  and  professional  work  of  the  senior
officials  and  staff  of  all  branches  of  the  Court,  who
represent  all  regions  of  the  world  and  bring  together
various legal traditions.
the  United  Nations, 
The  International  Criminal  Court  was  born  as  a
child of the United Nations. But now that the Court has
grown  up,  it  has  become  the  partner  of  the  United
Nations.  The  Court  and 
in
particular  through  its  operations  in  the  field,  must
continue to strengthen their partnership on the basis of
the  Relationship  Agreement  adopted  one  year  ago,  as
well  as  on 
the  basis  of  specific  agreements.
Furthermore,  cooperation  with,  and  support  from,  the
United  Nations  are  particularly  relevant  regarding
situations  referred 
the  Security
Council.  Both 
institutions,  as  well  as  all  States
concerned, have a shared responsibility to cooperate in
order  to  make  progress  in  the  proceedings.  The
International Criminal Court cannot succeed alone.
the  Court  by 
to 
Past  experience  shows  the  enormous  importance
of transitional justice in the work of the United Nations
in  post-conflict  situations.  An  effective  partnership
with the Court is therefore indispensable. At the same
time, of course, our overriding goal must be to prevent
the  worst  crimes  from  being  committed,  and  in  that
regard,  the  Court  is  a  unique  tool  of  which  we  must
avail ourselves.
Liechtenstein  has  supported  the  Court  from  the
beginning  and  will  continue 
to  do  so  wherever
possible.  We  have  ratified  both  the  Rome  Statute  and
the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities and have
adopted the necessary implementing legislation.
In the context of the Assembly of States Parties,
one important priority is the work on the definition of
the crime of aggression. The relevant working group —
which  I  have  the  honour  of  chairing  —  is  striving  to
elaborate  specific  proposals  by  2008.  We  note  with
great satisfaction the increased interest in the work on
that  topic,  which  is  open  not  only  to  States  parties  to
23
A/60/PV.46
the  Rome  Statute  but  to  all  States.  It  is  of  the  utmost
importance  that  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the
Crime  of  Aggression  fulfil  its  mandate  and  submit
proposals  on  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression
to  the  review  conference,  because  it  is  already  agreed
that  aggression  falls  within  the  category  of  the  worst
crimes of concern to the international community as a
whole. The increased interest has led to the creation of
an  informal  virtual  working  group  on  the  crime  of
aggression,  which  serves  as  an  open  platform  for
exchanges on  that  legally  challenging  topic  outside  of
the  regular  and  intersessional  meetings.  We  look
forward  to  continuing  our  discussions  on  that  issue
with all interested delegations.
We  warmly  welcome  Mexico  as  the  100th  State
party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal
Court,  thus  bringing  the  Court  another  step  closer  to
universality.  We  are  confident  that  more  ratifications
will soon follow, and we encourage all States that have
not yet done so to accede to the Rome Statute and join
our efforts to translate the expression “never again” —
which  has  been  commonplace  since  the  First  World
War  —  into  action.  The  fact  that  the  Court  has  now
become  operational  and  that  we  can  begin  to  evaluate
its  performance  should  provide  fresh  incentive  for
States to consider such a move.
Mr.  Rock  (Canada):  As  many  of  my  colleagues
have observed, just a few days ago, Mexico became the
100th  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute,  marking  a
significant  milestone  in  the  campaign  for  universal
ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International
Criminal  Court.  The  majority  of  United  Nations
Member  States  have  now  joined  in  the  fight  against
impunity  for  the  gravest  crimes  under  international
law.  We  warmly  congratulate  Mexico  for  taking  that
important 
the
Dominican  Republic  and  Kenya,  which  became  States
parties to the Rome Statute during the past year.
(spoke in French)
step,  and  we  also  congratulate 
Far 
too  often,  war  crimes,  crimes  against
humanity  and  genocide  have  been  perpetrated  with
blatant  impunity.  Bringing  perpetrators  of  serious
crimes to justice is an important element of long-term
peace and reconciliation in all conflicts, and we call on
all States to support the Court’s work in that regard.
We are pleased to note the great progress made by
the Court in just a few years of operation. Three States
have  now  referred  situations  to  the  Court:  Uganda  in
24
December 2003, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
in  March  2004  and  the  Central  African  Republic  in
January 2005. Côte d’Ivoire, which is not yet a party to
the Rome Statute, has declared that it would allow the
Court to exercise its jurisdiction with respect to serious
crimes of international concern that may have occurred
on  its  territory  following  the  attempted  coup  d’état  in
September 2002.
(spoke in English)
Another  critical  landmark  for  the  Court  was  the
referral by the Security  Council  on  31  March  2005  of
the situation in  Darfur, the Sudan. The Prosecutor has
launched  formal  investigations  into  each  of  those
situations, and the Court recently issued its first arrest
warrants  against  five  senior  members  of  the  Lord’s
Resistance Army in northern Uganda.
In our view, States have nothing to fear from the
International  Criminal  Court,  which  has  rigorous
safeguards to protect against frivolous investigations or
prosecutions.  While  we  respect  the  rights  of  States
which have decided not to become parties, we demand
equal respect for the rights of States which have chosen
to become parties to the Rome Statute, as well as their
right  to  nurture  the  Court  and  to  ensure  that  it
continues  to  be  a  responsible  and  effective  judicial
mechanism.
In  closing,  we  urge  all  States  to  help  strengthen
the  institution  that  is  at  the  forefront  of  the  campaign
against  impunity.  Through  such  support  we  will  be
contributing  to  the  entrenchment  of  a  culture  of
accountability for the world’s most serious crimes and,
ultimately, 
the  common
humanity that binds us all.
to  universal  respect  for 
Mr.  Playle  (Australia):  Australia  welcomes  the
first  report  by  the  President  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  to  the  General  Assembly.  As  a  strong
and  committed  supporter  of  the  Court,  Australia
welcomes the progress that  the  Court  has  made  in  the
past year and, indeed, since its inception.
Like  many  others  before  me, 
in
congratulating Mexico on becoming the one-hundredth
State  party 
the  Rome  Statute.  Australia  also
welcomes  the  Dominican  Republic  and  Kenya,  which
became  States  parties  to  the  Statute  during  the  past
year.
to 
I 
join 
Judge Kirsch has provided a compelling report on
the Court’s progress in investigations and preparations
for  trial  concerning  the  situations  currently  before  it.
The list is a growing one. Investigations have begun in
relation  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
Uganda  and  the  Sudan.  The  Court  is  also  monitoring
eight  other  situations,  including  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and
the Central African Republic.
The  Court 
is 
for 
to  be  commended 
its
recognizes,
investigative  work,  which,  Australia 
presents  unique  challenges  on 
the  ground.  We
welcome, in particular, the issuance of five indictments
for  individuals  suspected  of  involvement  in  serious
crimes  in  northern  Uganda,  and  we  look  forward  to
action on those indictments in the near future.
Like  others,  Australia  thinks  it  is  appropriate  to
also  take  this  opportunity  to  recognize  the  Security
Council’s  decision,  through  its  adoption  of  Council
resolution  1593  (2005)  on  31  March,  to  refer  the
situation in Darfur to the International Criminal Court
for  investigation.  That  is  a  significant  decision  which
acknowledges  the  Court  as  an  important  tool  in
addressing  impunity  for  the  most  serious  international
crimes.  It  also  recognizes  the  role  that  the  Court  can
potentially play as part of broader strategies to address
issues of peace and security.
The referral of the situation in Darfur to the Court
also  demonstrates  close  cooperation  between 
the
United  Nations  and  the  International  Criminal  Court.
Australia welcomes that cooperation and expresses the
hope and the expectation that it will continue.
Mr.  Amolo  (Kenya):  I  wish  to  express  my
gratitude  to  Judge  Philippe  Kirsch,  President  of  the
International Criminal Court, for his eloquent and lucid
presentation  on  the  activities  of  the  Court  during  the
past year. My delegation commends him and the other
officers of the Court for the coordinated and systematic
manner in which they have transformed the Court from
the initial set-up phase to the current operational phase,
which  focuses  on  its  core  judicial  activities.  We  also
express  our  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for
transmitting the report of the Court on its activities for
2004 as contained in document A/60/177.
Kenya  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by
the  representative  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African
States parties to the Statute of the Court.
If the adoption of the Court’s Statute seven years
ago was a milestone in the reaffirmation of the rule of
law at both the national and international levels, it was
A/60/PV.46
also  an  expression  of  the  international  community’s
determination  to  end  impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of
the  most  serious  crimes,  and  a  demonstration  of  our
common  resolve  to  guarantee  international  justice  for
those crimes.
Kenya believes that the success of the Court will
depend  on  the  support  of  a  vast  majority  of  the
membership of this Organization. Although the pace of
ratification has been slow, we are confident that as the
Court  enters  its  judicial  phase,  there  will  be  a  wider
understanding and appreciation of its work, leading to
wider  participation.  We  are  happy  to  note  that  the
number  of  States  parties  now  stands  at  100.
Judge  Kirsch  today  accurately  characterized  Mexico’s
accession  as  a  historic  milestone.  We  welcome  that
important development.
the  statute  and  deposited 
I  am  also  happy  to  report  that  early  this  year
Kenya  completed  the  requisite  national  processes  for
the  ratification  of 
its
instrument  of  ratification  on  15  March  2005,  thus
becoming  the  ninety-eighth  State  party.  We  have  now
embarked on a series of national consultations with the
relevant stakeholders to speed up the domestication of
the  statute.  In 
the  Government  has
published  the  International  Crimes  Bill,  which,  once
enacted into law, will fully domesticate the provisions
of the statute.
that  regard, 
Kenya  commends  the  Court  for  the  significant
progress  made  in  its  judicial  activities.  We  note  with
satisfaction  that  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  has
continued  its  investigations  into  the  situations  in  the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Uganda. The
issuance  of  the  first  warrants  of  arrest  with  regard  to
the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  is  a  truly  welcome
development. Given the gruesome picture of atrocities
painted  today  by  the  representative  of  Uganda,  that
decisive step could not have occurred too soon.
We also note that the Office of the Prosecutor has
commenced investigations into the situation in Darfur,
following  a  referral  earlier  this  year  by  the  Security
Council and that it is currently conducting an in-depth
analysis of eight other situations of concern, including
the  referral  by  the  Central  African  Republic.  Those
referrals  are  a  demonstration  of 
increased
confidence  in  the  ability  of  the  Court  to  discharge  its
mandate in a fair, transparent and impartial manner.
the 
Kenya  strongly  supports  the  prosecutorial  policy
of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor,  which  emphasizes  the
25
A/60/PV.46
the 
and 
the  Court 
key  principles  of  complementarity  and  cooperation
with  States.  We  welcome  the  cooperation  agreements
between 
countries  under
investigation and urge the Court to intensify its efforts
in negotiating and concluding similar agreements with
affected  States  and  other  organizations  whose
cooperation  is  critical  for  the  success  of  the  Court’s
work.  In  that  context,  and  considering  that  all  cases
presently before the Court are on the African continent,
we  look  forward  to  the  conclusion  of  a  cooperation
agreement with the African Union.
My  delegation  supports  the  ongoing  work  in  the
Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of  Aggression.
We  recognize  that  the  international  criminal  justice
system  will  not  be  complete  until  the  elements  of  the
crime  of  aggression  are  fully  defined.  Although  that
crime  is  a  different  character,  my  delegation  believes
that it constitutes a serious threat to international peace
and security and must be given equal attention and be
subjected  to  the  same  strict  regime  as  the  other  three
crimes with respect to which the Court has jurisdiction.
We  urge  States  to  marshal  the  necessary  political  will
to enable a speedier agreement on the definition of this
crime.
is 
that 
the 
will 
Court 
Kenya 
Criminal 
confident 
relationship
agreement  signed  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
International 
enhance
collaboration  and  strengthen  the  working  relationship
between the two institutions. We note that meetings of
the Assembly of States Parties are currently being held
in The Hague. It is our expectation that in future these
sessions  will  alternate  between  The  Hague  and  New
facilitate  wider  participation,
York, 
especially 
for  which
travelling to The Hague entails an additional financial
burden.  It  may  also  be  worthwhile  for  the  Court  to
explore the possibility of providing travel assistance to
developing  countries  to  enable  them  to  participate  in
the meetings.
for  developing  countries, 
in  order 
to 
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  Kenya’s  unswerving
commitment  to  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We
will continue to cooperate with it in the discharge of its
mandate  as  a  fair,  independent  and  effective  judicial
institution.
Ms. Rivero (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Allow
me  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the  International
Criminal  Court,  Mr.  Philippe  Kirsch,  on  his
introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Court.  We  join  our
26
voices  to  those  of  delegations  that  have  already
expressed  their  satisfaction  at  the  significant  steps
already  taken  by  the  International  Criminal  Court
(ICC).  We  welcome  the  information  provided  on  the
Court’s  activities  this  year  and  on  those  described  in
the  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/60/177).  In
particular,  we  are  pleased  that  the  Court  has  set  as  a
priority  the  establishment  of  a  strategic  planning
process, which we deem indispensable in order for it to
function  efficiently  and  to  carry  out  the  prudent
financial management to which it is committed.
The initiation of the investigative processes in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda and Darfur
has  enabled  the  Court  to  begin  to  exercise  fully  its
capacities as a judicial body and to begin the process of
putting an end to impunity.
We  wish  to  highlight  the  particular  importance
that  we  attach  to  the  Security  Council’s  decision,
adopted  in  its  resolution  1593  (2005),  to  refer  the
situation in Darfur to the ICC Prosecutor. Once again,
the  importance  of  international  cooperation  to  protect
human  rights  and  to  fight  violations  of  international
humanitarian  law  has  been  made  clear.  We  also
welcome 
to
demonstrate  that  its  independent  and  impartial  action
will  constitute  an  effective  mechanism 
the
international  community  to  use  in  its  fight  against
impunity  and,  in  particular,  to  prevent  crimes  of  such
gravity.
the  opportunity  given 
the  Court 
for 
to 
We  particularly  welcome  the  fact  that  in  recent
days  the  number  of  ratifications  of  the  Rome  Statute
has reached 100. Here, we cannot fail to point out that
the  one-hundredth  State  to  ratify  was  Mexico,  a
cherished country from our region. Soon we hope to be
able  to  congratulate  other  countries  that  will  become
parties  in  the  coming  year,  establishing  a  new  record
for the number of ratifications.
by 
the 
executive 
Uruguay has been involved in the process of the
establishment  of  the  Court  from  the  very  beginning.
Currently,  our  legislative  body  is  studying  a  bill
proposed 
the
implementation of the Rome Statute. The bill provides
for the incorporation into our domestic criminal law of
the  crimes  defined  in  the  statute.  Thus,  our  national
criminal  code  would 
incorporate  crimes  such  as
genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity,
which were not previously part of it. We hope to pass
this  law  soon,  so  that  we  can  comply  fully  with  our
branch 
on 
obligations and thus contribute to the promotion of the
ICC.
Ms.  Taj  El  Dine  (Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): First, we would like to
express  our  gratitude 
the
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  Mr.  Philippe
Kirsch, for his introduction of the report on the Court
(A/60/177).  We  have  taken  note  of  the  series  of
measures  for  building 
the  Court’s  capacity  and
ensuring that it can carry out its basic functions.
the  President  of 
to 
As  is  well  known  to  everybody  in  this  Hall,  the
Court  is  authorized  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction  over
individuals who commit the most serious crimes under
international  law  but  whose  punishment  has  not  been
assured by the national courts or national legislation of
the  State  where  the  crimes  are  alleged  to  have  been
committed.  Moreover,  as  a  judicial  institution,  the
Court is designed to administer justice; therefore, all of
its actions must be fair, impartial and effective.
Currently, war crimes are on the increase, and the
Court must act against them whoever committed them.
The Court cannot overlook the atrocities committed by
invading Powers. Torture, inhuman treatment, rape and
attacks  carried  out  against  civilian  populations  cannot
be  ignored.  The  Court  must  pass  judgement  on  the
enemies of humanity. The Court will thus demonstrate
its  independence  and  impartiality  in  administering
justice for crimes against humanity.
In the same way, when carrying out investigations
in  order  to  guarantee  the  integrity  of  its  trials,  it  is
particularly important that the Court identify the causes
that led to the commission of crimes against humanity.
Our  delegation  believes  that  this  element  is  of  crucial
importance  during  the  investigative  judicial  phase  of
the  Court’s  work.  In  addition,  through  its  actions,  the
Court  must  confirm  that  it  is  independent  of  the
interests  of  major  Powers 
allies.
Furthermore  —  and  here  I  am  addressing  the  Court
directly  —  it  is  our  understanding  that  one  of  the
their 
and 
A/60/PV.46
the  Court,  and 
in  particular  of 
powers  of 
the
Prosecutor,  is  to  initiate  investigations  on  the  basis  of
information  that  is  presented.  There  must  be  prior
consideration of such information and conviction of its
veracity.
that  serve 
Non-governmental  organizations  are  among  the
bodies  that  can  provide  such  information.  Here,  the
judicial body will have to conduct a review during the
investigative  phase  of  trials.  In  this  respect,  the  Court
needs adequate criteria to identify non-governmental or
civil  society  organizations 
the  special
interests  of  national  or  international  economic  or
political  groups  and  that  are  used  for  the  purpose  of
masking the truth in order to accuse States of acts that
they  have  not  committed,  simply  in  order  to  achieve
their  goals.  Therefore,  our  delegation  is  of  the  view
that  the  Prosecutor  must  act  scrupulously  and  with
great caution in order to safeguard the reputation of the
International  Criminal  Court. 
the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela wishes to reiterate its
commitment  to  providing  the  Court  with  institutional
support and cooperation.
addition, 
In 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker  in  the  debate  on  the  agenda  item.  The
Assembly  has 
its
consideration of agenda item 81.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
Organization of work
The  Acting  President:  Before  I  adjourn  the
meeting, I would like to inform the General Assembly
that the President of the Assembly has received a note
from the Chairman of the Sixth Committee requesting
that the Committee be authorized to continue its work
until the end of November.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides
to grant that request?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
27
