United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
10th plenary meeting
Saturday, 17 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.10
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Address by The Honourable Chandrika
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, President of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
The  Honourable  Chandrika  Bandaranaike
Kumaratunga,  President  of 
the  Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was escorted into
the General Assembly Hall.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  Her  Excellency  The  Honourable  Chandrika
Bandaranaike  Kumaratunga, 
the
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  and  to
invite her to address the Assembly.
President 
of 
President  Kumaratunga: I  extend  to  you,  Sir,
our  warmest  congratulations  as  you  assume  the  high
office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
sixtieth  session.  We  wish  you  all  the  best  and  assure
you  of  Sri  Lanka(cid:146)s  support  and  cooperation  in  your
work. I convey gratitude to Mr. Jean Ping for his astute
leadership of the fifty-ninth session.
many tribulations, we take modest pride in the fact that
what  we  said  at  the  first  session  of  the  General
Assembly  we  addressed  can  still  be  recalled  with
undiminished relevance. Prime Minister Bandaranaike,
representing Sri Lanka, said on that occasion:
(cid:147)This  is  an  Organization  which  expresses  itself
most  effectively  by  bringing  to  bear  a  certain
moral  force  (cid:151)  the  collective  moral  force  and
decency of human beings. That is a task in which
the weak as well as the strong can render a useful
service,  and  I  give  the  Assembly  the  assurance,
on  behalf  of  my  country,  that  as  far  as  we  are
concerned, every endeavour that we can make in
all sincerity to assist in the achievements of those
noble  ideals  for  which  this  Organization  stands
will  always  be 
fullest
measure.(cid:148)  (Official  Records  of 
the  General
Assembly,  Eleventh  Session,  Plenary  Meetings,
590th meeting, para. 42)
Five  decades  on,  I  have  the  pleasure  to  say  that
my  country  has  kept 
that  promise  by  regularly
contributing to consensus-building in the Organization
in  areas  ranging  from 
to
disarmament  and  from  human  rights  to  the  issue  of
terrorism.  We  remain  fully  committed  to  the  United
Nations.
forthcoming 
the  sea 
the 
in 
the 
law  of 
This  sixtieth  landmark  session  of  the  General
Assembly  is  doubly  significant  for  Sri  Lanka,  as  this
year  we  mark 
fiftieth  anniversary  of  our
membership  in  the  United  Nations.  As  a  small  nation
that has kept the flame of democracy burning through
the 
We  continue  to  believe  that  the  collective  moral
force of this Organization is indispensable for a secure,
peaceful  and  humane  world.  We  are  convinced  that
such  a  world  can  be  realized  through  the  honest
commitment  of  every  Member  State  to  its  individual
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51211 (E)
*0551211*
A/60/PV.10
and collective  responsibilities. Our  peoples  live  in  the
hope and expectation that we shall deliver.
international 
On the morning of 26 December 2004, Sri Lanka
and  several  other  countries  around  the  Indian  Ocean
region woke up  to  a  natural  disaster  of  unprecedented
magnitude.  Towering  tsunami  waves  struck  two  thirds
of the coastal areas of our island nation, leaving in its
wake  death  and  destruction  on  a  scale  hitherto
unknown by the world.  Moved  by  the  enormous  scale
of that calamity, Governments, the United Nations and
other 
society
organizations  and  countless  well-wishers  across  the
world  rushed  to  help  my  country  and  its  people  to
recover,  rehabilitate  and  rebuild.  It  was  a  magnificent
gesture  of  human  solidarity.  Citizens  of  the  world
reached  out  beyond  the  confines  of  geopolitical  and
other man-made barriers in one magnificent gesture of
human generosity. That rekindled in us new confidence
in  the  power  of  peoples  acting  in  unison  across  the
world to move Governments to act in the best interests
of humankind for a new and better world.
organizations, 
civil 
On  behalf  of  my  people  and  my  Government,  I
wish to convey my profound appreciation and gratitude
to all those who assisted and sympathized with us and
contributed  generously  to  rebuild  our  country.  Let  me
take this opportunity to extend a special word of thanks
to President Clinton, the United Nations Special Envoy
for  Tsunami  Recovery,  for  his  commitment  and
leadership  in  coordinating  the  ongoing  international
effort for sustainable recovery.
Just as my country was in national distress in the
aftermath  of  the  tsunami  disaster,  we  are  now  in
distress in the face of an ominous renewal of terror on
our soil. One month ago, my dear colleague Lakshman
Kadirgamar,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Sri  Lanka,  was
assassinated  by  a  calculated  and  barbaric  act  of
terrorism.  One  more  hero  who  fought  relentlessly  for
freedom and justice has been felled by the enemies of
peace  and  unity.  As  Foreign  Minister, 
late
and  worked
Mr. Kadirgamar 
tirelessly  against  extremist  racist 
that
employ  violence  to  gain  their  divisive  objectives.  He
was bold enough to expose to the world the true face of
terrorism inflicted upon my country. For 11 long years,
from  this  very  podium,  Mr.  Kadirgamar  warned  the
Assembly  about  the  threat  posed  by  terrorism  to  the
democratic  way  of  life,  not  only  in  Sri  Lanka  but
across the world.
argued  powerfully 
ideologies 
the 
2
a 
I 
separate  State.  Disregarding 
For over two  decades,  Sri  Lanka  has  been  under
sustained  assault  by  the  Liberation  Tigers  of  Tamil
Eelam  (LTTE),  an  armed  group  that  employs  brutal
methods and suicide bombings in its campaign of terror
to  obtain 
the
implementation  of  the  ceasefire  agreement,  that  group
continues  to  engage  in  numerous  illegal  and  terrorist
activities. Those include the conscription of children as
soldiers  (cid:151)  in  callous  disregard  for  promises  given  to
many,  including  the  Special  Representative  of  the
Secretary-General on Children and Armed Conflict  (cid:151)
and the assassination of democratic opponents, as part
of  their  policy  of  eliminating  Tamil  political  leaders
and  human  rights  activists,  with  disdain  for  all
international  law  and  practice  and  despite  sustained
efforts by my Government and Norwegian facilitators.
I tend to doubt that the Security Council(cid:146)s recent
identification  of  that  group  in  connection  with  child
conscription  would  suffice  to  deter  such  activities.
Targeted  sanctions  such  as 
those  proposed  by
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  in  his  report  to  the
Security  Council  should  be  imposed  on  those  armed
groups that undermine national and international peace
and violate human rights.
firmly  believe 
terrorism  cannot  be
eliminated 
through  military  suppression  by  State
machinery. The socio-economic and cultural roots of a
conflict  must  be  sought  and  effectively  redressed.  We
recognize that a lasting solution to ethnic issues and to
terrorism in my country, or anywhere else, can only be
found  through  negotiation  and  dialogue.  Accordingly,
my  Government  was  the  first,  in  1994,  to  offer  a
negotiated settlement in place of an armed conflict, as
well  as  an  extensive  devolution  of  power  instead  of  a
separate  State.  In  February  2002,  the  Government
entered into a ceasefire agreement with the rebel group
and  began 
the
Government of Norway.
facilitation  of 
talks,  with 
that 
the 
However,  two  and  a  half  years  ago,  the  LTTE
walked away from the peace talks for the sixth time in
18 years. All efforts to have the talks renewed have so
far failed. As a measure of good will after the tsunami
disaster struck us, I agreed to an arrangement with the
rebels for joint action in tsunami  reconstruction  work.
That was yet another measure in a long series of efforts
to  engage  and  work  with  the  rebels,  particularly  in
humanitarian 
obdurate
insistence to remain armed and remain uncontested by
any other democratic Tamil political party.
ventures, 
despite 
their 
My  Government  has  reaffirmed  its  commitment
to the ceasefire and the peace talks. We continue to do
all  that  is  required  by  a  democratic  Government  to
ensure  that  we  do  not  return  to  armed  conflict,
fulfilling the wishes of all our people.
A peace process cannot, and does not, operate in
a  vacuum.  People  demand  that  a  process  of  peace
should  include  the  commitment  and  good  conduct  of
all parties to a conflict. When a belligerent group (cid:151) a
non-State actor (cid:151) exploits the unique position offered
to  it  by  a  peace  process  to  utilize  the  freedom
guaranteed under a democratic system of governance to
strengthen  itself  through  infiltration  and  the  coercion
of  civilians,  organizations  and  political  parties,  that
impinges  seriously  on 
the  ability  of  an  elected
Government  to  move  forward  effectively  in  its  efforts
at reconciliation and peace.
The  restoration  of  democracy,  the  creation  of
space for dissent and the promotion of human rights in
the  affected  areas  in  the  north  and  the  east  of  our
country are now essential prerequisites for a successful
and  meaningful  peace  process  in  Sri  Lanka.  A  lasting
political  solution  can  come  to  fruition  only  when  the
rebel 
civilian
organization.  That  deserves  the  fullest  support  of  the
international community.
democratic 
becomes 
group 
a 
As we have been for many long years, Sri Lanka
remains  firmly  committed  to  the  global  endeavour  to
fight terrorism in all its aspects. No cause justifies the
indiscriminate  unleashing  of  terror  upon  the  innocent.
Sri  Lanka  has  accordingly  signed  and  ratified  all
United  Nations  conventions  aimed  at  combating
terrorism. We earnestly hope that at this session it will
be  possible  to  conclude  work  on  the  comprehensive
convention  on  international  terrorism,  in  order  to
complete  and  strengthen 
legal
framework  to  combat  terrorism  through  collective
measures.  Sri  Lanka  will  continue  to  provide  its
contribution to facilitate a consensus in its capacity as
Chair of the United Nations Ad Hoc Committee on this
subject.
international 
the 
Sri Lanka has pledged to meet the United Nations
Millennium Development Goals by the year 2015. We
have  already  achieved  the  targeted  goals  in  primary
education and in infant and maternal mortality. We are
committed  to  further  promoting  the  political  and
economic  empowerment  of  women  so  that  gender
A/60/PV.10
equality  becomes  a  matter  of  human  rights  and  social
justice.
Our  National  Child  Protection  Authority
implements  many  programmes  to  eliminate  abuse  and
violence against children and to ensure their protection
as  well  as  their  right  to  freely  enjoy  life(cid:146)s  most
precious  gift,  childhood.  Our  success  is  due  to  the
outcome  of  sustained  efforts  in  policy  planning  and
implementation.
and 
other 
Those 
benchmarks 
indicators
manifesting the high physical quality of life enjoyed by
our people will be further elevated as we strive to meet
the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. However,
poverty remains a major challenge for us. To eradicate
this  scourge,  we  are  now  taking  further  steps  through
the  adoption  of  economic  and  social  programmes,  in
cooperation  with  our  bilateral  and  multilateral
development partners.
If  we  look  at  the  current  world  health  situation,
although smallpox has been eradicated and polio is on
the  verge  of  being  eliminated, 
there  are  other
diseases (cid:151)  often  associated  with  poverty  (cid:151)  that
continue  to  take  a  heavy  human  toll,  especially  in
developing  countries.  Every  year,  6  million  children
die from malnutrition before their fifth birthday. More
than 50 per cent of people in Africa suffer from water-
related diseases such as cholera. HIV/AIDS kills 6,000
people  every  day.  Each  year,  more  than  300  million
people are infected with malaria. New challenges, such
as  severe  acute  respiratory  syndrome  and  avian
influenza,  indicate  that  national  borders  offer  little
protection against such proliferating pandemics. In the
face of unparalleled  advances,  both  in  technology  and
in human mobility, it is unconscionable to let some in
our nations suffer from diseases that can be controlled,
if not eliminated.
In  my  view,  there  are  three  evils  plaguing  our
world  today  that  can  have  no  place  in  the  modern
globalizing  era  of  the  twenty-first  century:  poverty,
disease  and  terrorism.  Today,  these  evils  affect  the
social, cultural and economic well-being of a majority
of  humankind.  No  country  can  deal  with  them  on  its
own.  International  cooperation  is  in  our  self-interest
and  needs  to  be  mustered.  We  share  the  strong  belief
that the United Nations, on the occasion of its sixtieth
anniversary, should seriously undertake comprehensive
reforms  so  that  the  Organization  is  fully  equipped  to
3
A/60/PV.10
meet  new  challenges,  taking  into  account  the  current
global realities.
Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President
of the Islamic Republic of Iran
We  acknowledge  with  appreciation  the  valuable
contribution  made  by  the  Secretary-General  and  his
team  to  the  ongoing  reform  process,  which  made
the  outcome  document
possible 
(resolution  60/1)  at 
recent  summit  of 
the
Organization.  We  urge  all  Member  States  to  work
together  to  build  on  that  framework  in  order  to
operationalize  what  has  been  agreed  and  to  work
further on what remains to be achieved.
the  adoption  of 
the 
Recovery after the tsunami disaster taught us the
value and potential of humanity acting in unison when
fellow human beings are in distress. We now hope that
the  same  human  spirit  and  common  interests  will
continue  to  prevail  in  addressing  the  socio-economic
and  security  challenges  we  face.  Let  us  resolve  to
commit ourselves collectively, on this solemn occasion
of  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization,  to  act
together in the interest of humankind in order that we
may  strive  to  eliminate  the  three  scourges  of  poverty,
disease and terrorism.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the
statement she has just made.
from 
Ms.  Chandrika  Bandaranaike  Kumaratunga,
President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri  Lanka,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President: Before  giving  the  floor  to  the
next speaker, I should like briefly to draw the attention
of  members  to  matters  concerning  the  maintenance  of
order  in  the  General  Assembly  Hall.  There  have  been
several  instances  of  cellular  telephones  ringing  in  the
Hall  while  the  meeting  has  been  in  progress.  That
interferes,  as  members  have  noticed,  with  the  orderly
proceedings  of  the  meeting.  I  therefore  strongly  urge
members to turn off their cellular telephones or to keep
them  in  silent  mode  while  they  are  in  the  General
Assembly  Hall.  I  also  request  that  representatives
move quietly  through  the  aisles  as  they  enter  and  exit
the Hall so as not to disturb the representative who has
the floor and that they keep conversations to the level
of a whisper. I rely on all those present to cooperate in
maintaining  order  and  quiet  in  the  Hall,  not  least  in
respect for our speakers.
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of
Iran.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite
him to address the Assembly.
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Today,  we  have
gathered  here  to  exchange  views  about  the  world,  its
future and our common responsibilities towards it. It is
obvious that the future of the world is intertwined with
its  current  state  and  with  the  prevailing  trends,  which
exhibit signs of hope and despair.
On the one hand, certain hopes and opportunities
exist,  and  the  General  Assembly  is  convened  on  the
basis  of  those  hopes.  Today,  human  thought  reflects
significant  commonalities  that  provide  an  appropriate
foundation  upon  which  to  build.  With  the  passing  of
the  era  of  agnostic  philosophies,  humanity  is  once
again  united  in  celebrating  monotheism  and  belief  in
the  Creator  as  the  originator  of  existence.  That  is  the
common  thread  that  binds  us  all  together.  Faith  will
prove to be the  solution to many of today(cid:146)s problems.
The truth will shine the light of faith and ethics on the
lives  of  human  beings;  it  will  prevent  them  from
engaging  in  aggression,  coercion  and  injustice;  and  it
will  guide  them  towards  care  and  compassion  for
fellow beings.
Another  hope  is  found  in  the  common  global
appreciation  of  the  sources  of  knowledge.  Although
reason, experience and science are among the valuable
sources of knowledge, the darkness of the Middle Ages
prevented  major  portions  of  the  Western  world  from
appreciating them. This reactionary tendency deprived
many  of  access  to  various  scientific  findings  and
knowledge and led to the exclusion of other sources of
knowledge,  namely  God  and  knowledge  based  on
revelation from the life of human beings in the West (cid:151)
divine  knowledge  that  was  disseminated  by  such
prophets  as  Noah,  Abraham,  Moses,  Jesus  and
4
Mohammad. Today, agnostic thinking is on the decline
is  equally  enamoured  of  religion,
and  humanity 
science,  knowledge  and  spirituality.  This 
is  an
auspicious beginning.
Divine prophets teach us about proper regard for
the exalted state of human beings on earth. The human
being 
is  blessed  with  dignity,  manifested  most
importantly  in  being  the  viceroy  of  the  Almighty  on
earth. The Almighty placed humans on earth to develop
it, to institutionalize justice, to overcome their egoistic
tendencies  and  to  praise  no  lord  but  the  Almighty.
Faith  and  good  deeds  can  bring  deliverance  and  the
good life, even in this world. Attaining this depend on
human  will,  that  is,  the  will  of  each  and  every  one  of
us.  We  must  heed  the  call  of  our  common  primordial
nature and achieve the realization of this good life.
increasing  poverty; 
On  the  other  hand,  the  prevalence  of  military
domination; 
the  growing  gap
between  rich  and  poor  countries;  violence  as  a  means
to  resolve  crises;  the  spread  of  terrorism,  especially
State  terrorism;  the  existence  and  proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction;  the  pervasive  lack  of
honesty  in  inter-State  relations;  and  disregard  for  the
equal  rights  of  peoples  and  nations  in  international
relations constitute some of the challenges and threats
facing us.
Although  these  challenges  are  very  real,  we
believe we are not predestined to experience them. Our
common  will  not  only  can  change  this  course  but,  in
fact,  can  lead  us  to  a  life  filled  with  hope  and
prosperity. Divine revelation teaches us that
(cid:147)The  Almighty  changes  the  fate  of  no  people
unless  they  themselves  show  a  will  for  change(cid:148)
(The Holy Koran, XIII:11).
How  can  we  influence  the  future  of  the  world?
When  and  how  will  peace,  tranquillity  and  well-being
for  all  come  about?  These  are 
the  fundamental
questions before us.
We  believe  that  a  sustainable  order  (cid:151)  in  which
peace  and  tranquillity  can  flourish  (cid:151)  can  be  realized
only  on  the  basis  of  the  two  pillars  of  justice  and
spirituality.  The  more  human  society  departs  from
justice and spirituality, the greater the insecurity it will
face, so much  so that a  relatively small crisis  (cid:151)  such
as a natural disaster (cid:151) can lead to various aberrations
and inhumane behaviour.
A/60/PV.10
the  world 
Unfortunately, 
rife  with
discrimination  and  poverty.  Discrimination  produces
hatred, war  and terrorism. They all share the  common
root of a lack of spirituality coupled with injustice.
is 
Justice 
is  about  equal  rights; 
the  equitable
distribution  of  resources  in  the  territories  of  different
States;  the  equality  of  all  before  the  law;  and  respect
for  international  agreements.  Justice  recognizes  the
right  of  all  to  tranquillity,  peace  and  a  dignified  life.
Justice  rejects  intimidation  and  double  standards.  As
the  eminent  daughter  of  the  Prophet  of  Islam  said,
(cid:147)Justice brings tranquillity to our hearts.(cid:148)
the  call  of 
Today,  the  world  longs  for  the  establishment  of
such 
justice.  If  humanity  heeds 
its
primordial nature with firm resolve, justice will follow.
That  is  what  the  Almighty  has  promised  and  what  all
people of goodwill from all religions are waiting for. If
the  prevailing  discourse  of  global  relations  becomes
one of justice and spirituality, then durable  peace  will
be guaranteed.
Conversely,  if  international  relations  are  defined
without  justice  or  spirituality  and  are  void  of  moral
considerations, 
for  promoting
confidence  and  peace  will  remain  insufficient  and
ineffective.
then  mechanisms 
If  some,  relying  on  their  superior  military  and
economic  might,  attempt  to  expand  their  rights  and
privileges, they will be performing a great disservice to
the cause of peace and, in fact, will fuel the arms race
and  spread  insecurity,  fear  and  deception.  If  global
trends  continue 
interests  of  small,
influential groups, even the interests of the citizens of
powerful  countries  will  be  jeopardized,  as  was  seen
during  recent  crises  and  natural  disasters  such  as  the
recent tragedy of Hurricane Katrina.
to  serve 
the 
Today  my  nation  calls  on  other  nations  and
Governments  to  move  forward  towards  a  durable
tranquillity and peace based on justice and spirituality.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  was  born  of  a
movement  based  on  the  pure,  primordial  nature  of  a
people who rose up to regain their dignity, esteem and
human rights. The Islamic revolution toppled a regime
which  had  been  put  in  place  through  a  coup  and  that
was  being  supported  by  those  who  claim  to  be
advocates  of  democracy  and  human  rights.  For  25
years  they  thwarted  the  aspirations  of  the  nation  to
development and progress through the intimidation and
5
A/60/PV.10
torture  of 
subservience to outsiders.
the  population  and 
submission  and
The Islamic Republic of Iran is the manifestation
of  true  democracy  in  the  region.  The  discourse  of  the
Iranian  nation  is  focused  on  respect  for  the  rights  of
human  beings  and  on  a  quest  for  tranquillity,  peace,
justice and development for all through monotheism.
For  eight  years,  Saddam(cid:146)s  regime  imposed  a
massive  war  of  aggression  and  occupation  on  my
people. It employed the most heinous weapons of mass
destruction  (cid:151)  including  chemical  weapons  (cid:151)  against
Iranians  and  Iraqis  alike.  But  who,  in  fact,  armed
Saddam with those weapons? What was the reaction of
those who now claim to fight against weapons of mass
destruction to the use of chemical weapons back then?
The  world  is  witness  to  the  fact  that  the  Islamic
Republic  of 
its  humanitarian
principles (cid:151) even during the most trying of times and
when 
the  highest  number  of
casualties (cid:151) never allowed itself to use such weapons.
Thousands  of  nuclear  warheads  stockpiled  in  various
locations, coupled with programmes to further develop
these 
inhuman  weapons,  have  created  a  new
atmosphere of repression and the rule of the machines
of  war,  threatening  the  international  community  and
even the citizens of the countries that possess them.
it  was  sustaining 
Iran,  because  of 
Ironically,  those  that  have  actually  used  nuclear
weapons  and  continue 
to  produce,  stockpile  and
extensively test such weapons; that have used depleted
uranium  bombs  and  bullets  against  tens,  perhaps
hundreds,  of  thousands  of  Iraqis  and  Kuwaitis,  and
even  their  own  soldiers  and  those  of  their  allies,
afflicting  them  with  incurable  diseases;  that  blatantly
violate  their  obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT);  that  have
refrained  from  signing  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT);  and  that  have  armed  the
Zionist  occupation  regime  with  weapons  of  mass
destruction  (cid:151)  they  are  not  only  refusing  to  remedy
their past actions, but, in clear breach of the NPT, are
trying  to  prevent  other  countries  from  acquiring  the
technology  necessary  to  produce  nuclear  energy  for
peaceful purposes.
All of these problems emanate from the fact that
the  elements  of  justice  and  spirituality  are  missing  in
the  way  powerful  Governments  conduct  their  affairs
with other nations.
6
After  11  September,  a  particular  radical  group
was  accused  of  terrorist  activities,  although  it  was
never  explained  how  such  huge  intelligence-gathering
and  security  organizations  had  failed  to  prevent  such
an extensive and well-planned operation.
Why  have  Powers  that  not  so  long  ago  were
supporting the activities of such groups in Afghanistan,
thereby  portraying  themselves  as  supporters  of  human
rights and of the Afghan people, overnight turned into
their  most  fierce  critics?  Are  we  to  believe  that  their
benefactors  (cid:151)  those  very  same  hegemonic  Powers  (cid:151)
have lost control? If so, would it not be better for those
Powers to adopt an honest and transparent approach to
the 
precise
information about the main elements and their weapons
and financial support system, and accept responsibility
for their inhuman actions against nations and countries,
thereby assisting peoples and nations in addressing the
roots of terrorism correctly, wisely and sincerely?
international 
community, 
provide 
We  must  endeavour 
to  achieve  sustainable
tranquillity and peace based on justice and spirituality.
Terrorism  and  weapons  of  mass  destruction  are
two  major  threats  facing  the  international  community.
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  as  one  of  the  main
victims  of  terrorism  and  chemical  weapons,  fully
appreciates the difficulties involved in combating these
menaces. Today, the most serious challenge is that the
culprits  are  assuming  the  role  of  the  prosecutor.  Even
more dangerous is that certain parties, relying on their
power  and  wealth,  are  trying  to  impose  a  climate  of
intimidation  and  injustice  on  the  world.  They  are
bullying others, while using their huge media resources
to  portray 
themselves  as  defenders  of  freedom,
democracy and human rights.
People around the world are fully aware of what
is  happening 
in  occupied  Palestine.  Women  and
children  are  being  murdered  and  teenagers  are  being
taken prisoner. Houses are being demolished and farms
are  being  burned  down.  Yet  when  the  people  of
Palestine  resist  these  conditions,  they  are  accused  of
terrorism.  At  the  same  time,  the  occupier,  which  does
not  abide  by  any  principles,  terror  being  part  of  its
stated  and  regular  policy,  enjoys  the  support  of  the
previously  mentioned  Governments.  Let  me  be  still
more blunt. State terrorism is being supported by those
who claim to fight terrorism.
How can one  talk  about  human  rights  and  at  the
same  time  blatantly  deny  many  people  the  inalienable
in 
the  fields  of  medicine, 
right  of  access  to  science  and  technology,  which  have
applications 
industrial
production  and  energy,  and  hinder  their  progress  and
development by means of force and intimidation? Can
nations  be  deprived  of  scientific  and  technological
progress through the threat of use  of  force  and  on  the
basis  of  mere  allegations  of  possible  military
diversion? We believe that all countries and nations are
entitled to technological and scientific advancement in
all fields, and particularly to the peaceful technology to
produce nuclear fuel. Such access cannot be restricted
to  a 
thereby
establishing economic monopolies which are then used
as an instrument to expand domination.
few,  depriving  most  nations  and 
We have gathered here to defend human rights in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and
to  prevent  certain  Powers  from  claiming  that  some
countries  have  more  rights  or  that  some  countries  do
not have the right to enjoy their legitimate rights.
We must not, at the beginning of the twenty-first
century,  revert  to  the  logic  of  the  Dark  Ages  and  try
once  again  to  deny  societies  access  to  scientific  and
technological  advances.  The  United  Nations  must  be
the  symbol  of  democracy  and  of  the  equal  rights  of
nations. If we talk about the equal rights of nations in
political  forums,  we  must  talk  of  the  same  concept  in
this forum as well. Similarly, if we talk about the right
of  sovereignty,  then  all  nations  must  be  allowed  to
exercise  their  rights  on  an  equal  footing  and  in  a
democratic process.
The  United  Nations  will  be  able  to  be  the
standard-bearer  of  democracy  in  the  world  when  it,
itself,  is  a  manifestation  of  democratic  process.  I
reiterate  that  sustainable  tranquillity  and  peace  can
only be built on justice and spirituality.
including 
The Islamic Republic of Iran is a symbol of true
democracy.  All  officials, 
the  Leader,
President  and  members  of  the  Islamic  Consultative
Assembly, city and village councils are elected through
the  vote  of  the  citizens.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran
has  held  27  national  elections  in  27  years.  This
showcases  a  vibrant  and  dynamic  society  in  which
people participate broadly in political life.
Because  of  its  key  importance  and  influence  in
the  important  and  strategic  Middle  East  region,  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  committed  to  contributing
actively to the promotion of peace and stability in that
region.
A/60/PV.10
The  Saddam  and  the  Taliban  regimes  were  both
the  products  of  foreign  Powers.  The  people  of
Afghanistan and of Iraq know very well who supported
those  two  regimes.  Today,  to  establish  peace  and
security  in  the  region,  foreign  occupation  forces  must
leave  and  completely  hand  over  the  political  and
economic  sovereignty  of  those  two  countries  to  their
peoples.
Iraq  and  Afghanistan  and 
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  will  continue  to
provide  full  and  comprehensive  support  to  the  people
of 
their  elected
Governments  and  will  actively  help  them  establish
order and security. My country will continue to expand
its sincere cooperation and interaction with them.
to 
In Palestine, a sustainable peace will be possible
through justice, an end to discrimination, an end to the
occupation  of  Palestinian  land,  the  return  of  all
Palestinian  refugees  and 
the  establishment  of  a
democratic Palestinian State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as
its capital.
Today, more than ever, nations need constructive,
positive  and  honest  cooperation  and  interaction  in
order  to  enjoy  a  dignified,  tranquil  and  peaceful  life
based  on  justice  and  spirituality.  Let  us  enter  into  a
collective covenant to realize this legitimate aspiration
of our nations.
Here,  I  should  like  to  talk  briefly  about  the
approach and initiative of the Islamic Republic of Iran
on  the  nuclear  issue.  Nuclear  weapons  and  their
proliferation, on the one hand, and attempts to impose
an  apartheid  regime  on  access  to  peaceful  nuclear
energy,  on 
to
international tranquillity and peace.
the  other,  are 
two  major 
threats 
Keeping  in  mind  that  in  past  years  no  serious
efforts  complemented  by  practical  mechanisms  have
been  made  to  move  towards  full  disarmament  and,
more  specifically,  to  implement  the  decisions  and
outcomes  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  review  conferences  of  1995
and 2000, I suggest that the General Assembly, as the
most  inclusive  United  Nations  organ,  mandate  an  ad
hoc committee to compile and submit a comprehensive
report on possible practical mechanisms and strategies
for  complete  disarmament.  Such  a  committee  should
also  be  asked  to  investigate  how,  in  violation  of  the
NPT,  material,  technology  and  equipment  for  nuclear
weapons were transferred to the Zionist regime, and to
propose  practical  measures  for  the  establishment  of  a
7
A/60/PV.10
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  Some
powerful  States  practise  a  discriminatory  approach
against  access  by  NPT  States  parties  to  material,
equipment,  and  peaceful  nuclear  technology.  In  doing
so,  they  intend  to  impose  a  nuclear  apartheid.  We  are
concerned that once certain powerful States completely
control  nuclear  energy  resources  and  technology,  they
will  deny  access  to  other  States  and  thus  deepen  the
divide  between  powerful  countries  and  the  rest  of  the
international community. When that happens, we shall
be divided into light and dark countries.
to  facilitate 
implemented 
Regrettably,  in  the  past  30  years,  no  effective
measure  has  been 
the
exercise  of  the  legally  recognized  right  of  NPT  States
parties  to  have  access  to  and  to  use  peaceful  nuclear
energy  in  accordance  with  article  IV.  Therefore,  the
General Assembly should ask the International Atomic
Energy  Agency  (cid:151)  in  accordance  with  article  II  of  its
Statute (cid:151) to report on violations by specific countries
that  have  hindered  the  implementation  of  the  above
article  and  also  to  produce  practical  strategies  for  its
renewed implementation.
power 
popularly 
plants.  No 
It  is  particularly  important  to  note  that  the
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  without  possession  of
the  nuclear  fuel  cycle 
is  an  empty  proposition.
Countries  and  peoples  that  rely  for  their  fuel  on
coercive  powers  and  stop  at  nothing  to  further  their
interests  may  indeed  become  totally  dependent  on
nuclear 
elected,
responsible  Government  would  consider  such  a
situation to be in the interest of its people. The history
of  dependence  on  oil  in  oil-rich  countries  under
domination  is  an  experience  that  no  independent
country would be willing to repeat.
Those  hegemonic  Powers 
the
scientific  and  technological  progress  of  independent
and free nations to be a challenge to their monopoly on
those important instruments of power and which do not
want to see such achievements in other countries, have
misrepresented  Iran(cid:146)s  healthy  and  fully  safeguarded
technological  endeavours  in  the  nuclear  field  as  a
pursuit  of  nuclear  weapons.  That  is  nothing  but  a
propaganda  ploy.  The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is
presenting  in  good  faith  its  proposal  for  constructive
interaction and a just dialogue. However, if some try to
impose their will on the Iranian people by resorting to
a  language  of  force  and  threats  against  Iran,  we  will
reconsider our entire approach to the nuclear issue.
that  consider 
8
Allow me, as the elected President of the Iranian
people,  to  outline  the  other  main  elements  of  my
country(cid:146)s initiative regarding the nuclear issue.
First,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  reaffirms  its
previously  and  repeatedly  stated  position  that,  in
accordance with our religious principles, the pursuit of
nuclear weapons is prohibited.
Secondly,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  believes
that it is necessary to revitalize the Treaty on the Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and,  as  I
proposed  earlier,  to  create  an  ad  hoc  committee  to
combat nuclear weapons and abolish the apartheid that
exists in the field of peaceful nuclear technology.
in  order 
to  provide 
that  have  peaceful  nuclear 
Thirdly, the fuel cycle of the Islamic Republic of
Iran  is  not  technically  different  from  that  of  other
countries 
technology.
Therefore,  as  a  further  confidence-building  measure
and 
the  greatest  degree  of
transparency,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  prepared
to  engage  in  serious  partnerships  with  the  private  and
public sectors of other countries in the implementation
of  a  uranium  enrichment  programme  in  Iran.  That
represents  the  most  far-reaching  step  (cid:151)  beyond  all
requirements  of  the  NPT  (cid:151)  proposed  by  Iran  as  a
further confidence-building measure.
Fourthly, in keeping with  Iran(cid:146)s inalienable  right
to  have  access  to  a  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  continued
interaction and technical and legal cooperation with the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  will  be  the
centrepiece of our nuclear policy. The initiation and the
continuation  of  negotiations  with  other  countries  will
be carried out in the context of Iran(cid:146)s interaction with
the  Agency.  With  that  in  mind,  I  have  directed  the
relevant  Iranian  officials  to  compile  the  legal  and
technical  details  of  Iran(cid:146)s  nuclear  approach,  based  on
the following considerations.
First, international precedent tells us that nuclear
fuel  delivery  contracts  are  unreliable,  and  no  legally
binding international document or instrument exists to
guarantee  the  delivery  of  nuclear  fuel.  On  many
occasions  such  bilateral  contracts  have  either  been
suspended  or  stopped  altogether  for  political  reasons.
Therefore,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  in  its  pursuit
of  peaceful  nuclear  technology,  considers  it  to  be
within 
to  receive  objective
guarantees  for  uranium  enrichment  in  the  nuclear  fuel
cycle.
legitimate  rights 
its 
Secondly,  in  its  negotiations  with  the  European
Union  three,  Iran  has  tried  in  earnest  to  demonstrate
the  solid  and  legitimate  foundations  of  its  nuclear
activity  in  the  context  of  the  NPT  and  to  establish
mutual trust. The selection of our negotiating partners
and the continuation of negotiations with the European
Union 
the
requirements  of  our  cooperation  with  the  Agency
regarding the non-diversion of the process  of uranium
enrichment 
the
framework  of 
that  context,  several
proposals  have  been  presented  that  can  be  considered
in the context of the negotiations.
three  will  be  commensurate  with 
to  non-peaceful  purposes,  within 
the  NPT.  In 
Thirdly, the discriminatory approach with respect
to  the  NPT,  focusing  on  the  obligations  of  States
parties while disregarding their rights under the Treaty,
should cease.
in 
its  power 
to  contribute 
the  Assembly 
As the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, I
assure 
that  my  country  will  do
everything 
to  global
tranquillity  and  peace,  based  on  the  two  values  of
spirituality  and  justice,  and  on  the  principle  of  equal
rights  of  all  peoples  and  nations.  My  country  will
interact  and  cooperate  constructively  with 
the
international  community  to  face  the  challenges  before
us.
From the beginning of time, humanity has longed
for 
the  day  when 
justice,  peace,  equality  and
compassion  would  envelop  the  world.  All  of  us  can
contribute to the establishment of such a world. When
that  day  comes,  the  ultimate  promise  of  all  divine
religions  will  be  fulfilled  with  the  emergence  of  a
perfect  human  being  who  is  heir  to  all  prophets  and
pious  men.  He  will  lead  the  world  to  justice  and
absolute peace.
Almighty  Lord,  I  pray  to  you  to  hasten  the
appearance of your last repository (cid:151) the promised one,
that  perfect  and  pure  human  being,  the  one  who  will
fill this world with justice and peace. O Lord, include
us  among  his  companions,  followers  and  those  who
serve his cause.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic
Republic of Iran for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
A/60/PV.10
Address by Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of the
Republic of South Africa
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South
Africa.
Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations His Excellency Mr. Thabo Mbeki, President of
the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to
address the Assembly.
President  Mbeki:  First,  I  would  like  to  salute
Mr.  Jean  Ping,  the  outgoing  President  of  the  General
Assembly,  for  the  work  he  did  to  guide  the  General
Assembly  as  the  nations  of  the  world  considered  the
immensely important matters that led to the elaboration
of the outcome document that was adopted last night.
I would also like to congratulate you, Sir, on your
election  to  preside  over  the  sixtieth  session  of  the
General Assembly. We are confident that you will lead
the  Assembly  well  as  it  confronts  the  challenge  of
implementing 
the
millennium review summit and remains seized of other
important  matters  that  were  not  adequately  addressed
in the outcome document.
the  decisions 
taken  during 
Shortly  before  we  convened  here 
the
millennium  review  summit,  an  important  meeting  of
Christian leaders took place in Washington, D.C. Those
leaders  issued  a  communiquØ  entitled  (cid:147)A  Call  to
Partnership(cid:148),  directed  at  our  summit  meeting.  In  part
the call says,
for 
(cid:147)At the urgent call of church leaders in the
southern  hemisphere,  we  came  together  at  the
Washington  National  Cathedral  as  Christian
leaders  from  diverse  traditions  and  places,  both
rich and poor, in the South and the North, united
in  a  common  concern  for  those  of  us  living  in
poverty. We see their faces; we hear their voices;
they are a part of us, and we are a part of them.
(cid:147)As  the  United  Nations  reaches  its  sixtieth
anniversary,  we  give  thanks  for  its  work  in
peacemaking 
reconciliation,
particularly the historic  commitment  to  eradicate
poverty  in  the  Millennium  Declaration  of  2000.
global 
and 
9
A/60/PV.10
Five years have passed, and, despite the triumph
of  principle,  there  has  been  a  failure  in  practice.
In  this  communiquØ,  we  offer  our  partnership  to
the  leaders  gathered  at  the  World  Summit  at  the
United Nations in building a global movement to
make  real 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  as  a  crucial  step  towards  a
more just world for all God(cid:146)s children.
the  promises  of 
concern.  Globalization 
(cid:147)We  believe  that  God  calls  us  to  place
people  struggling  with  poverty  at  the  centre  of
our 
brought
unprecedented  economic  growth.  At  the  same
time,  one  sixth  of  the  world(cid:146)s  people  still  fight
daily  for  survival  under  the  crushing  burden  of
extreme poverty. The increasing concentration of
wealth  in  our  world,  while  so  many  suffer,  is  a
scandal that impoverishes us all.
has 
(cid:147)We  believe  that  the  spirit  of  partnership
between rich and poor, exemplified in the MDGs,
is a way the world can  address poverty  in  all  its
dimensions. In particular, we support the goal of
a global partnership for development, and believe
that the Churches can make a unique contribution
to that partnership.(cid:148)
If nothing else, the fact that the religious leaders
who  issued  that  call  gathered  from  many  parts  of  the
world  to  agree  on  a  message  to  our  summit  Meeting
must  remind  us  that  the  masses  (cid:151)  the  people  who
elected  us  (cid:151)  entertain  high  expectations  about  the
United  Nations.  They  see  this  Organization  as  their
pre-eminent partner in the continuing struggle to build
a better and humane world.
They  challenge 
those  of  us  who  have 
the
privilege to represent our States in the United Nations
to build, strengthen and direct this world Organization
so  that  it  can,  indeed,  play  its  role  as  a  pre-eminent
partner  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  in  constructing  a
better and more humane world.
Accordingly, I believe that we must view with the
greatest  seriousness  their  conclusion  that  five  years
have  passed  since  we  adopted 
the  Millennium
Declaration and that, (cid:147)despite this triumph of principle,
there has been a failure in practice(cid:148).
Sixty  years  ago, 
the
destructive  fury  of  the  Second  World  War  and  the
villainous  genocide  committed  during  that  war,  the
United  Nations  was  formed,  in  the  words  of  the
the  aftermath  of 
in 
10
Charter,  (cid:147)to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the
scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought
untold sorrow to mankind(cid:148).
Responding  to  the  universal  demand  for  human
and  peoples(cid:146)  rights,  the  founders  declared  that  they
were  forming  the  United  Nations  (cid:147)to  reaffirm  faith  in
the fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth
of  the  human  person,  in  the  equal  rights  of  men  and
women  and  of  nations  large  and  small(cid:148)  and  to
(cid:147)promote social progress and better standards of life in
larger freedom(cid:148).
of 
an 
As we gather here, in part to celebrate the sixtieth
anniversary 
international  Organization
established  to  bring  hope  to  the  peoples  of  the  world,
we  cannot  avoid  asking  some  hard  questions.  That  is
necessary  if  we  are  to  live  up  to  our  obligation  to
ensure 
its
responsibilities, described by the religious leaders who
met  at 
the  Washington  National  Cathedral  as
peacemaking, global reconciliation and the eradication
of poverty.
the  United  Nations  discharges 
that 
is 
today,  60  years  after 
We  must  ask  ourselves  how  well  prepared  the
it  was
United  Nations 
established,  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the
scourge of war; to protect and advance the fundamental
human rights of all; to protect and advance the dignity
and worth of each human person; to ensure equal rights
between  men  and  women;  to  ensure  equal  rights
between nations large and small; and to promote social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.
We must ask (cid:151) and answer honestly (cid:151) whether
what we do as the United Nations is properly described
as a triumph of principle but a failure in practice, as the
religious leaders put it.
The  reality  is  that,  60  years  after  the  United
Nations was formed as a response to the appalling and
ghastly  results  of  the  crime  of  racism,  we  are  still
confronted  by  the  cancer  of  racism.  Although  the
United Nations has adopted important decisions on that
matter,  and  convened  the  necessary  conferences  to
unite  the  peoples  of  the  world  against  racism,  those
who  continue  to  fall  victim  to  that  crime  against
humanity  would  find  it  difficult  to  cite  the  instances
when the United Nations came to their aid.
Sixty years after the United Nations was formed,
the indecencies of war and violent conflict continue to
afflict  innocent  people,  evidently  because  we,  the
United  Nations,  lack  the  will  to  live  up  to  the
commitment  that  was  made  when  this  Organization
was established.
Africans, who have been exposed to many violent
conflicts  since  the  United  Nations  was  formed,  are
particularly keen for this Organization to live up to its
obligation to save succeeding African generations from
the  scourge  of  war.  Even  as  we  speak,  the  United
Nations  is  faced  with  the  urgent  task  of  taking  the
necessary  action  in  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire  to  help  to  bring  a
lasting  peace 
important  African  country,
opening  the  way  to  its  reunification,  the  holding  of
democratic  elections  and  the  promotion  of  social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom,
to use the words of the Charter.
that 
to 
A  similar  challenge  faces  this  Organization  with
regard  to  the  restoration  of  lasting  peace  in  Darfur  in
the  Sudan,  building  on  the  historic  conclusion  and
implementation of the Sudanese Comprehensive Peace
Agreement, signed in Nairobi, Kenya, earlier this year.
Only  11  years  ago,  we  experienced  a  terrible
genocide in Rwanda, and thousands were killed in the
internecine  conflict  that  took  place  in  the  Balkans.
Those  who  were  exposed  to  the  savagery  would  be
fully  justified  in  concluding  that  the  United  Nations
had  betrayed  its  commitment  to  the  peoples  of  the
world.
I am certain that all of us are impatient to see an
end to the conflicts in the Middle East, including Iraq,
and  in  particular  the  restoration  of  the  rights  of  the
people  of  Palestine,  in  the  context  of  the  successful
implementation of the road map.
While we welcome recent positive developments
in this regard, we must accept the reality that every day
that passes without the full implementation of the road
map only serves to  point an accusing finger at us, the
United  Nations,  accusing  us  of  not  having  done
everything we could to help secure the just and lasting
peace that is the right of the Palestinian, the Israeli and
the Arab peoples.
We  have  all  recognized  the  serious  and  urgent
threat  posed  by  international  terrorism  to  all  our
nations. We have all accepted the reality that we need a
multilateral  response  to  that  common  threat.  Yet  we
have  still  not  succeeded  in  arriving  at  a  common
definition  of  that  threat  or  identified  its  fundamental
causes.
A/60/PV.10
and 
The 
issues  of  non-proliferation 
the
disarmament  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  are
matters of critical concern to all nations, both large and
small.  Yet  we  failed  to  address  those  matters  in  the
outcome  document  adopted  at  the  review  summit  last
night,  even  as  the  issue  of  nuclear  weapons  and  their
non-proliferation is among the most prominent items in
world  news  and  on  the  international  agenda.  None  of
us  could  justly  claim  that  our  failure  as  the  United
Nations  to  take  specific  decisions  on  these  matters
served  to  enhance  global  security  in  the  face  of  the
threat of weapons of mass destruction.
With regard to the issue of Iran, we firmly believe
that negotiations should resume and that the matter be
settled  within  the  framework  of  the  provisions  of  the
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons
and  with  the  full  participation  of  the  International
Atomic Energy Agency.
The  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  is
becoming  worse  within  and  between  countries,  as
observed  by 
the  United  Nations  Development
Programme(cid:146)s 2005 Human Development Report, which
states  that  the  gap  between  the  average  citizen  in  the
richest  and  in  the  poorest  countries  is  wide  and  is
getting  wider.  It  states  that  in  1990  the  average
American  was  38  times  richer  than  the  average
Tanzanian,  while  today  the  average  American  is  61
times richer.
The same report states, on page 3,
(cid:147)In  2003,  18  countries  with  a  combined
population of 460 million people registered lower
scores  on  the  human  development  index  (HDI)
than in 1990 (cid:151) an unprecedented reversal. In the
midst  of  an 
increasingly  prosperous  global
economy, 10.7 million children every year do not
live  to  see  their  fifth  birthday,  and  more  than  1
billion  people  survive  in  abject  poverty  on  less
than a $1 a day.(cid:148)
Accordingly,  if  we  pause  and  scan  the  road
travelled to judge whether we have succeeded in saving
the  world  from  the  scourge  of  war;  whether  we  have
built  a  world  that  has  reaffirmed  faith  in  fundamental
human  rights;  whether  we  have  created  a  world  that
has  restored  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human
person (cid:151) a world that has entrenched equal rights for
men and women and for nations, large and small (cid:151) the
answer  from  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the  world
may very well be a resounding (cid:147)No(cid:148).
11
A/60/PV.10
The  United  Nations  has  adopted  many  decisions
intended to help address the various global  challenges
that  have  persisted  over  the  60  years  of  its  existence.
Accordingly, we have the necessary policies to address
the  social,  economic,  political  and  other  problems
facing humanity. We have also adopted comprehensive
and  clear  programmes  to  give  effect  to  those  policies
and  have  identified  the  resources  required  for  their
implementation.
The questions we must answer are: why have we
not implemented these programmes, and what must be
done to correct the situation?
The  process  of  globalization  means  that  our
common  world  is  more  integrated  today  than  it  was
when  the  United  Nations  was  formed  60  years  ago.
Similarly,  the  interconnectedness  of  the  issues  of
peace,  security,  development  and  human  rights  has
never  been  more  pronounced  than  it  is  today.  All  this
means that the imperatives that made it  necessary  and
correct  to  establish  the  United  Nations  as  part  of  a
desirable  system  of  global  governance  are  that  much
more  compelling  today,  and  that  the  necessary  reform
of  the  Organization  must  take  place  to  ensure  that  it
reflects  the  new  global  realities  since  it  was  formed
and  that  it  is  empowered  to respond  effectively  to  the
urgent challenges that face all humanity.
And  yet,  the  painful  paradox  we  face  is  that  it
seems  obvious  that,  over  the  years,  there  has  been  a
continuous erosion of the authority and prestige of the
United  Nations  and  a  sustained  drift  towards  its
marginalization in terms of playing its rightful role, as
so clearly defined in the United Nations Charter. At its
sixtieth  session,  the  General  Assembly  has  the  heavy
responsibility  to  reassert  the  critical  need  for  the
United  Nations  to  discharge  its  responsibilities  as
spelled out in that Charter. Experience over the last 60
years has shown that, to address the criticism levelled
against  the  Organization  by  religious  leaders  (cid:151)  that
there  has  been  a  triumph  of  principle  and  a  failure  in
practice (cid:151) we must be ready to engage in a sustained
struggle  to  ensure  that  the  vision  contained  in  the
United  Nations  Charter  is  actually  translated  into
reality.
As we engage in this struggle, we should say, as
did  the  religious  leaders  who  met  at  the  Washington
National  Cathedral,  that  we  are  united  in  a  common
concern for those of us living in poverty: (cid:147)We see their
12
faces;  we  hear  their  voices;  they  are  a  part  of  us,  and
we are a part of them.(cid:148)
Let  me  close  by 
reiterating  our  deepest
sympathies and condolences to the Government and the
people  of  the  United  States  in  the  wake  of  the  death
and destruction wreaked by Hurricane Katrina.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of South Africa for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thabo  Mbeki,  President  of  the  Republic  of
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General
Assembly Hall.
Address by His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal
Bolkiah Mu(cid:146)izzaddin Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang
Di Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam.
His  Majesty  Sultan  Haji  Hassanal  Bolkiah
Mu(cid:146)izzaddin    Waddaulah,  Sultan  and  Yang  Di
Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam, was escorted into
the General Assembly Hall.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Majesty  Sultan  Haji  Hassanal  Bolkiah
Mu(cid:146)izzaddin  Waddaulah, Sultan and Yang Di Pertuan
of Brunei Darussalam, and to invite him to address the
Assembly.
Sultan  Haji  Hassanal  Bolkiah  Mu(cid:146)izzaddin
Waddaulah:  I  would  like  to  offer  my  congratulations
to the President on his election. In doing so, I assure all
our fellow members of Brunei Darussalam(cid:146)s continued
strong support for the United Nations.
to 
the 
inhuman  acts  of  global 
Much  of  the  attention  at  almost  every  great
international  meeting  for  the  past  four  years  has  been
given 
terrorists.
Inevitably, this has focused on specific events. That is
understandable,  of  course,  and  we 
in  Brunei
Darussalam again add our voices to the  condemnation
of  all  such  actions.  We  offer  our  deepest  condolences
to the families of all who have suffered losses.
Nevertheless,  as  we  meet  our  respected  fellow
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  we  again  state  what
we  have  continuously  said  since  the  onset  of  the
current  wave  of  global  terrorism.  These  brutal  attacks
national
extend 
personal 
beyond 
grief 
and 
condemnation.  They  are  symptomatic  of  many  grave
threats  the  people  of  the  world  face  today.  As  such,
they  constitute  nothing  less  than  an  attack  on  world
order.
For  this  reason,  we  believe  it  is  high  time  the
world  order  asserted  itself  in  modern  terms.  In  other
words,  a  new,  revitalized  United  Nations  is  called
for (cid:151)  not  for  us  as  Heads  of  State,  or  for  our
diplomats, or for any of us who are privileged and have
the means, the education and the opportunity to live in
hope and confidence. A new United Nations is needed
by the ordinary citizens we are privileged to represent here.
If world order is indeed under attack, that means
ordinary  people  and  their  families  are  also  under
attack. In far too many ways, it is not merely an attack.
It  is  an  all-out  assault.  It  comes  not  merely  from
criminal  terrorists:  it  comes  from  many  aspects  of
globalization,  from  international  crime,  from  new
technology, from social and cultural disruption, from a
rapidly  degrading  environment  and  from  the  grave
threats  posed  by  the  possible  spread  of  fearful  new
diseases.  In  real,  immediate  human  terms,  it  comes
from fear, from injustice, from a loss of absolute values
and  from  sheer  rage.  It  is  revealed  in  feelings  of
hopelessness and an almost total loss of confidence.
Many  of  us  here,  especially  those  from  small
developing  nations,  are,  therefore,  convinced  that
world  order  must  be  dramatically  strengthened.  As  I
stated at the High-level Plenary Meeting two days ago
(see  A/60/PV.6),  there  is  no  greater  way  to  begin  this
process than for each of us to achieve the Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  For  this  reason,  we  in
Brunei Darussalam will do whatever we can to achieve
them in our own country and to help our neighbours do
likewise.
In  setting  the  Millennium  Goals,  we  recognized
that,  in  order  to  re-establish  world  order,  the  root
causes  of  anger,  despair,  injustice  and  hatred  must  be
addressed.  I  would,  therefore,  once  more  like  to
commend  the  Secretary-General  and  his  staff  and  the
United  Nations  agencies,  both  professional  and
volunteer, for all they have done in the field to deepen
our  understanding  of  those  causes.  The  causes  have
become  clearly  defined  in  all  their  urgency.  They  are
political,  social,  cultural  and  economic.  In  each  case,
we do not believe that solutions can be imposed. When
the  international  community  is  so  gravely  divided  on
matters 
arms
development, 
nuclear 
such 
as 
A/60/PV.10
is  acceptable.  Solutions 
proliferation, globalization, the environment and social
injustice,  this  body  must  be  the  judge  of  whether
international  conduct 
to
international  problems  must  come  from  truly  united
nations  acting  in  concert.  In  other  words,  the  United
Nations  must  be  an  efficient  world  organization
committed  to  tackling  root  causes  and  insisting  on
dialogue  and  negotiation  as  the  sole  means  of  settling
disputes,  no  matter  how  long  it  takes  and  no  matter
how frustrating the process may be.
The  global  crisis  arising  from  the  search  for  the
best  way  to  deal  with  modern,  technology-fuelled
terrorism  highlights  that  need.  For  many  years,  we
have  maintained  that  understanding  root  causes  must
be a very important part of any long-term approach to
tackling terrorist activities.
Of  course,  every  possible  form  of  bilateral  and
multilateral  cooperation  is  needed  to  deal  with  the
criminals  involved.  But  condemnation  is  not  enough,
and  legislation  is  never  sufficient.  All  attempts  to
justify  acts  of  terrorism  must  be  resolutely  countered,
not by exchanges of opposing definitions of evil but by
determination  to  eradicate  all  possible  root  causes,
which some may wrongly see as justifying such acts.
That  is  very  difficult.  It  requires  consensus  here
at  the  United  Nations  on  what  constitutes  injustice,
especially  historical  injustice,  and  on  what  constitutes
unfairness.  That,  in  turn,  demands  a  new,  reformed
United Nations.
We  are  a  small  nation.  Our  interest  lies  in
working  closely  with  all  other  Members.  For  that
reason, we shall offer whatever help we can to building
the  broadest  possible  consensus  on  all  the  many  far-
reaching  decisions  that  the  Organization  is  currently
called upon to make.
The most important of those decisions at present
concerns  the  question  of  United  Nations  reform.  Like
many of our fellow Members, we have long given our
strong  support  to  reform.  In  recent  months,  we  have
held  discussions  with  many  colleagues  that  go  far
beyond  matters  of  principle;  they  have  dealt  with
specific proposals. Most of them aim at redesigning the
structure  of  the  Organization,  including  the  Security
Council.  Our  response  has  been  the  one  we  have
always  offered.  We  will  listen  with  respect.  We  will
acknowledge the good faith of all our fellow Members,
and  we  will  help  in  any  way  we  can  to  achieve  the
broadest  possible  consensus.  That,  we  think,  is  not  a
13
A/60/PV.10
way  of  avoiding  the  hard  decisions  that  have  to  be
made.  On  the  contrary,  we  believe  it  serves  to
recognize  how  hard  those  decisions  are  and  how
important this body is to the world.
The consensus that was reached 60 years ago was
a  strong  one.  It  served  the  world  well  for  many
decades.  It  now  appears  very  clear  that,  although  the
structure  of  the  United  Nations  remains  in  place,  the
world  has  changed  enormously.  A  new  consensus  is
being sought. Unlike the consensus reached at the end
of  the  Second  World  War,  it  is  not  directed  at  the
means  to  maintain  peace;  it  is  aimed  at  creating  the
conditions  for  lasting  peace.  We  see  that  as  the  only
way  for  the  United  Nations  to  block  all  forces  of
violence and inhumanity by means of a strong and just
world order.
When it is time for the Assembly to decide, we in
Brunei Darussalam will consider all proposals in that light.
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Sultan  and  Yang  Di
Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam for his statement.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
His  Majesty  Haji  Sultan  Hassanal  Bolkiah
Mu(cid:146)izzaddin  Waddaulah,  Sultan  and  Yang  Di
Pertuan  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  was  escorted
from the General Assembly Hall.
Address by The Honourable Mwai Kibaki, President
of the Republic of Kenya
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Kenya.
The  Honourable  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the
Republic of Kenya, was escorted into the General
Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations His Excellency The Honourable Mwai Kibaki,
President of the Republic of  Kenya,  and to  invite him
to address the Assembly.
President  Kibaki:  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to
address  the  General  Assembly  on  the  occasion  of  my
first visit to the United Nations as head of State. First, I
congratulate you, Sir, on your election to preside over
the sixtieth session of the General Assembly.
I would also like to pay tribute to the Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his  able  stewardship  of
our  Organization  and  the  reform  proposals  he  has  put
14
forward  for  our  consideration.  Since  his  appointment,
the  Secretary-General  has  steered  the  United  Nations
with  tact  and  patience.  His  skill  as  a  builder  of
consensus  has  indeed  been  exemplary.  We  share  his
vision  for  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first
century as outlined in his epic report entitled (cid:147)In larger
freedom(cid:148)  (A/59/2005).  I  am  confident  that  Member
States  will  seize  this  historic  opportunity  and  deliver
on the promise of a better world for posterity.
The  shift  in  the  global  distribution  of  power,
accompanied  by  the  emergence  of  new  threats  and
challenges,  has  dramatically  changed 
the  context
within which the United Nations operates. The United
Nations  of  the  future  must  still,  however,  remain  true
to  the  universal  values  that  inspired  its  creation.  Our
peoples expect the United Nations to act as an agent of
progress.  They  look  to  the  Organization  to  play  an
effective and leading role in improving their economic
and social well-being.
Kenya  embraces  the  principles  of  the  Charter,
which serve as a basic reference point for the reform of
the United Nations. Those principles are the core of its
inner  strength.  We  believe 
the  principle  of
democracy  is  as  central  to  this  Organization  and  its
future  health  as  it  is  to  the  prosperity  of  our  own
nations.  Kenya  deeply  cherishes  that  principle  and
seeks its generous spread around the world and in this
institution.
that 
Global  problems  require  global  solutions.  The
United  Nations  is  the  only  vehicle  that  can  help  us
attain  those  solutions  and  give  legitimacy  to  our
actions.  The  United  Nations  remains  indispensable  in
the maintenance of international peace and security. It
is pivotal to the attainment of sustainable development
and  the  advancement  of  human  rights.  Let  us  work  to
strengthen  the  United  Nations  to  meet  contemporary
challenges.
Important  proposals  for  United  Nations  reform
are already on the table. My Government embraces the
holistic definition of collective security, which strongly
affirms  the  connections  between  peace,  development,
human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  Those  goals  cannot
be  realized  in  isolation.  As  the  Secretary-General
observed,  (cid:147)we  will  not  enjoy  development  without
security,  we  will  not  enjoy 
security  without
development,  and  we  will  not  enjoy  either  without
respect  for human  rights(cid:148) (A/59/2005, para. 17).  I  am
sure we all acknowledge those plain truths.
Kenya  firmly  believes  that  reform  of  the  United
Nations  is  a  process,  not  an  event.  In  view  of  the
integrated  nature  of  the  issues,  we  need  to  adopt  a
comprehensive  policy  approach  to  United  Nations
reforms.  We  must  maintain  a  broad  vision  driven  by
collective  effort  for 
the
international system.
the  ultimate  benefit  of 
I  am  happy  to  note  that  although  some  of  the
proposals  have  been  adopted,  we  should  now  move
quickly  to  implement  them.  I  refer  especially  to  the
proposals  that  do  not  require  amendment  of  the
Charter. They include the adoption of a robust counter-
terrorism 
peacekeeping,
creating a Peacebuilding Commission and Fund and the
reform of the human rights system.
strengthening 
strategy, 
I  am  also  pleased  to  note  the  consensus  on  the
strengthening  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic
and  Social  Council  and  a  strong  relationship  between
the  United  Nations  and  regional  and  subregional
organizations.
Environmental  protection  is  a  threat  that  is  a
major  challenge  in  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium
Development Goals. This places the environment, more
than  ever,  at  the  core  of  sustainable  development.
International  environmental  governance  is  an  integral
part of realizing sustainable development. Kenya fully
endorses the ongoing process of defining the elements
of 
international  environmental  governance.  This,
however,  should  be  done  within  the  framework  of  the
Cartagena  decision,  which  aims  at  strengthening  the
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  within  its
current  mandate  through  an  enhanced  financial  and
scientific base.
We  should  also  recognize  that  no  truly  effective
international
response  can  be  made  unless 
community  fully  complies  with  its  commitment  to
make  the  means  available  as  provided  for  in  various
multilateral environmental agreements.
the 
Kenya  remains  firmly  committed  to  the  United
Nations  Programme  of  Action  on  Small  Arms  and
Light  Weapons  and  is  gratified  with  the  status  of  its
implementation,  at  both  national  and  regional  levels.
Despite  the  progress  made,  small  arms  and  other
conventional weapons continue to end up in the hands
of  wrong  non-State  actors,  with  attendant  adverse
implications on peace and security leading to political
instability  in  many  countries.  In  order  to  curb  this
to
trend,  Kenya 
the  Secretary-General 
requests 
A/60/PV.10
Kenya 
supports 
for 
proposals 
to  control 
international 
undertake  a  study  into  the  possibility  of  a  legal
instrument 
transfers  of
conventional arms.
also 
the
enhancement of peace-support operation capabilities of
the  United  Nations.  Any  mandate  for  peacekeeping
forces should be clear and precise. Adequate resources
must be made available to the commanders in the field
to  enable  them  to  execute  their  mandates  effectively.
Intervention in crisis situations must also be timely to
prevent  undue  loss  of  life.  Kenya  welcomes  vital
contributions  to  peace  and  security  made  by  regional
organizations forging predictable partnerships between
the United Nations and regional organizations.
Furthermore,  Kenya  endorses  the  proposal  to
establish  a  strategic  military  capacity  to  reinforce
United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  the  creation  of  a
standby  brigade 
the
Organization(cid:146)s 
in  peacekeeping
operations.
rapid  deployment  of 
civilian  police 
for 
We  strongly  support 
the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
proposal to establish a Peacebuilding Commission and
fund  by  31  December  2005.  We  believe  such  a
peacebuilding  commission  will  contribute 
the
realization of real  peace in many regions. However, it
is important that critical questions about form, function
and decision-making authority be resolved.
to 
In  our  own  neighbourhood,  the  importance  of
post-conflict  peacebuilding  has  become  a  bigger
priority  after  the  recent  successes  of  the  Sudan  and
Somalia mediation efforts, which Kenya chaired under
the  auspices  of  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on
Development.
Kenya  commends  the  international  community
for  the  excellent  response  during  the  Oslo  pledging
conference  towards  reconstruction  of  southern  Sudan.
We urge a similar response to support the Transitional
Federal  Government  of  Somalia  in  setting  up  and
implementing  a  national  security,  stabilization  and
economic reconstruction strategy.
We also call upon the Security Council to play a
more  positive  proactive  role  in  the  search  for  a  broad
consensus  for  peace  and  thus  enhance  the  capacity  of
the Transitional Federal Government to establish basic
institutions.
On  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  it  is
far  more  equitable  and
to  make 
it 
necessary 
15
A/60/PV.10
of 
the  United  Nations 
representative 
global
constituency.  The  procedures  and  methods  of  work  of
the  Council  should  be  changed  to  secure  transparency
and dialogue with the United Nations membership.
the  future  composition  of 
the
Security  Council  should  proceed  on  the  basis  of
sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical
representation.
Furthermore, 
Kenya  welcomes  the  proposal  to  develop  a
stronger  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and
regional  and  subregional  organizations.  For  Africa,
there is abundant political will in our continent to make
the  African  Union  succeed.  I  believe  that  external
support,  especially  from  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community  at  large,  would  make  the
African Union work better.
The establishment of an African Union Peace and
Security Council and of the intervention force planned
to be set up by 2009 are measures aimed at advancing
political  stability  in  Africa  to  underpin  economic
development. Already, the African Union has taken the
lead  in  Burundi  and  in  Darfur,  in  the  Sudan,  where
deployments  of  peacekeeping  missions  have  preceded
international action by the United Nations.
The  recent  pledges  by  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)
countries  to  double  aid  to  Africa  and  grant  100-per-
cent  debt  relief  to  18  developing  countries  were
welcome. We hope they will honour their pledges and
commitments in conformity with the agreement forged
at  the  2002  Monterrey  International  Conference  on
Financing  for  Development.  Support  by  the  G-8  will
help  African  countries  achieve 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
Kenya  affirms  the  centrality  of  gender  equality
and  recognizes  the  critical  role  that  women  must  play
in development. We also recognize that achievement of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  depends  on  the
empowerment of women. As part of our effort to fully
attain  this  objective,  my  Government  has  adopted  a
national  policy  on  gender  development.  The  aim  is  to
integrate  women  in  decision-making  through  legal,
regulatory and institutional reforms.
I  am  convinced  that,  if  we  are  to  attain  our
common  objective  of  revitalizing  the  United  Nations,
we  should  embrace  the  vision  presented  by 
the
Secretary-General in his package of reforms. This will
require  political  will  and  leadership  on  our  part.  I
16
therefore urge Member States to seize this opportunity
and  endorse  proposals  on  which 
is  broad
consensus.  As  we  contemplate  strengthening  and
renewing  our  Organization,  we  should  do  so  for
posterity.
there 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Kenya for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly
Hall.
Address by Mr. Nicanor Duarte Frutos, President of
the Republic of Paraguay
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Paraguay.
Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,
President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to  invite
him to address the Assembly.
President Duarte Frutos (spoke in Spanish): At
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the  condolences  of
the  people  of  Paraguay  over  the  tragedy  caused  by
Hurricane  Katrina. 
I  express  my  Government(cid:146)s
solidarity with the victims and with the Government of
the United States, and I ask God to swiftly assuage the
grief of so many families.
to  commemorate 
We  are  gathered  here 
the
sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations. Six decades
is  time  enough  to  reflect  on  the  historical  process  of
this  Organization  and,  above  all,  on 
the  debate
concerning  the  relevance  of  reforming  it.  This  reform
is  absolutely  crucial  and  must  be  directed  not  only  to
set  up  standards  that  would  regulate  the  capacity  of
Powers  to  make  war;  it  is  of  primary  importance  that
the  reform  promote  equitable  economic  development,
because  in  a  selfish  world,  where  the  number  of
society(cid:146)s  orphans  grows  daily, it  will  be  very  difficult
to have global peace.
Changes cannot be partial or superficial and must
not merely satisfy the hegemonistic ambitions of a few.
We  need  to  govern  globalization  with  democratically
agreed  legal  norms  and  bodies  that,  through  their
inherent legitimacy, would have the authority to ensure
compliance with their regulations.
It  must  be  a  desire  for  world  balance,  not
financial  clout  within  the  Organization,  that  should
determine  the  direction  to  be  followed  in  the  United
Nations;  otherwise,  the  power  of  money  will  prevail
over  the  power  of  justice  and  the  rights  of  peoples,
which  would  dangerously  thwart  the  noble  mission  of
the  United  Nations.  This  means  that  reform  cannot
deepen  divisions;  that  would  be  illogical.  The  Charter
must  reassert  the  role  of  unity  among  diverse  nations
which, in spite of their differences, must live together
and  share  their  resources  and  values,  which  give
dignity  to  the  lives  of  men  and  women  and  of  our
peoples.
thus 
Development  in  equity  and  democracy  is  the
formula.  But  to  reach  this  stage,  we  need  more
international  trade  and  cooperation.  Lately  a  wall  is
rising to block our exports, while cooperation is being
watered down (cid:151) or the little cooperation that remains
is  undertaken  unjustly  or  according  to  the  mood  of
those involved. The old promise taken on by the richest
nations  to  devote  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  domestic
product (GDP) to less developed countries has not been
respected 
the  honourable
exceptions of Norway, Luxembourg, Denmark, Sweden
and  the  Netherlands.  But  it  is  a  hopeful  sign  that  the
President  of  the  United  States  has  said  in  this  forum
(see A/60/PV.2) that his Government is in a position to
eliminate all the subsidies that cause backwardness and
poverty  for  peoples  with  emerging  economies  insofar
as the other rich nations do likewise. That would be of
great benefit to people who are experiencing shortages
due to the unfair international order that the President
of  the  United  States  himself  mentioned,  so  that  our
peoples(cid:146) democracy can be stable and sustainable.
far,  except 
for 
It is important to point out that between 1990 and
2003  the  rich  countries  increased  their  per  capita
income by $6,070, while during the same period, their
assistance per capita fell to one dollar; this reflects the
great 
current
globalization model. The United Nations has a primary
role to play in humanizing that model.
that  prevails 
stinginess 
the 
in 
The  subsidies  granted  by  rich  countries  to  their
agricultural sectors, as well as the assistance that they
give to each other, are a cruel paradox. That assistance
amounts  to  a  little  more  than  $1  billion  annually  and
A/60/PV.10
the subsidies to a little less. That global policy (cid:151) weak
in  terms  of  cooperation  and  perverse  in  terms  of
trade (cid:151) will  end  by  undermining 
the  emerging
democracies in developing countries.
We  in  Paraguay  are  deeply  convinced  of  those
tenets.  Our  wish  is  to  cooperate  so  that  our  noble
purposes  will  govern  the  new  world  order.  In  our
domestic  affairs,  we  have  managed  to  reverse  a  long
process  of  deterioration  to  achieve  macroeconomic
institutionalization.  We  are
stability  and  political 
working 
to  strengthen
democracy through good governance, thereby tackling
and  resolving  our  social  problems  in  a  way  we  had
never done in the past.
increase  growth  and 
to 
Today  my  country,  Paraguay,  is  becoming  a
nation  in  a  predictable  situation  and  one  worthy  of
international trust. We are not bound by any political or
economic dogma. Rather, we are seeking to liberate our
people 
ideological
prejudices,  from  political  violence  and  from  fatalism,
because we believe we are capable of forging our own
destiny in a world of greater brotherhood.
from  crude 
fanaticism, 
from 
is 
rich 
Indeed,  Paraguay 
in  development
potential.  We  have  abundant  natural  resources:  land,
water and energy. And, even more important, we have
a young population that is highly motivated to grow, to
learn  and  to  work.  Even  though  our  economy  is  still
small, we are adopting policies and plans to expand our
production,  increase  employment,  improve  domestic
purchasing power and increase exports. We are moving
towards an economy that can compete in terms of both
quality and innovation.
an 
economy  based  on  production 
Our country is among those States that lack direct
access  to  the  sea.  Tragically,  Paraguay  is  landlocked,
which  is  a  considerable  obstacle  to  our  aspiration  to
build 
and
international  trade.  For  that  reason,  we  need  to  create
for 
special 
arrangements 
landlocked
developing  countries,  ensuring 
them  differential
treatment  in  areas  such  as  lower  interest  rates  and
longer  grace  periods.  Such  measures  could  attenuate
the  comparative  disadvantages  we  feel  as  a  result  of
our geographical situations.
lending 
Another dimension I would like to touch on is the
importance  of  new  information  and  communication
technologies  and  of  biotechnological  and  other
scientific  research.  The  knowledge  and  use  of  those
resources  cannot  be  concentrated  in  the  hands  of  the
17
A/60/PV.10
few.  They  must  be  made  universally  available.
Paraguay  believes  this  to  be  a  necessary  prerequisite
for the growth of global competitiveness.
Two  years  ago  my  Government  inherited  a
situation  of  economic  stagnation,  recession,  sterile
political  antagonism,  violence,  growing  poverty  and
weak and unreliable public institutions that led to timid
social  policies  that  were  a  long  way  from  addressing
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Today  we  are
recovering  political  and  macroeconomic  stability,
democratic  governance  and,  above  all,  trust  in  the
Paraguayan  State  and  in  our  business  sector.  We  have
great  challenges  ahead  of  us,  but,  with  faith  in  the
capacity of our people, we are tackling them to build a
more just international order.
The major challenges in my country are tackling
extreme  poverty  and  health  care,  which  affect  the
neediest  sectors  of  the  population:  indigenous  people
and  small  farmers.  To  address  those  issues  we  have
promoted  a  rapid  increase  in  spending  for  social
services  to  put  a  stop  to  growing  poverty.  We  are
financing  new  programmes:  a  social  protection
network for vulnerable groups, with financial subsidies
linked to school attendance; in the field of health care,
a  nutrition  programme  for  pregnant  women  and  for
boys  and  girls  at  risk  for  malnutrition;  large-scale
shipments of seeds for subsistence crops; the purchase
of  land  for  small  farmers,  with  a  view  to  ensuring
social  peace;  free  medical  care  for  all  children  under
the  age  of  five;  concessional  electricity  rates;  and  a
scholarship  programme  for  students  from  the  most
vulnerable  schools.  With  humility,  but  also  with  great
faith in the future and in the international community,
democracy  and  freedom  (cid:151)  we  in  Paraguay  are
building  a  socially,  fiscally  and  environmentally
responsible State.
In  the  international  context,  we  join  the  appeal
for  a  more  just  and  humane  world  order  in  which  the
less developed nations are not condemned for all time
to  discrimination,  indifference  and  backwardness.  In
order to achieve those goals we have no alternative to
an 
that  offers  balance,
rationality and justice in international relations.
inclusive  multilateralism 
We  also  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  We
believe that terrorism is a threat to civilized processes
and  to  the  imperatives  of  resolving  conflicts  and
establishing peaceful coexistence in the world in order
18
to  ensure  the  development  and  prosperity  of  our
peoples.
Similarly, we reiterate, as we have done year after
year,  our  formal  support  for  Taiwan(cid:146)s  inclusion  in  the
United  Nations,  so  that  the  brotherly  and  supportive
Republic  of  China  can  have  a  place  and  become  an
integral  part  of  our  Organization  as  a  full-fledged
Member, 
the  principle  of
universality and the norms of international law.
in  accordance  with 
In  addition,  my  country  is  deeply  concerned  by
the  instability  and  high  prices  in  international  oil
markets,  which  militate  against  our  hard-won
macroeconomic stability.  Our  country  has  not  escaped
the harmful impact of that phenomenon, given the most
unjust  burden  on  society:  inflation.  We  are  making
every effort to control inflation, because we know that
high  oil  prices  have  a  negative  impact  on  economic
growth and poverty reduction. Today, our Government
is  significantly  subsidizing  the  price  of  oil,  thus
depriving  the  State  of  major  financial  resources  for
necessary social programmes.
I would like to say at this meeting that Paraguay
is  suffering  from  a  misapplication  of  international
justice. There is an attempt to prohibit payments to our
State  from  financial 
transactions  carried  out  by
representatives  of  a  corrupt  dictatorship  which,  with
the complicity of a group of international banks, wants
to deprive us of resources that we desperately need for
social  peace 
the
appropriate  United  Nations  bodies  will  not  permit  the
peoples  of  developing  economies  to  be  deprived  of
major resources through devious  legal procedures. We
hope  for 
international
institutions.
in  our  country.  We  hope 
justice 
that 
in 
this  area  from 
The  United  Nations  must  either  change  to  lead
and to take up the challenges of our time, or it will hide
behind a superficial change in order to survive and will
become an accomplice in the regression of our peoples
and the perpetuation of backwardness. This is a crucial
moment  that  we  are  experiencing  as  leaders  of  our
countries,  sixty  years  after  the  creation  of  the  United
Nations  and  five  after  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  We  find  ourselves  at  a  crossroads  with  two
paths  before  us:  one  of  injustice  and  indifference  that
leads  to  a  world  that  is  increasingly  poor,  unfair  and
insecure, and the other the path of far-reaching change
that leads to peace and global well-being.
I would like to express my hope that this historic
session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  obtain  the
commitments  and  actions  required  to  reduce  and
eliminate the suffering, abandonment and frustration of
thousands  of  millions  of  people  and  that  our  efforts
will  yield  its  expected  fruits  for  the  well-being  of
mankind.
I trust that God will give us the necessary wisdom
and  strength  required  to  lead  our  countries  along  the
path of liberty, peace, development and justice.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Nicanor  Duarte  Frutos,  President  of  the
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of
the Republic of Namibia
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,
President of the Republic of Namibia.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,
President of the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
President  Pohamba:  I  wish  to  congratulate  you
most  warmly,  Mr.  President,  on  your  unanimous
election to the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at
its sixtieth session and to assure you of my delegation(cid:146)s
full  support.  May  I  also  express  our  profound
appreciation 
to  your  distinguished  predecessor,
Mr. Jean Ping of Gabon, for the effective leadership he
provided during the fifty-ninth session.
I  am  most  delighted  and  indeed  honoured  to
address this Assembly for the first time as President of
the  Republic  of  Namibia.  I  stand  before  you  with  the
democratic  mandate  given  to  me  by  the  people  of
Namibia during our presidential elections in November
2004  and  following  my  inauguration  on  21  March
2005.
A/60/PV.10
At the same occasion, we celebrated  15  years  of
our  national  independence,  which,  as  the  Assembly
will  recall,  was  brought  about  by  a  long  and  bitter
struggle  waged  by  the  people  of  Namibia  under  the
leadership  of 
liberation  movement,
SWAPO,  with  wide  international  support,  and  thus
culminating in the implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978).
the  national 
I  recall  these  important  events  in  our  history  to
underline the fact that Namibia(cid:146)s nationhood is directly
linked to the United Nations. In this regard, allow me,
therefore,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of
Namibia  and indeed on my own behalf  to  express  our
sincere  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  men  and
women  of  the  United  Nations  family,  who  stood  side
by side with us until final victory was achieved.
As we mark the sixtieth anniversary of the United
Nations, it is indeed proper and fitting to reflect on the
achievements  and  setbacks  of  our  Organization  since
its inception. In this exercise, we must be guided by an
honest and objective analysis of events along the path
we have travelled so far.
In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity 
to  commend  our  Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi  Annan,  most  sincerely  for  his  tireless  efforts
to    strengthen  the  United  Nations  system  through  the
proposed reforms. Indeed, the challenges we face today
require  renewed  commitment  and  visionary  leadership
to ensure efficient and effective service delivery to all
humanity.
When we address the crucial issue of the reform
of  the  United  Nations  system,  we  must  be  guided  by
the principles of democracy, equity, justice and fairness
for all. At the centre of this overdue  exercise must be
the  compelling  need  to  serve  all  our  people  better,
regardless  of 
religion  or  status  of
development.
race, 
their 
With  specific  reference  to  the  Security  Council,
genuine  democratization  and  reform  can  take  place
only  when  all  its  members  are  accorded  the  same
privileges  (cid:151)  including  the  veto  power,  which  is
currently  enjoyed  only  by  a  few  member  States,  who
use it for national self-interest. That creates resentment
and mistrust from those who are negatively affected by
the abuse of veto power.
It  is  against  this  background  that  African  States
adopted the Harare Declaration in 1997, in which they
19
A/60/PV.10
demanded that the veto power be abolished. However,
if  the  veto  power  is  maintained,  it  is  only  logical  that
new  permanent  member  States  who  join  the  expanded
Security  Council  must  of  necessity  be  accorded  the
same rights and privileges. Otherwise, such reform will
be cosmetic at best, and meaningless at worst.
that 
On this very crucial matter, Namibia fully stands
by  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,
as  reaffirmed  by  the  Fourth  Extraordinary  Summit  of
the  African  Union,  held  in  Addis  Ababa  on  4  August
2005.  We  collectively  maintain 
the  African
continent,  which  has  been  underrepresented  for  so
long,  deserves  two  permanent  seats  with  veto  power
and  five  non-permanent  seats  on  the  Council.  This
demand  is  logical,  reasonable  and  justifiable.  We
therefore  call  on  all  regions  to  support  Africa(cid:146)s
position.  It  is  indeed  only  when  we  stand  together  on
firm  principle  that  we  can  effect  real  and  meaningful
change in our only truly international Organization, the
United Nations.
Concerning the General Assembly, Namibia holds
the  strong  view  that  that  organ,  which  provides  a
genuinely  democratic  and  representative  platform  for
all  Member  States  to  be  heard,  should  play  a  critical
role  in  the  entire  reform  process  of  our  international
Organization.  We  are  equally  of  the  strong  conviction
that  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be
reasserted,  to  ensure  that  its  resolutions  and  decisions
are binding and enforceable.
In this crucial process, our highest priority should
be  our  collective  commitment  to  ensure  sustainable
social and economic development on a global scale. In
order  to  achieve  that  goal,  we  must  be  guided  by  a
strong spirit of human solidarity and a shared sense of
justice and fairness for all.
the 
lack  of  adequate 
For  many  developing  countries,  implementation
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  severely
resources,
hampered  by 
compounded  by  other  challenges, 
the
HIV/AIDS pandemic, malaria and tuberculosis, as well
as  other  socio-economic  difficulties.  Against 
that
background, the Economic and Social Council must be
strengthened  and  given  sufficient  resources,  together
with the  United Nations agencies,  in  order  to  take  the
lead  in  implementing  effective  human-centred  country
programmes.
including 
We  accept 
in
developing  countries  have  a  responsibility  to  work
that  Governments 
fact 
the 
20
together  and  to  encourage  the  active  participation  of
the  private  sector,  civil  society  and  other  stakeholders
in  bringing  about  sustainable  social  and  economic
development for all segments of our society.
resources, 
commensurate  with 
It  is  equally  important  that  Governments  and
institutions  in  the  economically  advanced  countries
offer  genuine  partnership  by  providing  new  and
additional 
their
commitments in line with the Millennium Development
Goals.  To  that  end,  if  the  countries  regarded  as  low-
middle-income  countries  are  to  meet  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  by  2015, 
require
increased  support  from  the  international  community,
including  market  access  as  well  as  access  to  financial
sources 
International  Development
Association and official development assistance.
they  will 
such  as 
the 
Our  ability  to  effectively  eliminate  threats  to
international  peace  and  security  will  depend  on  the
manner  in  which  we  address  the  social  and  economic
challenges facing our peoples at the global level.
In  our  review,  during  the  2005  summit,  of  the
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals
and  of  other  decisions  taken  by  major  international
conferences,  it  became  clear  that  we  still  have  a  long
way  to  go  to  honour  our  commitments.  It  is  therefore
important  that  we  narrow  our  differences  and  form  a
common front with a common objective to better serve
humanity.  We  should  therefore  make  collective  and
effective  use  of  existing  multilateral  mechanisms,
especially  the  United  Nations,  in  order  to  succeed  in
eliminating current and future threats.
The  process  of  decolonization  has  not  yet  been
completed. The peoples of Palestine and of the Western
Sahara continue to suffer under foreign occupation and
are  denied  the  exercise  of  their  inalienable  rights  to
self-determination and national independence. It is our
collective  responsibility 
that  historical
injustice. In that regard, we call for the immediate and
unconditional establishment of an independent State of
Palestine  and  the  full  implementation  of  the  United
Nations settlement plan for Western Sahara.
to  rectify 
I am equally concerned at the fact that the people
of  Cuba  continue  to  suffer  from  the  effects  of  the
unilateral  embargo  imposed  on  them  by  the  United
States  of  America.  We  call  on  the  international
community to demand the unconditional lifting of that
embargo.
In 
I  wish 
to 
conclusion, 
reiterate  my
Government(cid:146)s hope that, when we accept our collective
responsibility, the United Nations can and will succeed
in  preserving  international  peace  and  security  and
therefore  guarantee  equality  and 
for  all
humanity. We, the peoples of the United Nations, must
do what is required to bequeath to the next generations
a  better  future.  To  that  end,  the  Government  and  the
people of Namibia pledge our total commitment.
justice 
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of Namibia for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Ivan Ga(cid:154)parovič, President of the
Slovak Republic
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Slovak Republic.
into 
Mr.  Ivan  Ga(cid:154)parovič,  President  of  the  Slovak
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Ivan  Ga(cid:154)parovič,  President  of
the  Slovak  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the
Assembly.
to 
President Ga(cid:154)parovič: At the outset, allow me to
the
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth
session.  I  am  confident  that  your  experience 
in
multilateral  diplomacy,  coupled  with  a  positive
approach,  will  serve  as  a  guarantee  of  success  for  the
outcome of your decisions. Ahead of us lie demanding
tasks  related  to  the  implementation  of  the  reform
decisions that have been adopted. I wish to assure that
you can fully rely on Slovakia(cid:146)s support in that regard.
I wish also to convey our solidarity to the United
States  citizens  devastated  by  Hurricane  Katrina,  who
are  struggling  to  recover  from  the  trauma  of  losing
their  loved  ones  and  their  homes.  On  behalf  of  the
people  and  the  Government  of  Slovakia,  I  extend
heartfelt  sympathy  to  the  families  of  the  victims  who
perished in that natural disaster.
A/60/PV.10
We  are  gathered  here  in  this  forum  because  the
challenges  faced  by  humankind  in  the  area  of  global
development,  security  and  protection  of  human  rights
bring  us  together  in  our  search  for  common  solutions
that call for clear political decisions. There is a general
understanding  that  the  United  Nations,  in  its  current
shape  and  form,  is  not  up  to  the  challenges  that  lie
ahead of it in the twenty-first century. Accordingly, we
must follow through with the necessary changes so that
this  Organization  may  continue  to  fulfil  its  role
efficiently while keeping abreast of the growing needs
and expectations of the international community.
The  Secretary-General  has  submitted  his  plan,
which  contains  a  package  of  bold  reform  steps  laying
down  ways  for  the  international  community  to  deal
with  current  issues  and  upgrade  the  United  Nations
system. Since the very day on which it was published,
Slovakia  has  believed  that  his  plan  provides  an
excellent  basis  for  our  deliberations.  We  endorse  the
premise  that  progress  in  tackling  the  most  important
global  problems  can  only  be  achieved  if  the  issues  of
development, security  and human  rights  are  addressed
jointly.  In  particular,  we  welcome  the  fact  that  human
rights  are  accorded  the  same  priority  as  development
and security, and we  appreciate  the  relevant  proposals
to strengthen the international system for the protection
of human rights.
agreement 
task.  This  year(cid:146)s  summit  and 
The reform of the United Nations is not a matter
to  be  dealt  with  by 
the  Organization  alone,  as
responsibility  for  reaching  concrete  consensus  on  key
issues  lies  primarily  in  the  hands  of  the  Governments
of  Member  States.  Reaching 
that
accommodates  the  interests  of  the  entire  world  is  no
easy 
its  outcome
document  have  forced  us  to  look  in  the  mirror.  They
have  shown  us  the  amount  of  vision,  wisdom  and
courage that we were able and willing to bring to this
task,  with  a  view  to  fundamentally  reforming  the
system  of  multilateral  cooperation  in  the  interest  of
global development. The image we saw reflected in the
mirror  was  not  to  everyone(cid:146)s  liking,  but  that  is  the
nature  of  multilateral  diplomacy.  It  is  the  result  of
compromise,  the  art  of  the  possible,  which  is  both  its
strong  and  its  weak  point.  In  that  connection,  I  prefer
taking  a  forward-looking  approach  with  regard  to  the
outcome document, which contains messages and ideas
that deserve our support in the General Assembly. Let
us try to  go  ahead  with  its  implementation  as  best  we
can.
21
A/60/PV.10
Despite  the  considerable  progress  achieved  (cid:151)
primarily  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and  famine  in
Asia  (cid:151)  all  reports  draw  attention  to    the  extremely
alarming and unacceptable downturn in several parts of
Africa.  Slovakia  came 
the
understanding  that  our  first  priority  was  to  make
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  (MDGs).  In  my  view,  the  outcome  document
provides  a  solid  basis  for  our  future  work  in  that
regard.
the  summit  with 
to 
Slovakia  has  not  been  inactive  in  that  respect.
The  amount  of  public  funds  appropriated  for  foreign
aid  has  quadrupled  since  the  year  2000,  which  speaks
for  itself.  In  addition,  having  joined  the  European
Union in May 2004, Slovakia also joined the common
European  development  aid  system.  As  a  new  member
of  the  Union,  Slovakia  pledged  to  do  its  utmost  to
increase its official development assistance to 0.17 per
cent  of  gross  domestic  product  by  2010,  and  to  0.33
per cent by 2015.
Slovakia  is  directly  funding  and  implementing
more than 70 projects in the poor countries of Europe,
Asia  and  Africa.  That  gives  us  the  opportunity  to
directly  pass  on  to  developing  countries  the  unique
knowledge that we acquired during our own country(cid:146)s
transition.
In  addition  to  favouring  an  increase  in  aid,
Slovakia also supports further reform of trade relations
as  well  as  debt  relief  for  poor  countries.  I  wish  to
highlight the serious debt relief measures that Slovakia
took earlier this year, forgiving several hundred million
dollars 
indebted  poor
countries.
in  debt  owed  by  heavily 
Slovakia  welcomes  efforts  aimed  at  liberalizing
trade  as  a  means  to  promote  economic  growth  and
the  call  for  an
development.  We 
expeditious 
the  World  Trade
Organization(cid:146)s Doha round of negotiations.
therefore 
of 
completion 
join 
this  new  plague  of  our 
At this point, I must mention that one of the most
serious global threats is the escalation of terrorism. It is
the  outcome  document  clearly
commendable 
denounces 
time,  which
endangers  the  population  of  rich  and  poor  countries
alike.  Slovakia  has  clearly  opposed  all  forms  of
violence  and  expressions  of  blind  fanaticism  and
hatred.  During  the  summit,  in  order  to  demonstrate
Slovakia(cid:146)s 
the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
personally 
signed 
that 
position, 
I 
22
of Nuclear Terrorism, which is the latest in a series of
anti-terrorist  international  treaty  instruments.  Slovakia
is  also  a  signatory  to  all  12  United  Nations  anti-
terrorism  conventions.  Slovakia  strongly  supports  the
comprehensive strategy to fight terrorism presented by
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan 
the  Madrid
Conference in March 2005.
at 
I  must  say  that  Slovakia  had  expected  that  the
summit  would  have  formulated  a  clear  definition  of
terrorism,  which  is  an  important  prerequisite  for  the
adoption of a comprehensive anti-terrorism convention.
While  we  did  not  achieve  that,  it  is  nevertheless
imperative that we redouble our efforts to draft such a
convention  in  order  that  it  can  still  be  adopted  during
this sixtieth session. The outcome document will serve
as a good starting point for that effort.
it 
is  crucial 
to  strengthen 
the  possibility  of  misusing 
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
continues to represent the most serious threat to global
security.  It  is  therefore  regrettable  that  the  outcome
document leaves us with more questions than answers.
As  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Slovakia
recognizes  the  right  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear
energy  without 
that
technology  to  produce  nuclear  arms.  We  therefore
believe  that  in  order  to  prevent  the  proliferation  of
nuclear  weapons 
the
supervisory  competencies  of  the  IAEA  and  to  control
more  effectively  the  stages  in  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle
involve  uranium  enrichment  and  plutonium
that 
processing.  However,  such  restrictions  must 
take
account of the right of countries that fully satisfy their
treaty obligations to obtain energy from nuclear power.
Slovakia  supported  the  proposal  to  set  up  a
Human  Rights  Council  as  a  permanent  principal  body
of  the  United  Nations.  The  Human  Rights  Council
should  follow  up  on  all  the  positive  and  constructive
features  of  the  existing  Human  Rights  Commission.
Members  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  should  be
elected  by  a  two-thirds  majority  of  the  General
Assembly.  The  Slovak  Republic  is  in  favour  of  the
Council  being  composed  of  a  small  number  of
members in order to give it the necessary flexibility in
responding  to  emerging  problems.  Slovakia  supported
the  proposal  to  elect  members  of  the  Council  on  a
regional  basis,  and  from  countries  that  demonstrably
meet  their  commitments  concerning  the  protection  of
human 
rights.  Slovakia  also  encourages  closer
the  Office  of 
interactions  between 
the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  the  Human  Rights
Council  and  the  Security  Council.  In  that  context,  we
welcome 
the  summit(cid:146)s  outcome
document 
the  High
Commissioner for Human Rights.
in 
the  Office  of 
the  proposal 
to  strengthen 
We  were  also  pleased  to  note  that,  for  the  first
time, 
the  outcome  document  contains  a  broader
definition  of  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to
protect. Slovakia looks forward to further work in that
regard.  We  believe  that  after  Cambodia,  Rwanda,  the
Sudan  and  Srebrenica,  we  are  slowly  entering  a  stage
where we take on more direct responsibility for dealing
with  situations  where  genocide  and  war  crimes  are
committed.  The  principle  of  sovereignty  means  that
responsibility  for  people  lies  with  each  sovereign
country  and  its  Government.  However,  if  a  particular
Government  fails  to  live  up  to  that  responsibility,  the
international  community  has  the  obligation  to  take  all
necessary  steps  and  use  all  available  and  necessary
means to prevent a major humanitarian disaster.
Slovakia was very much in favour of the proposal
to  set  up  a  Peacebuilding  Commission.  Experience
shows us that we must not rush to leave a country that
has just seen the end of a conflict and simply turn our
backs  on  the  whole  situation.  Our  recent  history  has
provided  us  several  bad  examples  in  that  regard.  We
must strengthen our efforts with a view to setting up an
effective  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  the  shortest
amount  of  time  possible.  The  outcome  document  sets
out  clear  parameters  and  a 
its
establishment.
timeframe 
for 
I  mentioned  at  the  outset  that  it  is  essential  to
realign  the  United  Nations  with  the  reality  of  our
modern  era.  In  that  regard,  it  is  essential  to  further
revitalize the General Assembly. We must also reform
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  so  as  to  make  it
capable  of  effectively  implementing  the  development
agenda of the United Nations.
increasing 
With  respect  to  reorganizing  the  Secretariat,  we
are 
the  flexibility,  and
in  favour  of 
strengthening the authority of, the Secretary-General in
his  managerial 
the
Organization, in order to enable him to keep abreast of
the  current  needs  of  the  United  Nations.  He  must  be
given  the  necessary  resources  to  perform  his  role.  At
the  same  time,  it  will  be  necessary  to  strengthen  the
independence  and  powers  of 
internal  supervisory
the  head  of 
functions  as 
A/60/PV.10
bodies  in  order  to  ensure  more  transparency  and
accountability  inside  the  Organization.  Of  course,  all
the  reforms  will  require  appropriate  funding  in  order
not to dissipate the efforts that were necessary to reach
consensus.
Among the reforms that have enjoyed Slovakia(cid:146)s
long-standing  support  is  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council.  This  is  an  issue  on  which,  despite  ongoing
efforts, we were unable to reach a balanced agreement.
We  need  a  more  democratic  and  more  representative
Security  Council  that  better  reflects  today(cid:146)s  new
geopolitical  situation.  The  Security  Council  should  be
enlarged  in  both  categories  of  membership  by  adding
countries that play an important role in the global arena
and in the United Nations framework. It is vital that an
enlarged Council retain its effectiveness with regard to
decision-making.
We  intend  to  actively  support  the  transition
process in Iraq with a view to creating a secure, stable,
united,  prosperous  and  democratic  country, 
in
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolutions.  As  we
declared  at  the  International  Conference  on  Iraq,  held
on  22  June  2005  in  Brussels,  Slovakia  has  decided  to
forgive  $1.13  billion  of  Iraq(cid:146)s  debt  as  a  tangible
contribution to that end. We are confident that the Iraqi
people  will  use  the  October  referendum  to  show  their
support  for  the  new  Constitution,  and  that  democratic
parliamentary elections will follow.
the  pivotal 
Stabilizing the western Balkans remains a priority
on  my  country(cid:146)s  foreign  policy  agenda.  Slovakia  has
thus  far  supported  the  engagement  of  the  United
Nations in the region by participating in peacekeeping
and  stabilization  missions  in  the  Balkans.  In  our
opinion, 
the
stabilization of the Western Balkans is the future status
of  Kosovo,  which  remains  a  potential  element  of
instability  in  the  region.  We  denounce  all  acts  of
violence  and  intolerance  inside  the  province.  We
believe  that  the  majority  of  Kosovars  aspire  to  peace,
democracy  and  development. 
In  particular,  we
appreciate  the  activities  of  the  Special  Envoy  of  the
Secretary-General, Kai Eide.
issue  with 
regard 
to 
Slovakia  has  been  approved  as  the  candidate  of
the  Group  of  Eastern  European  States  for  a  non-
permanent seat in the Security Council in the elections
to  be  held  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.
Slovakia  has  never  been  a  member  of  the  Security
Council, although it has taken an active part in United
23
A/60/PV.10
Nations  peacekeeping  efforts  through  its  participation
in  operations  in  Europe,  Asia,  Africa  and  the  Middle
East.
If  elected to membership  in  that  important  body,
the Slovak Republic will enter the Security Council at
a dynamic moment characterized by a changing global
environment  and  by  the  search  for  a  new  security
consensus.  New  threats  to  security  represent  growing
challenges to the ability of the international system to
maintain 
international  peace  and  security.  That
development will therefore also be a challenge for our
country  in  its  capacity  as  a  member  of  the  Security
Council, in particular because it will test our readiness
to  shoulder  greater  commitment  and  responsibility  for
stability and security around the world. I want to assure
the  Assembly  that  Slovakia  is  ready  to  take  on  this
important assignment with honour and responsibility.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Slovak
Republic for the statement he has just made.
Mr  Ivan  Ga(cid:154)parovič,  President  of  the  Slovak
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General
Assembly Hall.
from 
Address by Mr. Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, President of
the Transitional Federal Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Transitional  Federal
Government of the Somali Democratic Republic.
Mr.  Abdullahi  Yusuf  Ahmed,  President  of  the
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali
Democratic  Republic,  was  escorted 
the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullahi  Yusuf  Ahmed,
President  of  the  Transitional  Federal  Government  of
the  Somali  Democratic  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to
address the Assembly.
into 
President Ahmed: On behalf of the Republic  of
Somalia I am very pleased to address this summit here
in  New  York  marking  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of
United  Nations  and  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the
Millennium  Summit,  which  agreed  on  a  number  of
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  to  reduce
poverty  by  50  per  cent  by  the  year  2015.  We  believe
24
that the eight MDGs  are desirable  and lofty ones,  and
we  fully  endorse 
the
circumstances  of  conflict  in  Somalia,  we  are  unlikely
to  attain  all  of  them.  However,  we  are  confident  that
some progress will certainly be made.
them.  Unfortunately,  given 
With regard to the reform of the United Nations,
Somalia  has  committed  itself  to  the  position  taken  by
the African Union (AU) at Sirte, Libya.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm
Somalia(cid:146)s appreciation for, and approval of, the United
Nations 60 years of progressive work to maintain peace
while  concurrently  achieving  incremental  progress
towards  a  more  equitable  and  liveable  world.  The
history  of  the  United  Nations  involvement  in  Somalia
is a good example of its invaluable role in helping the
emerging  nations  of  the  world.  Despite  momentary
setbacks, the United Nations has taken a laudable role
at each juncture of Somalia(cid:146)s history, from colonialism
to independence and throughout our nationhood.
Nothing  better  demonstrates  the  importance  of
the  United  Nations  than  the  nurturing  role  it  played
during  the  sad  days  of  our  15-year-long  civil  war.
While  assisting 
the  destitute  and  providing  safe
sanctuary  for  an  exodus  of  Somali  refugees 
to
neighbouring  countries  and  elsewhere,  the  United
Nations  had  the  political  will  to  invoke  the  morally
compelling  doctrine  of  humanitarian 
intervention,
thereby successfully reversing a calamitous famine that
could potentially have wiped out millions of Somalis.
Moreover, during the two years  that  the  Somalia
National  Reconciliation  Conference  met  at  Nairobi,
Kenya,  the  United  Nations  played  a  helpful  role  in
successfully  finding  a 
lasting  and  comprehensive
settlement  to  Somalia(cid:146)s  political  crisis.  The  current
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  is  the
outcome  of  that  political  settlement.  Allow  me  to
restate  here  Somalia(cid:146)s  indebtedness  and  profound
appreciation  to  those  who  selflessly  helped  us  during
the Somali National Reconciliation Conference, as well
as  to  those  who  continue  to  help  us  in  our  current
pursuit  of  a  peaceful  and  well-governed  Somalia.
Among  others,  special  gratitude  goes  to  the  African
Union, 
on
Development,  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the
European  Union,  as  well  as  to  the  Government  of
Kenya, for patiently and generously hosting and paying
for our long peace process.
Intergovernmental  Authority 
the 
With regard to relocating to Somalia, the nascent
Transitional  Federal  Government  could  not  just  sit  by
and  wait  until  the  international  community  acted.  It
therefore  took  the  daring  unilateral  initiative,  on
13 June  2005,  to  relocate  itself  from  Nairobi  to
Somalia  with  minimal  help.  To  the  dismay  of  most
sceptics, the massive relocation scheme was completed
without any incident. The entire Government is now on
Somali  soil.  It  is  my  judgement  that  we  owe  a  status
report to those who earnestly wanted to witness the rise
of  Somalia  from  the  ashes.  That  report  will  also  be
useful  to  those  who  may  continue  to  doubt  the
effectiveness  of  the  Transitional  Federal  Government
in extricating Somalia from its  current  predicament of
chaos and lawlessness.
the 
that 
community 
international 
is  significant  here 
The  Government  has  continued  to  tackle  the
daunting  tasks  inside  Somalia  at  a  much  faster  pace
could  have
than 
anticipated.  What 
is 
the
Transitional  Federal  Government  is  being  helped  by  a
hidden hand that most observers and political analysts
of Somalia have typically regarded as a wild card or a
totally  incalculable  factor.  They  have  never  clearly
understood  the  importance  of  correctly  accounting  for
the  level  of  popular  support  that  the  new  Somali
Government  enjoyed  upon  relocating  to  Somalia.  The
high popularity of the Transitional Federal Government
within  Somalia  turned  out  to  be  so  strong  that  the
Government  owes  its  very  survival  to  the  admiration
and  active  support 
local
population.  That  factor  alone  has  proven  to  be  more
crucial  to  the  survival  of  the  Transitional  Federal
Government than any other form of assistance.
it 
receives 
from 
the 
With 
its  citizens, 
the  support  of 
the  new
Government  has  already  proceeded  to  consolidate  the
gains  and  the  outcome  of  the  reconciliation  process,
with the aim of addressing the formidable expectations
of  the  Somali  people.  As  a  result,  I  can  confidently
report  to  the  Assembly  today  that  our  efforts  at
reclaiming  Somalia  from  its  lawlessness  are  already
under way and have already produced concrete results
on the ground.
The  Government  has  made  phenomenal  progress
in the little more than three months since its relocation.
Progress has been made in the recruitment and training
of a modest security force comprised of personnel from
all  of  Somalia(cid:146)s  regions;  in  the  extension  of  State
authority  over  much  of  Somalia;  in  winning  the
allegiance  and  support  of  regional  leaders  and  the
A/60/PV.10
Somali  public  at  large;  in  earning  and  assuming  the
moral  leadership  of  the  nation  through  responsible
governance  and  peaceful  means;  and 
in  creating
that  powerfully
overarching  political  momentum 
augurs  for  the  sure  attainment  of  durable  peace  and
continuity in Somalia.
the  advent  of 
Contrary  to  the  fears  some  may  have  had,
therefore, 
the  Transitional  Federal
Government did not turn out to be some kind of cruel
hoax  or  yet  another  false  start  for  Somalia.  The
sensible  actions  undertaken  by  the  new  Government
inside  Somalia  have  already  established  its  legitimacy
and  the  kind  of  moral  leadership  it  enjoys  inside
Somalia. The Government is serious and committed to
the  basic  social  contract  it  made  with  its  citizens,
namely, to guarantee peace and security to its people in
return  for  the  allegiance  they  have  already  conferred
upon their Government.
There 
is  clearly  a  unique  chance  for 
the
Transitional  Federal  Government  to  restore  normalcy,
legitimacy  and  lasting  peace  to  Somalia.  Regrettably,
however,  the  situation  is  not  tenable  in  the  long  term.
The  challenges  that  are  hampering  the  Government(cid:146)s
efforts on the ground are all related to the indifference
of  the  international  community.  We  believe  that  the
international community has a moral obligation to help
the  new  Somali  Government  in  its  quest  for  peace,
stability, territorial integrity and unity in the country in
a  manner  consistent  with  the  United  Nations  Charter.
Now  is  the  time  when  the  international  community
must assist Somalia in a strong and decisive manner by
addressing the following three challenges.
One of the challenges for the new Government is
that  most  of  the  international  community  has  yet  to
honour  its  obligations  with  regard  to  ensuring  a
peaceful and well-governed Somalia. Even much of its
initial  cheerful  pledges 
to  provide  material  and
financial support to the Government have yet to reach
us.  Consequently,  its  actual  role  in  our  efforts  on  the
ground  remain  very  confusing  to  us.  We  do  not
understand  the  new  ambivalence  of  the  international
community,  which  seems  to  have  moderated  its  initial
enthusiasm  to  offer  Somalia  a  consolidated  rapid
assistance programme.
In order to address that situation, the international
community  must  help  Somalia  by  providing 
the
necessary  financial  and  political  support  for  the  rapid
rehabilitation  of  infrastructures  to  house  the  new
25
A/60/PV.10
Government,  to  provide  for  budgetary  and  other
administrative  expenditures,  and  to  tackle  the  security
issues  such  as  recruiting  a  national  police  force,
pacification  programmes  and  the  implementation  of
demobilization, 
reintegration
programmes.
disarmament 
and 
Another  puzzling  and  more  serious  problem  for
the new Government of Somalia is the United Nations
arms  embargo  on  Somalia.  The  embargo  directly
undermines the Government(cid:146)s genuine efforts to form a
national  security  force  (cid:151)  to  which  it  has  an  inherent
right in order to protect the public and keep the peace
by  enforcing  law  and  order  throughout  Somalia.  In
addition,  it  discourages  friendly  countries  that  are
willing  to  offer  help  to  Somalia  from  doing  so,
especially in the areas of security and the rule of law.
Moreover, 
the  formal
deployment  of  the  African  peace  support  mission  in
Somalia, whose mandate is to protect the Government
and  its  premises  during  its  capacity-building  stage  as
well as to help the Government form and train national
security forces.
the  embargo  has  delayed 
therefore  do  whatever  they  can  to  resist  the  return  of
law and order to Somalia, including by renewing active
hostilities. To address that possible scenario the United
Nations must establish punitive and targeted sanctions
against  those  who  try  to  spoil  Somalia(cid:146)s  chance  for
lasting  peace  by  undermining  the  ongoing  efforts  to
pacify the country and by frustrating the  effectiveness
of the Government in upholding the primacy of the rule
of law.
The  cost  of  the  prolonged  Somali  civil  war  is
enormous  in  terms  of  its  direct  social,  economic,
political  and  environmental  impacts.  There  is  now
clearly a rare chance for my country to overcome those
negative impacts. The performance of the Transitional
Federal  Government  on  the  ground  and  the  overall
political  environment  in  Somalia  are  very  promising.
Both Africa and the region have been very forthcoming
in helping Somalia. It is imperative that the rest of the
international community extend its help to Somalia by
adopting  the  three  proposals  just  outlined,  thereby
effectively  ending  the  plight  of  Somalia  once  and  for
all.
Allow me here to make my personal appeal to the
world  summit  not  to  leave  Somalia  out  in  the  cold  in
this  crucial  period  of  its  pacification  and  nation-
building. While many of the countries of the world are
struggling  to  meet  their  Millennium  Development
Goals,  Somalia  is  struggling  to  stand  on  its  feet.  It
the
would  be  grave  negligence  on 
international  community 
its
obligations  towards  Somalia  in  a  timely  and  decisive
manner.
the  part  of 
to  fulfil 
it  fails 
if 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali
Democratic  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr.  Abdullahi  Yusuf  Ahmed,  President  of  the
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali
Democratic  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
their 
lawlessness 
in 
their  country.  With 
longer  prevail.  Whose 
It  does  not  make  sense  to  help  Somalis  reach  a
comprehensive  political  settlement  of 
long
conflict  while  at  the  same  time  denying  them  the
ability to build the institutions through which they can
overcome 
the
creation  of  the  new  Government  and  its  relocation  to
Somalia,  the  political  conditions  and  realities  that
prompted  the  United  Nations  to  impose  an  arms
embargo  no 
interests  and
purposes does the embargo continue to serve now that
there 
in
Somalia? In the same vein, in reflecting on the absurd
position of a nation or Government whose  capacity to
institute its own law enforcement bodies is neutralized,
one  wonders  what  the  political  or  moral  relevance  of
keeping  Somalia  handcuffed  by  the  old  embargo  can
possibly  be?  To  address  that  predicament  we  call  on
the  Security  Council  to  assist  the  efforts  of  the
Transitional  Federal  Government 
the
country  by  reviewing  the  merits  of  the  arms  embargo
on Somalia and promptly lifting it.
legitimate  Government  functioning 
to  stabilize 
is  a 
Finally,  the  disintegration  of  the  State  and  the
absence  of  law  and  order  have  led  to  widespread
criminal  activity  by 
individuals  and  groups  for
financial  gain, 
including  by  war  profiteers  and
terrorists. Those individuals and groups believe that the
status  quo  in  Somalia  favours  them,  and  they  will
26
A/60/PV.10
Address by Mr. TabarØ VÆzquez, President of the
Eastern Republic of Uruguay
no reason whatsoever to give up the hope of a utopia,
without which darkness could be our fate.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  the  President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of
Uruguay.
Mr.  TabarØ  VÆzquez,  President  of  the  Eastern
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  into  the
General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations His Excellency Mr. TabarØ VÆzquez, President
of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, and to invite him
to address the Assembly.
President VÆzquez  (spoke in Spanish): I would
like  to  extend  the  sincerest  condolences  of  the  people
and Government of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay to
the  victims  of  Hurricane  Katrina,  as  well  as  to  all  the
citizens of the world, men and women, old and young,
who  are  victims  of  natural  disasters,  of  the  fury  of
nature,  which  is  showing  us  that  it  will  no  longer  be
abused by mankind.
I  come  from  Uruguay,  a  small  South  American
country,  whose  main  wealth  is  its  vocation  for  peace,
its  drive  for  freedom  and  the  democratic  commitment
that its people have been forging for generations.
Our greeting is committed because we all bear the
responsibility,  which  we  cannot  abdicate,  of  being  the
masters of our own lives and the architects of our own
futures. This task is a road on which neither privileges
nor  condemnations  are  allowed;  we  are  all  travelling
on  an  equal  footing.  Nor  does  this  road  permit
shortcuts. History is neither a gallery of national heroes
nor  a  calendar  of  outstanding  events:  history  is  made
by people day by day.
In this context, we upon whom our peoples have
conferred the task of governing have a very demanding
responsibility  ahead  of  us.  And 
is  because
governing  means  managing  with  efficiency  and
transparency:  it  means  articulating  in  a  democratic
fashion  this  rich  and  complex  network  that  is  society.
But to govern means also to envisage the future and to
call upon people to build that future among all and for
all.
that 
Our greeting is hopeful as well. Although we do
not  overlook  the  risks,  the  difficulties  and  the  limits
within  the  national,  regional  and  global  contexts,  we
believe  in  human  beings,  we  believe  in  society.  We
believe in democracy as a means to govern but also as
a human impulse and as a state of society.
I  convey 
the  greetings  of 
the  people  and
Government  of  Uruguay  to  this  forum,  which  is  the
broadest,  most  representative  and  most 
important
forum  in  the  world  today.  It  is  a  greeting  that  is
demanding, committed and hopeful.
The greeting is demanding because we are living
at a very particular time in the  history of mankind. In
fact,  at  very  few  moments  in  history  have  we  seen
circumstances  so  rich  in  paradoxes  and  so  poor  in
paradigms  as  the  present  one.  Never  before  has
mankind  had  at 
its  disposal  such  scientific  and
technological  progress  and  such  a  significant  cultural
heritage to guarantee a life in dignity. However, never
before  has  mankind  suffered  so  much  inequality,
intolerance and uncertainty.
We know that we have reached this point, but we
are  uncertain  about  where  we  are  heading.  We  cannot
be passive witnesses to the situation; no one can wash
his  hands  of  his  own  problems  nor  of  problems  that
seem  remote.  We  cannot  resign  ourselves  to  a  future
that is an unchanging extension of the present. There is
Although  I  said  this  during  our  statement  at  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  which  took  place  in  this
same  Hall  a  few  hours  ago,  I  wish  to  reiterate  before
the  Assembly  that  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay
reaffirms  the  principles  that  have  characterized  its
foreign policy.
is 
to  peace,
sovereignty,  democracy  and  solidarity.  When  I  speak
about  peace,  democracy,  solidarity  and  freedom  I
would like to recall that six days ago marked the thirty-
second  anniversary  of  the  occasion  when  a  man  gave
his  life  defending  peace,  democracy  and  freedom.  I
would like thus to pay tribute to Salvador Allende.
firm  commitment 
First 
the 
The second principle is the firm rejection of any
kind  of  terrorism,  violence  and  discrimination.  The
third is the inalienable right of every State to safe and
stable borders and to be completely free to exercise its
sovereignty  and  self-determination,  and  fourth 
is
respect  for  international  law  as  the  best  guarantee  of
the  sovereignty  of  peoples  and 
their  peaceful
coexistence.
27
A/60/PV.10
of 
States. 
Sixthly,  we 
The  fifth  principle  is  non-alignment  and  non-
intervention  in  affairs  that  come  under  the  domestic
jurisdiction 
reaffirm
multilateralism  as  a  means  to  strengthen  international
law, enhancing the role of the United Nations. Seventh,
we acknowledge the indivisibility of all human rights,
be  they  political,  social,  economic,  civil  or  cultural,
including those of a collective nature such as the right
to development and to a safe environment.
In conformity with these principles, Uruguay first
of  all  deems  it  necessary  to  move  forward  with  the
reforms  that  will  allow  the  United  Nations  to  fully
fulfil  its  commitments.  Because  such  reforms  are  of  a
complex  nature,  they  should  be  undertaken  with  a
sense  of  history  and  with  political  will,  and  without
hegemonic intentions.
Secondly, Uruguay renews its commitment to the
Millennium  Goals,  which  in  our  country  means  the
design  and  implementation  of  a  system  of  integrated
and global social policies that address the poverty and
destitution suffered by almost one million Uruguayans
and  that,  at  the  same  time,  are  part  of  a  strategy  of
change and development.
in  United  Nations 
Thirdly,  Uruguay  reiterates  its  will  to  continue
participating 
peacekeeping
operations  and  will  contribute  its  efforts  to  improving
the  security  and  the  conditions  of  service  of  those
missions.
We  also  express  our  support  for  the  Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  initiative  to  create  a  Peace  Commission,  to
which,  we  believe,  Uruguay  could  contribute,
continuing  its  support  for  peacekeeping  missions  and
the  expertise  acquired 
rebuilding  devastated
countries.
in 
There is no peace in intolerance and terrorism, no
freedom in poverty, and no democracy in inequality. It
is  crucial  to  reject  every  expression  of  violence,  but
before rejecting it, it must be avoided by attacking its
roots.
This is quite simply because every human being,
simply by being human, has the right to live in dignity.
Societies where there is a contrast between an opulent
few  and  a  neglected  majority  are  not  prosperous.
Societies where to be born is a problem, to be young is
suspect, to get an education and a job is a privilege and
to grow old is a curse have no future. This is the way
we see it in Uruguay. We have learned this from those
28
generations that preceded us in building a country that,
though it has its own unique features, is not atypical of
nor alien to the Latin American context.
that  (cid:151)  due 
While  it  is  true  that  the  first  half  of  the  last
century was a favourable period for Uruguay, it is also
true 
to  a  combination  of  external
circumstances  and  domestic  structural  weaknesses  (cid:151)
the 
last  fifty  years  were  a  period  of  economic
deterioration, impoverishment and even an institutional
breakdown in 1973.
is  working  hard 
We Uruguayans regained democracy in 1985, and
the current Government, which took office exactly 200
days  ago, 
the  wounds
dictatorship  caused  through  human  rights  violations.
We are not hostages to the past, but Uruguayan society
needs to know the truth about what happened to ensure
that never again will it happen (cid:151) never again.
to  heal 
Nevertheless, with the commitments that we have
assumed  to  Uruguayan  society  (cid:151)  whose  will  is  our
mandate  (cid:151)  the  Government  of  which  I  am  head  is
promoting  changes:  changes  which  are  necessary,
possible, 
responsible  and  gradual,  changes  with
political  and  social  support,  changes  that  do  not
overlook reality but do  not give up on  the  dream  of  a
Uruguay  with  human  development,  with  productive
economic  growth  and  with  a  safe  environment,  a
Uruguay  fully  integrated  into  its  own  region  and  into
the  international  arena.  We  are  not  starting  from
scratch, but we have a lot to do to achieve this utopia,
the dream of which motivates us as a nation.
In  conclusion,  this  is  exactly  what  I  wished  to
convey  to  members  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and
the  people  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay:  far
away, in the forgotten southern part of South America,
there  is  a  country  that  does  not  resign  itself  to
difficulties,  that  is  building  its  own  destiny  and  that,
faithful  to  its  tradition,  wishes  to  join  in  building  a
better  world,  working  alongside  all  our  dear  brethren,
the citizens of the world.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Eastern
Republic  of  Uruguay  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr.  TabarØ  VÆzquez,  President  of  the  Eastern
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the
General Assembly Hall.
Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo,
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the President of the Republic of Equatorial
Guinea.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was
escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema
Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial
Guinea, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in
Spanish):  The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
is
participating  in  this  debate  with  hope  and  optimism
that  we  will 
system
strengthened once again so that it can effectively carry
out  its  mission  as  the  centre  of  global  equilibrium  in
order to attain the objectives established at its creation
in 1945.
the  United  Nations 
see 
Indeed, the United Nations was created to defend
and  promote  the  rights  of  persons  and  the  dignity,
freedom  and  equality  of  human  beings.  The  United
Nations  was  created  to  promote  the  equality  of  all
nations, mutual respect, solidarity and the promotion of
cooperation  among  States  on  an  equal  footing  and  for
mutual  benefit.  Another  of  the  objectives  established
was  to  promote  the  global  development  of  nations
through  a  just  and  equitable  economic  system  that
would  protect  the  interests  of  all  countries,  rich  or
poor.
The  United  Nations  must  be  given 
the
international authority it needs to establish peace, order
and  stability  in  the  world,  serving  as  a  centre  of
universal  equilibrium  with  the  capacity  to  resolve
conflicts  arising  among  States.  Force  must  be  used
only  in  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter
of  the  United  Nations,  with  the  prior  consent  of  its
competent bodies, because the  undue  use  of  force  can
disrupt 
in  an
unforeseeable manner.
international  peace  and  security 
We  hope  that  the  United  Nations  system  will  be
the inspiration for a democratic culture and for human
rights,  serving  as  a  model  and  guide  for  the  internal
organization of its Members. We therefore support the
creation  of  a  Human  Rights  Council  that  will  be  very
A/60/PV.10
closely  involved  with  human-rights-related  issues  in
each country and that will have relevant competencies
to  support  the  affected  countries  with  regard  to  the
decisions  and  recommendations  of  the  Economic  and
Social Council.
The  democratization  of  societies  and  good
governance  are  concepts  universally  accepted  by
States.  Therefore,  there  is  no  need  to  adopt  coercive
mechanisms  against  any  State 
their
implementation.  All  that  is  needed  is  to  assist  and
guide  each  State  as  to  how  it  should  assimilate
democratic  concepts  in  accordance  with  its  economic,
social and cultural realities.
to  ensure 
For  all  those  reasons,  we  believe  that,  60  years
after  the  Organization(cid:146)s  founding,  the  social  and
political circumstances that prevailed in 1945 have lost
their  validity  because  of  the  very  dynamics  of  the
development of modern societies. Today, we are in the
best possible position to rethink the responsibilities of
the United Nations and its Members in the light of the
aforementioned  objectives,  bearing  in  mind  today(cid:146)s
circumstances  and  the  experience  accumulated  in  the
60 years of its existence.
We  recognize  that  the  task  is  very  difficult  and
complex, taking into account the various interests that
converge  as  we  consider  reforming  the  entire  United
Nations  system.  That  is  why  we  congratulate  you,
Mr. President,  on  the  confidence  that  the  international
community has placed in you and in your Government
to  moderate  this  important  debate.  We  hope  that  your
skill  and  professional  experience  will  be  put  to  good
use so that we can attain our objectives.
We  believe  that  in  this  effort,  we  must  give
priority to the spirit of democracy and the interests of
humankind,  because  democracy,  as  the  expression  of
the  popular  will,  and  compliance  with  consensual
norms both involve respect for the collective will. We
also believe that  the  United  Nations  could  not  impose
order and justice on a human community dominated by
the various cultural, economic and political interests of
its  Member  States  without  recourse  to  the  democratic
principles  to  which  all  of  us  are  bound.  In  that
connection,  the  Security  Council,  as  the  organ  that
must  demand  universal  compliance  with  its  decisions,
must be the first to act under democratic criteria.
For  my  country,  the  needed  reform  of  the
Security  Council  does  not  involve  an  increase  in  its
membership or, even less, an expansion of the right of
29
A/60/PV.10
the veto. We must examine the reasons for the Security
Council(cid:146)s  failure  since  its  creation  in  1945.  In  fact,  if
there  is  something  that  should  be  done  to  reform  the
Security Council, it is to simply revoke the right of the
veto enjoyed by some of its members as a concept that
was  created  only  because  of  the  conflict  between  two
opposing 
the  United
Nations  system.  The  veto  has  never  allowed  the
consensus  or  majority  sovereign  expression  of  the
Security Council; it has served only as a way in which
to block the popular  will  so  as  to  protect  the  interests
of the Power exercising the veto.
ideological  systems  within 
In the present circumstances of a unipolar world,
we  do  not  see  the  need  to  exercise  the  veto  in  this
United Nations body. Many just resolutions have been
vetoed  despite  the  fact  that  they  have  sought  the
common good,  and  we have seen  the  negative  results.
If the veto must be maintained in the Security Council
because of interests, we ask that Africa also have that
right,  because,  like  any  other  regional  group,  that
continent has many interests to defend.
When  the  Security  Council  is  democratized  we
ask that its decisions be binding and that those who do
not  comply  with  them  be  properly  sanctioned.  This
would give teeth to its decisions. Non-compliance with
the  principles  and  resolutions  adopted  by  United
Nations  bodies  creates  impunity  unless  disciplinary
measures are taken against those who are in breach of
them.
to  overthrow 
In this regard, Equatorial Guinea strongly regrets
the  failure  to  take  measures  against  the  terrorists  who
tried 
the  established  constitutional
Government on 6 March 2004 despite identification of
nationalities  of  the  terrorists  and  despite  Equatorial
Guinea(cid:146)s request to the Governments concerned.
The  United  Nations  must  clearly  define  the
phenomenon  of  terrorism  and  in  so  doing  avoid
confusion with what is interpreted as legitimate armed
intervention.  Humanitarian 
intervention  cannot  be
carried out on the basis of an individual interpretation,
but  rather  must  be 
the  competent
institutions of the United Nations system.
to  organized 
transnational
crime, such as terrorism and mercenary activities, must
be  the  subject  of  a  special  session  of  the  General
Assembly  to  deal  with  criminal  acts  such  as  those  of
11 September  in  New  York,  11  March  in  Madrid  and
events  in  London,  Russia,  Morocco,  Tanzania,  Kenya
Questions  related 
justified  by 
30
and  the  mercenary  attack  in  Equatorial  Guinea  and  to
adopt measures that can avert the loss of innocent life.
In  Equatorial  Guinea,  the  integration  of  women
into  our  development  process 
the
Government(cid:146)s  utmost  attention  through  the  design  of
literacy  programmes  for 
their  gradual
integration 
in  economic  activities  and  political
institutions  with  a  specific  percentage  reserved  for
women.
them  and 
is 
receiving 
Lastly,  we  want  environmental  problems,  whose
effects are of unforeseeable magnitude in each State, to
be  addressed  with  due  sensitivity, 
respect  and
solidarity, in the same way as questions of world peace
and security.
We  reaffirm  that  the  primary  responsibility  for
promoting  sustainable  development  in  each  country
resides  directly  with 
the  Government  concerned.
Multilateral  and  bilateral  assistance  only  complement
the  efforts  of  States  themselves  and  provide  guidance
for  what  must  be  accomplished  internally  by  each
country.
Industries  Transparency 
Among these efforts, Equatorial Guinea supports
the  Extractive 
Initiative
proposed  by  the  United  Kingdom.  Nonetheless,  we
believe that transparency must be required not only of
Governments  but  also  of  the  economic  players  that
control these industries. It is, therefore, necessary that
an  international  monitoring  body  be  established  to
intervene  in  the  activities  of  both  Governments  and
economic enterprises.
We  welcome 
the
Assembly(cid:146)s  consideration  as  it  contains  important
recommendations, above all regarding the development
programme.
the  report  submitted 
for 
I  wish 
to  conclude  by  calling  for  greater
solidarity  and  a  spirit  of  commitment  from  all  the
Members  of  the  United  Nations  so  that  we  can  make
this  Organization  an  ideological  model  that  serves  the
aspirations of present and future generations.
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic
of  Equatorial  Guinea  for  the  statement  he  has  just
made.
Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was
escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
Item 9 of the provisional agenda (continued)
General debate
Address by Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime Minister of
the People(cid:146)s Republic of Bangladesh
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Prime Minister of the People(cid:146)s Republic
of Bangladesh.
Begum  Khaleda  Zia,  Prime  Minister  of  the
People(cid:146)s Republic of Bangladesh, was escorted to
the rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime
Minister  of  the  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  and
inviting her to address the General Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
Ms. Zia (Bangladesh) (spoke in Bangla; English
text provided by the delegation): I wish to congratulate
you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election.  I  am  confident
that you will carry forward the able legacy left by your
predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping.  Our  warm  tribute  is  also
due 
to
reinvigorate our Organization.
the  Secretary-General  as  he  strives 
to 
We  meet  in  the  wake  of  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting,  where  bold  decisions  were  made  to  promote
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
Our problems transcend national boundaries. Solutions
need  a  global  consensus.  All  of  us  must  emphatically
reaffirm  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the
cooperative management of the world(cid:146)s problems.
We  are  constitutionally  committed  to  uphold  the
Charter and its legitimacy based on the rule of law. In a
globalizing  world,  no  nation  is  an  island.  None  can
prosper  alone.  The  United  Nations  remains  the  only
bastion of peace, justice and development in the world.
Reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  vital.  We  must
focus on its effectiveness and ability to deliver quickly.
Its  agenda  and  mandate  must  be  meaningful.  Its
administration  must  be  reformed.  Its  budget  must  be
purged  of  waste.  Its  major  organs  need 
to  be
reconstituted  and  revitalized 
to  serve  purposeful
priorities.  Expansion  of  its  major  organs  is  necessary
but must be tailored to the efficacy of the Organization.
The dynamics of today(cid:146)s world have been created
by  immense  forces  of  change.  Among  them  are
advances  in  science  and  technology  and  widespread
A/60/PV.10
individual 
rights.  The 
awareness  of 
resulting
globalization and progression of humanitarian law have
given  rise  to  a  world  where  the  very  concept  of
sovereignty is being challenged, where the dimensions
of  security  are  in  a  flux,  where  the  nature  of  conflict
has seen a seismic shift and where social exclusion has
added  complex  uncertainty.  The  need  for  constructive
engagement,  dialogue,  tolerance  and  understanding  is
imperative. Development and the rule of law must take
centre stage.
to 
and 
fuel 
continue 
insecurity 
New  challenges  confront  us 
today.  While
terrorists  sow  panic  and  xenophobia  in  our  societies,
environmental
deprivation,  hunger,  disease 
degradation 
and
destabilization.  The  recent  bombings  in  London  and
Egypt shocked us all. They have hardened our resolve
to  face  this  menace  unitedly.  Bangladesh  condemns
terrorism in all its forms. We have acceded to all anti-
terrorism  conventions  of  the  United  Nations  and
relevant  regional  organizations.  We  support  the  early
conclusion  of  a  comprehensive  United  Nations
convention on terrorism. I would like to underscore our
conviction  that  terrorists  do  not  belong  to  any  one
country or religion.
a 
the 
first 
contribution 
abroad.  Despite 
In  Bangladesh,  sustained  efforts  are  being  made
to pursue the twin objectives of responsibility at home
and 
enormous
constraints,  we  have  made  good  progress  to  advance
democracy,  development  and  human 
rights.  We
recognize that those goals are linked with one another.
We  have  moved  slowly  but  surely  to  shore  up  a
democratic ethos. The late President Ziaur Rahman led
Bangladesh out of the morass of a failed democracy in
1975.  He  introduced  a  multi-party  system,  freed  the
press  and  opened  up  the  economy.  In  1990,  a  popular
uprising  against  an  entrenched  military  dictatorship
brought 
sustained
democracy.  We  have  not 
looked  back.  Three
consecutive  free  and  fair  elections  have  been  held
under  a  neutral  caretaker  Government.  That  unique
constitutional  innovation  has  ensured  the  peaceful
transfer  of  power  on  an  alternating  basis.  Democracy
has  become  firmly  rooted  in  Bangladesh.  A  key
element  of 
the
participation of more than 70 per cent of the electorate.
Women  voters  outnumbered  men.  They  voted  not  for
symbols but for issues.
in  2001,  was 
last  election, 
real  push 
towards 
the 
31
A/60/PV.10
A quiet revolution is under way in Bangladesh in
the field of development. The progress is visible on six
key fronts: stable growth of the gross domestic product
(GDP)  at  a  rate  of  5  per  cent  or  more  for  over  two
decades;  higher  per  capita  income;  food  security;
increased  resilience  in  the  face  of  natural  disasters;
improvement  of  the  human  development  index;  and
better social and health outcomes. Our performance in
those areas compares favourably with the results in our
own region and elsewhere. A set of pragmatic, targeted
policy  approaches  have  made  that  progress  possible.
We  have  completed  a  full-fledged  poverty  reduction
strategy  paper 
through  an  extended  consultative
process. It sets out a road map to meet country-specific
MDGs.  The  fundamental  principle  of  the  poverty
reduction  strategy  paper  is  to  promote  employment-
generating economic growth and to invest significantly
in priority sectors such as education, health and social
safety-net  programmes.  It 
is  a  matter  of  some
satisfaction  that  Bangladesh  has  achieved  two  of  the
MDGs:  the  elimination  of  gender  disparity  in  primary
and  secondary  schools  and  access  to  safe  drinking
water.  We  are  close  to  achieving  two  more  goals:  the
reduction  of  extreme  poverty  and  under-five  child
mortality rates.
Bangladesh is committed to upholding the dignity
of individuals and promoting human rights. Bangladesh
is  a  party 
to  all  United  Nations  human  rights
conventions.  We  are  moving  steadily  to  strengthen
good 
democratic
institutions,  establish  the  rule  of  law  and  eliminate
intolerance in our society.
governance 
through 
strong 
Deeply entrenched pockets of poverty continue to
exist  around  the  world.  The  most  vulnerable  are  the
least  developed  countries.  Their  products  should  be
granted  immediate  duty-free  and  quota-free  access
globally.  As  reaffirmed  at  Monterrey,  the  specific
allocation  of  0.15  to  0.2  per  cent  of  the  GDP  of
developed  countries  must  be  earmarked  for  official
development  assistance  to  least  developed  countries.
Financing 
issue.
Innovative  initiatives  in  that  regard,  which  have  been
the subject of discussion, need to be pursued in earnest.
The  devastation  caused  by  natural  disasters
affects all  countries, rich and poor alike.  How  can  we
meet the challenge of effective relief, rehabilitation and
reconstruction,  as  well  as  pre-disaster  warning  and
preparations?  That  continues  to  the  responsibility  of
the United Nations.
for  development 
is  a  critical 
32
We  are  profoundly  shocked  at  the  huge  toll  of
damage caused by Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf coast
of 
the  United  States.  Natural  disasters  do  not
distinguish  between  rich  and  poor  countries,  and  the
human misery and suffering  caused  are the same.  We,
in Bangladesh, have weathered many severe floods and
cyclones, and the toll in terms of life and property has
been  huge.  We  can  therefore  feel  the  torment  that  the
affected  people  have  undergone,  and  we  offer  our
heartfelt  sympathies.  We  know  that  the  American
people  can  overcome  the  disaster  and  move  on  with
their lives.
All  countries,  including  Bangladesh,  must  seek
ways and means to contribute effectively to the United
Nations,  whether  through  peacemaking,  peacekeeping
or peacebuilding. Active participation, innovative ideas
and best practices in shoring up development together
can  enhance  our  combined  capacity  to  address  the
world(cid:146)s problems, especially those that no one country
can  tackle  alone.  We,  in  Bangladesh,  are  particularly
proud  of  our  contribution  to  peacekeeping  on  many
simultaneous  fronts  across  the  globe.  In  all,  we  have
contributed  more  than  39,000  troops  to  24  missions
and are currently among the largest contributors. Sixty-
seven  of  our  blue-helmeted  soldiers  have  died  in  that
cause.  Our  commitment 
to  peacekeeping  remains
unflinching. We also fully support the establishment of
the Peacebuilding Commission.
A  priority  concern  for  us  is  our  close  identity
with  Africa.  Through  our  peacekeeping  efforts,  we
have established special bonds of friendship. The New
Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development  is  particularly
encouraging. We believe that South-South cooperation
has specific relevance in that context.
Bangladesh  reaffirms  its  support  for  the  early
establishment  of  a  sovereign  independent  State  in
Palestine,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  United
Nations  resolutions.  The  road  map  for  peace  in  the
Middle  East  needs  to  be  implemented  fully  and
urgently.
With  respect  to  Iraq,  we  believe  that  the  present
situation should be resolved by preserving the interests
of  the  Iraqi  people,  in  particular  their  territorial
integrity, and by ensuring the long-term peace, security
and stability of the region.
Bangladesh(cid:146)s 
to
general and complete disarmament is the reason for our
international  and  regional
progressive  support  of 
constitutional 
commitment 
treaties and agreements covering all the Atomic Bomb
Casualty  Commission  (ABCC)  weapons.  We  are  a
party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons  and  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban
Treaty.  We  give  precedence  to  human  over  weapons
security.
in 
Each  year  we  come  to  the  Assembly  to  reaffirm
our 
faith 
the  United  Nations.  This  sixtieth
anniversary year is of profound significance. We must
provide  a  renewed  mandate  to  the  United  Nations  to
meet  the  challenges  of  the  new  millennium  (cid:151)  to  rid
the world of poverty and injustice, to usher in the rule
of  law,  to  promote  the  cause  of  development,  to
eradicate  terrorism  and,  above  all,  to  promote  peace
and security. We can prevail only if we act responsibly
and  together.  Support  for  the  United  Nations  and  its
legitimacy remains a paramount priority.
The  President: On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
People(cid:146)s Republic of Bangladesh for the statement she
has just made.
Begum  Khaleda  Zia,  Prime  Minister  of  the
People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted
from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Jean-Paul Proust, Secretary of State
of the Principality of Monaco
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Secretary of State of the Principality of
Monaco.
Mr.  Jean-Paul  Proust,  Secretary  of  State  of  the
Principality  of  Monaco,  was  escorted  to  the
rostrum.
The  President: 
in
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Paul  Proust,
Secretary  of  State  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco,  and
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
I  have  great  pleasure 
A/60/PV.10
Much  has  been  achieved  over  the  past  60  years.
Today,  our  Organization  consists  of  191  Member
States.  We  hope  (cid:151)  and  many  heads  of  State  or
Government  expressed  this  wish  during  the  recent
summit  (cid:151)  that  we  are  beginning  a  new  phase  in  the
quest  for  collective  security  and  respect  for  human
rights  and  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and  disease,
which continue to affect so many peoples.
To that end, the international community must be
better represented, particularly in the Security Council.
Further  progress  must  also  be  made  through  the
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs)  to  combat  poverty  and  the  more  efficient
management of the Organization.
Once  again,  on  behalf  of  His  Serene  Highness
Prince Albert II, I wish to pay tribute to the President
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session  and
to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  at  the
sixtieth session. I hope that, throughout our debates at
this session, the momentum for change will continue to
build.  I  would  also 
the
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  who  has  pursued
those noble objectives with tenacity and farsightedness.
The  Principality  of  Monaco  fully  endorses  the
outcome 
its
implementation  so  that  we  can,  together,  achieve  new
progress in the coming months.
and  will 
document, 
support 
to 
like 
to  pay 
tribute 
in  order 
The  Government  of  the  Principality  of  Monaco
has, over the past few years, reoriented its international
cooperation  policy 
to  contribute  more
effectively  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Development Goals. Thus, the main focus of Monaco(cid:146)s
cooperation  policies  are 
the
framework of the Millennium Development Goals: the
preservation  of  the  environment  in  the  broad  sense  of
the  term;  the  fight  against  poverty;  and  support  for
education and health care.
those  defined 
in 
Mr. Proust (Monaco) (spoke in French): In 1945,
in the aftermath of a war that tore apart all the peoples
of  the  world  (cid:151)  a  war  during  which  the  most  basic
human rights were violated (cid:151) a few leading countries
came together at the San Francisco Conference, here in
the  United  States  of  America,  and  created  the  United
Nations. Collective security had to be restored, human
rights  had  to  be  reinstated  and  our  world  needed  to
move towards greater justice and freedom.
Monaco(cid:146)s official development assistance (ODA)
has  continued  to  increase,  multiplying  fivefold  in  the
past 10 years (cid:151) an effort that will continue in the years
to come with a view to reaching the 0.7 per cent target
as  soon  as  possible.  Likewise,  we  endorse 
the
Declaration  on  innovative  sources  of  financing  for
development.
Through its voluntary contributions to the United
Nations  and  several  other  institutions  and  agencies,
33
A/60/PV.10
including  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific
and  Cultural  Organization, 
the  World  Health
Organization,  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on
HIV/AIDS, UNICEF, the United Nations Development
Programme  (UNDP)  and  the  Office  of  the  United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to name but
a  few,  the  Principality  sponsors  activities  aimed  at
assisting 
the  most
underprivileged populations.
developing 
countries 
and 
Over  one  third  of  our  cooperation  funding  is
provided  within 
framework  of  multilateral
assistance,  and  the  increase  over  the  past  few  years
has, of course, also benefited bilateral assistance.
the 
The  General  Assembly  proclaimed  2005  as  the
International  Year  of  Microcredit  in  an  effort  to
promote  such  programmes  globally.  The  Principality
has,  for  many  years,  accorded  special  attention  to
microcredit,  as  part  of  our  financing  for  development
programme,  in  particular  through  its  cooperation  with
UNDP.  In  this  regard,  funds  provided  by  Monaco
provide support for small businesses in Africa that are
operating  under  conditions  of  extreme  poverty,  with  a
view  to  improving  the  standard  of  living  of  the  most
vulnerable people, particularly women.
Our  cooperation  efforts  are  directed  mostly
towards the countries of the Mediterranean region and
the  least  developed  countries  in  Africa,  especially
those  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  because  we  also  believe
that we need to open up spaces for  regional solidarity
throughout the world.
The  Mediterranean  is  an  ecoregion  with  which
the Principality has, historically, been closely involved.
The implementation of cooperation plans to protect the
Mediterranean  environment,  both  coastal  and  marine,
is therefore a priority.
Monaco  also  provides  assistance  to  a  number  of
French-speaking  countries  in  areas  relating  largely  to
poverty  eradication,  health  care  and  education.
Working  in  complementarity  with  the  Government,
Monaco(cid:146)s  non-governmental  organizations  are  also
committed 
to
underscore that the Principality is ready to participate,
to  the  best  of  its  abilities  and  within  its  financial
means,  in  initiatives  in  the  areas  of  health  care  and
training.
those  countries.  I  would 
like 
in 
During  his  recent  address  from  this  rostrum,
Prince Albert II expressed great sadness in connection
34
with  the  devastation  caused  by  Hurricane  Katrina  in
the United States.
Almost one year ago, South-East Asia suffered an
unprecedented natural disaster. The solidarity shown in
the  aftermath  of  that  tragedy  and  the  effectiveness  of
the response to it, on the part of not only humanitarian
workers  but  also  civil  society,  make  it  clear  that  the
resources and the capacity do exist to allow for shared
responsibility  for  the  future  welfare  of  the  peoples  to
whom  the  Charter  is  dedicated.  The  Principality  of
Monaco  has  mobilized‘  its  efforts  by  undertaking  a
great many private and public activities in this respect.
The  Principality  of  Monaco  has  always  been  a
staunch  defender  of  humanitarian  law.  We  support  in
principle and on the basis of our convictions any action
aimed  at  alleviating  difficult  situations  resulting  from
natural or manmade disasters.
The  Principality  of  Monaco  is  a  small  State  that
enjoys  a  certain  level  of  wealth.  It  cannot  change  the
world on its own, but it intends to set an example in the
field of cooperation.
The  creation  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and
the establishment of a Peacebuilding Commission will
mark a turning point in the history of the Organization.
Even  more  importantly,  they  represent  a  response  to
developments in multilateral relations.
In  keeping  with  the  document  just  adopted,  the
General  Assembly  will  also  have  to  strengthen  the
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights;
establish  the  rule  of  law  assistance  unit  within  the
Secretariat; and work constructively to ensure that the
emerging concept of responsibility to protect becomes
positive law as soon as possible.
In  this  regard,  I  would  insist  on  the  imperative
need  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  crimes  committed
against children.
The defence of the rights and interests of children
has  always  been  one  of  our  major  concerns.  Indeed,
any act of violence against a child is a violation of the
lofty principles for which the United Nations stands. In
order to build (cid:147)a world fit for children(cid:148), in compliance
with the measures adopted during the special session of
the General  Assembly on children, held  in  May  2002,
the Government of the Principality is deeply dedicated
to promoting the concept that there should be no statute
of  limitations  for  the  most  serious  violations  of  the
rights  of  children,  and  that  we  should  expand  the
powers  of  national  jurisdictions  by  providing  them
with universal competence in that area.
been  adopted.  That  is  why  we  support  the  idea  of
creating a United Nations environmental body.
A/60/PV.10
its 
fifty-ninth  session, 
Prince Albert II, during his address to the General
Assembly  at 
the
international  community  to  give  thought  to  a  plan  to
address  the  impunity  that  continues  to  prevail  with
regard  to  the  most  heinous  crimes  committed  against
children.
invited 
In  that  context,  the  Principality  has  stressed  the
promotion  of  that  concept  in  the  resolution  on  the
Rights  of  the  Child,  adopted  last  year  by  the  General
Assembly, and it has reaffirmed its position during the
session  of  the  Human  Rights  Commission  held  last
April  in  Geneva.  It  is  the  wish  of  the  Principality  to
pursue 
the  support  of 
the
international community on those crucial matters.
its  undertaking  with 
In  other  respects,  the  Monegasque  Government
has  paid  close  attention  and  contributed  financially  to
the  global  study  on  violence  against  children  led  by
Professor  Pinheiro,  which  will  present  its  conclusions
in  October  2006.  Likewise,  the  Principality  actively
participated,  along  with  the  European  Council,  in  the
triennial programme of action  (cid:151)  for the  period 2005-
2007  (cid:151)  entitled  (cid:147)Childhood  and  violence(cid:148),  whose
conclusions,  like  that  of  the  global  study  on  violence
against  children,  will  enable  us  to  make  specific
recommendations 
to  States.  The  Principality  of
Monaco will always support all international initiatives
aimed at enhancing the protection of children.
Respect  for  the  environment  is  also  one  of  our
concerns.  Mr.  President,  it  was  in  your  country,
Sweden, just over three decades ago that environmental
law  was  born.  The  Stockholm  Conference  saw  the
emergence  of  a  discipline  that  met  a  need:  to  address
the  protection  of  natural  resources  and  of  our
environment in an organized manner.
Furthermore,  we  have  decided  to  join  the  Kyoto
Protocol,  and  we  hope, 
the
Oceanographic  Institute  (cid:151)  created  100  years  ago  by
Prince Albert I of Monaco (cid:151) to make our contribution
to studies on the future of our planet.
tradition  of 
the 
in 
However, 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme is no longer the ideal  forum to  coordinate
action  and  ensure  its  effectiveness  because  of  the
extremely  rapid  expansion  of  this  field  and  given  the
many conventions, protocols and agreements that have
Globalization  must  not  make  us  forget  that  we
come  from  different  regions  and  cultures  that  should
enrich one another and not be a source of clashes or of
conflicts.
We  believe  in  interaction  between  the  United
the
their
Nations  and  regional  organizations;  one  sets 
general 
implementation at the local level.
the  others 
facilitate 
rules, 
and 
The  reforms  just  adopted  at  the  High-level
Plenary  Meeting  strengthen  the  unique  position  of  the
General  Assembly  as  the  guarantor  of  the  system(cid:146)s
coherence.
I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  Monaco  will
continue  resolutely  to  make  its  contribution,  however
modest, to building a better world, with full respect for
our differences.
The  President  (spoke  in  French): On  behalf  of
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the Secretary of
State of the Principality of Monaco for the statement he
has just made.
Address by His Excellency Mr. Ibrahim al-Jaafari,
Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq
The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Iraq.
Mr.  Ibrahim  al-Jaafari,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of Iraq, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President:
I  have  great  pleasure 
in
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ibrahim  al-Jaafari,
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq,  and  inviting
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Al-Jaafari  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  wish
first  of  all  to  express  my  sincerest  congratulations  to
you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
General  Assembly.  I  wish  you  success  in  performing
this  historic  and  humanitarian  mission  in  the  best
interests  of  humanity  at  large.  I  wish  also  to  express
my appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping for his efforts in the
framework  of  that  same  mission  and  goals  during  the
previous session of the Assembly.
I  come  from  Iraq,  the  cradle  of  civilization,  a
meeting  place  for  a  variety  of  nationalities,  religions,
creeds  and  political  ideas.  I  come  from  a  rich  and
35
A/60/PV.10
fertile  land  which  has  throughout  its  honourable  past
given the blood of its children, such as Al-Hussein and
subsequently  Al-Sadr,  to  protect  freedom  and  human
rights.
bombings  in  July,  that  number  dropped  to  nine  in
August  and  September.  Likewise,  the  number  of
assassinations  decreased  from  225  to  nine  in  the  past
two months.
This  is  a  unique  opportunity  for  me  to  make
heard  the  strong  voice  of  Iraq.  The  dictatorship  that
ruled  Iraq  in  the  past  tried  to  silence  that  voice  by
sowing  death  and  destruction.  Mass  graves  testify  to
that. Today it is the terrorists who are trying to silence
that voice. I have come here to deliver to the Assembly
a  message  from  my  nation,  to  convey  the  real  picture
of  the  new  Iraq  that  is  emerging,  the  power  of  its
determination  and  its  profound  love  and  feelings
towards all other nations.
that 
Iraq  is  now  dealing  with  various  new  realities.
Today  (cid:151)  released  from  the  restraints  of  a  35-year
dictatorship 
imposed  on  Iraq  one  political,
security, media and economic option and engendered a
real  Calvary  of  suffering  for  its  people  (cid:151)  Iraq  is
witnessing a different, multifaceted reality. Throughout
that period of great suffering and while the world stood
idly  by,  all  kinds  of  crimes  and  suppression  were
committed  against  Iraqis,  Iraqi  wealth  and  resources,
the environment, education, the justice system, culture
and civilization.
With  the  recent  successful  conclusion  of  our
political  journey  (cid:151)  in  record  time  and  in  spite  of  all
the  obstacles  and  challenges  facing  it  (cid:151)  the  Iraqi
people can justly be proud of their country and identity
today. Beginning with the elections on 30 January 2005
and  the  formation  of  the  Government  on  3  May,  and
despite  all  the  challenges  faced  over  the  past  three
months,  a  draft  constitution  was  written  and  will  be
presented to the Iraqi people for a vote on 15 October.
That referendum will allow the Iraqi people to express
its  will  and  allow  it  to  constitutionally  establish  the
rule  of  law  and  to  create  a  State  in  which  there  is
equality for all Iraqis.
The constitution will allow law and order, justice
and equality for all Iraqis. Iraqi women will be able to
participate actively in political life and will have their
rights restored, including the same right that men have
to  pass  on  their  nationality  to  their  children.  The
constitution  grants  religious  freedom,  freedom  of
speech, and the right to federal and regional autonomy.
We  are  marching  resolutely  towards  political
regaining
stability  and  economic  prosperity  and 
security and stability. While there were 61 terrorist car
36
On  9  September  the  Iraqi  military  attacked
terrorist hubs in Talafar to restore security and stability
there.  Our  forces  adhered  to  strict  rules  of  conduct,
doing  their  best  to  protect  innocent  civilians  in  that
town. Feeling the force of that operation, the terrorists
fled  to  commit  more  crimes  (cid:151)  this  time  in  the  brave
and heroic city of Khadimiya, where over 160 civilians
were killed on 14 September.
The Iraqi forces continue to build, to train and to
be equipped so that they can take control of all internal
security  matters  and  do  not  have  to  depend  on  the
multinational  forces  for  their  security.  However,  even
though some Iraqi cities are already prepared for it, the
time has not come for the Iraqi forces to be completely
independent. When we are ready and self-sufficient, we
will ask the multinational forces to leave our cities.
the 
Iraqi  people 
the  aspirations  of 
The  new  political  life  in  Iraq  is  committed  to
freedom  of  the  press,  freedom  of  expression,  the
separation  of  the  legislative,  executive,  and  judiciary
powers  and  the  reconstruction  of  Iraq,  as  well  as  to
realize 
to
development and progress. Oil production and exports
have  increased  along  with  the  number  of  employment
opportunities,  income  and  trade  exchange  for  Iraqis.
More  is  being  accomplished  in  public  services  and  in
health  care  and  ambitious  projects  are  under  way  to
reconstruct our infrastructure, especially in the areas of
home  and  road  construction.  Environmental  bureaux
have now declared the Iraqi provinces to be free from
radioactivity.
I therefore seize this opportunity to urge creditor
nations  to  help  us  by  cancelling  Iraqi  debt  or  loans.
That  debt  was  accumulated  under  the  corrupt  policies
of  the  previous  regime  and  the  Iraqi  people  have  had
no hand in it.
For  Iraq  to  recover  its  role  in  the  international
community  and  to  participate  effectively  in  defending
international peace and security and to combat the evil
scourge of terrorism, it must be allowed to rebuild and
to implement plans for the development, rehabilitation
and  the  rebuilding  of  its  infrastructure.  I  call  on  the
donor countries to meet their commitments undertaken
at  different  international  conferences,  including  in
Madrid, Brussels and, most recently, Jordan, to provide
financial aid to Iraq.
Iraq would like to pay tribute to the constructive
role of the United Nations in its special efforts to help
the  Iraqi  people  through  the  special  envoy  of  the
Secretary-General and the technical election assistance
team. While we highly appreciate those efforts, we are
also  looking  forward  to  having  the  United  Nations
return  to  Iraq  and  reopen  its  offices  and  agencies  in
order  to  support  the  reconstruction  and  development
process.
We also call upon the international community to
evaluate the need to adopt an international programme
to  protect  and  preserve 
fine  cultural  and
archaeological  heritage  and  shrines  of  Iraq,  whose
cities  are steeped in history, from  Sumer  and  Babylon
to the present.
the 
Today,  Iraq  is  both  a  witness  to  and  a  victim  of
the cruel, vicious and merciless attacks of international
terrorists,  who  began 
their  global  campaign  on
11 September 2001. Alarm bells are ringing in different
capitals around the world (cid:151) in Spain, Britain, Turkey,
Egypt,  Jordan,  Lebanon,  and  Saudi  Arabia  (cid:151)  as  we
have all witnessed. Iraq was afflicted with that scourge
under  Saddam(cid:146)s  regime,  whose  policy  was  to  rule  or
destroy  people  and  property  with  all  types  of  lethal
weapons. Today the Iraqi people are paying the price of
countering terrorism, because it is their homes that are
on the frontlines of the battle. The world must support
Iraqis  in  fighting  the  war  against  terrorism  and  the
remnants  of  the  Baath  regime  so  that  it  can  move
towards democracy.
In  order  to  deal  effectively  and  radically  with
terrorism, we must agree on a definition of a number of
elements that are closely related to it, including suicide
and the culture of terrorism, the financing of terrorism,
advocacy  and  propaganda  that  attempt  to  legitimize
terrorism,  perpetrators  of  terrorist  acts  and  State
terrorism.
No  country  is  free  of  terrorism  today.  Any
country can be a victim of terrorism at any time. We all
face  this  common  threat.  It  brooks  no  boundaries;  the
geography  of  terrorism  envelopes  all  humanity.  We
must therefore lend a hand to those who are paying the
price  of  terrorism  and  to  its  victims.  Because  of  the
interdependence  of  nations,  what  happens  in  one
country  cannot  fail  to  have  repercussions  in  others.
There  is  also  a  need  to  draw  a  distinction  between
A/60/PV.10
natural disasters and terrorist disasters caused by man.
The former are often uncontrollable. When they occur
the entire world mobilizes to provide assistance to the
affected  countries,  as  we  witnessed  in  the  case  of  last
December(cid:146)s  Asian  tsunami  and  the  recent  Hurricane
Katrina in Louisiana. But the calamities of terrorism, if
allowed, will be as devastating as natural disasters. We
need  to  raise  awareness  and  work  together  to  put  an
end to terrorism and to alleviate its destructive impact.
In  this  regard,  we  want  to  express  our  warmest
thanks to the people of the United States and to all the
other  peoples  who  have  supported  us.  We  must  join
efforts  to  triumph  over  terrorism,  because  those  who
win this victory will be able to help others as well. The
Iraqi  people  are  in  the  forefront  of  the  counter-
terrorism  struggle.  Why  do  those  countries  that  send
suicide  bombers  not  send  their  young  people  to  do
humanitarian  work  to  contribute  to  the  reconstruction
of  Iraq  instead  of  sending  them  to  kill  children,  to
destabilize Iraq and its security? Why do they not send
funds to invest in Iraq, so that the common interests of
our peoples and theirs may be achieved and so that the
stay  of  the  multinational  forces  may  be  shortened?
Why do the news agencies in these countries not relay
the  achievements  of  the  new  Iraq  and  convey  the  real
picture of the terrorist offensive, which targets popular
markets  and  civilian  gatherings,  instead  of  inciting
media  reports  that  distort  facts  and  falsify  realities?
But prior to that, we call upon neighbouring countries
to  stand  by  our  people  and  prevent  terrorists  from
entering  Iraq,  and  to  commit  themselves  to  protecting
our  common  borders  for  the  safety  and  well-being  of
our  peoples.  We  seek  to  establish  the  best  possible
relations  with  all  countries,  especially  neighbouring
ones, in order to promote the best interests of all and to
safeguard national sovereignty and protect it from any
foreign interference.
I would like now to touch on the most important
political  problems  and  the  need  for  these  problems  to
be resolved peacefully in accordance with international
agreements  and  treaties.  We  call  for  a  fair  and  just
solution  to  the  political  problems  in  the  Middle  East,
and  in  particular  the  Palestinian  question,  so  that  this
region  and  all  regions  of  the  world  will  be  free  from
weapons of mass destruction and nuclear weapons. We
also must affirm the legitimate right of the Palestinian
people  to  establish  a  sovereign  State,  ensuring  them  a
life of dignity lived in freedom in a climate of peace in
their  own  territory.  We  must  all  work  to  spread  the
37
A/60/PV.10
culture  of  love,  peace  and  coexistence  instead  of  the
culture of hatred, war, vindictiveness and terrorism.
aspire 
children 
Iraq,  whose 
to  political,
economic,  security  and  developmental  reconstruction,
wants  fully  to  assume  its  responsibility,  both  regional
and  international,  to  safeguard  peace  and  security
throughout  the  region  and  in  the  world.  Iraq  pays
tribute  to  the  United  Nations,  which  has  provided  the
world  with  a  broad  umbrella  to  prevent  wars  and
resolve  conflicts.  The  world 
is  constantly
changing,  and  this  requires  dynamic  changes  in  the
structure, decision-making and working methods of the
United Nations so it can cope with new world realities
and  meet  its  obligations.  Iraq  is  undergoing  difficult
times, but its aspirations are just and we therefore hope
that you  will give Iraq your  support  and  that  you  will
display solidarity with Iraq, especially as we are on the
verge  of  adopting  our  permanent  constitution,  a
constitution that can ensure independence and a life of
democracy, coexistence, love and tolerance for all.
today 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of Iraq for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Ibrahim  al-Jaafari,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of Iraq, was escorted from the rostrum.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency
Ms. Laila  Freivalds,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Sweden.
Ms. Freivalds (Sweden): A small boy on the run
remains vividly in my mind today, a boy with eyes that
have seen more horror than most of us in this Hall have
ever seen, a boy whom all of us have failed.
There  are  thousands  of  children  like  him  in
Darfur.  I  met  him  when  I  visited  areas  of  fear,
suffering, hunger and senseless violence. We owe that
boy  in  Darfur  more:  better  performance;  a  stronger
connection between our declarations and our actions.
We  have  tools  to  prevent  armed  conflicts.  We
have  made  many  commitments  to  end  oppression,
radically  reduce  poverty  and  protect  our  environment.
We have cures for many of the diseases that continue to
kill.  The  challenge  before  us  is  to  use  instruments  for
peace, development and human rights, and to transform
our commitments into real action.
Cooperation  across  borders  is  not  just  a  good
truly  global
is  a  must.  And  for 
the 
it 
idea (cid:151) 
38
challenges,  the  United  Nations  is  indispensable.  Our
joint commitment to the Charter of the United Nations
is an excellent starting point But as new threats emerge
and  the  world  evolves,  the  United  Nations  must  also
adapt.
We  need  a  multilateralism  that  is  effective,  with
institutions that have teeth and a strong political will to
make  them  work.  We  need  a  multilateralism  that  is
based  on  common  principles,  not  on  the  lowest
common denominator of the day. We need a rule-based
international order, applicable to all.
This is a crucial year for the United Nations. The
Secretary-General  has,  with  great  courage  and  vision,
led  the  way.  The  outcome  of  the  summit  sets  the
direction.  This  session  of  the  General  Assembly  has
been  given  the  responsibility  of  following  up  on
important  decisions.  We  must  together  achieve  real
results in a number of areas. Let me highlight some of
the main challenges.
The  first  challenge  is  to  make  progress  on  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Millions  of
people  still  suffer  from  extreme  poverty.  Important
progress has been made towards the goal of eradicating
poverty,  but  we  need  to  do  better.  All  developed
countries  should  make  timetables  for  reaching  the
target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  for
international development assistance by the year 2015.
Sweden  will  reach  its  one  per  cent  target  next  year.
Equally  important  is  that  all  countries  live  up  to  the
commitments  on  aid  effectiveness,  to  our  agreements
from Monterrey and to our promises to find new ways
of financing development.
Better  progress  in  preventing  maternal  and  child
mortality is vital for reaching many of the MDGs. We
must  renew  our  commitment  of  universal  access  to
reproductive health care by 2015 and give more focus
to  sexual  and  reproductive  health  care  and  rights.
Market  access  for  goods  and  services  must  be
substantially  improved  for  poor  countries.  Trade-
distorting subsidies need to be phased out. Sweden will
continue to work for reduced agricultural subsidies and
to press for speedy implementation of the development
dimension of the Doha work programme.
While the developed world can and should play a
bigger part in order to reach the MDGs, the developing
countries  bear  the  critical  responsibility  for  their  own
development.  The  importance  for  the  sustainability  of
development  efforts  of  good  governance,  well-
functioning democratic institutions and full respect for
human 
law  cannot  be
underestimated.
rights  and 
rule  of 
the 
The  second  challenge  is  to  halt  climate  change.
Awareness of the connection between the way we live
our  lives,  particularly  in  the  industrialized  world,  and
its  effects  on  the  long-term  survival  of  our  planet  is
today  greater  than  ever.  But  action  is  still  much  too
limited. It is deeply regrettable that no firm agreement
on  the  way  forward  was  reached  at  the  summit.  All
parties to the Kyoto Protocol and to the United Nations
Climate  Change  Convention  must  continue 
to
implement their commitments. There is also a need to
urgently initiate a process aimed at controlling climate
change beyond the year 2012.
The 
is 
to  combat 
third  challenge 
terrorism
together. Terrorism has taken the lives of thousands of
innocent people. One of our most urgent priorities must
be to stop and prevent terrorism. It remains a threat to
all  of  us.  We  need  to  address  these  threats  together,
with  a  broad  strategy,  and  with  respect  for  human
rights.  The  outcome  of  the  summit  has  given  us  a
platform  to  build  on.  The  United  Nations  should  now
take  the  lead  in  developing  a  comprehensive  counter-
terrorism  strategy  based  on  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
excellent  work.  We  must 
a
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism,
including a legal definition, during the sixtieth session
of the General Assembly.
conclude 
also 
The fourth  challenge is to better  promote  human
rights. Human rights are violated throughout the world,
creating enormous suffering and affecting both security
and development. Human rights must be mainstreamed
in  all  United  Nations  work  as  a  core  task  of  the
Organization. Sweden welcomes the decision to create
a  Human  Rights  Council.  That  Council  will  need  a
strong mandate to  address  any  human  rights  situation,
respond to urgent human rights violations and monitor
compliance  by  all  States  with  their  human  rights
obligations. We must all join in efforts to establish an
effective and legitimate Human Rights Council during
the sixtieth session.
The  summit  made  a  strong  commitment  to  our
common  responsibility  to  protect.  We  must  now  act
accordingly. The world has a responsibility to react in
order to prevent genocide, ethnic cleansing and crimes
against humanity. The Security Council must be ready
to  take  responsibility  if  and  when  a  State  cannot  give
A/60/PV.10
its citizens the necessary protection. However, it is not
just a question of acknowledging the obligation to act;
it is also a question of being prepared to actually do so.
The fifth challenge is to implement commitments
on  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  Weapons  of
mass  destruction  could  kill  all  of  us  here,  all  at  once.
They  could  wipe  out  villages,  cities  and  entire
populations  in  seconds.  Yet  we  still  do  not  take  the
threat seriously enough. It should have been made clear
at the summit that disarmament commitments are to be
implemented  and  that  non-proliferation  undertakings
are to be complied with. The countries in possession of
nuclear  weapons  have  a  special  responsibility  to
disarm.  At  the  summit,  decisions  should  have  been
taken  to  strengthen  verification.  There  should  have
been  commitments  to  make  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  other
arms  conventions  universal.  Negotiation  processes
should have been given a boost by the summit. None of
that actually happened.
Sweden looks forward to the recommendations of
the Weapons of Mass Destruction Commission, chaired
by  Mr.  Hans  Blix.  The  failure  to  address  the  threat
posed  by  weapons  of  mass  destruction  leaves  us  with
an immensely important task ahead.
The  sixth  challenge  is  to  put  the  Peacebuilding
Commission in place promptly. Far too many people in
war-torn  countries  have  seen  a  fragile  peace  relapse
into  new  conflict.  With  the  establishment  of  the
Peacebuilding  Commission,  the  United  Nations  is
better equipped to build peace in war-torn societies and
to  prevent  countries  from  relapsing  into  war.  In  order
to  be  successful,  the  Commission  needs  to  draw  on
lessons  from  international  peace  efforts.  Regional
organizations  will  have  important  contributions  to
make.  The  Peacebuilding  Commission  needs  a  well-
balanced 
donor
countries. Let us establish this Commission before the
end  of  the  year.  Sweden  is  ready  to  do  its  part,
including  through  the  swift  provision  of  financial
contributions.
including  major 
composition, 
The  seventh  challenge  is  to  reform  the  Security
Council and the Secretariat. United Nations reform will
not  be  complete  without  Security  Council  reform.  If
the  decisions  of  the  Council  are  to  be  accepted  as
legitimate  and  effectively  implemented,  the  Council
needs  to  better  represent  the  world  of  today.  In
addition, 
effectiveness  must  be
the  Council(cid:146)s 
39
A/60/PV.10
safeguarded. There should be no extension of the right
of veto, and the use of the veto should be limited. The
reform  of  the  United  Nations  also  requires  the  reform
of  the  Secretariat.  The  summit  took  several  important
decisions  on  management  reform.  Those  include  a
review of internal rules, regulations and mandates and
the  strengthening  of  the  oversight  system.  But  greater
flexibility  must  be  given  to  the  Secretary-General  in
managing  staff  and  resources.  That  would  not  only
make  the  Secretariat  more  efficient,  but  it  would  also
enable Member States to focus more on strategic issues
and make the Organization more dynamic.
The summit has provided essential momentum for
more  effective  multilateralism.  The  legacy  of  our
efforts  will  continue  to  be  determined  during  the
sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  During  the
months ahead the task can be completed (cid:151) the task to
create  a  United  Nations  capable  of  facing 
the
challenges of our time.
In  conclusion,  let  me  return  to  the  subject  with
which I began: Darfur. The United Nations must, above
all, serve the interests of the boy that I met there and of
all  the  other  children,  as  well  as  the  husbands,  the
wives,  the  grandparents  (cid:151)  men  and  women  of  this
world who lack security, hope and human dignity. That
is our mission.
The  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Nobutaka  Machimura,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Japan.
Mr. Machimura (Japan): I should like,  first  and
foremost, to convey, once again, my sincere sympathy
in  connection  with  the  victims  of  the  devastation
caused by Hurricane Katrina.
Allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your
election to the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at
its sixtieth session. I would also like to pay high tribute
to  Mr. 
for  his
distinguished leadership.
Jean  Ping,  your  predecessor, 
The  60-year  history  of  the  United  Nations  has
been a pathway towards a peaceful, prosperous and just
world. The path followed by Japan during that time has
been, indeed, that of a nation striving for an honoured
place  among  peace-loving  nations.  Building  upon  the
determination that it will never again follow the path to
war,  Japan  has  pursued,  and  will  continue  to  pursue,
international peace and stability in partnership with the
United Nations.
40
Japan  needs  an  effective  and  efficient  United
Nations  and  strongly  endorses  the  outcome  document
of the summit. To that end, our leaders(cid:146) commitments,
as  expressed  in  the  document,  must  be  translated  into
action  with  the  utmost  urgency.  Japan  will  spare  no
effort in that endeavour.
The new United Nations must be equipped with a
better peacebuilding capacity. We expect the proposed
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  help  to  achieve  that
objective.  To  that  end,  Japan  will  continue  to  play  a
constructive role, making full use of its experience and
resources.
In  the  Gaza  Strip,  the  reconstruction  effort  after
the  Israeli  withdrawal  has  been  crucial.  Japan  has
implemented  more 
than  $110  million  worth  of
assistance  since  the  beginning  of  this  year,  in  the
fervent  hope  that  we  will  now  see  the  resumption  of
the road map.
As  the  largest  donor  to  the  Trust  Fund  for  Iraqi
reconstruction,  Japan  has  devoted  its  energies  to
bringing  together  the  international  community  in  the
reconstruction  effort.  Humanitarian  and  reconstruction
assistance by Japan(cid:146)s Self-Defence Forces and official
development  assistance  (ODA)  are  contributing  in
tandem to progress towards a peaceful and prosperous
Iraq. Japan has pledged ODA amounting to $5 billion,
of  which  $1.5  billion  in  grant  assistance  has  already
been implemented.
for 
disarmament, 
demobilization 
Japan  has  taken  the  lead  in  assisting  the  Afghan
efforts 
and
reintegration  (DDR),  in  conjunction  with  the  United
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
As  a  result,  about  63,000  ex-combatants  are 
to
complete  the  reintegration  programme  by  the  end  of
next  June.  Japanese  Self-Defence  Forces  vessels  are
engaged in activities in the Indian Ocean in support of
the  countries  fighting  against  terrorism.  Japan  has
announced that its contribution will total $1 billion by
the end of March 2006, including assistance in the field
of security.
It  is  essential  to  ensure  a  sense  of  justice  in  a
society  struggling  to  recover  from  its  suffering  in  the
aftermath  of  conflict.  In  the  area  of  establishing  the
rule of law, Japan, in cooperation with the Government
of Cambodia, has taken the lead in setting up a tribunal
to 
the  Khmer  Rouge,  with  a
contribution of over $20 million.
try  members  of 
Sixty summers have passed since  Hiroshima  and
Nagasaki suffered the indescribable horrors of nuclear
devastation. Japan again  calls upon  all Member States
to renew their determination to bring about a peaceful
world free of nuclear weapons.
To  that  end,  Japan  will  submit  a  draft  resolution
to the General Assembly presenting a concrete agenda
to  strengthen  the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation
regime, including a call for the early entry into force of
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  (CTBT).
In that regard, it is extremely regrettable that the 2005
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation 
(NPT)
concluded  without  adopting  a  consensus  document  on
substantive  issues,  and  that  the  outcome  document
found  no  consensus  on  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation.
of  Nuclear  Weapons 
The  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea(cid:146)s
nuclear  programmes  pose  a  serious  challenge  to  the
international  non-proliferation  regime,  centring  on  the
NPT,  and  constitute  a  direct  threat  to  peace  and
stability  in  North-East  Asia.  Japan  is  committed  to  a
peaceful resolution of the nuclear issue through the six-
party  talks  and  strongly  hopes  that  the  Democratic
People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea will accept the prompt and
verifiable dismantlement of all its nuclear weapons and
nuclear  programmes  at  the  current  round  of  talks  in
Beijing.  Japan  will  continue  to  make  every  effort  to
ensure  that  the  nuclear  issue,  along  with  the  missile
and  abduction  issues,  is  comprehensively  resolved  in
accordance with the Pyongyang Declaration.
Japan  believes  that  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue
should be resolved through negotiations by diplomatic
means.  To  that  end,  Japan  strongly  urges  Iran  to
implement, in a spirit of sincerity, all the requirements
set  out  in  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  Board  of  Governors,
including  the  full  suspension  of  uranium  conversion
activities, and to return to the negotiating table with the
three European Union States.
In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  countless
tragedies  caused  by  terrorist  acts.  Japan,  for  its  part,
has continued to provide assistance to countries in need
of  capacity-building  in  the  area  of  counter-terrorism.
To consolidate the international legal framework, Japan
calls  on  Member  States  to  join  international  counter-
terrorism  conventions  and  protocols,  including  the
A/60/PV.10
newly  adopted 
Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
International  Convention 
for 
the
for 
the 
the 
promotion 
Development provides a foundation for peace and
stability.  The  new  United  Nations  must  serve  as  an
effective  Organization 
of
development.  Having  recovered  from  the  devastation
of the Second World War with global assistance, Japan
is  in  a  better  position  than  any  other  country  to
significance  of  ownership  and
demonstrate 
partnership,  poverty 
through  economic
growth, and human security in promoting development.
The concept of human security (cid:151) focusing on the
protection and empowerment of individuals (cid:151) offers a
meaningful  approach  in  a  world  striving  for  freedom
and  dignity.  The  concept  also  provides  an  important
viewpoint  with  respect  to  the  protection  of  human
rights.  I  look  forward  to  forthcoming  discussions  on
this concept in the General Assembly, to which leaders
committed themselves in the outcome document.
reduction 
Based on its experiences as a recipient, and also a
donor  for  more  than  a  half  century,  Japan  has  been
keen  to  make  an  impact  on  world  development  and
thus  has  contributed  one-fifth  of  world  ODA  over  the
past 10 years. Japan is resolved to continue its support
for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs).  To  that  end,  Japan  intends  to  increase  its
ODA volume by $10 billion over the next five years.
three  years  and  host 
For the achievement of the MDGs, addressing the
issues  facing  Africa  is  critically  important.  As  Prime
Minister  Koizumi  announced  during  the  Asia-Africa
summit,  Japan  will  double  its  ODA  to  Africa  in  the
next 
fourth  Tokyo
International  Conference  on  African  Development
(TICAD)  meeting  in  2008.  In  an  effort  to  support
Africans(cid:146)  own  efforts 
to  bring  about  peace  and
stability,  Japan  has  devoted 
the
consolidation of peace in such countries as the Sudan,
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Sierra  Leone,
Burundi and Liberia.
its  energies 
the 
to 
With  respect  to  the  Sudan,  Japan  has  decided  to
disburse  more  than  half  of  its  pledged  assistance  of
$100 million, with a contribution of personnel through
the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Sudan  (UNMIS).
Furthermore,  to  address  the  humanitarian  crisis  in
Africa  and  in  other  regions  caused  by  infectious
diseases,  Japan  has  announced  $500  million 
in
financial assistance in the coming years for the Global
Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  Japan
41
A/60/PV.10
will contribute $5 billion over the next five years to the
(cid:147)Health  and  Development(cid:148)  Initiative.  Japan  has  also
taken  steps  to  address  the  (cid:147)forgotten  crises(cid:148)  in  Africa
and will continue to focus on those issues.
At  no  other  time  in  its  history  has  an  effective,
efficient  and  credible  United  Nations  been  more
needed  than  today.  The  credibility  of  the  United
Nations is at stake. The basic structure of the Security
Council continues to reflect the world of 1945. Reform
of  the  Security  Council  therefore  remains  key  to
achieving  the  overall  renewal  of  the  United  Nations.
The  fact  that  an  overwhelming  majority  of  Member
States  (cid:151)  166  countries  in  all  (cid:151)  called  for  Security
Council  reform  during  the  previous  session  of  the
General Assembly is a testament to the urgent need for
reform.
For  the  first  time  in  the  60-year  history  of  the
United  Nations,  during  the  last  General  Assembly
session  we  witnessed 
the  submission  of  draft
resolutions  calling  for  fundamental  change  in  the
composition of the Security Council. Japan is proud to
have  taken  the  lead  in  promoting  Security  Council
reform. It is encouraging, as well, that a large number
of leaders at the recent summit expressed their support
for reform.
I  believe 
that  Japan(cid:146)s  path  of  striving  for
international  peace  speaks  for  itself,  and  should  serve
as the basis for a larger role for Japan as a permanent
member  of  a  reformed  Security  Council.  I  can  assure
you, Mr. President, that Japan will continue to make its
utmost  effort 
the  reform  under  your
to  realize 
leadership.  And  I  call  on  Member  States  to  reach  an
early decision at this session of the General Assembly.
The new United Nations requires an efficient and
effective  Secretariat,  with  a  strong  sense  of  integrity.
Japan  is deeply  concerned  about  recent  developments,
including the failure  over the oil-for-food programme.
The  management  and  administration  of  the  United
Nations system must be transparent and accountable to
Member States and their citizens. In this regard, Japan
will  promote  and  conduct  more  comprehensive
performance evaluation of United Nations activities.
With  respect  to  the  anachronistic  (cid:147)enemy  State(cid:148)
clauses, I am pleased to note that the leaders resolved
in  the  outcome  document  (resolution  60/1)  to  delete
these  obsolete  clauses  from  the  Charter  at  the  earliest
opportunity.
A  comprehensive  review  is  also  needed  in  order
to  reach  agreement  on  a  scale  of  assessment  structure
that  is  more  equitable  and  fair.  Japan  will  actively
participate  in  the  negotiations  to  be  concluded  by  the
end of next year. In the upcoming negotiation process,
Japan  will  make  its  utmost  effort  to  ensure  that  the
status and responsibilities  of  a  Member  State  are  duly
taken into account in the scale of assessments.
We  have  embarked  on  a  mission  to  renew  the
United Nations. A great deal of work lies ahead. I call
upon  all  representatives  in  this  Hall  to  dedicate
themselves  to  accomplishing  this  unfinished  mission
by  the  close  of  this  commemorative  session  of  the
General Assembly.
The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m.
42
