United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
55th plenary meeting
Monday, 28 November 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.55
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hachani
(Tunisia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
(a) Oceans and the law of the sea
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/60/63 and
Add.1 and Add.2 and A/60/91)
Report of the United Nations Open-ended
Informal Consultative Process on Oceans and
the Law of the Sea at its sixth meeting (A/60/99)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.22)
(b) Sustainable fisheries, including through the
1995 Agreement for the Implementation of the
Provisions of the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
relating to the Conservation and Management
of Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory
Fish Stocks, and related instruments
Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/189)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.23)
Mr. Ozawa (Japan): Today the number of States
parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of
the  Sea  is  149,  and  there  are  122  States  parties  to  the
Agreement  on  the  Implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the
Convention. We are pleased to see that these numbers
are  growing  and  that  the  Convention  is  coming  to  be
widely accepted by the international community. Japan
believes  that  the  role  of  the  Convention  is  becoming
increasingly  important  as  the  international  community
faces  a  range  of  new  issues,  including  the  increase  in
transnational  crimes  such  as  terrorism,  piracy  and
illegal  trafficking  in  drugs,  and  the  growing  pressures
on  the  marine  environment.  Each  of  these  new  issues
needs  to  be  addressed  in  a  manner  that  respects  the
spirit and provisions of the Convention.
Japan,  a  seafaring  nation  with  a  vast  exclusive
economic  zone  and  continental  shelf,  is  committed  to
the United Nations Conference  on the Law of the Sea
and  to  the  organs  established  under  it,  namely,  the
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the
International Seabed Authority and the Commission on
the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf.  As  the  largest
contributor,  we  have  actively  participated  in  the  work
of those organs and intend to contribute further to their
activities.
With regard to the Tribunal, Japan attaches great
importance to its role in the maintenance of order and
stability  with  respect  to  the  ocean.  Japan  is  willing  to
work  steadily  to  establish  and  strengthen  the  rule  of
law  and  the  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of
conflicts through support for the Tribunal’s activities.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-61852 (E)
*0561852*
A/60/PV.55
to 
facilitate 
in  order 
With regard  to  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of
the  Continental  Shelf,  the  omnibus  draft  resolution
recognizes  how  important  it  is  for  States  to  exchange
views 
the  preparation  of
submissions to the Commission. To that end, Japan, in
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  University,  is
planning  to  host  a  symposium  on  scientific  and
technical  aspects  of  the  establishment  of  the  outer
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical
miles, to be held in Tokyo from 6 to 7 March 2006. We
hope that many States will be able to participate in that
symposium.
The  world  continues  to  be  plagued  by  threats  of
piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea.  We  may  recall  the
hijacking  of  a  World  Food  Programme  ship  carrying
food  assistance  in  the  waters  off  the  coast  of  Somalia
in June this year. Last year, there were more than 300
incidents  of  piracy  around  the  world,  nearly  half  of
which occurred in Asia.
Japan  is  pleased  to  note  that  the  Regional
Cooperation  Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and
Armed  Robbery  against  Ships  in  Asia  was  adopted  in
Tokyo  last  November  after  active  negotiations  that
lasted  more  than  three  years.  Japan  took  the  initiative
in  proposing  that  agreement,  believing  that  it  would
strengthen 
regional  cooperation  among  maritime
security  organizations  to  establish  an  information-
sharing system and a cooperative network dedicated to
combating  piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea.  Japan,
which signed that Agreement in April this year, hopes
it  will  not  only  contribute  to  enhanced  cooperation
among  States  parties  in  Asia  but  will  also  serve  as  a
model of regional cooperation.
Allow  me  to  speak  on  the  subject  of  the  marine
environment.  Surrounded  by  the  sea,  Japan  considers
the  preservation  of  the  marine  environment  to  be
extremely  important.  The  issue  of  marine  debris  in
particular is an urgent matter, as noted in the omnibus
draft  resolution.  The  problem  should  be  tackled  at
various 
is
considering  making  use  of  the  framework  of  the
Northwest Pacific Action Plan.
level,  Japan 
levels.  At 
regional 
the 
As a responsible fishing State and a State party to
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea,
Japan  is  earnest  about  addressing  conservation  and
management  problems,  as  well  as  sustainable  use
issues  related  to  living  marine  resources,  including
straddling fish stocks and highly migratory fish stocks.
2
Those  efforts  have  been  implemented  individually,
bilaterally and multilaterally.
Japan 
is  seriously  concerned  about 
illegal,
unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishery activities and
issues  related  to  the  overcapacity  of  global  fisheries,
which  are  becoming  increasingly  serious  despite  the
efforts  being  made  to  promote  the  sustainable  use  of
living  marine  resources.  My  Government  has  shown
that it is committed to eliminating IUU fishing in order
to conserve the marine ecosystem.
In that regard, we would like to stress once again
the importance of basing our discussions of the issues
of conservation and management and of the sustainable
use  of  living  marine  resources  on  scientific  evidence
provided by competent organizations such as the Food
and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations
and  the  regional  fisheries  management  organizations.
We  believe 
the
required  specialized  expertise  to  provide  accurate
assessments  and  thus  offer  a  better  forum  than  the
United Nations for such discussions.
that  regional  organizations  have 
In our view, operative paragraph 46 of the omnibus
draft  resolution  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea
(A/60/L.22), which deals with the transport of radioactive
materials,  unfortunately  does  not  reflect  the  spirit  or
the substance of the series  of  thorough  discussions  on
this  issue  conducted  by  the  International  Atomic
Energy  Agency  and  relevant  organizations.  Although
Japan will not make an objection on that point, we do
wish to express our dissatisfaction on that matter.
In  concluding,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  that  Japan  will
continue  to  contribute  to  the  stability  of  the  legal
framework on ocean affairs and, by so doing, promote
the
the  sea  by 
prudent  and  equitable  use  of 
in  accordance  with 
international  community, 
the
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea.
Mr.  Panggabean  (Indonesia):  At  the  outset,  I
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive
reports  on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on
sustainable fisheries.
We are all aware that management of our oceans
is a complex and multidimensional undertaking, which
will  become  ever  more  complex  as  technological
progress  opens  the  door  to  further  exploration  of  the
potential benefits of the ocean.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  oceans
and the law of the sea demonstrates that there is more
to  the  sea  than  the  exploitation  of  traditional  natural
resources such as fisheries, oil and gas. The sea offers
other  economically  valuable  benefits  to  be  exploited,
such as genetic and biological resources.
That  presents  us  with  the  challenge  of  ensuring
the  availability  of  those  resources  in  the  long  run.
Already,  related  issues  have  emerged,  ranging  from
protecting  the  environment  to  sharing  the  benefits.  In
my  delegation’s  view, 
to  be
approached 
taking  social,
economic  and  environmental  aspects  into  account  in
order  to  ensure  the  sustainable  use  of  the  oceans  for
future generations.
in  a  holistic  manner, 
the  problems  have 
All  that  was  not  entirely  anticipated  when  the
Convention  was  concluded  in  1982.  However,  my
delegation  reaffirms  Indonesia’s  conviction  that  the
Convention serves as the main international instrument
on ocean affairs for governing all activities relating to the
use and the utilization of the oceans. The draft resolution
under  consideration  reflects  that  acknowledgement  by
the
reaffirming  our  commitment 
Convention’s 
that
consideration, my delegation is pleased to learn of the
progress  made  by  various  institutions  in  the  field  in
their efforts to meet the objectives of the Convention.
to  preserving 
light  of 
integrity. 
In 
the 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  progress  made  by
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf
in  considering  the  submissions  of  several  coastal
States. We also commend the initiative of the Division
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea of convening
a series of workshops in various regions to disseminate
manuals and technical guidelines for delineation of the
outer  limits  of  the  continental  shelf  of  coastal  States.
The  workshops  made  a  valuable  contribution,  in
particular by assisting developing  countries to prepare
their  submissions  and  thus  meet  the  time  frame
designated by the Commission.
We  also  attach  great  importance  to  the  work  of
the  International  Seabed  Authority.  My  delegation  is
pleased at the progress that has been achieved so far in
the  management  of  the  resources  of  the  seabed  area
beyond national jurisdiction. Its decision last August to
provide modalities for the participation of experts from
developing  countries  in  research  activities  carried  out
in  the  Area  by  the  pioneer  investors  is,  indeed,
consistent  with  the  objectives  of  technology  transfer
and  sharing  the  benefits  of  the  ocean  as  the  common
heritage of mankind.
A/60/PV.55
In  addition  to  providing  details  relating  to  the
new  utilization  of  sea  resources,  the  report  also
indicates persistent threats to commercial vessels. Acts
of  piracy  and  armed  robbery  at  sea  are  still  a  major
problem  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  The  situation
presents  a  challenge  to  the  international  community,
which  must  find  effective  means  to  combat  that
menace.  Some  analysts  have  gone  further  by  linking
terrorists and sea robbers, arguing that they could join
forces and together wreak havoc in vital straits used for
international navigation.
My  delegation  is  fully  aware  that  the  safety  of
navigation in such straits is a key and vital element in
promoting  foreign  trade.  We  are  also  fully  aware  of
concerns  about  the  seriousness  of  threats  to  maritime
security brought to light by reports relating to terrorist
networks  and  individual  terrorists  linked  to  Al-Qaida.
Terrorists and sea robbers should be taken seriously as
a matter of security. However, my delegation is of the
view that we should not take  an  alarmist approach, as
that would inadvertently encourage the terrorists.
While  acknowledging  the  important  war  against
terrorist  acts  in  all  their  forms  and  manifestations,  we
should  not  lose  sight  of  the  importance  of  upholding
the  rule  of  law  in  conformity  with  international  law.
Only  by  means  of  concerted  multilateral  efforts  can
States  effectively  combat  terrorism.  As  a  result,  the
international  community  should  respect  the  primary
responsibility  and  sovereign  right  of  littoral  States  in
their  efforts  to  ensure  the  safety  of  navigation  and
maritime security in the area.
In 
that  connection,  Indonesia, 
together  with
Malaysia and Singapore, has intensified its cooperation
through  the  Tripartite  Technical  Expert  Group  on  the
safety  of  navigation.  Our  most  recent  meeting,  which
took place in Batam, Indonesia, in August, produced an
understanding  whereby  we  recognized  the  importance
of  and  welcomed  closer  collaboration  with 
the
international community.
In  the  context  of  their  collaboration  with  the
International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO),  the  three
countries  further  engaged  in  broader  consultation  and
dialogue with other interested States and major shipping
industry  actors  at  a  meeting  in  Jakarta  on  7  September
2005. The conclusions of that meeting are contained in
document  A/60/529,  and  my  delegation  is  pleased  to
share 
the  context  of
strengthening  the  safety  of  navigation  and  maritime
them  with  members. 
In 
3
A/60/PV.55
security in the area, we further commend the assistance
of the IMO in facilitating the Marine Electronic Highway
project for the Straits of Malacca and Singapore.
In  view  of  the  importance  of  fisheries  for  our
economy, Indonesia welcomes the fact that the review
conference of the 1995 Fish Stocks Agreement will be
held  next  year.  In  connection  with  that  review,  the
related  draft  resolution  invites  all  States  to  participate
on an equal footing in a preparatory meeting to be held
early next year.
The  Agreement  provides  a  framework  for  the
conservation and management of fish stocks in the high
seas.  To  that  end,  it  obliges  States  to  practise  caution
when  managing  fish  stocks  and  their  ecosystems,  as
well  as  to  minimize  activities  that  are  harmful  to  the
oceans. However, noting the lack of State participation
in the Agreement, my delegation is of the view that the
review 
should  be  directed  at 
the
impediments to States’ accession to it.
identifying 
We  believe 
that  strengthening 
international
fisheries  governance  by  filling  existing  gaps  in  the
Agreement should not be conducted in such a way as to
discourage States from joining the Agreement. It would
be helpful to reflect on paragraph 12 of the Secretary-
General’s  report  (A/60/189),  which 
that
article  21  of  the  Agreement  has  never  been  applied
sensu  stricto.  We  look  forward  to  a  discussion  on  the
matter next year.
indicates 
Indonesia  is  fully  aware  of  the  importance  of
continued  efforts  by  the  international  community  to
find  a  constructive  approach  to  addressing  various
issues relating to ocean affairs and the law of the sea. It
is therefore a distinct pleasure for my delegation to co-
sponsor  draft  resolution  A/60/L.22  on  oceans  and  the
law of the sea.
Before  concluding,  my  delegation  wishes  to
express  its  appreciation  to  coordinators  Mr.  Marcos
Almeida of Brazil and Ms. Holly Koehler of the United
States,  as  well  as  to  the  countries  that  contributed  to
the  consultations  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation.  It  is  our
sincere  hope  that  all  Member  States  will  support  the
draft resolution.
Ms.  Ridgeway  (Canada):  Canada  is  pleased  to
offer its perspectives on the challenges relating to this
important agenda item.
The  commitments  manifested 
the  action-
oriented  draft  resolutions  on  sustainable  fisheries  and
in 
4
on the law of the sea,  which Canada is  pleased to co-
sponsor,  come  at  a  critical  and  complex  time  for
fisheries  and  for  the  law  of  the  sea.  The  need  for
concrete, concerted and coherent actions that live up to
our  commitments  relating  to  the  conservation  and
sustainable use of oceans and their resources has never
been so pressing.
(spoke in French)
Canada, which has coastline on three oceans —the
longest coastline in the world — has a significant stake in
ensuring success. Our history and trade are inextricably
linked  with  the  sea.  Our  oceans  and  their  resources
provide  a  foundation  for  our  coastal  communities  and
play a key role in our identity as Canadians.
Current  statistics  on  the  state  of  the  world’s
fisheries  and  various  reports  setting  out  the  threats  to
oceans resources and biodiversity are well known. The
increased  vulnerability  of 
their
resources is a reality that has mobilized attention from
various  perspectives  —  citizens,  communities,  those
who  rely  on  such  resources  for  their  livelihoods,
international organizations, academia and civil society.
(spoke in English)
the  oceans  and 
We have committed ourselves to addressing those
risks,  including  at  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development.  However,  many  of  those  commitments
remain elusive owing to lack of capacity and tools, and
even  lack  of  agreement  on  future  steps,  which  could
appear as lack of international resolve to move forward
decisively.
Indeed,  the  very  complexity  of  legal  and  other
instruments, management measures and forums dealing
with  oceans  issues  makes  it  difficult  to  find  coherent,
cooperative  and  practical  approaches  that  can  garner
both domestic and international consensus.
An 
adaptive 
integrated, 
and
transparent, 
enforceable  regulatory  framework 
is  essential  for
fisheries  and  oceans  sustainability  and  that  of  its
industries.  The  challenge  is  whether  we  can  pull
and  oceans
together 
the 
conservation 
that
converges and plays to strengths coherently, rather than
one that diverges and fragments.
issues  and  create  an  agenda 
threads  of 
fisheries 
We  will  have  an  unprecedented  opportunity  for
united  action  for  improvement  if  the  international
community can unite its strengths.
Let us take the case of fisheries.
(spoke in French)
This year has marked an important turning  point
in  the  momentum  for  change.  We  must  capture  that
momentum  and  build  upon  it.  Millions  of  people
worldwide  depend  on  fisheries  for  work  and  millions
more  depend  on  them  for  food.  But  overfishing  is
taking a socio-economic and environmental toll.
Combating  overfishing  is  a  top  priority  for
Canada  and  for  our  Prime  Minister,  who  has  spoken
about the issue repeatedly at  international conferences
and bilateral meetings. But there can be no success in
that  challenge  without 
international  cooperation.
Canada is ready to play its role to help find solutions.
(spoke in English)
The  international  community  has  developed  a
series  of  both  legally  binding  and  voluntary  tools
dealing  with  fisheries  and  oceans  management.  The
United  Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  in  particular,
needs many more States parties in order to become the
universal instrument that it is intended to be.
The  world  now  needs  to  move  from  words  to
action  so  as  better  to  use  such  instruments  by  fully
implementing  their  obligations.  Canada  looks  forward
to  the  2006  review  conference  of  the  United  Nations
Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  which  will  examine 
the
progress  made  so  far  and  point  the  way  towards  even
more effective implementation.
There  has  been  an  encouraging  convergence  of
views  and  momentum  aimed  at  ensuring 
that
overfishing and illegal fishing are not tolerated, either
domestically  or  on  the  high  seas,  and  at  ensuring  that
regional cooperation to manage high seas fisheries is a
strong part of the broader oceans governance agenda.
Several events should be highlighted. The United
Nations  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization’s  March
2005  Rome  Ministerial  Declaration  on 
illegal,
unreported  and  unregulated  (IUU)  fishing  provides  a
global  commitment  to  action.  The  Conference  on  the
Governance  of  High  Seas  Fisheries  and  the  United
Nations  Fish  Stocks  Agreement,  hosted  by  Canada  in
May  2005,  and  the  resulting  St.  John’s  Declaration
signed by 19 Ministers or their designates constitute an
important  political  commitment 
international
cooperation in the reform of fisheries governance. The
second  Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  Oceans-
to 
A/60/PV.55
in  Bali, 
Related  Ministerial  Meeting 
the  Joint
Ministerial  Statement  and  the  Bali  Plan  of  Action  set
out a broad regional oceans strategy, including specific
priorities  for  action  to  address  the  threats  of  IUU
fishing.  The  continuing  work  of  the  ministerial  High
Seas Task Force on IUU Fishing, joined by Canada, the
United  Kingdom,  Australia,  New  Zealand,  Chile  and
Namibia,  will  soon  recommend  practical  ways  of
addressing  IUU  fishing  for  which  we  will  seek  a
broader  coalition  of  support  to  take  that  approach
forward and make it a global reality.
(spoke in French)
But  action  to  prevent  overfishing,  including  the
hard  choices  that  will  make  those  commitments  real,
starts  at  home.  A  coalition  of  support  for  national,
regional  and  global  change  is  needed.  That  coalition
must  also  ensure  that  domestic  overdependence  and
overcapacity do not create unreasonable pressures that
threaten international cooperation.
Domestically,  Canada  is  building  a  strategy  to
improve international  cooperation  in  the  fight  on  high
seas  overfishing.  The  strategy  is  built  on  vigilant
monitoring and surveillance to increase compliance on
the  high  seas,  a  diplomatic  and  advocacy  strategy  to
create the conditions for change, and commitment and
capacity 
improved
international fisheries and oceans governance.
(spoke in English)
internationally 
to  work 
for 
In  that  effort,  it  is  critical  to  develop  country
capacity for fisheries and oceans management. Canada
has  announced  a  contribution  of  500,000  Canadian
dollars  under  Part  VII  of  the  United  Nations  Fish
Stocks Agreement to help in that respect.
Canada’s 
commitment 
But the challenge for fisheries governance is not
just to fix the problems of fishery but to ensure that it
becomes a reliable part of the foundation for integrated
protection, use and governance of oceans more broadly.
oceans
management  is  reflected  in  our  Oceans  Action  Plan
released  in  May  2005.  Its  basis  is  integrated  oceans
planning,  founded  on  an  ecosystem  approach 
to
management.  Large  Oceans  Management  Areas
provide  the  integrating  framework,  and  that  will
include fisheries management renewal.
(spoke in French)
to  modern 
5
A/60/PV.55
The  Plan  also  recognizes  that  some  marine
environments and the resources they hold need special
protection  and  management.  Many  instruments  are
available to provide  special  protection,  including  marine
protected  areas.  Canada  has  announced  a  strategy  for  a
federal  network  of  marine  protected  areas  in  all  three
of  our  oceans.  Last  month,  Canada  designated  three
new marine protected  areas,  bringing the total to five.
Those  areas  protect  diverse  sensitive  areas  and
elements  that  range  from  the  Endeavour  hydrothermal
vents  off  our  Pacific  coast  to  a  unique  strain  of  Irish
moss and its habitat, Basin Head, in the Atlantic.
The  lessons  we  and  other  participants  have
learned from those domestic efforts help us understand
the  challenges  of  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable
Development commitment to establish an international
network of marine protected areas. For its part, Canada
will  soon  host  a  workshop  of  international  experts  to
discuss  criteria  in  use  to  define  ecologically  and
biologically  significant  areas,  which  we  hope  will  be
useful to the ongoing international debate.
(spoke in English)
We  are  looking  forward  to  a  successful  meeting
of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group on
biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national  jurisdiction,
which we hope will improve our collective knowledge
on the issue of high seas biodiversity. The management
of the agenda, in all its facets, is a challenge for States,
international  organizations  and  other  participants.  We
need  a  constructive  debate  that  will  help  define  the
options we face in protecting high seas biodiversity.
The implementation of an ecosystem approach to
management is a complex task. In fact, it is a challenging
concept  for  both  developed  and  developing  countries.
Canada  will  be  pleased  to  offer  its  perspective  and
experience with States and others at the 2006 meeting of
the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative
Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea, which will
address ecosystem approaches and oceans.
Canada  values  that  inclusive  informal  process,
which engages open discussions on such issues, and we
are pleased to see it continue. It helps us to understand
possible joint solutions and the current discussion and
to identify in which areas additional understanding and
mechanisms  are  needed.  That  complicated 
topic
requires a well-managed debate and a clear delineation
of the steps that  will help us understand how to make
ecosystem approaches a reality.
6
(spoke in French)
The  themes  in  the  draft  resolutions  reflect  a
collective,  multidimensional  and  multidisciplinary
agenda 
reasoned
approaches.
(spoke in English)
that  must  value  balanced  and 
Canada’s  vision  includes  a  strong  understanding
of  fisheries  and  oceans,  modernized  and  credible
domestic  and  international  fisheries  governance,  a
linking-up  of  the  domestic  and  international  oceans
agenda  to  all  key  players  and  mechanisms  and  the
understanding that all involved will take up their roles
with  determination.  Many  of  the  mechanisms  are
nothing more than the sum of the political will and the
capacities  of  States  players.  Canada  is  committed  to
helping in that endeavour.
Mr.  Ngunjiri  (Kenya):  At  the  outset,  I  express
my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General
for  the  comprehensive  reports  on  this  item,  which
contain developments relating to implementation of the
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea
(UNCLOS). Those documents provide a solid basis for
today’s discussion.
The 
lack  of  adequate  capacity 
My statement will focus on three issues that are of
major  concern  to  Kenya  —  namely,  capacity  building,
marine safety and security, and the marine environment.
in  many
developing  countries  is  a  serious  impediment  to  the
implementation  of  the  Convention  and  its  related
agreements.  The  Convention  acknowledges 
this
problem and emphasizes the need to build capacity and
provide  technical  assistance  to  developing  countries,
especially  in  areas  such  as  marine  scientific  research,
transfer  of  technology,  activities  in  the  Area  and
preservation of the marine environment.
My  delegation  notes  with  gratitude  that  the
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea has
continued  to  play  a  lead  role  in  capacity-building
initiatives 
targeting  developing  countries.  These
initiatives  have  contributed  and  continue  to  contribute
significantly to the ability of developing States to meet
their  obligations  under 
through
enhancement  of  knowledge  and  skills  in  ocean  affairs
and the law of the sea. I refer specifically to the United
Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR)
briefings on  development in ocean affairs and the law
the  Hamilton  Shirley  Amerasinghe
of 
the  Convention 
the  sea; 
Memorial  Fellowship  Programme;  the  TRAIN-SEA-
COAST  programme;  and 
the  Nippon  Foundation
supported programme, for which we are grateful to the
Foundation.
The series of training courses aimed at promoting
compliance  with  article  76  of  the  Convention  have
been  particularly  useful  to  developing  States,  which
lack the capacity to undertake the complex delineation
exercise  envisaged  under  article  76.  Experts  from  my
country participated in the course for the Indian Ocean
region, held in Sri Lanka from 16 to 20 May 2005. The
course, 
the  comprehensive  manual
developed  by 
the  Division  on  preparation  of
submissions  to  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the
Continental  Shelf,  has  helped  our  experts  to  obtain  a
better  understanding  of  the  full  procedures  for  the
preparation  of  submissions.  This  will  no  doubt  help
speed up the preparation of our submissions.
together  with 
that 
these 
We  urge 
initiatives  be  sustained
through, inter alia, increased voluntary contributions to
the  trust  funds  established  under  the  Convention.  In
particular, we call for further strengthening of regional
and  subregional  scientific 
in
developing countries.
research  capacities 
to  coordinate 
Maritime  security  and  crimes  at  sea  are  an
important  element  in  the  management  of  our  oceans.
My  delegation  notes  with  concern 
the  frequent
occurrence of incidents of piracy and armed robbery at
sea,  as  reported  in  paragraph  95  of  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General (A/60/63). This is an indication that
the measures currently in place are far from adequate.
We  recognize  the  ongoing  efforts  by  the  International
Maritime  Organization 
international
efforts to eradicate these crimes. However, we urge that
more focus be given to high-risk regions, especially in
areas where national Governments lack the capacity to
effectively  patrol  and  provide  security 
their
territorial  waters.  The  Eastern  African  coast,  for
instance, has in the recent past experienced a series of
armed  attacks,  particularly  in  the  waters  adjacent  to
Somalia.  This  year  alone,  it  has  been  reported  that
about  23  hijackings  and  attempted  seizures  have  been
recorded  off  the  Somali  coast,  including  two  ships
carrying  aid  for  the  United  Nations  World  Food
Programme.  A  number  of  ships  destined  for  my
country have also been targets of attacks in the last few
attacks  have  had  very  grave
months.  These 
ramifications  on  our 
industry  and  other
that  were
economic  activities,  since  some  ships 
tourism 
in 
A/60/PV.55
originally destined for the port of Mombasa have opted
to divert to other destinations for fear of attacks.
transport  by 
therefore,  welcome 
the  use  of  maritime 
Developing  coastal  States  need  support 
in
enhancing their control measures in order to effectively
combat 
illicit
traffickers  of  narcotic  drugs  and  psychotropic
substances.  We, 
recent
initiative  by  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and
Crime 
in
developing  countries, 
the  provision  of
equipment  and  training  to  target  illicit  trafficking  via
maritime  freight  containers.  We  hope  that  the  pilot
programme  in  Ecuador  and  Senegal  will  be  replicated
in other coastal developing States.
support  States’  control  measures 
through 
the 
to 
My  delegation  attaches  great  significance  to  the
marine  environment  and  supports  the  implementation
of  Part  XII  of  the  Convention,  which  deals  with  the
protection and preservation of the marine environment
and resources from pollution and physical degradation.
Within  our  coastal  and  marine  areas,  we  have
established national marine parks and reserves in order
to  enhance  protection  and  conservation  of  the  diverse
and  highly  productive  ecosystems  therein.  We  have
recently amended our Merchants’ Shipping Act, with a
view 
to  reducing  marine  pollution  from  marine
transport activities and dumping. Kenya is also actively
involved 
the  Eastern  Africa  Regional  Seas
Programme  and  the  Global  Programme  of  Action  for
the Protection  of  the  Marine  Environment  from  Land-
Based  Activities,  and  is  the  coordinator  of  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  coastal  and
marine thematic area.
in 
Three  years  ago, 
the  World  Summit  on
Sustainable Development agreed to establish a  regular
process  under  the  United  Nations  for  global  reporting
and assessment of the state of the marine environment.
My delegation notes with satisfaction the progress that
has  been  made  towards  this  end  and  welcomes  the
conclusions  of  the  second  international  workshop  on
the regular process for global reporting and assessment
of the state of the marine environment. We endorse the
launch  of  the  start-up  phase  of  the  “assessment  of
assessments”  as  a  preparatory  stage 
the
establishment of the regular process. We also endorse the
establishment of an organizational structure that includes
an ad hoc steering group to oversee the “assessment of
assessments”.  We  urge  that  the  membership  of  the  ad
hoc  steering  group  should  take  into  account  the  need
for balanced geographical representation.
towards 
7
A/60/PV.55
Fishery  resources  contribute  greatly  to  food
security,  poverty  alleviation  and  the  economic  well-
being  of  many  countries.  My  delegation  reiterates  its
previous call for enhanced international cooperation in
ensuring  sustainable  exploitation  of  these  resources
through 
to  prevent
destructive fishing practices.
enforcement  of  measures 
their 
under 
rights 
exercise 
However,  we  see  the  urgent  need  for  capacity-
building,  including  the  transfer  of  marine  technology,
to assist developing countries to meet their obligations
and 
international
instruments,  in  order  to  realize  tangible  benefits  from
fisheries resources. In this regard, my delegation notes
with  satisfaction  that  the  Assistance  Fund  under  Part
VII  of  the  Agreement  has  began  to  operate  and  to
consider  applications  for  assistance  from  developing
States  parties.  We  urge  States  and 
international
financial  institutions  that  are  in  a  position  to  do  so  to
make voluntary contributions to the fund.
My  delegation  also  appreciates  the  work  of  the
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization,  particularly  for
developing  guidance  on  the  strategies  and  measures
required  for  the  creation  of  an  enabling  environment
for  small-scale  fisheries.  No  doubt  many  developing
countries,  including  my  own,  will  find  the  document
useful in developing our fishing industries in a manner
consistent with the relevant international instruments.
In conclusion, I wish to  emphasize my country’s
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the
Law  of  the  Sea,  which  sets  out  the  legal  framework
within which all activities in the oceans and seas must
be  carried  out.  We  believe 
the  Convention
continues 
the
strengthening  of  peace,  security,  cooperation  and
friendly relations among nations and the economic and
social advancement of all peoples of the world.
significantly 
contribute 
that 
to 
to 
Ms.  Monteiro  (Palau):  Palau  aligns  itself  with
the statement made by Papua New  Guinea  at  the  54th
meeting on behalf of the Pacific Islands Forum.
Palau would like to offer its congratulations to all
who  worked  so  hard  to  negotiate  the  draft  resolutions
before  us  today.  We  are  pleased  to  support  both  draft
resolutions  and  to  be  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution
A/60/L.23, on sustainable fisheries.
The vitally rich biodiversity of the sea bottom is
the  common  heritage  of  all  people  and  must  be
protected by all Member States. Last year, delegations
8
pledged  to  undertake  a  review  of  destructive  fishing
practices, including bottom trawling, and to take urgent
action where regulations are inadequate.
During the negotiations this year, Palau called for
an interim prohibition on unregulated bottom trawling,
as  there  is  currently  no  effective  mechanism  for
ensuring  the  sustainability  of  marine  living  resources
in  the  high  seas.  In  making  this  proposal  it  was  our
hope to continue the dialogue on combating destructive
fishing practices. While an interim ban was not agreed
to,  we  were  pleased  to  see  the  insertion  of  language
calling  for  a  strengthened  and  more  definite  review
process. This will  ensure that meaningful examination
and appropriate precautionary action can be taken over
the next year.
Odious fishing practices are of particular concern
to  the  small  island  States  of  the  Pacific  Ocean.  As
Palau’s President Remengesau recently stated,
“For  Palau,  the  environment  is  our  economic
future.  We  have  no  higher  issue  on  our  agenda
than  the  preservation  of  our  natural  resources.
Because  of  this,  we  recognize  that  a  delicate
balance  must  be  struck  between  growth  and
conservation”.
At the Pacific Islands Forum leaders meeting held
this October in Papua New Guinea, our leaders agreed
that  the  damage  from  bottom  trawling  is  of  serious
concern and renewed their determination to develop an
appropriate  framework  for  addressing  the  issue  over
the next year.
The  sustainable  fisheries  draft  resolution  stands
as  an  undertaking  by  the  international  community  to
review  the  impact  of  fishing  activity  on  marine  bed
ecosystems. The critical factor now is to ensure that the
review  process  is  thorough  and  prepares  us  well  for
next  year’s  negotiations.  We  take  this  opportunity  to
commend the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law
of  the  Sea  for  undertaking  this  important  review  and
trust  it  will  be  comprehensive.  However,  Palau  must
note with concern that, while we wait for this review to
take  place,  precious  marine 
life  and  seamounts
continue 
to  destructive  fishing
practices.
to  be  vulnerable 
Like the other sponsors of the draft resolution, as
well  as 
its
negotiation,  we  are  looking  forward  to  the  upcoming
session  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal
those  delegations  participating 
in 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
and to it fulfilling its ambitious agenda. We also invite
the States parties to respond in a detailed manner to the
request  from  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  for
information so that its stand-alone report on destructive
fishing practices can be as useful and comprehensive as
possible.
Palau  will  continue  to  raise  the  issue  of  a
prohibition  on  deep  sea  bottom 
trawling  at  all
international forums  until  the legal  infrastructure  is  in
place  to  deal  with  that  destructive  practice.  We  look
forward 
the
international  community  to  address  this  urgent  issue
and 
to  achieve
sustainability in the oceans.
constructively  with 
shared  promise 
to  meet  our 
to  working 
Mr.  Kryzhanivsky  (Ukraine):  My  delegation
aligns itself with the statement delivered by the United
Kingdom on behalf of the European Union. Allow me
to  draw  your  attention  to  additional  issues  that  are
important to my country.
to 
a 
Ukraine 
significant 
achievement 
is  firmly  committed 
the  United
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which
represents 
the
international community and is important testimony to
United  Nations  efforts  to  codify  and  develop  the
international  law  of  the  sea.  This  Convention  is  not
only  a  charter  within  which  all  activities  related  to
oceans and seas should be carried out; it is also a basis
for a comprehensive system of economic and political
cooperation in marine-related matters.
by 
My  country  had  attached  great  importance  to
fisheries issues even before Ukraine became a party to the
Fish Stocks Agreement. Ukrainian legislation on fisheries
was  developed on  the  basis  of  provisions  and  principles
of  the  Agreement.  After  the  Verkhovna  Rada  —  the
parliament of Ukraine — passed the Law on Accession
to  the  1995  Agreement,  additional  practical  steps  to
implement the provisions of the Fish Stocks Agreement
are  now  being  taken.  These  include,  in  particular,  the
adoption  of  a  number  of  normative  legal  documents
designed to enhance the role of the State in conducting
ocean  fishing  and  increasing  the  responsibility  of
vessel owners.
Over-exploitation  of 
living  marine  resources
through  excessive  fishing  continues  to  be  of  grave
concern 
international  community.  As  a
geographically  disadvantaged  country  bordering  a  sea
which  is  poor  in  living  resources  and  suffering  from
the 
to 
A/60/PV.55
the  depletion  of  fish  stocks  from 
its  exclusive
economic zone, Ukraine places special emphasis on the
problem of illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing.
We  strongly  believe  that  all  States  should  apply
effective  measures  for  the  conservation,  management
and exploitation of fish stocks in order to protect living
marine resources and preserve the marine environment.
Better  international  cooperation  in  this  sphere  is
needed,  and  the  crucial  role  here  belongs  to  the
relevant  regional  organizations.  It  is  important  that
regional  fisheries  enhance  their  cooperation  with  a
larger  number  of  States,  in  particular  with  high-seas
fishing States and geographically disadvantaged States.
The  international  legal  framework  within  which
commercial  vessels  flying  Ukraine’s  flag  can  fish  on
the  high  seas  consists  of  the  1982  United  Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the  Fish  Stocks
Agreement  and 
the
Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources. In
addition,  our  State  participates  in  the  International
Commission  for  the  Northwest  Atlantic  Fisheries  and
in the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization.
the  1980  Convention  on 
After 
joining 
the  Food 
and  Agriculture
Organization (FAO), Ukraine affirmed its adherence to
modern standards of sea fishing by accepting a long list
of  voluntary  obligations,  including  codes  and  action
plans elaborated by FAO to ensure the sustainable use
of marine resources.
In  2002  Ukraine  adopted  a  law  on  its  national
programme  “On  the  building  of  fishing  vessels”,  for
2002-2010.  The  year  2003  saw  the  adoption  of  the
national programme for the development of the fishing
industry  in  Ukraine  up  to  2010.  The  national  bill  on
fishing  has  been  elaborated  and 
is  now  being
considered by the Parliament of Ukraine.
Subordinate  legislation  regulating  fishing  on  the
high  seas  under  the  Ukrainian  flag  is  currently  being
developed.  Such  legislation  is  aimed  at  regulating  the
activities of the Ukrainian fishing fleet and includes  a
list of commitments and priority actions for users.
Ukrainian  delegations  participate  in  the  work  of
the various bodies of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
Organization  and  of  the  North  East  Atlantic  Fisheries
Commission,  advocating  the  obligatory  presence  of
scientific  observers  on  all  marine  vessels  and  in  all
fields  of  commercial  fishing  in  the  spheres  of  activity
of 
those  organizations.  The  State  Department  of
9
A/60/PV.55
has 
recently 
undertaken 
Fisheries 
voluntary
commitments  relating  to  numerous  standards  for  the
exploitation  and  preservation  of  marine 
living
resources.  Those  commitments  include  the  Code  of
Conduct  for  Responsible  Fisheries;  the  international
plan of action for reducing incidental catch of seabirds
in longline fisheries; the international plan of action for
the  conservation  and  management  of  sharks;  and  the
international  plan  of  action  to  prevent,  deter  and
eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
With respect to the problem of stock management
and  fishing,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the  need  to
introduce  stricter  measures  to  limit  the  level  of
exploitation  of  most  stocks.  At  present  there  is  no
universal  approach  to  determining  biological  criteria
for an admissible level of stock exploitation.
We would emphasize the need to ensure effective
the  process  of
coordination  and  cooperation 
integrated  ocean  management  so  as 
to  promote
sustainable  fisheries,  enhance  maritime  safety  and
protect the marine environment from pollution.
in 
The institutions established within the framework
of  the  Convention  are  essential  components  of  the
global regime that provides for the rule of law and the
maintenance of peace and security in the oceans.
the 
satisfaction 
We  note  with 
effective
functioning of the International Seabed Authority. It is
important  that  the  Authority,  while  examining  the
reports 
the
elaboration  of  rules,  regulations  and  procedures  to
ensure 
the  marine
environment  and 
the  natural
resources of the Area.
the  effective  protection  of 
the  conservation  of 
submitted  by  contractors,  continue 
in 
the  process  of 
We  would  underline  once  again  the  crucial  role
played by the International Tribunal for the Law of the
interpretation  and
Sea 
implementation  of 
the
Agreement.  Since  the  Tribunal  handed  down  its  first
judgement,  it  has  considered  11  cases,  and  we  hope
that it will register new achievements in future.
the  1982  Convention  and 
the 
In  concluding  my  statement,  I  would  like  to
convey Ukraine’s appreciation to the Secretary-General
for  both  the  quality  and  scope  of  the  report,  which
itself  is  a  powerful  tool  for  facilitating  international
cooperation  and  coordination.  The  activities  of  the
Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea
continue to be intensive and commendable.
10
Mr.  Dhakal
(Nepal):  The  United  Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  is
considered a “constitution of the sea” that is expected
to  make  significant  contributions 
to  maintaining
international  peace,  security  and  order  by  governing
ocean affairs, and thus to socio-economic development
in  the  world.  The  Convention  reflects  the  significant
progress  achieved  in  the  codification  and  progressive
development of international law relating to the sea. It
provides 
legal
framework  for  cooperation  among  Member  States
towards  the  management  of  oceans  for  the  benefit  of
all humankind.
comprehensive 
international 
a 
Nepal  attaches  importance  to  the  work  of  the
United  Nations  with  regard  to  the  implementation  of
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
and  other  international  instruments  related  to  oceans
and the seas. My delegation joins previous speakers in
thanking  the  Secretary-General  for  having  submitted
comprehensive reports for our consideration under the
agenda item concerning oceans and the law of the sea.
My  delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  reference
made in paragraph 15 of the Secretary-General’s report
(A/60/63)  concerning  access  to  and  from  the  sea  by
landlocked  developing  countries  and  freedom  of
transit.
The reports draw our attention to important issues
facing  the  United  Nations,  including  the  increasing
adverse impact on marine ecosystems and the depletion
of  fish  stocks  resulting  from  illegal,  unreported  and
unregulated fishing in the seas beyond areas of national
jurisdiction.  We  urge  the  international  community  to
take the necessary measures for the sustainable use of
oceans and for the conservation and management of the
biodiversity of the international seabed as the common
heritage of humankind.
the  environment  and 
the  marine  environment  and 
My  delegation  is  concerned  that  the  growing
deterioration  of 
the
overexploitation of living marine resources could have
a  negative  effect  on  global  efforts  to  prevent  the
degradation  of 
to  ensure
sustainable  development,  including  with  regard  to
geographical  diversity  and  mountain  ecosystems.  In
view of the biotechnological potential and vulnerability
of  living  marine  resources,  we  underline  the  need  for
efforts  to  ensure  marine  biodiversity  and  to  prevent,
reduce  and  eliminate  pollution  of 
the  marine
environment from ships and land-based activities.
We  also  encourage 
the  International  Seabed
Authority  to  undertake  the  necessary  measures  with
regard  to  the  protection  of  the  flora  and  fauna  of  the
seabed,  as  provided  for 
the
Convention on the Law of the Sea. There is also a need
to  regulate  the  prospecting  for  and  exploration  of
polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich crusts.
in  article  145  of 
the 
institutionalization  of 
Despite  our  accomplishments  over  the  years  in
terms  of 
international
cooperation  in  the  field  of  the  law  of  the  sea,  the
United  Nations  still  faces  great  challenges  in  the
effective implementation the Convention at the global,
regional  and  national  levels  in  order  to  realize  its
various  provisions.  Small  developing,  landlocked  and
least  developed  countries  in  particular  have  faced
disadvantages  due 
limited
capacity  and  geographical  handicaps,  impeding  their
optimal  realization  of  the  benefits  from  the  world’s
oceans and seas.
lack  of  awareness, 
to 
for 
the 
It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  article  125  of
UNCLOS  provides 
right  of  access  of
landlocked  countries to and from the sea and freedom
of transit through the territories of transit countries by
all  means  of  transport.  The  2005  world  summit
unequivocally  recognized  the  special  difficulties  and
concerns  of  landlocked  developing  countries  in  their
efforts to integrate their economies into the multilateral
trading system.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  recommendation  of
the Secretary-General that the international community
provide  financial  and  technical  support  for  the  full,
timely  and  effective  implementation  of  the  São  Paulo
Consensus,  adopted  by  the  eleventh  session  of  the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), held last year, and the Almaty Ministerial
Declaration  and  Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  which
take into account the special  needs  and  vulnerabilities
of  landlocked  developing  countries,  particularly  the
least developed ones.
We  underline  the  need  for  measures  to  further
strengthen  cooperative  and  collaborative  efforts  to
address  transit  transport  issues,  among  others;  to
improve  the  physical  infrastructure  and  non-physical
aspects  of  transit  transport  systems;  and  to  develop
joint  ventures  and  strengthen  institutions  and  human
resources.
It  is  high  time  for  all  of  us  to  rededicate  our
to
continued,  coordinated  and  effective  efforts 
A/60/PV.55
achieving  the  noble  goals  of  UNCLOS  and  of  other
commitments to ensure equity, justice and progress for
all humankind.
Mr.  Chowdhury  (Bangladesh):  May  I  just  say
how  good  it  is  to  see  you,  Mr.  Vice-President,  in  the
Chair.  We  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his
reports under this item.
Some 140 million people live in Bangladesh, on a
territory  of  a  mere  147,570  square  kilometres.
Resources are scarce. It is not easy to provide that vast
population  with  a  decent  standard  of  living,  to  which
we  all  aspire.  Therefore,  as  a  coastal  country  with
seafaring  traditions,  we  look  to  the  sea  for  further
resources.  From  that  perspective,  Bangladesh  attaches
particular 
the  United  Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which it became
a party in 2001, as the legal framework for the peaceful
use  of  sea  resources.  It 
the
Convention  is  fast  approaching  its  universalization,
with  148  States  parties.  My  country  is  committed  to
full implementation of the Convention.
is  heartening 
importance 
that 
to 
The achievements of our generation are many. We
have  split  the  atom.  We  have  conquered  Mount
Everest.  We  have  left  our  footprint  on  the  moon.
However,  there  exists  a  breathtaking  gap  in  our
scientific  knowledge  of  the  resources  of  sea.  The
seabed covers some 71 per cent of world’s surface. An
amazing variety of living organisms are present in the
sea,  which  has  become  one  of  the  major  sources  of
food  for  our  peoples.  Aside  from  the  traditional  non-
living  resources  of  the  sea,  such  as  oil  and  gas,  it  is
estimated  that  the  seabed  contains  close  to  300
minerals, many of which may eventually prove worthy
of  exploration  and  exploitation  for  the  benefit  of
mankind.  The  Convention  should  provide  us  with  the
necessary guidance in our common endeavours in that
direction.
The  authors  of  the  Convention,  which  is  often
referred to as the constitution of the sea, envisioned it
as, among other things, an instrument for ensuring the
equitable sharing of the living and non-living resources
of the sea. It brought a modicum of order to a system
fraught with potential conflict. Its scope of application
is  vast.  It  covers  all  uses  of  ocean  space,  including
navigation and overflight. It sets up rules for all uses of
all living and non-living resources on the high seas, on
the ocean floor and beneath it, on the continental shelf
and  in  the  territorial  seas.  It  provides  guidance  to
11
A/60/PV.55
the  marine  environment  by  ensuring 
protect 
the
sustainable  use  of  marine  resources,  and  it  contains
provisions for dealing with crimes committed at sea.
Oceans  are  of  enormous  value  to  the  world’s
population.  They  provide  us  with  food,  water,  raw
materials  and  energy.  The  combined  value  of  ocean
resources  such  as  fish  and  minerals,  including  oil  and
gas,  and  ocean  uses  such  as  the  recreation  industry,
is  currently
transportation  and  communications, 
estimated  at  approximately  $7 
trillion  per  year.
However, 
there  exists  a  wide  disparity  between
developed  and  developing  countries  in  the  share  of
benefits received from that vast wealth. We believe that
enjoyment of marine resources must be conducted in a
way  that  promotes  and  protects  the  interests  of  all.
Such  an  approach  would  give  true  meaning  to  the
expression  “the  common  heritage  of  mankind”
established  by 
the
establishment  of  reserved  areas  under  the  authority  of
the  International  Seabed  Authority  in  that  regard.  We
also call for expedited establishment of the Enterprise.
Enhanced marine scientific research is critical for
sustainable  exploration  and  exploitation  of  marine
resources. We are disappointed that the participation of
marine  scientists  from  developing  countries  in  marine
scientific research has progressively become marginal.
That  has  effectively  reduced  the  possibility  of  the
participation  of  developing  countries 
in  marine
resources exploration and exploitation. That trend must
be  reversed.  Expanding 
the  knowledge  base  of
scientists from developing countries is critical for their
full enjoyment of the rights set out in the Convention.
the  Convention.  We  welcome 
Bangladesh,  a  developing  country,  could  also
benefit  from  technical  cooperation  with  other  States
parties,  developed  and  developing,  and 
relevant
institutions in the fields of capacity-building, technology
transfer  and  the  development  of  expertise  in  the  areas
covered  by  the  Convention.  Such  cooperation  might
include  training  facilities  and  joint  surveys.  Training
on  legal  issues  and  on  the  preparation  of  national
submissions 
the
continental  shelf  would  be  of  immense  benefit  in
building our national capacity. Joint surveys for coastal
and  seabed  mapping,  as  well  as  a  survey  of  the
resources, would also  be  useful.  We  appreciate  efforts
of  the  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the
Sea  in  that  regard.  Bangladesh  calls  for  strengthening
and  expanding  the  Division’s  programmes  in  the  area
of human resource development.
the  delineation  of 
regarding 
12
More  than  half  the  world’s  population  now  lives
within  100  kilometres  of  the  coast.  The  prospect  of
increased  economic  activity  at  the  sea’s  edge  will
inevitably  result  in  the  increased  movement  of  people
to coastal areas. According to one estimate, up to three
fourths  of  the  world’s  population  will  live  in  coastal
areas  by  2025.  Such  a  large-scale  movement  of
populations to coastal areas, coupled with a significant
increase in economic activity and industrialization along
the  coastline  —  including  oil  and  gas  exploration,
mining,  fish  farming,  tourism  and  the  development  of
ports — would put enormous pressure on coastal areas.
We ought to be prepared for the consequences, including
the  environmental  consequences,  of  such  a  large-scale
relocation of human and economic activities surrounding
the sea.
The  offshore  areas  of  Bangladesh,  including  its
exclusive  economic  zone,  have  enormous  riches  in
terms of biodiversity and energy potential. That natural
treasure  house  is  now  under  the  increasing  threat  of
pollution  caused  both  by  land-based  activities  and  by
ocean-going vessels. Bangladesh would be particularly
vulnerable  to  the  devastating  effects  of  a  major  oil
spill.  A  single  such  incident  could  bring  enormous
suffering  to  the  lives  and  livelihood  of  people  in  the
coastal belt.
In  that  context,  Bangladesh  attaches  the  utmost
importance  to  an  ecosystem-based  approach  in  the
exploration  and  the  exploitation  of  all  mineral  and
living  and  non-living  resources.  Such  an  approach
should preserve biodiversity and not cause harm to the
marine environment. We must strike a balance between
marine  resources  exploitation  and  the  conservation  of
the  marine  environment.  The  pollution  of  the  marine
environment  through  our  land-based  activities  such  as
the dumping of waste, as well as unregulated shipping
activities,  has  become  a  concern  for  all.  Illegal,
unreported and unregulated fishing in areas within and
outside  national  jurisdictions  has  become  cause  for
great concern. We must act now to apply the provisions
of the Convention in that regard  if  we  are  to  preserve
the sea as a repository of resources.
We are also concerned by the continuing problem
of crimes committed on the sea. Transnational crimes,
including  piracy  and  armed  robbery,  are  threatening
marine  safety  and  security.  Their  effect  on 
the
international sea trade, which moves approximately 90
per cent of goods, has proven colossal.
We value the work of the three bodies created by
the Convention: the International Tribunal for the Law
of the Sea, the International Seabed Authority and the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. As
a State party, Bangladesh is committed to actively and
constructively engaging in their activities. We hope to
work  with  other  States  parties  to  realize  our  shared
vision  of  the  sustainable  use  of  sea  resources  for  the
common  welfare  of  mankind.  In  the  process,  we  also
aspire to reap our due share of benefits for the people
of Bangladesh.
We  believe  that  the  full,  equitable  and  judicious
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on
the  Law  of  the  Sea  would  advance  our  common
endeavours for a substantial improvement of the living
standards  of  our  peoples.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  can
achieve that, it will be one of the greatest contributions
towards building a prosperous world for our generation
and  for  unborn  generations.  The  route  ahead  of  us
might  be  long  and  arduous,  but  we  are  determined  to
sail  through  the  rough  seas,  for  we  all  know  that
reaching port will be worth our while.
Mr. Nguyen Duy Chien (Viet Nam): First of all,
we  join  other  speakers  in  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for  a  set  of  comprehensive  reports,  namely
documents  A/60/63  and  its  two  addenda,  A/60/91,
A/60/99  and  A/60/189,  on  developments  and  issues
relating  to  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  and  to
fisheries during the past year.
Since last year, the number of States parties to the
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea
(UNCLOS) has risen from 145 to 149. Our delegation
warmly congratulates new UNCLOS States parties and
believes  that  the  current  trend  of  broadening  the
membership  of  the  Convention  will  continue.  The
Secretary-General’s report to the General Assembly on
oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  was  also  presented,  for
the first time, to the fifteenth Meeting of States parties
under article 319 of the Convention. We welcome that
new development.
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the  great  work
done by the  International  Seabed  Authority  (ISA),  the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf and
the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Over
the 
Informal
Consultative  Process  has  made  valuable  contributions
to  the  General  Assembly’s  annual  deliberations  on
ocean  affairs  and  the  law  of  the  sea.  We  therefore
the  Open-ended 
six  years, 
last 
A/60/PV.55
support  the  renewal  of  the  mandate  of  the  Informal
Consultative Process for the next three years. Last year,
the General Assembly also decided, in paragraph 73 of
its resolution 59/24, to establish an ad hoc open-ended
informal working group to study issues relating to the
conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  marine  biological
diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction. We look
forward 
the
working group.
the  upcoming  discussions  within 
to 
We  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  highlight
recent activities undertaken by Viet Nam in the field of
oceans and the law of the sea. At the national level, we
continue  our  efforts  to  improve  the  legal  framework
regulating  marine  issues.  In  June  2005,  the  National
Assembly  of  Viet  Nam  adopted  the  Maritime  Code,
which  is  in  full  conformity  with  the  provisions  of
UNCLOS 
international
instruments  to  which  Viet  Nam  is  a  party.  At  present,
the  preparation  of  a  law  on  Viet  Nam’s  sea  zones  is
also under way.
and  other  ocean-related 
and 
adopting 
At the  regional  level,  we  actively  participated  in
negotiating 
the  Tokyo  Regional
Cooperation  Agreement  on  Combating  Piracy  and
Armed  Robbery  against  Ships  in  Asia  as  well  as  in
other  activities  within 
the
framework  of 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
the 
Regarding the South China Sea — the Bien Dong
Sea  — the Thirty-eighth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting,
held  in  Vientiane  last  July,  continued  to  reaffirm  the
importance of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties
in the South China Sea — the Bien Dong Sea — as an
important  step  towards  a  regional  code  of  conduct  in
the South China Sea. Viet Nam is committed to respect
and  implement  its  provisions  and  calls  upon  other
signatories  to  fully  implement  it,  to  continue  to
undertake  confidence-building  measures 
the
maintenance of peace and stability in the region and to
commit  themselves  to  resolving  the  dispute  in  the
South China Sea through peaceful means in accordance
with international conventions, including UNCLOS.
for 
At the international level, Viet Nam continues to
attach great importance to the discussion of developments
and issues relating to oceans and the law of the sea. We
participated  in  the  fifteenth  Meeting  of  States  parties,
the  eleventh  session  of 
the  International  Seabed
Authority and other relevant and important meetings.
It  is  Viet  Nam’s  view  that  in  implementing
relevant provisions of UNCLOS and other international
13
A/60/PV.55
conventions,  developing  countries  encounter  multiple
difficulties due to the lack of technical, administrative
and  financial  capacity.  That  reality  requires  continued
efforts aimed at assisting developing countries to enhance
capacity-building  and  human  resources  development,
to  get  access  to  advanced  information  and  technology
and to share in expertise involving oceans exploitation.
In that context, we welcome the valuable contributions
made  by  all  donors  to  various  trust  funds  of  which
developing countries are beneficiaries.
courses 
training 
and  programmes 
We  also  appreciate  efforts  by  the  Division  for
Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in  organizing
specific 
for
participants  from  developing  countries  such  as  the
United  Nations-Nippon 
Fellowship
Programme  and  the  first  regional  workshop,  held  in
Fiji, relating to the issue of the delineation of the outer
limits  of  the  continental  shelf  beyond  200  nautical
miles.
Foundation 
Mr.  Wali 
(Nigeria):  The  United  Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, of 1982, remains a
landmark  legal  instrument  of  the  contemporary  world
and, indeed, of all human civilizations and ages. There
is no gainsaying that our treatment of the high seas will
have  an  impact  on  our  shared  goals  for  international
peace  and  security  and  sustainable  development.
Indeed, the steadfast, efficient and effective application
of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  is  central  to  the
continued survival of all life on Earth. It is in the light
of  this  that  Nigeria,  as  a  signatory  to  the  Convention,
welcomes  the  increase  in  its  adherence  to  149  States
parties.
incorporate 
information  on 
Nigeria  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude  to  the
Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  yet  succinct
reports  A/60/63,  A/60/63/Add.1,  A/60/63/Add.2  and
A/60/91.  We  also  note  with  appreciation  that  the
reports 
the  helpful
initiatives  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority,  the
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf in
fulfilment  of  their  respective  mandates  under  the
Convention. We agree with the Secretary-General that,
in  spite  of  such  efforts,  our  oceans  and  seas  are  still
endangered by  factors  such  as  climate  change,  natural
disasters,  environmental  degradation,  depletion  of
fisheries, loss of biodiversity and ineffective flag-State
control.  There  is,  therefore,  an  urgent  need  for  the
enactment  and  rigorous  implementation  of  concrete
measures to address those challenges.
14
With  regard  to  fisheries  and  related  matters,
which  formed  one  of  the  cardinal  topics  examined  at
the  sixth  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended
Informal  Consultative  Process,  we  agree  with  the
Secretary-General 
sector  can
contribute  to  sustainable  development  only  if  it  has
itself been managed in a sustainable way.
fisheries 
that 
the 
should  promote 
Fisheries  management 
the
maintenance of the quality, diversity and availability of
fishery  resources  in  sufficient  quantities  for  present
and future generations  in  the  context  of  food  security,
poverty  alleviation  and  sustainable  development.  It
should  also  take  account  of  the  economic,  social  and
cultural  needs  of  fisheries-dependent  communities,  as
well  as  the  need  of  developing  countries  to  maintain
the  revenues  from  trade  that  are  necessary  for  their
development.
The constraints placed on small-scale fisheries in
many  parts  of  the  world  are  of  critical  concern  to
Nigeria.  Those  constraints  —  comprehensively  and
succinctly  presented  in  paragraphs  216  to  221  of  the
Secretary-General’s  report  contained 
in  document
A/60/63  —  impoverish  small-scale  fisheries,  reduce
the 
sustainable
development  and  damage  the  environment  and  the
health  of  local  people.  We  therefore  endorse  the
Secretary-General’s  call  for  relevant  authorities  to
make  explicit  choices  to  take  on  board  the  needs  of
small-scale  fisheries,  particularly 
to  facilitate  or
maximize food security and poverty alleviation.
contributions 
fisheries 
of 
to 
to 
sustainable 
development, 
With regard to factors limiting the contribution of
fisheries 
illegal,
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  and  overfishing
remain a primary challenge. Nigeria is concerned about
the  relentless  practices  and  engagements  on  the  high
seas  that  tend  towards  over-exploitation,  excessive
fleet sizes, the re-flagging of ships to escape  controls,
excessive  bycatch  and  the  lack  of  enforcement  of
conservation measures, as well as unreliable databases
and  the  lack  of  cooperation  between  States.  Those
problems  result  from  that  lack  of  cooperation  among
Member States to forge a universal legal regime for the
conservation  and  management  of  fisheries.  They  have
been  further  compounded  by  the  inability  of  regional
fisheries  management  organizations,  particularly  those
in  developing  countries,  to  effectively  monitor  the
fishing  vessels  of  non-contracting  parties  because  the
relevant 
such
organizations.
flag  States  are  not  parties 
to 
The  regulations  of  the  organizations  are  often
violated with impunity, and their principal objective —
to conserve and ensure sustainable use of the managed
fisheries  —  is  undermined.  We  enjoin  States  involved
to  rein  in  their  fishing  firms  so  that  our  shared
responsibilities  and  duties  under  the  Convention  and
the 1995 Agreement are not shirked.
that 
Indeed, 
Nigeria  considers  the  forthcoming  May  2006
review conference of the Fish Stocks Agreement to be
of  great  importance  for  our  efforts  to  manage  fishery
stocks. 
review  should  provide  an
opportunity for States to reaffirm their support for  the
abolition  of  policies  and  practices  that  have  had,  and
continue  to  have,  a  negative  impact  on  developing
countries. We should not shy away from measures that
would  help  to  protect  marine  natural  resources  from
pollution or illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing.
I hasten to add that such measures should include those
taken  at  national  and  regional  levels  with  regard  to
waters  under  national  jurisdiction,  particularly  those
belonging to coastal developing countries.
of 
countries, 
developing 
Nigeria also welcomes the various initiatives and
programmes directed at building and strengthening the
capacities 
including
contributions  by  the  United  Nations  Institute  for
Training  and  Research  (UNITAR), 
the  Hamilton
Shirley Amerasinghe Memorial Programme, the United
Nations-Nippon Foundation fellowship programme, the
TRAIN-SEA-COAST  programme, 
trust  funds  and
other technical assistance packages. Those programmes
complement  others  undertaken  in  collaboration  with
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
the  United  Kingdom-funded
Nations, 
Sustainable  Fisheries  Livelihoods  Programme, 
the
Global  Environment  Facility  of  the  United  Nations
Development  Programme  and 
the  Commonwealth
Secretariat.
such 
as 
In  the  same  vein,  we  believe  regional  training
courses  —  such  as  that  relating  to  the  preparation  of
submissions  to  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the
Continental Shelf on the outer limits of the continental
shelf  beyond  200  nautical  miles  from  the  baselines
from  which  the  breadth  of  the  territorial  sea  is
measured,  which  has  been  proposed  for  Accra  early
next month — reflect synergies that would redound to
the interests of participants. We commend the Division
for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea, the Office of
Legal  Affairs, 
the
Commonwealth Secretariat, the African Union and the
the  Government  of  Ghana, 
A/60/PV.55
International  Seabed  Authority,  which  have  jointly
organized  the  course.  There  is  a  need  to  make  such
training  programmes  more  sustained  as  part  of  the
process.
I  wish  to  assure  the  Assembly  that,  in  those
efforts,  Nigeria  will  continue  to  work  closely  with
Member States.
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Mrs.  Ramos  Rodríguez
in
Spanish): We are very pleased that the United Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  remains  fully  in
force  today.  We  reaffirm  its  universal  character  and
fundamental 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  for  the
sustainable development of the oceans and seas.
importance 
for 
My  delegation  places  particular  emphasis  on  the
need to strengthen international cooperation among all
the  stakeholders  involved  in  the  management  of  the
oceans  and  seas,  including  information-sharing  and
capacity-building  —  aspects  of  vital  importance  for
developing countries.
Given  its  geography,  my  country  is  particularly
interested  in  issues  relating  to  the  seas  and  oceans.
Despite  the  serious  economic  difficulties  that  it  faces,
it  continues  to  make  great  efforts  in  implementing  its
national strategies for sustainable development and the
protection  of  the  marine  environment  with  a  view  to
ensuring  the  coherent  and  effective  application  of  the
provisions of the Convention.
The  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of
the  Sea  establishes  an  appropriate  and  universally
recognized legal framework within which all activities
relating to the oceans and seas are carried out. It is for
that  reason  that  we  call  attention  to  the  policies  and
initiatives  of  certain  States 
the
Convention, as in the case of the Proliferation Security
Initiative.  The  practical 
that
initiative  would  require  us  to  ignore  the  generally
accepted  standards  relating  to  the  interception  of
vessels  and  to  the  legal  regimes  that  apply  in  various
maritime areas.
implementation  of 
that  contravene 
The President took the Chair.
Furthermore, we would like to point out that any
commercially  oriented  activities  concerning  biological
diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction must be
governed  by 
the
that  marine  scientific
Convention,  which  states 
research in the Area must be carried out exclusively for
the  principles  established  by 
15
A/60/PV.55
peaceful  purposes  and  for  the  benefit  of  all  of
humankind.
to 
issues 
relating 
In  that  context,  we  await  with  interest  the
outcome of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working
Group, which is scheduled to meet in February 2006 to
study 
the  conservation  and
sustainable use of marine biodiversity beyond national
jurisdiction.  We  believe  that  all  issues  relating  to  the
mandate  of  that  Group  must  be  studied  in  detail,
including  those  relating  to  the  common  heritage  of
humankind and the effective distribution of benefits in
accordance  with  the  principles  of  international  law,
including  the  Declaration  of  Principles  Governing  the
Seabed  and  Ocean  Floor,  and  the  Subsoil  Thereof,
the  Limits  of  National  Jurisdiction,  as
beyond 
contained 
resolution  2749
(XXV), and the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea.
in  General  Assembly 
We  cannot  conclude  without 
the
coordinators  of  the  two  draft  resolutions  before  us
today for their work.
thanking 
Mrs.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The
Principality  of  Monaco  has  always  been  especially
concerned  about  the  protection  of  the  seas  and  the
oceans,  as  evinced  by 
the
Mediterranean region.
involvement 
its 
in 
As  in  the  past,  the  quality  of  the  many  reports
submitted for our consideration under the agenda item
on  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea  attests  to  the
exemplary work of the Division for Ocean Affairs and
the Law of the Sea and the dedication of its staff. That
work also reflects the central role played by the oceans
and  seas,  including  sustainable  fisheries,  in  the  future
of our planet.
Among the various areas covered by the two draft
resolutions  that  Monaco  is  co-sponsoring,  I  wish  to
highlight the following points.
Three  years  after 
the  Johannesburg  World
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  the  General
Assembly is preparing to launch the initial phase of the
regular process for global reporting and assessment of
the  state  of  the  marine  environment,  including  socio-
economic  aspects.  The  next  two  years,  during  which
the “Assessment of Assessments” will take place, will
be crucial to the establishment of the process.
and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization  were  chosen  as  the  lead  organizations  for
the important “Assessment of Assessments” phase. We
have  confidence  in  that  partnership.  The  research  and
summarizing work to be carried out is mainly scientific
at this stage. The results to be submitted by the experts
will serve as a basis for the policy decisions to be taken
by our leaders. The conclusions to be submitted will be
essential  because  they  will  constitute  the  basis  of  our
future  work 
that
indispensable process for ensuring the protection of the
marine environment and enhancing the socio-economic
aspects of the use of the oceans.
implementing 
effectively 
in 
As 
the 
life  at  sea,  and 
the  host  country  of 
International
Hydrographic  Organization  (IHO),  the  Principality  of
Monaco gladly welcomes the fact that 21 June of each
year will be celebrated as the World Hydrography Day.
The role of hydrography in the security of navigation,
the  preservation  of  human 
the
protection  of  the  environment,  including  vulnerable
marine ecosystems, has too long been unknown by the
public  at  large.  Obtaining  observer  status  in  the
General Assembly has allowed the IHO to develop its
assistance  in  creating  electronic  maritime  charts  that
contribute  to  the  sustainable  exploitation  of  fisheries,
other uses of the marine environment, the delimitation
of  maritime  borders,  and  environmental  protection.
Over  and  above  the  tribute  it  pays  to  the  work  of
hydrographers,  the  annual  event  will  allow  us  to
promote  a  scientific  field  that  has  remained  in  the
shadows for too long.
in 
in 
the 
concern  over 
The alarming UNEP report on marine debris only
ever-growing
heightens  our 
accumulation  of  non-biodegradable  debris 
the
marine  and  coastal  environments.  Despite  efforts  to
create  a  legal  framework  to  protect  seas  and  oceans,
lacunae  still  exist  both 
the  application  and
enforcement  of  international  rules  and  norms,  and  in
the understanding by the principal actors and the public
of  the  problem.  And  yet,  marine  debris  has  disastrous
consequences  for 
the  economy,
security and health. Very few studies exist to permit an
assessment  of  the  scale  of  the  phenomenon,  and  its
effects can be difficult to evaluate, particularly because
of the very nature of such debris, such as that known as
phantom fishing.
the  environment, 
The  Principality  of  Monaco  is  very  pleased  that
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP)
Another  subject  of  concern  is  the  issue  of  noise
its  effects  on  marine  biological
pollution  and 
16
in 
the  marine  environment 
resources — a phenomenon that is new to many of us.
While  not  yet  the  subject  of  international  regulation,
noise  pollution 
is
responsible  for  changes  in  behaviour  and  for  injuries
that  could  lead  to  the  deaths  of  marine  mammals  and
other species. The various appeals launched in 2004 —
particularly by the International Whaling Commission,
the  European  Parliament,  and  the  parties  to  the
Agreement on the Conservation of Small Cetaceans of
the  Baltic  and  North  Seas  and  the  Agreement  on  the
Conservation  of  Cetaceans  of 
the  Black  Sea,
Mediterranean  Sea  and  Contiguous  Atlantic  Area  —
should urgently prompt us to undertake more thorough
studies and work that will allow us take the necessary
measures at the regional and international levels.
the  Law  of 
2006  will  see  the  convening  of  the  review
conference of the States parties to the 1995 Agreement
for the Implementation of the Provisions of the United
Nations  Convention  on 
the  Sea  of
10 December  1982  relating  to  the  Conservation  and
Management  of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly
Migratory Fish Stocks. The conference will allow us to
assess  the  progress  achieved  with  regard  to  illegal,
unreported 
the
responsibility of flag States, especially for the genuine
link;  to  tracing  fish;  to  inventories  of  fishing  vessels;
and so on.
unregulated 
fisheries; 
and 
to 
I will conclude my statement with a reference to a
legal  concept  that  needs  to  be  strengthened:  the
precautionary  principle.  This  year,  we  commemorate
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Global
Programme of Action for the Protection of the Marine
Environment from Land-based Activities, and we must
continue  to  strengthen  the  protection  of  the  marine
ecosystem.  The  precautionary  principle  and 
the
ecosystem approach are fundamental to the conservation
and  management  of  fishing  resources.  In  that  respect,
my delegation welcomes the  adoption of  the  theme  of
“an ecosystem approach to oceans management” as the
central  element  of  the  forthcoming  meeting  of  the
Open-ended Informal Consultative Process.
The President: I wish to inform members that, at
the  request  of 
the  sponsors  of  draft  resolution
A/60/L.26,  action  on  the  draft  resolution  is  postponed
to a later date, to be announced in the Journal.
Mr.  Lobach  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
issues 
in
Russian):  The  discussion  of  maritime 
is
traditionally  accorded  considerable  importance  by  the
A/60/PV.55
law  and  at 
General  Assembly.  The  Russian  Federation  actively
supports  efforts  aimed  at  the  progressive  development
of  maritime 
improving  multilateral
cooperation machinery to strengthen international legal
control  of  State  activities  on  the  high  seas,  the  effective
use and conservation of marine resources, the protection
of 
the  conduct  of
scientific research.
the  marine  environment,  and 
I wish to note in particular the contribution of the
Secretary-General in that sphere. His annual report on
the  law  of  the  sea  and  sustainable  fisheries  contains
much useful information and provides a good basis for
a  comprehensive  assessment  of  the  current  situation
and for defining future collective measures in that area.
The 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law
of  the  Sea  is  an  extremely  important  instrument  for
ensuring effective multilateral cooperation on the high
seas. In the years since it came into force, that unique
international  agreement  has  fostered  a  qualitative
improvement  in  the  legal  regime  and  strengthened
multilateral  coordination  in  maritime  affairs.  We  note
in  particular  the  Convention’s  role  in  maintaining
peace and security and in the use of the maritime space
for  peaceful  ends.  We  call  on  States  that  have  not  yet
done so to accede to the Convention in the near future.
The Russian Federation welcomes the outcome of
the work of the international organizations established
pursuant 
the
International  Seabed  Authority  (ISA).  Today,  the  ISA
has  important  and  wide-ranging  issues  on  its  agenda,
the 
require  persistent
consideration and significant resources. In that respect,
we continue to believe that it is not appropriate to task
that  body  with  more  work  in  the  sphere  of  protecting
biological resources in the Area.
resolution  of  which  will 
the  Convention, 
in  particular 
to 
It  is  also  a  priority  to  ensure  the  uninterrupted
functioning  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the
Continental  Shelf,  given  the  constantly  increasing
number  of  applications  it  is  receiving.  We  urge  the
Commission to carry out its work in strict adherence to
its  mandates  and  procedures,  which  are  set  out  in  the
relevant  provisions  of 
the  1982  Convention.  In
particular,  we  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of
broadening  multilateral 
at
enhancing  flag  States’  control  over  their  vessels.  We
welcome  the  efforts  of  the  International  Maritime
Organization to address that issue.
cooperation 
aimed 
17
A/60/PV.55
The draft resolutions at the sixtieth session of the
General  Assembly  on  the  law  of  the  sea  and  on
sustainable fisheries, which we will be adopting at this
meeting,  contain  many  provisions  concerning 
the
important  follow-up  work  to  be  carried  out  by  States.
Here, we should like to note in particular the meetings
of the Ad Hoc Open-ended Informal Working Group on
issues  related  to  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use
of  marine  biodiversity  beyond  areas  of  national
jurisdiction.  The  fifth  round  of  informal  consultations
of  States  parties  to  the  1995  United  Nations  Fish
Stocks  Agreement  will  be  held  in  March  2006.  That
event  will  be  a  main  forum  for  the  preparation  of  the
May  2006  review  conference  on  the  Agreement.  We
believe  that,  if  it  is  to  be  successful,  the  conference
must  have 
the  broadest  possible  participation.
Therefore, we appeal once again to States that have not
yet  done  so  to  accede  to  the  1995  Agreement  as  soon
as possible.
With regard to the forthcoming annual meeting of
States parties to the United Nations Convention on the
Law  of  the  Sea,  we  wish  to  stress  the  importance  of
keeping the current mandate of that forum, which is to
resolve  administrative  and  budgetary  issues  related  to
the  functioning  of  the  bodies  established  under  the
Convention.
The  Russian  Federation  welcomes  the  fact  that
the  Informal  Consultative  Process  will  continue  its
work  for  the  next  three  years  without  changing  its
current  mandate.  Today,  the  Consultative  Process  is
playing  an  important  role  by  permitting  a  broader
exchange of views on topical issues related to the law
of the sea, with the participation of States, academics,
experts and practitioners.
We  consider  appropriate  the  decision  to  initiate
the regular global assessment of the state of the marine
environment.  That  measure  will  enable  us  to  identify
existing  gaps  in  specific  areas  of  knowledge  and  to
determine  what  measures  must  be  taken  to  fill  those
gaps.  We  hope  that  international  bodies  such  as  the
Intergovernmental  Oceanographic  Commission  of
UNESCO  and 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme, which are the leaders in  carrying out  this
process,  will  successfully  accomplish  the  tasks  given
them.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  express  our
support for both of the draft resolutions that we will be
adopting  at  this  General  Assembly  meeting.  We  thank
18
the  coordinators,  Ms.  Holly  Koehler  and  Mr.  Marcos
Lourenço  de  Almeida,  for  their  efforts  in  preparing
those extremely important documents.
Ms. Rivero (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): At the
outset, my delegation wishes to thank in particular the
coordinators  of  draft 
resolutions  A/60/L.22  and
A/60/L.23,  Mr.  Marcos  Lourenço  de  Almeida  and
Ms. Holly Koehler, for their active and efficient work. We
also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  to
the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea
for  its  tireless  assistance,  from  which  we  benefited
during the negotiations, and many other activities.
For  Uruguay,  ocean  affairs  are  particularly
important.  As  a  developing  country,  we  believe  it  is
essential  to  ensure  the  sustainability  of  resources.
Therefore,  concerned  at 
the  persistent  signs  of
deterioration of the marine environment, we recognize
the  need  to  take  urgent  conservation  measures  in
vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  such  as  seamounts.
However, such measures must be considered on a case-
by-case basis, must be supported  by reliable scientific
information  based  on  actual  observations  and  must
conform  to  the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). In that
connection, we believe it is crucial that ocean policies
continue  to  be  based  on  cooperation  and  coordination
at  all  levels  and  on  the  use  of  interdisciplinary  and
comprehensive approaches.
of 
conventional  methods 
We  agree  with  those  who  believe  that  we  must
improve 
fisheries
management. In order to do that, we must establish an
integrated  ecosystem-based 
fisheries  and  oceans
management system. Therefore and  because we attach
the  utmost  importance  to  the  continuity  of  the  ocean
affairs  consultation  process,  we  note  with  special
interest the forthcoming meeting of the United Nations
Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  We  trust  that  it  will  have
interesting results that will be of benefit to us.  In that
connection,  I  wish  to  place  on  record  that  it  is  my
delegation’s understanding that the current choice of a
sub-item  will  not  create  a  precedent  that  will  prevent
us from addressing a greater number of items in future,
so long as we can ensure their efficient consideration.
My  country  attaches  great  interest  to  several
issues  addressed  in  the  draft  resolutions  under  our
the  safety  of  navigation,
consideration, 
maritime 
the  protection  and
transportation  and 
including 
We  believe 
sustainable use of marine biodiversity. We hope to make
substantive  progress  on  those  issues  in  the  forthcoming
negotiations, particularly at the meeting of the Ad Hoc
Working Group to be held in February 2006.
that  building  States’ 
fisheries
management  capacity  is  important  to  ensure  effective
control  and  sustainable  use  of  their  resources  and  the
transfer  of  marine  technology.  We  are  in  favour  of
studies on the impact of man-generated ocean noise on
fisheries  and  ecologically 
species.  We
particularly  support  strengthening  regional  fisheries
management  organizations  in  order  to  establish  a
comprehensive,  stable  and  predictable 
regulatory
framework based on each regional ecosystem.
related 
We  believe  it  is  not  only  our  right,  but  also  our
obligation,  to  state  that  the  international  community
must focus all its efforts on limiting illegal, unreported
and  unregulated  fishing,  subsidies  and  any  other
practice  that  helps  to  diminish  the  contribution  of
fishing to sustainable development.
implementing  national, 
Moreover, the international community must take
action  to  avoid  the  impact  of  marine  debris  on  health
and  productivity  and  the  resulting  economic  losses.  It
is  urgent  that  States  reduce  the  amount  of  marine
debris  by 
regional  and
subregional prevention and rehabilitation programmes.
With  specific  regard  to  the  loss  or  release  of  fishing
gear  and  related  material,  we  encourage  cooperation
and 
fishing  organizations,
programmes and operators to determine its causes and
to  reduce  them  by  proposing  recycling,  reuse  and
reduction strategies based on economic incentives.
coordination 
among 
the  provisions  agreed 
Although we wish to be optimistic about the 2006
review  conference  on 
in
resolution  59/25  on  issues  related  to  the  impacts  of
bottom  trawling  on  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems,  we
cannot  fail  to  stress  that  the  irreversible  damage
already  caused  to  the  marine  environment  leaves  us
little  room  for  manoeuvre.  We  therefore  urge  that
measures  be 
to  halt  such  undesirable
effects.
intensified 
With  regard  to  the  review  conference,  I  wish  to
note that my delegation, hoping to secure the broadest
possible  acceptance  of  the  principles  of  the  1995
Agreement  and  the  greatest  possible  participation  of
States,  encourages  the  participation  of  States  not
parties on an equal footing with States parties.
A/60/PV.55
Ms.  Zanelli  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My
delegation  thanks  the  coordinators  of  the  two  draft
resolutions before us, Mr. Marcos Lourenço  de  Almeida
of Brazil and Ms. Holly Koehler of the United States.
We  also  wish  to  recognize  the  work  of  the
Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,
especially  its  support  in  the  consultation  process  and
its training programmes, which are particularly helpful
to the capacity-building of developing countries.
Peru  notes  the  renewal  of  the  mandate  of  the
Open-ended  Informal  Consultative  Process  on  Oceans
and  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  as  well  as  the  agreement  to
activate  the  initial  phase  of  the  regular  process  for
global  reporting  and  assessment  of  the  state  of  the
marine environment, including socio-economic aspects.
Peru awaits with interest the onset of the work of
the  Ad  Hoc  Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to
meet in February 2006 to study questions related to the
conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity
beyond  the  limits  of  national  jurisdiction.  The  themes
included  in  the  group’s  mandate  must  be  thoroughly
studied, 
the  common
heritage of humankind and the effective distribution of
benefits 
the  principles  of
international law.
in  conformity  with 
those  relating 
including 
to 
Peru is particularly concerned by the issue of the
maritime  transportation  of  radioactive  materials.  We
recognize  that  there  have  been  developments  in  the
framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
We  intend  to  pursue  efforts  to  implement  the  Action
Plan  for  the  Safety  of  Transport  of  Radioactive
Material  and  to  continue  dialogue  and  consultations
with the States involved.
Peru  emphasizes  the  importance  of  the  trade  in
fisheries  products,  particularly  for  the  developing
countries,  and  thus  attaches  great  significance  to  the
appeal  made  in  draft  resolution  A/60/L.23  for  the
elimination  of barriers to trade  and  for  effective,  non-
discriminatory access to markets.
Peru  recognizes  the  valuable  contribution  of
fisheries  to  food  security  and  to  the  fight  against
poverty,  as  well  as  the  role  played  by  craft  fishing  in
that area. It is important to stress the problems inherent
to  craft  fishing,  to  provide  financial  support,  and  to
support  capacity  training,  including  the  transfer  of
technology.  In  that  regard,  we  recognize  the  work  of
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
19
A/60/PV.55
Nations and encourage States, financial institutions and
intergovernmental  organizations  to  support  efforts  to
that end.
Peru reiterates the great importance for all States
to  participate  on  an  equal  footing  in  the  review
conference of the parties to the 1995 Agreement for the
Implementation of the Provisions of the United Nations
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December
1982 relating to the Conservation and Management of
Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish
Stocks, as well as in its preparatory process, in order to
promote  the  Agreement’s  universality.  The  rules  of
procedure  of  the  review  conference  must  preserve  the
integrity  of  article  36  of  the  Agreement,  a  provision
allowing  the  participation  of  intergovernmental  and
non-governmental 
their
capacities as observers.
organizations 
only 
in 
Peru  is  convinced  of  the  need  to  continue  to
increase the efficiency of the informal consultations on
the  two  draft  resolutions  under  consideration  by  the
General Assembly. One issue of great importance is the
need to ensure the effective participation of delegations
in  the  consultations.  Peru  therefore  welcomes  the  fact
that  the  concerns  expressed  by  many  delegations,
including  our  own,  have  been  taken  into  account  in
paragraph  113  of  draft  resolution  A/60/L.22,  whereby
it would be decided to limit the period of the informal
consultations on both resolutions to a maximum of four
weeks in total and to ensure that the consultations are
scheduled  in  such  a  way  as  to  avoid  overlap  with  the
period  during  which  the  Sixth  Committee  is  meeting.
That programming improvement must be accompanied
by  a  joint  effort  to  reduce  the  length  of  the  draft
resolutions.
Ms.  Kimball 
(International  Union 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  54/195  of  17  December  1999,  I
now call on the observer for the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
for 
the
Conservation  of  Nature  and  Natural  Resources):  Once
again it is time to take stock of the world’s oceans and
fisheries.  For 
the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN),
the conservation of natural resources and ecosystems is
a fundamental underpinning of world food security and
poverty alleviation. That applies equally in the marine
realm.  We  welcome  the  reference  to  oceans  in  the
outcome of the 2005 world summit.
International  Union 
the 
for 
20
in 
Today,  challenges 
the  coastal  zone  are
especially  severe,  but  impacts  from  human  activities
are  expanding  throughout  the  oceans.  In  areas  beyond
national  jurisdiction,  collective  action  is  essential  for
effective  conservation  and  management,  not  only  to
support  species  and  habitat  recovery  in  more  heavily
impacted zones, but also to maintain the biodiversity of
the international commons for the benefit of all.
IUCN  has  supported  three  main  avenues  for
making  progress.  Most  critically,  we  need  to  improve
high  seas  fisheries  conservation  and  management,  to
ensure  ecosystem  and  precautionary  approaches  based
on the best available scientific information, and to end
all forms of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
Secondly,  we  need  to  identify  priority  sites  for
special  protection  and  management  measures  on  a
precautionary  basis  in  the  short  term,  and,  over  the
longer  term,  through  a  more  comprehensive  and
systematic  approach  that  advances  the  World  Summit
on  Sustainable  Development  target  of  representative
marine  protected  areas  by  2012.  It  is  particularly
important to protect vulnerable deep sea ecosystems on
an  interim  basis  to  allow  regulatory  regimes  and
scientific  research  to  catch  up  with  current  threats,
notably destructive fishing methods.
Thirdly,  we  need  to  strengthen  scientific  data
collection, research and assessment, especially in deep
sea  areas,  and  to  provide  baselines  for  harvested
resources  and  for  other  marine  species,  habitats  and
ecological relationships.
On the latter point, we are pleased that the start-
up phase of the Global Marine Assessment (GMA) has
now  been  agreed.  We  urge  the  GMA  process  to  build
on  such  important  international  research  initiatives  as
the  Census  of  Marine  Life.  In  order  to  enhance
prospects  for  international  agreement  on  effective
management,  as  the  research  community  ventures
further  into  deep  sea  environments,  we  encourage
broad 
international  collaboration  and  widespread
availability of data, samples and findings.
On  another  issue,  IUCN  is  particularly  pleased
that  the  effort  to  turn  back  the  clock  on  gradual
progress  towards  transparency  and  wider  participation
by  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in  United
Nations bodies has taken a pragmatic course. It is vital
that 
international  community  has
developed  to  further  those  goals  and  to  balance  the
tools 
the 
the 
interests  and  needs  of  States  be  applied  consistently
and fairly.
inadequately 
regulated  high 
Concerning  next  year’s  developments,  IUCN
would like to see substantial efforts to halt unregulated
and 
fisheries,
especially such destructive fishing practices as bottom
trawling  that  impact  vulnerable  marine  ecosystems.
Like  other  conservation  groups,  IUCN  considers  that
next  year’s  progress  review  on  that  issue  offers  major
opportunities 
fisheries
governance.
improve 
high 
seas 
seas 
to 
We will continue to support a performance review
of  regional  fisheries  management  organizations  based
on objective criteria. In our view, a global mechanism
will  be  necessary  at  some  stage  to  promote  the
consistent application of best practices by those bodies
and to reflect the stake of the international community
as a whole.
At  the  upcoming  review  conference  for  the
Agreement for the Implementation of the Provisions of
the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
of 10 December 1982 relating to the Conservation and
Management  of  Straddling  Fish  Stocks  and  Highly
Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  we  will  look  for  several
commitments to establishing a time frame for formally
applying  relevant  provisions  of  the  Agreement  to
discrete high seas fish stocks; ensuring regular  review
of  the  Agreement’s  implementation  over  the  longer
term;  elaborating  and  endorsing  technical  guidance  to
flesh  out  the  Agreement’s  precautionary  approach  for
new  and  exploratory  fisheries;  expediting  the  work  of
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United
Nations (FAO) on technical guidelines to manage deep
sea  fisheries  and  on  the  use  of  marine  protected  areas
in 
fisheries  management;  considering  a  global
scientific  mechanism 
fisheries
management  organizations  in  ensuring  quality  data
collection  and  assessment  methods  that  support  the
Agreement’s ecosystem and precautionary approaches;
and  strengthening 
links  among  regional  fisheries
management  organizations  and  with  FAO  to  create  a
seamless  network  of  information  on  high  seas  fishing
vessels,  owners  and  operators,  traded  fish  products,
and actions by port, flag, coastal and market States so
that illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is truly
banished.
to  assist 
regional 
With regard to the meeting of the Ad Hoc Open-
ended Informal Working Group that is to take place in
A/60/PV.55
February,  the  Union  believes  it  will  be  important  to
affirm  stronger  collective  responsibility  on  the  part  of
all  States  to  ensure  the  conservation  and  sustainable
use of marine biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction.
We  hope  that  the  Group  will  be  able  to  move  beyond
the  debate  —  which  no  one  will  win  —  regarding
whether deep seabed genetic resources beyond national
jurisdiction  are,  or  are  not,  the  common  heritage  of
humankind.  Instead, 
to  established
principles that may provide common ground for further
deliberations.
it  could 
look 
in 
to 
the 
rare  or 
specified 
including 
jurisdiction, 
importantly, 
the  promotion  of 
resulting  knowledge,  as 
We  all  know  many  of  those  principles.  They
include  precautionary  and  ecosystems  approaches;
sustainable and equitable use of resources; the duty not
to  cause  damage  to  the  marine  environment  beyond
national 
fragile
ecosystems;  prior  environmental  impact  assessment;
and, 
international
cooperation  and  capacity  building  in  marine  scientific
research by making available information on proposed
major  scientific  research  programmes,  their  objectives
and 
the
Convention on the Law of the Sea. Such principles can
lead 
identification  of  both  near-term
precautionary  actions  and  medium-term  initiatives.
And there are others.
the  near 
the
opportunity  for  the  Working  Group  to  link  marine
scientific  research,  the  conservation  agenda  and  the
identification of priority sites for special protection and
management  measures.  Those  sites  could  serve
different  purposes:  as  areas  for  managing  the  risks  to
marine  biodiversity 
in  sensitive  and  vulnerable
ecosystems;  as  relatively  undisturbed  areas  for  long-
term scientific research and environmental monitoring;
or  as  genetic  reservoirs  for  promoting  the  recovery  of
impacted  species  and  areas  or  encouraging  scientific
activities related to bio-prospecting.
term,  we  note  especially 
In 
Finally, like many others, we are grateful for the
the
reports  produced  by 
excellent 
continually 
Secretary-General.
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  51/6,  of  24  October  1996,  I  now
call  on  Mr.  Satya  Nandan,  Secretary-General  of  the
International Seabed Authority.
Mr.  Nandan  (International  Seabed  Authority):  I
the
should 
Secretary-General’s  reports  on  oceans  and  the  law  of
to  express  my  appreciation  for 
like 
21
A/60/PV.55
accounts 
comprehensive 
the sea (A/60/63 and Add.1 and Add.2), as well as for
the  report  on  sustainable  fisheries  (A/60/189).  They
provide 
recent
developments in the  law  of  the  sea  and,  together  with
the  report  on  the  work  of  the  Open-ended  Informal
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
(A/60/99), 
the
consideration by the General Assembly of agenda item
75, entitled “Oceans and the law of the sea.
background 
essential 
are 
on 
for 
I would like to compliment the Secretariat of the
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for
preparing the reports, specially its Director, Mr. Vladimir
Golitsyn,  whose  leadership  of  the  Division  has  given
focus and renewed impetus to its work.
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to
the coordinators of the two draft resolutions before the
Assembly,  as  well  as  to  their  colleagues,  for  their
untiring efforts in forging agreements on the two draft
texts. I am particularly appreciative of the references in
the  omnibus  draft  resolution  (A/60/L.22)  to  matters
relating to the International Seabed Authority.
Institute 
for  Geosciences 
Since my statement to the Assembly at the fifty-
ninth  session,  the  International  Seabed  Authority  has
held its eleventh session in Kingston. That session was
marked by a significant event, namely, the submission
of an application for approval of a plan of work for the
exploration  of  polymetallic  nodules  by  the  Federal
Republic  of  Germany,  as  represented  by  the  German
Federal 
and  Natural
Resources.  As  required,  the  applicant  has  expended
more  than  $30  million  in  research  and  prospecting  in
the  deep  seabed.  The  application  pertains  to  the
Clipperton-Clarion  Fracture  Zone  of  the  north-east
Pacific  Ocean.  It  covers  an  area  of  149,976  square
kilometres  that  is  divided  into  two  areas  of  equal
estimated  commercial  value,  as  required  by 
the
Convention  and  the  regulations  of  the  Authority.
Among  other  things,  the  applicant  has  provided  a
programme 
its  exploration  activities  and  a
programme for environmental monitoring, as well as a
training programme for developing country scientists.
for 
In  accordance  with  the  Authority’s  mining  code,
the  application  was  reviewed  by 
the  Legal  and
Technical  Commission,  which 
its
approval  to  the  Council  of  the  Authority,  identifying
the area to be allocated to the applicant and the area to
be reserved for the Authority under the parallel system.
The  Council,  having  considered  the  recommendations
recommended 
22
of the Legal and Technical Commission, approved the
plan  of  work  for  exploration  of  polymetallic  nodules
on  23  August  2005,  and  requested  the  Secretary-
issue  a  contract 
General 
in
accordance with the regulations.
the  applicant 
to 
to 
That application for a contract and its approval by
the  Council  constitute  an  important  milestone  in  the
life  of  the  Authority,  as  that  was  the  first  new
application  received  following  the  entry  into  force  of
the  1982  Convention  and  the  establishment  of  the
Authority. Germany now joins seven other  contractors
that were initially registered as pioneer investors by the
Preparatory  Commission 
sponsored,
respectively, by China, France, India, Japan, the Republic
of  Korea,  the  Russian  Federation  and  a  consortium  of
Eastern European countries based in Poland.
and  were 
During  the  Authority’s  eleventh  session,  the
Authority made significant progress with regard to the
draft  regulations  on  prospecting  and  exploration  for
polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich crusts submitted
to  it  by  the  Legal  and  Technical  Commission.  The
Council  completed  its  first  reading  of  the  regulations
and  requested  the  secretariat  to  provide  more  detailed
analysis  and  elaboration  on  a  number  of  issues  in  the
draft  regulations:  in  particular  on  the  size  of  the
exploration  areas, 
the
allocation of exploration blocks and the way in  which
it would operate in practice, as well as on the proposed
schedule  for  the  relinquishment  of  one  half  of  the
exploration area.
the  proposed  system 
for 
It was noted that, compared to the regulations on
prospecting  and  exploration  for  polymetallic  nodules,
the  draft  regulations  on  polymetallic  sulphides  and
cobalt-rich  crusts  contained  additional  provisions
aimed at the protection and preservation of the marine
environment.  It  was  recalled  that  some  of  the  studies
carried  out  by  the  Authority  had  suggested  that  there
was  a  greater  risk  of  environmental  damage  from
exploration  for  sulphides  and  crusts  as  compared  to
exploration for polymetallic nodules.
The Council considered that it would be helpful if
it  could  be  provided  with  a  more  detailed  analysis  of
the proposed changes to the draft regulations and their
relationship  to  the  provisions  of  the  Convention  and
the  1994  Agreement.  The  Council  also  noted  that  it
would be necessary for the draft regulations to include
appropriate  provisions  consistent  with  the  Convention
and  the  Agreement  for  the  resolution  of  overlapping
claims. It was also noted that the draft regulations did
not appear to reflect fully the anti-monopoly provisions
contained in annex III of the Convention.
The Council will continue its consideration of the
draft  regulations  at  its  next  session.  In  the  meantime,
the secretariat has been requested to prepare a revised
text  of  the  draft  in  order  to  address  some  of  the
technical issues that were raised during the session, as
well  as  to  provide  additional  technical  papers  and
analyses of the more complex issues, in order to guide
the discussions in the Council.
Over  the  last  several  years,  the  Authority  has
convened a series of workshops on topics related to the
deep  seabed  environment  and 
its  resources.  The
participants  in  those  workshops  were  experts  with
practical experience in research and exploration in the
deep ocean. The workshops provided the best available
scientific information on deep seabed resources and the
ecosystems  in  which  they  are  found.  The  data  and
information obtained enables the Authority to develop
regulations  and  recommendations  for  activities  in  the
Area  on  the  basis  of  objective  scientific  information.
The  proceedings  of  those  workshops  are  regularly
published and are available.
In  2006,  the  Authority  will  hold  two  further
workshops,  the  first  of  which  will  be  held  from  27  to
31 March. It will focus on the distribution of potential
commercial  deposits  of  cobalt-rich  ferromanganese
crusts  in  the  Area,  the  conditions  leading  to  the
formation  of  such  deposits,  an  assessment  of  the
patterns of diversity, endemism and scales of seamount
faunas,  and  the  factors  that  appear  to  drive  those
patterns.  The  workshop  will  be  held  in  collaboration
with  scientists  from  the  chemosynthetic  ecosystems
group  and  the  seamounts  group  of  the  Census  for
Marine  Life.  The  workshop  should  result  in  a  bio-
geographic  synthesis  of  seamount  fauna  based  on
research  conducted  by  scientists  from  Australia,
France,  Japan,  New  Zealand  and  the  Republic  of
Korea.  Scientists  from  other  countries  will  also  be
invited to participate. The second workshop will focus
on  economic  and  technological  considerations  for
mining of polymetallic sulphides and cobalt-rich crusts
and  will  be  held  from  31  July  to  4  August,  the  week
immediately  preceding  the  twelfth  session  of  the
Authority.  That  should  facilitate  participation  by
representatives  of  member  States  and  members  of  the
Legal  and  Technical  Commission,  in  addition  to  the
invited experts.
A/60/PV.55
In accordance with paragraph 2 of  article 143 of
the Convention, the Authority is engaged in promoting
marine scientific research in the deep ocean and, to that
end,  it  encourages  and  collaborates  with  groups  of
international  scientists.  It  is  apparent  from  those
endeavours  that  scientists  from  developing  countries
are  not  involved  in  such  research  activities.  At  this
early stage in the research and exploration activities in
the  Area,  much  of  the  scientific  techniques  that  are
used  could  also  be  used  for  research  activities  in
national areas. For example, the DNA techniques being
utilized in the Kaplan project to assess the distribution
of  organisms  in  the  Clarion-Clipperton  Zone,  with
which  the  Authority  is  associated  as  a  sponsor,  could
be  readily  used  for  research  in  the  distribution  of  the
biodiversity in exclusive economic zones.
trust 
fund  be  established 
In order to facilitate the participation of scientists
from  developing  countries,  who  have  neither  the
capacity nor the opportunities to benefit from some of
the advanced techniques in marine scientific research, I
have  proposed to the  members  of  the  Authority  that  a
voluntary 
to  provide
opportunities  for  qualified  scientists  from  institutions
in  developing  countries  to  participate  in  research
activities  in  the  Area  conducted  by  international
scientists  and  contractors.  The 
training  could  be
conducted at sea and/or in the laboratories of scientific
institutions  in  advanced  countries.  In  implementing
that  programme,  preference  would  be  given 
to
research
scientists  affiliated  with  universities  or 
the
that 
in  developing  countries  so 
institutions 
knowledge 
and 
could 
be
disseminated  widely  through  such  institutions.  That
initiative  for  capacity-building  received  the  general
approval  of  the  members  of  the  Authority  and  they
have  requested  that  a  more  detailed  proposal  on  the
establishment  of  the  voluntary  fund  and  the  training
programme  be  presented  for  consideration  at  the
twelfth  session.  Details  on  a  further  proposal  to
establish an endowment fund from the fees paid to the
Authority by the contractors would also be presented to
the twelfth session. The income  from  that  fund  would
be used to supplement the voluntary trust funds of the
Authority.
experience 
gained 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
my appreciation to members of the Authority that have
contributed  to  the  voluntary  trust  fund  in  order  to
enable  the  participation  of  members  from  developing
countries  in  the  work  of  the  Legal  and  Technical
23
A/60/PV.55
the  Finance  Committee. 
Commission  and 
is
gratifying  to  note  that  the  contributions  made  to  the
fund  have  come  from  developed  and  developing
countries.  I  appeal 
that  have  not  yet
contributed to consider doing so, as full participation in
the  institutions  of  the  Authority  contributes  to  its
effective operation.
those 
to 
It 
is 
in 
the 
that 
One  of 
to  encounter 
the  difficulties 
its  member  States 
the  Authority
lack  of  adequate
continues 
participation  of 
its  annual
sessions. Although much of the work being carried out
by  the  Authority  has  universal  effect,  especially  since
the rules and regulations being adopted are binding on
member States, the participation of member States over
the  last  few  years  has  been  less  than  one  half  of  the
membership.  That  creates  procedural  difficulties  for
the Assembly of the Authority and impedes its efficient
operation,  since 
the
Convention  is  a  presence  of  one  half  of  the  members.
This  is  a  matter  of  serious  concern  and  I  am  pleased
that  it  is  addressed  in  paragraph  30  of  the  draft
resolution contained in document A/60/L.22.
the  quorum  required  under 
to  attend 
I  would  like  to  appeal  to  all  States  members  of
the  Authority 
its  annual  sessions  and
participate fully in its work. That is an obligation that
stems from being a  party to the Convention.  The  next
session  of  the  Authority  will  be  held  from  7  to  18
August 2006. It is always difficult to arrive at broadly
acceptable  dates  for  the  annual  sessions.  Account  has
to be taken of the meetings relating to oceans and the
law of the sea being held in New York and elsewhere,
which  are  attended  by  a  core  group  of  the  same
participants,  as  well  as  the  availability  of  conference
services  in  the  overall  programme  of  meetings  of  the
United  Nations.  I  take  note  of  the  concerns  expressed
in  paragraph  30  of  the  draft  resolution  and  we  will
continue  consultations  with  conference  services  for
more suitable dates.
in 
Some  eight  years  ago,  I  advocated 
this
Assembly for the establishment of a forum outside the
General  Assembly  session  that  would  provide  more
time  for  the  in-depth  consideration  of  current  issues
relating to the law of the sea, in particular those arising
from  the  implementation  of  the  Convention.  Such  a
forum  would  encourage  consistent  interpretation  and
application 
facilitate
coordination and cooperation in ocean-related activities
being carried out in different organizations and bodies.
the
The  proposal  was  also  designed 
the  Convention 
to  bring 
and 
of 
24
consideration of oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea,  which
had  diminished  after  the  conclusion  of  the  Third
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in
1982,  back  into  the  mainstream  of  activities  of  the
United Nations.
It  is  gratifying  that,  over  the  past  six  years,  the
United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal  Consultative
Process  on  Oceans  and  the  Law  of  the  Sea  has  been
highly successful in providing an invaluable forum for
the  exchange  of  views  on  emerging  issues  and  has
helped  States,  international  organizations  and  bodies,
and  civil  society  to  consider  in  some  detail  the  issues
raised in the annual reports of the Secretary-General. It
has  not  only  enabled  the  General  Assembly  to  have  a
more  focused  discussion,  but  also  helped  it  to  re-
establish  its  central  role  in  matters  relating  to  the  law
of 
in
considering the issues arising from the implementation
of  the  Convention  and  in  addressing  new  issues  that
have  arisen  since  the  Convention  was  adopted  within
the framework of the Convention and its implementing
agreements,  the  Informal  Consultative  Process  has
contributed  to  the  strengthening  of  the  regime  for  the
oceans and the seas contained in the 1982 Convention.
It  is  only  appropriate,  therefore,  that  the  Assembly
should  decide  to  extend  the  Informal  Consultative
Process for at least a further three years.
the  sea  and  ocean  affairs.  Furthermore, 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General
Assembly  resolution  51/204  of  17  December  1996,  I
now call on the President of the International Tribunal
for the Law of the Sea.
Mr. Wolfrum (International Tribunal for the Law
of the Sea): On behalf of the International Tribunal for
the Law of the Sea, I wish to express my appreciation
for the opportunity given to me to address the General
Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session  on  the  occasion  of  its
annual examination of the item “Oceans and the law of
the  sea”. 
to  you,  sir,  my  personal
congratulations and those of the Tribunal on your being
elected President of the General Assembly.
I  extend 
I would like to take this opportunity  to  report  to
the General Assembly on the developments which have
taken  place  with  respect  to  the  Tribunal  since  the  last
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  will  then  make
some 
the
Tribunal.
jurisdiction  of 
regarding 
remarks 
the 
As regards organizational matters, I can inform the
General Assembly that, on 22 June 2005, the Meeting of
States Parties elected seven judges to the Tribunal for a
term  of  nine  years.  Two  judges  of  the  Tribunal  —
Judge  Choon-Ho  Park  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and
Judge  Dolliver  Nelson  of  Grenada  —  were  re-elected.
The  judges  newly  elected  are  Mr.  Stanislaw  Pawlak  of
Poland, Mr. Shunji Yanai of Japan, Mr. Helmut  Türk of
Austria,  Mr.  James  Kateka  of  Tanzania  and  Mr.  Albert
Hoffmann of South Africa. They, as well as Judges Park
and Nelson, will serve until 30 September 2014.
In  the  course  of  2005,  the  Tribunal  held  its
nineteenth and twentieth sessions, which were devoted
to legal and judicial matters, as well as administrative
and  organizational  issues.  On  30  September  2005,  my
predecessor,  Judge  Dolliver  Nelson,  completed  his
three-year  term  as  President  of  the  Tribunal.  On  1
October  2005,  I  was  elected  President  of  the  Tribunal
for  a  three-year  term  and  the  Tribunal  elected  Judge
Joseph  Akl  of  Lebanon  as  Vice-President  and  Judge
Hugo Caminos of Argentina as President of the Seabed
Disputes Chamber.
As  regards  its  judicial  work,  in  December  2004
the Tribunal dealt with the Juno Trader case. That was
the  thirteenth  case  submitted  to  the  Tribunal.  It
involved  urgent  proceedings  concerning  the  prompt
release  of  the  vessel  Juno  Trader  and  its  crew  under
article  292  of  the  Convention.  Proceedings  were
instituted on 18 November 2004 by an application filed
on behalf of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines against
Guinea-Bissau. The Tribunal delivered its judgment on
18  December  2004.  It  may  be  noted  that,  in  keeping
with its jurisprudence, the Tribunal applied to the Juno
Trader  case 
to  an
assessment  of  the  reasonableness  of  bonds  or  other
financial  security  which  it  had  identified  in  previous
judgments.
the  various  factors  relevant 
in 
I  am  pleased  to  state  that  the  judgment  of  the
Tribunal 
the  Juno  Trader  case  was  adopted
unanimously and that the vessel was released pursuant
to  the  judgment.  It  is  also  important  to  note  that,  for
this  case,  use  was  made  for  the  first  time  of  the  trust
fund  which  is  administered  by  the  United  Nations  to
assist  developing  countries 
the  settlement  of
disputes through the Tribunal.
in 
Since  the  commencement  of  its  activities  in
October  1996,  13  cases  have  been  brought  before  the
Tribunal.  While  the  Tribunal  has  broad  jurisdiction
over  any  dispute  regarding  the  interpretation  and
application of the Convention or any agreement related
A/60/PV.55
to the purposes of the Convention, the majority of those
cases  have  been  confined  to  instances  in  which  the
jurisdiction of the Tribunal is compulsory — the prompt
release  of  vessels  and  crews  and  the  prescription  of
provisional  measures  pending  the  constitution  of  an
arbitral tribunal. It is safe to say that the jurisdictional
powers  of  the  Tribunal  have  not  yet  been  exhausted.
For that reason, I would like to thank the sponsors of the
draft  resolution  for  noting  the  Tribunal’s  continued  and
significant contribution to the settlement of disputes by
peaceful  means  in  accordance  with  Part  XV  of  the
Convention and for underlining the important role and
authority of the Tribunal concerning the interpretation or
application of the Convention and the Agreement relating
to the Implementation of Part XI of the Convention.
to 
the 
The jurisdiction of the Tribunal is based not only
on  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the
Sea, but also on any international agreement related to the
purposes  of  the  Convention  which  specifically  confers
jurisdiction  on  the  Tribunal.  Seven  such  multilateral
agreements have already been concluded. An important
example  of  an  international  agreement  conferring
jurisdiction on the Tribunal is the 1995 Agreement for the
Implementation  of  the  Provisions  of  the  United  Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982
relating 
the  Conservation  and  Management  of
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks,
which provides that any dispute between States parties to
the  Agreement  concerning 
interpretation  or
application of the Agreement — whether or not they are
also parties to the law of the sea Convention — is subject
to the mechanism for settling disputes which is set out
in Part XV of the Convention. The straddling fish stocks
Agreement  also  makes  that  mechanism  applicable  to
disputes  concerning  subregional,  regional  or  global
fisheries  agreements  relating  to  straddling  or  highly
migratory  fish  stocks.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the
straddling  fish  stocks  Agreement  has  modified  the
Tribunal’s competence to prescribe provisional measures,
since  it  allows  the  Tribunal  to  prescribe  provisional
measures  not  only  to  protect  the  rights  of  the  parties,
but  also  to  prevent  damage  to  the  fish  stocks  in
question. Likewise, the Tribunal is empowered to order
provisional  measures  pending  agreement  between
coastal  States  and  fishing  States  as  concerns  the
conservation and management of straddling stocks.
I  should  also  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s
attention  to  a  further  international  agreement  conferring
jurisdiction  on  the  Tribunal:  the  2001  Convention  on
25
A/60/PV.55
the  Protection  of  Underwater  Cultural  Heritage.
Similarly, that Convention  applies  Part  XV  of  the  law
of the sea Convention mutatis mutandis to any dispute
between parties to it, whether or not they are parties to
the law of the sea Convention.
Those international agreements are indeed useful
developments and we would like to encourage States to
consider  making  use  of  the  possibility  of  including
similar provisions in future agreements concerning the
law  of  the  sea  that  are  the  subject  of  international
negotiations. I am grateful to the sponsors of the draft
resolution  for  having  noted  that  States  parties  to  an
international  agreement  related  to  the  purposes  of  the
Convention  may  submit  to  the  Tribunal  any  dispute
concerning  the  interpretation  or  application  of  that
agreement  which  is  submitted  to  it  in  accordance
therewith.
jurisdiction  on 
A  provision  conferring 
the
Tribunal could also be included in bilateral agreements
in  respect  of  disputes  arising  out  of  the  interpretation
or application of the relevant agreement. According to
such  a  provision,  a  dispute  concerning  the  agreement
should, at the request of any party to it, be submitted to
the Tribunal or to an ad hoc chamber of the Tribunal if
the dispute is not solved by diplomatic means within a
certain period. The provision could also contain details
of the method of selecting the judges or judges ad hoc
who  would  sit  in  the  chamber.  In  that  respect,  the
procedure  set  out  in  article  3  of  Annex  VII  to  the
Convention could serve as a model.
The  inclusion  of  such  provisions  in  international
agreements is a fully logical development. It follows a
pattern  established  during  the  nineteenth  century  as
regards arbitration and during the twentieth century in
respect of the International Court of Justice. As for the
Tribunal, such a development would certainly enhance
the  central  role  it  plays  in  the  settlement  of  disputes
regarding  law  of  the  sea  matters.  May  I  refer,  in  that
respect,  to  a  statement  made  by  Mr.  Joe  Borg,
Commissioner  for  Fisheries  and  Maritime  Affairs  of
the European Union, on the occasion of his visit to the
Tribunal on 2 September 2005. He said that
to 
in 
include  a  provision 
“the  European  Union,  where  appropriate,  could
also  offer 
the
agreements relating to the law of the sea which it
concludes with third countries binding the parties to
refer 
to 
the
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea”.
the  settlement  of  any  disputes 
26
them  control  over 
May  I  further  emphasize  that  parties  may  at  any
time conclude a special agreement to submit a dispute
to the Tribunal or to an ad hoc special chamber of the
Tribunal, in accordance with article 15, paragraph 2, of
the  Statute.  An  ad  hoc  special  chamber  is  a  suitable
alternative  for  parties  considering  arbitration.  In  fact,
the  composition  of  the  ad  hoc  special  chamber  is
determined  by  the  Tribunal  with  the  approval  of  the
parties,  giving 
the  chamber’s
composition.  The  parties  are  entitled  to  choose  from
among the 21 judges of the Tribunal those whom they
want to sit in the chamber, while they may also appoint
judges  ad  hoc  if  the  chamber  does  not  include  a
member  of  the  nationality  of  the  parties.  The  parties
may  at  any  time  consult  with  the  President  of  the
Tribunal on any questions regarding the composition of
the  chamber.  They  have  at  their  disposal  the  rules  of
the Tribunal, which, in particular proceedings, may be
amended  at  their  request.  In  their  special  agreement,
the  parties  may  indicate  the  specific  questions  upon
which the chamber is requested to give a judgment, and
a judgment issued by an ad hoc chamber is considered
to have been rendered by the full Tribunal. Finally, the
parties do not have to bear the expenses of proceedings
before the Tribunal or one of its chambers.
In  the  Case  concerning  the  Conservation  and
Sustainable Exploitation of Swordfish Stocks in the South-
Eastern Pacific Ocean, a case which is still pending  on
the  docket,  Chile  and  the  European  Community  have
taken advantage of the ad hoc system. At their request,
the  Tribunal  constituted  a  chamber  composed  of  five
members, four of whom are judges of the Tribunal and
one  is  a  judge  ad  hoc  chosen  by  Chile.  It  may  be
recalled 
the  Tribunal’s  Order  dated  16
December 2003, the time limit for making preliminary
objections with respect to the case was extended, at the
request of the parties, until 1 January 2006 in order to
enable them to reach a settlement.
that  by 
So far, the swordfish case is the only one to have
been submitted to an ad hoc chamber. In my view, the
potential  offered  by  that  alternative,  which  we  call
arbitration  within  the  Tribunal,  has  not  yet  been  fully
realized.  In  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  thank  the
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/60/L.22  for  noting  the
possibility  provided  for  in  the  Tribunal’s  Statute  of
submitting disputes to a chamber of the Tribunal.
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  draw  attention
to the fact that the Seabed Disputes Chamber not only
is competent to deal with  disputes  regarding  activities
in the international seabed area but is also empowered
to  give  advisory  opinions.  The  Chamber  can  exercise
its advisory competence and give an advisory opinion,
first, at the request of the Assembly or the Council of
the International Seabed Authority “on legal questions
arising within the scope of their activities” (Convention
on the Law of the Sea, article 191) and secondly, when
certain procedural requirements are met, at the request
of  the  Assembly,  “on  the  conformity  with  [the]
Convention of a proposal before the Assembly on any
matter” (Convention on the Law of the Sea, article 159,
paragraph 10). Such opinions are given as a matter of
urgency.  The  advisory  jurisdiction,  although  non-
binding  in  nature,  could  assist  the  Assembly  or  the
Council  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  in
overcoming  any  differences  in  legal  opinions  which
may arise as they perform their activities.
In  that  respect,  I  would  like  to  mention  that
advisory proceedings are not limited to matters relating
to Part XI of the Convention. Under article 138 of the
rules  of  the  Tribunal,  the  Tribunal  may  also  be
requested  to  give  an  advisory  opinion  on  a  legal
question  if  an  international  agreement  related  to  the
purposes  of  the  Convention  specifically  provides  for
the submission of a request for such an opinion.
The  advisory  function  of  the  Tribunal  is  a
significant  innovation  in  the  international  judicial
system, provided it can be given a broad interpretation.
In  that  case,  it  may  offer  a  potential  alternative  to
contentious  proceedings  and  could  be  an  interesting
option  for  those  seeking  a  non-binding  opinion  on  a
legal  question  or  an  indication  of  how  a  particular
dispute  may  be  solved  through  direct  negotiations.
Such  proceedings  could  be  of  particular  assistance  to
parties  to  a  dispute  in  the  process  of  reaching  a
solution  by  negotiation,  for  example  in  maritime
delimitation  cases.  It  should  not  be  forgotten  that
Article  33  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  states  that
negotiations  are 
the  primary  means  of  settling
international disputes.
In that respect, the parties could ask the Tribunal
to  determine  the  principles  and  rules  of  international
law applicable to a delimitation dispute and undertake
thereafter to  establish the boundary  on  that  basis.  The
parties  can  always  specify  in  the  agreement  the
questions upon which the Tribunal would be requested
to  render  an  advisory  opinion.  Certainly,  recourse  to
binding settlement procedures could ultimately also be
made, if necessary.
A/60/PV.55
the  provisions  of 
The Tribunal’s advisory function is based on article
21 of the Statute, which states that the jurisdiction of the
Tribunal  comprises  all  disputes  and  all  applications
submitted to it and all matters specifically provided for in
any  other  agreement  which  confers  jurisdiction  on  the
Tribunal.  Accordingly,  future  international  agreements,
possibly  between  States  or  between  States  and
international organizations, could provide for recourse to
the  Tribunal’s  advisory  procedures.  A  request  for  an
advisory opinion is to be transmitted to the Tribunal by
whichever  body  is  authorized  to  make  the  request  in
accordance  with 
relevant
international  agreement.  The  term  “body”  refers  to  the
competent organ of any entity, State or organization that
is empowered under the agreement to submit the request.
As  the  Tribunal  feels  that  knowledge  of  its
procedures  should  be  widely  promoted,  it  is  planning
to hold, during the course of next year, conferences in
different areas of the world to present the work of the
Tribunal.  Those  conferences  will  benefit  from  the
participation of judges from the corresponding region.
I  am  glad  to  report  that  the  Tribunal  has  taken
further  steps  to  develop  its  relationships  with  other
international  organizations  and  bodies;  this  year,  an
administrative arrangement was concluded between the
Tribunal  and 
the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme.
the 
I would like to mention that, since November last
year,  eight  States  have  acceded  to  the  Agreement  on
the  Privileges  and  Immunities  of  the  Tribunal,  which
brings the total to 21. In that context, I refer to General
Assembly  resolution  59/24,  in  which  the  Assembly
called upon States that have not yet done so to consider
ratifying  or  acceding 
the  Agreement.  That
recommendation  has  also  been  included  in  this  year’s
draft resolution. We appreciate that.
to 
As  of  31  October  2005,  there  was  an  unpaid
balance of assessed contributions to the overall budget
of  the  Tribunal  amounting  to  approximately  €2.5
million  for  the  period  from  1996-1997  to  the  2005
budget  of  the  Tribunal.  The  Tribunal  is  aware  of  the
difficulties that situation may cause with respect to its
functioning.  The  Registrar  will  send  notes  verbales  to
the  States  parties  concerned 
in  December  2005,
reminding  them  of  their  outstanding  contributions  to
the  budget  of  the  Tribunal.  We  are  grateful  to  the
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  for  incorporating  an
appeal to States parties in that regard.
27
A/60/PV.55
I wish to draw the attention of representatives to
the  Tribunal’s  internship  programme  and  to  the  grant
provided  by 
the  Korea  International  Cooperation
Agency  for  funding  the  participation  of  candidates
from  developing  countries  in  the  programme.  On
behalf  of  the  Tribunal,  I  wish  to  convey  our  deep
gratitude 
the  Korea  International  Cooperation
Agency for that generous contribution.
to 
to 
and 
you 
appreciation 
Mr.  President,  I  should  like  to  conclude  by
expressing  my 
to
representatives for the opportunity given me to address
this  meeting.  I  wish  also  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General,  the  Legal  Counsel  and  the  Director  of  the
Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for
their  support  and  in  particular  for  their  excellent
reports.  I  should  like  also  to  wish  the  General
Assembly  every  success  in  its  important  deliberations
at this session.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on agenda item 75 and its sub-items (a) and
(b).
Before  we  proceed  further,  I  should  like  to
consult  the  Assembly  with  a  view  to  proceeding  with
the  consideration  of  draft  resolutions  A/60/L.22  and
A/60/L.23 today. Since the draft resolutions have been
circulated  only  today,  it  would  be  necessary  to  waive
the  relevant  provision  of  rule  78  of  the  rules  of
procedure.  The  relevant  provision  of  rule  78  reads  as
follows:
“As a general rule, no proposal shall be discussed
or  put  to  the  vote  at  any  meeting  of  the  General
Assembly unless copies of it have been circulated
to all delegations not later than the day preceding
the meeting.”
Unless I hear any objection, I shall take it that the
Assembly agrees with this proposal.
It was so decided.
The President: We shall now proceed to consider
draft resolutions A/60/L.22 and A/60/L.23.
In  connection  with  draft  resolution  A/60/L.22,  I
would like to give the floor to the representative of the
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Chief,  General  Assembly  Affairs
Branch): I would like to inform members that under the
terms  of  operative  paragraphs  21,  34,  99  and  101  of
draft  resolution  A/60/L.22,  the  General  Assembly
28
to 
would,  first,  request  the  Secretary-General  to  convene
the  sixteenth  Meeting  of  States  Parties 
the
Convention in New York from 19 to 23 June 2006 and
to provide the services required; secondly, approve the
convening by the Secretary-General of the seventeenth
session of the Commission in New York from 20 March
to 21 April 2006, and of the  eighteenth session of the
Commission  from  21  August  to  15  September  2006,  on
the understanding that the following periods will be used
for the technical examination of submissions at the  GIS
laboratories  and  other 
the
Division:  20  to  31  March  2006;  10  to  21  April  2006;
23 August to 5 September 2006; and 11 to 15 September
2006.
technical  facilities  of 
Thirdly, 
the  General  Assembly  would  also
reaffirm its decision to undertake an annual review and
evaluation  of  the  implementation  of  the  Convention
and other developments relating to ocean affairs and the
law  of  the  sea,  welcome  the  work  of  the  Consultative
Process over the past six years, note the contribution of
the  Consultative  Process  to  strengthening  the  annual
debate of the General Assembly on oceans and the law
of the sea, and decide to continue with the Consultative
Process  for  the  next  three  years,  in  accordance  with
resolution  54/33,  with  a 
its
effectiveness  and  utility  by  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
third  session;  and,  fourthly,  it  would  request  the
Secretary-General  to  convene  the  seventh  meeting  of
the  Consultative  Process  in  New  York  from  12  to  16
June  2006,  to  provide  it  with  the  necessary  facilities
for  the  performance  of  its  work  and  to  arrange  for
support to be provided by the Division, in cooperation
with  other  relevant  parts  of 
the  Secretariat,  as
appropriate.
review  of 
further 
As concerns the conference servicing requirements
for the anticipated meetings referred to in paragraphs 21,
34  and  101,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  sessions  have
already  been  programmed  in  the  draft  calendar  of
conferences  and  meetings 
for  2006.  Necessary
resources  for  servicing  those  meetings  are  included  in
the proposed programme budget for 2006-2007.
Accordingly, should the General Assembly adopt
draft resolution  A/60/L.22,  no  additional  requirements
would arise under the proposed programme budget for
the biennium 2006-2007.
The President: I shall now give the floor to those
representatives wishing to speak in explanation of vote
before the voting.
May  I  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by
delegations from their seats.
Mr.  Zhang  Yishan  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):
The Chinese Government attaches great importance to
the review conference to be held next year on the 1995
United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement as well as to its
preparatory meeting.
Here  we  would  like  to  register  our  reservations
on the wording contained in operative paragraph 25 of
the draft resolution (A/60/L.23) on fisheries. The Chinese
Government is of the view that the Agreement is a major
extension  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the
Law of the Sea. Its signing and entry into force have had
a significant impact on the conservation and management
of  fishing  resources  on  the  high  seas  and  also  on
international cooperation in the fishing industry.
is 
in  ensuring 
intended  for 
The  review  conference 
the
international  community,  represented  by  the  United
Nations, to review the Agreement in order to evaluate
its  efficacy 
the  conservation  and
management  of  straddling  fish  stocks  and  highly
migratory  fish  stocks  and  put 
relevant
recommendations  where  necessary.  It  needs  to  be
emphasized  that  this  conference  is  a  United  Nations
review  conference,  not  a  review  conference  of  the
States  parties.  The  broad  participation,  on  an  equal
footing,  of  both  States  parties  and  States  that  are  not
parties to the Agreement, as provided for in article 36
of  that  Agreement,  is  pivotal  to  the  success  of  the
review conference.
forward 
The  preparatory  meeting 
review
conference  is  an  integral  part  of  the  review  process.
Although  it  is  taking  the  form  of  the  fifth  round  of
informal  consultations  of  States  parties 
the
Agreement,  its  objectives  and  agenda  are  devoted  to
the review conference.
the 
for 
to 
The  preparatory  meeting  is  a  United  Nations
meeting,  not  just  a  meeting  of  the  States  parties,  and
therefore  States  that  are  not  parties  to  the  Agreement
should enjoy rights equal to those of States parties.
We  welcome  the  wording  in  operative  paragraph
25 
inviting  States  which  are  not  parties 
the
Agreement to participate fully on an equal footing with
States parties and reaffirming that every  effort will be
made  to  adopt  recommendations  on  the  basis  of
consensus.
to 
A/60/PV.55
that 
to  note 
However,  we  regret 
the  same
paragraph  specifies  that  States  that  are  not  parties  to
the  Agreement  will  participate  in  the  meeting  without
voting  rights.  We  believe  that  this  wording  tends  not
only  to  erode  the  mutual  trust  between  States  parties
and  State  non-parties  but  also  to  undermine  the  rights
of States non-parties and that it is therefore not in the
interest of broad participation in the review conference
and its preparatory meeting.
The  Chinese  Government  highly  commends  the
efforts  made  by  the  international  community  with
respect  to  the  draft  resolution  on  fisheries.  For  the
reasons 
I  mentioned  earlier,  however,  we  have
reservations  relating  to  the  wording  contained  in
operative  paragraph  25  with  regard  to  States  non-
parties  participating  without  voting  rights.  We  have
therefore  decided  not  to  join  the  General  Assembly
consensus  on  this  draft  resolution,  but  we  will  not
stand in the way of its adoption without a vote.
Mr.  Erciyes  (Turkey):  With  regard  to  the  two
draft  resolutions  before  us  under  agenda  item  75,
Turkey will vote against the draft resolution contained
in  document  A/60/L.22,  entitled  “Oceans  and  the  law
of  the  sea”.  The  reason  for  my  delegation’s  negative
vote  is  that  some  of  the  elements  contained  in  the
United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,
which  have  prevented  Turkey  from  approving  the
Convention,  are  again  retained  in  this  year’s  draft
resolution.
Turkey  supports  international  efforts  to  establish
a  regime  of  the  sea  based  on  the  principle  of  equity,
which can be acceptable to all States. However, in our
opinion,  the  Convention  does  not  make  adequate
provision  for  special  geographic  situations  and,  as  a
consequence,  is  not  able  to  establish  an  acceptable
balance between conflicting interests. Furthermore, the
Convention  makes  no  provision  for  the  registering  of
reservations on specific clauses.
Although  Turkey  agrees  with  the  Convention  in
its general intent, and with most of its provisions, it is
unable to become a party to it because of those serious
shortcomings.  That  being  the  case,  Turkey  cannot
support the draft resolution, which also calls on States
to become parties to the Convention and to harmonize
their national legislation with its provisions.
As  for 
the  draft 
resolution  on  sustainable
in  document  A/60/L.23,  my
fisheries,  contained 
delegation  would  like  to  state  that  Turkey  is  fully
29
respect  for  the  international  law  of  the  sea  and  under
the  strictest  safety  standards,  drawn  up  and  regularly
reviewed  by  the  most  competent  authorities  in  that
matter — the International Atomic Energy Agency and
the International Maritime Organization.
The  safety  record  with  regard  to  the  maritime
transportation  of  radioactive  material  is  excellent;  no
accident  has  ever  occurred.  France  is  itself  a  coastal
State  and  has  a  direct  interest  in  the  greatest  possible
respect for safety and security of such transport.
in  a 
technical  dialogue  with 
Finally,  France  wishes  to  recall  its  readiness  to
engage 
the  States
concerned on the question of the safety of the maritime
transport  of  radioactive  materials.  With  a  view  to
enhancing  mutual  trust,  France  has  already  taken  part
in many technical consultative meetings with the States
concerned  and  has  for  many  years  carried  out
information programmes on a voluntary basis.
The  President:  I  ask  for  the  indulgence  and
understanding  of  members,  but  there  is  a  technical
problem  that,  it  seems,  cannot  be  easily  resolved,
which  will  result  in  a  delay.  As  the  Assembly  knows,
the  interpreters  have  a  deadline  in  15  minutes.  Given
that  a  number  of  representatives  wish  to  speak  in
explanation of vote and that we still have to take action
on the draft resolutions, we will not make the deadline.
I therefore intend to adjourn the meeting now. We will
take  up  this  item  again  tomorrow  morning  at  10  a.m.,
before  moving  on  to  agenda  item  17  and  sub-item  (e)
of item 73.
The meeting rose at 6.15 p.m.
A/60/PV.55
committed to the protection, conservation, management
and  sustainable  use  of  marine  living  resources  and
attaches  great  importance  to  regional  cooperation  to
that  end.  For  that  reason,  Turkey  supports  draft
resolution  A/60/L.23.  However,  I  would 
to
reaffirm  once  again  the  position  of  my  country  vis-à-
vis  the  Convention.  For  the  reasons  that  I  have  just
outlined,  Turkey  is  not  able  to  consent  to  certain
references 
the  draft
resolution,  in  particular  operative  paragraph  3,  in
which  States  are  called  on  to  become  parties  to  the
Convention.  Turkey  therefore  disassociates  itself  from
the consensus on those particular references.
the  Convention  made 
like 
to 
in 
Mr.  Journès  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am
taking the floor with regard to paragraph 46 of the draft
resolution A/60/L.22, “Oceans and the law of the sea”,
under section VIII, on maritime safety and security.
France did not co-sponsor the draft resolution this
year.  France  takes  note  of  the  concerns  that  the
transportation  of  radioactive  materials  raises  among
some  island  States.  We  regret,  however,  the  specific
focus on that issue, since safety and security measures
in  general  should  be  strengthened  for  the  maritime
transportation  of 
and
pollutants, particularly hydrocarbons.
all  hazardous  materials 
France, for its part, has on a number of occasions
been  the  victim  of  accidents,  raising  questions  about
the  maritime  transportation  of  hydrocarbons  and  its
serious  environmental  impact.  France  would  like  to
stress  once  again  that  the  maritime  transport  of
radioactive  materials  should  take  place  with  full
30
