United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
29th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 October 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.29
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m.
Floods and mudslides in Central America and
earthquake in South Asia
I  begin 
The  President: 
this  morning  by
expressing  our  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Pakistan
and of its neighbours India and Afghanistan who have
been  tragically  affected  by  a  devastating  earthquake
this  weekend.  We  have  all  been  shocked  by  the  news
reports we have seen, with whole villages disappearing
and  massive  numbers  of  people,  including  a  tragic
number of children, falling victim to this disaster.
On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  offer  our
deepest sympathy to the Governments and the peoples
of the three countries and to the families and friends of
those  killed,  injured  or  missing.  All  of  us  in  the
General  Assembly  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  with
them  now  as  rescue  and  relief  work  continues.  The
world  must  also  ensure  that  they  receive  the  support
and cooperation they need for the longer-term recovery
and reconstruction that will be necessary.
The  earthquake,  along  with  the  flooding  and
mudslides  in  Guatemala  and  its  neighbours  in  Central
America,  namely,  Costa  Rica,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,
Mexico  and  Nicaragua  —  which  have  also  resulted  in
the 
lives  under  horrible
circumstances — remind us both of the power of nature
and  of  the  importance  of  a  quick  and  coordinated
international response at times such as this.
loss  of  many 
tragic 
I now call on the representative of Pakistan.
Mr. A. A. Chaudhry (Pakistan): The earthquake
that  hit  Pakistan  on  8  October  has  caused  tremendous
loss of life and damage to infrastructure. The extent of
the damage is still unfolding as rescue teams reach out
to remote and inaccessible mountainous areas.
On behalf of the Government of Pakistan, I thank
you,  Mr.  President,  and  all 
the  Governments
represented here for your kind words of sympathy and
generous  offers  of  assistance  in  this  hour  of  national
tragedy.  Many  Governments,  international  and  non-
governmental  organizations  and  United  Nations
agencies  and  bodies  have  offered 
to  help.  The
Government of Pakistan appreciates and welcomes the
international assistance.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  representative
of Guatemala.
(Guatemala) 
Mr.  Skinner-Klée
in
Spanish):  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to
you,  Mr.  President,  and,  through  you,  to  all  the
delegations  represented  here,  for  the  expression  of
solidarity extended to us at this time of sadness for my
country.
(spoke 
The  devastating  effects  of  these  natural  disasters
are directly related to the manner in which humankind
interacts  with  nature.  We  cannot  forget  that  link.  But
we also cannot forget our link with this House, which
offered us prompt cooperation. We would like to thank
the Assembly and all the United Nations organizations
that  are  providing  us  their  steadfast  and  selfless
assistance.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-54196 (E)
*0554196*
A/60/PV.29
We  are  also  grateful  for  the  solidarity  and
assistance of our brothers and sisters in the region and
to  express  my
beyond.  I  should 
gratitude  for 
them
enormously.
those  efforts.  We  appreciate 
like  personally 
The  President:  I  wish  again  to  express  our
condolences to the Governments and the peoples of the
countries  suffering  as  a  result  of  these  terrible  natural
disasters and their effects.
Agenda item 111
Elections to fill vacancies in principal organs
(a) Election of five non-permanent members of the
Security Council
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now
proceed to the election of five non-permanent members
of  the  Security  Council  to  replace  those  members
whose term of office expires on 31 December 2005.
The  five  outgoing  non-permanent  members  are
the  following:  Algeria,  Benin,  Brazil,  the  Philippines
and  Romania.  Those  five  States  cannot  be  re-elected.
Their names, therefore, should not appear on the ballot
papers.
Apart  from  the  five  permanent  members,  the
Security  Council  will  include  in  the  year  2006  the
following  States:  Argentina,  Denmark,  Greece,  Japan
and  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania.  The  names  of
those  States,  therefore,  should  also  not  appear  on  the
ballot papers.
Of  the  five  non-permanent  members  that  will
remain in office in the year 2006, two are from Africa
and Asia, one is from Latin America and the Caribbean
and two are from Western Europe and other States.
Consequently, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembly resolution 1991 A (XVIII), of 17 December
1963,  the  five  non-permanent  members  should  be
elected  according  to  the  following  pattern:  three  from
Africa  and  Asia,  one  from  Eastern  Europe  and  one
from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  ballot
papers reflect that pattern.
In  accordance  with  established  practice,  there  is
an understanding to the effect that, of  the  three  States
to be elected from Africa and Asia, two should be from
Africa and one from Asia.
2
I  should  like  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  those
candidates,  their  number  not  exceeding  the  number  of
seats  to  be  filled,  receiving  the  greatest  number  of
votes  and  a  two-thirds  majority  of  those  present  and
voting will be declared elected. In the case of a tie vote
for  a  remaining  seat,  there  will  be  a  restricted  ballot
limited to those candidates that have obtained an equal
number of votes.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to
that procedure?
It was so decided.
The President: In accordance with rule 92 of the
rules of procedure, the election shall be held by secret
ballot and there shall be no nominations.
Regarding candidatures, I have been informed by
the  Chairpersons  of  the  respective  regional  groups  of
the  following.  For  the  three  vacant  seats  from  among
the African and Asian States, there are three endorsed
candidates,  namely,  the  Congo,  Ghana  and  Qatar.  For
the one vacant seat from among the Eastern European
States, Slovakia is the endorsed candidate. For the one
vacant  seat  from  among  the  Latin  American  and
Caribbean  States,  there  are  two  candidates,  namely,
Nicaragua and Peru.
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure,  we  shall  now  proceed  to  the  election  by
secret ballot.
Before we begin the voting process, I should like
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting.
I would also like to seek the usual cooperation of
representatives  during  the  time  of  the  conduct  of  the
election.  Please  be  reminded  that  during  the  voting
process  all  campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General
Assembly Hall. That means in particular that, once the
election has begun, no more campaign material may be
distributed inside the Hall. All representatives are also
requested  to  remain  at  their  seats  so  that  the  voting
process  can  proceed  in  an  orderly  manner.  I  thank
members for their cooperation.
We shall now begin the voting process.
Ballot papers marked “A”, “B” and “C” will now
be  distributed.  I  request  representatives  to  use  only
those ballot papers that have been distributed.
May  I  ask  representatives  to  write  on  the  ballot
papers  marked  “A”,  for  the  African  and  Asian  States,
the  names  of  the  three  States  for  which  they  wish  to
vote; on the ballot papers marked “B”, for the Eastern
European  States,  the  name  of  the  one  State  for  which
they wish to vote; and on the ballot papers marked “C”,
for the Latin American and Caribbean States, the name
of the one State for which they wish to vote.
A  ballot  paper  containing  more  names  from  the
relevant region than the number of seats assigned to it
will be declared invalid. Names of Member States on a
ballot  paper  that  do  not  belong  to  that  region  will  not
be counted.
At  the  invitation  of  the  President,  Mr.  Hoy
(Cambodia), Ms. Mesquita (Portugal), Ms. Onisii
(Romania),  Mr.  Mwandembwa  (United  Republic
of Tanzania) and Mr. Loedel (Uruguay) acted as
tellers.
A vote was taken by secret ballot.
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.45  a.m.  and
resumed at 11.40 a.m.
The  President:  The  result  of  the  voting  is  as
follows:
Group A — African and Asian States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required majority of members present
  and voting:
Number of votes obtained:
Congo
Qatar
Ghana
Indonesia
191
0
191
2
189
126
188
186
184
1
A/60/PV.29
Group B — Eastern European States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required majority of members present
  and voting:
Number of votes obtained:
Slovakia
191
0
191
6
185
124
185
Group C — Latin American and Caribbean States
Number of ballot papers:
Number of invalid ballots:
Number of valid ballots:
Abstentions:
Number of members voting:
Required majority of members present
  and voting:
Votes obtained:
191
0
191
4
187
125
144
43
Peru
Nicaragua
Having obtained the required two-thirds majority
and  the  largest  number  of  votes,  the  following
States  were  elected  members  of  the  Security
Council for a two-year term beginning 1 January
2006: Congo, Ghana, Peru, Qatar and Slovakia.
The President: I congratulate the States that have
been  elected  members  of  the  Security  Council,  and  I
thank the tellers for their assistance in the election.
We have thus concluded our consideration of sub-
item (a) of agenda item 111.
The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m.
3
