United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
43rd plenary meeting
Thursday, 3 November 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.43
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 9.30 a.m.
Agenda item 112
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs
and other elections:
(a) Election of twenty members of the Committee
for Programme and Coordination
Note by the Secretary-General (A/50/216)
The  President:  I  welcome  you  this  morning.  I
know  our  friends  of  the  Islamic  faith  are  looking
forward  to  this  evening  and  I  am  particularly  grateful
for  the  cookies  that  were  placed  on  the  President’s
chair by the Syrian delegation.
Pursuant to General Assembly decision 42/450 of
17  December  1987  and  upon  the  nomination  by  the
Economic and Social Council, the Assembly elects the
members  of 
the  Committee  for  Programme  and
Coordination.
The  document  before  the  Assembly  contains  the
nominations by the Economic and Social Council to fill
the  vacancies  in  the  Committee  that  will  occur  as  a
result  of  the  expiration,  on  31  December  2005,  of  the
terms  of  office  of  Argentina,  Armenia,  Benin,  Brazil,
Canada,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Cuba,  Gabon,
Germany,  India,  Indonesia,  the  Islamic  Republic  of
Iran,  Monaco,  Nicaragua,  Pakistan,  the  Republic  of
Moldova,  South  Africa,  Switzerland,  Ukraine  and  the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Those States are eligible for immediate re-election.
I  should  like  to  remind  Members  that,  after  1
January  2006, 
the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Committee:  Algeria,  the  Bahamas,
China,  the  Comoros,  France,  Ghana,  Jamaica,  Japan,
Kenya,  Mexico,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  the  Russian
Federation, 
the  United  States  of  America  and
Zimbabwe.  Therefore,  those  14  States  are  not  eligible
to run in this election.
I  should  now  like  to  inform  Members  that  the
following States have been nominated by the Economic
and Social Council.
The  four  African  States  for  four  vacancies  are:
Benin,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Senegal  and
South Africa. The four Asian States for four vacancies
are: India, Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran and
Pakistan.  The  three  Eastern  European  States  for  three
vacancies  are:  Armenia,  Belarus  and  Bulgaria.  The
four  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  for  four
vacancies  are:  Argentina,  Brazil,  Cuba  and  Uruguay.
The  three  Western  European  and  other  States  for  five
vacancies  are:  Italy,  Portugal  and  Switzerland.  The
Council  postponed 
two
remaining States to a later date.
the  nomination  of 
the 
In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-59025 (E)
*0559025*
A/60/PV.43
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs,
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the
number  of  seats  to  be  filled,  should  become  standard,
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a
given election.
In  the  absence  of  such  a  request,  and  I  see  no
indication  of  such  in  the  Hall,  may  I  take  it  that  the
Assembly  decides  to  proceed  to  the  election  on  the
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot?
It was so decided.
The President: The number  of States nominated
from  among  the  African  States,  the  Asian  States,  the
Eastern  European  States,  the  Latin  American  and
Caribbean  States  and  the  Western  European  and  other
States  is  equal  to  or  does  not  exceed  the  number  of
seats to be filled in each of those groups.
May I, therefore, take it that the Assembly wishes
to declare those States nominated by the Council from
among the African States, the Asian States, the Eastern
European  States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean
States  and  the  Western  European  and  other  States,
namely:  Argentina,  Armenia,  Belarus,  Benin,  Brazil,
Bulgaria,  the  Central  African  Republic,  Cuba,  India,
Indonesia, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Pakistan,
Portugal,  Senegal,  South  Africa,  Switzerland  and
Uruguay,  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for
Programme  and  Coordination  for  a  three-year  term  of
office beginning on 1 January 2006?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  congratulate  the  18  States  that
have  been  elected  members  of  the  Committee  for
Programme  and  Coordination.  Regarding 
two
remaining  vacancies 
the  Western
European and other States, the General Assembly will
be in a position to act on them upon the nomination by
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  of  two  Member
States from that region.
from  among 
the 
We  have 
consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 112.
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of  our
(b) Election of twenty-nine members to the
Government Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme
The  President:  Pursuant  to  General  Assembly
resolution  2997  (XXVII)  of  15  December  1972  and
Assembly  decision  43/406  of  24  October  1988,  the
2
Assembly  will  proceed  to  the  election  of  29  members
of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United  Nations
Environment  Programme  to  replace  those  members
whose term of office expires on 31 December 2005.
The  29  outgoing  members  are  Antigua  and
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Belgium,  Canada,  Chad,  China,
the  Congo,  Cuba, 
the  Czech  Republic,  France,
Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Myanmar,
Namibia,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  the  Republic  of  Korea,
Romania, 
the  Sudan,
Switzerland,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  the  United
States of America, Uruguay, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
the  Russian  Federation, 
Those  States  are  eligible  for  immediate  re-
election.
I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after  1
January  2006, 
the  following  States  will  still  be
members  of  the  Governing  Council:  the  Bahamas,
Bangladesh,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burkina 
Faso,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ghana,
Hungary,  India,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel,
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Morocco,
the  Netherlands,  Poland,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,
Somalia, Sweden, Turkey, Tuvalu, the United Kingdom
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  and  the  United
Republic of Tanzania.
Therefore, those 29 States are not eligible in this
election.
As members know, in accordance with rule 92 of
the  rules  of  procedure,  all  elections  shall  be  held  by
secret ballot and there shall be no nominations.
However, I should  like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of
General  Assembly  decision  34/401,  whereby 
the
practice  of  dispensing  with  the  secret  ballot  for
elections  to  subsidiary  organs  when  the  number  of
candidates  corresponds  to  the  number  of  seats  to  be
filled  should  become  standard,  unless  a  delegation
specifically requests a vote on a given election.
In the absence of such a request, may I take it that
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on that
basis?
It was so decided.
The  President:  Regarding  candidatures,  I  have
been informed by the Chairmen of the regional groups
that  for  the  eight  seats  from  the  Group  of  African
States,  the  eight  endorsed  candidates  are  Algeria,
Angola,  Botswana,  Burundi,  the  Democratic  Republic
of the Congo, Kenya, South Africa and Uganda.
For the six seats from the Group of Asian States,
the  six  endorsed  candidates  are  China,  Indonesia,
Japan, Pakistan, the Republic of Korea and Thailand.
For  the  three  seats  from  the  Group  of  Eastern
European States, the three endorsed candidates are the
Czech Republic, Romania and the Russian Federation.
For  the  five  seats  from  the  Group  of  Latin
American  and  Caribbean  States,  the  five  endorsed
candidates are Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Chile,
Haiti and Uruguay.
For  the  seven  seats  from  the  Group  of  Western
European  and  other  States, 
the  seven  endorsed
candidates  are  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Canada,
France, Germany and the United States of America.
Since  the  number  of  candidates  endorsed  by  the
African States, the Asian States, the Eastern European
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  and
the  Western  European  and  other  States  corresponds  to
the number of seats to be  filled  in  each  region,  may  I
take it that the General Assembly decides to elect those
candidates as members of the Governing Council of the
United  Nations  Environment  Programme  for  a  four-
year term of office beginning on 1 January 2006? I see
no objection.
It was so decided.
The  President:  The  following  29  States  have
thus  been  elected  members  of  the  Governing  Council
of  the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  for  a
four-year term of office beginning on 1 January 2006:
Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,
Australia,  Austria,  Belgium,  Botswana,  Burundi,
Canada,  Chile,  China, 
the
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  France,  Germany,
Haiti, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Pakistan, the Republic
of  Korea,  Romania,  the  Russian  Federation,  South
Africa,  Thailand,  Uganda, 
the  United  States  of
America and Uruguay.
the  Czech  Republic, 
I congratulate the States which have been elected
members  of  the  Governing  Council  of  the  United
Nations Environment Programme.
This concludes our consideration of sub-item (b)
of agenda item 112.
A/60/PV.43
Agenda item 115
Implementation of the resolutions of the United
Nations
The President: It is my understanding that there
is no request to consider agenda item 115 at the current
session.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General
Assembly  to  defer  consideration  of  the  item  to  the
sixty-first  session  and  to  include  it  in  the  provisional
agenda of the sixty-first session?
It was so decided.
The President: This concludes our consideration
of agenda item 115.
Agenda item 113
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs
and other appointments
(f) Appointment of members of the Committee on
Conferences
indicated 
Note by the Secretary-General (A/60/106)
The  President:  As 
in  document
A/60/106,  since  the  terms  of  office  of  Bolivia,  the
Congo,  France,  India,  Japan,  the  Russian  Federation
and  Zambia  will  expire  on  31  December  2005,  it  will
be necessary for the President of the General Assembly
to  appoint,  during  the  current  session,  seven  members
to  fill  the  resulting  vacancies.  The  members  so
appointed  will  serve  for  a  period  of  three  years,
beginning on 1 January 2006.
After  consultations  with  the  Chairmen  of  the
groups  of  African  States,  Asian  States,  Eastern
European States, Latin American and Caribbean States
and  Western  European  and  other  States,  I  have
appointed  Burundi,  El  Salvador,  France,  Lesotho,
Malaysia,  the  Philippines  and  the  Russian  Federation
as  members  of  the  Committee  on  Conferences  for  a
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2006.
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of
these appointments?
It was so decided.
The  President:  We  have  thus  concluded  our
consideration of sub-item (f) of agenda item 113.
3
A/60/PV.43
Agenda item 48
Sport for peace and development
(a) Building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic ideal
Draft resolution (A/60/L.15)
(b) International Year of Sport and Physical
Education
Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/217)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.7)
The President: As a fan of sports and a believer
in sport as a unifying force in international relations, I
am pleased that today the General Assembly is taking
action on agenda item 48, entitled “Sport for peace and
development”,  which  includes  sub-item  (a),  “Building
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the
Olympic  ideal”,  and  sub-item  (b),  “International  Year
of Sport and Physical Education”.
As overall guidance for today’s debate, I call the
attention  of  members 
the  outcome  document
(resolution  60/1)  of  the  September  world  summit,
which, in its paragraph 145, declares,
to 
“We  underline  that  sports  can  foster  peace
and  development  and  can  contribute 
to  an
atmosphere  of  tolerance  and  understanding,  and
we  encourage  discussions 
the  General
Assembly  for  proposals  leading  to  a  plan  of
action on sport and development”.
in 
Our deliberations should also be inspired by the report
of the Secretary-General  entitled  “Sport for peace  and
development: International Year of Sport and Physical
Education” (A/60/217).
Turning to the first sub-item, I wish to recall that
the  General  Assembly  has  for  more  than  a  decade
supported the revival of the ancient Greek tradition of
the  Olympic  Truce.  As  we  approach  the  XX  Olympic
Winter  Games,  to  be  held  in  Turin,  Italy,  in  February
2006,  we  should  once  again  remind  ourselves  of  the
purpose of the Olympic Truce: to encourage a peaceful
environment during the Games, to ensure safe passage
for  athletes  and  others  at  the  Games  and  to  mobilize
the world’s young people around the cause of peace.
4
With  regard  to  this  topic,  Italy  has  submitted  a
draft resolution (A/60/L.15) on building a peaceful and
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal.  I
welcome the universal support it has received.
Concerning  the  other  sub-item,  I  wish  to  salute
all  those  around  the  world  who  have  helped  to  make
the International Year of Sport and Physical Education
a  success,  including  United  Nations  offices,  agencies,
funds  and  programmes,  Governments,  the  Olympic
movement,  sports  federations,  sports  teams,  sports
organizations 
non-governmental
organizations,  sports  stars  and  the  countless  athletes
and  other  individuals  who  have  joined  in  activities
marking the Year. Yesterday, I met the marathon gold-
medal  winner  Tegla  Loroupe  and  was  inspired  by  her
efforts and those of the Olympic Committee to advance
sports as a uniting force in international relations.
other 
and 
As  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  indicates,
sport  can  play  a  significant  role  in  accelerating
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  The  International  Year  of  Sport
and  Physical  Education 
that
contribution  and  adds  strong  impetus  to  efforts  to
better integrate sport into the development agenda.
highlighted 
has 
Sport  is  essential  for  the  well-being  of  young
people  in  refugee  camps,  for  example,  not  only  to
promote health and education, but also as a vehicle for
alerting  them  to  the  risks  of  HIV/AIDS,  for  instilling
self-respect  and 
for  encouraging
tolerance and peace. Peace is also recognized as a key
in  the  promotion  of  equality  and  advancement  for
women  and  girls,  especially  when  combined  with
education  initiatives  that  give  them  the  opportunity  to
build  self-confidence  and  encouraging  them  to  stay  in
school.
teamwork  and 
With 
to 
regard 
this  sub-item,  Tunisia  has
submitted  a  draft  resolution  (A/60/L.7)  on  sport  as  a
means  of  promoting  education,  health,  development
and  peace 
the
recommendations of the Secretary-General.
follow  up  on 
in  order 
to 
I now give the floor to the representative of Italy
to introduce draft resolution A/60/L.15.
Mr.  Mantovani  (Italy):  At  the  outset,  I  want  to
apologize  on  behalf  of  our  Deputy  Foreign  Minister,
who  was  unable  to  come  to  New  York  owing  to
unforeseen circumstances.
resolution  on 
This  year,  Italy,  as  host  country  of  the  2006
Winter  Olympic  Games  in  Turin,  has  the  honour  to
present  draft 
the  Olympic  Truce
(A/60/L.15).  I  am  proud  to  announce  that,  with  the
added  sponsorship  of  Kiribati, 
this  year’s  draft
resolution  has  attracted  a  record  number  of  sponsors:
191.  There  could  be  no  clearer  statement  of  universal
support for the principles affirmed in the text.
The  draft  resolution  on  the  Olympic  Truce  is  an
initiative that was first taken by the General Assembly
in  1993,  after  an  appeal  by  the  International  Olympic
Committee had allowed athletes of war-torn Yugoslavia
to  participate  in  the  1992  Barcelona  Summer  Games.
As  we  all  know,  the  Olympic  Truce  is  rooted  in  the
traditions  of  the  classical  Olympic  games.  In  ancient
Greece, the Olympic Truce, or ekecheiria, provided for
a cessation of hostilities to allow athletes, pilgrims and
spectators to reach Olympia in order to participate in or
watch  the  games  and,  upon  their  conclusion,  return
home in full security.
It  is  therefore  a  very  fortunate  coincidence  —
which  is  not  without  symbolic  significance  —  that
Italy, in presenting the draft resolution on the Olympic
Truce, comes immediately after Greece, which in 2003
assumed a similar responsibility as host country of the
2004  Athens  Olympic  Games.  There  is  another  happy
coincidence  in  the  fact  that  the  General  Assembly,  by
its  resolution  58/5  of  3  November  2003,  proclaimed
2005  as  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education,  which  leads  us  to  trust  in  the  heartfelt
commitment  of  all  Member  States  to  the  Olympic
Truce  and  the  relationship  among  sport,  peace  and
development.
In  that  regard,  I  welcome  and  support  the  draft
resolution to be introduced by Tunisia, entitled  “Sport
as a means to promote education, health, development
and peace” (A/60/L.7*). The Italian Government is also
particularly  glad 
initiative
between  the  Organizing  Committee  of  the  Winter
Olympic  Games  in  Turin  and  UNICEF  Italy  to  work
together  so  that  the  Olympic  Truce  can  benefit  all
children around the world.
to  welcome 
the 
joint 
I should now like to briefly illustrate the contents
of  the  draft  resolution  that  the  Assembly  is,  I  hope,
about  to  adopt  with  the  unanimous  support  of  its
members.  The  text,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,
recalls  previous  General  Assembly  resolutions  and
A/60/PV.43
refers to the Millennium Declaration adopted in 2000,
which  contains  an  appeal  to  observe  the  Olympic
Truce. In addition, the draft resolution salutes the joint
efforts of the International Olympic Committee and the
United  Nations  in  the  areas  of  human  development,
poverty  reduction,  humanitarian  assistance,  health
promotion,  HIV/AIDS  prevention,  combating  malaria,
tuberculosis  and  other 
infectious  diseases,  basic
education,  equal  opportunity  and  environmental
protection.
The draft resolution recognizes the importance of
the  role  of  sports  in  pursuing  the  development  goals
agreed  to  at  the  international  level,  including  those
contained in the Millennium Declaration, and reaffirms
the  commitments  assumed  in  that  regard  by  the  heads
of  State  or  Government  at  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting  held  in  New  York  in  September.  Reaffirming
the  principles  of  mutual  understanding,  friendship,
solidarity  and  justice  that  underlie  the  Olympic  ideal,
the  draft  resolution  requests  United  Nations  Member
States to observe the Olympic Truce on the occasion of
the XX Winter Olympic Games, which will take place
in  Turin  from  10  to  26  February  2006,  and  the
subsequent  Paralympic  Games,  which  will  take  place
also in Turin from 10 to 19 March 2006.
to  mobilize  world 
It also welcomes the decision of the International
Olympic  Committee 
sports
organizations  and  national  Olympics  committees
around the goal of taking concrete measures to promote
a  culture  of  peace  at  the  local,  national,  regional  and
world  level.  The  draft  resolution,  finally,  requests  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  to  promote
observance of the Olympic truce among Member States
and appeals to them to cooperate with the International
Olympic  Committee  and  the  United  Nations  agencies
and programmes involved, to use the Olympic truce as
an  occasion  to  promote  peace  during  and  after  the
period  of  the  Games  and  to  implement  projects  that
highlight sports as an instrument of development.
Since  ancient  times,  the  idea  of  the  Olympic
Games has been closely associated with that of peace.
The spirit of this draft resolution is true to that origin,
although it has been updated to correspond to the more
pressing needs of today’s world, in view of maintaining
peace,  promoting  development,  fostering  dialogue,
cooperation  and  a  better  and  deeper  understanding
among and between different cultures and civilizations.
5
A/60/PV.43
The ancient tradition of the Olympic truce is the
expression today of humanity’s desire to build a world
based  on  the  rules  of  fair  competition,  humanity,
reconciliation  and  tolerance.  For  my  country,  hosting
the Olympics once again and appealing to the world to
observe  the  Olympic  Truce  are  both  an  honour  and  a
responsibility. But the success of a global event such as
the Olympics and the achievement of a global objective
such  as  the  Olympic  Truce  depend  essentially  on  the
heartfelt  and  harmonious  support  of  the  international
community  as  a  whole.  Today,  we  all  have  the
opportunity to give tangible expression to this support.
Mr.  Hachani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  Sir,
before discussing agenda item 48 (b), allow me first of
all  to  thank  you  on  behalf  of  Tunisia  for  your  recent
statement  on  the  World  Summit  on  the  Information
Society.  We  are  convinced  that  your  appeal  for  high-
level participation in the second phase of the Summit,
which will be held in Tunis from 16 to 18 November,
will  be  heeded  and  that  all  the  parties  concerned,  be
they  Governments,  civil  society  or  private  sector
organizations, will seize the opportunity offered by this
important  event  to  achieve  results  worthy  of  the
aspirations of the international community.
that  sport  could 
In  September  heads  of  State  and  Government
underscored 
foster  peace  and
development  and  contribute  to  creating  a  climate  of
tolerance  and  understanding.  They  also  used  that
opportunity  to  strengthen  their  commitment  vis-à-vis
the  principles  underlying  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations, 
and
development,  as  well  as  their  commitment  regarding
the  means  to  attain  that  goal,  particularly  at  this
delicate stage in which the world finds itself.
including  peacebuilding, 
security 
Sport and physical education were acknowledged
as being among the factors which influence the life of a
society,  in  addition  to  political  and  economic  aspects.
Indeed,  the  positive  effect  of  sport  is  not  confined  to
the promotion of health  and development of the body,
but consists also  in acquiring the necessary values  for
of
social 
friendships, 
the
maintenance  of  contacts  among  races,  cultures  and
civilizations.  It 
that  Tunisia’s
initiative  should  be  viewed  —  an  initiative  that  was
taken two years ago with the support of most Member
States  to  strengthen  the  role  of  sport  in  promoting
education, health, development and peace.
strengthening 
the  enrichment  of  dialogue  and 
interdependence, 
this  context 
the 
in 
is 
6
It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  once  again  this  year  to
present,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation  and  the  other
sponsors, draft resolution A/60/L.7*, entitled “Sport as
a means to promote education, health, development and
peace”.  Since  the  publication  of  this  document,  the
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Andorra,
Argentina,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Dominican
Republic,  France,  Gabon,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,
Malta, Saint Lucia, San Marino, Thailand and Togo.
This draft is intended as a means of contributing
to the attainment of internationally agreed development
goals,  including  those  contained  in  the  Millennium
Declaration,  aimed  at  achieving  greater  solidarity  and
cooperation  as  well  as  at  disseminating  the  culture  of
peace.  Based  primarily  on  prior  resolutions  on  this
subject,  the  text  was  the  object  of  wide  consultation
and is the result of collective effort.
in 
this  draft 
On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  thank  most
warmly  all  delegations  and  United  Nations  bodies,  in
particular  the  head  of  the  New  York  office  of  the
Special  Advisor  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for
Development  and  Peace,  for  the  interest  they  have
shown 
their
determination  to  contribute  to  the  attainment  of  the
goals  set  for  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical  Education  2005.  My  thanks  go  as  well  to
Mr. Adolph Ogi, the Special Advisor to the Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  and
Mr. Jacques  Rogge,  President  of  the  International
Olympic  Committee,  for  the  ceaseless  efforts  they  are
exerting in this regard.
resolution  and 
for 
The  draft  invites  Governments  and  concerned
governmental entities and institutions involved in sport
to  strengthen  the  importance  of  sport  and  physical
education in their development policies and to promote
them as a means of attaining the goals of development
and  of  strengthening  the  opportunities  for  providing
solidarity and cooperation to disseminate the culture of
peace  and  the  values  of  dialogue,  understanding  and
friendship among peoples.
international  sports  bodies 
The draft resolution is also aimed at encouraging
Governments  and 
to
undertake  partnership 
initiatives  and  development
projects  of  their  own  that  contribute  to  achieving  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  and 
to  assist
developing  countries  consolidate  their  potential  in  the
field  of  sport  and  physical  education.  It  advocates  a
A/60/PV.43
number  of  measures,  including  those  through  which
sport  and  physical  education  could  contribute  to
peaceful  world  and  to  the  attainment  of  the  Olympic
ideal.
The draft underscores in particular the will of the
international community to maintain the dynamic trend
begun by the International Year for Sports and Physical
Education,  which  is  a  means  of  promoting  education,
health,  development  and  peace,  particularly  by
elaborating  a  plan  of  action  aimed  at  developing  and
strengthening partnerships between the United Nations
and  Governments,  sport-related  organizations  and  the
private  sector.  This  plan  should  be  based  on  an
assessment  of  progress  attained,  of  the  measures
adopted  and  the  difficulties  encountered  in  the  course
of  making  sport  a 
the  promotion  of
development and peace.
tool 
for 
As  we  congratulate 
the  UNESCO  General
Conference  for  adopting  the  International  Convention
Against Doping in Sport  at  its  thirty-third  session,  we
appeal 
the
Convention as soon as possible.
to  all  Member  States 
to  adhere 
to 
On  behalf  of  the  Tunisian  delegation  and  of  the
other sponsors, we hope this draft resolution will enjoy
the unanimous support of the General Assembly.
Allow  me  now  to  share  the  following  with  you
briefly  on  behalf  of  my  country.  In  Tunisia  we  have
worked  to  ensure  that  physical  education  and  sport
play  an  essential  role  in  our  educational  system  as  a
factor  in  bringing  about  physiological,  psychological
and  social  balance,  above  and  beyond  the  role  of
strengthening development in our country.
We are also working to inculcate sporting values
and the Olympic spirit among  our young people at  all
levels  of  education  and  training,  as  well  as  on  the
professional and civic levels. We have endeavoured to
ensure  that  friendship  and  mutual  respect  prevail  in
relations  among  Tunisian  athletes,  as  well  as  between
them  and  athletes  throughout  the  world,  with  the  aim
of  strengthening  the  ties  of  mutual  understanding,
friendship and tolerance between all the peoples of the
world.
to 
and 
peace 
strengthen 
education,  health,  development  and  peace.  The  noble
ideal  of  sport  leads  us  today  to  join  our  efforts  with
those of the international community to make sport an
instrument 
promote
development  throughout  the  world,  as  well  as  to
guarantee the right of children and young people of all
ages everywhere to physical education and the practice
of  sport  and  to  profit  as  much  as  possible  from  its
physical, health and intellectual benefits. We also hope
that  sport  will  be  recognized  as  an  effective  tool  in
spreading 
the  world,
especially  in  least  developed  countries,  where  there  is
insufficient  sporting  equipment  and  infrastructure  in
terms of variety and quantity.
development 
throughout 
In  closing,  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to
reaffirm  Tunisia’s  support  for  the  Olympic  Truce
initiative. Working closely with the delegation of Italy
and  motivated  by  our  belief  that  sport,  physical
education and the ideals of the Olympics all contribute
to  the  same  objectives,  the  delegation  of  Tunisia  has
striven  to  ensure  the  complementary  nature  of  the
Truce initiative and the draft resolution that I have just
introduced.
of 
The  President: 
the 
I  wish 
comments  made 
the
importance 
the
representative  of  Tunisia  early  in  his  statement  with
regard to the meeting to be held in Tunis on 16 and 18
November.
to  underscore 
by 
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): My
delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  report  to
the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  entitled
“Sport  for  peace  and  development:  International  Year
of  Sport  and  Physical  Education”  (A/60/217).  We  are
also very pleased that the report is being debated along
with  two  draft  resolutions,  and  we  welcome  the
statements made a few moments ago by our colleagues
from 
three  documents
complement  each  other  and  represent  an  encouraging
development, 
consensus
throughout  the  world  today  that  sport  and  physical
education  can  make  a  significant  contribution  to
achieving  development  objectives,  especially 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
Italy  and  Tunisia.  The 
growing 
namely, 
the 
Deeply  convinced  of  its  approach,  Tunisia  is
working to strengthen those values by putting in place
a  comprehensive  educational,  social  and  development
policy  that  considers  sport  and  physical  education  as
effective  training  and  development  tools  in  promoting
More than ever before, there is today a desire on
the  part  of  the  United  Nations  system,  Governments,
sports  organizations,  development  agencies  and  the
private  sector  to  more  specifically  and  systematically
harness  the  great  positive  potential  of  sport  and
7
A/60/PV.43
physical education to promote development, education,
peace  and  health.  The  many  different  and  widely
supported initiatives and activities at the local, national
and  global  levels  that  have  taken  place  in  connection
with the 2005 International Year of Sport and Physical
Education attest resoundingly to that that desire.
None  of  that  would  have  been  possible  without
the  outstanding  commitment  of  the  Secretary-General
and his Special Adviser on Sport for Development and
Peace.  Switzerland  congratulates  and  thanks  them  for
their tireless efforts.
A  solid  foundation  has  been  laid  in  the  last  few
years  to  promote  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical Education. It is now up to all stakeholders to
agree  on  a  common  vision,  aims  and  areas  for  action
for  the  future.  It  is  also  necessary  for  that  framework
be put into operation.
Switzerland  intends  to  contribute  to  that  effort.
From 4 to 6 December 2005, Switzerland will host the
second  Magglingen  Conference  on  Sport 
and
Development,  which  will  mark  both  the  culmination
and  conclusion  of  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical  Education.  It  will  pick  up  where  the  first
Magglingen Conference on Sport and Development left
in
off.  The  first  Conference,  which 
Switzerland 
380
representatives  from  55  countries,  representing  all
segments  of 
the  Conference’s
declarations  and  recommendations  continue  to  be  a
source  of  inspiration  and  guidance  for  sporting  and
development activities throughout the world.
society.  Today, 
took  place 
February 
2003, 
in 
drew 
In this regard, the three following key issues must
be addressed.
First, we must take stock by assessing the results
of 
the  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education and evaluate experiences in that connection.
We  must  also  put  forth  concrete  initiatives,  projects
and programmes from around the world.
in  order 
initiatives 
Secondly,  we  must  undertake  advocacy  and
awareness-raising 
further
promote  understanding  among  the  general  public  and
relevant  players  about  the  great  potential  of  sport  in
promoting  development  and  peace,  as  well  as  to
promote the integration of sport and physical education
into 
regional,  national  and  global  development
strategies.
to 
8
Lastly,  we  must  sustain  the  existing  momentum
by  considering  areas  of  joint  future  action,  laying  the
foundations  for  a  global  peace  and  development
network  and  establishing  innovative  partnerships  and
specific arrangements for cooperation.
The 
theme 
of  December’s  Magglingen
Conference is “Development through sport: moving to
the  next  stage”.  That  theme  expresses  our  conviction
that the time is ripe for a significant intensification of
our  efforts  and  activities.  That  will  be  essential  if  we
are to take advantage of the existing momentum and to
tap over the long term the enormous potential that sport
holds for development and peace.
The  matter  of  financing  an  adequate  long-term
structure  for  sport  for  development  and  peace  within
the  United  Nations  system 
remains  unresolved.
Nevertheless,  we  would 
the
importance  of  the  need  for  a  practical  and  speedy
solution to that question.
to  point  out 
like 
The  draft 
resolutions  being  debated 
today
embody this spirit. Switzerland, as host country to the
International  Olympic  Committee  and  numerous  other
international sport associations, fully supports them.
In  closing,  allow  me  to  make  some  comments
beyond  those  contained  in  the  prepared  text  I  have
circulated.
the  same 
We  are  now  working  with  determination  and
commitment  to  give  shape  to  the  decisions  taken
during September’s High-level Plenary Meeting of the
General  Assembly.  But  at 
the
Government  of  Switzerland  believes  that  we  can  give
added weight and meaning to our efforts if we further
commit ourselves to opening up the United Nations to
civil  society, 
the
beginning  of  his  mandate,  the  Secretary-General  set
out for us his vision of such an opening. He has since
developed 
that  vision.  He  deserves  our  ongoing
commitment.
the  economy  and  sport.  From 
time, 
Mr. Acklie  (United  States  of  America):  The
delegation  of  the  United  States  welcomes  the  General
Assembly’s  consideration  today  of  agenda  item  48,  as
well  as  the  draft  resolutions  entitled  “Building  a
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the
Olympic  ideal”  (A/60/L.15)  and  “Sport  as  a  means  to
promote  education,  health,  development  and  peace”
(A/60/L.7*).  The  Former  refers  to  the  Olympic  Truce,
and  both  refer  to  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical Education.
the  United  States 
To  add  to  the  spirit  of  sportsmanship  today,  the
delegation  of 
invited  several
Olympians  to  be  present  in  the  Hall.  They  are:  Otis
Davis,  medallist  in  the  400  and  1600  metre  relay  in
1960;  Elliott  Denman,  medallist  in  the  50,000  metre
walk  in  1956;  Hazel  Greene  of  Ireland,  medallist  in
archery in 1980, 1985 and 1988; and Tegla Loroupe of
Kenya,  two-time  winner  of  the  New  York  Marathon,
which will take place again this weekend. In addition,
Bruce  McDonald,  medallist  in  the  20,000  and  50,000
metre  walk  in  1956,  1960  and  1964,  and  Gordon
McKenzie,  medallist  in  the  10,000  metre  and  the
marathon in 1956 and 1960, respectively. May we have
those gentlemen and ladies stand?
Their  presence  here  today  highlights  the  high
regard in which our Olympians hold the Truce and safe
passage,  and  their  solidarity  with  the  United  Nations.
As  President  George  W.  Bush  acknowledged  when
meeting with Olympians in 2002, sport teaches us to be
humble  in  victory,  gracious  in  defeat,  compassionate
for  competitors  and 
tolerant  and  appreciative  of
diversity.
supported 
It  is  for  these  reasons  that  the  United  States
international  athletic
Government  has 
competitions. 
Indeed,  such  competitions  promote
understanding  and  respect for  cultural diversity,  foster
international  partnerships  and  increase  awareness  of
global  social  issues  such  as  human  rights,  the  role  of
women 
in  society  and  drug  abuse  prevention.
Moreover,  international  athletic  competitions  generate
a  deep  sense  of  national  pride  while  also  fostering  a
spirit  of  international  solidarity.  The  United  States
record includes hosting eight modern Olympic Games.
One  of  America’s  proudest  inventions,  baseball,
has  proven  to  be  one  of  America’s  proudest  exports.
Little  League  baseball  and  softball  leagues  have  been
formed  in  over  75  countries,  with  180,000  teams
serving  nearly  2.7  million  boys  and  girls.  Since  its
establishment  in  1939,  Little  League  has  grown  from
three  teams  to  nearly  200,000  teams  in  all  50  U.S.
states and more than 80 countries.
Today  the  Assembly  can  support  the  peaceful
environment 
that  sport  generates.  Our  delegation
supports today’s draft resolutions (A/60/L.7* and L.15),
submitted by Italy and Tunisia, both of which use sport
a  means 
as 
understanding and well-being.
promote 
to 
A/60/PV.43
friendship,  mutual
in  co-sponsoring  yet  again 
The  United  States  particularly  supports 
the
request  to  undertake  concrete  action  to  promote  a
culture  of  peace  based  on  the  spirit  of  the  Olympic
Truce.  Therefore,  regarding  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda
item 48, “Building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic ideal”, the United States would
like  to  thank  the  Italian  mission  for  its  hard  work  in
initiating the draft resolution in support of the Olympic
Truce.  The  United  States  is  pleased  to  join  other
Member  States 
this
symbolically  significant  initiative.  By  calling  for  the
safe  passage  and  participation  of  athletes  at  the  XX
Olympic Winter Games in Turin, followed immediately
by  the  Paralympic  Games,  the  Truce  is  intended  to
foster international understanding, peace and goodwill.
The  United  States  has  regarded  the  Olympics
movement  as  a  catalyst 
that
President  Bush  ascribes  to  sport.  For  example,  the
United  States  Government,  in  partnership  with  the
International  Olympic  Committee  and 
the  United
States  Olympic  Committee,  assisted  in  training  the
Iraqi  archery  team,  Iraqi  wrestlers,  boxers  and  a
paralympian  fencer,  to  prepare  them  for  the  2004
Olympic Games in Greece and to help Iraq re-enter the
international sports community.
the  virtues 
toward 
As regards draft resolution A/60/L.7*, “Sport as a
means  to  promote  education,  health,  development  and
peace”, we thank the Tunisian delegation for taking the
initiative  on  that  draft,  and  we  take  note  of  Tunisia’s
contribution  in  hosting  an  international  conference  to
highlight the critical role  of  sport  in  health  promotion
and  in  the  framework  of  the  International  Year  for
Sport and Physical Education. Likewise,  we  thank  the
Secretariat  for 
its  report,  “Sport  for  peace  and
development: International Year of Sport and Physical
Education”  (A/60/217).  We  endorse 
its  praise  of
national  activities  pursued  during  the  Year  towards
“raising  public  awareness  about  the  benefits  of  sport
and  physical  education  in  social  and  educational
programmes”  and  making  “the  direct 
to
sustainable  peace  and  human  development”  (ibid.,
para. 12)
link 
Furthermore, 
the  United  States  delegation
acknowledges  the  valuable  contributions  being  made
by the United Nations Office for the International Year
of  Sport  and  Physical  Education,  the  Office  of  the
9
A/60/PV.43
Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on  Sport  for
Development and Peace, the United Nations New York
Office  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and  by
Mr. Adolf  Ogi  of  Switzerland,  the  Secretary-General’s
Special Adviser on Sport for Development and Peace.
As the report notes, those United Nations offices
have  managed 
to  utilize  sports  programmes  as
components  of  development  strategies  in  cooperation
with 
sport
federations, the private sector, foundations  and others.
These  are  promising  activities  through  which  the
international  community  might  work  toward  realizing
the goals of the United Nations Charter.
non-governmental 
organizations, 
We  look  forward  to  ensuring  that  our  efforts  to
use  sport  continue  beyond  the  International  Year  and
have long-term results, as recommended by the report.
We will continue to look for ways to partner with civil
society  and  the  private  sector  to  promote  sport  as  a
means  of  promoting  intercultural,  post-conflict  and
peacebuilding dialogues.
Through our sport exchanges, young people have
discovered  how  success 
in  athletics  builds  self-
confidence  and  the  skills  required  for  achievement  in
life.  Recently,  former  members  of 
the  National
Basketball  Association  and  the  Women’s  National
Basketball  Association  conducted  clinics  in  Senegal
and Nigeria for hundreds of youth, engaged in dialogue
and  donated  12,000  pairs  of  Reebok  basketball  shoes.
Through  such  programmes,  the  United  States  will
continue to reach out to youth around the world with a
message  of  America’s  commitment  to  international
understanding, cultural tolerance and mutual respect.
initiatives, 
As  regards  physical  education  more  specifically,
for  many  years  the  United  States  President’s  Council
on  Physical  Fitness  and  Sports  has  served  well  as  an
advisory  committee  of  citizen  volunteers.  Through
various  creative 
the  Council  promotes
health,  physical  activity,  fitness  and  enjoyment  for
people  of  all  ages,  backgrounds  and  abilities  through
participation  in  physical  activity  and  sport.  At  the
Council’s  website,  citizens  of  all  ages  can  sign  up  for
the  Presidential  Champions  programme  that  provides
particular  physical  activity  plans  to  fit  individual
needs.  The  programme  is  a  signature  part  of  a  wider
Healthier American agenda.
Also,  we  note  the  draft  resolution’s  invitation  to
consider ratifying the International Convention Against
Doping in Sport and that it commends UNESCO on its
10
successful  negotiation.  The  United  States,  however,
calls  for  States  to  take  into  account  the  World  Anti-
Doping Code of March 2003, which has the support of
more than 150 countries. It would be helpful to avoid a
duplication  of  effort  or  the  possibility  of  a  conflict
between those two instruments.
Sport  exercises  a  deep  hold  on  the  human
imagination.  Sport  transcends  all  perceived  barriers
across ethnicities, ages, genders, religions and abilities,
and sport reminds us of our common humanity.
Ms.  Khalil  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  the
national  level,  sport  and  physical  education  play  an
important part in economic and social development and
in  the  improvement  of  public  health,  and  they  bring
local communities together. On the international level,
sport  and  physical  education  can  have  a  long-term
positive  effect  on  the  development  of  public  health,
peace and the environment.
Egypt welcomes the efforts made internationally,
regionally  and  locally  and  by  the  United  Nations  to
celebrate  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education.  We  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of
those  occasions  and  activities  as  forums  to  create
awareness  among  the  young  and  to  familiarize  them
with  current  challenges  and  to  promote  the  spirit  of
competition,  fraternity  and  tolerance.  Young  people
can 
goodwill
ambassadors, 
of
communicating  with  other  young  people  and  can
become examples for others to follow.
become  United  Nations 
because 
they 
thus 
are 
capable 
We wish also to emphasize the importance of the
role of sport in  fulfilling the MDGs,  and we  welcome
efforts 
to  use  sport  as  a  means  of  achieving
development. We deem it useful for experts worldwide
to  share  their  knowledge,  with  a  view  to  promoting
health, peace, national reconciliation and the exchange
of experiences. We stress also the need to set up sports
structures  in  local  communities  so  that  they  can
become practical tools for sustainable development.
In Egypt, sport is pivotal to integral development,
as it fosters a spirit of honest competition and tolerance
among  communities  and  peoples.  Egypt  continues  to
play  a  pioneering  role  in  the  area  of  sport  and  its
development 
the  Arab  region.
Egyptian athletes have held numerous important posts,
including the presidency of the Volleyball Union. They
have  received  many  international  medals  in  tennis,
volleyball  and  basketball  championships,  and  many
in  Africa  and 
in 
have  been  nominated  as  goodwill  ambassadors  to  the
United Nations.
My  delegation  wishes 
important  points: 
discrimination 
competitions, an increase in the prevalence of doping.
increase 
intolerance, 
and 
the 
to  emphasize 
in  racism, 
in 
and, 
two
racial
sports
As to the first question, Egypt wishes to express
its concern with respect to the issues mentioned in the
report  of  experts  in  terms  of  fighting  racism,  racial
discrimination  and  intolerance,  which  are  contrary  to
the  values,  ideals  and  principles  of  the  Olympics.  We
believe  that  it  is  important  to  fight  those  phenomena
and  to  encourage  athletes  not  to  discriminate  on  the
basis of race, religion, colour or gender.
the  negative 
We  must  emphasize 
long-term
impact  of  doping  on  public  health  and  development
efforts.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  preparation  of  a
final  draft  international  convention  against  doping  in
sport  and  calls 
into
consideration.
for  members 
take 
to 
it 
Mr. Xie Bohua  (China)  (spoke in  Chinese):  The
Chinese  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  under  agenda  item  48  entitled
“Sports for peace and development: International Year
of Sport and Physical Education”.
of 
This  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
founding 
its
establishment,  the  United  Nations  has  consistently
attached  great  importance  to  the  pivotal  role  and
considerable influence of sports.
the  United  Nations.  Since 
The  United  Nations  has  done  a  tremendous
amount  of  work  in  promoting  the  Olympic  spirit.  The
General Assembly has adopted a number of successive
resolutions  on  an  Olympic  Truce,  and  it  declared  the
year  2005  as  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical Education.
Thanks  to  the  joint  efforts  of  the  international
community,  sport  has  become  a  bridge  enabling
exchanges, mutual understanding and friendship among
the  peoples  of  the  world,  and  it  also  plays  a  positive
role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  in
the promotion of development.
The modern Olympic ideal of “higher, faster and
stronger”  has  gone  far  beyond  the  realm  of  sports  to
become  a  spiritual  force  underlying  humankind’s
pursuit  of  happiness,  prosperity  and  a  harmonious
A/60/PV.43
world. We hope that all countries will continue to work
to realize the purposes and principles of the Charter of
the  United  Nations,  and  hence  promote  the  Olympic
spirit as well as dialogue and exchanges among various
civilizations,  in  an  effort  to  create  a  peaceful  and
prosperous world.
The  Chinese  Government  and  people  appreciate
the  Olympic  spirit  and  fully  recognize  the  important
role of sport in peace and development. We  commend
Italy  and  Tunisia  for  having  submitted  two  draft
resolutions  under  this  item  and  are  pleased  to  co-
sponsor them. In that connection, we would like also to
express  our  heartfelt  wishes  for  success  in  connection
with the 2006 Winter Olympic Games in Turin, Italy.
The  XXIX  Olympic  Games  will  be  held  in
Beijing,  China,  in  2008.  Preparations  therefor  are
proceeding  in  an  orderly  manner.  In  keeping  with  the
concept of “Green Olympics, High-tech Olympics, and
People’s  Olympics”,  the  Chinese  Government  will
further  promote  the  Olympic  spirit  with  a  view  to
making  the  Beijing  Olympics  a  truly  magnificent
sports gathering that will help to promote and maintain
world  peace,  strengthen  ties  of  friendship  among
peoples,  and  promote  dialogue  and  exchanges  among
different civilizations. China, which is at once ancient
and  modern,  welcomes  the  arrival  of  friends  from  all
countries.
Mr.  Brousseau  (Canada):  Canada  is  pleased  to
take  the  floor  today  to  address  the  draft  resolution
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  put  forward  by  the
delegation of Italy.
its 
affirms 
Canada 
and
commitment to the principles  and ideals that underpin
this draft resolution.
(spoke in French)
endorsement  of 
By  co-sponsoring  this  draft  resolution,  Canada
reaffirms its longstanding recognition of sport as a vital
factor 
communities,
contributing  to  global  peace,  and  encouraging  healthy
lifestyles among young people.
sustainable 
building 
in 
The power of sport to act as a positive catalyst for
growth and change is evidenced through the efforts of
countless  humanitarian  organizations,  which  use  sport
as a tool to help rebuild nations and to heal individuals
and communities following periods of conflict.
11
A/60/PV.43
(spoke in English)
Canada  encourages  Member  States  to  recognize
the  Olympic  and  Paralympic
and  support  both 
movements.
(spoke in French)
The  importance  of  recognizing  the  Paralympic
movement  in  the  text  of  this  draft  resolution  was  a
priority for Canada. This draft extends the period of the
Olympic  Truce  beyond 
the  XX  Olympic  Winter
Games, to be held next February in Turin, Italy, so that
it  encompasses  the  Paralympic  Winter  Games,  also  in
Turin in March 2006.
(spoke in English)
In closing, we are pleased to see a strong level of
support  among  Member  States  both  for  this  draft
resolution  and  for  constructive  cooperation  with
concerned  agencies  and  programmes  of  the  United
Nations and the International Olympic Committee.
Mr.  Gillerman  (Israel):  The  State  of  Israel  is
proud  to  lend  its  support  and  co-sponsorship  to  the
draft resolution entitled “Building a peaceful and better
world through sport and the Olympic ideal” and would
also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Italy,
the host country of the 2006 Winter Games.
Athletic  competition  provides  an  ideal  medium
for  transcending  national  boundaries  and  fostering
good  will,  better  relations  and  mutual  respect.  The
principles  underlying  athletic  competition  provide  a
channel  through  which  people  of  different  religious,
cultural,  racial  and  political  backgrounds  can  interact
and enhance their understanding of each other. By the
same  token,  the  contributions  sports  can  make  in
promoting development, education and health shall not
be underestimated. In many cases, athletic competition
is a means to enhance relationships and build bridges.
One notable recent example from our region is Qatar’s
contribution  towards  the  building  of  a  soccer  stadium
in  the  Israeli  municipality  Sakhnin,  where  the  local
soccer 
is
composed of Jewish and Arab Israeli players. This is a
welcome initiative, representing an opportunity for our
countries  to  enhance  relations  on  a  people-to-people
basis.  We  would  like  to  call  on  other  countries  in  our
region to collaborate with us and replicate this gesture
under the auspices of good sportsmanship.
team,  playing 
the  premier 
league, 
in 
12
Unfortunately,  not  all  athletic  events  are  carried
out with the same positive sentiment as prevailed when
they were founded. In some cases, athletic competition
is  abused  as  a  tool  for  politicization.  As  noted  in  the
report by the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on
Human  Rights  on  Contemporary  Forms  of  Racism,
Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related
Intolerances, the noble ideas of competition and mutual
respect  are  being  eroded  by  the  exacerbation  of  the
nationalistic  dimension  of  competitions  and  an
overemphasis on money.
the 
from 
Iranian  withdrew 
At  the  Olympic  Games  in  Athens,  for  example,
an  Iranian  judoka  refused  to  compete  with  an  Israeli
athlete.  After 
the
tournament,  according  to  Iran’s  official  news  service,
the  Government  paid  him  $115,000, 
the  amount
awarded  to  gold  medallists.  A  further  contradiction  of
the important ideal to which the Olympics aspire is the
manifestations  of  racism,  anti-Semitism  and  other
forms of intolerance in sports. Athletic competition and
intolerance  simply  contradict  each  other.  Given  the
attention  by 
the
manifestations of racism and anti-Semitism in sporting
events during his  last  two  reports,  Israel  sees  merit  in
including  a reference to that troubling phenomenon in
the 
the
elimination 
discrimination,
xenophobia and related intolerance during this session
of the General Assembly as well.
the  Third  Committee  on 
racism, 
the  Special  Rapporteur 
resolution  of 
racial 
of 
to 
Football 
Associations, 
In this context, we would like to commend recent
international  efforts  to  reject  the  manifestation  of
racism  and  intolerance  during  sporting  events.  Anti-
racism campaigns, such as the efforts by the Union of
European 
Federation
Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), Football
Against  Racism  Europe  (FARE),  Let’s  Kick  Racism
Out  of  Football  in  the  United  Kingdom  and  similar
activities  throughout  Europe,  as  well  as  those  led  by
private companies, deserve praise and support from the
international community. Israel’s concern for this issue
is  reflected  in  our  cooperation  with  several  of  those
associations on a national level.
The ultimate example of political abuse, when all
boundaries are broken and the sanctity of the Olympic
ideal is violated, is when terrorists target athletes. The
idea of the Olympic Games cannot be separated, in the
memory  of  Israelis  and  people  throughout  the  world,
from  the  horrific  act  of  terrorism  that  tarnished  the
1972  Munich  Games.  At  those  Games,  gunmen  from
is 
the 
that 
the  expression  of  hatred  and 
of  murder.  What 
is 
the  terrorist  group  Black  September  broke  into  the
Olympic Village disguised as athletes and killed eleven
Israeli  athletes  and  coaches.  That  horrific  act  of
terrorism and murder is unprecedented in the annals of
Olympic  history  and  represents  the  very  antithesis  of
the Olympic ideal. Rather than allowing the Games to
transcend politics and conflict, the Games were used as
a  vehicle  for 
the
perpetration 
particularly
disheartening 
International  Olympic
Committee  has  yet  to  take  a  decision  to  officially
observe  the  memory  of  the  fallen  Israeli  athletes
whenever the Olympics take place. This blemish on the
history of the Games must not be forgotten as we strive
to ensure that  future  Olympic  events  serve  to  broaden
understanding, tolerance, respect and peace.
for 
the  noble
objectives of the draft resolution before us and for the
observance of the Olympic truce. The Olympic Games
are  one  of  the  world’s  only  true  global  events  and,  as
such,  present  us  with  an  extraordinary  opportunity  to
focus  the  world’s  attention  and  utilize  the  good  will
that  the  Games  inspire  to  build  a  more  peaceful  and
more harmonious world.
its  support 
reaffirms 
Israel 
Mr.  Rogachev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian): Sports and peace are closely linked concepts.
The absence of war is a necessary condition for battle
in  the  sports  arena.  Sports  bring  peoples  together  and
the competition that is an essential component of sports
activity  does  not  mean  combat  with  the  enemy  but
rather  competition  among  partners,  colleagues,  like-
minded  people,  and,  on  the  whole,  a  striving  to
improve.
The  role  of  sport  as  an  ambassador  for  peace  is
especially  significant  when  it  is  joined  with  the  noble
traditions  of  the  Olympic  truce.  The  pressing  need  to
educate  future  generations  in  the  spirit  of  a  culture  of
peace,  non-violence  and  tolerance  once  again  proves
that  not  only  is  the  Olympic  ideal  not  outdated,  but
with  time  it  is  acquiring  new,  ever  greater  relevance.
The  flame  of  the  Olympics  should  illuminate  the  path
leading mankind to the third millennium and serve as a
beacon  indicating  the  way  to  peace  without  hostility
and violence.
In  a  few  months,  this  peaceful  flame  will  glow
over the lovely city of Turin, which will host the 2006
Winter Olympics. In this connection, we sincerely wish
our Italian friends success in organizing this worldwide
A/60/PV.43
event  and  in  the  achievement  of  harmony  through
sports.
health 
economic, 
environmental, 
the  Conference,  as  were  such 
The  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education declared by the United Nations is coming to
a close. Measures taken within that context have made
a  considerable  contribution  to  resolving  a  number  of
social, 
and
educational  issues.  To  emphasize  the  role  of  sports  in
strengthening  mutual  understanding  among  peoples
was  the  purpose  of  the  International  Conference  on
Sport and Peace, held in Moscow from 2 to 5 October,
2005  in  the  context  of  the  International  Year  of  Sport
and Physical Education. Forty States were represented
at 
international
organizations  as  the  United  Nations,  UNESCO,  the
Council of Europe and the World Anti-Doping Agency.
During the course of the productive work, such timely
issues  as  future  prospects  for  international  sports
cooperation  were  discussed,  and  we  determined
practical 
activating  multilateral
interaction in that sphere, including within the context
of the United Nations. As a result of the Conference, a
declaration was adopted which in particular calls upon
the  world’s 
sports
organizations  to  use  their  authority  to  avoid  conflict
and  to  repudiate  hostility  and  aggression  and  thus  to
aid  the  unification  of  the  international  community
around the principles of peace and harmony.
politicians, 
objectives 
athletes 
and 
for 
Sport is a universal language. Due to the fact that
representatives  of  different  countries,  cultures  and
beliefs  participate  in  sports  competitions,  one  can  say
with  certainty  that  “sports  diplomacy”  is  a  powerful
thing, capable of becoming an effective channel for the
advancement  of  the  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue
among civilizations.
Mr.  Kyaw  Tint  Swe (Myanmar),  Vice-President,
took the Chair.
Mr. Vassilakis (Greece): It is a great honour and
pleasure for me to take the floor on agenda item 48 (a)
to express my country’s wholehearted support for draft
resolution A/60/L.15, entitled “Building a peaceful and
better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”.
Two  years  ago,  Greece  presented  a  similar  draft
resolution as it prepared for the 2004 Athens Olympics.
Resolution  58/6  received  the  widest  possible  support
from  Member  States,  giving  new  meaning  and
relevance to the ancient tradition of Olympic Truce —
ekecheiria in Greek.
13
A/60/PV.43
this  year’s  draft 
resolution  underlines 
This year it is Italy’s turn to uphold the tradition
and submit a draft resolution urging Member States to
observe,  within  the  framework  of  the  Charter,  the
Olympic Truce during the XX Olympic Winter Games,
to be held in Turin  from 10 to 26 February 2006, and
the  subsequent  Paralympic  Games.  The  wide  support
for 
the
international  community’s  recognition  of  the  goals  set
out therein and our common eagerness to celebrate the
Games  in  peace,  harmony  and  friendship.  We  wish
both  Italy  and  China,  which  is  to  follow  as  host  in
2008, every success in organizing the Olympic Games.
In bringing the idea of the Olympic Truce to the
forefront, we encourage the notion that it is possible to
build  a  lasting  peace  from  a  pause  in  hostilities.  That
is, in fact, how the Olympic Games were conceived in
the  first  place.  In  antiquity,  the  implementation  of  the
Olympic Truce entailed a cessation of all hostilities in
order  to  allow  athletes  and  spectators  to  travel  to  and
from  Olympia  and  attend  the  sacred  celebration  of
human  achievement.  Having  been  upheld  for  over  a
millennium,  the  Olympic  Truce  is  the  longest  peace
treaty in history.
It 
ideas  and 
is  widely  believed 
the  world.  We  strive 
that,  because  of
communication  technology,  it  is  easier  than  ever  to
exchange 
to  understand  one  another.
However,  in  our  modern  Babel,  misunderstandings
prevail. Insecurity is a widespread feeling in every part
of 
for  dialogue  among
civilizations  and  cooperation  among  the  rich  and  the
poor, yet each day witnesses our failure. The Olympic
Truce could be a constructive new approach to conflict
resolution. The Olympic ideal is a universal language,
in  which  all  peoples  can  communicate  and  share  the
pleasure of the Games.
A few days before the 2004 Olympics in Athens,
the Olympic torch came for the first time to the United
Nations. In a joyous celebration, the fire from Olympia
brought  light  to  our  Headquarters  and  carried  the
message  of  peace  and  solidarity.  The  United  Nations
and  the  Olympic  movement  are  natural  allies.  They
strive  for  the  same  goals  and  observe  the  same
principles.  They  are  useful  tools  in  the  hands  of  the
international  community.  They  are  what  we  make  of
them.  It  is  up  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  seize  the
opportunity  offered  by  the  draft  resolution  and  to
observe the Truce, for the benefit of our peoples.
14
This  year,  we 
We  express  our  appreciation  and  support  to  the
International Olympic Committee for its tireless efforts
to  promote  the  Olympic  ideal  and  build  bridges  of
understanding  and  cooperation.  We  commend  the
President  of  the  International  Olympic  Committee,
Mr. Jacques  Rogge,  for  promoting  the  idea  of  the
Olympic Truce. Greece will stand by him in his efforts
to strengthen the Olympic movement.
also 
the
International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical  Education.
Important  initiatives  have  been  undertaken  by  some
Member  States,  such  as  the  International  Conference
on Sport and Peace organized by Russia in October and
the  International  Conference  on  Sport  and  Education
organized  by  Thailand,  which  ended  yesterday.  All
over the world, it is widely recognized that sport has an
important role to play in peace and development. It has
become  a  national  priority  and  an  integral  part  of
education programmes worldwide.
celebrating 
are 
To teach sport to our children is to teach them the
principles  of  the  Olympic  spirit.  It  is  to  teach  them
mutual  understanding,  friendship,  solidarity  and  fair
play,  thus  giving  them  the  instruments  with  which  to
build  a  better  future  for  themselves.  That  is  why  we
have 
resolution  A/60/L.7,
introduced  by  Tunisia,  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to
promote education, health, development and peace”.
co-sponsored 
draft 
In  closing,  let  me  stress  once  again  that  by
adopting today the draft resolution entitled “Building a
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the
Olympic  ideal”  we  are  taking  a  positive  approach  to
life and to today’s realities at the personal and national
levels. We have no illusions, and we dream no utopian
dreams. We are simply stating the obvious — if we can
have  peace  in  the  world  for  16  days,  then  maybe  we
can have it forever.
Mr. Labbé  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  should
like,  first  of  all,  to  congratulate  the  Bureau  for  its
leadership 
the  General
Assembly.
in  guiding  our  work 
in 
Resolutions 58/5 of 3 November 2003 and 59/10
of 27 October 2004 declared 2005 as the International
Year of Sport and Physical Education, seeing the Year
as  an  important  means  to  promote  education,  health,
development and peace.
Likewise,  paragraph  145  of  the  World  Summit
Outcome document (resolution 60/1) states,
tolerance 
and  understanding, 
“We  underline  that  sports  can  foster  peace  and
development and can contribute to an atmosphere
of 
and  we
encourage  discussions  in  the  General  Assembly
for proposals leading to a plan of action on sport
and development.”
Chile  is  pleased  that  we  are  currently  in  the
process  of 
that  mandate  from  our
leaders, the result of tireless efforts by our country and
others. It is in that context that my country decided to
co-sponsor  the  draft  resolutions  entitled  “Building  a
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the
Olympic  ideal”  and  “Sport  as  a  means  to  promote
education,  health,  development  and  peace”,  drawn  up,
respectively,  by  Italy  and  Tunisia,  which  Chile  would
like to congratulate for their patient preparatory work.
implementing 
Chile  would  also  like  to  thank  and  congratulate
the Secretary-General for his report on sport for peace
and development.
that 
those 
set  out 
Chile  firmly  believes 
two  draft
resolutions  can  provide  an  excellent  basis  for  our
efforts  to  achieve  full  compliance  with  the  major
development  goals 
the  Millennium
Declaration.  In  this  context,  we  recognize  that  the
disciplines  of  sports  and  physical  education  are  life-
long pursuits and that they constitute an important tool,
not only for health and physical development, but also
for  the  acquisition  and  internalization  of  values  that
have  a  positive  impact  on  social  cohesiveness  and
facilitate intercultural dialogue.
in 
That is why my country is fully convinced that, if
we are to fully exploit the potential of sports activities
in the framework of the International Year of Sport and
Physical Education, further initiatives must be taken to
make  sports  an  effective  tool  for  development  and
peace, at both the national and international levels.
Sports,  healthy  competition  and  the  Olympic
ideal  conjure  up  positive  images  of  understanding,  of
the overcoming of obstacles and of  an  appreciation  of
humankind  worldwide.  The  ancient  tradition  of  the
Olympic Truce was an early demonstration of wisdom
and  compassion  that  we  should  replicate  in  this
difficult but promising era.
According to the story retold so masterfully in the
music of the  great  German  composer  Richard  Strauss,
the  Olympic  laurel  comes  from  the  sacred  tree  into
which Daphne was transformed by the Olympic gods to
A/60/PV.43
(spoke 
(Qatar) 
place  humankind  and  nature  in  an  eternal  embrace.
Mindful  of  this  image  of  beauty,  harmony  and  peace,
Chile  undertakes  to  imbue  the  diplomatic  relay  race
with energy and hope.
Mr.  Al-Nasser
in  Arabic):
Mr. President,  allow  me  at  the  outset  to  extend  once
again,  on  behalf  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  our  warm
congratulations  and  sincere  thanks  to  you  for  your
competent  stewardship  of  the  work  of  the  current
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  would  like  to
assure you anew of the full cooperation of the State of
Qatar. Allow me also to take this opportunity to thank
the  Secretary-General  for  his  valuable  report  under
item  48  (b)  of  the  agenda,  entitled  “Sports  for  peace
and  development:  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical Education”. (A/60/217)
The  report  reaffirms  the  important  contribution
that  sports  and  physical  education  can  make  to  the
achievement  of  peace  and  development,  especially
human  development.  For  our  part,  we  continue  to
support the objectives set by the United Nations system
in  the  context  of  the  International  Year  of  Sport  and
Physical Education.
The State of Qatar believes that sports, peace and
development  must  be  viewed 
from  a  broader
perspective.  Indeed,  the  international  community  has
recognized  their  synergy.  Sports  has  always  been  an
important  factor  that  can  bring  people  together  in
peace.  Physical  education  has  always  been  an
important  means  of  nurturing  children  in  various
societies and in enhancing tolerance and understanding
among various cultures and different racial groups.
in 
to 
the  realm  of  sports  and 
In that regard, the State of Qatar believes that due
attention  should  be  accorded  the  question  of  human
development 
the
expansion of the concept of sports to include sports for
all. Guided by those principles, the Government of the
State  of  Qatar,  on  instructions  from  His  Highness
Sheikh  Hamad  Bin  Khalifa  Al-Thani,  the  Emir  of  the
State  of  Qatar,  has  consistently  sought  to  enhance  its
activities  in  the  field  of  youth  and  sports  and  to
participate  in  international  efforts.  Qatar  aspires  to
building  a  prosperous  society  in  which  young  people
can  reap  the  benefits  of  sports  and  profit  from  the
values embodied in a world Olympic renaissance.
The State of Qatar has endeavoured to keep pace
with the evolution of human aspirations in the field of
sports.  Thus  it  has  striven  to  create  a  sound  sports
15
A/60/PV.43
environment  for  the  younger  generations  that  fulfils
their ambitions, motivates them and assists them in the
process  of  their  development.  Qatar  supports  the
creative efforts under way to achieve a comprehensive
social  renaissance  leading  to  a  brighter  future,  on  the
basis  of  social  development  and  the  promotion  of
mechanisms  to  bring  to  fruition  the  endeavours  of
humankind and enhance its creative output.
Responding to the needs of youth, and in order to
realize  all  the  concepts  and  values  of  the  Olympic
movement,  the  State  of  Qatar  is  focusing  on  building
youth  hostels  and  on  the  establishment  of  Olympic-
quality sports facilities and the development of related
means  and  mechanisms.  It  is  currently  engaged  in
building  the  Olympic  City  in  Doha  in  preparation  for
hosting  the  fifteenth  Asian  Games  in  2006.  In  that
regard,  the  State  of  Qatar  has  successfully  hosted  the
Junior  World  Cup  (FIFA)  as  well  as  the  World  Cup
finals  for  the  Asian  continent  in  1994,  which  made
possible the achievements of its track and field team.
the 
Qatar has also participated in numerous Olympic
games and meetings. It looks forward to continuing to
host  sporting  events  and  tournaments.  The  Public
Authority for Youth and Sports in Qatar is working on
an ongoing basis to highlight the value of cooperation
among  young  people,  promote 
relationships
between  our  youth  and  the  youth  of  the  world,  and
build  bridges  of  hope  and  cooperation,  mutual
understanding, 
among
peoples. The objective is to achieve the lofty Olympic
goal  of  building  a  better  future  for  humankind  in  the
new  world  of  the  twenty-first  century  —  a  world  in
which  trust  among  peoples  is  strengthened  and  in
which,  through  common  human  endeavours,  a  bright
future  is  realized,  characterized  by  high  ideals,  lofty
values  and 
for  creative  Olympic
competition.
the  capacity 
friendship 
solidarity 
and 
At the dawn of the twenty-first century, humanity
now  more  than  ever  must  make  strenuous  efforts  to
seek  detente  among  peoples  and  to  bring  about
international  peace  and  security  based  on  justice  and
the  equality  of  rights  and  obligations.  In  that  regard,
we  must  promote 
that  safeguard
relations  among  peoples.  We  must  also  work  in  a
collective  framework  in  which  sports  and  physical
education  create  opportunities 
for  solidarity  —
promoting  the  culture  of  peace  and  enhancing  social
and  gender  equality  and  the  call  for  dialogue  and
harmony.
those  practices 
16
those 
in 
agreed 
contained 
development 
Moreover, we must acknowledge the contribution
of  sports  and  physical  education 
to  social  and
economic  development  as  a  means  of  achieving
internationally 
objectives,
including 
the  Millennium
Declaration,  and the  wider  objectives  of  development,
peace and security. We must also safeguard peace and
security  within  and  among  nations.  Furthermore,  we
must  promote  health  awareness  and  the  spirit  of
accomplishment;  encourage  communication  among
cultures;  entrench 
spirit;  and  urge
Governments,  international  sports  bodies  and  sports
organizations  to  formulate  and  implement  partnership
initiatives 
are
compatible with the educational curriculums used at all
levels  of  education  in  order  to  help  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals.
and  development  projects 
the  group 
that 
It  is  important,  therefore,  to  ensure  that  the
eradication of poverty is the focus of special attention
in  the  context  of  the  campaign  to  promote  the  culture
of  peace,  because  peace  is  not  merely  the  absence  of
violence  and  conflict;  rather,  it  is  closely  linked  to
economic  development,  respect  for  human  rights,
solidarity  among  peoples,  dialogue  among  cultures,
sustainable  human  development,  the  free  flow  of
information  and  knowledge,  the  management  and
prevention of conflict, post-conflict peacebuilding, and
gender equality.
Hence,  interaction  between  the  culture  of  peace
and  sustainable  development  continues  to  be  the
cornerstone of the enterprise to which the international
community  must  henceforth  devote  itself,  armed  with
the necessary political will to transform into reality the
basic  and  legitimate  aspirations  of  peoples  to  a  world
of peace and justice, free from misery and poverty.
The  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education  reaffirms  the 
importance  of  sport  and
usefully contributes to international peace and security
international  partnership
through  an  all-inclusive 
including 
international  sports
federations,  non-governmental  organizations 
and
public organizations. The United Nations can unite all
sports-related  organizations  in  order  to  reaffirm  the
role  of  sport  as  a  real  partner  in  achieving  the
objectives of peace and development.
the  private  sector, 
Sport,  by  its  nature,  integrates  citizens  into
society,  removes  barriers  between  different  societies
and acquaints groups and individuals with one another,
emphasizing  what  unites  them  and  helping  them
overcome  ethnic  and  cultural  differences.  That  makes
sport a powerful tool for supporting conflict prevention
and  peacebuilding  efforts,  within  societies  and  at  the
international  level,  and  for  promoting  the  Dialogue
among civilizations and the right of all peoples to self-
determination and solidarity. Thus, sport helps make it
possible  to  tackle  global  problems  by  sharing  those
responsibilities  and  by  responding  to  the  needs  of  the
most disadvantaged.
Sport,  peace,  culture,  the  humanitarian  impulse
and respect for moral principles have been the essential
ideals of the Olympic movement since the first games
were  held  at  Olympia  in  776  B.C.  The  State  of  Qatar
believes that sport and the Olympic ideal without doubt
strengthen friendship and brotherhood among  peoples,
which  are  essential  for  the  promotion  of  peace,
development and cooperation among nations.
The  International  Year  of  Sport  and  Physical
Education  reflects  universal  objectives.  Sport  and
physical  education  play  a  major  role  in  achieving
global development goals. They provide an opportunity
to renew our commitment to the basic principles of the
United Nations Charter, including the establishment of
peace,  security  and  development,  especially  at  this
delicate  moment  in  the  world  situation,  when  our
support  for  the  Organization’s  activities  and  methods
of work is most needed.
The  delegation  of  Qatar  believes  that,  in  the
twenty-first century, the world’s nations should uphold
their commitment to the purposes and principles of the
United  Nations  Charter  and  promote  sportsmanship
and the Olympic ideal resolutely and actively in order
to advance dialogue among civilizations and encourage
social and economic progress in the world. We strongly
support  the  call  on  all  States  to  take  advantage  of  the
opportunity  offered  by  sport  to  promote  peace  and
development. The State of Qatar pledges sincerely and
fully  to  support  that  endeavour.  In  that  regard,  it  is
evident that the world needs peace now.
My delegation is pleased to take this opportunity
to reaffirm its confidence in the United Nations as the
principal  organization  for  establishing  detente  among
nations  and  achieving international peace and  security
on the basis of justice and equal rights and obligations
for all. The way to peace lies in mutual understanding,
respect 
and
religions — regardless of one’s gender or creed — the
cooperation 
and 
among 
cultures 
A/60/PV.43
peaceful settlement of disputes and the promotion of a
culture  of  peace  through  dialogue  and  education.
Finally, my delegation believes that political will is an
important incentive for achieving peace.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  48  and  its  sub-
items (a) and (b).
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft
resolutions A/60/L.15 and A/60/L.7.*
We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/60/L.15,
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through
sport and the Olympic ideal”, under sub-item (a).
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/60/L.15?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution
60/8).
The  Acting  President:  We  next  turn  to  draft
resolution  A/60/L.7,*  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to
promote  education,  health,  development  and  peace”,
under sub-item (b).
Since the introduction of the draft resolution, the
following countries have become sponsors: the Central
African  Republic,  Kazakhstan,  Qatar,  Spain,  Ukraine,
the United Arab Emirates and Zambia.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/60/L.7*?
The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution
60/9).
The Acting President: Before giving the floor to
speakers in explanation of vote, may I remind speakers
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  García-Matos.  (Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We  would  like  to
express the commitment of the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela  to  sport  as  a  tool  for  attaining  peace  and
development.  We  also  note  that  sports  constitutes  the
central  pillar  of  the  public  policies  currently  being
implemented  by  the  Venezuelan  Government.  We
express  our  recognition  and  support  to  the  Italian
delegation  and  Government  for  introducing  the  draft
resolution.
However, we would like to make an interpretative
comment  on  the  eighth  preambular  paragraph  of  the
17
A/60/PV.43
present  resolution  to  explain  why  we  did  not  sponsor
the  resolution,  which,  as  we  have  said,  fully  reflects
our commitments and policies.
in  A/60/L.1. 
It 
is, 
As  the  General  Assembly  knows,  the  Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela does not recognize as part of the
outcome of the 2005 World Summit the final document
contained 
therefore,  our
interpretation  that  the  eighth  preambular  paragraph  of
that  resolution  refers  to  commitments  of  a  general
nature  that  should  guide  our  Governments’  actions  in
the  quest  for  a  world  in  which  peace  prevails  and
sports is given its proper place. That in no way implies
that  we  recognize  the  September  summit’s  outcome
document in itself to be the result of the summit of our
heads of State and Government.
respect 
resolution
A/60/L.7*,  we  would  like  to  express  our  reservation
with  respect  to  the  second  preambular  paragraph,  not
because of the substantive commitments it contains but
because it explicitly refers to the final document of the
2005 World Summit, which, as we have said, generates
neither  mandate  nor  obligation  for  our  Republic.  We
would like that reservation to be recorded in the record
of this meeting.
Finally,  with 
to  draft 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus
concluded this stage of its consideration of sub-item (a)
of agenda item 48.
May  I  take  it  that  is  the  wish  of  the  General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of sub-item (b)
of agenda item 48?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 43 (continued)
Culture of peace
Draft resolutions (A/60/L.4/Rev.1 and L.10)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that
the Assembly held the debate on agenda item 43 jointly
with  agenda  item  42  at  its  35th  and  36th  plenary
meetings, on 20 October 2005.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  Pakistan
to introduce draft resolution A/60/L.10.
Mr.  Khokhar  (Pakistan):  I  have  the  honour  to
introduce,  on  behalf  of 
the  draft
resolution entitled “Promotion of religious and cultural
the  sponsors, 
18
understanding, harmony and cooperation”, contained in
document A/60/L.10.
The  agenda 
item  “Culture  of  peace” 
is
reminiscent  of  the  commitment  made  by  us  60  years
ago, at the time of the adoption of the United Nations
Charter, to practice tolerance and live together in peace
with  one  another  as  good  neighbours,  to  unite  our
strength  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security
and to promote social progress and better standards of
life in larger freedom.
tolerance  are  essential 
That  pledge  was  reaffirmed  in  the  Millennium
Declaration five years ago when world leaders resolved
that  the  fundamental  values  of  freedom,  equality,
solidarity  and 
in  guiding
international  relations  of  the  twenty-first  century.
Human  beings  must  respect  one  other,  in  all  their
diversity  of  belief,  culture  and  language.  Differences
within  and  between  societies  should  be  neither  feared
nor  repressed,  but  cherished  as  a  precious  asset  of
humanity.
Yet another manifestation of that resolve was the
acknowledgement in the 2005 World Summit Outcome
of the cultural and religious diversity of the world and
the  commitment  to  promote  international  peace  and
security  by  advancing  human  welfare,  freedom  and
progress  and  by  encouraging  tolerance,  respect  and
dialogue  among  different  cultures,  civilizations  and
peoples.
To reaffirm those objectives and to launch a new
era  of  hope  and  peaceful  coexistence,  the  General
Assembly  adopted  the  Declaration  on  a  Culture  of
Peace on 13 September 1999 (resolution 53/243A). The
Declaration is a set of values, attitudes and behaviour.
It  builds  upon 
the  Charter-based  principles  of
multilateral  cooperation  and  underscores  respect  for
life, ending of violence and the promotion and practice
of  non-violence 
through  education,  dialogue  and
cooperation,  as  well  as  commitment  to  the  peaceful
settlement of conflicts.
Contrary  to  the  expectations  and  hopes  of  our
common  humanity,  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium
witnessed  a  profound  transformation  in  international
relations. The dangerous confrontations of the cold war
have  been  replaced  by  the  complex  and  equally
dangerous  realities  of  our  world  today.  It  is  a  world
marked on the one hand by intensifying globalization,
which  eliminates  distances  and  brings  people  closer
together,  and  by  terrorism,  violence,  poverty  and
disease on the other.
The  growing  asymmetries 
in  State  power,
discrimination  in  the  dispensation  of  international
justice,  repression  of  people’s  legitimate  aspirations
and 
socio-economic  disparities  have
precipitated  new  threats  to  international  peace  and
security.
increasing 
We  are  experiencing  a  serious  decline 
in
appreciation  for,  and  the  practice  of,  universal  and
common  moral  principles.  Human  history  has  reached
a crucial point where a choice has to be made between
a  world  characterized  by  peace  and  prosperity  or  one
that is torn by global conflict and disaster.
We  are  all  aware  that  peace  is  inseparable  from
mutual  tolerance  and  accommodation.  The  challenge
we  face  every  day  is  to  replace  fear  with  acceptance,
harassment  with  tolerance,  and  hatred  with  respect.
Cooperation  —  and  not  the  clash  of  civilizations  —
must  be  the  paradigm  for  our  collective  endeavours.
Promotion of understanding, harmony and cooperation
among  religions  and  cultures  can  lift  the  veil  of
ignorance,  the  misconception  and  the  prejudice  that
have become so tragically pervasive in recent times.
All religions and cultures share a common set of
universal values. Religion and culture, therefore, must
not be allowed to become a source of division, as they
are  sometimes  portrayed.  Instead  we  must  cherish  the
unity  and  indivisibility  of  the  human  race  no  matter
what religion or particular culture we belong to.
With  that  context  in  mind,  Pakistan  has  tabled  a
draft resolution in the General Assembly, for the third
consecutive  year,  entitled  “Promotion  of  religious  and
cultural understanding, harmony and cooperation”.
The draft resolution recognizes that interreligious
dialogue  and  understanding,  including  awareness  of
differences  and  commonalities  among  peoples  and
civilizations,  contribute  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of
conflicts  and  disputes  and  reduce  the  potential  for
violence.  It  acknowledges  the  contribution  of  various
initiatives  at  the  national,  regional  and  international
level, including Pakistan’s Enlightened Moderation, to
promote mutual understanding and tolerance among the
peoples of the world.
While 
that 
recognizing 
the  challenges  of
intolerance  and  conflict  exist,  create  divides  across
countries  and  regions  and  pose  a  threat  to  peaceful
A/60/PV.43
the  draft 
among  nations, 
relations 
resolution
emphasizes  that  all  cultures  and  civilizations  share  a
common  set  of  universal  values  and  can  contribute  to
the enrichment of humankind.  Operative paragraph 15
requests  the  Secretary-General  to  ensure  the  widest
dissemination  of  the  relevant  United  Nations  material
related  to  the  resolution  in  as  many  languages  as
possible through the United Nations system, including
the Information Centres.
I take this opportunity to state that in addition to
the  sponsors  mentioned  in  the  draft,  Algeria,  the
Dominican  Republic,  Indonesia,  Kyrgyzstan,  Spain,
Thailand,  Turkey  and  Uzbekistan  have  also  joined  as
sponsors.
I am confident that the draft resolution, as in the
previous sessions, will be endorsed unanimously by the
General  Assembly.  That  will  be  an  affirmation  by  the
members  of  the  international  community  of  its  shared
commitment 
the  goals  of  universal
understanding, harmony and peace, as well as security
and  prosperity  among  all  nations  and  peoples  of  all
faiths and cultures.
to  advance 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now
take a decision on draft resolutions A/60/L.4/Rev.1 and
A/60/L.10.
We  turn  first  to  draft  resolution  A/60/L.4/Rev.1,
entitled  “Promotion  of  interreligious  dialogue  and
cooperation on peace”.
The  names  of  additional  sponsors  were  read  out
by  the  representative  of  Pakistan.  The  following
countries  have  also  added  their  names  to  the  list:
Argentina,  Belize,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Egypt,  El
Salvador,  Guatemala,  Guinea-Bissau,  Haiti,  Mongolia,
Slovenia, 
the  Sudan,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and
Turkmenistan.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/60/L.4/Rev.1?
Draft  resolution  A/60/L.4/Rev.1  was  adopted
(resolution 60/10).
The  Acting  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft
resolution  A/60/L.10,  entitled  “Promotion  of  religious
and cultural understanding, harmony and cooperation”.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft resolution A/60/L.10?
19
A/60/PV.43
resolution  A/60/L.10  was 
adopted
Draft 
(resolution 60/11).
The  Acting  President: 
the
representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela,
who wishes to speak in explanation of position on the
resolutions just adopted.
call 
on 
I 
May  I  remind  members  that  explanations  of
position are limited to 10 minutes and should be made
by delegations from their seats.
Ms.  García-Matos
(Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  we  made  clear
during  our  discussion  of  item  43,  “Culture  of  peace”,
last  week,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  Global  Agenda  for
Dialogue  among  Civilizations  and 
the  Universal
Declaration  on  Cultural  Diversity.  We  share  the  spirit
and agree on the substance of those resolutions.
However, we have reservations with regard to the
fourth  preambular  paragraph  of  draft 
resolution
A/60/L.10 and the third preambular paragraph of draft
resolution  A/60/L.4/Rev.1,  not  because  of  substantive
issues,  but  because  they  refer  to  the  2005  World
Summit Outcome document, which, as we have pointed
elsewhere in this house, has no validity for our country.
That  document,  because  of  its  sins  of  omission,
provides no mandate for and imposes no obligation on
the Republic.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only
speaker in explanation of position.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General
Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item
43?
It was so decided.
The President returned to the Chair.
Programme of work
The  President:  I  would  like  to  inform  members
that  document  A/INF/60/3/Rev.2,  containing  a  revised
programme of work and schedule of plenary  meetings
for the months of November and December was issued
this  morning.  The  revised  document  contains  changes
with  regard  to  the  consideration  of  agenda  item  14,
“The  situation  in  the  Middle  East”,  and  agenda  item
15, “Question of Palestine”.
20
In addition, the consideration of agenda item 49,
technologies  for
“Information  and  communication 
development”, has been postponed to a later date.
Statement by the President
The  President:  I  would  like  to  make  a  short
the  Assembly’s
connection  with 
statement 
consideration of agenda item 49.
in 
Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 56/183,
dated  21  September  2001,  the  second  phase  of  the
World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society  will  take
place in Tunis, Tunisia, from 16 to 18 November 2005.
The Summit, in both its Geneva and its Tunis phases, is
an important event, and will be a major addition to the
series  of  high-level  conferences  held  recently  on
economic  and  social  issues  within  the  United  Nations
system.
at 
the 
so  as 
society 
technologies 
to  building  a  people-centred  and 
At  the  world  summit  in  September,  our  leaders
committed  themselves  to  the  outcome  document,  inter
alia, 
inclusive
information 
to  enhance  digital
opportunities for all people in order to help bridge the
digital divide, putting the potential of information and
communication 
service  of
development  and  addressing  new  challenges  of  the
information  society  by  implementing  the  outcomes  of
the  Geneva  phase  of  the  World  Summit  on  the
Information  Society  and  ensuring  the  success  of  the
second  phase  of  the  Summit,  to  be  held  in  Tunis  in
November 2005.
In  order 
that  commitment,  I
encourage  Member  States  to  participate  at  the  highest
possible  level  at  the  Tunis  Summit  from  16  to  18
November 2005. Furthermore, I urge all Member States
to 
to  conclude
negotiations  on  outstanding  issues  in  the  ongoing
preparatory  work  for  the  Summit.  It 
indeed,
essential  that  the  Summit  reach  consensual  decisions,
allowing us all to move ahead in this new era of high
technology,  with  common  objectives  and  enhanced
means for achieving them.
to  deliver  on 
their  efforts 
in  order 
intensify 
is, 
As  the  purpose  of  this  endeavour  is  to  build  a
people-centred  and  inclusive  information  society,  the
positive contribution to the Summit of all stakeholders,
including civil society and the private sector, is also of
paramount 
the
members of the General Assembly are looking forward
International
to 
I  am  confident 
importance. 
report  of 
receiving 
that 
the 
the 
Telecommunications  Union  on  the  outcomes  of  the
World  Summit  on  the  Information  Society  as  soon  as
possible after the Summit.
I  would  like  to  remind  members  that  the  list  of
speakers  for  items  listed  in  document  A/INF/60/Rev.2
is open.
The meeting rose at 11.45 p.m.
A/60/PV.43
21
