United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
25th plenary meeting
Thursday, 29 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.25
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 110 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization (A/60/1)
and facilitate the attainment of the goal of the complete
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons.  More  disturbing,
however,  is  the  lack  of  clear  recommendations  on  the
burning issues of non-proliferation and disarmament in
the  outcome  document  of  the  2005  United  Nations
summit.
report  on 
the  work  of 
Mr.  Kazykhanov  (Kazakhstan):  At  the  outset,  I
would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General  for
his  comprehensive 
the
Organization,  which  covers  the  multifaceted  activities
of all United Nations institutions. Indeed, this has been
a most challenging, crucial and fruitful year in United
Nations  history.  The  Secretary-General  and 
the
Organization  have  taken  bold  and  practical  steps  in
several 
security,
development and human rights, as well as institutional
reforms.
areas  — 
important 
namely, 
Two  weeks  ago,  we  all  witnessed  the  historic
United  Nations  summit.  Its  outcome  document,  in  the
words of the Secretary-General, is  “a  good instrument
to streamline the United Nations to meet the many new
challenges of the twenty-first century”. Now, we must
take  coordinated  action  to  fully  utilize  these  new
opportunities.
to 
challenges 
disarmament 
Kazakhstan  stresses  an  urgent  need  to  deal  with
global 
non-
proliferation.  As  we  all  know,  the  2005  Review
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  failed  to  set  up  a
balanced  and  comprehensive  mechanism  that  would
strengthen  the  international  non-proliferation  regime
and 
threats  requires 
Today,  challenges  and  threats,  including  those
involving  the  uncontrolled  spread  of  nuclear  weapons
and  the  risk  of  their  finding  a  way  into  the  hands  of
terrorists,  have  grown  manyfold.  The  elimination  of
such 
joint,  well-coordinated  and
effective  action  at  all 
that
international  cooperation  in  fighting  terrorism  should
be  pursued  in  strict  compliance  with  the  norms  of
international  law,  and  we  look  forward  to  the  early
completion  of  a  comprehensive  convention  against
international terrorism.
levels.  We  believe 
We  support  further 
the  universalization  and
enhancement  of  anti-terrorist  treaty  mechanisms.  The
signing by Kazakhstan of the International Convention
for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism  is  a
practical reaffirmation of that position.
(CTC)  of 
In January 2005, Kazakhstan hosted a meeting of
the  Counter-Terrorism  Committee 
the
Security  Council.  We  consider  it  very  significant  that
the  CTC  meeting  was  convened  jointly  with  the
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  in  the  heart  of
the  Eurasian  continent.  Counter-terrorism  activities  in
our region are closely linked with efforts to prevent the
trafficking  of  drugs,  arms  and  human  beings.  Most  of
the  region’s  organizations  pay  special  attention  to  the
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-53261 (E)
*0553261*
A/60/PV.25
development  of  cooperation 
in  counter-terrorism
activities. We believe that that the experience we have
gained in the process might prove useful for the CTC.
For  Kazakhstan, 
the  proposed  Peacebuilding
Commission is a step in the right direction. As its main
mission,  it  should  strive  to  avert  the  recurrence  of
situations  when  the  lack  of  a  peacebuilding  strategy
results  in  the  escalation  of  internal  conflicts  and,
ultimately, in the further loss by States of their capacity
to  perform  their  sovereign  functions  effectively  and
responsibly.
Our country is actively working on issues related
to  the  Conference  on  Interaction  and  Confidence-
Building  Measures  in  Asia  (CICA).  CICA  is  a  venue
for  an  exchange  of  views  on  Asian  security.  It  is
encouraging  to  see  that  the  CICA  process  is  gaining
momentum and has, indeed, become an important tool
of preventive diplomacy.
Achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals (MDGs) should become a central element of the
international  community’s  efforts  to  put  an  end  to
poverty,  conflict,  instability  and  terrorism.  Economic
and  social  development,  as  well  as 
international
cooperation,  must  become  key  elements 
the
preventive approach to collective security. The second
national report on the MDGs, recently released in close
cooperation  with  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of
Kazakhstan,  indicates  that  our  nation  has  already
achieved  a  number  of  goals,  especially  as  regards
universal  education,  the  eradication  of  poverty  and
gender  promotion.  We  are  also  close  to  reaching
important targets in some other areas.
in 
We  commend 
the  United  Nations  and 
its
specialized  agencies  for  their  assistance  in  addressing
the  effects  of  environmental  disasters  in  the  Aral  Sea
area and in the Semipalatinsk region. Problems in those
regions  are  global  in  scope,  as  they  have  a  negative
effect  on  the  health  and  livelihood  of  people  in  other
regions  of  the  globe.  In  this  context,  we  request  the
international community to support a draft resolution at
the  current  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the
Semipalatinsk region, sponsored by Kazakhstan.
We  believe  that  the  special  needs  of  landlocked
developing  countries  should  be 
into
account,  as  outlined  in  the  Almaty  Programme  of
Action. For that reason, Kazakhstan is satisfied that the
outcome document of the 2005 United Nations summit
transport
contains  provisions  on 
taken  fully 
improved 
transit 
2
In 
order 
to 
stimulate 
capacity  of  landlocked  countries  and  their  access  to
world  markets. 
the
implementation  process  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of
Action,  the  Government  of  Kazakhstan,  together  with
the  Office  of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least
Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing
Countries  and  Small  Island  Developing  States,  held  a
High-level  Meeting  on  the  Role  of  International,
Regional  and  Subregional  Organizations 
the
Implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action,
in Almaty last March. We consider it to be a significant
contribution  to  the  implementation  of  this  Programme
through  strengthened  partnerships  of  all  parties
concerned, 
regional  and
subregional organizations.
international, 
including 
for 
Kazakhstan  believes  that  the  rule  of  law  is  of
paramount  importance  in  international  relations.  We
closely  link  Kazakhstan’s  development  to  the  further
democratization of our society, based on respect for the
rights  and  freedoms  of  every  individual.  Therefore,
the  strengthening  of  United
Kazakhstan  supports 
Nations  democratic 
institutions  and  human  rights
machinery.  We  sincerely  hope  that  these  changes  are
designed to promote the rights and freedoms of citizens
and  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  principles  of  non-
interference and sovereign equality of States.
While supporting the reform process, we strongly
believe  that  priority  should  be  given  to  the  General
Assembly  as  the  main  deliberative,  decision-making
and representative body of our Organization.
My delegation would like to reiterate that such a
sensitive  issue  as  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council
should be resolved on the basis of the broadest possible
agreement.  We  are  convinced  that  the  enlargement  of
the Security Council, in accordance with  the  principle
of  equitable  geographical  representation  and  on  the
basis of the contributions of States  concerned towards
development of the world economy and global security,
serves the interests of Member States.
Kazakhstan  welcomes  the  establishment  of  a
standing committee on regional organizations. We hope
that improved collaboration of the United Nations with
regional organizations will contribute to the collective
security system.
Inter-faith dialogue is an integral part of efforts to
promote  the  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue  among
civilizations  and 
the  common  values
outlined  in  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We  believe
to  advance 
that  the  informal  meeting  on  interreligious  dialogue
and  cooperation  for  peace,  held  within  the  framework
of  the  2005  summit  in  New  York  and  cosponsored  by
Kazakhstan,  made  a  substantial  contribution 
to
enhanced interfaith dialogue.
We  are  grateful  to  the  international  community
for  lending  support  to  our  country’s  initiatives  in  this
area. Kazakhstan has initiated a Congress of Leaders of
World and Traditional Religions. The second Congress
of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions is to be
held next year in Astana. We will discuss the topic  of
religions, 
security.
Kazakhstan  expects  representatives  of  other  emerging
forums,  such  as  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  to  take
part in the Congress.
international 
society 
and 
of 
resources 
the  mobilization 
Our people know  that  development,  security  and
human  rights,  the  three  main  pillars  of  today’s  world,
are  not  abstract  concepts.  We  realize  that  eventual
success  in  attaining  our  objectives  will  be  assured
through 
and
maximization  of  support  from  all  members  of  the
international  community.  Kazakhstan  is  actively  and
responsibly  involved  in  all  major  United  Nations
activities  and  in  recent  years  has  begun  to  shoulder
more  responsibility  by  making  voluntary  financial
contributions to United Nations funds and programmes.
Mr. Zhang Yishan (China) (spoke in Chinese): I
would like to begin by thanking the Secretary-General
for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  The
report reviews the work over the past year and contains
an  array  of  recommendations  on  ways  to  address  the
challenges  facing  us  today.  I  would  like  to  focus  on
three points in connection with the recent summit.
First,  on  the  implementation  of  the  outcome
document  of  the  summit,  this  year  marks  the  sixtieth
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  The  outcome
document,  which  the  summit  adopted  two  weeks  ago,
reflects  a  common  understanding  on  the  part  of  all
sides and points out the direction for the future work of
the United Nations. Currently, the most important task
is  to  implement  the  outcome  document  effectively,  so
as to translate the words into reality. This is a daunting
challenge that requires the full cooperation of all. The
outcome  document  involves  many  aspects.  Therefore,
its  implementation  should  proceed  on  all  fronts  but
should  also  follow  an  order  of  priorities.  While  the
focus should be on certain issues, efforts in other areas
should proceed in parallel.
A/60/PV.25
We  believe  that,  in  the  implementation  of  the
outcome  document,  development  should  occupy  the
primary and core position. Maximum efforts should be
made  to  meet  the  needs  of  developing  countries,
especially  African  countries,  in  order  to  inject  new
vitality 
to  enable
developing countries to derive genuine benefit from the
summit.
into  development  efforts  and 
China  supports  the  rapid  establishment  of  the
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  believes  that  it  should
begin functioning as soon as possible in order to set up
an  effective  link  among  the  United  Nations  efforts  in
the areas of peacekeeping, post-conflict reconstruction
and  development.  The  agreement  to  establish  this
Commission is  a  major  achievement  of  the  summit.  It
will  play  a  positive  role  in  peaceful  reconstruction  in
conflict  areas.  We  call  for  the  completion  of  this  task
as soon as possible.
Terrorism is a common threat to all countries. We
support  an  early  completion  of  the  negotiations  on  a
comprehensive  convention against  terrorism and  stand
ready  to  work  actively  with  all  countries  toward  this
end.
As  for  the  reform  of  the  Secretariat,  we  look
forward to the relevant report, which is to be submitted
by the Secretary-General. The necessary reform of the
internal  management  of 
the  Secretariat  will  be
conducive  to  the  improvement  of  our  Organization’s
efficiency,  so  as  to  make  it  better  able  to  serve  the
interests  of  Member  States.  Reform  measures  should
aim both at enhancing the managerial capability of the
Secretariat  and  at  ensuring  that  the  rights  of  Member
States  are  safeguarded.  We  hope  that  discussions  will
continue  on  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  in  an
effort to achieve consensus.
The  summit  agreed  to  the  establishment  of  a
Human  Rights  Council.  However,  great  divergences
remain  over  its  specific  model,  size  and  composition.
The  causes  for  these  divergences  have  to  do  with  the
politicization  of  human  rights  issues  and  with  double
standards.  We  hope  that  in  the  coming  consultations,
States  can  take  a  constructive  approach  to  reduce
differences,  increase  common  understanding  and  find
appropriate solutions.
There  remain  divergences  of  views  on  some
specific 
is
impossible  for  differences  of  principle  to  be  resolved
any  time  soon.  It  is  of  key  importance  that  all  sides
the  outcome  document.  It 
issues 
in 
3
A/60/PV.25
accommodate the concerns of others and press on with
patient consultations.
Secondly,  regarding  peace  and  security,  this  past
year  has,  as  the  report  says,  witnessed  both  progress
and  setbacks,  not  just  for  the  United  Nations  but  also
for the world. The United Nations continues to play an
important role in helping to solve the questions of Iraq,
the  Sudan,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
Côte d’Ivoire, Afghanistan and Haiti. Success has been
achieved  in  Sierra  Leone,  Bougainville  and  Timor
Leste.  However,  in  many  regions,  attempts  to  resolve
tensions  have  led  to  stalemates,  and  there  have  even
been relapses.
The 
parties 
concerned 
The  political  transitional  process  in  Iraq  has
entered  a  key  stage,  with  progress  in  developing  the
constitution. 
should
expeditiously  improve  the  security  situation  in  Iraq,
enhance  the  representativity  and  inclusiveness  of  the
Iraqi  political  process  and  help  the  Iraqi  people
reconstruct  their  country.  The  United  Nations  should
play  an  active  role  in  the  preparations  for  the  general
elections 
the  promotion  of  national
reconciliation.
and 
in 
the  Palestinian  side, 
The peace process in the Middle East has recently
witnessed positive developments. With the cooperation
of 
Israel  has  successfully
completed  its  withdrawal  from  Gaza  and  areas  in  the
West  Bank.  This  is  of  positive  significance  for  the
advancement  of  the  talks  between  the  parties  and  the
resolution  of  the  conflict.  We  hope  that  both  parties
will  seize  this  opportune  moment  and  put  the  Israeli
and Palestinian peace process back on the track of the
road map as soon as possible.
the 
past 
Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan),  Vice  President,  took  the
chair.
During 
year,  United  Nations
peacekeeping operations encountered challenges on an
unprecedented 
especially
developed  countries,  should  provide  greater  political
support  to  the  United  Nations,  in  terms  of  troops  and
resources,  so  that  its  peacekeeping  operations  can  be
carried out effectively.
scale.  All 
countries, 
its 
China  supports  efforts  by  the  United  Nations  to
enhance 
strategic
preparations  capacity  and  endorses  efforts  under  the
guidance of the Security Council to fully mobilize the
resources of the regional organizations concerned.
deployment 
rapid 
and 
4
Thirdly,  on  the  question  of  development,  the
Secretary-General  again  emphasizes  in  his  report  the
importance of development. As he says in his report,
“Our generation is the first to have the knowledge
and  resources  to  eradicate  extreme  poverty,  so
there  is  no  longer  any  excuse  for  leaving  over  a
billion of our fellow human beings in that state.”
(A/60/1, para. 4)
Achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs) is a solemn commitment made by all countries
at  the  summit  and  doing  so  is  the  embodiment  of  the
hope that hundreds of millions of people have placed in
the  United  Nations.  Today  there  is  an  urgent  need  to
further  deepen 
the
international economic system and rules more fair and
just and more reflective of the concerns of developing
countries,  so  as  to  push  the  economic  globalization
process  in  the  direction  of  balance,  universal  benefit
and win-win situations.
to  make 
in  order 
reforms 
trade  environment 
It  is  therefore  necessary  to  create  a  favourable
financial  and 
for  developing
countries,  reduce  their  debt  burdens  and  strengthen
their  capacity  to  participate  in  international  economic
affairs  so  that  they  can  truly  benefit  from  economic
globalization.  At  the  same  time,  developing  countries
should  pool  their  efforts,  choose  development  models
in  the  light  of  their  national  conditions,  strengthen
South-South  cooperation  and  gradually  improve  their
disadvantageous  position  with  respect  to  economic
globalization.  A  broad  consensus  has  already  been
reached on the need to strengthen multilateralism in the
role  of  the  United  Nations  —  a  point  that  was
reaffirmed in the outcome document.
After  60  years  of  trials  and  tribulations,  the
importance  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  peace
and  development  is  self-evident.  The  tsunami  that
occurred in the Indian Ocean in December 2004 was a
calamity  of  unprecedented  proportions,  affecting
14 countries on two continents. Recently, one hurricane
after  another  hit  the  southern  United  States,  causing
destruction  and  casualties  that  exceeded  predictions.
However,  in  both  cases,  Governments,  international
organizations,  including  United  Nations  agencies,  and
members  of  civil  society  provided  assistance  to  the
best of their ability and swiftly mobilized resources on
a  massive  scale  to  provide  humanitarian  relief.  That
proves that the international community has the ability
to  take  collective  actions  promptly  and  effectively  to
address major challenges.
and 
efforts 
contributions 
The future role of the United Nations will depend
on 
collective 
to
multilateralism  by  all  parties  and  on  efforts  to  honour
the  commitments  made  at  the  summit  to  United
Nations  reform.  Only  thus  can  the  United  Nations
improve its effectiveness, strengthen its leading role in
international  affairs  and  consolidate  its  capacity  to
address all manner of threats and challenges.
report  on 
the  work  of 
Mr.  Sardenberg  (Brazil):  The  discussion  of  the
Secretary-General’s 
the
Organization  (A/60/1)  provides  us,  on  a  yearly  basis,
with  a  highly  valuable  opportunity  to  take  stock  of
developments  affecting  the  international  situation  and
of  United  Nations  actions  to  deal  with  them.  The
Secretary-General’s  report  once  again  provides  the
General  Assembly  with  a  comprehensive  and  very
carefully  crafted  account  of  challenges  met,  tasks
accomplished  and  goals  remaining  to  be  achieved  in
our collective endeavour. Through it, he shares with us
his  keen  perception  of  current  realities,  of  threats
currently before us and of how best to deal with them
collectively  and 
least
individually taxing manner.
the  most  effective  and 
in 
This  particular  session  of  the  General  Assembly
is,  in  a  way,  the  culmination  of  that  process.  A  few
weeks  ago,  our  political  leaders  gathered  here  at  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  and  agreed  on  a  set  of
goals  aimed  at  the  promotion  of  economic  and  social
development  and  at  the  institutional  reform  of  the
Organization. In many cases, agreements were reached
on the basis of broad principles, and they will have to
be  fleshed  out  by  the  General  Assembly  during  the
course of the substantive debate of this session.
Even  though  the  final  results  of  the  High-level
Plenary  Meeting  were  not  as  far-reaching  as  the
majority  of  Member  States  had  expected,  its  outcome
document  (resolution  60/1)  serves  as  a  minimum
platform  for  our  continued  efforts  to  promote  the
much-needed 
the
Organization.  That  will 
to  adopt  a
pronouncedly forward-looking approach to the work of
this session.
strengthening  of 
reform  and 
require  us 
In 
terms  of  development, 
international
community has recognized that its current efforts have
been  insufficient  and  that  there  is  a  pressing  need  to
the
redouble 
those  efforts 
to  achieve 
in  order 
the 
A/60/PV.25
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by the agreed
deadline  of  2015.  A  substantial  increase  in  official
development  assistance  is  essential,  and  innovative
sources  of  financing  for  development  are  urgently
needed.
As President Da Silva said in his statement before
the High-level Plenary Meeting,
“We  must  take  immediate  and  courageous  steps.
The  resources  available  for  fighting  poverty  and
hunger  must  be  significantly  expanded;  we  need
to  provide  development  opportunities  to  poor
countries” (A/60/PV.5, p. 16).
He  went  on  to  say  that  developed  countries  must
realize  that  that  additional  effort  is  not  only  fair,  but
absolutely necessary.
the 
That  necessity  is  further  underscored  by  the
perception  —  now  universally  acknowledged  —  that
the  question  of  development  is  intrinsically  linked  to
international peace and security. More must be done to
promote  and  facilitate  cooperation  among  developing
countries  themselves.  South-South  cooperation  does
not  replace 
traditional  forms  of  North-South
cooperation,  but  rather  complements  it.  South-South
cooperation  modalities  often  result  in  more  adequate
solutions to challenges related to development, as such
challenges  tend  to  be  faced  by  most  developing
countries.  However,  more  resources  will  be  needed  to
ensure  that  South-South  cooperation  —  which  is
already a growing field — can be sufficiently expanded
to  ensure  a  scale  that  allows  for  the  attainment  of  the
MDGs.
In  striving  to  promote  social  and  economic
development,  we  must  also  focus  our  attention  on
cooperation  in  the  field  of  science  and  technology,  as
provided  for  in  the  outcome  document.  International
actions  in  that  field  must  be  aimed  at  ensuring
improved  access  to  scientific  knowledge  and  the
transfer  to  developing  countries  of  technologies  that
are 
their
circumstances,  particularly  in  the  case  of  the  least
developed  countries.  Brazil 
is  now  considering
organizing  a  Brazil-Africa  technological  forum,  open
to  the  participation  of  Governments,  civil  society,  the
private  sector  and  financial  institutions,  aimed  at
promoting cooperation projects in the areas of science,
technology and education.
financially  accessible  and  adapted 
to 
5
A/60/PV.25
the 
threat 
that  affects 
With  regard  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and
security,  one 
international
community  in  its  entirety  is  the  scourge  of  terrorism.
These unjustifiable acts victimize innocent civilians in
rich  and  poor  countries  alike,  not  only  directly  —
through the death and devastation caused by the attacks
themselves  —  but  also  indirectly,  by  threatening  to
undermine  the  achievements  of  our  societies  in  the
promotion and protection of human rights.
Our  delegation  supports  the  Secretary-General’s
efforts to finalize a common strategy to deal with this
menace  in  full  accordance  with  internationally  agreed
principles  and  standards  of  human  rights  law  and
international humanitarian law. We also remain hopeful
that  the  General  Assembly  will  be  able  to  come  to  an
agreement  on  a  comprehensive  convention  against
terrorism,  even  if  the  precise  definition  of  terrorism
continues to elude us.
institutional  reform.  In 
A  major  task  before  us  will  be  to  carry  out  the
process  of 
the  outcome
document,  our  leaders  provided  for  the  establishment
of  a  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  order  to  fill  the
institutional  void  that  currently  exists  between  the
perspective  of  peace  and  security  and  the  perspective
of  development  in  dealing  with  situations.  The  two
perspectives are, of course, interrelated. Now we must
set  up 
the  Commission’s  standing  organizational
committee  and  elect  its  members  in  order  to  meet  the
deadline  to  make  the  Commission  operational  by  the
end of this year. In considering the composition of that
committee,  the  General  Assembly  must  be  careful  not
to  curtail  the  participation  of  countries  from  the
developing world, particularly as we have already been
playing an increasing role in the field.
to  establish 
the  President  of 
Our  political  leaders  also  resolved  to  create  a
Human  Rights  Council  and  have  tasked  us,  under  the
able  guidance  of 
the  General
Assembly, to engage in open, transparent and inclusive
negotiations 
its  mandate,  modalities,
functions,  size,  composition,  membership,  working
methods and procedures. As a measure to reinforce the
structures  and  mechanisms  of  the  Organization  in  the
human rights field, it is imperative that that Council be
established  on 
the  principles  of
universality,  dialogue  and  non-selectivity.  In 
this
respect,  we  should  also  be  careful  not  to  set  up  a
Council  so  small  that  it  might  compromise  the  ability
to  ensure  balanced  and  adequate  representation  of  all
legal  systems  or  the  presence  of  countries  of  the
the  basis  of 
6
developing  world,  where  the  issue  of  human  rights  is
of keen interest to Governments and public alike.
We  must  also  reinforce,  adapt  and  update  the
Organization’s  current  structures.  Brazil  is  deeply
interested  in  the  process  of  the  revitalization  of  the
General  Assembly.  More  than  ever,  the  Assembly  is
needed to provide leadership and political guidance to
the  Organization  as  a  whole.  In  successfully  carrying
out  the  tasks  set  for  it  by  the  Plenary  Meeting,  the
Assembly will, in fact, be re-establishing its centrality
in the work of the Organization.
the 
reduction  of 
inequalities,  which 
The Economic and Social Council must regain its
dynamism and influential  role.  It  must  be  a  forum  for
discussion and for the identification of common ground
among  the  objectives  of  sustainable  development,  the
eradication  of  hunger  and  poverty,  good  governance
and 
are
exacerbated  by  the  process  of  globalization.  As  is
recognized  in  paragraph  53  of  the  outcome  document
(resolution 60), early reform of the Security Council is
“an essential element of our overall effort to reform the
United  Nations”.  We  are  all  convinced  of  the  need  to
make the Council more representative and democratic.
As  the  Brazilian  Foreign  Minister,  Ambassador
Celso  Amorim,  stated  in  the  9th  meeting,  at  the
opening of the general debate:
in 
increase 
and  non-permanent 
“At  this  historic  juncture,  no  Security  Council
reform  effort  will  be  meaningful  unless 
it
the  number  of
contemplates  an 
permanent 
seats,  with
developing countries from Africa, Latin America
and  Asia  included  in  both  categories.  We  cannot
accept  the  perpetuation  of  imbalances  that  run
contrary to the very spirit of multilateralism.”
We 
that  all 
trust 
those  who  are  genuinely
interested  in  a  true  reform  of  the  Organization  —  the
overwhelming  majority  of  the  membership  —  will
continue to strive for such an expansion of the Security
Council. It is clear to all that no reform of the United
Nations will be complete without it.
that 
With  regard  to  management  reform,  we  are
convinced 
the  Secretariat  must  be  efficient,
effective  and  accountable.  Its  staff  should  work  in  a
culture of transparency, accountability and integrity, as
well  as  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Article
100  of  the  Charter.  In  the  recruitment  of  staff,  due
regard  must  be  paid  to  the  principle  of  equitable
the 
geographical  distribution  at  all  levels.  Coordination
within  the  United  Nations  system  in  the  fight  against
hunger  and  poverty  — 
first  Millennium
Development  Goal  —  must  be  urgently  improved.
Procurement policies must effectively incorporate, in a
more  balanced  way,  suppliers  from  all  regions,
especially  developing  countries.  Brazil  also  supports
the strengthening of oversight in the United Nations by
ensuring the operational independence of the Office of
Internal Oversight Services.
Finally, we must point out that one major lacunas
in  the  final  outcome  document  is,  of  course,  the
omission  of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.
Despite  the  lack  of  agreement  that  led  to  such  a
regrettable  result,  we  must  emphasize  that  both  items
remain  a  high  priority  for  Brazil  and  for 
the
international  community,  and  that  they  will  require
continued  attention  on  the  part  of  the  Organization.
Providing  guidance  in  that  respect  is  an  additional
pressing  challenge  for  the  General  Assembly  at  its
sixtieth session.
Mr. İlkin  (Turkey): I would like  at  the  outset  to
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive
report on the work of the Organization (A/60/1) and to
commend him for his excellent work.
I would also like to congratulate the President of
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session  and  to
express my determination to work closely with him for
the realization of the Assembly’s goals. He has, indeed,
the full confidence and support of my mission.
Since Turkey has aligned itself with the European
Union  (EU)  statement  made  this  morning,  I  will  limit
myself  to  making  certain  remarks  to  one  particular
subject — terrorism.
First  of  all,  we  believe  that  the  targeting  and
deliberate  killing  not  only  of  civilians  and  non-
combatants  but  also  military  and  security  personnel
cannot  be  justified  or  legitimized  by  any  cause  or
grievance. I would like to underline that once again. As
we have witnessed time and again, terrorism is a threat
to the very existence of individuals, nations and human
civilization  as  a  whole.  Terrorism  is  a  means  of
oppression,  which  humiliates 
individual  and
obstructs  the  development  of  humanity.  It  is  a  gross
violation  of  human  rights,  first  and  foremost  the  right
to  life.  Thus,  all  terrorist  acts,  methods  and  practices
should  be  condemned  as  criminal  and  as  unjustifiable
their
under 
regardless  of 
the 
any 
circumstances, 
A/60/PV.25
motivation.  No  considerations  whatsoever  can  be
invoked to justify terrorist acts.
Turkey,  as  a  country  which  has  suffered  from
terrorism, has long pointed out the critical nature of the
problem  and  alerted  the  international  community  to
that scourge. Terrorism is the common problem of the
whole international community; no nation can consider
itself immune.
Turkey  fully  adheres  to  the  Secretary-General’s
five-pillar  strategy  to  combat  terrorism.  We  also
welcome  the  clear  condemnation  of  terrorism  in  the
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1).  We  are  ready  to
work  with  others  to  conclude,  during  the  sixtieth
session,  a  comprehensive  convention  on  international
terrorism.
Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal):  I  wish  to  express  my
sincere  appreciation  for  the  manner  in  which  the
President has been conducting our work. His statement
at  the  conclusion  of  the  general  debate  aptly  reflected
the mood of the deliberations of the Assembly.
I would like to express our sincere thanks to the
Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the  work  of  the
Organization  (A/60/1).  The  report  is  comprehensive
and deals with a wide range of issues, including peace
and  security,  development,  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations  and  its  management,  and  other  international
issues that are of great interest to all of us.
Many of those important issues were reflected in
the outcome document of the recently concluded High-
level  Plenary  Meeting,  although  many  remain  to  be
negotiated  further.  The  outcome  document,  although
not 100 per cent perfect, correctly reflects the hope and
aspirations  of  humanity  for  peace,  security  and
development,  and 
to
achieving those goals in a time-bound manner.
reiterates  our  commitment 
The  international  community  must  provide  its
continued support to countries with special needs, such
as the least developed  and landlocked  countries, so  as
to  help  them  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  (MDGs).  Such  support  can  start  with  sincere
implementation of agreed commitments and the further
extension  of  development  assistance,  market  access
and debt relief to those countries.
The  outcome  document  categorically  states  that
terrorism  is  the  most  serious  threat  to  international
peace  and  security.  Nepal  joins  the  international
community’s condemnation of terrorism in all its forms
7
A/60/PV.25
and manifestations, committed by whomever, wherever
and for whatever purposes, as reflected in the outcome
document.
A  victim  of  senseless  terror  for  more  than  a
decade  now,  Nepal 
terrorism
resolutely,  collectively  and  comprehensively.  We
support  the  early  conclusion  of  a  comprehensive
convention on international terrorism.
favours  combating 
We  appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  continued
interest  and  concern  at  Nepal’s  current  difficult
situation.  In  that  context,  our  attention  is  drawn  to  a
reference  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  about
constitutional rule in Nepal. We wish to clarify that the
report’s  specific  reference  to  constitutional  rule  does
not reflect  factual  reality.  His  Majesty  the  King  is  the
custodian of the 1990 Constitution of the Kingdom of
Nepal.  The  constitution  is  alive  and  active.  The  steps
His Majesty took on 1 February and later were guided
by  the  constitutional  obligation  of  His  Majesty  the
King  as  head  of  State  to  ensure  the  security  and  the
integrity  of  the  nation  and  to  create  an  atmosphere
conducive  to  re-energizing  multiparty  democracy  and
the rule of law, which had been  frustrated by ongoing
violence, terrorism and corruption.
reaffirm  our 
resolute  commitment 
Nepal  is  committed  to  the  protection  and  the
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
We 
the
implementation  of  human  rights 
instruments  and
international  humanitarian  law.  The  establishment  of
an office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights
in Nepal reflects our desire to protect human rights in
accordance  with  our  international  legal  obligations,
although our respect for human rights is rooted in our
longstanding moral values and culture.
to 
We  welcome 
the 
humanitarian  assistance 
persons in Nepal.
international  community’s
internally  displaced
for 
help 
from  conflict.  We  would 
Nepal  welcomes  the  decision  to  establish  a
countries
Peacebuilding  Commission 
recovering 
the
like 
Commission  to  have  equitable  representation  from
troop-contributing  countries  and  its  working  methods
to be specified in clearer terms.
to 
We 
to 
are  proud 
continuous
participation 
peacekeeping
operations  since  1958.  Our  peacekeepers  have  earned
in  United  Nations 
recall  our 
8
commendation  from  the  international  community  for
their dedication, discipline and professionalism.
This year, Nepal is celebrating its fiftieth year of
membership in the United Nations. Nepal expresses its
sincere  appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  for  its
invaluable 
socio-economic
development.
contributions 
to  our 
We  believe  that  the  package  of  reforms  that  are
reflected  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  and  which
are  to  be  agreed  by  the  Assembly  will  help  give  the
United  Nations  the  required  strength  to  meet  the
challenges of our times.
Mr.  Toro  JimØnez  (Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  delegation  of  the
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  wishes  to  take  the
floor of the General Assembly to thank the Secretary-
General for his report on the work of the Organization
(A/60/1).
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our
support  for  the  statement  made  by  the  delegation  of
Jamaica on behalf of the Group of 77 and China.
We  want  to  affirm  our  country’s  support  and
cooperation in connection with the efforts and the work
of  the  United  Nations.  Today,  the  plans  to  reform  the
United Nations harbour  a grave threat to the future of
the Organization because of the proposals of those that
view  the  United  Nations  as  an  instrument  in  the
exclusive  service  of  the  interests  of  the  United  States
and its allies. They see the United Nations as a piece of
the new neo-colonial order they wish to establish in the
world,  allowing  them  to  reorganize  and  divide  up
markets  and  areas  of  influence  and  thus  achieve
imperial  hegemony,  making  good  use  of  hollowed  out
multilateral  institutions  that  turn  their  back  on  the
people  and  work  against  their  interests.  That  scheme
would  exacerbate 
the  already  profound  world
imbalance  as  they  introduced  new  mechanisms  of
interference  and 
in  particular  by
strengthening  the  Security  Council  —  to  be  used  to
undermine the sovereign authority of Member States of
the United Nations on the pretext of fighting terrorism.
the  United  Nations
should  be  the  principal  democratic  organization  of  a
democratic international society that is supported in its
socio-economic 
that
multilateralism  should  provide  the  instrument  and  the
forum  for  creating  a  multipolar,  independent  and
Venezuela  believes 
development.  We 
repression  — 
believe 
that 
international 
peaceful  world  of  solidarity.  Our  international  action
should  be  guided  by  the  overriding  imperative  of
at
promoting 
aimed 
strengthening  South-South  cooperation,  with 
the
fundamental  goal  of  combating  poverty  and  social
exclusion, which impede the self-determination of our
peoples  and  pose  a  grave  threat  to  the  democratic
stability of States.
cooperation 
that 
Venezuela  believes 
those  goals  can  be
achieved  only  through  concrete  economic  and  social
policies  for  the  inclusion  and  empowerment  of  the
people  and  through  wise,  democratic  government  that
is closely aligned  with  the  people,  who  should  have  a
participatory,  leading  role  in  all  collective  political
decisions  at  all  levels.  Implementing  such  policies
requires  the  massive  mobilization  of  resources  for
development, coordination among developing countries
and  concerted  efforts  between  the  developing  and  the
developed countries, because developed countries bear
the  greater  share  of  responsibility  for  creating  a  new
world whose highest priority is economic progress and
social justice. Taking measures to eradicate poverty —
and  thus  redress  an  age-old  injustice  —  will  lay  the
foundation  for  a  human  and  just  new  world  order.
Nothing could lie further from  the  sincere  call  for  the
Organization  to  take  up  the  noble,  humanitarian  task
that  we  have  described,  and  to  which  we  are  all
committed,  than  the  dark  panorama  of  the  present
United Nations reform and the final result of the High-
level Plenary Meeting.
We  are  referring  to  the  outcome  document  that
was presented in the Assembly and which is defective
owing  to  its  violation  of  the  universal  law  of  respect
for  due  process.  For  that  reason,  my  delegation
reaffirms our President’s reservations with respect to a
document that our Republic considers null and void in
the  context  of  the  upcoming  negotiations,  as  he  noted
in the Assembly.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work
of the Organization poorly reflects the devastating state
of  the  world  and  the  universal  Organization,  which  is
called  upon  to  enforce  respect  for  the  fundamental
values of its Charter in the face of the corrosive action
that  is  destroying,  day  by  day  and  in  an  accelerating
fashion,  human  beings,  living  organisms,  the  seas,
water and productive land — all of which support the
life  of  humankind  on  Earth.  That  corrosive  action
seems  to  be  sweeping  us,  with  no  hope  of  escape,
towards a vortex of destruction.
A/60/PV.25
Regrettably,  when  we  contemplate  that  situation
we  are  overwhelmed  by  sadness  that  an  Organization
such as the United Nations should be so submissive, so
bowed under the weight of its own complacency, that it
applauds its own ignominious situation along the  path
to the scaffold.
Venezuela has made substantial efforts to combat
poverty  —  as  is  plain  for  all  to  see  if  they  look  with
unbiased eyes — despite anti-national, subversive acts
that 
from  2002  onwards  have  been  aimed  at
undermining  the  democratic  stability  of  my  country
and  continue  to  be  perpetrated  with  the  financial
support of non-governmental organizations assisted by
the United States Government.
In  that  connection,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela would like to place on record that we do not
agree  with  the  way  in  which  the  United  Nations
indicators  and  methods  are  crafted  to  handle  and
evaluate statistical data that measure implementation of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  do
not agree as to the form, the manner or the substance in
which  the  information  was  presented  in  the  report  of
the  Secretary-General.  We  do  not  agree  with  the
monetarist  bias  of  indicators  to  measure  poverty  that
are  linked  to  the  dollar  and  that  do  not  allow  us  to
quantify  the  outcome  of  public  policies  that  address
that topic in a comprehensive manner.
In  the  same  vein,  there  is  no  way  of  describing
the  scope  of  social  policies,  specifically  missions,  nor
the  role  that  they  play  to  achieve  sustainable,  humane
and  endogenous  development  that  contributes  to  the
attainment  of  the  MDGs.  We  protest  the  handling  of
statistics and the methodological perspective that does
not make it possible to  consider  the  specific,  concrete
socio-political  realities  of  Venezuela,  or  any  other
country.
In  our  case,  the  events  since  December  2001  —
from the coup d’état of April 2002 to the defeat of the
attempted  takeover  launched  by  the  oil  interests  in
2003  —  were  a  fundamental  element  that  reversed
what  was  until  then  the  positive  trends  in  the  country
towards  achieving 
the  MDGs.  We  compare  our
situation to that of Asia since the tsunami and wonder
if  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and
the  Pacific,  in  its  next  report,  should  not  refer  to  that
historical  reality,  which  will  certainly  damage  social
and  economic  growth  in  the  affected  countries  during
the  period  under  consideration.  For  our  country,  the
9
A/60/PV.25
events of the years 2002 and 2003 were equivalent to a
tsunami.
Finally, we would like to say that the proposal to
set up a new Human Rights Council with the idea of a
simplistic  transition  from  the  current  Human  Rights
Commission  is  not  going  to  solve  existing  problems.
What  we  have  before  us 
is  not  a  problem  of
semantics —  of  terms,  structures  or  procedures.  Any
reforms  proposed  for 
the  current  Human  Rights
Commission  should  essentially  be  designed  to  bring
about profound political changes and, of course, should
expand its membership.
Mr.  Belinga  Eboutou  (Cameroon)  (spoke  in
French):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  the
Secretary-General for his excellent analytical report on
the  work  of  the  Organization.  That  report  gives  us  a
very in-depth overview and a great deal of information
on all facets of United Nations activity. Of course, my
delegation  joins  in  the  statement  made  by  Jamaica  on
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The report, along
with  the  outcome  document  adopted  at  the  end  of  the
recent  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  will  be  of  the
greatest usefulness in our deliberations.
In  the  area  of  the  maintenance  of  international
peace  and  security,  the  Secretary-General  points  out
that during the past year most situations in that domain
have improved. However, he also points out that others
have unfortunately deteriorated. United Nations action,
along with the political determination of the parties to
a  conflict  to  fulfil  their  commitments,  and  that  of
interested actors who have used all of their influence to
resolve  the  situation,  has  been  decisive  in  improving
the  climate  of  peace.  My  delegation  agrees  with  that
analysis.  I  would  like  to  commend  all  United  Nations
activities  undertaken  throughout  the  world  to  prevent
conflicts  and  to  restore,  maintain  and  consolidate
peace.  In  that  connection,  we  encourage  parties  to
ongoing  conflicts  to  demonstrate  the  political  will  to
settle  their  differences  peacefully  and  to  make  use  of
the good offices of the United Nations.
Cameroon  welcomes 
the  electoral  assistance
to  Africa.  As  the
given  by  the  United  Nations 
Secretary-General  noted, 
the  holding  of  credible
elections has today become an essential element in the
restoration and consolidation of peace, as well as in the
prevention  of  conflicts.  Cameroon  encourages  the
Organization to continue working along those lines and
for  its  part  will  continue  to  support  the  inclusion  of
10
electoral  support  in  the  mandates  of  peacekeeping
operations  and  in  political  agreements  concluded  in
countries  in  conflict  or  those  emerging  from  conflict
that are in political transition.
regional 
More  specifically  with  regard  to  peacekeeping
operations, my delegation is in favour of strengthening
African  capacity  in  that  sphere,  including  through
cooperation  with 
organizations.  Such
capacity-building  should  necessarily  include  provision
for  the  establishment  of  African  contingents  and  the
improvement of their ability to respond rapidly on the
ground.  Indeed,  Africa’s  autonomy  in  the  area  of
peacekeeping  is  a  necessity.  It  is  part  of  the  list  of
special  needs  of  Africa  in  the  areas  of  peace  and
security.
international  support  for 
In  the  area  of  cooperation  for  development,  the
Secretary-General  advocates,  with  regard  to  Africa’s
special  needs, 
the  New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  The
Secretary-General’s 
makes
recommendations on the way to mobilize such support,
will  be  considered  during  the  current  session  and  my
delegation will make substantive comments on the item
at that time.
report, 
which 
NEPAD  will  be 
a  powerful  engine 
for
development in Africa if African debt on the condition
that debt is alleviated or even cancelled, that assistance
increases considerably, and that growth and the combat
against  poverty  are  stimulated 
through  equitable
participation in world trade.
satisfaction 
Cameroon  welcomed  with 
the
confirmation of the cancellation of 100 per cent of the
debt  owed  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the
World  Bank  and  the  African  Development  Bank  by  a
number of heavily indebted poor countries. We believe
that  this  measure  is  a  promising  one  that  should  be
extended  speedily  to  additional  countries.  In  that
connection,  we  have high hopes  for the meeting to  be
held this weekend in London.
My delegation has taken due note of the contents
of paragraph 25 of the report of the Secretary-General
on the work of the Organization. In that paragraph, the
Secretary-General deals with the implementation of the
10  October  2002  ruling  by  the  International  Court  of
Justice 
territorial  dispute  between
Cameroon  and  Nigeria.  I  should  like  to  express  my
country’s  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  good  offices  and  for  the  ongoing
regarding 
the 
interest  he  has  shown  in  the  implementation  of  that
decision.  I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
reaffirm  Cameroon’s  resolute  determination  —  which,
in  fact,  is  noted  in  the  report,  to  “moving  the  process
forward 
the
International Court of Justice”.
in  accordance  with 
ruling  of 
the 
We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  decision  to
report  on  his  work  with  regard  to  this  dispute  in  the
part of his report devoted to conflict prevention and to
the restoration of peace.
Cameroon  wishes  to  reiterate  the  proposal  it
made  in  this  very  Hall  on  23  September  2005,  during
the general debate. My country, as members will recall,
emphasized  the  need  fully  to  inform  Member  States,
the Security Council and the General Assembly of the
status  of  the  implementation  of  the  rulings  handed
down  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  just  as
those  organs  are  informed  of  the  Court’s  annual
activities.
Implementation of the rulings of the International
Court  of  Justice  —  for  which  it  is  not  responsible  —
remains  of  pivotal  importance  to  international  peace
and security, because a dispute does not end, and is not
considered  to  have  ended,  until  the  Court’s  ruling  has
been fully implemented.
The 
from 
the 
situation 
resulting 
non-
implementation, for an extended period, of a ruling can
jeopardize  international  peace  and  security.  That  is
why  my  country  believes  that  the  Secretary-General
must  regularly  inform,  in  detail,  the  Security  Council
of  the  status  of  decisions  handed  down  by  the  Court
and inform Member States in his report to the General
Assembly on the work of the Organization, whether or
A/60/PV.25
 not  the  Organization  is  directly  involved  in  the
implementation process.
We  believe  that  all  States  should  be  informed  of
what  is  being  done  to  achieve  peace  so  that  they  can
assist the protagonists involved by lending support and
advice.
Mr.  President,  we  hope  that  our  request  will  be
included  among  the  conclusions  that  you  will  be
drawing from this debate. If, indeed, responsibility for
international peace and security falls on each and every
Member  State,  the  implementation  of  the  Court’s
rulings — rulings which contribute to it — are just as
important.
In conclusion, Cameroon  supports  the  Secretary-
General’s appeal to reflect, at this sixtieth anniversary
of  the  United  Nations,  on  ways  in  which  we  could
better  discharge  our  duties  and  responsibilities.  We
remain  convinced 
the  support  and
cooperation of Member States, the United Nations will
not be in a position to face the challenges of this new
century  or  to  meet  the  expectations  of  peoples  in  the
United Nations.
that,  without 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization
contained in document A/60/1?
It was so decided.
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 110?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at 4.20 p.m.
11
