
A/60/PV.42
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixtieth session 

42nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 1 November  2005, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden) 
and 
massive  violation  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms and an assault against civilizations. 

The  judgments  of  the  Nuremberg  International 
Military  Tribunal  handed  down  at  the  trials  of  Nazi 
German  war  criminals  upheld international justice and 
safeguarded  human  dignity,  reflecting  the  common 
aspiration  of  peace- 
justice-loving  people 
throughout the world. It was a historic judgment, and a 
just one. It is irreversible and beyond contest. 

Sixty years ago, military aggressors also inflicted 
untold  misery  on  Asia.  Casualties  in  China  alone 
reached  35  million,  of  which  more  than  300,000  died 
during  the  1937  Nanjing  massacre.  Like  the  Jewish 
people,  the  people  of  Asia  will  never  forget  that 
chapter in our history. 

Our  purpose  in  emphasizing  such  an  indelible 
memory is not to perpetuate hatred but to use history as 
a  mirror and to look into the future. The bitter lessons 
of  the  Second  World  War  and  the  tragedy  of  the  Nazi 
concentration  camps  have  taught  us  that  the  basic 
values  of  freedom,  democracy,  equality,  justice  and 
peace  cannot  be  denied,  and  that  the  civilizational 
process cannot be destroyed.  

All evil, dark and reactionary forces are bound to 
be swept aside by the torrents of history. We hope that 
the countries concerned will draw lessons from history, 
pursue  peaceful  development 
the 
recurrence of such a tragedy. 
and  prevent 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

05-59019 (E) 
*0559019* 
  The meeting was called to order at 9.45 a.m. 

Agenda item 72 (continued) 
Holocaust remembrance 
  Draft resolution (A/60/L.12) 
report  of 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/60/528) 
The  President:  The 



the  Fifth 
Committee  on  the  programme  budget  implications  of 
draft  resolution  A/60/L.12  is  contained  in  document 
A/60/528. 
Ms.  Liu  Zhongxin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 

should like to make the following statement on item 72 
on  behalf  of  Ambassador  Wang  Guangya,  Permanent 
Representative of China to the United Nations. 
This  year  marks  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the 

victory  of  the  anti-fascist  war  and  the  liberation  of 
Nazi  concentration  camps.  Allow  me  to  express,  on 
behalf  of  the  Chinese  Government  and  people,  our 
profound condolences in connection with the 6 million 
Jewish  and  other  victims  of  the  Holocaust  and  our 
sincere  sympathy  to  all  the  bereaved  families  and  the 
survivors of the Holocaust. 
The  Second  World  War  was  unprecedented  in 

human history. During that war, Nazi forces planned to 
wipe out the entire Jewish  nation step by step through 
extremely  brutal  and  sanguinary  acts  —  a  gross  and 














relevant 
A/60/PV.42 


The Chinese delegation is in favour of adding the 
item  entitled  “Holocaust  remembrance”  to  the  agenda 
of the  current  session  of  the  General Assembly  and  of 
adopting  a  draft  resolution  bearing  the  same  title.  We 
believe that the United Nations has the responsibility to 
teach  succeeding  generations  the  profound  lessons  of 
the  Holocaust,  refute  any  words  or  acts  aimed  at 
reversing the verdict on the Holocaust, and prevent the 
recurrence of such acts of genocide. We are convinced 
that  substantive  and  consistent  deliberations  on  this 
item in the General Assembly will reinforce the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  system  to  realize  the  purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
advance the dialogue among civilizations and religions, 
and promote respect for global diversity, thus enabling 
countries  and  peoples  worldwide  jointly  to  fulfil  the 
historic  mission  of  maintaining  world  peace  and 
promoting common development. 
Prince Zeid Ra’ad Zeid Al-Hussein (Jordan): It 

is appropriate for us to have another discussion on the 
Holocaust  within  the  context  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly,  for  we  should  never  cease  to  draw 
the 
that  astonishing  and 
terrifying  period  of  human  experience.  The  Holocaust 
was, and is, a different genocide  — a genocide during 
which  wickedness 
into  union  with  human 
organization  and  efficiency  of  a  sort  hitherto  unheard 
of, one which turned a continent into a slaughterhouse, 
with twentieth-century specifications. 

In  sum,  it  was  a  crime  of  the  most  colossal 
proportions.  Therefore,  in  our  invocation  of  history, 
which is what this draft resolution is all about, we must 
be  precise  and  accurate.  While  most  delegations  here 
would  view  this  topic  as  the  historical  narrative  of 
others, for Europeans, the narrative is  memory, as  was 
stated  most  eloquently  by 
the  representatives  of 
Norway, Austria, Hungary and Romania in this Hall on 
24 January 2005. 

It is  certainly  not the  intention  of  this delegation 
to cast any aspersions in the direction of any particular 
quarter, for the Europe of today is not the Europe of the 
first half of the twentieth century. But there can be no 
sound  discussion  of  this  most  serious  issue  without 
acknowledging the context in which it occurred. 

The Holocaust was, in its broadest sense, a crime 
inflicted  on  European  soil,  by  Europeans  against 
Europeans. The  administrative  and  logistical  exertions 
in  the  commission  of  the  crime  were  undertaken  not 
lessons 
from 
fell 

just, as we know, by the Nazis of Germany, but also by 
several  other  sympathetic  Governments  from  across 
Europe, Governments who arrested their own nationals 
when  no  crime  had  been  committed  and  seized  their 
estates  and  titles  and  virtually  all  that  those  people 
owned,  before  transporting  them  —  men,  women  and 
children, the elderly and the infirm — to other parts of 
Europe to confront an uncertain and often terrible fate, 
while  other  Governments  invoked  policies  amounting 
to indifference. 

Sixty  years  on,  we  live  at  a  time  when  it  is  still 
difficult  for  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States  to 
examine  their  own  national  histories  to  their  very 
limits,  particularly  their  modern  histories.  And  while 
we should continue to feel great pride in what good we 
find  in  them,  we  must  also  begin  to  reckon  with  what 
in  our  national  memory  is  distasteful  or  perhaps  even 
criminal  or  terrible.  It  is  therefore  extraordinary  and 
encouraging how a few European States have started to 
follow the example set by Germany many years ago, in 
beginning  a  process  of  recovering  memory  and  in 
beginning  a  painful  and  critical,  although  ultimately 
liberating,  self-examination  where  their  part  in  the 
Holocaust is concerned. 

But  to  what  other  purpose  must  we  all  draw  on 
our  memories  generally  and,  in  this  instance,  the 
memories  of  others?  First  and  foremost,  we  must 
remind  ourselves  of  the  extent  to  which  chauvinistic 
nationalisms  and  philosophies  of  negation  can  be 
pernicious. In the context of Europe in the 1930s, those 
feelings  were  channelled  in the  form  of  a  virulent  and 
abhorrent  anti-Semitism.  Today 
they  could  fan  a 
revived anti-Semitism, or they could appear in the form 
of  other  expressions,  akin 
to  what  we  all  have 
witnessed  recently  in  the  Balkans  and  in  certain  parts 
of Africa. 

Given  the  historical  suffering  of  the  Jewish 
people and in view of the fact that European Jewry was 
the principal victim of the Holocaust, there has been a 
tendency  by  some  to  view  the  refrain  “Never  again” 
solely  within  that  understanding:  the  context  of  the 
Jewish people and their future. 
the 

the  Holocaust  does, 
historical  experience 
however,  bring 
for  all  peoples 
everywhere,  Jewish  and  otherwise.  And  the  principal 
lesson drawn by 100 members of the General Assembly 
is  that  if  we  are  ever  to  make  genocide  and  the  like 
The  concentration  of  evil  found  within 
the  point  home 
that 
is 
2 

05-59019 
and 
(spoke 
the  Nazis 
committed  by 
Mr.  Skinner-Klée


truly  unthinkable  in  the  future,  not  only  must  we 
squarely  confront  the  philosophies  of  negation  within 
our  own  societies,  wherever and  whenever  they  occur, 
but,  if  we  are  to  give  true  meaning  to  the  phrase 
“Never  again”,  we  must  also  collectively  support  the 
existence  of  the  world’s  only  permanent  judicial  body 
designed  to  end  impunity  for  the  gravest  of  crimes  — 
and  that  body  is,  of  course,  the  International  Criminal 
Court. 

Unfortunately,  and  by  contrast,  “Never  again”  is 
also  sometimes  used  as  a  form  of  moral  justification 
for  the  implementation  by  one  State  of  policies  the 
effect  of  which  is  the  continued  domination  of  one 
people by another and the continued degradation of one 
people by another. And that is deeply unfortunate. 

Ultimately,  we  hope  this  occasion  and  ones  like 
this  will enable us to derive the right lessons from the 
atrocities 
their 
accomplices  to  ensure  that  such  crimes  will  not  come 
to blight the twenty-first century as it begins to unfold 
before us. 

in 
Spanish): We  are  gathered  here  today  in  remembrance 
of the victims of the Holocaust, innocent human beings 
who  were  the  victims  of  ethnic  and  racial  hatred  and 
political  and  social  intolerance.  The  Shoah  is  the 
greatest  horror  suffered  by  humanity  in  the  twentieth 
century:  the execrable  extermination  of  more than  one 
third  of  the  Jewish  people,  along  with  countless 
members  of  other  minorities  who  died  unjustly  and 
cruelly,  murdered  only  because  they  were  different, 
only because they were not understood or tolerated. 

That  abominable  outrage  will  forever  burden  the 
conscience  of  humanity  and  all  nations,  which 
belatedly  realized  that  hatred,  fanaticism,  racism  and 
prejudice lead but to the negation of life and to all that 
debases  the  human  person.  This  is  why  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights recognizes that freedom, 
justice and peace in the world are based on recognition 
of the intrinsic dignity of the individual and equal and 
inalienable rights of all human beings, while disregard 
and contempt for human rights have been the cause of 
shocking barbarous acts against all humankind. 

The  present  remembrance  calls  to  our  mind  the 
saddest  and  most  ignominious  period of the  history  of 
humankind,  confronting  us  with  the  greatest  outrage 
inflicted  on  any  people,  an  unjustifiable  tragedy  that 
humanity must not forget lest it suffer once again from 
(Guatemala) 
A/60/PV.42
to 
Polish 
to  perverse 
ideologies,  some 
such  a  horrendous  and  blind  evil.  During 
the 
ceremonies to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of 
the  liberation  of  Auschwitz  in  southern  Poland,  the 
former 
Foreign  Minister  Wladyslaw 
Bartoszewski  reminded  us,  on  behalf  of  the  survivors, 
how Polish resistance had alerted the free world to the 
situation in Auschwitz but that no country in the world 
reacted  adequately  to  the  gravity  of  the  situation.  We 
are now engaged in a solemn act of remembrance, not 
only  in  order  to  alert  future  generations  but  also, 
fundamentally,  to  forge  a  new  conscience  in  the 
peoples  for  the  purpose  of  ensuring  that  no  such 
ignominious  crime  will  ever  recur  or  be  the  object  of 
complicit silence. Never again. 

The  circumstances  that  lead  a  more  powerful 
social  group  to  seek  to  annihilate  another,  weaker 
group or to demonstrate intolerance towards it, are the 
result  of  diverse  and  complex  factors.  Some  factors 
relate 
religious 
fanaticism  and  racist  doctrines  and  others  simply  to 
fear.  They  all  share  the  common  characteristic  of 
ignorance,  which  is  nothing  other  than  intolerance  in 
disguise.  That  has  driven  certain  social  groups  to  act 
irrationally, committing the most inhuman and aberrant 
acts,  such  as  genocide,  ethnic  cleansing,  racism,  anti-
Semitism,  extremism  and  xenophobia  —  acts  of  evil 
whose victims are all human beings. 
Thus,  the  constructive  and  peaceful  coexistence 

of  peoples  depends  on  mutual  respect  and  mutual 
understanding.  Unless  there  is  a  genuine  dialogue 
among nations and among civilizations, ignorance will 
persist  and  the  human  family  will  continue  to  be 
threatened  or  once  again  become  its  own  victim.  We 
must  question  some  of  our  ancestral  habits  and  deal 
honestly  with  the  problems  that  separate  us,  seeking 
new  channels  for  communication  and  change  capable 
of generating a new conscience for future generations. 

Guatemala knows only too well the horror caused 
by intolerance. Guatemalans have suffered in their own 
flesh  the  maelstrom  of  violence  that  afflicted  our 
country  merely  because 
some  people  professed 
contrary  views,  held  different  beliefs  or  belonged  to  a 
different  ethnic  or  social  group.  Today,  Guatemalans 
are  striving  to  know  one  another  better  and  become 
more  integrated,  thus  effacing  all  exclusivist  and 
discriminatory ideologies and prejudices. 

Mr. Diarra (Mali), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
05-59019 

3 

A/60/PV.42 


We  therefore  support  the  adoption  of  measures 
seeking  to  mobilize  world  society  in  order  to  assist  in 
the  prevention  of  all  cruel,  loathsome  and  degrading 
acts  in the  future  and  promote  dialogue  and tolerance. 
We  also  support  the  appeal  for  the  elaboration  of 
outreach  programmes  that  instil  the  lessons  of  the 
Holocaust  and 
the  establishment  of  an  education 
programme  entitled  “The  Holocaust  and  the  United 
Nations”. 

stated,  
Pope  John  Paul  II  was  truly  inspired  when  he 
is 
that 
truly 
“May  it  serve,  today  and  for  the  future,  as  a 
warning:  there  must  be  no  yielding  to  ideologies 
which justify  contempt  for  human  dignity  on  the 
basis of race, colour, language or religion.” 
The 
international  community  should, 

indeed, 
remain  vigilant  and  should  not  delude  itself  into 
believing  that  the  battle  has  been  won  to  create  a 
civilization 
liberal,  humanistic  and 
democratic,  in  which  all  people  can  live  in  peace  and 
trust in a happy and prosperous justice.  
Mr.  Shin  Kak-Soo  (Republic  of  Korea):  Let  me 

begin  by  joining  other  delegations  in  expressing  our 
deepest  sympathy  in  connection  with  the  millions  of 
victims of the Holocaust during the Second World War, 
who  were  murdered  because  of  their  ethnic  origins, 
religious  faith  or  political  beliefs,  and  in  condemning 
in  the  strongest  possible  terms  the  horrific,  inhuman 
crimes  against  humanity  committed  by 
the  Nazi 
regime. 

It  goes  without  saying  that  such  a  horrendous 
tragedy  should  never  be  allowed  to  recur.  To  our 
dismay,  however,  we  cannot  deny  that  even  today  we 
are  witnessing  genocide  and  many  crimes  against 
humanity,  from  Srebrenica  to  Kigali  to  Darfur.  Those 
recent  acts  of  genocides  and  crimes  against  humanity, 
still  fresh  in  our  memory,  compel  the  international 
community  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  put  in  place  a 
reliable  and  effective  security  system  that  deters  such 
heinous  crimes  and  promotes  mutual  understanding 
and  tolerance  among  people  of  all  ethnicities,  races, 
cultures and nations. 

It  was  with such solemn obligations in  mind that 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  convened  a 
special session of the General Assembly early this year. 
On that occasion Member States committed themselves 
to doing their utmost to prevent the recurrence of such 
a  calamity,  while  remembering  and  drawing  lessons 
from  the  Holocaust  and  paying  their  respect  to  its 
victims. 

My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to  emphasize  the  importance  of  what  we  achieved 
regarding  the  responsibility  to  protect  in  the  outcome 
document  adopted  at  the  world  summit  in  September. 
The leaders of Member States agreed on the collective 
responsibility of the international community to protect 
populations 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity  when  national 
authorities  manifestly  fail  to  do  so. The  faithful,  swift 
and  effective  implementation  of  that  responsibility  to 
protect  will  help 
to  prevent,  deter  or  halt  such 
situations.  My  delegation  earnestly  hopes  that  serious 
efforts  will  be  made  to  carry  forward  that  important 
development in following up the world summit. 

As a country that suffered greatly from atrocities 
committed during the Second World War, the Republic 
of Korea has decided to become a sponsor of the draft 
resolution on Holocaust remembrance. We believe that 
proclaiming 27 January as an annual International Day 
of  Commemoration  in  memory  of  the  victims  of  the 
Holocaust is a good way to ensure that the Holocaust’s 
dreadful lessons are not forgotten. We cannot allow the 
memory  of  those  crimes  to  fade  with  the  passage  of 
time. 

We also believe strongly that any attempt to deny 
the  Holocaust  as  a  historical  reality,  in  full  or  in  part, 
must be rejected. It takes courage to tell the truth about 
the  past  when  that  truth  is  painful  or  even  shameful. 
For  many  survivors  of  those  crimes  against  humanity, 
it  took  years  to  recover  the  strength  to  tell  their 
stories —  stories  which  are  now  indelibly  inscribed  in 
our  collective  memory.  That  is  also  true  for  many  of 
the  Korean  victims  who  suffered  very  severely  during 
the  Second  World  War.  We  cannot  build  a  positive, 
sustainable future if we turn a blind eye to our painful 
past.  As  has  often  been  said,  those  who  ignore  the 
lessons of history are doomed to repeat it. Facing up to 
the  truth  of  history  and  learning  its  lessons  is  not  a 
choice but an obligation. 

In  this  regard,  we  strongly  support  the  draft 
resolution’s  recommendation  to  develop  educational 
programmes 
the 
Holocaust  to  future  generations.  It  is  the  collective 
obligation  of  humanity  to  promote  education  and 
tolerance  so  that  there  will  never  again  be  a  similar 
lessons  of 
that  will 
teach 
the 
4 

05-59019 
to  prevent 
it  happened  and 


tragedy.  We  hope  that  such  education  will  consist  of 
more  than  the  recital  of  a  ritualized  litany  of  horrors. 
Instead,  future  generations  must  be  taught  about  that 
chapter  in  history  in  a  way  that  enables  them  to 
understand  how 
its 
recurrence. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  is  firmly  committed  to 
upholding  the  dignity  of  all  human  beings  and  to 
respecting  human  rights  for  all.  We  pledge  our 
unwavering  support  for  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations to protect and promote the fundamental human 
rights  and  dignity  of  all  humanity.  Although  it  is  too 
late  for  the  millions  of  victims  of  the  Holocaust  and 
other  crimes  against  humanity  during  and  since  the 
Second World War,  we should  work as hard as  we can 
to  ensure  that  human  rights  are  respected  and  secure 
for  future  generations.  It  is  our  deepest  wish  that, 
through  the  teaching  of  truth  and  the  fostering  of 
tolerance,  our  children  will  grow  up  in  a  new  world 
free from the traumas and tragedies of the century that 
we so recently left behind. 

Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 
draft  resolution  to  be  adopted  today  is  a  testament  to 
terrible  grief  and  pain.  For  the  people  of  my  country, 
Belarus,  such  pain  is  not  an  alien  experience; it is our 
pain  as  well.  The  flames  of  blind  racial  hatred  and 
ethnic  exclusion  did  not  only  claim  countless  victims 
in  Belarus.  The  brutality  of  the  Nazi  regime  and  the 
incinerating flames of the Holocaust are seared into the 
soul of the people of Belarus.  

Why, 60 years after the end of the Second World 
War,  are  we  still  returning  to  this  topic  —  not  as  a 
distant and tragic chapter of our history, but as a page 
in our collective life that has not yet been turned? Why 
do  many  millions  of  people  throughout  the  world 
continue  to  experience  the  daily,  direct  and  obvious 
threat  of  death  and  unbearable  suffering  that  result 
from ideas of racial superiority and ethnic enmity?  

There  are  two  possible  answers  to  that  question. 
One of them is understandable at the human level. The 
other  is  something  that  no  one  who  has  a  heart  can 
reconcile himself to.  
On  the  one  hand,  the  wounds  caused  by  the 

Second  World  War  proved  so  deep  that,  even  many 
decades after it ended, we cannot heal. We still feel the 
unbearable pain of loss. Our blood still runs cold at the 
thought  of  the  terrible  abyss  into  which  human beings 
were  plunged  by  the  Second  World  War.  Let  us  once 
A/60/PV.42
again ponder the living heritage of the war in our souls 
at  a  time  when  we,  the  community  of  nations,  are 
called  upon  to  decide  which  pages  of  our  common 
history  can  be  turned  with  a  clear  conscience,  and 
which cannot. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  page  on  which  the 
Holocaust is written — the story of the victims and of 
the  suffering  inflicted  by  the  plague  of  Naziism  on  so 
many peoples — cannot and must not be turned as long 
as  humankind  has  not  fully  learned  the  lessons  of  the 
Second World War and the lessons of the Holocaust. 

We  know  that  we  have  not  yet  learned  those 
lessons. However, we cannot do so on our own; the evil 
inflicted  by  the  Holocaust  is  too  great.  Humankind 
must learn those lessons jointly.  

As long as we live in a world divided into “us and 
them”,  as  long  as  we  feel  that  the  bitter  lessons  of 
history  must  be  learned  by  others  and  not  by  us,  as 
long  as  we  do  not  do  everything  in  our  power  to 
understand and welcome those who do not resemble us, 
the echoes of the Holocaust will continue to resound in 
our hearts. 
Mr. Kuchinsky (Ukraine): While aligning myself 

fully  with  the  statement  by  the  European  Union 
presidency,  I  would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  on 
behalf of Ukraine. 

The  Holocaust  is  a  permanently  painful  subject 
not  only  for  the  Jewish  people  but  for  the  world 
community  as  a  whole.  We  remember  the  enormous 
suffering  of  those  who  perished  in  the  death  camps  at 
Auschwitz,  Buchenwald,  Dachau  and  many  other 
horrific  sites,  where,  in  the  name  of  a  perverse  and 
inhuman  ideology,  millions  of  human  beings  were 
deliberately  and  cruelly  exterminated.  Jews  and 
gypsies,  men  and  women,  children  and  the  elderly  — 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  different  nations,  including 
hundreds  of  thousands  from  Ukraine,  became  the 
innocent  victims  of  a  ruthless  political  system  that 
caused immense losses to humankind. 

The  terrible  images  of  the  Holocaust  were  vivid 
in  the  minds  of  those  who  authored  the  Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights and of those who adopted 
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of 
the Crime of Genocide. 
Many  thought  that  the  horrors  of  the  Second 

the 
World  War  — 
exterminations that took place during the Holocaust — 
cruelty, 
the 
the 
camps, 
05-59019 

5 
the 
the 
again.  The 
inter-ethnic 
conflicts 
continued 
attention  of 
the  Holocaust  must  be 
A/60/PV.42 

could  never  happen  again.  And  yet  they  have  —  in 
Cambodia,  Srebrenica,  Rwanda  and,  most  recently,  in 
Darfur. 
In  that respect,  we  are  deeply  convinced that  the 

history  of 
learned  and 
extensively  explained  so  that  a  similar  tragedy  never 
happens 
that, 
unfortunately, continue to take place in the world today 
show  that  humankind  still  lacks  tolerance  and  that  the 
lessons  of  the  Holocaust  remain  highly  relevant  and 
require 
entire 
membership of the United Nations. 
The  history  of  Holocaust  is  widely  studied  and 

taught 
in  Ukraine.  The  Government  of  Ukraine 
supports  the  initiative  of  the  Jewish  community  to 
create  a  Ukrainian  Museum  of  the  Holocaust  in  Kiev. 
We hope that this project will be implemented soon. 

The Orange Revolution has led to dramatic social 
and political changes in Ukraine, which I am sure will 
have  a  positive  impact  on  the  lives  of  its  Jewish 
community,  which  has  made  a  worthy  contribution  to 
the strengthening of my country’s independence. 

At the Government level, we are doing our best to 
create  adequate  conditions  for  the  revitalization  and 
development  of  all  minority  communities  in  Ukraine. 
The  minority  legislation  put  in  place  to  ensure  inter-
ethnic harmony and national diversity in Ukraine fully 
accords  with  the  highest  international  human  rights 
standards. 

the 
Holocaust,  Ukraine  cannot  but  recall 
terrible 
damage  which  intolerance,  violence  and  aggression 
caused  it  in  the  past.  This  year  marks  the  seventy-
second  anniversary  of  one  of  the  most  tragic  chapters 
in Ukraine’s history, the Great Famine of 1932-33 — in 
Ukrainian,  Holodomor,  which  means  “death  by 
famine”.  Deliberately  aimed  at  the  very  core  of  the 
Ukrainian  nation,  the  cruel  campaign  of  terror  by 
hunger carried out by the totalitarian Soviet regime led 
to  the  deaths  of  seven  to  10  million  innocent  men, 
women and children. 

The  scourge  of  Holodomor  remains  a  deep 
psychological  trauma  for  our  people.  After  more  than 
seven  decades,  that  catastrophe  is  clearly  one  of  the 
most 
against 
humankind.  Yet  Holodomor  continues  to  be  one  of 
As  we  commemorate 
the  victims  of 
committed 
the 
shocking 
crimes 
ever 

that 
tragedies 
still  await  wide 
those  national 
international recognition. 

Two years ago, a joint statement on the seventieth 
anniversary of Holodomor, supported by  more than 60 
delegations — a third of the membership of the United 
Nations  —  was  issued  as  an  official  document  of  the 
General Assembly. In that declaration, for the first time 
in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations,  Holodomor  was 
officially  recognized  as  a  national  tragedy  of  the 
Ukrainian  people,  caused  by  the  cruel  actions  and 
policies  of  a  totalitarian  regime.  Representatives  of 
States  from  various  parts  of  the  world  expressed 
sympathy in connection with the victims of Holodomor 
and  deplored  the  acts  and  policies  that  caused  mass 
starvation and killed millions of people. 

Ukraine  will  continue  to  do  its  utmost  to  bring 
the  truth  about  Holodomor  and  the  Holocaust  to  the 
world at  large. We believe  that it is  high time  that the 
international  community  recognized  that  crime  as  an 
act of genocide against the Ukrainian nation. 

The  memory  of  recent  instances  of  genocide, 
crimes  against  humanity  and  gross  and  flagrant 
violations of human rights should never fade from our 
minds. Ukraine has therefore wholeheartedly supported 
and  sponsored  the  draft  resolution  before  us  for 
adoption. 
We in Ukraine have done and will continue to do 

everything  in  our  power  to  prevent  the  ideology  of 
totalitarianism,  dictatorship,  xenophobia  and  anti-
Semitism from taking root in our national soil. 

My  country  is  ready  to  assume  its  share  of  the 
collective  responsibility  to  stop  ongoing  tragedies  and 
future  crimes  against  humanity.  The 
to  prevent 
responsibility 
to  protect  against  genocide,  as  an 
important  and  promising  outcome  of  the  recent  world 
summit, 
in  our  view,  be  practically 
implemented and further developed. 

Mr.  Sardenberg  (Brazil):  The  Jewish  Holocaust 
is the paradigmatic case of genocide, a crime that until 
that time lacked a definition and did not allow for legal 
recourse.  None  of  the  Hague  Conventions  mentioned 
genocide, nor could the massacres that had taken place 
be  properly  judged  or  their  perpetrators  punished 
owing to the lack of a legal definition of genocide.  
should, 
6 

05-59019 
to 
in  both 
instruments 
the  crimes  committed  against 


Of  particular  historical  resonance  in  our  part  of 

the  world  are 
the 
indigenous peoples of the Americas during the colonial 
period  and  during 
the  period  when  slavery  was 
practised.  It  remains  profoundly  shocking 
the 
conscience  of  mankind  that  those  crimes  could  have 
reached such inconceivable proportions. 

The profound impact of the Jewish Holocaust and 
of  the  mass  war  crimes  committed  during  the  Second 
World  War  prompted  the  international  community  to 
attempt,  through  this  Organization,  to  define  genocide 
as an international crime and to bring its perpetrators to 
justice. Thus,  in  1948, the  United  Nations  adopted  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime  of  Genocide  and,  more  recently,  the  crime  was 
incorporated into the Rome Statute of the International 
Criminal Court. 

The fight against the crime of genocide will only 
be  complete  when  Member  States  adhere  to  and 
implement  human  rights 
the 
domestic  and  the  international  spheres.  That  will 
constitute the most important tribute to the memory of 
the  victims  of 
the 
Remembrance Day. 
In  remembering  the  Holocaust,  the  international 

community  not  only  renews 
indignation  and 
rejection,  but  also  strengthens its  commitment to  fight 
oppression  and  prejudice  wherever  they  may  take 
place. In evoking the torment and tragedy of the Jewish 
people  during  the  Holocaust,  we  are  able  to  confront 
the  destructive  forces  that  threaten  the  human  march 
towards freedom, justice and democracy. 

Even  after  the  Jewish  Holocaust,  late  twentieth 
century  history  has,  unfortunately,  been  marked  by  a 
series  of  brutal  conflicts  that  have  again  resulted  in 
grave  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity,  genocide 
and  other  serious  crimes.  Cambodia, 
the  former 
Yugoslavia  and  Rwanda  constitute  a  few  blatant 
examples.  They  add  to  our  sense  of  abhorrence  and 
indignation  and  strengthen  our  resolve  to  prevent 
similar crimes. 

As  one  of  the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution, 
Brazil once  again  expresses its absolute condemnation 
of  the  Holocaust,  reaffirms  its  great  respect  for  the 
victims  and  manifests  its  solidarity  with  the  survivors 
of that unspeakable crime. 
the  Holocaust  and  honour 
its 
A/60/PV.42
its 
Therefore,  we 
feelings  of  emotion  and  commitment 
Mr. Mayoral (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): The 

Argentine  Republic,  whose  best  tradition  has  been  to 
welcome  upon 
territory  communities  from  all 
corners of the world to live in peaceful and productive 
coexistence  and  which  has  itself  suffered  acts  of 
cruelty  against  human  dignity,  co-sponsors  draft 
resolution A/60/L.12  and  supports  that  reminder,  with 
special 
to 
participate  in  this  collective  act  by  the  international 
community  to  ensure  that  humankind  never  again 
witnesses the genocide we remember today. 

Collective  remembrance  is  indispensable  in  a 
world overwhelmed by the need to solve new problems 
and  at  a  time  when  young  people  may  think  that  the 
Holocaust  was an event  of  history that occurred  under 
specific political circumstances and for reasons that no 
longer exist. They are wrong. Faced with that possible 
reaction,  we  must  realize  that  no  country  in  the  world 
can  consider  itself  immune  from  a  future  wave  of 
violence  fuelled  by  intolerance,  economics,  religious 
fundamentalism, political intolerance or racial conflict, 
or even a combination of any of them. 

the  declaration  of 
27 January as the International Day of Commemoration 
in  memory  of the  victims  of the  Holocaust,  as  well as 
the other  measures proposed in the  draft resolution, in 
order  to  keep  the  memory  of  that  shameful  episode  in 
the history of mankind, alive. 

The  Holocaust  showed  us  major  truths  that  must 
not  be  forgotten.  First,  the  sacrifice  of  the  Jewish 
people, which is a tragic example of the harm that we, 
as  human  beings  can  inflict  upon  on  another.  It 
transcends 
religious 
boundaries  and  teaches  a  terrible  and  profound  lesson 
to  us  all.  Regrettably,  racist  anti-Semitism,  in  spite  of 
so  much  that  has  been  done  to  fight  it,  periodically 
reemerges  in  the  infamous  attacks  that  we  see  against 
synagogues,  the  desecration  of  cemeteries  and  the 
cynical  speculations  of  supposed  historians  who 
modify or deny the events that occurred.  

Those  irrational  acts  that  derive  from  fanatical 
ideology, ignorance, denial and distrust of the other are 
part  and  parcel  of  the  darkest  aspects  of  the  human 
condition. In different situations and places they move 
to  other  communities  and  groups,  which  suffer  their 
own  share  of  shame, 
this 
Organization  has  been  able  to  document  in  the  very 
cultural,  political 
the  ones 
support 
that 
like 
all 
and 
05-59019 

7 

is 
and 
through 
developed 
foundation 
strengthened 
that  framework 
A/60/PV.42 

serious episodes that occurred in various regions of the 
world not so long ago. 

In  our  modest  understanding,  the  main  thing  we 
have  learned  has  been  the  obligation  of  all  men  and 
women to affirm the equality and essential fraternity of 
each  person,  despite  different  nationalities,  cultures  or 
religious idiosyncrasies.  

The  United  Nations  was  created  to  prevent  war 
and resolve conflicts. It is therefore auspicious that the 
Organization  should  establish  an  annual  day  of 
reflection,  from  now  on,  to  commemorate  the  sixtieth 
anniversary of the destruction of the Nazi regime. It is 
precisely 
that  significant 
efforts over several decades have led to the creation of 
an  edifice  whose 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  which  has  been 
further 
through 
declarations  and  treaties  that  reinforce  the  conditions 
necessary  for  the  achievement  of  universal  respect  for 
human dignity.  

The  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  began  to 
function not long ago, seeking to deter possible crimes 
and  punish  those  who  attempt  to  escape  their  grave 
responsibilities.  

We  are  in  a  crucial  moment  of  history  when  we 
are all called upon to make further efforts of generosity 
in  order  to  face  up  to  new  challenges  and  threats  to  a 
future of peace based upon respect for all persons and 
peoples. My country believes that task must be carried 
out  within  the  collective  framework  of  the  United 
Nations.  If  we  want  to  avoid  repeating  the  cycle  of 
history and avoid another Holocaust and genocide such 
as occurred in the last century, we must keep alive the 
memory  of  what  happened,  by  giving  the  United 
Nations  powerful  tools  to  effectively  protect  human 
rights in all circumstances and at all times. 

We are convinced that this day will motivate calm 
reflection  as  we  address  the  future  together,  aware  of 
our historic responsibilities to design a fairer and more 
peaceful  world  that  will  save  mankind  from  further 
suffering and will prevent a recurrence of the collective 
tragedies that we remember today.  
The President returned to the Chair. 

Mr.  Pfanzelter  (Austria):  Austria  attaches  great 

significance 
the  draft  resolution  on  Holocaust 
remembrance  and is  honoured  to  be  among  its  earliest 
sponsors.  The  designation  of  27  January,  the  day  of 
to 
led 
to 
the 
called  upon 
International  Day  of  Commemoration 
liberation  of  the Auschwitz  concentration  camp,  as  an 
annual 
in 
memory  of  the  victims  of  the  Holocaust  is  of  special 
significance  to  all  of  us.  Auschwitz  is  of  global 
relevance.  

For  Austria,  this  day  is  a  reminder  of  the  dark 
sides  of  our  past.  We  feel  the  agony  of  knowing  that 
our  country  lost  so  many  of  its  Jewish  citizens  to  the 
Holocaust.  At  the  same  time  we  feel  the  pain  of 
realizing  that  far  too  many  Austrians  took  part  in  the 
genocide, a crime of colossal proportions.  

Simon Wiesenthal, who passed away a few weeks 
ago, helped us to come to terms with our past when he 
said,  “For  your  benefit,  learn  from  our  tragedy”.  He 
showed us that education and information are powerful 
tools  for  preventing  the  tragic  repetition  of  history. 
Today,  we  should  all  remember  Simon  Wiesenthal’s 
speech  to  the  General  Assembly  10  years  ago  (see 
A/50/PV.66).  He 
international 
community 
to  warn  younger  generations  against 
prejudices,  especially  the  prejudice  of  racial  hatred, 
which  has 
immeasurable  human  suffering. 
Austria is conscious of its responsibility and is taking a 
broad  spectrum  of  measures  to  fight  anti-Semitism, 
xenophobia  and  other  forms  racism  and  intolerance  at 
all levels. 

national 
We 
programmes aimed at teaching our young people about 
the 
lessons  of  history.  The  young  generation, 
representing our future, must be taught that no country 
and  no  society  can  achieve  any  degree  of  progress  or 
development  without  respect  for  human  rights  and  the 
dignity of each human being. That is the lesson that the 
memory  of Auschwitz  hands  down  from  generation  to 
generation. 

The  International  Day  of  Commemoration  in 
Memory  of  the  Victims  of  the  Holocaust  should  serve 
to  make  us  aware  of  what  we  lost  and  what  was 
destroyed.  Our  challenge  for  the  future  will  be  to 
preserve 
in 
Auschwitz and elsewhere by an inhuman regime and to 
make sure that it will never happen again. Our common 
challenge is to create a more just and more democratic 
society that is free of hatred. 

Observer of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  the  Permanent 
the  millions  killed 
the  memory  of 
successfully 
initiated 
have 
8 

05-59019 
all 
and 
those 
congratulates 
just  one  continent.  As  we  stand  before 


Archbishop  Migliore  (Holy  See):  Remembering 

is  a  duty  and  a  common  responsibility.  That 
is 
especially  true  in  the  case  of  the  Holocaust.  So,  my 
delegation  welcomes the draft resolution on Holocaust 
remembrance 
that 
sponsored it. 

The  responsibility  of  all  nations  to  remember 
gains  new  strength  as  we  commemorate  the  sixtieth 
anniversary  of  the  liberation  of  the  extermination 
camps and the establishment of the United Nations. 
For 60 years, we have had the horror of this kind 

of crime before us, and yet, history has repeated itself. 
An international convention against that crime has not 
prevented  the  kind  of  thinking  that  leads  to  genocide, 
the  violence  that  sparks  genocide,  the  injustices  that 
make it  possible or  the  interests that  allow  a  genocide 
to  be  sustained  over  time.  The  twentieth  century 
witnessed  genocides,  atrocities,  mass  killings  and 
ethnic cleansings, which, deplorably, were not confined 
to 
the 
Holocaust,  it  is  only  right  that  we  remember  and 
pledge  to  make  the  best  collective  efforts  to  ensure 
that, having now named this crime, the world’s nations 
will  recognize  it  for  what  it  is  and  prevent  it  in  the 
future. 

In  that  context,  we  would  do  well  to  recall  and 
renew our support for Security Council resolution 1624 
(2005), which condemns the incitement of terrorist acts 
in  the  strongest  terms  and  repudiates  attempts  at  the 
justification  or  glorification  of  terrorist  acts,  as  they 
may  incite  further  terrorist  acts.  It  further  emphasizes 
the continuing international efforts to enhance dialogue 
and  broaden  understanding  among  civilizations,  in  an 
targeting  of 
effort 
different 
to  address 
unresolved  regional  conflicts  and  the  full  range  of 
global issues. 

After the Shoah, the first step towards prevention 
was the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Many 
more  steps  forward  are  needed.  In  every  country,  the 
memory  of  the  Holocaust  must  be  preserved  as  a 
commitment to spare future generations such horror. 
During  his  visit  to  the  Holy  Land,  the  late  Pope 

John Paul II made a point of going to Yad Vashem, the 
memorial  to  the  Shoah.  At  the  foot  of  the  Temple’s 
Western  Wall  he  prayed  for  forgiveness  and  for  the 
conversion of hearts and minds. 
indiscriminate 
religions  and  cultures  and 
to  prevent 
the 
A/60/PV.42
the  floor 
to  overcome 
firm  measures 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 

Asking  for  pardon  purifies  the  memory,  and 
remembering  the  Holocaust  gives  us  an  occasion  for 
that  purification  of  memory  to  occur.  We  can  detect 
early  symptoms  of  genocide,  reject  them  and  take 
timely, 
social  and 
international injustices of all kinds. 

decision on draft resolution A/60/L.12. 

The following countries are to be added to the list 
of  sponsors:  Azerbaijan,  Congo,  Mali,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Philippines and Saint Kitts and Nevis. 

the draft resolution without a vote? 
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 60/7). 


The  President:  Before  giving 
to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  after  the  vote,  may  I 
remind  delegations 
that  explanations  of  vote  are 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
limited 
delegations from their seats. 

Mrs. Núñez  de  Odremán  (Bolivarian  Republic 
of  Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela has participated in the adoption 
by  consensus  of  resolution  60/7  and 
in  full 
agreement with the States that sponsored the resolution 
and  endorsed 
the  memorandum  of  explanation 
accompanying the draft resolution, which affirmed that 
the  Holocaust  constituted  a  systematic  and  barbaric 
attempt to annihilate an entire people in a  manner and 
of a magnitude that has no comparison in the history of 
humankind. 

Nevertheless,  moderation,  restraint  and  respect 
for  truth  should  guide  us,  when  speaking  of  the 
annihilation  of  a  people  in  the  manner  and  of  the 
magnitude  of  that  which  took  place  in  the  so-called 
Second World War, which was the historical context of 
the  Holocaust.  We  must  also  recall  other  holocausts 
that  also  took  place  during  that  terrible  and  barbarous 
conflict and those which came to light at that conflict’s 
end,  all  equally  attributable  to  founding  States  of  the 
United  Nations  that  were  part  of  the  coalition  that 
defeated  the  Nazi  Fascism  exclusively  at  the  military 
level around the year 1945. 

the 
to 
defenceless  population  of  Hiroshima  and  Nagasaki, 
who  were  victims  of  a  deliberate,  devastating 
destruction  by  the  use    of  nuclear  weapons,  without 
the  annihilation  of 
We  are  referring 
is 
05-59019 

9 

rise 
A/60/PV.42 

any  justification,  and  to  the  silent,  low-intensity  daily 
annihilation of peoples of the  world,  whose adults and 
children  are  condemned  to  misery,  hunger,  ignorance 
and  repression  with  no  escape  or  hope,  as  a  result  of 
the  exploitation  and  the  barbarous,  systematic  neglect 
to which they have been submitted during centuries by 
colonialist  and  imperialist  States  and  elites  that  were 
also  the  principal  actors  of  the  aforementioned  war. 
The  annihilation  continues  today,  at  the  start  of  the 
twenty-first  century,  giving 
to  a  popular 
insurgency that seeks to restore justice. 

Nor can we forget that the States that participated 
in  the  same  world  conflict  or  in  conflicts  that  have 
occurred  since  1945  are  responsible  for  acts  of  State 
terrorism  in  the  form  of  successive  holocausts  —  that 
is,  the  systematic  genocide  of  the  peoples  of  Asia, 
Africa  and  Latin  America.  We  must  incorporate  that 
fact  into  our  collective  memory  as  Members  of  the 
United  Nations,  inspired  by  the  same  humanistic 
feelings  that  the  resolution  embodies  in  one  of  its 
preambular  paragraphs,  so  that  we  do  not  forget  the 
fundamental  principle  of  the  Charter  to  protect  future 
generations from the scourge of war. 

We  all  know  that  there  are  many  ways  to  wage 
war,  some  of  them  novel.  There  are  low-and  high-
intensity  wars,  which  make  use  of  weapons  of 
immediate  destruction,  or  more  subtle,  less  apparent 
means of mass liquidation. 

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela also shares 
the  concern  and  sense  of  urgency  with  regard  to 
establishing educational programmes to eradicate from 
the  face  of  the  Earth  genocide  as  a  political  act  to 
exterminate  groups  of  human  beings  or  entire  peoples 
on  the  unspeakable  pretext  of  hatred,  racism  and  the 
fundamentalist, obsessive and messianic blindness that 
characterizes religious intolerance. We call upon those 
States  that,  together  with  us,  supported  the  resolution 
to  ensure  that  the  educational  programmes  proposed 
therein  are  designed,  in  a  balanced  and  well-thought-
out  manner,  to  put  an  end  to  holocausts  and  to  raise 
global  awareness  of  the  perversion  and  crime  against 
humanity that is genocide — including the genocide of 
the 
Jewish 
universal 
repudiation. 
the 

consensus  to  adopt  the  resolution  without  a  vote,  my 
delegation  would  like  to  express  its  reservations  with 
regard  to  operative  paragraphs  2  and  6,  as  well  as  to 
(Egypt):  Having 
Mr.  Abdelaziz
people,  which 
deserves 
joined 
to 
to 
in 
its 
in  which 
the  society 
the  procedural  aspects  surrounding 
some  of 
adoption. 

We fully share and understand the feelings of the 
sponsors  with  regard 
the  need  for  Holocaust 
remembrance.  We  have  no  objection  to  designating 
27 January as a day of remembrance in connection with 
the  Holocaust  because  of  our  firm  belief  that  the 
victims  of  genocide,  regardless  of  their  religion  or 
ethnic background, should not be forgotten. 
On the other hand, the resolution fails to address 

the 
the  responsibilities  of 
Holocaust  was  perpetrated  and  its  socio-political  and 
racist  causes.  Furthermore,  we  should  ask  ourselves 
why we should restrict the resolution on the Holocaust, 
forgetting similar crimes of genocide against Christians 
and  Muslims  in  Rwanda,  and  against  Muslims  in 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Srebrenica,  Sanski  Most, 
Kosovo and elsewhere. 
Why  are  we  establishing  a  special  international 

programme  to  promote  awareness  of  the  Holocaust  — 
which represented a heinous and horrible crime against 
the  Jews  —  while  forgetting  equal  atrocities  against 
Muslims,  Christians  and  others,  and  refraining  from 
establishing  similar  programmes  to  increase  public 
awareness  of  them?  We  believe  that  no  one  should 
have a monopoly on suffering. 
We  are  firm  in  our  belief  that  the  established 

mechanism,  in  accordance  with  the  resolution,  should 
apply 
the  victims  of  genocide  as  a  whole, 
worldwide,  without  discrimination  on  the  basis  of 
religious  or  ethnic  background.  We  trust  that  the 
sponsors  will  consider  our  strong  reservations  and 
reflect  on  how  to  put  things  back  into  the  right 
perspective. We reserve the right to do so ourselves. 

We  further  trust  that  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Secretary-General,  while establishing the proposed 
outreach  programme,  as  well  as  other  mechanisms 
provided  for 
the  resolution,  will  attach  equal 
importance  to  the  implementation  of  other  resolutions 
on  similar  issues,  such  as  racism,  intolerance,  the  rise 
of  ultra-nationalism,  neo-Naziism  and  xenophobic  and 
other  movements.  We  further  trust  that  the  General 
Assembly will attach the same importance to financing 
other  activities  in  similar  resolutions  in  full.  In  that 
context,  we 
the 
implementation  of  such  resolutions  all  together,  so  as 
to  ensure  equal  treatment  for  all  victims  of  genocide, 
including the victims of the Holocaust, and the right to 
to  assist 
reserve 
right 
the 
in 
10 

05-59019 
on 
to 
the 
the 
resolution 
its  adoption  on 
the  Holocaust,  as 


decide  our  course  of  action  with  regard 
resolution in the future accordingly. 
Ms. Ismail (Malaysia): My delegation joined the 

on  Holocaust 
consensus 
remembrance.  We  condemn 
it 
constituted  a  systematic  and  barbarous  attempt  to 
annihilate an entire people in a  manner and on a scale 
that  have  no  parallel  in  human  history. Yet  its  lessons 
are  universal,  and  my  delegation  feels  that  we  should 
draw  on  them.  There  are  other  events  that  are  no  less 
tragic  which  would  benefit  from  the  lessons  learned 
from the Holocaust.  

In  this  connection,  my  delegation  would  have 
preferred operative paragraph 2 of the resolution to be 
broader in  scope  so  as  to include  inculcating in  future 
generations  the  lessons  not  only  of  the  Holocaust,  but 
also  other  acts  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing and crimes against humanity. 
Mr. Anshor (Indonesia): I am pleased to explain 

my  delegation’s  position  with  regard  to  the  resolution 
that  has  just  been  adopted.  My  delegation  went  along 
with 
the  basis  of  a  number  of 
understandings.  

First,  we  recognize  that  the  Holocaust  represents 
a  dark  episode  in  human  civilization,  whose  lessons 
must  never  be  forgotten  if  we  are  to  save  future 
generations  from  similar  atrocities.  However, 
the 
Holocaust is not the only human tragedy that provides 
such  lessons.  There  are  numerous  others  that  send  an 
equally  strong  message  and  warning  to  all  people  of 
the  dangers  of  hatred,  bigotry,  racism  and  prejudice. 
Human  history,  whether  classical  or  contemporary, 
registers a long list of human tragedies. Therefore,  we 
would have preferred it if the sponsors, in formalizing 
and 
institutionalizing  Holocaust  remembrance  and 
education  within  the  United  Nations  system  through 
the  resolution,  had  given  equal  attention  to  other 
human tragedies. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

explanation of vote on the draft resolution just adopted. 
The representative of Japan has asked to speak in 

exercise  of 
remind 
representatives  that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right 
of  reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first 
intervention  and 
the  second 
intervention,  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
to  five  minutes  for 
reply.  May 
right  of 
A/60/PV.42
the 
representative  of  China 

Mr.  Ozawa  (Japan):  My  delegation  wishes  to 
exercise its right reply in connection with the statement 
made  by 
regarding 
atrocities  during  the  Second  World  War  in  Asia. 
Mistakes  made 
in  our  past  history  must  be 
remembered.  We  must  learn  from  them  and  resolve 
never to allow them to happen again. Only by learning 
from  the  past  can  humanity  make  progress  in  the 
future.  

Japan  has  made  its  own  mistakes  in  its  recent 
history.  On  the  occasion  of  the  recent  Asia-Africa 
summit in Indonesia, Prime Minister Koizumi stated,  
in 
to 
the 
future  as  well,  prizing 

“In the past, Japan, through its colonial rule 
and  aggression,  caused  tremendous  damage  and 
suffering 
the  people  of  many  countries, 
particularly  to  those  of  Asian  nations.  Japan 
squarely faces those facts of history in a spirit of 
humility. And with a feeling of deep remorse and 
heartfelt apology always engraved in mind, Japan 
has  resolutely  and  consistently  maintained  since 
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War  never  to  turn 
into  a  military  power  but  to  be  an  economic 
power and its principle of resolving all matters by 
peaceful  means  without  recourse  to  the  use  of 
force. 

“Japan  once  again  states  its  resolve  to 
contribute  to  the  peace  and  the  prosperity  of  the 
world, 
the 
relationship  of  trust  it  enjoys  with  the  nations  of 
the world.” 
In  that  spirit,  the  Japanese  people,  since  the  end 

of  the  Second  World  War,  have  striven  to  rebuild  our 
nation  as  a  free,  democratic  and  peace-loving  nation. 
My  delegation  wishes  to  point  out  that  in  discussing 
history,  it  would  be  more  constructive  to  have  a 
common  understanding  of 
facts, 
especially  of  the  figures  involved.  In  that  spirit,  the 
Foreign Minister of Japan has proposed to the Foreign 
Minister of China to conduct joint academic research. 

this  unique  and 
historic moment, I would like to extend Israel’s special 
appreciation  and  thanks  to  the  general  membership  of 
the  Assembly 
this  unprecedented 
resolution  and  to  the  original  sponsors,  Australia, 
Canada,  Russia  and  the  United  States.  The  active 
support  of  the  European  Union,  led  by  the  United 
Kingdom  presidency  from  the  outset  of  the  process, 
Mr.  Gillerman  (Israel):  At 
the  historical 
adopting 
for 
the 
I 
05-59019 

11 

for  your  guidance,  compassion 
A/60/PV.42 

has also been invaluable. I would also like to thank the 
104 sponsors of the resolution. 

I  wish  to  extend  my  thanks  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  ongoing  support  and 
to  Under-
Secretary-General  Shashi  Tharoor  for  his  interest  and 
involvement  in  the  matter.  And  I  would  like  to  thank 
you,  Sir,  in  your  role  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, 
and 
leadership  throughout  this  process  and  during  this 
historic debate. 
Finally,  in  memory  of  the  6  million  Holocaust 

victims  and  in  honour  of  the  survivors,  I  give  thanks 
for 
its 
adoption  by  the  Assembly,  citing  the  words  of  the 
Jewish  prayer:  Blessed  be  the  Lord  who  has  given  us 
life, sustained us and brought us to this day. 

The  President:  In  view  of  the  explanations  of 
vote after the vote and the statements in right of reply, 
I just want to repeat portions of my remarks at the 41st 
meeting,  on  the  introduction  of  the  resolution  —  the 
first resolution of this kind. 
this  universal  and  historic  resolution  and 

“The  Holocaust  also  reminds  us  of  the 
crimes  of  genocide  committed  since  the  Second 
World  War.  It  must  therefore  be  a  unifying 
historic  warning around  which  we rally, not only 
to recall the grievous crimes committed in human 
history  but  also 
to  reaffirm  our  unfaltering 
resolve  to prevent the recurrence of  such  crimes. 
We  cannot,  after 
in  Cambodia, 
Rwanda  and  Srebrenica,  continue 
to  repeat, 
‘Never again’.  
“... 


“It  is  in  the  spirit  both  of  remembering  the 
crimes of the past and preventing their recurrence 
in  the  future  that  we  must  consider  the 
... 
resolution on Holocaust remembrance.” 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
the  horrors 

stage of its consideration of agenda item 72. 

The meeting rose at 10.55 a.m.
12 

05-59019 
