United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
8th plenary meeting
Friday, 16 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.8
Official Records
Co-Chairperson: El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba  . . . . . . . . . . . .
Co-Chairperson: Mr. Göran Persson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(President of the Gabonese Republic)
(Prime Minister of the Kingdon of Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Addresses on the occasion of the High-level Plenary
Meeting (continued)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Alvaro
Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic of Colombia.
President Uribe Vélez (spoke in Spanish): Allow
me  to  congratulate  Sweden  on  its  election  to  the
presidency of the General Assembly.
Colombia reaffirms its commitment to the United
Nations  and  to  a  broad  and  inclusive  multilateralism.
The reform process must have as its main objective the
strengthening of States and of their capacity to respond
effectively  to  the  needs  of  their  populations.  The
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  achievable,  so
long  as  we  all  make  efforts  and  concessions.
Developing  countries  will  be  able  to  meet  the  Goals
when they are able to compete and to have free market
access.  That  could  be  made  possible  through  the
elimination of subsidies, in particular those that benefit
agriculture in developed countries.
With the achievement of the Goals, in addition to
deepening  an  approach  based  on  assistance  and  aid,
countries must consolidate their national capacities and
prospects  for  sustainable  development,  which  provide
for  the  generation  of  wealth,  progress  and  prosperity.
Colombia  understands  that  we  must  be  make  haste  to
achieve the Millennium Development Goals so that in
time  we  can  achieve  the  democratic  legitimacy  that
emerges 
the
independence of institutions and transparency.
freedoms, 
public 
from 
security, 
incorporated 
In  my  country,  we  have 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  into  our  national
development  plan  and  into  a  discussion  project  we
have  named  “Visión  Colombia  Segundo  Centenario”,
which  will  make  it  possible  to  achieve  the  Goals  by
2015.
Hand  in  hand  with  democratic  security  to  defeat
terrorism  and  to  guarantee  the  freedoms  of  all  my
compatriots,  along  with 
transparency  and  citizen
participation  to  defeat  corruption,  we  have  made  a
commitment to eradicate poverty and improve equity.
Today,  our  social  policy  has  seven  pillars,  some
of which I would like to touch on.
An  educational  revolution,  the  axis  of  social
cohesion,  is  the  path  by  which  we  will  be  able  to
ensure  equity,  a  fair  distribution  of  income  and  the
opening  of  new  channels  of  social  services,  without
which democracy remains only half realized.
We  must  also  focus  on  strengthening  micro-
business  and  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises  in
order  to  overcome  the  barriers  blocking  access  to
credit.  We  so  despise  the  discrimination  that  sullies
democracy and social protection that we are committed
within  three  years  to  ensure  access  to  health  services
for  all  the  poor,  to  make  strides  in  providing  food  for
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51191 (E)
*0551191*
A/60/PV.8
children and facilitate their access to education, and to
provide care for the elderly.
families  with  children 
By  the  end  of  this  year,  Colombia’s  goal  is  to
have  500,000 
in  school
receiving  State  aid  for  the  feeding  and  education  of
their  children.  In  the  near  future  that  will  rise  to  1
million families. This will ensure that they are part of
the  educational  revolution.  By  2006,  10  million
children  will  benefit  from  food  aid  programmes  and
570,000  elderly  will  receive  financial  and  food
subsidies.
aiding 
some  20,000 
We  are  also  making  serious  efforts  to  help  the
ex-
internally  displaced, 
combatants  from  violent  groups 
that  have  been
reintegrated  into  society  and  33,000  families  in  the
Guardabosques  forest  protection  programme,  who  are
paid a stipend to give up drugs cultivation and who are
now helping both in the recovery of tropical forests as
well as keeping their areas free of illegal drugs. Aid to
those  three  sectors  of  society  —  the  displaced,  the
reintegrated  and  the  Guardabosques  families  —  will
cost $300 million in 2006 alone.
With  regard  to  the  reform  of  United  Nations
organs,  we  believe 
that  bodies  entrusted  with
development should be strengthened and made into real
forums  for  addressing  the  issues  facing  developing
countries  in  all  their  diversity,  including  middle-
income countries.
to 
The  proposal 
a  peacebuilding
commission  must  focus  on  establishing  policies  and
strategies  for  national  development  programmes  and
initiatives for countries emerging from conflict.
create 
the  national 
The  success  of  the  United  Nations  will  become
clear when, having completed its mission, it withdraws
from  those  countries  that  have  asked  for  its  help.  It
fails when it remains in place for decades and creates a
dependency  of 
the
international system. The United Nations fails when it
takes  over  the  State’s  responsibilities  rather  than
creating  a  national  capacity  for  autonomous  and
independent  governance.  The  role  of  States  cannot  be
replaced  by  the  Organization.  Every  nation  must  be
endowed with the means and mechanisms to overcome
challenges  and  respond  efficiently  to  the  needs  of  its
people.
structures  on 
Regarding  the  proposal  to  create  a  human  rights
council,  we  believe  that  it  must  be  approached  with  a
2
view  to  cooperating  with  States  and  building  national
capacity  in  each  country.  In  the  new  council,  the
punitive  approach  and 
that  have
politicized the matter and weakened the capacity of the
United Nations to contribute and support States in the
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  must  not
prevail.
finger-pointing 
Consensus  must  guide  decision-making  in  the
reform process. Only in that way will it be possible to
meet  the  expectations  of  true  and  significant  change.
We  must  all  participate 
the  reform  process,
respecting  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  and
guided  by  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United
Nations Charter.
in 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Elías
Antonio  Saca  González,  President  of  the  Republic  of
El Salvador.
President Saca González (spoke in Spanish): El
Salvador  sets  great  store  by  the  United  Nations  as  a
forum  for  dialogue  and  understanding  geared  towards
for
developing 
addressing 
twenty-first
century.
forms  of  collective  cooperation 
the  global 
threats  of 
the 
From that perspective, we have participated with
great  interest  in  the  comprehensive  reform  process  of
the  United  Nations  system,  in  particular  in  order  to
endow  it  with  greater  democracy,  transparency  and
legitimacy  to  respond  in  a  balanced  manner  to  the
interests of all its Member States.
has 
consensus 
We  believe  that  the  outcome  document  of  this
Meeting will provide a basis for the ongoing process of
change that the Organization truly requires. However, I
must say that the outcome document does not meet our
expectations and  that  discussion  must  continue  until  a
broader 
obtained.  The
implementation  of  the  commitments  that  have  been
made  will  require  effort,  resources  and,  above  all,
political resolve on the part of States. We believe that
the  United  Nations,  with  its  wealth  of  experience,  is
the  ideal  institution  for  coordinating  and  harmonizing
international  cooperation  towards  consolidating  those
efforts,  in  particular  with  respect  to  fulfilling  the
Millennium Development Goals.
been 
I wish to touch upon several issues that I feel to
be of particular interest and great relevance to the goals
we have established.
El Salvador shares the view that democracy does
not belong to any single country or region. Instead, it is
a universal right and our country therefore supports the
establishment of the democracy fund.
We  all  know  the  negative  impact  that  global
challenges  have  had  on  peace,  security,  stability  and
the  development  of  peoples.  We  believe  that  the  most
suitable  mechanism  for  addressing  such  challenges  is
one based on global consensus and collective security,
as enshrined in the Charter. In that context, we warmly
welcome  the  proposal  to  establish  a  peacebuilding
commission. We believe that such a commission would
channel  the  peacebuilding  processes  by  establishing
political
close 
peacebuilding, 
agreements,  and  short-,  medium-  and 
long-term
security and development.
between 
links 
In  all  humility  and  great  confidence,  I  reaffirm
that  the  people  of  El  Salvador  offer  one  of  the  best
examples of a true desire  for peace. After many years
of deadly conflict, the peace agreements of 1992 came
into force under  the  auspices  of  this  Organization  and
with the cooperation of friendly Governments. That, in
turn,  paved  the  way  for  the  people  of  El  Salvador  to
forge a society that now lives in peace and democracy
and fights for its well-being and development.
feels 
linking 
the  concept 
My  Government 
that  comprehensive
development  must  be  one  of  the  fundamental  and
priority  objectives  of  the  United  Nations.  We  fully
support 
intrinsically  and
interdependently 
to  peace  and  security.  We  are
committed  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
support  the  establishment  of  a  global  partnership  for
development,  which  we  feel  should  be  based  on
solidarity  and  generosity, 
the
differences  between  regions  and  countries,  their  level
of development, capacities, resources and constraints.
taking  account  of 
it 
El  Salvador  wishes  to  draw  the  attention  of  the
international  community  to  the  category  of  low  and
medium income countries, to which we belong. Given
our  level  of  development,  we  have  been  marginalized
from  international  cooperation,  which  has  had  an
impact  on  our  national  development  programmes  and
our attainment of the Millennium Development Goals.
We  believe 
that  a  special  mechanism  could  be
established 
to
to  valorize 
implement  economic  and  social  programmes  and  to
fulfil  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  would
serve  as  a  basis  for  identifying  special  treatment  in
the  efforts  of  States 
A/60/PV.8
technical  and  financial  cooperation  programmes  as  a
way 
such  domestic
development policies.
and  motivate 
reward 
to 
In that context, we feel that it is important to be
able to depend on international support for the creation
of 
innovative  development  financing  mechanisms,
including the cancellation of foreign debt in favour of
social programmes, especially in the areas of education
and health care.
Five  years  ago,  we  committed  ourselves  to
attaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  and  our
people has expectantly watched us work towards their
accomplishment.  Fair  and  balanced  globalization  has
provided many with an opportunity to progress towards
greater development, and each and every country must
shoulder  its  responsibility  for  accomplishing  its  own
development agenda. We know that all national efforts
must  be  supplemented  and  complemented  by  the
solidarity  and  cooperation  of 
international
community. As leaders, we are duty-bound to redouble
our  efforts  to  fully  meet  those  objectives,  and  thus  to
work to improve the living conditions of all humankind
by  shaping  a  world  that  is  freer,  safer  and  free  from
misery  for  all  —  a  task  to  which  we  remain  fully
committed.
the 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Bharrat  Jagdeo,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Guyana.
President Jagdeo: The international development
goals,  especially  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,
which we set ourselves at the Millennium Summit five
years  ago  and  which  we  are  called  upon  to  review  at
this  Meeting,  have  been  a  major  benchmark  for
development. Addressing as they do such fundamentals
as  health  and  education,  they  constitute  important
prerequisites 
social
advancement.
economic 
and 
for 
our 
Despite  serious  financial  and  human  constraints,
my  country  has  made  appreciable  progress  towards
those  objectives.  Through  a  progressive  poverty-
reduction strategy and the allocation of more budgetary
resources  to  the  social  sector,  we  have  managed  to
reach the poor in our society and to provide them with
increased opportunities to improve their lives.
Sad to say, however, our hard-won gains are now
threatened  by  forces  and  influences  that  are  well
3
A/60/PV.8
for 
beyond our control. An example of this is the fact that,
although  Europe  has  declared  support 
the
the  European
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
Commission  has  nonetheless  made  proposals 
to
drastically  reduce  the  price  of  sugar  exports  from  the
African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, which,
if  implemented,  will  deal  a  devastating  blow  to  their
economies,  forcing  a  large  number  of  people  into
extreme  poverty.  In  the  case  of  Guyana,  our  economy
stands to lose some $40 million per annum, a sum that
negates the $8 million in debt relief which is expected
to  flow  from  the  recent  G-8  decisions.  That  action  is
typical  of  some  developed  countries,  which,  while
giving  with  great  fanfare  some  assistance  to  the
developing  countries,  quietly  take  away  even  more
through  harmful  trade  and  economic  policies.  Worse
yet,  despite  their  asseverations  of  partnership  and
commitment to consultation and coherence, they decide
unilaterally on measures that adversely affect the lives
of  millions  in  the  developing  countries.  As  it  is,
therefore,  we  will  be  hard  put 
the
Millennium Development Goals within the time-frames
set.
to  achieve 
for  national  development, 
Altogether, our experience — one that I know is
shared  by  many  others  —  has  been  daunting.  We
cannot  but  conclude  that,  while  the  realization  of  the
Millennium Development Goals provides the necessary
foundation 
adequate
economic and social progress cannot be achieved in the
absence  of  a  more  comprehensive  framework  that
encompasses  significant  development  and  investment
flows,  wider  debt  relief,  more  equitable  trade  and
economic cooperation as well as the transfer of science
and technology for development purposes.
These  economic  and  social  challenges  are  made,
as  the  Secretary-General’s  report  reminds  us,  all  the
greater  by  the  political  insecurity  that  is  the  defining
reality of today’s world. The threats to the security of
States  —  more  particularly  small  and  vulnerable
ones —  have  been  greatly  magnified  by  the  spread  of
terrorism, transboundary crime, disease, arms and drug
trafficking.  Most  of  our  countries  are  ill-equipped,
because  of  scarce  resources,  to  defend  themselves
against such encroachments.
Contemporary circumstances have brought us to a
watershed moment. The multiplication of threats to our
common  existence,  whatever  their  genesis,  represents
as  foreboding  a  scenario  as  any  the  scourge  of  war
could conjure up. We must act to contain such dangers
4
by  strengthening  the  United  Nations  so  that  it  can
perform its functions.
For more than a decade, we have been engaged in
the  examination  of  ways  and  means  to  reform  the
United  Nations.  On  the  basis  of  the  recommendations
that have emerged, we must take action at this session
of  the  General  Assembly  to  make  the  Organization
more  democratic  in  its  decision-making  and  more
effective  in  the  discharge  of  the  many  mandates  with
which it has been entrusted.
Of  particular  urgency  is  the  need  to  reform  the
Security  Council  —  the  organ  responsible  for  the
maintenance of global peace and security — to allow it
better to  cope  with the various threats to our  safe  and
secure  existence.  The  records  of  the  Working  Group
which  was  set  up  for  this  purpose  will  show  that
widespread  agreement  had  been  reached  on 
the
in  both  categories  of
expansion  of 
membership 
greater 
in
representation  and  greater  credibility  to  the  Council’s
activities.  This  has  presented  us  with  a  window  of
opportunity  which,  if  we  do  not  take  advantage  of  it,
may close again and remain indefinitely closed.
the  Council 
to 
provide 
balance 
Let  us  therefore  not  be  faint-hearted,  but  rather
boldly  accelerate  and  complete  the  process  of  reform,
so  that  the  principles  and  purposes  for  which  the
United Nations stands may be fully implemented.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Alhaji
Ahmad  Tejan  Kabbah,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Sierra Leone.
President  Kabbah:  This  summit  offers  us  a
unique opportunity to improve the effectiveness of the
United  Nations  system  and  to  further  strengthen
international  cooperation  for  global  security  and
development.
the  past 
The  events  of 
few  days  clearly
demonstrate  that  we  all  are  deeply  committed  to  the
achievement  of  those  objectives.  It  is  also  clear  that
differences  remain  among  us  on 
the  appropriate
methods for accomplishing our objectives, as reflected
in the outcome document that is before us for adoption.
We note the general progress that has been made
by  many  countries  towards  the  achievement  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  are
concerned, however, that many sub-Saharan countries,
particularly  post-conflict  countries,  have  not  achieved
as much as their efforts would have justified.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  fact  that  several
initiatives, including those by the  Africa Commission,
chaired  by  The  Right  Honourable  Tony  Blair,  have
been proposed to identify the obstacles to our progress
and 
for
overcoming them.
the  appropriate  strategies 
to  determine 
the 
from 
financing 
including 
Many  of 
recommendations 
these
initiatives  have  already  been  endorsed  by  the  donor
community, 
the  G-8  and  multilateral
financial  institutions.  We  therefore  urge  that  their
implementation be accelerated, particularly in the areas
of 
development,
agriculture  and  capacity-building  in  the  public  sector.
We  should  also  move  quickly  to  restructure  the
partnership  between 
the  donor  community  and
recipient countries to allow for greater flexibility in the
utilization  of  development  assistance  and  better
recognition  of  the  development  priorities  set  by  our
countries.
infrastructural 
for 
Efforts should also be made by the six out of 22
donor  countries  that  have  not  pledged  to  achieve  the
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  (GNP)  for
official  development  assistance,  since  their  GNPs  add
up to roughly half of the global total.
Within  our  limited  capacity,  we  have  made
considerable efforts to create a conducive environment
for  achieving  the  MDGS  through  the  strengthening  of
democratic  institutions,  including  the  judicial  system
and  public  accountability  mechanisms,  principally  the
anticorruption commission. We have also decentralized
Government to allow local communities to have greater
say in the way they are governed and to be able to hold
public  officials  accountable.  We  are  restructuring  our
public 
to  enhance
transparency  in  the  use  of  public  funds.  We  have
established 
independent  public  procurement
authority  and  introduced  regular  public  expenditure
tracking systems.
financial  management  system 
an 
We  have  also  developed  a  poverty-reduction
strategy paper and adopted a national plan for meeting
the MDGS. These actions are complemented by a  far-
reaching  restructuring  of  our  security  institutions,
namely  the  police  and  the  armed  forces,  in  order  to
enhance  their  operational  effectiveness  in  defending
the  security  of  our  country  and  to  strengthen  their
respect for human rights.
A/60/PV.8
the 
and 
full 
their 
With 
assumed 
assistance 
cooperation  of
UNAMSIL and the International Military Advisory and
Training  Team,  the  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  Armed
Forces  have 
constitutional
responsibility  for  the  security  of  the  State.  We  have
also  made  special  efforts  to  consolidate  the  peace  by
promoting  national  cohesion  and  by  addressing  the
special  needs  of  war  victims,  including  through  the
payment  of  reparations  as  provided  for  by  the  Lomé
this  connection,  we  would
Peace  Agreement.  In 
appreciate 
international
community  towards  the  operationalization  of  a  trust
fund to be set up for that purpose.
contributions 
from 
the 
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the
draft  outcome  document  provides  a  basis 
for
recommendations  to  reform  the  Organization.  We
welcome  the  agreements  reached  on  several  elements
of the reform process, including the establishment of a
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  a  Human  Rights
Council,  as  well  as  the  conclusion  of  an  international
instrument  against 
terrorism.  We  also  welcome
progress in the negotiations in the  areas of Secretariat
and  management  reform,  impunity,  peacekeeping  and
agreement  to  support  the  development  of  capacity-
building programmes within the  African Union over a
period of 10 years.
We  urge  that  effective  measures  be  taken  to
implement decisions that have already been agreed, so
that  we  can  build  a  foundation  for  rapid  progress
towards reaching agreement on the outstanding issues.
It is important to quickly resume negotiations on such
outstanding  issues  as  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council and related institutions of the United Nations,
in  order  to  take  full  advantage  of  understandings
already reached in other areas.
and, 
Speaking  from  this  rostrum  at  the  Millennium
Summit five years ago, I, like other leaders, referred to
the  imperative  of  adaptation.  We  urged  the  United
Nations  to  continue  to  adapt  and  equip  itself  to  deal
with  the  perennial  problems  of  human  insecurity  and
underdevelopment 
the  new
manifestations  of  those  problems,  namely,  terrorism
and  extreme  poverty.  Five  years  on,  rather  than
subsiding,  those  problems  seem  to  have  escalated,
posing  serious  threats  to  international  peace  and
security.  We  must  therefore  strengthen  our  resolve  to
adopt  effective  measures  to  eradicate  those  problems.
A reinvigorated United Nations can play a crucial role
in this endeavour.
in  particular, 
5
A/60/PV.8
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr.  Yoweri  Kaguta  Museveni,  President  of 
the
Republic of Uganda.
President  Museveni:  I  am  not  able  to  read  out
my entire statement, as it is long; I will just summarize it.
targets  for 
Regarding  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs), I would like to make three points. First, they
are  good  minimum 
the  human  race.
Secondly,  Uganda  will  not  only  achieve  those  Goals,
but  will  surpass  them  —  a  factor  highlighted  by  our
achievement  of  a  human  development  index  (HDI)
rating of 0.508, terrorism in northern Uganda and other
forms  of 
interference  notwithstanding.  Thirdly,  I
suggest  better  prioritization  in  our  strategy  to  achieve
these goals.
First, 
these  are,  obviously,  good  minimum
development  and  social  goals.  Following  the  Second
World  War  and  the  emergence  of  the  welfare  State  in
Western countries, societies in North America, Western
Europe  and  Japan  attained  and  surpassed  goals
comparable  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
Some  of  the  formerly  colonized  Asian  countries  have
done 
to  spread  such
achievements  to  the  rest  of  the  world.  Hence  the
decisions of the 2000 Millennium Summit.
likewise.  The  challenge 
is 
Secondly,  Uganda  will  achieve  those  Goals.  Our
target of poverty eradication is not 28 per cent by 2015,
but  10  per  cent  by  2017.  In  spite  of  the  vicious
terrorism campaign orchestrated against us by some of
our  neighbours  for  much  of  the  1990s,  as  well  as  the
mistake  of  underspending  on  defence  at  one  stage,
Uganda’s HDI value is now 0.508, and we have entered
the  medium-performing  group  of  countries,  having
graduated from the low-performing group.
We have performed beyond the targets set in the
following  areas:  the  provision  of  safe  drinking  water;
primary  school  enrolment;  HIV/AIDS;  and  reducing
poverty levels. Our performance in infant mortality and
maternal mortality has not been so good.
The Bible, in Matthew 6:33, says,  “Seek ye first
the  kingdom  of  God  and  ...  all  these  things  shall  be
added  unto  you”.  My  recommendation  is  that  we  first
seek  human  resource  development,  that  is,  education
and  health  for  all;  add  value  to  the  raw  materials  of
Africa  and  the  other  backwater  countries,  which  have
been  stolen  for  centuries;  and  expand  trade-related
6
infrastructure  and  increase  market  access  to  internal,
regional  and  international  markets.  And  then  the  rest
will  be  added  unto  us.  In  other  words,  we  need  to
empower  each  country,  at  the  earliest  opportunity,  in
order  to  be  able  to  endogenously  generate  resources
that  will  fuel  the  sustainable  implementation  of  the
MDGs in each country.
How  will  external  aid  sustainably  fuel 
this
implementation,  given  the  complications  and  possible
distortions that are concomitant with aid relationships?
Aid-led  vision  has  never  worked.  Vision-led  aid  can
work;  but  such  aid  is  not  always  available.  Mr.
McNamara,  the  former  President  of  the  World  Bank,
recently  told  me  how  glad  he  was  that  the  South
Koreans  ignored  his  advice  in  the  1960s.  He  had
opposed  their  plans  to  build  an 
integrated  steel
industry.
In  Uganda,  most  of  our  successes  have  been
attained  in  the  face  of  opposition,  indifference  or
distracting,  superficial  heckling  by  quite  a  number  of
our external partners. I do not have time to go into all
the  details,  but  they  can  be  read  in  my  written
statement.  My  question  is,  how  can  we  sustainably
implement the MDGs by depending on aid alone? The
future  of  Uganda  and  the  future  of  Africa  is  our
responsibility;  it  cannot  be  the  responsibility  of  the
donors  —  I do not like this emphasis  on donors,  as if
they  are  the  ones  who  own  our  countries.  We  are  the
ones who own those countries, and we are the ones to
develop  them  primarily,  with  assistance  from  other
people.
The  2005 Human  Development  Report  states,  on
page 117,
“Sub-Saharan Africa graphically demonstrates
how  losses  from  trade  can  outweigh  the  benefits
associated  with  aid  and  debt  relief.  If  Africa
enjoyed the same share of the world exports today
as it did in 1980, its exports today would be some
$119 billion higher (in constant 2000 dollars). That
is  equivalent  to  about  five  times  aid  flows  and
budget savings from debt service relief provided by
high-income countries in 2002.”
Thus,  the  money  we  are  getting  from  aid  is  much,
much  less  than  we  would  earn  from  the  removal  of
trade distortions.
I  have  two  final  points.  My  first  point  is  in  the
form  of  a  question  to  the  General  Assembly,  and  it  is
included in my statement. How can the MDGs be met
if we do not solve the problem of employment, of job
creation? Will aid alone solve this problem? If we look
at  the  structure  of  employment  comparing  the  United
Kingdom and Uganda, the picture is as follows. In the
United  Kingdom,  the  people  who  work  in  agriculture
are  only  1.5  per  cent  of  the  working  population.  In
Uganda,  that  figure  is  82  per  cent.  The  number
employed  in  industry  in  the  United  Kingdom  is  19.1
per  cent versus 5  per cent  in  Uganda.  Services,  in  the
case of the United Kingdom, weigh in at 79 per cent; in
the case of  Uganda,  that  figure  is  13  per  cent.  This  is
the crux of the problem — a backward society. Can we
maintain  a  backward  society  and,  at  the  same  time,
achieve  these  MDGs,  even  if  the  countries  of  the
Organization 
and
Development give aid up to the level of 0.7 per cent, as
required?
for  Economic  Cooperation 
Here,  I  would  mention  that  my  statement  is
available in written form, and I would like delegates to
read all of it. It is 12 pages long; I could not read it out
within the five-minute limit.
In  conclusion:  seek  ye  first  Human  Resource
Development — that is to say, education and health for
all — value added — that is to say, industrializing our
countries  —  expanded  trade-related  infrastructure  —
and the rest shall be added unto you.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Joseph
Urusemal,  President  of 
the  Federated  States  of
Micronesia.
President Urusemal: We gather this year against
the  backdrop  of  many  recent  natural  disasters.  The
despair  caused  by  these  natural  disasters  and  their
apocalyptic nature has shocked us all. Please allow me
to offer, on behalf of my Government and people, our
deepest  sympathy  and  sincere  condolences  to  the
Government  and  people  of  the  United  States  and  to
other Governments whose people have been devastated
by the ravages and furies of these natural calamities.
The  recent  spate  of  devastation  caused  by  these
natural disasters brings into sharper focus the  extreme
vulnerability  of  low-lying  coastal  areas  and  small
island  developing  States.  It  further  highlights  the
daunting  challenges  posed  by  extreme  weather  on  our
ability  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs) and to pursue sustainable development.
A/60/PV.8
No  amount  of  engineering  advances  can  fully
defend and save our small island developing States and
low-lying  coastal  areas  from  the  perils  of  the  surging
waters  and  rising  tides  of  the  sea,  caused  by  the
adverse  impact  of  climate  change.  The  stronger  and
more 
in 
the
Caribbean and the Pacific yet again prove this fact.
frequent  hurricanes  and 
typhoons 
I  am  convinced,  however,  that  if  all  nations,
developed  and  developing,  in  this  Assembly  approach
the  critical  problem  of  climate  change  and  global
warming  in  a  concerted  effort,  what  no  engineering
feat  can  arrest  will  and  can  be  mitigated  by  renewed
political  will  and  commitment 
to  carry  out  our
obligations pursuant to the United Nations Framework
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  the  Kyoto  Protocol
and  other  relevant 
international  agreements.  We,
therefore,  appeal  to  those  countries  that  have  not
ratified the Kyoto Protocol to do so without delay.
Our  global  world  demands  concerted  global
action  to  mitigate  the  adverse  impact  of  climate
change. My delegation has strongly supported the  call
to  initiate  negotiations  to  develop  a  more  inclusive
international  framework  for  climate  change  beyond
2012.  To  be  effective  and  of  any  relevance,  the
framework  must  include  all  major  emitters,  both
developed and developing countries. In this vein, let us
approach  the  concept  of  common  but  differentiated
responsibilities,  not  as  a  licence  to  pollute  but  as  a
mandate to preserve Mother Earth.
of 
our 
basis 
sustainable 
Five  years  ago  we  committed  ourselves  to  the
Millennium Declaration. The MDGs remain relevant as
the 
development.
Unfortunately,  it  is  the  experience  of  my  country,  and
our general observation in Micronesia, that we face an
uphill battle in meeting and implementing these Goals.
It is widely recognized that Oceania remains one of the
identified  regions  of  the  world  that  is  worst  off  in
meeting its Millennium Development Goals. Even with
this  recognition,  we  find  more  often  than  not  that  the
international community has not followed up with fair
and proportionate allocation of resources to these more
vulnerable  small  island  developing  States.  For  too
long, our islands of the Pacific have been overlooked.
We,  therefore,  appeal  to  the  United  Nations  and
the international donor  community  to  apply  a  fair  and
more 
development
assistance  to  our  region  if  we  are  to  achieve  these
goals.
proportionate 
allocation 
of 
7
A/60/PV.8
We  are  very  encouraged  by  the  commitments
made  by  many  developed  members  of 
this
Organization  to  meet  the  internationally  agreed  goals
of  0.5  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  as  official
development  assistance  (ODA)  by  2010  and  0.7  per
cent  by  no  later  than  2015.  As  a  beneficiary  of  this
development  assistance,  Micronesia  remains  grateful
for 
the
international  donor  community  for 
the  continued
assistance extended to us. We support the call made by
many in this Assembly to those countries that have not
done  so  to  make  every  effort  to  achieve  the  agreed
goals of ODA.
the  support  of  our  donor  partners  and 
While  grateful  for  the  assistance  of  the  United
in  our  national  development  efforts,  we
Nations 
the  need  for  further  strengthening  of
recognize 
cooperation  and  closer  linkage  between  the  United
Nations and many of its Member States in the Pacific,
such as my country. I refer here to the need to establish
a  physical  presence  of  the  United  Nations  system
within our national borders. The United Nations system
in  our
must  be  seen 
development  process  and  our  national  efforts 
to
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  on  a
sustained  and  regular  basis.  Such  presence  can  only
contribute  to  better  coordination,  strengthening  our
capacity,  a  more  effective  use  of  resources  and  an
effective  delivery  of  assistance.  It  would  demonstrate
the  United  Nations  system’s  commitment  to  its  most
vulnerable members.
to  be  directly 
involved 
and 
the 
and 
that 
information 
In  this  era  of  advances  in  information  and
communication  technology,  my  Government  applauds
the  United  Nations 
International
Telecommunication  Union  for  their  commitment  to
ensuring 
communication
technologies are placed in the service of humankind in
the ongoing noble task of  economic  development.  For
island  countries 
the  Federated  States  of
Micronesia,  whose  population  is  spread  over  a  vast
area  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  access  to  reliable  and
affordable information  and  communication  technology
is  critical  to  our  nation-building.  It  is  for  this  reason
that my Government strongly supports the Declaration
of Principles and Plan of Action as adopted during the
first  phase  of  the  World  Summit  on  the  Information
Society  and  looks  forward  to  the  convening  of  the
second phase in Tunisia in November 2005.
like 
Ever since the earliest days of the Trust Territory
of  the  Pacific  Islands,  the  people  of  Micronesia  have
8
placed their faith in the United Nations Charter. As we
leave  this  critical  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  that
faith  is  refreshed  and  strengthened.  I  call  upon  all
Member States to apply the outcome of this meeting in
order to achieve real momentum towards enrichment of
the  lives  of  all  people,  especially  the  most  needy
among us.
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Anote
Tong, President of the Republic of Kiribati.
President Tong: It is indeed a pleasure for me to
represent 
this  august
gathering, to extend their greetings to all and to present
their views on the agenda before us.
the  people  of  Kiribati  at 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  thank  our  gracious
host,  the  people  and  Government  of  the  United  States
of  America  for  their  hospitality.  Allow  me  also  to
congratulate  our  Co-Chairpersons  for  their  effective
leadership of this meeting, which  I  am  confident,  will
be successful.
We gather here on the sixtieth anniversary of the
United  Nations,  confronted  with  the  daunting  and
ongoing  challenge  of  making  this  world  in  which  we
all  live  better  for  us,  our  children  and  our  children’s
children.  The  task  before  us  is  not  an  easy  one.  The
decisions  we  must  make  here  will  affect  the  future  of
this Organization and the future of humanity.
is 
to 
that 
fundamental 
We  all  agree  that  development,  in  particular
sustainable  development, 
the
achievement  of  international  peace  and  security.  We
also  agree 
the
achievement  of  sustainable  development  lies,  in  the
first  instance,  with  individual  countries,  but  we  also
acknowledge  the  fact  that  developing  countries,  in
particular  small 
island  developing  States,  cannot
achieve this on their own.
the  main  responsibility  for 
A  more  effective  and  meaningful  partnership  is
required  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development.
The  framework  for 
these  partnerships  has  been
developed  over  the  past  sixty  years  and  includes
international initiatives, such as the Johannesburg Plan
of Implementation, the Brussels Programme of Action
for Least Developed Countries, the Mauritius Strategy,
the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States  and
the Monterrey Consensus.
Regional  initiatives,  such  as  the  Pacific  Plan,
have also been or are in the process of being developed
to 
cooperation.  These
initiatives will also benefit from these partnerships.
encourage  South-South 
My  Government  is  committed  to  fulfilling  the
development  aspirations  of  our  people.  Our  national
policy objective is to achieve the equitable distribution
of development benefits to all our people based on the
principles of good governance.
We are committed to the Millennium Declaration
and  are  on  track  in  our  national  efforts  to  achieve  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  These  have  been
into  our  national
integrated  and  mainstreamed 
through 
development 
a
multisectoral 
consultative
process.
strategy 
formulated 
and  multi-stakeholder 
Implementation  of  our  national  development
strategy is progressing positively. This  is  a  result  of  a
good  partnership  that  has  been  forged  between  my
Government,  our  development  partners,  civil  society
and  the  private  sector.  We  recognize  and  value  the
inputs  and  involvement  of  all  stakeholders  in  the
development process.
We  acknowledge  the  invaluable  support  our
development  partners  have  extended  and  call  on  them
to  assist  in  the  implementation  of  the  initiatives
mentioned  earlier,  especially 
the  developing
countries and the small island developing States.
for 
We  recall  their  commitment  to  increase  their
official development assistance to a level equivalent to
0.7 per cent of their gross national income. We applaud
those  countries  that  have  voluntarily  met  these  targets
and  call  upon  those  which  have  yet  to  do  so  to  exert
more effort in this regard.
reduce 
We  firmly  believe  that  we  are  able  to  achieve
sustainable  development  and 
reliance  on
international  aid  assistance.  The  abundant  fisheries
resources  within  our  exclusive  economic  zone  —
currently  being  harvested  exclusively  by  distant-water
fishing nations — could provide the basis for this. We
are  encouraged  by  the  ongoing  negotiations  for  an
economic  partnership  agreement  with  the  European
Union in the area of fisheries, because this provides an
opportunity 
through
investment in this sector.
for  a  genuine  partnership 
We  seek  to  maximize  returns  from  our  fisheries
resources  and  to  this  end  endorse  the  report  on  the
A/60/PV.8
their 
role 
in 
to  enhance 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the Sea
at  its  sixth  meeting.  We  welcome  in  particular  the
conclusions that: resource owners should participate in
fisheries activities in order to achieve better economic
returns  and 
resource
management;  distant-water  fishing  nations  should
negotiate  access  agreements  with  developing  coastal
States on a basis that is equitable and sustainable; and
distant-water 
increase
progressively  the  participation  of  coastal  States  in
fisheries  activities,  including  the  processing  of  the
catch  within  the  territory  of  the  resource  owners,
thereby  creating  employment  and  further  contributing
to  the  sustainable  development  of  developing  coastal
States.
nations 
fishing 
should 
We  note  with  deep  regret  and  concern  the
devastating  impact  of  Hurricane  Katrina  in  New
Orleans,  causing  thousands  of  deaths  and  extensive
damage.  We  offer  our  deepest  sympathies  to  those
affected by this natural calamity and pray that they find
peace and comfort during this difficult time.
This  recent  disaster  is  a  stark  reminder  of  the
extreme  vulnerability  of  all  mankind,  regardless  of
nationality, to the forces of nature. A vulnerability that
is so many times magnified for low-lying small-island
States  like  Kiribati.  I  would  like  to  place  on  record
today  our 
to
undertake a risk assessment of the likelihood of similar
disasters occurring in small-island States and to make a
conscious decision on the most appropriate response.
this  august  gathering 
invitation 
to 
We  commend  and  are  grateful  for  the  efforts  of
those  organizations  and  countries  that  are  assisting  us
in  our  efforts  to  adapt  to  the  short-term  effects  of
climate  change.  But,  given  the  small  land  masses  of
low-lying  coral  atolls,  there  is  a  limit  to  the  extent  to
which their populations can adapt.
With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  we  agree  that
is  a
the  foundation  for  sustainable  development 
peaceful, secure and stable environment.
We  are  committed  to  international  efforts  aimed
at  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  In  that  regard,
we have become a party to major international treaties
on this subject.
The  new  global  challenges  posed  by  terrorism
and  transnational  organized  crime  do  not  respect
borders.  We  must  not  be  complacent  in  our  efforts  to
9
A/60/PV.8
tackle 
those  challenges.  Kiribati 
collectively 
is
committed  to  the  international  fight  against  terrorism
and  transnational  organized  crime.  I  am  pleased  that
yesterday,  I  signed  the  thirteenth  counter-terrorism
convention  and  deposited  with  the  Secretary-General
our  instruments  of  accession  to  four  of  the  counter-
terrorism 
on
transnational  organized  crime.  Soon,  we  will  also  be
acceding  to  the  remaining  eight  counter-terrorism
conventions  and  depositing  our 
instruments  of
accession with the appropriate depositaries.
and  major 
conventions 
treaties 
We have also adopted legislation to implement all
counter-terrorism  conventions  and  major  treaties  on
transnational  organized  crime.  While 
is  an
important  step  forward,  the  challenge  of  effectively
enforcing  and  implementing  the  legislation  still  lies
ahead. We will therefore continue to need assistance in
those areas that are beyond our capacity.
this 
With regard to strengthening the United Nations,
Kiribati  firmly  supports  comprehensive  reform  of  the
Organization  to  better  align  and  equip  it  to  respond
effectively  to  the  challenges  of  this  ever-changing
world.  We  also  support  the  provision  of  sufficient
resources  to  the  Organization  to  enable  it  to  fulfil  its
mandated  role  on 
the  basis  of  equitability  and
differentiated responsibilities.
to 
join 
states” 
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  values  and
principles upon which the United Nations was founded.
We  recall  Article  4  of  the  Charter,  which  invites  “all
other  peace-loving 
this  global
Organization. To that end, we reiterate our call for the
Organization  to  discard  its  exclusionary  practices  and
embrace as equal partners all nations, such as Taiwan,
that  are  able  and  willing  to  contribute  to  international
collaborative  efforts  in  the  pursuit  of  global  peace,
security  and  development.  For  it  is  only  when  all
nations are treated as equal partners in the international
community that we can expect significant strides to be
made in our collective efforts.
Concerning 
the  Security  Council,  Kiribati
supports  the  expansion  of  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent  Council  memberships  to  better  reflect  the
realities  of  our  world  today.  We  strongly  believe  that
Member  States  that  are  major  contributors  to  United
Nations  programmes,  especially  those  involving  the
maintenance  of  global  peace  and  security,  should  be
accorded permanent membership.
10
We  note  that  a  deadline  has  not  been  set  for  the
finalization of negotiations on Security Council reform,
the  same  deadline  for  other
and  we  urge 
components  of 
the
establishment  of  a  Human  Rights  Council  —  be
applied  to  Security  Council  reform  to  maintain  the
momentum of the process.
reform  — 
example, 
that 
for 
live.  That 
in  which  we 
Our  peoples  demand  that  we,  as  world  leaders,
work  individually  and  collectively  to  improve  the
world 
important
responsibility we owe to the people we serve. To fulfil
that  responsibility,  we  need  to  work  together  and
address  the  challenges  we  all  recognize:  challenges  to
development,  challenges  to  security  in  its  widest
context  and  challenges  to  our  working  together  as  an
international community.
is  an 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Charles  Gyude  Bryant,  Chairman  of  the  National
Transitional Government of the Republic of Liberia.
Mr.  Bryant:  The  people  of  Liberia  extend  their
profound thanks to the United Nations for its continued
assistance  in  dealing  with  the  challenges  that  our
country  has  faced.  Indeed,  we  are  grateful  to  all  who
have stood by us, and continue to do so, to bring about
the  significant  transformation  we  see  in  our  country
today.  We  wish  to  acknowledge  the  invaluable  role
being played by the United Nations Mission in Liberia
and by the troop-contributing countries.
With the critical assistance of the United Nations
and  with  commendable  donor  partnership,  our
Transitional Government has made definite gains in the
execution  of  its  mandate.  The  guns  are  silent,  our
disarmament  and  demobilization  process  has  been  a
resounding success, rehabilitation and reintegration are
ongoing, our people are returning to their communities,
Government  authority  has  been  extended  throughout
the  country  and  elections  are  on  schedule 
for
11 October.
Although  there  is  a  shortfall  in  funding  for  the
critical  elements  of  reintegration  and  security  sector
reform,  those  processes  are  also  ongoing.  Let  me
emphasize that the net effect of successful reintegration
and  security  sector 
in  Liberia  will  be
sustainable peace and stability not only for our country,
but for the entire West Africa subregion.
reform 
There is an encouraging sense of renewed hope in
the  emergence  of  democratic  and  stable  post-conflict
countries  in  our  region.  However,  the  challenges  of
rebuilding  communities  and  directing  people  —
particularly  our  young  people  —  away  from  deviant
social behaviours remain daunting.
Sixty  years  ago,  our  country  was  among  those
that  brought  this  institution  into  being.  Since  then,
global priorities have changed. Millions of the world’s
people — particularly women and children — continue
to live in life-threatening poverty and ignorance. More
than  20,000  people  die  daily  because  of  poverty  and
diseases;  yet,  many  of  those  diseases  are  preventable
and curable.
The  Millennium  Declaration  and  the  Brussels
Programme  of  Action  offer  realistic  ways  forward  to
effectively  overcome  such  worldwide  scourges  as
poverty,  global  warming,  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  cancer
and  other  fatal  diseases,  particularly  as  they  affect
poorer Member States.
rights  and 
We  believe  that  Member  States  must  commit
themselves  now,  more  than  ever  before,  to  respect
human 
the  dignity  of  all  persons,
irrespective  of  the  size  and  global  standing  of  their
respective  countries.  This  approach  can  help 
to
minimize  the  polarization  of  international  politics  as
we  have  known  it,  especially  since  in  recent  history,
our  world  has  witnessed  the  exploitation  of  the  poor
not only by rich nations, but also by rich individuals in
poor countries in support of terrorism. That is why my
Government  fully  supports  the  ongoing  consultations
for  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  however,
ensure  that  the  reform  process  is  based  on  broad
consultation  and  consensus  involving  all  Member
States.
The  success  of  Liberia’s  transition  process  thus
far  demonstrates  how  much  can  be  achieved  by  the
international  community  through  the  United  Nations.
Let  me  seize  this  opportunity  to  once  again  thank  the
Secretary-General,  Kofi  Annan,  under  whose  inspired
leadership  the  international  community  rallied  to  our
cause.  We  will  continue  to  count  on  the  international
community  as  we  strive  to  peacefully  attain  the  last
component of our two-year mandate — the holding of
free,  fair  and  transparent  elections  —  and  thereafter
undertake 
post-conflict
reconstruction  agenda  that  awaits  the  democratically
elected Government in a conflict-free Liberia.
overwhelming 
the 
A/60/PV.8
Programme of work
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  would  like  at
this  point  to  inform  members  of  the  programme  of
work for this closing meeting of the High-level Plenary
Meeting. First, we will continue to hear statements by
Member  States,  which  will  be  followed  by  brief  oral
summaries  of  the  work  of  the  four  round  tables.
Thereafter,  the  Assembly  will  take  action  on  draft
resolution  A/60/L.1,  entitled  “2005  World  Summit
Outcome”. The Secretary-General will be present at the
time of the adoption of the draft resolution. After that,
the  Assembly  will  continue  with 
the  remaining
speakers. That will be followed by closing remarks by
the Co-Chairpersons and the closure of the High-level
Plenary Meeting.
For us to avoid working late in the evening, it is
now  very  important  that  statements  not  exceed  five
minutes. I appeal to all to respect that time limit.
As members are aware, draft resolution A/60/L.1,
which contains the draft 2005 world summit outcome,
was  distributed  during  the  meeting  this  morning.  In
that  connection,  I  would  like  to  inform  members  that
the draft resolution  contains  a  few  technical  errors:  in
paragraphs 60 (a), 163 and 164 (c). The correct version
of  those  paragraphs  is  now  being  distributed  in  the
General Assembly Hall.
Addresses on the occasion of the High-level Plenary
Meeting (continued)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Emile
Lahoud, President of the Lebanese Republic.
President  Lahoud:  I  am  honoured  to  represent
my  country  at  this  extremely  important  meeting  of
world leaders to assess action on the commitments we
made  at  the  Millennium  Summit  five  years  ago,  most
notably on  upholding  the  principles  of  human  dignity,
equality and justice and on the establishment of a just
and  permanent  peace  worldwide,  and  to  review  the
steps taken and achieved in that regard.
Allow  me  to  commend  the  Co-Chairpersons  and
thank them for their  fine handling of the  Meeting  and
their  efforts  to  ensure  the  Meeting’s  success.  I  would
like  also 
the  Secretary-General,  His
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, for all his endeavours and,
most notably, for his valuable report entitled “In larger
freedom”  (A/59/2005),  which  provides  a  precise
thank 
to 
11
A/60/PV.8
diagnosis of our world’s challenges and problems and a
blueprint for a new era of cooperation in tackling them.
Security  challenges  to  our  world  stand  out  as
particularly  imminent.  The  global  reach  of  terror
makes it imperative for us to look carefully at the main
roots  of  that  plague  and  not  be  satisfied  with  merely
fighting  its  symptoms.  A  politically  secure  world
community can be achieved only through a multilateral
rule  of
world  order  based  on  respect 
international 
the  non-
discretionary  implementation  of  the  resolutions  of
world legitimacy.
law,  human 
rights  and 
the 
for 
In  that  regard,  the  Middle  East  region,  to  which
Lebanon belongs, remains a prime example of a region
suffering  from  the  endemic  failure  to  implement
resolutions of world legitimacy.
That  question  leads  us  directly  to  the  debate
surrounding  the  need  for  and  the  importance  of  an
immediate and radical overhaul of the United Nations.
In  that  regard,  Lebanon  welcomes  the  creation  of  a
Peacebuilding  Commission,  as  proposed  by 
the
Secretary-General, and hopes to see the adoption of his
proposals  for  the  Security  Council  to  properly  weigh
considerations 
principle  when
contemplating the use of force.
grounded 
in 
The  Security  Council  must  be  reformed  to  make
it more inclusive and more representative of the current
make-up  of  the  United  Nations.  Needless  to  say,
Lebanon  attaches  a  great  deal  of  importance  to  this
matter; that emanates from its great appreciation of the
roles  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council
and from its respect for their resolutions.
I  would  like  to  stress  here  that  Lebanon  will
continue  to  look  to  the  United  Nations  and  the
international  community 
to  support  our  people’s
aspirations  and  our  Government’s  broad  and  bold
programme  of  reforms.  Their  interest  in  my  country
exemplifies  the  world’s  support  of  freedom  in  its
broader sense and gives precedence to the language of
moderation.
In  Lebanon,  in  keeping  with  the  Millennium
two
Development  Goals,  we  have  established 
the  Fund  for  Social  and  Economic
institutions: 
Development 
for  Domestic
Development.  In  that  regard,  in  cooperation  with  the
United  Nations,  in  2003  the  Government  of  Lebanon
released 
the  Millennium
the  Project 
report  on 
first 
and 
its 
12
Development Goals and will publish a follow-up report
in  2007.  The  report  noted  great  progress  in  the  fight
against  poverty,  the  great  efforts  made  in  making
primary  education  accessible  to  all,  greater  gender
equality and a dramatic decrease in infant and maternal
mortality.
Lebanon  supports  the  French  proposal  for  the
participation  of 
International  Civil  Aviation
Organization in support of developmental programmes
in  poor  countries.  That  would  surely  lead  to  greater
justice and stability worldwide.
the 
Lebanon’s  message  to  the  Assembly  is  that  of  a
small  country  that  has  endured  wars,  occupation  and
conspiracies for more than three decades. We stress the
responsibility  of  all  nations  and  peoples  to  safeguard
peace, preserve security and further world justice.
The  will  for  change  derives  from  respect  for
human values, no matter how hard the path looks. It is
our collective responsibility to achieve such change. It
is  well  within  our  grasp  to  make  the  Millennium
Development Goals a reality.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr.  Maumoon  Abdul  Gayoom,  President  of 
the
Republic of the Maldives.
President  Abdul  Gayoom:  Let  me  begin  by
congratulating the Co-Chairpersons on their election to
jointly preside over this important summit.
I  also  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his
inspiring report.
Before  I  proceed  further,  I  extend  sincere
condolences  to  the  American  people  and  Government
following  the  tragic  deaths  and  massive  destruction
caused by Hurricane Katrina. Despite the smallness of
our  country  and  its  severe  economic  difficulties,  I  am
happy that we were able to make a modest contribution
to  the  efforts  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  the  people
affected by the hurricane.
Time,  indeed,  is  precious.  Therefore,  I  shall  not
spend  the  time  allotted  to  me  speaking  at  length.  I
would rather dial 999, for my people are today  facing
an unprecedented crisis.
Five  years  ago,  I  left  this  Hall  not  only  sharing
the euphoria over the Millennium Declaration, but also
with the confidence that the Maldives could and would
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  As  our
2005  country  report  would  show,  the  Maldives  has
already  achieved  the  Goals  of  halving  poverty  and
achieving universal primary education. We are also on
track to achieve the targets of reducing child mortality,
attaining  greater  gender  equality  and 
improving
maternal health.
is 
tsunami  of 
the  only  country 
But  today  I  speak  with  a  heavy  heart,  grieving
over the losses my people have suffered as a result of
last  December.  The
the  devastating 
Maldives 
to  have  faced  a
nationwide  disaster  from  the  tsunami.  Our  economic
asset losses are estimated at a staggering 62 per cent of
our  gross  domestic  product.  Tourism,  which  has  been
the engine of our national economic growth for the past
three  decades,  has 
sharp  decline.
Livelihoods  destroyed  by  the  tsunami  have  not  been
restored.  Surging  oil  prices  are  draining  our  foreign
exchange  revenues.  And,  for  the  first  time  ever,  the
Maldives is in need of significant budgetary support.
suffered 
a 
Clearly,  if  that  alarming  trend  continues,  our
ability  to  catch  up  with  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  will  continue  to  slip.  We  are  indeed  grateful  to
all those who assisted us in the  relief phase  following
the  tsunami.  Many  continue  to  help  us  with  the
recovery,  and  we  thank  them  all.  Much  as  we  believe
that  development  is  our  responsibility,  our  means  of
self-reliance are woefully insufficient.
In  forums  that  have  discussed  the  economic
future  of  the  Maldives,  we  have  signalled  the  critical
importance  of  the  decade  ahead  of  us.  One  need  only
look  at  the  demographic  challenge  facing  the  country.
Over  the  past  40  years,  the  population  has  tripled.
Furthermore,  we  have  a  very  young  population.
Although we have successfully brought the population
growth  rate  down,  the  task  is  only  half  complete.  We
now need to ensure that every working-aged Maldivian
finds  gainful  employment.  Achieving  the  target  of
environmental  sustainability 
is  also  a  formidable
challenge.  The  recent  environmental  tragedies  around
the world show yet again that we all have much to do
to  protect  our  global  environment.  Indeed,  the  decade
ahead will make or break our vision 2020.
A/60/PV.8
national  agenda  for  democratization,  reform,  good
governance and human rights protection.
But  for  our  people  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of  greater
democracy, we need urgent international economic and
financial  assistance.  At  this  critical  time,  a  mere
smooth transition period of graduation from the status
of least developed country would not be adequate. It is
imperative  that  our  country’s  graduation  be  deferred
until we return to pre-tsunami levels of development.
that  afflict  or 
If a country of a mere 300,000 people cannot be
saved from poverty, despair and ruin, the credibility of
our  hopes  to  save  the  entire  world  in  10  years  will
indeed  be  in  serious  doubt.  Small  States  like  the
Maldives happen to be on the front line of most of the
crises 
the  world.  From
environmental 
international
lawlessness to energy crises, it is the small States that
are  often  the  first  victims.  But  the  good  news  is  that
we,  the  small  States,  will  also  be  among  the  first  to
know  if  the  world  has  really  found  the  will  to  act.  I
hope  that,  as  I  conclude  my  remarks,  my  urgent  call
will have gone through to 999.
degradation 
threaten 
through 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Bingu
Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of Malawi.
to  make  a  contribution  on 
President  Mutharika:  I  am  pleased  to  be  given
the
this  opportunity 
structure,  challenges  and 
implementation  of  and
follow-up  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  But
before doing so, I wish to underscore the fact that the
rationale for the Goals is as valid today as it was some
five years ago.
Let me start by stating that my  country, Malawi,
has  made  heroic  efforts  in  meeting  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  Our  report,  entitled  “Malawi  and
the  Millennium  Development  Goals:  challenges  and
achievements”  has  been  distributed.  The 
report
presents in a graphic form what we had planned to do
in  order  to  achieve  the  Goals;  the  challenges  we  are
facing;  our  achievements  despite  the  challenges;  and
the way forward.
Despite the unprecedented setback caused by the
tsunami, we are resolute in our quest of the Millennium
Development  Goals.  Our  view  is  that,  even  though  a
goal may become elusive, we should neither change the
target nor abandon our vision. Rather, we should speed
up  our  actions,  as  we  have  done  in  the  pursuit  of  our
As  can  be  seen  from  the  report,  we  in  Malawi
have  taken  the  stand  that,  while  the  challenges  are
indeed enormous and while we need huge resources to
succeed, we will still forge ahead to achieve whatever
we  can  with  our  limited  financial  resources  and
capacity.  I  am  pleased  to  state  that  we  have  made  a
13
A/60/PV.8
solid  start  and  hope  that  the  United  Nations  will
recognize those efforts.
In  our  efforts  to  implement  the  Millennium
Development Goals during the past five years, we have
learned  a  number  of  lessons  that  are  essential  in
meeting the targets laid down in the Goals by the year
2015.
is 
that 
The 
first 
lesson 
the  MDGs  made
assumptions that cannot be validated. For instance, the
Goals  were  set  on  the  assumption  that  the  goods,
services, food and income required to meet them were
readily available and could be produced and sourced in
the  poor  African  countries,  and  that  what  we  needed
was  merely  to  reorganize  the  distribution  structures.
That  is  not  the  case.  The  reality  is  that  no  goods  and
services  are  available,  and  hence  our  countries  cannot
meet the MDGs without first creating new wealth.
Above all, the United Nations ignored the need to
establish  new  production  structures  in  sub-Saharan
Africa to supply the goods and services needed to meet
the MDGs. In short, the MDGs were based on a supply
of services that do not exist in the poor countries. That
is the greatest challenge related to the MDGs.
the  challenges 
The  second  MDG-related  assumption  is  that
institutional  capacity  is  available  in  all  of  the  poor
countries.  The  United  Nations  appears 
to  have
sub-Saharan
underestimated 
African  countries  face  in  putting  together  a  system  of
good  governance  that  would  have  resulted  in  kick-
starting  macro-economic  growth  in  the  context  of  a
stable  political  and  economic  environment.  It  also
underestimated the devastating impact of HIV/AIDS on
the growth process.
that 
The  third  assumption  is  that  the  United  Nations
underestimated the flight of capital  and the  erosion of
growth due to external debt servicing. It also assumed
that there would be a fair and equitable global trading
system  that  would  boost  the  exports  of  the  poor
countries.  In other  words, it ignored the reluctance by
industrialized countries to conclude the Doha round of
multilateral  trade  negotiations,  which  would  have
given  African  countries  greater  access  to  the  global
markets for their products.
In other words, the poor countries cannot benefit
from  globalization  if  the  industrialized  countries  are
not cooperative.
14
Before concluding my remarks, let me underscore
the  fact  that  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
present  a  serious  challenge  to  both  developing  and
developed  countries.  We  will  therefore  require  greater
cooperation among nations than ever before to achieve
the Goals. We have no choice but to cooperate.
In  conclusion, 
let  me  offer  Malawi’s  deep
condolences  to  President  George  Bush  and  to  the
Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States  of
America for the heavy loss of life and property due to
Hurricane Katrina. Malawi is praying for the people of
that great nation to overcome that great catastrophe.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  The
Honourable  Laisenia  Qarase,  Prime  Minister  of  the
Republic of the Fiji Islands.
Mr.  Qarase 
(Fiji):  My  country  offers 
its
congratulations to the presidency of the special plenary
and  extends  its  compliments  to  both  Co-Chairpersons
and to the Secretary-General.
May  I,  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the
people  of  the  Fiji  Islands,  extend  to  the  President  and
the  people  of  the  United  States  our  sincere  sympathy
with  respect  to  the  widespread  devastation  caused  by
Hurricane Katrina. Our prayers and condolences go to
those who lost their loved ones and their homes.
I commend Mr. Kofi Annan for his incisive report
covering  many  aspects  of  United  Nations  and
international 
the  Millennium
Development Goals. It contains much that will take us
further  along 
to  development,
freedom and peace on earth.
the  difficult  road 
including 
affairs, 
Fiji  congratulates  the  Secretary-General  for  the
initiative  he  has  taken  to  begin  the  implementation
plans  to  reform  and  strengthen  the  United  Nations  in
the context of its various responsibilities.
and 
What  is  now  required,  if  we  are  to  complete  the
journey,  is  an  effort  of  our  collective  will.  It  requires
sacrifices 
renewed
commitment of support both to the United Nations and
to  one  other.  If  this  can  be  accomplished,  we  can
achieve 
to  benefit
humankind.
the  United  Nations  mission 
compromises 
and 
a 
Let  us  ensure  then  that  from  here  on  the  United
Nations goes forward in a spirit of renewal and reform
that generates real hope, purpose and prosperity for the
global family.
We must all help to create  a United Nations that
is  more  efficient  and  accountable.  It  must  function
always with integrity and urgent concern for the needs
of  the  Member  States.  Above  all,  we  must  help  the
United  Nations  to  concentrate,  as  never  before,  on
reducing  the  shameful  gap  between  developed  and
developing countries.
Fiji reaffirms its commitment to what the United
Nations stands for. As always, we are for peace; that is
why  we  have  sent  so  many  of  our  soldiers  and  police
officers to serve with United Nations peacekeeping and
peacebuilding  forces.  Many  precious  lives  have  been
lost, but we have accepted that ultimate sacrifice as our
contribution to the global effort for peace and security.
There  should  be  no  pause  in  United  Nations
endeavours  to  establish  and  maintain  international
peace, security and stability. This remains the primary
role  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  support  all
measures to strengthen it.
Fiji 
acclaims 
the  proposal 
to 
create 
a  Commission  our  own 
a
Peacebuilding Commission. We will  gladly share  with
such 
experience  of
reconstructing  our  country  following  the  civil  unrest
which  almost  tore  the  country  apart  in  2000.  With
God’s  help,  we  quickly  restored  our  economy  and
began  the  task  of  bringing  our  diverse  communities
together.  The  ongoing  challenge  for  our  country  is  to
strengthen the foundation for unity and harmony.
In  adopting  many  measures  and  initiatives  to
create a culture of peace, we have attached the utmost
importance  to  reconciliation and  forgiveness.  Now  we
seek  to  take  this  forward  by  introducing,  through
legislation, the concept of restorative justice.
Fiji  is  fully  dedicated  to  a  Security  Council
membership  which 
current  geopolitical
realities.  We  support  the  inclusion  of  India  and  Japan
to join with the United States and China as permanent
representatives from the Pacific and Asia region.
reflects 
We  look  forward  to  the  moment  when  peace
finally reigns in the Middle East, and we commend all
of  those  countries  that  are  helping  to  promote  that
global cause.
With respect to our Pacific Ocean region, it is our
fervent  hope  that  the  Korean  people  as  a  whole  will
A/60/PV.8
find  lasting  harmony.  On  the  future  of  Taiwan,  Fiji
recognizes that this is a domestic issue and encourages
and  supports  its  resolution  through  dialogue  and
mutual agreement.
This  age  of  globalization  is  marked  by  the
adoption  of  universal  principles  governing  such
matters  as  democracy,  human  rights  and  trade  and
development.  Today,  I  reaffirm  here  that  Fiji  accepts
those precepts; there is no question about that. But we
also say that countries like ours, which is undergoing a
profound  transition,  should  not  be  held  to  unrealistic
standards.  We  need  time  to  evolve  and  to  adapt.  We
need  time  for  adherence.  Do  not  judge  us  by  what
might  be  inappropriate  at  our  stage  of  development.
Measure us by the progress we are making towards the
universal  ideals  and  the  level  of  our  commitment  to
change.
Fiji  fully  respects  the  principle  of  equal  human
rights.  We  endorse  the  proposal  for  a  Human  Rights
Council  that  would  be  directly  accountable  to  the
General Assembly.
For our country, it is vitally important, as a factor
for  long-term  stability,  always  to  maintain  a  careful
balance between the rights of individuals and those of
communities.  The  special  interests  of  the  indigenous
people,  including  their  right  of  ownership  to  their
natural resources, must also be protected. We therefore
strongly  endorse  the  proposal  to  bring  before  the
Assembly  a  final  draft  declaration  on  the  rights  of
indigenous  peoples.  It  has  particular  relevance  for  a
multicultural country such as ours.
In accordance with the Millennium Development
Goals,  we  are  pursuing  many  policies  to  improve  the
quality  of  life  of  our  citizens.  For  Fiji  and  other
vulnerable  States,  there  is  one  overriding  issue  that  is
critically vital to our economic survival: market access
and remunerative prices for our exports. What meaning
do the Millennium Goals have if developing  countries
cannot gain access to markets or a fair return on their
exports?
There  must  be  real  recognition  of  the  economic
disparities and the conditions of inequality that make a
mockery of the very idea of free trade. The removal of
the  certainty  of  access  through  the  termination  of
quotas  and  reductions  in  assured  commodity  prices,
without  accompanying  financial  assistance  or  trade
support  measures,  pose  a  serious 
to  our
economic  growth  and  sustainability.  Unrealistic  and
threat 
15
A/60/PV.8
inequitable  world  trade  policies  simply  make  it  that
much harder for our countries to eliminate poverty.
the 
in  cushioning 
I therefore  commend those developed States that
are  prepared  to  support  developing  nations  and  assist
them 
impact  of  World  Trade
Organization compliance. I pay particular tribute to the
European Union for its willingness to provide that type
of  assistance  to  its  developing  partners  in  Africa,  the
Caribbean  and  the  Pacific.  We  call  on  our  European
Union  (EU)  partners  to  provide  adequate  long-term
support as the EU begins to reduce preferential access
for sugar from African, Caribbean and Pacific States.
I  also  express  our  appreciation  to  our  close
neighbours  Australia  and  New  Zealand  for 
their
support  in  helping  us  gain  better  access  to  their
markets  and  their  important  areas  of  development
assistance.
The Millennium Development Goals can be met,
but  only  if  the  United  Nations  commits  itself  to  trade
reforms that reflect a realistic appreciation of the plight
of all developing countries, including vulnerable island
nations.
May we find the strength and the conviction to do
what is right.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr.  Amadou  Hama,  Prime  Minster  of  the  Republic  of
the Niger.
to 
extended 
congratulations 
to  associate  myself  with 
Mr. Hama (Niger)  (spoke in French):  Allow me
at the outset, on behalf of the Niger and the delegation
the
accompanying  me, 
heartfelt 
the  Co-
Chairpersons,  on  their  election  to  preside  over  our
work.  Knowing  their  personal  qualities,  I  remain
convinced  that  under  their  enlightened  leadership  the
outcome of our discussions will meet our expectations.
The  people  of  the  Niger,  facing  an  acute  food
crisis  following  a  farming  season  marked  by  severe
food  shortages  and  locust  invasions,  expresses  its  full
gratitude to the agencies of the United Nations system
and  to  the  entire  international  community  for  the
efforts  made  to  help  our  country  in  such  difficult
circumstances.
We  express  our  complete  gratitude  to  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan,  who  visited  our  country  to
provide  his  support  to  the  people  of  the  Niger.  The
16
situation,  far  from  being  merely  the  result  of  present
circumstances,  clearly  reveals  the  extreme  fragility  of
the
our  system  of  production  and,  furthermore, 
precariousness  of 
living
conditions  of  the  people  of  the  Niger.  In  short,  it
explains  my  country’s  shortcomings  in  achieving  the
Millennium Development Goals.
the  situation  and 
the 
In  the  light  of  the  Niger’s  experience  this  year,
five years after our solemn Declaration of 2000, today
it  has  to  be  acknowledged  with  great  bitterness  that
many  countries,  including  mine,  remain  very  far  from
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  For
many  of  those  countries,  the  situation  has  even
deteriorated  greatly.  Poverty  has  worsened,  becoming
the scourge of modern  times.  The  economies  of  many
developing  countries  have  declined,  making  them
victims  of  the  inequality  of  the  international  trading
system,  the  steady  decline  in  official  development
assistance, their excessive foreign debt burden and low
levels  of  investment.  Globalization  has  become  one
more  painful  ordeal  for  countries  such  as  the  Niger,
which,  despite 
is
condemned to living in the most abject poverty, and its
people are condemned to live in despair and all manner
of  frustration.  In  such  a  situation,  how  can  a  country
such  as  mine  achieve  the  Millennium  Development
Goals?
real  economic  potential, 
its 
In  spite  of  the  structural  constraints  on  the
economy of the Niger, since 2001 the Government has
been  firmly  committed  to  achieving  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  It  has  worked  to  strengthen  its
cooperation with international financial institutions and
has  undertaken  to  draft  and  implement  our  poverty-
reduction  strategy  and  the  special  programme  of  the
President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Tandja  Mamadou.
Following 
that  framework,
meaningful  progress  has  been  made  in  the  areas  of
democracy,  basic  freedoms,  governance,  access  to
basic 
reforms.
Furthermore,  the  results  obtained  so  far  demonstrate
that my country has not been idle and that, despite its
scarce  resources  and  constraints  of  all  kinds,  it  is
striving to end the vicious circle of poverty.
the  actions 
economic 
services 
social 
taken 
in 
and 
It 
to  expect 
is  normal 
that  well-managed
countries,  those  that  have  carried  out  good  economic
reforms 
that  promote
democracy and good governance, would show the best
economic and social performance. Furthermore, in the
opinions of the International Monetary Fund, the World
conditions 
created 
and 
the  European  Union, 
Bank, 
the  United  Nations
Development Programme and many other bilateral and
multilateral  development  partners,  the  Niger  is  well-
managed.  Thus,  we  are  faced  with  a  paradox  that
throws up a challenge to both rich and poor countries.
Simply  put,  freedom,  good  governance  and  good
macroeconomic  policies  in  themselves  are  not  enough
to escape the poverty trap.
in 
investments 
infrastructure  and 
I  believe  we  need  considerable,  ongoing
contributions  of  outside  resources  to  finance  more
ambitious 
the
productive sectors, which create jobs for young people.
I  would  like  to  speak  about  additional  resources
beyond  the  contribution  of  debt  cancellation  pledged
by  the  Group  of  Eight,  which  we  welcome.  Such
additional  resources  are  increasingly  difficult  to  find,
in  a  situation  where  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,
while  reducing  the  debt  burden  of  the  Niger,  require
our  country  not  to  contract  new  loans  for  investment
unless 60 per cent of such financing consists of grants.
That  condition  is  simply  unrealistic.  It  is  simply  not
feasible.  Really, 
to  making
development financing for  our  countries  dependent on
grants.
tantamount 
it 
is 
in 
Are  grants 
themselves  sufficient  for 
the
economic  development  of  a  country?  Definitely  not.
For proof, we need only turn to the Millennium Project
report,  in  which  the  financing  requirements  of  a
country such as mine in order to attain the Millennium
Development  Goals  are  estimated  at  $900  million  per
year.  At  present,  we  receive  only  $120  million  in
combined  loans  and  grants.  Worse,  the  amount  of
official development assistance we receive is declining
annually. Today it stands  at  barely  half  its  level  of  15
years  ago.  The  Niger  receives  just  $20  per  inhabitant
per year, which equals $1.60 per person per month.
on 
Progress 
achieving 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  by  the  target  dates  set  is  a  matter
of shared responsibility. The rich countries need to be
convinced  that  the  fight  against  poverty  is  closely
linked  to  the  burning  questions  of  the  moment,  in
particular  to  the  genuine  concerns  of  security  and
immigration.
What  we  need  then  is  a  big  push  —  that  is,
massive  resources  capable  of  profoundly  transforming
the  structure  of  our  economies  in  order  to  create  a
productive,  diversified  base  that  could  better  integrate
our countries into international trade and provide work
A/60/PV.8
for  unemployed  young  people  who,  in  the  years  to
come, if nothing is done as of now, will explode like a
bomb and wreak havoc in the world.
Consequently, the many pledges made here by the
rich  countries  must  be  delivered  upon  very  quickly  if
we  want  to  genuinely  achieve  the  MDGs  and  ensure
social peace in our countries. For our part, shouldering
our  responsibility  will  mean  working  to  strengthen
democracy  and  good  governance,  peacebuilding  and
fighting against blind violence and terrorism.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her  Excellency
Mrs. Lineth Saborío, Vice-President of the Republic of
Costa Rica.
Mrs.  Saborío  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Today,  on  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United
Nations,  I  am  honoured  to  reaffirm  Costa  Rica’s
unconditional  commitment 
the  principles  and
purposes of this Organization. We reaffirm our faith in
the  United  Nations  as  the  international  community’s
main instrument to maintain peace.
to 
in 
We 
reiterate  our 
full  confidence 
this
Organization’s  capacity  to  fight  for  human  rights  and
the  well-being  of  all  peoples.  We 
renew  our
commitment  to  universal  disarmament  and  to  the
efforts  to  promote  sustainable  development.  For  these
reasons,  we  deem  it  indispensable  for  the  United
Nations to play a leading role in the creation of a better
world.
In the area of international peace and security, we
affirm  our  full  confidence  in  the  Security  Council  as
the legitimate mechanism to confront the main threats
to  peaceful  relations  among  nations.  We  reaffirm  our
commitment to Security Council reform with a view to
making  it  more  democratic,  transparent  and  effective
on  the  basis  of  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality
among  all  States,  rotation,  periodic  elections  and
accountability. We favour an increase in the number of
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  with
the right to be re-elected, and we support a deep reform
of  its  working  methods.  In  order  to  increase  the
Council’s legitimacy and efficiency, we have advocated
for the elimination of the right of veto in matters such
as genocide, war crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and
massive  violations  of  human  rights.  Regrettably,  that
initiative  was  not  reflected  in  this  summit’s  draft
outcome  document  (A/60/L.1).  We  believe  that  the
17
A/60/PV.8
question  of  limiting  the  right  of  veto  should  be
reconsidered in the coming months.
Comprehensive  Convention 
Terrorism by the end of this year.
against 
International
the 
idea  of 
Costa  Rica 
transforming 
firmly  supports  all  efforts 
to
strengthen the international human rights mechanisms.
We  endorse  fully 
the
Commission  on  Human  Rights  into  a  Human  Rights
Council  and  would  have  liked  the  outcome  document
to  contain  concrete  provisions  on  the  mandate  and
structure  of  the  new  Human  Rights  Council.  In  their
absence,  we  must  devote  the  coming  months  to
designing 
institution.  Furthermore,  we
endorse the idea of increasing substantially the budget
of 
the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner for Human Rights, and we welcome the
initiatives  to  strengthen  the  monitoring  mechanisms
established  by  treaties  with  a  view  to  creating,  in  due
time,  a  unified  system.  In  order  to  protect  persons
living with  disabilities,  we  believe  that  it  is  necessary
to conclude  as soon as possible the convention  on  the
rights of persons with disabilities.
the  Office  of 
that  new 
We  stress  the  importance  of  law  and  justice  in
international relations, and we reaffirm our faith in the
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  best  mechanism
for the peaceful settlement of disputes. We should like,
therefore,  to  urge  all  nations  to  accept,  without
conditions, the jurisdiction of the Court. Similarly, we
reaffirm  our  support  for  the  work  of  the  International
Criminal  Court  as  an  indispensable  instrument  to
prevent 
against
humanity.
and  punish 
committed 
crimes 
We  regret  that  the  draft  outcome  document  does
not mention either the International Criminal Court or
the  need  to  prevent  impunity  at  the  global  level.  We
also regret the fact that the outcome document does not
reaffirm 
regarding
disarmament, non-proliferation and small arms.
already  made 
commitments 
We  are  convinced  that  the  United  Nations  must
take  the  leading  role  in  the  fight  against  international
terrorism.  Therefore,  we  should  like  to  reiterate  the
proposal  made  last  year  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abel
Pacheco  de  la  Espriella,  President  of  Costa  Rica,  to
create  a  High  Commissioner  against  Terrorism,  as  an
independent, professional and permanent body, located
within the Secretariat, with a view to ensuring  greater
coordination  and  better  use  of  the  resources  available
at  the  global  level  for  the  fight  against  terrorism.
Furthermore,  we  support  the  rapid  conclusion  of  the
18
Regarding  development,  I  wish  to  reiterate  our
call  to  fulfil  the  Millennium  Goals.  In  particular,  we
urge the developed nations to honour their commitment
to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to
development  assistance  and  to  eliminate  all  barriers
and  subsidies  that  have  a  negative  impact  on  the
exports of developing countries.
the 
Similarly, it is essential for us to  always keep in
importance  of  ecologically  sustainable
mind 
development and, in particular, the need to protect our
natural  resources.  In  this  context,  I  should  like  to
highlight  the  initiative  led  by  Costa  Rica  and  Papua
New  Guinea  of  creating  a  “Rainforest  Coalition”  to
protect  all  forests  and  ensure  payment  for 
the
environmental services that they provide us.
it 
to 
strengthen 
indispensable 
Regarding  management,  and  with  a  view  to
ensuring the unique legitimacy of this Organization, we
consider 
the
Organization’s  monitoring  and  oversight  mechanisms,
and  we  request  the  General  Assembly  to  consider  in
depth  the  recommendations  of  the  Volcker  report.  We
believe  it  is  necessary  to  face  up  with  absolute
transparency  to  the  mismanagement  cases  and  the
allegations of corruption that have surfaced within the
Organization in recent months.
Today  we  have  been  called  upon  to  reaffirm  our
faith  in  this  Organization  and  in  its  capacity  to  create
the necessary conditions for human development, such
as universal access to health services, education, social
security,  housing,  safe  water  and  job  training.  These
topics  must  have 
in  our
Organization’s  agenda  as  the  challenges  of  ensuring
lasting peace and of eradicating terrorism.
same  priority 
the 
At  this  point  in  the  history  of  humankind,  it  is
absolutely  necessary  to  create  the  conditions  for  an
inclusive,  just  and  equitable  global  society.  Such  are
the real prerequisites for attaining peace and security.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  call  now  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Rashid  Meredov,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan.
Mr. Meredov (Turkmenistan) (spoke in Russian):
First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  express  sincere  gratitude
for the honour of addressing you from this rostrum and
to convey, on behalf of the President of Turkmenistan,
Saparmurat  Ataevich  Niyazov,  best  wishes  for  peace
and prosperity to the peoples of all nations.
This  session  has  special  value  for  Turkmenistan,
which this year is celebrating the tenth  anniversary of
the adoption by the General Assembly of its resolution
50/80 A, on the permanent neutrality of Turkmenistan.
President  Niyazov  had  proposed  that  initiative  at  the
fiftieth 
the  United  Nations.
anniversary 
Turkmenistan  values 
recognized
international  legal  status  of  permanent  neutrality  and
demonstrates  with  practical  actions  its  commitment  to
its  international  obligations  in  this  regard  and  to  the
high ideals of the community of nations.
of 
its  universally 
As  the  major  international  organization,  and  by
virtue  of its universality and  vast political  experience,
the  United  Nations  occupies  a  unique  place  in  the
system of international  relations.  It plays  a major  role
in solving the most urgent problems of modern times.
The 
fundamental  provisions  of 
the  United
Nations  Charter  have  now  been  further  developed  in
the  Millennium  Declaration,  which  is  based  on  the
principles  of  sustainable  development,  strengthening
peace  and  collective  security,  promotion  of  human
rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  It  is  these  principles  that
constitute a basis of our interaction for the future.
tasks 
One  of 
the  Organization’s  main 
is
preventing threats to the world community. This in turn
requires  establishing  a  system  of  preventive  measures
and  defining  the  legal  tools  and  mechanisms  for
implementing  them.  Fully  aware  of  the  value  of
preventive action, Turkmenistan is engaged in practical
approaches  to  promoting  such  action.  In  particular,
Turkmenistan  was  the  venue  for  the  first  round  of  the
Forum  on  Conflict  Prevention  and  Sustainable
Development for Central Asia, which took place under
United  Nations  auspices.  We  consider  this  to  be  an
important 
enhancing
understanding and cooperation among States.
process 
necessary 
for 
to 
In our view, the attention that the United Nations
devotes 
issues  of  strengthening  security  and
preventive  activities  in  Central  Asia  is  timely  and
necessary.  In  this  connection,  the  idea  of  establishing
the  Regional  Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy  for
Central  Asia,  with  its  headquarters  in  our  capital,
Ashgabat,  is  a  significant  international  initiative.  We
are  grateful  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  intention
to create the Centre, as set out in his annual report on
the work of the Organization (A/60/1, para. 32). We are
A/60/PV.8
also grateful for the support of so many States for this
important  international  initiative.  The  creation  and
functioning  of  the  Regional  Centre  will  promote
comprehensive  understanding  and 
resolution  of
the  prevention  of  conflict
questions 
to 
situations,  combating 
terrorism  and 
illegal  drug
trafficking  and  promoting  sustainable  development  in
Central Asia.
related 
A  key  activity  of  the  international  community  is
the fight against terrorism  and transnational organized
crime. In this context, Turkmenistan, having supported
the United Nations initiative to  create an international
coalition  against  terrorism,  has  become  an  active
participant  in  it.  Not  only  do  we  resolutely  condemn
acts of terrorism worldwide; we are also implementing
specific legislative and practical measures to fight this
scourge and prevent its spread.
Turkmenistan  supports  effective  implementation
of  a  comprehensive  system  of  counter-terrorism
measures,  including  active  cooperation  from  States  in
finding  and  bringing  to  justice  those  who  plan  and
perpetrate  acts  of  terrorism.  In  this  connection,  we
consider it timely  and necessary that a comprehensive
convention on international terrorism be completed and
adopted.
The  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction  is  a  pressing  issue  being  considered  at  the
present  High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  As  a  party  to  the
main  international  non-proliferation  instruments,  our
country  —  whose  neutral  status 
involves  such
important obligations such as not to produce, deploy or
proliferate  weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  fully
supports  the  efforts  of  the  international  community  in
this area and participates in their implementation. One
practical  step  is  Turkmenistan’s  active  participation
under United Nations auspices in the process aimed at
establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia.
One  of  the  primary  tasks  facing  the  world
community  is  fighting  and  preventing  disease.  In  this
area,  Turkmenistan  is  closely  cooperating  with  the
United Nations and other international organizations in
implementing  its  national  health  programme.  As  a
result  of  such  interaction,  we  have  put  in  place  a
number  of  joint  projects  and  programmes  whose
effectiveness has been recognized at the international level.
Another  important  theme  of  this  Meeting  is
ensuring  ecological  sustainability.  The  solution  of
these  tasks  in  Turkmenistan  is  addressing  this  issue
19
A/60/PV.8
both  nationally  and  through  the  implementation  of
international  environmental  programmes.  Our  close
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  Environment
Programme,  the  Caspian  Ecological  Programme,  the
Aral  Sea  Rescue  Fund  and  a  number  of  other
international  environmental 
initiatives  shows  how
regional  and  global  environmental  protection  issues
can be tackled.
Here, 
Declaration. 
The  human  dimension  has  a  special  place  in  the
Millennium 
Turkmenistan
consistently  undertakes  efforts  to  create  and  develop
genuine guarantees to ensure the rights of citizens. Our
country  is  carrying  out  such  activities  together  with
international  organizations,  primarily  United  Nations
humanitarian  agencies.  As  a  result  of  this  kind  of
constructive  partnership,  we  have  established  a
dialogue  with  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  and
are  actively  interacting  with  the  Office  of  the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights;  this  has  produced
practical  results.  Specifically,  just  over  a  month  ago,
more than 16,000 refugees living in Turkmenistan were
granted  Turkmenistan  citizenship  or  residence  permits
by decree of the President of Turkmenistan.
We  shall  continue  our  efforts  on  all  these  issues
and  stand  ready  to  cooperate  with  all  States  and
international organizations.
We  share  the  widely  held  view  that  today  the
United  Nations  requires  effective  reform,  but  only  if
such reform strengthens the Organization and broadens
its  role  in  the  world.  We  believe  that  one  key  area  is
strengthening the role of the General Assembly as the
primary  consultative  and  representative  body  of  the
United  Nations.  This,  in  turn,  calls  for  improving  the
model  for  General  Assembly  activities,  so  that  it
reflects  modern-day  problems 
the  world
community.
facing 
A  prominent  aspect  of  reforming  of  the  United
Nations is improving the work and the structure of the
Security  Council.  Given  the  significance  of  that  body,
we  believe  that  the  optimal  composition  must  be
adopted on the basis of broad agreement.
The 
initiative 
to  create 
the  Peacebuilding
Commission  and  proposals  to  specifically  define  its
activities as a United Nations institution along the lines
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  are  timely  and
significant.
20
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  note  that  only  by
pooling  our  common  efforts  and  being  aware  of  the
role and responsibility of every country will we ensure
successful 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  resolve  the  diverse  tasks
facing Member States.
implementation 
of 
The  Co-Chairperson
in
French):  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency
Mr. S. Jayakumar,  Deputy 
of
Singapore.
Prime  Minister 
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
Mr. Jayakumar (Singapore): This is not the best
of  times  for  the  United  Nations.  The  Organization  is
under  attack  —  and  from  many  directions.  However,
tension between the interests of nations and the idea of
the  international  community  is  inherent  in  the  very
nature  of  the  State  system.  Seldom  in  the  60  years  of
its existence has the United Nations been entirely free
of  crisis  and  controversy.  Debate  over  the  role  of  the
United Nations and its future is a sign of its continued
engagement with the issues of our day.
and 
and 
large, 
terrorism, 
tsunamis.  By 
We  may  complain  about  the  United  Nations,  yet
we instinctively turn to it as we seek to organize life in
an  ever  more  interdependent  world,  confronted  with
such  urgent  new  challenges  as 
the
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, pandemic
diseases 
those
controversies are over the extent to which and how best
the  United  Nations  should  be  involved.  But  that  the
United Nations should be involved is taken for granted.
The  real  problem  is  perhaps  not  that  the  United
Nations  is  ignored,  but  that  all  too  often  we  demand
too  much  of  the  United  Nations.  The  continuing
validity  of  Charter  principles  does  not  absolve  its
Members of national responsibilities in an international
system in which the State is still the central actor and
State  interests  are  the  essential  motor  of  international
relations.  The  United  Nations  is  only  one  diplomatic
instrument in a repertoire.
At the same time, it is a fact that only the United
Nations  has  a  global  mandate  and  near  universal
legitimacy.  It  is  the  only  Organization  equipped  to
facilitate cooperation between sovereign nation-States.
Therein lies the crux of the issue. The United Nations
Charter  principles  are  vitally  valid,  but  the  Charter  is
not  a  sacred  text  because  principles  need  to  be
operationalized  to  be  relevant.  United  Nations  reform
is  not  something 
that  should  seize  us  only  on
anniversaries.  It  would  be  a  mistake  to  consider  the
sixtieth or indeed any other anniversary as a make-or-
break  occasion.  Change  and  adaptation  must  be  a
continual part of the evolution of every living entity.
the  progress  made  since 
The  key  purpose  of  this  year’s  gathering  is  to
review 
the  Millennium
Summit  five  years  ago.  Improving  the  lives  of  our
peoples is the criterion by which history will judge us.
It  is  from  that  perspective  that  I  will  offer  my
delegation’s comments on three core areas contained in
the outcome document: management, human rights and
peacebuilding.
Management  reforms  directly  pit  the  interests  of
Members against those of the Organization as a whole.
They are difficult, but they cannot be avoided, as they
are  vital  to  restoring  public  confidence  and  support.
The  demands  on  the  United  Nations  are  always
growing, but resources are finite. More effective use of
available 
if
development and other goals are to be achieved.
imperative 
resources 
is 
therefore 
The  draft  outcome  document  has  set  out  a
comprehensive set of proposals, and in that regard the
proposals  for  an 
independent  oversight  advisory
committee  to  assist  the  General  Assembly  and  for  an
evaluation of the United Nations entire internal control
and  oversight  system  acquire  special  urgency  under
current circumstances.
On  human  rights,  empowering  our  peoples  with
economic,  social  as  well  as  political  and  civil  rights
must  be  both  the  end  and  the  means  of  development.
My  delegation  has  an  open  mind  on  the  proposal  to
transform  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  into  a
human  rights  council,  but  the  question  is:  Are  the
essential  problems  only  structural?  It  is  a  fact  that  all
but  a  handful  of  what  are  asserted  to  be  rights  are
essentially  contested  concepts.  The  basic  function  of
the United Nations is to enforce agreed norms as well
as to expand the consensus on what constitutes agreed
norms. But the penchant of some States to present their
views  as  universal  norms 
inevitably  provokes
resistance,  unnecessarily  politicizes  the  process  and  is
ultimately  unhelpful  to  the  cause  of  human  rights.
Unless  that  deeper  issue  is  adequately  addressed,  any
change will be only superficial.
On  peacebuilding,  stability  and  the  ability  to
govern are fundamental prerequisites for development.
Bitter  experience  has  shown  us  that  instability  in  one
State can have a powerful contagion effect far beyond
internal
its 
borders.  The  manner 
in  which 
A/60/PV.8
developments in one State have wider ramifications is
only  one 
illustration  of  how  narrow  notions  of
sovereignty  no  longer  hold  today.  We  believe  that  the
proposal  to  create  a  peacebuilding  commission  is
worthy  of  support,  but  given  the  complexities  and
sensitivities inherent in its proposed functions, we must
be  flexible  in  our  approach  and  envisage  changes  in
structure  and  functions  over  time  and  in  different
circumstances. In so doing, we must acknowledge that
the concept of absolute sovereignty will not always be
a  viable  operating  principle.  For 
reason,
establishing  a  peacebuilding  commission  will  be  a
contentious  enterprise,  but  that  should  not  deter  us
from pursuing a worthy goal.
that 
In the run-up to this sixtieth anniversary summit,
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  has  dominated
discussions  on  United  Nations  reform.  That  is  to  be
expected,  as  the  Security  Council  lies  at  the  heart  of
the United Nations system. Because of the huge stakes,
national  positions  have  become  sharply  polarized.
Singapore continues to believe that there should be an
expansion  of  the  Security  Council  to  better  reflect
contemporary geopolitical realities. However, our view
is that the new permanent members should not have the
veto,  because  that  would  make  it  even  more  difficult
for  the  Security  Council  to  be  an  effective  instrument
of world peace.
Let  us  continue  to  explore  compromises  on  the
reform of the Security Council and other issues that are
before  us.  We  should  not,  because  of  our  inability  to
make progress on any one particular issue, lose interest
in  the  other  issues  that  are  no  less  important.  Where
there  is  consensus,  let  us  take  big  strides.  Where  the
issues  are  still  contentious,  let  us  be  prepared  to  take
smaller steps.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Aboul  Gheit,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt.
Mr.  Aboul  Gheit  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It
gives me pleasure to deliver the statement of Mr. Hosni
Mubarak, President of the  Arab Republic of Egypt, to
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
the  General
Assembly on the occasion of its sixtieth anniversary.
In  September  2000,  we  identified  our  common
vision  for  the  future  of  the  United  Nations  and
committed 
certain
responsibilities  towards  our  peoples,  our  societies  and
large.  We  also
the 
international  community  at 
undertaking 
ourselves 
to 
21
A/60/PV.8
committed  to  shouldering  our  responsibility  towards
our Organization, which we established 60 years ago as
a  forum  to  uphold  the  principles  of  human  dignity,
equality and justice and to maintain international peace
and security.
participation in the decision-making process — efforts
that  culminated  in  the  holding  of  open  presidential
elections a few days ago, in which the candidates from
10  political  parties  competed,  for  the  first  time  in
Egypt’s history, to win the confidence of the people.
Today,  and  while 
the  world  has  witnessed
significant  events  over  the  past  five  years,  we  gather
once  again  in  New  York  to  consider  which  of  those
basic  commitments  we  have  managed  to  fulfil  and  to
agree on the way forward towards achieving the other
objectives that we have failed to fulfil. We should carry
out  our  examination  of  the  future  with  a  common
understanding  of 
threats  and
challenges  we  are  facing,  and  on  the  basis  of  our
conviction  in  the  uniformity  of  our  purposes  and
principles  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter,
which  has  been  and  will  remain  the  solid  foundation
upon which we will stand and confront the threats and
challenges facing the international community.
the  nature  of 
the 
Before we address our ambitious plans to reform
our  Organization,  we  must  first  agree  on  a  number  of
premises  and  basics  to  secure  our  path  towards  the
realization of our common objectives.
First,  what  brings  us  together  must  not  be  the
urge to impose  our personal  will, lifestyle  and  values.
We  must  come  together  around  the  desire  for  mutual
understanding  and  joint  endeavour  to  identify  and
address the common risks facing humanity.
Secondly,  we  should  view  efforts  to  achieve
economic  development  as  a  human  commitment  to
which  we  must  all  subscribe,  not  as  a  means  of
exerting 
non-development
objectives.
pressure 
to 
achieve 
Thirdly,  any 
successful  effort 
to  achieve
comprehensive development will remain hostage to our
ability to achieve peace and stability and to consolidate
the  principles  of  international  legitimacy,  justice  and
equality. We must reject the concept of the use of force
and forced occupation of the lands of others. We must
resolve international conflicts through peaceful means,
in  accordance  with  the  principles  of  international  law
and legitimacy.
In  2000,  we  made  a  commitment  to  promote
democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human
rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to
development. Egypt has taken significant steps in  that
direction  on  the  basis  of  plurality  and  increased
22
We  continue  to  support  the  structural  reform  of
the  human  rights  machinery  and  the  establishment  of
the Human Rights Council. We stress that such reform
should  be  substantive  and  not  merely  a  change  of
names.  We  should  also  avoid  politicizing  such
processes and engaging in double standards. We should
reach  common  understandings  that  take  into  account
cultural,  educational  and  social  diversity.  And  we
should  avoid  using 
the  proposed  Human  Rights
Council to achieve political ends.
Egypt has also consistently called for the  reform
of the Security Council with view to adapting it to the
needs of our changing world.
If  the  reform  effort  is  to  achieve  its  objectives,
Egypt believes that it should be based on a number of
principles,  which  I will briefly  outline. First,  we must
restore the former balance between the main organs of
the United Nations and return to the General Assembly
its  central  role  as  the  main  legislative  body,  as
enshrined in the Charter.
Secondly,  we  must  reform  the  working  methods
of the Security Council to make it more transparent and
credible.  We  should  also  increase  the  membership  of
the  Council  to  make  it  more  representative  of  the
developing 
the  African
countries, which have not yet received their  fair share
of representation in the Council.
particularly 
countries, 
to  play  a  greater  role 
Thirdly, we must allow the Economic and Social
Council 
in  drawing  up
international policies in the economic and social areas
and following up on their implementation. This would
complement  international  efforts  in  the  development
process  and  help  developing  countries  to  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
that 
Fourthly,  we  believe 
the  Peacebuilding
Commission  will  prove  to  be  an  efficient  tool  for
building  the  national  capacities  of  countries  emerging
from  armed  conflict  and  for  assisting  those  countries
on  the  path  towards  stability  and  reconstruction,
without  imposing  trusteeship  on  them  or  undermining
their national sovereignty.
All  international  efforts,  including  institutional
reform  within  our  Organization,  must  take  place  in
parallel  with  efforts  to  combat  terrorism.  Egypt  calls
once again for a collective international effort, through
the  General  Assembly,  to  deal  with  that  scourge,
which,  if  unchecked,  will  undermine  all  attempts  by
the  international  community  to  enhance  international
peace  and  security  and  to  achieve  development.  The
international  community  has  yet  to  come  up  with  a
strategy in this regard,  although it is  crystal  clear that
no  State,  however  powerful,  can  deal  with 
the
phenomenon alone.
We  hope  that  our  agreement,  as  reflected  in  the
summit  outcome  document,  will  represent  a  new
beginning  for  our  common  endeavours.  We  must
ensure  the  implementation  of  that  agreement  so  as  to
fulfil  the  common  aspirations  of  our  peoples  for  a
better and more prosperous future through a new order
based 
and
international  democracy  —  one  that  guarantees  their
rights and requires them to fulfil their obligations.
complementarity 
cooperation, 
on 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  call  next  on
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nyan  Win,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of Myanmar.
Mr. Win (Myanmar): I should like at the outset to
convey the deepest sympathy of my delegation to those
affected by Hurricane Katrina on the Gulf coast of the
United States of America.
I  should  like,  at  this  largest-ever  assembly  of
world  leaders,  to  congratulate  Mr.  Eliasson  on  his
election to his high office.
to 
implement 
In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  world  leaders
pledged that the world in 2015 would be better than the
one  that  we  lived  in  at  that  time.  They  made  solemn
commitments 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  aim  to  guarantee
peace  and  security  through  disarmament;  alleviate
poverty 
the
environment  and  promote  human  rights,  democracy
and  good  governance  through  the  establishment  of
agreed  international  norms.  Progress  in  achieving  the
MDGs  is  far  from  what  was  originally  envisaged.  We
should  not  despair,  however,  but  must  continue  to
endeavour to meet the agreed targets.
through  development;  and  protect 
In the view of my country, priority areas include
combating  the  scourge  of  terrorism  and  transnational
crime; 
the
in  meeting 
cooperation 
enhancing 
A/60/PV.8
challenges  of  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction and those of nuclear disarmament; ensuring
that  development 
the
environment is protected; intensifying the international
community’s efforts to prevent, mitigate the effects of
and  eradicate  communicable  diseases,  including  the
HIV/AIDS pandemic and avian flu.
sustainable  and 
that 
is 
In Myanmar, we are making satisfactory progress
towards  reaching  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
by  2015.  In  our  drive  to  eradicate  poverty,  we  have
achieved significant results through the designation of
24  special  development  zones 
the  states  and
divisions,  with  a  view  to  achieving  equitable  and
balanced development throughout the country.
in 
In 
the  area  of  ensuring  education  for  all,
according  to  our  estimates,  by  2015,  net  enrolment  in
primary  level  education  will  be  84.5  per  cent.  In  the
health  sector,  we  have  designated  HIV/AIDS,  malaria
and  tuberculosis  as  diseases  of  national  concern.  We
are  also  actively  participating  in  the  international
the  scourge  of
community’s  efforts 
HIV/AIDS 
through 
the
Coordination  Board  of 
the  Joint  United  Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS).
endeavouring 
achieve
development,  relying  mainly  on  its  own  resources,
without  assistance,  including  from  the  international
financial 
financial
institutions.  With 
assistance,  our  development 
could  be
accelerated.
to  combat 
our  membership 
external 
efforts 
Myanmar 
in 
to 
is 
solve 
issues 
global 
economic 
If the world is to achieve economic development
and  social  progress  in  a  secure  environment,  then
consolidated  international  efforts  are  urgently  needed
to 
through
implementation of the goals set out in the Millennium
Declaration,  by  both  developed  and  developing
countries.  The  United  Nations, 
the  only
Organization  with  global  reach  and  a  global  mandate,
is  the  best  entity  to  assist  Member  countries  in  those
critical  tasks.  The  United  Nations  must  therefore  be
reformed  so  as 
its  efficiency  and
effectiveness and to strengthen its capacity to meet and
overcome the threats and challenges of the twenty-first
century.
increase 
as 
to 
The  United  Nations  must  be  reformed,  and  its
sacrosanct principles of national sovereignty, territorial
integrity,  equality,  non-interference  in  internal  affairs,
settlement of disputes by peaceful means, and the non-
23
A/60/PV.8
use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  should  remain  inviolate.
Those  guiding  principles  have  withstood  the  test  of
time and are as relevant and valid today as on the day
they were adopted.
We are confident that the Assembly will reaffirm
the cardinal principles upheld and  consolidated by the
United  Nations  as  the  world  body  representing  all
nations  on  the  basis  of  equality,  solidarity,  tolerance,
cooperation and multilateralism.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
to  His  Highness  Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al
Nahyan, Minister of Information and Culture, Personal
Representative  of  the  President  of  the  United  Arab
Emirates.
Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan (United
Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Let  me  say  at  the
outset that it gives me great pleasure to convey to the
Assembly  the  congratulations  of  His  Highness  Sheikh
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United
Arab  Emirates,  on  the  election  of  Mr.  Eliasson,  the
representative of a friendly country, as President of the
General  Assembly at its sixtieth  session.  I  should  like
also to express our appreciation to the President of the
Gabonese Republic for the efforts made by his country
in  guiding  the  work  of  the  previous  session  of  the
General Assembly.
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
its
appreciation  for  the  efforts  made  by  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,
the  Secretary-General,  to  strengthen  and  promote  the
role of the United Nations.
expresses 
On this occasion, I should like also to convey, on
behalf of the Government and the people of the United
Arab Emirates, our heartfelt condolences and sympathy
to the Government and the people of the United States
of  America  and  to  the  families  of  the  victims  of
Hurricane  Katrina  for  the  tragic  loss  of  life  and
property caused by the hurricane.
in 
in 
stock  of 
the  progress  made 
We  consider  this  meeting  a  valuable  opportunity
to 
take 
the
implementation  of  the  Development  Goals  which  we
pledged 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  which
represents  a  road  map  for  international  efforts  to
achieve  prosperity  and  dignity 
for  our  peoples
according  to  the  principles  of  equality,  justice  and
fairness. This meeting  also provides an opportunity  to
develop  a  collective  vision  as  to  how  to  effectively
24
address  present  challenges  and  the  resulting  new
dimensions of collective security.
The  United  Arab  Emirates  reaffirms  the  central
role of the United Nations and stresses the importance
of  its  Charter  —  the  main  point  of  reference  for
building international relations on the basis of respect,
freedom, equality, tolerance and joint responsibility. In
that  context,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  would  like  to
re-emphasize  the  importance  of  strengthening  the
United Nations and the reform of its principal organs to
enable  it  to  meet  its  growing  responsibilities  and  to
strengthen its role.
in 
The  benefits  of 
the  progress  made 
from  poverty,  hunger, 
the
economic, social and humanitarian fields have reached
only  a  very  small  number  of  peoples.  Indeed,  a  large
percentage  of  the  world’s  population  continues  to
suffer 
serious  diseases,
unemployment, 
illiteracy  and  displacement.  They
suffer also from the negative effects of armed conflict
and foreign occupation, in addition to the proliferation
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  including  nuclear
weapons, 
drug
trafficking,  terrorism,  and  human  rights  violations,  all
of which pose grave threats to international peace and
security,  and  impede  sustainable  development,  which
we are striving to realize.
transnational 
organized 
crime, 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  firmly  convinced
that  development  is  the  most  important  issue  of  our
time,  since  it  represents  the  way  to  the  elimination  of
poverty,  hunger,  and  the  achievement  of  security  and
stability  for  peoples.  From 
that  perspective,  we
emphasize  the  importance  of  addressing  international
challenges in the context of a clear vision of collective
security  based  on  the  view  that  development  and  the
welfare  of  the  people  are  main  concerns  —  a  vision
that  can  be  translated  into  a  global  partnership  that
ensures  the  commitment  of  developed  and  developing
countries  to  take  practical  and  concrete  steps  to
expedite  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations
of all United Nations summits and conferences.
Proceeding from that conviction, we believe also
that the international efforts towards development will
not bear fruit in the absence of international peace and
security,  the  achievement  of  justice  and  equity  for  all
peoples,  the  respect  of  cultural  diversity  and  the  right
of people to self-determination; and the end of foreign
occupation wherever it exists, including the occupation
since 1961 by Iran of the three islands which belong to
the  United  Arab  Emirates  —  Greater  Tunb,  Lesser
Tunb and Abu Musa.
There  should  be  a  comprehensive  and 
just
settlement of the Middle East issue and the Palestinian
question.  We  must  strengthen  international  efforts  to
combat  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations
and  to  prevent  the  proliferation  and  production  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  especially  nuclear
weapons.
In  conclusion,  we  renew  our  commitment  to  the
spirit  and  objectives  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,
and we hope that this meeting will succeed in reaching
a  common  vision  as  concerns  ways  to  eliminate  the
obstacles  impeding  the  full  implementation  of  the
Development Goals and will enables us to translate our
undertakings and commitments into a tangible reality.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
to  His  Highness  Sayyid  Haitham  Bin  Tariq  Al-Said,
Minister  of  National  Heritage  and  Culture,  Special
Envoy of His Majesty the Sultan of Oman.
Sayyid  Haitham  Bin  Tang  Al-Said  (Oman)
(spoke in Arabic):  I  have  the  honour  to  convey  to  the
Assembly  greetings  from  His  Majesty  Sultan  Qaboos
Bin  Said,  Sultan  of  Oman,  and  his  best  wishes  for
success  in  its  endeavours  to  achieve  the  desired  goals
and objectives.
recommendations  on 
I  sincerely  hope  that  this  high-level  summit  will
be  able  to  agree  on  implementable  and  practical
financing  of
collective 
development  and  on 
the
programmes and strategies approved by United Nations
conferences  with  a  view  to  achieving  the  Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).
implementation  of 
the 
the 
This  summit  has  particular  importance  as  it
represents a historic opportunity to  consider  a number
of  questions  that  are  key  to  continued  international
cooperation,  in  particular  to  the  realization  of  the
MDGs.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  achievement  of
comprehensive  and sustainable development has been,
and  still  is,  the  primary  goal  of  all  major  meetings  of
world leaders.
We  share  the  vision  of  the  Secretary-General,
who  believes  that  there  can  be  no  security  without
development,  and  no  development  without  security.
Development  and  security  are  complementary,  hence
the  importance  of  this  summit,  which  rests  on  four
the  Millennium
principal  pillars  determined  by 
A/60/PV.8
Summit.  Those  pillars  are  economic  development;
social development; conservation of natural resources;
and protection of the environment.
Of course, these main themes overlap with other,
no  less  important  issues  such  as  those  of  awareness-
raising, 
the
integration of women and youth, in addition to training
and information.
institution-building 
education, 
and 
Although  my  Government  agrees  with 
the
recommendations  made  by  the  Secretary-General  on
sustainable  development,  we  would  like  to  note  here
the  importance  of  giving  developing  countries  greater
freedom  to  promote  their  development  programmes
according to their national priorities and the particular
circumstances of each country, and in consonance with
international  development  strategies.  Because  my
country’s Government wishes to make people the focus
the
and  purpose  of  development, 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the
forefront of its national policies, and is doing its best to
connect  the  social  and  economic  dimensions  of  the
Goals through the use of monitoring indicators, which
have shown that the Sultanate has already gone a long
way towards attaining them and that, with God’s help,
it will manage to achieve the Millennium Development
Goals on schedule.
it  has  placed 
(MDGs)  at 
At  the  international  level,  my  country  has  been
following with concern the situations of many peoples
in many regions of the world, who have been working
very hard to achieve a level of development that would
enable  them  to  overcome  epidemics,  poverty  and  the
consequences  of  natural  disasters.  We  believe  that
humanitarian  responsibility  dictates  that  developed
countries should give others the opportunity to share in
the  fruits  of  the  global  economy.  They  should  do  that
by reviewing their policies in order to cancel debts and
offer  all 
including
permission  for  poor  and  developing  countries  to
manufacture  medicine  and  provide  it  at  affordable
prices  to  people  suffering  from  AIDS,  malaria  and
tuberculosis.
types  of  economic  support, 
In view of this, we believe that it is time for the
international  community  to  adopt  concrete,  practical
steps to enable those  countries  and  regions,  especially
in 
the
opportunities  of  globalization 
true  world
partnership.  That  can  never  be  achieved  through
promises,  but 
implementable
the  African  continent, 
to  benefit 
through 
in  a 
from 
a 
clear 
25
A/60/PV.8
international  strategy  based  on  debt  cancellation,
provision of development aid and unrestricted access to
world  markets  for  the  exports  of  developing  and  least
developed countries.
As for the situation in the Middle East, the latest
developments  relating  to  the  Palestinian  question,
including the withdrawal of Israel from the Gaza Strip,
represent a first step in the right direction towards the
application  of  resolutions  establishing  international
legitimacy. We hope that Israel, in cooperation with the
Palestinian Authority  and neighbouring  countries,  will
take  similar  steps 
from  all
occupied  Arab  territories  and  the  establishment  of  a
fully sovereign Palestinian State.
towards  withdrawal 
We agree with the Secretary-General’s contention
that  the  absence  of  a  comprehensive  international
agreement  to  combat  terrorism,  based  on  a  clear
definition of the phenomenon and a clear knowledge of
its causes and roots, has weakened international efforts
to combat it. We nevertheless believe that it is time to
put 
international  counter-terrorism
strategy  based  on  cooperation  and  exchange  of
information  among  countries  and 
to
distinguish between the legitimate right to self-defence
and  resist  oppression  and  terrorist  acts  committed  by
outlaw  individuals  or  groups  that  kill  and  terrorize
civilians as both a means and an end.
into  effect  an 
the  need 
relevant 
There is no doubt that the United Nations and all
its  subsidiary  bodies  and 
international
institutions  need  development  and  modernization  to
enable  them  to  better  serve  the  interests  of  States  and
adapt to new international developments. Accordingly,
the development and modernization process should go
beyond 
the
membership  of  certain  councils  and  committees.  It
should  be  based  on  a  new  concept  that  focuses  on
giving  a  strong  new  impetus  to  all  those  bodies  and
councils,  to  enable  them  to  perform  the  functions
entrusted  to  them  in  the  service  of  security,  stability
and comprehensive development in the world.
the  mere  expansion  or  reduction  of 
As for the process of improving the performance
of the United Nations, we should like to affirm that for
that  process  to  succeed,  it  must  be  continuous  and
comprehensive,  without  time  frames  or  deadlines.
Moreover,  it  should  include  all  bodies  of  the  United
Nations, and take into consideration new developments
on the international scene, in a manner that would help
improve  the  performance  of  collective  international
26
action and provide a prompt response to the challenges
faced by our contemporary world.
those  organs 
In  view  of  all  the  foregoing,  it  has  become
essential  to  create  the  right  balance  between  the
functions  and  mandates  of  the  principal  organs  of  the
United  Nations,  improve  procedures,  and  reduce  the
items on the agendas of some of these organs to better
reflect  the  current  challenges  facing  the  international
community.  Such  measures  should  not  impair  the
ability  of 
important
substantive matters. The United Nations should play a
decisive  and  central  role  in  designing  international
economic  policies.  The  role  of  the  Economic  and
Social  Council  should  not  be  limited  to  reviewing
programmes  approved  by  the  United  Nations.  That
Council  must  develop  its  dialogue  and  solidarity  with
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the  World  Trade
Organization, especially in the field of world economic
policymaking.
to  deal  with 
It  would  also  be  useful  to  coordinate  efforts
among  international  and  regional  organizations  in  the
interests of complementarity.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His  Excellency President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, President of the Republic of
Tunisia,  delivered  on  his  behalf  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Abdelwaheb  Abdallah,  Minister 
for  Foreign
Affairs of Tunisia.
Mr. Abdallah (Tunisia) (spoke in Arabic): I have
the  honour  to  convey  the  sincere  greetings  of  His
Excellency  President  Zine  El  Abidine  Ben  Ali,
President of the Republic of Tunisia, and to deliver His
Excellency’s address to this United Nations High-level
Meeting.
“I  am  pleased 
to  express  my  deep
appreciation of the efforts made by all parties  to
ensure  an  excellent  preparation  for  this  United
Nations  High-level  Meeting.  I  wish  also  to
commend  the  role  played  by  the  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  in  providing  the  optimum
conditions for its success.
“Let  me  also  convey  to  the  Government  of
the  United  States  and  the  friendly  American
people  our  condolences  and  sympathy  with
respect to the hurricane, express the solidarity of
the  Tunisian  people  with  the  bereaved  families
and  voice  the  hope  that  they  may  promptly
overcome the challenges now facing them.
in 
of 
progress 
assessing 
“This  special  meeting,  which  is  part  of  the
process 
the
implementation of the Millennium Summit Goals
adopted by the United Nations General Assembly
five  years  ago,  assumes 
special
significance,  as  peoples  around  the  world  expect
it  to  live  up  to  their  aspirations  for  peace,
security, development and prosperity.
today  a 
“Tunisia  helped  to  crystallize  those  noble
objectives  by  presenting  a  number  of  proposals
and  initiatives.  My  country  will  continue  to
promote its  effective  role  in  developing  methods
of  multilateral  action  based  on 
firm
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  Charter  and
the  establishment  of  a  world  order  based  on  the
principles of solidarity, justice and equality.
its 
“It  gives  us  cause  for  pride  that  the  results
achieved  in  Tunisia  on  the  path  of  reform,
development and modernization over the past two
decades  are  in  line  with  the  Development  Goals
set  by  the  Millennium  Summit,  particularly  in
terms  of  reducing  the  rate  of  poverty,  improving
the Gross Domestic Product, spreading education
throughout  the  country,  strengthening  gender
equality,  promoting  reproductive  health,  and
integrating 
sustainable
of 
development into national policies.
principles 
the 
of 
the  primacy  of 
the  mechanisms 
“Those  results  are  the  fruits  of  continued
national  efforts  in  the  process  of  comprehensive
the
reform  based  on 
anchoring 
good
governance,  and  the  establishment  of  a  close
correlation  between  democracy,  the  protection
and  development  of  human  rights  in  all  their
dimensions  as  an  indivisible  whole,  and  the
achievement 
social
development.
law, 
of 
economic 
and 
of 
“Tunisia  remains  convinced  that  achieving
the Millennium Goals requires joint efforts by the
international  community  —  Governments  and
organizations alike — in order to further promote
the  values  of  solidarity  in  helping  developing
countries, particularly in the African continent, to
implement  their  development  programmes  and
plans  and  meet  the  challenges  of  modernity  and
progress.
A/60/PV.8
“In that respect, we welcome the steps taken
by a number of developed nations to allocate 0.7
per  cent  of  their  gross  domestic  product  to  the
achievement  of  those  Goals  by  2015.  We  also
hope that similar measures and initiatives will be
to  provide  medium-income  developing
taken 
countries  with 
the  means  and  mechanisms
necessary  to  increase  their  development  efforts
and 
social
bolster 
programmes.
economic 
their 
and 
through 
regions  of 
“Poverty,  destitution,  famine  and  other
scourges  confronting  many 
the
world — particularly in Africa — require that, as
a matter of urgency, we address their root causes
comprehensively 
a  movement  of
solidarity  involving  the  various  components  of
the  international  community.  In  that  context,  we
believe the time has come to provide the financial
resources  needed  to  enable  the  World  Solidarity
Fund  to  begin  the  work  for  which  that  United
Nations mechanism was established — following
its adoption by the General Assembly on the basis
of  a  Tunisian  proposal  —  to  eradicate  poverty,
exclusion  and  marginalization,  in  accordance
with the Millennium Summit policy guidelines.
the 
“Our  1998  appeal  for  the  convening  of  the
Information  Society
World  Summit  on 
to  establish  a  global
reflected  our  resolve 
knowledge  society  offering  everyone  equal
opportunities  for  access 
the  benefits  of
technological  progress,  which
scientific  and 
would  help 
to  narrow 
and
developmental  divide  between  developed  and
developing countries.
the  digital 
to 
“Tunisia,  which  is  working  to  provide  the
best  possible  conditions  for  the  holding  of  the
second phase of that important international event
from 16 to 18 November 2005, looks forward to
massive and high-level participation by Members
present at this summit through representatives of
Governments,  non-governmental  organizations
and the private sector so as to ensure the success
of  its  proceedings  and  the  achievement  of  the
objectives  pursued,  which  are  essentially  in  line
with those set out in the Millennium Declaration.
“The changes occurring in the international
sphere  require  that  we  all  work  to  establish  a
sound  framework  for  reforming 
the  United
27
A/60/PV.8
Nations  system  and  restructuring  its  bodies  in
line  with  the  requirements  of  the  current  phase,
particularly with regard to expanding the Security
Council and strengthening the role of the General
Assembly  and  of 
the  Economic  and  Social
Council.
strengthen 
the  world  and 
“It is our hope that this Meeting will result
in  the  adoption  of  consensual  practical  measures
that  will  support  development  programmes
throughout 
the
foundations  of  collective  security  —  particularly
by  combating  terrorism,  tackling  its  root  causes
and  reducing  the  number  of  weapons  and  the
spread  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  —  in
order to enshrine the pivotal role that the United
Nations  is  called  upon  to  play  in  all  those  vital
areas  and  to  enable  the  Organization  to  continue
to work to implement the lofty goals for which it
was founded 60 years ago.
this 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
“I  am  confident  that  the  Gabonese  and
Swedish  co-chairpersons  of 
important
meeting  will  assist  in  the  achievement  of  the
desired  goals  and  that  recommendations  will  be
issued  that  will  consolidate  the  foundations  of
security,  stability  and  sustainable  development
throughout the world.”
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor to His Excellency Mr. Raymond Ramazani Baya,
Minister 
International
Cooperation of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Mr.  Ramazani  Baya  (Democratic  Republic  of
the  Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  should  like  at  the
outset to express, on behalf of the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, my feelings of support and solidarity to
the  American  people,  who  have  been  hit  hard  by  a
natural disaster. I welcome the movement of solidarity
in the international community, in conjunction with the
efforts  of  the  American  Government,  to  restore  some
hope and ease the suffering of the people affected by it.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  for  its
part, 
is  emerging 
long  armed  conflict
considered to be the first “African world war” — a war
that  has  deeply  divided  the  country,  shattered  its
economy  and  destroyed  its  basic  infrastructure,  its
schools,  its  hospitals  and  its  administration.  For  three
years,  the  Government  of  National  Unity  has  been
striving to get the country working again, to complete
transportation
its 
reunification  by 
re-establishing 
from  a 
28
networks,  rebuilding  schools  and  hospitals,  restoring
State  authority 
territory,
establishing a national republican army and, above all,
preparing for the first general elections in more than 40
years.
the  national 
throughout 
Against that difficult background my country has
incorporated  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  into
its  anti-poverty  strategy.  But,  despite  that  difficult
context,  the  results  are  not  negligible.  Economic
growth  has  been  between  6  and  7  per  cent  for  three
years,  the  financial  and  legal  framework  has  been
tightened  up,  the  national  currency  exchange  rate  has
been  stabilized,  inflation  has  been  brought  under
control,  and  peace  and  security  have  been  restored  in
most  of  the  national  territory.  Those  are  considerable
achievements,  given  the  realities  of  the  recent  past.
Here,  I  should  like  to  commend  the  essential  role
played by the international community in the upturn in
my country’s political and economic situation.
As we can see, the progress made by my country
is real, even if its pace is still slow — too slow, given
the  acute  needs  and  problems  that  exist.  HIV/AIDS,
malaria and tuberculosis ravage the most dynamic parts
of  the  population.  We  must  therefore  redouble  our
efforts to provide everyone easier access to health care,
education and employment.
The  challenges  that  must  be  met  to  achieve  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  considerable.  The
resolve  of  the  Congolese  people  and  the  involvement
of 
their  Government  will  not  be  enough;  more
resources  will  need  to  be  allocated,  as  a  matter  of
priority, to the fight against poverty.
the  necessary  financial 
is  a  key  factor 
resources 
That  is  why  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo  wishes,  first,  to  reaffirm  its  faith  in  the
Monterrey  Consensus,  which 
in
mobilizing 
for
development.  Secondly,  we  welcome  the  handling  of
the  debt  issue  through  the  outright  cancellation  of  the
debt of 18 of the poorest countries. It is our desire and
hope  that  that  measure  will  be  extended  to  other
developing countries. Thirdly, we wish to congratulate
the  developed  countries,  particularly  France,  on  the
initiative  to  identify  new  financing  sources  —  in
particular,  a  levy  on  air  tickets  —  and  on  the
commitment  to  devote  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross
national  product  to  official  development  assistance  by
2015.
reinforce 
that  we 
Given the new threats overshadowing our planet,
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  believes  it
crucial 
international
peacebuilding  and  conflict  prevention  structures.  We
must  combat  terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  We  must  also
adopt  clear  principles  governing  the  use  of  force  and
must  strengthen  the  United  Nations  capacity  in  this
field.
the 
I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again
thank  the  Secretary-General,  the  Security  Council  and
the  entire  United  Nations  system,  on  behalf  of  the
Congolese  Government  and  President  Joseph  Kabila,
who was unable to travel to New York. We  convey to
them our thanks for the tireless efforts made in order to
resolve the crisis in the Great Lakes region.
The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  believes
in  the  United  Nations,  and  we  hope  that  the  ongoing
reform  process,  a  process 
is  relevant  and
necessary,  will  reflect  all  the  changes  that  have  taken
place since the creation of the Organization in 1945.
that 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): I  call  next  on
His Excellency The  Honourable  Siosiua  ’Utoikamanu,
Minister of Finance of Tonga.
Mr. Siosiua ’Utoikamanu (Tonga): At the outset,
I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  Tonga’s  deepest
condolences and heartfelt sympathy to the Government
and  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  for  the
losses  suffered  in  the  aftermath  of  Hurricane  Katrina
on the Gulf Coast.
The  historic  Millennium  Declaration  adopted  in
2000  set  a  number  of  specific  and  time-bound  Goals
with  the  universal  vision  of  the  Member  States  for  a
more peaceful, prosperous and just world, in which all
human beings can live better and safer lives. We meet
again here in New York to take stock of where we are,
review  our  overall  achievements,  highlight  the  issues
and constraints and appraise the options available to us
as a collective group in order to bring us back on track
and  ensure  that  the  specified  targets  that  we,  as  a
global community, set are met by 2015.
We need to be constantly reminded as to why the
Goals are important, and Professor Sachs in his report
on  the  Millennium  Project  aptly  summarizes  the
manifold  reasons  as  follows:  for  the  international
political  system,  they  are  the  fulcrum  on  which
development policy is based; for the billion plus people
living in extreme poverty, they represent the means to a
A/60/PV.8
productive  life;  for  everyone  on  Earth,  they  are  the
linchpin  of  the  quest  for  a  more  secure  and  peaceful
world.
What have we  achieved over the last  five years?
At  a  global  level,  although  considerable  progress  has
been  made  in  achieving  many  of  the  goals,  progress
has been disproportionate across regions and countries.
Progress  has  also  been  disproportionate  in  relation  to
the  Goals.  At  the  same  time,  there  have  been  many
missed opportunities. The final score as we step on the
scale is that we are found wanting. But all is not lost,
because we once again have this unique opportunity to
pull  together  and  renew  our  commitments  to  truly
make a difference.
as 
stipulated 
As  far  as  my  own  country,  Tonga,  is  concerned,
we  have  achieved  targets  such  as  universal  primary
education and gender equality through the provision of
free primary school education for children of ages 5 to
14  years, 
in  our  Constitution.
Considerable improvements have also been achieved in
secondary enrolment rates. Tonga’s performance on the
Human  Development  Index  and  the  Human  Poverty
Index reflects a high level of expenditure in health and
education,  stagnant  population  growth  and  sustained
high  levels  of  investment  in  the  social  sector.  The
Human  Development  Report  2005  ranked  Tonga  54th
among 177 countries. However, much still needs to be
done  in  terms  of  further  improvement  in  the  quality
and  level  of  delivery  of  services,  and  this  is  currently
being  addressed  by 
through  a
comprehensive  health  and  education  sector-wide
programme  jointly  financed  by  domestic  resources,
overseas  development  assistance  (ODA)  and  loan
funds.  The  majority  of  the  population  has  access  to
safe  water  and  sanitation  facilities  in  both  rural  and
urban areas.
the  Government 
to  cultural  overtones,  and 
One  of  the  areas  where  Tonga  needs  to  make
more  progress  is  in  the  participation  of  women  in
decision-making, both at the local and national levels.
The  current  level  of  women’s  participation  is  largely
attributed 
there  are
significant  efforts  to  educate  and  promote  the  greater
involvement of women in the political arena.
island  developing  countries, 
including
Tonga,  face  many  unique  challenges  because  of  our
small populations, remoteness and dispersed locations,
narrow  resource  endowment  and  vulnerability 
to
external  shocks,  including  from  international  market
Small 
29
A/60/PV.8
fluctuations and natural disasters. The development of
regional and international alliances, such as the Pacific
Plan,  as  well  as  the  Mauritius  Strategy  adopted  at  the
International Meeting to Review the Implementation of
the  Programme  of  Action 
the  Sustainable
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  held
in January 2005, play a crucial role in addressing these
unique challenges in an environment subject to rapidly
changing forces.
for 
is 
these 
first  of 
The Pacific Plan promotes three main approaches
to 
regionalism.  The 
regional
cooperation  through  intergovernmental  dialogue  and
the sharing of experiences and lessons learned. Second
is the regional provision of goods and services that can
benefit  from  the  pooling  of  national  services  at  the
regional  level.  Third  of  all  is  regional  integration
through  the  lowering  of  market  and  technical  barriers
between countries.
The  continuing  escalation  in  the  price  of  oil  and
its  consequent  negative  impact  on  our  development
efforts  is  of  concern  to  us,  and  we  therefore  support
accelerated  efforts  to  research  alternative  sources  of
energy.
that 
take  responsibility  for 
While  we  fully  recognize 
the  national
Governments  should 
their
development efforts,  we  are  also cognizant of  the  fact
that domestic financial resources on their own will not
be  sufficient  to  finance  our  respective  countries’
development  programmes.  The  Monterrey  Consensus
fully  recognized  that  for  a  number  of  countries,
including  small  island  developing  States,  overseas
development  assistance  is  still  the  largest  source  of
external financing and is critical for the achievement of
the  Development  Goals  and  targets  of  the  Millennium
Declaration 
and 
agreed
development targets.
internationally 
other 
the 
Tonga, 
therefore,  welcomes 
renewed
commitment  made  by  donor  partners  to  meeting  the
target  of  0.7  per  cent  ODA  of  their  gross  national
income by 2015. We also welcome the United Nations
declaration  on  innovative  sources  of  financing  for
development that provides mechanisms to increase and
supplement traditional sources of finance. However, we
also recognize that ODA, while necessary, will not be
sufficient and will have to be complemented by foreign
direct investment, trade and development partnership.
Tonga supports the proposal for a comprehensive
package of reforms to revitalize the General Assembly,
30
as  well  as  the  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and
Social  Council,  in  order  to  fulfil  its  mandate  as
envisaged by the Charter. We also support the ongoing
work of the Secretary-General to continuously improve
the efficiency and effectiveness of the Secretariat.
On  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  we  support  a  Security  Council  that  is  more
broadly  representative  of  the  international  community
as  a  whole  and  the  geopolitical  realities  of  today  and
the expansion of its membership to meet these goals. In
this  regard,  Tonga  maintains  its  support  of  Japan’s
proper and permanent place on any enhanced Council.
In conclusion, the achievement of the Millennium
Development Goals by 2015 is still a reality, but it can
only be made possible if all the parties concerned fulfil
their respective roles and obligations. Let us deliver on
our promises and truly make a difference.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): I  now  give  the
to  His  Excellency  The  Right  Honourable
floor 
Sir Rabbie  Langanai  Namaliu,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs and Immigration of Papua New Guinea.
Mr. Namaliu (Papua New Guinea): Mr. President,
we  congratulate  you  on  your  assumption  of  the
presidency of the sixtieth session of the United Nations
General  Assembly.  We  compliment  Gabon  and,  in
particular, The Honourable Jean Ping, whose tenure as
President  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  Assembly
will  be  remembered  as  a  fulcrum  of  critical  change
initiated at the United Nations.
Difficult  as  it  has  been,  the  draft  outcome
for  everyone.  We
document  provides  something 
acknowledge 
that  much  more  could  have  been
included.  However,  in  our  view,  there  is  sufficient
detail  in  the  document  to  allow  for  critical  reform
issues to be followed up and elaborated on, particularly
during the sixtieth General Assembly.
We  are  extremely  pleased  that  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  provide  each  of
our  countries  with  a  set  of  focused  benchmarks  for
addressing  critical  development  issues,  have  been
maintained in full.
support 
strongly 
We  also 
the  underlying
principles  of  the  Jakarta  Declaration,  to  which  His
Excellency  the  President  of  Indonesia  referred  this
morning.  We  therefore  call  upon  the  international
community  and  the  United  Nations  to  respond  to  and
support this important Declaration.
The  challenge  to  the  MDGs,  in  our  view,  is  to
nationalize  and  localize  them  in  order  to  achieve  the
overall performance targets by 2015. While we endorse
the importance of ensuring that those global targets are
reached, we also strongly believe that we need to focus
on the sustainability of the MDGs beyond 2015.
As a nation we have reviewed the MDGs and the
methods to achieve them. In a recently completed joint
report  with 
the  United  Nations  Development
Programme,  Papua  New  Guinea’s  scorecard  indicated
that much more needed to be done. A number of ways
have  been  considered  to  implement  the  MDGs.  The
medium-term  development  strategy  adopted  by  our
Government  this  year  is  an  attempt  to  provide  a  road
map 
The  medium-term
development  strategy  will  tie  the  MDGs  into  the
national  development  process  and  enable  funding  for
their  implementation  through  our  national  budgetary
process.
implementation. 
for 
As part of the development agenda, we also note
with  great  satisfaction  the  inclusion  of  the  Mauritius,
Brussels  and  Almaty  action  plans.  We  call  upon  the
international  community 
to  continue  assisting  all
countries  in  meeting  the  aims  elaborated  in  each  of
those plans and the associated declarations.
that 
to  underpin 
We  strongly  believe 
the  principles  of
development  and  security  —  being  intertwined  and
inseparable  —  must  continue 
the
international peace and security paradigm. Needless to
say,  it  is  our  collective  global  responsibility.  Papua
New Guinea has assisted and will continue to assist the
global  process  by  acceding  to  and  continuing  to
comply with international treaties relating to terrorism
and  measures  to  combat  that  scourge  as  part  of  our
responsibility  and  contribution 
this
critical issue. However, we do note that issues relating
to surveillance and other critical practical measures to
combat terrorism need to be addressed along with their
high operational costs.
to  addressing 
Next  month  the  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Islands
Forum will endorse a Pacific plan. Security along with
economic  growth,  sustainable  development  and  good
governance  will  provide  the  four  central  pillars  and
priority areas for the region.
In  recent  times,  multinational  regional  forces,
both  armed  and  unarmed,  have  been  engaged  in
conflict  and  post-conflict  operations.  With  strong
logistical  support  from  Australia  and  New  Zealand,
A/60/PV.8
regional member countries have contributed troops and
police  to  restore  peace  and  order  successfully  on  the
island of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea and in the
Solomon  Islands.  In  the  case  of  Bougainville,  we
acknowledge and greatly appreciate the strong support
from  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  from  the
Security Council, and from United Nations agencies.
Those  two  regional  initiatives  just  mentioned
give  credence 
the  call  for  stronger  regional
cooperation  to  supplement  national  and  global  efforts
to  achieve  peace  and  stability  for  the  enhancement  of
economic prosperity.
to 
My  country  became  a  30-year-old  democracy
today,  and the hopes  and  aspirations  we  had  when  we
joined  the  United  Nations  30  years  ago  as  its  one
hundred  and  forty-second  member  still  remain.  We
have  had  difficulties  and  successes.  We  have  had
success,  for  instance,  in  maintaining  a  continuous  but
challenging  democratic  political  system  along  with  its
related  institutions.  As  we  have  moved  on  as  a
democracy  we  have  learned  many  lessons  including
this one: that the application of democratic principles,
much  like  the  development  process,  is  not  a  one-size-
fits-all process. While the ideals of democracy provide
the
us  with 
imposition  of 
is  not
necessarily conducive to it. Like other Member States,
we  are  keen  to  work  for  and  with  the  United  Nations
Democracy Fund.
the  best  options  for  development, 
the  experiences  of  others 
Finally,  we  look  forward  to  the  adoption  of  the
draft outcome document as it provides us with a good
basis  to  move  the  United  Nations  reform  agenda
forward.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mustafa  Osman  Ismail,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Sudan.
Mr.  Ismail  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the
outset,  allow  me  to  express  my  country’s  heartfelt
condolences  and 
the  people  and
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  for  the
losses caused by Hurricane Katrina.
sympathy 
to 
to  preside  over 
I  wish  to  congratulate  the  Co-Chairpersons,  on
their  election 
this  historic  and
important  meeting.  I  am  fully  confident  that  their
wisdom  and  political  and  diplomatic  expertise  will
guide  us  towards  the  desired  results.  I  wish  also  to
express my deep appreciation to Mr. Jean Ping for his
31
A/60/PV.8
able  conduct  of  the  work  of  the  fifty-ninth  session  of
the General Assembly, which made all the preparations
for this Meeting. I commend His Excellency Mr.  Kofi
Annan,  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  for
his  commitment  and  persistence 
this
international  Organization  on  the  path  of  reform,
modernization  and  advancement  towards  its  noble
goals and purposes.
leading 
in 
The concerted and constructive efforts exerted by
the  international  community  and  crowned  by  this
historic  Summit  are  most  praiseworthy.  This  is  a
courageous  initiative  that  demonstrates  the  awareness
and  responsiveness  of  the  international  community  in
assuming  its  responsibilities.  At  the  same  time,  it
reflects  our  sincere  desire  to  work  collectively  and  to
confront steadfastly the challenges that lie ahead of us
in building a new international order based on justice,
equality  and  respect  for  human  dignity  and  governed
by the principles of international law.
This is a historic and unique opportunity for us to
shoulder  our  responsibilities  and  face  present  threats
squarely,  strengthening  the  central  role  of  the  United
Nations  and  enabling  it  to  assume  its  function  of
effectively  maintaining 
and
security. The Organization has been and should remain
the  common  platform  for  collective  responsibility,
multilateralism,  and  a  firm  resolve  to  create  a  stable
and secure world.
international  peace 
In  that  regard,  this  Summit  represents  a  real  test
of  the  international  community’s  will  to  effect  the
changes that all Member States of the Organization seek.
At the forefront of the priorities of this Summit is
the issue of sustainable development and the liberation
of billions of people from poverty, disease and hunger.
In  this  respect,  we  are  deeply  concerned  about  the
modest progress made in implementing the Millennium
Development  Goals,  which  have  allowed  millions  of
people to hope for a world in which they can live in a
minimum of human dignity.
The  economic  and  social  conditions  in  the  least
developed  countries  continue  to  deteriorate  badly.
Moreover, the number of least developed countries has
increased  since  the  Millennium  Summit.  That  grave
development should remind us that what we decide to
do  to  help  those  countries  during  this  summit  will  be
the  criterion  for  measuring  the  credibility  of  our
commitment  to  development  and  poverty  reduction.
32
The least that we can do is to assist those countries to
implement the Brussels Programme of Action on time.
It is necessary to formulate strategies and policies
that  address  the  concerns  and  needs  of  developing
countries  with  respect  to  enhancing  capacity-building
and economic progress. Collective security will remain
illusory  until  we  fulfil 
the  needs  of  developing
countries. We cannot achieve a secure world while the
African  continent  continues  to  suffer  the  burdens  of
debt, poverty, disease and the extreme inequality of the
international economic and trading systems. To restore
the global economic balance, it is essential to cancel all
debts, fulfil official development assistance obligations
and  allow  developing  countries  to  take  their  place  in
the international trading system.
Deeply  believing  that  terrorism  is  a  threat  to
international stability and security, the Sudan reaffirms
its  condemnation  of  all  forms  and  manifestations  of
terrorism  and  calls  for  the  intensification  of  efforts  to
combat 
international
terrorism 
efforts  guided  by 
international
legitimacy. In that context, we support the call to hold
an  international  conference  to  reach  agreement  on  a
definition of terrorism and to find ways and  means  of
combating  it.  It  is  also  important  to  distinguish
terrorism from the legitimate right of peoples to resist
foreign occupation.
through  concerted 
the  principles  of 
We  emphasize  the  need  to  respect  the  principles
of  international  legitimacy  in  combating  terrorism  by
preventing  all  unilateral  measures  and  violations  of
international law.
the  principles  of 
In  that  context,  we  recall  that  since  1998,  the
Sudan has repeatedly called on the United Nations and
the  international  community  to  take  a  just  position
conforming  with 
justice  and
international  law  regarding  the  1998  attack  on  the  al-
Shifa  pharmaceutical 
the  pretext  of
combating  terrorism.  That  attack  negatively  affected
my  country’s  development  efforts  and  deprived  my
people of basic medicines. Today, we reiterate our call
on  the  United  Nations  to  take  just  and  necessary
measures in accordance with international law, and we
appeal to the entire international community to support
our just and legitimate demand.
factory  on 
The Sudan firmly believes that the idea of a clash
of civilizations is a fallacy. We are all striving to build
a  humanitarian  world  whose  peoples  enjoy  peace,
security,  stability  and  a  peaceful  coexistence.  My
is  committed 
country therefore welcomes and supports the initiative
of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Spain  calling  for  a  dialogue
among  civilizations.  The  Sudan 
to
safeguarding the dignity of humankind and respect for
its  rights,  guided  by  its  values,  heritage  and  beliefs.
The problems arising in the field of human rights are a
result  of  selectivity,  double  standards  and 
the
misappropriation  of  the  issue  of  human  rights  for
political  ends.  Thus,  what  is  basically  required  is  a
reform of practices, not only of institutions.
followed 
Members  have  undoubtedly 
the
developments  of  the  Sudanese  situation,  which  led  to
the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement
now being assiduously implemented in both letter  and
spirit.  In  that  connection,  I  express  my  sadness  at  the
loss of Mr. John Garang, who was a genuine and strong
partner  in  the  achievement  of  that  peace  agreement.  I
express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the  international
community  for  its  support  during  the  years  of  war,
when it provided necessary humanitarian essentials and
support for the peace efforts. We are confident that the
international  community  will  continue  to  accompany
us  along  our  path  to  peace  and  stability.  The  Oslo
donors  conference  and 
its  outcome  are  a  great
requires
testimony 
to 
considerable 
the
rehabilitation  of  the  displaced  and  refugees  and  the
promotion and strengthening of peace.
that  support.  The  Sudan 
resources 
reconstruction, 
for 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor  to  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  El  Abed,  Minister  for
Economic Affairs and Development of Mauritania.
Mr. El Abed (Mauritania) (spoke in Arabic): It is
an honour for me to take the floor before the Assembly.
The  President  of  the  Military  Council  for  Justice  and
Democracy  and  head  of  State,  Colonel  Ely  Ould
Mohamed Vall, has asked me to convey his regrets that
he  was  unable 
to  be  here  because  of  pressing
engagements  connected  with  the  democratic  transition
in  Mauritania  and  requested  me  to  convey  his  best
wishes for the success of the meeting.
Like many countries, Mauritania hoped to benefit
from  the  winds  of  democracy  that  have  blown  across
the  world  since  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  However,
the attempt to achieve democracy was aborted after the
caricatural  implementation  of  the  1991  Constitution
and  the  excessive  personalization  of  power.  A  deep
political  crisis  ensued,  characterized  by  the  stifling  of
public  freedoms  and  the  arrest  of  politicians,  opinion
A/60/PV.8
the  people’s 
rampant,  contributing 
leaders  and 
intellectuals.  Clandestine  movements
emerged, and a number of coups d’état were attempted.
At the same time, economic reforms faltered, and poor
management  was 
the
continued  deterioration  of 
living
conditions. The lack of political prospects, in particular
the  impossibility  of  changing  the  situation  through
elections, posed a serious threat to the country and its
future,  leading  the  armed  forces  and  the  national
security 
take
corrective  measures  on  3  August  2005  to  halt  the
country’s  dangerous  slide.  That  change,  which  was
carried  out  peacefully,  without  bloodshed  and  without
disturbing  people’s  everyday  lives,  was  greeted  with
great 
support
unprecedented in the history of our country.
to  decide  unanimously 
tremendous 
popular 
forces 
joy 
and 
to 
to 
regional  and 
formed  around 
the  missions  of 
A  national  consensus 
the
objectives of the corrective measures, as was witnessed
by  delegations  from  fraternal  and  friendly  countries
and 
international
organizations  that  visited  our  country  recently.  The
objective of the measures was to create the conditions
for  the  establishment  of  a  genuine  rule  of  law  and  a
pluralist democracy, which alone can ensure respect for
human  rights  and  good,  transparent  management  of
public 
to  be
accomplished  within  two  years,  with  the  participation
of  all  political,  economic  and  social  actors  of  the
country.  Those  conditions  are  indispensable  for  the
success of any development policy and for the effective
and optimal use of official development assistance and
of  the  national  and  international  resources  needed  to
finance development.
restructuring  was 
affairs.  The 
to  review 
this  meeting.  We  believe 
At  this  historic  moment  in  our  country’s  life,
which  coincides  with  the  summit 
the
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
and  the  means  to  finance  them,  we  express  our
satisfaction  with 
that
developing  countries  have  special  challenges  above
and beyond national consensus on development and the
need  to  establish  policies  based  on  equity,  justice  and
equal  opportunity.  Those  challenges  cannot  be  met
without  the  dynamic  and  effective  solidarity  and
cooperation of the international community, especially
the rich countries.
Mauritania  welcomes  the  major  important  topics
that  were  articulated  in  United  Nations  summits  and
meetings. In that regard, the Monterrey Consensus was
the  starting  point  of  the  partnership  for  development
33
A/60/PV.8
between rich and poor countries. The objectives of the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), to which we
fully 
reference 
for
developmental strategies and for assessing progress.
subscribe,  are  a  point  of 
Mauritania’s  achievement  of  the  MDGs  will
require  long  and  arduous  efforts.  Members  of  our
Organization  surely  know  of  our  political  situation
before  3  August  2005,  which  I  have  just  described.
That  situation  did  not  enable  us  to  make  significant
progress towards implementation of the MDGs. On the
contrary,  the  situation  was  not  at  all  conducive  to
effective  governance  or  to  effective  allocation  of
financial  resources.  The  result  of  this  was  that  public
policies had a limited impact on reducing poverty.
appropriations 
for  MDGs, 
A recent evaluation of the implementation of the
MDGs in Mauritania has found that only a few targets
can  be  implemented  by  2015,  while  a  number  of
others — and some of them very important ones, such
as  health  and  the  environment,  among  others  —
cannot,  unless  major  economic  and  political  changes
are made. The Government is mindful of this situation,
and we have committed ourselves to integrating in our
upcoming national plans the achievement of the MDGs
as a fundamental priority. Emphasis will  be  placed  on
national 
institutional
capacity-building, improvement of the legal framework
and  promotion  of  a  dialogue  with  the  various  actors,
particularly the private sector and civil society.
of 
good
governance — in particular, reducing costs for security,
scrupulous  management  of  public  finances  and  the
priority  allocation  of  resources  to  social  sectors  to
combat poverty — will provide a new impetus to speed
up  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs  in  Mauritania.
Nevertheless, the scope and requirements of the task go
beyond  the  country’s  capacity  and  call  for  ongoing
mobilization on  the  part  of  the  donors  to  help  finance
development and overcome poverty.
trends, 
in 
terms 
These 
new 
The  determined  wish  of  Mauritania’s  Military
Council  for  Justice  and  Democracy 
to  build  a
democratic  society  is  apparent  from  the  agenda  for  a
democratic  transition,  which  sets  out  the  following
points:  first,  organizing  a  constitutional  referendum
within 12 months; secondly, organizing legislative and
presidential  elections  that  are  free  and  transparent,  in
two  years  at  the  most;  thirdly,  reform  of  the  judiciary
to  guarantee  its  independence  and  transparency;  and,
fourthly,  the  establishment  of  a  system  of  good
34
economic  governance.  The  various  measures  adopted
since the correctionist movement of 3 August 2005 will
ensure the carrying out of this agenda and will usher in
a new democratic era, one that will be full of hope for
the people of Mauritania. The implementation of these
measures  will  be  in  addition  to  the  formation  of  a
transitional  civil  Government, 
the  release  of  all
political  prisoners  sentenced  for  their  opinions,  the
ineligibility  of  the  present  members  of  the  Military
Council  to  stand  in  future  legislative  and  presidential
elections and, lastly, the opening up of public media.
This  climate  of  freedom  and  national  harmony
will create  conditions favourable to the success of the
democratic  transition  process  and  to  the  mobilization
of all Mauritanian citizens in achieving the MDGs, the
purpose of the Summit that brings us together today.
In conclusion, I sincerely thank both fraternal and
friendly  countries  and  the  international  and  regional
organizations for their support. We reiterate our appeal
to them for  encouragement as we  build and develop a
democratic and prosperous Mauritania.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
next  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdurrahman  Mohamed
Shalghem,  Secretary  of 
the  General  People’s
Committee  for  Foreign  Liaison  and  International
Cooperation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
Mr.  Shalghem  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke
in  Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the
condolences  of  the  Libyan  people  and  their  leader,
Colonel  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi,  to  the  people  and
Government  of  the  United  States  of  America  for  the
tragedy spawned by Hurricane Katrina.
It gives me great pleasure to congratulate the Co-
Chairpersons  on  their  election  to  preside  over  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  Undoubtedly, 
the
deliberations  of  this  forum  will  be  guided  effectively
and  will  achieve  optimal  results,  thanks  to  their
wisdom and competence. I would like also to take this
opportunity to express our satisfaction with the manner
in  which  their  predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  Foreign
Minister  of  Gabon,  steered  the  deliberations  of  the
previous  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the
intensive consultations that were conducted throughout
the past year in preparation for this meeting.
We  wish  also  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the
efforts  exerted  by  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  to
carry out the decisions of the Organization, to fulfil the
goals of the Charter and to embark on a comprehensive
reform process of all United Nations bodies.
countries,  and  remove  the  obstacles  that  impede  the
access of their products to international markets.
A/60/PV.8
Since  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  our
countries  have  convened  regularly  at  this  forum  in
order to realize the objectives embodied in the Charter
and  achieve  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples  to  the
attainment  of  peace,  security,  progress  and  prosperity
through joint efforts. A great deal has been achieved in
some  areas,  but  many  challenges  remain.  Some  of
these challenges are older than this Organization, such
as  poverty,  ignorance,  disease  and  armed  conflict.
Others  are  new,  brought  about  by  the  changes  and
scientific  progress  that  the  world  has  witnessed  in
recent  decades.  These  challenges  include  eliminating
weapons of mass destruction, countering terrorism and
transnational  organized  crime, 
reaping  maximum
benefits  from  the  information  revolution  and  making
optimum  use  of  biotechnology,  taking  into  account
ethical norms and considerations.
International  solidarity,  translated  into  concrete
action, is the only way to establish an equitable global
economic  system 
that  would  achieve  sustainable
development  and  lead  to  partnership  on  an  equal
footing  between  North  and  South.  Such  solidarity
would  be  conducive 
the  objectives
expressed in the Millennium Declaration.
to  realizing 
To reach all these goals, we have to find ways of
achieving the objectives set out in the Millennium and
Doha  Declarations  and  by 
the  Monterrey  and
Johannesburg  Conferences  for  optimal  use  of  the
earth’s  resources,  for  putting  an  end  to  conflicts,
poverty, illiteracy, epidemic diseases such as AIDS and
malaria,  for  provision  of  water  for  all  and  for
achievement of sustainable development.
We also need effective international  cooperation,
under  the  umbrella  of  the  United  Nations,  in  order  to
eradicate  terrorism  and  transnational  organized  crime,
eliminate  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  ensure
full  respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.
Moreover,  we  need 
international
solidarity  in  combating  racism  and  xenophobia  and
implementing 
to 
the
environment and counter desertification.
obligations 
strengthen 
to 
our 
protect 
It  is  also  incumbent  upon  us  to  work  seriously
towards  the  achievement  of  our  target  of  halving  the
number  of  people  suffering  from  hunger  by  the  year
2015,  take  decisive  action  to  resolve  the  problem  of
external  debt,  which  burdens  a  number  of  developing
assistance 
as  official  development 
Developed  countries  also  have  an  obligation  to
provide 
to
developing  countries  the  agreed-upon  percentage  of
their  gross  national  income.  Furthermore,  developed
countries  that  impose  coercive  measures  on  some
developing countries must put an end to such measures
in  a  show  of  respect  for  international  decisions  that
have  condemned  such  measures  and  have  asked  for
their cancellation.
We  seize  this  occasion  to  urge  creditors,  from
both developed countries and international institutions,
to  cancel  the  debts  of  poor  countries.  We  call  for  the
intensification  of  international  efforts  to  eradicate
agricultural 
low-cost  water
desalination plants, combat desertification, and reclaim
lands and render them suitable for agriculture.
introduce 
pests, 
Sixty  years  have  elapsed  since  this  Organization
was  founded.  Yet,  despite  all  the  sincere  efforts  that
have  been  made,  it  has  not  lived  up  to  its  Charter
promises 
in  such  matters  as  alleviating  human
suffering caused by war, poverty, disease and illiteracy.
This state of affairs has resulted from the fact that the
victorious countries that wrote the Charter conferred on
themselves  rights  and  privileges  which  led  to  the
marginalization of the General Assembly and rendered
the  Security  Council,  in  its  present  form,  inequitable
and  unbalanced.  Those  factors  made  the  Organization
less democratic and led to abuse of the veto privilege.
Those  States  deemed  friends  have  received  support
even  when  they  were  wrong,  enabling  them  to  enjoy
impunity  and  escape  condemnation.  Other  States,
however,  have  been  unjustly  punished  by  sanctions
because  their  policies  were  considered  inharmonious
with those of several of the privileged countries on the
Security Council. The United Nations has thus failed to
administer  justice  to  all  peoples,  making  it  imperative
for all of us to endeavour to reform the Organization.
In  view  of  the  fact  that  there  are  now  191
Member  States  and  that  new  problems  impeding
emancipation  and  growth  have  arisen  —  including
development,  terrorism,  the  environment,  poverty  and
epidemics  —  reform  requires  that  decision-making
power  rests  solely  with  the  General  Assembly.  All
seats in the General Assembly should be equal, and the
Security  Council  should  become  a  mechanism  for
35
A/60/PV.8
implementing  General  Assembly  resolutions,  not  a
forum for vetoing them.
We  have  made  our  position  known  in  document
A/59/876 of 18 July 2005. Africa is the only continent
that  does  not  have  the  permanent  seat  on  the  Security
Council  that  it  deserves.  This  should  be  taken  into
account in reforming the United Nations. Such reform
should  enable  the  continent  to  compete  for  new
permanent seats on the Security Council.
As a member of the African Union, we affirm our
adherence  to  the  African  Common  Position  issued  by
the fifth African Union Summit, held in Sirte on 4 and
5 July 2005, and reaffirmed by the fourth extraordinary
session of the Assembly of the African Union, held in
Addis  Ababa  on  4  August  2005.  That  Position  holds
that  two  permanent  Security  Council  seats  should  be
allocated  to  Africa,  with  full  privileges,  including  the
power of veto, in addition to five non-permanent seats.
It  also  calls  for  strengthening  the  lead  role  of  the
General Assembly.
We  prefer  that  the  two  permanent  African  seats
be  reserved  for  the  African  Union  rather  than  for
specific  countries.  We  thank  Members  for  having
responded  to  our  proposal  to  postpone  discussion  of
Security  Council  reform  in  order  to  allow  for  the
possibility for reaching a practical formula that would
serve  peace,  security,  stability  and  progress  in  the
world.
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullahi  Sheikh  Ismail,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Somali Republic.
Mr. Ismail (Somalia): It gives me great pleasure
to  address  this  assembly  of  world  leaders  and  to
present  our  sincere  congratulations 
the  Co-
Chairpersons  on  their  well-deserved  election.  We  are
confident  that  they  will  guide  our  deliberations  to  a
successful conclusion. Let me also commend Mr. Jean
Ping  for  the  able  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the
work of the Assembly during his presidency.
to 
On behalf of the Transitional Federal Government
of Somalia allow me first  and  foremost to convey our
sincere condolences to the President and the people of
the  United  States  of  America,  in  particular  to  the
populations living on the Gulf coast, where a ferocious
hurricane has killed and displaced thousands of people,
destroying  cities  and  infrastructure,  causing  untold
hardship  and  suffering.  We  are  indeed  happy  and
36
the  overwhelming 
encouraged  by 
support  and
international  solidarity  extended  to  the  victims  of  that
tragedy  and  hope  that  the  distressed  families  will
regain  normal  life  as  soon  as  possible.  The  Somali
people  truly  associate  themselves  with  the  anxieties
and  pain  experienced  by  the  people  of  the  United
States  of  America,  and  we  feel  that  our  human
solidarity  could  be  considered  as  a  most  valuable
expression of compassion and moral help.
like 
to 
take 
to 
I  would 
this  opportunity 
this  world  body  working 
to
congratulate  the  United  Nations  upon  its  sixtieth
anniversary and to express our renewed confidence and
commitment 
for
international  peace  and  the  progress  of  humanity.  We
also  commend  the  Organization  for  the  tireless  and
invaluable  contribution 
the
attainment  of  sustainable  peace  and  socio-economic
development,  as  well  as  for  upholding  the  political
rights of all people, irrespective of race, gender, social
status or beliefs.
it  has  made 
towards 
Of  course,  nobody  can  deny  that  setbacks  and
the
general  disappointments  were  unavoidable 
history  of 
that  certain
expectations  were  not  completely  fulfilled,  but  the
ideals  remain  intact  and  as  valid  as  on  the  day  of  the
Organization’s inception.
the  United  Nations  and 
in 
The  world  is  still  ravaged  by  conflicts,  political
misperceptions  and  poverty  that  still  need  to  be
addressed  so  that  harmony,  understanding  and  an
equitable  sharing  of  resources  can  be  attained  in  the
interest  of  world  peace  and  unprejudiced  international
cooperation.
The  recognition  of  the  right  of  the  Palestinian
people  to  a  State  of  their  own  alongside  Israel  and  a
peaceful Middle East region are still fundamental aims
to  be  achieved  so  as  to  strengthen  world  peace  and
security.
In  this  new  post-cold-war  era,  internal  conflicts
are replacing inter-State confrontations in international
affairs.  Any  new  situation  demands  a  fresh  approach,
so  there  is  a  need  for  a  new  outlook  in  order  to  have
sustainable regional and international stability.
Poverty 
and  underdevelopment 
cannot  be
dissociated  from  the  increased  international  tension
and  conflict  that  afflict  political  stability  in  various
parts of the world, thus poisoning normal relationships
between  nations,  because  boundaries  are  pointless  in
this age of  global  interaction.  There  can  be  no  human
security  unless  this  reality  of  interconnectedness  is
taken  into  proper  consideration  in  all  our  policy  and
decision-making  processes.  Today,  the  balance  of
rational reasoning is the only guarantee of international
security  and  comprehension;  we  cannot  rely  on
imbalances of force.
Reforming  the  United  Nations  is  one  of  the  key
ways  to  face  all  of  these  new  challenges  of  the  new
millennium  by  making 
the  Organization  more
democratic, 
transparent,  efficient  and  capable  of
responding  to  the  diverse  aspirations  and  concerns  of
the various components of the international community
at the continental and regional levels.
Let  me  now  turn  to  the  current  developments  in
my country, Somalia. The conflict that has prevailed in
Somalia for the past 14 years is attributed basically to
the absence of an adequate international response. It is
well  known  that  the  upsurge  of  civil  war  has  led  to  a
total  collapse  of  our  national 
institutions  and
infrastructure,  with  drastic  consequences  and  grave
implications  for  the  stability  of  the  entire  region  and
for international peace and security.
I am not here to dwell at length on the causes of
the  conflict,  but  on  its  costs  and  consequences,  since
evil  can  originate  from 
imperceptible  man-made
tragedies  and  circumstances.  International  political
indifference  and  a  sense  of  inertia  have  characterized
the conduct of the international community, which has
aggravated  the  civil  war  and  allowed  unabated  human
suffering and environmental destruction to continue in
my country. What the Somali people desire and deserve
is  active  engagement  on  the  part  of  the  international
community  and  not  abandonment  or  a  surrender  of
hope.
The  past,  with  all  its  sorrows,  is  past  but  the
repercussions of forgotten international obligations are
still  vivid  and  present.  The  international  community
must contribute to the revival of our State and to stand
by  our  side  in  our  effort  to  rebuild  our  nation  rather
than  indulging  in  trivialities.  Here,  there  must  be
synergy of great minds and principled commitments to
help  the  Somali  people  overcome  their  political  and
human  debacle  rather  than  assuming  a  pathetic  or
passive attitude.
In  this  context,  however,  we  cannot  forget  the
the
critical 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD),
States  members 
role 
of 
of 
A/60/PV.8
the  African  Union,  the  IGAD  Partners  Forum,  the
European  Union,  the  Arab  League  and  the  United
Nations  in  providing  support  and  encouragement  for
the  Somali  national  reconciliation  process  that  took
place in Kenya for almost three years.
At  this  juncture,  allow  me  to  express  our  deep
gratitude  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of  Kenya
for  hosting 
the  Somali  National  Reconciliation
Conference.  We  also  thank  our  brothers  in  Kenya  and
in  all  neighbouring  countries  for  sheltering  thousands
of  Somali  refugees  in  their  territory  throughout  these
years of turmoil and conflict.
special 
to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  for  his  tireless  efforts  to
bring  the  Somali  conflict  to  an  end  and  for  all  the
humanitarian  aid  that  has  been  provided  during  these
long years of unrest and civil strife.
Moreover,  a 
tribute  goes 
The  culmination  of  all  these  efforts  was  the
establishment  of  a  Transitional  Federal  Government,
whose  delegation  to  this  summit  is  guided  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Abdullahi  Yusuf  Ahmed,  President  of
the Federal Republic of Somalia.
Now,  as  we  speak,  the  new  state  institutions  are
operating  from  within  our  country,  temporarily  from
Jowhar,  the  provincial  capital  of  the  lower  Shabelle
region,  situated  only  90  kilometres  from  Mogadishu,
the capital city of Somalia.
The  Transitional  Federal  Government  is  actively
engaged  in  promoting  a  favourable  political  and
security  climate  and  is  committed  to  establishing
operational  offices  in  the  capital  and  in  other  parts  of
the  country  as  an  essential  part  of  its  political
obligation  to  reach  out  to  the  entire  population  and
promote broad-based, grassroots reconciliation.
The  Transitional  Federal  Government 
is
committed  to  the  strengthening  and  consolidation  of
the  transitional  institutions  as  pillars  of  democratic
governance  without,  at  the  same  time,  condoning  the
use  of  domestic  differences  of  opinion  to  undermine
the  achievements  of  a  two-year-long  reconciliation
process and perpetuate anarchy and chaos again.
However,  direct  dialogue  will  be  our  key
instrument  to  promote  inter-institutional  cooperation
without  sacrificing  the  aspirations  of  our  people.  No
group  will  ever  be  denied  the  opportunity  to  have  an
independent  political  platform,  within  the  context  of
37
A/60/PV.8
normal and acceptable parliamentary and constitutional
traditions.
We feel that the stability of Somalia should not be
the work of the Somalis alone, as wickedly — I repeat
wickedly — propagated and as often repeated. Though
the  responsibility  for  past  failure  is  partly  ours,  the
international  community  has  no  excuse  for  distancing
itself,  regardless  of  what  situation  prevails.  It  is,
therefore,  our 
international
community  should  support  us  fully  in  this  crucial
consolidation period so as to restore peace and stability
completely  for  the  sake  of  nation-building  and  the
reconstruction  of  our  country,  since  everything  has  to
start from scratch.
firm  belief 
that 
the 
The  absence  of  firm  support  for  the  readmission
of Somalia into the fold of the international community
and  for  making  it  stable  will  only  play  into  the  hands
of international terrorism and of those who promote the
continuation  of  an  environment  of  chaos  and
lawlessness.
In 
conclusion, 
the  Transitional 
Federal
Government  deems  this  rostrum  the  appropriate  place
from which to launch a vibrant appeal to the members
of  the  international  community  to  come  to  the  aid  of
Somalia  with  all  their  determination  and  resources,  to
help our people overcome 14 years of civil war and the
consequent deterioration in all spheres of life. That will
help not only to safeguard regional stability but also to
safeguard  the  stability  of  the  international  community
as well.
The  Transitional  Federal  Government  strongly
urges  the  United  Nations  to  support  the  current
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  and
African  Union  efforts  to  send  a  peace  stabilization
mission  to  Somalia  in  order  to  help  restore  peace  and
security  and  prevent  a  reoccurrence  of  hostilities  and
violence,  so 
transition  period  will  be
instrumental  in  establishing  the  democratic  society  to
which  we  aspire  and  which  will  permit  us  to  achieve
long-lasting peace once again.
that 
the 
For  the  values  of  solidarity  to  prevail  as  far  as
Somalia  is  concerned,  we  urgently  call  upon  the
international  community  to  act  swiftly,  without  wait-
and-see  attitudes,  which  could  produce  an  undesired
slide backwards instead of forward movement towards
stability and institutional consolidation.
38
In  the  name  of  our  people  —  men,  women,
children,  elders,  all  the  displaced  families  and  our
deprived younger generation — I strongly appeal to the
Assembly  and,  in  all  humility,  hope  that  our  plea  will
be heeded.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  call  next  on
His Excellency Mr. Mario Fortín Midence, Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Honduras.
Mr.  Fortín Midence  (Honduras)  (spoke 
in
Spanish):  Multilateralism 
is  a  political  necessity.
Honduras  feels  protected  by  an  effective  multilateral
system  based  on  full  respect  for  international  law  and
built on the foundations of the purposes and principles
of the United Nations.
to  achieve  a  higher 
As we assess these 60 years of our Organization’s
history — an anniversary we celebrate with joy — we
view  this  summit  and  this  General  Assembly  as  an
opportunity  for  hope,  change  and  renewal.  Never
before  in  history  have  so  many  heads  of  State  and
Government  been  present  and  participated  in  the
debates as during these three days. That encourages us.
Nonetheless,  we  are  concerned  that  we  have  not
yet  been  able 
level  of
understanding  on  elements  that  are  vital  to  allow  our
Organization to assume greater responsibility vis-à-vis
the  challenges  of  this  millennium.  It  was  with  some
disappointment  that  we  received  the  report  dealing
with the comprehensive reform of the United Nations.
We  would  have  liked  further  progress  rather  than  the
deferral  of  a  decision  to  an  uncertain  date.  It  would
have been gratifying to come out of this meeting with
an  agreement  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council
and to see admitted to the Council new States that are
net 
social
development  of  peoples,  such  as  Japan  and  Germany.
We would also have been pleased to return to our home
country  with  a  stronger  agreement  to  ensure  the  full
implementation  of  fundamental  human  rights.  We
regret the fact that work was not completed in time for
the creation of the Human Rights Council, an initiative
proposed  by 
the  Secretary-General  which  we
enthusiastically support.
contributors 
economic 
and 
to 
the 
Our 
Charter 
enshrines 
universality 
of
participation  as  well  as  the  inalienable  right  of  all
peace-loving  people  that  abide  by  its  principles  to  be
present  in  our  deliberations  and  to  be  stakeholders  in
the  agreements  adopted  here.  For  this  reason,  we
understand the aspiration of the people of Taiwan, who
want  to  share  with  us  the  responsibility  of  building  a
better world for all.
an  affront  to  the  poor,  who  thereby  become  further
impoverished.
A/60/PV.8
Conscious  of  our  commitment  to  international
peace  and  security,  we  express  our  hope  that  a
comprehensive  convention  on 
terrorism  will  be
concluded  as  soon  as  possible.  Terrorism  is  a  scourge
that tramples all principles underfoot, be they moral or
religious,  and  violates  all  human  rights.  For  this
reason,  we  welcome  the  assessment  document  as  an
instrument  to  speed  our  work  and  to  make  new  and
stronger agreements possible.
the  path 
to 
the  attainment  of 
Five  minutes  to  assess  progress  and  evaluate
obstacles  on 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  is  very  little  time.
Honduras  is  following  the  course  charted  by  our
national  consensus,  reflected  in  the  formulation  of  a
strategy  for  poverty  reduction  and  a  policy  for  its
implementation. Honduras is taking firm steps towards
building a more inclusive democracy.
Our gross domestic product (GDP) has exceeded
the  goals  we  set,  and  investment  in  the  fight  against
poverty, has, as a proportion of GDP, also been slightly
higher  than  forecast.  Indicators  in  education,  the
environment,  gender  issues  and  other  areas  are  also
encouraging,  but  they  have  not  reached  the  level  to
which my Government aspires.
It is our hope that the resources released through
foreign  debt  cancellation,  in  the  framework  of  the
Highly  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative,  the
Paris  Club  and  the  G-8,  and  the  redirection  of  those
funds to finance integral development through the fight
against  poverty  will  do  much  to  help  us  meet  the
deadline  in  attaining  our  goals  for  the  year  2015.  All
Hondurans are firmly committed to this.
Equally  important  in  this  regard  are  the  funds
from  the  Millennium  Challenge  Account,  which  are
geared  towards  the  sectors  of  road  infrastructure  and
agricultural  productivity.  Although  some  progress  has
been  made,  that  very  progress  is  jeopardized  by  high
prices for petroleum products. In fact, these high prices
undermine,  threaten  and  compromise  the  fight  against
poverty and all the goals that we have established and
pledged to fulfil by the year 2015. The increase in fuel
prices  in  recent  months  represents  for  Honduras  an
expenditure 25 times higher than what is invested each
year  in  free  school  lunches  for  all  the  children  of  our
country. These prices are unacceptable. They constitute
Our  Organization  must,  as  a  matter  of  urgency
and without excuses, seek a mechanism that can help to
stem  this  constant  increase,  the  impact  of  which  on
developing countries is really dramatic.
No  less  dramatic  and  moving  are  the  scenes
showing  the  tragedy  in  the  southern  states  of  the
United  States  of  America.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of
persons,  including  a  very  large  number  of  Hondurans,
are  now  trying  to  find  a  way  to  overcome  the
devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina. We extend to
all  of  them  the  warm  solidarity  of  the  people  of
Honduras and of the Government of President Ricardo
Maduro.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): Before  giving
the floor to the next speaker, I wish to inform members
about the corrected versions of paragraphs 60 (a), 163
and 164 (c) of the draft outcome document (A/60/L.1).
Please  discard  earlier  versions  and  use  only  the  6.30
p.m. version, which is now being distributed. The 6.30
p.m. version is the only valid one.
I  also  wish  to  inform  members  that  delegations
having 
linguistic  concerns  about  draft  resolution
A/60/L.1  should  transmit  them  in  writing  to  the
Secretariat. Such linguistic corrections will be reflected
in the final version of the draft resolution.
I  call  now  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah
Mohamed  Alsaidi,  Chairman  of  the  delegation  of
Yemen.
Mr.  Alsaidi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First  of
all, I should like to congratulate Ambassador Eliasson
on his election to the presidency of this session.
It  is  an  honour  to  participate  in  this  Meeting,
where  we  are  considering  the  extent  to  which  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  have  been
achieved  in  an  effort  to  create  a  world  of  prosperity
and progress.
It  is  my  duty  to  present  the  condolences  and
sympathies  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the
Republic of Yemen to the people and the Government
of  the  United  States  of  America  in  the  wake  of  the
recent  natural  disaster,  Hurricane  Katrina. We  must
international  mechanism  within 
create  an 
this
Organization 
to  strengthen  and  coordinate  efforts
aimed at alleviating the suffering of victims of natural
39
A/60/PV.8
the 
Now 
that  we  have  entered 
disasters,  and  also  to  design  early  warning  systems  to
reduce the colossal losses and damage caused by them.
twenty-first
century,  we  must  take  another  look  at  the  state  of
international  relations,  so  that  they  will  be  based  on
trust,  dialogue  and  cooperation.  We  must,  therefore,
focus  totally  on  United  Nations  reform,  reconciling
viewpoints,  while  avoiding  fragmented  interests  that
would not help us to achieve the goals of such reform.
While the reform process will allow us to expand
some bodies or to create other bodies, the aim must be
to strengthen credibility and transparency, while at the
same  time  enhancing  the  role  of  the  Organization  and
its effectiveness in maintaining and building peace.
that 
those 
The  Republic  of  Yemen  stresses  the  importance
of implementing the MDGs adopted in 2000, as well as
the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  outcome  of  the
Johannesburg Summit, in order to free humankind from
want,  poverty  and  disease.  At  the  same  time,  we  are
convinced 
lofty  objectives  cannot  be
achieved  unless  there  is  equity  in  international  trade
relations. Indeed, trade barriers and protectionism clash
with  the  objectives  of  the  World  Trade  Organization
and  undermine 
in
developing countries. It is also important for developed
countries  to  fulfil  their  commitments,  by  providing
support  and  the  necessary  investments  to  help  build
capacities in the least developed countries.
the  attainment  of 
the  MDGs 
We are convinced of the importance of the MDGs
and  how  to  achieve  them;  therefore,  our  country  has
undertaken  some  financial,  administrative  and  legal
reforms  and  measures  with  the  involvement  of  non-
governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  and  civil  society
partners,  which  are  essential  in  helping  us  achieve
socio-economic progress in our country.
countries, 
Moreover, 
the  Government  of  Yemen, 
in
cooperation  with  donor 
international
organizations and specialized agencies, has established
its  second  five-year  plan  to  curb  poverty  by  means  of
quick-impact  projects  to  train  professionals,  provide
health  services  and  build  roads,  so  that  all  public
services reach all parts of the country. We should also
commend the G-8 countries on what they have done to
provide  debt  relief  to  16  African  countries;  but  other
countries  also  suffer  from  debt,  and  the  G-8  should
give  similar  attention  to  countries  that  have  the  same
problems.
40
I am certain that if international efforts to achieve
economic  and  political 
reform,  promote  good
governance  and  combat  poverty  were  to  go  beyond
mere  words  and  become  programmes  and  plans  of
action,  humanity  would  know  stability  and  prosperity
and international relations would be marked by mutual
understanding,  genuine  partnership  and  converging
interests.
Finally,  I  should  like  to  thank  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  for  his  ongoing  efforts  to  reform  our
Organization.  I  also  wish  to  thank  Mr.  Jean  Ping,
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth
session,  for  guiding  the  difficult  negotiations  that
culminated in the draft outcome document (A/60/L.1).
We extend to him our best wishes.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): We  shall  now
hear brief oral presentations by the Chairpersons of the
four  round-table  sessions.  I  first  give  the  floor  to  the
Deputy  Permanent  Representative  of  Australia,
Ambassador  Frances  Lisson,  who,  on  behalf  of  the
Chairman  of 
session  held  on
Wednesday  afternoon,  His  Excellency  Mr.  John
Howard,  Prime  Minister  of  Australia,  will  present  a
summary of that round table.
round-table 
the 
Ms.  Lisson  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to
present  to  the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  the
Chairman  of  round  table  1,  His  Excellency  Mr.  John
Howard,  the  Prime  Minister  of  Australia,  a  brief
summary  of  the  round  table,  which  was  held  on
Wednesday,  14  September  2005.  Prime  Minister
Howard  had  to  leave  this  afternoon  and  has  asked  me
to present the statement on his behalf.
The broad sentiment that was shared in the round
table  was  a  sense  of  optimism  for  the  future  of  the
United  Nations.  That  prevalent  sentiment  was  evident
despite some ambivalent comments around the table on
the  draft  outcome  document  (A/60/L.1)  to  be  adopted
by  the  Assembly  later  this  evening.  Most  of  the
participants  felt  that  the  draft  outcome  document
excluded  many  things  which  should  have  been  at  its
heart  and  that  it  has  not  gone  far  enough  in  other
matters. As one participant put it, this view is the result
of  the  politics  of  expectation:  the  expectations  of  this
summit  were  much  higher  and  much  more  wide-
ranging  than  what  is  contained  in  the  draft  outcome
document.  The  major  sense  of  disappointment  relates
to neglect of the issues of disarmament and the risk of
nuclear proliferation.
However, on the positive side, strong support was
expressed  for  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the
the  United  Nations  human  rights
revamping  of 
machinery  and 
the  mutual
interdependence  of  the  developed  and  the  developing
worlds.  The  other  significant  trend  in  our  discussions
was the strong emphasis on poverty eradication and on
meeting  our  commitments  for  the  realization  of  the
Millennium Development Goals.
recognition  of 
the 
In summary, the overall sense of the round  table
was  that  the  draft  outcome  document  represents  a
general  balance  of  issues  and  that  it  contains  clear
benefits that are achievable through the  Peacebuilding
Commission, the  Democracy  Fund,  the  “responsibility
to protect” and development outcomes.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
to 
of  Poland,
the  Permanent  Representative 
Mr. Andrzej  Towpik,  who,  on  behalf  of  the  Chairman
of the round-table session held yesterday morning, His
Excellency Mr. Aleksander Kwasniewski, President of
the  Republic  of  Poland,  will  present  the  summary  of
that round table.
Mr.  Towpik  (Poland):  Half  an  hour  ago,  the
President of Poland, Mr. Aleksander Kwasniewski, had
to  leave  the  Hall,  with  great  regret,  for  technical
reasons. I will read out his report.
“More 
leaders 
to  highlight 
than  26  world 
and
representatives  of  United  Nations  entities,  took
the floor to evaluate our draft outcome document
(A/60/L.1), 
its  gaps  and  other
deficiencies, to bring out the promising elements
and  to  make  further  suggestions  for  reforms.
These  leaders  emphasized  that  multilateralism
was  the  only  way  to  respond  to  the  challenges
and threats of the increasingly interdependent and
globalized  age  of  the  twenty-first  century.  There
was  a  remarkable  call  to  make  the  summit  the
summit  of  solidarity,  especially  with  Africa,  the
summit  of  responsibility  in  a  broad  partnership
for  development,  the  summit  of  the  individual
with  progress  on  human  rights  and  the  new
Human Rights Council, and, last but not least, the
summit of courage to accelerate the reform of the
United Nations.
“My 
impression 
round-table
discussion  is  that  we  share  a  positive  feeling
about  the  sixtieth-anniversary  summit  of  the
United  Nations.  As  one  of  the  participants  said,
the 
of 
A/60/PV.8
the  train  is  moving  in  a  good  direction,  but  we
need to ensure that there are no accidents on the
way. The reforms at all levels have to be pursued
with  a  sense  of  justice,  fair  play  and  respect  for
human  rights,  fundamental  freedoms  and  civil
liberties.  As  another  participating  leader  put  it,
our  global  village  needs  global  democracy.  The
general view was that the reforms are not a one-
off event but a process, a step in a long journey.
“My 
is 
the 
second 
that 
the
impression 
participants  strongly  supported 
idea  of
enhancing  our  efforts  to  promote  development,
including  making  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  an  operational  reality.  Development  and
poverty  eradication  remain  one  of  the  most
important  pillars  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we
must not  be  found  lacking  in  energy  in  realizing
those  ambitious  Goals  when  we  reach  2015.
International solidarity for development seems to
be  a  necessity,  and  all  domestic  efforts  must  be
complemented  by 
international
community at large.
those  of 
the 
“My third general observation on the round-
table  discussion  concerns  the  strong  support
expressed  for  the  initiatives  of  strengthening
human  rights  and  promoting  democracy.  The
launching  of 
the
intention  to  continue  work  on  the  establishment
of 
to  be
consolidated,  and  our  objectives  in  this  regard
should be reinforced and carried out.
the  Human  Rights  Council  need 
the  Democracy  Fund  and 
“The  three  hours  of  discussions  in  an
informal,  interactive  mode  lead  me  to  conclude
that there are more  areas of convergence than of
divergence. The summit has provided us with an
excellent opportunity for candid exchanges, and I
conclude by sharing the sense of optimism for the
future  of  multilateralism  and  the  role  of  the
United  Nations.  But  there  is  a  long  way  to  go,
and determination and the full implementation of
our decisions and resolutions will be required.”
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor to the Chairperson of the round-table session held
yesterday  afternoon,  His  Excellency  The  Honourable
Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  of  Antigua
and Barbuda.
41
A/60/PV.8
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  It  was  an
honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  chair  round  table  3,
and  now  I  face  the  daunting  task  of  presenting  to  the
Assembly  a  summary  of  the  complex  discussion.  I
would  like  to  thank  those  leaders  who  participated
actively  in  round  table  3  for  what  I  believe  was  an
inspiring  exchange  of  views  on  a  broad  canvas  of
issues.
At a general level, my sense of the round table is
that 
the 
leaders  expressed  both  enthusiasm  and
frustration,  enthusiasm  on  the  progress  made  in  some
areas and, at the same time, frustration with the lack of
progress  in  other  areas.  I  believe  that  while  much
remains to be done for a world free from want and fear,
the  discussion  underscored  that  the  steps  taken  so  far
are  significant  in  helping  to  meet  the  aspirations  and
the concerns of people  everywhere.  The  summit,  after
all, is not the proverbial silver bullet but the launch of
a  process  and  the  indication  of  the  collective  will  for
change.
Many of the statements around the table focused
on  development.  Participants  stressed  the  importance
of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).
Examples  were  provided  of  how  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  were  systematically  used  by
national institutions to assess and guide public policies
in the economic and social fields. Some leaders spoke
of  the  adoption  of  new  targets,  for  example,  on
domestic  violence.  And  the  idea  of  strengthening  the
global  partnership 
the  MDGs  was
supported.
implement 
to 
Speakers  underlined  the  need  for  a  coherent
policy  on  trade  and  aid,  as  well  as  the  need  to  assess
the  impact  of  aid  policies,  for  example,  procurement
rules on the quality of aid. Some mutually reinforcing
deficits  were  highlighted 
the
achievement of MDGs, namely the deficit of resources
and limited implementation.
as  undermining 
The  unique  challenges  of  landlocked  and  small
island  developing  nations  were  addressed.  Several
participants  underscored  the  potential  of  information
and  communications 
to  help
achieve the Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other
development goals and, in light of this, the importance
of  improving  developing  countries’  access  to  ICT.
Concerns about the global environment, especially the
vulnerability of small island developing States, pointed
technologies 
(ICT) 
42
to the need for tackling diverse problems in a spirit of
solidarity.
in  small 
The  increased  presence  of  United  Nations  field
offices 
island  developing  States  was
considered  necessary  to  cover  the  wide  geographic
areas  over  which  the  islands  are  spread,  ensuring
environmental sustainability, resolute action on climate
change before the expiry of the Kyoto Protocol in 2012
and  concrete  measures  on  desertification  were  all
stressed as key global challenges.
The  General  Assembly’s  decision  to  cancel  debt
arrears  for  several  highly  indebted  poor  countries  was
praised,  yet  participants  noted  that  the  quality  and
effectiveness of aid were equally important and that all
official  development  assistance  should  be  equally
provided to all countries in need.
Of concern was the lack of progress in addressing
the  debt  problem  of  middle-income  countries.
Participants  were  also  concerned  about  the  issue  of
conditionality  attached  to  debt  cancellation  and  the
impact this would have on the quality of aid.
In  addition,  the  need  for  coherence  of  aid  and
trade  policies  was  underlined  in  order  to  ensure  that
official  development  assistance,  trade  and  debt  relief,
when taken together, would lead to a net result that was
positive for development.
The hope was expressed that the G-8 commitment
to  double  aid  to  Africa  by  2010  would  be  realized.
Efforts made by Africa to stand as a solid counterpart
to its development partners were emphasized. The New
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  was
recognized  as  a  good  home-made  initiative  which
deserved strong external support.
negotiations  was 
The  importance  of  making  international  trade  a
real  engine  for  development  was  emphasized.  The
early  completion  of  the  Doha  round  of  multilateral
trade 
essential.
Participants  welcomed  the  reference  in  the  outcome
document  to  access  and  benefit  sharing  in  relation  to
genetic  resources  and  underlined  the  importance  of
global  cooperation  in  developing  information  and
knowledge-based  societies  as  a  vehicle  to  nurture
democracy and eradicate poverty.
considered 
The  link  between  humanitarian  assistance  and
development was emphasized and the need for greater
international  cooperation  to  establish  the  context  for
evolving  durable  solutions  and  addressing  root  causes
of crises, abuse and instability highlighted.
Participants welcomed the proposed reform of the
United  Nations  human  rights  machinery.  Some  called
for  the  development  of  a  set  of  criteria  against  which
the  human  rights  record  of  all  countries  would  be
assessed.
Speakers  stressed  the  need  for  United  Nations
reform and emphasized that this historic opportunity to
strengthen  the  United  Nations  should  not  be  missed
and that the reform process should be guided by open
and extensive consultations.
the 
that 
It  was  also  stressed 
interests  of
developing  countries,  which  account  for  two  thirds  of
United Nations membership, should be safeguarded in
the  process.  The  need  for  a  more  representative
Security  Council  was  emphasized,  including  through
an increased presence and weight of African countries.
A  reformed  United  Nations  would  give  developing
countries  a  sense  of  ownership  in  the  Organization,
making the decisions of its organs easier to implement.
Despite  the  mixed  views  we  have  on  the  details
of  the  draft  outcome  document  (A/60/L.1),  it  was
heartening for me to hear the continued faith expressed
in multilateralism through the United Nations in order
to  meet  the  aspirations  of  our  people.  I  hope  that  the
promise of the draft outcome document will be realized
through quick progress on the commitments contained
therein.  Where  further  action  is  needed,  the  General
Assembly should work extra hours and hard to  ensure
that the contours of the ideas are transformed into firm
legislative  and  operational  realities  before  momentum
is lost.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
to  the  Chairman  of  the  round-table  session  held  this
morning,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Olusegun  Obasanjo,
President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
President  Obasanjo:  It  gives  me  great  pleasure
to present to the General Assembly a brief summary of
round table 4, which was held this morning and which
I  had  the  honour  to  chair.  Members  have  heard
summaries of three round tables already, and, while not
breaking  new  ground,  round  table  4  added  its  own
perspectives to the forthcoming deliberation.
My  overall  impression  of  this  morning’s  candid
discussion is that our shared assessment of the summit
is that it is a success. Not an unqualified success in the
A/60/PV.8
sense  that  all  191  Member  States  can  go  home  and
claim  that  they  have  achieved  everything  that  they
wanted. But a success in that we reaffirmed our faith in
the  multilateral  system.  We  have  also  prepared  the
groundwork for the significant changes and reforms in
which  this  Assembly  must  actively  engage  to  give
effective  meaning  in  a  legislative  and  operational
sense.
century,  particularly 
The  outcome  document  clearly  emphasizes  the
vital  role  that  the  United  Nations  has  to  play  in  the
twenty-first 
its  broad
recognition  of  the  interconnection  between  security
and  development,  the  creation  of  the  Peacebuilding
Commission,  the  establishment  of  the  principle  of  the
responsibility to protect, and the emerging will to give
shape to a Human Rights Council.
in 
Of  course,  gaps  and  omissions  remain.  These
include  the  failure  to  agree  on  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  which  no  longer  represents  the  realities  of
2005,  or  on  measures  to  further  non-proliferation  and
disarmament,  and  a  sense  of  disappointment  that  the
high expectations on a broad range of issues, including
the  concept  of 
the
International  Criminal  Court,  were  not  met.  The
language  on 
to  protect  crystallizes  a
commitment to make sure that we  do  not  see  a  repeat
of  Rwanda,  Darfur  and  other  terrible  events  that  have
characterized the past decade.
impunity  and 
the  right 
the 
role  of 
This is a truly significant achievement. It must be
accompanied  with  a  will  to  protect.  Participants  also
reiterated their condemnation of terrorism as one of the
greatest threats to international peace and security and
emphasized 
importance  of  redoubling  efforts
towards a global convention against terrorism.
the 
The  need  to  assist  developing  countries  lacking
capacity  to  combat  terrorism  was  also  stressed.  One
area  that  was  singled  out  was  the  need  for  safe
transportation by sea and air. Security of the sea lanes
must  be  enhanced.  Development  must  remain  at  the
centre  of  trade  negotiation.  Moreover,  globalization
must  be  more  inclusive  and  equitable.  The  specific
needs  of  developing  countries  must  be  taken  into
consideration and favourable access to markets should
be granted to small countries. Special efforts have to be
made  to  help  developing  countries,  and  especially
those in Africa, to build an environment able to attract
foreign investment.
43
A/60/PV.8
also 
A  concern  regarding  the  capacity  of  low-  and
middle-income  countries  to  reach  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  was 
expressed.  One
suggestion  was  to  facilitate  access  to  international
financial  institutions  for  countries  listed  as  low-  and
medium-income  States.  We  need  reform  of 
the
international  monetary  and  financial  institutions,  as
well  as  to  set  right  other  systemic  imbalances,  to
ensure equitable development.
Another cause for optimism is the promise of the
reform  of  the  management  and  budget  of  the  United
Nations. A broad consensus emerged with regard to the
need  to  strengthen  and  reform  the  United  Nations  so
that  it  can  effectively  play  its  vital  role  in  addressing
the  multidimensional 
the
international  community  in  the  twenty-first  century.
Emphasis  was 
to  heighten
democratization in the decision-making of international
organizations. In that connection, one participant called
for the strengthening of the power of the Economic and
Social Council so that it can address the integration of
trade and finance and development issues.
faced  by 
challenges 
laid  on 
the  need 
Finally — and this will be the greatest challenge
of all — national commitments must now be fulfilled.
The gap between commitments and actions should not
continue, and we should return home, after the summit,
determined 
the  national  and
international levels. In that context, the role of national
parliaments in defining and implementing development
policies  was  identified  —  a  role  which  could  be
maximized through a strategic partnership between the
Inter-Parliamentary Union and the United Nations.
take  action  at 
to 
I  leave  here  today  with  a  profound  sense  of
optimism  for  the  days  ahead.  While  it  is  clear  that
much  work  remains  to  be  done  by  the  international
community  at  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  nevertheless  the  progress  achieved  by  the
summit  in  its  draft  outcome  document  must  not  be
underestimated.  The  momentum  gained  must  continue
in  order  to  move  forward  with  the  implementation  of
the broad agreement achieved.
44
Items 48 and 121 of the provisional agenda
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United
Nations conferences and summits in the economic,
social and related fields
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit
Draft resolution (A/60/L.1)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  We  shall  now
turn to draft resolution A/60/L.1, entitled “2005 World
Summit Outcome”.
We, the leaders of the world, have for three days
discussed how the United Nations can be strengthened
to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. The
basis for our deliberations has been  the  draft  outcome
document  negotiated  under  the  able  leadership  of
Mr. Jean  Ping,  former  President  of 
the  General
Assembly,  and  referred  to  the  summit  by  the  General
Assembly earlier this week. It is a package of changes
to enhance the system of collective security. Following
the  Millennium  Declaration,  it  reviews  progress  and
makes  recommendations  in  the  areas  of  development,
peace  and  security,  human  rights  and  institutional
reform.  The  Assembly  has  before 
it  document
A/60/L.1.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  this  Meeting  can
adopt  the  document  entitled  “2005  World  Summit
Outcome”,  thereby  sending  a  strong  political  message
about our collective commitment to the United Nations
and its Charter.
Before proceeding further, I should like to consult
the  Assembly,  with  a  view  to  proceeding  with  the
consideration  of  draft  resolution  A/60/L.1,  entitled
“2005  World  Summit  Outcome”.  In  that  connection,
since the draft resolution has only been circulated this
morning,  it  would  be  necessary  to  waive  the  relevant
provision  of  rule  78  of  the  rules  of  procedure.  The
relevant provision of rule 78 reads as follows:
“As a general rule, no proposal shall be discussed
or  put  to  the  vote  at  any  meeting  of  the  General
Assembly unless copies of it have been circulated
to all delegations not later than the day preceding
the meeting.”
Unless I hear any objection, I shall take it that the
Assembly  agrees  with  my  proposal  to  waive  that
provision of rule 78 of the rules of procedure.
It was so decided.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  We  shall  now
proceed to consider draft resolution A/60/L.1.
I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian
Republic  of  Venezuela,  who  wishes  to  speak  in
explanation  of  position  before  action  is  taken  on  the
draft resolution.
Mr.  Rodríguez  Araque  (Venezuela)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  These  have  been  very  bright,  warm  days  in
New  York.  In  contrast,  however,  the  decision  with
regard  to  the  outcome  document,  which  may  very
possibly be endorsed in the next few minutes, will be a
rather  grim  one.  It  was  conceived  in  darkness  and
brought forth from the shadows to be approved here, in
violation  of  the  basic  democratic  processes  governing
the practice of sound democracy in the world.
informed  discussion 
This  process  did  in  fact  begin  with  a  wide-
ranging  debate  that  aroused  the  hope  that,  given  the
scope of that debate and the consultations that occurred
initially,  it  would  also  be  possible  for  there  to  be  a
broad  and 
the
measured  agreement  of  the  Assembly.  But  then  the
analysis and preparation of the document was restricted
to a small group of 32 persons, and subsequently to an
even  smaller  group  of  15  persons. 
is  my
understanding  that, in the end, many of the  comments
made from various quarters were put aside by an even
smaller group.
that  enjoyed 
It 
In the reservation that I was obliged to express on
behalf of the delegation of the  Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela at the fifty-ninth session, I indicated that the
procedure  followed  was  so  grotesque  that  it  did  not
even allow us an opportunity to express an opinion in
favour of the aspects of the draft document with which
we  agreed.  For  the  delegation  of  Venezuela  and  the
the
vast  majority  of  delegations 
Assembly 
to
express 
that  had  been  consistently
expressed  during  the  deliberations  in  which  we  had
been  invited  to  participate  as  sovereign  countries.  As
sovereign countries, we have exactly the same rights as
every other country in the General Assembly.
represented  at 
there  was  absolutely  no  possibility 
the  opinions 
Moreover, 
in  view  of  all 
the  document’s
shortcomings,  we  could  have  left  it  pending,  rather
than  considering 
is  now  being
attempted, and continued the debate in order to enrich
and  improve  it  in  the  course  of  the  sixtieth  session  of
it  concluded  as 
A/60/PV.8
the  General  Assembly.  Instead  of  doing  that  and
promoting  a  democratic  and  productive  discussion,  it
was decided from the beginning to bring the document
here.  And  it  will  now  be  insisted  that  we  adopt  a
document  that  contains  parts,  which  I  will  shortly
enumerate, that will have serious consequences for the
great  majority  of  the  nations  that  are  Members  of  the
Assembly.  In  the  words  of  a  well-known  Venezuelan
politician,  the  Assembly  will  now  almost  certainly
adopt that document under duress and while holding its
nose.  It  seems  evident  that  the  ends  have  been  a
pretext, if not a justification, for the abhorrent and anti-
democratic  means  that  have  been  utilized.  This  is  a
very  grave  precedent.  Nothing  good  awaits 
the
Organization if it engages in such practices.
I  shall  be  brief,  as  time  does  not  permit  me  to
speak for as long as the situation deserves. But I should
like to cite some of the omissions, as well as some of
the issues included, in the document that should merit a
very broad-ranging, careful and in-depth debate in the
Assembly.
With regard to terrorism, the document makes no
reference whatever to a fact that constantly impairs the
sovereignty of weak countries, namely, State terrorism.
It would seem that acts of terrorism, as condemnable as
they are, are only condemnable if they  are carried out
by  individuals  or  organizations.  It  is  as  though  there
were  no  real  proven  danger  of  State  terrorism.  The
document  makes  no  distinction  between  terrorist  acts
and  the  legitimate  action  of  peoples  to  protect  their
sovereignty.  This  is  an  attempt  to  tie  the  hands  of
countries 
and
independence  and  want  to  fight  in  defence  of  those
inalienable principles.
sovereignty 
that 
cherish 
their 
the  members  of 
The  document  establishes  a  Peacebuilding
Commission.  Who  will  be 
the
organizational  committee  charged  with  establishing
that body? They will be the Security Council, financial
institutions  and 
the
Organization.  One  can  therefore  already  foresee  the
establishment  of  a  veritable  monopoly  and  dictatorial
control  over 
the  Commission’s
functions.
the  main  contributors 
the  exercise  of 
to 
The  document  also  refers  to  two  interrelated
matters, namely, the so-called responsibility to protect
and  the  Human  Rights  Council.  A  reading  of  the
pertinent  paragraphs  in  the  document  immediately
raises the question of who is in a position to “protect”
45
A/60/PV.8
under the terms of the document, as well as who is in a
position to send troops many thousands of miles away.
Who has the financial resources, weapons and logistics
to carry out actions to protect, especially given that, as
I  have  emphasized,  the  concept  of  responsibility  to
protect is related to the Human Rights Council? In that
connection,  I  would  propose  for  discussion 
that
countries  that  have  not  ratified  international  human
rights  conventions  should  not  be  part  of  the  Human
Rights Council. For it is truly inconceivable that States
that have not ratified such conventions should have any
influence in the area of human rights.
The document also sets up the Democracy Fund.
How  will  it  be  administered?  How  large  will  it  be?
Apart from the very generic terms used to describe it,
what  are  to  be  its  objectives?  We  in  Venezuela  have
some  experience  with  the  promotion  of  democracy
being  used  as  a  pretext.  There  has  been  brazen
interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  our  country,
including  the  financing  of  groups  that,  in  the  guise  of
operating  as  non-governmental  organizations,  have
acted  as  political  parties  and  have  even  taken  part  in
violent  acts  against  the  State  of  Venezuela.  That
included  such  clearly  illegal  acts  as  the  coup  of  April
2002, which, together with the oil coup, caused losses
to  Venezuela  of  approximately  $20  billion  in  2002
alone.
and 
The  document  makes  absolutely  no  reference  to
one of the worst threats to humankind’s future or to the
for
universal  and  profoundly  human  yearning 
comprehensive 
nuclear
disarmament. Today the major powers possess weapons
of mass destruction capable of destroying all life on the
planet many times over. And yet there is not even the
most tepid, faint or remote reference to that very heart-
felt  desire  on  the  part  of  the  vast  majority  of  the
world’s people.
unconditional 
Far from contributing to the strengthening of the
General  Assembly,  as  the  most  basic  principle  and
fundamental exercise of democracy would suggest, the
general  trend  is  to  restrict  the  competence  of  the
Assembly  and  to  increasingly  concentrate  power  in
small  groups,  such  as  the  ones  to  which  I  have  just
referred: the Human Rights Council, the Peacebuilding
Commission  and  the  Democracy  Fund.  In  short,  this
represents  an 
increasing  and  ever-more-dangerous
curtailment of the exercise of democracy in the General
Assembly,  which  is  the  essential  precondition  for  the
actual empowerment that the General Assembly should
46
enjoy.  And  as  if  that  were  not  enough,  this  meeting,
which was convened to draw up a balance sheet of the
Millennium Development Goals, will not have enabled
us  to  leave  the  Assembly  and  return  to  our  countries
with  a  clear  picture  of  the  situation  vis-à-vis  the
obligations and commitments made.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  We  have  heard
the only statement in explanation of position before the
adoption of draft resolution A/60/L.1.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/60/L.1,  entitled  “2005  World  Summit  Outcome”.  In
that  connection,  I  would  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s
attention to the statement regarding programme budget
implications  contained  in  paragraph  14  of  document
A/60/355, which reads as follows:
“The  Fifth  Committee  will  examine  during  the
sixtieth  session  of  the  Assembly  both  a  detailed
statement  of  the  programme  budget  implications
arising from the draft resolution and the report of
the  Advisory  Committee  on  Administrative  and
thereon.  Consequently,
Budgetary  Questions 
appropriate 
financial 
provisions  will 
be
incorporated  within  the  budget  appropriations  to
be adopted before the close of the first part of the
sixtieth session.”
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  wishes  to  adopt
resolution  A/60/L.1,  entitled  “2005  World
draft 
Summit Outcome”, as corrected?
Draft  resolution  A/60/L.1,  as  corrected,  was
adopted (resolution 60/1).
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  Before  giving
the  floor  to  speakers 
in  explanation  of  position
following the adoption of the resolution, may I remind
speakers that explanations of position are limited to 10
minutes and should be made by delegations from their
seats.
Mr.  Bolton  (United  States  of  America):  The
United States of America has joined  the  consensus  on
the  adoption  of  the  outcome  document.  We  thank
President  Ping  and  President  Eliasson,  their  staffs,
facilitators  and  advisers 
in
preparing  the  document.  They  had  a  difficult  job.  We
also 
to
thank  other  Member  States  for  coming 
agreement after two weeks of difficult negotiations.
their  assistance 
for 
We  are  pleased  that  Member  States  have  agreed
to  denounce  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,  advance  the
cause  of  development,  reform  the  management  of  the
United Nations, establish a Peacebuilding Commission
and create a Human Rights Council.
I  do  wish  to  make  one  point  clear:  the  United
States  understands  that  reference  to  the  International
Conference  on  Population  and  Development, 
the
Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for  Action  and  the
use  of  the  phrase  “reproductive  health”  in  paragraphs
57  (g)  and  58  (c)  of  the  outcome  document  do  not
create any rights and cannot be interpreted to constitute
support, endorsement or promotion of abortion.
The  outcome  document  represents  an  important
step  in  a  long  process  of  United  Nations  reform.  We
cannot allow the reform effort to be derailed or to run
out  of  steam.  The  United  States, 
its
representatives  at 
the  United  Nations,  will  work
tirelessly  during  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly and beyond to ensure that reform occurs. We
can  assure  you  that  the  American  people,  and  all
peoples  of  the  world,  will  be  watching  closely  as  we
proceed.
through 
Mr. Pérez Roque (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): The
General  Assembly  has  just  adopted  draft  resolution
A/60/L.1, which contains the outcome document of the
High-level Plenary Meeting. As the Assembly is aware,
during  the  closing  meeting  of  the  fifty-ninth  session,
Cuba  expressed  its  reservations  and  comments  with
regard  to  the  document,  which  we  should  now  like  to
reiterate.
in 
The  gross 
irregularities 
the  negotiating
process —  which  included  the  imposition  of  terms,
secrecy,  exclusion  and  discrimination  —  have  now
been  compounded  by  the  grave  omissions  in  this
document.  We  did  not  even  include  references  to
nuclear  disarmament  or  general  and  complete
disarmament,  which  have  been  aspirations  of  the
majority  of  the  international  community  for  the  last
four  decades.  Nor  was  it  agreed  to  include  concrete
steps to  attempt  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development
Goals, which, despite their inadequacies in the face of
the serious problems currently confronting third-world
countries,  seem  very  unlikely  to  be  achieved  by  the
target  dates  agreed  five  years  ago.  Concerns  about
development,  trade,  the  environment  and  other  issues
of  fundamental  interest  to  most  Members  of  the
Organization have suffered an unforgivable setback.
On  the  other  hand,  without  even  taking  into
account the fact that the last-minute submission of 750
A/60/PV.8
its  closest  allies 
amendments jeopardized the summit, the delegation of
the  United  States  and 
insisted
inordinately  on  the  establishment  of  funds,  councils,
commissions  and  controls  of  all  sorts  that,  instead  of
strengthening  the  role  of  the  Organization,  serve  to
dilute  and  distort  it  and  to  undermine  the  unity
essential  to  saving  the  lives  of  the  many  millions  of
people  in  the  world  who  today  suffer  from  poverty,
hunger  and  ill  health.  In  addition,  under  enormous
pressure, concepts such as the responsibility to protect
and  human  security  have  been 
included.  Those
concepts run the risk of being invoked in the future as
a pretext for aggression against our countries.
through 
assistance 
development 
This  has  been 
the  summit  of  selfishness,
arrogance  and  lies:  a  summit  at  which  some  have
sought to present as a great achievement the increase in
official 
the
cancellation  of  given  amounts  of  foreign  debt  that
debtor  countries  could  not  have  paid  in  any  case.
Where in the document are the  concrete  commitments
to work towards a new international order that is more
just  and  equitable?  What  we  have  heard  in  the  Hall
instead  have  been 
aggressive
statements,  including  some  bordering  on  insult.  My
delegation does not believe that we should congratulate
ourselves  on  the  outcome  of  this  meeting,  and  much
less on the content of the outcome document.
threatening 
and 
the 
that 
serious  problems 
Yesterday  afternoon,  President  Hugo  Chávez  of
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela was very clear in
pointing  out 
this
Organization,  which  was  established  to  safeguard  and
promote  peace,  dignity, 
justice  and  development
throughout the world, has, and will continue to have, in
fulfilling  the  purposes  of  its  Charter  so  long  as  the
powerful insist on preventing those  whom  the  Charter
itself  defined  as  “We  the  peoples”  from  guiding  the
future  of 
fully  and
unreservedly supports the words of President Chávez.
the  United  Nations.  Cuba 
Now we are facing a new stage in which we need
to  implement  the  decisions  we  have  taken  today;  we
believe  that  it  will  be  a  decisive  one.  In  the  new
negotiation process that lies ahead we cannot repeat the
manipulations  of  the  past:  the  negotiations  must  be
truly  open,  truly  democratic  and  participatory,  and
without any extraneous demands whatsoever. We know
that  there  are  already  delegations  working  to  ensure
that  that  is  not  the  case.  Our  delegation  hopes,
Mr. President,  that  you  will  become  the  guarantor  of
justice and equity in the process that is now beginning.
47
A/60/PV.8
Mr.  Martynov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  A
few  minutes  ago  this  Hall  shook  with  applause  that
resounded  sadly  in  our  ears.  The  statements  by
Venezuela  and  Cuba 
sadness;  we
understand 
those
delegations.
articulated 
feelings 
the 
reflect 
that 
by 
The  Charter  of  our  Organization  opens  with  the
words “We the peoples of the United Nations”, but has
the document we have just adopted really brought our
nations and peoples together? I am afraid the answer to
that is clear to all of us. Does that document strengthen
the fundamental freedoms of States to chose their path
to  development  on 
the  basis  of  United  Nations
principles  and  objectives?  Does  it  strengthen  and
develop the instruments that the community of nations
needs  to achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals?
Does it arm us with the weapons we need to defend the
defenceless?  I  am  afraid  that  the  answers  to  those
questions are equally clear.
Having  adopted 
the  outcome  document, 
the
Republic  of  Belarus  appeals  to  all  delegations  to
continue  to  work  to  bring  together  all  States  —  large
and  small,  weak  and  powerful  —  to  achieve  the
purposes  of 
the  Millennium
Declaration.
the  Charter  and 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  We  have  heard
the last speaker in explanation of position.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  El
Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, President of the Gabonese
Republic  and  Co-Chairperson  of 
the  High-level
Plenary Meeting.
(spoke 
(Gabon)
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  Our  work  has  culminated  in  the  adoption  of
the  World  Summit  Outcome  document  of  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting and that is good reason for us to
be pleased. That declaration reminds us that the threats
and  challenges  facing  the  world  require  a  collective
understanding and a collective response.
The United Nations is both the bedrock of and the
indispensable tool for building an effective multilateral
system.  We  must  continue  to  pursue  its  reform  to
ensure  that  the  Organization  is  managed  in  a  more
modern  way,  better  suited  to  its  many  missions.  We
must also continue our efforts to revitalize the General
Assembly  and, of course, the Security Council.  Today
millions of people throughout the world are looking to
us;  the  multilateral  solidarity  embodied  in  the  United
48
Nations  offers  their  one  and  only  hope.  Let  us  find  a
way to make the next 60 years of the United Nations an
era of prosperity, peace, and justice for all the peoples
of the world.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  His  Excellency
Mr. Göran Persson, Prime Minister of Sweden and Co-
Chairperson of the High-level Plenary Meeting.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  During 
the
debate  at  this  world  summit,  leaders  from  around  the
world  have  reaffirmed  their  strong  commitment  to
international cooperation as the tool for meeting global
challenges.  Indeed,  our  commitment  to  the  United
Nations and its Charter  has been clearly illustrated by
our gathering here in such great numbers.
Tonight  we  have  adopted  the  World  Summit
Outcome,  a  document  that  takes  decisive  steps  to
strengthen  the  United  Nations  and  the  collective
security  system.  It  also  reaffirms  our  commitment  to
achieving the Millennium Development Goals by 2015.
The Millennium Development Goals give us hope
for  a  better  future,  but  the  political  message  that
emerged from our debate is clear: we need to redouble
our  efforts.  Additional  resources  must  be  mobilized
and  more  forceful  measures  must  be  taken.  We  owe
that  to  the  millions  of  men,  women  and  children  who
suffer from diseases that could be cured, from conflicts
that could be prevented and from hunger that could be
alleviated.
Negotiations  to  address  future  action  on  climate
change  will  continue  at  the  global  level  in  order  to
reduce  greenhouse  gases  in  the  atmosphere  and  stop
human interference with the climate system.
We  urgently  need  to  conclude  a  comprehensive
to  counter
convention  and  agree  on  a  strategy 
international terrorism, one of the most serious threats
to international peace and security.
We  have  decided  to  establish  a  Peacebuilding
Commission  to  help  countries  emerging  from  conflict
to  lay  the  necessary  foundation  for  lasting  peace  and
sustainable development.
We  will  create  a  Human  Rights  Council  to
promote  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms  for  all.  And  we  have  decided  to  double  the
regular  resources  allocated  to  strengthen  the  Office  of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights  and 
throughout the United Nations system.
to  further  mainstream  human  rights
The  prospect  that  weapons  of  mass  destruction
will once again be used is terrifying. We cannot afford
to let that happen. Our failure to address at this summit
the threat presented by those weapons leaves us with a
crucial  task  ahead.  States  need  to  stand  by  their
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  commitments  and,
most  urgently,  we  need  to  breathe  new  life  into
multilateral  regimes  for  managing  such  weapons.  We
have taken good decisions to strengthen the efficiency,
effectiveness and accountability of the United Nations
Secretariat.  I  have  heard  many  voices  calling  for  a
Secretariat  fit  for  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first
century.  We  will  follow  with  keen 
the
implementation  of  the  measures  spelled  out  in  the
Summit Outcome.
interest 
True political leadership is about both words and
deeds.  Over  the  last  few  days,  we  have  heard  the
words. As Co-Chairperson of this High-level Meeting,
I very much appreciate what I have heard in this great
Hall. On some issues, views  have differed. On others,
consensus  has  been  reached.  That  is  not  surprising.
Neither  is  it  a  problem.  Instead,  it  shows  that  the
United  Nations  is  a  relevant,  vibrant  body  for  debate
on  the  issues  that  concern  all  of  us  today.  That  is
exactly the United Nations we need and want.
Later tonight, this High-level Meeting will close,
but  our  work  is  only  just  beginning.  After  the  words
have  been  spoken  comes  the  time  for  deeds.  The
momentum created in this Hall must be maintained for
the months and years ahead. I urge all political leaders
to remain personally committed in order to ensure that
the  decisions  we  have  taken  tonight  will  turn  into
reality. This summit should be seen as a starting point
for  the  reform  process.  I  can  assure  you  of  my  own
personal commitment as well as that of Sweden and of
course  that  of  Ambassador  Jan  Eliasson  to  this  cause,
in his capacity as President of the General Assembly.
Let  us 
join  forces 
the  sixtieth
anniversary of the United Nations a year of change. We
owe 
to  coming
generations. We owe it to ourselves.
to  our  citizens.  We  owe 
in  making 
it 
it 
We  shall  now  continue  with 
the  remaining
speakers for the High-level Plenary Meeting.
A/60/PV.8
League of Arab States, delivered on his behalf by His
Excellency  Mr.  Yahya  Mahmassani,  Permanent
Observer of the League of Arab States.
Mr. Mahmassani (League of Arab States) (spoke
in Arabic): Allow me to read out a statement on behalf
of the Secretary-General of the League of Arab States,
Mr. Amre Moussa.
“I 
like 
first 
should 
to  express  my
appreciation  to  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  President  of  the
fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  for
his  tireless  efforts  to  prepare  the  draft  summit
outcome  document  (A/60/L.1).  It  is  a  document
that  awakens  hopes  and  provides  for  reform  in
accordance  with  current  international  interests
and  international  consensus.  In  any  case,  it  is  a
starting  point,  although  it  does  not  meet  all  the
expectations  of  a  world  yearning  for  stability,
progress, justice and peace.
“I  also  want  to  welcome  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,
President  of  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.  We  are  convinced 
this  able
Swedish  diplomat  will  lead  the  deliberations  of
this historic session to complete success.
that 
“This  is  not  the  first  time  that  I  am
addressing the General Assembly, having already
had  the  honour  of  doing  so  on  a  number  of
occasions,  most  recently  at 
the  Millennium
Summit,  which  proposed  a  global  plan  of  action
for a more just and more equitable world. But this
is 
the
Assembly  as  Secretary-General  of  the  League  of
Arab States.
that  I  am  addressing 
the  first 
time 
“It  is  very  significant  that  our  gathering
today  coincides  with  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of
the United Nations and the sixtieth anniversary of
the  League  of  Arab  States:  60  years  of
coordination  and  cooperation  between 
the
greatest  of  international  organizations  and  the
oldest regional organization; 60 years of creative
interaction  during  which  we  have  experienced
together  the  same  events  and  met  the  same
challenges and have worked together to make this
international  Organization  one 
that  works
towards new prospects of freedom and prosperity
without exclusion or discrimination.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency Mr. Amre Moussa, Secretary General of the
“The  draft  outcome  document  emphasizes
to  reach  agreement  on  collective
the  need 
49
A/60/PV.8
solutions to major issues related to stability in the
world,  especially  in  the  areas  of  development,
peace,  collective  security,  human  rights,  the  rule
of  law  and  the  strengthening  of  the  United
Nations.  This  is  a  commitment  on  the  part  of  us
all,  States  and 
international
organizations alike.
regional  and 
“That is why the commitment of the League
of  Arab  States  within  this  framework  is  a  legal
and  moral  commitment  which  I  reiterate  before
the  Assembly.  I  pledge  to  work  towards  the
attainment of that objective and to ensure that my
regional organization truly contributes to it.
“When the Secretary-General  appeals to all
leaders of the world to support and implement the
reform  programme,  as  he  did  in  this  Hall,  the
League of Arab States, as a regional organization
dedicated  to  promoting  collective  development
and  political  action,  understands  the  value  of
collective  endeavour  and  commitments  in  this
context.
“The content of the draft outcome document
regarding  the  role  of  regional  organizations  and
the strengthening of that role in accordance with
Chapter VIII of the Charter opens new prospects
for  collective  endeavour  at  the  regional  and
international  levels  to  make  the  reform  agenda
successful, thereby ushering in a better future for
humankind.
“I should like to raise a few points that  we
hope  will  have  an  effect  on  our  working
procedures, with a view to the implementation of
the contents of this historic document.
“The first point is that the  reform to which
we  all  fervently  aspire  must  be  a  real  practical
reform  —  a  comprehensive  reform  —  that  is
aimed  at  regulating  relations  among  nations  in
conformity  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of
the  Charter.  I  have  no  doubt  that  reform  is  of
consensual interest to all of us, just as I have no
doubt  that  we  all  agree  that  the  concept  of
democracy is our principal objective.
“But 
I 
that 
believe 
and
international  policy  reform  are  two  sides  of  the
same coin. Democratic international relations are
the underpinning of democratic national policies;
that  means  that  the  United  Nations  must  have  a
national 
50
leadership  role  in  democratic  practice  among
nations,  which  requires  support  for  the  proposed
reforms,  as  contained  in  the  outcome  document
and stressed by the Secretary-General.
“That  is  why  the  role  and  position  of  the
General Assembly is vital. The General Assembly
is from any democratic perspective the legislative
body par excellence in this Organization — hence
the  United  Nations  must  ensure  follow-up  of  all
the other subsidiary bodies that may be created in
future.
“The  second  point  I  should  like  to  make  is
that the reform we want for the United Nations is
the result of a historic process to which the Third
World  has  contributed  in  terms  of  demands  and
positions.  This  has  been  made  concrete 
in
collective  responsibility  and  in  the  reaffirmation
of multilateral diplomacy and the need to work by
consensus on all aspects relating to the  future of
our world.
“I  believe  that  the  collective  negotiations
that  have  led  to  this  document  contain  a  clear
message,  and  that  is  that  the  world  needs  to  be
guided  collectively  so 
international
community can commit itself to implementing all
the recommendations made and decisions taken.
that 
the 
is  closely  related 
“What  we  seek  today  is  a  commitment
based on conviction not on pressure, coercion or
assumptions.  This 
the
credibility  crisis  prevailing  with  respect  to  the
United  Nations.  We  all  agree  that  we  cannot
resolve  international  crises  if  reform  does  not
reflect the will of the international community, as
expressed through negotiation and consensus.
to 
“This brings me to my third point, which is
that  the  desired  reform  must  be  comprehensive
and  integrated.  To  reform  some  aspects  without
reforming others can only lead to an imbalance in
our  system’s  structure  and  performance.  This  is
something that we have long known, and we have
worked towards comprehensive reform within the
League of Arab States:  reform of its  instruments
and  its  working  methods,  the  creation  of  new
institutions  such  as  the  Arab  Parliament,  which
reflects  relations  among  peoples  and  which
allows  civil  society  to  participate  fully  and
effectively.  I  mention  this  model  because  I  am
convinced that reform of the United Nations and
of  regional  organizations  must  be  consistent.
Reform of one goes hand in hand with reform of
others,  and  regional  organizations  can  provide
real  support 
its
endeavours  to  maintain  international  peace  and
security  and  to  achieve  economic  and  social
development worldwide. That is clearly reflected
in recent resolutions adopted by the Arab States.
the  United  Nations 
in 
to 
“I am certain that we all agree that reform,
any  reform,  is  an  ongoing,  indivisible  process.
The  eradication  of  poverty  cannot  be  achieved
without  sustainable  development;  development
cannot be achieved without security; and security
cannot be achieved if we do not struggle against
terrorism,  violence,  war  and  foreign  occupation.
The  eradication  of  all  of  those  scourges  can  be
achieved only through the rule of law, and this, in
turn, can be accomplished only in the framework
of a just and equitable international system.
“I  believe  that,  with  this  document,  we  are
making progress in that direction. That is the very
philosophy  of  the  Charter  —  a  philosophy  that
must be preserved, just as we must safeguard the
Charter  itself  and  its  principles,  which  relate  to
the  very  future  and  progress  of  nations  and
peoples.
to 
they  want 
the  Organization 
“The  Arab  delegations 
the  United
Nations  made  a  constructive  contribution  to  the
final  document  because  they  are  aware  of  the
major  challenges  that  we  are  confronting  and
because 
to  be
preserved  and  reformed  in  order  to  ensure  an
effective and equitable international system. Real
and  balanced  reform  of  the  United  Nations  must
be  a  principal  step  in  the  reform  of  the  entire
international  system,  and  I  am  certain 
that
reform, in the broader sense, is a requirement, not
just an option.”
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
the
to  Mrs.  Benita  Ferrero-Waldner,  member  of 
European Commission.
Ms.  Ferrero-Waldner  (European  Commission):
Standing  here,  facing  this  great  Hall,  brings  back
happy memories of my previous work here. But today I
am  speaking  in  my  current  capacity  as  European
Commissioner  for  External  relations,  and,  from  this
vantage point, on behalf of the European community, I
welcome the promising results of this meeting.
A/60/PV.8
President Ping and his team have been untiring in
pushing  for  this  worthwhile  outcome,  and  none  of  it
would  have  been  possible  without  Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan’s  leadership  and  vision.  The  European
community  is  happy  that  we  were  able,  together  with
many others, to contribute to that outcome.
How  do  we  now  see  the  results?  Do  they  meet
our  original  aspirations?  Not  everything  has  been
attained.  Compromises  were  inevitable,  but  we  have
laid a solid foundation as we seek to rebuild the United
Nations so as to enable it to meet the challenges of the
twenty-first century.
it  comes 
to  development  assistance, 
Development,  security  and  human  rights  are
indeed  the  three  pillars  of  our  common  vision  of  the
future. But how do we measure up against that vision?
When 
the
European  Union  leads  the  world.  From  the  outset,  we
have  led  the  efforts  to  increase  this  assistance  to  0.7
per cent of gross national income by 2015. We have set
for ourselves an intermediate goal of 0.56 per cent by
2010.  We  very  much  hope  to  see  other  donors  follow
our  lead  and  to  see  our  partner  countries,  with  our
support,  make  a  serious  effort  to  reinforce  good
governance.
Trade is  also  key  to  development.  The  European
community  remains  firmly  committed  to  making  a
success  of  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)
negotiations,  including  by  the  elimination  of  expert
subsidies.
Our  serious  offer  made  earlier  this  year  still
stands.  We  hope  that  others  will  follow  with  similar
commitments on export as well as domestic subsidies.
The  European  Community’s  “Everything  But  Arms”
initiative  has  been  in  place  for  more  than  three  years,
and  it  is  time  that  others  follow.  The  European
Community  this  summer  pledged  to  increase  our
assistance for trade capacity-building still further to €1
billion a year.
Even in the wake of Katrina and the tsunami, we
have not focused enough attention on the environment.
Climate  change  and  environmental  sustainability  have
to  be  taken  as  seriously  as  they  deserve.  In  that
perspective,  will  it  be  enough  to  just  explore  the
potential of the current institutional set-up? We believe
that  we  should  continue  to  work  towards  creating  a
strong,  functional,  action-oriented  United  Nations
environmental organization.
51
A/60/PV.8
that 
Let  me  say 
the  European  Community
welcomes  and  strongly  supports  the  initiative  of
President Bush concerning the looming danger of avian
flu’s becoming a pandemic.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Ekmeleddin  Ihsanoglu,  Secretary  General  of  the
Organization of the Islamic Conference.
Agreeing  on  a  peacebuilding  commission 
is
without  doubt  one  key  result  in  the  area  of  peace  and
security. We must now ensure that it begins its work by
the  end  of  this  year.  The  European  Community  has
long-standing  experience 
to  stabilize
countries  emerging  from  conflicts  in  all  possible
corners of the world — from the Balkans to Indonesia,
from Afghanistan to Africa. We look forward to taking
an  appropriate  place  at  the  table,  side  by  side  with
other key institutional donors.
in  helping 
Another important outcome is our recognition of
our  collective  responsibility  to  protect  populations
against  atrocities.  I  have  always  strongly  advocated
that  people  must  be  at  the  heart  of  security  concerns.
The  United  Nations  credibility  is  therefore  much
reinforced by adopting that concept.
Human rights are universal, and putting  them on
the  same  level  as  development,  peace  and  security
underscores  that  fact.  The  Commission  on  Human
Rights has lost its ability to act effectively on behalf of
victims, and thus its credibility. Forming a new, smaller
and more functional human rights council will help the
United  Nations  become  a  real  driving  force  behind
human  rights  protection.  I  confess  being  disappointed
at the meagre outcome in the summit document, which
does  not  meet  our  ambitions.  Let  us  not  lose  the
momentum,  therefore,  and  let  us  finish  this  important
chapter by February 2006. I express our full confidence
in President Eliasson’s leadership to fulfil that mandate
before us.
Finally,  let  me  say  a  word  on  United  Nations
management  reform,  where  we  also  have  not  come  as
far  as  we  would  have  liked.  The  Secretary-General
shoulders  an  awesome  responsibility,  yet  it  is  not
always  clear  that  he  has  the  necessary  authority  over
the administration to deliver.
Effective  multilateralism  is  the  hallmark  of  the
European Union’s external policy. The United Nations
system is its cornerstone. Let me pledge today that we
will  do  everything  in  our  power  to  ensure  that  the
United  Nations  will  be  a  lean,  fit  and  energetic
Organization for the twenty-first century.
52
Mr.  Ihsanoglu  (Organization  of  the  Islamic
Conference): It gives me great pleasure to address this
Assembly on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference (OIC) as the General Assembly, five years
after  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,
pauses  to  review  the  state  of  affairs  of  the  world  in
general, 
in
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in
particular.
achievements 
realized 
and 
the 
Today,  five  years  after  the  Millennium  Summit,
many  developing  countries  perceive  that  the  political
will  to  forge  ahead  in  implementing  what  was  agreed
upon  is  not  vigorous.  Looking  at  that  matter  from  the
Muslim world’s vantage point, and despite our sincere
intentions 
the  promising
objectives enshrined in the Millennium Declaration, we
in  the  Muslim  world  are  still  awaiting  and  hoping  to
see a better world.
take  comfort 
from 
to 
Despite  the  prevalence  of  the  lofty  principles  of
respect for human rights and the supremacy of the rule
of law, international law and international humanitarian
law, and at a time when the issues of people’s right to
self-determination  have  almost  been  settled, 
the
Muslim  world  finds  itself  still  exposed  to  numerous
injustices,  violations  of  rights  and  campaigns  of
defamation.
At the same time, we  are fully aware of  the  fact
that  the  OIC  member  States  should  do  more  in  the
process of implementing the Millennium Development
Goals.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  defamation
campaigns  are  still  being  waged  and  have  even
intensified  against  Muslims  and  Islam  itself.  The
growing  phenomenon  of  Islamophobia  is  the  best
example  of  that  trend.  We  hope  that  the  idea  of
transforming 
the  present  Commission  on  Human
Rights into a human rights council will help to uphold
our rights.
In  the  face  of  that  situation,  we  in  the  OIC  are
making  every  effort  to  deal  with  that  reality  in  the
interests  of  global  harmony  and  peace.  The  leaders  of
the Muslim world will hold an extraordinary summit in
Mecca  to  consider  the  situation.  The  OIC  general
secretariat is also pursuing a process of overhauling the
organization,  rewriting  its  charter  and  objectives  with
the aim of bringing its activities into the mainstream of
the concerns of the international community, especially
in the field of social development, and contributing to
international cooperation with concrete projects.
Representing  57  Muslim  countries  and 
the
Islamic  world  at  large,  the  OIC  rejects  and  condemns
violence  and  terrorism.  We  note,  however,  that  the
global  war  on  terrorism  has  yielded  no  convincing
results  because  it  has  focused  mainly  on  military
means.  What  is  needed,  we  believe,  is  to  address  the
root  causes  of  terrorism,  using  the  art  of  persuasion
through local approaches while resorting to diplomacy
and financial and economic measures, and encouraging
moderate trends.
I  would  like  here  to  emphasize,  in  that  regard,
that the sanctity of life is one of the paramount values
of Islam and that terrorism is a heretical deviation from
our religion. We believe that the frequent placing of the
epithet  “Islamic”  before  “terrorism”  is  a  sacrilege.
Moreover, it is highly dangerous. We should be careful
not  to  create  a  perception  that  might  lead  to  bitter
enmity, based on religious grounds, between hundreds
of millions of people.
Muslims around the world have never been under
such pressure and intensive scrutiny. What we need is a
concerted  effort  to  quell  that  phenomenon  through
greater  understanding  and  in  an  open,  critical  and
transcultural  dialogue  among  all  civilizations.  On  the
other  hand,  we  share  the  view  of  the  many  who  are
calling  for  the  democratization  of  the  United  Nations
system,  and  especially 
the
membership  of  the  Security  Council.  The  United
Nations  reforms  should  take  into  consideration  the
representation of the Muslim world and the realities of
the contemporary world.
the  composition  of 
The OIC member States have  endorsed  the  eight
Millennium Development Goals that are to be achieved
by  2015.  We  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  meet  this
target.  We  also  support  the  idea  of  repositioning  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  order  to  enhance  its
effectiveness  in  dealing  with  the  new  challenges  of
economic  and  social  development  in  the  world,  thus
ushering in an era of greater social justice and a more
democratic world order.
In  conclusion,  at  a  moment  when  our  world
stands  at  the  crossroads  of  a  promising  future,  or  a
threatened  one,  let  us  not  miss  the  opportunity  being
offered by this high-level forum of nations  of  striving
A/60/PV.8
to save humanity from the ravages of poverty, illiteracy
and  social  disintegration.  Let 
future  generations
remember  this  moment  as  a  time  when  world  leaders
rose to the occasion to lay the foundation for a healthy
and  progressive  global  village; 
this  remains  our
destination  in  the  new  millennium.  In  achieving  this
goal, I pledge the fullest cooperation and partnership of
the Organization of the Islamic Conference in the times
ahead.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Anders
Johnsson, Secretary-General of the Inter-Parliamentary
Union  (IPU),  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  World
Conference  of  Speakers  of  Parliaments  of  the  Inter-
Parliamentary Union.
Mr.  Johnsson  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  The
President  of  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  (IPU),
Senator  Sergio  Paez  Verdugo,  regrets  very  much  that
pressing  political  engagements  in  his  country,  Chile,
prevent him from being with you today. At his request,
I therefore have the honour to report on the outcome of
the  Second  World  Conference  of  Speakers  of
Parliaments.
During  three  days  last  week,  more  than  150
speakers of parliaments met in this very Hall to discuss
the  growing  role  of  parliaments  in  the  work  of  the
United  Nations.  They  came  with  the  intention  of
galvanizing  that  role  into  a  new  strategic  partnership
between  the  United  Nations  and  parliaments  and
pledged to build political momentum for reform of the
United Nations.
the  close  of 
the  speakers  at 
We have made available copies of the declaration
adopted  by 
their
proceedings,  the  result  of  a  long  and  careful  process
that  included  extensive  consultations  with  parliaments
around  the  world.  The  document  is  short  and  to  the
point, built around a single, focused message, which is
that parliaments have an essential role to play to bridge
the democracy gap in international relations.
The  declaration  takes  up  the  subject  of  United
Nations  reform.  The  text  does  not  mince  words.
Parliamentarians  want  to  see  the  reform  proposals
debated, and they want to see their Governments acting
on them now, not in five or ten years from now. They
want  reform,  and  they  want  it  to  be  comprehensive.
Reforms  must  recognize  the  intrinsic  link  between
democracy, security, development and human rights.
53
A/60/PV.8
treaty  on 
The  declaration  calls  for  change  and  political
action  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs)  and  to  identify  additional  financial  resources
for  development.  It  also  calls  for  the  conclusion  of  a
comprehensive 
terrorism,  with  a  clear
definition  of  terrorism,  and  real  advances  in  nuclear
disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms  control
issues. Frankly speaking, the stakes are too high for the
present  impasse  to  be  allowed  to  continue.  The  text
also  reaffirms  that  the  promotion  and  protection  of
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all  are
essential for development, peace and security.
The Speakers of Parliament want to see a stronger
United  Nations.  They  call  on  States,  including  their
parliaments,  to  demonstrate  leadership  and  political
will to provide the United Nations with more efficient
mechanisms, 
financial
resources and real management reform.
appropriate 
human 
and 
that  parliaments 
Over  the  past  year,  stimulated  by  the  Cardoso
Panel’s  report  (A/58/817),  many  parliaments  have
discussed  how  best  to  organize  cooperation  between
parliaments and the United Nations. The conclusions of
those  debates  are  also  reflected  in  the  declaration.  It
affirms 
in  all  countries  have  a
constitutional  role  to  represent  the  will  of  the  people
and, on their behalf, adopt laws, including the national
budgets  and  overseeing 
the  Government.  This
responsibility  is  carried  out  at  home,  but  it  includes  a
responsibility 
the  multitude  of
international negotiations that take place in multilateral
forums.
to  follow  closely 
Parliaments want to make sure that they are well
informed  of  those  negotiations,  that  they  have  an
opportunity  to  debate  what  is  being  negotiated,  that
they  can  question  ministers  and 
the
negotiating  positions  they  are  advancing  on  behalf  of
their people. And, once negotiations have concluded, it
is  for  the  parliaments  to  ratify  agreements  and  see  to
their 
involves  amending  or
adopting legislation, voting on budgets and, of course,
holding  Governments 
as
to 
implementation is concerned.
implementation.  This 
influence 
account 
as 
far 
The  declaration  adds  that  parliaments  should
increase  their  international  work  in  partnership  with
the  IPU,  which  they  consider  to  be  a  unique  global
parliamentary  counterpart  of  the  United  Nations.  The
Speakers  of  Parliament  are  not  in  support  of  the
creation of new parliamentary assemblies at the United
54
Nations  or  elsewhere.  Rather,  they  want  the  IPU  to
mobilize  expertise,  which  exists 
in  parliamentary
standing and select committees, and to work on issues
on  the  international  agenda.  They  want  the  IPU  to
facilitate the provision of more and better information
to  national  parliaments  on  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations.  They  want  us  to  stage  more  parliamentary
hearings  and  specialized  meetings  at 
the  United
Nations,  and  they  want  us  to  stimulate  and  cooperate
more  closely  with  official  regional  parliamentary
assemblies and organizations.
taken 
there  and  hold 
Acting  in  this  manner,  parliaments  and  the  IPU
seek  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations,  assist  in
implementing  decisions 
it
accountable  to  the  people  it  serves  throughout  the
world.  All  of  this  represents  a  large  agenda  for
parliaments and for the IPU.
The  Speakers  came 
to  New  York  with  a
commitment from their respective parliaments to put it
into effect. They are now turning to participants in this
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,
to  seek  their  commitment  and  support  for  turning  this
agenda  into  a  reality,  including  by  making  it  possible
for  all  members  of  parliaments  to  come  to  New  York
for meetings we organize at the United Nations.
In  conclusion,  the  principle  that  problems  must
be  solved  through  dialogue  represents  the  cornerstone
of  both  democracy  and  the  United  Nations.  The
Speakers of Parliament invite the Assembly to build on
that  foundation  to  construct  a  strategic  partnership
between  the  United  Nations  and  parliaments,  through
the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  Mr.  Zhang  Deguang,
Secretary-General  of 
the  Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization.
Mr.  Zhang  Deguang  (Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization) (spoke in Chinese): I am grateful for this
opportunity  to  address  the  Assembly.  This  is  the  first
time that a representative of the Shanghai Cooperation
Organization  (SCO)  has  spoken  from  this  rostrum.
Allow  me,  on  behalf  of  all  the  member  States  and
observer  States  of  the  SCO,  to  extend  our  warmest
congratulations  on  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
founding of the United Nations. I hope that this High-
level Meeting will achieve many fruitful results.
Since  its  creation,  the  United  Nations  has  been
working to fulfil humankind’s most cherished dream —
namely,  that  the  tragedy  of  war  should  never  be
repeated and that the sun of peace could  always shine
on  the  world.  On  numerous  occasions  in  the  past  the
Assembly  has  heard  strong  appeals  and  genuine  calls
for peace from many countries. This Hall has been the
scene of great efforts and outstanding contributions by
the United Nations to the cause of safeguarding peace.
Tremendous changes have taken place in today’s
world;  humankind  has  left  behind  an  era  of  war  and
peace  and  has  entered  a  new  era  of  peace  and
development.  Nevertheless, 
the  United  Nations
continues to play an irreplaceable role in international
affairs  today.  The  fundamental  principles  enshrined  in
the  United  Nations  Charter  remain  an  indisputable
cornerstone 
relations.
Upholding  the  central  role  and  the  authority  of  the
United  Nations  remains  a  common  responsibility  and
mission of the international community.
of  modern 
international 
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  United  Nations
also needs to carry out rational and necessary  reforms
in  order  to  respond  more  effectively  to  the  new
situations,  challenges  and  threats  of  the  globalized
world, and to more effectively accomplish the difficult
task  of  promoting  world  peace  and  development.  In
reforming  the  United  Nations,  we  must  respect  the
principle  of  achieving  broad  consensus.  No  timetable
should be set for United Nations reform. And no  vote
should be forced on controversial draft resolutions.
Compared  to  the  60-year  history  of  the  United
Nations,  the  history  of  the  Shanghai  Cooperation
Organization (SCO) has just begun. Four years ago in
the city of Shanghai, the leaders of Kazakhstan, China,
Kyrgyzstan,  Russia,  Tajikistan 
and  Uzbekistan
announced  the  birth  of  this  new  organization  of
regional cooperation.
The  SCO  is  committed  to  strengthening  good-
neighbourly  relations,  mutual  trust  and  friendship
among  its  member  States;  enhancing  member  States’
cooperation  on  the  economy,  trade,  transport,  energy,
tourism,  environmental  protection  and  humanitarian
affairs; 
and
extremism;  safeguarding  peace,  security  and  stability
in  the  region;  and  promoting  the  creation  of  a
democratic, just and rational international political and
economic  order.  Internally,  the  SCO  is  guided  by  the
spirit  of  Shanghai,  based  on  mutual  trust,  mutual
separatism 
combating 
terrorism, 
A/60/PV.8
benefit,  equality,  mutual  consultations,  respect  for  the
joint
diversity  of  cultures  and 
development.  Externally, 
the
principles  of  openness  and  non-alignment  and  stands
against the targeting of other States and regions.
the  aspiration  of 
the  SCO  observes 
following 
further  development.  And, 
Within  a  short  period  of  several  years,  the  SCO
has  basically  completed  its  work  on  mechanism-
building  and  has  achieved  noticeable  progress  in
various  fields  and  on  establishing  external  ties.  A
recent summit in Astana outlined strategic plans for the
SCO’s 
the
admission  of  Mongolia  as  an  observer  State  of  the
SCO,  Pakistan,  Iran  and  India  were  accepted  as  new
observers. We are pleased to note that the purposes and
the  principles  of 
the  SCO  have  received  broad
recognition  and  that  the  SCO  is  now  moving  towards
its fifth anniversary with confidence and determination.
In December 2004, the SCO was granted observer
status at the General Assembly. That  signalled  a  good
start  in  establishing  our  cooperation  with  the  United
Nations.  The  SCO  has  already  established  close  ties
and  cooperative  relations  with  the  Economic  and
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, the United
Nations  Development  Programme  and  other  United
Nations  agencies.  The  SCO  has  also 
signed
memorandums  of  understanding  with  the  Association
of Southeast Asian Nations and the Commonwealth of
Independent  States.  We  are  ready  to  expand  our
cooperative  ties  with  more  international  organizations
in  order  to  make  a  joint  contribution  to  peace  and
development in our region and in the world.
The 
Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization
represents an area which has a population of nearly 1.5
billion  people  and  covers  three  fifths  of  the  Eurasian
continent.  We  are  very  aware  of  our  responsibilities,
and we are ready to carry out that historic mission with
great courage.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  call  on
Mr.  Achim  Steiner,  Director  General  of 
the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources.
Mr.  Steiner
the
Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources): Before
I  begin  my  prepared  remarks,  I  would  like  to  express
my delegation’s sympathies to the Government and the
people  of  the  United  States  in  the  wake  of  Hurricane
Katrina.  The  worldwide  outpouring  of  sympathy  and
support following both the tsunami and now Hurricane
(International  Union 
for 
55
A/60/PV.8
Katrina demonstrated the united voice of humanity and
indeed  serves  as  a  reminder  and  a  sign  of  solidarity
with  so  many  people  who  have  died  in  recent  months
as a result of natural disasters.
Five  years  ago,  in  this  very  Hall,  the  assembled
world  leaders  adopted  an  ambitious  set  of  targets  and
goals to promote peace and prosperity. Five years later,
we  must  acknowledge  that  the  pace  of  progress
towards  meeting  those  goals  is  too  slow.  We  must
redouble our efforts and refocus our approaches.
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled  “In
larger  freedom”,  the  foundation  for  our  deliberations
here today, boldly declares that
“We 
fundamentally  depend  on  natural
systems  and  resources  for  our  existence  and
development.  Our  efforts  to  defeat  poverty  and
pursue sustainable development will be in vain if
environmental  degradation  and  natural  resource
depletion continue unabated.” (A/59/2005, para. 57)
That bold declaration is supported by the findings
of 
the  Millennium  Ecosystem  Assessment, 
a
comprehensive  assessment  of  the  state  of  the  planet’s
ecosystems  by  nearly  1,400  leading  experts  from  95
countries. It finds that
to 
services  derived 
loss  of 
is  a  significant  barrier 
from
“The 
ecosystems 
the
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  to  reduce  poverty,  hunger,  and  disease.”
(Living Beyond Our Means, p. 2)
That 
stark  message  was  echoed  by 
the
Millennium Project, which declared that integrating the
principles and practices of environmental sustainability
into  country  policies  and  planning  programmes  is
therefore  key 
reduction
strategies.
successful  poverty 
to 
The  International  Union  for  the  Conservation  of
the  World
Nature  and  Natural  Resources  — 
the  outcome
Conservation  Union  —  welcomes 
document for its comprehensive treatment of nearly all
the  major  issues  currently  on  the  multilateral  agenda.
Yet,  like  many  who  have  spoken  before  me,  we  are
disappointed that it could not go further.
On the one hand, the outcome document reaffirms
the essential importance of sustainable development as
part  of  the  overarching  framework  for  the  United
Nations,  and 
role  of
it  addresses 
the  crucial 
56
sustainable  development 
conservation, 
the
management of natural resources in eradicating poverty
and  in  achieving  the  other  Millennium  Development
Goals.
and 
However,  on 
the  other  hand, 
the  outcome
document fails to appreciate how much we still have to
do to achieve environmental sustainability and, indeed,
all the other Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
Fifteen  of  the  24  essential  services  provided  by  the
ecosystems  we  have  at  our  disposal  —  ranging  from
food  production  to  water  quality  and  availability,
disease  management  and  climate  regulation  —  are
being used unsustainably and are persistently eroded.
This  situation  requires  an  urgent  response.  We
must ensure  that  the  United  Nations,  civil  society  and
the  private 
the
environmental foundation of sustainable livelihoods.
sector  nurture 
and  maintain 
Allow me to note that in some ways it is a shame
that civil society and the private sector could not take
part in this summit in a more active way and that they
have  been  reduced  to  holding  events  in  hotels  and  on
the  street  around  the  summit,  because  their  role  in
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  so
central to the objectives of the United Nations.
Rather 
than  being  a 
tax  on  development,
investing  in  environmental  sustainability  should  be
seen  as  an  effective  and  efficient  means  to  achieve
development.  To  cite  just  one  example,  replacing  the
traditional  biomass  fuels  used  by  the  poor  yields
multiple  benefits  in  terms  of  time  savings  for  women
and  children,  improved  health  through  reduced  indoor
air  pollution,  reduced  environmental  damage  from  the
cutting  of  fuel  wood  and  improved  soil  quality.  This
may  seem  a  simple  technological  issue,  but  it  affects
many more than 2 billion people on our planet every day.
For our part, the World Conservation Union  will
continue to support the multilateral process with all our
energy  and  will  therefore  support  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  by  bringing  the  best  knowledge
and science available to decision-making today.
non-government  members 
We  also  pledge  to  work  with  the  Poverty-
Environment  Partnership  and  our  1,072  government
and 
the  World
Conservation  Union  to  make  conservation  work  more
effectively for the poor. This week, we announced our
Conservation  for  Poverty  Reduction  initiative,  a  $300
million  plan  of  worldwide  action  with  more  than  100
in 
partner  organizations,  which  will  target,  along  with
conservation,  improved  livelihood  security  for  50
million people in 20 countries.
This  initiative  is  only  one  more  stride  and  one
more contribution in the race to achieve the MDGs by
2015,  to  eradicate  poverty  and  to  ensure  sustainable
livelihoods.
When  we  refer  to  the  environment,  we  should
remember  that  we  are  not  talking  about  one  sector.
When we refer to the environment, we should note that
it  means  tourism.  When  we  refer  to  the  environment,
we  mean  agriculture.  When  we 
the
environment,  we  mean  fisheries  —  and  energy,  and
forestry,  and  health  and  water  and  sanitation,  to
mention  just  some  examples  of  what  the  environment
really  stands  for.  People  are 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
target  of 
the 
refer 
to 
In  order  to  make  poverty  history,  we  need  to
make the environment the future.
The  Co-Chairperson 
I  call  on
Mr. Terry  Davis,  Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of
Europe.
(Sweden): 
Mr. Davis (Council of Europe): I shall abbreviate
my statement in view of the lateness of the hour.
I  stand  before  the  General  Assembly  as  the
Secretary  General  of  the  Council  of  Europe  —  an
intergovernmental  organization  of  46  member  States.
We  have  been  working  with  the  United  Nations  for
more  than  half  a  century,  as  partners  in  promoting
peace and justice. The United Nations and the Council
of Europe share the same goals. The ideals,  values and
principles of the Council of Europe are those enshrined
in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  That  is  why  the
heads of State or Government of the 46 States members
of  the  Council  of  Europe,  at  our  Summit  in  May,
encouraged 
to  step  up
cooperation with the United Nations and its specialized
agencies.
the  Council  of  Europe 
Human  rights,  democracy  and  the  rule  of  law
figure prominently in the Declaration to be adopted at
this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  They  are  also  at  the
heart  of  the  mission  of  the  Council  of  Europe.  Our
European  Convention  on  Human  Rights,  which  is
directly  and  expressly  derived  from  the  Universal
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  remains  one  of  the
foremost  examples  of  the  implementation  of  that
Declaration’s values at the regional level.
A/60/PV.8
The  relationship  between  the  Council  of  Europe
and the United Nations is not restricted to words. There
is  also    practical  cooperation  in  many  areas  involving
human  rights,  including  the  battles  against  terrorism,
torture, 
in  human  beings,  racism  and
violence against children and women.
trafficking 
One  threat  to  human  rights  is  terrorism;  the
people  of  New  York  know  it  well.  Europe,  too,  has
suffered  from  appalling  atrocities  over  the  past  two
years 
the  United
Kingdom.
in  Russia,  Turkey,  Spain  and 
Terrorism seeks to destroy our way of life and to
undermine freedom, democracy and the rule of law. It
is  unjustifiable  under  any  circumstances  and  in  any
culture.  We  must  resolutely  defend  those  values  and
rights,  on  which  both  the  United  Nations  and  the
Council  of  Europe  were  founded,  and  we  must  also
make sure that measures taken by Governments do not
curtail  those  same  values  and  rights.  That  is  why  we
must  continue  our  efforts  to  prevent  torture  and
preserve freedom of expression and information.
I  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  of  the  Security  Council  to  work  with
regional organizations in the struggle against terrorism.
I  also  welcome  the  decision  to  establish  a  Human
Rights  Council,  and  I  hope  that  it  will  retain  the
positive  features of the current system and  that  it  will
also work closely with regional organizations.
the  “pillars  upon  which 
Winston Churchill put it well in a speech in 1948.
When  referring  to  a  future  Council  of  Europe  and  its
relationship  with  the  United  Nations,  he  called  for
“regional  councils,  august  but  subordinate”,  which
would  be 
the  world
organization  would  be  founded  in  majesty  and  calm”.
Nearly  60  years  later,  I  am  not  sure  the  Council  of
Europe  can  be  described  as  august  or  that  the  United
Nations can be described as majestic and calm, but I do
believe  that  the  strengthened  relationship  between  the
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations,  advocated
in the Declaration to be adopted at this world summit,
is a step in the right direction.
The  Co-Chairperson 
I  call  on
Ms. Florence  Mugasha,  Deputy  Secretary-General  of
the Commonwealth Secretariat.
(Sweden): 
Ms.  Mugasha  (Commonwealth  Secretariat):  the
Secretary-General  of  the  Commonwealth  Secretariat,
The Right Honourable Don McKinnon, regrets that he
57
A/60/PV.8
is  unable  to  deliver  this  statement  in  person,  due  to
another  pressing  engagement.  He  has  therefore  asked
me, as his deputy, to deliver his speech, which reads as
follows.
“I  was  privileged  to  speak  in  this  Hall  five
years  ago  when  world  leaders  agreed  on  the
Millennium  Declaration  —  a  vision  for  a  fairer,
safer and more prosperous world. I am honoured
to speak today on the same subject, once again on
behalf of the 53 nations of the Commonwealth.
“One of the great things about meeting here
in  New  York  City  is  that  we  see  what  can  be
achieved  through  prosperity  and  technological
advances: going into space; sending information,
pictures  and  even  money  around  the  world  in
milliseconds; finding cures for age-old maladies.
“Here  in  New  York,  as  in  many  other
dynamic cities throughout the world, we can also
glimpse  on 
the  horizon  what  growth  and
prosperity could offer in the future. But we must
contrast  that  with  what  we  also  see  in  many
countries day after day. We see children who we
know  will  never  see  the  inside  of  a  classroom,
and  young  and  old  people  who  will  die  of
dysentery, malaria, tuberculosis and other curable
diseases.  For  most,  drinking  water 
is  a
diminishing  resource  that  is  either  unaffordable
or simply unavailable. We see people condemned
to  inferior  status  because  of  their  gender  or
religion  or  the  colour  of  their  skin,  or  simply
because  they  happened  to  be  in  the  wrong  place
at the wrong time.
“Members  will  have  heard  many  statistics
over the past three days. The picture is a sombre
one, and we are all affected. Our limited success
in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs) after five years should, above all, shock
into  action  those  of  us  here  who  can  do  more.
Those  with  the  means  must  be  more  committed
and  more  generous  to  those  in  the  statistical
spotlight.
low-income  countries. 
“This  year,  the  Group-of-Eight  countries
have pledged increased aid and debt cancellation
for 
those
initiatives.  The  test,  as  always,  is  ‘delivery,
delivery,  delivery’  —  ensuring  that  the  funds
made 
spent  with  wisdom,
responsibility,  accountability  and  effectiveness.
I  applaud 
available 
are 
58
In  the  Commonwealth,  11  of  our  53  members
have already recorded significant progress on the
MDGs,  but  31  have  made  slow  progress,  and
some  are  actually  going  backwards.  The
Commonwealth  will  have  to  redouble  its  efforts
to achieve the MDGs, and it will do so.
“We  will  help  to  build  or  rebuild  those
democratic  institutions  which  we  know  go  hand
in hand with stable and prosperous societies. We
will continue our work on issues relating to small
States, 
and
sustainability,  using  official  and  civil  society
networks 
the
Commonwealth way.
partnerships.  That 
international 
gender 
trade, 
and 
is 
“This  year  marks  60  years  of  the  United
Nations.  This  institution  embodies  mankind’s
collective  will  to  live  and  progress  together  in  a
collaborative way and in a community of nations.
Multilateralism is the only way in which common
problems can be solved in a substantive way and
in  which  the  future  can  be  secured  for  all  of  us.
Global challenges require global responses.
“My  colleague,  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan,  has  placed  before  Governments  a  wide-
ranging  series  of  proposals  to  move  the  United
Nations forward as an institution and to promote
the  priority  global  issues  with  which  it  deals.  I
especially welcome the proposed strengthening of
the  United  Nations  work  in  the  areas  of  peace-
building, human rights and anti-terrorism, as well
as the special attention it devotes to development
and democracy.
“Development  can  no  longer  be  thought  of
simply  in  terms  of  gross  domestic  product.
Development 
is  about  possibilities  first  and
production  second.  It  is  about  touching  the  lives
of everyone.
and 
too, 
“Democracy, 
strengthening 
is  about  expanding
human
opportunities 
capabilities. Only if democracy and development
live  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  a  country  and
have  real  meaning  for  them,  will  that  country’s
institutions  work  as  they  should  and  sustainable
prosperity be realized.
“With  the  requisite  will,  partnerships  and
resources,  it  is  not  too  late  to  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals (MDG) by 2015.
The  political  will  was  there  in  2000.  There  is
therefore no excuse not to recommit to the MDGs
this  week,  to  make  the  necessary  pledges  and  to
say,  ‘We  will  do  it’.  The  Commonwealth  will
continue to play its part.”
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  call  on
the  Asian
Mr.  Haruhiko  Kuroda,  President  of 
Development Bank.
Mr.  Kuroda  (Asian  Development  Bank):  We
stand  today  at  a  crossroads  of  great  opportunity  and
great  uncertainty.  The  actions  that  follow  this  pivotal
United  Nations  summit  will  determine  whether  the
world  achieves  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDG). With two thirds of the world’s poor residing in
Asia and the Pacific, it is clear that the region holds the
key  to  solving  the  global  poverty  challenge.  No  other
developing  region  of 
the  world  has  been  more
successful in creating economic growth and alleviating
absolute poverty. But achieving all the MDGs by 2015
will still require massive investment, given the scale of
deprivation  in  Asia  and  the  Pacific.  The  region  has
more  people  with  inadequate  nutrition,  more  living  in
slum conditions and more without access to water and
sanitation than any other region of the world. However,
the  MDGs  can  be  achieved,  provided  efforts  are
intensified considerably.
Sustained,  rapid  and  broad-based  growth 
is
fundamental  to  our  task.  But  growth  will  not  be
sustained unless it is inclusive. This will require more
resources  for  basic  services,  as  well  as  ensuring  that
women,  indigenous  peoples  and  the  poor  are  not  left
out.  Growth  will  not  be  sustained  if  we  neglect  the
environment.  The  same  extraordinary  growth  that  has
lifted  millions  up  from  poverty  in  our  region  now
threatens  millions  more  as  environments  become
degraded,  pollution  increases  and  people  migrate  to
overcrowded  towns  and  cities.  Sound  policies  are
needed to reverse those problems. Growth will also not
be  sustained  if  Asia’s  huge  needs  for  investment  in
infrastructure,  technology  and  human  capital  remain
unmet.  Clearly,  we  need  greater  private-sector
participation. For this, laws and institutions that protect
property rights, encourage openness, improve financial
governance and strengthen capital markets are needed.
The  Asian  Development  Bank  (ADB)  has  placed  its
resources and advisory services behind that agenda.
Increasingly, the economic integration of the Asia
and  Pacific  region  is  becoming  an  imperative  for  its
A/60/PV.8
through 
growth  and  development.  Regional  initiatives  have
enhanced  connectivity 
infrastructure  and
reduced  poverty  and  barriers  to  trade  and  investment.
Intraregional  trade  has  increased  and  financial  and
monetary  cooperation  has 
intensified.  Continued
progress  in  these  areas  will  increase  the  region’s
resilience  and  growth  potential.  Regional  cooperation
must also be expanded to directly impact the MDGs in
such 
degradation,
communicable diseases and the migration of workers.
environmental 
areas 
as 
The  task  before  us  is  urgent  and  imminent.  The
ADB is committed to fighting poverty. We will do so in
partnership  with  others.  The  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid
Effectiveness  provides  an  excellent  framework  for
developing  and  deepening  cooperation.  We  also  value
very  highly  our  partnership  with  United  Nations
agencies. We recently released a regional MDG report
that  was  jointly  authored  by  the  United  Nations
Development  Programme,  the  Economic  and  Social
Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  and  the  Asian
Development Bank.
the  Pacific.  The  momentum 
The  prerequisites  I  have  outlined  are  fully
consistent  with  the  desires  and  commitments  of  Asia
and 
that  has  been
generated  must  be  translated  into  action  in  the  years
remaining  before  2015.  We  hope  that  this  summit’s
outcome will trace a clear road map towards that end.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  now  give  the
floor to Mr. Donald Kaberuka, President of the African
Development Bank.
Mr.  Kaberuka  (African  Development  Bank):  I
am  honoured  to  have  this  opportunity  to  address  the
General  Assembly 
the  African
Development  Bank,  whose  presidency  I  assumed  this
month.
the  name  of 
in 
this  special  gathering,  which 
The  African  Development  Bank  welcomes  the
outcome  of 
is  an
opportunity  for the  international  community  to  review
the  progress  made  towards  achieving  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  to  assess  the  extra
push  that  is  needed.  It  has  been  a  unique  opportunity
for  both  developing  countries  and  their  partners  to
rededicate  for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  with
renewed optimism and vigour.
The leaders who have preceded me in this historic
Hall  have  articulated  issues  surrounding  the  greatest
challenges  of  our  time.  There  is  unanimity  on  the
59
A/60/PV.8
situation.  Many  regions  in  the  developing  world  are
making  satisfactory  progress  in  eliminating  poverty
and achieving the MDGs. The major challenge now is
mainly  to  assist  the  African  continent  and,  of  course,
other  relevant  low-income  countries,  to  accelerate
progress towards the MDGs.
the  MDGs 
As  Africa’s 
leading  development 
financing
institution,  we  welcome  the  commitments  made  over
the last two days, coming so soon after the decision of
the  G-8  at  Gleneagles  on  official  development
assistance  (ODA),  debt  and  trade.  The  prospects  for
achieving 
improved
considerably  in  recent  years.  Conflicts  are  waning  in
much  of  the  continent,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  the
African  Union.  Democratic  reforms  and  significant
improvements in systems of governance are taking root
in  more  and  more  of  our  countries.  An  increasing
number  of  our  countries  are  implementing  sound
macroeconomic policies.
in  Africa  have 
At the regional level, the NEPAD initiative is not
only advancing regional cooperation and integration, it
is  also  promoting  the  principles  of  democracy,  good
governance  and  sound  economic  policies  through  the
African Peer Review Mechanism.
We  believe  that  an  unprecedented  window  of
opportunity exists today. However, we have in the past
too often fallen short of  our own pledges, which have
been  made  but  not  fully  delivered  on,  or  scaled  down
over time. It is imperative this time that we ensure the
full  implementation  of  our  pledges,  as  we  must
implement the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness.
We,  like  everyone  here,  have  expressed  the  hope  and
determination  that  the  Doha  round  to  be  held  in
December in Hong Kong will be a success, particularly
with 
trade-distorting
agricultural subsidies and tariff and non-tariff barriers.
In their determination to overcome the challenges
of  development, 
fathers
established  the  African  Development  Bank  40  years
ago.  To  date,  the  Bank  has  provided  considerable
resources and technical assistance to support the efforts
of its regional member countries.
the  African 
removal  of 
founding 
the 
respect 
to 
In the context of NEPAD, Africa’s leaders and the
international  donor  community  have  identified  the
Bank  as  a  privileged  partner  in  the  new  initiatives  to
support  Africa.  The  Bank 
itself
towards that end.
is  repositioning 
60
We have noted that the outcome document of this
conference  calls  for  a  greater  role  for  the  African
Development  Bank,  to  enable  it,  inter  alia,  to  play  a
key  part  in  efforts  to  close  the  infrastructure  gap.  We
are prepared to do so and are building up our capacities
and partnerships with others to play that role. It is self-
evident  that  the  MDGs  will  be  that  much  harder  to
attain  as  long  as  Africa’s  infrastructure  gap  is  not
closed.
We will work with other institutions to establish a
concrete framework to deliver on the G-8 initiative on
debt. For us, the  key  issue  is  that  of  additionality  and
of strengthening the long-term capacity of the African
Development  Bank  to  finance  the  development  of  its
member countries.
In that context, we look forward to the initiative’s
being  extended  to  cover  also  the  debts  owed  to  the
African  Development  Bank  window  and  to  other
members of the Bank Group, which  are often  referred
to  as  middle-income  countries.  Many  of  them  have
large pockets of poverty, and some are large economies
with  very  significant  neighbourhood  effects.  What
happens  in  those  countries  is  important  for  Africa’s
attainment of the MDGs.
We  are  intensifying  our  capacity  to  support
countries  in  post-conflict  situations  as  well  as  the
so-called fragile States. We are convinced that Africa’s
dependence  on  aid  will  diminish  as  growth  prospects
improve.  Dependence  will  decline  as  the  international
trade regime improves. That is why the success of the
Hong  Kong  meeting  is  of  such  critical  importance  to
us.
As I come to the end of my statement, allow me
to mention an issue of concern which was not foreseen
in the year 2000 but which has now become so crucial
it  must  be  addressed.  As  we  meet  here  today,  the
dramatic  increase  in  oil  prices  is  threatening  to  roll
back  growth  possibilities  in  many  African  nations,
worsening  their  internal  and  external  imbalances.  It  is
no  longer  a  short-term  external  shock;  it  is  having  an
impact  on  growth,  inflation,  the  balance  of  payments
and  public  expenditure  to  fight  poverty  in  a  lasting
way.  It  is  imperative  that  the  international  community
bear in mind this factor, which was not so acute when
we  adopted  the  MDGs  in  the  year  2000.  We  must
attempt to identify and put in place a suitable response
that  can  protect  African  countries’  achievements  and
preserve  them  in  future.  For  our  part,  we  will  work
with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  and  the
World Bank to determine how we can best provide the
requisite  level  of  support  to  those  countries,  with  a
view to safeguarding prospects of attaining the MDGs.
As  this  unique  summit  ends,  we  are  encouraged
by its outcome. It did not provide everything we would
have liked to see, but it is a way forward. The African
Development Bank stands ready to play its role in this
common fight for humanity.
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I give the floor
the
to  Mr.  Guy  Rider,  General  Secretary  of 
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions.
Mr.  Ryder  (International  Confederation  of  Free
Trade Unions): I speak this evening for the 145 million
working  men  and  women  united  in  the  International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and also
on  behalf  of  the  World  Confederation  of  Labour.  I
speak  also  as  one  of  the  spokespersons  here  for  the
Global  Call  to  Action  against  Poverty  (GCAP),  of
which the ICFTU is a founding member.
But, given that I and my fellow representatives of
civil  society  are  speaking  after  the  adoption  of  the
summit’s final outcome document, I have to say that it
would be unfortunate indeed if civil society, which has
contributed so energetically to this endeavour, were to
be  perceived  as  no  more  than  an  afterthought  in  its
proceedings.
Poverty  and  hunger  remain  the  lot  of  billions  of
people worldwide, a situation which is unconscionable
and unsustainable. This is the time for Member States
to show vision and leadership and the capacity to work
together  to  implement  the  commitments  they  have
made  at  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and
global summits of recent years.
Political  leaders  must  recognize  and  must  act
upon  the  need  to  foster  global  solidarity  in  order  to
advance  commonly  shared  global  objectives  and  lend
full 
achievement  of  national
development priorities.
support 
to 
the 
We  therefore  reiterate  the  call  of  the  GCAP:
Wake  up  to  poverty.  Urgent  solutions  must  be  found.
The  right  policy  choices  to  achieve  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  are  possible;  they  are
within our reach; and they must be adopted so that the
situation can be turned around and a virtuous circle of
growth with equity brought about.
A/60/PV.8
First  and  foremost,  we  need  an  enabling  global
policy  environment,  as  called  for  by  MDG  8,  and  by
that I mean, of course, fair trade, more and better aid,
debt  cancellation  and  debt  relief,  and  a  new,  strong
social  dimension  to  the  policies  of  the  international
financial institutions and the World Trade Organization
(WTO).
We  need  effective  national-level  policies  with  a
focus  on  pro-poor,  gender-sensitive  growth  strategies,
on participation of civil society, including trade unions,
and on respect for workers’ rights and human rights in
general.  Globally  and  nationally,  we  need  a  strong
focus on a decent work agenda as the most significant
way  out  of  poverty,  as  was  called  for  by 
the
International  Labour  Organization’s 
(ILO)  World
Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization.
Decent  work  carried  out  in  respect  for  fundamental
workers’ rights provides the empowerment that women
and men need to improve their living standards and to
participate 
lives  and
livelihoods  and,  ultimately,  to  work  their  way  out  of,
and escape from, poverty.
in  decisions  affecting 
their 
The  United  Nations  system,  including  the  ILO,
with its body of norms, provides the social pillar of the
multilateral  system  as  the  anchor  for  establishing
policy  coherence,  and  it  must  be  strengthened,  not
weakened.  Therefore,  the  proposals  contained  in  the
Secretary-General’s  report  to  enhance  United  Nations
effectiveness through  a  revitalization  of  the  Economic
and Social Council and of the Security Council, a new
Human  Rights  Council  and  a  new  Peacebuilding
Commission,  and  other  proposals  require  and  deserve
the support of all Member States.
Tough as negotiations can be on these issues, they
simply  cannot  be  shelved.  The  process  is  much  too
important  to  be  dropped  now.  So  those  parts  of  the
reform  agenda  that  have  not  been  agreed  in  the
outcome  document  of  this  summit  should  be  the
subject of further discussion during the sixtieth session
of 
they  should  be
negotiated in good faith, with a view to achieving win-
win  outcomes  for  the  benefit  of  the  peoples  of  the
planet.
the  General  Assembly,  and 
Through  these  and  all  the  issues  raised  in  his
report  entitled  “In  larger  freedom”,  the  Secretary-
General  reminds  us  of  our  responsibilities  —  today,
global  responsibilities  —  to  stand  together  against
poverty and exclusion and against arms spending, and,
61
A/60/PV.8
instead,  to  stand  together  for  peacebuilding  and  the
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts.  And  as  we  weigh
today the urgent need to act on these critical challenges
of  the  twenty-first  century,  let  us  ponder  also  the  dire
consequences of inaction: a world no longer secure and
fit  to  pass  on  to  our  children.  At  this  time  of  deep
insecurity  and  conflict  in  the  world,  we  should  recall
that  social  justice  remains  the  surest  guarantee  of
universal and lasting peace.
Joining together to achieve that justice is our best
contribution  to  making  sure  that  we  and  our  children
can live in a world free from poverty, desperation and
conflict in future years. The United Nations has known
its greatest successes and won its lasting authority from
those  occasions  when  its  Member  States  have  risen
above narrow  self-interests to the uplands from which
the  vision  of  a  better  common  future  becomes  clear.
The peoples of the United Nations are watching to see
how their leaders have met their responsibilities at this
summit  and  how 
solemn
commitments  already  made.  And,  as  is  proper,  that
scrutiny will continue in the future.
they  have  honoured 
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): Let me say that
I  very  much  appreciate  those  comments.  They  will  be
made known to the full membership; I hope that I will
be able to make some brief comments at the end, which
I hope will be relevant to all.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
Mrs. Virginia Vargas, Founding Director and Executive
Board Member of the Flora Tristan Centre for Peruvian
Women.
Mrs.  Vargas  (Flora  Tristan  Centre  for  Peruvian
Women)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  beginning,  I  wish
to  protest  about  the  way  in  which  the  outcome
document  was  adopted,  the  way  in  which  the  list  of
speakers  was  changed  and  the  anti-democratic  way  in
which civil society has been left out of this summit. As
an  activist  in  world  civil  society  I  would  echo  the
insistent  and  disenchanted  voices  of  world  social
movements  who  say  to  the  heads  of  State  who  are  or
were present at this Meeting that the world as it is now
is  ethically  unacceptable,  politically  devastating  and
economically  and 
environmentally  unsustainable.
Those  movements  affirm,  as  we  have  affirmed  in  the
World Social Forum, that other worlds are possible, but
to  achieve  this,  radical  change  is  required,  change
which  places  men  and  women  at  the  centre  of
development.  Those  movements  wish  to  say  to  this
62
it 
that 
General  Assembly 
is  missing  a  historic
opportunity to shoulder its responsibilities and keep its
promises  to  create  a  more  just  world,  that  its  lack  of
commitment  to  the  mission  of  the  United  Nations  is
keeping  the  Organization  from  being  an  Organization
of “We the peoples”, and that urgent changes required
by  the  world  can  be  possible  only  through  the
dismantling  of  unjust,  anti-democratic  world  forces,
maintained  by  powerful  countries  and  their  allies,
namely neo-liberalism, militarism and fundamentalism
of every kind.
is 
in 
inequity 
tremendous 
A life free from want is possible only if we alter
the development mindset which puts economic growth
before  human  development.  In  a  world  where  the
production of wealth is enormous and at the same time
poverty and exclusion have increased dramatically, the
central  problem 
the
distribution of wealth. This situation  is  legitimized  by
an  unjust  international  order  that  favours  the  most
powerful.  Where  are 
instruments  of
accountability  and  global  taxation  on  multilateral
corporations?  How  long  will  the  treatment  of  deadly
diseases such as AIDS continue to be secondary to the
earnings  of 
transnational  companies,  and  where,
finally,  are  the  democratic  proposals  to  deal  with
indecent and immoral debt, paid for many times over?
That debt is ethically unrecoverable for the peoples of
the world.
the  new 
A  life  without  fear  will  not  be  possible  while
political  power  is  allied  with  the  economic  power  of
the  arms  producers.  This  alliance  lacks  the  legitimacy
to decide whether a situation is an imminent threat or a
potential  danger.  It  in  itself  is  a  threat  and  a  danger
because it resorts to lies and to arbitrary unilateralism
to  feed 
its  constant  need  for  war.  We  require
disarmament  not  be  gradual  and  selective,  we  need
general disarmament. We need a change in the way in
which  conflicts  are  resolved.  We  need  also  to  address
other  causes  of  fear.  A  life  without  fear  is  built  when
we confront violence against women in all spheres and
when  we  confront  racism,  recognizing  the  rights  and
autonomy  of 
is  built  by
affirming  the  rights  of  social  movements  such  as
women’s  movements,  which  contribute  to  the  peace
agenda. 
international
agreements,  which  are  a  global  ethical  responsibility.
Governments  reluctant  to  sign  the  Kyoto  Protocol
today  have  a  responsibility  for 
the  disaster  and
suffering  caused  by  Hurricane  Katrina.  Governments
indigenous  peoples.  It 
is  built  by 
respecting 
It 
who  claim  impunity  with  respect  to  war  crimes,
refusing to strengthen international law, will have to be
accountable  to  history.  The  fight  against  terrorism
cannot ignore human rights.
whose commitment to the values of the United Nations
is  outstanding.  His  intense  work  to  ensure  that  this
great Organization addresses the most critical issues of
our time is remarkable.
A/60/PV.8
sexual 
individuals’ 
recognizing 
How can we live in freedom in these conditions?
What  freedom  are  we  building  when  we  know  that
hunger is depleting resources that will be irretrievable
for  the  new  generations?  What  freedom  can  there  be
without 
and
reproductive rights and the rights to different forms of
sexuality  and  expressions  of  love?  Living  in  freedom
will  be  possible  only  if  human  rights,  which  are
indivisible, universal and interdependent, are placed at
the heart of the structure and policies of States and of
the United Nations, only if States are secular, governed
by all citizens and not by particular religious interests,
and  only  if  we  correct  the  imbalance  of  power  in  the
Security  Council,  which  cannot  be  resolved  solely  by
adding  or 
rather  by
eliminating the right to the veto.
removing  Members,  but 
The  United  Nations,  to  fulfil  its  mission,  must
rise  to  the  challenges  of  the  new  millennium.  The
United Nations cannot simply consist of Governments,
as  has  been  the  case  at  this  summit.  Its  democratic
reform  must  be  open  to  all  contributions  from  social
movements  and  democratic  forces,  in  order  to  build  a
different  world  without  poverty  or  exclusion.  The
United Nations must recover its mission. It must be of
“We the peoples”, or it will cease to be.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  will  come
back with some comments of my own later on.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
Mr. Bamanga Tukur, Group Chairman of BHI Holdings
Limited.
Mr. Tukur (BHI Holdings Limited): It is a great
honour  for  me  to  have  the  unique  opportunity  to
address this distinguished assembly of world leaders on
behalf of the private sector. This High-level Meeting of
the  General  Assembly  is  a  milestone  in  the  history  of
international  public-private  dialogue.  I  should  like  to
express sincere appreciation to the Co-Chairpersons of
the World Summit 2005. Their efforts to bring together
distinguished  heads  of  State  or  Government 
to
deliberate  on  contemporary  regional  and  global  issues
are to be applauded.
Allow  me  also  to  use  this  opportunity  to  pay
tribute  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  a  leader
taken 
concerning 
This  world  summit  is  an  important  step,  coming
on the heels of the G-8 Meeting in Gleneagles,  where
historic  decisions  were 
the
development  agenda.  Of  late,  several  initiatives,  such
as  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development
(NEPAD) framework, have been put in place, focusing
on  the  most  basic  issues  of  reducing  poverty  and
delivering  sustainable  development.  In  spite  of  these
actions, it is still widely agreed that much more needs
to be done.
today’s 
global 
society, 
business 
The  goals  being  pursued  by 
the  General
Assembly  and  the  larger  international  community  are
of great importance and relevance to the private sector.
In 
interests
increasingly  overlap  with  development  objectives.
Business  operations  —  from  microenterprises 
to
multinationals  —  are  greatly  impacted  by  health,
security  and  economic  development  factors.  Adequate
infrastructure,  access  to  finance  and  better  regulation
would  enhance  foreign  and  domestic 
investment
inflow. There is also a need to strengthen the capacity
of  private  sector  institutions  to  contribute  towards
sustainable development.
Business  and  economic  development  reinforce
one another; they are infinitely compatible. Business is
good  for  development  and  development  is  good  for
business. Business development is central; it is the key
to opening the door of opportunity for employment and
the  ability  to  prosper.  Business  leaders  are  acutely
aware  of  that  linkage.  We  are  undertaking  responsible
business  practices,  such  as  conducting  transparent
transactions, 
infrastructure  and
implementing  programmes  to  combat  HIV/AIDS  and
other  diseases,  which  are  part  of  the  Millennium
Development Goal objectives.
investing 
local 
in 
The  United  Nations  Global  Compact  initiative
provides  the  enabling  context  for  the  private  sector  to
participate  actively  in  the  development  effort.  The
Global Compact advocates that corporate strategies and
operations  be  rooted  in  core  values  in  the  areas  of
human  rights,  labour  standards,  the  environment  and
anti-corruption.
Business is a willing and able partner in the  call
to raise living standards for billions of people. In order
63
A/60/PV.8
to 
to  maximize  our  common  contribution 
the
development  of  stable  economies,  a  business-friendly
climate 
is  essential.  An  enabling  environment
encourages  entrepreneurship,  allows  local  companies
to  thrive  and  attracts  foreign  investment.  It  offers
companies  a  fair  chance  to  achieve  returns.  Political
stability,  good  governance,  clear  property  rights  and
reasonable tax structures are just some of the essential
factors for fostering private sector growth.
The  least  developed  countries  will  continue  to
need  special  attention  and  aid  because  of 
their
particular  circumstances.  The  effectiveness  of  such
assistance  can  be  improved  by  applying  business
know-how  and  proven  business  solutions,  and  by
building  valuable  partnerships  between  public  and
private sector actors. In that regard, it is heart-warming
that  the  African  Business  Roundtable  (ABR),  over
which  I  preside,  was  identified  in  the  United  Nations
Millennium  Project  report  as  a  critical  partner  for
attaining  development  goals.  As  the  only  continent-
wide,  pan-African  grouping  of  business  leaders,  the
ABR  and  other  private  sector  groupings  accept  that
enormous  responsibility  and  will  meet  the  challenge
through our resolve. Poverty can be made history only
if  the  bad  habits  of  autocracy  and  corruption  are
replaced  with  democracy,  good  governance  and
accountability.
In conclusion, allow me to express the confidence
of  the  business  sector  in  the  General  Assembly.  Its
commitment  to  addressing  the  challenges  facing  the
goals set at the Millennium Summit is encouraging. Its
support  is  needed  to  empower  the  private  sector  to
contribute  fully  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  sustainable  development
worldwide,  especially  in  Africa  and  the  diaspora.  It
represents a new dawn for Africa.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): There  are  no
more speakers on my list for this part of the High-level
Plenary Meeting.
Given  the  lateness  of  the  hour,  I  will  say  just  a
few words to the Assembly.
First,  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I
want  to  express  my  deep  regret  that  the  outcome
document  was  adopted  before  some  speakers  made
their statements. This meeting, as members know, was
seriously  delayed  because  of 
the
interventions,  which  were  supposed  to  be  limited  to
five  minutes  but  rarely  were,  and  world  leaders  were
length  of 
the 
64
leaving  New  York  one  by  one  at  a  time  when  a  very
important document was to be adopted.
I am the first to regret that the decision was made
to  finish  the  deliberations  after  the  Governments  had
spoken,  and  therefore  that  some  speakers  had  to  wait.
Their  statements  certainly  deserved  a  full  audience.  I
count  approximately  80  delegations  present,  and  I
commend those that have been here so faithfully. All of
us here have a duty to spread the word.  We also  have
an obligation, via any statements that may be issued to
the press, to make sure that their message is sent. I also
know that this Meeting is being broadcast live all over
the world via the United Nations webcast.
Those  message  are  absolutely  crucial.  I  myself
was  Under-Secretary-General 
for  Humanitarian
Affairs. I was in Somalia, Mozambique and the Sudan,
and I was proud to work side by side with civil society,
non-governmental  organizations,  banks,  trade  unions
and  churches.  They  are  extremely  important  partners.
That might ring hollow to those present here at this late
hour,  but  I  really  want  to  assure  them  that,  in  the
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth
session, I will do my very best to make sure that their
voices are heard.
society;  we  need 
We also need the regional organizations; we need
civil 
the  non-governmental
organizations. The United Nations cannot exist if we in
this Hall do not  introduce  two  realities.  One  reality  is
the  dreams  and  aspirations  of  people  throughout  the
world,  many  of  whom  are  members  of 
the
organizations  represented  here.  They  are  absolutely
crucial  if  we  are  to  bring  vitality  into  the  United
Nations.  The  United  Nations  is  facing  a  serious
situation right now, and we need that help. So the first
reality  that  has  to  be  brought  into  this  Hall  is  the
expectations  and  dreams  of  the  people  of  the  world,
and those here represent that.
the  environmental 
The  second  reality  that  also  needs  to  be  brought
into these rooms is the real problems in the world: the
poverty,  the  starving  children,  the  sick  —  particularly
those  suffering  from  preventable  diseases  —  the
natural  disasters, 
the
growing suspicions and fear that exist in this world. All
those  realities  need  to  come  in  here,  too,  and  those
present represent that.
to 
that  I  appreciate
enormously  their  understanding,  if  they  still  have
understanding.  I  highly  appreciate  their  stamina  and
threats, 
I 
just  want 
tell 
them 
patience  in  coming  here  and  sending  their  message  to
the  world,  and  hope  that  they  will  consider  us
partners —  partners  at  an  historic  stage,  when
multilateralism is at stake. We will work together and I
very much count on their support. We need each other.
With  those  words,  I  thank  everyone  for  their
presence.  I  will  certainly  remember  everything  they
have said. They will see  it,  hopefully,  in  my  speeches
in  the  year  to  come.  I  know  that  the  members  of  the
delegations here will also spread the word, but we will
also think  of  other  ways  to  make  the  voices  that  have
been raised heard in this Hall in years to come. I thank
everyone for their contributions.
I also want to thank the staff here, including  the
interpreters  who  have  been  struggling  day  and  night
and  the  wonderful  team  from  General  Assembly
Affairs,  which  has  faithfully  been  at  our  side  here  as
Gabon and Sweden have co-chaired this Meeting.
A/60/PV.8
This is the end of the biggest summit that, I think,
has  ever  taken  place,  and  the  document  that  was
adopted  —  prematurely,  unfortunately,  for  some  of
those  here  —  was  extremely  welcome.  Circumstances
were 
perhaps
understandable.
decision  was 
the 
such 
that 
Minute of silent prayer or meditation
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I shall close this
meeting by inviting representatives of the peoples and
countries of the world to stand and observe one minute
of silent prayer or meditation.
The members of the General Assembly observed a
minute of silent prayer or meditation.
Closure of the High-level Plenary Meeting
The Co-Chairperson (Sweden): I declare closed
the  General
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
Assembly of September 2005.
The meeting rose at 9.55 p.m.
65
