United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
26th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 4 October 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.26
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Bombing in Bali
The President: Before turning to the business of
the day, I would like to take a moment to pay tribute to
those  affected  by  the  abhorrent  terrorist  attacks  that
occurred on the Indonesian island of Bali on Saturday.
On  behalf  of  the  Assembly  I  offer  our  deepest
sympathy  to  the  people  and  Government  of  Indonesia
and to the friends and families of those affected, of all
nationalities.  I  should  also  take  this  opportunity  to
extend  our  sympathy  to  the  victims  of  other  recent
terrorist attacks, wherever they have been committed.
Agenda item 7 (continued)
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and
allocation of items: request for the inclusion of an
additional item
Note by the Secretary-General (A/60/231)
The  President:  The  General  Assembly  will  now
take up a request submitted by the Secretary-General in
document A/60/231 relating to the election of judges of
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of
Persons  Responsible 
for  Serious  Violations  of
International  Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the
Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991.
In  his  note  the  Secretary-General  informs  the
General  Assembly  that  he  has  requested  both  the
Security  Council  and  the  Assembly  to  authorize  the
assignment  of  Judge  Christine  Van  Den  Wyngaert  to
serve as of 3 October 2005 on the Mrksic case before
the International Tribunal.
Consequently,  it  will  be  necessary  at  the  current
session  to  take  a  decision  to  allow  Judge  Van  Den
Wyngaert to serve as of 3 October 2005 on the Mrksic
case.
In this connection, the Secretary-General has the
honour  to  request,  pursuant  to  rule  15  of  the  rules  of
procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  inclusion  in
the  agenda  of  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  Assembly  of
an  additional  item  entitled  “Election  of  judges  of  the
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the
Former Yugoslavia since 1991”.
Owing  to  the  important  and  urgent  nature  of  the
item, and in the absence of objection, may I take it that
the  General  Assembly  agrees 
relevant
provision  of  rule  40  of  the  rules  of  procedure,  which
would require a meeting of the General Committee on
the question of the inclusion of this item in the agenda,
could be waived?
that 
the 
It was so decided.
The  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the  General
Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-General,
wishes  to  include  in  the  agenda  of  the  current  session
an  additional  item  entitled  “Election  of  judges  of  the
International  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons
Responsible  for  Serious  Violations  of  International
Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the  Territory  of  the
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-53562 (E)
*0553562*
A/60/PV.26
Former  Yugoslavia  since  1991”  under  heading  I,
“Organizational, administrative and other matters”?
It was so decided.
The President: The item is therefore included in
the agenda as item 157.
In his note, the Secretary-General further requests
that the item be considered directly in plenary meeting.
May I take it that the General Assembly,  as requested
by the Secretary-General, wishes to consider this item
directly in plenary meeting?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  should  now  like  to  consult
members with regard to proceeding immediately to the
consideration of agenda item 157. In this connection, I
draw the Assembly’s attention to the relevant provision
of  rule  15  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General
Assembly, which reads as follows:
“No  additional  item  may,  unless  the  General
Assembly  decides  otherwise  by  a  two-thirds
majority  of  the  members  present  and  voting,  be
considered until seven days have elapsed since it
was  placed  on  the  agenda  and  until  a  committee
has reported upon the question concerned.”
In the absence of an objection, I shall take it that
the  Assembly  agrees  to  proceed  immediately  to  the
consideration of agenda item 157.
It was so decided.
Agenda item 157
Election of judges of the International Tribunal for
the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious
Violations of International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia
since 1991
Letter from the Secretary-General (A/60/362)
Letter from the President of the Security
Council (A/60/402)
The  President: As  indicated  in  the  note  by  the
Secretary-General  contained  in  document  A/60/231,
the Secretary-General informs the Assembly that Judge
Van Den Wyngaert’s term of office as a member of the
pool of ad litem judges had come to an end on 11 June
2005.  She  was  authorized,  however,  by  Security
Council  resolution  1581  (2005)  and  by  a  decision  of
the  General  Assembly  taken  at  its  80th  plenary
2
Consequently, 
the  approval  of 
meeting, on 20 January 2005, to continue her functions
as an ad litem judge in the Limaj case beyond that date.
On 19 November 2004, Judge Van  Den  Wyngaert  had
been  elected  a  permanent  judge  of  the  International
Tribunal with a term beginning on 17 November 2005.
the  Security
Council and the General Assembly is  needed  to  allow
Judge Van Den Wyngaert to serve as of 3 October 2005
on the Mrksic case, given that she has been authorized
to continue her functions only as  an  ad litem judge in
the Limaj case and that she will begin her elected four-
year  term  as  a  permanent  judge  of  the  International
Tribunal  only  on  17  November  2005.  The  Secretary-
General therefore proposes that the General Assembly
and  the  Security  Council  authorize  the  assignment  of
Judge Van Den Wyngaert to serve as of 3 October 2005
on the Mrksic case before the International Tribunal.
In  the  letter  addressed  to  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly  contained  in  document  A/60/402,
the President of the Security Council transmits the text
of  Council  resolution  1629  (2005)  of  30  September
2005, whereby the Council, inter alia:
“Decides that notwithstanding Article 12 of
the  Statute  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the
Former  Yugoslavia  and  notwithstanding 
that
Judge Christine Van Den Wyngaert’s elected term
as  a  permanent  judge  of  the  Tribunal  will  in
accordance  with  Article  13  bis  of  the  Tribunal’s
Statute only begin on 17 November 2005, she be
assigned as a permanent judge to the Mrksic et al.
case  which  is  due  to  commence  on  3  October
2005.”
If there is no objection, I propose that the Assembly
decide  to  endorse  the  recommendation  of  the  Secretary-
General that was endorsed by the Security Council in its
resolution 1629 (2005) of 30 September 2005.
It was so decided.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 157?
It was so decided.
The  President:  I  invite  members  to  remain
seated,  as  immediately  following  the  adjournment  of
this  meeting  the  General  Assembly  will  hold  its  first
informal meeting of the plenary to discuss the follow-
up  and  implementation  of  the  2005  World  Summit
Outcome.
The meeting rose at 3.20 p.m.
