United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
21st plenary meeting
Thursday, 22 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.21
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
The  President: 
I  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Abdurrahman  Mohamed  Shalghem,  Secretary  of
the  General  People’s  Committee  for  Foreign  Liaison
and International Cooperation of the Socialist People’s
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.
Mr.  Shalghem  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke
in  Arabic):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  at  the  outset  to
affirm  my  delegation’s  confidence  that  the  Swedish
leadership of the work of the current General Assembly
session  will  help  us  achieve  the  best  results.  I  also
seize this opportunity to commend the efforts made by
Gabon,  represented  by  its  Foreign  Minister,  during  its
leadership of the previous session. I would also like to
reiterate  our  gratitude  for 
the  efforts  made  by
Secretary-General Kofi Annan to advance the march of
United Nations reform and achieve the goals enshrined
in its Charter.
Since the 1970s, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya has
been  fully  aware  of  the  need  to  reform  the  United
Nations  and  was  the  first  State  to  put  forward  official
proposals  to  the  General  Assembly  in  that  regard,
presenting  draft  resolutions  from  the  thirty-fourth  to
the  fortieth  sessions  aimed  at  reforming  the  Security
Council and abolishing the veto privilege. Though the
Libyan  proposals  were  not  successful  because  of  the
objection  of  the  super-Powers,  they  did,  however,
create  a  wide  understanding  of  that  issue  within  the
General  Assembly,  resulting  in  the  adoption  of  a
resolution  at  its  forty-seventh  session  establishing  an
open-ended  group 
fair
representation  in  the  Security  Council  and  expanding
its membership. We participated actively in the group’s
work, but its activities reached an impasse.
issue  of 
to 
review 
the 
We felt hopeful over the last few years while we
were  conducting  consultations  at  all  levels  in  order  to
realize a radical reform for the United Nations system,
in  the  service  of  international  peace  and  security.
However, as the date of our summit-level meeting this
year approached, it became evident that the reform we
sought  remained  elusive.  This  is  because  some  of  the
privileged Powers of the Security Council do not wish
to give up their privileges — in fact not even to share
these privileges with others.
The victorious countries in the Second World War
arrogated  rights  and  privileges  for  themselves  at  the
time  the  Charter  was  drawn  up.  This  led  to  the
marginalization of the General Assembly and rendered
the  Security  Council  a  domineering  body  —
inequitable,  unbalanced  and  undemocratic,  with  the
veto  privilege  greatly  abused.  The  United  Nations,
therefore, has been unable to administer justice among
nations;  in  fact,  some  of  its  decisions  have  inflicted
harm on many peoples.
As we discuss United Nations reform, we should
take  into  consideration  that  its  membership  has  now
reached  191  States.  New  global  problems  have
emerged,  in  addition  to  the  old  ones.  Thus,  it  is
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51871 (E)
*0551871*
A/60/PV.21
necessary to place the power of decision-making in the
hands of all Members of the United Nations, that is, in
the hands of the General Assembly, in which all States
have equal votes. However, if such an agreement is not
possible, we should seek a new formula for permanent
membership in the Security Council.
this  respect,  we  propose 
that  permanent
membership be accorded to geographical groups, not to
specific States. We also propose that the African Union
be  granted  permanent  membership  even  before  the
comprehensive reform has been decided, given the fact
that  Africa  is  the  only  continent  without  a  country
holding  permanent  membership 
the  Security
Council.
In 
in 
As a member of the African Union, we affirm our
adherence to the common African position, adopted by
the  Fifth  African  Union  Summit,  held  in  Sirte,  Libya,
on 4 and 5 July 2005.  This position was confirmed in
the  African  Union’s  Extraordinary  Summit  on  United
Nations  Reform  held  in  Addis  Ababa  on  4  August
2005.
to 
lead 
that  could 
Libya believes that the elimination of weapons of
mass destruction is a fundamental factor in confidence-
building  and  the  consolidation  of  international  peace
and  security.  Hence,  Libya  declared  on  l9  December
2003 its voluntary renunciation of the programmes and
materials 
the  production  of
internationally  prohibited  weapons  and  their  means  of
delivery.  Since  that  date,  it  has  been  cooperating  in  a
transparent  manner  with  the  International  Atomic
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  the  Organization  for  the
Prohibition  of  Chemical  Weapons 
(OPCW).  All
relevant  materials  and  equipment  have  been  disposed
of  with  the  knowledge  of  experts  from  the  IAEA  and
the OPCW.
Libya 
international
conventions on weapons of mass destruction, as well as
the  code  of  ethics  concerning  ballistic  missiles.  We
hope that members of the international community will
cooperate  in  a  more  appropriate  manner  to  eliminate
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  acquired  by  all  States,
without  discrimination,  in  order  to  create  a  world  in
which peace and security prevail.
is  now  party 
to  all 
The  Libyan  declaration  was  a  culmination  of
this  field,
the
in
the  Pelindaba
previous  Libyan  efforts  undertaken 
starting  with 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
Africa — 
in 
participation 
its  accession 
effective 
through 
to 
in 
2
Treaty — and the call to make the Middle East a zone
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass
destruction.
We  confirm  our  readiness  to  continue  our  full
cooperation with all international organizations in this
field  and  emphasize  Libya’s  right  to  expand  its
programme  of  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  for
development,  particularly  in  the  fields  of  medicine,
agriculture,  desalination,  mining  and  oil  exploration.
We hope that all countries in the region would place all
their  nuclear  facilities  under  the  IAEA  inspection
regime.
Our  country  is  concerned  with  human  rights
issues at the international and national levels. We deal
with  all  organizations  working  in  the  field  of  human
rights  in  a  transparent  manner.  We  have  donated  2
million dinars to support the activities of the Office of
the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human
Rights, and we are now reviewing some of our national
legislation  that  is  not  in  conformity  with  international
instruments in the field of human rights. We also have
eliminated the People’s Court, established in the  early
years  of  the  revolution,  and  its  jurisdiction  has  been
assigned to regular courts.
Libya  was  among  the  first  States  that  called  for
the  coordination  of  international  efforts  to  combat
international 
an
extraordinary session of the General Assembly to study
that phenomenon and to develop measures to combat it
and eradicate its causes.
terrorism 
proposed 
that 
and 
terrorism  and 
Libya  has  condemned  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,
including  State  terrorism,  ratified  all  international  and
regional  conventions  concerning 
is
cooperating actively with the committee established by
the  Security  Council  on  that  subject.  We  believe  that
the eradication of terrorism requires practical measures
to eliminate its causes. Among such actions, we should
actively  strengthen  human  rights  protections  for  all
people, confront all acts of aggression  and  occupation
of  the  lands  of  others,  fight  poverty  and  encourage
democracy.
Terrorism cannot be uprooted unilaterally through
actions  taken  by  one  State  or  group  of  States.  The
solution  for  such  a  problem  cannot  be  achieved  by
linking  it  to  a  certain  religion  or  nationality.  It  is  not
fair  that  the  legitimate  struggle  of  peoples  to  achieve
self-determination 
should  be
classified  as  terrorism.  We  should  all  exert  and
independence 
and 
the  United  Nations 
coordinate  all  our  possible  efforts  under  the  umbrella
of 
terrorism  and
complete,  as  early  as  possible,  a  comprehensive
counter-terrorism treaty.
to  combat 
My country was subjected to unjust sanctions that
caused great material losses totalling about $40 billion.
Now,  while  this  matter  has  ended  and  the  reason
behind  the  sanctions  settled,  I  extend  my  gratitude  to
all the friendly and sisterly countries that stood by our
side  and  supported  our  position  in  tackling  that
situation.
Competent  Libyan  authorities  are  now  drawing
up plans for restructuring the Libyan economy and are
reviewing  the  public  sector,  encouraging  the  private
sector  and  providing  opportunity  for  all  to  engage  in
economic  activities.  New  economic  policies  were
adopted  in  order  to  advance  the  national  economy,
eliminate  deficiencies  and 
improve  performance.
Certain  measures  have  been  taken  in  the  monetary
field, including the adoption of a single exchange rate
for  the  Libyan  dinar  against  foreign  currencies,  the
abolition  of  monetary  control  and  a  reduction  of
income  taxes.  Import  and  export  licences  as  well  as
customs guarantees on exports have been abolished as
have  customs  fees  on  approximately  3,500  imported
items.
taken 
for 
foreign 
Important  steps  have  been 
the
privatization  of  many  public  sector  companies.  Libya
has  opened  its  doors  to  investors  and  a  law  for  the
encouragement  of 
investment  has  been
promulgated.  This  law  gives  foreign  investors  many
privileges  and  exemptions  and  allows  them  100  per
cent ownership of their enterprises or partnership with
domestic  investors.  Our  application  to  join  the  World
Trade  Organization  was  approved  unanimously  by  the
organization  on  27  July  2004.  We  seek  further
cooperation from all countries in that respect.
the 
The  consolidation  and  realization  of  peace  and
security  for  all  is  a  fundamental  goal  of  the  United
Nations. It is an objective that could not be realized by
the  Organization  without 
and
cooperation  of  all  Member  States,  which  could  be
effective tools to solve the most difficult problems and
conflicts  among  countries,  particularly  in  Africa.  In
this  respect,  we  wish  to  express  our  satisfaction  with
the  stabilization  of  the  situation  in  Sierra  Leone  and
Angola  and  the  improvement  of  the  situation  in
Somalia,  Burundi  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
assistance 
A/60/PV.21
Congo, as well as the signing of the peace agreement in
Sudan.
We call on all Member States to assist the African
Union  in  its  endeavours  to  face  its  various  challenges
and  create  a  unified  African  continent  capable  of
achieving  progress  and  participating  effectively  in  the
march 
towards  progress,  upholding  freedom  and
human rights and eradicating wars, poverty and disease
while removing the remnants of colonialism. We hope
that  support  will  be  extended  to  the  African  Union’s
plans  to  achieve  prosperity  for  all  African  people  by
providing  assistance 
the  New  Partnership  for
Africa’s Development.
to 
The  international  community  so  far  has  failed  to
solve  the  Palestinian  problem,  although  it  is  as  old  as
the United Nations itself. In fact, the problem is getting
worse. The Palestinian people have lived for over half
a  century  either  as  refugees  all  over  the  world  or
subjected  to  an  occupying  Power,  which  has  usurped
its  land  and  practiced  against  them  the  most  horrible
crimes,  including  the  killing  of  children,  women  and
the  elderly.  Their  lands  have  been  confiscated,  their
farms  burned, 
their  houses
destroyed  over  their  occupants,  while  houses  are  built
for  settlers  coming  from  all  over  the  world.  Even
though  highly  sophisticated  weapons  are  being  used
against civilians, the Security Council stands unable to
take  concrete  steps  to  stop  such  practices.  This  has
encouraged  the  occupying  Power 
its
aggression and crimes, heedless of the decisions of the
international community.
trees  uprooted, 
to  continue 
their 
The  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people  requires
that  urgent  and 
the
international  community  to  put  an  end  to  the  Israeli
aggression  and  provide  a  radical  solution  for  the
Palestinian question.
firm  action  be 
taken  by 
We  believe  that  the  solution  cannot  be  achieved
by accepting a de facto situation or by merely adopting
resolutions  or  unrealizable  plans.  It  will  happen
through  a  radical  solution  that  allows  and  guarantees
the return of all Palestinian refugees to their lands and
the establishment of a democratic State on the land of
historical Palestine in which Jews  and  Arabs  live  side
by  side,  enjoying  full  equality,  similar  to  the  South
African  model,  where  blacks  and  whites  reconciled
after  decades  of  conflict  and  bloodshed.  If  such  a
solution  is  not  realized,  with  the  support  of  the
international 
the
suffering  of 
community, 
the 
3
A/60/PV.21
Palestinian  people  will  continue,  and  the  region  will
continue to witness tension and conflict without peace
and security.
The Israeli occupation forces must withdraw from
all  occupied  Arab  territories;  the  Golan  Heights  must
be returned to Syrian sovereignty and the Shabaa farms
to Lebanon.
In Iraq, where international law has been violated
and the country subjected to occupation on unfounded
bases  and  flimsy  pretexts,  the  tragedy  is  escalating
daily,  getting  more  and  more  difficult  to  solve.  The
Iraqi  people  are  paying  a  high  price  with  the  lives  of
their sons and daughters as a result of the occupation.
We  have  to  exert  every  possible  effort  to  guarantee  a
speedy end to the occupation in order to enable Iraq to
regain  its  independence  and  sovereignty  and  preserve
its  territorial  integrity  and  Arab  identity.  The  Iraqis
must be allowed to determine their own affairs, future
and  manage  their  resources,  and  to  achieve  self-
determination  with  freedom  involving  all  citizens
without the marginalization of any group so that peace,
prosperity and security can prevail all over Iraq.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Alberto  Gatmaitan  Romulo,  Secretary  for  Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines.
felicitations 
on 
(Philippines): 
Mr.  Romulo 
I  convey  my
your 
election,
delegation’s 
Mr. President,  on  leading  this  historic  session.  I  also
wish  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  Ambassador
Jean Ping, whose leadership and wisdom proved to be
the  key  to  the  successful  negotiation  and  adoption  of
our outcome document.
Sixty years ago, enduring peace was  foremost in
the minds of the founders of our Organization. Scarred
from war and stunned by mankind’s capacity for death
and destruction, they did not consider failure an option.
Our  common  humanity  demanded  that  we  build  a
better  and  peaceful  world.  To  do  that,  representatives
from  50  nations  gathered  in  San  Francisco,  in  a
building  dedicated  to  those  who  defended  and  fought
for  freedom,  to  draft  a  charter  that  would  unite  the
nations  of  the  world  for  peace.  General  Carlos  P.
Romulo, 
the  Philippine  delegation,
articulating  the  hopes  of  mankind,  said  then  at  the
United  Nations:  “Let  us  make  this  floor  the  last
battlefield.”
the  head  of 
4
Mr.  Zarif  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
The  leading  lights  attending  the  founding  of  the
United  Nations  are  still  familiar  to  us  —  Joseph  Paul
Boncour  of  France,  Wellington  Koo  of  China,  Andrei
Gromyko  of  Russia,  Lord  Halifax  of  the  United
Kingdom,  Edward  Stettinius  of  the  United  States,  His
Royal Highness Faisal ibn Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia,
Sir  Ramaswami  Mudaliar  of  India,  Jan  Smuts  of  the
Union 
of
Czechoslovakia,  Herbert  Evatt  of  Australia,  Exequiel
Padilla of Mexico, and many others. Those visionaries
led the historic and daunting task of writing the United
Nations Charter.
South  Africa, 
Jan  Masaryk 
of 
three  Asian  nations  were 
A  third  of  mankind  was  still  under  colonial
domination.  Only 
in
attendance.  Most  of  Africa  were  not  yet  independent
nations. In a forum dominated by colonial Powers, the
Philippines fought to ensure the notion that the goal of
the  Trusteeship  Council  should  not  only  be  self-
government but independence.
When  the  United  Nations  emblem  was  being
drawn,  General  Romulo  asked  that  the  Philippines,
although  still  a  commonwealth,  be  included.  He  was
told that the Philippines would only be a small dot on
that now familiar map. He demanded nevertheless that
the dot be placed on the map.
The  Philippines  insistence  on  its  place  on  the
world  map,  albeit  just  a  dot,  symbolized  for  many
soon-to-be  independent  and  developing  nations  the
challenge  facing 
the  United  Nations.  The  clear
challenge  facing  the  United  Nations  at  its  inception,
and particularly developing nations, was to ensure that
freedom from want, freedom from fear and freedom to
pursue  human  dignity  would  be  at  the  heart  of  the
political independence of the States.
Sixty  years  after  San  Francisco,  we  continue  to
face the challenge of freeing all our peoples from want
and  from  fear  and  allowing  them  the  true  dignity  that
they deserve as independent  nations. The fight for the
political  and  legal  independence  of  States  is  over,  but
the fight to win for all peoples their freedom from fear
and want and to pursue human dignity continues.
For  the  Philippines,  as  a  developing  country,
freedom  from  want  is  of  utmost  concern.  Poverty,  the
energy  crisis  and 
insufficient  financial  resources,
compounded  by  debt,  are  the  pressing  challenges
facing my country and its people. We also face serious
security  threats,  particularly  from  terrorism  —  with
many of our citizens victimized by terrorist attacks. We
recognize  the  economic  and  social  underpinnings  of
such acts.
In the not too distant past, my country also had to
confront  the  threat  of  the  severe  acute  respiratory
syndrome (SARS). Our national experience prompts us
to  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  these  global
threats  are  all 
interrelated,  and  our  different
perceptions  of  the  imminence  of  the  threats  facing  us
should not deter us from cooperating to address them.
This  brings  me  to  my  central  theme  —  that  we
should let the bond of our broad vision of our common
humanity  inspire  us  all  to  work  towards  a  stronger
United Nations for a better world.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  no
nation  can  defend  itself  against  threats  entirely  on  its
own.  We  agree  that  development,  freedom  from  fear
and human rights concerns are interrelated and should
be equally considered in designing the solutions to the
threats  we  face.  We  believe  that  because  of  this
interrelation,  these  concerns  should  be  addressed  in  a
comprehensive and integrated manner.
The  world  is  facing  the  problem  of  unbridled
spiralling  of  oil  prices.  International  cooperation  on
energy  is  increasingly  becoming  an  imperative  as  the
capacity  and  capability  of  countries,  particularly  non-
oil  producing  developing  countries,  to  meet  their
development  objectives, 
the  Millennium
(MDGs),  are  affected.  This
Development  Goals 
unavoidably impacts on security.
including 
The  Philippines  welcomes  the  100  per  cent  debt
cancellation for the 38 heavily indebted poor countries.
However,  the  debt  situation  is  expected  to  worsen,  as
middle-income  countries  go  deeper  in  debt  with  the
threat  of  rising  world  oil  prices.  Once  more,  the  need
for other innovative and creative means of international
cooperation for debt relief also becomes imperative.
a 
of 
debt 
The Philippines has proposed the consideration of
the 
adoption 
scheme
including  “debt-for-equity”  or  “debt-for-Millennium
Development Goal projects”. The scheme calls for the
conversion  of  50  per  cent  of  the  debt  service  into
equity for MDG projects of at least equal value with an
income earning potential.
conversion 
A/60/PV.21
The 
Debt for development projects can focus on areas
that would achieve MDG benchmarks such as hospitals
and  health  care,  schools,  classrooms,  information
technology,  clean  water,  electricity,  reforestation,  eco-
tourism  and  many  others  that  should  help  us  achieve
our MDGs by 2015.
nexus 
and
overlooked.
international  migration 
Migration  brings  challenges  and  opportunities 
to
countries  of  origin,  destination  and  transit.  This  is
another  multifaceted  issue  that  requires  international
cooperation  to  be  addressed  in  a  coordinated  and
coherent  manner.  A  comprehensive  and  effective
international  mechanism  for  cooperation  should  be
drawn  up 
its  politico-security,  social,
cultural and economic development dimensions.
development 
to  address 
between 
cannot 
be 
As  one  of 
the  major  sending  States, 
the
Philippines stands ready to cooperate with all countries
in  contributing  towards  the  formulation  of  effective
mechanisms 
that  would  help  ensure  a  smooth
management of the migration phenomenon.
The Philippines knows only too well the fear that
terrorism  instils  in  the  civilian  population  and  the
anguish  it  brings  to  victims  and  close  relatives.  We
take  cognizance  of  terrorism’s  political,  social  and
economic underpinnings.
Our  national  experience  has  shown  us  the  value
of  dialogue  in  our  approach  to  consider  all  those
factors.  The  Philippines  wants  to  share  this  positive
value  of  dialogue  and  therefore  has  taken  the  lead  in
drawing attention to the need for interfaith dialogue as
an  integral  part  for  the  promotion  of  the  culture  of
peace.  My  President  recently  convened  a  successful
informal summit on interfaith dialogue and cooperation
here  in  the  United  Nations.  The  summit  adopted  a
declaration 
interreligious,
intercultural  and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  and
cooperation  to  ensure  a  lasting  and  durable  peace  and
understanding  at  the  global,  regional  and  national
levels.  We  invite  all  who  agree  with  its  principles  to
consider endorsing the declaration.
greater 
calling 
for 
We all acknowledge that the world has reached an
unprecedented  stage  when  there  are  virtually  no  more
barriers,  whether  of  space  or  time.  Communication
technology  has  made  possible  the  dissemination  of
information instantaneously to practically all parts and
corners of the globe.
5
A/60/PV.21
As 
the 
technology 
revolution  ushered 
the  nineteenth  century  brought  us 
the
industrial  revolution,  the  twentieth  century  brought  us
to 
in  by
computerization.  The  twenty-first  century  now  offers
infinite possibilities to further advance the information
age.  At  no  other  time  has  the  saying  “no  man  is  an
island”  rang  truer.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  said,
what affects one affects all in this globalized world.
However,  the  information  age  is  a  two-edged
sword,  as  experience  has  shown  us.  While  it  opened
opportunities,  it  also  brought  challenges  that  we  all
have to cope with. Our concern however is that just as
the  limitless  opportunities  it  offered  could  be  used  to
benefit  humanity,  it  could  also  be  used  destructively.
Information  technology  enables  companies  to  search
for  lowest  cost  factors  of  production  globally,  operate
more efficiently and pass on the benefits to consumers.
However, 
enables
disillusioned  and  desperate  members  of  society  to
become  agents  of  terror  and  recruit  adherents  to  their
way  of  thinking  as  well  as  to  fund  their  destructive
activities.  It  is  therefore  in  our  common  interest  to
bring 
take
advantage  of  the  opportunities  before  us  as  well  as  to
confront common threats.
together  our  collective  strengths 
technology 
same 
also 
this 
to 
For 60 years, the United Nations has provided us
the  forum  to  draw  up  norms  of  conduct  that  take  on
board  all  our  concerns.  From  its  inception  with  51
Member  States  in  1945,  the  membership  has  almost
quadrupled to its present 191 States.
While  the  United  Nations  has,  time  and  again,
adopted  some  reforms,  at  no  other  time  has  the
pressure for far-reaching change been starker than it is
now.  The  evolving  global  and  regional  security
environment, ongoing  conflicts in many  countries that
have  multidimensional 
and  other
flashpoints  have  to  be  addressed.  It  is  clear  that  in
pursuing  our  shared  interest  to  preserve  our  common
humanity, the United Nations continues to serve as our
indispensable  tool.  It  is  therefore  also  our  shared
interest to strengthen it.
causes 
root 
Even  before  San  Francisco,  some  key  decisions
had  already  been  reached  among  the  major  Powers,
primarily  on  the  power  of  the  veto,  or  what  was
referred 
rule”.  Our
delegation,  in  concert  with  others,  pressed  for  an
increased  role  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  felt  that
this  was  the  balance  necessary  to  safeguard  the
the  “unanimity 
then  as 
to 
6
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  in  maintaining
international  peace  and  security.  We  also  urged  wider
and  more  equitable  representation  in  the  Security
Council  —  an  aspiration  that  has  yet  to  achieve
realization,  and  thus  an  advocacy  that  my  country
carries to this day.
The outcome document of the High-level Plenary
Meeting  provides 
to
strengthen  the  United  Nations  system.  It  should  guide
us well in our discussions on institutional reform.
the  substance  upon  which 
Six  decades  after  San  Francisco,  our  common
humanity  remains  at  stake.  We  have  today  another
opportunity  to  make  our  United  Nations  succeed.
Whether the issue is United Nations reform or freedom
from want or fear, we must act now to ensure that the
principles  committed  to  by  our  leaders  at  this  year’s
summit be implemented effectively and efficiently.
Allow me therefore to present at this point some
practical  strategies  that  may  assist  us  in  ensuring  that
we achieve our goals.
Firstly, the agreed commitments should be broken
down  into  tangible  steps.  Concrete  benchmarks  and
pragmatic indicators of progress must be set.
with 
concrete 
Secondly, 
international
benchmarks,  national  strategies  can  be  geared  to
achieving  them.  All  concerned  national  actors  in
domestic  procedures  and  actions  should  be  involved.
This  is  necessary  to  put  into  effect  and  implement
multilateral  commitments.  Ideally,  national  actors
should  be  privy  to  developments  in  the  negotiating
process and have the opportunity to provide their own
inputs with respect to the national position to be taken.
This is expected to ensure implementation and follow-
up to the commitments made by our leaders.
Thirdly,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  need  to
increase  congruence  among  national,  regional  and
international  plans  of  action.  Keeping  these  in  sight
contributes  to  a  faster  rate  of  achieving  these  goals.
National plans of action can be elevated to the regional
level, whenever feasible.
Fourthly,  we  must  rethink  our  existing  modes  of
international  cooperation.  There  will  be  value  in
assessing  how  we  have  been  collaborating  bilaterally,
regionally  and  multilaterally.  Let  us  assess 
the
effectiveness of our current modes of cooperation.
In adopting practical measures and in discovering
new opportunities and addressing new threats, we must
be mindful of the old hopes and enduring dreams that
led  to  the  birth  of  our  United  Nations.  As  a  child,  I
listened  with  all  innocence  as  my  family  closely
followed the work  of  the  Philippine  delegation  in  San
Francisco. 
the
Philippines —  the  Benjamin  among  the  founders  —
was part of this historic event.
that  my  nation, 
felt  proud 
I 
We  were  rebuilding  our  shattered  lives  and
mourning  our  dead.  Yet  we  held  on  to  hope.  We  had
hope  that  no  country  would  ever  again  crush  us  with
their  bombs,  trample  us  with  their  tanks  or  defile  our
mothers, sisters and daughters. As a nation  devastated
by war, we placed great hope in the United Nations. I
still remember the words that made us dare dream of a
better, more peaceful world — words heard by a child
through  the  crackle  and  static  of  an  old  radio,  words
spoken by General Carlos P. Romulo in addressing the
delegates in San Francisco in 1945. He said:
of 
that 
armamented 
line 
boundaries.  The 
is 
“Words  are  more  powerful  than  guns  in  the
defence  of  human  dignity.  Treaties  are  stronger
only
than 
impregnable 
human
understanding.”
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her
Excellency The Honourable Dame Billie Miller, Senior
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign
Trade of Barbados.
Ms.  Miller 
join  with  other
delegations  in  congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  on
your election to preside over the sixtieth session of the
United  Nations  General  Assembly.  The  Barbados
delegation’s  appreciation  is  also  extended 
the
outgoing  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping,
Foreign  Minister  of  Gabon,  for  the  outstanding  work
he  has  done  in  guiding  the  Assembly  during  the
previous  session  and  particularly  in  the  preparations
for the High-level Plenary Meeting.
(Barbados): 
I 
to 
Last week, heads of State and Government, in an
attempt  to  define  and  articulate  a  global  consensus,
adopted  an  outcome  document 
the
determination  of  the  vast  majority  to  make  progress
towards  full  achievement  of  the  goals  and  targets
inspired  by  the  Millennium  Declaration,  as  well  as  a
number  of  decisions  on  United  Nations  reform.
Barbados,  as  part  of  the  tremendous  efforts  made  by
representing 
A/60/PV.21
many,  had  hoped  for  bolder  and  more  ambitious
commitments, particularly regarding development.
In  all  of  the  circumstances,  we  accept  that  the
outcome  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  provides
the  platform  for  coordinated  international  action  in
response  to  the  complex  and  interconnected  global
challenges confronting this and future generations.
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  now
recognized  as  the  world’s  time-bound,  quantifiable
targets  for  addressing  poverty  in  its  many  dimensions
of  hunger,  disease,  lack  of  access  to  health  care  and
education,  gender 
inequality  and  environmental
degradation.  Progress  on  their  achievement  has  been
far  from  uniform  across  the  world,  or  for  that  matter
across  the  Goals.  Unless  action  is  taken  on  a  much
broader  front  and  a  much  faster  pace,  the  eminently
laudable  words  of  the  Declaration  will  serve  only  as
grim  reminders  of  human  needs  neglected  and  of
numerous promises unfulfilled.
The  Secretary-General  has  stated 
that  our
generation,  with  the  combination  of  resources  and
technology at its disposal, must be the first to make the
right of development a reality for everyone and to free
the entire human race from war.
towards 
Progress 
in  Barbados 
the  achievement  of 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals 
is
encouraging.  Although  the  regional  report  of  the
United  Nations  Development  Programme  presents  an
optimistic  outlook  for  most  Caribbean  countries  in
respect of the  first  five  Goals,  the  region  faces  severe
challenges  and  constraints 
their  achievement.
Foremost among them, and beyond our control, is our
vulnerability  to  economic  shocks  and  to  every  natural
disaster known to mankind — be it hurricane, volcanic
eruption, mudslide, earthquake or flood.
to 
is 
Equally  challenging 
the  fuller  and  more
effective  integration  of  Barbados  in  the  globalized
economy,  for  which  a  successful  outcome  of  the  next
Doha  development 
trade
liberalization is crucial.
round  of 
talks  on 
Permit  me  to  refer  to  an  outstanding  omission
from  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  that  of
sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights.  Indeed,  the
exclusion  was  so  stark  that  the  Secretary-General
himself stated:
Goals,
“The  Millennium 
particularly  the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty
Development 
7
A/60/PV.21
and  hunger,  cannot  be  achieved  if  questions  of
population  and 
reproductive  health  are  not
squarely  addressed.  And  that  means  stronger
efforts  to  promote  women’s  rights  and  greater
investment  in  education  and  health,  including
reproductive health and family planning.”
We  must  seize  the  opportunity  presented  by  this
current 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  to  mainstream  sexual
and  reproductive  health  and  rights  by  adopting  a
universal access target or indicator that can be used to
facilitate the monitoring of progress in this area and to
hold Governments accountable.
implementation  of 
review  of 
the 
to 
the  successful 
implementation  of 
Barbados  takes  the  position  that  women  are
central 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  After  all,  women  of
childbearing  age  constitute  one  billion  of  the  world’s
poorest  people,  and  for 
this  group  sexual  and
reproductive  health  issues  are  at  the  fore  of  problems
of ill health and loss of productivity. Women living in
poverty  are  not  usually  aware  of  their  sexual  and
reproductive  rights  and  are  often  ignorant  about  the
services to which they have a right of access. Similarly,
poor women, and in particular poor young women, are
highly susceptible to contracting HIV/AIDS despite the
prevalence of preventive measures.
I feel compelled to support the call for mobilizing
new  resources  for  improved  sexual  and  reproductive
health  services  for  women  and  for  men  worldwide.
Individuals,  non-governmental  organizations 
and
Governments 
in  developing  countries  are  already
contributing  more 
to  current
expenditures  in  this  field.  It  is  certainly  time  for
developed countries to live up to the pledges they made
at the 1994 International Conference on Population and
Development.
than  75  per  cent 
in 
are 
Central to the global partnership for development,
the  eighth  Millennium
which 
is  embodied 
Development  Goal, 
the 
commitments  by
developing  countries  to  pursue  sound  macroeconomic
policies,  to  make  the  most  creative  use  of  our  limited
endowments, to respect human rights and to ensure that
our  material  development  takes  place  within  the
context  of  social  justice,  commitments  that  Barbados
has  proudly  upheld  since  becoming  independent  in
1966.
By  the  same  token,  developed  countries  must
fulfil  their  obligations  made  at  numerous  United
8
Nations  summits  and  conferences  on  trade,  debt  and
finance,  and  in  particular  their  pledge  to  honour  the
outstanding  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  domestic
product  for  official  development  assistance  (ODA).
Increases in ODA will not be sufficient to achieve the
sustained  economic  growth  and  development  that  we
all seek. It will also be necessary  for the international
community  to  address  the  indebtedness  of  poor  and
middle-income  developing  countries;  promote  foreign
to  a  broader  range  of
direct 
developing 
confront 
global
environmental  problems  such  as  climate  change;
combat  HIV/AIDS;  and  reform  multilateral  trading
arrangements  as  well  as  systemic  deficiencies  in  the
global  economic  and  financial  system.  These  are  the
real  threats  to  our  human  security  as  we  see  it  in  the
Caribbean.
investment  flows 
countries; 
serious 
The  Doha  development  round,  launched  by  the
World  Trade  Organization  in  2001,  is  so  called
precisely because trade ministers deliberately sought to
place  development  at  the  centre  of  multilateral  trade
negotiations.  This  decision  inspired  new  hope  in
developing  countries  that  we  would  be  afforded  the
opportunity 
to  participate  more  effectively  and
beneficially  in  the  new  global  economic  system.
country
Regrettably, 
counterparts 
their
commitment. We are still locked in a fierce struggle at
the  World  Trade  Organization 
these
countries  to  rise  above  their  narrow  self-interests  and
embrace positions that would allow for the creation of
a more just global economic order.
developed 
reneged  on 
of 
our 
to  have 
to  persuade 
some 
seem 
Barbados  fears 
that  we  could  squander  yet
another  opportunity  genuinely  to  involve  developing
countries in the multilateral trading system. We do not
believe  that  the  international  community  can  continue
to  ignore  this  fact.  Furthermore,  we  are  far  from
convinced  that  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  last
week  fully  refocused  global  attention  on  matters  of
development  and  rescued  from  obscurity  the  global
development  agenda,  which  has  unfortunately  been
overtaken by a narrowly defined anti-terrorism agenda.
“It is time to put the global development agenda,
including  that  for  the  world’s  smallest  and  most
vulnerable  countries  and  societies,  back  on  track”.
Those are the words of the Prime Minister of Barbados,
The Right Honourable Owen Arthur.
Barbados  considers  that  peace  and  collective
security, human rights and the rule of law represent, in
addition to development, a strong foundation on which
the  United  Nations  can  assist 
international
community  in  building  a  stronger  world.  Issues  of
terrorism,  responsibility  to  protect,  disarmament  and
non-proliferation need also to be addressed.
the 
Terrorism  affects  all  countries,  both  large  and
small,  and  all  countries  have  an  obligation  to  the
international community to ensure that the perpetrators
of acts of terrorism do not find safe haven and succour
within their borders. While we believe that the United
Nations  should  strongly  and  unequivocally  issue  a
condemnation of terrorism in all of its forms, care must
be  taken  to  formulate  an  unambiguous  definition  that
would provide a basis for a comprehensive convention.
This would rightly place the United Nations at the very
heart  of  the  fight  against  terrorism,  signalling  a
multilateral approach to this scourge.
in 
the 
small  arms,  promoted  by 
Closely linked to the issue of terrorism is that of
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  Action  taken  by
the United Nations must be clear and firm, and efforts
must  be  redoubled  to  find  compromises  that  would
facilitate  progress.  The  Caribbean  remains  a  major
route  for  international  narco-traffickers  and  suffers
from  the  destabilizing  effects  of  the  parallel  illegal
trade 
same
transnational  criminal  elements.  The  absence  of
concerted 
international  action  against  small  arms
trafficking  places  the  peace-loving  societies  of  the
small  Caribbean  States  at  great  risk.  Small  arms
proliferation  and  the  violence  that  accompanies  it
impact  negatively  on  our  development,  our  security
and  human  rights,  and  pose  a  severe  threat  to  the
peaceful,  stable  and  sustainable  development  of
Caribbean democracies.
Barbados supports the call for the negotiation of a
new  international  instrument  on  the  marking  and
tracing  of  weapons.  This  is  an  urgent  priority  which
will  provide  the  international  community  with  an
effective  means  of  monitoring  the  movement  and
proliferation  of  small  arms  and  taking  comprehensive
interdiction  and  enforcement  action  against  illegal
traders.
Barbados  remains  resolute  in  its  rejection  of  the
continued  use  of  the  Caribbean  Sea  for  the  trans-
shipment  of  nuclear  and  radioactive  waste.  This  high-
risk  practice  poses  grave  danger  to  our  region  in  the
A/60/PV.21
event  that  there  is  an  accident,  a  natural  disaster  or  a
terrorist attack.
The Secretary-General has emphasized that if the
United  Nations  is  to  be  a  useful  instrument  for  its
members and is to successfully address the challenges
facing  humanity,  then  it  must  be  fully  adapted  to  the
needs  and  circumstances  not  only  of  today,  but
tomorrow  as  well.  Barbados  shares  this  view.  Reform
should not be seen as an end in and of itself, but as a
means  towards  achieving  the  goals  we  have  set
ourselves  in  2000  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  to
make  the  United  Nations  a  more  effective  instrument
for  pursuing  the  priorities  of  the  world’s  peoples.
Reform  should  also  seek  to  enhance  the  role  of  the
United Nations in global affairs to create the conditions
for  more  democratic  and  transparent  decision-making
and  to  provide  a  forum  for  the  full  and  equal
participation of small States.
Barbados  believes  that  the  main  organs  of  the
United  Nations  should  be  strengthened.  This  will
require  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  to
make it the chief deliberative and policy-making body
of  the  Organization,  as  envisaged  by  the  United
Nations  Charter.  It  will  further  require  the  reform  of
the Security Council to make it more representative of
current  global  geopolitical  realities.  Small  States
should be represented continuously in the membership
of the Council, and any arrangements for the selection
of the non-permanent members of a reformed  Council
should be so formulated.
We  are  convinced  that  the  Economic  and  Social
Council should play  a larger  role in policy-making on
international  economic  and  social  matters  and  the
promotion of improved global economic governance. A
restructured Economic and Social Council should find
its voice again as a vibrant forum for economic policy
dialogue, 
increased  guidance  and
coordination to the United Nations funds, programmes
and  agencies  and  for  monitoring  the  implementation
and  follow-up  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
and  other  major  elements  of  the  global  development
order.
for  promoting 
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  undertake  fully  and
effectively  the  demanding  responsibilities  with  which
it has been charged, then it must be provided with the
required  level  of  resources,  and  the  Secretary-General
must  be  given  appropriate  managerial  authority.  The
Barbados  delegation  intends  to  participate  actively  in
9
A/60/PV.21
the  delineation  of  these  issues  during  this  sixtieth
session.
international 
As a small State, Barbados believes that a strong
multilateral system, with the United Nations at its core,
is our greatest protection from the unilateral pursuits of
the powerful. We are unwavering in our commitment to
the precepts of multilateralism and to the belief that no
other 
is  better  suited  or
equipped to meet the diverse demands for global peace,
security and development than this Organization. As a
member  of  the  United  Nations,  Barbados  must  be
assured  that  its  voice  will  continue  to  be  heard
regardless of size or economic power. This is a struggle
from which we are not at liberty to abstain.
institution 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Ferenc  Somogyi,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs of the Republic of Hungary.
Mr.  Somogyi  (Hungary):  Let  me  start  by
extending  to  the  President  my  sincere  congratulations
on his election to the presidency of the sixtieth session
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  can  assure  him  that  in
fulfilling  his  challenging  and  responsible  duties,  he
will  have  the  support  and  full  cooperation  of  the
delegation of Hungary. Our tribute and thanks are also
due  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  who  served  us
with exemplary devotion and honour.
Effective  multilateralism  remains  an  important
objective of the foreign policy of Hungary.  Therefore,
we  are  pleased  to  see  the  United  Nations  standing
ready  to  face  the  emerging  threats  and  challenges  by
making efforts to adapt its activities to the realities of
our contemporary world.
The United Nations has served for 60 years as the
core  institution  for  collective  security.  In  our  global
and interdependent world we have to acknowledge that
development, peace, security and human rights form an
indispensable  foundation  for  the  security  and  well-
being of our times.
terrorism, 
the  fight  against 
My Government is particularly pleased that issues
such  as 
international
protection  of  human  rights,  the  proposed  Human
Rights Council, the establishment of the Peacebuilding
Commission, 
of  United  Nations
management,  as  well  as  challenges 
to
development,  have  found  proper  reflection  in  the
recommendations of the summit.
related 
the 
reform 
10
International  terrorism  continues  to  be  a  major
threat  to  our  societies.  The  recently  experienced
horrors of terror are sowing the seeds of instability all
over the world. Hungary, along with its partners in the
European  Union  and  NATO,  strongly  condemns  all
forms  of  terrorism.  Measures  taken  in  the  course  of
combating  terrorist  forces,  however,  must  always
remain 
international
standards, in particular with human rights and refugee
and  humanitarian  law.  We  believe  that  the  United
Nations needs to accord top priority to the fight against
the scourge of terrorism. My country is keen to see the
elaboration and adoption by the General Assembly of a
comprehensive convention on terrorism, which would,
among others things, give the proper legal definition of
terrorist acts.
in  conformity  with  basic 
Freedom,  democracy  and  human  rights  should
constitute  the  basic  framework  of  life  for  every
individual. We know from experience that they are not
granted automatically; they must be won and enforced
through hard  and  persistent  efforts.  It  is  of  paramount
that  essential  human  rights-
importance 
related  activities,  such  as  servicing 
treaty
implementation  machinery  or  monitoring  undertaken
by the special procedures, are given their due share in
the  funding  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  regular
budget.
therefore 
the 
Driven by the objective to promote democracy in
the world, the Government of the Republic of Hungary
has  established  the  Budapest  International  Center  for
Democratic  Transition.  The  Center  is  set  to  provide
assistance  for  democratic  reforms  drawing  upon  the
experience  of  countries  that  have  recently  undergone
political,  economic  and  social 
transition.  These
nations, having had to face and address the challenges
of transition in the recent past, can probably best serve
as helping hands to countries in need in this regard.
It  is  in  the  same  spirit  that  Hungary  warmly
welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations
Democracy  Fund.  The  Budapest  International  Center
for  Democratic  Transition  will  be  eager  to  coordinate
its activities with the Fund in the framework of a close
cooperative relationship.
Hungary  finds  the  resolution  to  establish  a  new
United  Nations  mechanism  dealing  with  the  rights  of
persons  belonging  to  national,  ethnic,  religious  and
linguistic  minorities  to  be  highly  encouraging.  The
appointment  of  an  independent  expert  on  minority
issues  is  an  important  step  in  the  right  direction.  The
United  Nations  however  still  has  a  long  way  to  go  in
meeting  the  full  scope  of  its  responsibilities  with
regard  to  the  international  protection  of  minority
rights.
Educating young generations about the lessons of
the  past  is  an  essential  tool  to  combat  discrimination
and  intolerance.  For  this  reason  a  day  of  Holocaust
remembrance  has  been  introduced  into  Hungarian
school curriculum. It is in that same spirit that Hungary
supports the proposal to place Holocaust remembrance
on the agenda in the United Nations General Assembly.
Hungary recognizes that development is a central
goal by itself and is ready to  reaffirm  its  commitment
to 
sustainable
development  and  global  prosperity  for  all.  As  a  new
European  Union  member,  Hungary 
to
gradually increase her official development assistance.
The  European  Union 
important
decisions  in  support  of  Africa’s  development  efforts.
We reaffirm our commitment to contribute urgently to
meeting the special needs of that continent.
eradicate  poverty 
recently  made 
and  promote 
ready 
is 
We are encouraged to see that after so many years
of  wars  and  violence,  democratic  changes  are  bearing
fruit for the peoples of the Western Balkans. It is more
than  promising 
the  political  and  economic
perspectives offered by the European Union and NATO
are  the  main  driving  forces  today  for  the  countries  of
this region.
that 
in 
their  broader 
In  order  to  find  lasting  solutions  to  the  yet
unresolved  challenges  of  the  Western  Balkans,  it  is
crucial  to  tackle  the  basic  issues  of  security  and
stability 
regional  dimensions.
Regardless of its future status, it is vital that Kosovo be
transformed  into  a  viable  entity,  capable  of  exercising
firm administrative control with a stable law and order
situation  and  a 
transparent,  dependable  economy.
Given  the  turbulent  history  of  the  Balkans,  no  long-
is  conceivable  without  establishing
term  solution 
harmonious 
inter-ethnic  relationships.  Well-defined
and  strictly 
the
implemented  minority  rights  are 
primary precondition for peace, stability and prosperity
both in Kosovo and in the broader Western Balkans.
The  Middle  East  conflict  has  wide-ranging
implications  on  global  peace  and  security,  on  the
prospects of the world economy and, last but not least,
on the fight against international terrorism. Hungary is
of the firm view that the road map, based on the two-
A/60/PV.21
States  principle,  still  gives  us  the  best  chance  for
reaching a just and lasting solution.
The  implementation  of  the  Gaza  disengagement
plan  by  the  Government  of  Israel  has  been  a  step  of
truly historic proportions. Thus, the Middle East peace
process  has  been  given  a  new  lease  on  life,  but  its
sustainability  is  subject  to  further  consistent,  bold
measures  by  both  sides.  In  order  to  maintain  the
momentum,  Israel  needs  to  return  to  the  road  map,
while 
to
demonstrate its own commitment to the peace process
by carrying out the long overdue internal reforms and,
most  importantly,  by  eradicating  terrorism  and  taking
the law and order situation under effective control.
the  Palestinian  National  Authority  has 
and 
process 
reconstruction 
The  continued  instability  in  Iraq  is  a  matter  of
grave concern. Hungary strongly condemns the acts of
violence and terrorism in Iraq, which aim to undermine
the 
political
normalization.  In  spite  of 
the  alarming  security
situation  and  the  obvious  internal  instability,  the
political  transition  in  Iraq  is  making  progress  in  line
with  Security  Council  resolution  1546  (2004).  The
approval  of 
is
indispensable to carry on the political process. Further
consistent  efforts  are  required  to  properly  engage  all
Iraqi  communities  in  building  a  united,  stable  and
democratic country.
recently  drafted  constitution 
of 
the 
Let  me  reiterate  Hungary’s  continued  commitment
to  provide  assistance  to  the  people  of  Iraq  in  their
efforts  to  build  a  democratic  and  prosperous  country
that  will  soon  take  its  due  place  in  the  family  of
democratic nations.
Hungary  viewed 
the  successful  presidential
elections last October as an important milestone on the
way  to  political  stabilization  in  Afghanistan.  The
parliamentary  elections  held  only  days  ago  marked  a
further  major  step  leading  to  the  establishment  of
proper democratic institutions in that country. Hungary
is proud of the humanitarian assistance it has provided
to  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  of  the
contribution  it  has  made  to  facilitate  the  process  of
political stabilization. My country is ready to undertake
further  commitments  in  order  to  assist  the  Afghan
people  in  rebuilding  their  country  in  peace  and
security.
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
along  with  their  means  of  delivery  continues  to
undermine international peace and security. The threat
11
A/60/PV.21
that  terrorist  groups  and  non-State  actors  will  acquire
nuclear,  biological  and  chemical  weapons  is  a  major
concern  to  us  all.  At  the  last  session  of  the  General
Assembly, Hungary expressed its strong support for the
full  implementation  of  Security  Council  resolution
1540  (2004),  and  called  on  all  States  to  establish
effective national export controls. We have noted with
satisfaction that a great number of Member States had
submitted  comprehensive  reports  on  their  national
measures  serving 
the
resolution.
the  aim  and  purpose  of 
The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons  (NPT)  is  still  a  cornerstone  of  international
peace,  security  and  stability.  The  2005  NPT  Review
Conference,  however,  failed 
to  our
expectations.  The  international  community  needs  to
fulfil its responsibility in preserving the integrity of the
Treaty while promoting its universal character.
live  up 
to 
Recognizing the grave threat posed by biological
weapons,  Hungary  will  work  together  with  other
nations  in  the  run-up  to  the  upcoming  Biological  and
Toxic  Weapons  Review  Conference.  Hungary  will
strive 
the
Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention.
to  explore  opportunities 
to  strengthen 
My  country  remains  committed  to  the  Ottawa
Convention  banning 
landmines.  We  will  have
destroyed  all  equipment  under  the  provisions  of  the
Convention by the end of 2005, well in advance of the
deadline.
At the current session, beyond the wide range of
issues  to  be  tackled,  we  have  to  make  important
decisions  to  put  on  track  the  implementation  of  the
outcome  document  adopted  by  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting of the General Assembly. If we are guided by
a sense of common responsibility and firmly anchored
realism, the momentum for reform will be maintained.
The  delegation  of  Hungary  stands  ready  to  work  in
partnership with other delegations to make this happen.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Cheikh  Gadio,  Minister  of  State  and
Minister for Foreign Affairs and for Senegalese living
abroad of the Republic of Senegal.
Mr.  Gadio  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a
pleasure for me to express on behalf of my delegation
warm  congratulations  on  the  outstanding  election,  of
the President to lead the sixtieth regular session of the
General  Assembly  of  the  United  Nations.  I  see  the
12
selection  as  a  tribute  to  his  excellent  qualities  as  a
diplomat  without  equal  and  recognition  of  the  tireless
commitment  of  Sweden  to  the  noble  causes  of  our
Organization. He may  be sure that  in  the  discharge  of
his  lofty  mission,  Senegal’s  support  is  completely
understood.
Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  say  how
much  we  have  appreciated  the  commitment  and  the
flair  that  his  predecessor,  my  friend  and  brother,  His
Excellency the Minister of State Jean Ping, discharged
his mandate at a decisive point in the existence of the
United  Nations.  Whatever 
the
negotiations  under  way  for  a  just  and  in-depth  reform
of  our  Organization,  our  brother  Jean  Ping  will  have
given  the  most  of  himself,  and  we  all  owe  him
gratitude and respect.
results  of 
the 
I  should  also  like  here  to  pay  tribute  to  the
unfailing  dedication  to  the  causes  of  our  Organization
displayed  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations,  a  dedication
that  was  recently  reflected in  his  excellent  and  timely
initiative  to  submit  to  Member  States  a  substantial
number  of  proposals  aimed  at  ensuring  the  rebirth  of
the United Nations and making it possible to envisage
a new dawn for multilateralism.
This year’s general debate has been symbolic and
strategic in nature in that it is being held following the
High-level Plenary Meeting, which mobilized all of our
leaders and was an expression of the will of all of the
Member States to make the necessary adjustments for a
revitalization  of  the  founding  values  of  the  United
Nations and for a better consideration of the aspiration
of all peoples.
it 
the  great  hopes  of 
This  is  a  crucial  meeting  carrying  as  it  does
the  disadvantaged
within 
populations  of 
the  world,  victims  of  endemic
underdevelopment. The major results of this summit, in
my  view,  are  an  expression  of  the  faith  of  the
international  community 
in  spirit  and  solidarity,
interdependence  and  international  cooperation,  the
raison d’être of the United Nations, at a time when our
societies  are  faced  with  an  increasingly  complex
international 
by 
a
globalization that is still not being clearly defined.
characterized 
environment 
Although  there  are  signposts,  the  road  before  us
is  still  long,  and  so  great  is  the  lag  behind  of  many
developing  countries,  particularly  on 
the  African
continent,  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development
A/60/PV.21
Goals,  that  billions  of  men  and  women  around  the
world  should  be  helped  to  free  themselves  from
difficulties and from exclusion and despair so they can
fully enjoy the dividends of peace and security.
This  is  why  my  delegation  strongly  hopes  that
this act of faith will be translated into tangible actions
and  into  results  that  are  palpable  for  all.  This  is
precisely  what  the  Secretary-General  invited  us  to
consider in highlighting in his report of last March the
indivisibility  of  the  three  pillars  of  development,
security and human rights.
yet  borne  fruit,  we  should,  apart  from  the  partial
measures  which  we  should  welcome,  envisage  bolder
and more durable solutions.
Based  on  this  concern,  the  African  ministers  of
finance met to discuss the strategy for debt reduction in
Africa in May of this year in Dakar, under the aegis of
the  African  Union.  This  was  in  preparation  for  a
conference during which the President of the Republic
of Senegal, His Excellency Abdoulaye Wade, proposed
to  the  African  Union  that  it  conduct  an  “x-ray”  of
African debt.
Therefore,  we  must  all  act.  For  us,  a  developing
country, acting means implementing strategies that will
be  beneficial  for  development,  supported  by  clear-
sighted policies of good governance and the rule of law
including all sectors of society. And for the developed
countries 
the
commitments  undertaken  in  terms  of  resolving  the
question  of  debt,  promoting  a  just  and  equitable  trade
and 
the  volume  and  quality  of  aid
mechanisms.
this  means  scrupulously  honouring 
improving 
By the historic decisions that it is calling for, the
agenda established by the summit confirms eloquently
the firmness of the commitments of heads of State and
Government  to  focus  on  fighting  for  development,
whose  ultimate  goal  is  the  harmonious  integration  of
developing  countries  in  the  globalization  process.
However,  the  heavy  interdependence  of  the  world
economy and the demands for peace naturally call for a
real  global  partnership,  which  includes  a  sharing  of
responsibilities  and  takes  into  account  the  specific
needs of developing countries.
Nevertheless, the desired increase in assistance to
developing  countries  is  not  a  sufficient  condition  for
them  to  have  lasting  inclusion  in  the  globalization
process. We also need to rationalize this assistance and
to  improve  the  delivery  mechanisms.  Indeed,  despite
the  recent  measures  of  debt  cancellation  for  certain
African  countries  and  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor
Countries Debt Initiative, the debt burden continues to
hamper  any 
the  economies  of
developing  countries,  which  now  find  themselves  in
perpetual dependence on donors.
improvement 
in 
Clearly,  Africa  is  falling  further  and  further
behind  the  objectives  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  and  will  continue  to  do  so  if  its  debt  burden  is
not  drastically  alleviated.  Since 
the  mechanisms
planned for bringing the continent out of debt have not
recovery  of 
The  economic 
the  developing
countries is all the more delayed in that they continue,
helplessly, to be buffeted by an unfair and unbalanced
world  trade  environment  due  to  protectionist  policies
and  export  subsidies  which  distort  the  whole  idea  of
competitiveness and divert trade from the objective of
development.  This  contributes  to  making  producers  in
the  poor  countries  more  vulnerable  and  explains  the
high  hopes  that  we  place  in  the  next  World  Trade
Organization Ministerial Conference  in  Hong  Kong  in
order to conclude the Doha cycle for development and
design  a  multilateral 
is  non-
discriminatory  and  equitable  for  all.  We  welcome  the
particular attention being given increasingly to dealing
with  the  specific  needs  of  Africa  in  the  international
development agenda.
trade  system 
that 
Unfortunately,  we  cannot  fail  to  deplore  the  fact
that,  paradoxically,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s
Development  (NEPAD),  adopted  by  this  Assembly,
continues  to  suffer  from  a  deficit  in  implementation
due  partly  to  internal  inertia  and  to  slow  multilateral
support, 
financial
disbursements.
particularly 
terms 
in 
of 
I  would  like  here  once  again  to  make  a  serious
appeal  to  States  and  to  the  agencies  of  the  United
Nations 
the  Bretton  Woods
institutions,  to  make  concrete  their  commitments  to
help  Africa  implement  NEPAD  —  this  ambitious
programme of development.
including 
system, 
that  of 
One  of  the  priority  sectors  of  this  programme
remains 
information  and  communication
technology. In this respect I should like to welcome the
creation  —  following  the  first  phase  of  the  World
Summit  on  the  Information  Society  —  of  a  digital
solidarity  fund.  This  Fund,  a  proposal  of  President
Wade,  rapidly  became  an  initiative  of  the  African
Union  and  was  adopted  in  March  2005  by  the
13
A/60/PV.21
international  community  in  Geneva.  It  is  aimed  at
helping  the  countries  of  the  South  to  bridge  their
digital  divide  with 
to  promote
sustainable  development.  I  should  like  here  to  repeat
Senegal’s  invitation  to  States,  local  groups,  heads  of
companies and civil society to contribute in cash and in
kind to this fund.
the  North  and 
The  many  initiatives  to  be  taken  in  the  next  few
weeks  and  months  should  not  let  us  lose  sight  of  the
battle  that  we  must  wage  at  the  worldwide,  regional
and  national  levels  to  defeat  pandemics  of  infectious
diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and
polio,  which  are  decimating  our  populations.  As
regards HIV/AIDS, the Government of Senegal, which
devotes  more  than  one-tenth  of  its  budget  to  health,
will  continue 
through  bold  actions  based  on
information, 
campaigns,
education, 
prevention and subsidies to fight pandemics tirelessly.
awareness 
However,  the  encouraging  results  achieved  by
several  countries, 
including  Senegal,  which  has
managed  to  keep  the  prevalence  rate  of  HIV/AIDS  at
one  of  the  lowest  levels  in  the  continent,  cannot  be
consolidated without substantial and consistent support
from  international  partners.  Allow  me  to  remind  the
General  Assembly  of  the  good  news  announced  just  a
few  weeks  ago  of  the  prevalence  rate  in  my  country
falling from 1.7 per cent to 0.7 per cent.
I  would  also  like  to  invite  the  international
community  to  support  Africa  in  its  fight  against
drepanocytosis  —  otherwise  known  as  sickle  cell
anaemia — which has become a public health problem
in  several  countries.  This  disease,  apart  from  the
suffering  that  it  inflicts  on  the  populations,  is  an
obstacle  to  development  in  that  it  makes  sufferers
unable  to  work.  For  that  reason  the  Summit  of  Heads
of State and Government of the African Union, held in
Sirte  from  2  to  5  July,  adopted  a  decision  supporting
the  inclusion  of  genetic  drepanocytosis  on  the  list  of
priorities  for  public  health.  I  would  thus  invite  the
Assembly to join this battle against drepanocytosis.
Equally  vital  is  the  willingness  of  our  external
partners to commit themselves with Africa to finding a
solution  to  the  situation  of  its  agriculture,  which
continues  to  suffer  from  an  environment  that  is
increasingly  hostile 
the  flourishing  of  design
capacities  and  to  transfers  of  technology  central  to
their development. This is the thrust of the initiative of
the  Dakar  Agricultural  Forum,  launched  by  President
to 
14
Wade, the first meeting of which was held in February
2005  in  Dakar  on  the  topic  “The  world  agricultural
divide:  opening  up  prospects  for  agricultural  areas  in
development”.
scientists 
and 
academics 
from 
organizations, 
This  Forum  was  an  opportunity  for  a  productive
exchange  of  views  and  ideas  among  officials  in  the
sector,  representatives  of  professional  organizations,
non-governmental 
multinational
companies, 
all
continents.  The  Forum  considered  the  possibilities  of
partnerships  in  order  to  reduce  the  agricultural  divide
between  North  and  South  by  using  science  and  the
transfer  of 
technology,  and  discussed  successful
agricultural  experiments  submitted  and  presented  at
Dakar by  experts  from several countries.  By  initiating
this  project  in  Dakar,  the  Government  of  Senegal
sought  to  stimulate  thought  on  an  original  concept  of
development, 
the  political,
technical  and  sociological  constraints  peculiar  to  the
countries of the South.
into  account 
taking 
Another  challenge  that  has  a  negative  impact  on
agriculture  is  desertification,  which  affects  nearly  one
third of the African continent. There was a meeting of
experts  from  more  than  30  countries  in  Dakar  from
26 to 29 July to discuss this problem. That meeting was
held on the initiative of President Wade, in accordance
with  a  mandate  from  his  African  peers,  to  consider
developing the Sahara and its boundaries in the Sahel.
As  President  Wade  said,  it  is  a  question  of  “having  a
good, hard look at the Sahara” and thinking about the
creation of a High Authority of the Sahara based on the
American  model  of  the  Tennessee  Valley  Authority,
which  was  a  successful  example  of 
integrated
development.
We  should  like  here  to  invite  the  international
community,  which  decided  to  proclaim  2006  as  the
International  Year  of  Deserts  and  Desertification,  to
participate in this important work of constructing what
has been called by President Wade and his brother and
friend, President Olusegun Obasanjo, the “Great Green
Wall of Africa”, to slow the advance of the desert. As
President  Wade  has  said,  “Either  the  desert  or  the
human being — one will have to disappear.” We hope
that it will be the desert.
Certainly,  the  struggle  to  promote  development
should  go  hand  in  hand  with  another  fight,  that  for  a
world where peace, security and the scrupulous respect
of human rights and individual freedoms reigns. This is
fully 
relating 
to 
the 
supports 
why  my  country 
important
conclusions of the outcome document of the High-level
Plenary  Meeting, 
the
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly, the
restructuring of the Security Council, the creation of a
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  of  a  Human  Rights
Council,  and  also  the  adoption  of  the  fundamental
principle of the responsibility to protect.
in  particular 
From  this  rostrum,  the  President  of  Senegal,  on
the question of the expansion of the Security Council,
recently  made  a  strong  appeal  that,  first,  the  historic
injustice done to Africa — the only region of the world
missing  from  the  group  of  permanent  members  of  the
Security  Council  —  be  redressed.  Certainly,  our
continent  would  like  at  the  end  of  the  process  to
receive two permanent seats in the Council, two thirds
of  whose  agenda,  unfortunately,  is  devoted  to  Africa.
However,  the  proposal  of  Senegal  —  a  country  that
defends  the  spirit  of  compromise  with  other  interest
groups — to put Africa at the beginning and at the end
of the expansion of the Security Council, deserves the
attention of the entire international community.
There is no doubt that the full implementation of
the conclusions of the High-level Plenary Meeting will
make it possible for our Organization to connect better
to  the  realities  of  this  new  century.  However,  the  fine
prospects  that  have  been  opened  up  by  the  Meeting
should  not  make  us  forget  the  serious  impact  of  the
painful  situations  to  which  our  world  has  been  a
helpless observer for many years. I would just mention
three  such  situations: 
in
negotiations  in  the  area  of  disarmament,  in  particular
nuclear disarmament; terrorism; and the bogging down
and lack of headway in the peace process in the Middle
East.
the  disturbing  deadlock 
It  is  not  yet  too  late  for  the  “argument  of
power” — and nuclear power, which I have just set out
here — to yield to the “power of argument” of shared
peace, so that weapons of mass destruction — nuclear,
chemical or biological — can be definitively banned.
terrorism, 
As  regards 
the  recent  attacks  on
London and on Sharm el-Sheikh are painful reminders
of the persistence of an evil that can only be eliminated
through  determined  and  decisive  mobilization  by  the
international community. This response is all the more
timely  since  the  terrorist  hydra  attacks  the  sanctity  of
life,  defies  all  reason  and  undermines  the  foundations
of  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  individual.  It  is  the
A/60/PV.21
view  of  Senegal  that,  quite  frankly,  there  is  no  cause
sufficiently  just  or  sufficiently  good  to  justify  the  use
of terrorism and the massacre of women, children and
innocent civilians.
Last  but  not  least,  the  Middle  East  continues  to
send  us  daily  images  of  a  seemingly  endless  tragedy
for  the  Palestinian  people.  We  note  the  reluctance  of
the  occupying  Power,  Israel,  to  respect  the  spirit  and
the letter of the road map, which has been seen in the
recent  settlements  established  in  “Greater  Jerusalem”,
accompanied  by  destruction  of  houses  belonging  to
Palestinians and the refusal to give them authorization
to  reunite  their  families.  And  we  see  it  once  again  in
the  Israeli  plan  to  link  East  Jerusalem  with  the
settlement of Ma’aleh Adumim in the West Bank.
The  international  community  must  redouble  its
efforts and vigilance to put an end to the harsh actions
against  the  Palestinians  including  the  construction  of
the  separation  wall  and  the  settlements,  and  take
measures  to  enable  both  parties  to  work  to  conclude
rapidly a mutually advantageous peace.
In advocating justice, it seems inconceivable that
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  with  its  23  million
inhabitants  and  its  impressive  economic  dynamism,
should be kept out of the United Nations.
Thus, we express the hope that, finally, peace will
reign in all regions of the world, particularly in Africa.
This is why we welcome the fact that countries such as
Guinea-Bissau,  Sierra  Leone,  Liberia  or  Burundi,
from  crisis  and
despite  conflict,  are  emerging 
embarking  on 
reconciliation  and
reconstruction.
the  path 
to 
I would like to add just one last word on Guinea-
Bissau. For us, Guinea-Bissau has met its commitments
as  regards  the  international  community,  proving  its
maturity and its attachment and dedication to peace. It
is  thus  for  the  international  community  to  accompany
this process now under way in Bissau. To that end, the
meeting  of  donors  planned  for  November  should  be
held without  conditions  and  should  lead  to  substantial
material and financial support so as to help the people
of  Guinea-Bissau  continue  to  take  charge  of  their
destiny.
I  should  like  to  conclude  on  this  point  and  pay
warm  tribute  to  Mr.  Ekmeleddin  Ihsanoglu,  Secretary
General of the Organization of the Islamic Conference,
for his restructuring efforts to make the OIC a modern
15
A/60/PV.21
and effective organization more capable of strengthening
cooperation within the Islamic Oumah and contributing
to the fight against underdevelopment.
In this noble fight, my country, Senegal, remains
more  determined  than  ever  to  work  with  all  of  its
partners in order to bring about a fairer, more peaceful
and more prosperous world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency Mr. Marco Vinicio Vargas, Deputy Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Worship  of  the  Republic  of
Costa Rica.
Mr.  Vinicio  Vargas  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  the
President on his well-deserved election to preside over
the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  The
session  that  he  is  chairing  is  special  because  of  its
scope  and  the  importance  of  its  issues,  particularly  in
view of the unfinished mandates and unfulfilled hopes
of the 2005 summit.
We  cannot  conceal  our  dissatisfaction  with  the
summit’s outcome. In some areas, such as development
and  human  rights,  the  outcome  document  reflects  less
than  the  international  community’s  least  common
denominator.  In  others,  such  as  disarmament  and
impunity,  the  final  document  is  a  real  step  back.
Nevertheless,  this  does  not  mean  that  we  should
neglect  our  commitment  to  the  reform  of  the  United
Nations.
that 
create  undue  pressure  on 
We  must  avoid  past  mistakes  in  order  to  ensure
the  success  of  the  next  round  of  negotiations.  The
General  Assembly  must  set  realistic  goals,  avoiding
expectations  that  cannot  be  met  or  accepting  artificial
deadlines 
the
negotiations  and  must  not  be  distracted  by  secondary
issues. The negotiation process must be open, inclusive
and  transparent,  so  that  all  States  may  be  free  to
participate  and  contribute  actively.  We  must  not  yield
to the temptation of creating closed negotiating groups
that 
non-transparent
arrangements. We must prevent small groups of States
from  imposing  their  own  national  ambitions  upon
others.  The  Secretariat  must  remain  totally  impartial.
And finally, we must see to it that decisions are made
by  democratic  means  in  conformity  with  the  rules  of
procedure.
can  make 
private 
and 
Such  principles  must  be  borne 
in  mind
particularly  when  we  consider  the  possible  reform  of
16
to 
the  Security  Council.  In  the  last  few  months,  we
devoted a disproportionate amount of time and effort to
the  question  of  Security  Council  reform, 
the
detriment of other equally important issues. During the
present  Assembly  session,  we  must  give  equal
emphasis 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  negotiation  of  the
comprehensive convention on terrorism, in addition to
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  deem  it
necessary  to  revitalize  the  Working  Group  on  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council  so  that  we  may  work
together towards a consensus solution.
the  Human  Rights  Council, 
to 
We reaffirm our commitment to Security Council
reform  in  order  to  make it  more  democratic  and  more
transparent and effective, on the basis of the principles
of  sovereign  equality  among  States,  rotation,  periodic
elections  and  accountability.  Therefore,  we  cannot
accept  having  new  permanent  members  which,  due  to
their  permanent  status,  cannot  he  held  to  account  and
which cannot be replaced if their performance is found
wanting.  We  would  only  favour  an  increase  in  the
number  of  non-permanent  members  of  the  Council,
with a possibility of re-election.
At  the  same  time,  we  support  reforming  the
Security Council’s working methods so that it may be
more  responsive  to  the  requirements  and  needs  of  the
great majority of Member States. It is indispensable to
limit  the  undemocratic  instrument  of  the  veto,  which
erodes the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council.
The  veto  is  unacceptable,  especially  in  cases  of
genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and
massive  violations  of  human  rights.  Regrettably,  the
proposal  to  eliminate  the  veto  in  such  cases  was  not
included  in  the  summit’s  outcome.  This  question  will
have  to  be  reconsidered  in  the  coming  months  in  the
context of Security Council reform.
We should focus also on the accountability of the
Security Council to the broader membership. Insofar as
the  Council  acts  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States,  it
should submit special reports to the General Assembly,
pursuant  to  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Charter,
every time that it establishes or substantially modifies
the mandate of a peacekeeping mission, every time that
it  imposes  sanctions  or  other  measures  of  general
application under Chapter VII of the Charter, and every
time  that  a  draft  resolution  is  vetoed.  The  General
Assembly should consider such reports with a view to
further action when necessary.
Furthermore,  the  Security  Council  must  adopt
measures to ensure full respect for human rights and, in
particular, the right to due process of persons included
on  lists  of  sanctions  committees.  The  work  of  the
Security  Council  must  serve  as  an  example  of  the
highest  standards  of  human  rights  and  due  process  at
the international level.
My delegation wholeheartedly supports all efforts
to  strengthen  the  international  mechanisms  for  the
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  We  fully
support  the  idea  of  transforming  the  Commission  on
Human  Rights  into  a  Human  Rights  Council.  We  had
hoped  that  the  outcome  document  would  contain
specific provisions on the structure and mandate of the
new  Council.  In  their  absence,  we  should  devote  the
next few months to designing this new institution. We
particularly  deem  it  necessary  to  ensure  that  the
composition  of  the  new  Council  reflects  an  equitable
geographical  distribution  and  that  its  mandate  may
favour  expert  consideration  of 
issues,  avoiding
unnecessary politicization. It is also necessary to draw
a distinction between the mandate of the new Council
and 
the  General  Assembly’s  Third
Committee.
the  work  of 
We  support  the  idea  to  increase  substantially  the
budget  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  are  greatly
interested in the idea of submitting a single report to all
of  the  monitoring  mechanisms  established  under  the
various  human  rights  treaties.  In  order  to  protect
persons  with  disabilities,  we  believe  it  necessary  to
conclude  as  soon  as  possible  the  convention  on
protection  and  promotion  of  the  rights  and  dignity  of
persons with disabilities.
an 
In  the  next  few  months,  this  General  Assembly
should  also  devote  itself  to  the  establishment  of  the
Peacebuilding  Commission.  In  our  view,  this  new
Commission  should  be  a  subsidiary  body  of  the
General  Assembly,  maintaining 
appropriate
functional  relationship  with  the  Security  Council.  Its
members, we believe, should be elected, and the body
should  be  open  to  all  States  that  are  making  an
effective  contribution  to  peace.  Therefore,  we  are
opposed to having permanent members of the Security
Council  automatically  become  members  of  the  new
Commission. Such an unjustifiable privilege would be
one more example of the cascade effect. Similarly, we
are opposed to extending the right of veto to the work
of  the  new  Commission.  We  believe  that  in  its
A/60/PV.21
decision-making  the  Commission  should  apply  the
rules of procedure of the General Assembly.
We are convinced that the United Nations should
play  a  key  role  in  the  efforts  to  fight  international
terrorism. Pursuant to the summit’s outcome document,
in  the  coming  months  the  General  Assembly  should
design a comprehensive strategy against terrorism and
adopt  concrete  measures  to  strengthen  and  enhance
coordination in the Organization on this matter. In this
context, we would like to repeat the proposal made last
year  by  the  President  of  Costa  Rica,  His  Excellency
Mr.  Abel  Pacheco  de  la  Espriella,  to  create  a  United
Nations  High  Commissioner  on  Terrorism,  as  an
independent, professional and permanent mechanism at
the  heart  of 
to  ensure  greater
coordination  and  better  use  of  the  resources  available
at the global level to fight terrorism.
the  Secretariat 
also 
support 
the 
We 
conclusion  of 
the
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism
by  the  end  of  this  year.  That  draft  convention  already
contains a technical and precise definition of the crime
of  terrorism,  which  will  enhance  judicial  and  police
cooperation on the basis of the principle of “prosecute
or extradite”.
We highlight the importance of law and justice in
international  relations,  and 
thus  we  reaffirm  our
confidence  in  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the
best mechanism for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
Thus,  we  urge  all  nations  to  accept,  without  any
conditions, the jurisdiction of the Court. We call upon
States  that  may  have  entered  reservations  in  their
declarations  of  acceptance  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the
Court to withdraw them.
We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  International
Criminal  Court  as  an  indispensable  mechanism  to
prevent  and  punish  the  most  serious  crimes  against
mankind.  We  are  particularly  pleased  at  the  fact  that
the  delegation  of  Costa  Rica  will  in  the  next  few
months preside over the Assembly of States Parties to
the Rome Statute.
This year’s negotiations on disarmament and non-
proliferation  have  yielded  unsatisfactory  results.  In
particular,  we  believe  that  the  General  Assembly
should begin preparations for the review conference of
the United Nations Programme of Action to Action to
Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in
Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects,
which  will  be  held  in  mid-2006.  That  conference
17
A/60/PV.21
in 
incorporate, 
should 
its
Programme of Action, a human rights perspective and
the  six  global  principles  of  the  draft  framework
convention on international arms transfers.
implementation  of 
the 
Regarding  development,  we  reiterate  our  appeal
to  implement  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
urge developed countries to fulfil their commitments to
allocate 0.7 per cent of their gross national product to
development  assistance  and  to  do  away  with  all
barriers  and  subsidies  that  have  a  negative  impact  on
the exports of developing countries.
Specific  measures  must  be  adopted  to  enhance
prevention  and  assistance  in  case  of  natural  disasters.
In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  recall  that  the  Sachs
report identified Central America and the Caribbean as
the  region  with  the  highest  vulnerability  indices  to
natural  disasters.  Similarly,  it  is  indispensable  to  bear
in  mind  the  importance  of  economically  sustainable
development. In this context, I would like to highlight
the  initiative  of  creating  a  “Rainforest  Coalition”,  led
by Costa Rica and Papua New Guinea, with a view to
protecting  all  forests  and  ensuring  payment  for  the
environmental  services  that  they  provide.  We  must
recall that tropical forests benefit mankind as a whole
by  sequestering 
the  carbon  dioxide  produced  by
industry.  Unfortunately,  the  Kyoto  Protocol  does  not
provide  incentives  to  developing  countries  to  protect
primary tropical forests. We believe that this omission
in the Kyoto Protocol must be remedied.
of 
the 
unique 
legitimacy 
Regarding  management,  and  with  a  view  to
safeguarding 
this
Organization,  we  deem  it  indispensable  to  strengthen
the  United  Nations  monitoring  and 
inspection
mechanisms, and we request that the General Assembly
consider in depth the  recommendations of the Volcker
report.  It  is  indispensable  to  face  with  absolute
transparency  the  cases  of  mismanagement  and  alleged
corruption  that  have  surfaced  within  the  Organization
in recent months.
The President returned to the Chair.
We  believe  that  the  General  Assembly  should
seriously consider the question of the representation of
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  in  the  United
Nations. There is no doubt that the Republic of China
on  Taiwan  could  contribute  to  the  work  of  the
Organization.  Incorporating  the  Republic  of  China  on
Taiwan into the community of nations is also necessary
so  that  it  may  fully  assume  the  rights  and  duties  that
18
the  various 
arise  from 
legal  regimes  of  global
governance  in  areas  as  varied  as  collective  security,
development  assistance,  the  fight  against  terrorism,
sustainable  development  and  the  various  international
health mechanisms.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Costa
Rica’s unconditional commitment to the principles and
purposes  of  the  Organization,  reaffirming  our  faith  in
the  United  Nations  as  the  principle  instrument  of  the
international  community 
to  maintain  peace,  and
renewing  our  full  confidence  in  the  Organization’s
capability to promote human rights and the well-being
of all peoples.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Julian  Hunte,  chairman  of  the  delegation  of  Saint
Lucia and former President of the General Assembly.
Mr.  Hunte  (Saint  Lucia):  Saint  Lucia  supported
your  unanimous  election,  Sir,  to  be  President  of  the
General Assembly at its sixtieth session, confident that
your diplomatic skills and experience are just what we
need  to  ensure  a  positive  outcome  of  this  historic
sixtieth anniversary session. I congratulate you and the
Government  and  people  of  Sweden  on  behalf  of  the
delegation  of  Saint  Lucia  and  on  my  own  behalf  and
pledge  our  cooperation 
in  our  common
endeavour.
to  you 
My  Government  and  delegation  also  extend  our
thanks  to  your  predecessor  in  office,  His  Excellency
Mr.  Jean  Ping,  for  his  stewardship  of  the  fifty-ninth
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  charged  as  it  was
with the preparatory work for this sixtieth anniversary.
In  these  times,  when  the  demands  on  the  United
Nations  are  significant  and 
increasing,  resources
limited and we, the Member States, are called upon to
strengthen  our  cooperation  and  keep  detractors  and
cynics  of  the  Organization  at  bay,  my  Government
wishes  to  express  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General for his continuing support for the work of the
United Nations.
In  this  sixtieth  year  of  the  United  Nations,  our
world is certainly not the prosperous and peaceful one
built  on  the  unity  and  strength  of  nations  that  the
Charter envisaged. Should we conclude, therefore, that
had  the  United  Nations  exerted  more  authoritative
influence  in  global  affairs,  our  twenty-first  century
world would be a better one? Such an assertion seems
plausible  in  today’s  world,  replete  with  poverty  and
hunger,  disease,  lack  of  sustainable  development,
human  rights  violations,  terrorism,  conflict  and  war,
glaring  inadequacies  and  a  multitude  of  other  grave
problems, 
the  unfinished  agenda  on
decolonization.
including 
The record of the United Nations, however, does
not bear out so simplistic an assertion. If we look with
historical retrospection at the Organization’s record, we
see  that  it  has  wielded  enormous  influence  over  the
years. The challenge that we Member States must take
up  at  this  sixtieth  anniversary  is  to  ensure  that  the
United Nations, the key Organization in global affairs,
has  the  authority  and  prestige  to  anticipate  and  meet
challenges of the nature and scale we are witnessing in
today’s world.
Development  is  foremost  among  the  challenges
that Member States have identified for urgent attention
during  this  sixtieth  anniversary.  There  is  logic  in  this
approach.  A  significant  proportion  of  the  critical
problems that the world faces now and in the future is
intrinsically linked to development. It is for this reason
that heads of State or Government, in their Millennium
Declaration,  defined  succinctly  what  must  be  done  to
advance socio-economic development in  areas of vital
concern.
As  we  know, 
this  comprehensive  blueprint
underpins  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The
global  leadership  was  sufficiently  confident  to  place
their Goals within specified time frames, understanding
as they did the desperate need for improvement in the
socio-economic  conditions  in  numerous  developing
countries.
What  will  we,  the  Member  States  of  this  United
Nations,  say  to  the  people  of  the  developing  world
grappling  with  poverty,  hunger,  HIV/AIDS  and  other
deadly  diseases,  illiteracy,  gender  discrimination  and
other challenges if, by the date set, we have not met the
targets  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals?  My
Government  sees  no  merit  in  the  discussion  as  to
whether 
target  dates  should  have  been  set.  Our
orientation  should  now  be  towards  accelerating  the
pace  of  implementation  so  that  the  Goals  can  be
accomplished within agreed time frames, or better still
even earlier than the target dates.
The United Nations must also show the people of
the developing world that comprehensive measures are
being taken to address the environment and sustainable
development.  Natural  disasters  of  phenomenal
A/60/PV.21
proportions — from Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean to
the  tsunami  in  Asia  and  now  to  Hurricane  Katrina  in
the  southern  United  States  —  have  brought  death  and
destruction  to  developing  and  developed  countries
alike.  I 
the
Government  and  people  of  Saint  Lucia  to  extend  our
sympathy  to  the  Government  of  the  United  States  for
the tragedy still unfolding in the Gulf Coast states.
this  opportunity  on  behalf  of 
take 
Resource-rich  developed  countries  are  better
positioned  to  mitigate  the  impact  of  natural  disasters,
although they too are not without their challenges. For
developing  countries,  however,  including  Saint  Lucia
and  other  small 
the
Caribbean  and  Pacific,  decades  of  progress  can  be
obliterated  in  the  course  of  a  few  hours  by  one
hurricane or typhoon. Beyond doubt the environment is
a  critical  element  of  the  United  Nations  development
agenda.  It  is  a  compelling  reason  for  all  to  sign  on  to
the Kyoto Protocol.
island  developing  States 
in 
In  many 
are  not  being 
for  Development. 
expectations 
It  is  also  in  our  common  interest  to  meet  all  the
commitments  made  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  on
instances,
Financing 
however, 
realized.
Developing countries still cannot rely on wide-ranging
development  cooperation  and  assistance  and  debt
reduction  responses  that  are  predictable  and  reliable.
Needless  to  say  my  Government  joins  in  urging  the
developed  countries  that  have  not  already  done  so  to
meet  the  0.7  per  cent  target.  We  recognize  the  G-8
initiative  to  take  enhanced  measures  for  Africa’s
development  and  hope  that  that  initiative  would  be
speedily implemented.
the  establishment  of 
Related to concern for the development and well-
being  of  all  the  world’s  people,  the  Government  of
Saint  Lucia  commends 
the
$1 billion  emergency  fund  to  be  finalized  later  this
year,  which  will  enable  the  Organization  to  more
quickly and effectively respond to humanitarian crises.
This  sixtieth  anniversary  provides  us  with  yet
another  opportunity  to  give  impetus  to  initiatives  to
spread 
trade
liberalization  more  widely.  Priority  must  be  given  to
ensuring  that  all  developing  countries  benefit  from
freer world trade, that a decline in their trade sector be
halted and reversed and that the competition they face
in the world economy be on a level playing field.
the  benefits  of  globalization  and 
I  am  really  tired  of  saying  this  —  that  one  size
cannot fit all, an indisputable fact that the World Trade
19
A/60/PV.21
Organization  stubbornly  refuses  to  acknowledge  with
respect,  inter  alia,  to  bananas  and  sugar  in  Caribbean
Community  and  small 
island  developing  States.
Indeed,  the  cause  of  development  would  be  greatly
enhanced by a positive outcome from the next round of
the Doha trade negotiations scheduled for Hong Kong,
China, in December 2005, and an early and successful
conclusion of the round overall, hopefully in 2006.
Developing  countries  must  be  equal  partners  in
this process, and together with the developed countries
take  the  decisive  action  required  at  the  World  Trade
Organization.
What  my  Government  seeks  to  emphasize  by
drawing attention to the development imperative is that
the  time  has  come  for  a  paradigm  shift  in  the  United
Nations  approach  to  development.  For  more  than  a
decade  we  have,  through  a  series  of  United  Nations
summits  and  conferences  in  the  economic  and  social
fields,  formulated  an  agreed  framework  of  a  United
Nations  development  agenda,  which 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
includes 
To  these  we  have  now  added  the  outcome
document of the sixtieth anniversary summit. Are these
courses  of  action  that  we  have  agreed  upon  to  be
regarded as mere platitudes, destined to be relegated to
the  archives  of  the  United  Nations?  The  developing
countries have communicated through the Group of 77
and  China  that  the  partnership  and  cooperation  of  the
countries  of  the  developed  world,  and  indeed  all
stakeholders,  are  urgently  needed  to  accelerate  action
and implementation of the United Nations development
agenda.  This  sixtieth  anniversary,  we  believe,  has  a
responsibility to launch this process afresh and to carry
out  the  commitments  that  we  have  made  in  this
development agenda.
A more influential Economic and Social Council
and  a  United  Nations  development  system  that  is
strong and cohesive would ensure that the Organization
implements its development mandate effectively.
Making the United Nations responses equal to its
challenges  through  reform  and  revitalization  was  an
important  element  of  our  deliberations 
the
preparatory process for this sixtieth anniversary.
in 
Let  me  say  that  my  Government  is  prepared  to
actively work together with other Member States to set
for  new  or
precise  and  unambiguous  mandates 
reconstituted  bodies, 
a  Peacebuilding
including 
20
Commission  and  Human  Rights  Council,  on  the  basis
of consensus. It is our considered opinion however that
a credible process of United Nations reform must result
in  a  strong  General  Assembly,  the  Organization’s  sole
universal organ from which no Member State can be or
is excluded.
that 
include 
in  areas 
We  can  ill  afford  to  further  erode  the  General
Assembly’s  role  and  authority,  since  the  Charter
confirms  in  a  practical  sense  the  importance  of  the
Assembly  by  the  expansive  mandate  that  it  has  been
given 
the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  No  other  organ  has
been  given  such  broad  responsibilities  nor  has  the
potential to deliver over such  a wide range of Charter
ideals.  We  are  also  convinced  that  a  strong  General
Assembly  would  enhance  the  credibility  and  standing
of  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole.  Therefore,  the
momentum of General Assembly revitalization must be
maintained,  and  our  efforts  in  this  area  must  be  as
dynamic and flexible as are the forces shaping today’s
world.
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  has  also  been  a
major  preoccupation  in  the  lead  up  to  this  sixtieth
anniversary,  as  it  has  been  for  some  12  years.  An
indisputable  case  has  been  made  for  the  expansion  of
the  Council  to  reflect  the  exponential  growth  of  the
United  Nations  membership  from  51  in  1945  to  191
today. We all know that the obstacle to moving beyond
this  point  is  the  diverging  and  strongly  held  views
about whether an expanded membership should include
new  permanent  members.  Again  this  is  an  issue  that
my  Government  would  wish  to  see  resolved  by
consensus.
Perhaps  this  matter  might  be  put  into  better
perspective  if  we  were  to  reflect  on  the  role  and
function of the United Nations as  a whole.  Within the
broad  range  of  human  endeavours  entrusted  to  the
Organization,  the  Charter  gives  the  Security  Council
one  specific,  albeit  critical,  mandate  —  that  is,  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  My
Government is of the view that it was not intended for
this collective security mandate to be carried out by the
Security  Council  functioning  as  an  independent  and
separate  entity,  but  rather 
in
cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole,  and
certainly in tandem with the General Assembly, where
all  Member  States  of  this  Organization  have  a  voice
and a vote. After all, global peace and security concern
all citizens  of  the  world,  not  just  the  citizens  of  those
to  be  carried  out 
countries  who  happen  at  any  given  time  to  hold  seats
on the Security Council.
For the present, war and conflict loom large, and
this  must  be  of  concern  to  the  Council.  But  we  must
hold  out  hope  that  we,  the  Member  States  of  this
Organization,  can  make  its  constituent  parts  —  the
General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
the development system and other organs and agencies,
and particularly the Security Council — work together
to  substantially  reduce,  if  not  eliminate,  war,  conflict
and crises.
We must also ask ourselves, what is the nature of
the membership that the Council requires to implement
its mandate? Far more than any consideration, it is the
I  underscore 
commitment  — 
and 
the  word
“commitment”  —  of 
the  Council’s  membership,
permanent  or  non-permanent, 
its
decisions — all of them — to responding to situations
that threaten international peace and security wherever
they  may  arise  and  to  combating  the  insidious  spread
of  international  terrorism  that  determines  the  success
of the Council’s work.
to  enforcing 
We  can  no  longer  posture  and  bicker  while  the
people of the world wait, particularly the people of the
developing world, who so desperately need the United
Nations. We must take the historic opportunity that this
sixtieth  anniversary  presents  to  set  our  sights  on  a
twenty-first  century  world  framed 
ideals
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  a  world  of  prosperity,  peace
and  security,  with  a  strong  United  Nations  at  its  core.
We  need  the  United  Nations.  It  has  the  unmitigated
support of the Government and people of Saint Lucia.
the 
in 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Ivailo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria.
Mr.  Kalfin  (Bulgaria)  (spoke  in  French):  I
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  most  warmly  on  the
occasion  of  your  election  to  this  important  post.  The
tireless  support  of  Bulgaria  for  your  mission  will  be
among the most active, and I would like to express the
profound gratitude of my country to your predecessor,
Mr. Jean  Ping,  for  his  remarkable  work  and  his  real
courage.
Following the best traditions in Bulgarian foreign
policy,  the  new  Bulgarian  Government  is  deeply
attached 
in
international relations, and thus believes in the central
the  principle  of  multilateralism 
to 
A/60/PV.21
the  United  Nations 
that 
as 
the  only
nature  of 
intergovernmental  organization 
is  completely
universal  and  extremely  representative  of  the  peoples
of  the  world.  Bulgaria  is  participating  in  the  sixtieth
session of the General Assembly as a country that has
signed the Treaty of Accession to the European Union
and acts with the status of active observer in the bodies
and  institutions  of  the  European  Union.  My  country
has  unreservedly  supported 
the
European  Union  during  the  preparatory  work  for  the
summit that has just taken place, and we fully support
the  analysis  of  the  outcome  document  made  by  the
United Kingdom presidency.
the  positions  of 
in 
The main purpose of this debate is to implement
the decisions of the summit. I hope that each Member
State  will  help  to  push  forward  reform  in  the  United
Nations,  as  set  out 
the  outcome  document
(resolution  60/1).  Substantial  progress  has  been  made
in many key areas, and this is a good basis for the work
of the sixtieth session. However, we are obliged to note
with  regret  that  some  of  the  ambitious  and  innovative
ideas in the report of the Secretary-General, “In larger
freedom”  (A/59/2005),  welcomed  and  endorsed  by
Bulgaria,  could  not  be  adopted.  We  need  to  redouble
our  efforts  so  that  these  ideas  can  come  to  pass.
Bulgaria supports the efforts of Secretary-General Kofi
Annan  in  this  respect  and  expresses  the  hope  that  his
valuable contribution will continue.
In  parallel  with  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
creation  of  the  United  Nations,  my  country  is  also
celebrating  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  membership
in  the  United  Nations  family.  Over  the  last  50  years,
the  challenges  facing  humanity  have  increased  in
complexity and diversity, and the threats facing us tend
to  interweave  and  compound  each  other  in  a  manner
never seen before. However, just as 50 years ago, it is
the human being who is at the centre of our attention as
the supreme value, the human being with his individual
security and his right to a life of dignity and happiness.
The summit that has just concluded in New York
has revived hope that the struggle to eradicate poverty,
hunger  and  epidemics  and  to  protect  the  environment
can be won. The condition is that we need to mobilize
the  maximum  amount  of  efforts  and  the  maximum
resources  so  that  we  can  implement  a  real  global
partnership  between  the  developed  and  developing
countries. We support the European Union’s position of
increasing official development assistance.
21
A/60/PV.21
As  a  candidate  for  membership  in  the  Economic
and  Social  Council  for  2007  to  2009,  Bulgaria  has
decided  to  make  its  contribution  to  activities  of  the
United Nations in the social and economic areas.
summit 
outcome 
The 
document 
defines
HIV/AIDS  as  being  one  of  the  greatest  threats  to
humanity. Efforts of the entire international community
are required in order to counter it. Children and young
people  are  the  most  affected.  The  case  of  the  Libyan
children,  contaminated  with  the  HIV/AIDS  virus  in  a
hospital, is a tragedy deserving our compassion and our
support.  Bulgaria  welcomes 
of
appropriate  measures  to  avoid  such  tragedies  in  the
future.  It  will  participate  actively  in  the  European
Union’s  plan  of  action,  which  it  has  just  published,
aimed at limiting the consequences of the epidemic of
HIV/AIDS in Libya.
adoption 
the 
to 
My  country  supports  the  emergence  of  a  new
consensus  in  the  United  Nations  relating  to  the  chief
threats 
international  peace  and  security  and
collective  action  against 
threats.  Bulgaria
categorically condemns terrorism in all of its forms and
manifestations.  No  cause  can  justify  violence  against
innocent people. The United Nations has a leading and
irreplaceable  role  in  creating  a  global  environment  of
intolerance and rejection of terrorism.
such 
For  that  reason,  my  delegation  will  support
unconditionally the adoption during the sixtieth session
of an anti-terrorist strategy. It is in  the  context  of  this
strategy  that  we  should  seek  lasting  and  long-term
solutions  to  the  political,  economic  and  social  causes
fuelling  this  phenomenon.  Bulgaria  also  insists  that  a
common  definition  of  terrorism  be  developed,  making
it  possible  to  adopt  a  convention  on  international
terrorism.  It  is  clear  that  in  order  to  combat  terrorism
effectively  we  need 
ideologies
advocating  terrorism.  In  that  respect,  we  actively
support 
that  facilitate  coexistence  and
dialogue  between  different  civilizations,  religions,
ethnic groups and cultures.
to  neutralize  all 
initiatives 
Bulgaria  profoundly  regrets  that  the  problem  of
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction
was  not  included  in  the  summit  outcome  document,
and  we  associate  ourselves  with 
the  Secretary-
General’s appeal to continue efforts in this priority area
for our collective security.
Bulgaria  has  wholeheartedly  supported  the  idea
of  creating  a  Peacebuilding  Commission  since  its
22
inception. The creation of this body is one of the most
important  decisions  of  the  summit.  Allowing  the
Commission to begin its work as soon as possible will
greatly  increase  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to
consolidate 
the  positive  effects  of  peacekeeping
operations.  In  each  specific  case,  the  Peacebuilding
Commission  cannot  but  benefit  from  the  contribution
from  neighbouring  countries  and  also  from  interested
regional organizations.
As  a  country  in  South-Eastern  Europe,  Bulgaria
has  been  working  tirelessly  over  the  last  few  decades
for  the  transformation  of  the  potential  for  conflict  in
the  Western  Balkans 
into  good-neighbourliness,
cooperation  and  development.  We  are  convinced  that
stability  and  prosperity  in  this  region  are  ultimately
indissolubly  linked  with  the  European  perspective  for
the  Western  Balkans.  The 
risks  of  military
confrontation  are  decreasing,  and  what  we  have  seen
recently is the emergence of new forms of cooperation
between  States  with  the  consolidation  of  democratic
institutions,  civil  societies  and  rule  of  law  in  the
common fight against organized crime and corruption.
For  my  country  such  forms  of  cooperation  are  a
priority  also  as  regards  the  States  of  the  region  of  the
Black Sea, the Caspian Sea and Central Asia.
The  international  community  is  on  the  threshold
of  a  crucial  decision  for  the  future  of  Kosovo.  The
situation there is an example of a long and sometimes
painful  post-conflict  settlement  with  the  leadership  of
the  United  Nations,  and  in  partnership  with  the
European  Union,  NATO  and  the  Organization  for
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe.  Reaching  a  just
and lasting solution cannot ignore European norms and
values.  It  must  guarantee  the  rights  of  all  of  the
inhabitants of the region without distinction as to their
ethnic origin, their religious beliefs and language. This
solution  must  be  based  on  a  respect  of  the  territorial
integrity of neighbouring countries and must contribute
to  regional  security  and  stability.  For  Bulgaria  the
future of Kosovo lies in a unified Europe, and this can
be  achieved  solely  through  the  implementation  of
standards established by the Security Council.
Bulgaria  supports  the  efforts  of  the  Government
and  the  people  of  Iraq  on  the  difficult  road  to  peace,
security and economic recovery. The conclusion of the
constitutional process provided for by Security Council
resolution 1546  (2004)  is  the  sole  means  of  achieving
this.  We  have  no  doubt  that  the  adoption  of  the  new
Iraqi  constitution  will  make  it  possible  to  overcome
existing  divisions  and  will  be  a  cornerstone  for
constructing  an  Iraqi  State  that  is  unified,  democratic
and  guarantees  the  rule  of  law.  For  its  part,  Bulgaria
will continue to give its support to the Iraqi people in
their  efforts 
to  build  a  democratic,  completely
independent future.
Mr.  Zarif  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.
My  country  welcomes  the  positive  trends  that
have been emerging in the process of consolidating the
Afghan State, which the recent parliamentary elections
have  strikingly  confirmed.  Bulgaria  will  continue  its
contribution 
international
community to stabilize Afghanistan. We are continuing
our assistance to the Afghan army.
the  efforts  of 
the 
to 
We  agree  with  those  who  highlight  the  need  to
focus  the  attention  of  the  international  community  on
Africa. There is no doubt that a priority for the United
Nations  must  be  the  settlement  of  regional  and  local
conflicts on this continent, combating poverty, and the
transition  to  sustainable  development.  The  role  of  the
African Union here is irreplaceable.
For Bulgaria the protection and the promotion of
human  rights  are  priorities  of  the  United  Nations,  as
are  the  problems  of  development  and  security.  We
welcome the decision taken by the summit to  create  a
Human  Rights  Council.  In  our  view  this  Council
should  sit  permanently  and  be  elected  directly  by  the
General Assembly with a set majority. Its status should
be  higher  than  that  of  the  existing  Commission  on
Human Rights. The role of this new body would be to
develop  and  improve  the  current  practices  of  the
Commission,  particularly  by  regularly  reviewing  the
state of human rights in all countries of the world while
being  ready  to  react  in  cases  of  grave  and  serious
violations  of  human  rights.  In  this  respect  Bulgaria
repeats  its  support  for  the  Democracy  Fund,  which
could  encourage  the  democratic  process  in  countries
that need it and that wish to be helped in this area. My
country  is  now  evaluating  its  national  contribution  to
this Fund.
the  protection  of  human 
Over the last few days in this Hall we have had a
rights
discussion  on 
worldwide. In this respect I cannot but mention a case
that  is  of  particular  concern  for  Bulgarian  public
opinion. This involves the destiny of the five Bulgarian
nurses and one Palestinian doctor condemned to death
by  a  Libyan  court  in  Benghazi.  The  innocence  of  the
A/60/PV.21
accused  has  been  categorically  confirmed  by  leading
scientists  in  the  field  of  HIV/AIDS.  Bulgaria  still
insists  that  a  just  and  fair  decision  be  taken  by  the
Supreme Court of Libya on 15 November.
The consensus that has emerged on the concept of
the  “responsibility  to  protect”  during  the  negotiations
on  the  outcome  document  of  the  summit  is  a  real
breakthrough.  It  makes  possible  joint  action  by  all
Members  of  the  United  Nations  in  cases  of  genocide,
ethnic  cleansing  and  other  mass  crimes  against
humanity when national authorities refuse to act or are
unable to protect their citizens.
I  am  convinced  that  we  are  on  the  threshold  of
the  most  important  and  boldest  reforms  of  the  United
Nations  in  its  history.  Only  the  collective  will  of  all
Member  States  can  open  the  way  to  real  change.  The
stakes  are  enormous:  allow  the  United  Nations  to
establish 
the  universal  world
Organization capable of proving once again its vitality
in the face of the challenges of globalization.
reputation  as 
its 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  Alsaidi,  chairman  of  the
delegation of the Republic of Yemen.
Mr.  Alsaidi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
Government of the Republic of Yemen believes that the
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  form
the  cornerstone  of  its  ability  to  tackle  all  problems  at
the  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  Ever
since it was created, it has strived to create a climate of
security  and  stability  in  the  region  by  demarcating
Yemen’s  land  and  sea  borders  by  peaceful  means  and
by  its  devotion  to  the  principle  of  well-balanced
diplomacy  and  dialogue  in  the  settlement  of  its
disputes with others. It has fostered a partnership with
neighbouring  countries  of 
the  Gulf  Cooperation
Council and the San’a community for development, as
well  as  its  active  contribution  to  the  League  of  Arab
States.
Yemen  has  played  a  pioneering  role  with  regard
to  political  reform  and  the  multiparty  system  and  has
enabled  women  to  participate  actively  in  the  political,
economic and social life of the country. Yemen is in the
process of preparing for direct presidential elections, as
well  as  elections  for  local  administrative  councils,  in
order  to  enhance  democracy  and  promote  people’s
participation in the administration of the country and in
achieving decentralization by next September.
23
A/60/PV.21
Yemen  would  like  to  thank  the  international
development agency for its support in this connection,
as  well  as  those  States  that  have  supported  our
democracy.  We  hope,  however, 
that  we  will  be
receiving  more  financial  and  technical  support  for  the
high  electoral  commission  to  enable  it  to  efficiently
carry out its work.
settlers  who  were  evacuated,  as 
territories occupied by force, or have any sympathy for
Israeli 
these
settlements were built on land the settlers did not own.
Israel  should  end  its  occupation  of  the  West  Bank,
remove  all  settlements 
the
separation  wall 
the  advisory
opinion of the International Court of Justice.
there,  and  demolish 
in  accordance  with 
to  develop  ways 
In light of terrorist acts in a number of countries
of the region and throughout the world, the Republic of
Yemen  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  clear-cut  position  that
there  is  a  need  to  have  joint  responsibility  in  our
struggle  against  terrorism.  We  will  cooperate  with  all
States and international organizations to deal with this
danger  and 
for  exchanging
information,  particularly  with  regard  to  the  sources  of
financing  for  terrorism  and  the  prosecution  of  the
guilty  parties.  We  firmly  believe  that  we  should
convene  an  international  conference  on  terrorism  to
arrive  at  a  clear  definition  of  the  phenomenon,  which
would  draw  a  distinction  between  terrorism  and  the
right  of  peoples  to  self-determination  and  to  resist
foreign  occupation  of 
territories.  We  also
condemn  all  forms  of  terrorism  against  innocent  and
defenceless civilians.
their 
and 
peace 
international 
The  expansion  of  poverty  and  diseases  and  the
lack  of  education  and  health  services  for  millions  of
people  in  Africa  and  Asia  constitutes  a  time  bomb
threatening 
security.
Establishing  peace  and  stability  and  putting  an  end  to
extremism  and  terrorism  are  goals  that  cannot  be
achieved  unless  rich  States  revise  their  economic  and
political policies and provide support to achieve peace
and  development.  That  would  enable  millions  of
people  to  recover  their  dignity  and  humanity.  In  this
context,  the  Republic  of  Yemen  wishes  to  reaffirm  its
support  for  the  proposal  made  by  the  King  of  Saudi
Arabia,  Guardian  of  the  Two  Holy  Sites,  for  the
creation of an international centre to fight terrorism.
The  Republic  of  Yemen  is  of  the  view  that  the
withdrawal of Israeli occupation forces from the Gaza
Strip  is  a  first  step  on  a  long  path.  We  reaffirm  our
belief that this withdrawal is but a part of the road map
that 
integrated
comprehensive  plan  that  must  be  implemented  as  a
whole and not dealt with selectively.
should  be 
considered 
an 
as 
In  this  context,  the  international  community
should  not  be  deceived  into  believing  that  Israel  has
made  enormous  sacrifices  by  withdrawing 
from
24
The  peace  process  is  an  indivisible  whole.  Real
peace can only be achieved when all Arab rights have
been recovered — first and foremost, the withdrawal of
Israel  from  all  occupied  territories  in  Palestine,  the
Golan Heights and southern Lebanon to the borders of
4 June 1967, the creation of an independent Palestinian
State  on  Palestinian  national  soil  with  its  capital  in
Al-Quds  Al-Sharif,  and  the  just  resolution  of  the
refugee problem in accordance with General Assembly
resolution  194  (III)  of  1949.  We  ask  the  international
Organization  and  the  Quartet  not  to  recognize  nor
accept  any  Israeli  guarantees  or  promises  that  are
designed 
the
Palestinian  people  and  its  sovereignty  and  not  to
reward  Israeli  occupation  that  seeks  to  impose  faits
accomplis solutions.
legitimate  rights  of 
to  violate 
the 
We  must  carefully  consider  the  situation  in  Iraq
and  see  what  we  can  do  to  assist  the  Iraqi  people  to
achieve  its  aspirations.  There  is  no  doubt  that  respect
for  the  unity,  sovereignty  and  independence  of  Iraq,
non-interference  in  its  internal  affairs,  respect  for  the
will  of  the  people  of  Iraq  and  their  choices  in
determining  their  future,  are  important  tasks  that  this
international Organization, as well as the international
community,  must  help  and  support.  The  same  is  true
with regard to the need for all sectors  of  Iraqi society
to  take  part  in  the  political  process  on  the  basis  of
conciliation 
harmony,  without
jeopardizing  Iraq’s  Arab  identity,  civilization  and
heritage. In this context, the people and Government of
Yemen welcome the  positive  and  important  role  taken
by  the  United  Nations  in  support  of  the  constructive
political  process.  It  is  important  for  this  international
Organization  to  play  a  central  role  in  order  to  help
complete this process and that of the reconstruction of
Iraq.
national 
and 
In the same vein, I reiterate the need to urgently
implement Security Council resolution 1546 (2004) in
order  to  allow  Iraq  to  recover  its  full  sovereignty  and
to  put  an  end  to  the  foreign  military  presence  in  that
country.
The  Republic  of  Yemen 
is  following  with
satisfaction  the  positive  events  that  are  occurring  in
Sudan, which we see as the beginning of a new stage of
national reconciliation, peace and stability in the entire
country and as the end of the longest conflict in Africa.
We  appreciate  the  role  played  by  neighbouring  Arab
and  African  States,  as  well  as  that  by  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan,  for  their  help  in  achieving
agreement to ensure Sudan’s territorial integrity, unity,
stability  and  security.  We  hope  that  the  international
Organization will redouble its efforts to make sure that
international  financial  institutions,  funds  and  States
support 
the  process  of  peace,  development  and
reconstruction  throughout  Sudan,  particularly  in  the
regions that have been ravaged by war.
the  Government 
We  are  pleased  to  see  progress  achieved  in
Somalia.  However,  we  warn  of  the  possibility  of
further setbacks in that country. We have no choice but
to  call  upon  the  United  Nations  and  the  international
community  as  a  whole  to  provide  urgently  needed
assistance to the transitional Government in Somalia to
enable 
its  work,
particularly with regard to ensuring reconstruction and
the  rule  of  law.  The  participation  of  United  Nations
peacekeeping  forces  has  become  more  necessary  now
than  ever  before.  Any  reluctance  in  providing  such
assistance to Somalia will mean that terrorism and the
forces  of  violence  and  extremism  will  prevail  with
most serious consequences to that country, to the Arab
world, regionally and internationally.
to  carry  out 
With 
regard 
to  my  country’s  position  on
developing  national  capabilities  in  the  area  of  the
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  we  believe  that  all
member  States  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency  have 
their  nuclear
capabilities  for  peaceful  purposes,  a  position  that  was
adopted by the Islamic States at the meeting of foreign
ministers  of 
Islamic
Conference, held in Sana’a last June.
the  Organization  of 
to  develop 
the  right 
the 
We further reaffirm the importance of making the
Middle  East  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and
weapons of mass destruction and that the prohibition of
such weapons should apply to all States of the region,
including Israel.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  once  more 
to
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  and  express  my  best
wishes  to  the  General  Assembly,  hoping  that  our
common  endeavour  will  be  crowned  with  success  so
A/60/PV.21
that we can  achieve peace, security  and prosperity  for
everyone.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency Mr. Stuart Beck, chairman of the delegation
of the Republic of Palau.
Mr.  Beck  (Palau):  Palau  warmly  congratulates
the  President  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
Assembly  and  assures  him  of  Palau’s  full  support  and
cooperation.  We  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Jean
Ping  of  the  Gabonese  Republic,  for  his  effective
leadership.
At  last  week’s  historic  summit,  our  leaders
created  an  agenda  for  the  world.  It  is  our  task  to
undertake  concrete  measures  to  advance  that  agenda.
While the outcome document  may  not  have  addressed
every 
is
satisfactory to all, it is inarguably an excellent starting
point  for  the  hard  work  that  now  lies  before  us.  We
must think of it as a floor, rather than a ceiling, for our
efforts.
in  a  manner 
importance 
issue  of 
that 
Palau has much to offer and much to gain from a
stronger  United  Nations.  We  are  a  new  country,  this
year  celebrating  our  eleventh  anniversary  as  an
independent  nation  and  as  a  Member  of  the  United
Nations. As Palau takes its place among the community
of  nations,  a  major  concern  is  the  development  that
will enable us to stand on our own. In particular, Palau
regards  the  capacity-building  expertise  of  the  United
Nations and its agencies as central to these efforts.
As  the  Secretary-General  stated  earlier  this  year
in  his  report  “In  larger  freedom”,  “one  of  the  great
challenges  of  the  new  millennium  is  to  insure  that  all
States  are  strong  enough  to  meet  the  many  challenges
they  face”  (A/59/2005, para.  19).  He  went  on  to  say,
“no country, weak or strong, can realize prosperity in a
vacuum” (ibid., para. 24).
I  fear  that  just  such  a  vacuum  exists  in  many
small island developing States and that Palau is one of
them.  Not  a  single  United  Nations  representative  can
be  found  in  Palau  to  assist  the  country  in  moving
forward. The United Nations flag does not fly there. So
when  a  youngster  wants  to  know  whether  a  capacity-
building  internship  or  scholarship  might  be  available,
there 
local
environmentalist  wants  to  know  whether  a  Global
Environmental Facility Small Grant might be available
to  assist  in  the  preservation  of  an  endangered  species
to  ask.  And  when  a 
is  no  one 
25
A/60/PV.21
that is important to the whole world, there is no one to
help in submitting an application. In like manner, when
Palau  does 
international
agreement,  thus  accepting  the  obligation  to  render
complex reports to an international agency, there is no
one to help.
in  ratifying  an 
its  part 
through 
the  creation  of 
The  United  Nations  has  attempted  to  fill  this
vacuum 
regional  and
subregional  centres,  which  are  quite  distant  from
Palau’s  shores.  While  arguably  well  intentioned,  this
tactic  has  failed  to  provide  Palau  with  the  capacity-
building  required  and  has,  similarly,  prevented  the
world  from  truly  understanding  Palau’s  needs  and
regional  and
aspirations. 
subregional  centres  merely  replicate 
the  colonial
regimes, which the Pacific islands have thrown  off  —
distant  capitals  making  decisions  about  far-flung
provinces.  To  Palau,  strengthening  the  United  Nations
means strengthening its marginalized Members.
sense, 
In 
this 
these 
taken 
Palau  has  willingly 
its  place  as  a
responsible  member  of  the  international  community.
Heeding  the  Secretary-General’s  call  to  action,  Palau
this  year  proudly  deployed  a  contingent  of  police
peacekeepers,  who  now  serve  in  East  Timor.  And  in
response  to  the  Secretary-General’s  stated  desire  to
develop  better  gender  balance  in  these  missions,
Palau’s contingent is entirely female.
When the world develops important conventions,
often  with  burdensome  reporting  requirements,  Palau
steps  up  and  signs  them,  as  was  the  case  last  week
when  Palau’s  President  Remengesau  signed 
the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  And  when  natural  disasters
strike,  Palau  responds  willingly,  making  significant
financial contributions to remit suffering caused by the
tsunami and by Hurricane Katrina. I submit that in both
of  these  cases,  Palau’s  contributions  were,  on  a  per
capita basis, among the highest in the world.
Palau  asks  for  very  little.  But  now  it  asks  for
help,  and  that  help  should  be  forthcoming.  As  our
President  Remengesau  stated  in  the  Assembly’s  4th
meeting, last week, in his address to the world summit:
“It  is  therefore  time  for  the  international
community,  and 
its
representative,  to  begin  to  move  beyond  studies
that recognize past failures to achieve sustainable
development  in  our  island  nations,  and  to  move
aggressively  forward  and  to  establish  a  specific
the  United  Nations  as 
26
that 
programme  agenda  that  recognizes  our  unique
smallness, 
appreciates  our  distinctive
diversity, and that respects our island cultures as
equal to those in other nations of this world.”
Palau’s  development  challenges  are  different
from  those  of  many  of  our  friends  around  the  world
who have taken this podium. Hunger is not an issue at
present  in  paradise.  But  the  challenges  that  confront
the  small  island  nations  of  the  Pacific  may  ultimately
be every bit as devastating as famine.
Climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  threaten  to
obliterate  our  islands.  The  very  poignant  and  moving
statement of His Excellency Anote Tong, Beretitenti of
the Republic of Kiribati at the 15th meeting last week
contained  a  chilling  preview  of  what  the  unchecked
scourge  of  carbon  emissions  could  mean  to  all  of  the
countries  in  the  Pacific,  and  of  course  to  many  other
oceans of the world. The President acknowledged that
the  Government  of  Kiribati  needed  now  “to  seriously
consider  the  option  of  having  to  relocate  our  peoples
when  necessary”.  In  this  understated  Pacific  way,  the
President forces us all to confront a world where whole
countries  simply  disappear  from  the  globe.  Is  there  a
more compelling call to action than that?
The  period  leading  up  to  such  a  catastrophe  is
upon  us.  Palau  must  rely  on  the  maintenance  of  its
extraordinary  reefs  and  waters  and  its  unparalleled
biodiversity  to  attract  tourists.  Without  these  assets,  it
will be unable to develop a sustainable economy and to
create  jobs,  which  will  allow  its  children  to  live  and
work in their homeland.
The  other  pillar  of  Palau’s  development  is  its
fisheries.  For  countless  generations,  our  people  have
relied  on  their  waters  for  their  sustenance.  Now,
foreign  fishing  fleets,  which  have  denuded  the  waters
proximate  to  their  own  harbours,  have  come  to  the
Pacific  and  threaten  to  do  the  same.  The  very  food
chain  is  threatened  by  new  fishing  practices  that,
though in their infancy, have begun to damage Pacific
seamounts in ways that the scientific community deems
alarming. It is for this reason that Palau has called for a
moratorium  on  deep  sea  bottom  trawling  until  the
scientific  community  can  gauge  the  long-term  impact
of that practice. We renew that call today and applaud
Costa Rica for its leadership on this important issue.
We  take  this  opportunity  and  we  are  grateful  for
this opportunity to commend Palau’s bilateral partners
and  friends  who  have  overcome  our  new  nation’s
remoteness  to  become  involved  and  knowledgeable
about our needs and aspirations. The United States has
provided 
in-country  diplomatic  representation  and
years of support for our vital democracy.
For  this  reason,  Palau  suggests  the  reform  of  the
system  and  the  creation  of  an  East  Asia  and  Pacific
Group and that this group include, of course with their
consent, our friends in Australia and New Zealand.
A/60/PV.21
Japan  has  also  provided  in-country  diplomatic
representation  and  invaluable  assistance.  Like  the
United  States,  Japan  has  been  steadily  involved  in
Palau’s  development,  and  I  would  submit  that  this
special  familiarity  with  Palau’s  people  has  enhanced
Japan and the United States every bit as much as it has
aided Palau.
its 
fifty-ninth  session 
Palau has been disappointed by the failure of the
to
General  Assembly  at 
accomplish  Security  Council 
reform,  particularly
because  Japan’s  deep  knowledge  of  our  region  would
inform  Council  members  who  have  less  familiarity
with the situation of the Pacific islands. We supported
and  continue  to  support  therefore  the  Group  of  Four
resolution and hope that the sixtieth General Assembly
will finish this critical work that was begun last year.
A  third  steady  supporter  of  Palau’s  development
has  been  the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan.  We
continue to assert that the world would be benefited by
Taiwan’s  membership  in  this  august  body.  This  year
Palau  was  a  sponsor  of  a  resolution  calling  for  a
proactive role for the United Nations in addressing the
rising tensions in the Taiwan Strait. We regret that the
debate  on  that  important  resolution  was  foreshortened
in the General Committee and that we were prevented
from  expressing  our  views  on  this  topic;  however  we
are glad that we have an opportunity to do that now.
in 
themselves,  are  under-represented 
The  people  of  the  Pacific,  and  the  Pacific  island
nations 
the
Secretariat  and  in  the  governing  bodies,  commissions
and tribunals of the world. Our cohesive and effective
regional  group,  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  is  most
fortunate in having Australia and New Zealand among
us. But it is time, we submit, for the new island nations
to take a more active role and to share their unique and
graceful  Pacific  way  with  the  rest  of  the  world.  It  is
quite  possible, 
islands  are
marginalized  in  part  by  the  irrational  composition  of
the  regional  groups.  Strengthening  the  United  Nations
should  include  a  realignment  of  the  groups  to  better
reflect the proliferation of Pacific countries, which has
occurred in the last 20 years, and the actual geography
of  the  world.  This  would  allow  the  island  nations  to
compete  more  effectively  for  seats  on  major  bodies.
I  submit, 
that 
the 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency Mr. Ewald Wensley Limon, chairman of the
delegation of the Republic of Suriname.
Mr. Limon (Suriname): It is a distinct honour for
me  today  to  address  the  sixtieth  General  Assembly  of
the United Nations.  At the outset, please allow  me  on
behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  the  Republic
of  Suriname  to  extend  sincere  felicitations  to  the
President on his election to preside over this important
session.  I  would  like  to  pledge  my  delegation’s  full
support and cooperation in the tasks that lie ahead of us
in this session.
My  delegation  would  also  like  to  express  its
gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Jean Ping, President of
the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly of the
United  Nations,  for  his  unwavering  efforts  in  steering
the  work  of  the  fifty-ninth  session.  We  wish  him  well
in his future endeavours.
We  continue  to  render  our  support  to  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan,  especially  for  his  leadership  in
the process of restructuring the United Nations.
We  are  gathered  here,  in  the  wake  of  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting, in which world leaders adopted
some  measures  to  advance  the  cause  of  development,
human rights and security and the much-needed reform
of this world Organization. The task before us is not an
easy  one.  We  need 
in
implementing the ambitious goals we have set to create
a  safer  and  more  prosperous  world  for  ourselves  and
generations to come.
to  redouble  our  efforts 
Although 
the  world  community  made  some
modest  progress  towards  achieving  the  Millennium
Development  Goals,  we  have  to  acknowledge  that  we
are far from reaching the global commitments made by
world  leaders  at  the  dawn  of  the  new  millennium  to
advance  economic  and  social  development  for  the
world’s poor.
The Government of Suriname remains committed
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
strongly  believe 
sustainable
the  achievement  of
is  crucial 
to  achieving 
because  we 
development 
for 
international peace and security.
that 
27
A/60/PV.21
the  commitments  made 
While we acknowledge our primary responsibility
in the development process, we would like to bring to
in  Monterrey  of
mind 
establishing  a  global  partnership 
the
development agenda. A substantial increase in financial
resources,  to  be  provided  on  a  more  predictable  basis
and free of conditionalities, is needed for this matter.
to  advance 
We  commend  the  various  initiatives  that  have
been launched so far, and we would like to call on our
developed partners to continue rendering their support
to the efforts of developing countries.
Trade  can  play  an  important  role  in  promoting
economic growth  and development,  and in  that  regard
we  reiterate  our  position  for  a  trading  system  that  is
universal,  rule-based,  non-discriminatory,  open  and
equitable.  We  furthermore  expect  that  the  upcoming
multilateral  round of trade negotiations will  fully take
into account the needs of developing countries.
We would like to  note  the  laudable  initiatives  of
several  developed  countries  for  facilitating  market
access for the least developed countries.  However, for
many middle-income countries, like Suriname, who are
called  upon  to  diversify  their  economies,  measures
have yet to be taken to facilitate their market access for
goods  and  services  into  the  markets  of  the  developed
countries.
Sixty  years  ago,  in  the  aftermath  of  the  Second
World  War,  world  leaders  vowed  to  save  succeeding
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war  and  thus  came
together  and  established  the  United  Nations.  Faced
with  both  old  and  new  challenges  to  international
peace and security, the international community should
more than ever be determined to live up to that crucial
promise.
The  spread  of 
infectious  diseases  such  as
HIV/AIDS,  the  indiscriminate  effect  of  the  forces  of
nature 
thereby  causing  widespread  despair  and
destruction,  the  uncontrolled  proliferation  of  small
arms  and  light  weapons,  just  to  name  a  few,  are
testimony  of  the  transnational  nature  of  contemporary
challenges the world is facing today.
We 
therefore  need  an  effective  system  of
international cooperation to collectively deal with both
old and new threats to international peace and security.
It  is  imperative  to  redress  the  major  setbacks  in
nuclear  disarmament  and  arms  control.  We  will  have
failed  future  generations  if  we  cannot  even  reach
28
agreement  on  the  general  principles  governing  those
important issues.
We  cannot  but  agree  with  the  Secretary-General
when  he  once  stated,  “There  is  nothing  small  or  light
about the consequences of the uncontrolled spread and
misuse  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons”  (A/58/138,
p. 4). In Suriname, as is the case for many countries in
the  Caribbean  region,  this  phenomenon  is  associated
with  drug  trafficking  and  other  cross-border  criminal
activity.  In  this  regard  we  would  like  to  pledge  our
support to the ongoing efforts in the United Nations to
address  this  critical  issue  that  threatens  the  economic
and social fabric of our society.
My  Government  strongly  condemns  all  acts  of
terrorism  committed  by  whomever,  wherever  and  for
whatever  purposes.  With  the  growing  interdependence
in  the  world,  terrorism  constitutes  a  grave  danger  for
rich,  poor,  large  and  small  countries  alike.  We  would
however  like  to  bring  to  mind  that  the  fight  against
terrorism should, at all times, take place in accordance
with  international  law  and  with  respect  for  human
rights,  tolerance  and  the  peaceful  coexistence  of
people.
The  fight  against  terrorism  must  address  its  root
causes.  Suriname,  being  a  multi-ethnic,  multireligious
and  multicultural  society,  believes 
increased
tolerance  and  dialogue  could  make  a  positive
contribution to the goal of increased security.
that 
We  therefore  continue  to  support  the  dialogue
among  civilizations  and  remain  convinced  that  a
culture of peace can be significantly enhanced through
this 
promote  mutual
understanding,  respect  and  tolerance  among  regions,
cultures and peoples.
dialogue 
order 
in 
to 
to 
importance 
remains  of  great 
Respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms 
the
Government  of  Suriname.  The  creation  of  a  Human
Rights  Council,  as  was  agreed  to  in  the  outcome
document, should not only result in a renaming of the
Commission  on  Human  Rights;  we  have  the  daunting
task  ahead  of  us  of  restoring  credibility  to  the  human
rights  machinery  by  addressing  the  shortfalls  of  the
Commission  on  Human  Rights  and  ensuring  that  the
Human  Rights  Council  becomes  a  more  effective  and
objective organ.
The United Nations should resolve to come to the
rescue  of  people  confronted  with  genocide,  ethnic
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity.  We  must
continue  to  discuss  the  framework  to  be  associated
with  this  difficult  task.  But  more  importantly,  the
United Nations, through its Charter provisions, should
find  ways  and  means  geared  towards  preventing  these
atrocities from reoccurring.
The  international  community  has  some  time  ago
expressed  the  need  for  a  more  effective  and  efficient
Organization  that  would  be  better  able  to  address  the
many challenges our world is facing today and make it
more  responsive  to  the  aspirations  of  the  world’s
people. Suriname continues to believe in the values of
the  United  Nations  as 
the  supreme  multilateral
institution and supports the efforts of strengthening the
Organization through reform.
achievements.  We  must 
More than ever, good intentions must give rise to
concrete 
translate
commitments  into  action.  We  owe  it  to  the  many
people  living  in  extreme  poverty  who  do  not  have
access  to  safe  drinking  water  and  do  not  have  proper
health care.
Achieving  such  a  global  society  requires  the
involvement,  determination  and  commitment  of  all
actors — State and non-State — as well as coordinated
and  comprehensive  actions  by  all  such  actors  in  the
global fight against poverty and injustice.
Our  shared  objectives  require  more 
than  a
reaffirmation  of  the  importance  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  and  the  availability  of  financial
resources. It requires understanding between developed
and  developing  countries.  It  requires  political  will,
which  is  a  condition  sine  qua  non  in  our  efforts  to
achieve our global commitments.
I am convinced that the recently concluded high-
level gathering of world leaders generated the renewed
political  commitment  to  further  the  cause  of  global
partnership  between  the  developing  and  developed
countries  to  promote  development  and  continue  the
fight against poverty and hunger.
In conclusion, let me remark that we have to act
now.  We  cannot  build  a  world  of  peace  and  security
without economic and social development and without
respect for human rights.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency  Mr.  Isikia  Rabici  Savua,  chairman  of  the
delegation of the Republic of Fiji.
A/60/PV.21
Mr.  Savua
(Fiji):  Fiji  extends 
its  warm
congratulations  to  the  Organization  on  the  sixtieth
anniversary  of  its  existence,  and  to  the  President,  on
his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General
Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session.  We  wish  to  express
our confidence in his ability to guide our work during
2005 and 2006.
We  also  extend  our  appreciation 
to  his
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping  of  the
Gabonese Republic, for his outstanding guidance of the
difficult  business  of  the  fifty-ninth  session.  We  also
would  like  to  place  on  record  our  appreciation  to  the
Secretary-General for his tireless efforts and active role
in  bringing  about  an  outcome  document  that  should
become  the  centrepiece  that  guides  our  efforts  in  the
many months to come.
the 
leaders  of  our  States  or
Governments  adopted  a  resolution  on  the  outcome  of
their deliberations. The  outcome  document  (resolution
60/1),  as  anticipated,  did  not  meet  the  expectations  of
everyone;  rather,  it  contained  those  key  elements
essential  to  addressing  the  three  pillar  issues  of
security, human rights and development.
Last  week 
What is required of us now is the commitment to
support the implementation plan that will be drawn up
to convert to action what have up to now been merely
hopes  and  aspirations.  We  must  also  undertake  to
ensure  that  the  assistance  so  rendered  trickles  right
down  to  the  poor,  the  hungry,  the  needy  and  the
hopeless — those that require it the most. Far too often
donations,  funds  and  other  forms  of  assistance  are
mired  in  the  bureaucratic  process  and  reduced  by
certain  percentages,  which  are  then  passed  off  as
so-called administrative charges.
sustainable  development 
Fiji fully endorses the outcome document, and we
are  committed  to  implement  those  provisions  that  we
as  a  developing  nation  are  required  to  pursue  for
ourselves.  The  formulation  and  implementation  of  the
Fiji  national 
strategy,
outlining  the  visions  of  our  leaders  and  targeting  the
aspirations  and  objectives  of  the  summit  outcome  and
the Millennium Development Goals, is paramount. We
are in the process of reforming our public and financial
sector  and  introducing  limited  changes  in  the  private
sector.  Infrastructure  development  and  improvement
are  a  priority  in  light  of  our  occupational  health  and
safety standards. Marine legislation and regulations are
being  reviewed  to  ensure  the  safety  at  sea  of  both
29
A/60/PV.21
passengers and vessels alike, as well  as the protection
of our maritime resources such as our continental shelf.
The  principle  of  restorative  justice  in  pursuit  of
reconciliation,  tolerance  and  unity  is  being  widely
discussed 
of
consultations among  the  public  before  it  is  introduced
in Parliament.
democratic 
through 
process 
a 
Concerning  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations
Secretariat,  Fiji  subscribes  to  the  thinking  that  the
Secretary-General  should  be  empowered  to  enact  the
changes  he  believes  best  suit  the  Organization.  We
must  all  help  to  create  a  United  Nations  Organization
that  is  more  efficient  and  accountable.  Accountability
can  be  achieved  by  the  establishment  of  the  much
discussed  Oversight  Committee,  the  modalities  and
working  methodology  of  which  have  to  include  clear
and transparent terms of reference and a well-balanced
regional representation.
The  United  Nations  must  function  always  with
integrity  and  urgent  concern  for  the  needs  of  Member
States.  Above  all  we  must  help  the  United  Nations  to
concentrate, as never before, on reducing the shameful
gap between developed and developing countries.
There  should  be  no  pause  in  United  Nations
endeavours  to  establish  and  maintain  international
peace,  security  and  stability.  The  Secretary-General
and  his  staff  are  to  be  commended  for  seeking  peace
agreements  or  in  trying  to  prevent  disputes  from
violently  escalating.  Peacekeepers  from  many  troop-
contributing  countries  deployed  to  conflict  zones  are
working  not  only  to  provide  security  but  also  to
disarm,  demobilize  and  reintegrate  former  fighters,  to
permit  the  safe  and  sustainable  return  of  refugees  and
to strengthen human rights and the rule of law.
We 
commend 
the  work  of 
the  Special
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  for  Iraq  and
the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq
inclusive,
(UNAMI) 
participatory  and 
transition
process  in  the  country.  Fiji  is  privileged  to  have  our
troops serving in UNAMI to help in the process.
to  promote  an 
transparent  political 
trying 
in 
Fiji  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  United
Nations.  As  always,  we  are  for  peace  and  this  is  the
reason  we  have  sent  many  of  our  soldiers  and  police
officers to serve with United Nations peacekeeping and
peacebuilding  forces.  Many  of  our  servicemen  have
lost  their  lives,  but  we  have  accepted  this  ultimate
30
sacrifice  as  our  contribution  to  the  unceasing  global
effort for finding peace and security.
Further,  while  fully  appreciating  the  principle  of
the  standby  force,  we  are  at  the  same  time  concerned
by  the  fact  that  those  nations  who  are  unable  to
properly equip their forces are mainly from developing
countries and will therefore be marginalized should no
arrangement be made to assist them in this area. If such
assistance  is  not  forthcoming,  then  peacekeeping  will
be  confined  to  only  a  select  few  countries,  mainly
developed nations.
share  with 
Fiji  acclaims  the  proposal  for  a  Peacebuilding
Commission.  We  will  gladly 
the
Commission our own experiences in reconstructing our
country  following  the  civil  unrest  that  almost  tore  the
nation apart in 2000. We ask reconsideration regarding
the  makeup  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  for
while some of us have served in that sphere longer than
others, the size of certain countries’ contribution gives
them an advantage under the current modalities.
We  support  the  United  Nations  and  other  major
groups’  initiatives  at  establishing  partnerships  with
regional  groups.  The  South  Pacific 
region  has
constantly come together to address common problems
that  may  beset 
its  members.  The  Regional
Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands  is  a
peacekeeping/peacebuilding mission that was mounted
by  the  region.  We  would  urge  the  United  Nations  to
kindly  assist  in  the  humanitarian  effort  to  bring  this
regional initiative on an even keel.
Fiji is supportive of an enlarged Security Council
membership  that  reflects  current  geopolitical  realities.
We maintain our support for the inclusion of India and
Japan 
revised
arrangements.
permanent  members 
under 
as 
We  look  forward  to  the  moment  when  peace
finally reigns in the Middle East, and we commend all
those countries that are helping with that global cause.
For our Pacific Ocean region, we would like to see the
Korean people find just peace and lasting harmony. On
the  future  of  Taiwan,  it  is  Fiji’s  fervent  hope  that  a
resolution  through  dialogue,  conducted  in  the  true
spirit of reconciliation and understanding and devoid of
violence,  can  be  found  —  one  that  is  agreeable  to  all
parties and that can last for years to come.
This  age  of  globalization  is  marked  by  the
adoption  of  universal  principles  governing  such
rights, 
matters  as  democracy,  human 
trade  and
development.  Fiji  accepts  those  precepts;  there  is  no
question about that. But we also say that countries like
ours,  undergoing  profound  transition,  should  not  be
held  to  unrealistic  standards.  We  need  time  to  evolve,
to  adapt  and  to  adhere.  Members  should  not  judge  us
by  what  might  be  appropriate  to  their  standards,  but
measure us by the progress we are making towards the
universal  ideals  and  the  level  of  our  commitment  to
change.
Fiji  respects  the  principle  of  equality  of  human
rights.  We  endorse  the  proposal  for  a  Human  Rights
Council, directly accountable to the General Assembly,
as  an  improvement  upon  the  present  arrangements.
However,  in  order  for  the  Council  to  be  effective,  its
members  have  to  be  as  widely  representative  as
possible  and  should  not  be  subjected  to  special
reporting requirements.
For  Fiji,  it  is  vitally  important,  as  a  factor  for
long-term  stability,  that  the  special  interests  of  the
indigenous  people,  including  their  right  to  ownership
of  their  natural  resources,  is  protected,  and  that  a
balance  between 
individuals  and
communities 
is  maintained.  This  has  particular
relevance  for  a  multicultural  society  such  as  ours.  In
this regard, we strongly endorse the intention to bring
to  the  General  Assembly  as  soon  as  possible  for
adoption  a  final  draft  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of
Indigenous Peoples.
rights  of 
the 
To  fund  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
developing  countries  ought  to  have  access  to  markets
and a fair return on their exports. This fact is important
for  Fiji  and  other  small  vulnerable  States;  our  very
economic  survival  is  dependent  upon  it.  Unrealistic
and  inequitable  world  trade  policies  simply  make  it
much harder for our countries to eliminate poverty.
Fiji  commends  those  developed  States  that  are
prepared to assist developing nations in cushioning the
impact  of  World  Trade  Organization  compliance.  We
pay  particular  tribute  to  the  European  Union  for  its
willingness  to  assist  and  call  on  our  European  Union
partners  to  provide  adequate  long-term  support  as  it
begins  to  reduce  preferential  processes  for  African,
Caribbean and Pacific sugar.
We also would like to express appreciation to our
close  neighbours  Australia  and  New  Zealand  and  our
friends in Asia for their support in helping us get better
access 
important areas of development.
their  markets  and  assistance 
to 
A/60/PV.21
in  other
The HIV/AIDS pandemic is a global concern as it
impacts  on  our  ability  to  achieve  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  A  cooperative  effort  by  everyone
remains  the  only  way  to  control  and  eradicate  the
scourge.  Action  that  integrates  prevention,  treatment
and  the  medical  and  social  vulnerability  of  infected
persons should be our guiding principles.
At  the  same  time  we  should  not  minimize  the
seriousness of the ravages produced of other infectious
diseases  such  as  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  Effort
should  also  be  directed  at  other  scourges,  such  as
extreme poverty and the plight of the disabled.
We can no longer ignore the plight of women and
children who through the years have been subjected to
sexual exploitation and abuse. Last week, Fiji’s Prime
Minister,  Laisenia  Qarase,  signed  the  two  Optional
Protocols of the Convention on the Rights of the Child;
the  first  on  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed
conflict  and  the  second  on  the  sale  of  children,  child
prostitution  and  child  pornography.  In  addition  Fiji
strongly  believes  that  the  time  is  right  for  stronger
action to be taken to address the issue of young women
who  are  denied  the  right  to  sexual  and  reproductive
health.
We welcome the decision to hold a 2006 General
International
Assembly  High-level  Dialogue  on 
Migration 
amount  of
and  Development.  The 
remittances  from  migrant  workers  has  become  a  rich
source  of  funds  and  has  raised  the  standards  of  living
of  families,  contributed  substantially  to  the  national
economy  and  provided  much  needed  employment  to
the job market. Fiji hopes that the High-level Dialogue
will  be  the  catalyst  to  enable  countries  to  work  in
partnership  and  agree  to  a  better  understanding  to
improve the conditions of migrant workers.
Terrorism  is  a  blight  on  all  our  horizons.  It
respects no borders, and it is neither an acceptable nor
an effective way to advance any cause. Insularity is no
longer  a  cushion  to  protect  islands  which  believe
themselves to be further away from the mainstream of
international activities. In trying to fulfil the terms and
conditionalities  established  by  the  various  terrorism
conventions, more money that can hardly be spared has
to  be  found  to  fulfil  those  obligations.  In  doing  so,
efforts  to  achieve  Millennium  Development  Goals  are
stymied and in some instances halted.
31
A/60/PV.21
In this regard, a global effort to combat terrorism
has  to  be  instituted  to  include  training,  funding,
transparency  in  the  exchange  of  information  and
intelligence, and a pledge to assist when needed.
We  support  the  efforts  against  terrorism  by  the
Security  Council’s  Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  Its
role  is  invaluable  in  coordinating  and  exchanging
information and analysing trends.
Fiji  will  always  be  in  support  of  all  efforts  to
reform  the  United  Nations  and  its  initiatives  in  the
fields of security, human  rights  and  development.  Our
efforts  will  be  modest  but  commensurate  with  our
abilities.
The present session is devoted to an appraisal of
the  progress  made  by  States 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Therefore,  allow  me
to share with you information on how Turkmenistan is
implementing the Goals.
in  achieving 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her
Excellency  Mrs.  Aksoltan  Ataeva,  chairperson  of  the
delegation of Turkmenistan.
Mrs. Ataeva (Turkmenistan) (spoke in Russian):
Allow me to congratulate the President, on his election
to  his  high  post  and  to  express  our  confidence  in  his
successful  and  professional  implementation  of  the
mandate  entrusted  to  him.  Allow  me  to  also  express
our gratitude to Mr. Jean Ping for his untiring activity
in  guiding  the  fifty-ninth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
Last  week 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting
concluded  its  work,  which  resulted  in  the  adoption  of
an  outcome  document, 
the  Meeting’s
commitment to attaining the Millennium Development
Goals.
reflecting 
fully  engaged 
The  United  Nations  is  an  irreplaceable  structure
of  multilateral  inter-State  interaction.  Therefore,  the
question  on  how  it  will  respond  to  the  hopes  and
aspirations  of  every  Member  will  determine 
its
viability. We agree with the Secretary-General that the
Organization  “remains 
in  conflict
resolution,  peacekeeping,  humanitarian  assistance,
defence  of  human  rights  and  development  around  the
world”. (A/60/PV.2)
We  support 
the
outcome  document  on  strengthening 
the  United
Nations  in  areas  of  development,  ensuring  collective
security,  counteracting  terrorism,  ensuring  the  dignity
of the individual and reforming the Organization.
the  proposals  contained 
in 
We are in favour of strengthening the role of the
United Nations, and urge more transparency in its work
and  an  improvement  of  its  structure.  The  activities  of
its bodies should  be  conducted  on  the  basis  of  a  wide
consensus  among  Member  States.  We  welcome  the
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  aimed  at  preventing
conflicts  and  strengthening  preventive  activity  in  that
area.
32
Reforms are being implemented in Turkmenistan
in the economic and social sphere, in accordance with
the  national  programme  of  social  and  economic
development  for  the  period  until  2020.  The  reforms
have  assisted  in  establishing  a  powerful  industrial
potential,  creating  a  market  model  for  administration
and  the  private  sector  of  economy,  and  ensuring
dignified living conditions for the people.
Turkmenistan  possesses  huge  energy  resources,
gas  and  oil  industries  being  the  main  sources  of
development  of  the  national  economy.  The  energy
potential  of  Turkmenistan  is  currently  estimated  at
more than 45 billion tons of oil equivalent, or a fifth of
all world reserves of natural gas and oil.
Thanks to the national programmes developed in
the  early  years  of  independence,  the  reforms  have
introduced a new type of industry. Turkmenistan, by its
own national resources, has invested $30 billion in the
national  economy  and  has  built  over  1,050  industrial
plants  and  factories  possessing  highly  sophisticated
equipment.
We  have  been  successfully  developing  new
branches  of  industry,  namely,  the  oil  and  gas,  energy,
textile and food sectors. In the textile industry, we have
established  new  specialized  companies  and 
large
integrated 
large-scale
production of various cotton fibre products, 60 per cent
of  which  is  exported.  The  textile  industry  represents
28 per cent of the overall volume of production of our
manufacturing industry.
textile  plants,  organizing 
The  agrarian  sector  of 
the  economy  has
undergone  complete  reconstruction.  Since  the  middle
of  1995,  all  collective  and  State  farms  have  been
abolished.  Reform  has  been  directed  at  transferring
land  to  private  ownership  and  long-term  lease  and
expanding 
lots.  The
Government  has  undertaken  measures  to  stimulate
private  agricultural  production.  Half  of  the  cost  of
the  areas  of  privately-held 
technical services is borne by the State. The population
has  been  exempted  from  payment  of  taxes  on  land,
houses, construction and the maintenance of cattle and
poultry.  All 
and  other  measures  have
strengthened agriculture and have stimulated a growth
in production.
these 
tons  of  wheat.  At 
This  year  Turkmenistan  harvested  a  record  3.1
million 
the  current  stage  of
development,  consumer  demand  in  our  country  is  met
mainly  by  domestic  production,  practically  ensuring
food independence for the country.
Turkmenistan  attaches  great  importance  to  the
creation  and  expansion  of  its  railway  infrastructure,
which meets the highest modern  standards. Today, the
railway  system  of  Turkmenistan  covers  more  than
2,000  kilometres.  In  recent  years  two  new  railways
were  constructed  and  a  third  is  under  way,  which  has
increased  the  size  of  the  system  by  nearly  500
kilometres.
The  country  has  become  a  vital  part  of  the
common  international  transport  system.  The  Trans-
Asiatic  Railway  has  created  a  steel  variant  of  the
ancient  Silk  Road,  and  this  connects  Turkmenistan
with  the  countries  of  Europe  and  the  Asian  continent
and promotes social and economic development.
living 
rights  and 
Turkmenistan attaches great importance to social
standards,
protection.  Ensuring  dignified 
security, 
freedoms  of  citizens  and
strengthening  the  legal  basis  of  society  is  our  internal
policy.  During 
the
President  and  Government  worked  to  provide  social
support to the population. Since 1993 they have given
to  their  citizens  gas,  electricity,  water,  salt,  health
services and education free of charge.
transition  period, 
the  entire 
is  a 
There 
large-scale  housing  construction
programme.  Citizens  are  guaranteed  ownership  of
comfortable  well-designed  homes  on 
financially
attractive  terms,  with  loans  extending  over  a  15-year
period  and  the  future  homeowner’s  employer  paying
50 per  cent of the  costs. Thanks to  free  education and
good access, the country has a high level of education
and  literacy.  Turkmenistan  has  achieved  success  in
other areas, in particular the protection of the rights of
children  and  the  defence  of  their  interests.  This  is  a
clear  confirmation  of  our  tireless  fulfilment  of  our
obligations under the Convention on the Rights of the
Child.
A/60/PV.21
Working  with  the  United  Nations  Children’s
Fund, in 2000 we successfully implemented a programme
the
for 
the  protection  of  mothers  and  children, 
comprehensive  development  of  children  and 
the
promotion and well-being of the youth.
The  country  has  achieved  wide  immunization
coverage,  which  has  led  to  a  significant  reduction  in
infectious  diseases  among  children.  A  lot  of  work  is
being  carried  out  in  the  areas  of  maternal  and  child
health, education and social protection. In Turkmenistan,
we are the fourth country in the world to be recognized
by  the  United  Nations  as  a  State  that  has  introduced
universal iodization of salt in accordance with accepted
international  standards.  In  this  connection  it  has  been
noted  that  our  country  consistently  carries  out  its
obligations,  not  only  with  regard  to  iodine  deficiency
but  also  with  regard  to  the  micronutrients  that  are
needed for the development of a growing child’s body.
For  many  centuries,  our  country  has  been  a
crossroads of routes between East and West and South
and  North  and  has  been  a  key  link  in  the  Great  Silk
Road, which served as a road of peace and dialogue for
cultures for almost one and a half thousand years. This
led to the creation of a special spiritual atmosphere in
our  Turkmen  land,  and  it  is  not  accidental  therefore
that  the  national  mentality  of  the  Turkmens  was
generated  in  its  essence  as  internationally  oriented,
seeing the individual as the supreme value, and rooted
in openness, tolerance, respect for the culture of other
peoples and natural peacefulness.
The  political  system  of  the  State  recognizes  the
important 
role  played  by  civil  society.  Public
associations  and  professional  and  artistic  unions  play
an active role in determining the economic, social and
cultural policies of the State.
Turkmenistan has historically  respected  religious
freedom  for  its  citizens  and  strictly  respects  generally
recognized  international  norms  and  principles  in  the
area of freedom of worship. As a result, more than 100
religious organizations are registered in Turkmenistan.
The  State  guarantees  the  freedom  of  religion  and
belief,  the  equality  of  faiths  before  the  law  and  the
right of everyone independently to determine his or her
relationship to religion.
recognizes 
Turkmenistan 
of
universally  recognized  norms  of  international  law  and
has  joined  or  ratified  the  fundamental  international
instruments in the area of human rights. An important
primacy 
the 
33
A/60/PV.21
in 
measure 
this  area  has  been  Turkmenistan’s
declaration of its status of a permanently neutral State,
and  this  has  been  approved  by  the  General  Assembly.
Turkmenistan has assumed its international obligations
in that connection and has fulfilled them over the past
10  years.  These  obligations  are  incorporated  in  the
constitutional  laws  on  the  neutrality  of  Turkmenistan
and  on  its  international  obligations  in  the  field  of
human rights.
In  1999  we  abolished 
the  death  penalty.
Turkmenistan has adopted specific political, economic
and social measures for the protection of the  rights of
refugees, who arrived in our country between 1991 and
1997.  During  this  period,  about  20,000  refugees  from
Tajikistan,  Afghanistan,  Armenia  and  other  countries
arrived  to  Turkmenistan.  Under  the  decree  of  the
President  of  Turkmenistan,  more  than  16,000  of  them
received citizenship or residence permits.
We  welcome  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  of
the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  aimed  at
strengthening  the  United  Nations.  We  are  grateful  to
the  United  Nations,  its  Secretariat,  its  specialized
agencies  such  as  the  United  Nations  Development
Programme,  the  United  Nations  Children’s  Fund,  the
United  Nations  Population  Fund,  the  World  Health
Organization  and  others,  who  have  coordinated  and
provided  invaluable  assistance  to  the  development  of
our State.
Turkmenistan  along  with  many  other  States  has
high  hopes  in  the  United  Nations  and  calls  for  its
strengthening  and  the  broadening  of  its  role  in  the
world.
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His
Excellency Mr. Ismael Gaspar Martins, chairman of the
delegation of the Republic of Angola.
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  It  is  with  great
honour  that  I  take  this  floor  before  this  Assembly.  At
the  outset,  I  should  like  to  congratulate  the  President,
on  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of
Angola,  for  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  of  our
Organization.
I  also  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  to  his
predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for his commitment and for
the  transparent  and  efficient  manner  in  which  he
presided  over 
the  fifty-ninth  session  of  General
Assembly.
34
Today, 60 years after the foundation of the United
Nations, humanity continues to face new and complex
challenges.  The  continuation  of  armed  conflicts,
hunger,  poverty,  massive  human  rights  violations,  the
spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, the scar
of  terrorism  and  the  risk  that  non-State  actors  can
acquire, develop and use weapons of mass destruction
indeed  constitute  a  threat  to  international  peace  and
security.  Therefore,  the  international  community  has
every  reason 
to  reform  and
strengthen  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  render  it
better  prepared  to  address  the  many  and  complex
challenges we are facing.
to  act  collectively 
The  Republic  of  Angola  follows  with  great
concern the developments in several areas of the world,
particularly  on  the  African  continent.  In  spite  of  a
relatively  positive 
tendency  characterized  by  a
decrease  in  areas  of  tension  in  the  world  today,  it  is
necessary  to  continue  to  pay  special  attention  to  the
peace  processes 
the  world,
particularly in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Sudan  and  Guinea-Bissau,  to  mention
only a few.
in  various  parts  of 
Regarding  Guinea-Bissau,  my  delegation 
is
satisfied  with  the  results  achieved,  and  we  commend
the political maturity shown  by  the  people  of  Guinea-
Bissau  during  the  transition  period,  particularly  the
civic  responsibility  demonstrated  during  the  period  of
presidential elections.
In  this  context,  we  believe  that  respect  for  the
constitutionally  established  institutions  of  sovereignty
is  an  indispensable  condition  for  political  stability.
Only  this  will  create  a  propitious  environment  for  the
accomplishment 
the
maintenance  of  peace  and  economic  reconstruction.
Such  is  the  expectation  of  the  Guinean  people,  who
went  to  voting  stations  in  such  significant  numbers.
That is a vote for democracy.
guarantee 
of 
tasks 
that 
In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  round  table
on  Guinea-Bissau,  scheduled 
the  month  of
November,  and  we  urge  donors  to  respond  positively
since the international community’s assistance remains
a fundamental condition for the process under way.
for 
Regarding  the  process  of  consolidation  of  peace
currently  in  progress  in  the  Great  Lakes  region,
Angola,  in  its  capacity  as  a  core  country,  is  pleased
with  what  has  been  achieved  so  far.  We  thank  the
Group  of  Friends,  and  particularly  the  Government  of
Canada, for the support they have been providing, and
especially for the second Great Lakes Conference, due
to be held next November in Nairobi.
and 
that 
with 
regional 
Although  we  understand 
the  primary
responsibility to prevent and resolve conflicts in Africa
falls  upon  African  States  themselves,  we  share  the
notion  that  the  international  community  should,  in
partnership 
subregional
organizations,  play  a  more  significant  role  in  the
prevention and resolution of conflicts on the continent.
Based on our own experience, we believe that in
order for strategies for the prevention and resolution of
conflicts to be successful, they should  be  based  on  an
approach  that  is  as  inclusive  as  possible.  In  this
connection,  the  cooperation  of  the  key  organs  of  the
United Nations  — the General Assembly, the Security
Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  —  is
absolutely  essential.  The  pertinent  involvement  of  the
international  financial  institutions,  as  well  as  the
private  and  business  sectors,  has  proven  to  be  equally
fundamental.
For  this  reason,  we  support  and  welcome  the
decision  of  the  High-level  Meeting  to  create  the
Peacebuilding Commission. We are ready to work with
partners  towards  rendering  this  organ  operational  as
soon as possible.
that 
Angola  supports  the  creation  of  the  permanent
fund for the consolidation of peace. We are also of the
view 
disarmament,
demobilization  and  reintegration  should  be  financed
from the regular budget and attributed to peacekeeping
operations.
activities 
related 
to 
While the illicit exploitation of natural resources
was  not  mentioned  in  the  outcome  document  of  the
summit, we hope that during the current session of the
issue  will  be  given  due
General  Assembly 
consideration  since 
fundamental
element for the strategy of prevention and resolution of
conflicts.
this 
it  constitutes  a 
Terrorism  undoubtedly  constitutes  a  permanent
threat  to  the  world  that  no  country  can  face  alone.
Therefore, it calls for cooperation among all countries,
with the United Nations playing the central role in the
fight  against  it.  In  this  connection,  we  join  the
Secretary-General’s plea for the conclusion, as urgently
as  possible,  of  the  comprehensive  convention  against
international 
terrorism,  which  would  contain  a
A/60/PV.21
universally  accepted  definition  of  the  concept  of
terrorism.
Five  years  since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium
Declaration,  the  social  and  economic  situation  in
several parts of the globe continues to be characterized
by extreme poverty.
As  well-articulated  mentioned  by  the  Secretary-
General in his report, “In larger freedom” (A/59/2005),
poverty  is  not  only  about  development;  it  is  also  a
matter of security and respect for human rights, which
are  fundamental 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  For  this  reason,  I  agree  with  several  previous
speakers that this issue in the outcome document ought
to  be  dealt  with  in  greater  detail.  Thus,  we  look
forward to continuing our work in the relevant forums,
in  particular  in  a  strengthened  Economic  and  Social
Council.
to 
The 
fight 
against  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,
illnesses  constitutes  an
tuberculosis  and  other 
indispensable  condition 
for  peace,  stability  and
international  collective  security.  For  this  reason,  we
urge the international community to redouble its efforts
in mobilizing the required resources for the prevention
and treatment of these illnesses.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my
Government’s  appreciation  to  the  United  States  for
funding and initiating a programme to fight malaria in
Angola, as well as in Tanzania and Uganda.
In  my  delegation’s  opinion,  in  order  to  meet  the
challenges  facing  the  world,  it  is  imperative  that  we
proceed to the reform of the main organs of the United
Nations,  with  a  view  to  adapting  them  to  the  current
reality. We will remain active in the process of reform
of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  Security  Council
and the other primary bodies of our Organization.
We share the opinion that the composition of the
Security  Council  should  properly  reflect  the  present
day  political  reality.  Enlarging  the  Security  Council
would 
and  more
representative,  with  greater  credibility  and, 
in
particular, greater authority in its decisions.
transparent 
it  more 
render 
Nevertheless, we would like to underline that the
enlargement  of  the  Council  is  just  one  aspect  of  the
reform  that  needs  to  be  completed.  We  should  not
underestimate  other  elements  of  Council  reform  that
we  consider  no  less  important,  such  as  the  need  to
35
A/60/PV.21
improve  and  render  more  transparent  its  working
methods.
I  am  convinced  that  the  results  reached  at  the
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  during  this  session  of  the
General  Assembly  will  stimulate  the  continuation  of
the debate on the process of the reform itself. This will
create a platform that will reinforce the Organization’s
common 
strengthening
cooperation  and  providing  greater  assurances  that
international peace and stability can only be found in a
reinforced multilateralism.
objectives: 
vision 
and 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her
Excellency  Mrs.  Tiina  Intelmann,  chairperson  of  the
delegation of the Republic of Estonia.
Mrs. Intelmann (Estonia): Allow me to begin by
congratulating  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  upon  his  election  as
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth
session.  We  have  full  confidence  in  him  and  in  his
team. I would also like to commend Mr. Jean Ping for
the  pivotal  role  that  he  played  during  the  fifty-ninth
session.
The  leaders  of  the  world  gathered  in  this  very
Hall last week at the largest summit meeting in history.
The  outcome  document  adopted  by  the  heads  of  State
or Government has given us very concrete tasks for the
future. The reform continues; we will have to maintain
focus  and  take  important  decisions  during  the  sixtieth
session.
My remarks today will be confined to a few main
specific  emphasis  on  Estonia’s
topics,  with  a 
contribution to our common goals.
Development,  security  and  human  rights  are
interconnected  issues.  It  is  inconceivable  that  global
progress  in  those  areas  can  be  made  without  an
effective  multilateral  system,  fully  in  line  with  the
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  As  we
pointed  out  a  week  ago  in  the  outcome  document,  no
country  can  tackle  today’s  intricate  challenges  alone.
Estonia is fully committed to strengthening the United
Nations.
We live in a global and interdependent world and
we  thus  need  to  combine  our  efforts.  There  has  to  be
cooperation  among  different  organizations  that  have
the  capacity  for  conflict  prevention  and  peacekeeping
operations,  as  well  as 
for  such
requirements as logistical support and training.
for  providing 
36
towards  mutually 
The United Nations cannot hope to find a United
Nations solution for all problems. Estonia is pleased to
see that the United Nations is actively forging a deeper
partnership  with  various  organizations.  Estonia  is
actively participating in the common efforts of both the
European  Union  and  NATO.  We  feel  that  the  United
Nations,  the  European  Union  and  NATO  should  all
continue  working 
fruitful
cooperation and towards greater predictability in terms
of the allocation of resources. The more we coordinate
our  activities,  the  better  will  be  the  results  we  can
achieve  in  dealing  with  conflict,  poverty  and  human
suffering.  The  European  Union  has  made  great
headway  in  developing  battle  groups,  thus  increasing
our ability to react swiftly in crisis situations.
to  contribute 
through
various  organizations  to  the  stability  of  Afghanistan,
Iraq,  Sudan,  Kosovo  and  the  Middle  East.  Our  long-
term contribution to United Nations monitoring on the
Israeli-Lebanese  border,  our 
explosives-detecting
teams  in  Afghanistan,  our  substantive  presence  —
considering  the  size  of  Estonia  —  in  Kosovo,  our
assistance in training the new Iraqi police force and our
participation in stabilizing Iraq are just a few examples
of my country’s contribution to common efforts.
Estonia  will  continue 
Estonia  also  acknowledges  the  need  to  develop
African peacekeeping and to provide better training for
United  Nations  peacekeepers.  We  hosted  a  United
Nations  peacekeeping  “train  the  trainers”  course  in
Estonia 
few  months  ago,  attended  by
peacekeepers from some 30 countries.
just  a 
Over  the  years,  we  have  shown  our  continued
commitment  to  United  Nations  activities,  including
peacekeeping, 
in  a  very  simple  and  unequivocal
way  —  by  paying  regularly  and  on  time  the  full
amount of our assessed contributions.
The role of the international community does not
end at the point where we manage to stop an ongoing
conflict.  As  we  all  know,  without  adequate  State
structures,  a  country  faces  the  risk  of  relapsing  into
conflict. 
the
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and
we hope to see the first results of its work fairly soon.
Therefore, 
welcomes 
Estonia 
The  next  issue  I  would  like  to  address  is
terrorism. Here, our position is unequivocal: terrorism
is unacceptable in all circumstances, and we should be
united  against  it. We  regret  that  the  summit  document
does not condemn the deliberate killing of civilians and
non-combatants.
implemented.  We  consider 
Estonia  believes  that  the  anti-terrorism  strategy
put  forward  by  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  should
be  adopted  and 
the
conclusion  of  the  comprehensive  convention  against
international  terrorism  an  utmost  priority  during  the
current session of the General Assembly. Estonia fully
implements  all  relevant  United  Nations  Security
Council  resolutions  and  supports  the  initiatives  of  the
United Nations and other international organizations in
preventing  and  combating  terrorism.  A  few  days  ago,
Estonia  signed  the  International  Convention  for  the
Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
is another pressing security concern. We regret that no
agreement  was  reached  on  non-proliferation  and
disarmament during the summit.
There is a serious concern over slow progress in
the sphere of poverty eradication and the realization of
other  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).
Estonia,  together  with  other  European  Union  member
States, is increasing resources devoted to development
cooperation.  Despite  our  status  as  a  new  donor,
Estonia’s  official  development  assistance  in  2004  was
already 0.08 per cent of gross national income. We are
steadily  increasing  our  input,  and  this  will  also  raise
our  voluntary 
to  United  Nations
contribution 
development-related activities.
No  State  will  be  able  to  achieve  the  MDGs  as
long  as  it  does  not  respect  fundamental  human  rights.
The  second  International  Decade  of 
the  World’s
Indigenous  People  coincides  with  the  targeted  time
frame for the accomplishment of the MDGs — 2015. If
we truly want to achieve the MDGs, we must focus on
the  issues  that  matter  most  to  people,  including
indigenous peoples. The implementation of the MDGs
in  connection  with  the  indigenous  peoples  has  to  be
viewed  within  the  broader  context  of  the  Millennium
Declaration, which brings together the three basic aims
of  the  United  Nations  Charter  —  peace  and  security,
economic and social development, and human rights.
One cannot, of course, fail to mention the matter
of climate change, the relevance of which has become
especially  clear  after  recent  natural  disasters.  Indeed,
we have to step up global long-term cooperation so that
we can produce real change.
A/60/PV.21
I  would  like  to  stress  the  significance  of  the
Human  Rights  Council.  We  see  the  Council  as  a
standing  Charter  body,  well-connected  with  other
United  Nations  structures, 
the  Security
Council. Human rights violators should not have a seat
at the Council.
including 
Estonia  is  committed  to  promoting  human  rights
as  universal  values  that  should  be  guaranteed  for  all.
We  are  pleased  that  the  summit  agreed  to  double  the
regular  budget  for  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights within the next
five years.
importance 
of 
I would like to stress Estonia’s firm belief in the
extraordinary 
good
governance  and  the  rule  of  law.  Estonia  supports  the
creation  of  the  Democracy  Fund,  to  which  we  will
make a financial contribution.
democracy, 
Estonia  applauds  the  agreement  that  we  reached
on  the  responsibility  to  protect.  We  should  all  fulfil
commitments  nationally,  but  we  should  also  be
prepared  to  deal  with  cases  of  genocide,  war  crimes,
ethnic cleansing and all other crimes against humanity
urgently  requiring  outside  intervention,  even  if  it  has
not  been  requested.  In  such  cases,  the  international
community has to take action.
As  a  founding  member  of  the  International
Criminal  Court,  we  are  disappointed  not  to  see  any
reference  to  this  Court  in  the  outcome  document.  We
deem  the  Court,  as  well  as  other  instruments  of
international  justice,  vital  to  counter  impunity  for
international crimes.
Sixty years ago, world leaders made a promise to
prevent  war,  to  defend  human  rights  and  to  help  the
peoples  of  the  world  to  achieve  safety,  prosperity  and
freedom.  Let  us  be  bold  and  try  harder  than  ever  to
achieve these goals.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate for this meeting.
Two  delegations  have  requested  to  exercise  the
right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members  that  statements
in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10
minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes
for  the  second  intervention  and  should  be  made  by
delegations from their seats.
37
A/60/PV.21
Mr. Ozawa (Japan): Our right of reply is related
to  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea this morning.
First, we firmly believe that the qualifications of
a  country  for  permanent  membership  in  the  Security
Council  should  be  judged  by  that  country’s  real
contributions to the maintenance of international peace
and security.
like 
to  remind 
Secondly, regarding the issues of the past, Prime
Minister Koizumi elaborated again the Government of
Japan’s  thinking  on  this  matter  on  15  August  of  this
year.  My  delegation  would 
the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  that  in  the
joint statement of the six-party talks, issued a few days
ago  on  19  September  in  Beijing,  both  Japan  and  the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  committed
themselves to “take steps to normalize their relations in
accordance  with  the  Pyongyang  Declaration,  on  the
basis of the settlement of the unfortunate past and  the
outstanding issues of concern”.
Prior  to  the  announcement  of  the  joint  statement
of the six-party talks, the representatives of Japan and
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  held  a
number  of  bilateral  dialogues  to  reach  this  common
understanding.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the
representative of Armenia.
Mr.  Martirosyan  (Armenia):  I  am  taking  the
floor to respond to some of the unfounded accusations
and  misrepresentations  that  appeared  in  the  statement
of  the  Azerbaijani  Foreign  Minister  in  the  general
debate on 18 September 2005.
First,  regarding  his  reference  to  the  territory
surrounding  Nagorny  Karabakh,  those  territories  have
come  under  the  control  of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh
Armenians  as  a  result  of  Azerbaijan’s  refusal  to
address  their  peaceful  call  for  self-determination.  It  is
appalling  to  hear  self-victimizing  references  about
aggression  from  an  Azerbaijani  representative  when  it
was  the  Azerbaijani  Government  that  had  resorted  to
full-scale  military  aggression  to  suppress  the  civilian
population of Nagorny Karabakh.
Secondly,  there  are  Security  Council  resolutions
that the Azerbaijani side time and again has attempted
38
to  misrepresent  in  order  to  prove  its  allegations.  The
four  Security  Council  resolutions  adopted  in  1993
clearly counter such false accusations. The language of
the  resolutions  refers  to  the  combatants  as  local
Armenian  forces.  Further,  the  resolutions  call  on  the
Republic  of  Armenia  to  use  its  good  offices  with  the
Nagorny Karabakh authorities to address those matters.
This  clearly  demonstrates 
that  Armenia  has  no
involvement whatsoever in the military process and the
resultant outcome.
The third issue that I would like to address is the
Minister’s  characterization  of  the  “dangerous  practice
carried  out  by  Armenia”,  referring  to  the  situation  in
the territories around Nagorny Karabakh. As the report
of the Organization for Security and Cooperation fact-
finding mission concluded, which was circulated to the
General  Assembly  under 
the  symbol  A/59/742,
Armenia  has  no  involvement  or  presence  there.  The
conclusions  of  the  mission  are  clear.  There  is  neither
deliberate  policy  of 
substantial
settlement in the territories around Nagorny Karabakh.
The  resettlers  in  Nagorny  Karabakh  proper  are  those
who were forced as a result of the ethnic cleansing by
the  Azerbaijani  Government  to  leave  their  homes  in
Baku  and  other  Azerbaijani  cities,  as  well  as
Shaumyan,  northern  Mardakert  and  eastern  Martuni
regions  of  Nagorny  Karabakh  currently  under
Azerbaijani control.
settlement  nor 
Fourthly,  the  parallels  that  the  Minister  attempts
to  draw  between  Nakhchivan  and  Nagorny  Karabakh
are  baseless  and  irrelevant.  Nagorny  Karabakh’s  need
for a permanent land link is an entirely different matter.
The  two  issues  are  unrelated  and  dissimilar,  both
politically  and  geographically.  Once  the  conflict  is
resolved and Azerbaijan’s blockade against Armenia is
lifted,  its  territory  will  be  available  to  Azerbaijan  for
communication  with  Nakhchivan.  Thus,  creating
formal access to Nakhchivan has never been part of the
negotiations.  The  circumstances  are  not  at  all
comparable nor should we pretend that they are.
share 
Finally,  we 
the  Minister’s  cautious
optimism and do hope indeed that this opportunity will
be seized by all sides. Misrepresenting realities on the
ground does not help the  peace process,  and  it  was  in
that spirit that we wished to make our corrections.
The meeting rose at 7 p.m.
