United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
57th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 29 November 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.57
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 15
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of the
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People
(A/60/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/539)
the  Exercise  of 
the  Committee  on 
Draft resolutions (A/60/L.28, A/60/L.29,
A/60/L.30 and A/60/L.31)
The President: This morning, I had the honour to
address 
the
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  on  the
occasion  of  the  commemoration  of  the  International
Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  I
recalled  the  United  Nations  permanent  responsibility
with  regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine  until  the
question  is  resolved  in  all  its  aspects  in  accordance
with  international  law,  as  stated  in  resolution  59/31.
Indeed,  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  is  an
intrinsic  part  of  our  common  responsibility  to  support
the Middle East peace process.
It is in that context that the General Assembly, in
the  same  resolution  of  last  year,  recalled  the  relevant
Security  Council 
the
affirmation  by  the  Security  Council  of  the  vision  of  a
region  in  which  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  live
resolutions  and  welcomed 
side by side within secure and recognized borders. That
constitutes the foundation for the peace process.
to 
this  occasion 
Governments, 
Let  me  also  use 
all 
to  express
regional
appreciation 
organizations,  United  Nations 
non-
governmental  organizations  and  individuals  for  their
untiring work and dedication to achieving lasting peace
and  security  in  the  Middle  East  and  to  providing
humanitarian 
and 
the
Palestinian people.
assistance 
agencies, 
economic 
to 
We must spare no effort to assist both Israel and
the  Palestinian  Authority  to  achieve  a  comprehensive,
just  and  lasting  solution  to  decades  of  Palestinian-
Israeli confrontation and conflict.
the  President  of 
I  was  particularly  gratified  to  hear  this  morning
the  message  of 
the  Palestinian
Authority,  Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  to  the  Committee  on
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian
People, 
the  Palestinian
Authority  has  “chosen  peace  and  negotiations  as  the
path to reaching a just and comprehensive peace”. And,
he added, “our hands remain outstretched for peace”.
in  which  he  stated 
that 
This year has already marked some real progress.
The Palestinian people demonstrated their commitment
to  democracy  during 
in
January.  The  international  community  welcomed  the
Israeli withdrawal and dismantlement of settlements in
the Gaza Strip and parts of the northern West Bank in
the 
late  summer.  Last  week,  on  25  November,
following  an  agreement  by  both  sides  on  movement
the  presidential  election 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-62090 (E)
*0562090*
A/60/PV.57
and  access,  the  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority
formally  reopened  the  Gaza  Strip’s  border  crossing
with  Egypt,  thus  giving  the  Palestinians  control  over
one of their frontiers for the first time in their history.
An important step was thus taken to fulfil the vision of
a future Palestinian State.
All 
that  possible 
those  who  made 
through
complicated  negotiations,  with
painstaking 
and 
persistence  and 
to  be
tenacity  of  effort,  are 
commended.  The  parties  are  encouraged  to  continue
their  cooperation  on  outstanding  issues  related  to
disengagement, 
international
community.
supported 
the 
by 
The road map, supported by the Quartet, provides
a  solid  basis  for  the  continued  work  for  peace.  The
international community must intensify its engagement
in helping the parties to end a conflict which for far too
long  has  tormented  the  region  and  its  peoples.  It  is
crucial  that  Palestinians  and  Israelis  now  cooperate  to
the  fullest  extent  possible.  Actions  which  could
aggravate  the  situation  and  increase  suspicions  and
mistrust must not be undertaken. Violence and  acts  of
terror must cease.
In  the  meantime,  everything  must  be  done  to
alleviate  the  daily  plight  of  the  Palestinian  people.
Access  and  mobility  are  crucial  for  dealing  with
unemployment  and  poverty.  International  assistance
should focus  not  only  on  humanitarian  relief,  but  also
on  capacity-building  programmes  as  part  of  a
development strategy for a future Palestinian State.
Let  us  hope  and  let  us  be  determined  that,  with
the  full  backing  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  world
community,  the  peace  process  will  be  reactivated  so
that we can finally see the realization of the vision of a
region  in  which  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  face
the future together in peace and cooperation.
I  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Paul  Badji  of  Senegal,  in
his  capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian
People, who will introduce draft resolutions A/60/L.28
to A/60/L.31 in the course of his statement.
Mr.  Badji  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  In  order
to express their unswerving support for the Palestinian
people in its quest for a comprehensive, just and lasting
solution 
the  question  of  Palestine,  many
representatives  of  Member  States,  observer  States,
intergovernmental  organizations,  agencies  of 
the
to 
2
it 
to 
the 
invitation  of 
this  morning 
that  was  held,  as 
United  Nations  system  and  civil  society  organizations
responded 
the
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the  Palestinian  People  and  participated  in  the  solemn
meeting 
is  every  year  on
29 November,  to  observe  the  International  Day  of
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. As Chairman of
the Committee, I thank them all for their keen interest,
staunch support and active participation in the quest for
a peaceful settlement to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Before  I  introduce  the  four  draft  resolutions  that
have  been  submitted  by  the  Committee  under  agenda
item  37  of 
the  General
Assembly, I should like to make a few brief comments
about the situation in the occupied Palestinian territory
and developments in the political process.
the  sixtieth  session  of 
The  past  year  has  been  marked  by  promise  and
hope, as well as by one development in the situation on
the  ground  that  has  further  complicated  efforts  to
revive  the  political  process  for  the  implementation  of
the  road  map.  The  death  more  than  a  year  ago  of  the
national 
leader  Yasser  Arafat  has  posed  a  real
challenge for the Palestinian people and its institutions.
The  transition  was  democratic  and  peaceful,  and
following free and fair elections, Mr. Mahmoud Abbas
was  elected  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority.
With the assistance of the international community, and
particularly that of Egypt, the  first  summit  meeting  to
be held in a long time was convened in February 2004
in  Sharm  el-Sheikh  between  the  Prime  Minister  of
Israel,  Mr.  Ariel  Sharon,  and  the  President  of  the
Palestinian  Authority,  Mr.  Abbas.  The  commitments
undertaken by the two parties — especially with regard
to  the  cessation  of  all  acts  of  violence,  the  return  to
Palestinian Authority control of five Palestinian towns
of  the  West  Bank,  and  the  release  of  a  number  of
Palestinian prisoners — have created a new momentum
conducive to the resumption of the political process.
to  be  one  of 
the  withdrawal 
In  September,  the  Committee  welcomed  Israel’s
the  Gaza  Strip  and  from  four
withdrawal  from 
settlements in the northern West Bank. The Committee
deemed 
the  most
significant political developments of recent years in the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict and  recognized the  resolute
efforts  of  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  coordinate  the
withdrawal with the Israeli side in order to  ensure the
smooth  management  of  the  new  situation  created
thereby.  That  positive  development  was  helpful  in  the
the
resumption  of  security  coordination  between 
parties  and  gave  rise  to  hope  that  could  be  exploited
and  built  on  to  secure  better  cooperation  between  the
Israelis and the Palestinians.
A very broad sector of international opinion held
that  the  withdrawal  from  Gaza  was  a  promising  stage
that  could  help  to  relaunch  negotiations  within  the
framework  of  the  road  map  and  advance  the  political
process  that  had  long  been  deadlocked.  Committee
members believe that the withdrawal from Gaza should
be  complete  and 
the
Palestinian  Authority  to  exercise  control  over  Gaza’s
borders, air and maritime spaces, and the transit points
between  that  part  of  the  territory  and  the  rest  of
Palestine. They also deem it essential to obtain Israeli
guarantees  concerning  the  unimpeded  circulation  of
persons and goods in and out of Gaza.
irreversible,  and  enable 
The  building  and  use  of  a  maritime  port  and  an
airport,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  a  permanent
geographic  link  to  the  West  Bank,  are  absolutely
crucial  to  Gaza’s  economy.  It  is  precisely  for  those
reasons  that  we  welcomed  the  agreements  concluded
on  15  November  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian
Authority on movement and access from and to Gaza.
It is now crucial that those agreements be scrupulously
and promptly implemented in order to give Palestinians
and  Israelis  alike  a  sense  of  hope  and  progress
following the positive developments of recent months.
Furthermore,  the  Committee  remains  profoundly
concerned 
expansion  of
settlement activity in the West Bank, including in East
Jerusalem,  and  the  accelerated  construction  of  the
illegal  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.
Settlement  activities  have  been  accompanied  by
disturbing  information  concerning  plans  to  establish
permanent 
several  West  Bank
settlements,  particularly  in  East  Jerusalem  and  its
environs. All of that runs counter to Israel’s obligations
under  the  road  map,  which  calls  for  a  freeze  in  the
building  of  settlements.  Israel’s  policy  and  the  facts
that it has created on the ground are also violations of
international  law  and  of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the
International Court of Justice.
links  between 
intensified 
about 
the 
Moreover,  Israel’s  ongoing  incursions  into  urban
and  rural  Palestinian  centres  throughout  the  year,
extrajudicial  executions,  demolition  of  homes,  arrests
and other actions, as well as  the  violent reprisals they
have  provoked  —  including  four  suicide  bombings  —
jeopardize  the  hope  for  a  speedy  return  to  political
A/60/PV.57
the  positive  momentum  created  by 
dialogue. Those actions have also had a harmful effect
on 
Israel’s
withdrawal  from  Gaza  and 
the  Sharm  el-Sheikh
agreements  concluded  between  the  Palestinian  and
Israeli sides early in the year.
At 
this  critical 
juncture,  on  behalf  of 
the
Committee,  I  call  on  the  Government  of  Israel  to
refrain  from  taking  any  action  that  might  further
destabilize  the  situation.  Israel  must,  in  particular,
renounce its policy of developing settlements  and halt
the construction of the wall on the West Bank. It is to
be hoped that Israel will facilitate the preparations for
and  holding  of  the  forthcoming  elections  for  the
Palestinian  Legislative  Council  scheduled  for  January
2006, in which the Palestinians of East Jerusalem must
be  able  to  participate  fully.  Furthermore,  Israel  must
take  steps  to  improve  significantly  the  humanitarian
situation  of  Palestinians  by 
lifting  curfews  and
reducing  restrictions  on  the  movement  of  people  and
goods.
of 
has 
direct 
negotiations, 
The  international  community’s  readiness  to  help
the  parties  in  that  complex  process,  leading  to  a
resumption 
been
encouraging.  The  Committee  welcomes  the  efforts  of
the  Quartet  and  by  each  of  its  members  to  help  the
parties to move towards the implementation of the road
map. The appointment of Mr. James Wolfensohn as the
Quartet’s  Special  Envoy  was  crucial  to  facilitating
economic  and  logistic  measures  that  are  essential  to
improving the daily lives of the Palestinian population
of  Gaza.  We  recognize  in  particular  the  personal
contribution  of  Mr.  Wolfensohn 
task.
International donors have pledged substantial financial
contributions  to  improve  the  economic  and  social
situation in Gaza following the Israeli withdrawal. The
European  Union  is  prepared  to  provide  a  third-party
presence at the Rafah crossing.
that 
to 
the 
implementation 
Our  Committee  firmly  believes  that  the  United
Nations  should  continue  to  exercise  its  permanent
responsibility  over  the  question  of  Palestine  until  it  is
effectively  resolved  in  all  of  its  aspects.  Ultimately,
of  United  Nations
only 
resolutions — 
Security  Council
resolutions  242 (1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002)  and
1515  (2003)  —  will  guarantee  a  permanent  solution
consisting  in  the  creation  of  two  States  and  based  on
the  1967  borders  and  the  exercise  of  the  inalienable
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  independence  and
national sovereignty.
particular 
in 
3
A/60/PV.57
of 
thirtieth  anniversary  of 
This month, the Committee on the Exercise of the
the  Palestinian  People
Inalienable  Rights 
commemorated 
its
the 
establishment  by  the  General  Assembly.  Members  of
the Committee are aware that some Member States are
questioning its raison d’être and that some are critical
of its activities, which they deem to be imbalanced and
partial. In that regard, allow me respectfully to remind
those that offer such critiques that the Committee is the
only  intergovernmental  body  of  the  United  Nations
dealing solely with the political aspects of the question
of  Palestine.  It  was  created  by  the  General  Assembly
specifically to promote the exercise by the Palestinian
people  of  its  inalienable  rights  in  order  to  arrive  at  a
comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the question
of Palestine.
Unfortunately,  progress  in  that  respect  has  been
very  slow,  at  best,  notwithstanding  certain  positive
developments.  The  situation  on  the  ground  remains
most  unstable  and  the  occupation  of  Palestinian  land
continues,  with  all  its  repercussions.  Thanks  to  its
interaction with the main organs of the United Nations,
in  particular  the  Security  Council  and  the  General
Assembly;  thanks  to  its  contacts  with  Member  States
and intergovernmental organizations; and thanks to the
Secretariat’s  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  and  the
its  programme  of
assistance 
it  provides 
international  meetings 
conferences, 
its
publications, 
the  United  Nations
Information  System  on  the  Question  of  Palestine  —  a
unique  and 
resource  containing
thousands of United Nations documents on this issue—
and  its  cooperation  with  civil  society,  the  Committee
believes that it is raising international public awareness
of  all  aspects  of 
the  question  of  Palestine  and
promoting  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian
people.
through 
and 
its  updating  of 
rich  electronic 
Furthermore, as a concrete and practical means of
support,  since  1996  the  Committee’s  programme  of
work  has  included  an  annual  training  programme  for
officials and professionals of the Palestinian Authority.
Twenty  young  Palestinians,  specializing  in  various
fields, have acquired in-depth knowledge of the United
Nations system and work undertaken on the question of
Palestine.  That  very  useful  programme,  organized  by
the Division for Palestinian Rights, has been frequently
commended by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the
Palestinian Authority.
4
Since 
its  establishment, 
the  Committee  has
advocated  for  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  question  of
Palestine,  pursuant  to  the  principles  of  international
law.  It  welcomed  the  peace  process  launched  in  the
Middle  East  in  1991  at  the  Madrid  peace  conference,
and  subsequently  actively  encouraged  the  parties’
implementation  of  the  Oslo  Accords.  It  gave  its  full
support  to  the  road  map  initiated  by  the  Quartet  in
order  to  realize  the  vision  of  two  States,  Israel  and
Palestine,  living  side  by  side  within  secure  and
recognized borders. At the same time, and pursuant to
its  mandate,  the  Committee  continues  to  promote  the
full exercise of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian
people  and  to  mobilize  international  assistance  on
behalf of the Palestinian people and solidarity with it.
In  that  context,  I  should  like  to  introduce  to  the
General Assembly the four draft resolutions adopted by
the Committee, the texts of which have been circulated
under  agenda 
in  documents  A/60/L.28,
A/60/L.29,  A/60/L.30  and  A/60/L.31.  The  Lao
People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  joined  the  list  of
sponsors of draft resolution A/60/L.28 and Namibia is
now a sponsor of all four draft resolutions.
item  37 
The 
first 
draft 
three 
resolutions 
relate
respectively  to  the  work  of  the  Committee  on  the
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian
People,  the  Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  and  the
Department  of  Public  Information.  They  reaffirm  the
important mandates entrusted by the General Assembly
to that subsidiary body and those Secretariat structures.
As it has in the past, the Committee intends to ensure
that  the  resources  made  available  to  it  are  used
effectively for all of its mandated tasks. The three draft
resolutions have been duly updated.
such  a 
settlement  and 
The  fourth  draft  resolution,  entitled  “Peaceful
settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question”,  reiterates  the
General  Assembly’s  position  vis-à-vis  the  essential
elements  of 
to
developments  in  the  situation  over  the  course  of  the
past  year.  In  particular,  this  year’s  draft  stresses  the
need  for  the  implementation  of  the  Sharm  el-Sheikh
understandings concluded between Israel and Palestine
in February 2005 and to put an end to Israeli settlement
activities  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  parts  of  the  northern
West Bank.
refers 
The  four  draft  resolutions  that  I  have 
just
introduced 
and
programmes that are of special importance, particularly
positions,  mandates 
outline 
at  this  critical  stage.  I  appeal  to  members  of  the
General  Assembly  to  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft
resolutions  and  to  support  the  important  objectives
contained therein.
The President: I now give the floor to Mr. Colin
Scicluna,  who  will 
the
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the  Palestinian  People  on  behalf  of  the  Committee’s
Rapporteur.
the  report  of 
introduce 
Mr.  Scicluna  (Malta):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to
present  to  the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  the
Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the
Inalienable  Rights  of 
the  Palestinian  People,
Ambassador Victor Camilleri, the annual  report of the
Committee, contained in document A/60/35.
In the course of the past year, the Committee has
continued  to  carry  out  the  mandate  given  to  it  by  the
General  Assembly.  The  report  I  am  about  to  present
covers  developments  relating 
the  question  of
Palestine,  the  peace  process  and  the  activities  of  the
Committee  since  last  year’s  report,  through  5  October
of this year.
to 
The 
introduction  of 
the
Committee’s  objectives  and  its  general  perspective  of
events that have taken place in the course of the year.
the  report  outlines 
Chapters  II  and  III  summarize 
the  General
Assembly mandates of the Committee, the Division for
Palestinian  Rights  and  the  Department  of  Public
Information, and give an account of the organization of
the Committee’s work during the year.
the 
Chapter  IV  reviews  the  situation  relating  to  the
question  of  Palestine  and 
relevant  political
developments,  as  monitored  by  the  Committee  during
the  year.  Reviewed  here  are  various  aspects  of  the
situation  on  the  ground,  including  the  passing  of  the
Palestinian  Authority  President,  Mr.  Yasser  Arafat,  in
November  2004;  the  election  of  Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas
as Palestinian Authority President; Israeli actions in the
occupied  Palestinian  territory,  such  as  the  recent
disengagement 
four
settlements  in  the  northern  West  Bank;  the  expanding
settlement  activities;  the  implications  of  the  ongoing
construction  of  the  wall  in  the  West  Bank  and  around
East Jerusalem; the situation with respect to Palestinian
prisoners;  the  humanitarian  situation  and  the  state  of
the  Palestinian  economy;  the  situation  with  respect  to
water resources available to the Palestinians; action by
the  Gaza  Strip  and 
from 
A/60/PV.57
the  United  Nations  system;  and 
the  continuing
operational  difficulties  faced  by  the  United  Nations
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the
Near  East.  In  this  Chapter,  the  Committee  also  states
its  position  with  regard  to  extrajudicial  executions  of
Palestinians  and 
Israeli
civilians.
terrorist  attacks  against 
Chapter  V  reviews  the  action  taken  by  the
Committee.  It  is  divided  into  two  main  sections.
Section  A  describes  action  aimed  at  promoting
Palestinian  rights  in  the  United  Nations,  including  the
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  This
section  makes 
the  communications
addressed  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  to  the
Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the  Security
Council, and includes information on the participation
by the Chairman at events organized by civil society in
support  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian
people.
reference 
to 
Section  B  contains  a  detailed  account  of  the
implementation  of  the  programme  of  work  of  the
Committee  and  the  Division.  It  provides  information
on the continued dialogue between the Committee and
members  of 
the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union.  Sub-section  1  gives  an  account
of  the  various  international  meetings  and  conferences
organized in the course of the year.
the  European  Union  and 
This  section  also  deals  with  the  Committee’s
cooperation  with  intergovernmental  organizations  and
civil  society;  research,  monitoring  and  publications
work  of  the  Division;  the  United  Nations  Information
System  on  the  Question  of  Palestine  (UNISPAL);  the
training  programme  for  staff  of 
the  Palestinian
Authority; and the observance of the International Day
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People.
Chapter  VI  provides  an  overview  of  the  work
done  over  the  year  by  the  Department  of  Public
Information 
in  pursuance  of  General  Assembly
resolution 59/30 of 1 December 2004.
The  last  chapter  of  the  report  contains  the
conclusions  and  recommendations  of  the  Committee.
In  this  Chapter,  the  Committee  welcomes  the  Israeli
withdrawal  from 
the  Gaza  Strip  and  four  small
settlements in the northern West Bank as a rare window
of  opportunity 
revive
negotiations within the framework of the road map and
move the stalled political process forward. It expresses
particular  concern  about  the  intention  of  the  Israeli
that  should  be  used 
to 
5
A/60/PV.57
Government  to  expand  large  settlement  blocks  in  the
West  Bank,  isolating  East  Jerusalem  from  the  West
Bank  and  separating  the  southern  West  Bank  from  its
northern part. The Committee reiterates its position of
principle that the settlements and  the  wall  constructed
by Israel in the occupied Palestinian territory, including
East 
international
humanitarian  law  and  numerous  resolutions  of  the
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  adopted
since 1967, as well as provisions of the road map.
Jerusalem, 
contrary 
are 
to 
to 
and 
implement 
the  parties 
The Committee states that it has been encouraged
by  renewed  efforts  of  the  international  community  to
revitalize  the  road  map,  to  facilitate  the  dialogue
between 
their
commitments  under  the  road  map.  The  Committee
affirms its intention to continue to promote support for
the road map and the important work of the Quartet as
the  best  way  to  achieve  a  comprehensive,  just  and
lasting  solution  of  the  question  of  Palestine  based  on
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),
1397  (2002)  and  other  relevant  resolutions,  and  the
exercise  by  the  Palestinian  people  of  its  inalienable
rights.
its  programmes  of 
The  Committee  expresses  its  appreciation  to
Governments, intergovernmental organizations, United
Nations entities and civil society for their involvement
in 
international  meetings  and
conferences.  It  expresses  its  intention  to  address  such
issues  as  the  need  to  end  the  occupation  of  all
Palestinian land; support of the Palestinian Authority’s
efforts  to  rehabilitate  the  economy,  especially  that  of
the Gaza Strip; the responsibility of all Governments to
apply international law to all aspects of the question of
Palestine;  the  adverse  consequences  of  the  settlement
policy  and  the  construction  of  the  wall  for  the
achievement of a two-State solution.
The  Committee  further  commends  civil  society
organizations  for  their  efforts  to  uphold  international
legitimacy  with  regard  to  the  question  of  Palestine
through advocacy and by mobilizing public opinion, as
well as for their unremitting initiatives to provide relief
and assistance to the Palestinian people.
The Committee stresses the essential contribution
of the Division for Palestinian Rights of the Secretariat
in  support  of  the  Committee’s  objectives  and  requests
it to continue its programme of publications and other
informational 
further
development  of  the  UNISPAL  documents  collection.
activities, 
including 
the 
6
The Committee also notes the usefulness of the annual
training  programme  for  staff  of 
the  Palestinian
Authority, in spite of the difficulties on the ground, and
requests the Division to continue it.
The  Committee  expresses  the  view  that  the
special  information  programme  on  the  question  of
Palestine of the Department of Public Information has
made an important contribution to informing the media
and  public  opinion  on 
issues.  The
Committee  requests  the  programme’s  continuation,
with 
flexibility,  as  warranted  by
developments relevant to the question of Palestine.
the  necessary 
the  relevant 
Finally,  wishing  to  make  its  contribution  to  the
achievement  of  a  just  and  lasting  settlement  of  the
question  of  Palestine  and  in  view  of  the  many
difficulties facing the Palestinian people  and  besetting
the peace process, the Committee calls on all States to
join 
the  General
Assembly again to recognize the importance of its role
and  to  reconfirm  its  mandate  with  overwhelming
support.
that  endeavour  and 
invites 
in 
I  trust  that  the  report  I  have  just  introduced  will
be  of  assistance  to  the  General  Assembly  in  its
deliberations on this very important issue.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
Chairman of the observer delegation of Palestine.
Mr.  Al-Kidwa  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
should  like  at  the  outset  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  your
statements earlier at this meeting and at this morning’s
official meeting in observance of the International Day
of Solidarity with the Palestinian People.
the 
thirtieth  anniversary  of 
A few weeks ago, the Committee on the Exercise
of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People
commemorated 
its
establishment by the General Assembly. That occasion
embodied  a  great  many  of  the  issues  related  to  the
question  of  Palestine.  It  highlighted  the  permanent
responsibility of the United Nations on the question of
Palestine  until  its  resolution  in  all  its  aspects,  and  the
commitment of the members of the Committee to fulfil
the mandate entrusted to them.
It  also  highlighted,  however,  the  tragic  reality
that  the  Palestinian  people,  despite  the  passage  of  so
many years and the positions of the United Nations and
its  various  organs,  is  still  being  denied  its  inalienable
rights,  particularly  its  right  to  self-determination  and
national  independence,  all  as  a  result  of  Israel’s
rejection of the will of the international community and
of  international  law,  and  its  ongoing  colonization  of
Palestinian land.
first  step  must  be  to  halt  the  settlement  activities,  the
construction  of  the  wall,  and  the  Israeli  measures  in
East Jerusalem.
A/60/PV.57
It  is  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  imagine  a
similar case in which an entire people has been living
either in exile for 57 years or under occupation for 38
years  and  subject  to  a  de  facto  colonial  settlement
campaign,  while  the  occupying  Power  continues  to
refuse to implement any of the numerous resolutions of
the  United  Nations  and  continues 
to  violate
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian
and human rights laws.
their  support 
We  wish  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the
Chairman of the Committee and its members, and call
on  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to
maintain 
Israel’s
intransigence  and  rejection  in  order  to  resolve  the
question of Palestine and achieve genuine peace based
on the two-State solution and the 1949 Armistice Line
or what are commonly referred to as the 1967 borders,
with East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine.
face  of 
the 
in 
land, 
including 
If  that  is  to  occur,  the  central  task  of  the
international  community  must  be  to  achieve  a  real
cessation  of  the  colonizing  of  Palestinian  territory,
which  is  being  pursued  through  the  construction  and
expansion of settlements and the building of a wall on
Palestinian 
in  and  around  East
Jerusalem.  Israel  continues  to  construct  settlements  in
defiance  of  the  provisions  of  international  law;  of
relevant United Nations resolutions, including those of
the Security Council; and of the peace process and the
provisions of the road map. Israel continues to build its
wall  despite  the  advisory  opinion  issued  by  the
International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  resolutions
adopted  by 
tenth
emergency special session. Israel also continues to take
illegal measures in and around East Jerusalem aimed at
the  Judaization  and  de  facto  annexation  of  the  city,
despite all of the foregoing.
the  General  Assembly  at 
its 
Israel has thus been striving relentlessly to create
conditions  on  the  ground  that,  if  allowed  to  persist,
threaten to close the window of opportunity to achieve
the two-State solution. Israel alone will be responsible
for  the  collapse  of  the  solution,  but  all  of  us  —
beginning,  of  course,  with  the  Palestinian  people  —
the
will  pay 
international 
from
happening and to safeguard the two-State solution. The
is 
to  prevent 
It 
community 
incumbent  upon 
the  price. 
that 
In 
out 
Israel 
carried 
September, 
its
disengagement plan in the Gaza Strip  and parts  of the
northern  West  Bank.  We  consider  that  action  to  be  an
important  development,  and  believe  that  the  cessation
of  the  colonization  of  parts  of  our  Palestinian  land,
through  the  dismantling  of  the  settlements  and  the
withdrawal  of  the  settlers  and  the  Israeli  occupying
forces  from  the  Gaza  Strip,  is  a  positive  development
potentially 
the
disengagement  plan  remains  unilateral  and  Israel,  in
implementing it, wrought widespread destruction in the
settlement  areas  and 
issues
unresolved,  including  those  of  the  checkpoints,  the
airport, the seaport and the link between the West Bank
and the Gaza Strip.
others.  However, 
left  many 
important 
leading 
to 
Despite  all  that,  agreement  was  recently  reached
on  some  of  these  important  issues,  first  and  foremost
that of the Rafah crossing between the Gaza Strip and
Egypt  —  an  agreement  which  we  hope  will  be
implemented in full and appropriately and will lead to
agreement  on  all  the  other  pending  issues.  That  is
crucial  to  improving  the  living  conditions  of  the
population of the Gaza Strip, a small and impoverished
region that is the most densely populated in the world.
We are also in urgent need of more assistance and
its expeditious delivery in order to bear our additional
burdens,  not  only  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  but  also  in  the
West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem.  We  wish  to
commend  the  efforts  of  the  Special  Envoy  of  the
Quartet,  Mr.  James  Wolfensohn, 
that
assistance  and  to  help  the  two  parties  to  reach
appropriate solutions.
to  secure 
of 
implementation 
Of great importance now, in addition to all of the
foregoing,  is  guaranteeing  that  developments  will  not
stop  with  the  Gaza  Strip.  There  must  be  a  real
opportunity  to  return  to  the  road  map,  beginning  with
the 
el-Sheikh
understandings,  including  an  Israeli  withdrawal  from
cities  and  areas  to  pre-September  2000  positions  and
the  release  of  Palestinian  prisoners  and  detainees.  I
reiterate that, whether or not we succeed in returning to
the  road  map,  we  must  definitely  ensure  the  genuine
cessation  of  settlement  activities,  the  construction  of
the wall and other Israeli measures in Jerusalem. That
the  Sharm 
7
A/60/PV.57
is  all  mandatory  under  international  law  and  essential
to the preservation of any hope for peace.
To that end, we need the Quartet to adopt specific
and  practical  positions  and  an  agreement  on  measures
to  be  taken  by  Member  States.  We  need  action  from
everyone, including the Secretariat, which should, inter
alia,  implement  the  General  Assembly  resolution  on
the preparation of a register of damages caused by the
construction of the wall.
find 
leadership 
The Palestinian people, the Palestinian Authority
the  Palestinian 
themselves
and 
shouldering the responsibility of fulfilling post-conflict
tasks  while  remaining,  in  their  entirety,  under  foreign
occupation  and  subject  to  the  ongoing  colonization  of
their land. Such a situation has never arisen before and
there  is  no  precedent  to  draw  upon.  Nevertheless,  we
are  making  extraordinary  efforts  to  succeed  and  have
achieved  reasonable  results  thanks  to  the  resolve  and
imagination  of  our  people, 
international  political
support and foreign assistance.
We  are  making  efforts  to  build  State  institutions
in order to achieve the rule of law and to strengthen the
social fabric of our people. We are also in the process
of  filling  the  large  vacuum  left  behind  by  the  passing
of  our  leader,  President  Yasser  Arafat,  and  have
managed  to  achieve  a  smooth  transition  of  power  and
to  hold  new  presidential  elections  that  resulted  in  the
election  of  President  Mahmoud  Abbas  and  his
assumption of his duties.
In  that  context,  we  are  also  in  the  process  of
holding  our  second  legislative  elections.  We  wish  to
emphasize our opposition to any interference by Israel
or any other party in those elections, which should be
truly  democratic  and  open  to  all  Palestinians  and  all
political  groups  and  should  be  held  throughout  the
occupied  Palestinian 
including  East
Jerusalem.  The  participation  of  all  parties  and  groups
will  enhance  the  democratic  process  and  the  rule  of
law,  and  should  be  combined  with  and  followed  by
measures and laws to consolidate the political system,
including  in  areas  related  to  weapons  and  other
security issues.
territories, 
Israel should not create obstacles to any of those
important political processes, in particular with regard
to  freedom  of  movement  and  the  participation  of  the
responsible
inhabitants  of  Jerusalem.  Through  a 
national  dialogue,  we  have  been  able 
to  reach
agreement on a unilateral approach to promoting calm
8
and we understand the need to continue that process. In
that  regard,  we  believe  the  elections  will  have  a
positive impact.
As  part  of  the  international  community,  we
reiterate our condemnation of terrorism in all its forms,
including  the  latest  terrorist  attacks  in  the  Jordanian
capital, Amman. It so happens that one  of  the  victims
of the attacks was a colleague of ours from the Foreign
Ministry.  We  must  enhance  our  collective  efforts  to
confront  that  phenomenon  and  must  fortify  our  will
through  a  clear  and  strong  legal  framework  supported
by all. We must all agree that any targeting of innocent
civilians,  anywhere  at  any  time,  regardless  of  the
reasons, constitutes a condemnable terrorist act that we
must combat.
We  must  also  all  agree  that  cases  of  armed
conflict, including foreign occupation, are governed by
international  humanitarian  law  and  are  in  accordance
with  those  rules  and  provisions.  We  are  convinced  of
those positions and will work tirelessly to achieve full
compliance  with  all  of  those  rules  and  provisions,
including in our region. We also hope to contribute to
the  achievement  of  a  consensus  among  all  parties
concerned to conclude a comprehensive convention  to
combat international terrorism.
save  our 
future
confrontations  and  conflicts.  We  are  working  hard  to
ensure  that  the  Palestinian  element  in  the  region  is
positive.  In  that  context,  we  wish  Lebanon  every
success and prosperity and reaffirm that Palestinians in
Lebanon  are  not  party  to  any  internal  issues  and  that
they are not above the law.
We  must 
region 
from 
We also hope that Syria will be able to solve the
problems  related  to  Security  Council  resolution  1636
(2005)  in  a  way  that  helps  the  investigation  and
preserves  the  dignity  and  sovereignty  of  Syria  on  the
basis of respect for that resolution.
Naturally,  we  look  forward  to  the  return  to
normalcy  in  Iraq  and  to  ending  the  violence  and
terrorism,  while  at  the  same  time  preserving  Iraqi
unity, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
There 
have 
been  many 
extraordinary
developments  in  the  region,  including  in  our  country
and  in  Israel.  We  hope  those  developments  will
enhance 
to
negotiations  and  to  the  actual  implementation  of  the
road  map  towards  the  achievement  of  peace  in  and
for  a  speedy 
the  potential 
return 
between two States, Israel and Palestine, as well as in
the region and in the world in its entirety.
administrated  by  the  Israeli  authorities,  under  the
pretexts of combating terrorism and of self-defence.
A/60/PV.57
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in
Arabic):  On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  United
Arab  Emirates,  I  am  honoured  to  express  to  Mr.  Paul
Badji,  Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of
the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  to
members  of  the  Committee  and  to  the  staff  of  the
Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  our  appreciation  for
their  commendable  efforts  to  achieve  justice  for  the
Palestinian people.
On  the  occasion  of  the  International  Day  of
Solidarity with the Palestinian People, the United Arab
Emirates  wishes  to  reaffirm  its  solidarity  and  support
to  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  just  struggle  to
achieve  their  legitimate  aspiration  to  establish  an
independent State, like other peoples of the world.
In spite of some positive developments since last
September, including Israel’s military withdrawal from
the Gaza Strip and the agreement on the Rafah border
crossing, the expected outcome of those developments
has  not  yet  been  fully  realized  due  to  the  obstacles
created by the Israeli forces, which have prevented the
achievement of full independence of the Gaza Strip and
its  crossings.  Those  obstacles  include  intensive  and
illegal settlement activities by Israel in the West Bank
and  East  Jerusalem  and  continued  daily  violations
against  the  Palestinian  people.  They  have  led  to
substantial  losses  in  various  sectors  of  the  Palestinian
economy,  including the health,  education, tourism  and
services  sectors.  This  has  made  many  Palestinian
institutions economically sluggish and has led to acute
increases in unemployment, poverty and disease among
the  Palestinian  people.  These  Israeli  policies  in  the
Palestinian 
impeded  efforts  and
opportunities 
lasting  and
comprehensive  peaceful  solution  to  the  Palestinian
question.
for  achieving  a 
territories  have 
just, 
The  annual  reports  of  various  United  Nations
committees and agencies, supported by documents and
statistics, continue to reflect Israel’s true intentions and
ambitions  in  the  West  Bank,  East  Jerusalem  and  the
Golan.  The  reports  confirm  the  increasing  numbers  of
Palestinians  who  are  killed  or  injured  as  a  result  of
continued Israeli air strikes, the excessive use of force,
targeted killings and the detention and displacement of
thousands  of  civilians  in  the  Palestinian  territories
During  the  past  four  years  that  Government  has
methodically  torn  away  Palestinian  agricultural  lands
and economic resources and destroyed more than 4,000
Palestinian homes in East Jerusalem and its environs. It
has  built  new  settlements,  residential  units  and  new
bypass  roads,  confiscated 
thousands  of  acres  of
Palestinian  land  and  imposed  military  authority  and
administration  for  the  purpose  of  constructing  the  so-
called separation wall. The wall has isolated thousands
of  Palestinian  people  in  separate  cantons,  and  dozens
of villages have been annexed, separating the northern
and southern parts of the West Bank. Palestinians have
been  deprived  of  the  right  of  access  to  their  homes,
relatives in East Jerusalem and to sacred sites.
All of those Israeli actions violate United Nations
resolutions, including those adopted at the Assembly’s
tenth  emergency  special  session,  and  disregard  the
advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,
which  considers  the  construction  of  the  wall  to  be
illegal  and 
immediate
dismantling.  The  separation  wall  also  obstructs  the
establishment  of  a  viable  and  independent  Palestinian
State  and  the  principles  of  the  road  map,  which  calls
for the realization of a vision of two States living side
by side in peaceful coexistence.
invalid  and  calls  for 
its 
The  United  Arab  Emirates  reiterates  its  strong
condemnation  of  those  Israeli  practices,  including  the
illegitimate  and  illegal  measures  taken  in  the  West
Bank and East Jerusalem, which constitute a unilateral
attempt to change the demographic, political and legal
nature  of  the  Palestinian  territories  and  impose  a  fait
accompli.  We  consider  such  attempts  to  be  null  and
void. Such measures must be brought to an end before
final status negotiations can begin, as they constitute a
blatant  violation  to  the  road  map,  international  and
humanitarian  law,  the  United  Nations  Charter  and
resolutions and international conventions, including the
Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949.
is 
The  United  Arab  Emirates 
extremely
concerned  about  the  serious  consequences  of  those
dangerous  Israeli  policies  being 
the
international  community,  policies  that  have  fuelled
frustration and despair among the peoples of the region
and  increased  violence,  tension  and  instability.  We
therefore  emphasize  once  again  the  main  common
responsibility 
community,
international 
ignored  by 
of 
the 
9
A/60/PV.57
represented  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  specialized
agencies,  in  this  regard.  We  call  on  the  Security
Council,  and  the  Quartet  in  particular,  to  put  the
necessary  pressure  on  Israel 
its  hostile
campaigns  against  the  Palestinians  and  their  National
Authority, 
including  collective  punishment,  State
terrorism  and  incitement,  with  a  view  to  creating  an
environment  suitable  for  reinvigorating  the  peace
process and resuming negotiations.
to  end 
In  this  context,  we  call,  first,  for  Israel  to  be
forced  to  cooperate  with  the  Palestinian  Authority
regarding its full withdrawal from all territories of the
West  Bank  and  East  Jerusalem,  to  stop  all  illegal
settlement  activities 
to
dismantle  those  settlements  as  well  as  the  separation
wall,  in  accordance  with  the  advisory  opinion  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice  and  relevant  resolutions
of the United Nations.
territories  and 
those 
in 
Secondly,  Israel  must  provide  protection  for  the
Palestinian people, their  national  institutions  and  their
sacred  sites,  the  religious  identity  of  which  Israel  is
attempting  to  change  especially  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque.
We also call on the international community to compel
Israel  to  fulfil  its  commitments  in  accordance  with
international  law  and  to  prevent  it  from  changing  the
historical landmarks of Jerusalem.
Thirdly,  we  call  on  the  international  community
to provide political, financial and moral support to the
Palestinian  Authority,  which  has  demonstrated  its
determination  to  fulfil  its  commitments  in  accordance
with  the  road  map  and  to  carry  out  the  necessary
reforms  in  its  national  institutions,  above  all  its
security  institutions.  Such  reforms  will  enable  the
Palestinian security institutions to fully discharge their
national 
the
management  of  the  next  legislative  elections,  the
reconstruction  of  destroyed  development  sectors,  the
improvement  of  the  painful  humanitarian  and  social
conditions 
the
its  control  over  all  Palestinian
strengthening  of 
territories.  Here,  we  cannot  fail  to  welcome  the
commendable  efforts  of  the  Governments  of  Jordan
and  Egypt,  the  representative  of  the  Quartet,  James
Wolfensohn, and the European Union in this respect.
responsibilities,  which 
the  Palestinian 
territories  and 
include 
in 
Fourthly,  we  reaffirm  the  fundamental  principles
of  the  Palestinian  question  with  regard  to  settlements,
borders,  refugees  and  the  status  of  Jerusalem,  as
stipulated 
resolutions,
internationally  binding 
in 
10
notably General Assembly resolutions 181 (II) and 194
(III) and Security Council resolutions 242 (1967), 338
(1973),  1397  (2002)  and  1515  (2003),  which  are  all
consistent with the Arab Peace Initiative adopted at the
2002 Beirut Summit.
We believe that an appropriate Israeli response to
the  just  demands  of  the  Arab  people  would  lead  to
security and stability for the Israeli people and for the
entire  region.  In  this  regard,  we  look  forward  to
strengthening our peace efforts in order to reinvigorate
the  road  map,  as  well  as  peace  negotiations  in  the
region,  in  fulfilment  of  the  commitments  included  in
resolutions  of 
in
accordance  with  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  based
on 1967 borders, in order to bring stability, prosperity,
cooperation  and  development  to  the  people  of  the
entire region.
international 
legitimacy 
and 
for  having  convened 
Mr.  Hachani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I
would  like  to  express  deep  appreciation  to  you,
Mr. President, 
this  annual
meeting,  which  has  been  held  for  half  a  century,  to
focus  the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the
question  of  Palestine  and  the  struggle  of  Palestinian
people.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  this  central  issue,
which  has  attracted 
the  entire
international  community,  remains  the  most  important
issue  affecting  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East,
the cradle of civilizations.
the  attention  of 
The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is  at  a  very
delicate  stage.  The  entire  international  community,  in
particular  the  influential  parties,  are  called  upon  to
make  efforts  to  end  the  cycle  of  violence  and  conflict
in  the  region,  to  bring  about  a  return  to  dialogue  and
negotiation  and  to  embark  on  serious  and  responsible
work with a view to putting an end to the conflict and
to achieving a just, comprehensive and lasting solution
that  guarantees  the  liberation  of  all  occupied  Arab
territories  and  allows  for  peaceful  coexistence  among
the peoples of the region.
Tunisia,  like  other  peace-loving  countries,  has
from  this  podium  often  warned  the  Assembly  about
dangers  that  will  result  from  a  failure  of  the  peace
process  and  the  non-implementation  of  agreements
with  the  Palestinian  party,  as  well  as  the  cessation  of
negotiations  on 
tracks,
because  they  all  represent  a  setback  to  the  peace
efforts.
the  Syrian  and  Lebanese 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  intransigence  of
the  Israeli  Government  with  regard  to  its  attitude
towards  Palestinian  civilians,  its  expansionist  policies
and its insistence on the construction of the separation
wall  is  counterproductive,  as  the  advisory  opinion  of
the  International  Court  of  Justice  makes  clear,  and  is
not in the interests of the region. The provisions of the
Geneva  Convention  relative 
the  Protection  of
Civilian  Persons 
in  Time  of  War  have  become
ineffective  because  of  such  Israeli  policies  and
practices.  Violence  only  generates  more  violence.
There  is  no  way  to  break  the  cycle  unless  there  is
genuine  and  responsible  engagement  in  the  peace
process  and  in  the  principles  of  the  road  map  so  that
the  vision  of  two  States  living  side  by  side  in  peace,
security and good-neighbourliness can be realized.
to 
The  establishment  of  a  just  and  comprehensive
peace  in  the  region  requires  a  full  and  unconditional
withdrawal  by  Israel  from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan
and from the remaining occupied Lebanese territories,
in  accordance  with  all  the  relevant  resolutions  and
terms of reference.
The  Israeli  withdrawal  from  the  Gaza  Strip  and
the  opening  of  the  Rafah  Crossing  are  both  positive
developments  within 
the
implementation of the road map. We hope they will be
followed  by  similar  and  expeditious  measures  in  the
West Bank and in other occupied Palestinian territories.
We must not allow internal considerations in the region
to further delay the search for peace.
framework 
the 
of 
to 
refrain 
The  road 
towards  peace  remains 
long  and
difficult.  It  will  require  all  our  efforts  to  protect  the
peace  endeavour  and 
from  making
confrontational statements, which only undermine trust
and confidence between the parties to the conflict. It is
essential for the international community to learn from
past  experiences  so  as  to  avoid  all  elements  and
shortfalls  that  impeded  the  peace  process.  We  look
forward with hope to the Quartet’s efforts to reactivate
the road map, to restore trust between the Palestinians
and Israelis and to open the way for the resumption of
peace  negotiations  in  order  to  enable  the  Palestinian
people  to  enjoy  its  legitimate  rights,  particularly  the
right  to  establish  its  own  independent  State  with
Jerusalem as its capital.
Tunisia’s  strong  belief  in  the  just  cause  of  the
Palestinian  people  and  its  constant  commitment  to
support  them  in  their  hour  of  need  will  only  enhance
A/60/PV.57
efforts  to  reach  a  peaceful,  just  and  comprehensive
settlement  in  accordance  with  the  Madrid  terms  of
reference and the Arab Peace Initiative, adopted at the
Beirut Summit in March 2002. Tunisia will continue its
bilateral,  regional  and  international  efforts  under  the
leadership of its President, His Excellency Mr. Zine El
Abidine Ben Ali, to achieve a comprehensive, just and
lasting  settlement  of  the  Palestinian  question  that  will
enable  the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  their  legitimate
rights and will establish security, stability and peaceful
coexistence in the region so that its peoples can focus
on development and reconstruction.
Here,  we  cannot  fail  to  express  our  heartfelt
appreciation for all efforts made by the United Nations,
as  the  guarantor  and  protector  of  the  principles  of
international  legitimacy,  to  address  the  crisis  in  the
Middle East and the Arab-Israeli conflict. In particular,
we  should  like  to  commend  the  Committee  on  the
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian
People,  under  the  skilful  leadership  of  Ambassador
Badji, and other United Nations committees and bodies
that are working to establish peace in the region. They
must  continue  their  efforts  until  they  complete  their
mandates  under 
relevant  General  Assembly
resolutions.
the 
Mrs.  Ismail  (Malaysia):  At 
the  outset,  my
delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the
statement  made  earlier  by  Mr.  Paul  Badji,  Permanent
Representative of Senegal to the United Nations, in his
capacity as Chairman of the Committee on the Exercise
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. We
thank  the  Committee  for  its  report  (A/60/35).  We  also
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  submitted
under  agenda  item  15  (A/60/539).  We  continue  to
greatly  appreciate  the  indispensable  work  carried  out
by  the  Committee,  by  the  Secretariat’s  Division  for
Palestinian  Rights  and  by  other  organs  within  the
United Nations system  concerning the question before
us.  We  highly  commend  the  commitment,  efforts  and
contribution of the Secretary-General and his Office in
that  regard.  We  hope  that  they  will  persevere  in
carrying  out  their  mandates  and  tasks  until  peace  is
achieved  in  the  region  and  a  State  of  Palestine  is
created, with East Jerusalem as its capital.
Today, we are observing the International Day of
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  The  Prime
Minister  of  Malaysia,  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of
the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), has transmitted a
message for that occasion, which outlines the concerns
11
A/60/PV.57
and  aspirations  of  NAM  on  the  question  of  Palestine.
The statement should be read in  conjunction with that
message.
The  reports  of 
the  Committee  and  of 
the
Secretary-General  continue  to  contain  very  disturbing
accounts  and  revelations  and  to  reflect  stark  realities
concerning  the  situation  on  the  ground.  There  have
certainly been too many deaths, too many injuries, too
much  destruction  and 
indescribable  suffering  —
especially  among  the  Palestinians  —  as  a  result  of
repressive policies, practices and measures carried out
by  Israel.  All  this  is  contrary  to  Israel’s  obligation
under international law, international human rights law
and  international  humanitarian  law.  The  international
community must prevail upon Israel to respect its legal
obligations, just as other States are expected to do. We
have  a  duty  at  the  United  Nations  to  stop  all  the
continuing  atrocities  and  abhorrent  policies  and
practices  committed  by  Israel  against  the  Palestinian
population.
We  should  not  consider 
the  casualties  and
destruction  on  both  sides  in  terms  of  numbers  or
percentages  alone.  The  life  of  each  human  being  —
man, woman or child — is sacred and precious, and it
must  be  protected.  Any  act  of  violence  inflicted  upon
innocent civilians in this conflict, be they Palestinians
or 
is  unacceptable  and  deserves  equal
condemnation by all of us.
Israelis, 
The  period  under  review  has  seen  several
measures  and  efforts  by  both  the  Palestinians  and  the
Israelis  towards  peace  within  the  framework  of  the
road map. However, the path towards peace remains a
difficult  and  complicated  process.  The  difficulties
could be overcome by stronger political will among all
parties  concerned.  In  that  connection,  my  delegation
considers  the  resumption  of  dialogue  at  the  highest
level between Palestinian and Israeli leaders, as well as
renewed  efforts  by  members  of  the  Quartet,  to  be  a
very  encouraging  development.  We  also  commend
Egypt and Jordan for their role in facilitating the peace
process.  We  are  confident  that  all  parties  concerned
will persevere in their important efforts.
In addition, we consider Israel’s withdrawal from
the  Gaza  Strip  and  from  parts  of  the  northern  West
Bank  last  September  to  be  a  positive  move.  However,
we strongly oppose the expansion and planned further
expansion  of  Israeli  settlements  in  the  West  Bank,
12
including East Jerusalem. They are contrary to Israel’s
obligations under the road map.
We  welcome  the  historic  reopening  three  days
ago  of  the  Rafah  Crossing,  a  crucial  link  between  the
Gaza  Strip  and  the  outside  world.  That  positive
development  not  only  has  provided  the  1.3  million
mostly  impoverished  Palestinians  in  that  area  with
access  to  various  types  of  humanitarian  assistance  in
neighbouring  Egypt 
them  greater
opportunities  for  economic  activity  and  employment,
but, most important, it has marked the regaining by the
Palestinian  people  of  an  important  part  of  their
freedom  and  control  of  their  own  borders  in  that  area
after 38 years of Israeli occupation.
and  offered 
Israel’s  ongoing  construction  of  the  separation
wall in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including  in
and  around  East  Jerusalem,  seriously  endangers  the
prospects  for  comprehensive  peace  in  the  region.  The
impact of the wall on  all aspects of Palestinian life in
the  areas  concerned,  as  documented  in  several  United
Nations  reports,  is  overwhelming.  The  wall  threatens
the territorial integrity of a future State of Palestine, as
envisaged  in  Security  Council  resolution  1397  (2002)
and upheld in the road map.
to 
law  by 
international 
The  wall  is  one  of  the  most  visible  signs  of  the
transformation  of  the  territory  into  a  vast  open-air
prison  —  something  that  is  unprecedented  in  modern
history. The wall is a visible and clear act of territorial
annexation  by  Israel  under  the  guise  of  self-defence
and  security.  As  we  are  all  aware,  the  wall  was
declared  contrary 
the
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  principal  judicial
organ  of  the  United  Nations,  in  its  advisory  opinion
rendered  on  9  July  2004.  The  General  Assembly
consequently  adopted,  by  an  overwhelming  majority,
resolution  ES-10/15  outlining 
important
follow-up  and  concrete  measures  and,  inter  alia,
demanding that Israel stop the construction of the wall,
dismantle  and  remove  the  completed  sections  of  the
wall,  and  pay  reparations  to  all  those  affected  by  the
construction  of  the  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian
territory.  We  renew  our  call  on  Israel  to  take  all
necessary  measures  to  comply  with  the  International
Court  of  Justice  advisory  opinion  and  resolution  ES-
10/15.  We  find  it  highly  regrettable  that  the  Security
Council  has  not  been  able  to  look  into  the  specific
question  of  the  separation  wall  in  accordance  with  its
functions  and  powers  under  Article  24  of  the  United
Nations Charter.
several 
The  question  of  Palestine  remains  high  on  the
agenda  of  both  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the
Organization  of 
(OIC).
Malaysia, as Chair of NAM and the tenth OIC summit,
has  initiated  several  high-level  initiatives  relating  to
the  question  of  Palestine  this  year.  Some  of  those
initiatives are as follows.
Islamic  Conference 
the 
First, Malaysian civil society organizations, under
the sponsorship of Peace Malaysia, successfully convened
a World Civil Society Conference on Peace in  Palestine
in Putrajaya, Malaysia, from 28 to 30 March 2005. The
Conference, which was held pursuant to a decision by
NAM  and  attended  by  representatives  of  civil  society
organizations from many parts of the world, including
Israel,  agreed,  inter  alia,  to  establish  an  international
centre on Palestine for civil society in the south, to be
located  in  Malaysia.  The  international  centre  would
serve  as  a  focal  point  for  the  global  civil  society
campaign in support of Palestine. It is the Movement’s
hope  that  the  international  campaign  will  be  able  to
mobilize 
the
continued Israeli occupation and illegal construction of
the  wall  and  settlements,  and  in  support  of  the  early
realization  of  an  independent  and  sovereign  State  of
Palestine.
international  public  opinion  against 
Secondly, the foreign ministers of NAM, who met
in Doha in June and in New York in September, and the
Foreign  Ministers  of  OIC,  who  met  in  Sana’a  in  June
and  in  New  York  in  September,  expressed,  inter  alia,
their solidarity and support  for  the  Palestinian  people,
as well as the need for the  members  of  the  Quartet  to
fulfil  their  responsibility  to  fully  implement  the  road
map towards the viable creation of an independent and
sovereign State of Palestine.
Thirdly, 
the  foreign  ministers  of 
the  NAM
Committee  on  Palestine,  who  met  in  New  York  on
19  September,  agreed  on  a  number  of  measures  to  be
taken by NAM in the context of the Movement’s strong
support for the Palestinian cause, aimed at moving the
peace process forward.
Finally, the NAM and OIC ministerial delegations
on  Palestine  met  with  their  counterparts  from  the
Quartet  and  permanent  members  of 
the  Security
Council  at  the  margins  of  the  High-level  Plenary
the  General
Meeting  and 
Assembly  at 
those
meetings, they conveyed the position of NAM and OIC
on  the  urgency  of  pushing  the  peace  process  forward,
the  general  debate  of 
its  sixtieth  session.  During 
A/60/PV.57
beginning with salvaging the road map, as well as the
concerns  of  both  organizations  on  the  continuing
construction  of  the  separation  wall  and  the  Israeli
settlements in occupied Palestinian territory.
It is incumbent upon Israel to demonstrate to the
international community that it is genuinely committed
to  a  peaceful  solution  rather  than  to  a  military  one.
Israel  must  realize  that  there  can  never  be  a  military
solution  to  the  conflict.  Similarly,  the  Palestinian
Authority,  with  assistance  from 
international
community,  should  continue  with  efforts  to  reform  its
relevant institutions and improve its security apparatus.
My delegation commends the Palestinian Authority for
what  it  has  achieved  in  that  regard,  despite  various
constraints.  We  urge  both  sides  to  continue  to  create,
on  the  basis  of  and  in  compliance  with  the  road  map,
environment 
the  necessary 
enable
negotiations 
to 
take  place.  The  objective  of  a
permanent  two-State  solution  of  Israel  and  Palestine,
living side by side in peace and security within secure
and 
achievable.  The
international community has a collective role to play in
that regard. We must all work together to facilitate and
redouble our efforts to attain a just, comprehensive and
lasting settlement of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
that  would 
recognized 
the 
borders, 
is 
including 
The  United  Nations, 
the  General
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  has  a  permanent
responsibility towards the question of Palestine until it
is resolved in all its aspects on the basis of the Charter
and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly
and the Security Council. The question should also be
resolved  in  accordance  with  international  law.  In  that
connection, my delegation reaffirms its support for the
important  efforts  of  the  Quartet  and  other  concerned
parties  in  pursuing  the  difficult  and  complicated  path
towards  peace.  The  General  Assembly  is  the  last
bastion  of  hope  for  the  Palestinian  people.  The
Assembly must uphold the rule of law and the purposes
and  principles  of  the  Charter.  In  that  connection,
Malaysia  is  pleased  to  join  other  delegations  in
sponsoring  the  four  draft  resolutions  initiated  by  the
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the  Palestinian  People,  which  have  been  presented  by
the  Chairman  of  the  Committee  for  consideration  by
the Assembly under this important agenda item.
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
General Assembly is meeting once again to discuss the
question  of  Palestine,  an  international  issue  that  the
13
A/60/PV.57
international community has failed to settle over more
than half a century.
Our  discussion  today  is  of  special  importance,
coinciding  as  it  does  with  our  observation  of  the
Organization’s  sixtieth  anniversary  and  with  efforts  to
implement  the  outcome  document  of  the  High-level
Plenary Meeting in order to establish a more effective
United Nations capable of upholding the principles on
which  it  was  founded  and  that  are  the  indispensable
basis of a more peaceful, prosperous and just world, in
particular the principles of justice and equality and the
rights  of  peoples  suffering  under  colonial  control  and
foreign occupation to exercise self-determination.
In  that  respect,  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations
sixtieth  anniversary  should  embody  the  spirit  of  the
resolutions  adopted  every  year  by 
the  General
Assembly  on  the  question  of  Palestine,  which  call  on
Israel  to  withdraw  from  all  Palestinian  and  Arab
territories  occupied  in  1967  and  to  restore  the  full
rights of the Palestinian people, foremost among which
are the right of return of Palestinian refugees; the right
to  self-determination; 
their
independent  State  on 
land,  with  East
Jerusalem as its capital; and the right to live free of all
violations of their human rights, including their right to
life.
the  right 
their  own 
to  establish 
The spirit of our tireless work should also extend
to  including  Palestine  in  the  implementation  of  the
final document of the world summit, which marked the
sixtieth  anniversary  of 
the  United  Nations.  The
principles  and  values  that  we  have  all  reaffirmed
should be applied to that question. We should strive to
enhance  the  values  of  justice  and  equality,  and  we
Israel’s
should  strengthen 
responsibility  as  an  occupying  Power,  until 
the
Palestinian State is established as soon as possible. We
should  also  intensify  our  efforts  for  the  establishment
of a Palestinian State living side by side with Israel in
peace and security.
the  understanding  of 
Similarly, our quest to increase respect for human
rights and to decrease selectivity, politicization and the
use of double standards requires us to put an end to all
violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the  Palestinian
people.  We  should  address 
the  human  rights  of
Palestinians and Israelis on an equal and just basis. We
should put an end to the inhumane practices against the
Palestinians  resulting  from  the  policies  of  siege,
closure,  continued  settler  expansion,  confiscation  of
14
land, destruction of agriculture and the construction of
the  separation  wall  within  the  Palestinian  territories.
This  separation  wall  is  in  clear  violation  of  the  legal
and moral values of the International Court of Justice’s
advisory  opinion  in  the  case  concerning  the  Legal
Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the
Occupied Palestinian Territory.
Furthermore,  our  work  to  enhance  the  system  of
collective  security  requires  us  to  enhance  the  security
of  the  Palestinian  people  within  the  borders  of  their
occupied territories. We should put an end to the policy
of  assassinating  activists  and  provide  the  Palestinian
Authority  with  the  full  opportunity  to  perform  its
role  —  to  control  the  security  situation  on  Palestinian
lands  without 
its
authority  to  implement  the  security  needs  of  those
lands as the Palestinian people desire.
interference,  and 
to  strengthen 
Proceeding  from  the  same  basis,  the  United
Nations  should  maximize  its  use  of  the  Peacebuilding
Commission when it is established, to enable it to take
the Palestinian people, economically and socially, to a
new  level.  They  could  then  realize  their  wishes  and
aspirations for a better life and advance from the status
of  occupation  to  one  of  freedom  and  stability  within
the  framework  of  effective  international  support,  a
status  based  on  the  democratic  practices  that  will  be
confirmed by the elections to be conducted, freely and
without interference, in 2006.
Similarly,  our  work  in  the  field  of  institutional
reform  should  be  based  on 
the  promotion  and
reactivation of the work of all committees, bodies and
secretariats in charge of guaranteeing the full  exercise
by  the  Palestinian  people  of  their  rights.  Such  work
should not be replaced by attempts for whatever reason
to  limit  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  in  that
important field.
Therefore,  we  call  upon  all  Member  States  to
endorse  all  draft  resolutions  submitted  under  the
present  agenda  item.  Based  upon  our  strong  belief  in
the crucial role of the United Nations, Egypt, together
with  other  internationally  influential  parties,  strongly
supports  the  special  role  played  by  the  Quartet  to
guarantee 
the
application  of  the  road  map  towards  final  status
negotiations.
the  success  of  efforts  aimed  at 
We  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  make  every
effort in that regard until those objectives are realized.
We would also like to reiterate that we will make every
In 
that  context,  we  welcome 
possible  effort  whenever  such  effort  is  required,  until
an independent Palestinian State is established.
the 
Israeli
withdrawal  from  the  Gaza  Strip  and  from  some
Palestinian  cities  in  the  West  Bank,  as  well  as  the
opening  of  the  Rafah  crossing  between  Egypt  and  the
Gaza  Strip.  We  call  upon  the  Israeli  Government  to
proceed  further  by  withdrawing  from  all  occupied
Palestinian territories and to implement its obligations
under the road map so that we can achieve our common
objective  —  the  establishment  of  two  independent
States, Palestine and Israel, living side by side in peace
and security.
That  achievement  should  be  based  on  a  number
of  principles  and  values,  the  most  important  of  which
is  that  the  Israeli  withdrawal  should  be  part  of  the
implementation  of 
the  road  map  and  should  be
followed  by  other  steps,  such  as  withdrawal  from  the
remaining Palestinian territories in the West Bank and
from  Jerusalem,  and  an  agreement  on  a 
final
settlement.  That  withdrawal  should  also  include  all
crossings,  seaports  and  airports  and  should  guarantee
the  freedoms  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The  Israeli
policies  of 
invasion  and  assassination,
besieging the Gaza Strip and targeting its population on
any pretext should end.
incursion, 
International  consensus  on  the  promotion  of  the
multilateral  order  should  contribute  to  the  realization
of the vision of the two States in an equitable and just
manner, in strict  implementation  of  the  stipulations  of
the  road  map,  without  bias  or  selectivity,  and  through
the creation of a genuine partnership among the major
parties  on  the  international  scene  —  foremost  among
which is the Quartet  —  in order  to  achieve  a  just  and
comprehensive settlement of the question of Palestine.
Only  then  can  we  recognize  that  the  United
Nations has achieved its objectives in terms of respect
for  its  values  and  principles  and  in  guaranteeing
security and respect for human rights. That is when all
of  the  international  efforts  to  assist  the  Palestinian
people in building a better future will also be realized.
We hope that that will occur as soon as possible.
concluded  between 
Mr. Sen (India): India has warmly welcomed the
agreement 
the
Palestinian Authority on the Rafah border crossing for
travel  between  Gaza  and  Egypt  and  for  building  a
seaport  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  We  believe  that  that  was  a
significant  development  that  will  go  a  long  way
Israel 
and 
A/60/PV.57
towards  improving  the  lives  and  economy  of  the
Palestinian people living in the Gaza Strip. There also
seems  to  be  a  need  for  a  floating  dock  or  some  other
such  arrangement,  which  can  be  operationalized
quickly, because the  belief  that  there  is  no  guaranteed
border  outlet  seems 
to  be  holding  back  foreign
investors.
The  opening  of  the  Rafah  border  crossing  last
Saturday,  which  enabled  1,548  Palestinians  to  cross
into  Egypt  without  being  subject  to  Israeli  checks  for
the  first  time,  has  raised  hopes  for  further  progress  in
efforts  to  revitalize  the  Middle  East  peace  process.
There have  also been other  signs  generating  optimism
this year. The election of President Mahmoud Abbas in
January  2005  demonstrated  the  commitment  of  the
Palestinian people to democracy.
In  September,  Israel  withdrew  from  the  Gaza
Strip  and  parts  of  the  northern  West  Bank,  marking
Israel’s  first  withdrawal  from  occupied  Palestinian
territory  since  1967.  That  landmark  event  set  an
important  precedent  for  the  eventual  realization  of  a
two-State solution. India welcomed the withdrawal as a
positive  development  and  the  beginning  of  a  process
that, we hoped, would take forward the negotiations in
accordance with the road map and the relevant Security
Council  resolutions.  The  elections  for  the  Palestinian
Legislative  Council,  scheduled  for  January  2006,  will
provide  further  incentive  for  the  Palestinians  to  fully
engage in the democratic process.
in 
and 
document  A/60/539 
With a renewed sense of optimism also comes the
hard reckoning of reality. The  report of the Secretary-
General  on  the  agenda  items  under  consideration,
contained 
dated
7 November  2005,  draws  attention  to  the  fact  that  the
humanitarian  situation  of  the  Palestinian  people  in
2004  remained  grave.  About  half  lived  below  the
official poverty line of $2.10 per day, compared to just
22  per  cent  in  2000.  Furthermore,  16  per  cent  of
Palestinians — approximately 560,000 people — were
in  deep  poverty.  Unemployment  increased  more  than
threefold  since  2000,  reaching  a  figure  of  238,000
unemployed in 2004, largely as  a  result  of  roadblocks
on roads within and leading to the occupied Palestinian
territory.  Palestinians  continued 
to  face  problems
reaching  their  places  of  work,  schools  and  hospitals,
and  standards  of  health  and  education  continued  to
deteriorate. In some parts of the territory, Palestinians’
needs  for  additional  humanitarian  assistance  rose
sharply as a consequence.
15
A/60/PV.57
The 
report  of 
the  Secretary-General  also
expresses  concern  over  Israel’s  continued  settlement
expansion and unilateral construction of the wall in the
West Bank. It points out that lack of action to remove
illegal  settlement  outposts  erected  since  2001  has
severely undermined trust in Israel’s intentions and that
settlement  activity  has  a
Government-sponsored 
negative 
impact  on 
territorial  contiguity  of
Palestinian  territory  and  thus  remains  a  source  of
serious concern.
According 
the  road  map,  Israel  has  an
obligation  to  freeze  all  settlement  activity,  including
natural  growth,  and  immediately  dismantle  outposts
erected  illegally  since  March  2001.  The  report  also
states that Israel continues its unilateral construction of
the  wall  on  Palestinian  land  and  that,  along  with
continued  Israeli  settlement  activity,  this  constitutes  a
key challenge to the fulfilment of the road map’s goal
of a two-State solution.
the 
to 
At this critical stage, it is all the more important
for  the  international  community  to  take  steps  for  the
smooth implementation of Palestinian trade and transit
access,  both  within  its  territories  and  with  the  outside
world.  It  is  equally  important  for  Israel  to  stop
settlement activity, lift curfews and ease restrictions on
the  movement  of  persons  and  goods  and  thereby
significantly improve the humanitarian situation in the
Palestinian 
territories.  Israel’s  actions  should  not
prejudge  final  status  issues  or  threaten  longer-term
prospects for peace by making the creation of a viable
and contiguous Palestinian State much more difficult.
The  problem  is  that  settlement  activity  leads  to
cantonization  and  changes  patterns  of  transportation
and  access.  The  wall’s  encroachment  on  Palestinian
land  and  interests  creates  great  hardships  for  the
Palestinian  people  affected  by  its  construction  and
exacerbates 
the  situation  by  placing  populations,
agricultural  land  and  a  part  of  the  West  Bank  aquifer
beyond 
continued
construction of the wall on Palestinian land threatens to
prejudge  the  eventual  outcome  of  the  final  status
negotiations between the parties. We therefore reiterate
our call on Israel to abide by its legal obligations as set
forth  in  the  9  July  2004  advisory  opinion  of  the
International Court of Justice  and resolution ES-10/15
of the General Assembly.
reach.  Moreover, 
their 
the 
For  its  part,  the  Palestinian  Authority  has  to
shoulder its responsibility by undertaking action on the
16
ground to halt violence. As the report of the Secretary-
General points out, the Palestinian Authority must push
ahead  with  efforts  to  reform  the  Palestinian  security
services. Decisive action in that  regard  should  help  to
restore law and order.
Over the years, India has assisted the Palestinian
Authority  through  development  projects  and  human
resources  development.  Indian  assistance  projects  in
the  Palestinian  Authority  include  the  construction  and
establishment  of  the  Jawaharlal  Nehru  Library  at  the
Al-Azhar  University  in  Gaza  City  and  the  Mahatma
Gandhi  Library  and  student  activity  centre  at  the
Palestinian  Technical  College  at  Deir  Al-Balah  in  the
Gaza Strip.
During  the  visit  of  President  Abbas  to  India  in
May  2005,  the  Prime  Minister  of  India  announced  a
grant  of  $15  million  to  Palestine  for  developmental
projects,  in  addition  to  a  grant  announced  earlier  this
year.  Those  grants  will,  inter  alia,  fund  hospitals  and
information technology centres in Gaza and Ramallah,
an Indian Chair at Al-Quds University and a school in
Abu Dis.
We  wish  also  to  recall  the  late  Palestinian
President  Yasser  Arafat,  who  passed  away  on
11 November  2004.  For  nearly  four  decades,  he
represented  the  national  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian
people. On this occasion, we wish to pay homage to his
memory  and  recall  his  everlasting  contribution  to  the
Palestinian cause.
We  urge  both  Palestinians  and  Israelis  to  make
optimal use of  the  opportunities  provided  by  that  new
beginning.  The  ceasefire  concluded  at  the  Sharm  el-
Sheikh summit in February 2005 has broadly survived,
resulting  in  a  noticeable  improvement  in  the  security
situation,  marked  by  a  decrease  in  the  number  of
deaths since then. It is necessary to renew and redouble
efforts  so  the  peace  process  can  move  forward  in
accordance  with 
relevant  United  Nations
resolutions,  the  Quartet’s  road  map  and  international
law.  The  international  community  must  press  both
parties  to  renew  parallel  action  on  their  obligations
under  the  road  map,  which  constitutes  for  both  Israel
and  the  Palestinians  the  best  opportunity  to  move
beyond 
towards  peace,  security  and
prosperity.  The  international  community  must  also
continue to assist the parties to simultaneously address
economic, humanitarian, security and political issues.
the  conflict 
the 
Mr. Cabral (Guinea-Bissau), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
We  hope  that  a  negotiated  solution  to  end  the
conflict  will  be  quickly  found.  The  vision  of  an
independent,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State
living  side  by  side  with  Israel  within  secure  and
recognized  borders  remains  as  valid  as  at  any  other
time — and that vision is perhaps more attainable now.
India urges the parties concerned and the international
community  to  press  for  a  just  and  comprehensive
resolution of the conflict and the broader achievement
of peace, security and stability for the entire region at
the  earliest  possible  time,  based  on  Security  Council
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002)  and
1515 (2003).
India  has  advocated  a  comprehensive  solution  to
the situation in the Middle East as the logical next step
in  the  resolution  of  the  wider  Israeli-Arab  conflict  at
the  regional  level,  as  envisaged  by  the  Saudi  Arabian
peace  initiative.  The  principle  of  land  for  peace  is
equally  valid  in  addressing  the  other  tracks  of  the
Middle  East  conflict.  We  sincerely  hope  that  the
comprehensive  political  process  can  be  revived  at  the
earliest possible time.
Mr. Baali (Algeria) (spoke in French): The report
of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  (A/60/35)  under
consideration  by  the  Assembly  today  describes  in  a
lucid and impartial fashion the tragic situation in which
the  Palestinian  people  continue 
their
homeland,  occupied  by  Israel.  The  report  places  our
consideration  of 
in  a
particularly  worrisome  context.  It  shows  —  if  it  were
still  necessary  to  do  so  —  that  it  is  essential  that  the
Committee pursue its work and activities in accordance
with its mandate as long as Israel continues to occupy
Palestinian 
its  flagrant
violations of international law.
the  Palestinian  question 
territories  and  persists 
live 
in 
to 
in 
The year that has just ended has been marked by
Israel’s  pursuit  of  its  policy  of  colonization  and
repression,  leaving  a  trail  of  atrocities,  abuses  and
confiscations  in  its  wake.  Amid  that  atmosphere  of
death  and  destruction.  a  glimmer  of  hope  appeared
with  Israel’s  withdrawal  from  the  Gaza  Strip.  For  this
withdrawal to mark a genuine break with the past and
to relaunch the dynamic of peace, it must be part of the
broader  framework  of  the  road  map,  opening  the  way
to 
the
the  withdrawal  of 
forces 
Israel 
and 
A/60/PV.57
dismantlement of all settlements in the West Bank and
around Al-Quds Al-Sharif.
The  continuing  construction  of  the  separation
wall,  the  intensification  and  expansion  of  settlement
activities in the West Bank and the continued isolation
of  East  Jerusalem  from  the  rest  of  the  West  Bank
remain sources of grave concern for my delegation and
give  rise  to  serious  misgivings  about  Israel’s  real
intentions  with  respect  to  the  final  status  of  the
territory.  Through  those  measures,  Israel  is,  in  reality,
drawing  a  new  map  of  the  occupied  territories  on  the
ground,  thus  severely  compromising  the  chances  of  a
future  independent  Palestinian  State.  Those  measures
further  jeopardize  the  integrity  and  the  territorial
contiguity of the future State.
My  country  reaffirms  its  principled  position  that
the settlements and the wall being constructed by Israel
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East
Jerusalem,  violate 
law  and  Security
Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions  and  are
contrary to the provisions of the road map.
international 
My  country  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  very
serious  deterioration  of  the  humanitarian,  economic
and  social  aspects  of  the  situation  in  the  occupied
Palestinian  territories,  and  we  reiterate  our  strong
condemnation  of  the  inhuman  practices  of  the  Israeli
army  against  the  Palestinians,  their  property  and  their
institutions.
for 
the 
The 
Today, on the International Day of Solidarity with
the  Palestinian  People  —  who  have  now  seen  another
milestone  in  this  long  period  of  destruction  and
injustice  —  my  country,  Algeria,  reaffirms  its  firm
support for the struggle of that brave people to achieve
their inalienable national rights.
time  has  come 
international
community  to  shoulder  its  responsibilities  and  put  an
end  to  the  Israeli  policy  of  occupation.  The  Security
Council has recently been seen acting with uncommon
speed,  vigour  and  effectiveness  to  bring  about  a
withdrawal of foreign forces in that same region. If the
Council wishes to maintain its credibility in the eyes of
the international community, it must act with the same
resolve,  including  by  invoking  Chapter  VII  of  the
Israel  withdraws
Charter, 
the
unconditionally  and  without  delay  from  all 
occupied  Palestinian 
territories, 
in
compliance  with  international  law.  The  withdrawal
should be accompanied  by the  total  and  unconditional
and  Arab 
ensure 
that 
to 
17
A/60/PV.57
that  have  already  been  completed, 
the  advisory  opinion  of 
freeze  of  settlement  activity  throughout  the  occupied
Palestinian  territories  and  the  cessation  of  the  wall’s
construction,  as  well  as  by  the  demolition  of  those
sections 
in
accordance  with 
the
International  Court  of  Justice  and  as  endorsed  by  the
Assembly.  Those  actions  would  ensure  a  successful
outcome  to  the  withdrawal  from  Gaza  and  a  serious
resumption of negotiations on the issue of final status,
which has been postponed for too long.
The  international  community,  represented  by  the
Quartet,  is  called  upon  to  become  further  engaged  in
order to bring a lasting and just solution to the Middle
East  conflict  based  on  compliance  with  Security
Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1515
(2003) and 1544 (2004), the principle of land for peace
and  full  implementation  of  the  road  map  endorsed  by
the Security Council.
While  reaffirming  my  country’s  support  for  a
peaceful,  negotiated  solution  based  on  international
law,  as  President  Abdelaziz  Bouteflika  solemnly
recalled  at  the  Summit  of  South  American  and  Arab
Countries  held  in  Brasilia  in  May  2005,  we  are  more
convinced than ever that a final settlement of the Arab-
Israeli  conflict  must  be  based  on  an  end  to  the
occupation and the withdrawal of the Israeli army from
all  occupied  Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian
Golan  and  the  last  remaining  occupied  enclave  in
Lebanon,  the  cessation  of  all  settlement  activities
throughout  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  the
dismantling of existing settlements, the cessation of the
building of the separation wall and the renunciation of
all policies tending to inflame passions and jeopardize
the success of the peace process.
The  Assembly  must  respond  adequately  to  the
rational aspiration of the Palestinian people to recover
their  legitimate  rights,  in  particular  the  right  to  self-
their  own
determination  and 
independent  State  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as 
its
capital.
to  create 
the  right 
Mr. Almansoor (Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic): The
debate on the question  of Palestine  coincides  with  the
occasion of the International Day of Solidarity with the
Palestinian  People.  When 
the  General  Assembly
adopted  resolution  32/40  B  of  2  December  1977
establishing  the  International  Day,  no  one  had  any
doubt 
its
responsibilities  towards  the  Palestinian  people  and
the  Assembly  was 
aware  of 
that 
18
their hardships or that it was aware of the need to work
tirelessly  to  find  a  comprehensive  and  just  solution  to
the  question  of  Palestine.  The  observance  of  the
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian
People  is  of  special  importance  because  it  affords  the
international  community  an  opportunity  to  renew  that
commitment.
My  delegation  thanks  the  Committee  on  the
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian
People  for  their  commendable  efforts  with  respect  to
the question of Palestine and for their important annual
report  (A/60/35).  We  thank  the  Chairman  and  the
members  of  the  Committee  for  their  efforts.  We  are
aware  of  the  difficulties  they  face  in  the  examination
and analysis of the facts of this important issue as they
seek  to  help  the  Palestinian  people  exercise  their
inalienable rights.
The  Committee’s  report  illustrates  several  points
that  had  been  ambiguous  due  to  efforts  to  distort  and
conceal the facts. Continued illegal actions exacerbate
the situation in the occupied Palestinian territories. Our
concern 
the
construction  of  the  illegal  separation  wall  in  the
occupied  Palestinian  territories  is  growing  more  acute
because  of 
intensified  expansion  of  existing
settlements  and  the  building  of  new  ones,  and  the
accelerated  pace  to  complete  the  construction  of  the
separation wall.
settlement 
expansion 
and 
about 
the 
According to the report of the Special Rapporteur
of  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  on  the  situation
of  human  rights  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied
by Israel since 1967, contained in document A/60/271,
the  construction  of  the  wall  and  the  expansion  of  the
settlements —  two  outcomes of  the  occupation  —  are
two factors that undermine the fundamental right of the
Palestinian people to self-determination.
from 
of 
self-determination, 
The  violation  of  all  other 
rights  of 
the  violation  of 
the
that
Palestinians  derives 
fundamental 
since
right 
occupation  by  its  very  nature  leads  to  human  rights
violations. Those violations take place before the eyes
of  the  international  community,  in  contravention  of
international  law  and  instruments  and  international
decisions  and  resolutions,  including  Security  Council
resolution 446 (1979) on the issue of Israeli settlements
and the lack of any legal basis  for the  construction  of
such  settlements.  Council  resolution  465  (1980)  calls
for existing settlements to be dismantled.
Israel’s  policy  and  practices  with  respect  to  the
settlements  and  its  welcoming  of  new  immigrants  to
them is in flagrant violation of the Geneva Convention
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of
War.  The  continuation  of  those  practices  seriously
impedes 
implementation  of  a  comprehensive,
lasting  and  just  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  Likewise,
such practices are in violation of the advisory opinion
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  of  9  July  2004,
which states that the building of the separation wall is
illegal and calls for its dismantlement.
the 
Rather  than  comply  with  international  law,  the
advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice
and  United  Nations  resolutions,  Israel  continues  to
build  and  expand  settlements  in  the  West  Bank,  in
violation  of  article  49,  paragraph  6,  of  the  Fourth
Geneva  Convention.  That  practice  continues  without
interruption  even  before  Israel  carries  out  a  new  plan
that  would  establish  the  largest  settlement  project,
resulting  in  the  confiscation  of  territory  in  the  West
Bank  that  exceeds  the  Gaza  Strip  in  size.  Those
construction  activities  have  continued 
in  flagrant
violation of international instruments and the Quartet’s
road  map,  and,  as  the  Special  Rapporteur  notes  in  his
report,  will  create  a  situation  in  which  the  road  map
will become essentially meaningless.
No one doubts that the situation is worsening as a
result  of  the  occupying  Power’s  ongoing  construction
of  the  separation  wall  in  the  West  Bank,  which  has
been  condemned  by  the  international  community.  In
addition, the construction of the separation wall around
Jerusalem  violates  Security  Council  resolution  476
(1980),  which  rejected  laws  adopted  by  the  Israeli
parliament to make Jerusalem the permanent capital of
Israel,  and  resolution  478  (1980)  of  20  August  1980,
which  reaffirmed  the  Council’s  determination  that  all
legislative  and  administrative  measures 
that  have
sought to alter the character and status of Jerusalem, in
particular  the  basic  law  on  Jerusalem  and  other  such
decisions, are null and void.
It  appears  that  Israel  is  building  the  separation
wall  in  the  West  Bank  and  around  Jerusalem  in  an
attempt  to  achieve  its  expansionist  aims  in  occupied
Palestinian  territory.  That  can  be  seen  from  the
commitment  made  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Israel,
during  the  High-level  Meeting  on  15  September,  to
complete the construction of the separation  wall.  That
declaration prompted the Palestinian Rights Committee
to  reiterate  in  its  report  its  concern  that  Israel  was
A/60/PV.57
Among 
separation  wall’s 
and  property  has 
attempting  to  unilaterally  define  the  future  borders  of
the Palestinian State.
the 
negative
consequences are its effects on the economic and social
the  Palestinians.  The  destruction  of
situation  of 
Palestinian 
land 
irreversible
consequences  and  will  undermine 
the  ability  of
Palestinians  to  rebuild  and  revitalize  their  economy,
which has become more fragile since September 2000.
Palestinians  have  spared  no  effort  to  end  the
tragic  situation.  They  have  signed  peace  agreements.
Arab  leaders  as  well  have  explored  all  avenues  in  the
quest for a comprehensive and just peace in the region
and  have  endorsed  various  peace  initiatives  reflecting
that  approach,  such  as  the  Arab  peace  initiative
adopted at the 2002 Beirut summit.
The  withdrawal  of  Israeli  troops  from  the  Gaza
Strip was welcomed as an indicator of further steps to
be  taken.  The  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People confirmed
that 
revive  peace
negotiations  within  the  context  of  the  road  map,  with
the  goal  of  creating  an 
independent,  contiguous
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and
security with Israel.
the  withdrawal  could  help 
The  road  map  remains  the  logical  and  proper
framework for  achieving  a just  and  lasting  solution  to
the  Palestinian  question  based  on  the  4  June  1967
borders  and 
implementation  of  Security  Council
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973)  1397  (2002)  and
1515 (2003).
Mr.  Alsaidi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
debate  on  the  question  of  Palestine  is  particularly
important,  as  it  deals  with  an  issue  that  has  serious
humanitarian  and  security  implications.  It  is  indeed  a
painful  exercise  to  discuss  an  issue  such  as  the
question  of  Palestine,  which  involves  grave  injustice,
repression and suffering that surpasses all limits.
The 
report  of 
the  Special  Committee 
to
Investigate  Israeli  Practices  Affecting  the  Human
Rights of the Palestinian People and Other Arabs of the
Occupied  Territories  (A/60/380)  and  the  report  of  the
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the Palestinian People (A/60/35) state that the situation
is  indeed  a  painful  one  of  limitless  suffering.  The
continued  construction  of  the  separation  wall,  in  spite
of its illegality according to the advisory opinion of the
19
A/60/PV.57
International Court of Justice, has led to the annexation
of  even  more  Palestinian  territory  and  has  created
isolated  plots  of  land  where  freedom  of  movement  of
Palestinians is prevented. Family members cannot visit
one  another,  and  health  care  and  educational
institutions  have  become  inaccessible.  The  problems
created  by  the  wall  have  increased  the  suffering  of
women,  children  and  the  elderly,  who  are  deprived  of
medical attention and access to education.
Palestinians  are  forced  into  living  on  destroyed
plots or are displaced as a result of continued military
aggression,  house  demolitions,  the  uprooting  of  trees,
the  destruction  of  infrastructure,  the  closure  of  roads
and  crossings,  the  intensification  of  sieges  and  the
increase  in  Israeli  settlement  activities.  Israeli  actions
target  entire  communities,  preventing  people  from
practising their livelihoods, from attending schools and
universities  or  visiting  health  and  social  institutions.
the
As  a  result,  poverty 
Palestinians, 
causing 
and
deteriorating living conditions. Israel progressively and
systematically  seeks  to  crush  and  obliterate  all  the
elements  that  would  help  in  the  creation  of  a  future
State  of  Palestine  as  a  contiguous  geographical  entity
and  a  viable  State,  which  would  be  a  factor  in
consolidating peace and stability in the region and the
world.
is  exacerbated  among 
economic 
hardship 
caused  by 
This  year’s  debate  on  the  question  of  Palestine
comes  after  the  issuance  of  the  report  of  the  Special
Committee, which describes the feelings of despair that
exist  in  the  region  as  a  result  of  the  suffering  among
Palestinians 
Israeli  practices.  The
international community has the responsibility to spare
no  effort  to  put  an  end  to  the  Israeli  practices  and
measures  against  the  unarmed  Palestinian  population.
It  must  also  ensure  that  Israel  complies  with  its
agreements  and  international  resolutions,  allows  the
Palestinian elections to proceed on time and according
to  plan  and  to  be  successful,  allows  all  Palestinians,
including 
to
participate 
the  blockades
unconditionally imposed on the Palestinian people and
ends  the  construction  of  the  racist  separation  wall,
dismantling  those  sections  that  have  already  been
completed.
inhabitants  of  East  Jerusalem, 
the  elections, 
the 
in 
lifts 
Israel  must  end  all  colonial  settlement  planning
and  activities  and  withdraw  from  the  territories  it  has
occupied since 1967 in Palestine, the Syrian Golan and
the Shaba’a farms area in southern Lebanon.
20
to 
legitimacy, 
international 
The  international  community  must  also  reject  as
illegitimate all Israeli resolutions and measures that are
contrary 
including  all
attempts  to  undermine  the  sovereignty  of  the  Holy
City, which will be the capital of the Palestinian State.
A just solution to  the  refugee problem must be  found,
in accordance with international resolutions, including
General Assembly resolution 194 (III). The Palestinian
people  must  be  allowed  to  establish  an  independent
State on their national soil.
revived 
The  world’s  hopes  were 
following
Israel’s withdrawal from the Gaza Strip as a first step.
The  international  community  must  now  put  further
pressure on Israel to push it along that same track and
take further steps to withdraw to the borders of 4 June
1967 in order to achieve a lasting, comprehensive and
just settlement of the conflict, based on the belief that
all individuals have the right to live in peace and not at
the expense of others. The settlement must be based as
well  on  a  return  to  the  peace  process  in  conformity
with the Arab peace initiative, the Madrid Conference,
the relevant resolutions of international legitimacy, the
road map and the principle of land for peace so that the
Palestinian  people  can  create  an  independent  State  on
their national soil.
We  commend  the  recent  efforts  of  the  Secretary
of  State  of  the  United  States,  which  led  to  an
agreement on the freedom of movement  at Palestinian
crossings,  as  well  as  the  efforts  of  the  Quartet  to
advance the peace process in the region.
(spoke 
(Cuba) 
Ms.  Nuñez  Mordoche
in
Spanish):  The  consideration  of  the  items  on  the
Assembly’s  agenda  at  today’s  joint  debate  takes  on
special importance during this month of November, as
much  because  of  recent  events  in  the  Middle  East  as
because  of 
the  historic  events  currently  being
commemorated. Only a few days ago, on 11 November,
we commemorated the first anniversary of the passing
of Yasser Arafat. The historic leader of the Palestinians
died  before  seeing  his  and  his  people’s  great  dream
realized.  The  establishment  of  an 
independent
Palestinian  State  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital
remains a chimera.
In  addition, 
the
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian
People,  a  date  on  which  all  peoples  and  Governments
of  goodwill  extend  their  support  to  that  heroic  people
today  we  are  celebrating 
in  their  efforts  to  achieve  independence  and  self-
determination.
However,  instability  continues  in  the  Middle
East,  a  situation  characterized  by  the  expansion  of
Israeli  settlements  in  the  West  Bank,  the  ongoing
foreign  occupation  of  Iraq  and  the  threats  being
prepared 
against  Syria,  which  make  use  of
inconsistencies orchestrated in the Security Council.
In the past we had the opportunity to be informed
of  the  situation  prevailing  in  the  occupied  Arab
territories thanks to the valuable and dedicated work of
the  various  bodies  established  by  the  Organization  to
investigate  actions  committed  against  the  Palestinian
people and to alleviate their suffering.
for 
The  statistics  speak 
themselves.  From
1 January to 19 August 2005 — in just seven and a half
months — 146 Palestinians died in the West Bank and
the  Gaza  Strip.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  second
intifada, 3,663 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli
forces.  The  destructive  fury  of  Israeli  bulldozers  has
expelled  more  than  16,000  Palestinians  from  their
homes  in  the  past  year.  Clearly,  an  entire  people  is
being massacred in a flagrant, massive and systematic
manner.
In  spite  of  its  withdrawal  from  the  Gaza  Strip,
Israel  continues  to  illegally  occupy  or  control  great
expanses of Palestinian, Syrian and Lebanese territory,
while  failing  to  heed  the  numerous  resolutions  of  the
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  demanding  the
return of those territories. In that context, Cuba wishes
to  reaffirm  the  need  for  full  compliance,  without
exception  or  discrimination,  with  all  Security  Council
and  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  the  situation  in
the  Middle  East,  especially  Council  resolutions  242
(1967), 338 (1973) and 425 (1978).
the 
last 
five 
years 
It  is  also  worth  mentioning  that  the  Security
Council  has  experienced  ongoing  obstruction  by  the
United  States  with  regard  to  this  issue,  especially
during 
of  Republican
Administration.  The  historic  tally  of  the  Security
Council’s  work  includes  29  vetoes,  with  many  threats
of  more,  in  instances  when  the  Council  has  attempted
to  adopt  a  draft  resolution  that  would  contribute  to
ending 
the  massacre  of  an  entire  people.  The
customary  application  of  double  standards  and  the
vetoes  and  threats  of  veto  to  which  I  referred  have
simply led to stagnation in the Council as regards this
matter.
A/60/PV.57
As  we  have  said  before,  we  should  not  be
confused by the recent unilateral withdrawal of Israeli
troops  from  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the  evacuation  of
settlements  there.  We  should  not  think  that  that  is  the
beginning of the end of Israel’s genocidal policy in the
area  or  that  it  represents  a  way  to  reach  a  definitive
solution  to  the  Palestinian  issue.  Israel  continues  to
control the airspace, the territorial borders and the sea.
Israel  continues to be the occupying Power  exercising
control over the area.
Israel  is  also  continuing  to  build  the  illegal
separation  wall,  confiscating  arable  land  from  the
future  State  of  Palestine,  separating  families  and
impeding the freedom of movement. The wall has left
more than 20,000 Palestinians without a way to earn a
living and has stripped them of their patrimony. It has
also led to the confiscation of thousands of hectares of
land  and  water  wells  in  the  West  Bank,  which  is
tantamount to the de facto seizure of approximately 60
per  cent  of  the  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.
Entire  Palestinian  areas  have  been  deprived  access  to
vital  basic  services,  including  education,  health  and
employment.
The  provisions  of  resolution  ES-10/15  have  also
been  ignored.  In  quoting  the  advisory  opinion  of  the
International  Court  of  Justice,  resolution  ES-10/15
states, in its twentieth preambular paragraph, that
“The  construction  of  the  wall  being  built  by
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  in  the  Occupied
Palestinian  Territory,  including  in  and  around
East  Jerusalem,  and  its  associated  regime,  are
contrary to international law”.
The  United  Nations  should  continue  to  work  to
achieve  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the  region.  The
international  community  and  this  Organization  have
long owed the Palestinian people its own State. All the
time  and 
that  goal  are
insignificant compared to the debt owed by humankind
to 
that
undertaking —  as necessary as it is  urgent  —  Cuba  is
making its usual constructive contribution and extends
its support and solidarity to the United Nations and the
international community.
suffering  and  heroic  people. 
resources  devoted 
that 
In 
to 
Our  own  country,  which  has  been  subjected  to  a
harsh blockade by the Government of the United States
for over 45 years, is convinced that no wall, fence, or
repression  —  however  violent  or  inhumane  —  is
capable  of  breaking  the  Palestinian  people’s  ardent
21
A/60/PV.57
desire  for  sovereignty  and  independence.  It  is  for  that
reason that, thanks to our experience during more than
45  years  of  resistance,  Cuba  supports  a  peaceful  and
negotiated  solution  to  the  Palestinian  issue.  Cuba
would  also  like  to  reiterate  its  strong  support  for  the
inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  establish
independent  and  sovereign  State,  with  East
an 
Jerusalem  as 
the
unconditional return of all Arab territories occupied by
Israel,  and  we  reaffirm  the  illegal  character  of  all
Israeli  settlements  in  Arab  territories  occupied  since
1967, including the occupied Syrian Golan.
its  capital.  We  also  demand 
In conclusion, Cuba calls upon all delegations to
vote in favour of the draft resolutions introduced under
the  two  agenda  items  under  consideration,  thereby
expressing  their  unwavering  support  to  the  just  cause
of the Palestinian people.
Mr.  Abdelbari  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The
question  of  Palestine,  which  is  at  the  heart  of  the
conflict  in  the  Middle  East,  is  undoubtedly  a  focal
point for the entire world. The Palestinian tragedy has
become  a  tragedy  for  the  human  conscience.  The
deteriorating  security  situation  and  the  continuing
escalation  of  violence  speak  loudly  to  every  human
conscience  and  call  for  a  firm  stand  against  Israeli
arrogance and intransigence.
Israel’s  arrogant  attitude  vis-à-vis  resolutions  of
international  legitimacy,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the
international community’s lenience, on the other, have
led  Israel  to  commit  massacres  and  barbaric  acts
against  civilians  and  unarmed  innocent  people  in  all
Palestinian  areas,  especially 
the  Gaza  Strip
following the so-called withdrawal. They have even led
Israel to brutalize the Palestinian people with complete
impunity  and 
international
resolutions.
to  reject  all  relevant 
in 
land 
The steadfast Palestinian people continues to face
unjust  Israeli  practices  and  policies.  Homes  are
demolished  with  their  inhabitants  inside; 
is
confiscated;  elderly  persons, 
the  young,  women,
children  and  other  unarmed  Palestinians  are  killed.
More  important  and  grave  is  the  fact  that  Israel  is
continuing 
illegal  wall  on  usurped
Palestinian territory, including in East Jerusalem. Israel
is  continuing  its  wanton  aggression  by  destroying
homes  and  confiscating  land,  in  clear  and  direct
violation 
international
international 
to  build 
law, 
its 
of 
22
humanitarian law and other international human rights
instruments.
Israel  is  also  continuing  to  disregard  General
Assembly  resolution  ES-10/15,  adopted  at  the  tenth
emergency special session, as well as the International
Court  of  Justice  advisory  opinion  on  the  wall  it  is
building.  The  Court  has  declared  that  wall  illegal  and
has  called 
its
construction  and  to  demolish  what  has  already  been
built, to repeal all legislation relating to the wall and to
pay  compensation  to  those  who  have  been  harmed  by
it.
immediately  cease 
Israel 
for 
to 
The  credibility  of  this  Organization  should  be
reflected  in  its  ability  to  uphold  the  Charter  and
implement  international  law.  The  fact  that  this  matter
has not been resolved is a testament to the existence of
a  policy  of  double  standards  and  selectivity  in  the
application  of  Security  Council 
resolutions  and
international law as adopted by the General Assembly
and the Economic and Social Council.
That fact also attests to the shameful silence that
exists with regard to a clear violation of the Charter of
the  United  Nations  and  of 
the  principles  of
international humanitarian law, in particular the fourth
Geneva  Convention  of  1949  and  The  Hague
Conventions of 1899 and 1907, and other agreements.
It  is  incumbent  upon  all  concerned  to  oblige
Israel fully to withdraw from Arab territories occupied
since  4  June  1967,  including  Jerusalem  and  the
occupied Syrian Golan, as well as the Shaba’a Farms in
Lebanon, in implementation of the principle of land for
peace  and  of  the  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,
foremost  among  which  are  General  Assembly
resolution  181  (II)  and  Security  Council  resolutions
242  (1967),  338  (1973) and  1397  (2002),  and  in
keeping  with  the  decisions  taken  at  Oslo  and  Madrid,
other  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  and  the
road map that has been agreed to by all.
the
like 
My  delegation  would 
international  community  and 
its  member  States
urgently  to  provide  economic  and  technical  assistance
to  the  Palestinian  people  and 
the  Palestinian
National  Authority  during  this  delicate  phase  in  order
to help alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people
and  to  enable  it  to  rebuild  its  economy  and  the  basic
infrastructure of the State of Palestine.
to  urge 
to 
We  would  like  also  to  reiterate  our  unswerving
support  for  the  Palestinian  cause  and  for  the  draft
resolutions  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  in  that
regard.  We  would  like  also  to  urge  all  Member  States
to take the same stance as they have in the past.
in 
lasting  peace 
Mr.  O’Brien  (United  States  of  America):  The
United States remains firmly committed to achieving a
just  and 
the  Middle  East.  We
welcomed  the  successful  withdrawal  of  Israeli  settlers
from  the  northern  West  Bank  and  Gaza  earlier  this
year.  United  States  efforts  continue  to  focus  on
sustaining momentum on economic and security issues
after  disengagement  in  order  to  make  progress  along
the road map towards President Bush’s vision of a two-
State solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The  15  November  agreement  on  movement  and
access  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  is
an  important  step  forward.  For  the  first  time  since
1967,  Palestinians  will  control  access  at  the  Rafah
crossing,  which  opened  on  25  November.  We  will
continue  to  work  via  the  Quartet  Special  Envoy  and
United  States  Security  Coordinator  missions  on  the
economic  and  security  agenda  and  maintain 
the
momentum  for  disengagement.  The  Quartet’s  recent
decision  to  extend  the  Special  Envoy  mission  through
March  2006  and  the  President’s  recent  nomination  of
Major  General  Keith  Dayton  to  serve  as  our  new
Security  Coordinator 
the  region  highlight  our
continued commitment in that regard.
in 
today  and 
tomorrow  reflect  neither 
All  parties  have  obligations  that  they  must  fulfil
in  order  to  achieve  the  objective  of  two  democratic
States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace
and  security.  While  the  United  States  shares  concerns
about  the  hardships  facing  the  Palestinian  people,  the
draft  resolutions  that  the  General  Assembly  will
consider 
the
complexities  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  nor  the
need for both parties to take steps to advance the goal
of peace and security for Israelis and Palestinians alike.
The  General  Assembly  is  being  asked  to  view
events in the region through the distorted lens of one-
sided  perceptions.  Endorsing  draft  resolutions  that
condemn  Israeli actions but fail  to  address  Palestinian
actions  or  inaction  has  real  consequences.  One-sided
draft  resolutions  such  as  the  ones  before  us  today
undermine  the  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  play  a
constructive role in furthering peace.
A/60/PV.57
Specifically, in the view of the United States, the
1975  mandate  establishing  the  Committee  on  the
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian
People and the 1977 mandate establishing the Division
for Palestinian Rights within the Secretariat perpetuate
a  skewed  and  biased  approach  to  the  Middle  East
conflict.  Those  bodies  reflect  a  cold-war  era  gone  by
and have long since outlived whatever usefulness they
may  once  have  had.  Member  States  should  eliminate
those bodies and seek ways to reinvigorate the United
Nations  as  an  even-handed  partner  in  seeking  peace
between the Israelis and Palestinians, committed to the
road map and to the realization of the two-State vision.
the  General
Assembly,  as  the  United  Nations  considers  historic
steps to reform itself and its institutions to better face
the  challenges  of  a  new  century,  it  must  examine  old
mandates such as these with a critical eye and confront
the reality that the time for such bodies has passed.
this  sixtieth  session  of 
During 
that  of 
The  United  States  would  welcome  a  draft
resolution  that  reflected  a  balanced  and  pragmatic
approach  consistent  with 
the  Quartet.
Unfortunately,  it  appears  that  we  will  be  considering
texts that put the General Assembly in the position of
attempting to prejudge and prejudice the settlement of
final status issues. To achieve a just and lasting peace,
those  issues  must  be  decided  through  negotiations
between  the  parties  themselves,  consistent  with  their
past agreements and with the relevant Security Council
resolutions.  Therefore,  we  will  not  support  these
unbalanced  draft  resolutions,  which  do  nothing  to
further  the  cause  of  peace  between  Israel  and  the
Palestinians,  and  we  urge  other  Member  States  to
withhold their support as well.
Mr.  Sallam  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
The  report  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  confirms
reports  of  the  perpetration  by  the  Israeli  occupying
Power of inhumane acts against the Palestinian people
and  the  tragic  situation  of  the  Palestinian  people,
trapped in their own territory and suffering all types of
repression, 
and
assassinations.
including 
acts 
of 
violence 
After 38 years, the Israeli occupation continues to
bear down on the Palestinian people. Their standard of
living  continues  to  deteriorate,  as  does  their  security,
economic  and  social  situation,  because  of  Israeli
23
A/60/PV.57
policies  and  practices  that  violate  international  and
customary humanitarian law.
Despite  all  the  international  efforts  deployed  by
the  Quartet,  which  led  to  the  road  map  as  a  means  of
settling  the  conflict  by  providing  a  timetable  for  the
granting  to  the  Palestinian  people  of  their  legitimate
political rights, Israel continues obdurately to refuse to
yield and to reject one initiative after the other.  It has
refused  to  resume  negotiations,  and  it  continues  to
erect  obstacles  and  to  create  new  realities  on  the
ground 
resumption  of
negotiations,  showing  a  great  indifference  to  the
continuing cycle of violence, tension and instability in
the region.
to  prevent 
in  order 
the 
The  policies  and  arbitrary  actions  carried  out  by
the  Israeli  Government  will  not  bring  security  to  the
Israeli  people;  to  the  contrary,  they  only  increase  the
level  of  violence  and  suffering  for 
the  victims,
threatening stability in the region while dispelling any
hope  for  peace.  Security  cannot  be  achieved  by
confiscating 
rights,  murdering
neighbours,  demolishing  houses  and  destroying  crops
and  farm  lands,  thereby  making  people  hungry  and
preventing them from earning a living. Security cannot
lists  of
by  achieved  by  arrogantly  announcing 
Palestinian  political  activists  whom 
Israeli
Government  intends  to  assassinate  or  by  defying  the
hundreds  of  United  Nations  decisions  concerning
Israel’s practices and activities, its flouting of the 1949
Fourth  Geneva  Convention, 
for
international resolutions on Jerusalem and its refusal to
recognize  resolutions  concerning  the  deportation  of
civilians  and  the  protection  of  Palestinian  rights  and
people.
contempt 
the 
land, 
denying 
its 
The  path  towards  the  settlement  of  international
disputes  can  be  found  only  by  complying  with  the
resolutions and principles of international legality. That
is  the  only  way  to  reduce  tension  and  to  prevent
frustration and despair from reaching the boiling point
as a result of occupation, injustice and aggression. We
must  work  together  to  find  a  comprehensive  and  just
solution  to  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict.  Therefore,  we
must  mobilize  all  our  efforts  to  lend  renewed  impetus
to  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East,  which  has
been  stagnant  for  so  long  because  of  the  double
standards  and  selectivity  that  gave  rise  to  continued
violations of international resolutions and principles.
24
Saudi  Arabia  reaffirms  its  full  support  for  the
struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  recover  all  its
legitimate  political  rights.  We  call  upon  Israel  to
honour  its  commitments  and  to  abide  by  Security
Council  resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973),
together  with 
international
resolutions  concerning  the  Palestinian  question.  These
include the principle of land for peace, the Arab peace
initiative,  bilateral  agreements  between  Israel  and  the
Palestinian  Authority  and  the  road  map  with  all  its
provisions.  Furthermore,  we  call  upon  Israel  to  stop
tormenting the Palestinian people, to stop building the
separation wall and to release Palestinian detainees.
all  other 
relevant 
Saudi  Arabia  believes  that  Israel’s  pullout  from
Gaza  is  a  first  step  that  should  be  followed  by
additional steps, in accordance with the relevant United
Nations  resolutions,  in  order  to  pave  the  way  for  the
establishment  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  on
Palestinian territory with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We call for the resumption of the peace process so that
Israel can withdraw from the occupied Syrian Golan to
the 4 June 1967 borders and from other occupied Arab
territories  in  southern  Lebanon  with  a  view  to  a
negotiated  and  comprehensive  solution  aimed  at
establishing a lasting, just and comprehensive peace in
the region, which can lead to a Middle East free from
weapons of mass destruction.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We
have heard the last speaker on the list for agenda item
15 at this meeting. One delegation has  asked to speak
in right of reply.
I now give the floor to the observer of Palestine.
Mr. Mansour (Palestine): My delegation did not
intend to take the floor again after the statement of our
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs.  However,  we  found
ourselves  in  a  position  to  respond  to  some  of  the
comments  made  by  a  delegation  that  asked  for  the
elimination  of  two  important  Committees  established
through General Assembly resolutions. That delegation
also asked the Assembly to re-examine the mandate of
those two Committees.
We  believe  that,  on  the  basis  of  democracy  and
acceptance  of  the  will  of  the  Member  States  of  the
General Assembly, programmes related to Palestine are
evaluated  in  a  democratic  manner  by  the  entire
membership  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  has  been  the
will of the overwhelming majority of the Assembly to
decide  every  year  to  extend  the  mandates  of  those
important  Committees  and  programmes  until  a  just
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine  can  be  found  on
the basis of the will of the international community.
is 
it 
law  and 
suggesting 
resolutions 
that  Assembly 
Furthermore,  we  were  surprised 
to  hear  a
statement 
that  a  General  Assembly
resolution prejudged the settlement in the Middle East.
So 
reflecting
international 
reiterating  principles  of
international law prejudge the settlement, while illegal
settlements  on  the  ground,  illegal  construction  of  the
wall  and  the  illegal  actions  carried  out  by  the  Israeli
occupying Power in suppressing the Palestinian people
and in committing oppressive and abhorrent violations
of the rights of the Palestinian people do not prejudge
the settlement? We leave it up to all countries and their
delegations to make a true and accurate  determination
as  to  what  is  really  correct,  what  is  fair,  what  is  one-
sided and what is balanced.
I  wish  to  conclude  by  referring  to  two  other
issues.  First,  the  position  of  the  delegation  to  which  I
just referred is, frankly speaking, extremely political. It
is a traditional position that shields Israel from the wall
of  all  the  relevant  decisions  of  the  international
community  and  from  international  law.  That  position,
shielding the wrong thing — the illegal acts that Israeli
is  committing  —  is  what  allows  Israel  to  continue  its
intransigence 
its  Charter
obligations and to implement all those resolutions.
refusing 
fulfil 
to 
in 
Secondly,  the  statement  and  the  position  of  that
delegation  are,  frankly  speaking,  anti-Palestinian.  We
have  been  very  positive  in  our  attitude  towards
establishing  a  relationship  and  carrying  out  dialogue
and  meetings  in  good  faith  with  that  specific  country,
A/60/PV.57
in  the  spirit  of  implementing  United  Nations  and
Security  Council  resolutions  and  the  mandate  of  the
Quartet.  But  I  find  that  statement  —  which  I  cannot
describe  in  any  other  way  than  as  anti-Palestinian  —
very  unfortunate,  especially  as  we  are  extending  our
hand  in  a  positive  way  to  that  country  in  order  to
establish  a  very  positive  relationship  and  so  that  that
country  can  take  a  balanced  and  fair  position  with
regard  to  the  conflict.  As  we  have  heard  it  expressed
this evening, we find that anti-Palestinian position very
unfortunate.  We  hope  that  country  will  reconsider  its
position in future interventions.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We
have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda
item 37 for this meeting.
Programme of work
I should like to remind members that the General
Assembly  will  continue  consideration  of  agenda  item
17,  “The  situation  in  Afghanistan  and  its  implications
for international peace and security”, and sub-item (e)
of agenda item 73, “Emergency international assistance
for peace, normalcy and reconstruction of war-stricken
Afghanistan”,  tomorrow  morning  at  10  a.m.,  as  the
first item. As members will, recall there were speakers
still remaining on the list at this morning’s debate.
The Assembly  will  also  resume  its  consideration
of agenda item 41, “Report of the Economic and Social
Council”, to take action on draft resolutions A/60/L.21
and A/60/L.24.  After that, we will  continue debate  on
agenda item 15.
The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m.
25
