
A/60/PV.37
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixtieth session 

37th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 25 October 2005, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .


(Sweden) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

05-56792 (E) 
*0556792* 





Earthquake in South Asia 

The  President:  On  10  October,  I  expressed  the 

General  Assembly’s  solidarity  with  the  people  of 
Pakistan  and  its  neighbours,  India  and  Afghanistan, 
who  had  been  tragically  affected  by  the  devastating 
earthquake two days earlier.  

Since  then,  we  have  all  watched  with  horror  as 
the full scale and impact of the South Asian earthquake 
have  become  clearer.  We  now  know  that  an  area  of 
28,000  square  miles  was  devastated  by  the  quake; 
entire towns and villages have literally disappeared off 
the  face  of  the  Earth.  More  than  50,000  people  have 
been  confirmed  dead,  including  a  great  number  of 
children.  A  further  75,000  people  were  injured.  One 
million  people  are  in  desperate  need  of  humanitarian 
assistance, and three million are without shelter. Those 
figures 
the 
expectations are that the numbers will rise still further.  

While  Pakistan  bore  the  overwhelming  brunt  of 
the disaster, over 1,300 people were killed elsewhere in 
the 
the 
Governments  and  peoples  of  Pakistan,  India  and 
Afghanistan  as  they  continue to respond  to the impact 
of the disaster. 

In Pakistan, the needs of the people are enormous 
and  they  are  urgent. There  is  a  three-week  window  of 
opportunity  to  deliver  aid  to  the  mountains  before  the 
first  snowfall.  If  that  is  not  done,  the  grim  reality  is 
solidarity  with 
comprehension, 
region.  We 
almost 
stand 
in 
defy 
but 
that  there  will  be  a  further  dramatic  rise  in  the  death 
toll.  

The  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  has  called  a  ministerial 
meeting in Geneva tomorrow to review the response to 
date  by  the  international  community.  The  Secretary-
General  will  be  present.  I  am  fully  confident  that 
Member States will ensure that they are represented at 
the appropriate level and that they  will  make adequate 
funds  available  so  that  the  humanitarian  agencies  can 
respond as quickly as possible. 

In  the  coming  weeks,  the  United  Nations  will 
need  to  ensure  that  proper  planning  for  long-term 
reconstruction is under way. I am sure that the General 
Assembly  will  want  to  play  its  part  in  this.  But  this 
week  our focus  must  be on ensuring that the  basics of 
survival get to those who need them — to the hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  who,  right  now,  are  huddled 
together in the cold and dark in the hills and mountains 
of northern Pakistan. They need winter tents, blankets, 
sleeping  bags,  stoves,  kitchen  sets,  fuel,  clean  water 
and  vaccinations.  More  mobile  health-care  teams  are 
needed to administer help to the injured, and they will 
need food through the long, harsh winter. 
This  year, the United Nations has responded to a 

succession  of  devastating  natural  disasters, 
the 
frequency  and  intensity  of  which  have  been  almost 
unprecedented.  The  Secretary-General  has  described 
the response to the South Asian earthquake as the most 
challenging  relief  operation  ever  faced  by  the  United 
Nations.  Our  response  to  this  disaster  will  be  no  less 

A/60/PV.37 

than a measure of our common humanity. Yesterday we 
celebrated  the  sixtieth  birthday  of  the  United  Nations. 
Tomorrow,  in  Geneva,  we  must  show  the  world  what 
this Organization, and the international community, can 
deliver. 

Agenda item 41 
Report of the Economic and Social Council 










  Report of the Economic and Social Council 
(A/60/3) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/114) 


  Notes by the Secretary-General (A/60/167 
and A/60/397) 

The  President: In  connection  with  this  item,  I 
would  like  to  recall  for  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly that, pursuant to resolution 58/316 of 1 July 
2004,  the  Assembly,  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
General  Committee,  decided  at 
its  17th  plenary 
meeting,  on  20  September  2005,  to  consider  agenda 
item 41 in its entirety in plenary, on the understanding 
that  the  administrative,  programme  and  budgetary 
aspects should be dealt with by the Fifth Committee. 

At  the  same  meeting,  the Assembly  took  note  of 
the clarification that in implementing resolution 58/316 
to  consider  item  41  in  its  entirety  in  plenary,  the 
relevant  parts  of  chapter  I  of  the  report  that  are  under 
agenda items already allocated to the Main Committees 
will  be  considered  by  the  Committee  concerned  for 
final action by the General Assembly. 

Under  this  item,  the  Assembly  has  before  it  the 
report of the Economic and Social Council (A/60/3). It 
is my understanding that an addendum to the report of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will  be  issued  at  a 
later date. 

Under  the  same  item,  the  Assembly  also  has 
before  it  a  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/60/114) 
and  two  notes  by  the  Secretary-General  transmitting 
the 
the  World  Tourism  Organization, 
circulated in document A/60/167, and the report of the 
Executive  Director  of  the  United  Nations  Population 
Fund (A/60/397). 

I give the floor to the President of the Economic 
and Social Council, Mr. Munir Akram, to introduce the 
report of the Economic and Social Council. 
report  by 
for 
the 
the 
support  of 
Mr.  Akram
(Pakistan),  President  of 

the 
Economic  and  Social  Council:  Before  I  turn  to  the 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  may  I,  in  my  capacity  as  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Pakistan,  thank  you,  Mr.  President, 
for  your  words  of  sympathy  and  support  expressed  to 
the people and the Government of Pakistan in this hour 
of trial and tribulation. Undoubtedly, the disaster which 
we  have experienced is  unprecedented  in  its  scale  and 
devastation. 

Even  worse,  we  fear  a  second  disaster  looms  for 
millions  of  destitute  survivors  and  injured  people 
unless  help  arrives  before  the  winter.  We  are  racing 
against  time.  As  the  Secretary-General  has  warned,  if 
we  do  not  step  up  our  efforts  for  relief  assistance,  a 
massive  second  wave  of  deaths  will  happen.  We  are 
grateful 
international 
community —  from  Governments,  United  Nations 
agencies,  non-governmental  organizations  and  private 
individuals. I understand that, in response to the United 
Nations  South  Asia  earthquake  2005  flash  appeal  for 
$312  million,  $60  million  has  been  contributed  so  far 
and another $30 million pledged. 

Mr. President, you have mentioned the high-level 
donors  meeting  tomorrow  in  Geneva,  which  will  be 
attended by the Secretary-General. We look forward to 
high-level  participation  and  generous  support  at  that 
meeting. 

international 
We 
community will sustain its support and solidarity as we 
mobilize  our  efforts  to  save  lives  and  subsequently  to 
rehabilitate  and 
families  and 
devastated  homes  and  infrastructure.  The  Government 
of  Pakistan,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community and of its own people, will soon be turning 
to this task. 

I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  inform 
colleagues  that,  following  consultations,  Pakistan  will 
soon submit a draft resolution in the General Assembly 
regarding the earthquake disaster in South Asia, which 
has so devastatingly affected Pakistan. 

Turning to the report of the Economic and Social 
Council, I have the honour and privilege of submitting 
it  for  the  consideration  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
report 
in  document  A/60/3 
and 
A/60/3/Add.1, which will be issued subsequently. 
reconstruct  broken 
contained 
confident 
that 
are 
the 
is 
2 

05-56792 
of 
and 
Both  at 
involvement 
international 
participation 
the  spring  meeting  and  during 



Let me avail myself of this opportunity to present 
to  the  Assembly  a  brief  overview  of  the  Council’s 
activities during this momentous year. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  substantive 
session  for  2005  was  deliberately  conceptualized  as  a 
part of the preparations for the 2005 world summit. All 
segments of the session focused primarily on the theme 
of  achieving  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 
the 

substantive  session,  there  was  an  encouragingly  high 
level 
from 
Governments, 
institutions  and  civil 
society. 

A key innovation introduced at this year’s session 
was a segment on “voices against poverty”. It provided 
a  refreshing  perspective  on  development  by  sending 
out the following four powerful messages. 

First,  the  systemic  basis  for  widespread  poverty, 
symbolized  by  the  unfair  system  of  global  trade  and 
finance, 
secondly, 
economic  growth  and  poverty  eradication  requires 
deliberate policies, inter alia to redress the phenomena 
of jobless growth; thirdly, the proliferation of conflicts 
has  generated  millions  of  refugees  and  internally 
displaced 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  are  remote;  and  fourthly,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  has  a  unique  role  in 
providing 
and 
coordination. 

Several other important messages were conveyed 
during  the  substantive  session  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council.  

First,  we  are  off  track  with  respect  to  the 
achievement  of  most  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals in many countries. An accelerated and concerted 
effort is required to achieve the MDGs. 

Secondly,  the  United  Nations  system  has  come 
together  behind  the  MDGs.  There  is  now  a  United 
Nations  development  agenda.  But  a  fully  integrated 
follow-up  to  realize  the  development  goals  adopted  at 
various United Nations conferences has yet to emerge. 

Thirdly,  international  development  cooperation 
remains  critical  in enabling  most  developing  countries 
to implement the United Nations development agenda. 
remains,  unfortunately, 
system-wide 
for  whom 
coherence 
persons 
intact; 
policy 
A/60/PV.37
the 
The 
first 
is 
and 
area 
policy 
security 
dialogue 
Fourthly, 
development 
in  promoting 
are 

inextricably 
linked.  Without  peace  and  stability, 
countries  are  not  likely  to  achieve  the  development 
goals. 

Fifthly,  humanitarian  emergencies  are  increasing 
and need to be addressed through a comprehensive and 
coordinated response. 

Sixthly,  there  was  a  wide  recognition  of  the 
central  role that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  can 
international  development 
play 
agenda.  The  Council  should  be  strengthened 
to 
effectively fulfil its Charter mandate. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  had  a  rich 
discussion  on  how  that  could  be  achieved.  Following 
that,  specific  proposals  were  developed,  which  I  had 
the privilege of submitting to the preparatory process at 
the 2005 summit. The summit recognized the need for 
a  more  effective  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
took  several  decisions  to  enhance  its  role  in  five 
specific areas. 

and 
implementation. The summit called upon the Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  promote  global  dialogue  and 
partnership  on  global  policies  and  trends  and  assess 
progress in the follow-up to the outcomes of the major 
United  Nations  conferences and  summits. To that  end, 
the  Council  should  hold  annual  ministerial-level 
substantive  reviews  to  assess  progress,  drawing  on  its 
functional  and 
regional  commissions  and  other 
international  institutions,  in  accordance  with  their 
respective mandates. 

The  second  area  is  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  as  a  development  cooperation  forum.  The 
Council 
a  biennial  high-level 
development  cooperation  forum  to  review  trends  in 
international  development  cooperation  policies  and  to 
promote  greater  coherence  among  the  development 
activities of different entities and institutions. 

The third area is coherence and coordination. The 
Council  should  play  a  major  role  in  the  overall 
coordination  of  funds,  programmes  and  agencies, 
ensuring 
them 
avoiding 
duplication of mandates and activities. 
The  fourth  area  is  response  to  emergencies.  The 

Council 
complement 
international  efforts  aimed  at  addressing  humanitarian 
emergencies,  including  natural  disasters,  in  order  to 
coherence 
convene 
support 
among 
should 
should 
also 
and 
and 
05-56792 

3 

to 
post-conflict 
the  Council 
peacebuilding 
convened  by 
A  discussion  of 
interacting  effectively  with 
A/60/PV.37 

promote  an  improved,  coordinated  response  from  the 
United  Nations.  In  that  context,  the  Council  will 
shortly  convene  two  special  events  —  on  the  food 
crisis  in  Africa  and  the  threat  of  the  avian  flu  —  to 
activate  the  important  role  the  Council  can  play  in 
sensitizing  the  international  community  to  existing  or 
potential humanitarian emergencies. 

The  fifth  area  is  peacebuilding.  Based  on  the 
experience  gained  within  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  in  the  area  of  post-conflict  reconstruction  and 
to  further 
development, 
is  expected 
promote  a  coordinated,  coherent  and 
integrated 
and 
approach 
reconstruction  by 
the 
peacebuilding commission. 

the  Economic  and  Social 
Council’s role in the follow-up to the decisions adopted 
at the 2005 summit was initiated at an informal summit 
meeting 
the  Council  bureau  on 
15 September  2005.  The  meeting,  chaired  by 
the 
President  of  Pakistan,  included  the  participation  of 
several  heads  of  State  and  Government;  the  heads  of 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development and the United 
Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and 
the 
senior  ministerial 
representatives.  A 
the  high-level 
discussion was circulated to all member States. 

We  will  need  further  consideration  of  ways  and 
means to ensure the implementation of the decisions of 
the  2005  summit  to  strengthen  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council.  For  that  purpose,  in  my  capacity  as 
President  of  the  Council,  I  have  circulated  a  working 
paper, 
key 
delegations, country groupings and the Secretariat. The 
working  paper  offers  a  set  of  ideas  and  suggestions 
which, 
for 
discussions  in  the  General  Assembly  and  lead  to  a 
consensus  on  ways  and  means  to  implement  the  2005 
summit  decisions  regarding  the  strengthening  of  the 
Council.  I 
that 
endeavour. 

the 
Council’s  achievements  this  year  could  not  have  been 
possible  without  the  excellent  work  of  the  Council’s 
four  Vice-Presidents, 
the  ambassadors  of  Tunisia, 
I  hope,  will  provide  a  good  basis 
In  closing,  I  would 
consultations  with 
leadership,  Sir, 
summary  of 
as  well 
to  stress 
prepared 
to  your 
Pacific; 
after 
look 
like 
that 
as 
in 
and 
thank 
biennial 
high-level 
The  Republic 
of  Korea  welcomes 
Mr.  Oh  (Republic  of  Korea):  I 
Albania,  Ecuador  and  Belgium.  They  carried  a  major 
part of the burden of work. I would also be remiss if I 
failed to recall the able and professional support of the 
Secretariat  for  the  work  of  the  Council.  I  express  my 
sincere gratitude to all of them. 
the 

President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
Ambassador Munir Akram of Pakistan, for introducing 
the  comprehensive  report  of  the  Council  for  2005, 
which details the whole range of its activities. I would 
also  like  to  commend  the  Council’s  progress  under 
Ambassador Akram’s able leadership. 

the 
reaffirmation,  made by  world leaders  in  September, of 
the Economic and Social Council’s role as the principal 
body  for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue 
and  recommendations  in  the  economic  and  social 
spheres.  It  is  our  view  that  the  Council  should  be  a 
forum  for  serious,  high-level  engagement  by  Member 
States  on  issues  of  economic  and  social  development. 
In  that  regard,  we  support  the  annual  ministerial 
meeting 
development 
forum,  which  we  believe  can  play 
cooperation 
meaningful 
roles 
international 
community  to  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015. 

the 
also 
recognition  by  world  leaders  that  good  governance  is 
essential  for  sustained  economic  development  and  the 
eradication  of  hunger  and  extreme  poverty.  Today,  I 
would 
like 
issue, 
emphasizing 
reinventing 
Government  and  of  building  partnerships  between  the 
public and private sectors. 
is  changing  at  a  pace  perhaps 

unprecedented  in  history.  States  are  striving  to  sustain 
progress  towards  development  while  coping  with  the 
new  and  ever-shifting  economic  and  social  challenges 
brought  on  by  globalization,  democratization, 
the 
information  technology  revolution  and  rapid  socio-
economic development. 

The  participants  in  the  Sixth  Global  Forum  on 
Reinventing  Government,  held  in  Seoul,  Republic  of 
Korea,  from  24  to  27  May  2005,  agreed  that  a 
comprehensive 
and 
transparent  governance  is  necessary  for  sustainable 
social 
in  which 
Government,  business  and  civil  society  work  together 
for  participatory 
that  fundamental 
to  focus  on 
attach  great 
development 
The  world 
importance 
importance 
framework 
economic 
helping 
and 
We 
the 
the 
of 
in 
to 
4 

05-56792 
civil 
local 
enhancing 
governance 
integration, 
engagement  with 


to  address  challenges.  Establishing  such  frameworks 
for  governance  will  move  us  closer  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other  global 
development initiatives. 

The  outcome  document  of  the  Sixth  Global 
Forum,  known  as  the  Seoul  Declaration,  provided 
specific recommendations for reinventing Government, 
sustaining  social 
improving  corporate 
governance, 
and 
increasing 
society.  The 
participants  recognized  that,  in  order  to  improve  State 
capacity  and  public  services,  Governments  must 
cooperate  closely  with  various  social  actors,  fully 
incorporate  information  technology-based  strategies, 
and  conduct  performance  evaluations  in  all  areas  of 
Government  activity.  They  also  concluded 
that 
measures must be taken to alleviate economic injustice 
and  the  negative  effects  of  the  digital  divide  and  to 
prevent and resolve internal conflicts. The participants 
also concluded that sustainable economic development 
is possible through the establishment of a free and fair 
market  order.  It  is  therefore  necessary  for  domestic 
corporations  to  maintain  good  relations  with  the  local 
communities 
operate,  while 
multinational  corporations  must  uphold  strict  business 
ethics. 

is  a  key 
element of good governance. To make decentralization 
viable, local Governments must reinvent themselves to 
improve participation and transparency. In addition, the 
participants  acknowledged  the  importance  of  a  more 
active 
in  decision-making 
processes  and  the  implementation  of  public  policies, 
and  agreed  to  seek  new  ways  to  strengthen  global 
solidarity on various issues. 

As  a  follow-up  measure  to  the  Sixth  Global 
Forum,  the  participants  welcomed  the  decision  by  the 
Republic of Korea and the United Nations to conduct a 
feasibility  study  for  the  establishment  of  a  United 
Nations  governance  centre  in  Seoul.  The  Government 
of the Republic of Korea is doing its utmost to prepare 
for the establishment of the centre, which will provide 
a forum in  which States can share their experiences in 
the areas of good governance, reinventing Government 
and fighting corruption. 

their 
appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  for  its 
hospitality  in  offering  to  host  the  Seventh  Global 
that  decentralization 
for  civil  society 
They  agreed 
participants 
in  which 
expressed 
Finally, 
they 
role 
the 
A/60/PV.37
a 
It 
is 
of 
that 
from 
promoting 
prerequisite 
Having  hosted 
service-oriented, 
recognize 
for 
that  pitfall,  we  are  pursuing 
is  my 
Forum  on  Reinventing  Government. 
Government’s  hope 
the  Global  Forum  on 
Reinventing  Government  will  continue  to  provide 
opportunities  for  the  active  exchange  of  ideas  for  and 
experiences in designing better Governments and better 
futures for all countries. 

the  Sixth  Global  Forum  on 
Reinventing  Government, 
the  current  participatory 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  now  taking 
steps  to  embrace  its  recommendations  as  we  continue 
to  reinvent  our  own  Government  for  the  next  level  of 
socio-economic  development.  We 
that 
innovation 
sustainable 
development.  Our  goal  is  to  create  a  Government  that 
is  more 
transparent, 
efficient, 
decentralized and respectful of its citizens. 

As  we  embark on that  challenging  process,  there 
is a concern that  we  may  fall into  the  all-too-common 
pattern 
ambitious  Government 
innovations,  only  to  fall  back  again  soon  after.  To 
avoid 
sustainable 
innovation  by  adopting  a  systematic  strategy  and 
refraining 
implementing  one-time  external 
shocks,  such  as restructuring and downsizing. We  will 
let  civil  servants  within  the  Government  take  the  lead 
in  recognizing  opportunities  for  improvement  and 
provide  ample  support  within  the  system  for  the 
implementation of their innovative ideas. Through that 
approach,  we  intend  to  institutionalize  the  engine  for 
innovation,  manage  the innovation  process  and reduce 
the  resistance  that  can  derail  even  the  most  well-
intentioned reforms imposed by higher authorities. 

The  Ministry  of  Government Administration  and 
Home  Affairs,  in  charge  of  Government  reinvention, 
has taken the lead in creating innovative organizational 
cultures and internalizing innovation in all Government 
agencies.  Examples  of  such  innovations  include  the 
reorganization  of 
the 
building  of  a  performance  management  system  based 
on a “balanced scorecard” method, and the introduction 
of  a  real-time  customer-relations  management  system. 
The  latter  garnered  much  praise  at  the  International 
Innovation Exhibition, a side event of the Sixth Global 
Forum.  The  Ministry  has  also  created  a  Government 
innovation  index  that  measures  the  innovation  level 
and capacity of public institutions, and provides insight 
into  weaknesses  and  barriers  to  innovation  at  each 
institution. 
its  departments 
teams, 
into 
05-56792 

5 

is 
Social 
Pact 
thereby 
Another 
important 
endeavour 
transparency, 
on  Anti-Corruption 
A/60/PV.37 


my 
Government’s  proactive  effort  to  take  advantage  of 
advanced  information  technology  infrastructure  as  a 
major  tool  for  innovation.  The  Republic  of  Korea’s 
level  of  e-Government  was  ranked  fifth  in  the  world 
this past year. By making our Government services and 
information  widely  accessible  online,  we  can  increase 
our  citizens’  satisfaction  with  administrative  services 
while  enhancing 
improving 
public trust in Government institutions. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  is  committed  to  the  fight 
against  corruption  and  views 
it  as  an  essential 
ingredient  of  Government  reinvention  in  support  of 
sustainable development. Accordingly, the Government 
of the Republic of Korea has been actively carrying out 
anti-corruption measures. In March this year, President 
Roh Moo-hyun and representatives of civil society and 
the  public,  private  and  political  sectors  signed  the 
Korean 
and 
Transparency, in  which all signatories pledged to fight 
corruption  in  their  respective  sectors.  Through  close 
cooperation  between  the  Government  and  the  private 
sector,  we  are  witnessing  a  dramatic  reduction  in 
corruption 
throughout  Korean 
society. 

While  setting  up  comprehensive  plans  to  fight 
corruption,  we  are  preparing  to  ratify  the  United 
Nations  Convention  against  Corruption  as  soon  as 
possible.  We  would  like  to  encourage  Member  States 
that  are  not  signatories  to  the  Convention  to  give 
positive  consideration 
ratifying  and 
implementing it. 

Let me conclude by reaffirming the dedication of 
the  Republic  of  Korea  to  participatory and transparent 
governance,  both  at  home  and 
the 
international community. 
the 

honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  and 
those  other  European  countries  that  align  themselves 
with this statement.  

May  I  begin,  Sir,  by  echoing  your  words  of 
sympathy  and  support  to  the  people  of  Pakistan  and 
other  countries  of  South  Asia  in  the  light  of  the 
earthquake 
there.  The  European  Commission  and 
States  members  of  the  European  Union  have  recently 
made  several  announcements  of  aid  that  we  intend  to 
provide  and  we  look  forward  to  taking  part  in  the 
Mr.  O’Neill  (United  Kingdom):  I  have 
irregularities 
throughout 
signing, 
and 
to 
the 
towards 
donor  meeting  tomorrow  in  Geneva  to  take  forward 
that discussion.  

I  would  like  to  speak  briefly  to  welcome  the 
report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  2005 
and  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of  Pakistan,  as  the 
President of the Council, and his bureau colleagues for 
the  work  they  have  done  this  year  and  the  leadership 
they have provided.  

Over  the  last  few  months,  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  has  made  a  major  contribution  to  an 
important  year  for  the  United  Nations.  The  spring 
meeting with the Bretton Woods institutions, the World 
Trade Organization and the United Nations Conference 
on  Trade  and  Development  was  an  important  part  of 
the  preparations  for  discussions  on  financing  for 
development at the world summit in September. 

At the Economic and Social Council’s substantive 
session,  discussion  in  the  high-level  and  coordination 
segments  on  progress 
internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, provided an essential contribution 
to the wider preparations for the summit in September.  

In the operational segment, too, we did important 
work  to  take  forward  work to  enhance  United  Nations 
operational  activities 
last  year’s 
triennial  comprehensive  policy  review  in  the  General 
Assembly.  
In  the  humanitarian  segment,  we  had  important 

to  ensure  more  effective 
discussions  on  how 
international 
to  humanitarian  disaster, 
including lessons from the Asian tsunami of a year ago.  

We  in  the  European  Union  particularly  welcome 
the decisions that were reached at the world summit to 
enhance  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s  system-
wide 
and 
coordination. The Ambassador  of Pakistan  has  already 
set out the main elements of that, and I will not go into 
the details here, but I would like to underline the strong 
commitment  of  the  European  Union  to  taking  forward 
those  decisions.  We  hope  to  see  early  progress  under 
your leadership, Sir.  
The  European  Union  itself  will  bring  forward 

proposals  and  comments  for  that  discussion.  We  look 
forward to playing a part with all other members of the 
Assembly  in  the  implementation  of  those  important 
conclusions  from  the  summit.  We  believe  that  the 
summit  rightly  recognized  the  vital  role  that  the 
ensuring  policy 
the  wake  of 
coherence 
responses 
role 
in 
in 
6 

05-56792 
and 
for 
thorough  organization  of 


Economic and Social Council has to play, and we hope 
to achieve progress as early as possibly to help ensure 
that.  

Finally,  I  would  close  by  saying  that  we  look 
forward  to  taking  part  in  the  special  events  later  this 
week  and  next  week  on  the  food  crisis  in  Africa  and 
avian flu. 

Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  I 
have  the  honour,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  of 
Belarus,  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  Ambassador  Akram, 
his 
professional 
the 
Council’s  work  this  year.  We  believe  the  Council 
achieved significant success in all three key areas of its 
work  this  year:  the  consideration  of  thematic  issues, 
preparations  for 
the  United  Nations  summit,  and 
reform.  In  our  view, 
that  success  constitutes  an 
important step towards restoring  the  Council’s  central, 
coordinating  role  within  the  United  Nations  system  in 
the area of international cooperation for development.  

Despite the fact that the ministerial declaration of 
the  high-level  segment  was  not  adopted,  we  thought 
that the outcome still had positive aspects, because the 
intensive  work  done  at 
the  Council’s  substantive 
session  made  it  possible  to  quickly  identify  the  most 
complex and pressing areas of conflict, thus facilitating 
preparations  for  the  2005  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
of the General Assembly. 

The Economic and Social Council’s special high-
level  meeting  on  financing  for  development  was 
enhanced by the participation of leading officials of the 
Bretton  Woods 
the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development.  The  meeting  established  a 
good basis for subsequent consideration of the problem 
of  financing  for  development  in  the  framework  of  the 
General Assembly. 

We  welcome  the  important  decisions  adopted  at 
the  Council’s  substantive  session  to  make  further 
reform  of  United  Nations 
progress 
humanitarian  mechanisms 
the 
operational  activities  for  development  of  the  United 
Nations system. 

This  year’s session  marked an important stage in 
the  establishment  of  innovative  United  Nations  bodies 
such  as  the  ad  hoc  advisory  groups  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council on countries  emerging  from  armed 
institutions, 
towards 
the 
and 
to 
improve 
A/60/PV.37
conflict.  Through  those  groups,  a  basis  has  been  laid 
for  the  Council’s  effective  support  of  the  activities  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 

Thanks  to  the  systematic  work  on  formulating 
optimum  reform  measures,  for  the  first  time  in  many 
years  a  number  of  important  concrete  measures  for 
structural  changes  in  the  work  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  were  included  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General and in the outcome document of the 
summit  (resolution  60/1).  Belarus  maintains  its  strong 
support for those innovative ideas. 

Belarus  also  favours  the  adoption,  following 
ministerial meetings, of resolutions or declarations that 
are  more  significant  in  both  practical  and  political 
terms. We also support retaining the practice of annual 
thematic  discussions  at  the  ministerial  level  on  the 
most  pressing  social,  economic,  humanitarian  and 
ecological problems. 
We  express  our  appreciation  of  the  notes  of  the 

Council  President,  Mr.  Akram,  of  19  October,  which 
contained  proposals  for  the  implementation  of  those 
provisions. We believe that they form a good basis for 
the  implementation  of  decisions  adopted  during  the 
summit. We call upon Member States to consider them 
as  quickly  as  possible  in  the  format  of  open  and 
informal consultations. 
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  I  would  like  to  begin 

by  thanking  Ambassador  Munir  Akram,  President  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  for  introducing  the 
report  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  for  2005 
(A/60/3), which provides a comprehensive overview of 
the  Council’s  work.  This  year,  Iceland  was  elected  to 
the  Council  and  is  honoured  to  take  part  in  its 
important work. I would like to thank the President and 
the  four  Vice-Presidents  of 
its 
secretariat  for  their  excellent  work  and  professional 
leadership in the extensive work of the Council during 
its various segments, which the report for 2005 so aptly 
describes. 

Iceland aligns itself with the statement just made 
by the representative of the United Kingdom on behalf 
of the European Union. I will limit my brief statement 
to just one issue. 

A wide range of key issues were addressed by the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  and  we  have  heard 
about  them  from  previous  speakers.  They  are  all 
worthy of further deliberations here today. I shall speak 
the  Council  and 
05-56792 

7 
(Congo) 
Mr.  Makayat-Safouesse
A/60/PV.37 

very  briefly  on  Council 
resolution  2005/31,  on 
mainstreaming  a  gender  perspective  into  all  policies 
and  programmes  in  the  United  Nations  system.  I 
believe  that  by  adopting  that  resolution,  the  United 
Nations  is  creating  a  good  precedent  that  should 
encourage  all  Member  States  to  mainstream  a  gender 
perspective  into  their  own  policies,  thereby  advancing 
gender equality. 

The  reason  I  am  limiting  my  short  statement  to 
that  issue  is  the  fact  that  yesterday  Icelandic  society 
came  to  a  standstill,  as  Icelandic  women  staged  a 
general  walkout  to  mark  the  anniversary  of  their 
walkout 30 years ago. We are distributing the prepared 
text, and I will not read it. I hope members enjoy it. 

in 
(spoke 
French):  My  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  to  be  made  by  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China. 
At  the  outset,  I  want  to  recognize  the  quality  of 

the report  submitted  by the President of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  Mr.  Munir  Akram,  Permanent 
Representative of Pakistan (A/60/3). 

In  this  age  of  globalization,  the  coordinated 
efforts and concerted action of all actors to implement 
the global development aims that we have set ourselves 
are  becoming  ever  more  necessary.  In  that  regard, 
under  the  presidency  of  Mr.  Munir Akram,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Pakistan  —  whose  dynamism  and 
efficacy  I  wish  to  salute  —  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  has  pursued  efforts  to  fulfil  its  increasingly 
crucial mandate with regard to the challenges it faces.  

This year again, through the links that have been 
established  over  many  years  with  the  international 
financial 
a 
framework 
the  promotion  of  coherent  and 
coordinated  international  cooperation  on  the  occasion 
of the  2005  world summit. Through the  various  issues 
raised  in  our  debates  at  the  meeting  in  April  and  the 
substantive  session,  the  Council  made  a  significant 
contribution to the evaluation of our commitments and 
towards 
the 
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  many  other  international 
commitments. 

The key issue now is how to provide follow-up to 
the movement launched at the 2005 September summit 
in  order 
the  expectations  of  developing 
the  Council  provided 
consideration 
institutions, 
launching 
to  meet 
for 
our 
of 

in 
to 
some 
countries,  women 
countries,  in  particular  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  where 
achievements in poverty reduction remain modest. That 
is made clear in the 2005 United Nations report on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  notes,  inter 
alia,  that  half  of  all  children  under  the  age  of  five  are 
malnourished;  that  fewer  than  two  thirds  of  children 
that,  despite  modest 
attend  primary  school;  and 
progress 
remain 
inadequately represented in decision-making bodies. In 
turn, while the mortality rate for children under the age 
of  five  has  fallen,  significant  progress  has  yet  to  be 
registered.  Malaria  still  kills  90  per  cent  of  those  it 
infects,  while  the AIDS  pandemic  is  claiming  an  ever 
growing number of victims. 

In view of the situation, the Economic and Social 
Council  has  a  crucial  role  to  play,  as  previously 
outlined  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  “In 
larger  freedom”.  The  outcome  document  adopted  by 
our heads of State and Government at the 2005 summit 
sets  out  specific  guidelines  with  regard  to  our  future 
actions.  The  Economic  and  Social  Council  must  be 
made  more  effective  and  active  in  order  to  ensure  its 
capacity 
implement  decisions.  By  creating  a 
reinvigorated and strengthened Council, we will restore 
the  dynamism  necessary  to  the  implementation  of  all 
our  commitments  to  sustainable  development  and  to 
taking  the  concerns  of  the  developing  world  into 
account. 
Ms.  Bai  Yongjie  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At 

the  outset,  I  wish  to  convey  our  deep  sympathy  to 
Pakistan  and  other  South  Asian  nations  for  their 
suffering  as  a  result  of  the  recent  earthquake.  We  will 
do our best to help them overcome that tragedy and to 
rebuild their lives. 

I  also  thank  the  President  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  Ambassador  Akram, 
his 
introduction  of  the  report.  Given  the  Council’s  work 
and  its  important  role  in  the  United  Nations  system 
with  regard  to  economic development, I  wish  to  make 
the following points on items 41, 46 and 44. 

We are glad to note that the Economic and Social 
Council  has  recently  carried  out  effective  work  in  the 
economic and social fields, and held full discussions on 
a  number  of  related  major  issues,  laying  a  solid 
foundation  for  the  success  of  this  year’s  summit.  At 
this year’s substantive meeting, the Council held many 
round-table  meetings  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  invited  experts  to  participate  in  panel 
for 
8 

05-56792 
to 
have 
come 
fields 
constitute 
The  outcomes  of 
Indian  Ocean  earthquake  and 


discussions  on  working  methods  within  the  United 
Nations  system  and  on  the  experiences  and  lessons  of 
tsunami.  The 
the 
Council’s  discussions  have 
thus  become  more 
substantive  and  pragmatic.  Earlier,  it  also  conducted 
preparatory meetings for the high-level segment and its 
spring  dialogue  with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions, 
the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development.  Those 
meetings  and  discussions  have  served  vigorously  to 
mobilize  the  attention  and  political  will  of  all  parties 
on  development  issues  and  to  foster  consensus  on 
international  development  cooperation,  all  of  which 
contributed  to  the  United  Nations  summit. We  wish  to 
express  our  appreciation 
to  Ambassador  Akram, 
President  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  and 
other members of the bureau for their pioneering spirit 
and leadership. 

the  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related 
the 
Organization’s  development  agenda.  The  recent  High-
the  General  Assembly 
level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
reaffirmed 
international  agreements  and 
national  commitments,  sparking  the  enthusiasm  of  all 
parties 
agreed 
development  goals.  The  development  section  of  the 
summit demonstrated once again that development is a 
unified  and  comprehensive  concept,  with  various 
interrelated  and  mutually  reinforcing  factors  and 
requiring  comprehensive  and  balanced  consideration 
and  actions.  The  purpose  of 
integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  is  to  focus  on 
interlinkages  among  conferences,  mobilize  various 
forces,  and  promote  more  effective  implementation.  It 
has  been  proved  over  the  past  few  years  that  the 
biggest problem in follow-up activities is the huge gap 
between  words  and  actions.  The  summit  has  provided 
us  with an important opportunity by setting out a road 
map for the international community. It is essential for 
all  countries  and  social  sectors  to  act  jointly,  plan 
comprehensively, advance steadily, and contribute their 
due share. 

First,  achieving  development  involves  a  multi-
level  and  complex  process,  and  the  outcomes  of  the 
major United Nations conferences and summits cannot 
be  realized  overnight.  It  is  necessary  to  define  key 
areas  and  set  priorities  so  as  to  mobilize  maximum 
internationally 
fulfilling 
relevant 
the 
for 
A/60/PV.37
to 
to 
the 
and 
and 
have 
extensive 
the  outcomes  of 
them  an  organic  part  of 
international  conferences  with 
resources  and  achieve  the  optimum  distribution  of 
forces  and  the  most  desirable  results.  Thanks  to  the 
the  Millennium 
joint  efforts  of  all  countries, 
Development  Goals 
received  worldwide 
recognition 
their 
support, 
significance  has  been  officially  confirmed  by  the 
United  Nations  summits.  We  should  now  focus  our 
attention  on  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  as  the  first  step  towards  the 
realization of all relevant development goals. 

Secondly, action at the national level is a pivotal 
link  in  the  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation 
of 
the  major  United  Nations 
conferences and summits. There is a  wide spectrum of 
national  conditions.  Only  by  combining  the  consensus 
achieved  at 
their 
specific  national  conditions  can  countries  truly  claim 
ownership  and  action  be  undertaken  realistically  and 
effectively.  National  Governments 
the 
have 
international 
responsibility 
incorporate  various 
consensuses  into  their  national  development  strategies 
and  make 
their  own 
development 
programmes.  Constructive  dialogue 
should be encouraged at the regional and international 
levels, 
exchange  of 
experiences,  the  stimulation  of  new  thought,  and  the 
better mobilization of resources and technical means to 
support 
of 
development strategies at the national level. 
Thirdly, the United Nations, as the chief promoter 

of 
integrated  and  coordinated 
the 
outcomes  of  its  major  conferences,  should  vigorously 
mobilize all social sectors and encourage them to offer 
ideas and resources. If the  Organization  is to  maintain 
its  due  leadership,  its  relevant  meetings  need  to  be 
endowed  with  pragmatic  and  effective  agendas  and 
develop  innovative  working  methods.  Related  policy 
discussions  should  specify  concrete  policies,  expand 
consensus  and  identify  shortcomings  and  weaknesses 
so  as  to  better  mobilize  and  coordinate  international 
action.  There  should  be  better  communication  and 
coordination  among  organizations  and  agencies  to 
ensure  policy  coherence  and  avoid  contradictions  and 
duplication. In actual practice, countries can define the 
themes for exchanges and dialogues on major issues at 
various  intervals.  In  order  to  encourage  worldwide 
attention  and  the  extensive  involvement  of  all  social 
sectors,  meeting arrangements should be  more flexible 
and  diversified.  The  good  momentum  created  during 
implementation 
contributing 
coordinated 
follow-up 
thus 
the 
to 
05-56792 

9 
global 
action 
research 
effective 
to  fulfil 
Fourthly, 
the  Council 
A/60/PV.37 

the  preparation  for 
the  2005  summit  should  be 
maintained.  The  United  Nations  Millennium  Project 
reports  have  evoked  a  strong  global  response.  The 
Project’s  working  mechanism, 
and 
recommendations should be fully utilized. 

needs 
corresponding  organizational  backing.  The  Economic 
and  Social  Council,  as  the  main  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  system 
to  promote  economic  and  social 
development, has special advantages in pushing for the 
implementation  of  internationally  agreed  development 
goals.  The  outcome  document  of  the  2005  summit 
requests 
to  hold  annual  ministerial 
meetings,  review  progress  in  implementing  related 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  strengthen 
inter-agency  coordination,  and  respond  to  the  new 
development  challenges.  In  order 
those 
important  missions,  the  Council  needs  to  make  the 
necessary  adjustments, 
its  allocation  of 
resources  and  manpower,  and  reform  its  working 
methods.  We  hope  that  it  will  make  good  use  of  this 
opportunity to reinforce  its  coordinating  functions  and 
establish  an integrated review  mechanism  on  the basis 
of 
functional 
commissions  and  other  agencies  on  the  progress  of 
various conferences and summits. 

coordinated 
implementation  calls  for  integrated  and  coordinated 
supervision. Currently, many agencies, both within and 
outside  the  United  Nations  system,  are  evaluating 
progress  achieved  on  the  related  development  goals 
within  their  own  specific  fields,  with  limited  impact. 
We  call  for 
the  establishment  of  a  unified  and 
comprehensive  framework,  led  by  the  United  Nations, 
for  evaluating  progress 
implementation  of 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  It  would 
both  appraise  national  progress  and  oversee  and 
evaluate  international  cooperation  and  development 
aid. Though such a framework, countries can be urged 
to  fulfil  their  pledges  and  joint  efforts  can  be  made 
towards  achieving  internationally  agreed  development 
goals. 
As  regards  the  special  session  on  children,  we 

in  recent  years  by 
welcome  achievements  made 
national Governments, agencies and non-governmental 
organizations 
the  programme  of 
action. The advancement of the cause of children is an 
important  benchmark  of 
economic 
development  and  human  progress.  The  Chinese 
reviews  undertaken  by 
implementing 
integrated 
social 
and 
Fifthly, 
and 
the 
the 
improve 
in 
the 

of 
the  world’s 
implemented 
Naturally,  as 
in  recent  years  vigorously 
the  principle  of  “children  first”  and  fully 
Government  has  made  it  a  consistent  policy  to  adhere 
to 
to 
guarantee  children’s  rights  to  live  and  grow  up  under 
protection  and  to  participate.  On  the  basis  of  the 
fundamental  principles  of  China’s  Constitution,  the 
Chinese  Government  began  to  build  a  legal  system  to 
protect the rights and interests of children in the 1980s.  

To  fulfil  the  commitments  it  undertook  at  the 
special  session  on  children,  the  Chinese  Government 
has 
the 
Chinese  Child  Development  Programme  and  provided 
the  necessary  human,  financial  and  material  resources 
to  promote  children’s  causes.  At  present  on  mainland 
China,  all  provinces,  97.7  per  cent  of  prefectures  and 
99.5  per  cent  of  counties  have  formulated 
local 
development  programmes  for  children.  China  has  also 
formulated  a  number of  policies, rules and regulations 
offering  powerful  legal  guarantees  of  protection  for 
poor  and  vulnerable  children  and  the  removal  of 
development and gender inequalities.  

largest  developing 
country,  China  still  faces  many  challenges  in  the 
promotion 
causes.  The  Chinese 
Government  will  continue  to  make  tireless  efforts  to 
seek  solutions  to  child-related  issues  and  is  ready  to 
actively participate in international cooperation in that 
field  so  as  to  further  advance  children’s  causes  and 
enable  the  children  of  the  world  to  enjoy  a  bright  and 
promising future. 

This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
Fourth World Conference on Women. At its forty-ninth 
session,  the  Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women 
comprehensively  evaluated  the  implementation  of  the 
Beijing  Declaration  and  Programme  of Action  and  the 
outcome  document  of  the  twenty-third  special  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  women,  and  adopted  a 
commemorative  declaration. As  the  host  of  the  Fourth 
World Conference on Women, the Chinese Government 
has  also  held  a  commemorative  meeting,  and  the 
declaration adopted at that meeting has been circulated 
as  a  document  for  this  session.  We  hope  that,  through 
the concerted action of all countries, efforts to achieve 
gender  equality  and  to  protect  the  rights  and  interests 
of women and children will be further advanced. 
Mr. Neil (Jamaica): First of all, let me apologize 

for my tardiness in reaching the General Assembly this 
afternoon.  I  was  delayed  in  the  Fifth  Committee, 
children’s 
in 
10 

05-56792 
spirit 
innovative 


dealing  with  the  item  on  the  budget  for  the  biennium 
2006-2007. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  joins  in  expressing 
our solidarity with the people of Pakistan and the other 
nations  of  South Asia  that  were  affected  by  the  recent 
devastating  earthquake.  We  also  emphasize  that  the 
needs are enormous and urgent, and should receive the 
substantial support of the international community. 

On behalf of the Group of 77 and China, I wish to 
make  some  general  comments  on  the  report  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  for  2005.  We  examined 
the report against the background of  what has been an 
eventful  year  in  the  Council.  We  especially  want  to 
recognize  the  dynamic  leadership  of  the  President  of 
the Council, Ambassador Munir Akram, and his bureau 
in  guiding  the  work  of  the  Council  in  2005.  His 
leadership  brought  an 
to  and 
invigorated the work of the Council during the year. 
The  year  has  been  a  significant  one  for  the 

Economic  and  Social  Council.  Many  of  the  activities 
undertaken  were  geared 
the 
necessary  inputs  for  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
held  in  September.  Almost  all  the  discussions  in  the 
Council  had as their central theme  the achievement of 
the 
goals, 
including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  From 
the  outset,  therefore,  there  was  a  conscious  attempt  to 
bring focused discussion on the many critical issues of 
importance to the wider international community. 

I  will  draw  attention  to  aspects  of  the  Council’s 
work  that  were  of  particular  importance  to  the  Group 
of 77 and China. 

First,  as  to  the  annual  spring  meeting  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  with  the  Bretton Woods 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 
we  see  great  value  in  the  opportunity  to  engage  those 
institutions,  whose  policies  have  a  direct  impact  on 
development. It is for that reason that we should think 
of  ways  to  expand  the  scope  of  the  deliberations 
beyond the current format. The Council must be better 
able to facilitate networking in the development system 
and  to  provide  greater  oversight  in  global  economic 
decision-making.  We 
to 
strengthen  the  outcome  of  the  dialogue  and  to  expand 
the discussions beyond the time frame that is currently 
allotted. 
towards  providing 
think  of  ways 
internationally 
development 
agreed 
should 
A/60/PV.37
reflect 
is  more 
unswerving 
commitment 
than  a  mere  summary  of 

The  other  important  aspect  of  the  work  of  the 
Council to which I would like to refer is its substantive 
session, held in June and July. We are disappointed that 
the only outcome of the high-level segment this year is 
a mere summary of the deliberations. We recognize the 
difficulties involved, but we would have wanted a more 
substantive  recognition  of  the  many  useful  ideas  and 
proposals 
that  were  discussed  over  the  three-day 
period.  There  were,  for  example,  very  constructive 
ideas on current trends and developments in the  world 
economy, on the eradication of hunger and poverty, and 
on  employment  creation.  Unfortunately,  none  of  those 
could  be  reflected 
in  a  consensus  document  for 
adoption  by  our  ministers.  We  hope  that  that  situation 
will not be repeated in the future.  
We must all work to strengthen the Council, and a 

simple indication of our willingness to do so should be 
our ability to ensure that the outcome of the high-level 
segment 
the 
discussions that have taken place. It must fully capture 
and 
to 
implementing  the  obligations  that  we  are  called  upon 
to fulfil. 

The  humanitarian  affairs  segment  continues  to 
merit special attention in order to address humanitarian 
disasters.  The 
emergencies, 
including 
devastation  wrought  on 
the 
developing  countries  alike  as  a  result  of  natural 
disasters is a significant feature of the current year. For 
developing countries, the  magnitude of the destruction 
is even more dramatic, with significant loss of life and 
damaged property. The recent earthquake in South Asia 
and  the  continual  ravages  of  hurricanes  and  tropical 
storms 
the  Caribbean  and  Central  America 
demonstrate  the  urgency  with  which  action  has  to  be 
taken.  Special  economic  humanitarian  and  disaster-
relief assistance, in accordance with General Assembly 
resolution  46/182  of  16  December  1991,  has  to  be 
given  the  utmost  priority  in  the  work  of  the  Council, 
with  due  regard  for  the  primary  role  of  the  affected 
State  in  the  organization  and  delivery  of  humanitarian 
assistance. 

to 
strengthen  system-wide  coherence  and  to  urgently 
implement  the  worldwide  early  warning  system  that 
was  called  for  in  the  2005  Hyogo  Declaration  and 
Framework  for Action.  Greater  attention  also  needs  to 
be given to establishing predictable funding, especially 
for  neglected  emergencies,  and  to  reduce  the  gap  in 
natural 
the  developed  and 
Those  disasters  demonstrate 
the  need 
our 
in 
05-56792 

11 
the 
the 
global 
present 
environment, 
the  earthquake  and 
segment  were  completed  within 
A/60/PV.37 

terms  of  resource  needs  for  emergency  assistance  and 
for aid to development. 

I  turn  briefly  to  the  general  segment.  As  is 
customary, that segment commanded the most attention 
in terms of time and energy, given the volume of work 
to  be  covered  during  its  duration.  It  represents  an 
important  arena  through  which  a  myriad  of  issues, 
particularly those related to the  work of the functional 
commissions, can be considered. The real value of the 
general  segment  was  sometimes  lost  in  the  attempt  to 
ensure  that  the  many  agenda  items  to  be  addressed 
under 
the 
stipulated  time  frame. As  we  contemplate  how  best  to 
adapt the working methods of the Council to the needs 
of 
special 
consideration  will have to be given to how best to use 
the general segment to provide better coordination and 
oversight of the subsidiary bodies of the Council. 

One  issue  which  we  had  hoped  could  have  been 
reflected  in  this  year’s  report  of  the  Council  concerns 
the  situation in the  Maldives. We  are  close  to  the  first 
anniversary  of 
that 
wreaked  havoc  in  the  Indian  Ocean  and  the  littoral 
States,  yet  the  Council  has  not  been  able  to  take  a 
decision  to  support  the  request  of  the  Government  of 
the  Maldives  for  a  delay  in  its  transition  from  least 
developed status, made as a result of the devastation to 
that country arising from the tsunami. The Group of 77 
and  China  will  continue  to  seek  an  early  decision  on 
that matter. 

The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  agreed  on  the 
areas  in  which  the  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  should  be  strengthened.  We  are  now  charged 
with  identifying  the  most  appropriate  modalities  to 
ensure  that  its  role  in  its  areas  of  competence  can  be 
strengthened.  We  are  particularly 
in 
proposals 
integrally 
involved  in  policy  dialogue  and  implementation,  as 
well  as  in  the  promotion  of  development  cooperation. 
They  provide  an  important  basis  on  which  we  can 
begin 
system-wide 
coordination for development cooperation, as currently 
carried  out  under  the  operational  activities  segment, 
and  to  better  advance  the  implementation  of  the 
development agenda by strengthening the link between 
the normative and operational aspects. 

At  this  juncture,  I  should  like  to  highlight  three 
important  issues  that  should  guide  any  future  work  of 
the  Council  more 
the  Council’s 
interested 
to  make 
tsunami 
expand 
to 

is 
in 
advancing 
implementation  of 
that  civil  society  has  an 
the  Council.  First,  with  respect  to  preserving  the 
intergovernmental  process,  we  have  long  maintained 
that the Council should be given a more prominent role 
in  advancing  social  and  economic  development.  We 
acknowledge 
important 
contribution  to  make  to  the  process,  and  while  we 
continue  to  encourage  such  efforts,  we  urge  that  they 
do not compromise the primary role of Member States 
in the overall process. 

Secondly,  as  we  move  towards  better  integration 
and  coordination  of 
the 
the 
outcomes  emanating 
from  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and  summits,  we  must  be  mindful  of 
preserving  the  integrity  of  each  of  the  respective 
processes.  That 
critical 
the 
implementation of commitments. 

Thirdly,  the  organization  of  the  work  of  the 
Council should allow for greater flexibility and enable 
the Council to consider and take action on development 
issues  as  they  arise.  Thematic  discussions  and  policy 
issues,  analysis  of  trends  in  the  global  economy,  and 
reaction  to  emergencies  should  be  possible  within  a 
more flexible work programme of the Council. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  stand  ready  to  lend 

in  future  discussions  aimed  at 
their  full  support 
elaborating 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  understand  that 
additional  information  will  be  provided  next  month, 
detailing 
those  new 
undertakings. It is our hope that  we  will not allow the 
issue of financing to deter us from taking much-needed 
action  in  strengthening  the  Council.  We  expect  that 
equal  attention  will  be  given  to  all  aspects  of  the 
system  as  we  move 
reform  and 
revitalization of the entire United Nations. 
Mr. Karanja (Kenya): I take this opportunity, on 

behalf  of  my  delegation,  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 
the  able  manner 
the 
deliberations  of  this  important  sixtieth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  My  delegation  also  wishes 
to 
associate itself with the statement made by Jamaica on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China on the Economic 
and  Social  Council’s  2005  report  under  consideration, 
as  well  as  with  the  sentiments  of  solidarity  expressed 
with  the  victims  of  the  disaster  in  Pakistan  and 
neighbouring countries. 
May  I  also  congratulate  Ambassador  Munir 

Akram, President of the Economic and Social Council, 
in  which  you  are  guiding 
functions  assigned 
implications  of 
the  financial 
the  new 
towards 
the 
to 
12 

05-56792 
the 


and  the  entire  Council  bureau  on  their  dedication  and 
hard work in ensuring that the Council remains focused 
and delivers on its mandates. 

As  regards  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  during  its  2005  substantive  session,  I  wish  to 
observe that it provided an important basis for this year’s 
world  summit  and  the  ongoing  deliberations  of  the 
General  Assembly.  The  theme  of  the  2005  Council 
session  —  “Achieving 
internationally  agreed 
development  goals,  including  those  contained  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration,  as  well  as  implementing  the 
outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summit: progress made, challenges and opportunities” — 
was indeed in tune with the critical development issues at 
the centre of international debate. 

It  is  noteworthy  that,  during  the  2005  session  of 
the  Council,  delegations  agreed  that  the  attainment  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  remained  elusive 
in  many  countries, especially in Africa. In  spite of  the 
numerous  plans  and  strategies  that  have  been  put  in 
place  by  many  countries,  implementation  has  proved 
difficult  due  to  a  number  of  limitations  that  include 
inadequate resources.  

We in Kenya have made attempts in a number of 
areas, such as education, health and infrastructure. The 
full  implementation  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed  development 
goals  will 
the 
international  community  through  financial,  technical 
and  human resource  support. It  is in that  light that  we 
call  for  the  creation  of  international  partnerships  that 
can  facilitate  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

the  concerted  efforts  of 
that 
emphasized 
Mr. Hamidon (Malaysia), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
My  delegation  appreciates 
and  Social  Council 
the 

Economic 
the 
importance  of  fighting  HIV/AIDS  and  endorsed  an 
integrated 
prevention, 
treatment, 
research.  While 
underscoring  the  devastating  effects  of  the  HIV/AIDS 
pandemic  on  society,  particularly 
the  productive 
sections  of  the  population,  I  wish  to  note  that  we  in 
Kenya 
prevention, 
sensitization  and  cure  of  the  HIV/AIDS  victims.  The 
Government  is  working  with  various  partners  in  the 
health  sector  and  the  infection  rate  has  drastically 
approach 
care, 
that 
support 
the  fact 
includes 
towards 
require 
taken 
steps 
have 
and 
A/60/PV.37
of 
elements 
international 
the  framework  of 
dropped  from  over  14  per  cent  to  about  6  per  cent 
within the last three years. 

Environmental  protection  is  an  important  factor 
in  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  poverty  eradication  and  other  internationally 
agreed  goals.  International  environmental  governance 
is an integral part of realizing sustainable development. 
While Kenya supports the ongoing process of defining 
the 
environmental 
governance, my delegation is of the view that it should 
be  done  within 
the  Cartagena 
decision,  which  aims  at  strengthening  the  United 
Nations  Environment  Programme,  within  its  current 
mandate,  through  enhanced  financial  and  scientific 
bases. 

Environmental  protection  cannot  be  complete 
without  adequately  addressing  the  issue  of  forest 
management.  Forests  and  trees  play  a  critical  role  in 
supporting  the  livelihoods  of  people,  particularly  the 
world’s  poor.  Further  sustainable  forest  management 
could  contribute  to  developing  economies  in  many 
ways  through  the  provision  of  income,  employment 
creation,  and  the  fulfilment  of  health  needs  and  food 
security. My delegation therefore calls upon the United 
Nations  system  to  embrace  forest  management  as 
critical  to  environmental  management  and  sustainable 
development. 

the 
deliberations  at  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s 
2005 
coordination, 
and 
if  given  proper 
humanitarian  affairs 
consideration,  can  add 
the 
performance  of 
the  United  Nations  system.  The 
deliberations  at  the  2005  session  highlighted  key 
challenges  and  opportunities  in  the  endeavours  to 
implement the Millennium Development Goals and the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits. We  therefore  need  to  build  on  the  consensus 
that emerged in order to make a difference.  
Some  of  the  issues  that  emerged  that  require 

attention 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other  major 
outcomes  of  key  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  constitute  a  comprehensive  development 
agenda  for  the  international  community,  and  that  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and other internationally agreed goals has been uneven 
in  terms  of  both  the  goals  and  the  regions.  With  due 
operational 
segments, 
immense  value 
understanding 
delegation 
activities 
believes 
include 
further 
that 
My 
to 
the 
that 
05-56792 

13 
the 
of 
fully 
supports 
delegation 
internationally 
implementation 
A/60/PV.37 

respect for those challenges, my delegation appreciates 
the  fact  that  the  international  community  has  shown  a 
new  spirit  of  shared  responsibility  in  moving  ahead 
with 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
objectives. 

Under the coordination segment of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  session,  the  contribution  of  the 
United  Nations  system  towards  the  follow-up  and 
implementation 
agreed 
development  goals  was  reviewed.  Ways  and  means  of 
improving  the  Council’s  coordination  functions  were 
discussed.  My 
the 
recommendations  that  were  made  towards  improving 
the way the United Nations system works in relation to 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In 
particular,  we  recommend  that  efforts  be  made  to 
enhance  the  link  between  the  United  Nations  agencies 
and  regional  commissions  in  the  field,  to  distinguish 
between  coordination  and  integration  functions  in  the 
field,  and  to  adopt  a  multi-year  programme  for  the 
coordination segment. 

In  addition,  it  is  our  hope  that  the  theme  of  the 
2006  coordination  segment  —  “Sustained  economic 
growth 
the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger”  —  will  generate 
discussions that will add value to the attainment of the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

My delegation recognizes that the United Nations 
has  a  unique  capacity  and  opportunity  to  provide 
neutral  and  flexible  support  to  countries  in  their 
struggle  to  implement  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed  goals.  That 
uniqueness is enshrined in its power to engage various 
stakeholders  at 
its  distinctive 
advocacy  role,  and  its  analytical  capacity  on  complex 
social and economic issues. It is in that regard that my 
to  strengthen  and 
delegation  supports 
integrate 
the  United 
Nations system. 

In  harmonizing  the  operational  activities  of  the 
United Nations system in the field, it is important that 
consideration  be  given  to  either  merging  or  reducing 
United  Nations  agencies.  That  can  go  a  long  way 
towards  presenting  a  unified  image  of  the  United 
Nations through all its operations in the field. 
At  its  2005  session,  the  Economic  and  Social 

Council  exchanged  views  on  the  transition  from  relief 
the  operational  activities  of 
social  development, 
the  country 
level, 
the  need 
for 
including 
of 
the 

reliable 
funding  mechanisms, 
to  development  and  on  issues  of  special  economic, 
humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance.  In  light  of 
the  increasing  humanitarian  and  disaster  assistance 
requirements  occasioned  by  natural  disasters,  it  is 
important for the United Nations to review its approach 
and preparedness in handling the same. My delegation 
therefore  supports  the  need,  among  other  things,  to 
establish 
including 
through  the  consolidated  appeals  process  and  the 
improvement  of  the  Central  Emergency  Revolving 
Fund  by  including  a  grant  facility  component,  as  was 
proposed during the deliberations of the Economic and 
Social Council. 
Mr. Aghazadeh  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  May 

I start by associating my delegation with the statement 
made  by  the Ambassador  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China. 

Sixty  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  United 
Nations Charter, the role and mandate of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  remain  more  relevant  than  ever 
before. The Council still plays a major and vital role in 
dialogue, coordination, cooperation and policy-making 
in  the  economic  and  social  fields.  At  this  juncture, 
numerous  old  and  emerging  challenges  are  before  us. 
Many 
targets, 
including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  are 
supposed to be met by 2015.  

Lack  of  coordination  and  cooperation  and  even 
failure  in  a  few  areas  could  make  our  efforts  fruitless 
and prevent the achievement of the MDGs as planned. 
There  are  certain  commitments  enshrined 
the 
outcomes of regional and international agreements that 
deserve  action  and 
implementation.  The  current 
situation and the need for progress to be monitored by 
an  appropriate  forum  show  how  critical  and  decisive 
the  work  of  the  Council  will  be  in  the  years  ahead  in 
tackling  the  challenges.  The  Economic  and  Social 
Council should therefore be strengthened so that it can 
address  adequately  and  comprehensively  all  of  the 
parameters involved in development. 

The reform of the Economic and Social Council in 
the  early  1990s,  with  the  creation  of  various  segments, 
helped  the  international  community  to  categorize  the 
main  mandates  of  the  Council  and,  in  that  context,  to 
address global challenges in a more effective and efficient 
manner. Fortunately, the role of the Economic and Social 
Council  as  enshrined 
the  Charter  was  recently 
reaffirmed  in  the  Summit  Outcome  document.  That 
internationally  agreed  goals  and 
in 
in 
14 

05-56792 


document  recognized  the  need  for  a  more  effective 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  the  principal  body  for 
policy  dialogue,  policy  review,  coherence,  coordination, 
development  cooperation,  emergency 
response  and 
recommendations  on  issues  relating  to  economic  and 
social  development.  The  document  also  recognized  the 
role  of  the  Council  in  implementing  the  international 
development  goals  agreed  at  the  major  United  Nations 
summits  and  conferences,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

My delegation believes that, in order to make the 
required progress in implementation of the MDGs, the 
Council should, as a matter of priority, review trends in 
international development cooperation at the envisaged 
biennial  high-level  Development  Cooperation  Forum, 
in  accordance  with  paragraph  155  of  the  outcome 
document. 

National reports on progress made, reports of the 
United  Nations  regional  commissions  and  relevant 
international  organizations,  and  a  comprehensive  and 
analytical  report  on  the  basis  of  those  reports,  as  well 
as high-level representation and active participation by 
Member 
international 
organizations,  could  provide  a  basis  for  assessing 
progress  and  identifying  gaps  and  constraints  at  each 
meeting of the Forum. 

Having  experienced  a  great  many  high-level 
gatherings  and  forums,  both  inside  and  outside  the 
United Nations system, I can say that participation and 
exchanges of views alone will be insufficient to enable 
us to reach the goals  within the envisaged time frame. 
A  strong  will  for  cooperation  and  implementation  on 
the  part  of  the  politicians  will  certainly  be  needed. 
Coherence  and  coordination  should  not  be  limited  to 
the  United  Nations.  The 
bodies  affiliated  with 
international 
financial 
institutions, 
the 
Bretton Woods institutions, should adapt themselves to 
the trends and policies set out in the General Assembly, 
which enjoys global membership and has a democratic 
decision-making process.  

The  implementation  of  the  commitment  of  the 
developed  countries  to  allocating  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
gross  national  product 
to  official  development 
assistance by 2015 and the establishment of a timetable 
for  that  commitment  by  those  countries  that  have  not 
yet done so will be key to the success of the Economic 
and Social Council in fulfilling its mandates.  
including 
States 
heads 
and 
of 
A/60/PV.37
the 
India 
is  diverted 
strengthening 
least-developed-country  status,  despite 

We  appreciate  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  in  mitigating  the  impact  of  natural 
disasters  and  coordinating  the  humanitarian  response 
so  far,  but  much  remains  to  be  done  in  terms  of 
preparedness  and 
international 
humanitarian response to natural disasters. As members 
are  aware,  the  devastating  impact  of  the  growing 
number  of  natural  disasters  is  inflicting  considerable 
and unexpected damage on the affected countries. With 
each  occurrence,  a  significant  portion  of  the  available 
financial  resources 
human  and 
from 
development 
to  relief  and  recovery  efforts.  The 
international  community  in  general,  and the  Economic 
and Social Council in particular, should address natural 
disasters  in  such a  way  that efforts to  meet the  MDGs 
are  not  drastically  affected.  The  Maldives 
is  an 
example  of  a  country  that  was  deprived  of  graduation 
from 
long-
standing  development  activities,  as  a  result  of  the 
tsunami  that  took  place  last  year  in  the  Indian  Ocean. 
That  showed  how  vulnerable  the  developing  countries 
are  vis-à-vis  natural  disasters  and  highlighted  their 
growing  need  for  attention  from  the  international 
community. 
In conclusion, the politicization of economic and 

social  development 
the  use  of  unilateral 
coercive  policies  and  measures  continues  to  hamper 
international  efforts  for  the  creation  of  a  favourable 
environment  for  development  and  the  eradication  of 
poverty at the national and global levels. There should 
be  changes  to  and  improvements  in  the  way  we  view 
global  problems  and  their  causes.  We  firmly  believe 
that  the  universal  recognition  of  development  as  a 
right, together with a sincere commitment to efforts for 
its achievement, will significantly contribute to poverty 
eradication  and  better  standards  of  living,  and  thereby 
to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  throughout 
the world. 

Mr. Atiyanto  (Indonesia):  Our  delegation  joins 
the  President  and  other  representatives  in  expressing 
our deep  solidarity  with  and  sympathy  for  the  peoples 
and 
and 
Afghanistan, which have been severely affected by the 
recent  earthquake.  Indonesia  joins  other  members  of 
the 
in  expressing  our 
continued readiness to ease the burden of our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Pakistan,  as  well  as  in  India  and 
Afghanistan. 
the  Governments  of  Pakistan, 
international  community 
through 
05-56792 

15 

like 
at  major  United  Nations 
A/60/PV.37 


There  is  no  question  that  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  plays  a  vital  role  in  coordinating  the 
implementation  of  international  development  goals 
agreed 
international 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic  and  social 
fields. That is evident from the report of the Economic 
and Social Council on its work in 2005, as contained in 
document  A/60/3.  My  delegation  would 
to 
sincerely  thank  Ambassador  Munir  Akram  for  having 
introduced  the  report  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  for  2005.  In  this  regard,  my  delegation  also 
shares  the  views  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica,  who  spoke on  behalf of the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 

The 2005 world summit opened a new window of 
opportunity  for  strengthening  the  role  and  function  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  coordination, 
policy  review  and  the  provision  of  recommendations 
on issues relating to economic and social development. 
In  this  regard,  the  additional  responsibilities  assigned 
to  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  should  made  it 
more  effective  and  responsive  to  various  development 
challenges. 

In light of the expanded mandate of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  my  delegation  sees  the  need  to 
identify  modalities 
its 
implementation.  In  doing  so,  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly,  together  with  the  President  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  should  arrange  the 
necessary  consultations  to  obtain  support  from  all 
Member States. 

Once  again,  it  is  of  paramount  importance  that 
such  consultations  always  be  conducted  in  an  open, 
transparent and inclusive manner. It is also critical that 
those  consultations  consider  the  relations  between  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council in accordance with the United 
Nations Charter. 

The 2005  world summit has further endorsed the 
mandate  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  stay 
engaged  with  all  stakeholders  at  the  national,  regional 
and  global  levels.  We  hope  that  such  engagement 
would focus on practical and action-oriented outcomes, 
especially to support developing countries in achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

We  also  highly  value  the  role  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  in  supporting  and  complementing 
to  address 
national, 
regional  and  global  efforts 
that  will 
facilitate 
in 
require 
analytical 
flexibility 
to  provide  deeper 
humanitarian  emergencies,  as  in  the  case  of  natural 
disasters.  That  would 
the 
Council’s  programme  of  work  to  meet  and  to  make 
recommendations  for  emergency  situations.  In  that 
regard, coordination between the Economic and Social 
Council  and  its  functional  and  regional  commissions, 
United  Nations  funds  and  programmes,  and  national 
Governments, is indispensable. 

We also must not lose sight of the important role 
of the Council’s secretariat. In our view it needs to be 
strengthened 
and 
administrative support for the substantive deliberations 
of the Council. 

Mr.  Chulkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian):  Allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  again 
express our condolences to the people of  Pakistan  and 
to other countries victims of this shattering earthquake. 
Like many other countries, Russia immediately sent its 
experts,  doctors,  special  equipment  and  field  hospitals 
to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to  the  afflicted 
regions.  Allow  me  to  express  our  confidence  that  at 
tomorrow’s  international  conference  in  Geneva,  the 
international  community  will  once  again  show  its 
support  to  the  people  who  have  suffered  from  the 
earthquake. 

The Russian Federation is pleased with the results 
of  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  this 
year. In our view, the Council has reaffirmed its role as 
the  central  body  for  the  discussion  of  development 
issues and as the key coordinating body for the work of 
the  United  Nations  system  in  socio-economic  and 
environmental areas.  

The  Council’s  substantive  session,  as  well  as  its 
preparatory phase, made important contributions to the 
preparations  for  the  2005  summit.  Although  Member 
States  were  unable  to  agree  on  a  draft  ministerial 
declaration  for  the  high-level  segment  of  the  session, 
the  negotiations  on  the  subject  were,  in  our  view, 
extremely 
detailed 
discussions  on  a  broad  range  of  issues  on  the  socio-
economic  agenda  of  the  summit  and  helped  to  clarify 
the positions of Member States, including on the  most 
sensitive 
to  agreement  on  many 
elements  which  then  formed  the  basis  for  subsequent 
discussions. 

We  also  approve  of  the  work  of  the  operational 
and  humanitarian  segments  of  the  session.  It  is  of  the 
greatest  importance  that  the  decisions  adopted  there 
useful.  They 
allowed 
for 
issues, 
leading 
16 

05-56792 
taking 
included 
into  account 
the  Council, 
this  year  also 
Important  work 


allowed  for  progress  in  determining  the  competencies 
of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  body  that  establishes 
political,  system-wide  directions,  and  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  as  the  organ  that  coordinates  their 
implementation  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations system. 

We  welcome  the  strengthening  and  enhancement 
of  the  interaction  between  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council and the international financial and commercial 
institutions.  The  practice  of  holding  annual  high-level 
meetings  of 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the 
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
has  again  demonstrated  its  usefulness  and  must  be 
continued, 
the  prerogatives, 
mandates  and  modalities  for  decision-making  in  all  of 
the institutions involved.   

the 
informal discussion on the reform of the Economic and 
Social  Council.  Although 
there  were  divergent 
positions,  a  common  understanding  of  mutually 
acceptable  elements  was  reached,  which  made 
it 
possible for the Council to develop a block of decisions 
for the outcome document. Here we would like to note 
the  leadership  role  in  that  area  and  in  organizing  the 
work  of  the  Council  of  the  President  of  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Pakistan, Mr. Munir Akram. 

The  ideas  put  forward  in  the  outcome  document 
of the 2005 world summit regarding the Economic and 
Social  Council  create  the  potential  for  strengthening 
the political significance, the role and the effectiveness 
of  the  Council.  At  the  core  of  our  work  must  be  the 
establishment  through  the  Council  of  a  forum  for 
cooperation  for  development  and  for  carrying  out 
ministerial  assessments  of  progress  in  implementing 
the  results  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and  summits. We  support  the  holding  of  such  a  forum 
on a biannual basis as part of the high-level segment of 
the  Council’s  substantive  session,  in  light  of  the  need 
for  strict  compliance  with  the  balance  between  New 
York and Geneva.  

It  is  extremely  important  to  reach  a  common 
understanding  among  Member  States  regarding  the 
ministerial  assessments  of  progress  in  implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
decision of the summit on this issue must not result in 
a cumbersome new process that needs a lot of time and 
this  year, 
A/60/PV.37
such 
as 
go 
national 
instruments 
reports 
also 
the  MDGs.  We 
Council,  which  would 
a  great  many  resources  to  monitor  compliance  by 
countries  with  the  goals  agreed  on  the  international 
level.  That  would  duplicate  existing  mechanisms  — 
such  as  individual  processes  for  implementing  the 
results  of  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  — 
on 
or 
implementation  of 
find 
inadmissible the revival, in the guise of implementing a 
decision  of  the  summit,  of  the  idea  of  holding  peer 
reviews. 

On  the  whole,  the  summit  decisions  presuppose 
implementation  of  reform  steps  within 
the  main 
parameters  of  the  present  format  of  the  work  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council.  We  are  aware  of  the 
possibility  for  further  enhancing  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Council’s  work,  for  example,  through  optimizing 
the agenda of the substantive segment of the session.  

However,  we  are  opposed  to  a  radical  review  of 
the  format  and  working  methods  of the  Economic  and 
Social 
beyond 
implementation  of  the  decisions  of  the  summit.  There 
can  be  no  possibility  for  dividing 
the  Council’s 
substantive session or for reducing its length, or for the 
establishment  within 
executive 
committees  or  management  groups  which  are  not 
provided for under the existing rules of procedure. 

The  optimum  format  for  discussing  specific 
modalities  for  the  implementation  of  the  summit’s 
decisions  on  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  is,  in 
our  view,  to  work  within  the  framework  of  the 
organizational  and,  when  necessary,  the  substantive 
session of the Council itself in 2006. 

This  does  not,  however,  mean  that  informal 
discussion must definitely be postponed until next year. 
We  have  read  with  interest  the  working  documents 
recently  distributed  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of  Pakistan,  which  contain  a  number  of  specific 
initiatives  for  the  implementation  of  the  decisions  of 
the  summit 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  We  are  ready  to  participate  actively  in  the 
informal  meeting  of  the  Council  proposed  therein  for 
an  exchange  of  views  on  this  subject  and  for  the 
establishment of a basis for future work in that area. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item.  The Assembly  has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 41. 

the  Council  of 
regarding 
05-56792 

17 
A/60/PV.37 

Agenda item 7 (continued) 
















Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

in 
contained 
Committee 
  Second report of the General Committee 
(A/60/250/Add.1) 

The Acting President:  I  should  like  to  draw  the 

attention of  representatives  to the  second report of the 
General 
document 
A/60/250/Add.1.  In  the  first  paragraph  of  the  report, 
the  General  Committee  recommends  to  the  General 
Assembly  that  the  item  entitled  “Observer  Status  for 
the  Hague  Conference  on Private  International  Law  in 
the  General  Assembly”  be  included  in  the  agenda  of 
the  current  session  under  section  I,  Organizational, 
Administrative  and  Other  Matters.  May  I  take  it  that 
the  General  Assembly  decides  to  include  this  item  in 
the agenda of the current session under section I?  
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  General  Committee 

further  recommends  that  the  item  be  allocated  to  the 
Sixth  Committee.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly  decides  to  allocate  this  item  to  the  Sixth 
Committee? 

It was so decided. 
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform 

members that the item entitled “Observer Status for the 
Hague  Conference  on  Private International  Law  in the 
General Assembly” becomes item 158 on the agenda of 
the  current  session.  The  Chairman  of 
the  Sixth 
Committee  will be informed of the  decision just taken 
by the General Assembly.  

Agenda items 46 and 44 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/60/275) 
Follow-up to the outcome of the special session 
on children 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/207) 
in 
the 
report  of 
the  Secretary-General  circulated 
Under agenda item 44, the Assembly has before it 
in 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

will  now  consider,  in  a  joint  debate,  agenda  item  46, 
“Integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related  fields,” and agenda  item  44,  “Follow-up to the 
outcome  of 
the  special  session  on  children”.  In 
connection  with  agenda  item  46,  the  Assembly  has 
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  transmitting 
his  updated  report  on  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council 
integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits, 
circulated in document A/60/275. 

a 
document A/60/207. 
Mr.  Neil:  (Jamaica):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 

on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, under agenda 
item  46,  “Integrated  and  coordinated  implementation 
of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the  major  United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic, 
social and related fields”. 
I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 

reports  submitted  for  our  consideration.  We 
look 
forward  to  future  discussions  on  the  various  reports. 
Some  of  the  issues  of  concern to the  Group  of  77 and 
China  were  highlighted  during  the  recently  concluded 
substantive  session  of 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. I wish now only to highlight some points that 
should  be 
further 
consideration of this item. 

coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
requires that all relevant United Nations entities review 
their priorities and programmes in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the relevant outcomes. We hope 
to  receive  more  details  on  concrete  actions  already 
taken  to  support  the  implementation  of  the  decisions, 
especially  those  related  to  development,  that  were 
adopted  at  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  which 
concluded recently. We believe that the Secretariat has 
an  important  role  to  play  at  the  technical  level  in 
ensuring  that  resource  flows  to  developing  countries 
are  facilitated.  Timely  assistance  in  the  adoption  of 
country-level  strategies  and  programmes  and  in  the 
into  account 
integrated 
in  our 
taken 
First, 
and 
the 
18 

05-56792 


identification  of  funding  sources  will  also  be  very 
critical.  

We  therefore  anticipate  very  active  participation 
by  the  Secretariat  in  monitoring  the  release  of  donor 
resources  and  in  supporting  measures  for  greater  aid 
effectiveness.  Equally,  at  the  level  of  policies,  we 
expect  continuous  review  of  how  global  economic 
policies  to  support  development  are  reflected  in  the 
commitments  given  at 
the  summit  and  previous 
conferences. 
We recognize that efforts will have to be made to 

bring  those  entities  not  directly  under  the  jurisdiction 
of the United Nations into the discourse on how best to 
mainstream  development  in  their  respective  policies 
and strategies. We understand that this will be the main 
focus of the next meeting of the United Nations System 
Chief  Executives  Board  for  Coordination,  scheduled 
for 20 and 29 October.  
At the same time, we would like to highlight one 

area of concern. In the ongoing work to be undertaken 
by  the  United  Nations  Department  of  Economic  and 
Social Affairs, the relevant funds and programmes, the 
Chief  Executive  Board  and 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Group,  adequate  oversight  arrangements 
will have to be in place to ensure that the activities are 
monitored  at  the  inter-Governmental  level.  For  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
outcome  of  Secretariat  deliberations  in  the  field  of 
development  should  be  appropriately  reviewed  and 
considered by Member States. 
With  regard  to  management  reform  issues,  we 

will be awaiting the Secretary-General’s proposals on a 
range  of 
the  Fifth 
Committee.  The  approach  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China will be to assess those proposals on their merits 
as  reforms  aimed  at  improving  the  efficiency  and 
performance  of  the  Organization  in  the  interests  of  all 
States.  We  intend  to  do  so  carefully  and  objectively, 
regardless  of 
to  satisfy  particular 
interests.  The  position  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
will continue to be determined on that basis.  

Group of 77 and China on agenda item 46.  

I  should  now  like  to  make  a  statement  on  behalf 
of  Jamaica  on  agenda  item  46,  “Follow-up  to  the 
outcome  of  the  special  session  on  children”,  in  my 
capacity as the Permanent Representative of Jamaica. 
That  is the  end  of  the  statement  on behalf  of the 
for  consideration 
the  pressures 
issues 
in 
that  regard, 
A/60/PV.37
fit 
In  her 
in 
in 
institutional 
capacity, 
for  children” 
implementation  of 
recent  presentation 
Three  years  have  passed  since 

the  General 
Assembly  adopted  its  decision  to  work  towards  “A 
(resolution  S-27/2).  The 
world 
Assembly’s  assessment  of 
the 
commitments  made on that occasion is taking place in 
the  context  of  the  coordinated  follow-up  to  the  major 
United Nations conferences and summits. That is most 
appropriate  because  mutually 
reinforcing  global 
development  agendas  seek  to  ensure  the  protection  of 
children’s interests in a comprehensive and coordinated 
manner. 

the  Third 
Committee,  the  representative  of  UNICEF  identified 
some  of  the  challenges  facing  the  implementation  of 
critical  programmes  for  children.  Among  them  are 
weaknesses 
budgetary 
constraints and the existence of conflict and instability. 
She also identified some of the possible ways forward: 
the  establishment  of  high-level  national  councils  for 
children, capacity-building to strengthen national child 
agencies  and  collaboration  with  parliamentarians  and 
civil  society  organizations  to  promote  child-focused 
budgets. We concur with that assessment. 

Implementation  of the  commitments  of  “A  world 
fit  for  children”  is  among  the  national  priorities  of 
Jamaica. Our support for that outcome document is one 
of  a  number  of  initiatives  to  which  we  are  committed 
in order to promote and protect the welfare of children. 
We  have  ratified  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the 
Child and  its  Optional Protocol  on the Involvement of 
Children  in  Armed  Conflict.  Our  involvement  and 
leadership at the regional level includes the hosting of 
the  2000  regional  conference  on  children,  which 
adopted the Kingston Consensus. 

The outcome document “A world fit for children” 
called for the development of action plans for children. 
In 
the  Government  of  Jamaica  has 
established a national plan of action as an institutional 
framework  for  addressing  and  enforcing  children’s 
rights.  To  complement  that  action  plan,  domestic 
legislation  in  the  area  of  children’s  rights  has  been 
enacted,  the  most  important  of  which  is  the  landmark 
Child Care and Protection Act, adopted in 2004. 

the  Child 
Development Agency,  headed  by  the  first Ambassador 
for  Children,  was  established.  The  Agency  was  given 
the responsibility of achieving the holistic development 
of  children 
implementation, 
the  special  session, 
through 
the  creation, 
Shortly  after 
05-56792 

19 

In 
adopted 
addition, 
The  Government 
the  Agency  has 
to  help  citizens  understand  what 
A/60/PV.37 

coordination  and 
regulation  of  programmes  and 
policies  aimed  at  fulfilling  Jamaica’s  obligations.  The 
Child  Development Agency  is  also  working  on  public 
education, social mobilization and community outreach 
in  order 
their 
responsibilities  are  and  to  equip  them  to  be  better 
parents, among other things. 

a 
multisectoral  approach  in  developing  policies  that 
relate to and affect children. They include the national 
plan  of  action  on  children,  the  national  plan  of  action 
on  child  labour  and  the  new  policy  framework  for 
street children. 

The  Government  of  Jamaica  has  undertaken  to 
achieve the minimum targets relating to reducing infant 
and maternal mortality and has made significant strides 
in  that  area  over  the  past  few  years.  It  has  effectively 
reduced  severe  and  moderate  malnutrition  among 
children under five years and has an extensive, ongoing 
immunization  programme. Additionally,  access  to  safe 
drinking water has been improved. 

quality 
education at the primary level. 

With  a  view  to  implementing  a  comprehensive 
policy to counter violence against children and protect 
their  rights,  a  child-specific  national  human  rights 
institution  has  been  established.  Other 
initiatives 
include  the  establishment  of  a  juvenile  unit  in  the 
police  force,  as  well  as  a  victim  support  unit  in  the 
Ministry of National Security to assist child victims of 
violent crimes. 
the  goal  of 

combating  HIV/AIDS,  but 
significant  challenges 
remain. We are pleased that, as a result of the provision 
of anti-retroviral drugs to more women, there has been 
some  progress  in  reducing  the  rate  of  mother-to-child 
transmission.  But,  while  we  note  the  success  in  that 
area,  we  remain  concerned  about  the  rate  of  new 
infections  among  women  and,  in  particular,  young 
girls.  That  means  that  the  battle  continues  and  that 
there is need for an injection of even greater resources 
to  achieve  our  target  of  reducing  the  proportion  of 
infected infants by 20 per cent by  2005  and by 50 per 
cent  by  2010.  The  need  for  adequate  resources  is 
critical  to  support  the  political  commitment  that  is 
already assured. 
We  remain  fully  committed 
is  committed 
free, 
to  providing 
compulsory 
education, 
providing 
to 
of 
the  State’s 
implementation 

We commend the role of UNICEF in helping the 
country meet its national objectives, particularly in the 
area of the fight against HIV/AIDS, in response to the 
rising  number  of  cases  of  children  orphaned  by  the 
disease. 

In  all  our  efforts,  we  are  committed  to  the 
involvement  of  non-governmental  organizations  and 
civil society, which we believe can play a useful role in 
monitoring 
the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child. 
We owe it to our children to provide them with a 

safe  haven  fit  for  them  to  inhabit  as  they  make  their 
transit  into  adulthood.  My  Government  remains  fully 
committed to achieving that. 
Ms.  Kidwai  (India):  At  the  outset,  please  allow 

me  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for  this  opportunity  to  express 
our  views  on  the  critical  task  before  us,  namely,  the 
implementation  of  and  the  follow-up  to  the  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the 
economic and social fields, in particular, the decisions 
of  the  2005  World  Summit.  We  believe  that  effective 
follow-up  to  and  implementation  of  decisions  is  often 
as  important  as  the  decisions  themselves,  and  we 
therefore take the task before us seriously. 
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 

60/1)  included  a  number  of  key  decisions  designed  to 
improve the functioning and performance of the United 
Nations.  Those  included,  inter  alia,  a  commitment  by 
all  Governments 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015;  the  establishment  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council  in  a  time-bound  manner;  the  conclusion  of  a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism; 
the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  oversight 
capacity; 
international 
community’s  response  to  infectious  diseases  and  other 
emerging health challenges; support for early reform of 
the Security Council; and agreement on the deletion of 
anachronistic  references  to  “enemy  States”  in  the 
Charter. 

At  the  same  time,  much  of  the  work  initiated  by 
the  preparatory  reports  of  the  United  Nations  reform 
process  has  been  left  incomplete.  There  is  a  need  for 
the United Nations to provide direction on issues such 
the  achievement  of  official 
as  debt  cancellation, 
foreign 
development 
direct 
the 
investment 
resources  and 
facilitate 
to 
environmentally-friendly 
transfer  of 
technology 
scaling-up 
assistance 
achieve 
targets, 
flows, 
the 
the 
of 
in 
to 
20 

05-56792 


sustainable  development  and  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  World  Summit 
Outcome  reflects  agreement  to  work  expeditiously 
towards  implementing  the  development  dimensions  of 
the  Doha  Work  Programme  but  did  not  provide  clear, 
comprehensive  political  direction  to  the  World  Trade 
Organization’s  Doha  Round.  Such  direction  could  set 
the stage for the success of the Hong Kong Ministerial 
Conference of the World Trade Organization to be held 
in  December  2005.  The  growing  impasse  shows  that 
such  political  direction  is  needed.  We  need  to  rectify 
that situation. 

For  satisfactory  progress  on  United  Nations 
reform,  the  question  of  distribution  of  economic  and 
political power in the United Nations, including in the 
Security  Council,  also  needs  to  be  addressed.  As  the 
Secretary-General  has  stated,  no  reform  of  the  United 
Nations can be complete without reform of the Security 
Council. 

The  President  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
attached  utmost  importance  to  the  follow-up  to,  and 
implementation  of,  development  issues  in  the  2005 
World  Summit  Outcome.  He  has  stressed  the  need  for 
political  momentum  on  development  to  be  maintained 
and  strengthened.  He  also  pointed  out  that  the  United 
Nations,  in  particular,  had  to  play  its  part  in  ensuring 
that 
in  place 
appropriate  ways and  means to achieve the timely and 
full realization of the Millennium Development Goals. 

He  noted  that  the  General  Assembly’s  ongoing 
work had to include items such as the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD),  HIV/AIDS, 
migration 
the 
implementation  of  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  and  that 
the  outcome  document  had  invited  the  Secretariat  to 
undertake  work  on  system-wide  coherence  this  year, 
with  the  aim  of  improving  the  way  United  Nations 
development,  humanitarian  and  environment  activities 
were  managed  and  coordinated.  We  agree  with  the 
approach 
the  General 
Assembly  to  the  work  that  lies  ahead,  particularly  as 
concerns  follow-up  to  the  development  aspects  of  the 
outcome document. 
The main purpose of the 2005 world summit was 

to  review 
the  Millennium 
Declaration.  Unfortunately,  most  countries  will  not  be 
able  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  given  their  current  levels  of  growth  and  the 
international  community  has 
implementation  of 
the  President  of 
arrangements 
reviewing 
taken  by 
and 
the 
the 
for 
A/60/PV.37
in 
the 
Monitoring 
progress  made 
that  debt 
by 
international  support 
stock  cancellation 
sharp 
increases 
level  of 
they  are  receiving. 
Efforts  have  to  be  made  at  both  the  national  and 
international levels to reach the targets set. While both 
the Millennium Declaration and the outcome document 
have  spoken  of  exploiting  the  beneficial  aspects  of 
globalization, agreement on and implementation of the 
modalities  is  still  lacking.  Making  the  process  of 
globalization fairer and  more equitable remains one of 
the  main  challenges  of  our  time.  One  achievement 
made  by  the  G-77  was  progress  on  systemic  issues 
critical  for  good  international  economic  governance. 
That progress has to be built upon. 

the 
implementation  of  MDG  8  by  developed  countries  is 
an  integral  part  of  the  monitoring  of  the  MDGs  as  a 
whole.  Therefore,  country-level  reports  by  developed 
countries  with  regard  to  progress  on  commitments  to 
developing  countries  remains  important.  It  is  essential 
to  ensure  that  commitments  to  provide  additional 
resources  are  implemented  without  delay.  We  also 
should  be 
believe 
complemented 
in 
official 
development assistance, in keeping with the Monterrey 
Consensus.  The  outcome  document,  in  the  context  of 
commitments  and 
initiatives  aimed  at  enhancing 
resources  for  the  development  agenda,  recognized  the 
progress made on the Innovative Financing Framework 
for  Immunization  (IFFI).  Operationalizing  the  IFFI  is 
particularly 
important,  since  frontloading  aid  will 
enable many recipient countries to overcome the initial 
bottleneck in pursuing the MDGs. 
implementation  scheme  should 

obscure  the  fundamental  objective,  namely  the  rapid 
economic  growth  of  developing  countries  so  as  to 
enable  them  to  meet  the  MDG  targets,  especially  with 
regard to reducing poverty and increasing employment. 
The implementation of the agreements contained in the 
outcome  document  should  lead  to  the  creation  of  a 
more  favourable  international  economic  environment 
that would be more supportive of development efforts. 

The 2005 World  Summit  Outcome document  has 
given impetus to the development of a strong counter-
terrorism  agenda.  In  accordance  with  the  outcome  of 
the  world  summit,  our  priority  must  remain 
the 
conclusion 
comprehensive 
convention  on  international  terrorism  early  in  this 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  welcome  the 
Secretary-General’s  offer  to  make  available  to  the 
General Assembly  an  updated  version  of  the  elements 
However,  no 
adoption 
and 
of 
a 
05-56792 

21 

To  overcome 
the  marginalization  of 
their  empowerment 
A/60/PV.37 

of  his  previous  strategy,  and  we  would  be  happy  to 
lend our full support towards the adoption of a counter-
terrorism  strategy  after  the  comprehensive  convention 
is adopted. 

We  also  appreciate  the  formation  of  a  counter-
terrorism  implementation  force  and  the  Secretary-
General’s plan to submit proposals by early 2006 to the 
Security  Council  and  to  the  General  Assembly  to 
strengthen the capacity of the United Nations system to 
assist  States  in  combating  terrorism  and  to  enhance 
coordination.  We  caution  against  duplication  of  work 
and  mandates,  given  the  plethora  of  bodies  that  are 
currently  engaged  in  this  exercise  in  the  Security 
Council and elsewhere in the United Nations system. 

the 
developing  countries, 
through 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  remains  imperative. 
India will continue to work with like-minded countries 
to  reach 
the  broadest  possible  agreement  for  an 
expansion  of 
the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories, to respect deadlines, and to bring the reform 
process to an early and successful conclusion. 
India looks forward to working with the President 

of  the  General  Assembly  in  his  efforts  to  complete 
work  on 
the  other  unfinished  reform  agenda,  as 
contained  in  the  outcome  document.  This  includes 
working  through  informal  consultations  of  the  plenary 
on  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human 
Rights  Council.  India  welcomes  the  establishment  of 
the  Commission  and  hopes  that  it  can  begin  its  work 
before  31  December  2005.  We 
support 
negotiations  with  a  view  to  concluding,  during  the 
early  part  of  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  work  on  establishing  a  Human  Rights 
Council. 

The  doubling  of  the  regular  budgetary  resources 
of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights (OHCHR) should respond to the broad mandate 
of  human  rights,  especially  in  augmenting  capacity-
building  and  offering  greater  technical  assistance  to 
Member  States  at  their  request.  The  activities  of  the 
Office  in  the  area  of  greater  country  engagement 
should  not  automatically  result  in  an  increase  in  its 
personnel  deployments  —  rather,  it  should  focus  on 
improving  the  institutional  capabilities  of  the  country 
concerned.  The  interaction  of  the  OHCHR  with  other 
relevant  United  Nations  bodies  should  be  coordinated 
in order to  mainstream  all  human rights, including the 
also 
representatives, 
right to development. The activities and programmes of 
the OHCHR should address, in a balanced manner, not 
only civil and political rights but also economic, social 
and cultural rights. Additional resources should also be 
used judiciously to streamline reporting procedures and 
extend  technical  assistance  to  Member  States  for 
capacity-building. 

We  note  from  the  report  that  the  United  Nations 
Development Group will finalize the strategy and work 
plan  on  strengthening  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
special 
resident  coordinators  and 
humanitarian  coordinators,  and  resident  coordinator 
and  country-based  coordination  systems  by  January 
2006.  A  report  on  progress  will  be  provided  in  the 
Secretary-General’s annual report to the Economic and 
Social Council in 2006. We look forward to examining 
that  report.  We  also  expect  the  Secretary-General  to 
apprise  Member  States  of  the  next  set  of  operational 
reforms  to  further  strengthen  the  management  and 
coordination of United Nations operational activities. 

The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  called  for  the 
General Assembly  and other relevant organs to review 
all  mandates  older  than  five  years  and  take  decisions 
based  on  that  review  during  2006.  The  expectation 
expressed in the  Secretary-General’s  report (A/60/430) 
that 
specialized 
intergovernmental  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  will 
complete  that  review  in  time  for  action  in  the  first 
quarter  of  2006  seems  overly  optimistic.  That  report 
also  states  that  the  resulting  strategic  framework  for 
the  forthcoming  biennium  will  be  submitted  to  the 
Committee 
in 
August/September 2006. We assume that an additional 
session of the Committee is being proposed, since that 
Committee  has  not  taken  any  decision  on  postponing 
its substantive session from June/July 2006. 

We welcome the urgency with which the issue of 
strengthening the Office of Internal Oversight Services 
(OIOS) is being treated. However, in the haste to carry 
out  the  recommendations  of  the  outcome  document,  it 
would  be  a  pity  if  we  were  not  to  seek  the  views  of 
OIOS itself on the areas that require strengthening and 
on the extent of reform.  
We  are  also  puzzled  to  note  that  a  separate, 

independent  external  evaluation  of 
is 
contemplated,  something  which  was  not  mandated  by 
the  outcome  document.  That  document  states  quite 
clearly  that  the  external  evaluation  will  focus  on  the 
for  Programme  and  Coordination 
the  Office 
organs 
all 
relevant 
and 
22 

05-56792 
in 
the 
to 
in 
and 
follow-up 
intensification  of  action 
regions  have  demonstrated 


entire  auditing  and  oversight  system  of  the  United 
Nations  and  specialized  agencies  in  the  context  of  the 
comprehensive review of the governance arrangements. 
We  do  not  believe  that  a  piecemeal  approach  such  as 
that  proposed  has  any  merit.  We  also  look  forward  to 
receiving  proposals  from  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
other aspects of management and Secretariat reform as 
mandated in the outcome document. 
We  have  carefully  examined  the  report  of  the 

third  update  on 
Secretary-General  containing 
progress  made 
the  Assembly’s 
special session  on  children  (A/60/207).  We  agree  that 
most  of  the  goals  of  “A  world  fit  for  children” 
(resolution  S-27/2,  annex)  will  be  achieved  only 
through  a  greater 
for 
disadvantaged  children  and  families  throughout  the 
individual 
world.  Examples  of  rapid  progress 
countries 
that 
accelerated  progress  is  possible,  but  current  efforts 
need  to  be  expanded  and  better  supported  through 
resource allocations. 

Mr.  Hasan  Malek  (Malaysia):  On  behalf  of  the 
Malaysian  delegation,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  containing  the  third  update  on 
progress made in follow-up to the special session of the 
General  Assembly  on  children  (A/60/207).  We  are 
pleased 
taking 
substantive  measures  to  pursue  the  goals  aimed  at 
creating  a  world  fit  for  children,  as  envisaged  in  the 
Declaration  and  Plan  of Action  adopted  at  the  special 
session of May 2002 (resolution S-27/2, annex). 

The  outcome  document  of  the  special  session  on 
children focused especially on promoting healthy lives, 
providing quality education, protecting children against 
abuse,  exploitation  and  violence,  and  combating 
HIV/AIDS.  While  considerable  progress  has  been 
achieved  in  certain  areas,  setbacks  have  occurred  in 
others.  We  note  the  assessment  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report that while by 2004 many countries had 
taken  concrete  actions  to  translate  the  commitments 
made  at  the  2002  special  session  into  national  action 
plans and policies, the overall rate of progress had been 
uneven. We are heartened to note that the situation now 
seems to be more encouraging. 
While a clear and genuine effort is being made to 

strengthen  partnerships  within 
international 
community  to  improve  child  survival  and  promote 
healthy  lives,  much remains  to be done  to  achieve  the 
that  Governments  are 
to  note 
the 
A/60/PV.37
against 
protecting 
education, 
issues  and  have 
to  assist  developing  countries 
targets  set  under  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Similarly,  greater  efforts  are  required  to  promote  the 
other goals set at the special session, namely, providing 
quality 
abuse, 
exploitation and violence, and combating HIV/AIDS. 

Some  of  the  obstacles  to  achieving  the  goals 
contained  in  the  outcome  documents  of  the  world 
summit and the special session on children include the 
lack of resources, debt and the decline in international 
funding  to  implement  identified  programmes.  Those 
are  clearly  development 
to  be 
addressed if we are honest in our conviction to further 
the  promotion  and  the  protection  of  the  rights  of 
children.  

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  commends  the 
invaluable  support  and  commitment  demonstrated  by 
the  relevant  United  Nations  development  agencies  in 
their  activities  to  assist  and  support  Member  States  in 
implementing 
the  policies,  plans  and  programmes 
proposed  by  the  special  session’s  Plan  of  Action.  We 
urge  the  relevant  United  Nations  agencies  to  continue 
their  efforts 
in 
establishing and strengthening their national capacities 
and institutions for the promotion and the protection of 
the rights of children and to achieve the goals set at the 
special  session  on  children.  Malaysia  continues  to 
participate in some of those efforts at the regional and 
multilateral levels. 

At  the  national  level,  many  of  our  efforts  have 
been carried out in the context of our second National 
Plan of Action on Children for the period 2001 to 2020. 
The  Plan,  whose  theme  is  caring  for  the  children  of 
Malaysia,  was  formulated  in  conformity  with  the 
nation’s  vision  of  achieving  the  status  of  a  fully 
developed  nation  by  2020  and 
the 
provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child 
and of the outcome document of the special session on 
children.  The  Plan  sets  out  a  broad  framework  of 
actions  and  measures  to  address  all  areas  of  concern 
affecting on social and developmental needs, as well as 
the protection of the rights of children. 

Since  our  independence,  Malaysia  has  consistently 
made  a  conscious  effort  to  make  quality  education  the 
cornerstone  of 
the  national  agenda.  The  national 
education  policy  is  oriented  towards  providing  basic 
education  for  a  minimum  of  nine  years.  Girls  and  boys 
have  equal  access  to  educational  opportunities,  with  the 
enrolment  rates  for  the  two  genders  almost  at  par  — 
implementing 
05-56792 

23 

for 
the 
country 
Having  put 
the  disabled, 
in  place  educational 
A/60/PV.37 

50.4 per cent of boys and 49.6 per cent of girls — except 
at  the  level  of  tertiary  education,  where  girls  have  a 
higher rate of enrolment. 
facilities 

throughout 
the 
Government  has  now  made  primary  education 
compulsory for all. 

With  a  rate  of  98  per  cent  enrolment  in  primary 
school, the  Government  has  now  moved  a step  further 
by  embarking  on the provision of quality  education to 
ensure  that  children  have  access  to  the  best  system  of 
instruction  to  enable  them  to  cope  with  the  rapid 
progress  of  the  information  age.  Efforts  in  this  regard 
include  modernizing  schools,  providing  well-trained 
teachers  and  equipping  all  schools  with  computer 
laboratories  and 
information  and  communications 
technology equipment. 

To  promote  healthy  lives,  Malaysia  is  constantly 
upgrading  its  medical  facilities  and  programmes  and 
has  allocated  1.3  billion  Malaysian  dollars  for  this 
purpose in the 2006 national budget. There has been a 
steady  decline  in  maternal  and  neonatal  mortality  in 
Malaysia, which currently stand at 0.2 and 5 per 1,000, 
respectively.  Health  and  community  clinics  set  up 
throughout the country, which provide services such as 
immunization  and  normal  development  assessment  for 
children, ensure that the child is in optimum health. 

Malaysia  is  committed  to  the  concept  of  total 
rehabilitation  for  disabled  children.  This  entails  a 
multidisciplinary approach whereby the Department of 
Social  Welfare  provides  rehabilitation  services  for 
disabled  children  through  institutional  services,  with 
the  Ministry of  Health  providing technical  inputs. The 
Department  has  also  forged  small  partnerships  with 
non-governmental  organizations  by  supporting  them 
financially  in  the  administration  and  management  of 
the institutional centres they operate. 

Concerning  the  protection  of  children  against 
abuse, exploitation and violence, Malaysia’s Child Act 
2001,  formulated  in  line  with  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child,  sets  out 
provisions  for  the  care  and  protection  of  children.  A 
court  for  children  has  been  established,  which  allows 
the  affected  child  to  participate  in  discussions  and 
deliberations  in  court.  In  the  area  of  child  abuse, 
Malaysia  has  developed  mechanisms 
for  child 
protection,  care  and  rehabilitation  by  setting  up 
intersectoral Suspected Child Abuse and Neglect teams 
the 
poses 
In 
this 
Having 
Recognizing 
(ASEAN).  Under 
devastating 
serious 
at district and state hospitals. A milestone in preventive 
measures  is  the  establishment  of  child  protection 
teams, which are involved in multiple programmes run 
by  the  community  and  for  the  community.  Among 
other things, they run parental education activities and 
serve as counselling centres. 

identified  action  against  commercial 
sexual exploitation and trafficking of children as one of 
the  priorities  in  the  region,  Malaysia  is  mindful  that 
this  challenge  cannot  be  surmounted  by  any  single 
country  acting  alone. 
regard,  Malaysia 
subscribes  to  the  Declaration  on  the  Commitments  for 
Children,  adopted  in  2001  by  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations 
this 
Declaration,  ASEAN  has  drawn  up  cooperation 
programmes  in  the  areas  of  child  trafficking,  child 
prostitution  and  intercountry  adoption.  At  the  same 
time,  programmes  have  been  put  in  place  to  provide 
alternative family care arrangements for the victims of 
child  abuse,  neglect  and  exploitation,  as  well  as  to 
address the special needs of children with disabilities. 
of 

HIV/AIDS,  which 
and 
developmental  challenges  to  humankind  and  which 
disproportionately  affects  the  young,  Malaysia  gives 
serious  attention  to  combating  HIV/AIDS.  Although 
the  reported  cases  of  HIV  infection  are  relatively  few 
compared 
the  Malaysian 
Government  continues  to  give  serious  attention  to 
measures  for  combating  HIV/AIDS.  The  Government 
has  taken  a  comprehensive  and  integrated  approach  to 
deal  with  this  problem,  which  includes  preventive 
measures,  care,  support  and 
those 
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. In that regard, the 
Malaysian  Government  also  works  very  closely  with 
non-governmental organizations. 

Malaysia believes that the well-being of children 
and  women  is  a  reliable  indicator  of  a  healthy  society 
and of good governance. In this respect, the Malaysian 
Government will continue to promote and facilitate the 
rights of the child, especially in the areas of protection, 
development  and  participation,  and 
to  create  a 
favourable and enabling environment towards the goal 
of a world truly fit for children. 

Mr.  Swe  (Myanmar):  Sir,  may  I  first  of  all  say 
how  happy  I  am  to  see  you,  current  Chairman  of  the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN), 
presiding  over  this  important  meeting.  My  delegation 
treatment  for 
impact 
health 
population, 
to 
our 
24 

05-56792 
of 


fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Ambassador  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77 
and  China.  I  shall  therefore  confine  my  statement 
mainly to agenda item 44, follow-up to the outcome of 
the special session on children. 

Three  years  ago,  the  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  children  adopted  a  Declaration 
and Plan of Action entitled “A World Fit for Children”. 
Since  then,  the  international  community  has  come 
together  to  protect  and  promote  the  cause  of  children. 
But we cannot be complacent. According to the Human 
Development  Report 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  every  hour  of  the  day,  over 
1,200 children die around the world, most because of a 
preventable disease called poverty. 

Five years ago, the leaders of the world adopted a 
comprehensive and detailed set of human development 
objectives — the Millennium Development Goals. The 
strong focus of the Millennium Declaration on the lives 
of children gives added impetus towards attainment of 
a world fit for children and has led to the convergence 
of national planning processes around a common set of 
goals. Both the Millennium Development Goals and “A 
World Fit for Children” aim to reduce infant and under-
five  mortality  rates  by  two  thirds  by  2015.  Presently, 
only a few countries are on track to attain those goals. 
The  Human  Development  Report  2005  projects  that  if 
current trends continue, this goal will be achieved only 
in 2045.  

In an era of globalization, when technology, trade 
and  investment  have  advanced  dramatically,  it  is 
disturbing  that  6  million  children  die  annually  of 
diseases that could be prevented or effectively treated. 
They  die  because  simple  yet  high-impact  and  cost-
effective  interventions  that  could  prevent  their  deaths 
remain  beyond  the  reach of their  families,  particularly 
in  the  developing  world.  Effective  national  action 
complemented  by  sustained  assistance 
the 
international  community  is  needed  to  reverse  that 
trend. 
In  Myanmar,  we  are  making  great  efforts  to 

promote 
the  children.  Under-five 
mortality rates have dropped from 130 deaths per 1,000 
live births in 1990 to 66.6 per 1,000 live births in 2003. 
We  aspire  to  reach  the  target  of  38.5  deaths  per  1,000 
live births by 2015. The decline in prenatal, infant and 
child mortality rates during the past two decades is the 
result  of  the  implementation  of  the  national  health 
the  health  of 
from 
A/60/PV.37
care, 
increased 
immunization 
plan,  which  provides  increased  access  to  primary 
health 
coverage, 
promotes  oral  rehydration  therapy  and  emphasizes  the 
Making  Pregnancy  Safer  initiative  as  a  high-priority 
component of the reproductive health strategy. 

Access to safe drinking  water and sanitation also 
has  an  important  bearing  on  child  mortality  rates.  In 
Myanmar, a safe drinking water supply programme for 
water-scarce rural  areas  has been  carried out  for  years 
and  will  continue.  According  to  multiple  indicator 
cluster  surveys,  access  to  safe  drinking  water  has 
increased from 32 per cent of the population in 1992 to 
72 per cent in 2000. Access to improved sanitation has 
also  increased  during  the  same  period,  from  36  to 
83 per cent. 

In  today’s  world  of  abundance,  it  is  regrettable 
that more than 1 billion people survive on less than $1 
a day, 208 million of whom are youth. While increased 
official development  assistance  is  an  effective  tool  for 
fighting  poverty,  solutions  also  need  to  be  found  for 
improving  market  access  for  developing  countries. 
Unfair  and  unbalanced  trade  rules  greatly  hamper 
efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  the  goals  set  out  in  “A  world  fit  for 
children” (resolution S-27/2, annex). 

In  Myanmar,  as  part  of  our  efforts  to  achieve 
economic  growth  and  social  progress  in  line  with  the 
MDGs,  three  national  development  programmes  are 
being  implemented  to  achieve  balanced  development 
and  to  narrow  the  socio-economic  development  gap 
existing  between  rural  and  urban  areas.  The  three 
programmes 
area  development 
programme, the 24 special development zones plan and 
the integrated rural development plan. 
We  believe  that  education  is  the  key  to  progress 

and  poverty  alleviation.  In  Myanmar,  to  achieve  the 
goal  of  universal  primary  education,  we  have 
implemented  Education  for  All  activities  since  the 
1996-1997  academic  year.  In  accordance  with  the 
Dakar Education for All goals, a national plan of action 
was  drawn  up  in  2003. As  a result  of  such  efforts,  the 
school  enrolment  rate  of  children  five  years  and  older 
in  the  academic  year  2004-2005  was  96.56  per  cent, 
the  net  primary  school  enrolment  rate  was  84.5  per 
cent  and  the  primary  school  completion  rate  was 
74.5 per cent. The number of primary, middle and high 
schools  has  increased  from  some  34,000  in  1992  to 
more than 40,000 in 2004. Efforts have also been made 
the  border 
are 
05-56792 

25 

to 
the  border  areas, 
A/60/PV.37 

to improve the quality of education. The reform of the 
official  curriculum  and  assessment  methodology  has 
been  undertaken,  and  the  use  of  information  and 
communication technology is strongly encouraged. 

The border areas of Myanmar have lagged behind 
in  development  due  to  decades  of  armed  insurgency, 
which  led  to  the  absence  of  an  effective  education 
infrastructure  and  created  barriers  to  education.  The 
lack  of  education  opportunities  resulted 
in  more 
violence, creating a vicious cycle. Today, that cycle has 
been  broken.  Because  of  the  Government’s  national 
reconciliation  efforts,  17  armed  insurgent  groups  have 
now  returned  to  the  legal  fold.  Now  that  peace  and 
stability  have  returned 
the 
Government has been able to provide education for the 
children residing there. Fifteen years ago, there were a 
mere 28 schools in the border areas of Myanmar; today 
there are 790 schools, with more than 120,000 children 
currently enrolled. 

In an effort to ensure that no child is left behind, 
two  nationalities  youth  resource  development  degree 
colleges  affiliated  with  major  universities  have  been 
established.  There  are  also  27  training  schools  for  the 
development  of  nationalities  youth  from  border  areas. 
Nineteen  domestic  science  vocational  training  schools 
for  girls  and  women  have  been  established  in  the 
border  areas,  and  more  than  14,000  girls  and  women 
have benefited from the vocational training provided in 
those schools. 

the  Declaration  of  Commitment  on 
HIV/AIDS (S-26/2, annex) was adopted, there has been 
stronger  leadership  at  all  levels,  and  new  resources 
have  been  mobilized.  The  global  commitment 
is 
unprecedented.  However,  greater  efforts  are  needed  if 
the  international  community  is  to  halt  and  reverse  the 
spread of HIV/AIDS by 2015. 

Where  HIV/AIDS  is  declining,  it  is  primarily 
because  young  people  have  learned  to  practice  safe 
behaviour.  In  Myanmar,  life  skills  training  and  social 
development  for  youth  is  conducted  by  the  national 
AIDS  programme  in  coordination  with  national  non-
governmental  organizations.  In  collaboration  with  
Since 
in 
the 
the  Ministry  of  Education  developed  a 
UNICEF, 
school-based  healthy 
living  and  AIDS  prevention 
education  kit  in  1997.  Since  then,  the  programme  has 
been  adopted  as  part  of  the  official  curriculum  and  is 
taught  at  all  levels,  starting  at  the  primary  level.  The 
programme  has  also  been  expanded  to  key  groups 
outside the formal education system. 

In  today’s  interconnected  world,  assistance  to 
developing  countries  to  fight  HIV/AIDS  is  not  just  a 
moral  imperative  but  an  investment  for  a  common 
future.  HIV/AIDS  poses  a  serious  challenge  to  the 
global  community  and  it  is  a  challenge  that  can  be 
successfully  addressed  only  through  the  cooperative 
efforts of the entire international community. 

firm 
commitment  to  the  goals  set  by  the  major  United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic and 
social  fields.  Myanmar  stands  ready  to  work  together 
with  others 
to 
implement them. By fulfilling those common goals, we 
will also be creating a world fit for children. 

international  community 
reiterating  Myanmar’s 
I  conclude  by 
Programme of work 


The Acting President: I wish to advise members 
that  the  informal  consultations  on  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  which  were  announced  for  tomorrow 
afternoon,  are  postponed  to  a  later  date. The  time  and 
venue of those consultations will be announced shortly. 

Next, I wish to inform members that at 9.45 a.m. 
on Thursday, 27 October, there will be a meeting of the 
General  Committee  to  consider a request by  Spain  for 
the  inclusion  of  an  additional  agenda  item,  circulated 
in document A/60/233. 

I also wish to inform members that at the request 
of the sponsors, the joint consideration of agenda item 
11,  the  role  of  diamonds  in  fuelling  conflict,  and 
agenda  item  12,  the  prevention  of  armed  conflict, 
originally  scheduled  as  the  second  item  for  Monday, 
31 October,  will  be  postponed  to  a  later  date,  to  be 
announced. 

The meeting rose at 6.00 p.m. 
26 

05-56792 
