United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
20th plenary meeting
Thursday, 22 September 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.20
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 p.m.
Agenda item 9 (continued)
General debate
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
The  Honourable  Denzil  Douglas,  Prime  Minister  and
Minister of Finance, Planning and National Security of
Saint Kitts and Nevis.
Mr.  Douglas  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  My
Government  supports  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General, which reaffirms development, peace, security
and  human  rights  as  fundamental  to  the  well-being  of
any modern State. The Government of Saint Kitts and
Nevis steadfastly contends that there is an inherent link
between  poverty  reduction,  the  promotion  of  human
rights,  economic  development,  security  and  good
governance.
Regrettably,  the  tendency  has  been  to  separate
them, in favour of what some call political imperatives.
I daresay policies do not and cannot exist in a vacuum.
Politics 
therefore  national,
regional  or  even  international  organizational  policies
must be about people. There is stark evidence of this.
is  about  people,  and 
The  political  landscape  reveals  clear  indications
of the interconnectedness of the phenomena of poverty
eradication,  security,  economic  development  and
governance.  The  task  of  governance  is  becoming
increasingly  difficult 
face  of  growing
unemployment,  deepening  poverty,  escalating  energy
the 
in 
prices  and  a  mounting  cost  of 
living.  As  a
consequence,  we  have  witnessed  social  dislocations
and  civil  disquiet.  The  fruits  of  globalization  still  do
not grow among the world(cid:146)s poorest, who have become
further  marginalized  and  blame  their  Governments,
which, despite their best efforts, are often relegated to
the  margins  of  political  discourse  and  economic
activities.
deliver 
the 
of 
promises 
Some citizens have become more vocal and more
open  in  their  distrust  of  Government  policies  that  fail
to 
and
globalization, fail to reduce poverty and unemployment
and  fail  to  improve  their  standard  of  living.  The
economic  and  political  rift  between  rich  and  poor
nations  is  steadily  becoming  a  deeper  divide  as
mistrust continues to characterize relations between the
developed and the developing countries.
democracy 
that  confront  us.  But 
Understandably,  small  countries  (cid:151)  despite
limited  and  diminishing  resources  (cid:151)  are  expected  to
participate  equally  in  the  fight  against  the  social
scourges 
that  dramatically
reduces  our  ability 
to  make  new  and  necessary
investments  in  socio-economic  development.  It  is
within  that  context  that  we  urge  Member  nations  to
substantively  support  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  We  also  urge 
to  partner  with  us,
recognizing our vulnerabilities to natural disasters and
other  external  economic  factors,  and  recognizing  the
need  for  preferred  and  differential  treatment  in  trade
and access to markets in developed countries. We urge
developed  countries  to  implement  policies  that  do  not
them 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51865 (E)
*0551865*
A/60/PV.20
undermine  our  efforts  or  reverse  the  gains  that  we  in
small  developing  countries  have  made.  We  call  for
equity and for a willingness to live and let live.
Despite  overwhelming  odds,  however, 
the
Government  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  stands  ready  to
do  its  share.  At  the  base  of  our  efforts  and  policies  is
the fundamental importance of strengthening the rights
of the child. We believe that promoting the rights of the
child goes to the heart  of  full  and  effective  protection
of human rights. We also firmly believe that by making
sure every child in Saint Kitts and Nevis has access to
primary and secondary education, to potable water and
to health care, we are creating healthier, better adjusted
and  productive  adults  whose  rights  will  have  been
nourished  and  enshrined  in  the  policy  orientation  and
development agenda of our proud country.
It 
that 
the 
right 
is  generally  accepted 
to
development  is  also  a  fundamental  right  that  national
Governments  have  a  primary  responsibility  to  ensure.
Long before the Millennium Development Goals were
formally  elaborated  and  adopted  by  the  community  of
nations, 
that  fundamental  right  was  emphatically
understood by the Government and the people of Saint
Kitts and Nevis. As a point of reference, in this year(cid:146)s
Human  Development  Report  issued  by  the  United
Nations  Development  Programme,  Saint  Kitts  and
Nevis  was  ranked  49  out  of  177  countries  on  the
Human  Development  Index  (cid:151)  the  second-highest
ranking in the Caribbean region and, indeed, among the
highest  in  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region.
The report reflects the reality in Saint Kitts and Nevis,
where there is an adult literacy rate of 97.8 per cent, a
life expectancy rate of 70 years (cid:151) which needs upward
revision  (cid:151)  and  a  combined  primary,  secondary  and
tertiary  school  enrolment  ratio  of  89  per  cent.  The
report underscores our commitment to gender equality,
starting with current parity in  enrolment levels  among
girls  and  boys  in  school  at  both  the  primary  and  the
secondary levels. The report also confirms 98 per cent
access  to  safe  water  and  sanitation.  In  the  field  of
health,  it  notes  a  99  per  cent  rate  of  immunization  of
infants  against tuberculosis and measles  in  Saint  Kitts
and Nevis.
The  Pan-Caribbean  Partnership 
combat
HIV/AIDS  (PANCAP),  established  by  the  Caribbean
Community  (CARICOM),  has  proved  to  be  a  useful
and pragmatic vehicle for collective action and results.
In  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  our  own  fight  against
HIV/AIDS  uses  that  particular  model.  PANCAP  has
to 
2
distinguished  itself  and  has  been  identified  as  a  best-
practice model. We are therefore now pursuing policies
aimed at universal access to treatment and care and at
ending  discrimination  and  the  stigmatization  of  those
persons affected by HIV/AIDS, while at the same time
continuing  our  public  education 
initiatives  on
preventing the spread of the virus.
A  per  capita  income  of  more  than  $7,000  places
us squarely among upper-middle-income countries. We
thank  the  United  Nations  for  recognizing  our  efforts,
which  are  the  result  of  policies  engineered  to  ensure
the development of the individual despite the obstacles
that we face as a small economy. They also reflect the
commitment  of  my  Government 
the
protection of the rights of our children and their role in
our country(cid:146)s future.
to  ensuring 
That,  however,  is  only  one  side  of  the  coin.  The
achievements to which I referred come at an enormous
cost (cid:151) a cost that represents an enormous burden (cid:151) to
our  people.  The  past  decade  has  been  particularly
difficult  for  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis.  Our  small  island
State  continues  to  be  especially  vulnerable  to  natural
disasters,  external  economic  fluctuations  and  policies
biased  against  small  economies  such  as  ours.  My
country  has  experienced  back-to-back  hurricanes,
landslides  and  floods,  at  a  cost  of  more  than  half  a
billion dollars. We have been forced to direct more and
more  of  our  scarce  resources  towards  recovery  and
away from development.
The  experience  throughout  the  Caribbean  region
is  very  similar.  It  was  just  in  July  this  year  that  our
sister  CARICOM  nation  of  Grenada  again  suffered
serious devastation, caused by Hurricane Emily, on the
back  of  last  year(cid:146)s  devastation  brought  by  Hurricane
Ivan. The Maldives, another small island sister nation,
has made pleas for a delay in the process set in motion
for  its  graduation  from  the  list  of  least  developed
countries,  owing  to  the  tsunami.  We  specifically
support the Maldives(cid:146) request.
In  addition  to  the  cost  of  recovery,  escalating
high  prices  and  the  cost  of  food  imports,  Saint  Kitts
and  Nevis,  as  an  emerging  tourist  destination,  has
faced  the  prohibitively  high  cost  of  implementing
supplementary  security  measures  since  11  September
2001.  To  further  compound  that  grave  situation,  the
recent rulings of the World Trade Organization relative
to trade preferences have dealt a most significant blow
to  small  economies  in  the  Caribbean  and  therefore
threaten to unravel their economic base.
In the case of my country, after centuries of sugar
production and sales to the European market (cid:151) which
have  been  a  cornerstone  of  our  economic  support  and
our social stability (cid:151) we have been forced to close that
industry, which finally succumbed to continuous losses
and  escalating  debts.  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  can  no
longer  compete  profitably  in  a  world  market  that  is
characterized  by  engineered  low  prices  for  sugar  and
by the unfair trading practices of some countries. That
has  severe  implications  in  terms  of  unemployment,
social  dislocation,  psychological  distress  and 
the
dramatic  loss  of  urgently  needed  foreign-exchange
earnings.
We  have  tried  to  prepare  for  such  an  eventuality
through  a  process  of  economic  diversification,  but
support from the international community has not been
forthcoming.  The  cost  of  borrowing,  the  removal  of
grant  financing  from 
international
financial  institutions  and  the  annual  recovery  costs
from  catastrophic  hurricanes  have  become  more  and
more  onerous.  Creative 
initiatives,
especially in the international financial services sector,
have  been  challenged  and  undermined  by  some
developed countries.
the  menus  of 
legal  policy 
to 
fulfil 
In 
an 
attempt 
the  Millennium
Development Goals by 2015, my Government has also
pursued  policies  to  stimulate  and  facilitate  private-
sector-led 
physical
infrastructure  and  human  resource  development.  But
we need international political and economic support.
investing 
growth 
by 
in 
things 
The Secretary-General underscored that threats to
peace  and  security  represent  different 
to
different  countries.  If  we  intend  to  promote  collective
security, 
there  must  be  an  appreciation  of  and
sensitivity  to  this  diversity  among  countries.  In  the
same way, we are called upon to aid in the fight against
terrorism,  drug  trafficking,  transnational  organized
crime  and  other  scourges  that  threaten  international
peace and security in the more advanced countries. It is
not  unreasonable,  therefore,  to  expect  reciprocity  of
support in fighting the almost intractable problems that
confront  small  States.  To  address 
these  urgent
challenges,  we  call  on  the  international  community  to
support and contribute to the full, timely and effective
implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  further
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the
A/60/PV.20
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing
States, which we consider a very important mechanism
for achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
My Government was heartened by the Secretary-
General(cid:146)s  proposal  for  the  establishment  of  a  Human
Rights Council. We also support effective change in the
United  Nations,  which  also  means  that  the  Security
Council  must  evolve  to  reflect  current  world  realities.
The  United  Nations  must  also  play  a  more  enhanced
role  in  development,  and  the  concerns  of  small  island
developing  States  must  be  given  greater  attention
within  this  Organization.  Small  States  can  offer  best-
practice  models  and  creative  ideas  from  which  the
international  debate  on  development,  peace,  security
and human rights could benefit.
We  encourage  greater 
the
deliberations of critical organs of the Organization and
greater opportunities for small States to be represented
in the decision-making processes of these organs.
transparency 
in 
The  people  of  Taiwan  continue  to  be  excluded
from the brotherhood of nations, which was created to
represent the hopes and aspirations of all peoples. My
Government  reiterates  its  call  for  the  people  of  the
Republic of China, Taiwan, to be consulted, effectively
represented  and  invited  to  participate  in  the  critical
debates  on  world  peace,  human  security,  development
and human rights. I believe that we would have failed
to  promote  human  rights  effectively 
through
political exclusion, generations of people are relegated
to the margins of such important issues and the forums
that facilitate their discussion.
if, 
I  remain  cautiously  optimistic  about  the  future.
On  the  one  hand,  Governments  have  rededicated
themselves  to  the  struggle  to  build  a  world  free  from
want  and  fear  and  with  the  freedom  to  live  with
dignity. In addition, we are poised to reform the United
Nations  in  the  hope  that  it  can  play  a  more  effective
role in this ever-changing world.
tenor  of 
last  week(cid:146)s  summit
suggests  a  strong  possibility  that  some  developed
countries may yet renege on those commitments, which
could  further  erode  developing  countries(cid:146)  efforts  to
eradicate  extreme  poverty,  generate  employment,
promote  human  security  and  narrow  the  development
gap between richer and poorer countries.
However, 
the 
We  still  have  an  opportunity  for  an  enhanced
global partnership to turn commitments into action and
3
A/60/PV.20
secure  a  future  for  our  children,  a  future  that  is  free
from  want  of  the  basic  necessities,  free  from  fear  of
violence  with  guarantees  of  protection  of  the  right  to
live  in  dignity.  Only  then  will  we  build  and  reinforce
the  foundation  of  democracy,  enhance  collective
security  and  jumpstart  a  process  where  globalization
becomes a vehicle for change among all of the world(cid:146)s
peoples.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  the  Honourable  Frederick  A.  Mitchell,
Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Public Service of
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas.
Mr.  Mitchell  (Bahamas):  It  is  my  honour  to
congratulate you on your election to the presidency of
the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  also
wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  tireless  efforts  of  your
predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the manner in which he
guided the work of the fifty-ninth session.
I  wish  to  extend  the  condolences  of  the  Right
Honourable  Prime  Minister  of  the  Commonwealth  of
the  Bahamas,  Perry  Christie,  and  the  Government  and
people of  the  Bahamas  to  the  Government  and  people
of  the  United  States  in  the  aftermath  of  Hurricane
Katrina  last  month.  This  is  a  scene  with  which  the
people of the Bahamas are regrettably all too familiar,
and we continue to offer our assistance and support in
any way possible.
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  held  last  week,
at which so many heads of State and Government were
represented,  served  as  a  timely  and  much-needed
reminder  of  the  need  for  us  all  to  recommit  ourselves
to the purposes and principles of this Organization. At
a time when some have begun to question the purpose
of  this  Organization,  the  Bahamas  reaffirms  that  the
United  Nations  remains  the  best  chance  for  all  States,
large  and  small, 
to  achieve  peace,  security  and
sustainable development for our peoples.
One of the  leaders  who  spoke  last  week  was  the
Most  Honourable  P.  J.  Patterson,  Prime  Minister  of
Jamaica. On April of 2006, Mr. Patterson demits office
after  more  than  a  decade  in  the  service  of  his  people
and  the  Caribbean  region  as  Prime  Minister,  and  a
generation  as  a  parliamentarian  and  Government
Minister. His statement last week was perhaps his final
statement  to  this  Assembly  as  Prime  Minister.  The
Bahamas  (cid:151)  and  the  region  joins  us,  I  am  sure  (cid:151)
salutes  Mr.  Patterson  as  he  retires  from  active  public
life.
4
Mr. Patterson(cid:146)s example in Jamaica is one that we
know  well  enough  in  the  Caribbean  region.  It  is  the
example  of  democratic  governance  and  the  traditions
of  regular  elections  and  accountability  to  the  publics
whom  we  serve.  The  history  of  democracy  in  our
region  has  also  produced  for  the  region  an  enviable
standard of living in many ways. This  way of life has
been described by the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, The Honourable Ralph Gonsalves,
as  the  (cid:147)Caribbean  civilization(cid:148)  (cid:151)  one  that  did  not
develop  without  significant  investment  in  our  people
and  that  cannot  be  sustained  unless  that  investment
continues.
The  region  is  neither  poor  nor  rich.  It  falls  in
between,  having  accomplished  most  if  not  all  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  But  as  we  watch  the
development  of  globalization,  there  is  a  tendency  to
forget  that  this  region  of  relatively  few  people  and
small  nations  requires  the  continued  support  of  the
developed world. Nowhere is this more evident than in
the  decisions  taken  on  sugar  and  bananas.  There  is  a
symbiotic  relationship  between  the  region  and  the
developed world, with many of our people leaving the
region  to  help  to  sustain  the  way  of  life  of  the
developed world. There is a major transformation right
now in economies throughout the region.
in 
transition, 
Our  view  is  that  greater  attention  from  our
developed  partners  must  therefore  be  paid  to  that
region 
investment,
particularly  in  education,  support  for  the  delivery  of
health  care  and  continued  support  for  democratic
governance.  It  is  not  charity  that  is  required,  but  a
sound, sensible investment in our common future.
looking 
towards 
Haiti is our poorest member in the  region and is
perhaps  the  example  from  which  it  is  best  to  draw
lessons.  We  want  to  thank  Brazil  and  the  many  sister
countries  of  Latin  America  that  have  risen  to  the
challenge with men and materiel. But while much has
been  given,  there  are  many  pledges  of  donor  aid  that
have not materialized as they should. It is a complaint
throughout  the  developing  world  that  donors  make
pledges  of  financial  and  material  support  but  do  not
follow through on those pledges.
Haiti  today  is  paying  the  price  in  a  real  way  for
having  charted  the  way  towards  freedom  in  this
hemisphere  when,  in  1804,  it  struck  a  blow  for  the
freedom  of  Africans  in  the  West.  Today,  we  repeat
what the American Christian Bishop, T. D. Jakes, said
in  the  National  Cathedral  in  Washington  last  week
when praying for the victims of Hurricane Katrina: it is
what we do that counts, but what we say we will do.
public  policy  on  sustainable  development  and  the
implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  small
island developing States.
A/60/PV.20
Haiti  is  of  major  interest  to  us  in  the  Bahamas,
because,  given  the  circumstances  of  its  economy  and
its  national  politics,  the  Bahamas  and  the  region  are
facing  increased  pressure  from  illegal  migration  from
Haiti and the threat of instability. It is incumbent upon
all of us in the United Nations to do all that we can to
help resolve the issues in Haiti.
from 
It is also important that we not overlook issues of
global governance and institutional reform. It would be
nearly  impossible  for  small  States,  in  particular,  to
sustain  meaningful  gains 
the  process  of
globalization without a voice and without participation
in 
international  decision-making  and  norm-setting
bodies.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  Bahamas  is
encouraged  by  the  discussions  that  took  place  during
the  high-level  dialogue  on  financing  for  development,
held  earlier  this  year,  which  confirmed  that  there  is  a
place  for  the  United  Nations  in  all  aspects  of  global
standard-setting  and  assessment.  The  dialogue  clearly
demonstrated  that  there  is  a  need  to  address  the
democratic  deficit 
international
the 
economic, financial and trade institutions.
in  many  of 
From  this  rostrum  last  year,  the  Bahamas  called
for  the  convening  of  a  global  forum  to  address  the
unfairness of unelected bodies imposing mandates that
are  unfunded  upon  developing  economies  like  ours  in
the region, without our countries having an opportunity
to  be  heard  and  to  influence  the  result.  We  call  once
again  for  such  a  forum,  and  pledge  that  the  Bahamas
will  continue  to  work  towards  levelling  the  playing
field, particularly in the financial services sector.
The  images  of  destruction  in  the  aftermath  of
Hurricane  Katrina  are  all  too  familiar  to  many  small
island  developing  States.  The 
images  have  been
sobering,  as  we  realize  that  even  the  biggest  and
strongest  of  us  has  to  grapple  with  the  difficulties
associated  with  the  recovery  from  such  a  destructive
force of nature. Last year in this Hall, we said that the
native peoples of our region were so familiar with the
violent  storms  that  plague  the  region  in  the  summer
months that they called them hurricanes. Today, we are
seeing  those  storms  hit  with  a  savagery  unknown  in
recent  times.  It  leads  us  to  question  whether  we  are
now being confronted by cyclical change or by climate
change. Either case places front and centre the need for
The Bahamas, much of whose land is barely five
feet above mean sea level, wishes to highlight the need
to  undertake  global  action  to  address  the  problems  of
climate  change.  With  the  warming  of  the  Earth(cid:146)s
surfaces  and  oceans,  we  have  seen  an  increase  in  the
incidence  of  natural  disasters,  many  of  them  causing
untold  loss  and  damage.  We  have  an  opportunity,
however,  to  address  the  adverse  effects  of  climate
change.  We  have  a  chance  to  make  a  statement  here
during  this  session  that  we  will  not  neglect  our
common but differentiated responsibility to protect our
environment  and  to  send  this  message  to  Montreal,
where, in November this year, the Kyoto Protocol can
finally begin to take on a more substantial form.
result  of  natural  disasters 
For  countries  such  as  the  Bahamas,  the  threat  of
devastation  as  a 
is
exacerbated  by  man-made  hazards.  We  once  again
reiterate  our  grave  concern  about  the  serious  threat
posed  to  the  security  and  economic  development  of
Caribbean  countries  by  the  trans-shipment  of  nuclear
waste through the Caribbean Sea, and continue to call
on  States  involved  in  such  trans-shipments  to  desist
from  that  practice.  In  this  context,  I  wish  to  highlight
the  continuing  efforts  of  the  Caribbean  region  to
designate  the  Caribbean  Sea  a  special  area  in  the
context of sustainable development.
The achievement of sustainable development will
require  healthy,  productive  populations  that  are  able
both  to  contribute  to  and  benefit  from  social  and
economic  progress.  The  unrelenting 
spread  of
HIV/AIDS  continues  to  threaten  that  progress  in  all
countries, but particularly in the hardest hit developing
countries. The Bahamas is a leader in the fight against
HIV/AIDS  in  the  Caribbean  region,  and  has  been
recognized  at  the  international  level  for  the  progress
made  in  turning  the  tide  against  that  disease  in  our
country.  We  pay  tribute  to  Dr.  Perry  Gomez,  our  lead
physician  in  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and,  indeed,
to my predecessor at this rostrum, Mr. Denzil Douglas
from Saint Kitts and Nevis, as well as to  all the other
caregivers  throughout  the  world.  We  welcome  this
body(cid:146)s  reaffirmation  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  fight
against that disease.
In this context, the Bahamas looks forward to the
high-level  five-year  review  of  the  progress  made  in
5
A/60/PV.20
implementation  of  the  Declaration  of  Commitment  on
HIV/AIDS,  scheduled  to  take  place  in  June  2006.  At
that  time  we  must  undertake  an  honest  appraisal  of
what we have achieved and where we are failing short,
and  we  must  determine  the  way  forward  towards
achieving the full implementation of the Declaration of
Commitment.
In  addition,  the  Bahamas  has  seen  useful  ideas
advanced  by  the  United  States  of  America,  the  World
Health  Organization  and  the  Pan  American  Health
Organization,  to  prevent  a  bird  flu  pandemic.  We
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  alert  the  world
that  we  must  fight  to  stop  such  an  eventuality,  and
pledge our support in doing so.
location, 
the  countries 
By  virtue  of 
its  geographical 
the
Bahamas is an unwitting transit point for illegal drugs
from  producing  countries  south  of  our  borders  to
consumer countries to the north. We have consistently
pointed  out  that  the  Bahamas  does  not  produce  such
substances and is not the ultimate destination for them.
That,  however,  does  not  stop 
that
consume the drugs from blaming countries like ours for
the  scourge.  It  is  very  unfair  to  do  so.  It  is  clear  that
consuming nations must increase their efforts to reduce
demand within their borders. We continue to cooperate
with  the  United  States  and  other  countries  in  that
international fight. Our successful efforts and those of
the  broader  region  have  been  acknowledged  by  our
international  partners  in  the  fight.  I  should  like  to
mention in particular the admirable performance of the
Bahamas in its counter-narcotics effort and the superb
record of our country(cid:146)s police in  terms  of  dismantling
drug-trafficking  organizations,  as  well  as  our  hard
work  to  improve  the  country(cid:146)s  ability  to  combat
money-laundering.  It  is  a  fight  that  we  pledge  to
continue.
The  Bahamas,  like  other  transit  countries,  is
experiencing  the  negative  social  impact  of  illegal
activities associated with that trade. The deadly nexus
between illicit drugs and small arms and light weapons
and  other  criminal  activities 
the
economic and social fabric of our nation. We therefore
welcome  the  conclusion  in  June  of  the  work  of  the
Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  marking  and
tracing of small arms and light weapons. The Bahamas,
like  many  other  countries,  would  have  strongly
preferred 
legally  binding
commitments  on  the  marking  and  tracing  of  such
weapons.  Nonetheless,  we  hope  that  this  tool  will
to  reach  agreement  on 
is  undermining 
6
in 
provide  some  of  the  necessary  political  will  and
momentum  to  make  real  progress  in  halting  the  illicit
accumulation  and  spread  of  small  arms  and  light
weapons.  We  also  look  forward  to  adopting  concrete
commitments 
the
activities of  brokers  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.
In  addition, 
to  call  on
developed  countries  to  take  the  same  extraordinary
measures they use in seeking to stop the trafficking of
drugs  into  their  countries  to  stop  illegal  arms  from
reaching our shores from their countries.
the  Bahamas  continues 
the  near  future 
to  regulate 
The  Bahamas  is  pleased  to  note  the  adoption  by
the  General  Assembly  on  13  April  2005  of  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  We  hope  to  be  in  a  position  to
sign the Convention in the near future. We are resolute
in  the  fight  against  the  attacks  on  innocent  people
going about their daily lives by those pursuing dubious
and  nefarious  political  ends.  The  vicious  attacks  in
London  and  Sharm  el-Sheikh  this  year  demonstrate
clearly the urgency of our task.
However,  we  must  also  remember  that  the  fight
against 
those  who  would  attack  our  common
civilization  can  never  be  used  as  an  excuse  to  curtail
the  rights  and  freedoms  of  our  citizens,  and  we  must
ensure that all counter-measures must conform to both
the  letter  and  the  spirit  of  international  human  rights
law.  If  we  lose  our  common  humanity  in  the  process,
the  other  side  will  win.  We  must  also  ensure  that  a
spirit  of  cooperation  and  assistance  permeates  our
international  cooperation  efforts  on  this  issue,  as  we
unite to fight a common enemy.
to 
in 
the  present  session, 
Over  the  past  year,  various  issues  related  to  the
management of United Nations programmes and funds
have  been  highlighted 
the  world  media.  Our
Organization  has  been  plagued  by  allegations  of
corruption  and  abuse.  Therefore,  during  the  months
leading  up 
the  Bahamas
welcomed  the  opportunity  to  engage  constructively  in
consultations  to  ensure  a  successful  outcome  on  the
question  of  management  reform  of  the  Organization.
We reaffirm our support for the Secretary-General with
respect  to  the  bold  measures  that  he  promised  in  his
report  entitled  (cid:147)In  larger  freedom(cid:148)  (A/59/2005),  and
we believe that he should be given the necessary level
of authority and flexibility to fulfil his function as our
chief executive officer. However, that is not to say that
we  support  those  proposals  from  other  quarters  that
the  General
would  seek  to 
transfer  power  from 
Assembly  to  the  Secretary-General  in  matters  such  as
the redeployment of resources. The General Assembly
is and should remain the principal policy organ of the
United  Nations,  with  absolute  powers  in  the  area  of
setting  priorities.  The  Bahamas  also  looks  forward  to
continuing  discussions  on  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  particularly  in  relation  to  the  Council(cid:146)s
working methods.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Kofi
Annan for his fine work in leading the United Nations
through  treacherous  seas  over  the  past  years.  We  will
shortly celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the signing
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Looking  back
over the past 60 years, there is much of which we can
justifiably  be  proud.  There  are  some  cases  where  we
must accept that the international community failed to
live up to its legal  and moral obligation  to  act  for  the
benefit of people in need. There are some cases where
our  decisions  were 
dominated  by  big-Power
pragmatism  and  doubtful  legalisms,  as  opposed  to
moral certainty and philosophical clarity.
As we move forward, let us be sure that we learn
from  our  mistakes  as  well  as  our  successes.  We  have
engaged in a process of reflection, which at times has
been  painful.  Let  us  emerge  from  this  stronger,  more
unified  and  determined  to  act  to  achieve  the  goals
adopted  60  years  ago  to  promote  social  progress  and
better standards of life in larger freedom. The peoples
of our nations demand and deserve nothing less. Now,
more than ever, we need the United Nations.
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. George  Yeo,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Republic of Singapore.
Mr. Yeo (Singapore): A few weeks ago, a young
Muslim  lawyer  in  Singapore  told  me  about  a  recent
experience he had had in an East Asian airport. Unlike
others  holding  Singaporean  passports  who  were
clearing immigration, he was told to stand aside. When
he  asked  the  reason,  the  immigration  officer  muttered
that  there  were  (cid:147)too  many  Mohamads(cid:148)  that  day.
Smiling  to  himself,  the  Singaporean  waited  patiently
and peered around, wondering how long he had to wait.
The officer then warned him to stand still. He suddenly
felt a chill along his spine.
Muslims all over the world are being profiled by
security  agencies.  Since  11  September  2001,  Muslims
travelling to Western countries have been subject to all
manner  of  interrogations  and  searches.  Although  the
A/60/PV.20
profiling  is  now  done  more  subtly  now,  it  continues.
And in East Asia, profiling is increasing.
When sudden threats appear, perhaps it is natural
to  expect  a  certain  overreaction  from  the  affected
communities. After Pearl Harbour, all Japanese people
living in America became suspect, including those born
there.  Many  were  interned.  By  today(cid:146)s  standards,  that
was an affront. But at that time, it was widely felt to be
a  necessary  precaution.  Shocked  by  that  reaction,
Japanese-American  leaders  set  out  to  prove  their
Americanness,  for  example  by  forming  the  Japanese-
American  100th  Infantry  Battalion,  which  fought
heroically in the European theatre.
The travails of the Japanese-Americans were not
unique.  Tribalism  is  a  basic  human  instinct.  We  may
proclaim  that  all  men  are  brothers,  but  we  reflexively
distinguish  degrees  of  closeness.  Divisions  of  race,
language,  culture  and  religion  run  deep  in  human
society and emerge under stress. The ascendancy of the
West  in  the  past  few  centuries  created  tremendous
stress 
in  non-Western  communities,  upsetting  all
relationships and giving rise to a variety of responses,
all  of  which  sought  to  reconcile  each  community(cid:146)s
sense  of  self  with  the  needs  of  a  Western-defined
modernity.  In  Asia,  for  example,  the  re-emergence  of
China  and  India  on  the  global  stage  has  been  a
prolonged  struggle  of  reconciling  transformation  with
tradition.
That  is  the  broader  historical  context  against
which  the  relationship  between  Muslims  and  non-
Muslims  in  the  world  must  be  viewed  today.  It  is  a
subject  that  concerns  us  all  deeply  in  the  United
Nations.
There are two evolving developments which feed
on  each  other.  The  first  is  change  within  Islam  itself;
the other is the relationship between Muslims and non-
Muslims  in  different  parts  of  the  world.  Both  require
our close attention.
The  response  of 
the  Islamic  world 
to 
to 
the
challenge of modernization will affect the development
of the entire world in this century. In some ways, it is
comparable 
to
modernization,  and  it  will  probably  take  much  longer.
The  decline  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  in  the  nineteenth
century  took  place  at  about  the  same  time  as  the
decline  of  the  Qing  Dynasty  in  China.  Both  collapsed
at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century.  After  many
the  Chinese  response 
that  of 
7
A/60/PV.20
twists and turns, China has finally re-emerged onto the
global stage with a bright future ahead of it.
have  become  critical  and  which  have  strategic
importance for us all.
is  unlikely 
to  re-coalesce 
There are about as many Muslims in the world as
there  are  Chinese.  In  contrast  to  China,  however,  the
Islamic  world 
the
foreseeable  future.  Once  Ataturk  refused  the  caliphate
and  with  iron  determination  started  reforming  Turkish
institutions  on  the  Western  model,  the  Islamic  world
lost its centre. From then on, different Islamic societies
experimented  with  different  approaches  and  moved  in
different directions. It has been a mixed story.
in 
for  greater 
The different responses of Muslim societies to the
challenge of modernization are accompanied by a great
ideological  debate  among  political  and  religious
leaders.  Good  governance  has  become  a  major  issue,
with  calls 
transparency  and  more
democracy.  In  this  debate,  it  is  natural  that  some
groups should look back to a romanticized period when
the Islamic world was united and pristine and seek its
re-establishment in the twenty-first century. Such were
the ideas of the Muslim Brotherhood, which emanated
from  Egypt  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century.
The  ideology  of  that  movement  continues  to  inspire
Islamic  groups  in  various  parts  of  the  world  today.  If
only Muslims were to abide strictly by the teachings of
Islam,  there  would  be  no  corruption,  Governments
would be just and effective and Islamic societies would
become strong again.
In many Islamic countries at various times, these
groups have been suppressed for being subversive, and
those  who  funded  them  were  thought  to  have  ulterior
motives.  This  struggle  for  the  soul  of  Islam  is  an
ongoing  process.  However,  it  is  not  a  struggle  unique
to  Islam.  For  more  than  200  years,  Europe  was
bloodied by religious wars, which ended only with the
Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, which created the system
of  modern  European  States.  But  even  then,  there  was
still  religious  persecution,  which  led  many  Europeans
to flee to the New World. In the twentieth century, the
soul  of  Europe  was  torn  by  communism,  fascism  and
anti-Semitism.  It  was  precisely  to  overcome  those
divisions  that  the  European  Union  was  established  by
stages,  creating  the  longest  period  of  peace  on  that
continent.
How  Islamic  society  evolves  in  the  coming
decades  is  mainly  for  Muslims  to  decide.  Generally
speaking,  non-Muslims  would  have  no  standing  to
participate  in  this  debate  but  for  two  factors  which
8
The first factor is the emergence of the ideology
of  Al-Qaida  and  its  sister  organizations,  such  as  Al-
Jama(cid:146)a  al-Islamiyah.  This  ideology  is  a  malignant
mutation  of  the  ideas  associated  with  the  Muslim
Brotherhood and other groups that  argued for a  return
of  Islamic  society  to  an  idealized  past.  It  takes  those
ideas  to  an  extreme  and  preaches  hatred  against  non-
Muslims  worldwide, 
justifying  violence  against
innocent  bystanders  even  if  they  are  Muslim.  The
suicide  bomber  has  become  a  potent  weapon  in  its
armoury.  The  followers  of  this  ideology  will  not
hesitate to use weapons of mass destruction if they can
get their hands on them. We have a duty in the United
Nations to join in the global war against them.
The  second  factor  necessitating  the  involvement
of  non-Muslims  in  the  Islamic  debate  is  the  growing
Muslim  diaspora  in  many  non-Islamic  countries.  As
minority communities, Muslims living in countries like
France  and  Germany,  for  example,  have  to  accept
certain limitations in the practice of their religion. With
growing  religiosity  in  recent  years,  issues  like  the
wearing  of 
the  headscarf  have  surfaced.  What
constitutes  a  reasonable  compromise  varies  from
country  to  country.  For  example,  Singapore  allows
aspects  of  sharia  law  to  apply  to  Muslims,  including
Muslim  men  being  allowed  four  wives,  although  only
under  stringent  conditions.  It  would  be  hard  for  non-
Muslims to accept this in Europe.
The  fact  is  that  while  some  human  values  are
universal (cid:151) and we should find more of them (cid:151) many
are not. We have to accept this diversity in the world.
A  greater  tolerance  of  diversity  in  the  world  would
create  better  conditions  for  peaceful  cooperation
between  Muslims  and  non-Muslims  and  would
influence the debate within Islam itself.
If non-Muslims tar all Muslims with the brush of
terrorism  and  non-Muslim  majority  communities  treat
minority  Muslim 
problem
communities,  the  future  will  be  troubled  for  all  of  us.
In  such  a  climate,  Muslim  extremists  will  gain
ascendancy,  and  the  terrorists  will  find  fertile  ground
for recruitment everywhere.
communities 
as 
It is ridiculous to argue that terrorism is inherent
in  Islam.  To  do  so  is  to  play  into  the  hands  of  the
terrorists.  That  such  views  are  increasingly  being
expressed  in  reputable  journals  and  newspapers  is
troubling.  Of  course  one  could  find  blood-curdling
passages  in  the  Koran  and  the  Hadith,  but  these
passages  must  be  read  in  context.  We  find  similar
passages  too  in  the  Old  Testament.  As  we  would  not,
therefore,  argue  that  terrorism  is  inherent  in  Judaism
and  Christianity,  so  we  should  not  make  Islam  the
problem.  That  would  be  a  big  mistake.  There  were
periods 
society  was
considerably more advanced than Western society.
in  history  when 
Islamic 
Equally,  it  would  be  a  big  mistake  for  Muslim
leaders to allow Muslim extremists to make claims on
behalf  of  Muslims  worldwide  without  contest.  This
causes  non-Muslims  to  suspect  that  Muslims  are
generally in sympathy with them. To be sure, there are
genuine  grievances  that  have  to  be  addressed,  like
Palestine,  Chechnya  and  the  future  of  Iraq,  but  these
are  issues  that  are  more  political  than  religious.  The
strategy  of  the  extremists  is  to  polarize  Muslims  and
non-Muslims  worldwide,  thereby  widening  their  base
of  support.  Muslim  leaders  have  to  counter  this
strategy.  It  is  also  essential  for  them  to  reach  out  to
non-Muslim audiences as well. The recent bombings in
London  led  to  a  strong  anti-Muslim  backlash  at  the
grass roots that threatened the fabric of British society.
This  in  turn  put  pressure  on  Muslim  leaders  in  the
United  Kingdom  to  condemn  the  terrorists  in  clear
terms.
In  the  end,  the  fight  against  the  terrorists  has  to
be won within Muslim communities themselves. It is a
battle  for  hearts  and  minds  that  requires  Muslims  to
work  together  with  non-Muslims  against  a  common
enemy.
We have to make a concerted effort to understand
each other better. With globalization, all societies have
become  multiracial  and  multireligious  to  a  greater  or
lesser extent. The pluralism we hold as an ideal in the
United Nations is not a choice; it is a vital necessity.
In  1998,  at  its  fifty-third  session,  the  General
Assembly declared in resolution 53/22 that 2001 would
be  the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among
Civilizations.  In  2001,  at  the  fifty-sixth  session,  the
General  Assembly  adopted  the  Global  Agenda  for
Dialogue  among  Civilizations  (resolution  56/6).  And
this  year  the  United  Nations  sponsored  numerous
meetings on interfaith dialogue. A few months ago, the
first Asia-Middle East Dialogue was held in Singapore
to  promote  greater  understanding  between 
two
important regions of the world.
A/60/PV.20
We need to translate our declarations of principle
into  everyday  language  and  into  practice.  Are  there
limits to what politicians can say to win votes? Should
religious  leaders  be  allowed  to  preach  hatred,  even  in
close  confines?  What  do  we  teach  our  children  in
school?  What  does  all  this  mean  to  the  immigration
officer  at 
that
Mohammed is the most common name in the world?
the  airport  who  does  not  know 
population, 
and  multireligious 
in  many  aspects  of  ordinary 
Singapore,  a  cosmopolitan  city-State  with  a
multiracial 
is
particularly  vulnerable.  We  have  experienced  ugly
racial  and  religious  riots  before  and  have  learned  that
racial and religious harmony should never be taken for
granted.  It  has  been  necessary  for  the  Government  to
involve 
life,
including  discouraging  Christian  missionaries  from
targeting  Muslims  for  conversion,  stopping  mosques
from  sharply 
their
loudspeakers  when  calling  the  faithful  to  prayer,
limiting  the  size  of  joss  sticks  which  Buddhists  and
Taoists  burn  for  their  rituals  and  arresting  those  who
incite racial and religious hatred. What may appear to
be  a  small  thing  to  one  community  can  be  a  serious
provocation to another.
itself 
turning  up 
the  volume  of 
This has become the world we live in. We cannot
ignore  the  diversity  around  us  in  our  everyday  life  or
the tribalism  which  is  in  our  nature.  We  will  continue
to  disagree  on  many  things  such  as  the  nature  of
democracy,  gender  relationships,  the  death  penalty,
stem-cell research and what we can or cannot eat. The
moment  we  dismiss  those  differences  as  unimportant,
or  lightly  condemn  those  who  disagree  with  us,  the
trouble begins.
Therefore, as we strive to achieve the Millennium
Goals  in  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)  and  they  are  worthy
Goals (cid:151) a key task for us is to accept, even celebrate,
the  differences  that  divide  us  in  our  daily  lives.  To
paraphrase Pope John-Paul II, it is only because we are
many  that  we  are  one,  and  the  United  Nations
expresses that ideal.
The  President: I  thank  the  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs  of  Singapore  for  his  message  on  the  need  for
tolerance, mutual understanding and respect.
I  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Karel  de
Gucht, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of
Belgium.
9
A/60/PV.20
Mr.  De  Gucht  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):
Allow  me  to  congratulate  you  most  warmly,  Sir,  on
your  election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.
Through  you,  I  would 
thank  your
predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the manner in which he
conducted  the  preparatory  work  for  the  summit  of
Heads  of  State  and  Government  which  has  just  taken
place.  We  are  very  grateful 
to  him  for  having
successfully met that challenge.
like  also 
to 
Even though we had hoped for a more ambitious
agreement,  the  summit  allowed  us  to  create  a  much-
needed  new  impetus  and  new  strategic  guidelines  for
our Organization. Only a stronger and more legitimate
United  Nations  will  be  able 
the
challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century  and  implement
the  collective  security  consensus  that  we  endorsed  in
the summit(cid:146)s outcome document.
to  respond 
to 
Belgium 
is  a  strong  advocate  of  efficient
multilateralism.  I  emphasize 
the  word  (cid:147)efficient(cid:148)
because this is not just a declaration of faith. We need
credible  structures  and  strong  institutions  capable  of
effectively 
international
commitments and addressing our common concerns. It
is  all  too  easy  to  indulge  in  rhetoric;  we  have  to
translate  our  words  into  action.  That  is  why,  in  that
context,  I  am  pleased  with  the  progress  made  during
the summit.
implementing 
our 
I  am  particularly  pleased  with  the  consensus
reached  whereby  security,  peace,  development  and
human  rights  are  not  only  interlinked  but  mutually
reinforcing.  That  is  a  significant  step  forward  in  our
efforts to build  a  more  peaceful,  more  prosperous  and
more equitable world. That idea will guide our actions
and  form  the  basis  of  our  approach.  Without  peace,
there  can  be  no  development,  and  human  rights  can
often  be  sorely  tested.  In  the  absence  of  development
and  respect  for  human  rights,  stability  and  security
become elusive.
The  link  between  development,  stability  and
human rights becomes most acutely apparent in fragile
or  failing  States.  These  are  often  States  devastated  by
conflict or by civil war (cid:151) States whose leaders are no
longer  capable  of  meeting  the  basic  needs  of  their
people. Often, their economic situation has deteriorated
dramatically,  and  sometimes  their  society  itself  is  in
disarray.  A  large  number  of  the  people  of  such  States
may be displaced. They may have fled, may be subject
to abuse or exploitation and therefore cannot enjoy any
10
of the guarantees that a State should be able to provide
to its citizens.
Some  States  are  at  risk  of  becoming  zones  of
lawlessness,  in  which  terrorist  and  criminal  activities
can  thrive.  The  uncontrolled  exploitation  of  natural
resources  can  fuel  all  sorts  of  criminal  networks  or
conflicts (cid:151) often with an ethnic dimension (cid:151) in which
large numbers of weapons can circulate uncontrolled.
Such States must return to peace, stability and the
rule of law. They must take control of their own future
and  gradually  begin  to  consider  their  prospects  for
development. This is not an easy task. The challenge is
tremendous.  Almost  simultaneously,  it  is  necessary  to
rebuild  State  institutions;  disarm  combatants,  give
them  new  prospects  and 
into
communities  that  are  often  impoverished;  reorganize
the  army  and  security  forces;  and  give  the  State  the
means  to  restore  its  authority,  organize  elections  and
create conditions conducive to development.
reintegrate 
them 
establishment  of 
We must  help them break that vicious  circle  and
regain their place in the community of nations. In that
respect, 
the 
a  Peacebuilding
is  crucial.  The  creation  of  such  a
Commission 
Commission not only illustrates our common resolve to
help such States on their path to recovery; it allows us,
first  and  foremost,  better  to  coordinate  and  focus  our
efforts.  Political,  humanitarian,  military  and  financial
resources  must  be  mobilized  and  used  effectively  to
achieve our common goals.
That  is  particularly  true  in  the  case  of  sub-
Saharan  African  countries  that  are  ravaged  by  deadly
and  prolonged  conflicts,  with  the  primary  victims
being the civilian population.
the  experience 
including  by  sharing 
The  establishment  of  such  a  Commission  would
generate great hope. It is our common responsibility to
make  it  a  success.  Belgium  wants  to  contribute
actively, 
it
acquired  in  the  transition  processes  in  the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo and in Burundi.
Belgium  also  attaches  great 
to
promoting the protection of human rights. My country
welcomes  the  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  the  decision  to
establish  a  Human  Rights  Council.  But  we  regret  that
the  summit  was  not  able  to  finalize  the  Council(cid:146)s
modalities.
importance 
Belgium  has  fully  supported  the  reform  and  will
continue  to  focus  on  it.  Democracy  and  respect  for
human  rights  are  some  of  our  common  values  and
underpin  our  efforts  to  promote  peace  and  stability.
From  now  on,  those  values  will  be  part  of  our
collective security consensus and must be incorporated
into  our  global  approach  throughout  the  entire  United
Nations system. They are our common responsibility.
Among 
the  summit(cid:146)s  other  achievements,  I
should  like  also  to  highlight  the  (cid:147)responsibility  to
protect(cid:148). This represents a step forward in the quest for
solutions 
the
aftermath  of  the  genocides  that  marked  our  last
century,  we  solemnly  pledged  that  such  atrocities
would never happen again.
the  most  glaring 
injustices.  In 
to 
Let  me  now  turn  to  good  governance,  which  is
essential  if  our  efforts  to  create  a  more  stable  and
prosperous  world  are  to  be  successful.  The  summit
outcome 
its
importance, and rightly so.
repeatedly 
underlines 
document 
Good  governance  is  not  a  moralistic  concept
imposed  from  the  outside.  It  is  not  about  giving  good
or  bad  grades,  and  even  less  about  good  and  bad
students.  It  is  not  for  others  to  say  what  are  good
policies  and  what  are  bad  policies.  No  (cid:151)  good
governance  is  synonymous  with  effective  governance
and  goes  hand  in  hand  with  sovereignty.  It  is  about
governance that can produce results, make a difference
for citizens and create fertile ground for development.
Without it, the support of the international community
cannot  produce  the  desired  results.  Without  it,  the  aid
of the international community will not find the fertile
ground  essential  to  create  the  conditions  for  greater
prosperity and stability.
We  have  pledged  to  attain  the  objective  of
allocating 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to
official  development  assistance.  We  will  keep  our
promise.  But  we  are  aware  that  development  is  not
only  a  question  of  money;  first  and  foremost,  it  is  a
question  of 
the  effective  use  of  resources.  The
necessary conditions must be established. What matters
is the outcome on the ground. Poverty is not inevitable;
all  peoples  have  a  future  that  belongs  to  them.  They
must take charge of it.
We  accordingly  have  stated,  in  paragraph  11  of
the summit outcome document (resolution 60/1), (cid:147)good
governance  and  the  rule  of  law  ...  are  essential  for
sustained  economic  growth,  sustainable  development
A/60/PV.20
reaffirmed 
and the eradication of poverty and hunger(cid:148). In the same
outcome  document,  we  also  clearly  reaffirmed  our
commitment  to  good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law,
and 
take
responsibility  for  its  own  development.  Those  are  the
terms of our global partnership for development, as set
out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the  Monterrey
Consensus 
of
Implementation.
country  must 
Johannesburg 
each 
Plan 
that 
and 
the 
the 
the  European  Union.  But 
All  components  of  the  international  community
have demonstrated generosity. That is particularly true
of 
international
community  can  hardly  be  held  responsible  for  the
failure of States to protect or assist all or part of their
populations. It is difficult to understand why today we
must launch donor appeals to deal with the large-scale
that
destruction  of  houses  by  a  Government 
deliberately 
its  citizens
homeless.
leaves  some  500,000  of 
That reasoning with regard to the subject of good
governance  also  applies  to  the  similar  concepts  of
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law.  Those  are  extremely
important  objectives,  both  for  the  development  of  our
societies  and  for  the  security  of  States.  But,  neither
democracy  nor  the  rule  of  law  can  be  artificially
imposed  from  outside.  This  is  not  about  dictating
exogenous models; we must take a bottom-up approach
in  creating  suitable  conditions  for  the  emergence  of
mechanisms 
equitable
participation  in  their  own  governance,  in  a  spirit  of
inclusivity. In that regard, our first priorities should be
the  modernization  of  societies  and  States  and  the
emancipation  of  women  and  children  and 
their
inclusion in the global dynamic. Past experience shows
that the shortest path to democracy and the rule of law
is the modernization of society. The role (cid:151) indeed, the
responsibility  (cid:151)  of  the  international  community  is  to
galvanize that modernization process.
people(cid:146)s 
ensure 
that 
We have a great responsibility. Before the end of
the  year,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  must  be
established.  We  also  have  the  task  of  making  the
Human  Rights  Council  operational.  I  sincerely  hope
that  the  spirit  that  prevailed  during  the  summit  will
also  guide  the  work  of  the  sixtieth  session  of  the
General  Assembly.  We  must  continue 
to  show
determination, perseverance and vision in carrying out
our work. Only  through  constant  commitment  will  we
make  the  United  Nations  the  primary  instrument  for
international relations.
11
A/60/PV.20
That  is  the  important  task  ahead  of  us.  Our  own
credibility  is  at  stake.  We  must  once  again  make  the
United  Nations  the  instrument  par  excellence  of  our
strategy  to  build  a  more  stable  and  more  prosperous
world  for  all.  Our  peoples  demand  that.  Belgium  is
willing  to  rise  to  that  challenge  and  to  shoulder  its
responsibilities.
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Rodolphe Adada, Minister for Foreign Affairs and
Francophonie of the Republic of the Congo.
to 
the  presidency  of 
Mr.  Adada  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  should
like at the outset to sincerely congratulate you, Sir, on
your  election 
the  General
Assembly at the present session. That election is a sign
of  confidence  in  your  qualities  as  a  statesman  and  a
recognition of your country, Sweden, which reminds us
of  its  illustrious  son  Dag  Hammarskj(cid:246)ld,  the  second
Secretary-General  of  the  Organization,  who  sacrificed
his life for the cause of humanity. I should also like to
express  to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean
Ping, Minister of State, Minister for Foreign Affairs of
the  Gabonese  Republic,  our  heartfelt  congratulations
on the skill and wisdom with which he guided the work
of  the  fifty-ninth  session  and  successfully  led  the
difficult  negotiations  that  produced  the  document
recently  adopted  at  the  World  Summit  (resolution
60/1).  Finally,  we  commend  the  Secretary-General,
Mr. Kofi  Annan,  for  his  courageous  and 
tireless
initiatives  to  renew  and  revitalize  the  United  Nations
system.
The  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is
taking place in an international situation characterized
not  only  by  recurrent  wars  but  also  by  the  resurgence
of  terrorist  acts  that  spare  no  region  in  the  world  and
by  natural  disasters  that  have  plunged  many  families
into mourning. We wish to express to the Government
and  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America  our
sincerest condolences following Hurricane Katrina.
terrorism, 
Combating 
like  preserving  our
environment,  calls  for  greater  solidarity.  The  United
Nations, whose sixtieth anniversary we are celebrating,
remains the essential tool for expressing that solidarity.
It is only the United Nations that will enable us to face
the formidable challenges of the future.
The  Congo  therefore  welcomes  the  adoption  of
the  outcome  document  of  the  High-level  Plenary
Meeting, which sets out the main course of action to be
taken.  The  outcome  document  gives  us  reasons  for
12
hope  about  ways  in  which  to  meet  the  challenges
facing  our  world.  At  the  same  time,  it  gives  rise  to
some questions.
The  Congo  welcomes  the  clear  reaffirmation  by
all heads of State or Government of their commitment
to continue to discuss and seek solutions to the world(cid:146)s
main concerns: issues of development, collective peace
and  security,  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  and
strengthening the United Nations.
We welcome the consensus regarding the need to
create  a  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  a  Human
Rights  Council.  A  Human  Rights  Council  would,
together with the International Criminal Court, enhance
the effectiveness of mechanisms to promote and defend
human rights.
Institutional  reform  of  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)
encompassing,  of  course,  all  its  principal  organs,
including the General Assembly, the Security Council,
the  Economic 
the
Secretariat (cid:151)  like  reform  of  the  internal  management
of  our  Organization,  is  both  a  political  and  a  moral
imperative  that  would  enable  the  United  Nations  to
move with the times and to prepare more effectively to
face the coming decades.
and  Social  Council 
and 
The  Congo  regrets,  however,  that  the  serious
issue  of  disarmament  was  not  even  mentioned  in  the
outcome  document  because  of  a  lack  of  consensus,
even 
though  nuclear  weapons,  weapons  of  mass
destruction and the illicit trade in small arms and light
weapons  are  the  greatest  threats  to  humanity.  The
Congo  reaffirms  its  full  support  for  the  objective  of
general  and  complete  disarmament  and 
total
elimination of weapons of mass destruction.
the 
Africa  has  always  been  a  source  of  concern  for
the United Nations, and the Security Council with good
reason  spends  most  of  its  time  on  Africa.  We  have
reason to be pleased that some degree of progress has
been made in several countries.
In  Burundi,  we  welcome  the  efforts  of  the
international community, which a month ago led to the
successful  completion  of  the  electoral  process  in  that
country.  We  welcome  the  Central  African  Republic(cid:146)s
return  to  constitutional  order  after  several  years  of
crisis and instability. These countries deserve increased
support  from  the  international  community  so  as  to
consolidate situations that are still fragile.
the  central  Government  and 
In  the  Sudan,  we  welcome  the  reconciliation
between  the  Sudan  People(cid:146)s  Liberation  Movement
(SPLM), 
the  new
Government  of  national  unity,  which  has  just  been
established.  But  the  reconciliation  between  the  north
and the south in Sudan should not lead us to forget the
tragedy  that  has  for  two  years  been  affecting  another
segment  of  the  population  in  the  west  of  the  country,
namely, Darfur. We call for greater mobilization on the
part  of  the  international  community  in  support  of  the
African  Union(cid:146)s  efforts  to  bring  an  immediate  end  to
that political and humanitarian crisis.
In  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire,  because  of  the  differences
between  the  parties  to  the  conflict  and  despite  the
tireless  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  United  Nations  and
the African Union, the holding of elections, initially set
for October 2005, has now been brought into question.
We  urge  our  Ivorian  brothers  to  rise  above  their
differences in the higher interest of their country and of
peace and stability in the subregion.
Peace and stability in the Democratic Republic of
the  Congo  determine  the  stability  and  development  of
the  whole  of  Central  Africa  and  the  Great  Lakes
region.  We  applaud  the  efforts  by  the  international
community  in  support  of  the  electoral  process  leading
to a successful transition in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo.
Our  subregion  was  very  much  involved  in  those
efforts.  As  current  chairman  of 
the  Economic
Community of Central African States, the President of
the Republic of the Congo, Mr. Denis Sassou-Nguesso,
was  assigned  by  his  peers,  following  the  twelfth
Conference of Heads of State and Government held in
June  2005  at  Brazzaville,  the  task  of  promoting
successful 
that  mandate,
together  with  my  colleagues  from  Angola,  Gabon  and
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we  met  with
the  international  partners  of  the  Democratic  Republic
of  the  Congo,  namely  Belgium,  the  European  Union
and, of course, the United Nations.
transition.  Pursuant 
to 
Concerning  the  Great  Lakes  region,  the  first
summit meeting of the International Conference on the
Great  Lakes,  which  was  held  in  November  2004  at
Dar es Salaam,  aroused  great  hopes  for  a  return  to
peace, stability and development in that subregion.
In  a  few  months,  the  second  summit  meeting  of
the  International  Conference  will  be  held  at  Nairobi
and  will  adopt  a  security,  stability  and  development
A/60/PV.20
pact,  under  which  our  countries  intend  to  implement
action  programmes  and  protocols  in  order  to  make  a
reality  of  their  desire  for  a  shared  future  of  peace,
security and development.
is 
a  unique 
The International Conference on the Great Lakes
Region 
regional
peacebuilding. We very much hope that this subregion
will be the first to implement the reforms proposed by
the Secretary-General concerning peacebuilding.
experience 
of 
We would like to take this opportunity to reiterate
the appeal made by the President of the Republic of the
Congo to the international community in general and to
the  development  partners  in  particular  to  make  the
Great Lakes region a special development area.
Nine  of  the  eleven  countries  that  make  up  our
subregion of Central Africa are now in a post-conflict
situation.  This  subject  was  discussed  at  length  at  the
twenty-third  meeting  of  the  United  Nations  Standing
Advisory Committee on Security Questions in  Central
Africa, which was held at Brazzaville from 29 August
to 2 September 2005.
We  welcome  the  existence  and  work  of  that
committee,  of  which  my  country  is  now  chair,  and  at
the same time we ask the United Nations to act on the
outcome  of  the  committee(cid:146)s  multidisciplinary  mission
to Central Africa in June 2003.
In 
the  Middle  East,  notwithstanding 
the
persistence of the Israel-Palestine conflict, we welcome
and  encourage  the  efforts  made  over  the  past  several
months  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Israel,  Mr.  Ariel
Sharon, and the President of the Palestinian Authority,
Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  which  reflect  a  common  desire
to bring about a fair and lasting solution.
of 
Consolidation 
of
macroeconomic  balances  and  combating  pandemics
such  as  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases,  these
are the top priorities of my Government.
restoration 
peace, 
in 
a 
Our  Government  intends  to  expand  its  activities
in
to  deal  with  other  scourges.  We  organized 
Brazzaville 
on
conference 
trypanosomiasis,  during  which  a  resolution  declaring
trypanosomiasis  the  number-one  priority  for  public
health,  like  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria,  was  adopted.  We
request that special attention be given to this disease.
2005 
June 
Concerned about preserving the environment, the
Congo  and  other  countries  of  the  subregion  entered
13
A/60/PV.20
into  a  partnership  agreement  with  the  international
community in 2002 within the framework of the Congo
River Basin Initiative.
effectively  than  in  any  other.  Croatia  remembers  that
the  United  Nations  played  a  prominent  role  in  its
re-emergence as a sovereign State.
on 
conservation 
The second summit meeting of heads of State and
Government 
sustainable
management  of  forest  ecosystems  in  Central  Africa
was held at Brazzaville in February 2005, and adopted
a long-term strategy for the preservation of the forest,
fauna and biodiversity in the greater Congo basin.
and 
I  wish  to  thank  the  European  Union,  the  United
States  of  America,  France  and  Germany  for  their
support of this initiative.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the African Group
for having  endorsed the  candidacy  of  the  Congo  for  a
non-permanent seat on the Security Council for 2006 to
2007.  I  would  like  to  reassure  you  that  we  are  fully
determined  to  work  resolutely  for  peace,  freedom  and
justice throughout the world.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency
Mrs.  Kolinda  Grabar-Kitarovi,  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs  and  European  Integration  of  the  Republic  of
Croatia.
Mrs. Grabar-Kitarovi (Croatia): Allow me, Sir,
to  express  the  pleasure  of  the  Republic  of  Croatia  at
your  election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General
Assembly. At this crucial moment in the history of the
United  Nations,  we  are  gratified  that  a  friend  of
multilateralism  will  be  guiding  the  work  of  the
Assembly.  May  I  also  commend  the  work  of  your
predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping, 
remarkable
leadership  and  tenacity  in  bringing  the  fifty-ninth
session to a successful conclusion.
for  his 
I would like to extend the sincere condolences of
the people of Croatia to the people of the United States
of America on the loss of life and suffering occasioned
by Hurricane Katrina. We can take some small comfort
from  the  fact  that  at  such  times  of  need  nations
instinctively  reach  out  to  help  others.  This  provides
vivid  illustration  of  the  best  of  humanity  and  its
enormous  potential  to  do  good  and  build  a  better
world.
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  continues  to
be indispensable for building a better world. All States
benefit  from  a  strong  United  Nations.  Small  and
medium-sized States, which form the great majority of
Members,  can  articulate  their  diverse  interests  at  the
this  universal  forum  more
global 
through 
level 
14
this 
imperfect  document 
Yet  the  difficulty  with  which  agreement  was
achieved on the outcome document reflects the present
state of the world in which we live. We should not look
at 
through  rose-colored
eyeglasses. Rather, we should grasp the potential that it
holds for moving towards broader and deeper reforms.
While we may have broad agreement on the goal (cid:151) a
more efficient and effective United Nations working in
the service of mankind  (cid:151) we have  created only some
of the contours of reform. As the Secretary-General has
reminded  us,  we  should  not  consider  that  the  job  has
been done. The details remain incomplete.
Let us move now to the details without delay. Let
us  move  forward  in  helping  developing  countries
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).
Let  us  operationalize  the  Peacebuilding  Commission
and  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Let  us  introduce  the
processes 
Secretariat
management.
strengthen 
required 
to 
Diplomacy is often about compromise. That word
has  been  used  frequently  in  describing  the  World
Summit  Outcome 
60/1).
However,  compromise  should  not  be  used  as  a
synonym for regression. Development is a pillar of the
United  Nations  mandate,  and 
the  MDGs  are
international obligations.
(resolution 
document 
Over  the  years,  the  development  dialogue  has
resulted  in  a  number  of  key  international  documents,
which  bear  witness  to  the  progress  on  poverty-related
issues  and  the  ways  in  which  we  have  agreed  to
address 
those  vital  challenges.  Johannesburg  and
Monterrey are prominent among them.
While  it  is  important  to  reaffirm  the  agreed
international  development  framework,  it  is  equally
necessary to move forward. Comprehensive debt relief,
on  which  there  was  progress  earlier  this  year  at
Gleneagles,  and  better  trade  access  to  the  markets  of
developed countries, which must be an outcome of the
Doha round, chart the way forward.
The  road  to  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  on
which  we  set  out  five  years  ago  has  been  an  uneven
one. There has been rapid growth in some parts of the
globe,  resulting  in  the  movement  of  millions  out  of
poverty.  At  the  same  time,  sub-Saharan  Africa  has
stagnated. Small island developing States have special
vulnerabilities which threaten their very existence. The
achievement  of  the  MDG  targets  by  2015  requires
national and international implementation strategies.
We  know  that  the  current  level  of  aid  is  not
enough to achieve the MDGs. It is necessary to look at
ways  to  increase  the  effectiveness  of  existing  aid,
introduce innovative sources of financing and adhere to
the agreed timetable for progressively increasing flows.
In  this  regard,  Croatia  supports  the  Declaration  on
Innovative Sources of Financing for Development.
As  a  country  with  an  economy  in  transition  and
as  a  European  Union  (EU)  candidate,  Croatia  is
undergoing  significant  internal  structural  change  and
external policy scrutiny. We seek to balance those often
competing demands by including our MDG obligations
within  the  context  of  other  policy  implementation  in
the  transition  and  EU  accession  processes.  We  have
developed  national  development  targets  based  on  the
MDGs, taking into account our progress to date.
in 
From its coastline, with its over 1,200 islands, to
its  Karst  hinterland  and  the  mountains  and  plains
beyond, Croatia(cid:146)s environment offers rare diversity in a
relatively  small  geographic  area.  We  are  vitally
interested 
the  preservation  of  our  national
environmental heritage, as well as of the whole of the
common environment of mankind. For that reason, we
welcome  the  extensive  treatment  of  environmental
issues  in  the  outcome  document  and  reiterate  our
support 
for 
sustainable
development.
concept  of 
the  key 
An  effective  multilateral  system  must  rely  upon
the 
interaction  of  States  which  are 
responsible
domestic  and  international  actors.  In  recent  years,
threats  to  peace  and  security  have  become  very
common  topics  of  discussion  in  global  affairs.  With
good reason, much effort has been invested in rallying
the  required  international  cooperation  for  the  creation
of strategies to confront old and new threats to States.
Croatia  believes 
the  United  Nations  should
continue to be in the frontline of that process.
that 
The  fight  against  terrorism  and  transnational
organized  crime  is  among  the  greatest  challenges  we
face.  Last  week,  the  Croatian  President  signed  the
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear
Terrorism.  That  Convention,  which  took  several  years
to  negotiate,  is  a  step  forward  towards  concluding  a
comprehensive  international  convention  on  terrorism.
A/60/PV.20
States must make greater efforts to ensure that it comes
to  fruition  during  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
Croatia regrets that there has been no meaningful
progress  on  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  The
ongoing stalemate, coming, as it does, in the aftermath
of  the  unsuccessful  Review  Conference  of  the  Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in
May, is a disappointment. We support the recent efforts
by  a  number  of  States  in  relation  to  the  NPT-based
upon 
non-proliferation,
disarmament  and  peaceful  nuclear  cooperation  (cid:151)  as
well  as  the  universal  adoption  of  the  comprehensive
safeguards agreements and additional protocols.
pillars 
three 
the 
of 
Countries  which  have  experienced  conflict  and
subsequently  rebuilt 
their  national  capacities  and
institutions  understand  well  the  link  between  security
and  development.  Both  security  and  development  are
individual  pillars  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations.
However,  we  know  that  together  they  are  vital  for
sustainable development. Security and development are
mutually reinforcing, providing the foundations for the
well-being  of  individuals  and  of  the  States  in  which
they live.
Croatia took an active interest in the negotiations
on the Peacebuilding Commission. It is clear that such
an  intergovernmental  body  is  needed  to  fill  a  void  in
the  United  Nations  system.  While  the  expertise  of  the
United  Nations  in  peacekeeping  is  not  in  doubt,  the
challenges  of  building  and  entrenching  peace  are
different.  We  have  argued  for  the  inclusion  in  the
membership  of  the  Commission  of  countries  with
national  experience  in  peacebuilding.  We  are  pleased
that 
the  outcome
document.  The  inclusion  of  small  States  whose  own
experience  has  spanned  the  transition  from  conflict  to
relief  and,  subsequently,  development,  will  add  an
important  dimension  which  would  be  absent  if  the
Commission were  constituted  solely  by  large,  wealthy
or powerful States.
that  position  was  reflected 
in 
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  should  assist
States to develop and strengthen  their  key  governance
institutions  and  assist  local  authorities  in  creating  the
conditions  for  sustainable  development, 
including
economic  growth.  It  should  always  ensure  that  the
process is one which  is  driven  by  the  State  concerned
and  by  the  key  stakeholders  within  it.  If  internal
15
A/60/PV.20
conflicts can be quelled and prevented from recurring,
then we are creating the conditions for a safer world.
regard 
is  necessary  with 
We  believe  that  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council 
its
membership and its working methods. We look forward
to  further  progress  being  made  during  the  current
session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  this  matter.
Clearly,  any  solution  will  require  the  support  of  as
large a group of Member States as possible.
to  both 
Croatia  has  been  a  factor  of  stability  in  a
neighbourhood where past instability has taken a heavy
toll, not only on the countries in the region but also on
the  broader  international  community.  Our  enhanced
cooperation  with  our  neighbours  is  a  sure  basis  for
entrenching stability and ensuring preconditions for the
expansion  of  economic  opportunities  for  South-East
Europe  as  a  whole.  We  shall  continue  to  play  that
regional role.
Having 
the
peacebuilding spectrum, Croatia is now playing its part
as a contributor to more than half of the United Nations
peacekeeping  operations  throughout  the  world,  and
training 
troop-
contributing  countries.  We  are  using  our  national
experience to help others in need.
peacekeepers 
successfully 
emerging 
evolved 
through 
from 
We  are  now  ready  to  take  the  next  step  in  our
responsibilities as a Member of the United Nations and
as  a  global  citizen.  For  that  reason,  the  Republic  of
Croatia  has  presented 
a
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  in  the
elections to be held in 2007.
candidature 
for 
its 
The postulates within the United Nations Charter
on  human  rights  serve  as  a  universal  measure  for  all
nations  and  peoples.  They  are  at  the  core  of  the  work
of the United Nations. That is why we have supported
the efforts to reform and strengthen the United Nations
human rights machinery. Croatia supports the decision
to  strengthen  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  and  to  increase  the
resources allocated to it. Existing machinery in the area
of  human  rights  (cid:151)  one  of  the  fundamental  pillars  of
the United Nations system (cid:151) requires such reforms.
Croatia  welcomes  the  decision  to  establish  a
Human  Rights  Council  as  a  new  organ  with  the
responsibility  for  promoting  universal  respect  for  the
protection  of  human  rights  and  addressing 
their
they  may  occur.  We  are
violation,  wherever 
16
disappointed  that  the  necessary  political  will  was  not
found to conclude an agreement on the Council in the
lead-up  to  the  world  summit.  However,  we  will  work
constructively  with  other  Member  States  in  seeking
consensus so that as yet undecided elements relating to
that Council can be settled during the sixtieth session.
Croatia  is  pleased  to  see  the  inclusion  of  an
agreement  on  the  (cid:147)responsibility  to  protect(cid:148)  in  the
outcome  document.  The  frustration  and  suffering  that
the
can  be  caused  by 
international  community, 
face  of
aggression,  has  been  witnessed  all  too  frequently.  We
welcome this positive development as a step towards a
new normative framework.
the  part  of 
in 
inaction  on 
inert 
the 
Democracy brings freedom for the individual and
contributes to  the  legitimacy  of  States.  As  a  signatory
of  the  Warsaw  Declaration:  Towards  a  Community  of
Democracies,  Croatia  fully  recognizes  the  importance
of  strengthening  democracy  and  advancing  its  global
acceptance as a universal value. Capacity-building can
strengthen  States  by  reinforcing  the  institutions  that
ensure  the  rule  of  law,  equity,  access  and  stable
government.
Croatia supports the enhancement of the capacity
of  the  United  Nations  to  promote  and  reinforce
democratic institutions and practices around the world.
We  welcome  the  decision  to  establish  a  Democracy
Fund  and  have,  as  a  concrete  measure  of  our  support,
made 
its
establishment.
contribution 
financial 
towards 
a 
Only  an  efficiently  functioning  United  Nations
system  can  respond  to  contemporary  challenges.  This
requires  effective  mandates  for  the  principal  organs.
Yet,  there  are  distinctly  different  conceptions  among
Member  States  of  the  principle  of  State  sovereignty.
These  differences,  as  we  have  seen  in  the  recent
negotiations,  impact  directly  upon  the  prospects  of
adjusting  the  mandates  and  interrelationships  of  the
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations  to  the  realities
of  the  twenty-first  century.  We  all  have  more  work
ahead of us on this account.
to 
Croatia 
supports 
the  efforts 
introduce
significant human resource management reforms in the
Secretariat. The United Nations cannot afford to have a
Secretariat  that  is  not  managed  in  accordance  with
contemporary  standards  and  practices.  For  the  same
reason,  we  support  system-wide  coherence,  both  in
management and policy.
There  have  been  many  high-minded  words
uttered  on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations  in  this  Hall
during the past week. When we leave this place, let us
not forget the principles that we have invoked and the
pledges  that  we  have  made.  Only  this  can  ensure  that
we  accelerate  progress  towards  achievement  of  both
the MDGs and United Nations reform. For its part, you
can  be  assured  that  the  Republic  of  Croatia  shall
continue  to  be  a  constructive  participant  in  these
efforts.
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Farouk  Kasrawi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
(spoke 
(Jordan) 
Mr.  Kasrawi
in  Arabic):
Mr. President,  allow  me  at  the  outset  to  congratulate
you  warmly  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the
General  Assembly  at  its  sixtieth  session.  I  would  also
like  to  express  my  confidence  that  your  well-known
wisdom  and  competence  will  contribute  to  enriching
and  focusing  the  deliberations  of  this  Assembly.
Moreover, I would like to express my gratitude to your
predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, for the strenuous efforts he
exerted during the past session. I would especially like
to  convey  my  appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  for  his  notable  efforts  in  advancing  the  reform
process in the United Nations.
From  this  rostrum,  allow  me  to  convey  my
country(cid:146)s solidarity with the people and Government of
the  United  States  of  America  for  the  tragedy  that  was
inflicted  on  certain  regions  and  cities  by  Hurricane
Katrina. I would like to extend our sincere condolences
to the families of the victims and our sympathy for the
destruction caused by the hurricane.
that 
further 
requires 
objective 
recognition 
the  reform  of 
Tackling 
the 
the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  United  Nations
the
requires 
Organization,  since  its  establishment  in  1945,  has
achieved  a  large  measure  of  success  in  the  realization
its  Charter.
of 
Objectivity 
that
substantive  and  concrete  changes  have  affected  the
core  of  the  international  order  and  the  network  of
international  relations;  this  has  made  it  imperative  to
review the role of the United Nations as a matter of a
real  and  urgent  international  necessity.  Such  a  review
should focus on a comprehensive revitalization of this
role  in  order  to  enable  the  Organization  to  respond  to
such challenges and changes affecting the international
system.
the  admission 
A/60/PV.20
The United Nations Charter is a document that is
capable  of  coping  with  international  developments,
provided that Member States have the political will to
introduce  the  necessary  reforms  into  the  work  of  the
main  organs  of  the  Organization.  The  reforms  should
ensure that these bodies are able to fulfil the ambitions
of  member  States  and,  at  the  same  time,  provide  the
environment and mechanism necessary to guarantee the
faithful application of the Charter(cid:146)s provisions and the
implementation  of  resolutions  adopted,  particularly
Security Council resolutions, without discrimination.
the  renewal  of 
In  this  context,  we  would  like  to  welcome  the
results of this year(cid:146)s world summit and the adoption of
the  outcome  document,  even  though  more  could  have
been achieved in the document, particularly in relation
to 
international  community(cid:146)s
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs). Nevertheless, we hope that the document will
be  a  starting  point  to  development  and  reform,  which
we  all  hope  to  achieve,  so  that  the  United  Nations
remains  the  cornerstone  of  the  system  of  international
relations.
the 
While  emphasizing  the  principles  of  the  non-use
of force in international relations and non-interference
in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  we  believe  that  the
Charter(cid:146)s  provisions,  if  applied,  would  respond  to  the
new  and  unconventional  challenges  that  constitute  a
possible threat to international peace and security. The
Security  Council  can  deal  with  such  challenges
appropriately and in a timely manner, if the will exists
to  do  so,  without  exceeding  its  powers.  This  requires
that  serious  consideration  be  given  to  revitalizing  the
Council(cid:146)s  mechanisms  in  order  to  make  them  more
democratic,  transparent  and  representative.  That,  in
turn,  requires  an  expansion  of  both  permanent  and
non-permanent  membership  of  the  Council  in  a  way
that  reflects  the  current  international  situation  and  the
significant increase in United Nations membership.
In  the  context  of  reform,  it  is  imperative  to
strengthen the General Assembly and enhance its role,
which complements that of the Security Council in the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The
role of the General Assembly is central, since it is the
organ  in  which  all  United  Nations  Member  States  are
therefore,  capable  of  dealing
represented.  It 
requirements  of  enhanced
effectively  with 
multilateral 
the
the  policies  necessary  for  such
development  of 
cooperation.
international 
cooperation 
and 
the 
is, 
17
A/60/PV.20
We  support  the  development  of  the  work  of  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  order  to  resolve
emerging economic, social and development challenges
and  problems.  We  would 
the
Council(cid:146)s leading role in coordinating and guiding the
international  development  process  and  promoting  the
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  which  Member  States
pledged to implement and fulfil by the year 2015.
to  emphasize 
like 
involved 
in  development  and 
It  is  important  to  consider  seriously  the  current
international
coordination  mechanisms  with  other 
organizations 
the
liberalization  of  world  economy  and  trade.  It  is  also
imperative  to  consider  the  reduction  of  the  debt  of
a
developing 
methodology 
sustainable
development  and  bridge  the  widening  gap  between
developed and developing countries.
countries, 
that  helps 
accordance  with 
to  achieve 
in 
Moreover,  this  development  methodology  ought
to parallel commitments by States towards certain key
issues,  such  as  the  promotion  of  good  governance,
respect  for  human  rights  and  basic  freedoms  and  the
combating of corruption. This is done through a reform
process 
the
particular cultural specificities of each State.
into  consideration 
that  should 
take 
Confronting  the  existing  challenges  and  settling
conflicts  requires  us  to  emphasize  the  necessity  to
respect the rule of law and human rights.
international 
Combating  international  terrorism  is  a  priority
that requires the close cooperation of all on the basis of
the principles mentioned earlier. The same can be said
of responses to acts of aggression against others, which
should  accord  with  existing  commitments  under  the
Charter, 
law  and  Security  Council
resolutions. To safeguard human rights, it is crucial to
revitalize  human  rights  mechanisms,  promote  their
work and establish new machinery, including a Human
Rights  Council.  In  the  same  context,  respect  for  the
rule  of  law  requires  that  we  address  more  serious
crimes  against  the  international  community  (cid:151)  hence
the  pivotal  role  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in
combating  war  crimes,  genocide  and  crimes  against
humanity.  Moreover,  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law
makes it imperative to resort to the International Court
of  Justice  to  settle  disputes  between  States  and  to
respect its decisions and advisory opinions.
My  country 
reform  and
development.  We  believe  that  the  ideal  paradigm  for
reform  is  one  that  comes  from  within  and  aims  to
is  committed 
to 
18
as 
as  well 
expanding 
enhance  the  protection  of  human  rights  and  basic
freedoms, 
grass-roots
participation  in  national  decision-making.  Jordan  is  in
the  process  of  launching  a  national  agenda  aimed  at
formulating  a  comprehensive  reform  methodology  in
the  political,  economic  and  social  areas  over  the  next
10 years. The agenda also aims to promote grass-roots
participation  in  political  decision-making  on  the  basis
of a solid democratic choice.
Any  real  reform  and  development  in  a  State  is
affected,  positively  or  negatively,  by  the  political  and
geographical  realities  of  the  region.  The  pattern  of
reform  in  Jordan  and  the  Middle  East  will  be  more
sustainable  and  progressive  if  the  political  settlement
based  on  the  international  terms  of  reference  of  the
peace  process,  the  road  map  and  the  Arab  peace
initiative attains its goal of achieving a just, lasting and
comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
Jordan welcomes the Israeli withdrawal from the
Gaza Strip and certain settlements in the northern West
Bank.  We  stress  that  this  withdrawal  is  not  an
alternative to the road map but must be part of it, and
that  both  the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  sides  must  carry
out their respective obligations under the  road  map  as
well as the recent Sharm el-Sheikh Understandings. In
that regard, we call upon Israel to withdraw its military
forces  from 
in
September  2000  and  to  cease  all  forms  of  settlement
activity  in  the  occupied  West  Bank,  including  East
Jerusalem.
towns  reoccupied 
the  Palestinian 
We also call upon Israel to cease the construction
of  the  separation  wall  in  the  occupied  Palestinian
territories  and  to  demolish  the  segments  that  have
already been built in those territories. We call on it to
return  the  property  that  was  seized  and  to  pay
compensation 
incurred.  The
construction  of 
its  current  route
constitutes  a  clear  and  continuous  violation  of  the
established  norms  of  international  law,  including  the
right to self-determination, human rights principles and
the  rules  of  international  humanitarian  law.  That  fact
was emphasized by the International Court of Justice in
its landmark advisory opinion on the subject.
for 
the  wall  along 
damage 
the 
We also urge support for the Palestinian National
Authority  in  its  genuine  efforts  to  preserve  the  truce
and  to  deal  firmly  with  any  violations  of  it  or  the
ceasefire.  We  call  upon  the  international  community
and  the  Quartet  in  particular  to  provide  all  possible
assistance to the Authority. We emphasize here that the
most  important  outcome  of  the  road  map  is  the
establishment  of  an  independent,  viable  Palestinian
State  that  is  geographically  contiguous,  with  East
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  whose  borders  are  based  on
those existing before 5 June 1967.
Moreover,  we  must  create  conditions  conducive
to  completing  the  peace  process  in  order  to  achieve  a
just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  on
the  basis  of  full  Israeli  withdrawal  from  all  the
occupied  Arab  territories,  including  the  Syrian  Golan
Heights, and to reach an agreed solution on the issue of
the  Palestinian  refugees,  based  on  General  Assembly
resolution  194 
the
establishment  of  normal  relations  between  the  Arab
States  and  Israel,  in  accordance  with  the  Arab  peace
initiative and the international terms of reference of the
peace process.
(III).  That  should 
lead 
to 
The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  rejects  all
forms  and  manifestations  of  terrorism,  regardless  of
justifications.  We  stand  together  on  the  front  lines,  in
word  and  deed,  to  eradicate  that  scourge,  which  has
afflicted the entire international community and left no
one  unscathed.  My  country  also  rejects  all  unjust  and
suspicious attempts to tie that criminal phenomenon to
a specific religion, culture or geographical region, and
we stand firm against any such attempt to tie it to the
Islamic  religion.  Islam,  in  substance  and  practice,  is
based on moderation and facilitation.  It was  a pioneer
in  promoting  the  protection  of  human  rights  and
safeguarding the life, dignity  and  property  of  persons.
It  rejects  any  infringement  on  these  concepts,  even  in
time  of  war.  In  that  context,  the  Amman  message
would  emphasize  that  this  divine  religion  is  beyond
any  suspicion  linking  its  teachings  to  incitement  to
harm innocent human beings.
Jordan welcomes the adoption of the Convention
on  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism  and
supports  the  efforts  under  way  to  ensure  the  adoption
of the comprehensive convention  to  combat  terrorism.
We further endorse the proposal made by the Kingdom
of  Saudi  Arabia  to  establish  an  international  centre  to
combat  terrorism,  which  was  adopted  by  the  Counter-
terrorism  International  Conference,  held 
in  Saudi
Arabia early this year.
Jordan will continue to assist Iraq in overcoming
its  current  crisis  and  in  consolidating  its  safety  and
security.  We  condemn  all  aspects  and  practices  of
A/60/PV.20
terrorism  and  extremism  in  the  country,  which  daily
kills scores of innocent people. My country calls on all
groups  and  sectors  of  the  Iraqi  population  to  reach
consensus  on 
the  basic  principles  and  elements
necessary  to  preserve  the  unity  of  Iraq  and  the
inviolability  of  its  territory  and  to  ensure  that  it
continues to belong to the Arab world. We also call for
the  respect  of  religious,  ethnic  and  sectarian  diversity
in  the  framework  of  free  democratic  choice,  without
prejudice  to  the  rights  of  its  minorities.  We  reiterate
our support for the political process in Iraq and call on
the  international  community  to  lend  its  support  to
create  the  appropriate  conditions  for  its  success.  We
call also on the United Nations to continue playing its
important role.
Let  me  now  turn  to  an  issue  that  is  important  to
Jordan:  the  drying  out  of  the  Dead  Sea,  and  how  to
pre-empt  an  ensuing  environmental  crisis  through  the
implementation  of 
the  Red  Sea-Dead  Sea  Canal
Project.  An  agreement  was  reached  recently  by  the
relevant parties and beneficiaries of the project, namely
Jordan,  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  National  Authority,
on a feasibility study for the construction of the canal.
We look forward to continued international support for
this project and the implementation of all its phases, in
accordance with the agreement mentioned earlier.
The  future  of  the  Middle  East  requires  the
creation  of strong  civil societies  enjoying decent lives
and deriving their guidance from their strong belief in
their  heritage.  We  are  endeavouring  to  achieve  this
goal  at  the  national  level  through  effective  reform
projects, whose benefits are beginning to be evident in
Jordan.
But  stability,  security  and  peace  are  essential  to
creating  a  suitable  environment  for  such  societies.
Putting  an  end  to  the  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab
territories  and  reaching  a  just  and  comprehensive
solution  will  contribute  to  bringing  about  a  bright
future.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Vuk  Dra(cid:154)kovi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Serbia and Montenegro.
translation 
Mr.  Dra(cid:154)kovi  (Serbia  and  Montenegro)  (spoke
in  Serbian;  English 
the
delegation):  Seven  days  ago,  from  this  rostrum,  I
warned that the situation in Kosovo and Metohija (cid:151) a
province of Serbia administered by the United Nations
since  10  June  1999  (cid:151)  poses  a  serious  threat  to  the
furnished  by 
19
A/60/PV.20
stability  of 
the  Balkans.  Serbia  and  Montenegro
supports  the  conclusion  of  the  International  Contact
Group  that  there  will  be  no  return  to  the  situation
before 10 June 1999.
I  would  like  to  recall  that,  before  1999,  the
regime  in  Serbia  insisted  on  the  limited  autonomy  of
Kosovo,  while  the  Albanian  political  leaders  insisted
on its independence. Those two opposing positions led
to  an  armed  conflict,  and  later  to  NATO  air  strikes
against  Serbia  and  Montenegro.  That  conflict  ended
following  the  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution
1244 (1999), which called for a protectorate in Kosovo
but did not call into question the territorial integrity of
Serbia and Montenegro.
less 
I  have 
to  note 
Unfortunately, 
than  autonomy  but 
The Contact Group(cid:146)s conclusion that there will be
no return to the situation before June 1999 has to apply
equally 
to  both  sides  (cid:151)  Serbian  and  Albanian.
Consequently,  there  can  be  neither  limited  autonomy
nor  independence  for  Kosovo.  By  proposing  a  status
that  was  greater 
than
independence for Kosovo, the democratic Government
in  Belgrade  demonstrated  its  full  commitment  to
reaching  a  compromise  solution.  Unfortunately,  the
Kosovo  Albanians,  only  interested  in  independence,
have not budged an inch from their 1999 position.
that 
the
international  community  is  partly  to  blame  for  the
tragic  position  the  Serbian  and  other  non-Albanian
minorities in Kosovo find themselves in, as well as for
the  political  extremism  of  the  Albanian  majority  and
the  many  crimes  that  have  been  committed.  The
standards  set  for  Kosovo  are  not  even  close  to  being
fulfilled.  Are  we  therefore  going  to  abandon  the
(cid:147)Standards  before  Status(cid:148)  policy?  From  10  June  1999
to  the  present,  approximately  200,000  Serbs  and
Montenegrins,  as  well  as  Turks,  Croats,  Roma,  Jews
and  other  non-Albanians,  have  been  expelled  from
Kosovo.  Close  to  80  per  cent  of  the  territory  is  now
inhabited  only  by  Albanians.  Several  hundred  Serbs
have 
children.
Approximately  40,000  Serbian  homes  have  been
demolished or set on fire, as well as 150 churches and
monasteries  that  were  centuries  old.  The  remaining
Serbs  and  other  non-Albanians 
in  so-called
enclaves,  without  guarantees  for  their  personal  safety
and their freedom of movement. No one in present-day
Europe is so tragically unprotected.
including  many 
been 
killed, 
live 
20
In  spite  the  foregoing,  we  hope  that  the  United
Nations  military  and  police  forces  will  remain  in
Kosovo.  Without  their  presence,  the  tragedy  of  Serbs
and  other  minorities  would  be  complete.  Troops  from
the  United  States,  Italy,  France  and  other  countries
should  be  given  credit  for  keeping 
the  Serbian
Christian  monasteries  designated  or  nominated  as
international world heritage sites from being blown up
or  set  on  fire.  We  would  like  to  thank  the  United
Nations  and  ask  the  United  Nations  forces  to  stay  in
Kosovo as long as necessary.
and 
Serbs,  Montenegrins 
For  months  now,  Albanian  extremists  have  been
openly  threatening  to  launch  a  pogrom  against  the
remaining 
other
non-Albanians  (cid:151)  and  even  against  United  Nations
forces (cid:151) unless Kosovo(cid:146)s independence is proclaimed.
Recent  killings  of  young  Serbs  announced 
the
beginning  of  that  scenario.  Ultimatums  and  threats  to
commit  crimes  and  terrorism  cannot  be  accepted
anywhere  in  the  world,  including  in  Kosovo.  I  hope
that  that  will  finally  and  decisively  be  made  clear  to
the  Albanian  majority  in  the  province.  Serbia  and
Montenegro demands a European level of human rights
protection 
in  Kosovo,
protection of churches and monasteries and recognition
of  the  European  status  of  the  existing  State  borders
with  the  Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  Republic  of
Albania.  No  more  and  no  less  is  acceptable,  either
under  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  or  under
Security Council resolution 1244 (1999). Our rights do
not  threaten  any  right  of  the  Albanian  majority.  An
independent State of Kosovo is not a guaranteed right,
but an extreme demand.
for  national  communities 
We  are 
truly  and 
fully  committed 
to  a
compromise,  but  compromise  does  not  mean  that  one
side gets everything while the other side gets nothing.
We  are  for  reconciliation  and  a  common  European
future,  in  which  Serbs,  Montenegrins  and  Albanians
will  be  good  neighbours  and  best  friends  for  each
other.
A  stable  and  European  Kosovo  means  a  stable
Western Balkans region, and vice versa. The choice is
obvious.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Mustafa  Osman  Ismail,  Minister  for  External
Relations of the Republic of the Sudan.
Mr.  Ismail  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  should
like  to  begin  my  statement  with  a  quotation  from  the
Koran:
(cid:147)Invite  all  to  the  way  of  thy  Lord  with  wisdom
and  beautiful  preaching;  and  argue  with  them  in
ways  that  are  best  and  most  gracious:  for  thy
Lord  knoweth  best  (cid:133)(cid:148)  (The  Holy  Koran,
XVI:125).
Last  year,  I  declared  from  this  rostrum  that
peace  (cid:151)  the  continuing  strategic  objective  of  the
Government of Sudan (cid:151) was at hand. Today, from the
same  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  note  that  peace  has
become 
the
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  and  the  adoption  of
the new Constitution. We have started to implement the
Agreement in accordance with a fixed timetable.
reality  with 
signing  of 
the 
a 
Unfortunately, as soon as we started to implement
the Agreement with our partners in the Sudan People(cid:146)s
Liberation  Movement  (SPLM),  we  were  faced  with  a
great tragedy: the death of John Garang, the first Vice
President  of  the  Republic.  With  his  passing,  the
country  has  lost  an  invaluable  partner  and  participant
in  the  peace  process.  It  was  not  just  a  loss  for  the
Sudan, but a great loss for Africa and all peace-loving
people.  Such  tragedies  are  the  true  tests  of  our  will,
and  our  brethren  in  the  SPLM  have  responsibly  come
through that crisis and difficult test, putting aside their
bitter shock and continuing to build a durable peace.
The  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  was  not
limited  solely  to  issues  between  the  north  and  the
south.  It  set  up  a  comprehensive  framework  for
resolving justly all the problems of our country. It has
established  rules  for  a  political  regime  that  considers
citizenship to involve rights, duties and obligations  (cid:151)
a  regime  that  is  based  on  democracy,  the  rule  of  law,
good  governance,  respect  for  human  rights  and  the
equitable  division  of  wealth  and  power  based  on  fair
standards that will ensure comprehensive peace.
We are fully committed to the letter and the spirit
of the Peace Agreement, and we accept and understand
the magnitude of our responsibility to fulfil it. We are
fully  confident  that  bringing  peace  to  the  Sudan  will
have  a  positive  impact  on  regional  stability  and  allow
the Sudan to continue to play its proper role within the
international community.
As  we  have  begun  to  implement  the  Peace
Agreement,  we  call  upon  the  international  community
A/60/PV.20
immediately  to  lift  all  commercial  and  economic
sanctions and restrictions, to cancel  all of the  Sudan(cid:146)s
external  debt  and  to  fulfil  the  pledges  it  made  at  the
Oslo conference. Such actions will provide support for
the  Agreement  and  promote 
reconstruction  and
development in the Sudan. In that context, we express
appreciation and gratitude to the United Nations for the
important  role  it  has  played  in  the  implementation  of
the  Agreement,  particularly  the  work  of  the  Special
Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Jan
Pronk.
The people  of  Darfur  are  still  not  able  to  live  in
conditions  of  peace.  We  will  make  every  effort  to
implement  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  and
the Declaration of Principles adopted at Abuja, with a
view to bringing about that objective. We will continue
to  cooperate  with  the  international  community  in
improving  the  humanitarian  and  security  situation,
which  has  already  improved  greatly.  But  that  is  not
enough.  We  hope  to  ensure  complete  stability  in
Darfur.  The  Government(cid:146)s  commitment  to  agreements
and  arrangements  entered 
the
achievement of a ceasefire and the improvement of the
security  situation  should  be  matched  by  a  similar
commitment from the armed movements, which should
immediate
end 
ceasefire.  The 
should
continue to put pressure on them to negotiate seriously
in order to achieve a peaceful solution to the problem.
their  violations  and  agree 
international 
community 
relating 
to  an 
into 
to 
My  Government  underlines  the  importance  of
achieving  definitive  peace  in  Darfur  as  quickly  as
possible. We have a three-track plan aimed at returning
Darfur to its proper situation.  The  first is the political
track,  which  is  designed  to  resolve  the  root  causes  of
the  dispute  and  to  reach  an  agreement.  The  second
relates 
the  voluntary
repatriation  programmes.  The  third  relates  to  the
disarmament, 
reintegration
programmes. In the framework of those commitments,
the  Government  has  encouraged  reconciliation  among
tribe  and  community  leaders,  which  would  help  to
provide a solution to the root causes of the conflict.
implementation  of 
demobilization 
and 
the 
to 
is  making  every  effort,  with 
In  order  to  improve  the  security  situation  and
achieve  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  conflict,  the
Government 
the
participation  of  the  international  community,  to  deal
with the urgent humanitarian problem and the problem
of  internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees.  We  have
undertaken a number of development plans to deal with
21
A/60/PV.20
forward 
the  dispute  about  resources,  which  represents  one  of
the main problems. In that context, the Government is
looking 
into  an  effective
international partnership with a view to bringing about
those  ambitious  plans  and  establishing  a  special  fund
for development and rehabilitation in Darfur similar to
that agreed to at the Oslo conference for the south.
to  entering 
In  expressing  its  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of
the  international  community,  the  Sudan  would  like  to
pay tribute to the active role of the African Union. We
call  on  the  international  community  to  continue  to
assist and support that role.
their  mandate 
in  conformity  with 
The  Sudan  adopted  a  transitional  Constitution  in
July  2005,  and  the  President  and  Vice-President  will
exercise 
its
provisions.  We  have  established  a  Government  of
National  Unity,  which  will  continue  the  transitional
process.  We  have  begun  this  phase  by  conducting  a
responsible dialogue  with  all  members  of  the  political
opposition,  who  continue 
to  operate  freely.  The
transitional  Constitution 
rights
includes  human 
provisions  ensuring  respect  for  the  rights,  obligations
and fundamental freedoms of all Sudanese citizens. We
will  continue  to  work  with  international  organizations
in  order  to  develop  and  promote  human  rights  in  the
country.
This is the last occasion on which I will speak to
the  Assembly  as  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Sudan,  because  yesterday  a  new  Minister  for  Foreign
Affairs,  my  brother  Mr.  Lam  Akol,  was  appointed  by
the  Popular  Movement.  I  extend  to  the  General
Assembly  my  gratitude  and  appreciation  for 
its
cooperation during my work as Foreign Minister of the
Sudan in the past several years.
to  withdraw  from  all 
Tragically,  the  Palestinian  people  are  still  under
Israeli  occupation.  The  international  community  is
called upon to force Israel to halt its illegal practices in
the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  to  dismantle  the
separation  wall, 
the  Arab
territories  that  it  occupied  in  1967  and  to  allow  the
Palestinian  people  to  realize  their  legitimate  rights,
including  their  right  to  an  independent  State,  with
Al-Quds  as  its  capital.  The  international  community
should  take  action  to  bring  about  a  comprehensive,
peaceful  settlement  of  the  Arab-Israeli  conflict,  in
accordance  with 
international
legitimacy,  the  road  map,  the  principle  of  land  for
peace and the Madrid terms of reference.
resolutions  of 
the 
22
The  Sudan  has  participated  in  agreements  aimed
at putting an end to nuclear proliferation. The conflict-
ridden Middle East should be a zone free from nuclear
weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.
International  justice  and  laws  should  apply  in  that
region, with no exceptions for any State, with a view to
ensuring stability and peace, emphasizing the rights of
peoples  to  use  nuclear  power  for  peaceful  purposes,
particularly  in  scientific  research.  The  Sudan  supports
the right of all countries, including Iran, to use nuclear
power  for  peaceful  purposes,  in  accordance  with
International Atomic Energy Agency regulations.
are 
like 
there.  In 
this  respect,  we  would 
suffering  greatly,  need 
The  situation  in  Iraq  is  very  unstable.  The  Iraqi
people,  who 
the
international community to help them to overcome the
crisis 
to
underscore  once  again  our  principled  position  that  we
must  preserve  the  sovereignty,  unity  and  territorial
integrity  of  Iraq  and  ensure  non-interference  in  its
internal affairs, with a view to bringing about stability
and peace and restoring normal living conditions there.
We  call  upon 
to
contribute, as soon as possible, to the rebuilding of Iraq
and  to  support  the  transitional  Government  so  as  to
allow the Iraqi people to live in dignity on their land.
international  community 
the 
The  African  Union  has  set  up  policies  and
mechanisms  aimed  at  dealing  effectively  with  the
dispute resolution and the establishment of stability on
that  continent,  which  is  rich  in  resources,  including
human  resources.  Africa  is  continuing  to  use  those
resources 
the
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
framework  of 
Development.
for  development  purposes,  within 
lead 
that  will 
to  peace, 
The first meeting of the International Conference
on  the  Great  Lakes  Region  restored  hope  that  peace,
stability and development can return to the region. We
hope  that  the  second  such  summit  will  be  held  within
the next few months, and that it will result in a united
stance 
security  and
development in the region. We were encouraged by the
meeting  that  was  held  on  the  sidelines  of  the  High-
level  Plenary  Meeting  with  a  view  to  preparing  for  a
second  International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes
Region.
In 
to
Somalia (cid:151) a very important African country, which is
trying  to  move  beyond  the  bitterness  of  war  and
conflict  and  to  re-establish  itself  as  a  State.  Somalia
this  context,  I  would 
to  refer 
like 
should  receive  the  cooperation  and  support  that  it
needs  from the international  community, and from the
United Nations in particular.
Since  the  Millennium  Summit  in  2000,  some
achievements have been made with  a view to meeting
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  But  the
Goals  have  not  been  adequately  achieved  in  Africa,
which  still  has 
to  deal  with  poverty,  disease,
underdevelopment  and  debt.  As  we  meet  here  five
years  after  the  first  summit,  we  must  pause  and
consider what we have achieved and what we aspire to
achieve.  We  live  in  a  world  in  which  people  have
varied  standards  of  living  and  wealth.  The  rich  have
become richer,  and the poor have become poorer.  The
gap  between  them  is  great,  and  there  are  enormous
paradoxes. There are very rich countries whose citizens
spend millions of dollars on weight loss, and there are
other  poor  countries  that  seek  just  a  small  fraction  of
that amount to keep barely alive.
We take this opportunity to reaffirm, as agreed in
the framework of the Millennium Declaration, that we
must  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in
order to create a better life for all humanity. Here, we
must point out that the Sudan has worked hard to attain
the goals and has made significant progress in reducing
poverty  and  increasing  basic  education  levels,  despite
the  unjust  siege  and  the  long  conflict  in  the  southern
part  of  the  country.  All  those  efforts  are  reflected  in
Sudan(cid:146)s 2004 MDG report.
In  that  context,  we  should  stress  the  importance
of  the  total  cancellation  of  debt.  Debt  is  a  great
hindrance  to  achieving  the  Development  Goals  in
Africa  and in the least developed  countries.  Attaching
conditions  to  debt  cancellation  will  only  impede
remind  developed
development.  Here,  we  must 
countries  of 
to  financing  for
development, 
the  Monterrey
Consensus.
their  commitments 
in  accordance  with 
the  Goals 
in  achieving 
An international partnership to achieve the MDGs
as envisaged in Goal 8, is essential. Unfortunately, the
main  difficulty 
the
establishment of such a partnership, which will not be
possible  without  allowing  developing,  and 
least
developed countries in particular, to integrate fully into
the 
Imposing  unilateral
economic  sanctions  against  developing  countries
hinders  free  trade  and  investment.  Financing  and  the
transfer  of  technology  are  among  the  other  issues
international 
economy. 
is 
A/60/PV.20
encountered 
development.
in 
efforts 
to 
achieve 
sustainable
in 
We  live  in  a  world  of  many  challenges  and
threats.  The  international  community  has  recognized
that  development,  peace  and  security  are  closely
interconnected.  The  main  challenges  faced  by  the
international 
community 
are  maintaining
today 
international  peace  and 
security  and  achieving
economic  growth  and  development.  Meeting  those
challenges  will  be  possible  only  in  a  collective  world
led by an effective and capable United Nations.
The  Sudan  has  actively  participated 
the
consultations  on  creating  a  framework  for  collective
action  and  on  United  Nations  reform.  We  support
reform  that  is  in  accordance  with  the  purposes  and
principles of the Charter and the relevant provisions of
international 
the
establishment  of  a  new  human  rights  mechanism  to
address  the  shortcomings  (cid:151)  including  politicization,
selectivity and double standards (cid:151) that have prevented
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  from  carrying  out
its responsibilities. The Sudan believes that we should
consider establishing a new mechanism that deals with
the  negative  policies  of  the  past  and  is  committed  to
the principles of equality among States and respect for
equitable  geographical  representation,  in  accordance
with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Charter.  On  the
basis  of  what  the  United  Nations  has  successfully
achieved in the security, economic and social areas, we
should  aspire  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting and thus to create a peaceful and
safe  world  in  which  all  of  us  will  shoulder  our
responsibilities.
emphasized 
law.  We 
have 
Clearly, we all reject terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations  and  we  stand  together  with  others  to
eliminate  it;  indeed,  a  counter-terrorism  conference  is
now  being  held  in  Khartoum  to  combat  terrorism  in
East  Africa.  What  we  reject  are  attempts  to  confuse
terrorism with the struggle of peoples for liberation and
independence  and  attempts  to  link  terrorism  to  a
specific 
an
international  scourge  that  is  not  limited  to  a  specific
religion or culture, and we believe that any attempt to
confuse  the  issue  could  cause  problems  and  weaken
our  collective  resolve  to  develop  a  comprehensive
strategy to combat it.
culture.  Terrorism 
religion  or 
is 
The  Sudan  will  continue  to  be  a  messenger  to
States,  calling  for  a  dialogue  among  cultures  and
23
A/60/PV.20
civilizations  aimed  at  attaining  humanity(cid:146)s  objectives.
The international fight against terrorism must be based
on  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  relevant
provisions  of  international  law.  In  that  context,  the
Sudan  calls  for 
international
conference to arrive at an agreed definition of terrorism
and  stresses  that  the  rejection  of  terrorism  does  not
mean that we should ignore  the  reasons  behind  it.  We
must deal with the root causes of the problem if we are
to be successful in eradicating it.
the  holding  of  an 
In  conclusion,  the  Sudan  reaffirms  its  belief  in
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter.  We  stress
our  resolve  to  continue  to  work  with  the  international
community to strengthen the Organization so that it can
efficiently carry out its role and mandate.
The  President: I  express  to  the  Minister  for
External Relations of the Sudan my best wishes for the
future as he leaves his post.
I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Alcinda
Ant(cid:243)nio  de  Abreu,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and
Cooperation of the Republic of Mozambique.
Ms.  De  Abreu  (Mozambique):  Allow  me  to
congratulate you, Sir, on your  election  as President of
the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixtieth  session.  We  are
delighted  to  see  a  distinguished  son  of  Sweden  and  a
friend of Mozambique in the stewardship of this body
and  wish  to  express  our  confidence  that,  under  your
able 
leadership,  our  deliberations  will  produce
successful results. I would like to take this opportunity
to pay a well-deserved tribute to your predecessor, His
Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  for  the  remarkable  manner
in which he spearheaded the deliberations of the fifty-
ninth  session  of  General  Assembly.  May  I  also
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his  continued
vision and leadership in our collective efforts to pursue
the  fundamental  ideals  of  the  United  Nations,  in
particular  the  implementation  of  the  international
agenda  for  peace  and  development  highlighted  in  his
report (A/59/2005). We  encourage him  to  continue  his
outstanding work.
We  gather  here  today  inspired  by  the  spirit  of
togetherness  and  collective  vision  on  the  path  that  we
should  strive  to  continue  to  travel  in  order  to  achieve
our common aspirations, as underscored throughout the
deliberations  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  We
must seize this momentum to reinforce multilateralism
as  a  guiding  principle  upon  which  the  international
community  should  rely  to  adequately  face  today(cid:146)s
24
challenges. We believe that the emphasis of the World
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1)  on 
the  vital
importance of an effective multilateral system and our
determination  to  fulfil  the  commitments  we  set  for
ourselves will generate and galvanize good momentum
for action aimed at tangible results.
As  we  celebrate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
United Nations, we should reflect on what we want the
Organization to be and on what role each country and
region  should  play  in  these  collective  endeavours.  In
recognizing  inclusiveness  and  the  equal  rights  of  men
and  women  and  of  all  nations,  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations  builds  on  our  diverse  cultural  and
traditional  values  to  unite  us  around  our  common
humanity. Our failure to overcome the  poverty  trap  in
which  developing  countries  are  caught,  as  well  as  the
constant  threat  posed  by  terrorism,  indicates  the  need
for  an  international  system  that  is  more  inclusive  and
democratic  and  that  conforms  to  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations  and 
relevant  provisions  of
international  law.  It  is  our  firm  belief  that  the  United
Nations continues to be an indispensable instrument for
achieving  those  objectives.  Thus,  the  strength  of  the
Organization must be high on our agenda. We ought to
improve  its  performance  by  reforming  its  organs  and
structures.
the 
Therefore,  it  is  our  sincere  hope  that  United
Nations  reform will help to  foster  strong  relationships
and  cooperative  links  of  coordination  among  all  its
principal  organs,  in  particular  the  General  Assembly,
the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council.
Security  Council  reform  should  be  aimed  at
building 
transparency,  democracy,  openness  and
consistency  with  regard  to  all  regions  represented  in
the  Organization.  In  that  regard,  the  growing  political
commitment  and 
the
international  agenda  for  peace  and  stability  calls  for
enhanced representation on the Security Council.
involvement  of  Africa 
in 
We hope that the recently proposed Peacebuilding
Commission  will  help  to  keep  sustained  international
attention  on  countries  in  transition  from  post-conflict
situations  to  recovery  and  long-term  development  and
ensure  continued  support  for 
the
experience  of  Mozambique(cid:146)s  transition  from  a  post-
conflict  situation  to  reconstruction  and  development
testifies to the valuable contribution and impact of the
concerted support provided by the United Nations and
them.  Indeed, 
the 
international 
development efforts.
community 
for 
peace 
and
The  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) gave new
momentum  to  our  quest  to  fight  poverty,  accelerate
human  development  and  facilitate  the  gradual  and
effective  integration  of  the  developing  world  into  the
global economy. Despite the less ambitious outcome of
the  recently  concluded  summit,  the  time  has  come  to
to
build  a  genuine 
reaffirm  our  political  will 
to 
implement
internationally agreed commitments.
international  partnership  and 
fully 
for 
calendar 
a  detailed 
We  need  to  work  diligently  to  implement  the
commitments  made  in  Monterrey.  In  that  regard,  the
establishment  of 
the
implementation  of  the  goals  set  on  financing  for
development  is  vital  to  generate  access  to  additional
financial support for developing countries. To that end,
we welcome the decision by the European Union to set
collective and specific targets with a view to  reaching
the  internationally  agreed  target  of  devoting  0.7  per
cent  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  to  official
development assistance (ODA) by 2015.
The  sustainable  development  of 
low-income
countries, particularly in Africa, depends upon a more
open,  equitable  and  rules-based  multilateral  trading
system,  as  trade  constitutes  an  engine  for  growth  and
development.  In  that  regard,  we  view  partnership
agreements  such  as  the  Cotonou  Agreement  and  the
African  Growth  and  Opportunity  Act  as  important
steps  towards  fulfilling  some  of  the  development
objectives. We strongly believe that the  completion of
the  Doha  round  by  2006  will  help  to  establish  an
international 
consistent  with
development goals and policies.
trading 
system 
the 
While  developing  countries  are  striving 
to
finance  the  MDGs,  debt  servicing  has  been  diverting
significant  amounts  of  their  limited  resources,  at  the
cost  of  social  and  economic  development.  In  that
context,  we  reiterate  the  calls  for  more  radical  action
in 
by 
line  with
recommendations 
should  cover
multilateral  and  bilateral  debt  and  reduce  debt  stock
and debt servicing by up to 100 per cent. To that end,
we  support  the  continuation  of  the  Heavily  Indebted
Poor  Countries  Debt 
relief
measures,  particularly  those  addressing  the  special
needs of African countries.
international  community, 
relief 
Initiative  and  other 
that  debt 
A/60/PV.20
In that regard, we commend the debt-cancellation
decision  made  by  the  ministers  for  finance  of  the
Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  in  favour  of  18  developing
countries,  including  Mozambique.  We  encourage  the
G-8  and  other  development  partners  to  continue  with
such 
the
unsustainable  debt  burden  of  many  developing
countries,  so  that  new  resources  can  be  invested  in
pursuit of poverty reduction.
initiatives  and 
to  address 
important 
is 
The Government of the Republic of Mozambique
is  now  fully  engaged  in  the  implementation  of  its
programme for 2005-2009 that incorporates our vision
of development based on continuity and renewal. That
approach 
founded  on  past  experiences  and
programmes pursued in the quest for development and
the well-being of all Mozambicans. The eradication of
poverty requires new dynamism and vigour, as clearly
pointed  out  in  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s
Development  (NEPAD),  the  Brussels  Programme  of
Action  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  and  the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  that  context,  our
five-year  programme  focuses  on 
integrated  rural
development and the expansion of basic economic and
social infrastructure, with the aim of reducing absolute
poverty through the promotion of rapid, comprehensive
and  sustained  economic  growth  and  job  creation.  In
addressing  social  and  economic  development,  the
programme seeks mainly to reduce regional imbalances
and  to  expand  the  supply  of  basic  services  such  as
health,  education  and  access  to  electricity  and  safe
drinking  water.  The  programme  also  gives  due
attention  to  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and
other  infectious  diseases,  as  well  as  to  the  special
needs  of  young  people 
training,
employment and housing.
terms  of 
in 
strategies 
to  2005.  Poverty 
Through  the  implementation  of  sound  political
and  macroeconomic  policies  and 
for
development,  we  have  registered  economic  growth
rates  that  have  averaged  7.5  per  cent  annually  from
2000 
levels  have  declined
significantly, from 69.5 per cent in 1997 to 54 per cent
in 2003. That has been possible due to our focus on our
nationally  owned  poverty  eradication  strategy.  That
strategy  has  not  only  mainstreamed  the  MDGs  and
adapted  them  to  our  own  realities;  it  also  embodies  a
clear  pro-poor 
and  people-centred  development
strategy.
The  consolidation  of  peace,  democracy  and
national  unity  continue  to  be  high  on  our  national
25
A/60/PV.20
agenda,  as  we  recognize  that  peace  and  stability  are
sine qua nons for securing sustainable development in
our country.
We  continue  to  build  self-confidence  around
Africa.  The  continent  counts  on  NEPAD  to  raise  the
spirit  of  ownership  of  African  leaders,  and  thus  bring
about  significant  changes  in  our  development.  The
adherence  to  date  of  28  countries  to  the  African  Peer
Review  Mechanism  has  bolstered  the  credibility  of
participating States, as it ensures that their policies and
practices  comply  with  agreed  political,  economic  and
corporate-governance values, codes and standards.
We  are  seeing  good  examples  of  conflict
resolution  in  Africa.  However,  conflicts  continue  to
cause  unbearable  human  suffering,  which  deprives  a
large  number  of  our 
their
inalienable  right  to  live  in  dignity.  We  commend  the
efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  international
community at large to address both humanitarian crises
and the root causes of conflict in Africa.
fellow  Africans  of 
With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  we  urge  the
parties concerned to work together with the Secretary-
General  with  a  view  to  finding  a  political  solution  to
the long-standing conflict in that country.
We  are  following  with  keen  interest  the  latest
developments  in  the  Middle  East.  We  continue  to
believe  that  a  lasting  solution  to  the  question  of
Palestine  (cid:151)  the  core  of  the  conflict  in  the  region  (cid:151)
must  be  in  accordance  with  international  law  and
relevant  United  Nations  resolutions  and  must  fully
recognize  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination.
the  decision 
We  welcome 
to  conclude  a
comprehensive  convention  on  terrorism  not  later  than
June  2006,  for  that  will  constitute  a  further  effort  to
strengthen  the  international  community(cid:146)s  resolve  to
face  the  challenge  of  eliminating  the  scourge  of
terrorism.  Similarly,  we  would  like  to  stress  the
importance of regional agreements and declarations to
combat and eliminate terrorism in all its forms as a tool
to  strengthen  cooperation  among  Member  States  and
provide a platform for the effective implementation of
international legal instruments to suppress terrorism.
We support the calls for a transparent verification
mechanism that can help to prevent the use of nuclear
weapons against non-nuclear States. In that regard, we
also share the view that all States parties to the Treaty
26
and  while 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, without
discrimination 
their
responsibilities  for  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation,  should  have  the  right  to  use  nuclear
energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  as  well  as  to  engage  in
research on nuclear technology in conformity with the
provisions of the Treaty.
undertaking 
We  would  like  to  conclude  by  reaffirming  the
commitment  of  Mozambique  to  the  principles  and
purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations,  as  well  as  our  belief  that  the  United  Nations
reform process will strengthen the Organization with a
view  to  providing  more  and  better  assistance  to  all
Member States, in particular with respect to addressing
the special needs of Africa.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency
Mr. Choe Su Hon, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs
of the Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea.
Mr.  Choe  Su  Hon
the  delegation):  On  behalf  of 
(Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text
furnished  by 
the
delegation  of  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of
Korea,  please  allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on
your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  sixtieth  session
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  should  also  like  to
congratulate your predecessor, Mr. Jean Ping, Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Gabonese  Republic,  on  his
commendable  work  as  President  at 
the  previous
session.  I  look  forward  to  the  successful  outcome  of
this  session.  My  appreciation  also  goes  to  Secretary-
General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  tireless  efforts  aimed  at
reforming 
about
multilateralism  centred  on  the  United  Nations  in
conformity  with  the  demands  of  the  current  changed
situation.
the  Organization 
bring 
to 
Five  years  ago,  when  the  Millennium  Summit
adopted  its  Declaration  of  peace,  poverty  eradication
and  respect  for  human  rights,  humankind  sincerely
hoped that, with the dawn of a new century, peace and
prosperity would take hold around the world. However,
despite  the  adoption  of  that  Declaration  and  the
aspirations  of  humankind,  the  world  is  today  being
drawn further into  a vortex  of  instability  and  fear  due
to  unilateralism  and  the  highhandedness  of  the  super-
Power.  On  one  side  of  the  world,  voices  yearning  for
peace, 
sustainable
development continue to grow; while on the other side
provocative acts such as armed invasion and the threat
eradication 
poverty 
and 
of  pre-emptive  nuclear  attack  are  being  committed
openly against sovereign States.
In  North-East  Asia  alone,  with 
the  Korean
peninsula  at  its  centre,  adventurous  military  attempts
continue  unabated,  aggravating  tension  in  the  region,
the  strengthening  of  strategic  military
as  does 
alliances, 
the 
introduction  of  highly
sophisticated  weapons  and  operational  equipment,  the
establishment  of  missile  defence  systems  and  Ulchi
Focus  Lens-05  military  exercises  for  pre-emptive
strikes.
large-scale 
The  current  situation  is  becoming  increasingly
acute  due  to  arbitrariness  on  the  part  of  unilateralist
forces.  That  urgently  requires  that  Member  States
undertake  a  joint  effort  to  bring  about  multilateralism
centred  on  the  United  Nations  on  the  basis  of  respect
for  the  principles  of  sovereignty,  equality,  territorial
integrity and mutual benefit.
As  is  well  known,  peace  and  stability  on  the
Korean  peninsula  are  directly  linked  to  peace  and
security in the North-East Asian region and the rest of
the  world.  As  we  have  seen  in  recent  years,  the
situation on the Korean peninsula is once again part of
a  vicious  circle  of 
is
preventing  the  establishment  of  durable  peace  and
stability. The primary cause for that lies in the national
division  forced  upon  us  by  foreign  forces  and  the
extremely  hostile  policy  of  the  super-Power  towards
the Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic of Korea.
tension  and  dtente 
that 
The  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea(cid:146)s
policy  of  Songun  Jongchi  (cid:151)  which  is  to  say,  to  give
priority  to  military  affairs  (cid:151)  is  aimed  primarily  at
coping  with  the  attempts  of  the  United  States  to
suffocate  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea,
which  constitute  a  real  threat.  The  Songun  policy
administered  by  the  respected  General  Kim  Jong  Il  is
the  basic  safeguard  for  our  sovereignty  from  the
constant threat of the United States and for preventing
another war on the Korean peninsula, thereby ensuring
peace and security in North-East Asia.
significantly 
the 
commemorated 
This  year,  the  north  and  the  south  of  Korea
together 
fifth
anniversary of the announcement of the 15 June North-
South  Joint  Declaration,  as  well  as 
the  sixtieth
anniversary of Korea(cid:146)s liberation, thereby setting a new
stage  for  the  attainment  of  overall  national  unity  and
the  realization  of  the  cause  of  national  reunification
independently  and  peacefully  under  the  theme  (cid:147)Our
A/60/PV.20
nation  itself(cid:148).  The  Government  of  our  Republic  will
also  make  every  possible  effort  in  the  future  to  bring
about  independent  national  reunification  as  soon  as
possible,  achieve  lasting  peace  and  stability  on  the
Korean peninsula and bring about the nation(cid:146)s common
prosperity  by  thoroughly  implementing  the  15  June
North-South Joint Declaration.
With  a  view  to  facilitating  better  understanding
on  the  part  of  Member  States  and  making  positive
contributions  to  the  work  of  the  current  session,  I
would  like  to  refer  to  the  principled  position  and
sincere efforts of our Republic regarding a fair solution
of  the  nuclear  issue  between  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic of Korea and the United States.
The Government of our Republic has consistently
adhered  to  its  position  of  addressing  the  nuclear  issue
peacefully,  through  dialogue  and  negotiations.  As
everyone knows, the nuclear issue is a direct product of
the  hostile  policy  of  the  United  States  against  the
Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  during  more
than  half  a  century.  Given  that,  driven  by  extreme
hostility towards the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of
Korea, the United States has gone as far as designating
our country as part of an (cid:147)axis of evil(cid:148) and making it a
potential target for pre-emptive nuclear strikes, thereby
militarily  threatening  our  security,  our  country  has
been  compelled  to  possess  a  self-defensive  nuclear
deterrent  as  a  means  of  safeguarding  our  national
dignity and sovereignty. In circumstances in which the
United  States,  the  sole  world  super-Power,  is  looking
down  on  us  and  threatening  to  use  nuclear  weapons,
the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  (cid:151)  a
country with a small territory and population (cid:151) has no
alternative but to possess a strong and legitimate means
of self-defence.
As we have clarified time and again, the ultimate
goal  of  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea
with regard to the nuclear issue is the denuclearization
of  the  Korean  peninsula.  The  denuclearization  of  the
Korean  peninsula  was  called  for  by  President  Kim  Il
Sung,  the  fatherly  leader  of  our  people.  The  1992
North-South Joint Declaration on the Denuclearization
of 
the  1994  Agreed
Framework between the Democratic People(cid:146)s Republic
of  Korea  and  the  United  States  are  manifestations  of
the  invariable  political  will  of  the  Government  of  the
Republic  to  denuclearize  the  Korean  peninsula  by  all
means.
the  Korean  Peninsula  and 
27
A/60/PV.20
During the recent  fourth  round  of  six-party  talks
in  Beijing,  we  approached  discussions  seriously  and
with  magnanimity  and  a  principled,  fair  and  above-
board  position  to  achieve  our  consistent  final  goal  of
the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  at  any
cost,  thereby  enabling  the  talks  to  come  up  with  an
agreement  on  the  principles  to  that  end  as  part  of  a
broad framework to overcome all challenges. The joint
statement issued at that meeting reflects our principled
position  on  the  resolution  of  the  nuclear  issue.  At  the
same  time,  it  also  clearly  specifies  the  obligations  of
the  United  States  and  South  Korea  as  the  parties
responsible  for  the  denuclearization  of  the  entire
Korean peninsula.
is  built  and 
As  we  have  clarified  more  than  once,  there  will
be  no  need  for  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s  Republic  of
Korea to keep a single nuclear weapon if relations are
normalized between our country and the United States,
bilateral  confidence 
the  Democratic
People(cid:146)s  Republic  of  Korea  is  not  exposed  to  the
United  States  nuclear  threat  any  longer.  What  is  most
essential at this stage is for the United States to provide
light-water 
the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea  as  soon  as  possible  as  evidence  of
the former(cid:146)s substantial recognition of the latter(cid:146)s right
to peaceful nuclear activities.
reactors 
to 
We shall watch closely how the United States acts
in  reality  during  the  (cid:147)action  for  action(cid:148)  phase.  Our
country(cid:146)s  Government  will  continue  to  be  patient  and
to do its best to bring about the denuclearization of the
Korean peninsula.
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  fulfil  its  mission  to
ensure  international  peace  and  security  and  economic
and  social  development,  it  should  be  reformed  in
conformity with the demands of the new century. That
is the unanimous view of the international community.
In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  we  take  a
multilateral  approach  centred  on  the  United  Nations
and  in  line  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the
Charter.  To  that  end,  efforts  should  be  made  to,  inter
alia,  prevent  unilateralism  and  high-handedness
leading to violations of the Charter and of international
law,  and  to  ensure  that  the  functions  and  role  of  the
United Nations in addressing major international issues
remain pivotal.
Disputes  should  be  resolved  peacefully,  through
dialogue  and  negotiation.  The  unilateral  use  of  force
can  never  be  justified  in  any  case.  Such  actions  as
28
authorizing  specific  countries  to  launch  pre-emptive
attacks  on  the  pretext  of  preventing  conflicts  should
not  be  viewed  as  strengthening  the  collective  security
system  of  the  United  Nations  and  should  therefore  be
rejected, as they are dangerous attempts to ignore both
the  principles  of  non-interference  in  others(cid:146)  internal
affairs, as well as respect for sovereignty, as stipulated
in the Charter.
important 
international 
Secondly,  all 
issues
should  be  addressed  fairly  and  reasonably,  in  the
interests  of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member
States.  We  should  not  allow  them  to  be  dominated  or
dealt  with  by  the  super-Power  or  by  a  few  powerful
countries.  In  this  context,  we  have  been  consistent  in
our  insistence  on  the  establishment  of  a  system  that
mandates the General Assembly to review and endorse
Security  Council  resolutions  relating  to  sanctions  and
the use of force that can affect international peace and
security.
The  Security  Council  should  be  reformed  on  the
basis of the principle of ensuring the full representation
of  the  non-aligned  and  developing  countries,  which
make up the overwhelming majority of Member States.
We should never tolerate the permanent membership of
Japan, which refuses to liquidate its past crimes against
other countries, distorting its history of aggression and
driving the regional situation towards confrontation.
The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights
machinery  should  take  place  in  accordance  with  the
demands of the majority of countries. In reforming the
human  rights  machinery,  the  Organization  should
consider its most pressing task and ultimate goal to be
putting an end to infringement on national sovereignty,
the  politicization  of  human  rights  and  the  application
of double standards and selectivity, which are the most
serious  human  rights  violations  at  present.  Like  the
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  that  reform  effort
should  be  carried  out  on  the  basis  of  the  principle  of
ensuring the full representation of the non-aligned and
developing  countries  that  make  up  the  overwhelming
majority of the United Nations membership.
If  that  principle  is  ignored,  the  reform  of  the
human  rights  machinery  will  remain  just  empty  talk.
Worse  still,  if  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights
Council  is  aimed  at  legitimizing  the  high-handedness
of  a  few  countries  on  the  pretext  of  human  rights
protection,  the  discussion  itself  will  be  completely
meaningless.
The  Government  of  the  Democratic  People(cid:146)s
Republic  of  Korea  will  continue  to  make  an  active
contribution to the efforts of Member States to build a
new,  peaceful  and  prosperous  world  by  further
strengthening  its  friendly  and  cooperative  relations
with all countries that respect our national sovereignty
in  accordance  with  the  ideal  of  independence,  peace
and friendship.
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency
the  observer
Mr.  Nasser  Al-Kidwa,  chairman  of 
delegation of Palestine.
Mr.  Al-Kidwa  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic):
Unlike the Israeli Prime Minister, who a few days ago
told  the  Assembly  that  he  had  come  to  the  United
Nations  from  Jerusalem,  I  (cid:151)  a  native  son  of  the
land (cid:151) was  not  able  to  come  here  from  Jerusalem,
because  East  Jerusalem,  the  capital  of  Palestine,  still
remains under Israeli occupation, despite the numerous
United  Nations 
regard.  The
abnormal  situation  of  the  city,  which  is  sacred  to  the
three monotheistic religions, is a clear indicator that we
in the Middle East are, regrettably, still far from peace.
Only  when  East  Jerusalem  is  returned  to  its  people,
when  United  Nations  resolutions  are  completely
complied  with  and  implemented  and  when  the  leaders
of  both  countries  are  able  to  come  freely  from
Jerusalem,  will  we  have  truly  achieved  the  peace  that
we have so long awaited.
resolutions 
that 
in 
We  are  now  at  an  important  juncture  that  could
constitute the beginning of the road to peace. Israel, the
occupying  Power,  has  completed  its  disengagement
from the Gaza Strip with its withdrawal of the settlers,
its  dismantlement  of  the  settlements  there  and  the
departure of the Israeli forces from that territory. In the
northern  West  Bank, 
settlers  were  also
withdrawn, and four settlements were dismantled.
some 
The end of the colonial settlement of one part of
our land (cid:151) regardless of how small it may be (cid:151) is an
important  development,  as  is  the  withdrawal  of  the
occupying  forces  from  within  that  part.  It  is  an
important  development 
the
the  growing
steadfastness  of  our  people  and 
realization, 
the
impossibility of the continuation of the status quo. We
recognize  that  the  disengagement  required  political
boldness. But, more important than the disengagement
itself, are the way in which it occurred and the context,
as  well  as  the  steps  that  will  follow.  That  will
internationally,  of 
resulted 
locally 
from 
that 
and 
A/60/PV.20
determine  whether  the  disengagement  will  take  us
further towards a comprehensive settlement and peace,
or whether it is actually a step imposed by the realities
on 
the
continuation of the occupation, the colonization of the
West Bank and the obstruction of a final settlement.
the  ground  and 
facilitate 
intended 
to 
responsibilities, 
for  assuming  our 
For  our  part,  we  dealt  positively  with  those
to  prepare
matters  and  exerted  strenuous  efforts 
ourselves 
to
coordinate  the  steps  to  be  taken  with  the  Israeli  side
and  to  ensure  a  peaceful  and  safe  atmosphere  during
the 
Indeed,  we  achieved
reasonable  results  in  that  respect.  Despite  that  fact,
however,  the  basic  nature  of  the  plan  remains:  it  was
unilateral  and  did  not 
take 
into  consideration
Palestinian interests and positions.
implementation  phase. 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has  left  the  Gaza
Strip  completely  devastated.  Over  the  years,  Israel
destroyed  Gaza(cid:146)s  infrastructure,  economic  capabilities
and social fabric, as well as the Palestinian Authority(cid:146)s
security apparatus. Even the areas that had been under
the  control  of  its  settlements  were  almost  totally
destroyed  by  Israel  when  it  withdrew  and  left  behind
piles  of 
itself  constitutes  a
serious problem  economically,  environmentally  and
psychologically.  Another  problem  was  that  Israel  left
behind, and did not dismantle, what it called houses of
worship  (cid:151)  which  were  not  supposed  to  be  there  to
begin with  (cid:151)  in total  disregard  of  its  legal  obligation
to return the land to its original  condition  prior  to  the
occupation.
rubble,  which 
in 
Furthermore,  since  the  disengagement,  the  Gaza
Strip  has  remained  under  the  control  of  Israel,  which
effectively  continues  to  control  the  airspace,  the
territorial  waters  and  the  borders,  thus  continuing  its
control of the movement of persons and goods into and
out  of  Gaza.  For  that  reason,  and  in  the  light  of  the
principle  of  the  unity  and  territorial  integrity  of  the
occupied Palestinian territory, the Israeli occupation of
the  Gaza  Strip  has  not  ended  and  the  legal  status  of
Gaza has not changed: it remains part of the Palestinian
territory  occupied 
including  East
Jerusalem.
since  1967, 
Overall,  Israel(cid:146)s  occupation  and  colonization  of
the Gaza Strip constitutes one of the worst injustices in
recent  history.  In  addition,  it  must  be  clear  that  the
Gaza Strip  (cid:151)  which  comprises  only  6  per  cent  of  the
area of the occupied Palestinian territory and which is
29
A/60/PV.20
the most densely populated area in the world (cid:151) cannot
attain  economic  or  political  sustainability  in  isolation
from  the  West  Bank:  without  a  permanent  link  to  the
West Bank, without freedom of movement and without
tangible  political  progress  and  similar  steps  taken
there.
in 
What 
Israel 
is  doing 
the  wall 
the  West  Bank,
particularly  in  East  Jerusalem,  is  cause  for  us  to  be
its
even  more  pessimistic.  Israel  has  continued 
construction  of 
in  disregard  of 
the
unprecedented  9  July  2004  advisory  opinion  of  the
International Court of Justice  and resolution ES-10/15
of  the  tenth  emergency  special  session  of  the  General
Assembly  in  that  regard.  As  everyone  can  see,  Israel
has  persisted 
this  grave  crime,
continuing  to  seize  Palestinian  land  and  attempting  to
annex it de facto, thereby destroying the livelihoods of
tens  of  thousands  of  Palestinians,  isolating  them  and
imposing on them a totally different way of life and an
unacceptable political situation.
in  committing 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  has  also  continued
to establish and expand settlements. It has even devised
the  so-called  E-1  plan  to  seize  the  whole  of  East
Jerusalem  and  connect  it  to  the  Maale  Adumim
settlement,  thereby  severing  the  West  Bank  into  two
separate parts. All of the foregoing not only is unlawful
and  inhuman,  but  will  also  destroy  any  hope  for  a
settlement and peace based on the two-State solution.
for 
the 
The  central  mission 
international
community now, if we wish to safeguard the future of
the Middle East and maintain the prospects for  peace,
is  to  bring  about  a  real  and  complete  cessation  of  all
settlement activities and of the construction of the wall
and to enforce the rule of law, the advisory opinion of
the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  relevant  United
Nations resolutions. That must be our central mission,
and whether there is political progress or not, we must
accomplish it.
But  then,  how  are  we  to  deal  with  the  situation
and  move  forward?  First,  we  need  to  find  rapid
solutions for the outstanding issues regarding the Gaza
Strip,  including  the  Rafah  crossing,  the  airport,  the
seaport, the removal of rubble from the Gaza Strip, and
linking  Gaza  to  the  West  Bank.  If  we  resolve  those
issues we may be able to change the living conditions
of the Palestinians there.
Secondly,  the  Sharm  el-Sheikh  understandings
Israeli
implemented,  particularly 
the 
should  be 
30
from  cities 
withdrawal 
to  pre-September  2000
positions  and  the  release  of  prisoners  and  detainees.
This  could  bring  about  a  new  reality  and  begin  the
process  of  rebuilding  confidence  between  the  two
sides.
Thirdly,  and in parallel with the  aforementioned,
it  is  necessary  to  return  to  negotiations  and  begin
urgently  the  implementation  of  the  road  map,  which
lies at the heart of making political progress and is the
path to a resolution of the conflict. For our part, we are
ready to do this, and to begin final status negotiations
immediately,  as  called  for  by  President  Abbas  in  his
speech  a  few  days  ago.  We  hope  that  the  Quartet  will
use its influence to make that happen, and we also hope
that 
international  community  as  a  whole,
represented  by  the  United  Nations,  will  provide  the
needed support in that regard.
the 
to 
for 
their 
Here  we  must  stress  the  importance  of  the
international  assistance  being  extended 
the
Palestinian  people  and  the  Palestinian  Authority.  We
would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  all  donor
countries 
important  and  considerable
contributions.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  express
our  appreciation  as  well  for  the  role  being  played  by
Mr. Wolfensohn and his team, in particular for rapidly
putting together an assistance programme for the Gaza
Strip  and  for  promoting  economic  development  in  the
entire occupied Palestinian territory. In that regard, the
importance of the Group of Eight (G-8) initiative must
be emphasized, and we express our hope that all donor
countries will support it.
look  forward 
We look forward to enjoying a dignified life like
all  other  peoples  of  the  world;  we  look  forward  to
exercising  our  right  to  self-determination  and  national
independence;  we 
to  building  our
institutions  and  to  enjoying  a  democratic  way  of  life
and  democratic  governance;  we  look  forward  to  a
peace  based  on  two  States,  Palestine  and  Israel,  in
conformity with the 1949 Armistice Line; and we look
forward  to  a  just,  agreed  solution  for  the  Palestine
refugees in accordance with resolution 194 (III).
We  have  worked  seriously  to  put  an  end  to  the
cycle  of  military  attacks  and  counter-attacks.  We
undertook  a  national  dialogue  that  led  to  a  unilateral
declaration  of  ceasefire,  and  that  ceasefire  has  been
respected 
and
provocations. That effort has led to an improvement in
the  general  atmosphere;  it  is  incumbent  upon  both
obstructions 
Israel(cid:146)s 
despite 
in 
parties to strengthen it. For our part, we will  continue
our  national  dialogue  with  a  view  to  establishing  a
permanent  and  mutual  ceasefire 
the  occupied
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  while
reaffirming  the  right  in  principle  of  the  Palestinian
people  to  resist  occupation  and  to  self-defence.  We
must  also  reach  a  commitment  by  all  Palestinian
groups  for  a  complete  cessation  of  the  targeting  of
civilians 
repeatedly
condemned  and  which  we  view  as  harmful  to  our
national interest.
Israel,  which  we  have 
in 
Moreover,  we  will  continue  to  exert  efforts  to
impose  law  and  order  and  to  enhance  our  political
system  on  the  basis  of  real  democracy,  encompassing
political pluralism and elections at all levels, including
municipal and legislative elections. Israel must stop its
attempts  to  interfere  in  and  sabotage  those  elections.
We  will  also  continue  to  advance  the  development  of
our  national  institutions  in  various  fields  and  will
continue to try to rebuild the Palestinian economy and
to 
that
comprehensively  throughout  the  occupied  Palestinian
territory, including, of course, in the Gaza Strip, which
has  suffered  the  most  extensive  destruction.  We  shall
exert  our  utmost  efforts  to  achieve  those  goals,  even
though we realize that they are really the tasks of post-
conflict  reconstruction  and  that  no  other  people  has
realized such goals while still under occupation.
living  conditions.  We  must  do 
improve 
Our  achievements  will  inevitably  be  limited,
since  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  still  controls  most
aspects of everyday life in the territories. Any progress
in  that  regard  will  remain  directly  and  organically
A/60/PV.20
linked  to  the  achievement  of  real  progress  in  the
resolution  of  the  conflict  and  the  achievement  of  a
comprehensive settlement between the two parties.
It  seems  that  Israel  and  some  of  its  friends  now
feel that they have succeeded in imposing many illegal
conditions  on  the  ground  and  in  creating  a  degree  of
vagueness  regarding  some  aspects  of  the  conflict.  In
that  way,  they  feel  that  they  have  an  opportunity  to
undermine  the  legal  foundations  of  the  question  of
Palestine, to undermine international legitimacy and to
erode  the  neutrality  of  the  United  Nations.  We,  in
contrast,  believe  that  situations  created  illegally  will
not  stand.  We  affirm  that  the  facts  are  clear  and
indisputable,  that  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  will
eventually  prevail  over  force  and  that  the  United
Nations  (cid:151) 
international
community  (cid:151)  will  not  forsake  its  responsibilities  and
will  not  relent  in  the  face  of  continuous  violations  of
its resolutions.
the  embodiment  of 
the 
We hope that the Israeli authorities will begin to
seriously rethink their policies and positions instead of
trying  to  market  them  in  the  United  Nations  and  in
other  international  forums.  We  hope  that  they  will
declare their respect for United Nations resolutions and
their readiness to implement them, rather than blaming
the United Nations for adopting those resolutions. That
will be the start of the solution and the start of a final
peaceful  and  permanent  settlement,  which  must  be
based  on  law,  international  legitimacy  and  United
Nations resolutions.
The meeting rose at 1.20 p.m.
31
