
A/60/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixtieth session 

51st plenary meeting 
Monday, 14 November 2005, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 
 (d)  Assistance to the Palestinian people 
Agenda item 73 
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/223 and 
Corr.1) 
  Draft resolutions (A/60/L.18 and A/60/L.20) 
  (a)  Strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/60/86, 
A/60/87, A/60/89, A/60/227, A/60/302 and 
A/60/432) 
  (c)  Strengthening of international cooperation and 
coordination of efforts to study, mitigate and 
minimize the consequence of the 
Chernobyl disaster 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/443) 
  Draft resolution (A/60/L.19) 



the 
today’s  plenary  debate  on 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/90) 

The  President: It  is  a  special  honour  for  me  to 

open 
issue  of 
strengthening  the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations. 
Fourteen  years  ago,  I  was  personally  involved  in  the 
negotiations  on  and  adoption  of  resolution  46/182, 
which  created  the  main  framework  and  several  other 
main  features  of  the  United  Nations  coordination  of 
international  humanitarian  assistance,  so  it  is  a  very 
special  experience  to revert to  these  issues  here in the 
Assembly today. 
During  the  past  year,  the  world  has  witnessed 

natural  disasters  of 
and 
magnitude, from the devastating Indian Ocean tsunami 
in late December 2004 to the disastrous earthquake that 
struck South Asia in early October. As of today, as  we 
know,  the  death  toll  in  Pakistan  is  still  rising,  and 
thousands  and  thousands  of  people  are  in  danger  of 
freezing  to  death  as  winter  sets  in.  A  particularly 
intense and destructive hurricane season has left  many 
thousands  homeless  as  countries  in  the  Caribbean  as 
well as Central and North America continue to grapple 
with  the  effects  of  severe  flooding  and  mudslides  that 
those storms left behind. 

Elsewhere, conflict-based man-made emergencies 
continue  with  varying  intensity.  Formerly  warring 
parties  in  southern  Sudan  have  signed  a  peace  accord 
and  entered  a  period  of  reconciliation.  However,  the 
unprecedented 
scope 






























This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

05-60137 (E) 
*0560137* 
Specifically, 
the  importance  of 
A/60/PV.51 

conflict in the Darfur region of the Sudan has resulted 
in a severe humanitarian crisis. Food insecurity, fuelled 
by  a  lethal  combination  of  conflict  and  drought, 
continues  to  affect  close  to  35  million  people  in  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  underlining  the  need  for  innovative 
and  creative  approaches  to  better  predict  and  respond 
to  acute  malnutrition  while  tackling  the  underlying 
causes of hunger and poverty. 
The complexity of today’s crises and the growing 

magnitude  of  disasters  require 
that  humanitarian 
assistance  remain  one  of  the  highest  priorities  of  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations.  The  2005  world  summit 
offered  us  an  opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  current 
humanitarian system and to engage in serious, system-
wide reforms. The events of the past year testify to the 
fact that reforms related to coordination and coherence 
are not only timely but urgent and, indeed, critical. 
the  summit  outcome  document 

(resolution  60/1)  reaffirms 
the 
humanitarian  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality, 
impartiality and independence. It further reinforces the 
need  for  safe  and  unhindered  access  by  humanitarian 
actors  to  populations  in  need.  It  calls  upon  us  to 
strengthen  the  capacity  to  prepare  for  and  respond  to 
disasters and to improve the use of emergency standby 
capacities  under  United  Nations  auspices  for  rapid 
response to  humanitarian  emergencies.  Finally,  it  calls 
for  better  predictability  of  humanitarian  funding, 
notably  by  improving  the  current  Central  Emergency 
Revolving Fund. 

For  more  than  a  decade,  the  Fund  has  played  an 
important  role  in  providing  United  Nations  agencies 
with  readily  available  resources  to  allow  them  to 
respond 
emergencies. 
However,  owing  to  its  limited  size  and  revolving 
nature,  the  Fund  has  faced  difficulties  in  fulfilling  its 
aim of ensuring the provision of adequate resources for 
use  in  the  initial  phase  of  emergencies.  The  proposed 
improved  Central  Emergency  Revolving  Fund,  which 
will  include  a  grant  element,  aims  to  promote  early 
response in sudden-onset crises as well as to strengthen 
the  core  elements  of  humanitarian 
in 
underfunded crises. 

Today’s  debate  is  based  on  several  reports  from 
the  Secretary-General,  including  one  on  sub-item  (c), 
concerning the Chernobyl disaster (A/60/443). As next 
year  will  mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  that 
disaster,  we  are  reminded  that  both  national  and 
humanitarian 
quickly 
to 

I  call  now  on  the  representative  of  Pakistan  to 
international efforts are still required to study, mitigate 
and minimize its long-term consequences. 

There is also a report of the Secretary-General on 
sub-item  (d),  on  assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people 
(A/60/90).  Humanitarian  assistance  from  the  United 
Nations remains an urgent necessity for the Palestinian 
people. 

Three  draft  resolutions  have  been  submitted  for 
action  today:  the  first  on  the  South  Asian  earthquake 
disaster  (A/60/L.18),  the  second  on  the  Chernobyl 
disaster (A/60/L.19)  and the third on the  Indian  Ocean 
tsunami disaster (A/60/L.20). 

I  look  forward  to  constructive,  creative  and 
compassionate  deliberations  during  today’s  debate. 
Behind the issues under discussion today are hundreds 
of thousands of human beings in grave need and, in far 
too  many  cases,  in  mortal  danger.  Our  solidarity  with 
them must be unwavering. 

introduce draft resolution A/60/L.18. 

Mr.  Akram  (Pakistan):  In  recent  months,  the 
world  has  seen  a  succession  of  devastating  natural 
disasters,  the  frequency  and  intensity  of  which  are 
unprecedented  in  living  memory.  The  last  12  months 
have  been  particularly  devastating  in  terms  of  the 
human  and  material  loss  caused  by  scores  of  such 
disasters.  The  report  of  the  Secretary  General  on  the 
the  coordination  of  emergency 
strengthening  of 
humanitarian 
the  United  Nations 
(A/60/87)  states  that,  in  2004  alone  there  were  360 
disasters  affecting  more  than  145  million  persons  and 
causing more than $103 billion in material damage. 

The  massive  earthquake  that  took  place  off  the 
coast  of  Sumatra  in  December  2004  and  the  resulting 
tsunami brought untold misery to more than 12 nations 
and  killed  more  than  240,000  people.  The  hurricanes 
that  struck  the  Caribbean  in  the  fall  of  2004  and  that 
revisited in 2005 in the form of Hurricanes Katrina and 
Wilma were the strongest in a decade. Despite credible 
early  warnings,  a  swarm  of  desert  locusts  attacked 
more  than  10  countries  in  West  and  North  Africa, 
destroying millions of hectares of crops. The spectre of 
avian  flu  threatens  parts  of  Asia  and  Europe  and  the 
disease could become a global pandemic. 

Five weeks ago, an earthquake registering 7.6 on 
the  Richter  scale  hit  South Asia,  causing  colossal  loss 
of  life  and  material  damage,  especially  in  the  North-
assistance  of 
response 
2 

05-60137 
and 
tribute 
to  Pakistan, 
remained  above 


West  Frontier  province  of  Pakistan,  in  Jammu  and 
Kashmir, in India and in Afghanistan. It was the worst-
ever  disaster  in  the  region’s  history.  In  Pakistan  and 
Azad  Kashmir,  73,000  people  died,  and  more  than 
74,000 were injured. Millions have been displaced and 
or  are  shelterless,  even  as  the  cruel  Himalayan  winter 
descends  over  the  region.  The  Secretary-General  has 
described  the  response  to  the  South  Asian  earthquake 
as  the  most  challenging  relief  operation  ever  faced  by 
the United Nations. 

On 7 November, the Under-Secretary-General for 
Humanitarian  Affairs 
Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator, Mr. Jan Egeland, said that the response to 
the  earthquake  represented  a  test  like  no  other  for  a 
Member  State  and  the  international  community.  He 
observed that over the previous 10 days, extraordinary 
progress  had  been  made  faced  with  extraordinary 
challenges.  He  also  paid 
its 
Government,  its  military  and  its  people.  He  further 
noted that the assistance efforts were still not reaching 
all  those  below  the  snow  line  and  that  an  estimated 
200,000  people 
line. 
Meanwhile,  the  World  Meteorological  Organization 
had warned that the winter might be unusually harsh. 

The  United  Nations  has  identified  a  number  of 
immediate priorities to meet that disaster, including the 
provision  of  helicopters,  heating,  winterized  tents, 
assistance for surgery, vaccinations, mobile health-care 
teams,  blankets,  generators,  water  and  sanitation, 
tarpaulins, stoves and trauma recovery. 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Pakistan,  I  wish  to  thank  the  international  community 
for its support and solidarity with Pakistan at this tragic 
time.  I  express  my  profound  appreciation  to  the 
peoples  and  the  Governments  of  all  Member  States 
represented here, all United Nations agencies, relevant 
international  organizations,  civil  society  and 
the 
hundreds  of  non-governmental  organizations  for  their 
tremendous outpouring of sympathy and support. 

We  also  wish  to  thank  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan  for  his  personal  engagement  in  launching  in 
Geneva  the  United  Nations  South  Asia  earthquake 
2005  flash  appeal  for  $550  million  and  welcome  his 
forthcoming  visit  to  Pakistan  for  the  international 
donors  conference 
Islamabad  on 
19 November 2005. 

played 
We  would  like  to  commend  the  excellent  role 
for 
Under-Secretary-General 
to  be  held 
the  snow 
in 
by 
the 
A/60/PV.51
the 
and 
rebuild 
infrastructure 
their  homes, 
that  can  enable 
Humanitarian  Affairs 
Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator,  Mr.  Jan  Egeland,  and  his  entire  team  in 
the  Office  for 
the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs, as well as the admirable contributions of other 
United  Nations  entities  and  national,  regional  and 
international  organizations  for  their  prompt  and  active 
engagement in the field of relief and rescue operations, 
which  have  saved  hundreds  of  thousands  of  precious 
lives. 

In  addressing  the  recovery  and  reconstruction 
efforts,  the  sustained  attention  and  contribution  of  the 
international  community  is  vital.  In  that  context,  it  is 
essential that international attention remain focused on 
the long-term impact of the disaster and on the need to 
reconstruct 
the 
millions  of  affected  people  to  survive  through  the 
winter, 
schools,  hospitals, 
livelihoods and rebuild their broken lives. 

Pakistan  hopes  that  the  international  community 
will  support  the  medium-  and  long-term  rehabilitation 
and  reconstruction  efforts  of  the  Government  and 
people  of  Pakistan.  This  will  be  a  long  and  arduous 
task,  spanning  months  and  years.  In  that  regard  we 
welcome  the  generous  pledges  made  by  a  number  of 
Member States to the long-term reconstruction projects 
in  the  affected  areas  and  look  forward  to  the  concrete 
expression  of  support  at  the  reconstruction  conference 
in Islamabad on 19 November. 

the  solidarity  of  the  international 
community  with  all  the  victims  of  the  earthquake 
disaster  in  South Asia,  Pakistan  has  initiated  the  draft 
resolution,  contained  in  document  A/60/L.18.  This 
draft  is  sponsored  by  113  Member  States,  to  all  of 
whom  the  Pakistan  delegation  is  most  grateful.  The 
purposes of the draft resolution,  which I now have the 
honour to introduce on behalf of the sponsors, are self-
explanatory. 

The extensive list of sponsors is a demonstration 
of  our  solidarity  as  we  stand  together  against  the 
tragedies  caused  by  such  natural  disasters  and  of  our 
shared  commitment  to  withstand  their  impact  by  a 
united force of the peoples of the United Nations. 
May  I  take  this  opportunity  to  announce  that  in 

addition to the countries reflected in the document, the 
following  additional  Member  States  have  joined  as 
sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Armenia,  Austria, 
Australia,  Belgium,  Brunei  Darussalam,  El  Salvador, 
Haiti, Hungary, Grenada, Iceland, Ireland, Kyrgyzstan, 
To  affirm 
05-60137 

3 

channels, 
their  specific  expertise, 
A/60/PV.51 

Micronesia,  Netherlands,  Norway,  Poland,  Romania, 
Russian  Federation,  Timor-Leste,  Ukraine  and  the 
United  States  of America.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  draft 
resolution will be adopted unanimously by the General 
Assembly. 

Disasters  like  the  South  Asian  earthquake  teach 
us  some  hard  lessons,  the  primary  one  being  that 
though  we  cannot  prevent  natural  disasters,  we  can 
certainly  work  together  to  mitigate  their  devastating 
impact.  We  need  a  comprehensive  strategy  to  achieve 
such  disaster  management  —  including  early  warning 
systems and disaster preparedness plans.  

Secondly,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
disaster  coordination  machinery  —  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  —  as 
well  as  the  role  of  the  specialized  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations,  with 
is 
indispensable. This machinery needs to be strengthened 
to respond to such natural or human calamities. Even if 
support  in  such  disasters  is  provided  largely  through 
bilateral 
the  United  Nations  overall 
coordination  role  is  crucial,  especially  in  the  early 
stages of such catastrophes.  

Thirdly, and  most important, it is imperative that 
the United Nations be provided with adequate financial 
resources  to  respond  quickly  and  effectively  to  such 
disasters.  Pakistan 
the  Secretary-
fully  endorses 
General’s  proposal 
for  a  $500  million  Central 
Emergency Revolving Fund to be placed at his disposal 
for that purpose. 
On  other  issues  related  to  the  agenda  item,  the 

Pakistan delegation associates itself with the statement 
to be delivered by the representative of Jamaica. 
to 

Mr. Vladimir Tsalko, Chairman of the State Committee 
on  the  issues  of  Chernobyl  disaster  consequences  of 
the  Republic  of  Belarus,  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/60/L.19.  
Mr.  Tsalko  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  On 

behalf  of  the  sponsors  I  have  the  honour  to  introduce 
the  draft 
resolution  entitled,  “Strengthening  of 
international cooperation and coordination of efforts to 
study,  mitigate  and  minimize  the  consequences  of  the 
Chernobyl disaster”, contained in document A/60/L.19. 
I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  since  the  draft  was 
published, 
joined  as 
additional  sponsors: Austria,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
following  States  have 
The  President: 
I  now  give 
floor 
the 
the 
the 
assistance  but 
the  essential  element: 
Bulgaria,  Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Croatia,  Cyprus, 
Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  Germany,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
India, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, 
Monaco,  Myanmar,  Norway,  Peru,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, Slovakia, Slovenia, Thailand and Viet Nam. 

Compared  to  similar  previous  General Assembly 
texts, more than half of the provisions of this draft are 
new,  thereby  reflecting  the  dynamism  of  international 
cooperation  on  Chernobyl  and  the  great  number  of 
events that have occurred in the area over the last two 
years.  It  also  reflects 
the 
beginning  of  a  new  stage  in  the  development  of 
international  post-Chernobyl 
interaction.  The  main 
element  of  this  stage  is  not  the  delivery  of  emergency 
humanitarian 
comprehensive 
rehabilitation  of  the  contaminated  areas,  including  the 
renewal  of  socio-economic  activity  in  those  regions 
with  a  view  to  creating  safe  living  conditions  for 
people in the area. 

Recently,  we  discussed  that  new  United  Nations 
strategy  at  the  international  conference  in  Vienna  in 
September, within the context of the Chernobyl Forum. 
The  draft  resolution  reflects  our  agreements,  many  of 
the  provisions  of  which  are  directed  towards  the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  of  the  main 
report  of  the  Forum  on  the  legacy  of  Chernobyl.  I 
would 
the 
specialized  medical,  ecological,  social  and  economic 
research 
the  Chernobyl 
disaster. 

The draft resolution aims to strengthen the United 
Nations 
organize 
international  post-Chernobyl  interaction,  as  well  as  to 
enhance the role of the United Nations Coordinator on 
Chernobyl  in  that  mechanism.  We  are  convinced  that 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme 
Administrator,  Mr.  Kemal  Dervis,  who  was  recently 
appointed  to  his  post,  will  successfully  implement  the 
agreed approaches in this important matter. 

The  draft  resolution  also  expresses  support  for 
the  initiatives  of  the  three  affected  countries  —  the 
Republic  of  Belarus, 
the  Russian  Federation  and 
Ukraine — and is timed to coincide with the twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  One  of  those 
initiatives  is  to  convene  a  special  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly in April 2006 to  mark the twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  disaster,  not  simply  to  speak  again 
about our post-Chernobyl problems, but mostly for the 
coordination  mechanism 
the  consequences  of 
importance  of 
to  note  first 
into 
like 
the 
to 
4 

05-60137 
today.  For  Belarus,  whose 


purpose  of  discussing  and  coordinating  our  further 
joint steps to improve the living conditions of millions 
of  people  in  the  contaminated  territories,  in  particular 
the living conditions of children. 

We  would  like  to  thank  all  States  that  have 
contributed so much to the improvement of the draft. It 
is now ready for consideration, and  we hope it  will be 
adopted  by  consensus,  as  was  the  case  in  previous 
years. 

Now,  in  my  national  capacity,  I  would  like  to 
touch  upon  some  issues  that  the  General  Assembly  is 
considering 
territory 
received some 70 per cent of the radioactive fall-out as 
a  result  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster,  the  problem  of 
Chernobyl  is  the  most  topical.  Even  now,  almost  20 
years  after  the  disaster,  the  entire  range  of  post-
Chernobyl problems continues to be a heavy burden on 
the  shoulders  of  the  people  of  Belarus.  The  area 
contaminated  with 
long-lived  radioactive  nuclides 
constitutes 21 per cent of the country’s entire territory. 
The  population  in  that  area  continues  to  be  subject  to 
chronic internal and external irradiation because of the 
long-lived 
the 
environment.  

The  economy  of  those  regions,  especially  as 
related to agriculture and forestry, is in a dire situation. 
Safe  production  technologies  are  needed.  Our  experts 
have  been  working  for  a  long  time  in  that  area  and 
have  managed  to  develop  a  number  of  technologies, 
making  it  possible  to  produce  products  which  meet 
non-contamination  standards.  We  are  ready  to  share 
that invaluable experience with other States. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  has  already  spent  more 
than  $17  billion  on  efforts  to  resolve  the  range  of  its 
post-Chernobyl problems, including the resettlement of 
137,000 people. In order to comply with the next State 
programme  for  2006-2010,  we  plan  to  allocate  about 
$2  billion.  However,  State  funding  cannot  fully  cover 
the  economic  damage  inflicted  by  the  Chernobyl 
disaster, estimated by experts to be $235 billion. 

The  accident  in  Chernobyl  is  a  disaster,  the 
magnitude  of  whose  consequences  go  far  beyond  the 
economic capacities of one State or even of a group of 
States.  Therefore,  it  is  very  important  to  establish 
constructive  long-term  international  cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations 
and 
coordination.  It  is  important  to  be  guided  by  the 
the  affected  States;  otherwise, 
priority  needs  of 
radioactive  nuclides  present 
carrying  out 
liaison 
in 
A/60/PV.51
to 
the 
invite  all 
We 
to 
are  grateful 
implementation  of 
international interaction will lose its efficiency, and the 
financial resources will be spent without producing the 
desired effect. 
the  United  Nations 

the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and 
Children’s  Fund 
the  post-Chernobyl 
for  giving 
problems  of  Belarus  due  attention  in  the  2005  draft 
country programme documents for the next five years. 
We  view  this  as  a  guarantee  that  the  new  United 
Nations  strategy  on  Chernobyl  will  be  successfully 
implemented in our country. The State and Government 
agencies  of  Belarus  are  prepared  to  engage  in  active 
cooperation with the organizations and agencies of the 
United  Nations  system  on  Chernobyl  issues.  We  call 
upon  donor  countries  to  give  the  necessary  financial 
support  for 
these  country 
programme documents. 

To  implement  the  new  United  Nations  strategy, 
an  international  conference  entitled  “Twenty  Years 
after  Chernobyl:  Strategy  for 
the  Recovery  and 
Sustainable  Development  of  the  Affected  Areas”  is 
scheduled to be held in Minsk on 19 to 21 April 2006. 
We 
international 
organizations  to  take  an  active  part  in  the  lead-up  to 
and the conduct of this important forum. The aim of it 
is  to  work  out  and  agree  on  joint,  coordinated  actions 
by  Governments  of  the  affected  countries  and  the 
international 
comprehensive 
rehabilitation  of  the  affected  areas  in  the  territory  for 
the next 10 years. 

To  put  it  plainly,  we  are  talking  about  the 
economic  survival  of  these  regions.  However,  when 
considering the Chernobyl topic from the standpoint of 
economic  recovery  and  sustainable  development,  we 
long-term  medical  and 
should  not 
environmental  aftermath  of 
the  disaster.  We  are 
grateful 
international 
organizations that have provided assistance in studying 
and  overcoming  the  aftermath  of  the  disaster.  This 
particularly  pertains 
the  early 
detection of oncological and cardiovascular diseases, in 
particular those that affect children. I would like to say 
that,  at  this  stage,  we  have  sufficient  resources  and 
capacity  for  treating  children  and  adolescents  within 
our  country. We  still  need  modern  medical  equipment, 
though,  and  we  ask  our  donors  to  give  priority 
attention to this area. 
to  donor  countries  and 
interested  States  and 
to  diagnosing  and 
forget 
the 
community 
for 
05-60137 

5 

to 
establishing 
friends 
find 
in  which  our 
should  be  given 
These  natural  disasters  prompt 
A/60/PV.51 


Like  all  peoples,  we  in  Belarus  are  extremely 
concerned  at  the  growing  frequency  of  large-scale 
natural  disasters  that  have  been  occurring  in  recent 
times  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  Countries  with 
which Belarus has had longstanding, close and friendly 
relations  have  suffered.  The  Chernobyl  problem  has 
heightened  our  awareness  of  the  complexity  of  the 
situation 
themselves. 
Therefore,  Belarus  has  co-sponsored  draft  resolutions 
on  dealing  with  the  consequences  of the Indian  Ocean 
tsunami and the earthquake in Pakistan. 

two  main 
conclusions  with  regard  to  the  future.  First,  decisive 
action needs to be taken at all levels to implement the 
Hyogo  Declaration  and  the  Hyogo  Framework  for 
Action  2005-2015,  which  were  adopted  at  the  2005 
World  Conference  on  Disaster  Reduction.  Particular 
attention 
an 
international early warning and threat reduction system 
for  natural  disasters  and  for  reducing  the  danger  they 
pose. 

Secondly,  the  financial  capacity  of  the  United 
Nations  to  react  to  emergency  humanitarian  situations 
urgently  needs  to  be  increased.  We  welcome  here  the 
efforts 
for 
Humanitarian  Affairs,  Mr.  Jan  Egeland,  in  particular 
the  Central  Emergency 
his  efforts 
Response  Fund  of 
the  United  Nations.  The 
implementation  of 
it 
possible for the United Nations quickly and adequately 
to  provide  assistance  to  countries  that  are  going 
through  humanitarian  crises.  It  would  also  make  it 
possible to increase financing for recovery measures to 
deal  with  the  long-term  consequences  of  large-scale 
natural  disasters  and  technological  catastrophes  that 
have occurred over the last decade. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 
representative  of  Malaysia,  who  will  introduce  draft 
resolution  A/60/L.20  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations. 

Mr.  Hamidon  (Malaysia):  I  shall  be  speaking 
first  on  behalf  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN) under agenda item 73, sub-item (a); 
and  then  I  will  present  a  statement  in  my  national 
capacity on sub-item (d). 

I  have  the  honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/60/L.20,  entitled  “Strengthening  emergency  relief, 
rehabilitation,  reconstruction  and  prevention  in  the 
Under-Secretary-General 
initiative  would  make 
to  strengthen 
of 
the 
that 
the 
the 
strengthening  of 
aftermath  of  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  disaster”  on 
behalf  of  the  ASEAN  member  countries  —  namely 
Indonesia,  Lao 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia, 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Myanmar, 
the 
Philippines,  Singapore,  Thailand,  Viet  Nam,  and  my 
own country, Malaysia, and the other sponsors who are 
listed in the draft itself. 

Let  me  first  begin  by  thanking  the  Secretary-
General for his reports prepared under agenda item 73 
on 
coordination  of 
humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the 
United Nations, including special economic assistance, 
and the strengthening of the coordination of emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations. 

It has been proven time and again how vulnerable 
we  all  are  to  the  violent  and  destructive  forces  of 
nature.  Natural  disasters  and  calamities  have  often  hit 
us  without prior  warning.  For  most of the  countries in 
the  developing  world,  which  lack  sophisticated  high-
tech  early  warning  equipment,  natural  disasters  have 
inflicted  untold  misery,  devastation  of  property  and 
loss  of  human  lives.  As  we  have  witnessed  on  many 
occasions,  the  impact  of  the  destruction  has  placed  a 
heavy burden on the social and economic fabric of the 
affected  countries,  particularly  on  the  developing  and 
least developed countries. 

Many of us, in varying degrees, have experienced 
the struggle to rebuild and recover from the devastation 
in  the  aftermath  of  natural  disasters.  The  struggle  to 
cope and rebuild from  the  pieces  of destruction  would 
have  been  more  painful  and  daunting,  if  not  for  the 
support  and  assistance  that  came  in  from  around  the 
world  in  the  name  of  humanity.  Facing  the  pain  and 
suffering  caused  by  natural  disasters,  the  affected 
countries  could  only  seek  solace  in  the  overwhelming 
expression  of  international  cooperation,  assistance, 
solidarity and sympathy. We recall with a deep sense of 
appreciation  such  demonstrations  of  humanity  by 
Governments, 
and  poor,  non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  and  individuals  all  around  the 
world to offer a helping hand in the wake of the Indian 
Ocean earthquake and tsunami of 26 December 2004. 

With a globalized media network, the response to 
that  tragedy  was  quick  and  unprecedented,  enabling 
international  organizations, 
the  United 
Nations  and  other  entities,  to  organize  emergency 
assistance  to  reach  the  affected  countries  in  due  time. 
Once  again,  we  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
including 
rich 
6 

05-60137 
It 
to 
fulfil 
their 
to  the 
is  our 
obligations 
international 
responsibility 
involvement  of 
to  ensure 
international  attention  and 


acknowledge  our  appreciation 
international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  system  for  their 
support and assistance in saving thousands of lives and 
assisting  millions  of  tsunami  victims  to  rebuild  their 
the 
future. 
sustainability  of 
the 
continuing  support  to  the  reconstruction  efforts  in  the 
tsunami-affected  countries,  even  though  the  issue  no 
longer enjoys broad international media coverage. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  the  Governments  of  affected 
countries  on  the  Indian  Ocean  rim  have  continued 
working 
regarding 
reconstruction  and  restoring  normal  life  for 
their 
people.  At  the  same  time,  efforts  have  been  made  to 
ensure  that  the  necessary  preventive  measures  are  put 
in  place  to  protect  their  people  from  such  destructive 
forces in the future. 
In  this  context,  we  have  agreed  to  take  the 

necessary  measures,  with  the 
the 
international  community,  the  United  Nations  system, 
international  organizations, 
financial 
institutions  and  civil  society,  as  well  as  the  private 
sector,  as  set  out  in  General  Assembly  resolution 
59/279 of 19 January 2005 on strengthening emergency 
relief,  rehabilitation,  reconstruction  and  prevention  in 
the aftermath of the Indian Ocean tsunami disaster. 

In  the  implementation  of  the  resolution,  we  are 
pleased  to  report  that  shelter  programmes  have  been 
prepared  and  implemented,  and  that  there  were  no 
major  outbreaks  of  pandemic  diseases  in  the  affected 
areas.  Nonetheless,  we  continue  to  be  mindful  of  the 
the 
remaining 
full 
implementation 
long-term 
rehabilitation and community-driven reconstruction. 
We  have  to  acknowledge  that  the  task  and  the 

to 
responsibility  of 
undertake 
and 
redevelopment  of  the  areas  and  provinces  devastated 
by  the  tsunami  are  far  from  easy.  Nonetheless,  the 
affected  Governments  are  committed  to  ensuring  that 
the reconstruction and redevelopment efforts are aimed 
at  providing  the  people  with  a  better  future  and  safer 
environment, in line with the high expectations of their 
people and the donor community. 

We  have  to  be  mindful  that  this  is  not  only  a 
challenge  to  the  tsunami-affected  countries,  but  also 
for 
in  ensuring  a 
continued,  effective  management  and  coordination  in 
international  community 
affected  Governments 
ensuring 
and 
of  medium- 
reconstruction 
challenges 
efforts 
the 
the 
in 
the 
of 
A/60/PV.51
to  promoting 
the  capacity  of 
system,  donor  countries, 
the  transition  between  humanitarian  assistance  and 
development.  

There is a need to look at the broader agenda with 
the  formulation  of  longer-term  goals  to  assist  the 
tsunami-affected  populations.  That  would 
involve 
the  Governments  of 
effective  coordination  among 
affected  countries,  relevant  bodies  of 
the  United 
Nations 
regional  and 
international financial institutions, civil society and the 
private  sector  in  ensuring  equity  of  assistance  among 
the affected communities. 

It  is  our  expectation  that  both  the  tsunami-
affected  countries  and  the  donor  communities  must 
remain  committed 
transparency  and 
accountability  with  respect  to  the  channelling  and 
utilization  of  resources,  which  will  facilitate  the  long-
term  sustainability  of  the  recovery  and  reconstruction 
efforts.  Furthermore, 
the  United 
Nations  and  the  international  community  to  respond 
and to deal  with  emergency humanitarian  situations  in 
countries  affected  by  natural  disasters  should  be 
enhanced  in  order  to  address  the  problems  promptly 
with greater capacity, quality and accountability. 

The  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  has  undertaken  several  steps  to  strengthen 
regional  and  national  capacity.  In  that  connection, 
ASEAN  is pleased to  inform  that  it  has  concluded  the 
ASEAN  Agreement  on  Disaster  Management  and 
Emergency  Response  in  July  2005.  It  is  an  agreement 
that 
reduction 
activities  in  the  region.  In  the  same  way,  we  also 
welcome the establishment of a Multi-Donor Voluntary 
Trust Fund on Tsunami Early Warning Arrangements in 
the  Indian  Ocean  and  Southeast  Asia,  which  will 
contribute  to  the  setting-up  of  a  network  of  early 
warning  systems  and to the building  up of capacity of 
the region in dealing with natural disasters.  

on 
humanitarian  assistance  and  rapid  response  capacity 
was also held last October to identify concrete steps to 
enhance ASEAN’s response capacity.  

to 
introduce draft resolution A/60/L.20. We would like to 
thank  delegations  that  have  been  cooperating  with 
that,  by  co-
ASEAN  and  all 
sponsoring 
the 
affected countries in voicing their concerns and interest 
with regard to this issue. 
An  ASEAN-United  Nations 
response  and  disaster 
join  ASEAN  and 
those  delegations 
that  background, 
I  am  pleased 
resolution, 
facilitates 
seminar 
Against 
the 
05-60137 

7 

in 
the 
relief, 
Indian  Ocean 
The  draft  resolution  essentially  proposes 
emergency 
recovery  and  prevention 
A/60/PV.51 

to 

update  General  Assembly 
resolution  59/279  of 
19 January  2005,  incorporating  additional  paragraphs 
from  the  Joint  Asian-African  Leaders’  Statement  on 
Tsunami,  Earthquake  and  Other  Natural  Disasters, 
which  was  adopted  at  the  Asian-African  Summit  of 
2005, and  from  the  report  of the  Secretary-General on 
strengthening 
rehabilitation, 
reconstruction, 
the 
aftermath  of 
tsunami  disaster 
(A/60/86),  as  well  as  from  the  World  Conference  on 
Disaster Reduction and other initiatives.  

The  updated  resolution  focuses  on  seven  main 
aspects:  first,  the  reaffirmation  of  the  commitment  of 
the  heads  of  State  and  Government  as  reflected  in  the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome  to  work  expeditiously 
towards 
the  establishment  of  a  worldwide  early 
warning  system  for  all  natural  hazards  by  building  on 
existing  national  and  regional  capacities,  such  as  the 
newly  established  Indian  Ocean Tsunami Warning  and 
Mitigation  System;  secondly,  the  continued  support 
and  generous  contributions  of 
international 
community,  particularly  towards  further  rehabilitation 
and 
the  appointment  of 
the  Secretary-General’s 
President  Bill  Clinton  as 
Special  Envoy 
the 
expression of appreciation for the efforts undertaken by 
the  Special  Envoy;  fourthly,  the  establishment  of  the 
Global  Consortium  for  Tsunami-Affected  Countries  to 
international 
sustain 
community 
long-term 
rehabilitation, reconstruction and risk reduction efforts 
led  by 
tsunami-affected 
countries;  fifthly,  the  importance  of  transparency  and 
accountability  from  the  perspectives  of  donor  and 
recipient  countries;  sixthly,  requesting  the  Secretary-
General  to  continue  to  explore  ways  to  strengthen  the 
rapid 
international 
community  to  provide  immediate  humanitarian  relief, 
building  on  existing  arrangements  and  ongoing 
initiatives;  and  finally,  the  importance  of  developing 
stronger  institutions,  mechanisms  and  capacities  at  all 
levels  by  promoting  public  education,  awareness  and 
community participation. 

On  behalf  of  the  sponsors,  I  wish  to  inform  you 
that  a  correction  is  needed  in  draft  resolution  L.20 
before  you.  In  the  eleventh  preambular  paragraph,  the 
phrase  “a  multinodal  early  warning  system  network” 
for  Tsunami  Recovery  and 
the  political  will  of 
support  medium-  and 
the  Governments  of 
reconstruction; 
capacities  of 
response 
thirdly, 
the 
the 
the 
the 
to 
this 
the  United  Nations  for 
The  eleventh  preambular  paragraph  should  then 
should be deleted and replaced with “an early warning 
system”.  

read: 

“Welcoming  also  the  establishment  of  the  Multi-
Donor  Voluntary  Trust  Fund  on  Tsunami  Early 
Warning  Arrangements  in  the  Indian  Ocean  and 
Southeast  Asia,  which  will  contribute  to  setting 
up an early warning system and to building up the 
capacity  of  the  region  in  dealing  with  natural 
disasters,” 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  express  that  ASEAN 
looks forward to the continuing support of the Member 
States  of 
important 
resolution  and  to  the  adoption  of  the  resolution  by 
consensus. 

I  now  turn  to  the  next  part  of  my  intervention, 
which  is  a  national  statement  on  sub-item  (d)  of  the 
agenda  item,  entitled  “Assistance  to  the  Palestinian 
people”.  

My delegation would like to express at the outset 
its appreciation  to the  Secretary-General  for  his report 
submitted 
entitled 
“Assistance  to  the  Palestinian  people”,  in  document 
A/60/90. 
the 

humanitarian  situation  and  the  daily  living  and  socio-
economic  conditions 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories have not improved since the last report. The 
report,  especially  paragraphs  8  through  13,  contains 
figures 
revealing 
concerning 
The 
international community should be concerned  with the 
situation in the occupied Palestinian territories, since it 
has  been  well  documented  in  the  reports  by  other 
United  Nations  agencies,  in  particular  the  Economic 
and  Social  Commission  for  Western  Asia  (ESCWA), 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) and the 
United  Nations  Office 
the  Coordination  of 
for 
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). 
the  role 

played and efforts made by the relevant United Nations 
agencies,  the  United  Nations  Special  Coordinator  for 
the  Middle  East  Peace  Process  and  Personal 
Representative  of 
the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and  the  Palestinian 
Given  the  prevailing  circumstances, 
the  Secretary-General 
and  disturbing 
to  us  from 
deteriorating 
the  report 
situation. 
accounts 
is  clear 
agenda 
73(d), 
under 
item 
that 
and 
the 
to 
It 
in 
8 

05-60137 
to 
that 
regrets 
However,  my  delegation 
are  ultimately  borne  by 


Authority,  and  the  World  Bank,  as  well  as  other 
humanitarian organizations, in extending the necessary 
humanitarian and emergency assistance in the occupied 
Palestinian territories remain crucial and indispensable.  

such 
assistance has been and continues to be provided under 
difficult  circumstances,  owing  primarily 
the 
repressive  and  restrictive  measures  imposed  by  Israel. 
My  delegation  concurs  with  the  observation  made  in 
paragraph  58  of  the  report  that  those  restrictions 
clearly  violate  established  principles  of  international 
law and have resulted in increased costs for operational 
agencies,  which 
the 
international community.  

Unless  significantly  eased,  such  policies  and 
measures  will  continue  to  pose  serious  obstructions  to 
economic  recovery  and  development  opportunities  for 
the  majority  of  Palestinians.  We  wish  to  reiterate  our 
call  to  Israel  to  allow  unfettered  access  to  staff 
members of United Nations agencies and humanitarian 
workers  in  the  occupied  territories,  so  that  they  can 
carry out their work effectively. As a matter of priority, 
Israel  must  ease  restrictions  and  work  closely  with 
United  Nations 
and 
humanitarian  organizations  to  ensure  that  aid  and 
development  projects  are  delivered  in  a  timely  and 
comprehensive manner. 

My  delegation  also  wishes  to  reiterate  its  call  to 
Israel to comply with the Advisory Opinion concerning 
the separation wall, rendered by the International Court 
of  Justice  in  July  2004,  and  with  General  Assembly 
resolution  ES-10/15.  As  highlighted  in  paragraphs  13 
and 73 of the report (A/60/90), the separation wall and 
its  associated  regime  has  had,  and  will  continue  to 
have,  an  adverse  impact  on  the  humanitarian  situation 
and  the  living  and  socio-economic  conditions  of  the 
Palestinian  communities  affected  by  its  construction 
and completion. The separation wall and its associated 
regime also pose, and will continue to pose, problems, 
in terms of movement and access, for staff members of 
United  Nations  agencies  and  humanitarian  workers  in 
carrying  out  their  work  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory. 

My  delegation  commends  the  performance  of  all 
United  Nations  agencies  for  their  efforts  and  for 
carrying out  programmes  to provide  a  variety  of types 
of economic, humanitarian and social assistance to the 
Palestinian people and public institutions, as reflected, 
agencies,  donor 
countries 
A/60/PV.51
the 
and 
to 
to 
their 
efforts 
through  74  of 
humanitarian 
and  programmes,  under 
in  considerable  detail,  in  paragraphs  14  through  53  of 
the  report.  The  remaining  challenges,  as  well  as  the 
unmet  and  emerging  requirements,  as  documented  in 
paragraphs  67 
the  report,  require 
particular  attention.  We  believe  that  all  those  efforts 
and  programmes  that  have  been  identified  by  United 
Nations  agencies  could,  if  successfully  implemented, 
create  an  environment  that  could  contribute  to  the 
achievement  of  sustainable  peace  in  the  region. All  of 
those  efforts  and  programmes  require  financial  and 
other  resources.  We  urge 
international  donor 
community to continue to contribute generously to that 
cause. For our part, the Government and the people of 
Malaysia will continue to extend assistance, within our 
limited means and capacity, to the people of Palestine. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  that,  as  called 
for by many delegations in the past, the relevant United 
Nations agencies and parties have established, and will 
continue  to  undertake,  measures  to  harmonize  and 
coordinate 
emergency 
assistance 
the 
coordination  of  the  Office  of  the  Special  Coordinator 
for  the  Middle  East  Peace  Process  and  Personal 
Representative  of 
the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and  the  Palestinian 
Authority  and  with  the  participation  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority.  
My  delegation  welcomes  the  launch  of  a  new 

inter-agency  coordination  mechanism 
media-related 
aimed 
and  providing 
information  about  the  humanitarian  situation  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  and  the  United  Nations 
presence in the region. 

We  need  to  understand  that  financial  resources 
and  other  technical  assistance  made  available  to  the 
Palestinians  will  not,  by 
the 
political  crisis  affecting  the  lives  of  the  Palestinians. 
The  solution  remains 
the 
occupation  and  respect  international  law  and  relevant 
United  Nations 
resolutions.  We  must  achieve  a 
peaceful 
the  conflict  based  on  a 
comprehensive  political  dialogue  and  follow-up  to  the 
parties’  respective  commitments  and obligations  under 
the  road  map.  My  delegation  considers  the  Israeli 
disengagement  from  Gaza  to  be  a  positive  move  that 
could contribute to peace and stability and to economic 
improvement in the area.  
the  Secretary-General 
themselves,  resolve 
to  urge  Israel 
at  drawing 
attention 
resolution 
to 
to  end 
05-60137 

9 

has 
our 
demonstrated 
A/60/PV.51 


In  this  connection,  it  is  vital  for  both  Israel  and 
Palestine  to  establish  and  maintain  close  coordination 
within  the  context of the road  map. Peace  will  remain 
elusive  unless  all  parties  concerned  —  those  in  the 
region  and  the  wider  international  community  —  are 
prepared  to  play  their  part  responsibly,  in  good  faith 
and with a high degree of political will to seek a long-
lasting peace. 

Mr. Neil (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  on  agenda  item 
73, “Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the  United  Nations, 
including  special  economic  assistance”,  and  sub-tem 
(a),  “Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations”. 

The  past  decade  has  seen  a  growing  demand  for 
United Nations humanitarian assistance. The increased 
frequency  and  severity  of  natural  disasters  affecting 
nearly  all  parts  of  the  globe  during  the  past  year,  in 
particular, 
continued 
vulnerability to the vicissitudes of nature. As  you, Mr. 
President,  mentioned  in  your  opening  statement,  we 
have  witnessed  the  devastation  caused  by  the  tsunami 
in  south  Asia  in  late  December  2004,  a  disastrous 
earthquake  that  struck  south  Asia  this  past  October, 
with  widespread  destruction  and  loss  of  life  affecting 
intensive  and  destructive  2005 
Pakistan,  and 
hurricane  season,  which  wreaked  havoc 
the 
Caribbean, Central America and the south coast regions 
of the United States.  

Such  situations  are  additional  to  long-standing 
complex  emergency  situations,  while  new  ones  are 
rising  as  a  result  of  armed  conflicts,  many  of  them  in 
developing  countries.  The  frequency,  changing  nature 
and  scope  of  such  emergencies  call  for  an  increased 
response from the international community in terms of 
more resources and the provision of the requisite skills 
in disaster prevention and management. 
Against that background, serious challenges have 

the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
been  posed  for 
its 
response  mechanism.  The  need 
coordination  and  disaster-relief  capacity, 
including 
special  economic  assistance,  so  as  to  ensure  that  all 
cases  of  emergency  are  given  due  attention  and  that 
relief supplies are based on the principles of neutrality, 
humanity  and  impartiality,  is  therefore  of  paramount 
importance. 
to  strengthen 
the 
in 
makes 
some 
A/60/432, 
improving 
The  report  of 
the  objective  of 

Addressing  the  funding  capacity  of  the  United 
Nations  system  is  one  of  the  most  critical  steps  in 
achieving 
the  United 
Nations  emergency-response  capacity.  The  reliability 
and  predictability  of  funding  is  essential,  if  we  are  to 
ensure  that  not  only  new  and  large-scale  emergencies 
that  capture  the  attention  of  the  media,  but  also  other 
humanitarian  crises  that  are  not  given  much  publicity, 
receive attention. This all results in increasing demands 
on  the  Central  Emergency  Revolving  Fund  (CERF), 
which  requires  urgent  review  if  it  is  to  fulfil  its 
purposes. 

In  this  regard,  we  believe  that  one  of  the  most 
significant  decisions  taken  by  our  leaders at the  High-
level Plenary Meeting this year  was their endorsement 
of the  Economic  and  Social  Council recommendations 
made  in  July  this  year  to  the  General  Assembly  to 
improve the Fund. 
the 

the  Secretary-General  on 
in 
Central  Emergency  Revolving  Fund,  contained 
document 
useful 
recommendations  for  improving  the  operations  of  the 
Fund.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  supports  the 
expansion  of  the  Fund  from  its  current  base  of  $50 
million  to  $500  million,  and  the  inclusion  of  a  grant 
component  to  support  rapid  response.  This  will,  we 
believe,  significantly  contribute  to  achieving  a  more 
predictable, 
humanitarian 
emergencies. 

We  appreciate  the  contributions  from  the  donor 
community,  and  we  especially  commend  the  members 
of  the  European  Union,  in  particular  the  United 
Kingdom,  which  has  made  pledges 
the 
expansion  of 
that  we  anticipate  will 
materialize  in  2006.  Non-traditional  donors,  such  as 
the  private  sector  and  the  developing  countries,  are 
also to be encouraged, and we are particularly pleased 
at  the  steps  taken  by  some  developing  countries  in 
making pledges. 
We  look  forward  to  further  discussions  on  how 

best 
financial 
to  continue 
mechanisms, such as the flash appeals process, as well 
as a possible review of the allocation of resources from 
the regular budget to the Office for the Coordination of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  for  more  long-term 
humanitarian  response,  bearing  in  mind  the  projected 
needs. 
improve  existing 
the  Fund 
response 
towards 
timely 
to 
to 
10 

05-60137 
for 
of 
need 
priorities.  The 



Effective  coordination  of  humanitarian  and 
disaster  relief  assistance  requires  cooperation  between 
all  stakeholders,  including  the  United  Nations  system, 
and  regional  as  well  as  national  mechanisms.  While 
acknowledging  the  coordinating  leadership  role  of  the 
United Nations, account should be taken of the role to 
be  played  by  national  Governments  in  identifying 
national 
field-level 
coordination is of paramount importance. We welcome 
the  announcement  in  July  by  the  Under-Secretary-
General  for  Humanitarian Affairs  of  a  programme  for 
the  training  and  capacity-building  of  resident  and 
humanitarian  coordinators,  as  well  as  to  increase  the 
pool  of  experienced  candidates  for  the  coordinator 
system, so as to allow them to draw upon a reserve of 
expertise in response to new crises. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  recognize  that  it  is 
the  primary  responsibility  of  States  to  respond  to  the 
needs  of  their  citizens  in  emergency  situations. At  the 
same  time,  international  cooperation,  not  only  in 
relation  to  the  provision  of  funding,  but  also  in  terms 
of  the  sharing  of  best  practices  and  the  transfer  of 
technology  to  developing  countries,  is  also  of  great 
importance.  Those 
a 
comprehensive  package  of  response  to  the  relief  and 
development dimensions of humanitarian disasters. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  in  document 
A/60/227  addresses  the  issue  of  transition  from  relief 
to 
useful 
recommendations,  including  that  the  United  Nations 
and  donor  Governments  should  enhance  the  level  of 
preparedness  of  countries  prone  to  natural  disasters, 
particularly  at 
level,  by  significantly 
increasing  funding  for  preparedness  activities.  It  also 
calls on  Member States to implement  the priorities  set 
out  in  the  Hyogo  Framework  for Action  in  support  of 
the  International  Strategy  for  Disaster  Reduction  and, 
in particular, to incorporate practical disaster reduction 
steps 
into  sustainable  development  and  poverty 
reduction  strategies,  as  well  as  disaster  preparedness 
and 
other 
recommendations in the report. 
We  recognize  the  challenging  role  of  the  United 

emergency 
Nations 
situations. Efforts to respond to such situations must be 
balanced  against  the  need  to  ensure  the  security  and 
protection  of  humanitarian  personnel.  With  that  in 
mind, we welcome the efforts of the Secretary-General 
in establishing guidelines for complex missions and, at 
response.  We 
development. 
responding 
complex 
support 
should 
makes 
some 
local 
form 
part 
that 
and 
in 
to 
It 
the 
A/60/PV.51
for 
the 
legal 
observe 
important 
the  strengthening  of 
instruments  and  principles 
the  same  time,  reiterate  the  need  to  ensure  that 
relevant 
humanitarian  missions 
international 
in 
conducting  multidimensional  integrated  peacekeeping 
missions.  

We also take this opportunity to congratulate you, 
Sir, on the important contribution you made some years 
ago,  in  another  capacity,  in  developing  the  framework 
for  United  Nations  activities  in  humanitarian  and 
disaster  assistance.  An 
legacy  of  your 
involvement  is  resolution  46/182,  which  contains  the 
guiding  principles 
the 
coordination  of  emergency  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  reaffirm 
today the centrality of that resolution. 

Finally,  we  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  Under-Secretary-General 
Egeland  and  his  staff  at  OCHA  for  their  outstanding 
and  untiring  efforts 
in  coordinating  humanitarian 
activities on behalf of the United Nations. 
The  President:  I  thank  the  representative  of 

Jamaica for his  words about resolution 46/182 and the 
basis  it  provides  for  the  humanitarian  work  of  the 
United  Nations.  Let  me  also,  from  this  Chair,  express 
my  pride  in  having  Jan  Egeland  as  one  of  my 
successors  in  that  important  and  sometimes  sadly 
depressing function inside the United Nations. 
Sir Emyr Jones Parry (United Kingdom): I have 

the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union 
(EU) and those countries that have aligned themselves 
with this statement. 
The  European  Union  would  like  to  thank  the 

for 
Secretary-General 
consideration 
clearly 
demonstrate  the  immense  challenges  faced  by  the 
humanitarian community in the last year, as well as the 
continuing  need 
to  provide  more  effective  and 
predictable  humanitarian  assistance.  The  European 
Union would like to take this opportunity to express its 
condolences to and solidarity with all those affected by 
humanitarian  emergencies  in  the  last  year.  We  would 
also  like  to  thank  all  humanitarian  personnel  for  their 
tireless  and  dedicated  efforts  to  assist  and  protect 
vulnerable populations, often at great personal risk. 
Events  this  year,  most  recently  and  starkly  in 

Pakistan, 
of 
expanding  and  improving  our  capacity  to  respond 
reports 
item.  They 
for 
under 
highlighted 
importance 
submitted 
the 
this 
have 
the 
05-60137 

11 

A/60/PV.51 

quickly  and  effectively 
to  major  disasters.  The 
challenge  to  us  all  is  to  sustain  our  response  and  our 
commitment in the aftermath of a disaster. In Pakistan, 
the  European  Union  is  committed  to  supporting  the 
United Nations renewed appeal for assistance  with the 
ongoing  tragedy  as  winter  approaches.  Similarly,  the 
growing  crises  in  southern Africa  —  often  referred  to 
as the triple threat — demonstrate yet again the urgent 
need  for  early  preventative  measures,  with  the  clear 
lesson  that  early  intervention  is  much  less  costly  than 
responding 
later,  once  needs  and  suffering  have 
escalated. 

The European Union fully supports the Secretary-
General’s  call  in  his  report  “In  larger  freedom”  for  a 
more  predictable  humanitarian  response,  including  in 
the  areas  of  standby  arrangements,  funding  and 
coordination  capacity.  All  of 
those  elements  are 
mutually reinforcing and must be pursued together. 

In terms of standby capacity, the European Union 
values  existing  mechanisms,  such  as 
the  United 
Nations  Disaster  Assessment  and  Coordination  teams, 
the  International  Search  and  Rescue 
as  well  as 
Advisory  Group,  but 
the  EU  also  attaches  great 
importance  in  terms  of  developing  and  sustaining 
disaster  risk  reduction,  preparedness  and  response 
capacity at all levels. Experience has shown that  more 
lives  are  saved  in  the  aftermath  of  a  disaster  when 
response  teams  can  deploy  immediately,  especially  at 
the  local  and  national  levels.  We  recognize  that  the 
rapid response capacity of the international community 
still  fails  people  in  need  of  urgent  assistance  and  we 
therefore  call  for  enhanced  support  to  the  United 
Nations in its efforts to strengthen its response. 

On funding capacity,  we have been given a clear 
mandate  from  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
from  world  leaders  at  the  September  United  Nations 
summit  to  improve  the  existing  Central  Emergency 
Revolving  Fund  (CERF).  We  welcome  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  proposed  modalities  for  an 
upgraded  CERF,  which  should  enable  quicker  and 
more effective responses to humanitarian emergencies, 
and hope that it will become operational early in 2006. 
We  also  welcome  the  announcement  of  pledges,  in 
principle, 
invite 
further  voluntary  contributions  to  the  Fund.  From  the 
European  Union  perspective,  it  is  essential  that  the 
Fund’s  accountability  structures  work  retroactively  in 
order to  facilitate one of  the primary  objectives  of the 
upgraded  CERF  —  to  respond  immediately  to  life-
towards  an  upgraded  CERF  and 
of 
to 
The 
importance 
is 
persistent 
saving  needs.  An  upgraded  CERF  should  provide  a 
useful  addition  to  existing  fast-track  disbursement 
procedures,  such  as  those  provided  by  the  European 
Commission’s Humanitarian Aid Office. 
some 
underfunding 

emergencies,  particularly 
is  especially 
in  Africa, 
concerning.  The  proposal  that  the  upgraded  CERF 
address  critical  humanitarian  needs  in  underfunded 
emergencies is therefore welcome.  

On  coordination  capacity,  often  a  complex 
challenge,  the  response  to  recent  disasters  has  shown 
that  there  is  always  room  for  improvement.  In  that 
context, one particular aspect to which the EU attaches 
great 
the  quality  of  humanitarian 
coordinators. Further efforts  must be  made to improve 
that  critical  function,  especially  in  terms  of  training 
and  support,  and  the  right  incentives  must  also  be 
provided to attract the best people for that crucial job. 
Further  efforts  must  also  be  made  to  improve  the 
quality  of,  and  therefore  donor  confidence  in,  the 
United  Nations  Consolidated  Appeals  Process.  The 
Process  must  provide  for  a  more  inclusive  and  better 
coordinated  assessment  of  need,  and  the  projects 
contained therein must be better prioritized. 

As  donor  Governments,  we  also  recognize  that 
we  need  to  enhance  coordination  amongst  ourselves. 
That 
the  Good 
Humanitarian  Donorship 
initiative.  It  provides  an 
unparalleled  opportunity  to  promote  innovation  and 
good practice in the  way in  which  aid is provided and 
to  enhance  the  predictability,  adequacy  and  flexibility 
of humanitarian financing. 

Lessons  learned  are  also  an  important  part  of 
ensuring a more effective and predictable humanitarian 
response. 
the  European  Union 
welcomes  the  Humanitarian  Response  Review.  It  has 
helped  identify  a  number  of  gaps  and  weaknesses  in 
the  international  response  system,  and  we  are  pleased 
that  the  recommendations  are  now  being  actively 
pursued.  In  particular,  the  EU  welcomes  work  already 
under  way  in  identifying  cluster,  or  sectoral,  bids.  We 
believe that is especially important in terms of ensuring 
sectoral capacity and leadership. 

There are also a number of lessons to be learned 
in  the  use  and  coordination  of  military  and  civil 
defence  assets.  In  some  cases,  the  logistical  support 
and  expertise  associated  with  such  assets  can  prove 
is  why  we  are  committed 
In 
that 
respect, 
12 

05-60137 
to 
the 
improve 


invaluable in terms of transporting relief assistance and 
in reaching remote and vulnerable communities.  

The  European  Union  fully  accepts  the  need  to 
make 
international  humanitarian  system  more 
predictable  and  effective  in  its  response,  including 
through  lessons  learned  and  the  implementation  of 
existing commitments. But those efforts will be in vain 
if  we  cannot  ensure  better  respect  for  international 
humanitarian  law,  as  well  as  reliable  access  and 
protection  for  civilians  in  need  and  for  humanitarian 
workers.  We  strongly  condemn  attacks  and  acts  of 
violence  on  humanitarian  workers,  which  jeopardize 
not only their safety, but also the sustainability of relief 
operations.  Such  incidents  must  be  immediately  and 
effectively  investigated  and  the  perpetrators  of  such 
acts brought to justice. 

Finally,  this  past  year  in  particular  has  posed 
many  challenges  to  the  humanitarian  community.  We 
have  not  always  risen  to  the  challenge.  We  must 
therefore  continue  our  efforts 
the 
effectiveness  and  the  predictability  of  humanitarian 
response. The European Union is determined to play its 
part to that end.  
Ms.  Rouse  (Grenada):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak,  on  behalf  of 
the 
Caribbean  Community (CARICOM)  that are  Members 
of 
item  73  (a), 
“Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations, 
including special economic assistance: strengthening of 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
of the United Nations”. 
to  associate 

themselves  with 
the 
representative of Jamaica on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China on this agenda item. 

The  heads  of  State  and  Government,  during  the 
2005  world  summit,  were  in  one  accord  regarding  the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
They  reminded  us  that  the  problems  facing  the  world 
had multiplied, natural disasters being one of them. We 
were  also  requested  to  seek  new  and  innovative  ways 
to  deal  with  those  problems,  and  hence  we  welcome 
the Secretary-General’s reports on this agenda item. 

Secretary-General’s  report,  contained 
A/60/432,  on 
improvement  of 
We  wish  to  make  particular  reference  to  the 
in  document 
the  Central 
the  United  Nations,  on  agenda 
The  CARICOM  members  wish 
the  States  members  of 
statement  made  by 
the 
the 
A/60/PV.51
to  address  critical  humanitarian  needs 
We recall General Assembly resolution 46/182 of 
Emergency  Revolving  Fund  (CERF),  especially  the 
call 
in 
underfunded emergencies. We applaud the proposal put 
forward  by  Mr.  Jan  Egeland,  Under-Secretary-General 
for  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator,  for  renaming  the  upgraded  Fund  as  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund.  We  fully  support 
efforts  in  the  area  of  natural  disaster  mitigation, 
especially  in  the  light  of  recent  global  trends.  In 
commending  the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  and 
his  staff  on  their  excellent  performance  thus  far,  we 
recognize  the  very  difficult  task  which  they  face  and 
resolve to continue our support for that department. 

19 December 1991, which states that  

“International relief assistance should supplement 
national  efforts  to  improve  the  capacities  of 
developing  countries  to  mitigate  the  effects  of 
natural disasters expeditiously and effectively and 
to  cope  efficiently  with  all  emergencies.  The 
United  Nations  should  enhance  its  efforts  to 
assist  developing  countries  to  strengthen  their 
capacity  to  respond  to  disasters,  at  the  national 
and  regional  levels,  as  appropriate.”  (resolution 
46/182, para. 18) 

CARICOM  member  States  are  indeed  pleased 
that  the  United  Nations  agencies  have  continuously 
provided  necessary  assistance  over  the  years  and  we 
must  pay  particular  tribute  to  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  in  the  Caribbean  for  its 
sterling 
increased 
magnitude  and  frequencies  of  disasters  in  the  region, 
we  recognize  the  need  for  further  collaboration  with 
other regional agencies. 
fully 

implement  the  Hyogo  Declaration  and  the  Hyogo 
Framework  for  Action  2005-2015,  adopted  at  the 
World Conference on Disaster Reduction, in particular 
those commitments  related  to  assistance to  developing 
countries  that  are  prone  to  natural  disasters  and 
disaster-stricken  States  in  the  transition  phase  towards 
sustainable physical, social and economic recovery, for 
risk  reduction  activities  in  post-disaster  recovery  and 
rehabilitation  processes.  We  now  have  to  ensure  that 
this resolve is translated into action. 

the 
report  clearly 
consolidated  and  flash  appeals  have  been  insufficient 
the  various  crises  and 
in  meeting 
The  2005  world  summit 
support.  However,  with 
the  needs  of 
The  CERF 
resolved 
shows 
that 
the 
to 
05-60137 

13 

freedom”, 
A/60/PV.51 

emergencies. The  mechanism  must  be  able to disburse 
funds  in  a  rapid  and  transparent  manner  with  the 
primary  aim  of  saving  lives  and  providing  immediate 
humanitarian relief. 

It  is  clear  to  this  body  that,  in  the  near  future, 
increased resources for rapid deployment of relief  will 
be  required  and  that  it  will  therefore  be  necessary  to 
establish not only a source of readily available funding, 
but  proper  mechanisms  to  ensure  immediate  access  to 
those funds by disaster-stricken States. 
CARICOM  has  noted  with  dismay  the  poor 

response  to  appeals  following  recent  disasters  in  the 
Caribbean  region, as  was experienced by  Grenada  and 
Guyana,  where  the  destruction  impacted  heavily  on 
their economies. It saddens me to say that, to date, only 
a minor percentage of the pledges have been fulfilled. 

CARICOM member States have, at several world 
summits and conferences, stressed the need for special 
and  differential  treatment  for  small  island  developing 
States due, in great part, to our vulnerability to natural 
disasters.  The  Secretary-General,  in  his  report  “In 
larger 
the 
environmental and development challenges facing us in 
the  form  of  climate  change,  recognizing  that  the 
countries  that  were  most  vulnerable  included  small 
island developing States. 
We  find  ourselves  in  a  unique  position.  Apart 

from  our  size,  we  are  for  the  most  part  island  States, 
and a region which is often visited by disasters brought 
about  by  wind,  water  or  other  forces  of  nature  that 
threaten  our  very  existence.  We  therefore  make  a 
solemn  appeal  to  members  of  this  body  to  join  hands 
with  us  and  work  towards  arriving  at  solutions  to 
minimize the effects of those disasters, from which we 
have  no  means  of  escape.  Small 
island  States 
continually run the risk of being forgotten by the media 
and, in turn, by the international community, since our 
size does not attract sufficient attention. When Grenada 
was hit by Hurricane Ivan in September of 2004, it was 
the entire 344 square-kilometre island, with its 100,000 
inhabitants,  that  sustained  damage.  All  were  affected. 
We  are  fully  aware  that  preparedness  is  necessary. 
However,  since  we  cannot  prevent  the  disaster  or 
predict its magnitude, the recovery process is therefore 
of paramount importance. 

Disaster  management is a complex portfolio, and 
though  most  countries  have  an  established  national 
disaster  management  agency,  the  magnitude  of  the 
also  made 
reference 
to 
to 
the 
for 
We 
need 
support 
immediate 
intervention  by 
list.  We  are  also  grateful 
disaster is sometimes  way  beyond their capabilities — 
hence the apparent state of paralysis which follows. We 
therefore  welcome 
the 
United  Nations  agencies  when  they  are  called  upon  to 
assist in such situations. 

CARICOM  wishes  to  commend those  States  that 
have pledged contributions  to the  Fund and  encourage 
those  that  are  in  a  position  to  do  so  to  join  the 
contributors’ 
those 
countries  that  have  taken  concrete  steps  in  disaster 
mitigation  and  are  working  with  CARICOM  in  that 
regard. CARICOM is pleased to lend its support to the 
upgraded  Fund  and  to  endorse  the  addition  of  a  grant 
facility  of  $450  million,  targeted  at  a  total  of  $500 
million,  to  be  operational  by  early  2006.  We  also 
endorse  the  establishment  of  an  advisory  group  of  12 
experts,  broadly  representative  of  the  humanitarian 
donor  community,  as  well  as  technical  expertise  from 
countries  affected  by  crises.  We  believe  that  that 
composition  would  contribute  to  a  more  balanced 
approach and be able to achieve better results. 

transparency, 
accountability  and  visibility  of  the  Fund,  the  active 
involvement  and  guidance  of  the  General  Assembly, 
and the suggested annual CERF donors consultation in 
order 
to  keep  relevant  partners  updated  and  for 
necessary  review.  We  are  confident  that,  with  strong 
and  dedicated  support  from  Member  States,  the  newly 
revived  Fund  will  be  able  to  provide  timely  and  more 
effective response to humanitarian emergencies. 

In conclusion, CARICOM States resolve to  work 
closely  with  the  Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  and 
other United Nations agencies to ensure the success of 
that  new  venture  to  strengthen  the  coordination  of 
humanitarian and disaster relief assistance. 
Mr.  Siv  (United  States  of  America):  I  thank  the 

Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  on 
humanitarian  assistance.  They  help  us  to  maintain 
attention  on  continuing  needs  and  to  explore  how  the 
United  Nations  system  can  better  work  to  meet  them. 
As  a  prominent  contributor  and  participant 
in 
humanitarian  action  throughout  the  world,  the  United 
States  recognizes  many  successes  in  saving  lives  and 
reducing suffering, but we also clearly see areas where 
the international community can improve its collective 
response.  
In  the  past  year,  we  have  faced  tremendous 

challenges.  Protracted  civil  conflicts  have  provoked 
14 

05-60137 
The 
international 


some of the largest occurrences of forced displacement 
in  recent  times.  Natural  disasters  have  also  had  a 
destructive  impact  of  exceptional  scale.  This  year’s 
hurricane season hit my country very hard. I thank the 
United Nations and the international community for the 
generous contributions to the relief effort in the south-
eastern Gulf States. 

community,  with  United 
Nations leadership,  has  met  many  of the challenges  in 
the  past  year,  but  humanitarian  needs  continue  to 
require  our  collective  will  and  capacity  to  provide  a 
more  efficient  and  effective  response,  both  at  the 
management  and  technical  levels.  Within  the  broader 
context of United Nations reform, much discussion has 
revolved  around  ways  to  improve  the  United  Nations 
humanitarian  response  system.  The  United  States 
supports  a  stronger  and  more  effective  response  in 
humanitarian crises. 

We  have  followed  with  interest  the  proposal  for 
an 
improved  Central  Emergency  Revolving  Fund 
(CERF). We believe that a centralized source of rapidly 
available funding could help effectively address urgent 
swiftly 
needs 
deteriorating  crises.  We 
to  further 
discussion  on 
the 
enhanced  CERF  and  on  how  the  Fund  links  to  other 
initiatives,  such  as  the  Consolidated  Appeals  Process 
and 
assessment 
methodologies.  The  approach  to  humanitarian  reform 
should  be  comprehensive,  aligning  the  benefits  of  the 
CERF  alongside  initiatives  to  broaden  the  donor  base, 
secure  additional  voluntary resources,  strengthen  early 
warning  systems,  bolster 
response  capacity,  and 
enhance  the  overall  coordination  of  disaster  relief  and 
mitigation efforts. 

Financial  resources  are  critical  to  addressing 
humanitarian  needs,  but  effective  response  requires 
experienced  humanitarian  personnel  on  the  ground 
making tough  decisions, coordinating  numerous  actors 
and ensuring that the aid reaches persons most in need. 
in 
Additionally, 
personnel  work 
enormous 
environments 
challenges, 
including 
insecurity  and  difficult 
logistics.  Those  obstacles  require  that  we  prepare  for 
and  anticipate  emergencies  before 
they  begin  by 
training  staff,  increasing  agency  capacity  to  absorb 
additional  funding,  and  better  equipping  responders  to 
operate in challenging environments. 
humanitarian 
filled  with 
lack  of  access, 
the  operational  modalities  of 
emergencies 
look  forward 
standardize 
rapid-onset 
effort 
and 
the 
in 
to 
A/60/PV.51
ad 
have 
from 
various 
suffered 
historically 
deteriorates.  The 
international  organizations, 

One  clear  lesson  from  the  past  year  is  that  the 
United  Nations  system  must  be  able  to  shift  into 
emergency  mode  smoothly  and  efficiently  when  a 
situation 
operational 
components  of  the  United  Nations  must  be  able  to 
rapidly implement relief activities. 

We  have  followed  with  equal  interest  recent 
discussions  on  reinforcing  United  Nations  leadership 
for specific sectors of humanitarian activity  — sectors 
that 
hoc 
coordination and direction. We applaud initial efforts in 
that area and believe that, together, we can enhance the 
international  response  to  meet  needs  in  those  critical 
sectors. 

Perhaps  the  most  pressing  of  those,  and  one  that 
too often falls into a gap without sufficient leadership, 
is 
the  protection  of  persons  affected  by  natural 
disasters  and  civil  strife.  We  support  more  coherent 
United  Nations  leadership  in  that  area.  Protection  is  a 
complex issue and  involves a range  of  United  Nations 
offices,  other 
the  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement,  and  non-
governmental  organizations.  Within 
the  United 
Nations,  we  believe  that  recent  refinements  to  the 
collaborative  approach  strengthen  the  framework  for 
addressing  the  assistance  and  protection  needs  of 
internally  displaced  persons,  and  we  challenge  United 
Nations agencies to work further towards that goal. 

The  ability  to  provide  protection  to  vulnerable 
populations is also closely linked to the safety of relief 
workers.  Initiatives  to  enhance  funding  mechanisms 
and clarify leadership roles will seem extraneous if we 
fail  to  safeguard  the  basic  security  of  humanitarian 
personnel.  The  United  States  applauds  the  efforts  of 
humanitarian  workers 
the  world  and 
recognizes that their daily work brings relief and hope 
to  millions  of  people  in  need.  We  must  do  everything 
we  can  to  ensure  that  humanitarian  personnel  are  able 
to continue their invaluable work without becoming the 
victims  or  the  targets  of  conflict.  In  the  past  few 
months,  we  have  seen  humanitarian  workers  come 
under  direct  attack  in  Darfur  and  northern  Uganda. 
That  cannot  be 
is 
committed  to  strengthening  the  security  and  safety  of 
humanitarian  personnel,  and  we  view  the  measures 
taken  by  the  General  Assembly  as  important  steps  in 
allowing  United  Nations  personnel 
and  other 
humanitarian workers to continue their critical work. 
tolerated.  The  United  States 
throughout 
05-60137 

15 
that 
foundation 
in 
that  helps  ensure 
A/60/PV.51 


I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs — 
which you, Mr. President, once led with distinction and 
which is now under the leadership of Under-Secretary-
General  Jan  Egeland  —  the  other  United  Nations 
humanitarian  agencies  and  fellow  Member  States  for 
striving  to  seek  improvements  in  the  coordination  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  As  we  continue 
those 
discussions,  we  must  not  address  elements  of 
isolation.  Its  components 
humanitarian  reform 
constitute  a  package 
the 
is  driven  by  solid  needs 
allocation  of  resources 
assessments and prioritizations. 

We reaffirm our support for the core humanitarian 
principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality  and 
independence.  They  provide 
for 
international  humanitarian  work  and  must  continue  to 
guide our efforts, especially as we strive to address the 
range of challenges we face today. Let us not lose sight 
of  those  straightforward  yet  profound  values  as  we 
work together to strengthen humanitarian assistance to 
help the millions of people in need around the globe. 

The  United  States  is  the  largest  single  donor  to 
humanitarian  and  development  programmes 
that 
benefit  the  Palestinian  people.  Working  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  our  substantial 
financial 
contribution  to  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency  for  Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East 
(UNRWA)  amounted  to  $108  million  in  2005.  Since 
1998,  we  have  contributed  $588  million  to  UNRWA’s 
General Fund in support of its educational, health, and 
employment 
4.2  million 
Palestinian refugees. 

In addition, through the United States Agency for 
International Development (USAID), we have provided 
more  than  $1.7  billion  in  economic  assistance  since 
1993.  USAID  operates  six  programmes  for  the benefit 
the  promotion  of  democratic 
of 
reform, 
the 
sector,  community 
revitalization  of 
services, health and training, and higher education. The 
United  States  encourages  other  countries,  especially 
countries 
their 
contributions  to  UNRWA’s  core  budget  and  to  other 
humanitarian and economic needs in that area. 

The President: I particularly want to bring to the 
Assembly’s attention the important work being done in 
the  Sixth  Committee  on  the  safety  and  security  of 
infrastructure  and  water 
the  Palestinians: 
the  private 
programmes 
resources, 
increase 
serving 
region, 
from 
the 
to 
the 

a 
for 
the 
argues 
proposal 
humanitarian  personnel.  I  hope  that  we  can  conclude 
discussions  soon  and,  by  so  doing,  send  a  strong 
message on the importance of assuring the security and 
the  safety of personnel  serving the peoples  around the 
world. 

Mr. Ozawa (Japan): Japan believes that a holistic 
and comprehensive approach is necessary in our efforts 
to  strengthen  the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and 
disaster  relief  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations. 
Funding  arrangements  are  an  important  part  of  the 
issue,  but  we  should put  this  matter in the perspective 
of the overall picture. 

We  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
bold report concerning the improvement of the Central 
Emergency  Revolving  Fund  (CERF)  (A/60/87).  We 
also  commend  Under-Secretary-General  Jan  Egeland 
for  his  efforts  to  elaborate  on  the  details  of  the 
proposal in his discussions with all regional groups. In 
essence, 
drastic 
transformation of the existing CERF. We are not ready 
to make pledges with respect to a reformed CERF, but 
we understand the good intentions behind the ideas and 
see some merits in the proposal. Japan will continue to 
participate seriously in the forthcoming discussions on 
that matter. 

Japan believes that reform is also necessary in the 
areas  of  needs  assessment  and  common  strategy  for 
humanitarian assistance. Without progress on those two 
fronts, an effective response is not really possible, even 
if 
resources  and 
adequate assistance capacity.  

The  Niger  food  crisis  is  a  case  in  point.  The 
problem of insufficient funding has been aggravated by 
the  tension  between  development  policy  goals  on  the 
one hand and humanitarian assistance requirements on 
the other. That tension hampered free food distribution 
for fear of distorting the local economy.  

the  gap  between 
emergency  relief  and  development.  We  think  that  this 
may  not  be  a  linear  sequence  of  events.  Even  in  a 
situation  where  efforts  are  focused  on  longer-term 
development,  emergency  relief  may  sometimes  be 
needed,  as  we  saw  in  the  case  of  the  Horn  of  Africa. 
We 
between 
humanitarian  and  development  actors  on  ensuring 
timely  needs  assessment  and  achieving  a  common 
strategy  for  humanitarian  assistance.  In  addition,  in 
order  to  assess  needs  accurately,  it  is  necessary  to 
We  have  often  discussed 
there  were  sufficient 
intensified 
welcome 
financial 
dialogue 
16 

05-60137 
importance 
to  strengthen 
to 
the  coordination  mechanism, 


ensure  the  participation  of  all  stakeholders,  including 
non-governmental organizations. 

Japan  also  attaches  great 
the 
improvement  of 
in 
particular to the ongoing discussion on the cluster lead 
and  the  strengthening  of  the  role  of  humanitarian 
coordinators. We welcome the recommendations of the 
Humanitarian Response Review on filling those gaps in 
the  existing  arrangements  where  responsibility  for 
certain  vital  sectors  for  humanitarian  assistance  and 
protection remains unclear.  
At the same time, the proposed cluster lead would 

require 
thorough  discussion  among  humanitarian 
actors,  including  non-governmental  organizations,  as 
well  as  by  the  governing  boards  of  all  humanitarian 
entities, especially in terms of the proposal’s impact on 
their  core  mandate.  We  hope  that  the  Member  States 
are  kept  up  to  date  through  consultations  in  the  Inter-
Agency  Standing  Committee.  We  believe  it  is  also 
important 
the  role  of  humanitarian 
coordinators while at the same time fully reflecting the 
views of humanitarian workers, especially those on the 
ground. 

Japan  believes  that  engagement  with  emerging 
donors  and  the  private  sector  needs  to  be  further 
promoted  with  a  view  to  expanding  the  financial 
resources  available  for  humanitarian  assistance.  We 
need  to  consolidate  the  positive  trend  observed  in  the 
response 
the 
earthquake  in  Pakistan  by  promoting  even  closer 
dialogue with those contributors that used to be outside 
the  humanitarian  circle.  In  that  regard,  it  might  be 
worth  considering,  when  a  major  humanitarian  crisis 
occurs, setting up a briefing session in a format open to 
all Member States, possibly using the framework of the 
Economic and Social Council. 

Last but not least, Japan wishes to emphasize the 
importance  of  prevention  and  preparedness,  especially 
in 
the  context  of  natural  disasters.  The  Hyogo 
Declaration  and  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action, 
adopted in January of this year, urge us to integrate risk 
reduction  into  post-disaster  recovery  and  development 
strategies.  Allocating  relatively  small  amounts  of 
resources  to  prevention  and  preparedness  can  lead  to 
tremendous  savings  in  terms  of  human  lives  and 
property. 
expressing  my 

Government’s  deep  appreciation  to  all  humanitarian 
Indian  Ocean 
tsunami  and 
conclude 
I  wish 
the 
by 
to 
to 
A/60/PV.51
workers, especially those on the ground helping people 
in need under difficult conditions. 

Mr.  Amorós  Núñez  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
At the outset, Cuba associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  delegation  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China. 
Over  the  years,  in  the  consideration  of  issues 

involving  humanitarian  assistance,  priority  has  been 
given  to  complex  emergencies,  while  natural  disasters 
have  been  held  to  be  of  secondary  importance.  The 
peoples  of  various  brotherly  countries  of  the  Indian 
Ocean  basin  had  to  suffer  a  catastrophe  of  enormous 
dimensions before  United  Nations  action on  that  issue 
began to be reassessed. 
The impact of the current hurricane season on the 

Caribbean  Basin,  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  and  Central 
America  and  the  disastrous  effects  of  the  most  recent 
South Asian earthquake require a radical change in the 
mode  of  planning  and  coordinating  humanitarian 
assistance  in  the  United  Nations  system.  Under  these 
circumstances,  we  must  reaffirm  the  validity  of  the 
principles  of  humanity,  neutrality  and  impartiality 
enshrined in General Assembly resolution 46/182. 
Although  nature’s  fury  does  not  distinguish 

between  developing  and  developed  countries, 
the 
consequences of the series of natural disasters in recent 
years reflect as never before the grave crisis underlying 
the  international  sustainable  development  agenda  —  a 
crisis  faced  by  the  countries  of  the  third  world,  who 
suffer  the  ravages  of  the  unjust  conditions  resulting 
from the current international order, which undermines 
national  capacities  to  respond  immediately  to  the 
enormous  challenges  posed  by  the  effects  of  natural 
disasters. 
that  humanitarian 

assistance  be 
and 
unconditional  commitment  to  economic  growth  and 
in  developing  nations. 
sustainable  development 
Without 
humanitarian 
assistance  —  which  must  not  be  earmarked  —  only 
serve to undermine resources destined for international 
cooperation for development. 

The  current  situation  requires  that  the  transition 
from  relief  to  development  receive  the  attention  it 
deserves. Major efforts by the international community 
will  be  needed  to  enable  those  recovering  from  the 
damage  caused  by  natural  disasters  to  recommence 
therefore  essential 
accompanied  by 
contributions 
serious 
that, 
for 
is 
It 
a 
05-60137 

17 
to 

The 
selfless 
solidarity  of  Cuba,  a 
emergency situations such as the outbreak of epidemics 
or to help in the global fight against HIV/AIDS. Henry 
Reeve  members  have  already  gone  to  Pakistan  to 
provide  medical  assistance  to  the  victims  of  the 
earthquake there and to Guatemala to aid the victims of 
Hurricane Stan. 

Moreover,  Cuban  specialists  will  soon  join  the 
United  Nations  Disaster Assessment  and  Coordination 
Team.  Cuba  will  contribute  specialists  and  engineers, 
who will share Cuban national experience in assistance 
and  emergency  aid  efforts,  and  doctors  to  save  lives, 
ease pain, fight epidemics and provide essential health 
services  for those  who  have lost everything  and suffer 
the terrible effects of neglect. Their only reward will be 
to  go  home  with  the  satisfaction  of  having  done  their 
duty.  They  will  not  demand  the  frivolous  celebrity 
provided by coverage in the major international media. 
It is possible that they will receive no prizes or laurels 
for  their  humanitarian  efforts;  that  is  not  what  they 
seek.  The  gratitude  of  those  whom  they  will  heal  and 
save will be enough for them. 

small, 
blockaded  country  of  the  third  world,  should  serve  as 
an  example  to  spur  other,  immensely  rich  States  and 
the  international  bodies  to  offer  the  necessary  aid  to 
those whom nature has harshly affected. It can be done; 
the  suffering  of  the  victims  is  in  sharp  contrast  to  the 
trillion  dollars  wasted  annually  on  all  kinds  of 
armaments. 

We  need  ongoing  mobilization,  a  true  spirit  of 
human solidarity and a strong political commitment to 
solve  the  basic  problems  fuelling  the  incontrollable 
that  has  been 
forces  of  natural  disasters.  Until 
accomplished, 
the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Assistance  will  be  in 
vain. 
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic): Allow  me,  at  the  outset  and  on  behalf  of  the 
delegation  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  his  valuable 
efforts  in  directing  the  work  of  the  present  session.  I 
should also like to thank the Secretary-General for his 
valuable reports on this agenda item. 

I  wish  to  associate  myself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Jamaica on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 
the  Office  for 
the  efforts  of 
a 
response 
to 
the 
towards 
progress 
including 
long-term 
temporary 
trade 
for 
A/60/PV.51 

their national plans for viable economic growth and to 
continue  making 
sustainable 
development, which will generate the resources needed 
for 
earthquake's 
consequences. 

In that connection, it will be crucial to undertake 
measures  to  restore  socio-economic  activity  in  the 
affected communities, such as cancelling, significantly 
relieving  or  rescheduling  external  debt,  providing 
countries  with  a  grace  period  that  will  help  accelerate 
their  relief,  reconstruction  and  development  efforts; 
promoting  a  common  effort  among  various  new  and 
additional  sources  of  financial  resources  for  affected 
international 
nations, 
the 
financial 
the  World  Bank;  and 
organizations,  particularly 
granting 
facilities 
and 
trade 
preferences 
products  — 
national 
specific 
particularly  those  from  disaster-affected  areas  —  in 
order  to  help  rebuild  their  productive  capacities  and 
support 
labour  recovery.  Other  actions  could  be 
initiated through UNICEF, UNESCO and other bodies, 
agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations 
system 
support  disaster-affected  children  —
particularly those who have been orphaned — with the 
aim  of  promoting 
and  mental 
development. 

Mr. Loizaga (Paraguay), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

The growing magnitude of the negative effects of 
natural  disasters  requires the  strengthening  of  national 
prevention,  mitigation  and  preparation  activities  and 
the implementation of the outcome of the second World 
Conference  on  Disaster  Reduction,  held  this  year  in 
Japan. However, international cooperation mechanisms 
must also be strengthened. The experiences suffered as 
a  result  of  the  hurricanes  that  battered  the  Caribbean 
Basin,  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  and  Central  America 
confirm that.  

Assistance  provided in  solidarity  with those  who 
need  it  is  one  of  the  essential  pillars  of  our  country’s 
foreign  policy,  and  our  cooperation  programme  has 
been ongoing for more than 40 years. In that spirit, and 
because of the impact of Hurricane Katrina, the Henry 
Reeve International Contingent of Doctors Specializing 
in  Disaster  Situations  and  Serious  Epidemics  was 
established  on  19  September  2005.  Its  members  will 
provide  assistance  to  populations  requesting  it,  not 
only  in  natural  disaster  situations,  but  also  in  other 
their  physical 
18 

05-60137 
is 



The  recent  unprecedented  natural  disasters  and 
the  magnitude  of  the  destruction  and  death  that  they 
have  caused 
in  both  developing  and  developed 
countries  have  undeniably  proved  two  facts.  First, 
developing  countries  are  not  prepared  to  deal  with 
natural  disasters.  Thus  the  damage  caused  by  such 
disasters  is  considerable,  and  recovery  from  their 
devastating  effects  is  slow.  Secondly,  countries  need 
one  another,  regardless  of  their  capacities.  Hence, 
international  cooperation 
the  safest  and  most 
appropriate  solution  to  protect  humanity  from  natural 
disasters  and  from  disputes  and  conflicts  among 
individuals and nations.  

In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
appreciation  and  gratitude  for  the  work  done  by  the 
United  Nations  and  its  personnel  in  the  field  of 
delivering  relief  and  humanitarian  assistance,  whether 
at  Headquarters  or  at  disaster  sites,  and  we  would 
underline  the  principal  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
strengthening and coordinating long-term humanitarian 
and relief assistance to affected countries. 

In  the  meantime,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
implementing  the  recommendations  of  international 
conferences  on  international  coordination  in  facing 
disasters,  which  call  for  the  implementation  of  an 
international  strategy  that  deals  with  natural  disasters 
at 
relief, 
reconstruction  and development.  Such  an  international 
strategy  must  include  the  necessary  measures  required 
for  helping  poor  countries  to  build  their  institutional 
capabilities and to address the consequences of natural 
disasters and war. 

In  that  regard,  we  urge  donor  countries  and 
international  financing  institutions  to  increase  their 
contributions  in  order  to  fund  humanitarian  and  relief 
activities, 
the  principles  of 
international  solidarity  and  interdependence,  and  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations. We 
also  emphasize  the  importance  of  settling  disputes 
among  nations  and of  eliminating  the  causes of  armed 
conflicts,  which  have  created  humanitarian  disasters, 
by strengthening the authority and role of international 
law. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  is  one  of  the  largest 
contributors to relief assistance activities in the  world, 
as  it  has  effectively  participated  in  regional  and 
international  efforts  aimed  at  providing 
long-term 
humanitarian  and  emergency  relief  assistance  to  all 
early  warning 
fulfilment  of 
stages, 
in 
all 
from 
to 
A/60/PV.51
the 
country’s  Red  Crescent  Society 
regions  of  the  world.  This  has  included  providing 
contributions 
to  United  Nations  humanitarian  and 
development  assistance  agencies  and  extending  direct 
financial and in-kind assistance to countries affected by 
natural disasters and armed conflicts, and for assisting 
in rehabilitation and reconstruction operations. 

Total  contributions  made  during  the  2004-2005 
period by the Government of the United Arab Emirates 
and 
for 
reconstruction  operations  in  Afghanistan,  Iraq  and 
some occupied Palestinian  cities  and  for  finalizing  the 
fifth stage of the Emirates Solidarity Program for mine 
clearance in South Lebanon — which was completed in 
May 2004 and resulted in the removal of 61,829 mines 
in an area of 4 million square metres — have exceeded 
$500 million. 

The Government of the United Arab Emirates has 
also assisted the victims of natural disasters in Iran and 
other  countries  of  South-East  Asia  affected  by  the 
tsunami,  as  well  as  the  victims  of  Hurricane  Katrina 
and  the  recent  earthquake  in  India  and  Pakistan.  The 
Government  has  also  extended  direct  development 
assistance  to  many  developing  countries  through  its 
national  organizations,  such  as 
the  Abu  Dhabi 
Development  Fund,  which  since  its  inception  has 
provided  financial  assistance  totalling  $5  billion  to  56 
countries  in  the  form  of  concessionary  loans  and 
grants. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  Red  Crescent 
Society — the largest non-governmental charity agency 
in  the  country  engaged  in  providing  relief  and  foreign 
assistance  —  has  extended  total  assistance  in  the  year 
2004 of 340 million dirhams, i.e. $100 million, to more 
than  95  countries,  including  those  affected  by,  or 
recovering from, conflicts. The Society has also funded 
projects for rebuilding a number of Palestinian cities in 
the occupied territories for a total of $122 million. 

As  part  of  its  international  efforts  aimed  at 
supporting  and  coordinating  humanitarian  and  relief 
assistance  worldwide,  the  Government  has  established 
a  relief  warehouse  in  the  city  of  Dubai  for  the 
provision  of 
to 
national  and  international  humanitarian  organizations. 
It  has  recently  established  a  supply  warehouse  for 
humanitarian  assistance  in  Dubai  that  is  used  for 
storing  pre-packaged  American 
assistance 
material for immediate delivery to affected areas. 
integrated  services  and  facilities 
relief 
05-60137 

19 
in 
led 
to 
see 
have 
living 
to  huge 
Moreover, 
conditions 
the  occupying  Power, 
A/60/PV.51 


Following  the  Israeli  withdrawal  from  Gaza  and 
the  evacuation  of  some  West  Bank  settlements,  the 
international  community  expected 
some 
improvement  in  the  tragic  humanitarian  conditions  of 
the Palestinians. However, more than two months later, 
Palestinian 
deteriorated 
miserably  due  to  the  continuing  control  of  the  Israeli 
forces over border checkpoints and commercial sites in 
Palestinian  cities,  as  well  as  the  continued  imposition 
of  repressive  closure  policies  and  restrictions  on 
movement.  Moreover, 
the  continuing  attacks  on 
Palestinian citizens and  their property  and the  policies 
of  collective  punishment  policies  and  extrajudicial 
killings have resulted in the deaths of more than 4,000 
innocent  civilians,  and  tens  of  thousands  more  have 
been injured or disabled. 

is 
Israel, 
continuing  to  build  the  illegal  expansionist  separation 
wall,  which  has  resulted 
the  confiscation  of 
Palestinian  lands,  the  destruction  of  wells  and  an 
increase in the number of internally displaced persons. 
That  has 
the  Palestinian 
economy,  an  increase  in  the  number  of  Palestinian 
civilians,  up to two thirds,  who  live  under the poverty 
line,  and  the  spread  of  malnutrition  among  large 
numbers of children. 

the 
to 
international  humanitarian  assistance  provided  to  the 
Palestinians  in  the  occupied  territories  is  not  adequate 
for  alleviating  their  suffering. This  can  happen only  if 
the Israeli occupation comes to a complete end and an 
independent and viable Palestinian State is established. 
We  therefore  call  upon  the  international  community 
once  again  to  force  Israel  to  immediately  stop  its 
attacks  against  civilians  and  to  end  its  policy  of 
closures  and  siege.  It  must  cease  building  and 
dismantle 
illegal 
expansionist  wall,  in  accordance  with  internationally 
binding  resolutions  and  the  principles  of  international 
humanitarian 
the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention  and  human  rights  instruments,  and  to 
withdraw completely from all Arab territories occupied 
since  1967, 
relevant 
international  resolutions.  In  the  meantime,  we  urge 
donor  countries  and  international  financial  institutions 
to  continue  providing  necessary  assistance  to  the 
Palestinian  people  until 
the  Palestinian  occupied 
territories are liberated and an independent Palestinian 
constructed  part  of 
accordance  with 
international 
losses  for 
According 
including 
reports, 
law, 
in 
the 
the 
the 

to 
In 
take 
last  met 
this  opportunity 
the  year  since  we 
State  is  established,  with  Al-Quds  Al-Sharif  as  its 
capital. 
Ms. Smith (Australia): Please allow  me to begin 

by  again  extending 
the  Australian  Government’s 
condolences to the people affected by the South Asian 
earthquake, particularly in Pakistan. 
The South Asian earthquake is the most recent in 

a  string  of  severe  and  devastating  natural  disasters, 
including  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  and  numerous 
hurricanes  and  cyclones.  Australia,  as  a  country  that 
itself  is  prone  to  natural  disasters,  is  acutely  aware  of 
the  threat  they  pose  and  of  the  importance  of  disaster 
mitigation  and  preparedness.  If  2005  has  taught  the 
world  anything,  it  is  that  disaster  mitigation  and 
emergency  preparedness  must  be  an  even  higher 
priority  and  must  be  integrated  into  development 
planning. 

to  discuss 
humanitarian  action,  while  there  has  been  massive 
devastation  and  loss  of  life,  there  have  also  been 
incredible stories of survival and resilience. We  would 
like 
the 
international humanitarian community for its efforts in 
rising to the unprecedented challenges it has faced over 
the  past  12  months.  This 
in  particular 
Australia’s  recognition  of  those  national  authorities 
that  have  worked  courageously  towards  rebuilding 
their  communities, 
restoring  human  dignity  and 
alleviating  the  suffering  of  their  peoples.  This,  we 
think,  highlights  the  importance  of  building  national 
capacities within the humanitarian system. 

in 
humanitarian response. We provide rapid and generous 
support  for  the  survivors  of  crises  and  disasters,  both 
within our region and globally. Most recently, Australia 
has  provided  assistance  to  Pakistan,  and  earlier  this 
year  we  responded  rapidly 
the  Indian  Ocean 
tsunami. 
the 

responses  to  protracted  crises  in  Africa,  including  in 
the  Sudan,  the  Niger,  Malawi  and  in  southern  Africa 
more broadly.  

While  the  international  system  has  responded  to 
many  natural  disasters  over  the  past  12  months,  those 
disasters have also served to remind us just how crucial 
effective and timely humanitarian response capacity is, 
Farther  afield,  we  have  also  assisted 
to  congratulate 
continues 
Australia 
its  part 
to  play 
includes 
to 
20 

05-60137 
to  strive 
to  continue 


if  lives  are  to  be  saved,  livelihoods  protected  and 
communities restored. 

I should also make clear that we recognize that it 
is  not  just  in  the  case  of  natural  disasters  that  the 
humanitarian  community  must  be  able  to  respond,  but 
also  in  complex  emergencies,  where  there  are  many 
unique  challenges.  The  complex  environments 
in 
which  we  undertake  humanitarian  action  highlight  the 
need 
for  a  strengthened 
humanitarian response. 
Strengthening  humanitarian  response  is  the  key 

objective  of  the  current  humanitarian  reform  agenda 
outlined by the Secretary-General and led by the Office 
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). 
Australia is a strong supporter of humanitarian reform. 
Our  interest  is  in  demonstrated  results  on  the  ground 
and our goal is to better enable affected communities to 
rebuild their lives and restore dignity. 
We  seek  to  achieve  this  through  increasingly 

effective application of resources and heightened levels 
of  coordination  and  collaboration  between  partner 
Governments  and  humanitarian 
institutions.  Good 
in  a  number  of  areas. 
progress  has  been  made 
However,  we  should  continue  to  strive  for  further 
improvement.  We  encourage  the  United  Nations  to 
continue  to  build  coordination  and  collaboration  links 
during quiet periods as well as during times of crisis. 
We  agree  with  the  key  elements  of  the  reform 

agenda.  We  need 
improved 
coordination  and  improved  financing.  We  see  them 
very  much  as  an  interdependent  and  interconnected 
package. Each element is, if you will, a leg of a three-
legged stool. All elements of the agenda must be taken 
forward  at  the  same  time;  none  can  stand  alone.  Our 
stool needs three strong legs. 
The  Australian  Government  considers  more 

stronger 
effective  coordination, 
Humanitarian  Coordinator 
to 
improving  response.  We  are  eager  to  hear  more  from 
OCHA on the progress of this work. Similarly, steps to 
improve  the  capacity  of  the  system  and  of  individual 
agencies  to  respond  in  key  sectors  is  important  —  we 
are  watching  with  interest  the  use  of  the  sector  lead 
model in Pakistan and are looking forward to an update 
from  agencies  on  this  and  other  efforts  to  improve 
capacity.  Finally,  but  no  less  important,  we  agree  that 
humanitarian  financing  has  to  be  more  timely  and 
predictable. A  key  initiative  to  this  end  is  the  upgrade 
improved  capacity, 
in  particular  a 
essential 
system, 
05-60137 

21 
launch 
A/60/PV.51
In 
this 
collaborative 
effectiveness 
framework 
and 
to 
improve 
responsiveness 
to  protect  and  provide  assistance 
of the Central Emergency Revolving Fund (CERF). We 
support, in principle, the CERF; we are encouraged by 
the  contributions  that  donors  have  made  to  date  and, 
subject  to  further  discussions  on  its  operation,  are 
considering an Australian contribution. 

We  stand  ready  to  work  with  OCHA,  other 
humanitarian  agencies  and  other  donors  to  ensure  that 
our humanitarian reform stool is strong and sturdy. We 
also  continue  to  be  strong  and  unequivocal  supporters 
of  the  key  principles  of  humanitarian  action.  We  are 
committed to continuing to work with others to ensure 
the  protection  of  civilians,  unimpeded  access  for 
humanitarian actors and the importance of an effective 
for 
approach 
internally  displaced  persons. 
spirit,  we 
encourage stakeholders to continue dialogue through a 
the 
truly 
relevance, 
of 
humanitarian action. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the  important 
issue  of  the  transition  from  emergency  support  to 
development.  The  challenges  of  this  phase  cannot  be 
underestimated, as we have seen in the aftermath of the 
tsunami. Coordination, capacity and financing are also 
critical  during  this  period,  and  we  must  all  work 
together 
is  managed  as 
effectively as emergency response. 
Mr.  Chulkov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  This  year 
the 
international  humanitarian  community.  We  are  on  the 
threshold  of  decisions 
should  qualitatively 
improve  existing  mechanisms  and  instruments  for 
international  humanitarian  cooperation.  After  more 
than a decade, we once again draw the conclusion that 
additional  measures  of  a  global  nature  are  needed  to 
enhance this work. 

In  particular,  we  are  discussing  an  important 
aspect  of  international  cooperation,  namely  the  health 
and epidemiological consequences of disasters. Russia, 
within  the  context  of  its  presidency  of  the  Group  of 
Eight  in  2006,  intends  to  devote  constant  attention  to 
this question. 
In  the  aftermath  of  the  disasters  caused  by 

dangerous 
have 
experienced this year and last year, it has become clear 
that  practical  steps  are  needed  to  strengthen 
the 
capacity  to  react  to  disasters,  so  that  upon  requests 
a 
from  Governments  we 
is  a  special  one 
can  quickly 
phenomena 
to  ensure 
that 
transition 
natural 
that  we 
for 
that 

the 
been 
authority 
team  and 
appropriate 
appointment 
reassessed.  Their 
A/60/PV.51 

humanitarian  operation  in  any  part  of  the  globe  with 
the  right  management  capacity,  on 
the  basis  of 
preliminary  comprehensive  needs  assessments  and 
making  use  of  cutting-edge  technologies  and  services 
in this area. 

In order to cope with this job effectively, Member 
States  need  to  improve  humanitarian  coordination 
mechanisms at all levels. We consider that assigning a 
United  Nations  Humanitarian  Coordinator  or  Resident 
Coordinator  with 
to 
coordinate  the  humanitarian  agencies  working  in  the 
field  would  serve  to  provide  a  better  humanitarian 
response.  However,  we  believe  that  this  work  can  be 
effective  only  if  there  is  a  strong  partnership  between 
the  United  Nations  country 
the  host 
Government.  The  same  also  applies  to  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  and  rehabilitation,  where  the  role  of 
Humanitarian  Coordinators  and  Resident  Coordinators 
has 
in 
multidimensional  peacekeeping  operations  as  Deputy 
Special Representatives of the Secretary-General in the 
field  can  enhance  effectiveness  and 
the  smooth 
transition  from  a  humanitarian  assistance  operation  to 
development activities, which we see as a guarantee of 
success  for 
to 
international  humanitarian  activities,  post-conflict 
peacebuilding  and  the  establishment  of  a  basis  for 
dynamic socio-economic development. 
These measures cannot be taken without a change 

of 
attitude 
funding 
international  humanitarian  activities.  Stable  access  to 
financial  resources  is  essential  for  expeditious  and 
proper  humanitarian  disaster  response  and  for  dealing 
effectively  and 
the 
consequences  of  complex  emergencies.  And  here  we 
agree  with  the  assessment  of  the  Secretary-General, 
that  the  current  system  for  funding  humanitarian 
activities  has  placed  certain  restrictions  on  the  ability 
of  humanitarian  organizations  to  mobilize  quickly  the 
resources 
source  of  predictable 
humanitarian  funding 
timely 
assistance  to  those  in  need.  Although  we  continue  to 
regard the inter-agency consolidated appeals process as 
the  main  mechanism 
financial 
resources,  we  agree  that  these  goals  can  be  achieved 
through  a  reorganization  of  the  Central  Emergency 
Revolving Fund, by adding a grant component. 
the 

reorganization  of  the  Fund  as  well  as  its  objectives, 
the  whole  set  of  efforts  relating 
the  basic  parameters 
the  question  of 
for  mobilizing 
they  need.  A 
fashion  with 
is  needed 
to  ensure 
towards 
support 
timely 
in  a 
We 
for 
in 
to 
for 
the 
role 
principles 
strengthen 
in  efforts 
talking  about 
its  Office  for 
fundamental  changes 
The  United  Nations  and 
to  give  priority  attention  to 
provision 
which  are  to  facilitate  a  rapid  response  to  people’s 
needs  at  the  early  stages  of  humanitarian  operations 
and  to  give  special  attention  to  so-called  forgotten  or 
chronically underfunded emergencies. We agree with a 
phased approach to its reorganization. 

However,  in  order  to  give  a  certain  degree  of 
independence  to  the  functioning  of  the  renewed  Fund 
and the entire global humanitarian machinery, we think 
that it is extremely important to have criteria on which 
this  work  would be based, taking into account that  we 
are 
its 
functioning.  Accordingly,  we  deem  it  exceptionally 
important  that  these  criteria  be  agreed  upon  within  an 
open-ended  intergovernmental  process.  That  would 
lend  greater  legitimacy  to  the  future  activities  in  the 
operational management of the Fund. 

the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  play  a 
key 
international 
humanitarian  cooperation.  We  believe  that  OCHA 
the 
should  continue 
fundamental 
of 
humanitarian assistance — that is, humanity, neutrality 
and  impartiality,  as  well  as  independence.  This  fully 
applies 
the 
humanitarian  community.  We  cannot  allow  situations 
to  arise  that  would  undermine  the  trust  of  Member 
States in these principles. 

forecast  emergency 
situations  and  for  disaster  preparedness  is  becoming 
increasingly  evident.  Here,  we  support  measures  to 
strengthen  mechanisms  for  planning  for  and  dealing 
with emergency situations caused by disasters. We call 
for  stronger  national  systems  for  early  warning, 
damage  assessment  and 
the 
consequences  of  disasters,  as  well  as  for  more 
international  cooperation 
these 
measures  were  considered  at 
the  Hyogo  World 
Conference  on  Disaster  Reduction  held  in  January 
2005. 

We  support  the  work  being  done  by  UNESCO 
and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission 
to  launch  a  regional  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  early 
warning  system.  We  view  this  system  as  an  important 
stage  in  the  establishment  of  a  global  disaster  early 
warning  system.  Accordingly,  we  look  forward  to  the 
Third International Conference on Early Warning, to be 
held Bonn next March. 
the  mitigation  of 
the  challenges  on 
the  agenda  of 
this  area.  All 
Nowadays, 
the  need 
to 
to 
in 
22 

05-60137 
for 
dealing 
successfully  with 
This  morning 
the 
strengthening  of 
integration  of 
the 
radiation 
regarding  Chernobyl 
the  consequences  of 
impact  upon  people’s  health  and 



the  representative  of  Belarus 
introduced  for  consideration  by  the  Assembly  a  draft 
international 
resolution  on 
cooperation  and  coordination  of  efforts 
to  study, 
mitigate  and  minimize 
the 
Chernobyl  disaster  (A/60/L.19).  Nearly  20  years  after 
the  tragedy,  this  problem  is  still  very  much  with  us, 
because  the  consequences  of  the  disaster  continue  to 
negatively 
the 
environment  and  hamper  the  steady  socio-economic 
development  of  the  affected  areas  of  Belarus,  Russia 
and  Ukraine.  A  key  element  of  the  policy  of  the 
the 
Russian  Government 
consistent 
in 
activities to  ensure the  full recovery  of  affected  areas, 
the  cost  of  which,  in  our  country  alone  over  these 
years, has exceeded $5 billion. 

This work has yielded results. The main emphasis 
now is on the socio-psychological rehabilitation of the 
population  and  the  creation  of  a  solid  foundation  for 
the  sustainable  development  of  the  affected  areas.  A 
firm  scientific  foundation  for  the  recovery  strategy  is 
important 
the 
consequences  of  the  disaster.  We  are  pleased  that  our 
own experience here is consistent with the conclusions 
of authoritative scientific forums. This applies, first of 
all,  to  the  outcome  of  the  Chernobyl  Forum,  which 
took place in Vienna last September under the aegis of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
Clearly,  the  recommendations  of  the  Forum  will  be 
very  useful  for  us.  However,  I  wish  to  emphasize  that 
work  to  test  and  to  coordinate  the  results  of  scientific 
research will still be relevant in the future. 

is 
multifaceted  and,  throughout  all  these  years,  has  been 
of  great  practical importance. We  are  pleased  with the 
this 
attention  given  by 
problem 
scientific 
contacts,  the  provision  of  assistance  in  the  area  of 
public health, and the support we have received for our 
efforts  to  rehabilitate  our  agriculture  and  to  establish 
information  exchange  networks.  We  would  view  the 
consensus  adoption  of 
this  draft  resolution  as  a 
demonstration  of  the  solidarity  of  the  international 
community with the work of the affected countries and 
the  willingness 
to  give  Chernobyl 
to  continue 
necessary international attention. 
is 

traditionally  assigned  to  the  United  Nations  here, 
the  world  community 
the  development  of 
A  special  catalytic  and  coordinating  role 
cooperation  on  Chernobyl 
International 
through 
is 
factor 
to 
A/60/PV.51
to 
the 
relief, 
emergency 
particularly 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  which  last  year  assumed  the  functions  of 
coordinating international cooperation in this area. We 
express  gratitude  to  the  leadership  of  the  Programme 
for  the  high  level  of  interaction  in  achieving  our 
common goals to improve the lives of the people in the 
affected territories. 
We  would  also like  to  say  from this rostrum  that 

two  other  draft  resolutions,  on 
we  support 
strengthening 
rehabilitation, 
reconstruction  and  prevention,  one  in  the  aftermath  of 
the  South  Asian  earthquake  disaster  (A/60/L.18),  and 
the other in the aftermath of the Indian Ocean tsunami 
disaster  (A/60/L.20).  The  Russian  Federation  is  a 
sponsor  of  both,  and  we  hope  that  all  delegations  will 
support  all  three  draft  resolutions  currently  being 
considered. 
Mr.  Latheef  (Maldives):  The  frequency  and 

magnitude  of  natural  disasters  occurring  all  over  the 
world  are  increasing  at  an  alarming  rate.  Those  that 
occurred  in  the  past  year  alone  are  testimony  to  this 
reality.  These  disasters  have  caused  immeasurable 
devastation  and  taken  a  heavy  toll  in  terms  of  human 
lives  and  property.  The  suffering  and  pain  they  leave 
behind are deep and long-lasting. The burdens imposed 
on 
individuals,  communities  and  countries  are 
enormous,  and  the  challenges  at  the  national  and 
international levels are formidable. 

Natural  disasters  know  no  boundaries.  They 
impact  indiscriminately  on  both  the  poor  in  the  South 
and the rich in the North. Harsh weather conditions are 
experienced by  millions of  peoples all  over the  world, 
causing despair  and  suffering.  However,  the  level  of  a 
country’s  development  has  a  bearing  on  the  degree  to 
which  such  suffering  can  be  sustained.  Small,  less 
developed  countries  such  as  my  own  suffer  more 
severely  due  to  their  weak  infrastructure,  limited 
resources and their inability to recover.  

Although the loss of life and extent of damage in 
my  country  in  the  wake  of  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami 
were  small  in  quantitative  terms,  compared  to  others 
affected by the disaster, it has now become evident that 
in  economic  and  relative  terms,  the  impact  of  the 
tsunami  on  the  Maldives  is  far  worse,  primarily  as  a 
result  of  the  country’s  narrow  economic  base.  More 
than  62  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  was 
totally  destroyed,  and  development  progress  —  a 
blessing  over  the  past  two  decades  —  has  now  been 
05-60137 

23 
third  of 
Resettlement  and 
remains  a  daunting 
A/60/PV.51 

thwarted.  Over  7  per  cent  of  the  population  remain 
internally  displaced,  while  a 
the  entire 
population  need  help.  Twelve  islands  need  complete 
resettlement,  while  the  socio-economic  infrastructure 
must  be  rebuilt  in  more  than  one  quarter  of  the 
inhabited islands. 

As  we  approach  the  first  anniversary  of  the 
tsunami  disaster, 
the  country’s  situation  has  not 
improved. It  is  now  clear  that it  will  take  time  for the 
country  to  regain  the  level  of  development  progress 
that it had enjoyed before the disaster struck.  
rehabilitation  of  displaced 

communities 
task.  Providing 
permanent  shelter  and  rebuilding  livelihoods  require 
careful community  consultations in order to avoid  any 
involuntary  resettlement.  This  has  been  one  important 
reason for slowing down the pace of implementing the 
programme.  At  the  same  time,  the  capacity  of  the 
Government,  due  to  the  limited  human  resources 
available,  as  well  as the  logistical  difficulties of inter-
island  transportation,  are  also  proving  to  be  major 
hurdles  in  the  implementation  of  the  recovery  and 
and 
reconstruction  programme.  Proper 
technical  assistance 
is 
therefore now a priority for us. 

There is also a major funding gap in our national 
recovery  and  reconstruction  programme.  Of  a  total  of 
$470  million  estimated  for  the  programme,  nearly  one 
third has yet to be pledged. It should be noted that the 
Maldives 
the  only  country  experiencing  an 
unpledged  funding  gap  for  tsunami  recovery  plans. 
While  we  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  our 
development  partners  and  to  the  entire  international 
community  for  the  most  generous  assistance  that  they 
have already extended to us, we would like to call upon 
the international community for further support to help 
us bridge this funding gap as soon as possible. 

Our  economy,  which  had  been  growing  at  an 
average  of  7  per  cent  per  annum  during  the  past  two 
decades,  is  now  expected  to  register  a  3  to  4  per  cent 
negative  growth  rate  this  year.  Rising  oil  prices, 
unforeseen  tsunami-related  expenditures  and  revenue 
shortfalls 
tourism  sector  are  creating 
significant,  alarmingly  intense  fiscal  pressures.  As  a 
direct result, we are now faced with an acute financial 
crisis for the first time in our history, and we are forced 
to  appeal  for  budgetary  support  from  our  partners  and 
local  capacity-building 
training 
from 
the 
in 
is 

to  disaster  management  needs 
friends. This assistance is in addition to the funding we 
require for our recovery and reconstruction efforts. 

Addressing  the  challenges  unleashed  by  natural 
disasters  of  such  epic  proportions  requires  urgent  and 
timely  action  by  the  international  community  on  an 
epic  scale  as  well.  Shifting  from  emergency  disaster 
response  to  more  proactive  disaster  prevention,  risk 
reduction  and  mitigation  will,  in  our  view,  be  the  key 
to  success.  A  more  comprehensive  and  coordinated 
approach 
to  be 
developed.  Disaster  risk  management,  rather  than  ad 
hoc  humanitarian  issues,  should  become  an  integral 
part  of  our  long-term  development  policies.  The  full 
implementation  of  the  Hyogo  Declaration  and  the 
Hyogo  Framework  for  Action  2005-2015  would,  we 
believe, contribute to that end. 

We  also  call  on  the  international  community  to 
make every effort to ensure the setting up of the Indian 
Ocean  tsunami  early  warning  system,  as  well  as  the 
worldwide  multihazard  early  warning  system,  as  soon 
as  possible.  My  country,  the  Maldives,  pledges  its 
readiness to  do  its  utmost to  make this a reality,  since 
we  believe  that  such  a  system  will  not only  save lives 
in such disasters but also help economies such as ours, 
which depend on tourism for their survival, to enhance 
confidence in the industry. 

in 
extending  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  The  rapid  response  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  wake  of  natural  disasters  last 
year,  in  particular  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami,  was 
remarkable  and  deserves  much  praise, recognition  and 
admiration. The critical role being played by Secretary-
General  Kofi Annan  and  Under-Secretary-General  and 
Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  Jan  Egeland  and  his 
dedicated  staff  at  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian Affairs are worthy of mention. 

the 
Organization’s  rapid  response  capacity  should  be  a 
priority  for  the  international  community.  Only  a  well-
staffed,  well-funded  and  well-equipped  system  can 
ensure the ability  to respond promptly  and  effectively. 
In this regard, the Maldives fully supports the proposal 
of  the  Secretary-General  for  improving  the  Central 
Emergency Revolving Fund, since we sincerely believe 
that  it  would  further  contribute  to  strengthening  the 
Organization’s coordination and humanitarian response 
capacity. 
The  central  role  of 
the  United  Nations 
strengthening 
We  believe 
further 
that 
24 

05-60137 
proper 
coordination 
Transparency, 



The  Special  Envoy  of  the  Secretary-General  for 
Tsunami  Recovery,  His  Excellency  Mr.  William 
Jefferson  Clinton,  and  his  able  team  have  brought  a 
much-needed boost to the efforts of the United Nations 
to  help  the  countries  affected  by  the  tsunami.  We 
sincerely  thank  President  Clinton  for  his  untiring 
commitment to this cause. 

and 
accountability  are  crucial  for  achieving  better  and 
faster  results.  In  this  regard,  my  country  is  extremely 
pleased  with  the  work  being  done  by  the  Global 
Consortium for Tsunami-Affected Countries, set up by 
Special  Envoy  President  Clinton.  We  believe  this 
important tool will help sustain the political will of the 
international community to support medium- and long-
term  rehabilitation,  reconstruction  and  risk  reduction 
efforts  by  the  affected  countries.  We  are  also  happy 
with  the  financial  tracking  system,  known  as  the 
Development Assistance Database, now in place in the 
region, including the  Maldives. We  are  convinced that 
it  will  ensure  the  much-needed  financial  transparency 
and  accountability  and  boost  the  confidence  of  the 
donor community and private contributors. 

International  efforts  in  providing  humanitarian 
assistance  and  disaster  risk  management  need  to  be 
supplemented  at  regional  and  subregional 
levels. 
Regional cooperation can play an important role in this 
regard.  We  are  happy  to  note  that  in  the  South  Asia 
region, which has experienced two of the world’s worst 
natural  disasters  in  a  matter  of  ten  months,  the 
thirteenth  summit  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC),  which  concluded 
yesterday  in  Dhaka,  highlighted  the  importance  of 
in  disaster  preparedness  and  disaster 
cooperating 
management  and  decided 
to  establish  a  regional 
disaster  management  centre  in  India.  We  believe  that 
centre  will  boost  confidence  in  the  region  and  help 
realize  the  early  establishment  of  an  early  warning 
system. Thanks go to the Indian Government for taking 
the initiative. 

Over  the  past  two  decades,  the  Government  and 
the  hard-  working  people  of  the  Maldives,  with  the 
most  generous  help  from  the  international  community, 
have  transformed  the  Maldives  into  a  vibrant  country. 
As members are aware, just six days before the tsunami 
struck,  the  General  Assembly  decided  to  remove  the 
Maldives  from  the  list  of  Least  Developed  Countries, 
primarily  on  the  basis  of  the country’s  performance  in 
the  country’s  gross 
development.  At 
time, 
that 
A/60/PV.51
the  commencement  of 
domestic product was growing at a remarkable rate and 
our future looked very promising. We were also among 
the few countries on track to achieving the Millennium 
Development Goals. 

However,  with  the  devastation  caused  by  the 
tsunami, our situation has become very dire. Instead of 
proceeding  with  the  smooth  transition  process  after 
having  graduated  from  the  list  of  least  developed 
countries,  we  are  now  totally  tied  up  in  the  enormous 
task  of  recovery  and  reconstruction.  We  have  no 
choice. While it is difficult to determine an exact time 
frame  required  to  reach  pre-tsunami  levels,  we  assure 
the  international  community  that  we  will  once  again, 
with  their  generous  assistance,  recover  and  rebound 
from  this  disaster  in  the  shortest  possible  time  and 
proceed with the graduation process as recommended. 

We  are  most  delighted  that  the  international 
community has heard our plea for help and has agreed 
to  postpone 
the  smooth 
transition  period  for  three  years,  which  we  think  is 
reasonable. We understand that the Assembly will take 
the formal decision in that regard shortly. We sincerely 
thank  the  international  community,  the  members  here, 
for the understanding and solidarity they have extended 
to us. 

Humanity  has  the  power  and  ability  to  limit, 
manage and prevent natural disasters. Ironically, it also 
has  the  power  to  cause  disasters. The  tool  we  need  to 
limit,  manage and prevent disasters is political  will. If 
we  can  fulfil  just  our  commitment  to  protect  and 
preserve  the  global  environment,  achieve  sustainable 
development  and  reduce  and  eliminate  poverty  —  a 
commitment  we  have  all  undertaken  at  various 
summits  and  conferences  over  the  past  decade  —  that 
would, in our view, make a world of difference. 
Mr.  Yao  Wenlong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

The  Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation to the Secretary-General for the reports he 
has  submitted  under  the  current  agenda  item.  We 
associate  ourselves  with 
the  statement  made  by 
Jamaica on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. Here, 
I  would  like  to  make  three  points  in  connection  with 
this agenda item. 
the 

First,  with 
coordination 
humanitarian 
assistance,  in  recent  years  the  world  has  been  hit  by 
frequent  major  natural  disasters.  The  Indian  Ocean 
tsunami  and  the  recent  massive  earthquake  in  South 
of  United  Nations 
strengthening 
regard 
to 
05-60137 

25 

in 
that 
the  humanitarian  assistance  provided  by 
A/60/PV.51 

Asia took the lives of hundreds of thousands of people 
and  resulted  in  huge  losses  to  many  countries.  In 
addition,  the  floods,  hurricanes,  snowstorms,  locust 
infestation  and  droughts  that  have  occurred  across  the 
globe have caused widespread devastation and a loss of 
livelihood  for  hundreds  of  millions  of  people.  The 
frequency  of  natural  disasters  has  increased  demands 
for 
the 
international  community  and  severely  challenged  the 
capacity of the United Nations humanitarian assistance 
system. 

However,  the  level  of  relief  operations  in  the 
wake  of  the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  and  the  South Asia 
earthquake  has  demonstrated the immense  potential  of 
the  international  community,  as  well  as  the  important 
role  of  the  leadership  and  coordination  of  the  United 
Nations 
regard.  The  Chinese  delegation 
commends  Under-Secretary-General  Egeland  and  the 
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
(OCHA)  under  his  leadership,  for  their  tireless  efforts 
in  securing  emergency  funding  and  in  providing  and 
coordinating  humanitarian  assistance.  We  will,  as 
always, support the work of OCHA. 

Since  more  and  more  organizations and  agencies 
are  taking  part  in  humanitarian  assistance  work,  it 
becomes  ever  more  important  that  relief  assistance  to 
be  well 
disaster-affected 
coordinated.  Therefore, 
to  further 
strengthen  the  leading  role  of  OCHA  and  the  resident 
coordinators  for  humanitarian  assistance  to  enable 
them  to  work  effectively  in  coordinating  the  relief 
activities  of  the  relevant  bodies  and  agencies  of  the 
United 
non-governmental 
organizations  and  civil  society.  It  is  important  to 
clearly  define  their  respective  responsibilities  in  order 
to reduce overlap and to help Governments of affected 
countries  make the best  use of international  assistance 
in their post-disaster relief, recovery and reconstruction 
efforts. 
Secondly,  emergency  humanitarian  assistance 

entails  substantial  funding  requirements.  Both 
the 
Central  Emergency  Revolving  Fund  (CERF)  and  the 
Consolidated  Appeal 
in 
accordance  with  General Assembly  resolution  46/182, 
have played an important role in the last decade or so.  

The  CERF  has  guaranteed  timely  funding  for 
relief  agencies  so  they  may  respond  promptly  to 
emergencies.  The  Consolidated  Appeal  Process  has 
areas 
is  necessary 
countries 
it 
established 
Process, 
Nations 
system, 
and 
for 
programme 
Concerning 
humanitarian 
the  Secretary-General 
for 
the  Fund,  and 
recommendations 
the  operation  of 
been  an  effective  financing  and  planning  mechanism 
for  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance  agencies. 
However,  the  funding  provided  through  that  channel 
has  been  steadily  declining  in  recent  years,  severely 
hampering 
the  relief,  recovery  and  reconstruction 
efforts of disaster-affected countries. Here, the Chinese 
delegation would like to appeal to donor countries that 
have the means to do so to demonstrate generosity and 
make more funds available for humanitarian assistance 
to disaster-affected developing countries, especially the 
least developed countries. 
The recommendations for upgrading the CERF, as 

proposed  by 
in  his  report 
(A/60/432),  are  an  important  and  integral  part  of  the 
reform 
assistance 
operations  and  are  of  positive  significance  to  the 
further  strengthening  of  United  Nations  humanitarian 
relief coordination and response capabilities.  

the  proposed  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund,  further  details  need  to  be  articulated 
with  regard  to  the  scale  of  financing  in  the  grant 
loan  and  grant 
component, 
facilities, 
its 
administration  and  management  procedures.  It  is  very 
important  that  all  countries  show  their  support  in  that 
regard, and we hope that through joint efforts, the Fund 
will  be  able  to  begin  operations  and  achieve  expected 
results. 

Thirdly,  strengthening  international  and  regional 
cooperation is an effective means to respond to natural 
disasters.  When  providing  assistance 
to  affected 
countries, the international community should also pay 
attention  to  their  capacity  for  dealing  with  natural 
disasters.  It  is  important  to  help  central  and  local 
governments  of  disaster-affected  countries  build  up 
their  capacities 
in  disaster  prevention,  relief  and 
management.  

While  ensuring  that  relief  assistance  is  properly 
delivered,  attention  should  also  be  given  to  disaster 
prevention  and 
the 
affected  countries  develop  medium-  and  long-term 
plans  for  disaster  reduction  and  establishing  national 
and 
the  monitoring, 
prevention and assessment of major disasters.  

The  United  Nations  enjoys  clear  advantages  in 
the areas of disaster prevention, relief and reduction. It 
has  extensive  experience  in  policy  formulation  and 
programme  design  and  implementation  and  has  well-
regional  mechanisms 
including  helping 
reduction, 
for 
26 

05-60137 
In  addition, 
the  Indian  Ocean 
the  massive  earthquake 


established mechanisms. Hence it should play a greater 
role in the future. 

China is also a disaster-prone developing country. 
This  year,  floods  alone  have  affected  more  than  200 
million  people  and  resulted  in  direct  economic  losses 
of  $17  billion.  Even  so,  the  Chinese  Government  has, 
to  the  extent  of  its  capacity,  provided  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance 
to  other  disaster-stricken 
countries.  The  Chinese  Government 
provided 
assistance  in  kind  and  cash  valued  at  $83.1  million  to 
countries  affected  by 
tsunami, 
including a $20-million donation provided through the 
United  Nations  multilateral  system.  In  the  immediate 
aftermath  of 
that  struck 
Pakistan, the Chinese Government provided emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  totalling  $6.2  million  in  cash 
and kind and dispatched search-and-rescue teams to the 
disaster areas. 

the  Chinese  Government  has 
provided  $500,000  and  relief  goods  worth  500,000 
yuan through the United Nations system. All of that is 
a  clear  demonstration  of  the  sympathy,  solidarity  and 
friendship of the Chinese Government and people with 
the Governments and peoples of the affected countries. 
The  Chinese  Government  will  continue,  together  with 
other  countries,  to  actively  participate  in  international 
and  regional  cooperation  in  disaster  prevention,  relief 
and  reduction.  We  will  do  our  part  to  help  disaster-
affected  countries  overcome  natural  disasters,  rebuild 
their homes and return to normalcy. 
Mr.  Chimphamba  (Malawi):  I  have  the  honour 

to take the floor on agenda item 73(a) on behalf of the 
Southern  Africa  Development  Community  (SADC) 
members Angola,  Botswana,  the  Democratic  Republic 
of 
the  Congo,  Lesotho,  Madagascar,  Mauritius, 
Mozambique,  Namibia, 
the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania, Swaziland, South Africa, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
and my own country, Malawi. 

the 
informative  reports  before  the  Assembly  that  ably 
outline the progress made and challenges remaining in 
the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to  coordinate  and 
strengthen  humanitarian  emergency  assistance  at  all 
levels. 

In  the  last  12  months  alone,  the  entire  global 
community has  witnessed a series of particularly large 
and 
and 
Those 
coordinated 
the  Secretary-General  for 
requiring 
interventions. 
disasters 
humanitarian 
destructive 
rapid 
Let  me 
thank 
A/60/PV.51
in 
life 
to  natural  disasters  and  also  of 
disasters  have  reminded  us  all  of  the  vulnerability  of 
human 
the 
disproportionate  effects  they  have  on  poor  people. 
Clearly,  more  determined  efforts  are  required 
to 
address  the  loss  of  livelihoods  and  quickly  bring  the 
situation back to normalcy. 

SADC  would like to stress the importance of the 
discussions  of  humanitarian  policies  and  activities  in 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  We  would  like  to  stress  that  the  resolutions 
and  decisions  adopted 
these  meetings  can  be 
meaningful  only  if  Member  States  ensure  their  full 
implementation. 

While  acknowledging  the  various  serious  crises 
in other parts of the world, I would like to focus on the 
drought-induced  food  insecurity  situation  in  a  number 
of  SADC  countries.  The  Secretary-General,  in  his 
report  contained  in  document  A/60/89,  notes  that  the 
humanitarian  community  vowed  after  the  1992-1993 
drought  that  it  would  never  allow  a  similar  food 
insecurity  situation 
to  happen  again.  However,  a 
decade  later,  a  regional  crisis  of  immense  proportions 
has happened again. 

Clearly,  something  was  missed  in  the  responses. 
Our  view  is  that  the  United  Nations  response  must  be 
either entirely  different  or radically  scaled  up  in  order 
to  make  a  difference  in  supporting  national  and 
community  capacities 
to  enable  a  multisectoral 
response to the current and future humanitarian crises. 
We also believe that communities and households must 
be placed squarely at the centre of programme design, 
analysis  and  implementation.  SADC  would  like  to 
render its full support to the notion that the dichotomy 
of  humanitarian  and  development  assistance  must  be 
overcome  and  replaced  by  more 
innovative  and 
simultaneous  humanitarian  and  development  action 
that takes into consideration the short-term shocks and 
the long-term challenges. 

launching  regional 
appeals for food aid, SADC is focusing on programmes 
aimed at mitigating the food insecurity situation in the 
long  term,  including  operationalizing  the  Regional 
Indicative  Strategic  Development  Plan  and, 
in 
particular, the formulation of the Food Agriculture and 
Natural Resources Business Plan. In addition, SADC is 
focusing 
agricultural 
financing  and  investment  in  line  with  the  African 
that,  besides 
In  view  of 
sustainable 
increasing 
on 
05-60137 

27 

its 
SADC 
through 
response 
applauds 
the  Special  Envoy 
the  humanitarian  community 
A/60/PV.51 

Union  Maputo  Declaration  on  Agriculture  and  Food 
Security of July 2003. 

Over  and  above  emergency  interventions  under 
the  Regional  Humanitarian  Strategic  Framework  for 
Southern  Africa, 
is 
mounting 
country-specific 
initiatives,  including  flash  appeals  and  consolidated 
appeals.  A  number  of  donor  Governments  have 
responded  favourably  to  the  appeals  and  we  are 
grateful  for  that.  Of  concern,  however,  is  the  fact  that 
the  appeals  remain  critically  underfunded.  We  would 
therefore like to appeal to the international community 
to urgently address the shortfalls. 

for 
Humanitarian  Needs  in  Southern  Africa,  Mr.  James 
Morris,  for the  special  work  he is doing  in raising  the 
awareness  of  the  international  community  on  the 
current  situation  and  its  underlying  causes.  We  note 
with  appreciation  the  work  done  to  develop  the  inter-
agency  regional  humanitarian  strategic  framework  for 
southern  Africa.  That  is  an  initiative  that  needs  the 
meaningful  support  of  the  international  community, 
especially given that it takes short-term responses into 
consideration,  whilst  preventing  and  mitigating  future 
vulnerabilities. 

Indeed,  the  experience  of  the  donor  response  to 
the  Indian  Ocean  tsunami  of  26  December,  2004, 
clearly indicated that donors are capable of large-scale, 
fast  and  flexible  response.  It  is  our  sincere  hope  that 
the donor  community  will  maintain  the  high  standards 
so  established  as  it  goes  about  addressing  any  crisis, 
humanitarian or otherwise, regardless of its magnitude. 

We recognize the important role of the Office for 
the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and 
would  like  to  urge  it  to  continue  to  make  efforts  to 
broaden  its  donor  base.  It  is  our  view  that  the  Office 
should  benefit  from  adequate  and  more  predictable 
funding.  We  therefore  appeal  to  the  donor  community 
to support OCHA generously. 

SADC  takes  note  of  progress  made  by  donors  to 
improve their policies and practices of good donorship, 
including  under  the  Good  Humanitarian  Donorship 
initiative.  We  believe  that  this  is  a  positive  initiative 
which, when implemented, should enhance the delivery 
of humanitarian assistance.  SADC  would  also  like  to 
underline  the  importance  of  international  cooperation 
on  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  field  of  natural 
disasters,  from  relief  to  development.  In  that  regard, 
like 
to  endorse 
we  would 
the  recommendations 
contained in the Secretary-General’s report (A/60/227). 

We  welcome  the  Hyogo  Declaration  and  the 
Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015: Building the 
Resilience  of  Nations  and  Communities  to  Disasters, 
adopted  at 
the  World  Conference  on  Disaster 
Reduction,  held  in  January  2005,  which  identifies 
strategic objectives and priority areas to reduce disaster 
risks in the next 10 years. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
fact  that  humanitarian  crises  must  be  tackled  with 
common  actions  and  joint  resolve.  Existing  capacity 
gaps  need 
to  be  filled  by  strengthening  existing 
partnerships  and  increasing  the  involvement  of  the 
private sector. 
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): We 

welcome  the  holding  of  this  annual  debate  on  the 
strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
assistance. We  believe that  a  great deal  has  been done 
in  this  field  in  the  past  year,  notably  in  emergency 
situations  of  unprecedented  size  and  complexity.  We 
would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the  work  done 
by  humanitarian  personnel  on  behalf  of  millions  of 
people in distress throughout the world. 

We  would  like  also  to  thank  Mr.  Jan  Egeland, 
Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs, and 
his colleagues for the remarkable work undertaken and 
for his continued leadership in the humanitarian field. 

Access  to  civilian  populations  and  the  security 
conditions in which humanitarian organizations operate 
remain largely unsatisfactory and very worrisome. It is 
clear  that  long-term  efforts  must  be  made  to  ensure 
strict  compliance  with  international  humanitarian  law 
by  all  the  actors  involved.  We  believe  also  that  a 
determined 
the 
international  community  is  necessary  with  respect  to 
international  policy 
security, 
sustainable development and human rights. 

We  are  encouraged  by  the  provisions  on  these 
two fundamental issues contained in the final outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Meeting  held  in  mid-
September, and we urge that they be implemented in a 
concerted  and  determined  manner  by  all  Member 
States. 

of 
international  humanitarian  aid  capacities  are  currently 
under discussion. Such proposals are welcome, and we 
commitment  by 
adjustment 
long-term 
Proposals 
regarding 
in  areas 
and 
such  as 
the 
28 

05-60137 
it 
their 
to 
account  of 
With  respect 
the  reform  of 
the  collective 
taking 
the  objectives  specified.  However, 


support 
is 
important  that  those  objectives  fully  take  into  account 
the  diversity  of  the  humanitarian  system,  the  specific 
roles  and  mandates  of  International  Movement  of  the 
Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  institutions,  and  the  role 
played by non-governmental organizations and by local 
and  national  actors.  Given  that  emergency  situations 
take  a  variety  of  forms,  we  believe  that  such  an 
adjustment  process  should,  above  all,  enhance  and 
response  of  all  actors 
strengthen 
involved, 
comparative 
advantages, their mandates and their particular skills. 

the  Central 
Emergency  Revolving  Fund  (CERF),  Switzerland  has 
announced its  intention  to  make available to  CERF,  at 
the appropriate time, the sum of 5 million Swiss francs. 
However,  we  believe  that  there  is  a  need  for  more 
detailed  discussions  with  all  stakeholders  so  as  to 
clarify its parametres of action and its specific working 
procedures,  in  particular  its  internal  and  external 
accountability mechanisms. 
The cluster approach also deserves to be tested on 

the  ground 
the 
implementation phase — such as those drawn from the 
current  response  to  the  earthquake  that  hit  South Asia 
on  8  October  —  should  be  rapidly  incorporated  in 
order to optimize the international response system. We 
encourage  the  organizations  and  countries  concerned 
not to overlook the  central  role that local and  national 
capacities  can  play  in  the  context  of  humanitarian 
response. 

Moreover,  while  we  support  the  humanitarian 
coordinator  system  and  an  improved  definition  of  that 
function  within  the  United  Nations  country  team,  we 
wish  also 
the 
independence of humanitarian action in the framework 
of  integrated  United  Nations  missions.  In  our  view,  it 
would be  useful also  to  further clarify the  relationship 
between  United  Nations  and  non-United  Nations 
members  of  the  Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee  at 
the  strategic  and  operational  levels  as  well  as  on  the 
ground  with 
to 
establishment  of 
accountability mechanisms. 

Finally,  we  would  like  to  stress  the  importance 
that  Switzerland  attaches  to  the  preservation  of  a 
system of humanitarian assistance that is based on, and 
implemented 
of 
impartiality,  neutrality  and  independence  and  whose 
to  maintain 
the  need 
according 
principles 
learned 
in 
to  stress 
and 
the 
lessons 
to, 
the 
regard 
the 
A/60/PV.51
that  has  spotlighted 
foreign  policy  priority.  We 
purpose is to save lives and preserve human dignity in 
all circumstances. 
Mr.  Laurin  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  This 

year,  natural  disasters  of  unprecedented  scale  and 
ongoing  conflicts  have  forced  millions  of  people  to 
seek  humanitarian  assistance.  The 
Indian  Ocean 
tsunami, the food crisis in the Sahel, the earthquake in 
South Asia and protracted conflicts such as those in the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Congo  and  the  Darfur  region 
of  the  Sudan  are  just  a  few  of  the  crises  that  have 
stretched  humanitarian  response  capacities  to  their 
limits.  These  crises  have  also  highlighted 
the 
undeniable need to prioritize disaster  management and 
mitigation. 

Reinforcing  the  coordination  of  humanitarian 
assistance  within  the  United  Nations  has  long  been  a 
Canadian 
therefore 
welcome  the  efforts  made  over  the  past  year  to 
strengthen  the  international  humanitarian  system,  with 
a  particular  focus  on  ensuring  more  a  predictable, 
timely and effective United Nations response. 
The humanitarian response review is an important 

issues  requiring 
undertaking 
immediate  solutions.  It  has  made  a  number  of  useful 
recommendations  that  require  action  on  our  part.  We 
look 
the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs  (OCHA)  to  provide  us  with  an 
integrated  humanitarian  reform  action  plan  outlining 
how  OCHA,  along  with  the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
Committee,  will  implement  those  recommendations  as 
well  as  those  contained  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report. 

Emergency  Relief 
Coordinator and the Inter-Agency Standing Committee 
on  their  efforts  to  advance  the  cluster  approach. 
Canada  enthusiastically  welcomes  any  proposal  aimed 
at improving existing structures by  making them  more 
predictable and  more accountable. We look forward to 
a  more  thorough  dialogue  with  Member  States  on  its 
operational  and  budgetary  implications.  The  current 
situation  in  South Asia  provides  an  opportunity  to  see 
how well this new approach will work. 
(spoke in English): 

Canada strongly supports the Secretary-General’s 
proposal  to  expand  the  Central  Emergency  Revolving 
Fund  (CERF)  and  appreciates  the  efforts  made  by 
OCHA  to  incorporate  Member  States’  views  in  the 
congratulate 
the  Office 
We 
the 
for 
to 
05-60137 

29 

A/60/PV.51 

report. We  view  the  expanded  CERF  as one important 
tool to achieve more timely and equitable humanitarian 
funding,  an  issue  at  the  heart  of  good  humanitarian 
donorship. 

We  intend  to  make  a  significant  contribution  to 
the Fund in 2006. We are prepared to make multi-year 
commitments  to  the  CERF  if  we  are  satisfied  with  its 
operations  in  the  first  year  and  if  we  see  continued 
improvements in the Consolidated Appeal Process and 
the needs assessments which underpin them. 
The CERF can only be as effective as the analysis 

that guides its allocations. In order to allocate funds to 
where the needs are greatest, we have to agree on what 
those  needs  are  and  how  best  to  address  them.  There 
have  been  efforts  to  strengthen  humanitarian  needs 
assessments  over  the  past  few  years,  for  example 
through  the  Standardized  Monitoring  and  Assessment 
of  Relief  and  Transition  (SMART)  initiative.  Canada 
believes  we  must  refocus  our  energy  on  this  issue  to 
ensure  that  scarce  humanitarian  resources  are  indeed 
being allocated where needs are greatest. 

There  must  also  be  a  renewed  commitment  to 
strengthen  the  Consolidated  Appeal  Process,  which 
remains the most important tool for ensuring strategic, 
coordinated and effective humanitarian response. There 
have  been  significant  improvements  to  the  Process 
over 
the  past  several  years,  yet  quality  remains 
inconsistent.  Neither  of  these  two  issues  —  CERF  or 
the  Consolidated  Appeal  Process  —  was  explicitly 
addressed 
the  Humanitarian  Response  Review, 
although  addressing  them  is  critical  to  ensuring  more 
effective humanitarian action. 

Finally,  let  me  underscore  the  importance  of 
strengthening  the  role  and  capacities  of  humanitarian 
and  resident  coordinators.  This  was  highlighted  in  the 
in 
It 
flagrant 
violations 
of 
to  stress 
that  all  of 
is 
important 
Humanitarian  Response  Review,  which  made  specific 
recommendations for follow-up. Over the next year, we 
would  like  to  see  clear  progress  in  the  selection  and 
training of Humanitarian and Resident Coordinators. 

The Consolidated Appeal Process, the CERF and 
the  clusters  are  all  tools  that  should  enhance  the 
humanitarian  response  of  the  United  Nations.  Above 
all,  these  tools  and  the  other  components  must  form  a 
cohesive  whole  that  is  more  effective  than  the  sum  of 
its parts. We believe that ongoing commitment from all 
Member States — be they new or traditional donors — 
remains essential. 

these 
improvements  will be of little consequence to affected 
populations if we do not put the protection of civilians 
at  the  heart of  the international  agenda. There  are  still 
too  many 
international 
humanitarian law, and impunity continues to be present 
in  several  conflicts.  In  too  many  conflicts  civilians 
continue to pay the price, as do humanitarian workers. 
Rampant  sexual  and  gender-based  violence  remain  a 
reality  in  a  number  of  contexts.  Consequently,  while 
the  fifth  anniversary  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1296  (2000)  is  coming  to  a  close,  the  protection  of 
civilians  remains  a  source  of  serious  concern  for 
Canada,  which  will 
its 
commitment in this area. 

reiterating  Canada’s 
commitment  to  continue  working  with  the  Emergency 
Relief Coordinator and Member States in strengthening 
the  humanitarian  system.  Let  us  make  a  collective 
commitment  to  ensure  that  all  our  efforts  lead  to  real 
change  in  the  lives  of  people  affected  by  crisis 
everywhere. 

The meeting rose at 1.15 p.m.
conclude  by 
to  maintain 
Let  me 
continue 
30 

05-60137 
