United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
49th plenary meeting
Friday, 11 November 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.49
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Hamidon
(Malaysia), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda items 9 and 117 (continued)
Report of the Security Council (A/60/2)
Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters
Mr.  Kuchinsky  (Ukraine):  First,  I  would  like  to
express  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security
Council  for  the  month  of  November,  Ambassador
Andrey  Denisov  of  the  Russian  Federation,  for  his
comprehensive presentation of the annual report of the
Council  to  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  encouraged
by the attention paid in the presentation to the increase
in  the  transparency  of  the  Council’s  activities  and  in
the improvement of its working methods, in particular
in  the  triangular  relationship  between  the  Security
Council,  the  United  Nations  Secretariat  and  troop-
contributing countries.
The  period  under  review  was 
indeed  very
eventful for the United Nations  and, therefore,  for the
Security  Council,  as  its  nerve  centre.  Constant  threats
and  challenges,  having  no  respect  for  the  United
Nations sixtieth anniversary, continued to challenge the
durability  of  the  system  of  international  peace  and
security  guarded  by  the  Organization,  more  than  ever
requiring  urgent  and  resolute  action  by  the  Security
Council.  How,  then,  did  the  body  entrusted  with  the
primary responsibility to keep the peace address those
challenges  during  that  period?  Let  me  try  to  answer
that  question,  which  I  believe  is  of  the  utmost
importance for all of us.
international 
Without  any  doubt, 
terrorism
remains  one  of  the  greatest  threats  to  international
peace and security. In that connection, I would like to
add  Ukraine’s  voice 
strong
condemnation of the terrorist bombings in Amman, and
to convey our deepest sympathy and condolences to the
victims of those heinous attacks and their families, and
to the people and the Government of Jordan.
to 
the  unanimous 
Ukraine  is  convinced  that  the  Security  Council
should continue to use its unique potential to mobilize
the  international  community  to  fight  the  scourge  of
terrorism. We welcome the steps taken by the Security
Council  in  that  direction,  in  particular  through  its
resolution  1624 
(2005).  The  Counter-Terrorism
Committee  should  continue  to  be  a  crucial  instrument
in  the  hands  of  nations  to  combat,  and  ultimately
eliminate, terrorism. We believe that early adoption of
a  comprehensive  convention  to  combat  terrorism  will
greatly  facilitate  the  Council’s  efforts  in  that  crucial
area.
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
continues to  be  another  issue  posing  a  major  threat  to
the  system  of  collective  security.  The  Council  must
continue  to  play  its  role  in  multilateral  efforts  to
strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime.  We  welcome
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-59965 (E)
*0559965*
A/60/PV.49
the  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of  Council
resolution  1540  (2004),  as  well  as  in  the  work  of  the
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to
that resolution. At this stage it is important to provide
assistance to States, including through the Committee,
to  ensure  the  proper  implementation  of  that  important
resolution.
This year the Security Council has shown unity in
addressing the situation in Iraq. We firmly believe that
the  Council’s  instruments  are  very  important  for
normalizing the situation in that country. It is important
for the Council to ensure the effective implementation
of the existing timetable for a comprehensive political
transition  process  in  the  country,  namely,  through
holding free and democratic elections in December and
through  the  formation  of  a  permanent  Government  of
Iraq.
be 
regard 
commended.  We 
the  Council  with 
The  work  of 
should 
to
Afghanistan 
are
nevertheless convinced that the main responsibility for
finding  a  political  solution  to  the  Afghan  issue  lies
with  the  Afghan  people  themselves.  The  Council
should  continue  to  be  actively  involved  in  all  clusters
of  the  Afghan  problem.  There  still  remains  a  pressing
need  for  continued  international  security  assistance  in
Afghanistan.
My delegation commends the Council’s efforts in
the Middle East peace process. Resolution 1515 (2003)
reflects  the  wide  consensus  within  the  international
community on how best to achieve the existence of two
States, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace
and  security.  With  its  endorsement  of  the  Quartet’s
road  map,  that  resolution  was  an  important  step
towards  the  beginning  of  Israel’s  withdrawal  from
Gaza  and  from  parts  of  the  northern  West  Bank.  We
believe  that  successful  disengagement  can  be  the  first
step towards the resumption of the peace process.
International 
We  hope  that  the  Council  will  urge  the  relevant
parties to cooperate sincerely and fully with the United
Nations 
Investigation
Commission,  which 
in  accordance  with  Council
resolutions  1595  (2005)  and  1636  (2005),  is  assisting
the  Lebanese  authorities  in  their  investigation  of  the
assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik
Hariri.
Independent 
The unfolding status talks in the Balkans give us
a hope for an early settlement of the daunting Kosovo
issue.  The  Security  Council  has  played  its  role  in  the
2
commencement  of  that  process,  and  I  am  confident  in
my belief that it should continue its active engagement
and  support  at  this  stage  and  in  the  next  and  decisive
phase of implementation of resolution 1244 (1999).
the 
continued 
Ukraine  welcomes 
active
engagement  of  the  Council  with  regard  to  conflict
resolution 
in  Africa.  We  especially  support  and
welcome  the  trend  towards  increased  use  of  African-
owned mechanisms in that area. Ukraine took positive
note  of 
the  declaration  on  conflict  prevention,
particularly in Africa (Security Council resolution 1625
(2005),  annex),  which  was  adopted  at  the  Council
summit  in  September.  The  implementation  of  that
important  document  will  logically  build  upon  the
outcome  of  the  2000  Security  Council  summit  on
ensuring  an  effective  role  for  the  Council  in  the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,
particularly in Africa (Security Council resolution 1318
(2000)). I wish to recall once again that that was done
on the initiative of my country.
the 
trend 
towards 
We  welcome 
further
strengthening  the  cooperation  between  the  Security
Council  and  regional  organizations.  There  have  been
quite a few encouraging examples over the past decade
of  how  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  can  be
effectively  supported  and  complemented  by  United
Nations-mandated  operations  of  other  organizations.
The United Nations could, and should, actively use that
important tool and rely increasingly on the potential of
regional structures.
in 
importance 
itself,  has 
Let  me  now  turn  to  an  issue  that,  whatever  its
fundamental 
further
galvanized the international situation in the context of
the  September  summit.  I  am  of  course  referring  to
Security  Council  reform.  Ukraine  considers  reform  of
the Security Council to be of exceptional international
significance.  Making  that  body  more  representative
and  balanced,  and 
its  work  more  effective  and
transparent,  especially  with  regard  to  the  decision-
making  process,  is  vital  for  adapting  the  United
Nations to the realities of the twenty-first century. Our
overall approach to the issue is based on the following
pillars.
Security  Council  reform  should  be  implemented
in strict compliance with the purposes and principles of
the Charter of the United Nations. The enlargement of
the Council should be carried out in both categories of
membership,  permanent  and  non-permanent.  We
support  increased  representation  in  that  body  for
developing countries from Africa, Asia, Latin America
and the Caribbean.
Since  the  membership  of  the  Group  of  Eastern
European  States  has  doubled  over  the  last  decade,  it
should  have  an  additional  non-permanent  seat  in  the
Council.
The  Security  Council’s  structural  reform  and  the
improvement of its working methods should go hand in
hand.  In  particular,  those  countries  that  contribute  the
most  to  the  Organization  —  militarily,  diplomatically
and  financially  —  should  be  more  involved  in  the
Council’s decision-making process.
Ukraine has consistently supported the limitation
of  the  use  of  the  veto  by  the  Security  Council
permanent five. We believe that Council enlargement is
an  integral  part  of  the  comprehensive  United  Nations
reform agenda aimed at enabling it to effectively react
to the challenges and opportunities of today’s world, in
the  security,  development  and  human  rights  fields
alike. That agenda encompasses  such  crucial  elements
as 
the  General  Assembly;
strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  human  rights
mechanisms  through  the  establishment  of  the  Human
Rights  Council;  reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council; 
Peacebuilding
Commission; and, of course, management reform.
establishment 
revitalization 
of 
of 
the 
It  is  regrettable  that  the  quantity  of  debates  held
and  options  proposed  on  Security  Council  reform  on
the  eve  of,  and  during,  the  September  summit  did  not
translate  into  quality  results.  Still,  we  hope  that  the
momentum  will  be  maintained  and,  hopefully,  lead  to
early 
to  our
Organization — as sought in the outcome document of
the  summit.  Ukraine  remains  fully  committed  to  that
objective.
this  area  —  so  vital 
reform 
in 
Mr.  Grey-Johnson  (Gambia):  The  report  of  the
Security  Council  for  the  period  1  August  2004  to
31 July 2005 shows that progress has been achieved in
tackling problems related to peace and security in some
countries  and  regions  of  the  world.  It  thus  lays  down
the  building  blocks  for  concerted  action  aimed  at
achieving even more in the year ahead. My delegation
would  have  liked  to  have  seen  a  more  extensive
analysis of the Council’s activities that could have been
the basis for improvements in future.
A/60/PV.49
We  all  were  encouraged  by 
the  positive
developments  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  bold  and
courageous initiatives taken by both the Israeli and the
Palestinian  leaderships  towards  resolving  some  of  the
intractable problems at the root of the conflict between
the two neighbours. That led us to believe that efforts
in the context of the road map were, in fact, on course
towards the  realization  of  the  vision  of  the  two  States
living  side  by  side  in  peace.  Alas,  the  developments
since  have  been  threatening  those  gains  and  require
that the Security Council once more be purposeful and
innovative  in  ensuring  that  all  concerned  remain
steadfast  towards  the  attainment  of  the  objectives  of
peace.  This  long-running  conflict  has  created  ripples
that have caused much damage throughout the world. It
is in our collective interest, therefore, that an early and
durable solution be found.
Elsewhere in the Middle East, tensions are either
escalating or are brewing dangerously. The situation in
Iraq  is  not  abating.  On  the  contrary,  the  scale  of
violence appears to be increasing from day to day, with
untold  suffering  and  loss  of  life  and  limb  among
innocent  Iraqi  civilians.  My  delegation  urges  all
concerned  to  begin  considering  less  confrontational
and  militaristic  approaches  to  the  resolution  of  the
conflict  in  that  country.  There  are  clear  early  warning
signs  of  an  impending  explosion  in  neighbouring
countries. My delegation strongly urges the Council to
do  everything  in  its  power  to  prevent  an  eruption  of
violence in any form in the countries bordering Iraq, as
such  an  occurrence  could  totally  destabilize  the  entire
region,  an  eventuality  whose  consequences  would  be
dire for the rest of the world.
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  express  to  the
Government and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom
of  Jordan  my  Government’s  deepest  condolences  in
connection  with  the  terrorist  attack  carried  out  in
Amman  yesterday,  which  caused  serious  casualties
among innocent civilians.
Turning now to the Council’s work in the African
region, my delegation is heartened by the steady gains
that have been made in containing or reducing the scale
of conflicts on the continent. In Sierra Leone, Liberia,
Guinea-Bissau, 
the  Central  African  Republic  and
Burundi,  the  fires  of  war  have  been  put  out,  the
political 
the
countries  concerned  have  been  readied  for  partnership
with the international community in peacebuilding and
development. We commend the Council for steadfastly
transition  has  been  completed  and 
3
A/60/PV.49
pursuing  the  peace  agenda  in  these  countries  and  for
the outstanding results achieved.
draft resolution that the African Group will eventually
put up for action to give effect to it.
There is still some unfinished business in certain
parts  of  the  continent,  which  will  hopefully  be  very
much a part of the agenda for the future. There is still
the case of the  forgotten  imbroglio  in  Somalia,  whose
neglect on our part may be short-sighted if not  totally
counterproductive.  Because  of  the  long  period  of
statelessness and isolation it experienced, Somalia may
now have become a fertile breeding ground and haven
for terrorists. The frequency of piracy attacks and other
acts  of  terrorism  against  cargo  and  passenger  vessels
bears 
sad  development.  My
delegation  strongly  urges  the  Council  to  enter  into  a
more proactive engagement with Somalia so as to bring
it back into the comity of nations.
testimony 
to 
this 
it  has  been  able 
In  the  period  under  review,  the  Council  has
significantly  built  upon  its  partnership  with  regional
and  subregional  organizations  in  advancing  the  peace
and  security  agenda  in  Africa.  Working  closely  with
the  African  Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of
West  African  States, 
to  make
significant  gains  in  countries  such  as  the  Sudan  and
Guinea-Bissau.  Together  they  have  also  been  able  to
deliberate on strategies for tackling problems that drive
conflicts, such as cross-border security issues. We hope
that this partnership will be further refined and used to
much  greater  effect  in  the  search  for  solutions  to  the
continent’s  problems  of  peace  and  security.  It  could
also provide a good model for cooperation that can be
replicated in other parts of the world.
itself  fully  with 
My  delegation  aligns 
the
statement  made  by 
the  Ambassador  of  Nigeria,
speaking on behalf of the Group of African States. We
fully concur that  the  time has  indeed  come  for  one  of
history’s  greatest  injustices  to  be  corrected  and  for
Africa  to  be  accorded  two  permanent  seats  in  the
Council, with all the rights and privileges that go with
membership in that category, including the right to the
veto.
My  delegation  also  reiterates  the  call  by  the
African Union for Africa to be accorded two additional
non-permanent seats in the Council. As the report itself
acknowledges in its introduction, “Africa figured, once
again,  at  the  forefront  of  the  Council’s  agenda”.  Is  it
not right, therefore, for Africa to be at the table along
with those who take decisions that affect its future? We
urge all delegations to support Africa’s request and the
4
My delegation strongly believes that more should
be done by way of  an  in-depth  review  of  the  working
methods of the Council. Specifically, attention must be
focused  on  the  veto  in  all  its  aspects,  with  a  view  to
ascertaining  the  degree  of  its  usefulness  vis-à-vis
today’s requirements for global peace and security.
the  working  methods  of 
We are aware that there are moves to introduce a
draft  resolution  on 
the
Council —  a  draft  resolution  that  is,  in  our  view,
incomplete  at  this  stage.  The  draft  calls  for  wider
consultation and for a fuller assessment of the reforms
realistically  required  to  make  the  Council’s  working
methods  more  transparent,  democratic  and  effective.
We  are  prepared  to  work  with  its  sponsors  to  make  it
more acceptable to a larger number of delegations.
Finally,  my  delegation  commends  the  outgoing
members of the Council — Algeria, Benin, Brazil, the
Philippines and Romania — for a very productive term
express  our
of  office 
congratulations  and  best  wishes 
for  an  equally
successful  term  to  the  incoming  members  —  the
Congo, Ghana, Peru, Qatar and Slovakia.
the  Council.  We 
in 
Mr.  Desmoures  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
First  of  all,  I  should  like  to  join  previous  speakers  in
expressing  my  country’s  sincere  condolences  to  the
Government  and  the  people  of  Jordan  for  the  terrorist
attacks  committed  last  Wednesday  in  the  city  of
Amman.
On  various  occasions,  we  have  stated 
that
Argentina  supports  a  solution  with  regard  to  Security
Council reform that is based on a broad consensus. In
recent  months,  we  have  witnessed 
the  negative
consequences  of  the  intention  to  impose  a  reform
process through the pressure of a vote. We all saw how
that  created  an  atmosphere  of  division  and  tension,
which  affected  the  spirit  of  the  negotiations  on  the
reform  document  (resolution  60/1)  adopted  at  the
summit of heads of State or Government in September.
We  therefore  welcome  the  current  consultations.
We have a working group that could be used to follow
the  path  of  dialogue,  analysis  and  consensus-building.
We  must  begin  a  stage  of  deliberation  and  begin  to
analyse —  jointly,  calmly  and  in  a  spirit  of  openness
and  cooperation  —  the  various  options  that  already
exist  concerning  expansion  and  working  methods.  We
should also consider new approaches.
We have indicated many times that the nature of
the permanent membership is an inequity that must be
corrected  in  the  future.  If  we  add  new  permanent
members, the asymmetry that affects the legal equality
of  States  will  only  further  increase.  That  is  why  we
continue to stress the advantages of the larger number
of  non-permanent  seats  for  developing  countries
offered  by  the  expansion  model  proposed  by  the
Uniting for Consensus group. As affirmed by several of
the  group’s  members, 
ideas  of  Uniting  for
Consensus  offer  the  possibility  of  resolving  in  a
positive  manner  the  imbalances  and  asymmetries  that
would  be  caused  by  the  potential  creation  of  new
permanent  members.  Such  proposals  —  with
improvements  or  variations  and  on  the  basis  of  an
expanded  number  of  elected  seats  —  could  include
longer  periods,  renewable  mandates  and  legitimate
rotation criteria.
the 
The Assembly should therefore give the working
group  a  consultative  aspect  in  order  to  continue  to
address  this  complex  and  political  issue.  We  must
continue  the  dialogue  and  build  a  consensus.  We
believe that priority must be given to the efforts being
made in the ongoing negotiations on the establishment
of  a  Human  Rights  Council  and  a  Peacebuilding
Commission and on administrative issues.
and 
international 
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic
of  Korea):  The  Security  Council  and  the  United
Nations  were  established  with 
the  mission  of
maintaining 
peace 
security.
Regrettably,  however,  during  the  60  years  since  the
Organization’s  inception,  the  world  has  never  been  at
peace  at  all.  The  world  was  unstable  in  the  1990s
because of the cold war and it continued to be unstable
after the cold war because of unforeseen territorial and
ethnic  disputes.  It  remains  unstable  owing  to  the
increasingly provocative unilateralism and arbitrariness
of the super-Power.
The  overall  situation  demands 
that  Member
States  review  the  activities  of  the  Security  Council —
which  is  responsible  for  maintaining  international
peace  and  security  —  on  the  occasion  of  the  sixtieth
anniversary of the United Nations. They must also take
adequate  measures  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the
current, changed environment.
A/60/PV.49
Historically, the element of impartiality has been
missing  from  the  activities  of  the  Security  Council,
which  has  failed  to  fulfil  its  mandate  of  ensuring
international peace and security in accordance with the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  In  the  southern  part  of
the  Korean  Peninsula,  the  so-called  United  Nations
Command,  which  has  existed  for  more  than  half  a
century,  is  a  typical  product  of  the  partiality  observed
in the Council’s activities. As explained time and again
in  this  forum,  the  United  Nations  Command  is  a  de
facto  United  States  Command  with  United  Nations
helmets,  which  demonstrates  the  abuse  of  the  United
Nations  name  while  carrying  out  the  United  States
strategy aimed at the domination of Asia.
The  delegation  of 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea believes that, in light of the lessons
learned  from  60  years  of  United  Nations  history  and
from  the  current  situation,  it  is  most  urgent  that  the
Security Council ensure impartiality and fairness in its
activities,  so  that  it  can  carry  out  its  responsibility  of
maintaining 
security.
Therefore,  if  there  is  to  be  genuine  Council  reform,
measures  should  be  taken  to  remove  all  elements  of
partiality  from  the  Council’s  activities  and  to  expand
the Council. Establishing a mechanism for the General
Assembly  to  endorse  Security  Council  resolutions  on
the use of force would be such a measure.
international 
peace 
and 
With regard to expansion of the Security Council,
we must ensure full representation of the Non-Aligned
Movement  and  developing  countries,  which  constitute
the  majority  of  the  United  Nations  membership.  We
believe  that  that  would  enable  us  to  redress  the
imbalance in the Council membership and would give
all  Member  States  a  more  equal  opportunity 
to
participate  in  Council  activities,  in  keeping  with  the
purposes of United Nations reform.
Unlike the situation with regard to non-permanent
Council  seats,  increasing  the  number  of  permanent
seats involves sensitive and intricate issues, such as the
criteria for selection and eligibility for the veto power.
This  year’s 
discussions  on  various
proposals —  including  that  of  the  group  of  four
countries —  revealed  the  extreme  complexity  of  the
reform process.
intensive 
It is a well-known fact that the Government of the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  is  opposed  to
Japan’s  efforts  to  become  a  permanent  member  of  the
Security Council because that country has not sincerely
5
A/60/PV.49
atoned for its tremendous past crimes against humanity.
Our  position  enjoys  wide  understanding  and  support,
not  only  from  neighbouring  countries  but  also  from  a
significant  number  of  other  countries  from  Asia  and
throughout the world.
last year for Darfur, Sudan, and the one set up this year
for  the  investigation  of  the  assassination  of  former
Lebanese  Prime  Minister  Rafik  Hariri.  Such  inquiry
processes  help  gather  data  and  information  in  an
impartial and expeditious manner.
The  delegation  of 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea would like to conclude its statement
by expressing its strong belief that issues — including
equal  representation  on  and  enlargement  of 
the
Security Council — should be resolved in the interests
of developing countries.
Mr.  Kirn  (Slovenia):  Allow  me  to  begin  by
condemning  the  terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  in
Amman  on  Wednesday.  I  express  the  deep  sympathy
and condolences of my Government to the Government
and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on
the human losses caused by those barbaric attacks.
to 
to 
like 
I  would 
the  Council 
thank  Ambassador  Andrey
Denisov of the Russian Federation, current President of
the Security Council, for his introduction of this year’s
report  of 
the  General  Assembly
(A/60/2).  During  the  period  under  review  the  Council
continued  to  be  active  on  a  wide  array  of  country-
specific,  region-specific  and  thematic  issues.  As  the
Council’s report attests, both the volume and the scope
of the Council’s activities continue to increase.
Let  me  make  some  brief  comments  on  some
elements of the report. Slovenia’s Foreign Minister, in
his capacity as Chairman-in-Office of the Organization
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  had
the opportunity to address the Council earlier this year
and  to  engage  in  substantive  interaction  with  Council
members.  That  discussion  was  also  useful  from  the
OSCE’s  perspective.  We  believe  such  exchanges  with
regional organizations are welcome and necessary, and
we  support  further 
institutional
intensification  of 
relationships with regional organizations.
of 
extraordinary  meetings 
In addition to the practice of missions conducted
by  the  Council,  we  would  also  like  to  support  the
holding 
outside
Headquarters, such as the meeting held at Nairobi last
November.  Such  meetings  held  outside  New  York,
when appropriate, bring the work of the Council closer
to  the  peoples  of  affected  areas  under  the  Council’s
consideration.
We  commend 
instituting
commissions  of  inquiry,  such  as  the  one  established
the  Council 
for 
6
We  would  in  particular  like  to  recognize  the
historic significance of resolution 1593 (2005), as well
as  to  commend  the  Council  for  making  use  of  the
Article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute to refer the situation
in  Darfur  since  1  July  2002  to  the  International
Criminal  Court 
fully
operational and is well equipped to deal in an impartial
judicial  manner  with  situations  of  gross  crimes  and
atrocities  within  its  mandate.  The  work  of  the  ICC  is,
in our view, a necessary part of endeavours to maintain
international  peace  and  security,  and  can  therefore  be
very  complementary  to  the  work  of  the  Security
Council.
(ICC).  The 
is  now 
ICC 
I  will  not  dwell  on  specific  country  or  regional
situations,  except  to  briefly  welcome  the  Council’s
recent  decision  to  give  the  green  light  for  the  Kosovo
future  status  process  to  move  forward,  for  we  believe
that  further  stalling  would  not  be  beneficial  either  to
the resolution of the matter and Kosovo’s stabilization
or for the stabilization of the wider region.
With regard to thematic issues, we would like in
particular  to  commend  the  Council  for  its  innovative
approaches,  including  its  drawing  up  of  lists  of  State
and  non-State  violators  in  connection  with  the  subject
of  children  and  armed  conflict.  We  hope  that  the
monitoring  and  reporting  mechanism  that  has  been
agreed  will  soon  begin  its  work.  The  Council  should
also  be  commended  for  the  recently  commemorated
fifth anniversary of resolution 1324 (2000), on women
and  peace  and  security.  Those  and  other  thematic
deliberations  make  an  important  contribution  to  the
protection of civilians and enhance the human security
of vulnerable individuals in dire situations.
Let me now make some comments regarding the
outcome document (resolution 60/1)  of  the  High-level
Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  was
adopted by our leaders in September, as it relates to the
work of the Council.
First, 
Slovenia  welcomes 
outcome
document’s affirmation of the responsibility to protect.
We  understand  this  as  a  conceptual  breakthrough
towards  better  prevention  of  future  tragedies  of  the
kind that occurred in Srebrenica, Rwanda and Darfur. It
the 
entails our national and collective responsibility to act
in cases of genocide, ethnic cleansing, war crimes and
crimes  against  humanity.  That  responsibility  is  an
integral  part  of  a  nation’s  sovereignty  as  it  relates  to
the protection of its people against such atrocities. But
we also understand that responsibility as an onus on the
Security Council to act, when need be, in the exercise
of  its  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security.  We  further  consider
the  use  of  the  veto  in  connection  with  the  atrocities  I
have mentioned to be fundamentally incompatible with
the very idea of the responsibility to protect.
While  we  fully  support  the  provisions  in  the
summit  outcome  document  regarding  the  use  of  force
under the Charter of the United Nations, we must also
state  that  we  would  have  wished  for  more  ambitions
provisions in the document regarding the principles for
the  use  of  force,  as  had  previously  been  suggested  by
the  Secretary-General  in  his  report  issued  last  March
entitled  “In  larger  freedom:  towards  development,
security  and  human  rights  for  all”  (A/59/2005).  We
hope that further work can be done in that regard at an
appropriate opportunity. We believe that better-defined
guidelines  for  the  use  of  force  by  the  Council  would
contribute  both  to  predictability  of  action  and  to  the
Council’s credibility.
We  would  like  to  call  upon  the  Council  to
continue to engage in dialogue with the other relevant
parts  of  the  United  Nations  system  —  for  example,
through briefings provided by the High Commissioner
for Human Rights. We would also invite the Council to
contribute  to,  and  support,  the  United  Nations  in
establishing an early warning capability, in accordance
with  paragraph  138  of 
the  2005  World  Summit
Outcome. We also encourage the Council to make full
use of the Special Adviser of the Secretary-General on
the  Prevention  of  Genocide,  to  benefit  from  his
briefings and to follow up on his recommendations for
the prevention of future genocide.
Finally, I cannot but reiterate Slovenia’s position
reflecting  our  commitment  to  comprehensive  Security
Council  reform.  We  continue  to  believe  that  the
increasing volume and scope of the Council’s activities
prompt  us  to  recognize  the  need  to  adapt  the  Security
Council’s  membership  in  both  its  permanent  and  non-
permanent  categories,  as  well  at  its  methods  of  work,
including the right to the veto, in order that the Council
may  efficiently  address  the  geopolitical  realities  of
today’s world.
A/60/PV.49
As  we  have  continuously  advocated  for  the  past
year,  the  Eastern  European  region  should  not  be  left
out  when  the  number  of  non-permanent  seats  are
increased.  Slovenia  will  therefore  continue  to  support
efforts to enlarge the Council in both its permanent and
non-permanent categories of membership.
are  necessary 
the  wider  membership  of 
We  also  believe  that  the  time  has  now  come  to
increase  the  transparency  and  accessibility  of  the
Council  vis-à-vis 
the
Organization.  We  therefore  support  the  calls  from  the
wider  membership  for  more  transparent  and  efficient
working  methods.  We  believe  that  improved  working
the
methods 
Organization, 
to
collectively address today’s threats and challenges in a
globalized world. Greater openness to general views in
the  Council’s  decision-making  process,  and 
in
particular  when  it  results  in  semi-legislative  decisions
under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  will,  in  our  view,
increase  both  the  effectiveness  and  the  legitimacy  of
the Council.
including 
the  Security  Council, 
to  better 
enable 
Slovenia  supports  progress  in  both  aspects  of
Security  Council  reform:  enlargement  and  working
methods.  For  the  reasons  I  have  mentioned,  Slovenia
supports  the  initiative  announced  by  Costa  Rica,
Jordan, Liechtenstein, Singapore and Switzerland with
regard to a draft resolution on the working methods of
the Security Council.
We welcome the initiative both we have not been
able to move forward within the Open-ended Working
Group  and  on  the  basis  of  the  world  summit  outcome
document (resolution 60/1), in particular its paragraph
154. But, most important, we believe, in  fact, that the
proposals contained in this initiative are long overdue.
We believe it is appropriate for the General Assembly,
based, inter alia, on Article 10 of the Charter, to engage
in a meaningful dialogue with the Security Council on
working  methods  to  bring  about  greater  transparency,
representativity,  efficiency,  effectiveness,  legitimacy
and implementation of the Council’s decisions.
Mr. Dapkiunas (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): Let
me  thank  Ambassador  Denisov  for  introducing  the
annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Security  Council
(A/60/2).  The  delegation  of  Belarus  commends  the
Council  for  its  work  during  the  reporting  period  to
maintain  peace  and  security  in  various  regions  of  the
world, particularly in Africa.
7
A/60/PV.49
The  recent  tragic  events  in  Jordan  demonstrate
the  importance  of  the  Council’s  work  in  combating
terrorism  and  other  global  threats.  Today,  we  convey
our  sincere  condolences 
the
Government of Jordan on the large loss of life caused
by those terrorist acts.
the  people  and 
to 
Belarus  commends  Member  States  for 
their
efforts  in  the  run-up  to  the  United  Nations  summit  to
advance  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform.  Those
efforts significantly reinvigorated the discussion on the
issue  of  Council  expansion.  We  are  sincerely  grateful
to  the  group  of  four  countries  —  Brazil,  Germany,
India  and  Japan  —  to  the  African  Union  (AU)  and  to
the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  for  their  important
contributions to the  discussion  on  ways  to  enlarge  the
Security Council. Belarus itself has tried to  contribute
to  the  process  of  Council  reform,  particularly  by
presenting 
the
membership.
its  own  model  of  expansion  of 
At  all  phases  of  the  discussion  of  approaches  to
United  Nations 
reform,  Belarus  has  advocated
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to
harmonize  its  membership  with  today’s  international
political  realities,  to  ensure  adequate  geographical
representation  in  the  Council  and  to  democratize  that
important United Nations organ.
We  fully  recognize  the  importance  of  achieving
the  broadest  possible  consent  and  compromise  among
Members  on key aspects of Council  reform,  including
options both for enlargement of its membership and for
the  improvement  of  its  working  methods.  We  are
certain that only by duly taking into account the views
of  all  Member  States  will  reform  of  the  Security
Council  enhance  the  effectiveness  of  the  work  of  that
United  Nations  body  and  build 
international
community’s trust in it.
the 
Key  elements  of  the  position  of  Belarus  on  this
issue  continue  to  be  expansion  of  representation  of
developing  countries  in  the  Council,  as  well  as  the
granting  of  one  additional  non-permanent  seat  to  the
Eastern European regional group. Unfortunately, active
discussion  on  the  issue  of  Council  reform  during  the
run-up  to  the  summit  focused  essentially  on  ways  to
expand  the  membership;  the  issue  of  improving  the
Council’s  working  methods  and  procedures  was  not
given  due  attention.  We  believe  that  enhancing  the
effectiveness  of  the  activities  of  the  Council  depends
equally on the enlargement of the membership and on
8
improvement of its working methods. This is precisely
why  we  welcome  the  draft  resolution  on  the  working
methods of the Security Council that has been prepared
by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and
Switzerland.  It  contains  a  number  of 
important
elements  that  can  improve  the  Security  Council’s
interaction  with  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic
and  Social  Council  and  all  States  Members  of  the
Organization.  It  would  also  create  an  environment  for
implementation  of  Council
rapid  and  effective 
decisions.  Belarus  stands  ready 
in
discussions  on  that  important  and  highly  promising
document.
take  part 
to 
Mr.  Kapoma  (Zambia):  Let  me  begin  by
conveying  the  condolences  of  my  Government  to  the
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  to  its  Government,  to
the  families  of  those  who  lost  their  lives  and  to  those
who  sustained  injuries  in  the  terrorist  acts  that  befell
that country two days ago.
My delegation would like to associate itself with
the statement made by the representative of Nigeria on
behalf of the African Union (AU).
The  Security  Council  is  the  only  principal  organ
of  the  United  Nations  that  has  an  overriding  mandate
and whose decisions and resolutions are binding on all
Member States. It is an organ that is entrusted with the
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security and is also the only organ some of
whose  members  possess  special  privileges.  It  is  that
special mandate that necessitates reform of the Council
so  as 
transparent,  democratic  and
accountable  to  the  general  membership  of  the  United
Nations.
to  make 
it 
Reform of the Security Council, as is well known,
has  been  on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  for
over  a  decade;  in  its  resolution  48/26  of  3  December
1993,  the  Assembly  decided  to  establish  an  Open-
ended  Working  Group  to  consider  all  aspects  of  the
question of increase in the membership of the Security
Council  and  its  working  methods  and  other  matters
related  to  it.  Since  the  Working  Group  began  its
deliberations in January 1994, little if any progress has
been made. Hence the current debate aimed at making
the  Council  more  responsive  to  today’s  realities  in
world affairs.
At the fifty-ninth session, the General Assembly,
pursuant  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled  “In
larger  freedom:  towards  development,  security  and
human  rights  for  all”,  (A/59/2005)  which  was  a  result
of  the  report  of  the  High-level  Panel  on  Threats,
Challenges  and  Change  (A/59/565),  deliberated  in
depth  on  the  recommendation  contained  in  those  two
documents  relating  to  reform  of  the  Security  Council.
Regrettably,  it  failed  to  reach  agreement  on  the
enlargement  of  the  Council,  especially  on  an  increase
in the permanent-member category.
The three draft resolutions that were submitted to
the  General  Assembly  —  by  the  group  of  four
countries,  the  African  Union  and  the  Uniting  for
Consensus  group,  respectively  —  prior  to  the  summit
in  September  did  not  receive  the  required  consensus
support  and,  as  a  result,  the  issue  was  referred  to  the
sixtieth session. The September 2005 summit outcome
document  (resolution  60/1)  urged  the  sixtieth  session
of the General Assembly to review progress on reform
by the end of this year. It is therefore incumbent upon
the Assembly to implement what was mandated by our
heads  of  State  and  Government,  as  set  out  in  the
outcome document.
Africa,  through  the  African  Union,  has  its  own
position on the reform of the Security Council which is
well  known  by  all  the  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations.  The  African  Union  draft 
resolution
(A/59/L.67) was submitted to this General Assembly in
July  and  seeks  the  following:  not  less  than  two
permanent  seats  for  Africa,  with  all  the  prerogatives
and privileges of permanent membership, including the
right of veto; five non-permanent seats for Africa; and
improved Council working methods.
In  an  effort  to  break  the  current  impasse,  Africa
will  continue  to  hold  consultations  with  all  interested
groups,  regions  and  individual  Member  States,  with  a
view to finding a solution satisfactory to all.
Africa’s  position  is  a  principled  one,  in  that
Africa  is  the  only  continent  without  a  permanent  seat
on the Security Council. We see no moral justification
for  the  perpetuation  of  this  historical  injustice.  In  our
desire to have at least two permanent seats, we do not
subscribe  to  the  notion  of  having  two  categories  of
permanent  members,  one  category  with  veto  powers
and the other with none, as that state of affairs, in our
view,  would  not  add  value  to  the  status  quo  as  far  as
Africa is concerned. It is with this in mind that Africa
is  urging  other  Member  States  to  support  Africa’s
position and, subsequently, its draft resolution.
A/60/PV.49
in  order 
to  make 
At  this  session,  the  Assembly  has  a  unique
opportunity to contribute to the reform of the Security
Council 
it  more  democratic,
accountable, efficient and transparent, so that it can be
relevant  to  today’s  world,  as  opposed  to  that  of  1945.
My  delegation  therefore  wishes  to  appeal  to  all
Member  States  to  engage  in  serious  consultations  in
order to ensure that at the end of the day we will have a
Security  Council  that  will  be  not  only  representative
but also, in all its actions and decisions, accountable to
the totality of the United Nations. Reform will have to
involve  both  enlargement  in  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent  categories  and  working  methods.  My
delegation regards enlargement of the Security Council
and reform of its working methods as two sides of the
same coin; therefore, they should be addressed as such.
Let  us  seize  this  occasion  and  carry  out  the
mandate entrusted to us by our leaders, as expressed in
the September 2005 outcome document, in the interest
of the well-being of the United Nations.
Andrey 
Nana  Effah-Apenteng  (Ghana):  At  the  outset,
allow  me  to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to
Ambassador 
Permanent
Representative of the Russian Federation and President
of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  for  his
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security
Council covering the period 1 August 2004 to 31 July
2005 (A/60/2).
Denisov, 
like 
to  express 
its  condolences 
But before proceeding any further, my delegation
would 
the
Government and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom
of  Jordan  on  the  terrorist  attacks  in  Amman  last
Wednesday.  Our  sympathies  go  in  particular  to  those
whose  family  members  or  friends  lost  their  lives  or
were injured in the bomb attacks.
to 
The  report  of 
the  maintenance  of 
the  Security  Council  clearly
conveys  a  picture  of  the  busy  schedule  that  has
characterized its work during the period under review.
My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its  appreciation
for  the  Council’s  comprehensive  approach  to  dealing
with 
international  peace  and
security,  in  the  light  of  the  growing  volume  and
complexity  of  conflict  situations  spanning  the  various
regions  of  the  world.  I  must  also  remark  on  the  early
issuance  of 
is  an
improvement on last year, and on the fact that the two
agenda  items  currently  under  consideration  have  been
rightly reorganized into a joint debate format.
report,  which 
the  Council’s 
9
A/60/PV.49
The Council’s continued dedication of a majority
of  its  agenda  to  the  several  conflict  situations  on  the
African continent is worthy of mention. It is our hope
that  the  devotion  of  such  time  and  effort  will  be
translated  into  needed  solutions,  with  appropriate
political support and resources.
In that regard, my delegation urges the Council to
continue  to  explore  and  build  on  the  United  Nations
institutional relationship with the African Union (AU),
especially  within  the  framework  of  the  expanded
mandate and new organs of the AU, such as the Peace
and  Security  Council.  We  cannot  but  commend  the
Council  for  holding  a  special  series  of  meetings  in
Nairobi, in November 2004. That initiative displayed a
unique  hands-on  approach  by  the  Council  in  dealing
with  conflict  situations  and  fostering  closer  relations
with  regional  organizations,  and  it  is  worthy  of
appropriate replication.
the  Council  and 
We should also like to urge the deepening of the
relationship  between 
regional
organizations  such  as  the  Economic  Community  of
West  African  States  (ECOWAS),  in  order  to  identify
ways in which such vital partnerships could contribute
to  preventing,  combating  and  eradicating  the  scourge
of conflicts that have come to characterize our region.
Given  the  improvements  in  the  security  situations  in
Sierra Leone and Liberia, we  would like to  encourage
the Council to remain fully engaged in finding a lasting
solution  to  the  crisis  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  which  has  in
recent 
that  could
potentially  result  in  a  relapse  into  full-blown  conflict,
reversing the hard-won gains made in the region.
times  seen  escalating 
tensions 
While  we  welcome  the  increased  consultations
between the Council and the wider membership of the
United  Nations,  it  is  my  delegation’s  considered  view
that  such  interaction  could  be  improved  upon,  both  in
terms of frequency and in terms of reflecting the views
of non-member States in the decisions of the Council.
Similarly,  we  commend 
the
consultative mechanism to further improve cooperation
between  the  Council  and  troop-contributing  countries,
especially  the  growing  regularity  and  frequency  of
meetings with those countries. My delegation believes
that  this  consultative  mechanism  has  inherent  benefits
to all the parties involved in peacekeeping.
the  activities  of 
On  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  my
delegation  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  African
position  in  all  its  aspects,  as  eloquently  articulated  at
10
in 
the 47th plenary meeting by my Nigerian colleague on
behalf of the African Group. Let me stress the need to
rectify  the  existing  historical  injustice  against  Africa
reflected 
the  Council’s  present  structure  and
composition. We would like to caution against the real
danger  of  adopting  half-baked  solutions,  where  the
legitimate demands of some are short-changed in a bid
to  arrive  at  any  form  of  agreement.  Therefore,  we  do
not  favour  procedural  tactics  essentially  aimed  at
blocking any serious attempt at comprehensive reform
of the Security Council.
As  recently  reaffirmed  at 
the  Extraordinary
Session  of  the  Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and
Government  of  the  African  Union,  held  in  Addis
Ababa  on  31  October  2005,  Africa  is  demanding  not
less  than  two  permanent  seats,  with  all  the  existing
prerogatives  and  privileges  of  such  membership,  as
well  as  two  additional  non-permanent  seats.  Any
Security Council reform package that seeks to exclude
any  of  the  elements  of  the  principles  of  democracy,
sovereign equality of States and equitable geographical
representation would not be tenable.
In conclusion, my delegation would like to stress
that the United Nations has been hard-pressed in recent
times  to  reassert  its  indisputable  relevance  in  the
present  global  context.  These  have  indeed  been  very
challenging  times  for  our  Organization.  However,  by
the same token, the United Nations has been presented
with  unprecedented  opportunities  to  make  relevant
changes to enable it to play the role envisaged for it by
the  founding  fathers  and  by  humankind.  Improvement
in  the  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  and
necessary  changes  in  its  structure  and  composition
remain  central  components  of  the  strenuous  efforts
being made to reform the United Nations as a whole.
The process of Security Council reform has been
long  and  arduous,  spanning  some  12-plus  years.  This
cannot continue ad infinitum. The challenge is to heed
the call of our leaders at the 2005 world summit to take
a decision on this matter by the end of the year.
Mr. Beck  (Palau):  On  behalf  of  the  Government
and the people of Palau, I wish to express our deepest
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  on  the  tragic  loss  of
lives in the terrorist attacks in Amman.
We  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Denisov  of  the
Russian Federation for his presentation of the report of
the Security Council (A/60/2).
When our leaders met for the momentous summit
in  September,  they  agreed  that  early  reform  of  the
Security  Council  was  an  essential  element  of  our
overall effort to reform the United Nations in order to
make  it  more  broadly  representative,  efficient  and
transparent.  Palau’s  views  on  the  best  means  to
accomplish those objectives were expressed during the
General  Assembly  fifty-ninth  session,  when  we  co-
sponsored  draft  resolution  A/59/L.64,  which  came  to
be  known  as  the  G-4  draft  resolution.  We  believed
then, and believe now, that it expressed an appropriate
way forward on Security Council reform.
It 
to 
is  Palau’s  belief 
that  more  equitable
geographical representation in the Security Council on
a permanent basis is simply better, and not worse. The
geographical distribution that concerns Palau the most
pertains 
is
underrepresented in the organs, tribunals and bodies of
the United Nations and which is often marginalized by
the remoteness and isolation of its small island States.
the  Pacific,  which  we 
submit 
in 
As  a  Pacific  State,  Palau  wishes  acknowledges
Japan’s  position  as  a  regional  partner  with  extensive
knowledge of the unique cultures and vulnerabilities of
its  small  neighbours 
the  Pacific.  Japan  has
demonstrated the determination not only to understand
but  to  help,  when  help  is  required,  in  those  island
nations.  Japan’s  knowledge  of  the  region  should
become  a  permanent  part  of  the  collective  wisdom  of
the Security Council. The expansion of the Council to
include other deserving countries referred to in the G-4
draft  resolution  will,  in  similar  fashion,  enable  the
Security  Council  to  deal  more  effectively  with  a  very
changed world. We wish for momentum on that issue.
Palau  notes  with  approval  and  admiration  the
excellent  work  of  the  delegations  of  Costa  Rica,
Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and  Switzerland.  We
fully endorse their notion that the working methods of
the Security Council should be consistently adapted so
as  to  increase  the  involvement  of  States  that  are  not
members of the Council. Now that Palau has deployed
peacekeepers for the first time in its short history, that
connectivity becomes all the more relevant. We submit
that  one  inevitable  result  of  the  expansion  of  the
Council  along  the  lines  proposed  by  the  G-4  draft
resolution would be a greater opportunity for enhanced
the  Security
involvement  and  understanding  of 
Council’s 
in 
currently
underrepresented regions like the Pacific.
particularly 
work, 
A/60/PV.49
Mr.  Rock  (Canada):  Canada  is  grateful  for  this
opportunity  to  offer  its  views  on  the  report  of  the
Security Council, as well as to return to the important
subject of Security Council reform.
I  have  had  the  opportunity  in  the  recent  past  to
place  on  record  Canada’s  strong  support  for  the
enlargement of the Security Council. While we oppose
adding permanent members, for reasons that I set forth
in some detail from this podium, Canada believes that
legitimacy  would  be  enhanced  by
the  Council’s 
increasing 
include  a  broader
representation  of  the  world’s  regions.  It  is  especially
important  that  we  redress  the  absence  of  adequate
African  representation.  We  support  enlargement  to
produce  a  representative  Council,  but  enlargement
achieved in a way that is compatible with the principles
of democracy, fairness, flexibility and accountability.
its  membership 
to 
However,  the  legitimacy  of  the  Council  depends
not only upon the breadth of its composition; it derives
as well from its effectiveness and the way it carries out
its  functions.  Canada  believes  that  the  effectiveness
and 
the  Council  could  be  greatly
enhanced  if  the  Council  made  certain  changes  in  the
approach  to  its  work.  We  believe  that  there  are  three
areas in particular where change is desirable.
legitimacy  of 
First,  the  Council’s  working  methods  should  be
improved to increase transparency and evidence-based
decision-making, as well as to limit the use of the veto.
Secondly,  the  Council’s  normative  framework
should be updated, so that it is better equipped to meet
the  demands  of  an  evolving  security  environment  and
the  changes  in  the  nature  of  contemporary  armed
conflicts.
Thirdly, the Council should manage its agenda in
such  a  way  that  it  gives  prompt  attention  to  those
conflicts that involve grave humanitarian needs or risks
to regional peace and security.
Let me first deal with working methods.
There  is  no  doubt  that,  in  recent  years,  the
Council’s  procedures  have  evolved  to  become  more
open  than  they  were.  Those  changes  have  been  most
welcome. But Canada believes that the time has come
to  go  further.  The  first  step  should  be  to  increase
transparency.  In  an  age  when  the  Council’s  work,  as
demonstrated in the report itself, has such far-reaching
and  fast-growing  implications  for  us  all  in  expanding
areas  such  as  counter-terrorism  and  non-proliferation,
11
A/60/PV.49
frequent  and  systematic  use  of 
surely outreach and consultation with Member States is
more important than ever. We urge the Council to make
more 
informal
exchanges, and to increase the regularity of substantive
briefings  for  Member  States.  Where  States  face
challenges 
to  meet  Council
obligations,  such  as  in  the  area  of  counter-terrorism,
we encourage the provision of greater assistance.
their  capacity 
in 
there 
is  a  need 
to  assist 
in  making 
the  Council 
Furthermore, 
to  provide  better  aggregate  dates 
for  better
information 
its
important  decisions.  My  delegation  strongly  supports
efforts 
the
Council —  for  example,  on  trends  in  global  conflict,
about  which  there  is  much  recent  and  important
learning  —  in  order  to  permit  more  evidence-based
decision-making  by  the  Council,  where  the  stakes  are
so high.
to 
Indeed, 
there  have  been 
Let me briefly deal with the matter of the veto.
We all know the inhibiting effect that the veto, or
even  the  threat  of  its  use,  can  have  on  Council
deliberations. 
several
regrettable  occasions  during  the  past  year  when  the
spectre of the veto had the effect of dampening debate
or  delaying  important  decisions.  In  our  view,  the  veto
can  rarely  be  justified.  It  was  originally  intended  to
protect  direct  and  vital  great-Power  interests,  not  as  a
tool for disciplining the rest of the membership on the
Council  or  aborting  debate  on  certain  issues.  For  that
reason, Canada believes that any use of the veto should
be  explained  and  publicly  justified.  We  also  strongly
support proposals for voluntary restrictions on its use,
in particularly in situations of genocide, crimes against
humanity and war crimes.
Canada  believes  that  those  and  other  changes  to
the  Council’s  working  methods  could  very  much
enhance its legitimacy and effectiveness. We encourage
the Council to consider adopting such measures in the
months  ahead.  In  the  meantime,  let  me  restate  my
Government’s strong support for the General Assembly
draft  resolution  on  the  Council’s  working  methods,
which  has  been  circulated  by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,
Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and  Switzerland.  We  believe
that the draft resolution merits serious consideration by
members  of  the  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council
alike. We encourage the drafters to initiate broad-based
consultations as soon as possible.
The  second  area  where  Canada  believes  there
should  be  early  consideration  within  the  Council
12
Chamber of change is the normative framework within
which  the  Council  makes  decisions  on  individual
conflicts.  In  keeping  with  the  endorsement  by  our
leaders of the responsibility to protect, we believe that
it  would  be  timely  and  useful  for  the  Council  to  echo
those  principles,  so  that  when  such  crises  arise  we  do
not 
sterile  debates  about
sovereignty at the risk of losing civilian lives.
lengthy  and 
revisit 
We  are,  of  course,  respectful  of  the  sincere
concerns  that  have  been  raised  regarding  the  potential
for  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  to  be
misused or abused.  While  we  believe  that  the  leaders’
language renders that risk remote, there is scope for a
Council  resolution 
that  could  provide  additional
reassurance by outlining guidelines on the use of force.
The  Secretary-General  has  proposed  a  pragmatic
and balanced set of principles for addressing the use of
force.  We  urge  members  of  the  Security  Council  to
adopt  a  resolution  that  sets  out  those  principles  and
expresses  its  intention  to  treat  them  as  a  guide  in  its
future  decision-making.  That  would  not  only  reassure
those  who  remain  anxious  about  the  scope  of  the
responsibility  to  protect,  but  would  also  serve  to
strengthen  the  Council’s  legitimacy,  effectiveness  and
transparency. We do not believe that, as some suggest,
such a step would hamstring the  Council  by  imposing
rigid guidelines.
Finally,  it  goes  without  saying  that  the  Council
cannot be effective if it does not consider the full range
of  “live”  crises.  In  this  regard,  as  a  compelling
example  of  a  place  where  the  Council’s  attention  is
badly  needed,  we  draw  its  attention  once  again  to  the
20-year-old  conflict  in  northern  Uganda,  which  we
believe  should  be  placed  formally  on  the  Council’s
agenda. The humanitarian crisis in northern Uganda is
one  of  the  world’s  worst,  with  1.6 million  people
internally  displaced  and  living,  some  for  10  years,  in
squalid,  insecure  camps,  with  acts  of  brutality  —
killing  and  maiming  —  committed  against  the  local
populations,  and  with  tens  of  thousands  of  children
abducted  by  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army  to  serve  as
child soldiers or as sex slaves.
What 
is  more, 
the  presence  of 
the  Lord’s
Resistance  Army  in  the  Sudan  and,  more  recently,  in
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  illustrates  the
potential  for  that  conflict  to  destabilize  and  impede
peaceful  transitions  in  the  entire  region.  The  recent
increase  in  acts  of  violence  against  humanitarian  aid
workers in northern Uganda and neighbouring southern
Sudan  puts  at 
risk  much-needed  humanitarian
operations in the region and further highlights the need
for all parties to engage further on this issue. We urge
the  Council  to  place  the  issue  of  northern  Uganda  on
its agenda, to  help  find  ways  of  ensuring  that  Uganda
meets 
its  own
international
populations, 
community  might  support  efforts  to  reach  a  political
solution  to  that  devastating  conflict  and  others  like  it
and,  above  all,  to  improve  the  dire  humanitarian
situation on the ground.
its  own  responsibility 
to  consider  how 
to  protect 
the 
time  and  energy  on 
In  conclusion,  as  we  move  forward  with  summit
implementation,  Canada  agrees  that  we  cannot  afford
to  forget  about  Council  reform  in  relation  to  both
enlargement  and  effectiveness.  At  the  same  time,
Council reform is but one element of the much broader
agenda of renewal upon which we are now  embarked.
We  spent  significant 
the
composition  issue  in  the  months  leading  up  to  the
summit,  and  we  were  right  to  do  so.  At  this  time,
surely  our  collective  priority  has 
the
implementation of the full range of decisions taken by
our leaders in September: to establish a Peacebuilding
Commission  and  a  Human  Rights  Council,  to  initiate
and  follow  through  on  management  reform  and  to
advance 
the  Millennium
Development Goals, to name but a few.
(spoke in French)
implementation 
to  be 
of 
Notwithstanding the daunting nature of that work
plan,  we  believe  that  early  action  with  regard  to  the
Council’s  working  methods,  norms  and  agenda  could
yield  concrete  success  in  the  near  term.  Such  action
would not only be desirable in itself but would also be
a  means  of  building  new  momentum  in  our  efforts  to
resolve the composition question.
In  all  of  those  areas  we  must  be  guided  by  the
transparency  and
principles  of  representativeness, 
effectiveness. 
to  working  with
forward 
colleagues  on  these  important  issues  in  the  months
ahead.
look 
I 
Mr.  Muñoz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would
like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  report  of  the
Security  Council 
the
representative  of 
its
activities  during  the  period  1  August  2004  to  31  July
2005, the contents of which we have taken due note.
introduced  by 
the  Russian  Federation,  on 
(A/60/2), 
A/60/PV.49
Throughout  the  ongoing  United  Nations  reform
process,  Chile  has  reiterated  its  view  that  efforts  to
achieve  comprehensive  reform  must  be  faithful  to  the
principles  and  values  of  the  Charter,  enhance  the
credibility  and  legitimacy  of  the  Organization  and
bring  it  up  to  date.  They  must  be  based  on  the
understanding that development, international security,
democracy  and  human  rights  are  indissociable  and
interdependent concepts.
From 
that  perspective,  we  have  actively
advocated  the  reform  of  the  General  Assembly,  the
Security  Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,
the Commission on Human Rights and the Secretariat,
as  well  as  providing  support  for 
the  necessary
consensus  for  the  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights
Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  The
promotion  of  development,  as  well  as  the  concepts  of
the  responsibility  to  protect  and  human  security,  are
also key elements for my country.
Once  again,  we  reaffirm  that  Chile  seeks  the
renewal of the Security Council so as to make it more
representative,  transparent  and  effective.  An  increase
in its membership, especially through the participation
of  more  countries  from  the  developing  world,  would
help  to  achieve  that  objective.  But  that  should  be
undertaken  in  parallel  with  the  improvement  of  the
Council’s working methods.
We  reaffirm  the  recommendation  contained  in
paragraph 154 of the recent summit outcome document
(resolution 60/1) that
so  as 
“the  Security  Council  continue  to  adapt  its
the
working  methods 
increase 
involvement  of  States  not  members  of 
the
Council  in  its  work,  as  appropriate,  enhance  its
accountability to the membership and increase the
transparency of its work”.
to 
In this context, we note with interest the initiatives that
have rightly been put forward to improve the Council’s
working methods.
At  the  bilateral  level,  Chile  supports  Brazil,
Germany,  India  and  Japan  in  their  aspiration  to
permanent Council membership, while maintaining our
long-standing  position  opposing  the  veto.  Let  us  be
very  clear:  Chile  supports  the  inclusion  of  new
permanent  members,  but  without  the  right  of  veto,
either  now  or  later.  Our  consistent  opposition  to  the
veto is not recent: it was stated for the first time at the
13
A/60/PV.49
San  Francisco  Conference  in  1945.  We  recognize  that
the complete elimination of the right of veto is perhaps
a bit unrealistic or unlikely, but we do not reject giving
serious consideration to interim formulas,  such  as,  for
example,  restricting  its  exercise  only  to  matters  under
Chapter  VII,  excluding  cases  of  genocide  or  crimes
against humanity.
We  also  wish  to  state  for  the  record  that  the
position  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  with
regard  to  the  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council
should  not  disparaged  in  favour  of  that  of  other
regions,  particularly  given 
the  quantitative  and
qualitative  contributions  that  have  been  referred  to  by
the Secretary-General since the beginning.
By virtue  of the mandate contained  in  paragraph
153  of  the  Summit  Outcome  of  the  2005  High-level
Plenary Meeting, Chile is prepared, at this stage in the
reform,  to  contribute  to  the  building  of  the  consensus
required  for  comprehensive  and  successful  reform  of
the  Organization,  and  specifically  that  of  the  Security
Council, whose reform cannot continue to be delayed.
Chile favours an effort aimed at achieving compromise
and agreement, which has been our longstanding policy
with  respect  to  issues  that  divide  us.  We  have  been
doing so in the Assembly and in the group of friends of
the  reform.  The  President  can  therefore  count  on  our
cooperation and support on this issue that we consider
to be crucial.
Mr. Kazykhanov (Kazakhstan): On behalf of the
Government of Kazakhstan, I would like to express my
sincere  condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of
Jordan for the tragic loss of life that resulted from the
heinous terrorist attacks in Amman on 9 November.
At  the  outset,  let  me  thank  the  Security  Council
and the Secretariat for the comprehensive report on the
work of the Security Council during the past year, and
in particular Ambassador  Andrey  Denisov,  the  current
President of the Council, for his clear and informative
introduction of the report.
The  document  before  us  covers  a  busy,  and  in
many  ways  difficult,  period.  A  number  of  crises  that
have been on the Security Council’s agenda for a long
time  have  continued  to  require  its  attention.  The
Security Council, as the United Nations body entrusted
with  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of
peace  and  security,  plays  a  key  role  in  current  affairs
affecting the international community as a whole.
14
Although more needs to be done, we are happy to
acknowledge  that  progress  has  been  made  in  recent
years  towards  improving  the  working  methods  of  the
Security  Council.  My  delegation  welcomes 
the
emerging  practice  of 
sending  Security  Council
missions  to  the  field  and  is  particularly  pleased  with
the  Council’s  continuing  efforts  to  address  ongoing
conflicts.
We  have  taken  note  of  —  and  welcome  —  the
fact  that  the  Security  Council  has  shifted  its  debate
from  issues  of  peace  and  security  to  a  much  boarder
concept  of  security,  while  attaching  importance  to  the
rule  of  law,  the  role  of  regional  organizations,  civil
society, economic and social factors and HIV/AIDS.
Although the report of the Council opens with an
analytical segment, we had  expected  more  substantive
information  rather  than  a  historical  recounting  of  the
events as they happened in the Council during the year.
In  our  opinion,  the  report  should  not  be  confined  to
what the Council has achieved, but, more importantly,
it should also address what has worked and why it has
worked.  The  report  needs  to  be  a  document  more
useful to Member States. Non-members of the Security
Council  have  the  right  to  be  well  briefed  about  the
work  of  the  Council,  and  their  views  should  be
reflected in the report during the drafting exercise.
Openness and effectiveness should be interrelated
objectives  of  the  Security  Council.  The  Council  must
do  more  towards  increasing  the  participation  of  non-
members  of  the  Council  in  its  deliberations.  In  that
context, we would like to emphasize the importance of
giving the wider membership an opportunity to express
their  views  on  issues  before  the  Council,  with  the
expectation that the Council will take those views into
account before it takes its decisions.
the  General  Assembly  and 
We  also  believe  that  a  satisfactory  relationship
between 
the  Security
Council  should  be  fundamental.  Dialogue  between
those  two  principal  organs  should  not  be  merely
ritualistic.
My delegation commends the practice of holding
informal briefings on the work of the Security Council
for  regional  groups  by  members  of  the  Council.  Such
briefings  could  assist  the  Council  in  producing  more
balanced and impartial decisions.
Reform of the Security Council is necessary, and
a  decision  on  that  subject  is  a  serious  and  important
repeatedly  voiced 
measure.  Kazakhstan  has 
its
continued  support  for  an  expansion  of  the  Security
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent
categories of membership. Kazakhstan believes that, in
its  current  form,  the  Council  no  longer  reflects  the
realities  of  our  world.  We  believe  that  the  equitable
representation  of  Member  States  in  the  Council  could
strengthen its ability to effectively face the challenges
of  the  twenty-first  century  and  play  its  role  in  the
settlement of crisis situations.
Such  a  sensitive  issue  as  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council  should  be  resolved  on  the  basis  of
broad  international  agreement,  in  accordance  with  the
principle  of  equitable  geographical  representation  and
with  due  consideration  of  the  contribution  of  States
concerned  towards  the  development  of  the  global
economy and regional and global security.
We  also  believe  that  reform  must  also  deal  with
the  Council’s  working  methods,  which  must  be
improved  in  order  to  enhance  its  transparency  and
accountability.  We  therefore  support  the  initiatives
aimed at improving the Council’s working methods.
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  the
appreciation of my Government to the members of the
Council 
to
congratulate  the  five  newly  elected  members.  We
pledge our cooperation and full support.
their  contributions,  as  well  as 
for 
We  look  forward  to  working  closely  with  the
Security Council and to participating actively in all its
efforts to meet the global need for peace.
Mr. Sardenberg (Brazil): At the outset, on behalf
of Brazil, I wish to express our heartfelt condolences to
the  people  and  to  the  Government  of  Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan, who were victimized by the recent
dastardly  and  abhorrent  act  of  terrorism.  We  must
continue to combat that scourge through all means.
to 
the 
importance  of 
I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the
Assembly for convening this meeting. Its timeliness is
due  not  only 
issues
themselves,  but  also  to  the  need  for  the  General
Assembly to comply with the relevant provisions of the
Outcome  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the
General  Assembly  as  regards  the  question  of  the
expansion  of  the  Security  Council.  We  are  confident
that,  under  the  President’s  determined  guidance,  the
long-standing issue of Security Council reform will be
the 
A/60/PV.49
resolved, along with the other important issues relating
to the institutional reform of the Organization.
to 
I  am  pleased 
join  previous  speakers 
in
thanking  Ambassador  Andrey  Denisov,  Permanent
Representative of the Russian Federation and President
of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  for  presenting
the  Council’s  report  to  the  General  Assembly.  I  also
wish 
congratulate  Ambassador  Adamantios
Vassilakis  of  Greece  and  his  team  for  their  important
work in facilitating the preparation of the document.
to 
On  behalf  of  our  delegation,  I  also  convey  our
deep appreciation and gratitude to the Security Council
secretariat for their support throughout the period since
January  2004,  during  which  time  Brazil  has  been  a
non-permanent member of the Council.
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  is  an  item  of
singular  importance  on  the  agenda  of  the  current
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  As  a  long-standing
advocate  of  greater  accountability  by  the  Council,
Brazil  more  than  welcomes  this  debate,  which,  to  our
regret,  takes  place  only  once  each  session.  We  are  of
the view that the notion of special reports — as set out
in Article 15, paragraph 1, of the Charter, as well as in
Article 24, paragraph 3 — should be heeded, especially
at 
important  reforms  are  under
discussion at the United Nations.
this  stage  when 
Bearing this need in mind, on the occasion of its
Security  Council  presidency  last  March,  the  Brazilian
delegation,  with 
the  support  of  other  members,
reinstated  the  format  of  Security  Council  monthly
“wrap-up”  sessions.  Our  intention  was  to  enable  the
broader  membership  to  comment  on  and  assess  the
work of the Council during that month, when a number
of  issues  related  to  Africa  were  under  review.  We
encourage  other  members  to  continue  to  promote  this
sort of inclusive dialogue.
to  new 
international 
The  work  undertaken  by  the  Council  between
August  2004  and  July  2005  reinforces  the  perception
that  it  faces  a  transitional  moment  requiring  its
adaptation 
circumstances.
Growing complexity in the Council’s daily work stems
from the fact that current challenges exceed by far the
classic  pattern  of  inter-State  conflict;  to  a  greater
extent,  we  are  confronted  with  situations  of  domestic
struggle, on the one hand, and of ever more disquieting
transnational threats, on the other. The need to respond
to  these  challenges  in  effective  and  innovative  ways
the  absolute
must  be  addressed 
tandem  with 
in 
15
A/60/PV.49
imperative of safeguarding the framework provided by
the Charter of the United Nations.
Sixty  years  after  the  creation  of  the  United
Nations, its purposes and principles are more valid than
ever.  Respect  for  the  principles  of  sovereign  equality,
political 
independence  and  self-determination  of
peoples  is  essential  for  the  achievement  of  peace  and
harmony in international life. The Council  has  special
responsibilities in this  regard and is expected to make
judicious use of the powers at its disposal.
national 
conflict 
reconciliation, 
The  report  reflects  the  variety  of  issues  that
nowadays call for the involvement of the Council, such
as 
prevention,
activities  to  disarm,  demobilize  and  reintegrate  ex-
combatants,  post-conflict  peacebuilding,  promotion  of
justice  and  the  rule  of  law,  economic  reconstruction,
measures aimed at combating terrorism, and the threat
posed by non-State actors having access to weapons of
mass destruction, among many other issues.
In the Council’s consideration of these measures,
the  Brazilian  delegation  ascribes  priority 
to  full
consideration, on a case-by-case basis, of all  elements
relating  to  every  particular  situation  on  the  ground,
especially including the root causes of conflict, most of
them being of a social or economic dimension. It is our
view  that  peoples’  frustration  and  humiliation  set  the
stage for violence, crises and conflicts of all sorts, and
that  specific,  precise  responses  can  be  identified  to
tackle these challenges in a sustainable manner.
For  instance,  we  believe  Haiti  constitutes  a  test
case for the United Nations, as it illustrates the types of
problems that the United Nations is likely to face in the
years  ahead.  These  include  problems  deeply  rooted  in
socio-economic  shortfalls  for  which  solutions  need  to
be achieved by means other than military action. They
require  making  progress,  in  parallel,  in  the  fields  of
security,  institution-building,  political  reconciliation,
promotion  of  social  and  economic  development  and,
certainly, the observance of human rights. Last March,
I  had  the  privilege  and  the  honour  of  leading  the
Security  Council  mission 
in
conjunction  with  the  mission  of  the  Economic  and
Social  Council’s  Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Group  on  Haiti.  I
am  pleased  that  today  the  Council  is  convinced  that
pervasive  poverty  is  truly  a  main  root  cause  of  unrest
in Haiti.
that  country, 
to 
In the case of Guinea-Bissau, there is an ongoing
need  for  promoting  peace,  stability  and  reconciliation
16
and  for  continued  international  support.  The  Council
will  now  have  to  consider  adequate  solutions  as
regards  the  future  United  Nations  presence  in  that
country.  We  fully  support  the  ideas  proposed  by  the
Secretary-General  with  a  view  to  adopting  a  mandate
for  the  United  Nations  Peace-building  Support  Office
in  Guinea-Bissau  that  merges  the  peace  and  security
and sustainable development agendas.
As  regards  the  situation  in  Timor-Leste,  that
country is now calm and stable — I should say to our
great  satisfaction.  The  structure  and  capabilities  of  its
national  institutions  are  being  strengthened  with  a
major  contribution  by  the  United  Nations  and  other
international support.
The  three  cases  I  have  just  highlighted  are  clear
examples  of  the  multidisciplinary  approach  that  is
required  nowadays.  Besides  financial  and  material
contributions,  Brazil  has  assisted  with  a  number  of
proposals  and  ideas  in  the  context  of  the  Security
Council’s  decision-making  process.  We  will  continue
to offer our support and advice.
As  a  Member  State  that  has  consistently  called
for greater, more frequent and fluid interaction between
the Council and other United Nations main organs, we
assessed  with  particular  satisfaction  the  establishment
of  a  Peacebuilding  Commission.  We  look  forward  to
the  next  report  of  the  Council,  to  be  submitted  at  the
sixty-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  we
hope will testify to the Peacebuilding Commission, the
Economic and Social Council and the Security Council
itself  working  hand  in  hand  to  ensure  conditions  not
only  for  transition  from  war  to  peace,  but  also  from
peace to stability and sustainable development.
The issue of Security Council reform has been on
the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  for  a  very  long
time. There is now a clear, generalized perception that
the  structure  of  the  Council  fails  to  reflect  current
international  realities.  The  urgency  of  the  matter  is
shown  not  only  by  the  rather  obvious  fact  that  the
world of 2005 is not that of 1945, but also by the trend
towards greater exercise of the Council’s authority and
influence 
in  many  areas,  with  direct  domestic
consequences  for  all  countries  of  the  world.  Most,  if
not  all,  nations  now  realize  the  implications  of  this
trend.  The  Council  and  the  decisions  it  takes  need  to
become  more  legitimate  and  more  effective;  therefore
balanced  representation  in  the  Council  is  essential.
That  can  be  accomplished  only  by  expanding  the
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories,  with  the
inclusion of developing countries in both categories.
regions  of  the  developing  world  from  the  category  of
permanent members.
A/60/PV.49
long, 
At the last session of the General Assembly, and
after  a 
inclusive  process  of  consultations
involving  the  entire  membership,  I  introduced,  on
behalf  of  32  sponsors, 
including  Brazil’s  G-4
partners — Germany, India and Japan — the first draft
resolution  presented  to  the  Assembly  containing  a
proposed framework for a comprehensive reform of the
Security  Council.  Another 
important  group  of
countries,  the  African  Union,  put  forward  a  proposal
containing  very  similar  ideas  on  the  basic  need  to
expand the permanent and non-permanent categories of
Council membership.
Those  proposals,  which  address  the  heart  of  the
issue,  constitute  a  significant  development.  They  not
only demonstrate a willingness and a determination to
come to  grips with the question of expansion  but  also
demonstrate that the question can no longer be put off.
Even  the  handful  of  countries  bent  on  stalling  the
process felt  compelled to  present  a  proposal,  although
it  was  incompatible  with  the  call  for  consensus  that
they so vocally maintain.
Although we would have preferred to resolve the
issue  before  the  September  summit,  as  recommended
by the Secretary-General, it would plainly be wrong to
mistake  the  lack  of  a  decision  for  a  lack  of  progress.
There  is  now  a  nearly  unanimous  perception  among
Member States that there is a pressing need for change,
and  a  clear  majority  share  coinciding  views  on  the
composition  of  a 
is  no
exaggeration to say that  we  have  never  come  as  close
to settling this protracted issue as we are right now.
reformed  Council. 
It 
Important recent developments can help move the
process  forward.  The  decision  taken  at  the  latest
African Union summit, held in Sirte on 31 October, to
resubmit  the  African  proposal  for  Security  Council
reform  to  the  General  Assembly  is  the  most  recent
among  them.  Brazil  stands  ready  to  support  proposals
that  have  fundamental  elements  in  common  with  that
put forward by the group of four and other countries.
We are convinced that reform on the basis of the
African  Union  proposal  would  considerably  improve
on  the  current  structure  of  the  Council  and  would
reduce  the  imbalance  of  its  composition.  We  stand
ready  to  work  with  African  partners  to  bring  about
reform  that  corrects  the  historical  imbalance  in  the
Council’s  composition,  which  today  excludes  entire
Another important development is the circulation
by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and
Switzerland  of  a  proposal  on  the  working  methods  of
the  Security  Council.  Brazil  attaches 
the  utmost
importance to the issue of the practices of the Council.
Our current two-year mandate on the Council has only
reinforced  our  perception  that  there  is  an  urgent  need
for  the  Council  to  adopt  a  definitive  set  of  rules  of
procedure  and  to  observe  them  more  faithfully.  It  is
precisely  because  we  attach  such  importance  to  the
issue  of  working  methods  that  a  considerable  portion
of our own draft proposal was devoted to that question.
It is very clear that only through a comprehensive
approach  that  deals  with  the  issues  of  the  Council’s
working  methods  and  its  composition  will  we,  the
Members of the United Nations, be able to succeed in
bringing  the  Council  more  into  harmony  with  its
mandate  and  with  the  views  and  the  needs  of  all
Member States.
Progress  achieved  so  far  in  the  negotiations  on
the  establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission
and  the  Human  Rights  Council  demonstrates  the
falseness of claims that the present consideration of the
issue  of  Security  Council  reform  somehow  precludes
forward  movement  on  other  important  fronts  of  the
institutional reform of the Organization.
As a matter of fact, one now faces the previously
unimaginable  possibility  that  those  two  proposals  for
institutional reform, on the Peacebuilding Commission
and the Human Rights Council, could prosper without
any  corresponding  developments  on  the  composition
and the working methods of the Security Council. That
would  be  very  detrimental 
the  Organization’s
balance and harmony and should therefore be avoided.
We must ensure that progress is achieved in parallel on
all aspects of institutional reform.
to 
A few countries, seeking to avoid any decision on
the matter, have taken refuge in appeals for consensus
and  in  claims  that  the  issue  is  “disruptive”.  However,
their  actions  only  contribute  to  the  perpetuation  of
current inequalities in the structure of the Organization
and to the frustration of the aspiration of all Members,
in particular developing  countries, to a  more  balanced
distribution of power in the Security Council.
17
A/60/PV.49
Others claim that what is a reasonable expansion
of the Council would make it “unworkable” and would
sacrifice  the  Council’s  efficiency  and  effectiveness.
They fail to take into consideration that both efficiency
and effectiveness are directly related to the perception
of  the  legitimacy  of  the  decisions  that  the  Council
takes,  and  that  that,  in  turn,  is  a  function  of  a
representative composition.
It  is  time  for  the  General  Assembly  to  reach  a
decision  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council  expansion.
After  12  years  of  discussion  and  after  months  of
consideration  of  concrete  proposals,  there  can  be  no
denying that the issue is well known to all and ripe for
decision.  With  respect  to  the  fact  that  such  a  decision
will  most  probably  be  taken  by  a  vote,  it  should  be
pointed out that this stems from the importance of the
issue.  That  proven  democratic  method  of  coming  to  a
decision should frighten no one.
Ms.  Lintonen  (Finland):  At  the  outset,  I  would
like to convey my delegation’s deep condolences to the
families  of  the  victims  of  the  bomb  attacks  that
occurred  yesterday  in  Jordan.  We  condemn  in  the
strongest 
terrorism
targeting innocent civilians.
those  heinous  acts  of 
terms 
Let  me  thank  the  President  of  the  Security
Council  for  this  month,  Ambassador  Denisov  of  the
Russian  Federation,  for  introducing  the  annual  report
of  the  Security  Council  (A/60/2).  I  would  also  like  to
commend the Secretariat for its efforts in producing the
report.
We  must  seize  this  opportunity  to  further  the
goals of reform that were set for us in the 2005 World
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1). The momentum for
institutional  reform  must  not  be  lost.  While  stressing
the  importance  of  the  revitalization  of  the  General
Assembly  and  the  need  to  restore  the  political  stature
of the General Assembly and strengthen the role of the
Economic  and  Social  Council,  Finland  strongly
supports  the  reform  and  the  enlargement  of  the
Security Council.
In our view, any reform of the Council must aim
at  increasing  both  its  legitimacy  and  its  effectiveness.
To  be  truly  effective  in  carrying  out  its  primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security, the Council has to be seen as more
legitimate  by 
the
Organization. At the same time, a more representative
the  wider  membership  of 
18
and thus more legitimate Council will, in the long run,
be more effective in carrying out its functions.
Finland therefore supports an enlargement of the
Council in both the permanent and the non-permanent
categories.  However,  for  the  Council  to  be  both
effective  and  legitimate,  the  veto  right  should  not,
under  any  circumstances,  be  extended 
to  new
permanent  members.  Finland  also  strongly  supports
reform  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  in  order  to
make  the  Council  more  transparent,  inclusive  and
accountable.
To conclude, I would like to reaffirm our support
for  the  aspiration  of  Germany  and  Japan  to  become
permanent  members  of  an  enlarged  Security  Council,
and  for  making  the  Council  more  representative  by
including representatives of developing countries from
the southern hemisphere.
Mr. Reyes Rodríguez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish):
Like  preceding  speakers,  I  would  like  to  express
Cuba’s solidarity with those who today expressed their
condolences  for  the  victims  of  the  recent  terrorist
attacks  in  Jordan.  Cuba  joins  with  those  who  have
expressed  solidarity  with  the  people,  the  authorities
and the families of the victims.
We 
thank 
the  Permanent  Representative  of
Russia,  Ambassador  Andrey  Denisov, 
for  his
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security
Council (A/60/2), as  well  as the other members of the
Council  and  Secretariat  staff  for  their  efforts  in
preparing  this  voluminous  document,  submitted  to  the
General Assembly in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter of the United Nations.
The report includes, once again, a brief summary,
which is a positive adjustment to the format adopted in
recent  years.  However,  we  believe  that  the  report,
precisely  because  it  is  such  an  important  part  of  the
Council’s  institutional  memory,  should  be  subject  to
ongoing, more thorough improvement in order to make
it a document of greater analytical content.
Why  not,  for  example,  include  the  political  and
legal  bases  of  at  least  the  most  important  resolutions
adopted  by  the  Council?  And  why  not  include  in  the
report what was not  accomplished and the reasons for
that,  particularly  for  cases  on  which  the  Council  was
unable to act or clearly lacked unity? The report should
provide  a  greater  analysis  of  divided  votes,  especially
for cases in which a permanent member cast a negative
vote.  For  example,  in  the  period  under  consideration,
the  United  States  vetoed  a  draft  resolution  on  the
question of Palestine. Until changes can be made to the
Council’s  current  working  methods,  the  annual  report
should include detailed information on the discussions
held in closed meetings. In our opinion, it is necessary
and urgent to make changes of that nature to the annual
report.
the  necessary 
Meanwhile,  the  General  Assembly  has  yet  to
receive  the  special  reports  mentioned  in  Articles  15
and  24  of  the  Charter.  If  such  special  reports  were
submitted, all Member States would be able to review
with 
thoroughness
information  relevant  to  the  work  of  the  Council,  the
principal  organ,  of  limited  membership,  to  which  we
have  entrusted  the  primary  responsibility  for  the
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and
which,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,  acts  in  our
name.
frequency  and 
resolutions  — 
Therefore,  it  is  vital  to  fully  implement  those
General  Assembly 
for  example,
resolutions 51/193, 58/126 and  59/313  —  that  contain
provisions  to  facilitate  the  Security  Council’s  proper
accounting of its activities to the Assembly, which the
Member States have the legitimate right to receive.
There  cannot  be  a  genuine  reform  of  the  United
Nations  without  a  comprehensive  reform  of 
the
Security  Council,  an  organ  where  the  principle  of  the
sovereign  equality  of  States  is  institutionally  and
flagrantly  violated  on  a  daily  basis.  It  will  not  be
possible to restore the rule of international law or make
the  Organization  truly  democratic  as  long  as  the
Council  exercises  totalitarian  powers.  Nor  will  the
Council recover its credibility and the legitimacy of its
decisions  as  long  as  the  super-Power  continues  to
impose its will by the force of arms and the use of its
money for blackmail.
We have often reaffirmed that the veto should be
eliminated. But even after achieving the elimination of
that unjust privilege, nothing will change if the reform
leaves untouched the unacceptable, aggressive conduct
and  the  hegemonic  ambition  of  the  world’s  most
powerful  country  in  terms  of  military  and  economic
power, or fails to  address the logic of domination  and
pillage  that  governs  the  essential  processes  of  the
international 
system,
disarmament and the precarious, temporary equilibrium
of  international  security  schemes.  That  set  of  factors
economic 
financial 
and 
A/60/PV.49
prevents 
the  majority  of  Council  members  from
exercising their will and inhibits the General Assembly
in its exercise of the considerable powers assigned to it
by  the  Charter  so  that  it  can  tackle  the  important
challenges  arising  from  the  world’s  political,  military
and financial situation.
Therefore,  until 
the  ultimate  objective  of
eliminating the veto can be achieved, it is necessary, as
a  first  step  in  that  direction,  to  limit  the  veto’s  use  to
actions taken under Chapter VII of the Charter.
The  Security  Council  should  be  expanded  to
include  new  permanent  and  non-permanent  members.
The  new  permanent  and  non-permanent  members
joining  the  Council  as  part  of  this  expansion  should
receive  the  same  prerogatives  as  current  permanent
members. The basic objective of this expansion should
be  to  correct  the  underrepresentation  of  developing
countries  in  the  Council’s  membership.  Cuba  believes
that  two  or  three  countries  from  Africa,  two  or  three
countries  from  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  and
two  or  three  developing  countries  from  Asia  should
join the Council as permanent members, with the same
powers as current members, including the veto.
However, Council reform cannot be limited to the
question  of  the  increase  of  its  membership.  It  must
include  proposals  for  achieving  with  urgency  a  deep
transformation  of  its  working  methods  in  order  to
ensure 
the  Council’s  democratic  functioning  and
adequate 
the
necessary  steps  to  end  the  provisional  nature  of  its
rules of procedure.
including  by 
transparency, 
taking 
Although one notes occasional efforts to increase
the  number  of  open  meetings  of  the  Council,  in  our
opinion  those  meetings  still  do  not  offer  a  real
opportunity for the points of view of countries that are
not  members  of  the  Council  to  be  properly  taken  into
account. The informal briefings, of varying quality and
frequency,  carried  out  by  the  presidency  and  the
subsequent  monthly  reviews  are  the  only  mechanisms
that  timidly  allow  us  to  obtain  some  information
concerning  what  takes  place  in  the  Council’s  private
consultations.
It  is  regrettable  that  the  Council  continues  to
carry  out  a  great  part  of  its  work  in  closed  meetings,
particularly  in  informal  consultations,  which,  when
they are convened at the request of the most powerful
of  its  members,  cause  peace-loving  people  throughout
the  world  to  lose  sleep.  That  practice  contravenes  the
19
A/60/PV.49
Council’s  own  rules  and  has  emphatically  been  called
unacceptable by most States. In that context, we thank
those members of the Council that have made concrete
efforts to give us timely information on what is taking
place in that principal organ.
Furthermore,  the  Council  distorts  the  Charter’s
spirit  and  its  provisions  by  means  of  its  increasingly
intrusive  agenda,  which  usurps  functions  of 
the
General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council.  We  note  with  concern  the  attempt  to  confer
legislative  powers  on  the  Security  Council,  something
that  is  beyond  its  mandate  and  is  in  clear  violation  of
the most fundamental principles of the law of treaties.
While the Council oversteps its area of competence on
some  issues,  on  others,  regrettably  and  alarmingly,  it
maintains  a  continuous  state  of  paralysis,  such  as  on
the  current  situation  of 
the  occupied  Palestinian
territories.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  recall  that
during the fifty-ninth session of the Assembly, we saw
that  the  issue  of  Security Council  reform  continues  to
be very sensitive. Today’s joint debate and those of the
preceding days provide another opportunity for a better
understanding  of  the  respective  positions  of  Member
States.  We  believe  that  the  concerns,  aspirations  and
specific  proposals  expressed  here  could  be  studied  in
greater  depth  to  restart  the  work  of  the  Assembly’s
Open-ended  Working  Group  in  order  to  finally  make
progress  on  the  far-reaching,  comprehensive  and  just
reform of the Security Council.
Mr. Sumaida’ie  (Iraq) (spoke in Arabic):  At  the
outset,  I  join  preceding  speakers  in  condemning  the
9 November  terrorist  attacks  in  Amman,  which  killed
and injured dozens of innocent civilians. On behalf of
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Iraq,  I  express  my
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the
brotherly  country  of  Jordan  and  to  the  families  of  the
victims.  I  express  my  appreciation  to  those  who  have
condemned  the  terrorist  attacks  in  Iraq  and  who  have
expressed  their  sympathy  for  the  victims  of  daily
terrorist  acts.  Terrorism  has  no  homeland,  nationality
or religion. Terrorism can be defeated only  by uniting
our efforts in an international campaign to eliminate it.
The  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  Council
reform  concluded  its  work  and  recommended  that  the
item continue to be considered at the current session of
the  General  Assembly.  I  take  this  opportunity  to
express my delegation’s appreciation for the efforts of
20
the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth
session,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  who  so  ably  guided  the
activities of the Working Group.
through 
an 
increase 
It  is  more  than  ever  necessary  to  reform  the
Security  Council 
its
membership, a review of the items on its agenda and an
improvement of its working methods, because the geo-
political  situation  has  changed  dramatically  since  the
United  Nations  was  founded.  We  have  to  make  sure
that  such  reform  can  keep  pace  with  the  changes  that
have taken place.
in 
The question of Security Council reform has been
on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly  since  1993.
During that time, some progress has been made in the
discussion  of  the  various  ideas  and  courses  of  action.
However,  the  Assembly  has  not  been  able  to  take
critical  decisions  to  adopt  those  proposals,  except  for
the resolution setting out the required majority needed
to  take  a  decision  on  Security  Council  reform  and
related matters.
That  failure  can  be  attributed  in  part  to  the  fact
that all issues related to reform — in particular cluster
II issues, on which there is some general consensus —
have  been  linked  to  the  issue  of  the  increase  in  the
Council’s  permanent  and  non-permanent  membership.
There  continue  to  be  profound  differences  on  that
particular issue, on which consultations reached a high
point in the second half of this year, when we saw draft
resolutions submitted to the General  Assembly.  While
those  draft  resolutions  touched  on  various  cluster  II
issues,  they  focused  mainly  on  an  increase  of  the
membership of the Council.
We  believe  that  further  improvement  of  the
Council’s  working  methods  will  bring  us  closer  to
agreement  on  the  increase  of  its  membership.  My
delegation  reaffirms  the  need  for  Member  States  to
strive  to  find  common  ground  on  the  issue  of  the
expansion of the Council’s membership.
Delegations  have  put  forward  valuable  opinions
and views with the aim of making progress on general
United Nations reform before moving on to the specific
question  of  Security  Council  reform.  The  2005  World
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) adopted by heads of
State  and  Government  in  September  gave  impetus  to
that line of action, especially as the outcome document
placed  no  special  emphasis  on  Security  Council
reform.
the 
We now note that members of the United Nations
are 
thoroughly  preoccupied  with 
issue  of
establishing  important  structures  that  will  contribute
greatly  to  the  reform  of  the  Organization.  In  addition,
the  results  and  recommendations  of  the  Independent
Inquiry  Committee  of  the  “oil-for-food”  programme
have  contributed to  the  reform  of  the  Secretariat.  It  is
necessary  to  improve  transparency  and  accountability
in  the  Secretariat  and  other  organs  in  order  to  restore
the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  reassure
Member States that they can entrust important funds to
the  United  Nations  and  be  confident  that  those  funds
will be spent responsibly and appropriately.
in 
a  way 
that  makes 
Like  other  delegations  that  have  spoken  on  the
issue  of  Security  Council  reform,  my  delegation
believes  that  it  is  important  to  increase  the  Council’s
membership 
it  more
representative, that better reflects the greatly increased
membership of the Organization over the past 60 years
and  that  does  not  undermine  the  Council’s  efficiency
and  effectiveness.  At  the  same  time,  however,  my
delegation attaches special importance to the cluster II
issues  on  the  improvement  of  the  Council’s  working
methods, because those issues affect the interests of all
Member  States,  whereas  the  increase  of  the  Council’s
membership,  especially  in  the  category  of  permanent
members, affects the interests of only a limited number
of States.
Since  the  fifty-seventh  session,  the  Open-ended
Working  Group  on  Council  reform  has  covered
important  ground  in  examining  cluster  II  issues,  on
some  of  which 
in  principle.
However,  that  agreement  cannot  be  secured  until  it  is
incorporated into the Council’s rules of procedure.
is  agreement 
there 
There  are  some  cluster  II  issues  that  we  wish  to
underline,  foremost  among  which  is  the  issue  of
sanctions  regimes.  I  can  speak  of  sanctions  regimes
from personal experience, because my country suffered
the side effects of sanctions for 13 years and continues
to suffer the consequences of those sanctions. We fully
agree  with  the  report  of  the  Working-Group,  which
states  that  “sanctions  should  be  designed  in  such  a
manner  so  that  their  long-term  effects  are  considered
and their effects on civilian populations are minimized
or  avoided  on 
the  basis  of  an  assessment  of
humanitarian impact” (A/59/47, Annex II, para. 16).
My  delegation  wishes  to  underline  that  the
purpose  of  sanctions,  as  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the
A/60/PV.49
United Nations, is to  rectify  wrong action and  modify
the behaviour of regimes that the Security Council has
found  not  to  be  in  compliance  with  its  resolutions.
Sanctions  are  not  to  be  used  to  undermine  States  or
destroy  their  social  fabric.  Sanctions  are  to  be  an
individual form of punishment that targets persons and
regimes,  and  not  a  form  of  collective  punishment  that
targets  an  entire  population  or  country.  We  therefore
believe  that  it  is  important  to  use  the  points  agreed
upon  in  that  regard  in  the  2005  World  Summit
Outcome  document  to  guide  the  Security  Council’s
work in improving sanctions regimes.
With respect to the veto, we agree with those that
prefer to add this issue to cluster II. We hope to see the
use of the veto restricted as greatly as possible, first by
limiting its use to issues that fall under Chapter VII of
the  Charter  and,  secondly,  by  adopting  measures  to
place controls on its use.
that 
in
paragraph 257 of the report of the High-level Panel on
Threats,  Challenges  and  Change  (A/59/565)  for  the
introduction  of  a  procedure  of  “indicative  voting”  in
the  Security  Council  would  contribute  to  a  greater
elucidation  of  the  reasons  behind  “no”  votes  and  thus
limit the use of the veto.
the  proposal  contained 
We  believe 
Another issue is that of the threat to international
peace  and  security  posed  by  terrorism  —  and  the
means  to  combat  it.  Since  terrorism  is  a  social
phenomenon,  it  must  be  confronted  with  international
participation. We therefore stress the importance of the
Counter-Terrorism Committee and the Security Council
Committee  on  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction,  established  pursuant  to  Security
Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  and  resolution  1540
(2004)  respectively.  States  have  a  responsibility  to
fully cooperate with those two Committees. We believe
it is necessary for these issues to receive the attention
and  sponsorship  they  deserve,  first,  because  they
account  for  a  major  portion  of  the  Security  Council
agenda 
the
improving 
Committees’  monitoring 
implementation
machinery  and  the  subsequent  implementation  by
countries of their obligations under the two resolutions
would enhance the means of combating terrorism.
secondly,  because 
and 
and, 
In  that  regard,  strengthening  communication  and
cooperation  between  regional  organizations  and  the
two  Committees  and  enhancing  related  programmes
21
A/60/PV.49
further 
strengthen 
and  mechanisms  would 
the
effectiveness of international counter-terrorism efforts.
That leads us to the role of regional organizations
in  maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  We
believe  it  is  important  and  pragmatic  to  ensure  that
regional  organizations  play  their  vital  role  in  the
resolution  of  regional  conflicts  and  in  peacebuilding.
That  means  implementation  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the
Charter,  while  ensuring  that  there  is  no  infringement
upon  the  Security  Council’s  obligations  under  the
Charter. In addition, it would strengthen respect for and
protection of human rights.
I wish in conclusion to note that the recent years
have  seen  an  increase  in  the  number  of  Security
Council meetings open to non-members. There has also
been  an  increase  in  the  participation  of  non-members
in the Council’s deliberations, when those deliberations
pertain  to  the  interests  of  those  States.  While  we
welcome  such  developments,  we  look  forward  to
consolidating  the  practice  in  a  manner  that  activates
Article 31 of the Charter and that has a positive impact
on  openness  and  transparency  in  the  work  of  the
Council.
(Guatemala) 
Mr.  Skinner-Klée 
in
Spanish):  I  wish  to  begin  by  conveying  our  heartfelt
condolences  to  the  people  and  the  Government  of  the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on the dreadful terrorist
attacks  that  took  place  on  9  November  in  Amman,
which have taken a heavy toll in innocent lives.
(spoke 
We  wish  to  thank  Ambassador  Andrey  Denisov,
Permanent Representative of the Russian Federation to
the United Nations,  for introducing, in his capacity as
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of
November, the Council’s annual report (A/60/2).
Even  though  the  link  between  the  two  items  on
which we  are  today  holding  a  joint  debate  is  obvious,
we  remain  of  the  view  that  the  report  of  the  Security
Council  is  sufficiently  important  to  warrant  separate
consideration, particularly at a time when we are trying
to find new ways to improve the principal organs of the
Organization.
In that connection, it is interesting to highlight a
curious  point,  namely  the  fact  that  the  report  of  the
Security Council is mentioned expressly in two distinct
and separate provisions of the United Nations Charter:
Article  15,  paragraph  1,  and  Article  24,  paragraph  3.
These  provisions  are  contained, 
in
respectively, 
22
Chapters  IV  and  V  of  the  Charter,  which  are  entirely
devoted  respectively  to  the  General  Assembly  and  to
the Security Council.
It  is  also  of  interest  to  point  out  that,  as  far  as
substance  is  concerned,  the  former  provision  refers
explicitly  to  the  functions  that  the  Security  Council
performs  within  the  framework  of  Chapter  VII,  to
maintain international peace and security.
From those characteristics of the Charter we infer
the importance that its authors attached to the report of
the Council: that it should reflect the developments that
have  taken  place  within  the  Council,  which  in  turn
should  be  the  object  of  analysis  and  consideration  by
the General Assembly.
That should come as no surprise considering that
the report is the only formal link between the General
Assembly and the Security Council and that those two
principal  organs  of 
the  United  Nations  exercise
functions and powers in the area of the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security.  We  should  also  be
aware  of  the  importance  of  that  link  as  a  means  of
ensuring 
and
complementarity  between  the  two  organs’  activities  in
that  field,  which,  as  the  International  Court  of  Justice
has  correctly  observed,  constitutes  the  most  important
of the purposes of the United Nations.
indispensable 
coordination 
the 
The  Security  Council’s  annual  report  to  the
General  Assembly  must  therefore  be  more  than  a
merely symbolic or ritualistic act. It should not just be
a  formal,  procedural  act  but  a  matter  of  substance.  In
other  words,  it  is  not  enough  for  the  report  barely  to
meet  the  minimum  requirements  to  qualify  as  one,
when  in  reality  it  is  a  mere  outline,  without  even  a
detailed account of the votes that have taken place. The
report  should  be  the  principal  nexus  between  the  two
organs.  And,  above  all,  given  the  close  relationship
between  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  all  the  other
functions of the United Nations, the report should be a
tool enabling the General Assembly to fulfil its role as
the  principal  deliberative  and  policy  organ  of  the
United Nations.
Guatemala  appreciates  the  efforts  that  have  been
made  to  significantly  improve,  and  even  to  slightly
alter,  the  key  characteristics  of  the  introduction  to  the
report.  The  report  nevertheless  continues 
to  be
predominantly  a  descriptive,  routine  collection  of
documents  with  its  emphasis  on  a  chronological
account  of  what  the  Council  has  done  and  what,  as  a
matter of public record, has occurred within it.
the most heated debates during the past few months of
the work of the Assembly.
A/60/PV.49
Regrettably, the report lacks an evaluation of the
difficulties, advances, setbacks and obstacles that have
arisen  in  the  Council’s  endeavours  to  resolve  the
conflicts that threaten international peace and security.
Therefore,  the  report  of  the  Council  should  become
more substantial in order  to  promote  a  debate  on  how
the future work of that organ can be improved.
item  on  our  agenda 
the
consideration of the report of the Security Council, we
should not pass over in silence or refrain from stressing
the fact that the report must cease to be nothing more
than  a  bare  record,  a  mere  yearbook,  and  should
become  an  annotated  agenda  on 
the  Council’s
deliberations, reflecting the various positions taken and
matters that have prompted debate.
Although 
the 
is 
In its present form, the report of the Council does
not help us understand the nature of the situations that
disrupt international peace and security. The lack of an
analytical  rather  than  chronological  report  means  that
questions  affecting  all  of  humanity  are  understood  by
less  than  one  tenth  of  the  membership  of  the  United
Nations.  In  an  interdependent  and  globalized  world,
that is an anachronism that does not serve the purposes
of the Organization. It is a practice that we must review
in  order  to  adopt  methods  of  work  that  impart  greater
transparency  to  the  deliberations  of 
the  Security
Council, which will not only make the maintenance of
international  peace  and  security  more  viable  but  also
advance  the  promotion  of  friendly  relations  between
nations  and  strengthen  the  international  cooperation
that is required for resolving the problems that plague
humanity.
To  be  sure,  in  one  area  that  is  of  particular
importance to my delegation — the transparency of the
Council’s  working  methods  and  achieving  closer
interchange  with  States  not  represented  on  it  —  the
Council  has  made  significant  progress.  But  there  is
room for more progress. In particular, we must extend,
as  much  as  possible,  the  practice  of  holding  public
meetings  of  the  Council,  with  the  greatest  possible
number of interested parties in attendance.
Guatemala is firmly committed to the process  of
United Nations reform, as laid down in the Millennium
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  2005  World
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1).  The  question  of
reforming the United Nations system has given rise to
We trust that significant advances will be possible
in realizing this necessary and urgent reform, advances
that  will  take  into  account  all  the  institutions  and
mechanisms  of  the  Organization,  wherever  improved
and more efficient functioning is needed. Guatemala is
ready  to  contribute  to  the  process  with  ideas  and  by
taking part in a constructive dialogue with all Member
States.
We are grateful for initiatives such as that of the
representatives  of  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,
Singapore  and  Switzerland  in  connection  with  a  draft
resolution  on  improving  the  working  methods  of  the
Council. Guatemala appreciates their proposal. We feel
that  such  contributions  will  unquestionably  enrich  the
dialogue  among  Member  States  and  will  activate  the
process  of  implementing  the  2005  World  Summit
Outcome (resolution 60/1).
Before  briefly 
touching  upon  some  of 
the
principles  that  inform  my  delegation’s  views  on  the
subject  of  Security  Council  reform,  I  wish  to  convey
my  gratitude  to  the  former  President  of  the  General
Assembly, Mr. Jean Ping, for his leadership in the work
of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group,  as  well  as  to  the
Vice-Chairpersons  of  that  body,  the  representative  of
the  Bahamas,  Ms.  Paulette  Bethel, 
the
representative 
of  Liechtenstein,  Mr.  Christian
Wenaweser. The Working Group’s report has provided
very interesting information, analysis and reflection on
the issue that concerns us today.
and 
For  Guatemala,  Security  Council  reform  is  a
crucial element, but one that is inevitably linked to the
wider  process  of  United  Nations  reform.  An  effective
collective  security  system  necessarily  requires  the
comprehensive  strengthening  of  multilateralism  and
the United Nations. This is why, in our view, Security
Council  reform  should  not  concentrate  solely  on
increasing  the  number  of  members;  it  should  also
include  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  Council’s
working methods and the decision-making process.
to  be  more 
I  wish  to  reiterate  my  country’s  conviction  that
representative,
the  Council  needs 
transparent  and  efficient.  That  is  why  we  advocate  an
increase  in  its  membership.  We  agree  that  such  an
increase 
categories  of
membership  —  permanent  and  non-permanent  —
taking  special  care  to  ensure  adequate  geographical
to  both 
should 
apply 
23
A/60/PV.49
representation and the inclusion of both developed and
developing countries.
Guatemala favours continuing efforts to make the
Council  more  open  and  accessible,  in  the  interest  of
greater  transparency,  so  as  to  demonstrate  that,  as  the
Charter  specifies,  the  Council  is  truly  acting  “on  ...
behalf”  of  Member  States  and,  accordingly,  in  the
interest  of 
international  community  —  and
enjoying  at  all  times  the  valuable  contributions  of
interested States.
the 
We  support  better  coordination  among 
the
Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  the
Economic  and  Social  Council  so  as  to  guarantee
continuity  in  the  Organization’s  peacekeeping  and
peacebuilding 
the
responsibilities  and  powers  specific  to  each  United
Nations organ, in conformity with the Charter.
always  preserving 
activities, 
We would also like to see an analysis of relations
with  the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.
Here,  we  consider  that  reference  should  have  been
made to the experience gained from the Economic and
Social Council’s ad hoc advisory groups — on African
countries  emerging  from  conflict,  such  as  Guinea-
Bissau  and  Burundi,  and  on  Haiti.  Through  their  own
mechanisms, 
coordination
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and
Social  Council.  We  believe  that  this  has  helped
promote  a  holistic  focus  responding  to  both  security
issues  and  economic  issues  in  the  transition  and
recovery phases.
these  have 
improved 
in 
Finally,  Guatemala  reaffirms  its  commitment  to
participate  actively 
the  future  discussions  on
Security Council reform. That goes hand in hand with
our aspiration to be elected next year by the Assembly,
for  the  first  time,  to  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the
Security  Council,  which  will  enable  us  to  continue  to
contribute  to  the  process  of  reforming  the  working
methods of the Council.
Mr.  Lidén  (Sweden):  First  of  all,  I  wish  to
express  my  sincere  condolences  to  the  delegation  of
Jordan  and  to  the  families  and  friends  of  all  of  the
victims  of  the  terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  in
Amman.  The  Swedish  Government  condemns,  in  the
strongest  possible  terms,  those  who  planned  and
carried out that horrible crime.
Two  months  ago,  we  took  important  steps  to
reform  the  United  Nations.  Once  implemented,  those
24
decisions  will  strengthen  our  ability  to  cope  with
current global threats  and  challenges.  The  2005  High-
level Plenary Meeting  clearly spelled out  the  need  for
early reform of the Security Council in order to make it
more  broadly  representative,  efficient  and  transparent.
Equally important, reform of the Security Council was
seen  as  part  of  the  overall  effort  to  reform  the  United
Nations.
We  are  pleased  that  negotiations  are  now  under
way on several of the reform issues. But we must also
proceed  to address the outstanding ones. We therefore
welcome today’s debate on the crucial issue of Security
Council reform.
Sweden  is  among  the  Member  States  that  have
advocated  reform  of  the  Security  Council  since  the
early  1990s.  For  the  Security  Council  to  remain  the
primary  body  in  our  collective  security  system,  its
legitimacy and effectiveness must be assured.
Sweden  believes  that,  on  the  one  hand,  the
Security  Council  should  be  expanded,  allowing
stronger  representation  from  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin
America. On the other hand, the Security Council must
be  an  effective  body  that  can  act  quickly  and  in  a
transparent  way.  We  therefore  believe  that  the  veto
power  should  not  be  extended  to  new  members.
Instead,  a  veto-free  culture  should  be  promoted.
Furthermore, the Security Council’s working methods,
its  transparency  and  its  dialogue  with  other  United
Nations bodies must be strengthened. We welcome the
efforts  to  that  end  by  the  delegations  of  Costa  Rica,
Jordan, Liechtenstein, Singapore and Switzerland.
By  the  end  of  the  year,  we  should  come  to  an
agreement  on  how  we  can  invigorate  the  process  and
carry  it  forward  into  2006.  As  Sweden  has  said  many
times before, non-action on this matter is not an option.
For  our  part,  we  are  ready  to  contribute  to  finding  a
solution that will be broadly accepted and thus seen as
truly legitimate.
After  years  of  debate,  we  much  reach  an
agreement  on  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Let  us
use  the  momentum  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting
to continue to move forward on this issue. In the end,
our  global  response  to  the  threats  and  challenges  of
today will depend on our resolve to reform the United
Nations,  including  the  body  that  has  the  primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security.
to  add  our  voice  of 
Mrs.  Holguín  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Allow  me 
rejection  and
condemnation  in  the  aftermath  of  the  terrorist  attacks
in Jordan. We reaffirm our support and solidarity to the
Government and the people of Jordan.
the  United  Nations  system  must  respond  through
economic  development  programmes 
that  promote
sustainability in the efforts and commitments made by
the Haitian authorities and the international community
in its support and cooperation.
A/60/PV.49
We  would  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Denisov,
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Russian  Federation
and  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  for
having introduced the report of the Security Council to
the General Assembly (A/60/2). The report reviews all
the situations considered in the Council. It depicts the
complexity  of  those  situations,  particularly  in  Africa
and  in  the  Middle  East.  We  support  every  effort  to
achieve  stability  and  peace  in  those  regions.  We
acknowledge  the  work  of  the  Council  during  this
particularly complex reporting period.
As in previous years, I would like to reiterate that
we  would  have  preferred  to  see  a  document  including
not  only  a 
the  questions  under
consideration,  but  also  with  some  content  on  the
Council’s decision-making process.
summary  of 
We  support  the  progress  made  on  the  issue  of
counter-terrorism  and  commend  the  chairmen  of  the
committees for their work. We believe that we must not
lose  our  initial  enthusiasm,  since  that  issue  is  key  to
world  peace  and  security.  There  is  no  doubt  that
meaningful  progress  has  been  made  and  that  support
mechanisms for States seeking assistance in efficiently
combating 
terrorism  should  be  strengthened  and
consolidated in order to continue enhancing the global
fight through multilateralism.
We  also  welcome  the  field  missions  undertaken
by the Council. We believe that they are a way to learn
about and understand realities in their true context and
scope, based on clear and first-hand information. They
will allow us to take more appropriate decisions and to
find proper solutions to every situation.
In 
that  regard,  we  acknowledge 
the  work
undertaken by the Ambassador of Brazil, Mr. Ronaldo
Mota  Sardenberg,  during  that  Council’s  mission  to
Haiti. The situation in Haiti requires a coordinated and
long-term  effort  by  the  United  Nations  to  strengthen
democratic 
to  draw  up  a
sustainable  and  comprehensive  development  strategy
that  would  ensure  the  economic  and  social  progress
and  well-being  of  the  people,  as  well  as  political
stability  in  a  secure  and  peaceful  environment.  The
Council  must  lead  the  first  phase  of  stabilization  and
institutions 
there  and 
We  believe  that  a  review  of  the  Council’s
working  methods  to  promote  transparency  and  the
participation  of  non-member  States 
is  essential,
especially given that, as stated in the report,
“The  past  12  months  reaffirmed  the  trend
observed  in  recent  years  towards  a  continuous
increase in the volume and scope of the activities
of the Security Council.” (A/60/2, p. 1)
That  continuous  increase  in  the  activities  of  the
Council  warrants  broader  consultation  with  Member
States,  regional  groups  and  other  relevant  actors  in
order  to  allow  the  Council  to  take  better  informed
decisions  aimed  at  finding  viable  and  definitive
resolutions for certain situations.
threats 
focus  on 
the  Council’s 
the  Council  must 
In  order  to  ensure  effectiveness  and  successful
results, 
to
international peace and security. Opening the agenda to
items  not  directly  related  to  its  core  mandate  could
affect its efficiency and reliability in the exercise of its
duties. Just as the Arria Formula has proven its worth
during 
consultations  with  non-
governmental  organizations  and  members  of  civil
society,  we  believe  that  it  is  necessary  and  urgent  to
seek  a  similar  formula  for  holding  consultations  with
States.  It  could  be  implemented  immediately  and
would require only the Council’s willingness to do so.
A  formula  to  enable  States  to  address  substantive
issues  alongside  the  Council  would  help  Council
members  to  gain  access  to  broader  and  more  accurate
information  on  national  and  regional  realities,  which
could  only  help  the  Council  to  take  decisions  that  are
more  appropriate  to  particular  contexts  and  thus  find
lasting solutions to issues under consideration.
solutions, 
In  seeking  sustainable 
its  main
objective,  we  believe  that  the  Council  should  broaden
its  focus  on  the  follow-up  to  situations  on  its  agenda.
Monitoring  alone  will  not  help  to  solve  problems.  We
believe that the Council must also propose suggestions
to the system so that it can mobilize, design and carry
out  impact  projects  to  contribute  to  solving  crises.  A
better  identification  of  national  needs  will  help  the
Council  better  to  address  crises  and  find  lasting
solutions.
25
A/60/PV.49
With respect to the issue of working methods, we
believe  that  broad  consultations  would  help  in  the
drafting of proposals to improve the Council’s actions
in  exercise  of  its  mandate.  In  that  regard,  we  believe
that the initiative of Costa Rica, Jordan, Liechtenstein,
Singapore and Switzerland to invite Member States to
discuss  that  issue  is  constructive,  and  we  are  open  to
discussing  it  as  a  new  element  that  could  enrich  our
debate.
I reaffirm my country’s commitment to reforming
the  Council’s  composition  pursuant  to  the  guidelines
and proposals submitted by the Uniting for Consensus
group  and  contained  in  document  A/59/L.68.  That
proposal has major strengths. It is flexible, democratic,
open  and  participatory  and  has  a  regional  dimension
that  is  unique  in  this  debate.  It  would  prevent  the
widening of differences within the multilateral system.
We  believe  that  Security  Council  reform  falls  within
the larger reform being undertaken. We have expended
a great deal of time and energy on the issue in the past,
and  it  has  distracted  us  from  other  issues  of  great
importance to most of our countries.
We  welcome  the  focus  of  the  presidency  of
Mr. Jan  Eliasson  on  reforms  that  will  meet  the  needs
and  alleviate  the  problems  of  peoples,  which  are
ultimately  those  who  must  benefit  from  the  decisions
we take here. We believe that the major challenges the
United  Nations  faces  require  unity  among  all  its
Members 
to  be  respond  efficiently  and
effectively to the world’s great tests. It must seek unity,
cooperation and consensus among its Members. Those
essential elements should be our guidelines throughout
the  reform  process,  including  that  of  the  Security
Council’s working methods and expansion.
is 
if 
it 
Ms.  Moses 
(Nauru):  On  behalf  of 
the
Government and people of Nauru, I wish to express our
deepest sympathy to the Government and people of the
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  for  the  tragic  loss  of
lives in the terrorist attacks in Amman.
My  delegation 
thanks  you,  Sir, 
the
opportunity  to  discuss  agenda  item  9,  “Report  of  the
Security Council”,  and  agenda item 117,  “Question of
equitable 
the
the  Security  Council  and  related
membership  of 
matters”.
representation  on  and 
increase 
for 
in 
I shall restrict my remarks to agenda item 117.
26
Nauru  strongly  believes  that  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council  lies  with  the  need  to  recognize  the
intrinsic connection between the pillars that uphold the
United  Nations  system.  In 
that  regard,  we  are
disappointed by the relative inaction by Member States
in seeking progress on Security Council reform.
agenda 
Nauru welcomes the high priority accorded to the
development 
summit.
Comprehensive  work  has  been  carried  out  on  the
establishment of a human rights council. Texts are now
being  discussed 
a
peacebuilding commission.
establishment  of 
the  world 
the 
for 
at 
Equally  important  is  the  need  to  reform  the
Security  Council  and  to  recognize  that  international
development since the establishment of that body many
decades  ago  now  demands  a  more  democratic
representation  of  the  global  family  in  an  expanded
Security  Council.  The  earlier 
those  reforms  are
implemented,  the  earlier  the  work  of  the  United
Nations  can  be  further  improved.  Security  Council
reform  must 
the
establishment  of  the  human  rights  council  and  the
peacebuilding  commission,  and  with  United  Nations
management  reforms.  Otherwise,  the  pillars  upon
which  this  body  was  founded  will  not  hold  up  to  the
challenges of the twenty-first century.
simultaneously  with 
occur 
Nauru  co-sponsored  the  reform  proposal  by  the
G-4 countries contained in document A/59/L.64, which
was  introduced  at  the  fifty-ninth  session.  It  is  my
delegation’s strong view that this is still the only draft
resolution 
that  provides  a  proper  and  complete
framework  for  change  and  to  improve  the  current
structure  of  the  Security  Council.  It  is  the  only  draft
resolution that protects the interests of all States, large
and small, showing no bias to any particular region or
group.  My  delegation  would  further  welcome  its
reintroduction  at  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly.
Nauru  reaffirms  its  position  that  an  expanded
Security  Council  must  include  Brazil,  Germany,  India
and  Japan.  Ultimately,  the  success  of  the  United
Nations  will  depend  on  a  reformed  and  enlarged
Security Council.
Mr. Maema (Lesotho): We wish to join the many
voices  that  have  condemned  the  terrorist  bombings  in
Amman, Jordan, and on behalf of the Government and
the people of Lesotho, I convey our deepest sympathy
and  condolences  to  the  victims  of  the  attacks,  their
families, and the people and the Government of Jordan.
Let  me  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to
the President of the Security Council for the month of
November  2005,  Mr.  Andrey  Denisov,  Permanent
Representative  of 
for
introducing  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the
General Assembly.
the  Russian  Federation, 
The  delegation  of  Lesotho  fully  associates  itself
with 
the  statement  delivered  by 
the  Permanent
Representative  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African
Group. However, we wish to highlight a few issues that
are of particular interest to Lesotho.
in 
improvements  made 
We have noted an improvement in the quality and
content  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  My
delegation  welcomes 
the
working  methods  of  the  Council,  particularly  the
increase  in  the  number  of  meetings  held  in  public.
However,  we  believe  that  there  still  exists  room  for
further improvement. Indeed, the need for the Security
Council  to  enhance  its  accountability  to  the  entire
United  Nations  membership  and 
the
transparency of its work was reiterated by the heads of
State and Government at the recent millennium review
summit in September.
increase 
to 
My delegation therefore welcomes progress made
over  the  years,  though  it  has  been  very  slow,  by  the
the  Question  of
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
Related  to  the  Security  Council,  particularly  under
cluster  II  concerning  the  working  methods  of  the
Council  and  the  transparency  of  its  work.  At  this
juncture,  let  me  congratulate  Ambassadors  Paulette
Bethel  of  the  Bahamas  and  Christian  Wenaweser  of
Liechtenstein, 
the
Working  Group,  for  the  magnificent  manner  in  which
they  steered  deliberations  on  very  complex  issues  in
the  Working  Group,  and  also  for  preparing  a  concise
report.  My  delegation 
future
deliberations of the Working Group. We sincerely hope
they  will  be  approached  with 
renewed  spirits,
particularly after the recent review summit.
two  Vice-Chairpersons  of 
forward 
looks 
the 
in 
to 
A/60/PV.49
basis  on  which  the  United  Nations  membership  can
further build.
The  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  continues  to  believe
that the issues of the  working methods of  the  Council
and  of  the  expansion  of  its  membership  are  both
capable of resolution. What is required is the necessary
political  will  and  genuine  commitment  to  making
tangible progress on those issues. In September, heads
of  State  and  Government  requested 
the  General
Assembly  to  review  progress  on  the  reform  of  the
Security  Council  by  the  end  of  this  year.  They
reiterated  the  fact  that  the  Council  has  to  be,  among
other 
representative  and  more
legitimate.
things,  broadly 
to  reflect 
the  continent’s 
The  report  of  the  Security  Council  confirms  the
fact  that,  as  has  been  the  case  in  previous  years,  the
Council  was  in  the  past  year  mostly  preoccupied  by
crises in Africa. It is therefore a hard fact that Africa’s
representation  in  the  Security  Council  needs  to  be
enhanced 
interests  and
perceptions.  The  Common  African  Position,  as
contained  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  in  the  Sirte
Declaration, is well known. It calls for two permanent
seats,  with 
the  prerogatives  and  privileges  of
permanent  membership,  and  five  non-permanent  seats
for  Africa.  We  therefore  appeal  to  this  body  to  heed
Africa’s call for support for its position, for it is driven
not  by  the  interests  of  one  country,  but  by  a  strong
desire  to  empower  a  region  facing  various  crises
relating to international peace and security.
Mr. Berruga (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): At the
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  to  the  people  and
Government  of  Jordan  Mexico’s  deepest  condolences
and  condemnation  of  the  despicable  terrorist  attacks
perpetrated  two  days  ago  in  Amman.  At  this  difficult
time,  we  affirm  our  solidarity  towards  our  Jordanian
friends.
Throughout  last  year,  Security  Council  reform
occupied  a  salient  place  in  the  discussions  of  the
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  At  the  outset  of  this
new round of consultations, it seems worthwhile asking
ourselves:  Why  does  that  issue  prompt  such  priority
interest? There are three possible explanations.
Furthermore, my delegation wishes to express its
appreciation  for  proposals  contained  in  the  informal
paper  circulated  by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,
Singapore and Switzerland on the working methods of
the  Council.  In  our  view,  the  paper  provides  a  useful
The first is that the Security Council is the organ
that is showing the clearest symptoms of being in crisis
and  that  therefore  requires  the  most  urgent  attention.
That is highly debatable. The Security Council may not
necessarily be the organ in the most critical situation.
27
A/60/PV.49
The  second  reason  is  that  the  Security  Council
has consolidated itself as the most influential organ of
the  United  Nations  and  that  any  alteration  to  it  will
therefore  have  important  repercussions  on  the  general
functioning of the system. That assumption appears to
be closer to reality.
The third reason — of a more political nature —
is  that  the  international  balance  of  power  is  currently
subject  to  revision.  That  would  explain  the  sharp
interest  being  shown  in  the  issues  of  its  composition,
number of seats and categories — permanent and non-
permanent  —  of  new  membership.  We  may  therefore
assume  that  those  States  occupying  a  seat  in  the  new
structure would enjoy some sort of confirmation of the
position 
the  world  scene.  That
assumption  could  also  explain  why  little  attention  has
been  given  to  other  Security  Council  reform  issues,
such  as  its  working  methods  and  its  real  capacity  to
deal  with  the  new  threats  to  international  peace  and
security.
they  occupy  on 
Those  three  assumptions  could  bring  greater
objectivity  to  the  reactivation  of  Security  Council
reform.  In  any  case,  it  is  clear  that  the  exposure
enjoyed by that issue during the months leading to the
summit  overshadowed  our  vision  and  diverted  our
attention  from  other  reform  matters  of  equally  major
importance.
We now face the challenge of making headway in
that  most  sensitive  issue  without  neglecting  issues  of
overall  reform.  In  order  to  achieve  that  two-fold
purpose, it would seem advisable to draw lessons from
the  consultations  and  debates  of  the  recent  past.
Beginning  today,  our  efforts  to  reform  the  Security
Council  have  an  opportunity  to  be  launched  with  a
fresh vision, to avoid polarization among Members and
to rebuild an organ better equipped to tackle the main
threats to international peace and security.
Beyond its final composition, we cannot afford to
ignore  the  fact  that  the  new  Security  Council  will  be
judged  by  its  results  and  by  its  capacity  to  exert  a
positive  influence  on  international  realities.  That  is
why, in inaugurating this new round of discussions, we
must  ensure 
the  Security
Council’s  raison  d’être  prevails  over  its  institutional
and structural arrangements. We will have failed if the
reform  of  the  Security  Council  does  not  translate  into
greater guarantees for the maintenance of international
peace  and  security.  We  will  have  wasted  an
the  substance  of 
that 
28
unprecedented opportunity to build a Security Council
fit  to  meet  the  current  and  future  necessities  of  the
world.
Security Council reform has no alternative but to
focus  on  creating  the  best  collective  security  system
possible. At the end of the day, our nations will have to
assess and judge whether we have attained a visionary
reform able to respond to the major threats of this era.
That judgement will be based on the Security Council’s
efficiency  in  resolving  conflicts  in  the  field  and  its
capacity to improve the security of our peoples. It will
also  be  based  on  the  support  and  legitimacy  that  its
decisions and mandates enjoy in the eyes of the world
community.  If  it  is  to  meet  those  conditions  —
efficiency, legitimacy and accountability — the reform
of  the  Security  Council  must  be  a  product  of  broad
intergovernmental  negotiation  in  which  the  current
deficiencies  of  the  system  and  of  the  collective
strategies to address threats are clearly exposed.
the 
pinpoint 
system’s 
the  Security  Council, 
Mexico believes that we will have taken a major
step if the progress report requested of the President of
the General Assembly by our leaders at the summit can
accurately 
principal
shortcomings, the major flaws of the sanction regimes,
the  key  issues  concerning  peacekeeping  operations,
the  mediation  capacity  and  accountability
and 
mechanisms  of 
inter  alia.
Considering  the  lessons  learned  in  the  past  year,  we
can  state  that  it  will  be  futile  and  useless  to  try  to
reform  a  main  organ  of  the  United  Nations  without  a
shared  diagnosis  of  its  needs,  bottlenecks  and  real
capacity to fulfil its most sensitive tasks. Without such
a  diagnosis,  we  cannot  understand  the  operational
problems of the Council that we are trying to resolve.
In  short,  the  Security  Council  reform  process  should
adjust itself to a logic  and dynamic that  would  ensure
the  delivery  of  relevant  results  and  resolve  the  real
problems.
proposed 
by  Costa  Rica, 
In  that  respect,  my  delegation  feels  that  the
Jordan,
initiative 
Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and  Switzerland  is  a  step  in
the  right  direction.  That  effort  underscores  the  central
questions of the Council’s functionality and operations.
If  duly 
and
negotiations that Mexico is proposing, we believe that
the  progress  report  that  has  been  requested  in  the
summit’s  outcome  document  will  be  of  special  value,
since it could serve as  a useful basis  for the decision-
making process regarding Security Council reform.
complemented  by 
the  diagnosis 
Mr.  Matulay  (Slovakia):  The  Government  of
Slovakia  joins  other  members  of  the  international
community  in  expressing  its  utter  abhorrence  and
condemnation  of  the  multiple  attacks  perpetrated  in
Jordan’s capital, Amman. The people and Government
of Slovakia are greatly shocked by that hideous act of
terrorism and express deep sympathy for the bereaved
families and friends of the victims.
Slovakia strongly condemns terrorism in all of its
forms  and  manifestations,  particularly  indiscriminate
terror  against  innocent  civilians.  We  must  continue  to
fulfil  our  obligations 
to
eliminate 
the
international 
adoption  of  a  comprehensive  convention  on  terrorism
and a counter-terrorism strategy.
in  enhancing  measures 
terrorism, 
including 
like 
I  would 
to  convey  my  delegation’s
appreciation  to  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the
Russian  Federation,  Ambassador  Andrey  Denisov,
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of
November,  for  his  comprehensive  introduction  of  this
year’s  Security  Council 
the  General
Assembly.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the  members  of  the
Secretariat for their efforts in preparing the report.
report 
to 
A comprehensive reform of the Security Council,
the organ of the United Nations principally responsible
for  maintaining  international  peace  and  security,  is
vital  to  our  Organization’s  success  at  a  time  when
global  challenges  and  problems  require  strong  and
thorough  international  management  and  functioning
multilateral diplomacy.
At this year’s world summit, many heads of State
and  Government  addressed  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council.  Their  views  were  mostly  focused  on  the
expansion  of  the  Council’s  membership.  As  we  have
repeatedly  expressed  on  previous  occasions,  Slovakia
is firmly committed to reform of the Security Council.
First  of  all,  it  needs  to  be  made  more  representative,
more effective and more transparent.
In  that  context,  we  believe  that  the  Security
Council needs to be enlarged in both the permanent and
non-permanent  categories of membership.  The present
A/60/PV.49
membership  structure  is  clearly  unbalanced  and  does
not truly reflect the current situation in the world in a
number of aspects. It would seem only appropriate that
enlargement  in  the  permanent  category  also  include
countries of the global South. Only such an expansion
can  rectify  the  existing  imbalance  in  the  composition
of  the  Council.  We  duly  note  that  several  developing
and  industrialized  countries  that  possess  political  and
economic  potential  have  a  claim  on  permanent
membership.
We wish to reiterate our position that an enlarged
Security Council should include Germany and Japan as
new  permanent  members.  We  also  wish  to  emphasize
that  all  existing  regional  groups  should  be  maintained
and able to nominate candidates for membership of the
enlarged Security Council.
In  addition  to  its  composition,  the  working
methods of the Security Council need to be enhanced.
Some progress has already been made towards making
the  work  of  the  Security  Council  more  transparent.  A
number  of  decisions  have  been  taken  by  the  Council
itself with regard to reforming its own procedures in an
effort  to  increase  and  promote  the  transparency  of  its
deliberative process and its accountability to the wider
membership. Other proposals and initiatives have been
introduced to increase efficiency.
The  reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  not  an  easy
process, but unless we reform its most powerful organ,
it  will  remain  unfinished  business.  Despite  the  major
obstacles to  be  overcome,  we  should  not  relent  in  our
efforts to achieve a meaningful reform of the Security
Council so that it can continue to play an effective role
as  the  main  body  safeguarding  the  maintenance  of
international peace and security.
In conclusion, I would like to assure you, Sir, and
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  that,  during  its
upcoming  tenure  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the
Security Council in 2006 and 2007, Slovakia will spare
no  effort  in  contributing  with  its  own  share  of
responsibility  to  making  the  Security  Council  as
effective and efficient as possible.
The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
29
