United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
47th plenary meeting
Thursday, 10 November 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.47
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Expression of sympathy to the Government and the
people of Jordan in connection with the terrorist
attacks in Amman
The  President:  I  would  like  to  extend  our
sympathy to all those affected by the abhorrent terrorist
attacks  on  three  hotels  in  Amman,  Jordan  yesterday.
On  behalf  of  the  Assembly,  I  offer  our  deepest
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of
Jordan  and  to  the  families  and  friends  of  all  those
killed and injured.
Those  attacks  are a  further stark  reminder of  the
importance  and the urgency of the work  we  are  doing
to adopt a comprehensive convention on terrorism.
Agenda items 9 and 117
Report of the Security Council (A/60/2)
Question of equitable representation on and increase
in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters
The President: With regard to agenda item 9, in
accordance  with  Article  15,  paragraph  1,  of  the
Charter,  the  General  Assembly  considers  the  annual
report  submitted  by  the  Security  Council  pursuant  to
Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Charter.  The  report  of
the  Security  Council  was  issued  as  General  Assembly
document A/60/2.
recommendation  of 
Concerning agenda item 117, members will recall
the  Open-ended
that,  upon 
the  Question  of  Equitable
Working  Group  on 
Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of
the  Security  Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the
Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  decided  to
continue  its  consideration  of  this  item  during  the
present session, with a view to facilitating the process
of reaching general agreement.
Furthermore, in the 2005 World Summit Outcome
(resolution  60/1),  our  heads  of  State  and  Government
expressed  support  for  early  reform  of  the  Security
Council as an essential element of the overall effort to
reform  the  United  Nations.  Our  leaders  aimed  at
making 
broadly
representative,  efficient  and  transparent  in  order  to
further enhance its effectiveness and the legitimacy and
the implementation of its decisions.
the  Security  Council  more 
Our  leaders  also  called  for  adaptation  of  the
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  to  increase
participation  in,  and  the  transparency  of,  its  work  and
enhance  accountability 
the  membership.  They
further  committed  themselves  to  pursue  efforts  with  a
view  to  achieving  a  decision  on  Security  Council
reform and requested  the General Assembly to  review
progress thereon by the end of 2005.
to 
As  stated  in  my  letter  of  3  November,  this  joint
debate offers an opportunity to Member States to give
input  to  the  proposed  review.  I  therefore  encourage
members to avail themselves of this occasion, and I am
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-59648 (E)
*0559648*
A/60/PV.47
looking  forward 
proposals and ideas on this important matter.
to  hearing  members’  comments,
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the
Security Council, Mr. Andrey Denisov, to introduce the
report of the Security Council.
Mr.  Denisov  (Russian  Federation),  President  of
the Security Council  (spoke in Russian): On  behalf  of
all  members  of  the  Security  Council,  I  would  like  to
offer my congratulations to you, Mr. Eliasson, on your
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
sixtieth session. It is my sincere hope that during your
tenure relations between the General Assembly and the
Security  Council  will  be  further  strengthened,  as  we
work  together  to  promote  the  purposes  and  principles
of the United Nations, consistent with the Charter.
In  my  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security
Council  for  November  2005,  I  have  the  privilege  to
introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to
the  General  Assembly  (A/60/2),  covering  the  period
from 1 August 2004 to 31 July 2005.
The  report  shows  that  the  Security  Council’s
working  agenda  during  the  reporting  period  has  been
extremely  full  and  intense.  Two  hundred  and  twenty-
nine  formal  meetings  have  been  held,  195  of  which
were  public.  The  Council  adopted  61  resolutions  and
58 presidential statements.
The range of issues considered by the Council has
remained very wide, covering all the major  aspects  of
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.
The  report  gives  a  comprehensive  description  of
Council  activities,  and  I  would  like  to  highlight  some
of the key issues on which the Council has focused.
to 
Issues  related 
the  settlement  of  regional
conflicts  and  to  ensuring  stability  in  Africa  have
remained  high  on  the  agenda  of  the  Security  Council.
The Council responded to worsening situations in Côte
d’Ivoire, Darfur and the eastern part of the Democratic
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  has  sought  to  encourage
and  consolidate  continuing  progress  in  strengthening
peace  and  stability  in  Sierra-Leone,  Liberia,  Burundi
and  Guinea-Bissau.  The  Security  Council  undertook  a
mission to Central Africa and focused on several issues
affecting  Africa,  such  as  the  cross-border  issues  in
West  Africa,  Africa’s  food  crisis  as  a  threat  to  peace
and  security,  post-conflict  peacebuilding,  the  threat  of
small  arms  and  the  protection  of  civilians  in  armed
conflict.  In  addition,  the  Council  oversaw  the  gradual
2
winding down of the United Nations Mission in Sierra
Leone  (UNAMSIL),  at  one  point  the  largest  United
Nations  peacekeeping  operation,  which 
to  be
replaced  by  an  integrated  United  Nations  Office  in
Sierra  Leone.  That  is  an  innovation  that  should  make
the United Nations contribution to peacebuilding even
more  effective  and  establish  a  model  for  other
countries emerging from conflict.
is 
On  18  and  19  November  2004,  the  Council  held
an  extraordinary  session  in  Nairobi,  its  fourth  outside
the  United  Nations  Headquarters  since  the  Council
began meeting in New York. This was done in order to
re-energize the Sudanese peace negotiations and put an
end  to  one  of  the  most  protracted  conflicts  in  Africa.
Also  in  Nairobi,  the  Security  Council  held  a  meeting
aimed  at  strengthening  the  institutional  relationship
with  the  African  Union.  In  a  presidential  statement
(S/PRST/2004/43),  Council  members  welcomed  the
progress made in the national reconciliation process of
Somalia.
The  Council  has  continued  its  support  for  the
ongoing political transition in Iraq. In August 2004, the
Council  unanimously  renewed  the  mandate  of  the
United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq  (UNAMI)
for  another  12-month  period.  UNAMI’s  support  was
vital to the success of the January 2005 parliamentary
elections,  through  which  the  Iraqi  people  elected  the
Transitional  Government  of  Iraq.  The  Council  has
repeatedly  stressed  the  importance  of  reconciliation,
national unity and an inclusive political process.
Events  in  Lebanon  during  the  period  under
review also called for close Security Council attention.
The  Council  adopted  resolution  1559  (2004)  of  2
September  2004,  reaffirming  its  call  for  the  strict
respect  for  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  unity
and  political  independence  of  Lebanon  and  calling
upon  all  remaining  foreign  forces  to  withdraw  from
Lebanon.  On  19  October  2004,  the  Council  adopted  a
presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2004/36),  requesting
the  Secretary-General  to  report  to  the  Council  on  the
implementation  of  resolution  1559  (2004)  every  six
months.
investigation 
The  Council  has  also  acted  to  support  the
Lebanese 
that
resulted  in  the  death  of  former  Lebanese  Prime
Minister Rafik Hariri on 14 February 2005. Following
the attack, the Council adopted a presidential statement
(S/PRST/2005/4)  strongly  condemning  the  murder  and
into 
the 
terrorist  act 
requesting the Secretary-General to follow the situation
in  Lebanon  closely.  Following  the  report  of  the
Secretary-General’s mission of inquiry into the attack,
the  Council,  on  7  April,  unanimously  adopted
resolution  1595  (2005),  setting  up  an  International
Independent  Investigation  Commission  to  assist  the
Lebanese  authorities 
investigation  of  all
aspects  of  the  assassination  of  the  former  Prime
Minister.
their 
in 
inter  alia, 
The  Council  has  paid  close  attention  to  other
issues in the Middle East, Afghanistan and the Balkan
region. It has closely monitored the situation in Haiti in
order, 
to  ensure  a  secure  and  stable
environment  in  which  the  electoral  process  can  take
place.  The  Council  also  undertook  a  mission  to  that
country  in  conjunction  with  the  Ad  Hoc  Advisory
Group on Haiti of the Economic and Social Council.
In  the  reporting  period,  as  a  result  of  the
sustainable  progress  in  the  peace  processes  in  Timor-
Leste  and  in  Bougainville,  Papua  New  Guinea,  the
Council closed the United Nations Mission of Support
in  East  Timor  (UNMISET)  and  the  United  Nations
Observer  Mission 
the
completion  of  the  UNMISET  mandate  on  20  May
2005,  the  Council  established  a  one-year  follow-on
special political mission, the United Nations Office  in
Timor-Leste.
in  Bougainville.  Following 
By its resolution 1590 (2005) of 24 March 2005,
the Council established a new peacekeeping operation,
the United Nations Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS).
In  addition 
to  addressing  specific  ongoing
conflicts and crises, the Security Council continued to
have  thematic  discussions  related  to  the  Council’s
work, which allowed for fruitful deliberations with the
larger  United  Nations  membership.  The  Council  had
open  debates  on  children  and  armed  conflict,  women
and  peace  and  security,  small  arms,  United  Nations
peacekeeping  operations,  post-conflict  peacebuilding,
the protection of civilians in armed conflict, justice and
the  rule  of  law,  and  civilian  aspects  of  conflict
management and peacebuilding.
The serious and continuing threat to international
peace  and  security  posed  by  terrorism  remained  a  top
priority of the Council, mainly through the work of the
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1373
(2001)  and  the  Committees  established  pursuant  to
resolutions  1267  (1999)  and  1540  (2004),  as  well  as
through the cooperation and coordination among those
A/60/PV.47
Committees.  During  the  period  under  review,  the
Council  began 
the
Committee Chairmen.
joint  briefings  by 
to  receive 
and 
strengthened  methodology 
The  Counter-Terrorism  Committee  continued  to
work  intensively  to  fulfil  its  mandate  as  set  out  in
resolution  1373  (2001),  including  through  visits  to
States 
the
identification of States’ needs for  technical  assistance.
It  also  continued 
to  develop  cooperation  with
international,  regional  and  subregional  organizations.
The Working Group established pursuant to resolution
1566  (2004)  met  to  consider  practical  measures  and
procedures  for  tackling  terrorists  not  on  the  Al-
Qaida/Taliban list, as well additional means to support
the victims of terrorist acts.
for 
By  resolution  1617  (2005),  adopted  on  29  July
2005, the Council improved the sanctions regime with
the  Taliban  and  other
respect 
individuals, 
groups, 
entities
associated with them.
to  Al-Qaida  and 
undertakings 
and 
The  Security  Council  Committee  established
pursuant to resolution 1540 (2004) continued its efforts
to strengthen the international community’s capacity to
prevent weapons of mass destruction from falling into
the hands of non-State actors.
to 
in  order 
enhance  our 
Last  year  saw  a  further  increase  in  transparency
in  the  Security  Council’s  work.  Council  members
sought to hold as many public meetings as possible and
regularly organized thematic debates and Arria-formula
meetings 
collective
understanding  of  the  key  issues  and  to  hear  the  views
of  non-Council  members,  independent  experts  and
representatives  of  civil  society.  A  proactive  and
responsible approach to transparency is very important
for the Security Council, which is deeply interested in
strengthening  dialogue  and 
interaction  with  all
members  of  the  United  Nations.  To  that  end,  Security
Council  missions  abroad  made  efforts  to  meet  non-
governmental organizations and civil society, as well as
Governments and other parties in the countries visited.
to  develop
cooperation among the Council, the troop-contributing
countries  and  the  Secretariat.  Work  on  the  basis  of
resolution 1353 (2001) and the note by the President of
the  Council  in  document  S/2002/56,  dated  14  January
2002,  focused  on 
issues,
including  ways  to  improve  the  planning,  conduct,
support  and  management  of  peacekeeping  operations,
The  Security  Council  continued 
important  peacekeeping 
3
A/60/PV.47
the  holding  of 
and  on 
interactive
discussions  about  both  the  immediate  and  underlying
problems facing specific United Nations peacekeeping
operations.
in-depth  and 
The  Security  Council,  in  line  with  the  World
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  is  continuing  to
adapt  its  working  methods  to  make  it  more  effective,
including  by  having  a  more  open  and  productive
relationship  with  Member  States  not  on  the  Security
Council and other countries.
The  Council  recognizes  the  crucial  contribution
of  troop-contributing  countries 
to  United  Nations
peacekeeping missions under its authority. The Council
undertook,  inter  alia,  through  its  Working  Group  on
Peacekeeping  Operations,  to  involve,  as  appropriate,
troop-contributing  countries  and  other 
interested
countries  more  effectively  in  the  consideration  of
issues 
to  United  Nations  peacekeeping
operations and will continue to do so in future.
relating 
The  Council  will  also  continue  to  adapt  its
consultations  with 
non-Council  members  with
reference to other aspects of its activities. For example,
the Council’s subsidiary bodies dealing with sanctions
will  continue  their  dialogue  with  interested  countries,
in  particular,  with  neighbouring  countries,  in  order
better  to  assess  the  effect  of  such  measures  and  to
ensure  more  effective  enforcement  of  those  measures,
such as arms embargoes.
In conclusion, on behalf of all Council members,
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the
members  of  the  Secretariat  for  their  professionalism
and  invaluable  support,  without  which  the  Council
could not discharge its duties.
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the
Security Council, His Excellency Mr. Andrey Denisov,
for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Council.  I
particularly  thank  him  for  his  words  expressing  the
hope that relations between the General Assembly and
the Security Council will be further strengthened as we
work  together  to  promote  the  purposes  and  principles
of  the  United  Nations,  consistent  with  the  Charter.  I
also  welcome  his  words  on  having  a  more  open  and
productive relationship with non-Council members and
troop-contributing  countries  and
others, 
interested 
in  particular  neighbouring
countries, affected by sanctions regimes. That dialogue
is extremely important for the General Assembly.
countries, 
including 
4
I earlier welcomed the President of the forty-sixth
session, Mr. Samir Shihabi, but I see another president
in the Hall, the President of the fifty-second session. I
welcome  Mr.  Hennadiy  Udovenko,  who  is  in  the  Hall
today.
Mr.  Hackett 
(Barbados):  My 
delegation
welcomes  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  joint
debate on agenda items 9 and 117, on the Report of the
Security  Council  and  on  the  question  of  equitable
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of
the Security Council and related matters. I am making
this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  that  are  Member
States of the United Nations.
Before  I  begin  my  statement,  however,  I  would
like,  on  behalf  of  the  CARICOM  member  States,  to
offer  our  deepest  sympathy  to  the  Government  and
people of Jordan, and especially to the families of the
victims,  on  the  terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  in
Amman yesterday.
CARICOM  would  like  to  thank  His  Excellency
Mr. Andrey Denisov, Permanent  Representative  of  the
Russian  Federation  and  current  President  of 
the
Security  Council,  for  his  detailed  presentation  of  the
report of the Security Council. The report is clear and
comprehensive  and  we  have  just  a  few  comments  to
make on it at the present time.
I  also  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  for  the
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security
Council  and  Other  Matters  Related  to  the  Security
Council.  In  that  regard,  we  are  particularly  pleased  to
offer  special  congratulations  to  Ambassadors  Paulette
Bethel  of  the  Bahamas  and  Christian  Wenaweser  of
Liechtenstein,  the  two  Vice-Chairs  of  the  Working
Group, for their excellent  work and  untiring efforts in
leading the consultations on working methods.
Again in this year’s report, we see that Africa has
figured  at  the  forefront  of  the  Council’s  agenda,
although  there  were  a  number  of  other  crises  in  other
regions  of  the  world  that  consumed  much  of  the
attention  of  the  Council.  We  compliment  the  Council
for  its  decision  to  hold  an  extraordinary  session  in
Nairobi  in  order  to  meet  closer  to  the  centre  of  the
conflict  in  the  Sudan.  We  believe  that  such  initiatives
as  well  as  strengthening  the  institutional  relationship
between  the  African  Union  and  the  Security  Council,
bode  well  for  closer  and  more  effective  collaboration
between  the  United  Nations  and  Africa  in  seeking  to
maintain peace and security in that region.
therefore, 
Member  States  have  repeatedly  called  for  more
openness  and  transparency  on  the  part  of  the  Security
Council.  CARICOM  was, 
especially
appreciative  of  the  opportunity  that 
the  Security
Council  provided  for  Member  States  to  discuss  the
situation  in  Haiti  by  holding  an  open  debate  on  Haiti
on 12 January of this year. CARICOM member States
participated in the debate  and were, hopefully,  able  to
provide a regional perspective that assisted the Council
as  it  sought  to  reaffirm  its  long-term  commitment  to
Haiti  and  underline 
importance  of  national
reconciliation,  security  and  economic  development  to
the country’s stability.
the 
CARICOM 
further  welcomed 
the  Security
Council’s mission to Haiti from 13 to 16 April 2005 in
conjunction  with  the  Economic  and  Social  Council’s
Ad  Hoc  Advisory  Group  on  Haiti.  We  are  convinced
that  that  visit  and  the  Security  Council’s  continued
engagement in Haiti permitted the Council on 22 June
of  this  year  to  adopt  unanimously  resolution  1608
(2005),  which  not  only  extended  the  mandate  of  the
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti
(MINUSTAH)  to  February  2006,  but  also  further
increased  the  Mission’s  strength  by  800  military
personnel and 275 civilian police.
CARICOM  wishes  to  take  this  opportunity  to
comment  on  another  aspect  of  the  Security  Council’s
report  that  has  affected  many  countries  but  has
particularly  impacted  small,  resource-deficient  States,
such  as  ours.  I  refer  to  the  issue  of  counter-terrorism,
which  continues  to  be  a  matter  of  top  priority  for  the
Council.
The  reporting  obligations  and  responsibilities
under  the  various  counter-terrorism  resolutions,  while
accepted  as  necessary,  have  nonetheless  proven  to  be
onerous  to  most  of  our  States.  We  therefore  welcome
the  initial  efforts  made  by  the  various  subcommittees
of  the  Council  to  provide  expertise  and  advice  to
Member  States  lacking  the  knowledge,  experience  or
resources  to  implement  the  several  resolutions,  but
would  plead  for  even  greater  assistance,  if  we  are
expected  to  be  able  to  fulfil  all  of  our  reporting
obligations  in  a  timely  manner.  Furthermore,  we
encourage  the  Security  Council  to  consider  ways  of
consolidating State reporting requirements, as stated by
A/60/PV.47
our  Heads  of  State  and  Government  in  the  outcome
document of the September Summit.
from 
for  greater 
representation 
Turning  now  to  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council,  CARICOM  is  disappointed  that  the  General
Assembly has been unable, to date, to reach agreement
on  the  issue  of  an  increase  in  the  membership  of  the
Security Council. CARICOM has been consistent in its
call for an increase in membership of the Council and
particularly 
the
developing  countries  and  especially  from  States  from
the  African  continent.  CARICOM  believes  that  the
matter  of  expansion  remains  critically  important  and
that  we  all  need  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  reach
effective agreement on the issue in the near future.
convinced 
that
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is
primarily and fundamentally grounded in reform of the
working methods of the Council, and we had hoped for
greater  progress  in  the  work  of  the  Open-ended
Working Group.
CARICOM 
however, 
is, 
Critical  to  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is
the  need  for  greater  transparency  and  openness  in  the
working  methods  of  the  Council,  and  we  therefore
support 
that  have  been  recently
initiated here in New York, through the draft resolution
on working methods put forward by the delegations of
Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,  Singapore  and
Switzerland.
the  discussions 
to 
that 
there 
to  allow 
CARICOM 
is  also  heartened 
is
widespread  acceptance  of  the  view  that  the  Security
Council  should  be  accountable 
the  General
Assembly.  Committed  as  we  are  to  the  primacy  of
multilateral  diplomacy,  we  believe 
that  such  an
approach would be the correct one. We further support
the call for more frequent open debates of the Security
Council 
inclusiveness  and
participation  of  all  non-Member  States  and  for  more
frequent  and  comprehensive  Council  briefings  to  non-
members  as  a  means  of  keeping  all  delegations  fully
informed  of  Security  Council  activities.  CARICOM
also supports increased formal interaction between the
Council  and 
troop-contributing  countries  as  a
necessary  aid  to  the  decision-making  process  on  the
establishment,  conduct,  review  and  termination  of
peacekeeping operations.
for  greater 
CARICOM is of the view that, whereas sanctions
may at times constitute a legitimate and necessary tool
for  the  enforcement  by  the  Council  of  measures  to
5
A/60/PV.47
maintain  international  peace  and  security,  we  believe
they should be imposed only as an absolute last resort
and should be time-bound and accompanied by a clear
exit  strategy.  Furthermore,  CARICOM  stresses  that
special care and attention should be given to the design
and implementation of sanctions in order to avoid, or at
least  minimize,  their  negative  impact  on  civilian
populations.
Few  questions  on  the  issue  of  Security  Council
reform have proven to be as intractable as that question
of  the  veto.  CARICOM  believes  that  the  veto  is  an
anachronism; and ideally it should be limited in its use
with  a  view  to 
the
meantime, we agree that the veto should be used with
utmost restraint and should be limited to actions taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter.
its  eventual  elimination.  In 
that  aspect  of 
In conclusion, I wish to point out that in the 2005
summit  outcome  document  (resolution  60/1),  heads  of
State  and  Government  agreed  that  early  reform  of  the
Security Council is an essential element of our overall
effort to reform the United Nations in order to make it
more broadly representative, efficient and transparent.
CARICOM  believes  that  Member  States  need  to
continue  to  be  seized  of  the  issue  if  we  are  to
implement 
the  summit  outcome
document.  CARICOM  member  States  therefore  stand
ready  to  participate  in  the  consultations,  which  we
believe should be continued during the sixtieth session.
I  begin  by
expressing  Pakistan’s  condemnation  of  the  dastardly
terrorist  attacks  that  took  place  in  Amman  yesterday.
The  people  and  the  Government  of  Pakistan  convey
their  profound  grief 
the
Government and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan and to the families of the victims.
(Pakistan):  May 
Mr.  Akram 
condolences 
and 
to 
We  are  considering  once  again  the  important
issue of  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  together  with
the Council’s report to the General Assembly (A/60/2).
The discussion is taking place in the wake of the 2005
summit  and  in  the  midst  of  the  process  being  led  by
you,  Mr.  President, 
the  summit’s
decisions.
implement 
to 
The  rationale  and  justification  for  reform  of  the
Security  Council  is  clear:  the  Council  should  be
reformed 
it  more  representative,  more
transparent,  more  accountable  and  more  effective.
However,  there  are  significant  differences  on  how
to  make 
6
those  objectives  can  be  achieved.  As  we  open  this
debate, the positions of all parties on the reform of the
Security  Council  are  well  known  and  have  been
reaffirmed in recent days.
The position of the Uniting for Consensus group,
which  was  circulated  during 
in
document  A/59/L.68,  is  also  known  to  the  entire
membership.  The  members  of  the  group  continue  to
believe  that  our  proposal  offers  the  most  promising
basis to evolve a consensus, especially on the issue of
equitable representation on the Security Council.
last  session 
the 
Let me briefly reiterate the virtues of the Uniting
for Consensus proposal: First, our proposal is fair and
equitable.  It  respects  the  principle  of  the  sovereign
equality  of  States  and  does  not  discriminate  between
Member States.
Secondly,  our  proposal  will 
the
opportunity for all Member States, including the small
and medium-sized States to secure more representation
on the Security Council.
increase 
Thirdly,  it  will  enhance  the  accountability  of
Security  Council  members  through  the  democratic
mechanism  of  periodic  elections  and,  if  agreed,  re-
elections.
Fourthly,  our  proposal  is  simple.  It  proposes  a
the
for  approval  by 
direct  Charter  amendment 
Assembly.
Fifthly,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  is
realistic.  Since  it  can  accommodate  the  interests  and
positions  of  all  Member  States,  this  proposal,  if
approved, is likely to secure the required ratifications,
including 
ratification  of 
five
permanent members of the Security Council.
the  necessary 
the 
And finally, the greatest virtue of the proposal is
its  flexibility.  It  can  accommodate,  through  variable
arrangements  in  each  region,  the  aspirations  and
interests  of  the  majority  of  the  membership  including
regional groups such as the African Group.
We  respect  and  understand  Africa’s  desire  for
equitable  representation  on 
the  Security  Council.
Africa  is  striving  to  redress  a  historic  injustice.  We
believe  that  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  is
entirely  compatible  with  the  African  approach.  Both
our position and that of the African Union is based on
the principle that each region should be in a position to
determine 
representation on the Council.
own 
its 
specific 
arrangement 
for
proposals are being implemented, but the majority still
await translation into the practice of the Council.
A/60/PV.47
Africa’s  demand  for  two  permanent  seats,  in  our
view,  is  different  from  other  proposals  which  seek
permanent membership for individual States. Africa, as
we see it, seeks permanent seats for the entire region of
Africa.  We  note  also  that  against  the  two  empowered
seats  sought  by  Africa,  representation  on  the  Council
could be from two or, through rotation, a larger number
of  African  States,  under  arrangements  to  be  made  by
the  Africans  themselves.  In  our  view,  rotation  is  the
best  means  to  ensure  the  representation  of  regional
interests,  including  those  of  Africa,  as  well  as  to
provide  greater  opportunities  to  all  States  to  secure
more frequent membership of the Security Council.
Since  our  proposal 
is  based  on  a  regional
approach,  it  could  also  accommodate  the  interests  of
subregional  groups,  such  as  the  Arab  League,  the
Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  and  Central
America.  Other  Groups,  such  as  the  Organization  of
the  Islamic  Conference,  could  also  secure  assured
representation against the seats allocated to the regions
of  Africa  or  Asia.  Moreover,  through  the  provision
made 
for
Consensus proposal offers the possibility of long-term
and even continued membership for some States if they
are  nominated  for  that  purpose  by  their  respective
regions.
for  possible 
the  Uniting 
re-election, 
We  are  all  aware  that  agreement  within  the
general  membership  on  the  issue  of  representation  on
an enlarged Security Council will require difficult and
patient  negotiations.  Member  States  must  be  allowed
the  necessary 
their
positions  and  to  evolve  a  solution  acceptable  to  the
entire membership. It is therefore essential to engage in
dialogue  and  constructive  negotiation  to  achieve  an
equitable and widely acceptable solution.
time  and  space 
to  reconcile 
Meanwhile, we also need to give consideration to
the  other  aspects  of  Security  Council  reform,  namely,
its working methods  —  the so-called cluster II issues.
For a large majority of Member States, especially small
and medium States, the reform of the Security Council
implies,  first  and  foremost,  an  improvement  in  its
working  methods.  The  General  Assembly’s  Open-
ended  Working  Group  has 
reached  provisional
agreement  on  a  large  number  of  proposals  to  improve
the  Council’s  working  methods.  Some  of 
those
to 
like 
report 
I  would 
the  Council’s 
thank  Ambassador  Andrey
to 
the  Security  Council,  for
Denisov,  President  of 
presenting 
the  General
Assembly.  The  quality  and  content  of  the  report  have
improved.  The  present 
report  provides  a  good
statistical record and a ready reference regarding issues
under the Council’s consideration. However, it does not
contribute  to  a  better  understanding  by  the  general
membership of how the Council has dealt with specific
situations  and  the  ways  in  which  it  has  reached  its
decisions.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  reiterate
Pakistan’s  concern  about  the  Council’s  encroachment
on 
in  so-called
thematic  debates,  which  lie  more  appropriately  within
the  jurisdiction  of  the  General  Assembly  or  the
Economic and Social Council.
those  considered 
issues  such  as 
Pakistan  supports  the  full  implementation  of
Assembly  resolution  58/126,  in  particular  its  call  for
Security  Council  reports  to  the  General  Assembly  on
specific  topics,  briefings  to  the  President  of  the
General  Assembly  by  the  President  of  the  Security
Council  and  joint  meetings  between  the  Presidents  of
the  General  Assembly,  the  Security  Council  and
Economic  and  Social  Council.  Those  mechanisms
should be institutionalized as soon as possible.
in  virtual  secrecy 
However,  the  reform  of  the  Council’s  working
methods  must  go  beyond  such  improvements  in  its
operating  processes.  Openness, 
transparency  and
inclusiveness  should  be  introduced  in  the  working
modalities  of  the  Security  Council  and  its  subsidiary
bodies,  especially  the  sanctions  committees  and  those
dealing with generic issues such as terrorism and non-
proliferation, which are of direct concern to the general
membership.  The  Council’s  work  must  cease  to  be
conducted 
the  general
membership.  As  envisaged  in  the  Security  Council’s
provisional  rules  of  procedure,  most  of  the  Council’s
work  should  be  conducted  in  public  meetings,  as  was
the  case  until  the  end  of  the  cold  war.  Informal
consultations  should  be  the  exception,  rather  than  the
rule  they  have  become.  Member  States  that  are  most
directly  concerned  in  an  issue  should  be  able  to
participate in both the open and the informal meetings
the  Council.  Draft  resolutions  and  proposals
of 
circulated 
the  Council  should  be
available to all Member States, at least before they are
provided to the media.
informally 
from 
in 
7
A/60/PV.47
In 
in 
the 
improving 
the  context  of 
the  Council’s
working  methods,  Pakistan  is  sympathetic  to  most  of
the  proposals  contained 
informal  paper
circulated  by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,  Liechtenstein,
Singapore  and  Switzerland.  The  areas  covered  in  the
annex  to  the  paper  —  the  Council’s  relationship  with
the  General  Assembly  and  other  principal  organs,
implementation  of  Council  decisions,  the  working  of
subsidiary  bodies,  the  use  of  the  veto,  the  conduct  of
peacekeeping  operations  and  the  integration  of  new
Council  members  —  are  all  vital 
to  ensure
transparency,  inclusiveness  and  accountability  in  the
Council’s  work.  My  delegation  looks  forward  to  an
early opportunity to offer our suggestions and views to
enrich 
five
delegations, and to evolve agreement on them.
the  proposals  circulated  by 
those 
Pakistan believes that any decision on the reform
of 
the  Security  Council  should  be  adopted  by
consensus,  or  at  least  through  the  widest  possible
agreement.  Our  reasons  for  taking  that  position  are
clear.  Reform  of  the  Council  is  an  important  issue.  It
impinges  on  the  national  security  interests  of  every
Member  State.  Any  precipitate  move  to  secure  a
decision by a vote would  revive  regional tensions and
resurrect  divisions  within  the  Organization.  It  would
once again eclipse, and possibly derail, the rest of the
United  Nations  reform  agenda.  It  could  halt  the
heartening progress we are making, or expect to make,
on  the  establishment  of  a  Peacebuilding  Commission,
terrorism, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and,  most
important,  the  implementation  of  the  development
agenda.
Moreover,  any  proposal  for  Security  Council
reform that is adopted by a divisive vote is unlikely to
be  translated  into  reality,  as  it  will  not  obtain  the
ratification of two thirds of the membership, including
the five permanent members. Indeed, a divisive vote is
likely  to  freeze  the  status  quo  in  the  Security  Council
and thus squander the  opportunity for  its  early  reform
and democratization.
The President of the General Assembly has been
mandated by the 2005 summit to conduct consultations
on the issue of the reform of the Security Council and
to  report  progress  before  the  end  of  this  session.  We
trust  that,  at  the  appropriate  time,  he  will  convene  a
meeting  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  this
issue  and  enable  delegations  to  exchange  views  in
order to further advance the possibilities for consensus
8
on  the  important  issue  of  Security  Council  reform,
including the improvement of its working methods.
Mr. Al-Shamsi (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in
Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  the
people  and  Government  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates,
to join the President and those who have spoken before
me  to  express  our  sympathy  and  condolences  to  the
Government  and  people  of  fraternal  Jordan  and  to  the
families  of  the  victims  of  the  heinous  terrorist  attacks
that  took  place  last  night  in  Amman,  the  capital  of
Jordan. We strongly condemn those acts.
to 
the  Chairman  and 
On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  United  Arab
Emirates, I would also like to express our gratitude and
appreciation 
two  Vice-
Chairpersons of the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other
Matters related to the Security Council for the valuable
information  contained  in  the  Group’s  recent  report
(A/59/47).  The  report  reflects  the  great  efforts  made
towards  reaching  the  consensus  we  all  desire  in  the
areas  of  strengthening  international  representation  in
the  Security  Council  and  enhancing  transparency  in
executing 
to
maintaining international peace and security.
responsibilities  with 
regard 
its 
The  last  decade  witnessed  the  launching  of  a
comprehensive reform process, especially in the United
Nations system, with a  view  to enabling it  to  keep  up
with  the  international  changes  and  challenges  that
emerged  after  the  end  of  the  cold  war,  including  the
concept of a new world order based on the principles of
partnership,  democracy  and  the  diverse  interests  of
States and peoples.
Given  the  fact  that  the  Security  Council  is  a
principal organ of the United Nations and has primary
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international
peace and security in accordance with Article 24 of the
Charter, heads of States and Government were keen to
reaffirm,  during  the  Millennium  Summit  of  the  year
2000  and  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the
importance  of
Assembly’s 
continuing 
reform
comprehensively the structure of the Council, improve
its  representative  character,  increase  its  efficiency  and
transparency,  and  strengthen  its  democratic  character.
That will help the Council to increase its effectiveness
and legality as it implements its resolutions, which aim
at  establishing 
international  peace  and  protecting
session, 
intensifying 
sixtieth 
and 
the 
efforts 
to 
humankind from war, gross violations of human rights
and other current threats facing the world.
the 
that 
it  succeeded 
reality.  Nor  has 
international  community 
When  the  Security  Council  was  established  in
1945,  there  were  51  Member  States.  Although  the
membership  of  the  United  Nations  has  now  reached
191,  the  composition  of  the  Council  has  not  yet
reflected 
in
representing 
in  a
democratic and fair manner, a fact that has resulted in
creating  a  political  imbalance  that  undermines  the
transparency  of  the  Council’s  resolutions  regarding
many  important  international  issues.  We  therefore
emphasize the need for the international community to
carry out an essential and viable reform of the structure
and  working  methods  of  the  Security  Council.  That
must  include  an  increase  in  the  Council’s  permanent
and  non-permanent  members,  in  order  to  enable  it  to
carry  out  its  fundamental  role  of  addressing  the
existing  security  threats  and  challenges  facing  our
nations.
studied 
carefully 
My  delegation  has 
the
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General  and  his
High-level  Panel  on  Threats  Challenges  and  Change
and  has  followed  closely  the  special  consultations  of
the  General  Assembly  and  the  regional  groups  in  the
last  few  months,  which  dealt  with  initiatives,  draft
resolutions and proposals. We are concerned about the
deep  differences  in  the  views  of  States  in  connection
with  the  form  and  size  of  the  Council.  We  therefore
reaffirm  our  position  calling  for  restructuring  the
membership  of 
in  a  manner  more
consistent  with  its  current  agenda,  which  has  become
more  complex  and  which  has  exceeded  the  traditional
security issues of the cold war era. In that context, we
stress that the process of enlarging the membership of
the Security Council should be based on the following
three pillars.
the  Council 
First, the process of reforming and expanding the
Security  Council  should  be  part  of  a  common  and
integrated  endeavour  based  on  the  principles  of  the
sovereign  equality  of  States  and 
their  equitable
geographical  representation  on  Council,  in  contrast  to
the  biased  and  selective  policy  currently  prevailing  in
that body.
Secondly,  any  increase  in  Council  membership
must  address  the  issue  of  the  underrepresentation  of
small and developing States in the Council.
A/60/PV.47
the 
the  Arab  States, 
Thirdly,  Arab  States,  which  include  22  countries
and  represent  almost  12  per  cent  of 
total
membership of the United Nations, must be allocated a
permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council.  That  seat
should be filled on a rotating basis and in coordination
among 
the
practices  applied  in  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  in
the  context  of  the  African  and  Asian  Groups.  Should
that  approach  be  adopted,  it  will  strengthen  the
effectiveness  of  the  participation  of  those  countries  in
addressing the most complicated regional issues on the
Council’s  agenda  and  in  the  joint  efforts  to  maintain
regional and international peace and security.
in  accordance  with 
The United Arab Emirates notes with satisfaction
the number of measures, albeit limited, taken in the last
few years to improve some of the working methods of
the  Council,  in  particular  as  regards  increasing  the
number  of  open  meetings  and  inviting  non-Council
members  to  its  debates,  especially  those  participating
in  peacekeeping  operations.  Nevertheless,  we  are
disappointed at the policy of double standards followed
by the Council in addressing some of the issues on its
agenda,  specifically  those  pertaining  to  peace  and
security  in  the  Middle  East.  That  contradicts  the
Council’s  previous  relevant  resolutions.  We  therefore
call  for  a  serious,  comprehensive  and  objective
evaluation  of  the  Council’s  working  methods  in  order
to enhance the institutional character and transparency
of  its  procedures,  working  methods  and  decision-
making  standards.  In  that  context,  we  call  for  the
following measures.
First,  the  use  of  the  right  of  the  veto  should  be
abolished  or  rationalized.  That  right  has  on  many
occasions  inhibited  the  Council  from  finding  fair  and
permanent  solutions  to  many  important  issues  in
accordance  with 
the  Charter,
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  and  the  rule  of
relevant international laws.
the  principles  of 
Secondly,  we  call  for  the  Council  to  take  into
consideration the interests of States whenever it adopts
resolutions  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  which
permits  the  imposition  of  economic  sanctions  on
countries violating Council resolutions.
Thirdly,  we  call  for  non-Council  members,
especially  those  with  direct  or  indirect  interests  in
issues under discussion by the Council, to be permitted
to  participate  in  the  Council’s  consultations  in  that
regard.
9
A/60/PV.47
Fourthly,  we  call  for  coordination  between  the
Security  Council,  the  General  Assembly  and  regional
groups  to  mobilize  all  potential  ways  and  means  to
contain  existing  disputes  and  conflicts  and  to  protect
humankind from their dangerous consequences.
tarnish the image of the United Nations in world public
opinion,  which  has  reduced  its  perception  of  the
Organization  to  the  Security  Council  alone.  For  the
sake  of  the  Organization  as  a  whole,  we  must  correct
that perception.
of 
a 
In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  our  deliberations  on
this item will lead to a convergence of views and to the
strengthening 
international
understanding aimed at achieving the desired reform in
the  structure  and  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council,  in  order  to  enable  it  to  fully  discharge  its
growing responsibilities in the maintenance of regional
and international peace and security.
constructive 
Mr.  Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At
the outset, allow me to join the President in expressing
our sympathy and condolences to the delegation of the
Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  and  to  the  fraternal
people  of  that  country  in  connection  with  the  heinous
and  dastardly 
took  place
yesterday  in  Amman,  which  took  dozens  of  innocent
lives.  I  pray  to  the  Almighty  to  extend  his  mercy  and
succor to the victims and their families.
terrorist  bombings 
that 
the  report  of 
My  delegation  welcomes 
the
Security Council to the General Assembly contained in
document  A/60/2,  which  was  presented 
the
Assembly  by  Ambassador  Denisov,  Permanent
Representative  of  the  Russian  Federation  and  this
month’s  Council  President.  That  report  provides  an
overview  of  the  Council’s  activities  in  the  past  year
with  regard  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security.
to 
With  the  vision  it  contains,  that  report  provides
Member  States  an  opportunity  to  study  and  assess  the
Council’s work,  as well as its growing  role  in  dealing
with  the  various  international  issues  falling  within  its
purview.  Member  States  must  therefore  scrutinize  the
report in order to be fully aware of actions taken within
the  Council,  which,  in  accordance  with  the  Charter,
acts  on  behalf  of  all  Member  States.  That  is  all  the
more  important  given  that  the  important  resolutions
adopted by the Council place binding obligations on all
Members.
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Security  Council  has
become  the  most  active  organ  of  the  United  Nations.
Its role has in fact grown significantly in recent years,
making  the  Council  the  most  visible  expression  of
United Nations activity in the world. Any failure by the
Council to deal with the world’s issues could therefore
10
To set matters right, we assert that the roles of the
General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council should not be diminished. Their important and
major roles as two of the principal organs of the United
Nations  must  be  emphasized  and  brought  to  the  fore;
they  are  equal  in  importance  to  the  Security  Council.
The  importance  of  the  roles  of  those  two  organs  must
not  be  diminished  when  it  comes  to  addressing  all
international  issues,  be  they  political,  economic  or
social.
Our  world  today  is  experiencing  an  evolving
political climate. This era poses both a challenge and a
test  for  the  Organization,  which  must  deal  with  them
ably and efficiently. In addition to the ongoing threats
that  we  have  all  failed  to  resolve,  new  challenges
confront 
the  Organization.  Terrorism,  which  has
become widespread and out of control, has affected all
of  us.  We  must  deal  with  it  in  a  concerted  manner  in
order  to  address  its  root  causes.  The  spread  of  deadly
diseases  has  taken  thousands  of  lives.  In  fact,  the
victims of such diseases outnumber the victims of war.
That  makes  it  incumbent  upon  us  all  to  cooperate  to
deal  with  and  eradicate  those  diseases.  There  are  also
other 
individual
Members  and  as  an  Organization,  we  must  deal  with
them together to find appropriate solutions.
issues  facing  us.  As 
important 
My delegation is pleased to welcome the report of
the  Open-ended  Working  Group  on  the  Question  of
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
related  to  the  Security  Council  (A/59/47).  We  express
our  sincere  thanks  to  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  former  President
of  the  General  Assembly,  for  his  chairmanship  of  the
Working  Group,  and  his  two  Vice-Chairmen,  the
Permanent  Representatives  of 
the  Bahamas  and
Liechtenstein, for their tireless efforts.
in 
The  question  of  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council continues to be one of the main issues debated
during  the  General  Assembly’s  annual  sessions.  Many
heads  of  State  and  Government  expressed 
their
Governments’  opinions  on  this  matter  during  the
general debate that took place at the Assembly’s High-
level Plenary Meeting, from 14 to 16 September.
The  Working  Group  is  considering  matters  of
extreme  importance.  The  relationship  between  the
Security  Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  the
relationship between the Security Council and the other
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  consultations
with  troop-contributing  countries,  matters  relating  to
the work of sanctions committees and other subsidiary
bodies of the Security Council, and the issue of the use
of  the  power  of  the  veto  are  all  matters  of  great
importance  that  must  be  clearly  defined  in  order  to
avoid conflict among the competencies of the principal
organs  of  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the
relationships  among  the  various  organs  of  the  United
Nations  must  be  complementary  and  cooperative,  as
they  are  clearly  regulated  by  the  provisions  of  the
Charter,  which  divides  responsibilities  and  work
among  the  organs.  As  Charter  rules,  those  provisions
must  be  respected  and  maintained,  for  they  guarantee
that 
to
competencies  and  responsibilities, 
thus  preventing
encroachment by one organ on the purview of another.
My delegation believes that establishing a strong
relationship  and  ongoing  cooperation  between  the
Security Council and the General Assembly is a matter
of critical importance to the effectiveness of the United
Nations  in  dealing  with  the  challenges  and  threats
confronting it. That relationship must be interactive in
serving the interests of  all  Member  States.  To  achieve
that goal, cooperation between those two organs, must
be strengthened and further dialogue and exchanges of
information  must  be  pursued.  Given 
the  great
importance of the matter and the fact that the General
Assembly, as the main organ of the United Nations, is
an  integral  part  of  the  collective  security  system
established  by  the  Charter,  the  Security  Council  must
respect  the  wishes  of  the  Assembly  in  its  decision-
making process.
there  will  be  no  conflict  with 
regard 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  be
comprehensive and reflect the new political realities of
our  times.  The  Council  will  not  be  able  to  maintain
international  peace  and  security,  as  mandated  by  the
Charter,  unless  it  reflects  changes  on  the  international
scene and the new realities of the twenty-first century.
It  must  also  be  democratic  and  transparent  and  must
protect  the  interests  of  small  States  even  before  those
of  large  ones.  Its  objectives  must  be  in  the  interest  of
all if it is to be truly representative of all States, protect
their rights and interests and ensure their stability.
A/60/PV.47
them  all.  Questions  of 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  main  organ
of  the  United  Nations  entrusted  with  the  maintenance
of international peace and security, has now become an
urgent  priority  due  to  awareness  among  all  Member
States  of  the  need  for  the  Council  to  equitably
represent 
its
membership  and  improving  its  working  methods  and
procedures  have  become  priority  issues  facing  the
United  Nations.  There  is  also  a  need  to  ensure  that
Council reform will serve the interests of all States. It
must  take  into  account  the  large  increase  in  the
membership  of  the  Organization.  Efforts  must  also  be
redoubled in order to ensure that the Council equitably
represents all States and that it takes all their interests
into account.
increasing 
The  new  Security  Council  we  aspire  to  must  be
one that represents all States, protects all their interests
and ensures their security. It must ensure their stability.
It must be a Council to which all turn for protection in
times  of  crisis  and  need.  It  must  be  a  Council  that  all
Members  trust,  as  well  as  one  that  guarantees  peace
and  security,  defends  rights  and  establishes  justice.  It
must be guided by equality. That is the Council we all
desire for our Organization.
in 
the 
to 
express, 
Mr.  Hamidon  (Malaysia):  At  the  outset,  allow
me to join you, Sir, and others who have spoken before
me 
terms,  our
condemnation of the terrorist attacks that took place in
Amman.  On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of
Malaysia,  we  extend  our  deepest  condolences  to  the
Government  and  people  of  Jordan  for  the  loss  of  life
and the destruction caused by those attacks.
strongest 
the  Security  Council 
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this
joint  debate  on  agenda  items  9  and  117.  I  wish  to
express my sincere appreciation to Ambassador Andrey
Denisov of the Russian Federation, current President of
the Security Council, for his presentation of the annual
report  of 
the  General
Assembly,  as  contained  in  document  A/60/2.  My
delegation  has  taken  note  of  the  Council’s  report.  I
would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  newly  elected
members  of  the  Council  for  the  period  2006  to  2007,
namely,  Congo,  Ghana,  Peru,  Qatar  and  Slovenia.  We
are confident they will bring fresh impetus to the work
of the Council.
to 
The  General  Assembly’s  consideration  of  the
Security  Council’s  annual  report  provides  a  good
opportunity 
the
larger  membership  of 
the 
for 
11
A/60/PV.47
Organization to assess the work and performance of the
Council  during  the  period  under  review.  That  is  in
keeping  with  Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter  of  the
United  Nations,  where 
the
Assembly shall receive and consider annual and special
reports  from  the  Council  and  that  those  reports  shall
include an account of the measures that the Council has
decided  upon  or  taken  to  maintain  international  peace
and security.
is  stipulated 
that 
it 
The  report  before  us  is  a  useful  reference  that
summarizes  the  extensive  work  carried  out  by  the
Security  Council  over  the  period  under  review.  We
appreciate the vital contribution and pivotal role of the
Council  in  the  maintenance  of  world  peace  and
security.  The  discussion  on 
the  Council’s  report
provides  an  opportunity  for  Member  States  to  reflect
upon the importance of the Council’s role and how its
efficiency  and  effectiveness  may  be  further  enhanced.
That  should  be  seen  in  the  context  of  promoting
transparency in the work of the Council.
While  my  delegation  commends  the  ongoing
trend  towards  transparency  in  the  Council’s  work,
greater 
transparency  and  accountability  could  be
promoted  by  convening  an  open  meeting  of  the
Council  to  discuss  its  report  before  it  is  submitted  to
the General Assembly.
the 
My delegation notes that the Council addressed a
wide  range  of  issues  during  the  period  under  review,
reaffirming 
towards  a
continuous  increase  in  the  volume  and  scope  of  the
Council’s activities. A total of 229 meetings were held,
61  resolutions  were  adopted  and  58  presidential
statements were made.
in  recent  years 
trend 
taking 
Conflicts and instability in Africa continue to be
at  the  forefront  of  the  Council’s  agenda.  Despite  the
severity of the circumstances of the crisis in the Sudan,
Malaysia  is  pleased  that  the  situation  has  improved
considerably following the successful conclusion of the
Naivasha peace process. My delegation commends the
Council  for 
to  adopt  eight
resolutions on the Sudan and to convene extraordinary
meetings  at  Nairobi  on  18  and  19  November  2004  —
only the fourth time it has met outside United Nations
Headquarters.  The  deployment  of  the  United  Nations
Mission 
the
commitment  of  the  Security  Council  to  peace  and
security  in  the  country,  opening  a  new  chapter  in  the
country’s  history.  Malaysia  looks  forward 
the
the  Sudan  clearly  demonstrates 
initiative 
the 
to 
in 
12
Council  taking  more  effective  decisions  on  conflict
situations, particularly in Africa.
The increasing practice of holding open meetings
of  the  Council  provides  an  important  contribution,  as
such  meetings  provide  opportunities  for  the  general
membership  to  participate  in  the  Council’s  work.  We
especially  welcome  the  Council’s  growing  practice  of
deploying  missions  to  the  field,  such  as  the  one  to
Central  Africa,  from  21  to  25  November  2004,  to
assess  the  prospects  for  peace  and  stability  in  the
region. Furthermore, we commend the briefings on the
humanitarian  situation  in  Africa  by  Mr.  Jan  Egeland,
Under-Secretary-General  for  Humanitarian  Affairs,  to
bring to the Council’s attention the challenges in trying
to  secure  enough  resources  to  help  deal  with  acute
humanitarian  needs  in  Africa.  We  appeal  to  the
forward  and
to  come 
international  community 
contribute  generously 
lessen 
to 
the  burden  and
suffering of people in need in Africa.
We  also  commend  the  public  debate  on  the
African dimension in the work of the Security Council
at  the  wrap-up  meeting  held  following  the  more  than
20 formal and informal meetings on African issues that
the Council held during the month of March this year.
My delegation underscores the need to combine peace
and  security  efforts  with 
long-term  development
strategies,  with  a  view  to  moving  from  the  logic  of
resolution to one of prevention.
We  welcome  the  joint  efforts  by  the  Economic
and  Social  Council  and  the  Security  Council  in  that
regard.  That  is  all  the  more  pertinent  with 
the
recognition  of  the  interconnectedness  of  threats  and
challenges  faced  by  the  international  community  and
the  need  to  face  them  in  an  integrated  fashion,  taking
into account the linkages between development, peace,
security  and  human  rights.  We  should  also  emphasize
the  importance  of  strengthening  coordination  between
the United Nations system and  regional  organizations.
In that regard, the growing interaction with the African
Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African
States should be encouraged further.
Malaysia  agrees  that  holding  thematic  debates  is
useful  in  improving  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council.
We consider thematic open debates as avenues to allow
Council  members  and  the  wider  membership  of  the
United  Nations  to  offer  views  and  suggestions  on
issues directly related to the Council’s work. However,
it is still unclear whether the Council has actually fully
considered those views when arriving at decisions.
Given  the  Council’s  increasing  workload,  we
believe  that  thematic  discussions  should  be  kept  to  a
minimum,  and  held  specifically  with  a  view 
to
achieving  concrete  results  that  have  an  impact  on  the
performance  not  only  of  the  Council  but  also  the
United  Nations  at  large.  We  continue  to  believe  that
thematic debates and  other important  issues  addressed
by the Council from time to time merit the submission
of special reports to the General Assembly, as provided
for  under  Articles  15  and  24  of  the  Charter  and  in
keeping with the intent of Assembly resolution 58/126.
Malaysia  has  actively  participated  in  thematic
debates and has been a long-standing proponent of the
Council’s  addressing 
the  protection  of  civilians
affected by armed conflict.
the 
gender
mainstreaming  in  peacekeeping  operations,  we  are
particularly  pleased  with 
the  Council’s  ongoing
attention  to  the  subject  of  women  and  peace  and
security. The same is true for the issue of children and
armed  conflict,  as  well  as  for  the  need  for  systematic
and 
reporting
mechanisms.
comprehensive  monitoring 
Recognizing 
importance 
and 
of 
its  view 
In  the  open  debate  on  the  role  of  the  Security
in  humanitarian  crises,  my  delegation
Council 
expressed 
that  any  action  aimed  at
humanitarian  intervention  per  se  has  no  basis  in  the
Charter  or  in  international  law.  It  should  therefore  be
clear that, while the Security Council has a role to play,
its  response  should  be  based  on  a  distinction  between
crises  arising  out  of  conflict  situations  and  those
resulting from other causes, including natural disasters.
While  action  to  deal  with  conflict  is  laudable,  it
also remains the Council’s responsibility to ensure that
conflict is avoided. Hence there is definitely a need to
learn from past experience and to continue to find ways
and means to avert conflict. The efforts made to hold a
discussion  on  this  matter  are  steps  in  the  right
direction.
We 
the
responsibility 
that
specifically  relate  to  situations  of  conflict  and  that  it
has 
to  deal  with  such
situations.  The  Council’s  consideration  of  such  issues
has  laid  the  groundwork  for  action  in  the  areas  of
the  Council  has 
issues 
taken  appropriate  action 
to  address  humanitarian 
recognize 
that 
A/60/PV.47
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  and  in  preventing  a
return to conflict. We agree that return to conflict often
hinges  on  whether  three  key  issues  in  post-conflict
situations  are  adequately  addressed,  and  to  what
extent —  namely  the  promotion  of  the  rule  of  law;
security 
the  disarmament,
demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants. My
delegation  is  supportive  of  the  view  that  those  pillars
of post-conflict security should be further strengthened
in order to achieve long-lasting peace.
reform; 
sector 
and 
Malaysia  applauds 
the  Council’s  continued
interest in the Palestinian question as evidenced by the
monthly  briefings  and  open  debates  on  that  matter.
However,  we  are  disappointed  that  the  Council  failed
to  adopt  a  draft  resolution  on  that  issue  on  5  October
2004 due to the negative vote of a permanent member
of  the  Council.  Of  the  77  vetoes  used  by  that
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council,  26  have
been  cast  in  an  attempt  to  cripple  any  tangible
international effort in the ongoing Middle East conflict.
My  delegation  would  recall  that  only  one  resolution
was  adopted  in  that  respect  by  the  Council,  namely
resolution 1544 (2004) of 19 May 2004, which pertains
to  the  demolition  of  Palestinian  homes  in  the  Rafah
refugee camp by Israel, the occupying Power.
We  call  on  the  Security  Council  to  enhance  and
maintain  its  credibility  by  asserting  its  authority
concerning  the  Palestinian  question,  in  particular  in
respect of commitment to the road map and to the two-
State solution, the end of the occupation of Palestinian
and  Arab  territories,  the  termination  of  Israel’s  settler
the 
colonialism  activities,  and 
the
construction of the separation wall.
reversal  of 
The Council must not  allow its  resolutions  to  be
manipulated  or  permit  itself  to  be  prevented  from
taking constructive action. The Council must resolutely
take  action  concerning  the  construction  of  the  Israeli
expansionist  separation  wall,  which  has  been  declared
illegal 
the
international Court of Justice.
the  Advisory  Opinion 
issued  by 
in 
The suffering of the Palestinian people under the
occupation of Israel has been going on for far too long.
Malaysia  hopes  that  the  Council  will  live  up  to  its
commitment  to  continue  to  support  a  comprehensive
and  just  settlement  in  the  Middle  East  based  on
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002)  and
1515 
the  Madrid
Conference, and the principle of land for peace.
foundations  of 
(2003), 
the 
13
A/60/PV.47
including 
the  United  Nations, 
Turning  to  agenda  item  117,  my  delegation
wishes to state that we agree with the prevailing view
that 
the  Security
Council, must be reformed in a comprehensive manner
in terms of both its working methods and the expansion
of 
legitimate,
representative, democratic and transparent. We note the
extensive  discussions  we  have  had  on  this  issue  over
the  years;  however,  it  is  time  for  us  to  move  on  to
action.
its  membership, 
to  make 
it  more 
In  that  regard,  we  note  with  interest  the  non-
paper that has been circulated by a group of countries
on  improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council.  Some  of  the  proposals  in  the  paper  are  not
new,  but  the  fact  that  over  the  years  they  have
resurfaced  regularly  in  various  non-papers  shows  that
they  contain  elements  that  Member  States  view  as
crucial to Security Council reform.
equitable 
based 
so  as 
on 
to  make 
Malaysia has been supportive with respect to the
question  of  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council.
Malaysia supports the expansion of  both categories of
geographical
membership, 
distribution 
it  more  broadly
representative,  reflecting  the  geopolitics  of  today.
Malaysia  wishes  once  again  to  reiterate  its  view
position that, if there is no agreement on the expansion
in the permanent membership, we should proceed with
expansion  of  the  non-permanent  membership,  while
keeping  the  issue  of  the  expansion  of  the  permanent
membership  on  the  active  agenda  of  the  United
Nations.
The  reform  should  also  address  the  question  of
the veto with a view to eventually doing away with it,
in  conformity  with  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality
as  envisaged  in  the  Charter.  Malaysia  continues  to
believe that the exercise of the veto by the permanent
members  of  the  Security  Council  should  be  regulated
so as to prohibit that  power  from  being  used  unjustly,
at the sole discretion of the holder, to override the wish
of the majority.
On 28 April 2005, during the thematic discussion
on  the  Secretary-General’s  report  entitled  “In  larger
freedom”,  Malaysia  proposed  that,  until  the  objective
of  abolishing  the  veto  is  achieved,  there  could  be  a
modified  veto,  whereby  two  veto  powers  would  need
the  backing  of  three  other  members  of  the  Security
Council  in  order  to  block  the  adoption  of  a  Security
Council resolution.
14
the  views  of 
The Security Council, before taking any decision
on  issues  that  requires  implementation  by  Member
States,  should  seek 
the  general
membership. That would allow Member States to voice
their opinions and to make comments or suggestions on
potential  improvements  before  a  decision  is  taken.  As
we  have  seen  in  the  past,  some  Security  Council
decisions  have  imposed  on  Member  States  a  heavy
burden  in  terms  of  providing  reports,  leading  to
reporting fatigue.
Mr.  President,  Malaysia  will  continue  to  support
and  work  closely  with  you,  other  Members  of  the
United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  to  explore
new ideas and arrive at a fresh outlook with respect to
Security  Council  reform.  We  already  possess  the
necessary  tools  to  advance  that  process.  What  is
required  is  the  full  support  and  political  will  of
Member States.
Mr.  Wali  (Nigeria):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak
on  behalf  of  the  African  Group  on  the  agenda  item
entitled  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and
increase in the membership of the Security Council and
related matters”.
Mr.  President,  we  wish  to  express  to  you  our
appreciation  for  your  leadership  in  the  conduct  of  the
work of this session as well as for your commitment to
steering  our  deliberations  towards  the  actualization  of
the  decisions  of  world  leaders  as  reflected  in  the
outcome document.
Permit  me  also  to  express  the  sympathy  of  the
African  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  the
Government and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom
of  Jordan  in  connection  with  the  terrorist  attack  of
Wednesday,  9  November  2005,  which  claimed  many
lives.
Africa  considers  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council as fundamental not solely to the entire reform
process  of  the  United  Nations,  to  which  we  are
committed,  but  also  to  the  realization  of  the  primary
objective of the maintenance of international peace and
security,  in  consonance  with  the  provisions  of  the
United  Nations  Charter.  It  is  in  that  context  that
African  leaders  at  the  highest  level  of  Government
adopted,  at  their  Summit  in  Sirte,  Libya,  on  5  July
2005,  the  Sirte  Declaration  on  the  Reform  of  the
United  Nations,  which  unambiguously  states  Africa’s
position on the matter.
I wish to recall that Africa’s contributions to the
various processes that led to the September 2005 world
summit  were  informed  by  that  position.  Africa’s  call
for  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council
aimed  at  making  it  more  broadly  representative  and
transparent  is  based  on  our  assessment  that  such  a
reform  would  enhance  the  legitimacy  of  its  decisions
and the representativity of its membership.
For  us,  such  reform  should  not  be  limited  to
expanding  the  Council  in  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent categories; it should also include improving
the  Council’s  working  methods  to  make  it  more
effective  and  efficient,  strengthening  the  transparency
of  its  procedures,  improving  its  functioning  and  its
decision-making 
greater
involvement  in  its  work.  We  therefore  consider  the
present  session  of  the  General  Assembly  an  historic
opportunity  to  take  decisions  that  will  ensure  that
reform  of 
its
transparency  and  accountability.
democratization, 
Reform  should  also  enable  us  to  comprehensively
redress  the  injustice  against  developing  countries,
especially those in Africa.
the  Security  Council 
ensuring 
process 
leads 
and 
to 
Africa  can  therefore  neither  associate  itself  with
nor  support  any  initiative,  however  conceived,  that
seeks  a  partial  approach  to  Security  Council  reform.
Such  an  approach,  in  our  assessment,  would  run
counter  to  the  decisions  of  our  leaders  and  to  the
wishes  of  the  broad  majority  of  the  United  Nations
membership.
reform 
through 
Council 
I  wish  to  reiterate  once  again  Africa’s  call  for
Security 
equitable
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of
the  Council.  Lest 
there  be  any  doubt,  Africa’s
representation  means  no  fewer  than  two  permanent
seats, with all the prerogatives and privileges attached
thereto,  as  well  as  five  non-permanent  seats.  Indeed,
Africa  has  a  clear  position  and  a  clear  understanding
regarding what permanent seats would mean and entail
for the continent. I therefore have the honour to inform
the  Assembly  that  that  position  was  reaffirmed  in  the
latest  decision  reached  by  African  leaders  at  their
Extraordinary  Summit  in  Addis  Ababa  on  31  October
2005.
Africa is determined to engage with other United
Nations Member States outside our region in pursuit of
that  clear  position  of  the  African  Union.  In  that
process,  I  wish  to  assure  you,  Mr.  President,  of  our
A/60/PV.47
cooperation, mindful of the desire and commitment of
other  States  to  implement  the  decisions  of  world
leaders.
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  We  welcome  the
opportunity to discuss two reports — the report of the
Security Council concerning its work during the period
1 August 2004 to 31 July 2005 (A/60/2) and the report
of the Open-ended Working Group on the Question of
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
related  to  the  Security  Council  (A/59/47).  In  that
regard, we align ourselves with the statement made by
the  representative  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the  African
Group.  We  particularly  want  to  highlight  the  part  of
that  statement  expressing  Africa’s  condolences  to  our
colleagues  from  Jordan  and  to  the  Jordanian  people
with  regard 
that  occurred
yesterday in their country.
incident 
tragic 
the 
in 
to 
The  Security  Council  has  a  solemn  mandate  to
maintain international peace and security, which means
that  it  has  far-reaching  impact  on  the  lives  of  many
people throughout the world. That gives urgency to the
efforts  to  expand  and  transform  the  Council  into  a
more credible, representative and effective organ.
We  note  the  ongoing  attempts  to  improve  the
working methods of the Security Council. However, we
would  be  more  appreciative  if  those  reforms  were
made  permanent  so  that  the  Council  could  have
predictable  working  methods.  We  are  pleased  to  note
that  the  Council  is  gradually  opening  up  to  regional
players  in  its  maintenance  of  international  peace  and
security,  as  demonstrated  by  the  Council  meeting  in
the  subsequent  presidential  statement
Kenya  and 
reaffirming 
the 
the
African  Union,  as  well  as  by  resolution  1631  (2005),
on  cooperation  with  regional  organizations.  We  hope
that  that  relationship  is  further  strengthened  as  we
continue towards the peaceful resolution of conflicts on
our African continent.
institutional  relationship  with 
We  are  deeply  concerned  that  the  conflict  in  the
Middle  East  continues  unabated.  In  our  view,  the
Security  Council  missed  a  significant  opportunity  to
revive the Middle East peace process, which presented
itself  during  the  past  year  following  the  reduction  in
the 
the
disengagement  of  the  Israeli  army  from  Gaza.  We
believe 
that
opportunity and acted decisively, rather than passively
the  Council  could  have  seized 
levels  of  violence  and 
terrorism  and 
that 
15
A/60/PV.47
receiving routine monthly updates from the Secretariat.
At the same time, the Council failed to react  as Israel
accelerated  the  construction  of  illegal  settlements  on
the  West  Bank  and  continued  the  construction  of  the
separation  wall  that  has  altered  the  demographic
character of the occupied areas.
the 
into 
investigation 
cooperate  with 
We  welcome  Syria’s  compliance  with  the  call  to
withdraw its forces from Lebanon and its commitment
to 
the
assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik
Hariri.  We  wish  to  encourage  the  Security  Council  to
make  a  similar  call  on  Israel  to  withdraw  its  presence
from the occupied Shaba’a Farms and the Syrian Golan
and  also  to  look  into  the  assassinations  of  numerous
Palestinian leaders in that area.
the 
We  welcome  the  decision  to  hold  joint  public
briefings  by  the  Chairs  of  the  Counter-Terrorism
Committee, 
Security  Council  Committee
established pursuant to resolution 1540 (2004), the Al-
Qaida/Taliban  Sanctions  Committee,  and  the  Working
Group  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1566  (2004)
as  a  first  step  towards  rationalizing  and  consolidating
the  Council’s  counter-terrorism  programme.  However,
it  is  important  that  the  rest  of  the  membership
participate  in  such  debates  before  the  adoption  of
important resolutions that have an impact on everyone.
We trust that Member States already struggling to
catch  up  with  the  Security  Council’s  demands  will  be
provided  a  genuine  opportunity  to  express  their  views
on issues such as the future of the 1540 Committee and
the  review  of 
the  Counter-
Terrorism  Executive  Directorate.  The  Council  should
take stock of the effectiveness of its efforts to provide
technical assistance to those who require it and should
address questions related to the transparency and cost-
effectiveness of its work.
the  performance  of 
Another  area  in  which  improvements  could  be
the  Security
made  concerns  cooperation  between 
Council  and 
troop-contributing  countries.  Recent
meetings  between  the  Council  and  troop-contributing
countries have been rather unproductive, adding to the
sense of frustration among those countries, which often
feel  that  the  Council  does  not  take  their  operational
difficulties  into  account  when  taking  decisions  that
affect troop deployments.
In  1993,  the  General  Assembly,  through  its
resolution 48/26, established the Open-ended  Working
Group on the Question of Equitable Representation on
16
the  need 
recognized 
and  Increase  in  the  Membership  of  the  Security
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security
Council.  The  Working  Group  was  established  because
Member  States 
to  address
representational  equity  in  the  Security  Council  and  to
examine formulas to increase its membership. It is now
more  than  12  years  since  Member  States  began  the
debate  on  Council  reform,  and  there  is  still  no
agreement  because  the  Working  Group  has  remained
deadlocked,  particularly  on  the  vital  issue  of  Security
Council expansion.
At  their  September  summit,  heads  of  State  and
Government  took  a  decisive  decision  by  calling  for
reform of the Security Council as an essential element
of the overall efforts to reform the United Nations. We
believe that that decision has overtaken the deadlocked
negotiations  of  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  and
that  it  has  committed  Member  States  to  reaching  an
early  decision  on  this  matter.  As  members  are  aware,
the General Assembly is required to review progress on
Security Council reform by the end of this year.
It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  are  pleased  by  the
decision  of  the  African  Union  to  reintroduce  its
resolution calling for expansion of the Security Council
in  both  categories.  Last  week, 
the  extraordinary
summit of the African Union reaffirmed Africa’s desire
for two permanent seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats
on  an  expanded  Security  Council,  with  the  new
members  exercising  all  the  rights  and  privileges  of
current members.
The  President  has  requested  us  to  give  him  an
indication  as  to  how  to  move  the  process  forward.
South  Africa  believes  that  the  broad  objective  of  the
reform  should  be  to  create  a  Security  Council  that  is
truly  representative  of  the  membership  and  able  to
respond effectively to international crises, as mandated
by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  reformed
Council  should 
represent  our  collective  security
concerns in an even manner, and should be accountable
to the entire membership of the United Nations. In our
view,  Council  reform  has  to  equally  address  both  the
enlargement of the Council and the improvement of its
working  methods.  Anything  less  would  be  papering
over cracks. It is for that reason that my delegation will
have  great  difficulty  in  supporting  any  approach  that
addresses  only  one  element  of  the  reform  of  the
Security Council.
We  as  Member  States  have  the  responsibility  to
ensure that the Security Council remains the universal
repository  of  our  efforts  in  the  maintenance  of  peace
and  security  by  taking  the  bold  step  to  reform  it.  The
time  has  come  to  arrest  the  erosion  of  the  Council’s
credibility  and  to  seek  agreement  on  the  composition
and  working  methods  of  a  reformed  Council.  Let  us
create  a  Security  Council  that  will  serve  us  all  in  the
context of the new geopolitical realities.
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): Allow
me to begin by expressing our sympathy and solidarity
with  the  Government  and  people  of  the  Hashemite
Kingdom  of  Jordan  over  the  heinous  terrorist  attacks
that  occurred  in  Amman  yesterday.  They  underscore
the  urgent  need  for  a  decisive  role  for  the  General
Assembly  in  drafting  and  implementing  a  clear  and
concrete plan to combat international terrorism.
to 
the 
the 
issue  of 
to  reform 
We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made
by  the  representative  of  Nigeria  on  behalf  of  the
African Group. It emphasized the importance all of us
should  attach 
reform  and
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  as  a  fundamental
and  vital  part  of  efforts 
the  United
Nations — a concern that was also expressed by heads
of  State  and  Government  in  the  outcome  document  of
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
the  General
Assembly  last  September  (resolution  60/1).  Given  the
particular importance that Egypt attaches to that issue,
we  look  forward  to  continuing  our  collective  work  in
the 
constructive
understanding  to  take  practical  and  tangible  steps
towards  enlarging  the  Security  Council  and  reforming
its methods of work.
transparency 
context  of 
and 
I  should  now  like  to  refer  to  several  points  that
reflect Egypt’s views about this vital issue as we move
ahead.
First, 
last  year  produced  several 
important
developments  pertaining  to  the  two  aspects  of  the
Security  Council  reform  as  a  result  of  the  momentum
that accompanied the report of the Secretary-General’s
High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change,
issued in the run-up to the High-level Plenary Meeting.
Those  developments  have 
increasing
African  and  international  conviction  that  any  effort  to
reform  the  Organization  should  include  reform  of  the
Security  Council,  including  enlarging  its  membership
and reforming its methods of work.
illustrated 
A/60/PV.47
translate 
Secondly, the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  Other
Matters related to the Security Council has made some
progress  in  its  efforts  to  develop  clear  proposals  that
command wide consensus with regard to reforming the
Council’s  methods  of  work.  We  note  with  great
concern, however, that due to a lack of political will to
make  the  necessary  breakthroughs  in  connection  with
either of the two aspects of reform, the Working Group
could  not 
into  practical
conclusions  to  enable  real  reform  with  regard  to
enlarging  the  Security  Council  and  improving  its
methods  of  work.  We  nevertheless  believe  that  it  is
important that the Working Group continue its work on
reforming the Security Council in both those areas and
on  negotiating  an  open  and  transparent  mechanism
through  which  the  entire  membership  can  express  its
views on the issue of reform. In requesting the General
Assembly  to  review  the  progress  made  with  regard  to
Council  reform, 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting
emphasized the role of the Open-ended Working Group
in reconciling varying points of view on the matter.
that  progress 
the  right 
to  bolster 
Thirdly,  the  intensive  consultations  carried  out
last  year  by  the  General  Assembly  have  underscored
the  Assembly’s  determination  that  any  model  used  to
enlarge the membership of the Security Council should
serve 
the  participation  of  developing
countries and reflect contemporary political realities, in
particular the historical injustice Africa has suffered as
a  result  of  never  having  been  a  permanent  member  of
the  Council  or  enjoyed 
the  veto.
Enlargement  of  the  Council  should  also  provide  for
reasonable  representation  of  all  civilizations  and
cultures.  Despite  the  many  proposals  and  models  that
have  been  put  forth,  none  of  which  has  enjoyed  wide
consensus,  we  should  not  give  up  our  African  and
international  aspirations,  especially  with  regard  to
giving  Africa  permanent  membership  on  the  Council
and equity and equality vis-à-vis the current permanent
members. That must also include granting Africa non-
permanent  seats  in  accordance  with  the  number  of
States  on 
the
Organization’s total membership.
the  continent  as  a  proportion  of 
to 
In that connection, the most recent extraordinary
session  of  the  African  Union  created  an  African
mechanism to continue to promote and muster support
for  Africa’s  position  as  emphasized  in  the  Sirte
Declaration  and 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  which
17
A/60/PV.47
constitute an indivisible whole and cannot be addressed
selectively. Africa will seek to mobilize support for its
legitimate requests on this matter. In that regard, Africa
seeks  the  support  of  the  entire  membership  of  the
Organization,  especially 
the  permanent
members of the Security Council.
that  of 
Fourthly,  with  regard  to  reforming  the  Security
Council’s methods of work, last week we received the
initiative  by  five  friendly  countries  that  included
important ideas that merit our consideration and study.
The  delegation  of  Egypt  will  constructively  and
substantively  consider  that  initiative  as  part  of  the
overall effort to reform the Council’s methods of work
and  its  transparency  and  to  ensure  wider  participation
of  non-members  in  its  work  and  decision-making
processes  and  in  its  subsidiary  bodies.  Reform  should
also ensure the Council’s accountability to the General
Assembly, balance the relationships among the Council
and  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Charter,  and
rationalize  the  use  of  the  right  of  veto  prior  to  its
ultimate  abolition.  In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to
continuing  consultations  on  the  issue  of  enlarging  the
Council  in  order  to  grant  Africa  no  less  than  two
permanent seats with all the prerogatives of permanent
membership, including the right to the veto, as well as
five  non-permanent  seats.  As  clearly  stated  by  the
representative  of  Nigeria  today,  that  objective  would
guarantee our aspirations as a continent in  accordance
with the  resolutions  adopted at  the  last  African  Union
summit.
the  Security  Council  and 
The  consideration  of  the  annual  report  of  the
Security  Council  is  closely  related  to  what  has  been
said about the reform of the Council. There is no doubt
that  we  need  to  urgently  develop  the  relationship
between 
the  General
Assembly so as to go beyond the routine of an annual
report  which  is  merely  a  narrative  of  the  Council’s
activities  and  offers  no  analytical  assessment  of  the
obstacles 
full
implementation of its resolutions or of the methods of
tackling the issues before it.
effective 
impede 
and 
that 
the 
In this context, it has become more urgent to have
an  increased  and  developed  thematic  and  institutional
interaction  between  the  Council  and  the  Assembly  so
that  Council  activities  will  not  encroach  upon  issues
beyond  its  responsibilities  for  maintaining  peace  and
security  to  include  subjects  that  fall  under  the  proper
competence  of  the  General  Assembly,  such  as  human
18
rights,  disarmament  and  international  cooperation  to
combat  terrorism.  This  should  be  done  in  order  to  re-
establish  a  more  balanced  relationship  between  the
Security Council and the General Assembly, on the one
hand,  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on  the
other, and to carry out fundamental and genuine reform
of  those  organs  in  a  manner  that  makes  their  action
more transparent, democratic and accountable. It would
require that the General Assembly go beyond its rigid
framework and not follow precedents that have caused
it  to  lose  more  of  its  mandates  and  capabilities  to  the
Security Council.
of 
solidarity 
expressions 
We look to you, Mr. President, to lead us in a new
direction  for  the  General  Assembly.  For  example,
condemnation, 
and
observance of minutes of silence or prayer for victims
are not sufficient means for dealing with terrorism. The
Assembly should seek to realize clearer objectives that
go  beyond  the  adoption  of  the  general  protocol  to  the
adoption  of  a  comprehensive  strategy  and  a  clear
working  plan  of  action,  so  that  it  can  achieve  the
security and stability to which we aspire.
In view of the amount of time occupied by issues
of  peace  and  security  in  Africa  in  the  activities  and
plans of action of the Council, and in order to benefit
from  the  genuine  partnership  with  the  African  Union
and  other  regional  African  organizations,  there  is  a
need to expand African representation in the Council’s
membership.  Also,  African  participation 
the
Council’s  activities  should  be  increased  through  new
mechanisms  that  will  lead  to  transparency  in  its
working  methods.  In  this  respect,  we  call  for  the
revival, activation and expansion of participation in the
task force that exists within the Council to prevent and
settle  African  disputes, 
the
experience  of  the  African  Union  in  a  manner  that
would achieve the hoped-for results.
taking  advantage  of 
in 
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  While 
the  Bahamas
aligns itself with the statement made by the Permanent
Representative  of  Barbados  on  behalf  of  the  member
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  we
wish  to  offer  a  few  additional  comments  from  a
national perspective.
In  1945  the  nations  of  the  world,  fresh  from  the
horrors  of  war,  embarked  upon  one  of  the  greatest
undertakings  in  international  diplomacy  —  the  United
Nations.  At  that  time,  51  States  decided  that  the  best
chance  for  sustained  peace  was  to  bind  together  their
in 
common  hopes  and  aspirations 
this  world
Organization  based  on  the  principles  of  international
law, international security, economic development  and
social equity. Today, 60 years later, the nearly universal
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  with  191  Member
States, is a testament to its appeal and indispensability.
international  peace  and
security within the United Nations system, the Security
Council has often taken centre stage as we all grapple
with  the  challenges  brought  on  by  an  increasingly
complex 
the  attendant
opportunities, obstacles, and threats.
international  order  and 
the  sentinel  for 
As 
In  compliance  with  Article  24,  paragraph  3,  of
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  we  are  today
considering  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council
to  the  General  Assembly  contained  in  document
A/60/2, which has been ably presented by Ambassador
Denisov  of  the  Russian  Federation.  The  annual  report
has  been  the  object  of  much  comment  over  the  years,
given  its  potential  to  be  a  major  point  of  interaction
between 
the
Organization. This potential takes on great significance
because,  according  to  Article  24,  paragraph  1,  of  the
Charter,  the  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations
“confer on the Security Council primary responsibility
for the maintenance of international peace and security,
and  agree  that  in  carrying  out  its  duties  under  this
responsibility 
their
behalf”.
the  Security  Council  acts  on 
principal 
bodies 
these 
two 
of 
Inasmuch  as  the  Council  acts  on  behalf  of  all
United  Nations  Member  States  in  the  maintenance  of
international  peace  and  security,  and  while  few  would
argue  that  the  report  before  us  is  not  comprehensive,
many  countries,  the  Bahamas  included,  agree  that  it
could  and  should  be  more  substantive  and  analytical,
presenting  a  reflective  view  and  assessment  of  the
Council’s  activities.  It  is  also  in  this  vein  that  the
Bahamas  supports  the  idea  of  an  interactive  exchange
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  when
this report is being considered by the latter.
The  report  certainly  illustrates  the  width  and
breadth  of  the  actions  undertaken  by  the  Council  on
our  behalf  and  reveals  a  continuous  increase  in  the
volume and scope of its activities. The greater number
of those activities were, in our view,  rightfully geared
towards bringing resolution to a number of conflict and
post-conflict  situations,  particularly  in  Africa.  We
commend  the  Council  for  its  focus  in  this  area,
A/60/PV.47
especially in light of the acknowledged nexus between
peace, security and development and the need to ensure
that  Africa  makes  significant  strides  towards  the
achievement  of  internationally  agreed  development
goals, including the Millennium Development Goals.
to 
resolve 
the  activities  of 
The  Bahamas  also  welcomes 
the  Council’s
sustained  focus  on  our  sister  Caribbean  nation,  Haiti,
through 
the  United  Nations
Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH),  in  an
effort 
the  complexity  of  challenges
confronting 
that  country.  Thus  we  note  with
satisfaction  the  Council’s  acknowledgement  of  “the
importance 
economic
development alongside security and political stability”
within Haiti (A/60/2, p. 11). It is absolutely imperative
that  the  international  community  continue  to  provide
Haiti  with  the  required  assistance  and  support  for  its
upcoming elections and beyond.
promoting 
long-term 
of 
required 
The  Bahamas  also  takes  a  keen  interest  in  the
work of the Council’s various counter-terrorism bodies,
particularly  their  efforts  to  increase  coordination  in
their  respective  fields  of  work,  and  the  provision  of
technical  assistance  to  States  in  need.  The  sometimes
Herculean  effort 
implement  critical
counter-terrorism  measures  adopted  by  the  Security
Council, as well as to meet reporting obligations under
various  resolutions,  continues  to  pose  a  challenge  to
many  States,  particularly  small  States.  The  Bahamas
would encourage the Council to continue its efforts to
coordinate  much-needed  assistance  to  States  in  all
aspects  of  their  counter-terrorism  obligations  in  our
collective fight against this scourge.
to 
this 
juncture 
Allow  me  at 
the
condolences  of  the  people  and  Government  of  the
Bahamas  to  the  people  and  Government  of  Jordan  on
the  loss  of  life  and  destruction  caused  by  the  terrorist
bombings in Amman yesterday.
to  convey 
We  acknowledge  the  service  and  efforts  of  the
Member  States  that  are  members  of  the  Security
Council.  We  believe  it  is  vital  that  all  Member  States
with the  capacity  to  serve  on  the  Council  be  given  an
opportunity  to  do  so,  and  therefore  we  feel  that  the
expansion  of  the  Council’s  membership  is  appropriate
and  should  be  given  careful  and  due  consideration.  A
Council that is truly representative of the present world
must more equitably reflect the current membership of
the  Organization,  allowing  developing  countries,
19
A/60/PV.47
including  small  island  developing  States,  to  play  a
greater role in its activities.
Expanding 
is  reform  of 
the  membership  of 
the  Security
Council is, however, only one dimension of the reform
that needs to take place in that body. The other equally
important  dimension 
the  Council’s
working  methods.  The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome
(resolution  60/1)  acknowledges  and  speaks  to  this
aspect  directly, 
the  Council
continue to adapt its working methods so as to increase
the involvement of States not members of the Council
in  its  work,  as  appropriate,  enhance  its  accountability
to the membership and increase the transparency of its
work.
recommending 
that 
in 
In tandem with the report of the Security Council,
we are also, appropriately, considering the report of the
the  Question  of
Open-ended  Working  Group  on 
Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase 
the
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters
related  to  the  Security  Council,  which  is  contained  in
document  A/59/47.  I  had  the  distinct  pleasure  of  co-
chairing  that  Working  Group,  along  with  Ambassador
Christian Wenaweser of Liechtenstein, during the fifty-
ninth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  During  that
period,  the  Working  Group’s  discussions  concentrated
on  matters  related  to  the  working  methods  of  the
Security  Council,  or  cluster-II  issues,  as  they  are
commonly called.
As  evidenced  by  this  report  of  the  Working
Group, many Member States place great emphasis and
importance  on  the  working  methods  of  the  Security
Council  as  a  means  of  making 
the  body  more
transparent,  inclusive,  accountable  and  effective.  The
Bahamas  believes  that  positive  contributions  to  the
work of the Council could and would be made by many
countries 
the
periphery or totally excluded if the working methods of
that  body  were  modified.  There  is  a  plethora  of
recommendations  and  suggestions  that  have  issued
forth  from  the  Open-ended  Working  Group  in  this
regard, last year and in preceding years, and we invite
the  Security  Council 
them  within  a
constructive and progressive frame of reference.
that  would  otherwise  be  kept  on 
to  consider 
In  this  vein,  the  Bahamas  is  heartened  by  the
discussions  on  working  methods 
that  have  been
generated in the wake of the draft resolution crafted by
the  “Small  Five”  delegations  of  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,
Liechtenstein,  Singapore 
and  Switzerland.  We
20
commend  those  delegations  for  this  initiative,  and  we
hope  it  will  lead  to  a  groundswell  of  dialogue  and
action  culminating  in  a  positive  outcome  for  all
concerned.  This  could  be  a  critical  first  step  in  acting
on the agreement of the summit in September that early
reform of the Security Council is an essential  element
of our overall effort to reform the United Nations.
We are all familiar with the saying that with great
power  comes  great  responsibility.  Nowhere  is  this  old
adage  more  appropriate  than  when  it  comes  to  the
Security  Council.  We  believe  that  primary  among  the
Council’s responsibilities is that of engaging regularly
and  constructively  in  dialogue  with  those  on  whose
behalf it  acts, in  an atmosphere  of  mutual  respect  and
trust.  It  is  the  sincere  hope  of  my  delegation  that  this
debate  and  the  ensuing  relevant  discussions  will  all
contribute to that end.
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)(spoke 
in  French):
Algeria strongly condemns the hateful terrorist attacks
that  hit  Amman  yesterday.  I  wish  to  convey  sincere
condolences  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the
people of Algeria to the Government and the fraternal
people  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan.  I  would
also  like  to  convey  sincere  condolences  to  the  grief-
stricken families of the victims.
to 
like 
I  would 
thank  Ambassador  Andrey
Denisov, the Permanent  Representative  of  the  Russian
Federation  and  President  of  the  Security  Council  for
the  month  of  November,  for  his  comprehensive
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security
Council  (A/60/2).  The  period  covered  by  the  report,
from  August  2004  to  July  2005,  occurred  during
Algeria’s  term  as  an  elected  member  of  the  Council.
Hence, my delegation would like to draw some lessons
from  our  tenure,  particularly  relating  to  the  Council’s
working  methods  and  to  the  question  of  equitable
representation on that organ.
As  a  non-aligned,  African  and  Arab  country,
Algeria  has  used  its  term  on  the  Security  Council  to
further the demands put forward by those three crucial
elements  of  the  Organization  and  echoed  by  the
overwhelming  majority 
States:
democratization  of  the  Security  Council;  transparency
in  its  work;  and  improvement  in  its  effectiveness
pursuant to the prerogatives assigned by the Charter to
each principal organ.
of  Member 
The  report  before  us  attests  to  an  extremely
heavy, dense agenda for the reporting period. We note
that  in  the  main  these  efforts  were  focused  mainly  on
conflicts  in  Africa,  as  well  as  on  the  Middle  East
region. The large  number  of  conflicts  and  pre-conflict
situations  has  made  it  essential  that  the  Council  draw
on all the resources offered by the Charter in the  area
of conflict prevention and settlement. Increasingly, the
Council,  given  the  multitude  of  its  tasks,  has  had  to
look  outside  itself  and  solicit  the  support  of  regional
organizations  pursuant  to  Chapter  VIII;  that  of  the
Secretary-General,  in  his  mediating  role  through  his
network  of  special 
representatives  and  personal
envoys;  and  that  of  Member  States  as  influential
regional actors or troop contributors. All of them have
a contribution to make in working out a decision.
that 
to  promote 
Within the Security Council, Algeria has actively
just  concept  of  shared
sought 
responsibility  of  the  members  of  the  international
community  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace
and security. While this is the primary responsibility of
the  Security  Council  under  the  Charter,  it  is  not  its
exclusive  province.  Algeria  will  continue  to  work  to
strengthen this trend  and  will  join  in  the  efforts  of  all
Member States to that end.
limited  —  an 
We  can  already  say  that  there  has  been  —
the
admittedly 
transparency  of 
the
increased number of public meetings and the improved
dialogue  with  parties  to  conflicts  and  with  troop-
contributing countries.
the  Council’s  work 
in 
through 
improvement 
However,  this  should  not  blind  us  to  some
deficiencies,  relating  to  the  still  excessive  use  of
Chapter  VII  in  situations  where  the  resources  of
Chapter VI would suffice to achieve the same goal; to a
persistent  lack  of  political  will  to  act  on  Council
decisions taken under that very Chapter VII in a fixed
and  non-discriminatory  way,  as  continues  to  be  the
case when it comes to the Middle East; and, finally, to
the  dearth  of  resources  available  to  the  Security
Council  to  provide  appropriate  responses  in  post-
conflict and peacebuilding situations. Algeria earnestly
hopes  that  the  proposal  to  create  a  Peacebuilding
Commission  will  objectively  take  account  of  the
respective  advantages  of  the  principal  organs  before  a
rushed decision is taken to set up such a body.
In  that  light,  I  turn  now  to  the  question  of
equitable  representation  on  the  Security  Council.  My
delegation  associates  itself  fully  with  the  statement
A/60/PV.47
held 
The  world 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Nigeria  on
behalf of the African Group.
summit 
in  September
demonstrated once again the great interest that Member
States attach to Security Council reform as an essential
element  of  the  overall  reform  of  the  United  Nations.
Strong  arguments  were  made  for  the  expansion  of  the
Security  Council  and  for 
its  working
methods  in  order  to  make  it  more  representative  and
more  effective,  and  thus,  to  bolster  its  legitimacy  and
authority.
improving 
We  hope  that  the  question  of  the  reform  of  the
United  Nations  in  general  and  that  of  the  Security
Council in particular will see positive developments as
soon  as  possible  so  as  not  to  lose  the  momentum  that
has  been  generated.  We  hope  that  such  developments
will  put  an  end  to  the  historical  injustice  done  to  the
developing  countries,  particularly  to  the  developing
countries of Africa.
to 
it  applies  both 
My  delegation  would  like  here  to  reaffirm  its
commitment  to  the  specific  proposals  on  substantive
issues  made  by  countries  of 
the  Non-Aligned
Movement, reflecting a determination to strengthen the
representativity  and  effectiveness  of 
the  Security
Council.  Clearly,  such  Security  Council  reform  is  by
nature  comprehensive,  as 
the
Council’s working methods and to its expansion. Here,
we  take  note  of  the  laudable  efforts  of  a  number  of
delegations  to  submit  a  draft  resolution  on  improving
the working methods of the Security Council. Africa’s
approach to Security Council reform, as set out in last
session’s  draft  resolution  A/59/L.67,  reflects  African
aspirations as set forth in the Ezulwini Consensus and
as  reaffirmed  in  the  Sirte  Declaration  and  at  the  fifth
Extraordinary Session of the African Union Assembly,
held in Addis Ababa on 31 October 2005: we aspire to
a  Security  Council 
to
contemporary realities.
is  better  adapted 
that 
Africa  requests  two  permanent  seats,  with  the
same  privileges  and  prerogatives  enjoyed  by  current
permanent members, including the veto, and five non-
permanent seats. In due course, the African Union will,
in a spirit of solidarity and unity, take a decision on the
modalities for the apportionment of the seats to which
it  is  entitled,  pursuant  to  the  Sirte  Declaration.  At  the
same time, we reaffirm our willingness and our desire
to  work  with  all  delegations  to  make  progress  on
Security  Council  reform.  Here,  we  stress  the  integral
21
A/60/PV.47
nature  of  the  Sirte  Declaration,  which  allows  of  no
departure from any of its constituent elements.
Mr. Al-Najem (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): I wish
at the outset to express Kuwait’s outrage at the terrorist
bombings  in  three  hotels  in  the  Jordanian  capital  of
Amman  and  to  state  our  vigorous  condemnation  of
those  attacks.  The  bombings  were 
to
destabilize  that  country  and  took  a  heavy  toll  of
innocent  lives.  Kuwait  firmly  rejects  all  such  terrorist
acts,  which  contravene  all  human  values  and  norms.  I
convey  our  condolences  and  sympathy 
the
Government  of  Jordan  and  to  the  families  of  the
victims. We wish the injured a speedy recovery.
intended 
to 
I thank the President of the Security Council  for
the month of November, Ambassador Andrey Denisov,
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Russian  Federation,
for his lucid introduction of the report of the Council to
the  General  Assembly  (A/60/2).  He  noted  that  the
steady  increase  in  the  volume  and  breadth  of  the
Council’s work has continued over the past year. I also
express  our  great  appreciation 
former
Chairperson of the Open-ended Working Group on the
Question  of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase
in  the  Membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  to  the
two Vice-Chairpersons for their tireless efforts and for
the excellent manner in which they guided the Group’s
deliberations.
the 
to 
increase 
in 
representation  on  and 
It  goes  without  saying  that  the  item  before  us
today is among the most important on the agenda of the
General  Assembly.  That  is  clearly  reflected  in  the
intensity  of  this  year’s  discussion  of  the  question  of
equitable 
the
membership  of 
the  Security  Council,  which  has
resulted  in  the  submission  of  a  number  of  draft
resolutions  by 
like-minded  regional  groups.  The
importance  that  Member  States  attach  to  the  question
of  equitable  representation  on  the  Council  and  reform
of  the  Council’s  working  methods  is  reflected  also  in
the support of heads of State or Government for speedy
reform  of  the  Council,  as  expressed  in  the  outcome
document  of  the  recent  High-level  Plenary  Meeting
(resolution  60/1),  with  a  view  to  making  the  Council
more 
and
effective, and to enhancing its legitimacy, as well as in
their commitment to continue working towards an early
decision on this matter.
representative, 
transparent 
efficient, 
In  its  deliberations  of  recent  years,  the  Working
Group  has  stressed  the  urgency  of  restructuring  the
22
in 
Security Council and increasing the transparency of its
working  methods  and  procedures.  Notwithstanding
agreement  among  Member  States  on  the  principle  of
reform  and  change,  the  Working  Group  —  12  years
after its establishment — has yet to agree on the nature
of the changes to be effected. But we cannot disregard
the  progress  made 
the  Group’s  deliberations,
particularly with respect to the procedures and working
methods  of  the  Security  Council.  There  is  near-
consensus on the proposals for changes that need to be
made. Indeed, the Council itself has taken the initiative
to introduce new procedures and working methods. We
must hail these improvements in the Council’s working
methods. Our appreciation goes to the members of the
Council,  who  regularly  brief  the  broader  membership
on  developments  within  the  Security  Council,  thus
helping to increase transparency.
Kuwait’s  position  on  this  matter  is  based  on  the
following  principles.  Kuwait  strongly  supports  the
reform  and  revitalization  of  the  organs  of  the  United
Nations. This includes the Security Council, which will
thus be enabled to discharge its Charter mandate of the
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.
Secondly, no change in the composition of the Security
Council  must  affect  the  efficiency  and  effectiveness
with which the Council adopts resolutions in response
to  international  threats  and  challenges.  Change  must
help enhance the legitimacy and credibility of Council
resolutions.
With  respect  to  reforming  and  improving  the
working  methods  of  the  Council  and  the  development
of its relations with other United Nations organs, such
as the General Assembly and the Economic and Social
Council,  we  will  support  any  proposal  that  will
increase the transparency and clarity of the work of the
Council  and  facilitate  the  flow  of  information  to  and
from the United Nations membership at large.
We  emphasize  the  need  to  institutionalize  the
steps  the  Council  has  taken  to  improve  its  working
methods  without  awaiting  agreement  on  other  issues,
such  as  the  Council’s  size,  composition  and  decision-
making process. Institutionalizing those steps need not
require amendment of the Charter.
Kuwait  supports  retention  of  the  mechanism  by
which non-permanent members of the Security Council
are  elected,  under  Article  23,  paragraph  2,  of  the
Charter.  It  gives  small  countries,  such  as  mine,  a
greater opportunity to join the Security Council and to
contribute to its work.
It is important that the use of the veto be limited
and  regulated,  including  by  limiting  it  to  action  and
issues under Chapter VII of the Charter.
In  conclusion,  it  is  our  hope  that  we  shall  soon
reach  a  consensus  satisfactory  to  all  parties  and
ensuring  the  smooth,  unimpeded  conduct  of  the  work
of the Security Council.
Mr.  Bodini  (San  Marino):  Let  me  begin  by
condemning  the  terrorist  attacks  that  recently  took
place in Jordan. The people and the Government of San
Marino  present 
the
Government and the people of the Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan and to the families of the victims.
their  deepest  condolences 
to 
We, the States Members of the United Nations, have
debated for many years the enlargement of the Security
Council.  This  year  the  discussion  has  been  equally
disappointing for those who, like us, are proposing  an
increase  in  the  membership  without  new  permanent
members and for those who are seeking new permanent
members.
The  Government  and  the  people  of  San  Marino
believe that, in order to find an equitable solution, we
must  first  address  what  lies  at  the  root  of  the
widespread  discontent  with  the  current  system.  It  is
important,  for  a  start,  to  take  notice  of  the  ongoing
dissatisfaction  of 
the
Council,  which  feel  like  temporary  witnesses  with
marginal influence on the decision-making process.
the  elected  delegations 
to 
Furthermore, action by the Council in its present
form  has  often  resulted  in  the  polarization  of  the
international community along political lines. It might
be wise, in order to reinforce the democratic nature of
the  Council,  to  reassess  the  use  of  the  veto  power.  If
we  do  so,  a  better  and  more  representative  system
could begin to take shape within the Security Council.
Moreover,  I  wish  to  point  out  that,  even  if  a
system  of  15  delegations  is  more  easily  manageable,
what  matters  is  not  the  number  of  members  but  the
constituencies being represented. In fact, in the current
system,  small  and  medium-sized  countries  are  not
really  represented  in  a  consistent  way.  The  common
goal  of  achieving  peace  and  security  should  be  the
guiding 
seeking
representation  within  the  Council.  Since  demographic
landscapes  and  political  and  economic  interests  are
countries 
principle 
uniting 
A/60/PV.47
changing, 
non-permanent
constantly 
membership  would  make 
truly
representative  of  all  the  different  realities  of  an
evolving world.
the  Council 
larger 
a 
It  is  also  of  paramount  importance  that  we
immediately  initiate  a  serious  debate  on  the  working
methods of the Council and on its transparency, which
would  encourage  active  participation  by,  and  an
exchange  of  ideas  among,  the  elected  members  and
those that voted for them.
On that subject, San Marino is sympathetic to the
informal  paper  prepared  by  Costa  Rica,  Jordan,
Liechtenstein, Singapore and Switzerland.
We believe that any decision on a final reform of
the Council should be legitimized by consensus among
Member States.
Finally,  we  encourage  all  Members  to  engage  in
an  introspective  analysis  on  this  thorny  issue  and  to
take a definitive and bold decision, within a reasonable
time-frame, so that a truly democratic evolution of the
Security Council can take place that will benefit all of
us.  The  whole  world  is  waiting  for  a  reform  of  the
Council. We cannot fail.
Mr.  Morote  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Before  I
begin  my  statement,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  the
Government  and  the  people  of  Peru,  to  express  our
heartfelt  sympathy  to  the  Government  and  the  people
of Jordan in connection with the human losses suffered
due to the horrendous and appalling terrorist attack that
took place in Amman.
I  should  like  to  thank  the  Ambassador  of  the
Russian  Federation,  Andrey  Denisov,  for  having
introduced  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  Let  me
also express my delegation’s appreciation for the work
of  the  former  President  of  the  General  Assembly,
Mr. Jean  Ping,  as  well  as  to  the  ambassadors  of
Liechtenstein  and  of 
for  having
coordinated  the  work  of  the  Open-ended  Working
Group  on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on
and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Security
Council.
the  Bahamas 
Following a 10-year period of paralysis, the first
half of this year witnessed an unprecedented impetus in
the  process  of  Security  Council  reform.  Indeed,  the
Secretary-General,  in  his  report  entitled  “In  larger
freedom”,  had  proposed  that  a  decision,  by  consensus
or  otherwise,  be  taken  on  the  Council’s  membership
23
A/60/PV.47
before 
the  September  summit.  However,  nothing
happened.  The  Council  was  not  reformed,  and  efforts
in that direction led to naught.
Why  has  the  Council  remained  unchanged?  The
answer is simple: because what is at stake is the way in
which  world  power  is  distributed.  If  we  look  back  at
history, it is clear that the distribution of world power
has shifted only following major geopolitical disasters,
wars,  the  overextension  of  empires,  or  economic  and
technological decline.
It is a historical fact that the existence of Powers
with  a  global  reach  and  the  capacity  to  create  a  new
world order is not due to any majority decision on the
part of States. International power is seldom shared; it
is almost always won or lost.
That  lack  of  pragmatism  in  the  approach  to,  and
methodology  for,  reform  of  the  Security  Council  has
probably  been  the  main  obstacle  to  the  success  of
reform  efforts.  The  plain  truth  is  that  the  United
Nations  can  function  only  on  the  basis  of  a  realistic
valuation  of  power.  In  addition,  failure  to  adopt  the
appropriate  political  methodology  would  cause  great
harm to the United Nations, making it appear unable to
reform itself and thus inviting criticism by its enemies.
Any  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  begin
with  a  minimum  degree  of  consensus  among  the
current  permanent  members  and  be  followed  by  a
broad-based, democratic dialogue among all States. We
must begin, at the very least, with a minimum formula
that will not be vetoed. It is not realistic to believe that
any  new  permanent  Security  Council  members  could
be elected by the General Assembly in the absence of a
basic  agreement  among  current  permanent  members,
because, whatever the outcome, such an agreement is a
requirement  under  the  Charter,  which  was  adopted  by
us all.
Having  noted  the  lack  of  pragmatism  in  the
process  of  Security  Council  reform,  I  should  like  to
make  it  clear  that  Peru  favours  such  a  reform.
Although  my  delegation  is  critical  of  the  unrealistic
methodology  used,  we  support  expansion  of 
the
Security  Council  by  means  of  a  broad  consensus.  In
that  connection,  we  support  Brazil,  inter  alia,  as  a
potential permanent member.
I  cannot  fail  to  note,  in  commenting  on  the
unrealistic approach taken to Security Council reform,
that  it  is  one  of  the  reasons  we  lost  a  lot  of  time  —
24
time  that  should  have  been  devoted  to  elaborating,  in
the  context  of  the  final  document  of  the  summit,  an
effective  plan  of  action  for  achieving  the  Millennium
Development Goals, particularly given the fact that the
United  Nations  Development  Programme’s  forthright
2005 Human Development Report stated that the Goals
were not being  met  and  requested  that  decisive  action
be  taken.  The  outcome  was  disappointing.  The  final
document of the summit, negotiated against the clock,
did  not  include  a  plan  of  action  to  achieve  the
Millennium Goals.
its  effectiveness  and 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  also  implies
enhancing 
transparency  and
improving  its  working  methods.  What  is  important  is
that  consultations  be  held  with  non-permanent
members  prior  to  the  adoption  of  decisions  by  the
Council  and 
that  such  decisions  not  simply  be
presented,  as  is  often  the  case,  as  a  fait  accompli.  We
must  also  give  non-member  States  an  opportunity  to
participate  by  enhancing  consultation  mechanisms
when issues are discussed that are of direct interest to
them.
Working documents of the Council must be more
accessible,  as  many  elements  contained  therein  affect
all  States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations.  All
delegations  must  have  the  right  to  access  working
documents  and  draft  resolutions  as  soon  as  the  latter
have been considered by the Council.
increasing 
The best means of enhancing the transparency of
the Council’s work is to minimize the number of closed
meetings  while 
the  number  of  open
meetings,  like  those  held  in  the  early  days  of  the
Security  Council.  The  Council  must  be  more  public,
not  only  to  gain  the  confidence  of  non-member
countries,  but  also  to  gain  the  confidence  of  world
public  opinion.  The  world  must  know  that  there  is  a
body that protects peace and security.
Today,  the  Council,  with  its  secrecy,  is  going  in
the opposite direction from the dizzying developments
in  telecommunications  and  from  the  rising  global
awareness that all nations belong to a single humanity.
The  Council  must  abandon  secret  diplomacy  and
become an organ that practises public diplomacy. Only
thus will the  Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations
make  themselves  understood  and  gain  prestige  in
global public opinion.
Another  way  to  improve  the  functioning  of  the
Security  Council  is  to  make  it  effective  in  addressing
the
crimes  against  humanity.  Nothing  discredits 
improve 
Security  Council  and  the  United  Nations  more  than
inertia in the face of ethnic cleansing, massive human
rights  violations  and  genocide.  To 
the
Council’s  functioning  with  regard  to  crimes  against
humanity, the five permanent Council members should
reach  a  gentlemen’s  agreement  not  to  use  the  veto
when the United Nations Secretary-General or regional
organizations  request  Council  action  to  prevent  or
avoid  crimes  against  humanity,  massive  human  rights
violations,  genocide  or  ethnic  cleansing.  The  idea  is
that  permanent  Council  members  should  cooperate  to
save thousands of human lives.
Another  valuable  improvement  in  the  working
methods would be to step up field visits, particularly in
order  to  understand  civil  conflicts.  Such  visits  should
be  improved  through  effective  and  ongoing  contacts
with  civil  society,  political  and  religious  groups  and
staff  of  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme,
the  World  Bank  and  regional  organizations  familiar
with the socio-political situation of the country visited.
Moreover,  field  visits  should  be  carried  out  not  only
when a conflict has already erupted, but when there is a
threat  of  civil  war  or  massive  human  rights  violations
jeopardizing international peace and security — that is,
they should also be preventive.
The  Council  must  not  only  continue  to  put  out
fires  when  it  comes  to  civil  conflicts;  it  must  also
analyse in depth the structural causes of such conflicts.
Today, all strategic analyses agree that social exclusion
exacerbates  cultural,  ethnic  and  religious  rivalries,
turning them into wars of national plundering in which
the  most  heinous  crimes  against  humanity  are
committed.  Therefore  field  visits  must  be  adequately
prepared,  particularly  to  obtain  information  about  the
degree  of  social  exclusion  in  a  country  prone  to  or
immersed in civil war. If the Council does not take into
account  the  degree  of  social  exclusion,  it  will  not  be
able  to  prevent  or  resolve  civil  conflicts,  because  it
would  be  disregarding  the  most  important  structural
variable of current global violence.
Concerning  the  Council’s  working  methods,  my
delegation welcomes the initiative of Switzerland and a
group of countries to improve them.
Peru appreciates the efforts to improve the reports
of the Security Council. However, the report continues
to  be  descriptive;  it  is  not  sufficiently  analytical  and
forward-looking. 
current
difficulties,  progress,  failures  and  trends  encountered
in the resolution of conflicts that threaten international
peace and security.
It  does  not 
evaluate 
A/60/PV.47
If  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  is  not
analytical and forward-looking, no one will be able to
know  whether 
the  conflicts  have  diminished  or
increased; whether the stability of Africa, the Balkans,
the  Caucasus,  Central  Asia  or  Latin  America  has
improved  or  is  still  precarious;  how  much  stability
there is in the Middle East and Iraq; what is happening
in Kosovo; or why the situation in Darfur is not being
resolved.
the  conflicts 
If the present report of the Security Council were
read  today  by  journalists,  students  of  international
relations  or  the  general  public,  none  of  them  would
obtain clear and analytical information about the status
of 
threatening  peace  and  security
throughout  the  world.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to
prepare  a  report  of  the  Security  Council  that  has  the
merit  of  being  understood  by  international  public
opinion  so  that  it  can  be  disseminated  by  the  global
media  and  can  be  discussed  in  international  academic
circles.  The  Human  Development  Report  and  the
World  Development  Report  of  the  World  Bank  are
known  urbi  et  orbi,  but  today  I  can  say,  without
exaggerating, that no one is familiar with reports of the
Security Council except us.
We  need  a  report  that  connects  the  Security
Council not only to the General Assembly but to all of
humanity.  Thus,  not  only  the  Council’s  efforts  on
behalf  of  peace,  but  also  its  limitations,  would  be
widely  known.  That  would  provide  realism  and  serve
to  eliminate  the  misperceptions  that  exist  about  the
work of the United Nations.
All  of  these  points  —  which  the  Peruvian
delegation has made in order to improve the reform of
the  Council,  the  effectiveness  of  its  work  and  the
nature of its reports — reflect Peru’s deep commitment
to international peace and security. We hope that, as a
non-permanent member of the Security Council during
the  period  2006-2007,  we  can  make  a  contribution  in
that regard.
Programme of work
its  second 
The President: I should like to inform members
item  on  Monday  morning,
that,  as 
14 November, 
its
consideration  of  agenda  item  42,  entitled  “Global
Agenda for Dialogue among Civilizations”, to consider
draft resolution A/60/L.17.
the  Assembly  will 
resume 
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
25
