United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
5th plenary meeting
Thursday, 15 September 2005, 9 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.5
Official Records
Co-Chairperson: El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (President of the Gabonese Republic)
Co-Chairperson: Mr. G(cid:246)ran Persson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.
Addresses on the occasion of the High-level Plenary
Meeting (continued)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  Before  giving
the floor to the first speaker for this meeting,  I would
like  to  remind  members  once  again  that  statements
should be limited to five minutes.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency Mr. Ismail Omar  Guelleh,  President  of  the
Republic of Djibouti.
President  Guelleh  (spoke  in  French):  At  the
outset, allow me, on behalf of my Government and the
people  of  Djibouti,  to  express  our  profound  sympathy
and  sadness  to  the  Government  and  people  of  the
United  States  on  the  terrible  and  devastating  tragedy
and despair resulting from Hurricane Katrina along the
coast of the Gulf of Mexico. The speed with which that
tragedy  occurred,  as  well  as  its  serious  consequences,
have shocked and unsettled us all.
Allow me to congratulate the Co-Chairpersons on
their joint election to preside  over  this  summit,  which
constitutes  the  Organization(cid:146)s  largest  such  gathering
since  its  establishment  60  years  ago.  Their  joint
chairmanship  reflects  the  importance  of  the  effort  we
have  undertaken  together.  What  we  achieve,  or  fail  to
achieve, at this summit will no doubt have a profound
impact on humankind.
I  would  be  remiss  in  my  duties  if  I  did  not  pay
tribute  to  the  leadership,  vision  and  determination  of
the  Secretary-General  in  motivating  and  encouraging
us  to  enact  a  series  of  reforms  to  ensure  that  the
Organization  remains  relevant  for  future  generations.
He has carried out his share of the responsibility in that
regard.
Our  Meeting  should  not  be  limited  solely  to
providing  mere  political  support.  Instead,  we  should
endeavour to bring about major, long-awaited changes.
Any  failure  would  be  a  reflection  of  collective
impotence and our  lack  of willingness  to  accept  those
crucial changes.
Lastly,  allow  me  to  express  our  thanks  to  the
outgoing President, Mr. Jean Ping, for his selflessness,
determination and integrity. He has been able to secure
everyone(cid:146)s  trust  with  grace,  modesty,  flexibility  and
open-mindedness.
This summit has not been  easy to organize. This
is  not  a  single  event  but,  rather,  the  outcome  of
audacious collective efforts launched at the Millennium
Summit,  in  2000,  thereby  underscoring  the  major
development issues of our generation, highlighting our
common  future  and,  lastly,  illustrating  our  refusal  to
accept widespread poverty at this stage in our history.
The  Millennium  Declaration,  which  we  adopted
in  2000,  committed  our  countries 
to  a  global
partnership  to  reduce  poverty,  improve  health  and
promote  peace,  human  rights  and  gender  equality,  as
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51172 (E)
*0551172*
A/60/PV.5
well as to ensure the sustainability of our environment.
The  Declaration  also  reaffirmed  our  faith  in  the
Organization,  our  commitment  to  the  purposes  and
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  our
respect  for 
to  maintain
international peace and security.
international 
law,  so  as 
Since  2000,  the  world  has  experienced  many
crises  and  witnessed  many  terrible  instances  of  anger,
sadness  and  revulsion.  It  has  also  experienced  wars,
global  political  and  economic  turmoil  and,  lastly,  a
disturbing decline in international peace, understanding
and  cooperation.  Regrettably,  the  central  role  of  the
United  Nations  in  ensuring  collective  responses  to
global  problems  has  suffered,  while  its  effectiveness
and relevance have come into question. The imminent
collapse  of  the  United  Nations  has  therefore  become
the  subject  of  intense  speculation.  Faced  with  that
alarming  prospect,  the  Secretary-General  has,  with
great  insight  and  determination,  initiated  a  thorough
review of the United Nations system and has put forth
a series of vital reform proposals.
In his report entitled (cid:147)In larger freedom: towards
development,  security  and  human  rights  for  all(cid:148)
(A/59/2005),  the  Secretary-General  urged  Member
States  to  use  this  summit  to  strengthen  the  world(cid:146)s
system  of  collective  security,  to  forge  a  genuinely
global  and  multisectoral  strategy  for  development  and
to  intensify  efforts  to  secure  democracy  and  human
rights for all peoples.
and  promoting 
A  changing  world  needs  a  changing  United
Nations  system  that  is  adaptable  and  prepared  to
provide  collective  responses,  that  is  working  towards
eradicating  poverty 
sustainable
development,  that  advances  human  rights,  promotes
democracy  and  strengthens  good  governance,  that  is
working to combat terrorism and that is equipped with
the  necessary  technical  and  managerial  expertise  and
resources to effectively perform its duties at all levels.
The  past  decade  witnessed  the  holding  of  major
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic  and  social
fields  that  charted  the  outline  of  a  comprehensive
vision of development and identified agreed collective
goals  aimed  at  improving  the  lives  of  the  world(cid:146)s
people.  We  fully  appreciate  the  praiseworthy  efforts
made  to  ensure  full  and  swift  implementation  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
those
embodied  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  which  have
given  rise 
to  unprecedented  gatherings  aimed  at
including 
2
helping  the  most  disadvantaged  peoples  to  overcome
poverty.
Many  developing  countries  have  special  needs
and challenges that must be addressed through the full,
timely  and  effective  achievement  of  the  goals  and
targets  adopted  at  major  conferences,  such  as  the
Brussels Programme of Action for the Least Developed
Countries.  Unfortunately,  most  of  the  least  developed
countries  are  located  in  Africa,  and  they  also  have
special needs. Africa remains the only continent not on
track  to  meet  any  of  the  goals  of  the  Millennium
Declaration  by  2015.  It  requires  urgent  priority
assistance  in  all  areas,  including  integration  in  the
international  trading  system.  Indeed,  through  the  New
Partnership  for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development  (NEPAD),  our
continent  has  been  able  to  meet  challenges  and  take
advantage  of  opportunities.  Strengthening  cooperation
in the context of NEPAD is therefore imperative.
During the preparatory process leading up to this
summit, it became all too obvious that many promises
and commitments made and targets set in the past were
not  going  to  be  met  and  that  millions  of  men  and
women  would  continue  to  suffer  from  hunger,  squalid
conditions and grinding poverty. But what makes 2005
somewhat  special  is  the  growing  recognition  among
most of the developed countries that implementation of
the  global  development  agenda  has  been  very  slow,
unpredictable 
leadership,
determination  and  consistency  are  sine  qua  non
conditions for achieving our development goals.
uneven.  Greater 
and 
the  national 
legislative  steps  at 
In  that  connection,  more  donors  must  take  the
necessary 
level.
Official  development  assistance  should  not  be  aimed
solely  at  addressing  the  consequences  of  poverty  but
should  be  targeted  instead  at  creating  conditions  in
which  private  investment  can  flourish.  The  ultimate
goal  is  self-sustainability.  We  hope  that  the  World
Trade  Organization  round  of  negotiations  will  be
satisfactorily  completed  by  2006.  With  the  expected
positive  outcome  of  this  summit  with  respect  to
allocating  more  resources  for  combating  the  growing
devastation  of  HIV/AIDS;  the  promotion  of  gender
the
equality  and 
diversification  of 
the
increasing  availability  of  the  benefits  of  science  and
technology;  and 
in
developing countries, we will surely be on the path to
economic growth and renewal.
the  empowerment  of  women; 
commodities; 
improved  health-care  systems 
agricultural 
the 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  too
important,  therefore,  for  us  to  fail  to  meet  them.  It  is
not  enough  to  initiate  strategies  to  accelerate  progress
towards  the  Goals;  what  we  need  are  strategies  to
achieve  them.  In  recent  years,  many  leaders  have
rightly  stressed 
interlinkage  between  poverty
reduction  and  global  security.  To  that  end,  we  must
mobilize  international  efforts  to  end  violent  conflict,
instability and terrorism. Poverty increases the risks of
instability  in  a  variety  of  ways.  We  must  effectively
address global insecurity. The fact is that wars, internal
conflicts,  terrorism  and  other  evidence  of  profound
instability demand that we succeed in our fight against
poverty.
Since  its  independence,  my  country,  as  a  matter
of  principle  and  as  a  major  policy  objective,  has
pursued and supported the achievement of an inclusive,
egalitarian  society,  ensuring 
in  particular  equal
opportunity  for  boys  and  girls  and  primary  education
for all. We have made major investments in education
to ensure that all children (cid:151) boys and girls (cid:151) receive
free,  high-quality  basic  schooling  up  to  the  secondary
and  university 
levels.  Considering  our  meagre
resources,  this  undertaking  is  for  us  a  mammoth
challenge given our growing population.
Many  issues  have  been  the  subject  of  intense,
often  contentious  negotiations  among  Member  States.
This  is  evidence  of  our  desire  to  overhaul  this
Organization  so  as  to  make  it  more  relevant,  more
credible, more effective and more efficient in the noble
work it is doing throughout the world.
We  have  been  considering  important  proposals
that  include  bringing  peace  to  a  world  fraught  with
danger;  expanding  the  Security  Council  to  make  it
more  representative;  creating  a  new  Peacebuilding
Commission to assist countries emerging from conflict;
establishing  a  new  Human  Rights  Council  to  replace
the  Human  Rights  Commission;  seeking  consensus  on
steps  to  reduce  extreme  poverty;  and  meeting  other
MDGs  with  regard  to  health,  education,  environment,
access to potable water and women(cid:146)s rights. Finally, we
have  been  considering  management  and  Secretariat
reforms  so  as  to  institute  significant  changes  and  to
enhance 
to
promote  codes  of  conduct  and  ethics  for  all  staff
members.
transparency  and  accountability,  and 
The  outcome  document  reflects  a  consensus
least  common
level  of 
agreement  at 
the 
the 
A/60/PV.5
for 
the 
denominator 
international  community.  A
number  of  promising  proposals  have  been  accepted  in
principle  only,  leaving  the  details  to  be  worked  out
during  the  sixtieth  session.  It  is  plain  to  see  that  we
have  not  fully  discharged  our  responsibilities  to  take
the practical actions that are needed today.
We must accept for now our inability to agree on
wide-ranging proposals. There is no doubt that we have
lost a unique opportunity, yet we must not give up. We
must continue instead to strive to achieve tangible and
lasting results.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  May  I  remind
speakers once again to abide by the agreed five-minute
time limit.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Vladimirovich  Putin,
President of the Russian Federation.
President  Putin  (spoke  in  Russian): For  six
decades the destiny of this world has been inseparably
linked  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)  the
contemporary, and one of the brightest symbols, of the
victory over Nazism.
Let  us  recall  that  a  commitment  to  the  ideals  of
freedom  and  humanism  united  the  world(cid:146)s  nations  in
their  joint  fight  against  Nazism.  The  creation  of  the
United  Nations  clearly  reflected  the  will  of  civilized
humanity  to  avert  new  and  devastating  wars  and  the
revival  of  barbaric  ideologies  advocating  violence,
aggression or racial superiority.
In  the  60  years  of  its  existence,  the  United
Nations  has  witnessed  heated  discussions  and  bitter
disagreements.  But  the  Organization  has  become  a
unique  forum  for  dialogue  among  nations  on  how  to
build  a  safer  world.  These  walls  have  witnessed  the
birth of many ideas on dØtente as well as a joint quest
for, and the establishment of, the foundations of a new,
confrontation-free  world  order.  Looking  back,  we
cannot but duly recognize this  accomplishment  by  the
United Nations.
In today(cid:146)s new historical context, the experience,
authority  and  supreme 
the  United
Nations  enables  it  to  play  an  indispensable  and  truly
unique 
and
humanitarian cooperation.
in  global  policy, 
legitimacy  of 
economic 
role 
Two years ago, from this very rostrum, I outlined
the  basics  of  Russia(cid:146)s  approach  to  enhancing  the
3
A/60/PV.5
efficiency  of  the  United  Nations.  Our  position  on  this
issue remains consistent  and  unchanged.  Indeed,  there
is  a  need  to  adjust  the  Organization  to  new  historic
realities.  But  this  process  should  be  constructive.  It
should  take  into  account  both  the  lessons  learned  and
the  positive  experience  gained  by  the  United  Nations.
And  this  process  must  unite,  not  separate.  Only  thus,
through broad agreement, can we further strengthen the
authority and legitimacy of the United Nations as well
as  its  capacity  to  respond  more  effectively  to  the
challenges of the twenty-first century.
I  am  convinced  that  terrorism  today  poses  the
main  threat  to  human  rights  and  freedoms  and  to  the
sustainable development of States and peoples. That is
why  it  is  the  United  Nations  and  its  Security  Council
that  must  be 
the  main  centre  for  coordinating
international cooperation in the fight against terrorism
as the ideological successor of Nazism. Moreover, the
United  Nations  and 
the  Security  Council  must
coordinate  the  settlement  of  the  long-lasting  regional
conflicts  that  terrorists  and  extremists  of  all  stripes
parasitize  by  exploiting 
the  historical  burden  of
religious, ethnic and social confrontation.
It  is  not  only  through  concerted  action  by  States
that  we  should  counteract  the  ideologues  of  the
division  of  civilizations  and  terrorist  aggression;  it  is
also crucial that we engage the broad potential of civil
society,  the  mass  media,  cultural  and  humanitarian
cooperation  and  equal  interdenominational  dialogue.
Who but the United Nations will be able to take on the
role  of  coordinating  and  organizing  such  work?  In
doing  so,  it  can  rely  on  the  support  of  all  Member
States 
influential
international  organizations  and  entities  aimed  at
promoting regional integration.
cooperation  of 
and  on 
the 
Russia intends to increase its participation both in
responding to international crises and in the promotion
of development and progress. Next year, as we preside
over  the  Group  of  Eight,  the  Commonwealth  of
Independent States and the Council of Europe, we will
continue the joint work in this important area.
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  express  the  hope
that this summit will be successful and that the United
Nations will increase its influence and authority in the
international  community.  Let  us  not  forget  that  the
Organization  belongs  to  all  of  us  and  to  no  one  in
particular.  May  we  have  wisdom  to  preserve  it  for
future generations.
4
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Levy
Patrick  Mwanawasa,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Zambia.
to  congratulate 
President  Mwanawasa: Allow  me,  on  behalf  of
the  Zambian  delegation, 
the  Co-
Chairpersons on having organized this important high-
level  review  of  progress  towards  the  Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs). I should like to thank the
Secretary-General  for  his  tireless  efforts  to  provide
well-researched  documents  to  Member  States  and  to
facilitate this important high-level meeting.
In  the  year  2000,  at  the  dawn  of  the  new
millennium, there was optimism for humankind, as the
hope  for  change  to  a  more  democratic  and  equitable
world  appeared 
to  be  very  promising.  In  2000,
optimism for the future gave rise to a shared desire to
restructure  the  United  Nations.  Now,  five  years  down
the  line,  it  has  become  clear  that  the  international
community  has  not  found  a  common  strategy  to
achieve  the  desired  goals.  My  delegation  calls  for
collaborative  efforts  between  the  developed  and  the
developing countries to accelerate global efforts.
We  applaud  and  support  recent  efforts  aimed  at
providing  more  resources  for  development,  among
which  are  the  provision  of  debt  relief  through  the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, the
recent announcements by the Group of Eight countries
of  total  debt  cancellation  and  the  efforts  of  some
industrialized  countries  that  have  met  the  official
development  assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross
domestic product (GDP).
Let  me  share  with  this  House  Zambia(cid:146)s  position
on  the  MDGs.  It  is  the  view  of  my  Government  that,
although the record so far indicates that Zambia has not
made much progress on all eight targets, we have done
enough to believe that they are achievable. In Zambia,
we see the next decade as our time for a breakthrough.
We  are  encouraged  by  the  promise  of  total  debt
cancellation  arising  from  our  reaching  the  HIPC
completion  point in  April  this  year.  That  development
has now raised our prospects for achieving part of the
MDGs by 2015. As I speak, we are preparing our five-
year  national  development  plan,  which  is  anchored  in
inputs from district consultations. We are also working
with  the  United  Nations  country  team  in  Lusaka  to
firmly  anchor  the  national  development  plan  in  the
achievement of MDGs.
Our determination to succeed is based on the fact
that  in  the  past  two  and  half  years,  Zambia  has
registered  positive  growth  in  agriculture.  Real  GDP
growth in that sector was 7.5 per cent in 2004, having
increased from 4.5 per cent in 2003.
In  the  social  sectors,  we  have  recorded  some
positive  developments  in  education,  with  increases  in
enrolment at all levels. However, that sector still faces
challenges 
inadequate  education
infrastructure.
related 
an 
to 
There has been notable improvement in the health
sector. The burden of malaria, the number-one cause of
mortality,  has  been  reduced  through  innovative  and
vigorous  health  service  delivery  programmes  such  as
Roll  Back  Malaria.  HIV/AIDS  remains  a  major
obstacle  in  the  development  process,  as  most  of  our
human 
is  being  depleted.  My
Government  has  put  in  place  a  multisectoral  response
to  the  pandemic  and  has  scaled  up  its  interventions
through  advocacy,  counselling  and  antiretroviral
therapy.
resource  base 
In  terms  of  resource  mobilization,  I  am  glad  to
inform participants that Zambia is one of the countries
that  have  benefited  from  the  Monterrey  Consensus  on
financing  for  development.  We  have  agreed  with  our
cooperating  partners  on  good  and  efficient  aid
modalities.
My  Government  has  put 
in  place  prudent
financial  and  public  expenditure  systems  that  will
ensure  efficiency  and  transparency.  We  have  declared
zero  tolerance  for  corruption  and  would  like  to  see
greater support by the international community for the
collaborative work required to make such a programme
succeed.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Alfredo  Palacio,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Ecuador.
President  Palacio  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First,  I
would  like  to  express  the  solidarity  of  the  people  and
the  Government  of  Ecuador  with  our  brothers  and
sisters in the south of the United States, affected by the
violence of Hurricane Katrina.
Today  Ecuador 
commitment
assumed  by  heads  of  State  or  Government  at  the
Millennium Assembly held in New York in 2000. The
Millennium Development Goals are a minimum, not a
reaffirms 
the 
A/60/PV.5
maximum  agenda:  a  starting  point,  not  the  end.  They
are a basic commitment that must be shouldered by all
the world(cid:146)s Governments.
My  Government  proposes  that  the  new  world
order must be built on the triple basis of the economy,
international  law  and  biology.  At  the  national  level,  I
have  incorporated  this  proposal  into  the  profile  of  the
Ecuadorian  citizen  of  the  twenty-first  century:  a
healthy, educated and productive individual.
to 
As soon as I assumed the presidency four months
ago,  I  paved  the  way  for  the  reciprocal  commitments
needed 
insert  all  our  Government  plans  and
programmes  into  the  framework  of  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  This  is  the  guarantee  for  a
national transformation, the foundations of which must
be firmly established during our term of office. I have
created  the  ministerial-level  National  Secretariat  for
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  to  ensure  the  full
realization  of 
these  dreams  and  utopias  of  an
unwavering State policy.
I  have  asked  my  people  to  agree,  first  of  all,  on
the quality of the nation we want, and then on the ways
to  achieve  it.  The  homeland  we  dream  of  begins  with
the  re-establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the
inauguration of a State based upon rights.
My  Government  has  organized  four  key  areas  in
which  to  attain  the  MDGs:  health,  social  security,
education  and  productivity.  Here,  one  prerequisite  is
the  restoration  of  the  rule  of  law,  which  requires  the
protection of civil and political rights.
Today we  are working on the political reform of
the  State,  including  constitutional,  party  system  and
electoral  reforms.  A  referendum  is  being  organized
based on a process of national consensus involving all
the political and social forces of the country.
The  reactivation  of  production  is  also  equally
urgent. It brooks no delay. Current growth of the gross
domestic product (GDP) is 2.4 per cent per annum. We
need a 3.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent annual growth level
to  turn  around  recession,  reactivate  the  productive
sector,  invest  in  the  social  sector  and  increase  the
purchasing  power  of  our  people.  Above  and  beyond
that, however, we will have to double those figures in
order to attain sustainable development for our nation.
To  be  specific,  we  need  to  foster  growth,  based
on  increased  investment.  Investment  in  the  oil  sector
and  trade  liberalization,  although  significant,  will  not
5
A/60/PV.5
be  enough.  It  is  indispensable  to  pool  public  and
private  resources  in  the  non-oil  productive  sector,  to
create  jobs  in  sectors  such  as  tourism,  manufacturing,
agro-industry and construction.
A key point of the Millennium Goals in Ecuador
is  universal  health  insurance,  which  aims  to  provide
full health care coverage to the entire population by the
year  2015,  covering  the  entire  range  of  human  health
issues. Current coverage in our country is 20 per cent;
we expect to finish our Administration in January 2007
with health coverage levels of 45 per cent.
Investment in and the development of science and
technology  are  also  included  in  the  MDGs.  Latin
America(cid:146)s investment in this sector totals 1.6 per  cent
of  world  investment.  Europe  and  Canada  together
account  for  38  per  cent,  Europe  alone  for  28  per  cent
and Japan for 14 per cent. Yet in Latin America, with a
population of nearly 400 million, investment stands at
0.58 per cent of GDP. Ecuador has historically invested
less  than  0.08  per  cent  of  its  GDP  in  this  sector,  and
this is one of the key reasons for its backwardness and
dependency.
We 
in  Ecuador  have  made  a  preliminary
diagnosis of the advances, delays, the current situation
of  the  Millennium  Goals  and  immediate  challenges,
and  we  have  also  conducted  an  exercise  related  to
viability  and  costs.  I  have  the  privilege  and  the
satisfaction  to  present  this  first  national  report,  copies
of which are being distributed now. This work has been
possible  thanks  to  the  coordinated  effort  of  several
agencies which  I  wish  to  thank:  entities  of  the  United
Nations  system 
in  Ecuador,  multilateral  donors,
bilateral  donors  such  as  Spain,  the  Netherlands  and
Switzerland,  and  our  National  Secretariat  for  the
Millennium Goals.
In the report, we put a date on Ecuador(cid:146)s future:
2015.  We  also  define  our  ideal  vision  for  our  country
for 2020, when we shall mark two centuries of political
independence.
Social  investment  and  human  development  are
possible  with  ongoing  policies  and  a  collective  will
that  ensures  the  progressive  and  fair  distribution  of
income and an appropriate use of the budget.
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  The  General
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
Mr.  Fran(cid:231)ois  BozizØ,  President  of  the  Central  African
Republic.
6
(spoke 
President  BozizØ 
in  French):  Our
thoughts about the state of the world five years ago led
us,  after  a  thorough  stocktaking,  to  resolve  to  do
everything  possible  to  improve  it  by  2015.  It  was  for
that 
the  Millennium
Declaration, in which we made a commitment to tackle
together the problems of security, peace, development,
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  Five  years
later, how do we measure that commitment?
that  we  adopted 
reason 
Before giving my opinion on the matter, I should
like  to  reiterate  our  great  appreciation  for  the  way  in
which the President of the General Assembly, Mr. Jean
Ping,  conducted  the  proceedings  of  the  fifty-ninth
session that has just ended. Through him, I should like
once  again  to  pay  tribute  to  the  elder  statesman,  El
Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba, as well as to other heads
of State of the Central African Economic and Monetary
Community  who  have  made  a  great  contribution  to
furthering  democratic  renewal  in  the  Central  African
Republic. We also continue to give our support to our
brother,  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  whose
continued work in encouraging States to implement the
Millennium  Development  Goals  remains  unwavering
and outstanding.
The  situation  in  the  Central  African  Republic
before  15  March  2003  ruled  out  any  possibility  of
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development
Goals. At that time, all of our State institutions were in
disarray,  the  country  was  in  economic  ruin,  we  were
occupied by irregular foreign troops, the young people
were  left  to  fend  for  themselves,  and  fundamental
freedoms were flouted. We were then sorely in need of
the  patriotic  upsurge  that  allowed  us  to  establish  a
consensual  transition  which,  with  the  full  support  of
the international community, put an end to the divided
state of the country. Most importantly, it allowed us to
organize general elections in a transparent and credible
way (cid:151) as acknowledged by international observers (cid:151)
so 
to
constitutional legality.
that  our  country  has  now  been  restored 
this 
is 
to 
For  me 
the  occasion 
the  United  Nations  and 
the
international  community  wholeheartedly,  beginning
with 
International
Organization of la Francophonie, which have remained
by  our  side  as  we  have  thus  sought  to  return  to
constitutional legality.
thank 
the 
I  should  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  say
to  the  host  country  that  the  Central  African  Republic,
where for the last six weeks there have been torrential
rains  that  have  wreaked  considerable  damage,  cannot
but  express  its  strong  feelings  of  compassion  and
sympathy to the United States of America, so hard hit
by  the  passage  of  Hurricane  Katrina  through  the  Gulf
of Mexico.
I  should  emphasize  here  that,  in  the  face  of  the
difficulties  of  every  kind  that  may  be  encountered  by
Member  States,  large  or  small,  solidarity  must  remain
the key word; it is the price of peace worldwide.
My country, emerging with difficulty from a long
decade  of  crises,  feels  a  strong  need  for  solidarity.
After  a  period  of 
transition,  a  new  period  of
reconstruction is beginning for it. From this podium, I
launch  an  appeal  for  solidarity:  the  people  of  the
Central  African  Republic,  who  are  doing  everything
they can to staunch the wounds of their crisis, need the
help  of  all  our  friends  to  embark  steadfastly  and
lastingly on the road to peace and stability.
territory, 
to  calm 
Admittedly, the main effort must come from us. I
can  assure  you  that  the  people  of  the  Central  African
Republic  are  determined  to  take  charge  of  their  own
destiny.  The  Government  has 
taken  courageous
measures to re-establish security throughout the entire
the  political  climate,
national 
re-organize  our  civil  service  and 
improve  State
revenues.  In  the  same  way,  we  have  taken  steps  to
relaunch  our  principle  areas  of  production.  But  all  of
those  efforts  require  time  to  bear  fruit.  Without
immediate  and  strong  support  from  the  international
community, particularly the Bretton Woods institutions,
the  danger  of  finding  ourselves  back  at  square  one
remains great.
Since the completion of the electoral process, the
people  of  the  Central  African  Republic  have  not
stopped wondering about the timid financial support of
its  friends  (cid:151)  the  same  friends  who  helped  us  make  a
political success of our consensual transition. It would
be  a  shame  to  have  gone  so  far  down  this  inspiring
path,  only  to  find  we  are  not  able  to  go  any  further.
Better an ounce of prevention than a pound of cure. In
other words, resolute support for the reconstruction of
our country is the only reasonable way to avoid going
backwards,  as  it  is  clear  that  extreme  poverty  is  the
fundamental  cause  of  the  tensions  that  are  liable  to
rekindle another crisis.
The  Secretary-General  noted,  in  his  report  of
these  causes  are
that:  (cid:147)Unless  all 
March  2005, 
A/60/PV.5
advanced, none will succeed(cid:148) (A/59/2005, para. 17). I
would  add  that  it  is  the  fight  for  solidarity  against
poverty  that  we  must  fight  together  when  we  emerge
from this plenary meeting.
the  Secretary-General 
No  one  can  doubt  the  services  that  the  United
Nations  has  rendered  to  restore  and  consolidate  peace
and  security  throughout  the  world.  Similarly,  no  one
would  challenge  the  relevance  of  the  proposals  made
by 
re-galvanize  our
Organization. In order then to give greater strength and
credibility  to  the  United  Nations,  we  must  seize  the
opportunity afforded by this plenary meeting to make a
solemn  commitment  to  take  firm  and  courageous
decisions.
to 
As  an  African  country  and  a  member  of  the
African Union, we fully subscribe to the position of the
African  Union 
rebalancing  of
responsibilities  within  United  Nations  bodies,  so  that
the  African  continent  may  occupy  a  more  just  place
within them.
that  calls 
for  a 
With  respect  to  human  rights,  my  Government
solemnly  reaffirms  its  commitment  to  work  tirelessly
to  re-establish  the  rule  of  law.  To  that  end,  we  will
focus  on  strengthening  national  capacity-building  of
our human rights institutions and will comply with all
of our international obligations.
In  conclusion,  it  is  my  hope  that  a  more  active
form  of  solidarity  will  take  effect  among  Member
States in order to promote peace, development, security
and human rights throughout the world.
(Sweden):
The  Co-Chairperson 
Before
introducing the next speaker, I would ask the Assembly
to please come to order and not to talk too much in the
Hall,  because  it  is  disturbing  for  those  who  want  to
listen.  If  representatives  have  something  to  discuss,
they  should  please  do  so  outside  the  Hall,  out  of
respect for the speakers.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski,  President  of  the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
President  Crvenkovski: Addressing 
this
distinguished forum provides us with the privilege and
chance  to  seize  the  historic  occasion  of  the  sixtieth
anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  Charter,  thus  giving
new  impetus  to  the  efforts  to  deal  with  both  old  and
emerging challenges and threats.
7
A/60/PV.5
Today  we  have  gathered  here  to  make  a  fair
assessment of the progress made in the implementation
of  the  Millennium  Declaration  and  the  Millennium
Development Goals  (MDGs), and of the major United
Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the  social,
economic,  environmental  and  related  fields.  At  the
same  time,  in  order  to  meet  the  targets  by  the  year
2015, we will be forward-looking in defining steps and
actions  to  be  taken  or  reinforced  in  order  to  achieve
what we set as our priorities five years ago.
in 
responsibility  and 
We  agreed in Monterrey that development is our
shared 
requires  our  common
endeavour.  We  welcome  additional  proposals  for
innovative  sources  of 
recent
agreement  by  Ministers  of  Finance  of  the  Group  of
Eight on multilateral debt relief.
financing  and 
the 
is 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia 
strongly
committed  to  the  full  implementation  of  the  MDGs  at
the  national  level.  In  June  2005,  supported  by  the
United  Nations  Development  Programme,  we
published a report on the implementation of the MDGs
at 
that
significant  progress  has  been  achieved  in  regard  to  a
number of targets.
level.  The  report 
the  national 
indicates 
The  fight  against  international  terrorism  remains
among  our  top  priorities.  We  strongly  support  the
comprehensive  United  Nations 
counter-terrorism
strategy and we feel encouraged by the recent adoption
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  against  nuclear
terrorism.
We support the efforts aimed at strengthening the
existing  non-proliferation  and  verification  regimes,  as
well as new initiatives in this field such as the Global
Threat  Reduction  Initiative.  Coming  from  the  region
affected  by  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light
weapons,  we  strongly  support  the  full  implementation
of the United Nations Programme of Action to Prevent,
Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms
and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects.
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  remains  committed
to  further  democratic  and  economic  development  in
compliance  with  our 
top  national  priorities  (cid:151)
full-fledged  membership  in  the  European  Union  and
NATO;  and  we  recognize  the  importance  of  good-
neighbourly relations. Consequently, we are promoting
regional  cooperation  in  order  to  achieve  sustainable
peace and stability in Southern and Eastern Europe. In
this  regard,  we  believe  that  the  last  open  issue  in  the
8
Balkans, the final status of Kosovo, will be resolved by
Belgrade,  Pristina  and  the  international  community,
thus  meeting  the  requirements  of  the  United  Nations.
The  final  status  solution  should  bring  lasting  peace,
democracy and security to the region.
The Republic of Macedonia strongly supports the
comprehensive  United  Nations  reform,  the  aim  of
which  is  to  adapt  the  Organization  to  the  changing
realities and to strengthen its capacity to cope with the
threats  and  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  We
welcome the proposal for enhancing the Organization(cid:146)s
peacebuilding 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  bridge  the  institutional
gap between the end of conflict and the resumption of
sustainable  development,  as  well  as  the  proposal  to
enhance the Organization(cid:146)s capacity for the promotion
and  protection  of  human  rights  by  establishing  a
standing  Human  Rights  Council.  We  also  believe  that
the United Nations Democracy Fund will contribute to
the promotion of democracy worldwide.
establishing 
capacity 
by 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  remains  an
essential  part  of  the  overall  United  Nations  reform
process,  with  the  aim  of  adapting  the  Council  to  the
new  realities  and  making  it  more  representative  and
more  efficient  in  maintaining  international  peace  and
security.
I  am 
confident 
In  conclusion, 
that  our
deliberations  will  result  in  the  adoption  of  an  action-
oriented outcome document that will reflect our strong
commitment  to  making  a  better  world  for  our  own
generation  and  for  those  to  come.  I  strongly  believe
that the effects of the implementation of our decisions
will soon be visible.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jalal
Talabani, President of the Republic of Iraq.
President  Talabani  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  is  a
great  pleasure  and  honour  for  me  to  convey  the
greetings  and  appreciation  of  the  Government  and
people of my country, Iraq. Here, I want to recall Iraq(cid:146)s
achievements since the dawn of history. It is the place
where  writing  was  invented,  the  first  legislation  was
drafted and the human spirit and will established great
civilizations, the influence of which spread around the
world and left its own distinctive imprint on the history
of humanity.
justice 
Today(cid:146)s Iraq stands once again as a partner in the
international  order.  All  of  us  hope  to  enhance  the
principles  of  balance  and 
to  create  an
for  development.  This
international  dimension 
dimension  would  reflect  our  joint  responsibility  in
facing  terrorism,  poverty,  environmental  imbalance,
unemployment,  marginalization, 
irrational  use  of
wealth  and  resources,  the  unjustifiable  violations  of
human 
rights,  aggression,  destruction  and  other
challenges that face our modern world.
Iraq(cid:146)s experience over three decades, resulting in
a unique experience and profound historical lesson, can
be  summarized  in  one  sentence:  development  is  the
other  face  of  freedom  and  democracy.  It  is  the  other
face  of  the  progress  made  by  individuals,  society  and
the  State.  Hence,  a  system  of  good  governance  that
respects  human  rights  and  stands  on  democratic
foundations 
to  realize  genuine
development  as  a  means  to  expanding  the  choices  of
the individual.
the  only  way 
is 
those  decades 
fictionalized  development. 
Despite the fact that Iraq had enough human and
material  resources,  the  dictatorial  regime  that  ruled  it
for 
It
committed crimes of genocide against the Iraqi people
in Kurdistan, in areas such as Halabja, and in the south
during  the  popular  uprising.  It  launched  wars  against
its  neighbours.  It  also  failed  to  manage  relations
between  the  forces  that  represent  society  on  the  basis
of  a  just,  democratic  system  and  wasted  the  country(cid:146)s
wealth. The regime placed a heavy burden on the past,
present  and  future  of  Iraq.  It  was  a  bad  example  of  a
regime in a world that realized that dictatorships could
turn  from  a  local  threat  to  a  regional,  and  perhaps,
international  one.  That  was  exactly  what  happened  in
the case of Saddam(cid:146)s dictatorship.
We  are  trying  to  carry  out  reforms  and  rebuild
what  the  dictatorship  destroyed  in  Iraq.  But  we  also
call for the reform of all the institutions of the United
Nations in such a way as to strengthen the  role of the
United  Nations  with  regard  to  international  peace  and
security,  as  well  as  to  international  cooperation  in  the
economic,  cultural  and  social  fields.  It  should  also
respect the principles of the equality and sovereignty of
States.  Reform  should  be  achieved  by  consensus,
the  views  and  positions  of
taking 
Members. 
for
reactivating  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in
ensuring international peace and security by setting up
It  should  also  provide  a  basis 
into  account 
mechanisms 
implementation of its resolutions.
that  guarantee 
respect 
A/60/PV.5
for  and 
the
We  believe  that  the  reform  of  the  Security
Council should result in greater transparency and wider
participation  by  non-members.  In  expanding 
the
membership  of  the  Council,  we  should  ensure  justice
and equity in the representation of Member States, and
establish controls for the use of the veto, stressing the
fairness of the principles according to which members
of the Council are chosen.
programmes, 
Another  facet  of  Iraq(cid:146)s  experience  offers  an
important  lesson.  Since  1991,  the  Iraqi  Kurdistan
region  in  the  north  has  managed  to  rid  itself  of  the
implement  successful
tyranny  of  dictatorship  and 
development 
accompanied 
a
democratic  parliamentary  system  and  the  rational
investment  of  resources.  Despite  the  scarcity  of  such
resources, civil society organizations have managed to
have  an  effective influence,  and  the  region  has  shown
itself to be open to the world at the economic, political
and cultural levels.
by 
The  experience  of  Iraqi  Kurdistan  shows  truly
that  human  development  cannot  continue  to  make
progress  or  achieve  the  desired  results  in  a  society  in
which injustice and human rights violations prevail. It
also  shows  that  democracy  and  freedom  are  two
essential  conditions  for  economic,  environmental  and
cultural development.
In  this  connection,  I  would  like  to  address  the
Assembly  in  the  other  official  language  of  Iraq,
Kurdish.
(spoke  in  Kurdish;  English  text  provided  by  the
delegation)
I would like to convey the greetings of the people
of  Iraqi  Kurdistan,  which  is  part  of  Iraq,  to  the
Assembly.  It  is  a  source  of  pride  for  us  that  Iraqi
Kurdistan  has  become  a  model 
for  democratic
experience,  rehabilitation  and  economic,  cultural  and
social  development,  just  as  it  was  a  fortress  for  free
Iraqis in their struggle against dictatorship. This proves
that  a  free  and  democratic  people  can  set  a  model  for
development in every respect.
(spoke in Arabic)
Iraq managed to get rid of that regime after a war
of  liberation.  Every  province  in  Iraq  can  now  benefit
from  Kurdistan(cid:146)s  experience.  At 
time,
the  same 
9
A/60/PV.5
however,  we  must  rid  ourselves  of  the  remnants  of
backwardness  in  other  areas  of  Iraq.  In  order  for  the
national experience to move ahead on a clear path, with
clear  goals,  the  redistribution  of  authority  should  be
achieved  on  the  basis  of  free  exercise  of  democracy
and the fair distribution of wealth in such a way as to
guarantee  all 
the  citizens  without
discrimination or marginalization.
the  rights  of 
That  is  not  an  easy  task.  Today,  Iraq  is  facing  a
most brutal campaign of terror and insurrection waged
by  the  forces  of  darkness.  Terrorists  are  killing
hundreds  of  Iraqis,  destroying  our  wealth  and  trying
their  best  to  stop  our  march  towards  the  just  goal  of
rebuilding our country by creating a constitutional and
fair  regime  subject  to  popular  scrutiny.  The  terrorists
target  individual  Iraqis;  they  have  declared  a  war  of
annihilation  against  innocent  civilians.  They  aim  to
destroy  every  development  ambition.  Furthermore,
they  want  to  make  Iraq  a  base  for  both  regional  and
international 
threats  (cid:151)  a  centre  for  dark,  blind
terrorism.
Iraq(cid:146)s  war  on  terror  requires  broad  Arab  and
international  support  for  the  sake  of  not  only  Iraq  but
also the whole world. Defeating terrorism in Iraq is an
essential  condition  for  defeating  it  throughout  the
world.  Thus,  Iraq  has  a  right  to  build  a  modern,
democratic  and  federal  State.  In  achieving  that  end,
Iraq  has  the  right  to  look  towards  its  friends  in  the
international  community,  including  the  international
lending  agencies,  to  write  off  its  debts,  review  the
current 
provide
economic expertise so as to enable the country to avoid
possible pitfalls in moving towards a market economy.
Iraq  is  a  founding  and  active  member  of  the
League  of  Arab  States;  we  support  the  charter  of  that
organization  and  the  decisions  of  Arab  summits.  We
support  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  struggle  to
achieve  their  legitimate  rights,  in  accordance  with
international  resolutions. Development  requires  peace,
as well as investments from various sources.
compensation 
programme 
and 
Iraq has risen out of the ashes of dictatorship with
all the attendant backwardness, waste of resources and
abuse  of  people.  Now,  we  are  opening  our  hearts  and
hoping  that  the  world  understands  the  value  and  the
importance  of  Iraq(cid:146)s  experience  in  fighting  terrorism
and  its  rejection  of  the  terrorists(cid:146)  backward  ideology.
Iraq is determined to rebuild its present and future with
10
patience  and  determination,  on  the  basis  of  human
rights and democracy.
From this rostrum, we stress that Iraq is now free,
thanks  to  the  will  and  awareness  of  its  people,  the
loyalty  of  our  friends, 
international
organizations  and  the  Coalition(cid:146)s  war  of  liberation
under the leadership of the United States of America.
the  help  of 
Iraq(cid:146)s  experience  offers  many 
lessons  and
outcomes, both  from  the  period  of  its  struggle  against
dictatorship and today. Iraq has no hesitation in openly
and  frankly  stating  that  it  is  in  desperate  need  of
expertise,  investment  and  moral  support  for  its  efforts
to  fight  terrorism.  The  form  that  the  democratic,
pluralistic  and  federal  Iraq  will  take  is  not  quite  clear
yet.  Democracy,  mutual 
fair
distribution of power all need time.
respect  and 
the 
Lastly,  I  urge  Member  States  to  participate  in
rebuilding  Iraq  in  a  spirit  of  partnership  and  mutual
responsibility  and  respect,  based  on 
the  rational
distribution of interests.
We  should  know  that  the  rebuilding  of  Iraq  will
undoubtedly  mean  the  defeat  of  terrorism,  which  has
become  a  danger  to  humanity  and  to  civilization.  We
should also be in no doubt that the actions of terrorists
make the future uncertain for the international family.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  Assembly  and  wish  it
every success in its endeavours. We are all partners in
failure, in success and in responsibility.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Alyaksandr Lukashenka, President of the Republic
of Belarus.
(spoke 
President  Lukashenka 
in  Russian):
Heads  of  State  are  convening  here  at  the  United
Nations  in  order  to  take  an  honest  look  at  today(cid:146)s
world.  We  must,  together,  answer  the  most  important
question: are we leading our countries and humankind
along the right path? We must answer that question for
ourselves and for our nations. Otherwise, we stand no
chance of getting out of the present deadlock.
Fifteen  years  have  passed  since  the  break-up  of
my  country,  the  Union  of  Soviet  Socialist  Republics.
That  event  dramatically  changed  the  world  order.  The
Soviet Union, despite all the mistakes and blunders of
its leaders, was a source of hope and support for many
States  and  peoples.  The  Soviet  Union  provided  for
balance  in  the  global  system.  Today,  the  world  is
unipolar, with all the consequences that stem from that
fact.  Once-prosperous  Yugoslavia  was  devastated  and
has  disappeared  from  the  map  of  Europe.  Long-
suffering Afghanistan became a hotbed of conflicts and
drug  trafficking.  The  bloody  slaughter  in  Iraq  is
continuing to the present day. That country has turned
into a source of instability for the entire region.
Iran  and  North  Korea  are  being  viewed  through
the  sights  of  a  gun,  as  are  Colombia,  Cuba  and  other
States.
Belarus  is  a  nation  like  the  majority  represented
in  this  Hall.  We  emerged  from  the  debris  of  the  cold
war  to  become  a  State  advanced  in  science  and
technology,  one 
inhabited  by  10  million  highly
educated and tolerant people.
Like  others,  what  we  need  from  the  world  is
peace  and  stability.  Nothing  more.  The  rest  we  shall
create ourselves through our own efforts.
to 
the  way 
influence 
their  choice  of 
My  country  is  free  from  conflicts.  Different
nations and nationalities peacefully coexist in Belarus,
each practising religions of their own and having their
own  way  of  life.  We  do  not  cause  trouble  for  our
neighbours,  neither  through  territorial  claims  nor  by
trying 
to
development.  We  gave  up  our  nuclear  arms  and
voluntarily  relinquished 
the  rights  of  a  nuclear
successor  to  the  Soviet  Union.  We  have  established  a
lasting  and  successful  union  with  Russia  as  our  very
close neighbour. We are building our country, using our
own wits and on the basis of our own traditions. But it
is  obvious  that  the  choice  of  my  people  is  not  to
everyone(cid:146)s pleasure. It does not please those who strive
to rule the unipolar world. Can anyone wonder how?
If  there  are  no  conflicts,  they  are  invented.  If
there  are  no  pretexts  for  intervention,  imaginary  ones
are created. To that end, a very convenient banner was
chosen:  democracy  and  human  rights;  not  in  their
original  sense  of  the  rule  of  people  and  personal
dignity, but solely and exclusively in the interpretation
of the leadership of the United States of America.
Regrettably, 
the  United  Nations, 
it
belongs  to  us  all,  allows  itself  to  be  used  as  a  tool  of
this  policy.  I  am  saying  this  with  particular  bitterness
and pain as President of a country that co-founded the
United Nations, after sacrificing the lives of one  third
of its people during the Second World War for the sake
though 
A/60/PV.5
of our own freedom and the freedom of Europe and the
entire world.
But  how  can  the  United  Nations  be  minding
imaginary problems, while unable to see true disasters
and  catastrophes,  of  a  calibre  and  nature  such  that
nobody other than the United Nations as a community
of  civilized  nations  can  cope  with  them  and  restore
justice and order?
Quite  recently,  in  a  nearby  Chamber  we  were
shown maps and graphs allegedly depicting weapons of
mass  destruction  in  Iraq.  Were  those  weapons  found?
They  do  not  exist.  In  the  meantime,  Iraq  was  razed
with  bombs  and  devastated;  people  were  brought  to
utmost despair.
Has  there  been  an  open  and  independent  trial
under  United  Nations  supervision  of  the  prisoners  at
GuantÆnamo?  How  many  of  them  are  there,  and  who
are they?
Afghanistan was ravaged with rockets and bombs
under  the  pretext  of  finding  Bin  Laden.  Was  the
world(cid:146)s  number-one  terrorist  captured?  Where  is  he
now?  He  is  at  large,  but  Afghanistan  and  Iraq  has
begun 
thousands  of
international 
troops  occupied
independent  Afghanistan,  but  drug  production  grew
tenfold.  Did  those  troops  enter  the  country  for  that
purpose?
to  generate  hundreds  and 
terrorists.  Foreign 
The leaders of the destroyed Yugoslavia and Iraq
were  put  behind  bars  on  groundless,  absurd  and  far-
fetched  accusations.  The  trial  of  Slobodan  Milosevic
has been made into a long-running caricature. Saddam
Hussein was abandoned to the mercy of the victor, like
in  barbarian  times.  There  is  nobody  to  defend  their
rights  except  the  United  Nations.  Their  States  no
longer exist; they are destroyed.
AIDS and other diseases are ravaging Africa and
Asia. Poverty and deprivation have become a real and
not a virtual weapon of mass destruction; moreover, a
racially selective one. Who will be able to stop this?
Who will insist that the United States of America
put an end to its attempts against Cuba and Venezuela?
Those  countries  will  independently  determine  their
own lives.
Trafficking  in  persons  has  become  a  flourishing
business. Sexual slavery of women and children is seen
as  a  common  thing,  almost  normal.  Who  will  protect
11
A/60/PV.5
them  and  bring  to  justice  consumers  of  this  live
commodity?
This,  in  short,  is  the  distressing  state  of  the
transition to the unipolar world.
Was  it  for  that  purpose  that  we  established  the
United  Nations?  Is  it  not  high  time  for  the  United
Nations  to  put  an  end  to  internal  corruption  scandals
and  begin  to  address  the  anguish  and  misery  in  the
world? The answer to this question, in our view, is very
clear.
Let us be honest to the end. We cannot bury our
head in the sand like an ostrich. In the end, the United
Nations  is  us.  Therefore,  it  is  up  to  us  to  take  the
destiny of the world in our own hands. We must realize
that the unipolar world is a world with a single track, a
one-dimensional  world.  We  must  become  aware  that
the diversity of ways to progress is  an enduring value
of  our  civilization;  the  only  one  that  can  ensure
stability in this world.
The  freedom  to  choose  a  way  to  develop  is  the
main precondition for a democratic world order. That is
exactly what this Organization was established for.
I  hope 
that 
the  world  will
understand this too. Otherwise, the unipolar world will
ultimately strike them back.
the  mighty  of 
If we agree among us on this principal point, then
we  shall  succeed  in  implementing  the  principles  of
multipolarity, diversity and freedom of choice, both in
reality  and  in  the  United  Nations  documents  that  we
must  abide  by.  We  shall  protect  the  world  from
terrorism  and  vulnerable  women  and  children  from
slavery.  We  would  protect  all 
that  are
unprotected.
those 
It  is  then  that  the  United  Nations  would  become
the organization of the genuinely united nations. This,
and  not  a  numerical  increase  in  the  Security  Council
membership,  is  precisely  the  core  of  the  United
Nations reform.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Ricardo Lagos Escobar, President of Chile.
President  Lagos  Escobar  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Chile is attending this plenary meeting with a mixture
of  hope,  but  also,  it  must  be  stated,  with  frustration.
Let us be clear on this. We have not achieved what we
had hoped by the 60th anniversary of our Organization.
12
Of  course,  the  United  Nations  has  played  a  key
role  in  the  history  of  the  past  few  decades.  Its
contribution  to  the  settlement  of  170  conflicts  and  in
60 peacekeeping missions since 1948 bears witness to
that fundamental presence.
However,  the  United  Nations  and  the  current
international  agenda  are  more  than  this.  We  have
stressed  the  need  to  promote  comprehensive  reform,
based  on  the  triad  of  security,  human  rights  and
development. This triad will form a whole, focusing on
the human person.
For  Chile,  multilateralism 
is  not  merely  a
conceptual category or a slogan, but a political reality.
It is part of the local policy when an open country like
Chile  deals  with  the  world.  The  national  interest  of  a
relatively  small  State  such  as  Chile  seems  better
protected by an effective multilateral system. A system
of  rights  and  duties,  in  which  we  advance  together,
assuming  the  tasks  of  a  fairer  and  more  balanced
international order.
Because  we  believe  in  this  dimension  of  rights
and  duties,  we  went  to  Haiti  as  soon  as  the  Security
Council made its first appeal. There was an ethical and
political obligation to help to build peace in the poorest
country on our continent. Today, we hope that elections
will  be  duly  held  and  that  international  cooperation
will be forthcoming in a timely manner.
In the same spirit, we have worked to achieve the
Millennium Development Goals. We  have managed  to
fulfil 
through  clear  public  policies,
especially in support of the most destitute sectors,  the
disinherited of this world.
those  goals 
Today,  in  this  Assembly,  a  question  resounds:
When  and  how  are  we  going  to  promote  a  policy  of
global public goods that endeavours at the global level
to narrow the gaps between rich and poor and to move
towards greater equality?
Globalization is here to stay. And because it is a
reality,  it  should  be  expanded  for  the  benefit  of  the
great majorities in the spirit of a global civic compact.
The  draft  outcome  document  of  this  High-level
Plenary  Meeting,  painstakingly  finalized  a  few  hours
before  the  meeting  opened,  must  be  viewed  with
interest and satisfaction. Although that document does
not fully meet our expectations, we consider it to be a
starting  point  on  the  road  to  changes  needed  by  the
Organization. That document is not a goal in itself. It is
the beginning of a road. Most of the text is the statement
of  a  development  agenda,  whose 
implementation
requires a global alliance.
We  especially  welcome  the  establishment  of  a
Human Rights Council, whose details we hope can be
fully  worked  out  before  the  end  of  this  session  of  the
General Assembly. We hope that in this Human Rights
Council  all  the  Member  States  will  be  studied  in  the
same transparent way.
Once established, the Peacebuilding Commission
and the Democracy Fund will provide direction for our
future activities. In that regard, we should like to move
forward  to  establish  them  simultaneously.  One  will
contribute 
in
countries  emerging  from  conflict; 
the  other  will
enhance  national  capacities  to  implement  democratic
principles  and  practices.  Chile  has  made  an  initial
contribution  and  supports  the  establishment  of  the
Fund.
to  reconstruction  and  reconciliation 
We  must  translate  our  strong  condemnation  of
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  into  a
decisive 
the
comprehensive convention on terrorism before the end
of this session.
political 
finalize 
impetus 
to 
These  initiatives,  along  with  other  current  and
future  achievements,  give  us  hope  and  point  to  such
pending  tasks  as  the  establishment  of  a  Security
Council  that  reflects  the  political  realities  of  today(cid:146)s
world,  and  not  that  which  prevailed  at  the  end  of  the
Second World War. Sixty years on, we need a Security
Council that reflects today(cid:146)s world.
framework 
for  harmonious 
Lastly, I should like to say that Chile pledges its
full  political  will  to  move  ahead  with  these  tasks  in
order  to  usher  in  a  world  in  which  multilateralism  is
the 
international  co-
existence. There is still time for this session to become
a  historic  turning  point,  a  moment  at  which  the
inevitable  reform  of  our  Organization  is  initiated  and
forcefully  carries  the  United  Nations  into  a  future  of
efficiency and relevance. That is what humankind both
needs and demands in the twenty-first century.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Al  Hadji
Yahya A.J.J. Jammeh, President of the Republic of the
Gambia.
President Jammeh: Five years ago, we gathered
the  Millennium
this  Assembly  and  adopted 
in 
A/60/PV.5
Declaration. We set out some time-bound development
goals  whose  achievement  would  significantly  improve
the  lives  of  the  hundreds  of  millions  of  dispossessed
people  in  the  world.  Now,  with  the  first  five-year
review,  we  are  all  still  very  much  committed  to  the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and are still
agreed  that,  with  focus  and  will,  they  are  indeed
attainable  by  the  target  date  of  2015.  We  must  admit,
however, that the overall scorecard, especially for sub-
Saharan  Africa,  is  not  all  too  encouraging,  because
very little progress is being made towards some of the
critical Goals.
There is no gainsaying that much more has to be
done, particularly in the area of resource mobilization,
to clear the pathways for faster and smoother progress
towards the attainment of the MDGs, especially for the
developing  world.  We  must  improve  the  flow  and
quality  of  official  development  assistance  (ODA),
including  the  early  attainment  of  the  agreed  target  of
0.7 per cent of gross national product for ODA.
We  must  strive  to  reduce  leakages  from  the
economies  of  developing  countries  and  open  up
significantly  more  markets  for  commodities  from
developing countries, in order to help stimulate a faster
rate of growth and development in those countries. We
must do more to help ease the strangulation of debt on
our already weak and fragile economies and resolve to
achieve  immediately  total  cancellation  of  the  debt  of
least  developed  countries.  If  we  do  not  wish  to  suffer
failure in our quest for a just and happier world, or see
the cost of achieving the MDGs skyrocket, we must go
beyond  commitments  and  mere  words  and  ensure  that
the  resources  that  developing  countries  require  are
adequate, predictable and available without any further
delay.
take 
initiatives 
The  world  must 
to  redress
imbalances in  the area  of  information,  communication
and  technology,  for  that  area  has  become  a  source  of
power and opportunity in today(cid:146)s globalized world. We
must  therefore  do  everything  to  reduce  the  digital
divide between North and South. It is only in that way
that  the  noble  intentions  articulated  in  New  York,
Monterrey  and  Johannesburg  will  find  expression  in
ways that touch and transform the lives of the world(cid:146)s
dispossessed  people,  so  much  that  they  can  live  in  a
better world devoid of despair and destruction.
Regarding  progress  on  the  MDGs,  I  wish  to
inform  this  gathering  that  the  commitment  of  the
13
A/60/PV.5
Gambia  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  not
in  doubt.  The  MDGs  provide  the  benchmarks  for  all
our development endeavours and have been integrated
into  our  poverty  reduction  strategy  paper  and  our
national  development  strategies.  In  that  regard,  we
have been able to use them as the main components of
our poverty-monitoring system. We have been making
steady  (cid:151)  and,  in  some  cases,  rapid  (cid:151)  progress
towards attaining the Goals.
Both 
the  United  Nations  Development
Programme(cid:146)s Human Development Reports and reports
of  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  indicate  that
the Gambia is among the very few countries that are on
course  towards  attaining,  by  the  target  year  of  2015,
the goals of reducing child malnutrition and mortality,
as  well  as  maternal  mortality;  combating  HIV/AIDS,
malaria  and  other  diseases;  achieving  environmental
sustainability 
loss  of
environmental  resources  and  increasing  access  to  safe
drinking water.
through  a  reversal  of 
the 
As we continue on that course, we recognize that
universal access to sexual and reproductive health and
the  protection  of  reproductive  rights  are  critical  to
achieving the  MDGs.  The  Gambia  is  also  one  of  only
four  countries  in  Africa  that  are  ahead  in  meeting  the
goal  of  achieving  universal  primary  education  and
gender equality in education by the year 2015. We have
been able to register those successes in spite of serious
constraints, thanks to my Government(cid:146)s adoption, since
1994,  of 
sound  and  appropriate  policies  and
programmes for economic growth and development for
the betterment of the Gambian people.
I  must  hasten  to  add  that,  in  spite  of  the
achievements already indicated, the challenges that lie
ahead  are  enormous.  The  Gambia  still  faces  the
challenges  of  inadequate  resources  to  implement  the
poverty  reduction  strategy  paper,  inadequate  funds  to
finance  agricultural  development,  lack  of  effective
market  access  and  a  host  of  other  difficulties.  To
compound those problems, we are also spending 40 per
cent of our budget on debt repayment.
All of us gathered here today should continue to
give  high  priority  to  resolving  the  lingering  conflicts
on  the  African  continent,  considering  that  peace  and
security are sine qua non conditions for the attainment
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  we
committed ourselves to achieving by 2015.
14
to 
the 
Against  that  backdrop,  we  in  the  Gambia  are
unreservedly  committed 
realization  of  a
peaceful,  stable  and  conflict-free  Africa.  I  therefore
call  on  the  entire  international  community  to  provide
special  opportunities  for  Africa  through  increased
foreign  direct  investment,  better  and  less  restrictive
trade  policies  and  practices  and  also  significantly
greater volumes of Official Development Assistance to
Africa.
We are about to enter the critical decade leading
to  our  target  year  2015,  with  high  hopes  for  the
realization  of  the  many  commitments  we  made  before
and  those  we  shall  make  now.  Ours  is  a  world  whose
attention  needs  to  be  continuously  and  persistently
drawn  at  every  turn  to  the  realities  of  excruciating
poverty,  famine  and  disease.  We  must  not  let  slip  the
opportunity  to  revive  the  world(cid:146)s  interest  in  those
problems  and  its  determination  to  confront  them.  It  is
my hope that the partnerships that  we have forged for
the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
will  again  be  reinforced  and  together  we  will  work
towards  achieving  this  noble  mission  with  a  strong,
reformed and revitalized United Nations at the centre.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  General
Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency
Mr. Amadou Toumani TourØ, President of the Republic
of Mali.
President TourØ (spoke in French): First of all, I
should  like  to  greet  and  congratulate  the  two  eminent
persons  designated  to  chair  the  proceedings  of  this
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.
My  greetings  and  congratulations  also  go  to  the
Secretary-General,  our  brother  Kofi  Annan,  for  his
tremendous  work  at  the  head  of  our  Organization.  I
should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the
Gabonese President, as well, for the skill with which he
discharged  his  duties  at  the  helm  of  the  General
Assembly.  Let  me  also  join  in  thanking  Professor
Jeffrey Sachs and all of his Millennium team.
Five  years  after 
the  Millennium  Summit,
substantial  progress  has  been  realized,  it  is  true,  but
some  countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa,  still  have
many  of  their  people  living  in  extreme  poverty,  and
even  in  precarious  conditions.  In  Mali,  the  State,  in
collaboration  with  non-governmental  organizations
(NGOs)  and  civil  society,  has  adopted  a  strategic
framework to combat poverty, which expresses our will
to  take  development  actions  that  are  better  organized,
report  on 
more  consensual,  and  therefore,  more  effective  and
capable  of  rapidly  reducing  poverty  in  a  lasting  way.
The  progress 
the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in Mali takes
stock  of  our  achievements  and  of 
the  obstacles
encountered,  and  we  have  taken  this  opportunity  as
well to assess what still needs to be done to attain the
Goals.
implementation  of 
At 
towards  well-being,  so 
time,  development  projects 
The  MDGs  are  the  surest  way  to  speed  up  our
advance 
long-sought  and
hoped-for.  Mali  fully  subscribes  to  the  vision  and  the
strategic  choices  of  the  MDGs,  namely,  to  invest
massively and especially in human capital, and in basic
infrastructure, because it is thereby that everything else
will  be  built.  In  the  end  we  wish  to  create  an
environment where roads connect communities, where
agricultural  production  no  longer  depends  on  the
vagaries of the weather, and which facilitates access to
water  and 
to  commodities  such  as  energy  and
telecommunications.
the  same 
in
targeted sectors need financing that is stable, adequate,
predictable  and  lasting.  The  Monterrey  Consensus
recognizes that development is a shared responsibility,
which  begins  with  the  efforts  of  developing  countries
themselves,  supported  by  the  commitment  of  our
partners.  Therefore,  in  following  up  on  the  Heavily
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  and  the
decision recently taken by the Group of Eight (G-8) to
cancel  the  multilateral  debt  of  a  number  of  countries,
including  Mali,  our  partners  must  now  accelerate
movement  towards  a  substantial  increase  in  official
development  assistance  (ODA),  so  as  to  achieve  0.7
per  cent  of  GDP.  Once  again  our  great  appreciation
goes to those countries that have achieved or exceeded
that 
to  be  more
indispensable  than  ever,  if  we  are  to  put  in  place
infrastructure for education, health and social services.
Private  investment  has  its  role  to  play  to  drive  the
vigorous growth necessary for economic momentum in
the African continent. Africa needs new resources. We
also  need  an  ongoing  dialogue  with  our  partners  to
readjust the allocation of those resources in the light of
our  development  needs.  Let  me  say  here  how  much  I
welcome  the  original  proposal  made  by  the  President
of the Republic of France, Jacques Chirac, to levy a tax
on  airline  tickets  to  mobilize  supplementary  resources
essential for development.
threshold.  ODA  seems 
to  us 
A/60/PV.5
With  respect  to  United  Nations  reform,  the
African  Union  has  made  consistent,  balanced  and  fair
proposals that would allow the Security Council to be
more  representative of  the international  community  as
a whole and of current geopolitical realities.
Development can only be achieved in a context of
peace  and  security.  Respect  for  human  rights  and
democratic principles will make a great contribution, to
be sure. Mali is deeply committed to democratic values
and  respect  for  human  rights.  In  a  few  weeks,  we  are
going  to  have  an  important  meeting  in  Bamako  to
review 
the
Declaration on the Practices of Democracy, Rights and
Freedoms 
the  French-Speaking  Community.
Furthermore, Mali, as current chair of the Community
of Democracies, welcomes yesterday(cid:146)s launching of the
Democracy Fund and the Secretary-General(cid:146)s proposal
to create a Human Rights Council.
five  years  on,  of 
implementation, 
in 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  that  this
High-Level  Meeting  is  taking  place  at  a  particularly
crucial  moment.  Our  people  are  tired  of  promises  and
particularly 
tired  of  speeches.  Our  responsibility
towards  future  generations  is  immense.  Young  people
are more and more impatient regarding their education
and especially regarding jobs.
Mali will continue to advocate for a world which
is  more  just  and  more  balanced.  I  do  believe  that  this
other world is possible and that we have the means to
build it.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luiz
InÆcio  Lula  da  Silva,  President  of  the  Federative
Republic of Brazil.
text 
(spoke 
President  Da  Silva 
furnished  by 
in  Portuguese;
English 
the  delegation):  The
Millennium  Goals  are  a  significant  achievement  of
contemporary humanism. They represent the victory of
the  values  of  human  solidarity  over  the  doctrines  of
moral  indifference  and  political  omission  with  regard
to  the  excluded.  They  show  that  we  have  achieved  a
higher level of collective awareness. They are rooted in
the  conviction  that  we  must  fight  inequalities  while
respecting and appreciating diversity. They express the
vision of democracy according to which political rights
are  inseparable  from  economic,  social  and  cultural
increase 
rights.  They  underline 
the
production  of  wealth,  but 
the  benefits
available  to  all,  never  eliminating  (cid:151)  but  rather
to 
to  make 
the  need 
15
A/60/PV.5
protecting  and  renewing  (cid:151)  the  sources  of  life.  That
will  surely  require  new  creative  and  responsible
relations on the part of human beings with  nature  and
with one another.
In  short,  the  Goals  express  the  ideal  of  a
civilization  in  which  peace  is  based  on  justice.  No
other  goals  could  be  more  just  or  appropriate.  Our
challenge  is  to  make  them  real.  In  order  to  do  so,  we
need more than routine mechanisms and procedures. In
most countries, the Goals will simply not be met under
existing  financing  schemes  and  restrictions  on  aid
flows.  We must take immediate and  courageous  steps.
The  resources  available  for  fighting  poverty  and
hunger  must  be  significantly  expanded;  we  need  to
provide development opportunities to poor countries.
If  developed  countries  attain 
required
strategic vision, they will realize that that new posture,
that  additional  effort,  is  not  only  fair,  but  absolutely
necessary.  Otherwise,  I  fear  that  international  peace
and security will remain a mirage.
the 
I  have  always  said  (cid:151)  and  I  wish  to  reiterate  (cid:151)
that  each  country  must  do  its  own  part.  In  Brazil,  we
have  strived  to  implement  the  same  measures  that  we
have been proposing in the international arena. We do
not  presume  to  be  a  model  for  others,  but  we  are
motivated  by  great  enthusiasm  and  political  resolve.
We  have  adopted  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
as  mandatory  benchmarks  for  all  public  policies.  We
have  established  a  national  award  recognizing  best
practices 
in  municipalities,
churches, the business sector and social movements.
solidarity 
social 
in 
I should like briefly to highlight initiatives by our
Government in four areas: the fight against hunger, the
right  to  employment,  the  promotion  of  racial  and
gender equality and environmental preservation.
is 
the 
tool 
family  stipend  (cid:151) 
Today,  the  (cid:147)zero  hunger(cid:148)  programme  (cid:151)  whose
primary 
reaches
7.5 million families, or some 30 million Brazilians. By
the  end  of  my  tenure,  all  families  living  below  the
poverty  line  will  have  been  incorporated  into  the
programme.  Brazil  will  finally  ensure  for  all  its
children the right to eat every day.
We  have  come  far,  and  we  have  earned  the
credibility to aim at even more ambitious steps towards
social  justice.  Brazil  has  resumed  a  sustained  growth
rate,  creating  jobs  and  distributing  wealth.  In  the  past
32 months, we have created 3.2 million new jobs in the
16
formal sector, in  addition  to  hundreds  of  thousands  of
jobs created in the area of family agriculture.
Attention to women(cid:146)s rights and the promotion of
racial  equality  permeate  all  our  public  policies.  We
have  created  special  secretariats  with  ministerial
standing  to  ensure  that  our  Government  team  will
actually  enable  us  to  achieve  the  Goals.  I  am  very
moved  by  one  example  in  particular:  poor  black  and
indigenous people educated in public schools can now
attend  universities  because  of  our  affirmative  action
programme,  with  financial  support  for  poor  students.
Another  example:  we  have  ended  the  centuries-old
practice  of  discriminating  against  rural  women  by
allowing  only  men  to  own  land.  Now  both  men  and
women  can  enjoy 
land  ownership.
Agricultural credit also used to be the privilege of men
alone, now both men and women farmers can take out
loans.
the  right 
to 
With  regard  to  the  environment,  I  am  pleased  to
highlight  the  consistent  drop  in  deforestation  rates  in
the Amazon region and the new prospects emerging for
the  region(cid:146)s  22  million  inhabitants  as  a  result  of  the
sustainable Amazon plan, an  innovative  project  aimed
at 
economic
development.
ecologically  oriented 
social 
and 
Brazil is becoming a more productive and caring
country.  We  are  ready  and  willing  to  join  forces  with
nations  around  the  world  to  achieve  the  Millennium
Goals  for  the  benefit  of  poor  people  and  all  of
humanity throughout the world.
I  should  like  to  conclude  by  highlighting  one
point  that  I  made  yesterday  in  my  statement  to  the
Security  Council.  There  is  an  urgent  need  to  reform
that  body 
and
representative;  otherwise,  the  United  Nations  will  not
be able to carry out its historic role.
to  make 
legitimate 
it  more 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. James
A. Michel, President of the Republic of Seychelles.
President  Michel: My  delegation  congratulates
you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General
Assembly  and  expresses 
to  your
predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  for  having  prepared  the
ground  so  well  for  this  historic  world  summit.  Our
congratulations  go  also 
the  Secretary-General,
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  and  to  his  team  on  the  remarkable
preparation  and  organization  of  the  summit,  without
its  felicitations 
to 
which such a major event would have been restricted in
its ambitions and its impact.
We  gather  in  the  United  States  two  weeks  after
Hurricane  Katrina  caused  so  much  loss  of  life  and  so
much material damage. Let me express once again my
deep  condolences  and  heartfelt  sympathy 
the
Government  and  the  people  of  the  United  States  of
America, as well as to all those who have been affected
by that catastrophe.
to 
Late  last  year,  with  the  tsunami  in  the  Indian
Ocean, and now, with the hurricane in America, we are
reminded that natural disasters know no borders. Such
tragedies,  wherever  they  hit,  stress  the  importance  of
collective responses and, in the case of countries with
limited relief and emergency resources, underscore the
need for the coordination of international efforts within
the United Nations framework.
Of  equal  importance  is  the  collective  task  of
investing in preparedness and reducing vulnerability to
natural  disasters,  in  order  to  strengthen  national  and
regional  capacities  in  the  fields  of  risk  assessment,
hazard monitoring, warning systems, information-  and
knowledge-sharing  and  training.  Let  us  enhance  the
effectiveness  of  our  collective  efforts  before,  during
and after such tragic events.
Most of us advocate a stronger and more effective
results-oriented
United  Nations:  a  practical  and 
organization  with  less  bureaucracy  and  a  new  ethics
based  on  a  human-centred  strategic  vision  of  what
development  is.  However  pertinent  our  reservations
and  criticisms  may  be  with  regard  to  the  present
situation, the United Nations has an indisputable record
of  achievements  over  its  60  years  of  existence.  That
fact should not be overlooked, and I would like to pay
a  tribute  to  the  United  Nations  for  its  success  in
promoting  acceptable  norms  and  standards  governing
international  relations  and  in  confronting  problems
affecting humankind.
a 
In 
changing, 
challenging 
often
unpredictable  world,  where  the  task  of  protecting
national interests  is  becoming  incredibly  complex,  the
United  Nations  Charter  continues  to  give  us  the
particular sense of common direction we need in order
to adjust our priorities and continue to think globally.
and 
Development  is  indeed  a  multifaceted  process
leading  towards  real  growth  and  access  to  skills,
technologies,  markets,  financing  and  other  related
A/60/PV.5
the 
areas.  We  welcome  and  commend 
important
decisions  and  commitments  of  the  Group  of  Eight
Summit at Gleneagles in those areas, in particular those
aimed  at 
for  development
assistance  and  the  fight  against  pandemic  diseases,  as
well as debt cancellation.
increasing 
resources 
between 
relationship 
and 
from  global  warming 
recognized  and  acknowledged. 
At the International Meeting held in Mauritius in
January  this  year,  leaders  of  small  island  developing
States  mapped  out  a  joint-action  plan  on  a  range  of
long-term  challenges, 
to
international  trade  and  sustainable  development.  A
coordinated 
economic
development 
sustainable  development  was
emphasized.  Sustainable  development  is  not  just  an
environmental issue but one that goes to the heart of all
forms  of  development  and  must  be  considered  within
the  whole  planning  process,  including  a  financial  and
development framework. In that context, the efforts of
countries  that  have  reached  middle-income  status
should  be 
is
imperative  that  those  countries  be  firmly  supported  to
help them manage the next phase of their development.
The  developed  world(cid:146)s  diminished,  or  non-
existent,  interest  in  such  countries  is  by  nature  unfair,
especially when those countries have been left with no
other choice but to borrow heavily in order to preserve
the  assets  of  their  social  development.  Moreover,  the
middle-income status of many small island developing
States  camouflages  the  extent  of  their  vulnerability.  I
wish to voice my strong concern about the loss of trade
preferences  for  some  of  our  countries,  as  well  as  the
adverse 
that  will  have  on  our  export
capabilities.  We  therefore  call  on  developed  countries
to  seriously  take  this  issue  in  consideration  at  the
forthcoming meeting  of  the  World  Trade  Organization
in Hong Kong.
impact 
It 
For  that  reason,  small  economies  (cid:151)  and  in
particular  those  of  small  island  developing  States  (cid:151)
turn  to  the  United  Nations  to  request  that  it  act  as  a
fully  fledged  decision  maker  in  economic  affairs,
contributing  to  a  new  world  order  in  which  more
consideration 
the  specificities  and
vulnerabilities of small island developing States.
is  given 
to 
Safety  and  security  are  also  prerequisites  to  any
focusing  on  sustainable
strategy  or  action  plan 
strongly 
the
development.  Seychelles 
adoption  of 
the  comprehensive  convention  on
terrorism. We all realize the importance of developing
supports 
17
A/60/PV.5
domestic counter-terrorism capabilities, and we call for
more assistance and cooperation in that field. With that
concern  in  mind,  as  well  as  from  a  more  general
standpoint,  we  hope  that,  in  the  near  future,  our
subregional  cooperation  grouping,  the  Indian  Ocean
Commission,  will  obtain  observer  status  at  the  United
Nations.
that 
Seychelles  agrees 
the  resolution  on  a
strengthened  and  revitalized  General  Assembly  is
timely.  We  also  agree  that  its  central  role  as  the  chief
deliberative  policymaking  and  representative  body  of
the United Nations needs to be reasserted. At the same
time,  we  are  of  the  view  that,  however  fundamental  a
matter,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  should  not
distract  our  minds  from  the  other  pressing  issues  that
are on our agenda, especially the implementation of the
Millennium  Development  Goals  as  part  of  the  fight
against global poverty and for the attainment of dignity
and happiness  by men and women in all the countries
of our world.
Let  me  reassure  the  Assembly  that  Seychelles
strongly  supports  the  draft  declaration  of  this  summit
and  strongly  recommends  its  prompt  implementation.
We  also  wish  to  reaffirm  our  belief  that  the  United
Nations  is  an  irreplaceable  body  essential  for  the
conduct  of  international  affairs  in  the  only  spirit  that
should  guide  such  affairs,  that  of  fairness,  mutual
respect  and  solidarity.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  must
work  together  to  make  our  world  safer  and  more
prosperous.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Pierre
Nkurunziza, President of the Republic of Burundi.
President  Nkurunziza  (spoke  in  French):  I
should  first  like  to  refer  to  the  victims  of  the  natural
disaster  that  has  just  stricken  the  southern  United
States. We would like to reiterate our deepest sympathy
to the Government and the entire people of the United
States.
also 
to 
Allow  us 
the  Co-
Chairpersons of the High-level Meeting, as well as the
other  members  of  the  Bureau,  on  their  election  to
preside over our deliberations.
congratulate 
In the Millennium Declaration, adopted five years
ago, the leaders of the world sealed a universal pact for
socio-economic  development  and  the  preservation  of
the  rights  and  dignity  of  the  human  person.  That
18
universal pact has eight goals. The paths we have taken
and the speed with which we are achieving those goals
vary considerably from country to country. With regard
to my country, the war that has upset Burundi for more
than  10  years  has  prevented  us  from  achieving  all  the
goals.
There have, of course, been delays, but not all is
lost. We continue to hope to achieve most of the goals
by  2015.  The  people  of  Burundi  have  demonstrated
their  overwhelming  willingness  to  turn  fully  the  page
on  the  war  and  commit  themselves  to  reconstruction
and development.
It  is  in  this  new  context  of  greater  security  and
greater legitimacy that the Government of Burundi has
made  a  commitment  to  a  strategy  to  combat  poverty.
We  know  that  we  will  be  able  to  count  on  the
assistance of the international community.
We  are  pleased  that  Burundi  has  benefited  from
debt  relief  under  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries
Initiative.  But  because  of  the  situation  prevailing  in
Burundi, we call for total debt relief.
As  for  the  goal  of  ensuring  universal  primary
education, during our investiture as President  we  took
the  decision  to  provide  free  primary  education  to  all
school-age  children,  starting  in  2005-2006.  For  the
2006-2007 school year, we are planning to construct at
least  one  primary  school  in  every  settlement.  This
means  building  800  classrooms  in  2006  and  means
recruiting  2,000  new  teachers  and  acquiring  teaching
materials at an estimated cost of US$ 15 million.
As 
for 
the  goal  of  gender  equality,  our
Government  has  made  some  substantial  progress.
Women  now  exercise  great  responsibilities  in  the
conduct  of  the  affairs  of  our  country.  Women  occupy
35  per  cent  of  the  positions  in  public  institutions,
including  significant  positions  such  as  that  of  speaker
of the National Assembly and two vice-presidencies in
the  Senate.  On  the  cabinet  level,  the  second  Vice-
Presidency of the Republic is held by a woman.
Moreover, of the 20 ministries, seven are  run  by
women,  including  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Relations
and the Ministry of Justice. Finally, women have made
considerable  inroads  in  local  administration,  where
several  posts  of  governor  and 
local  community
administrator have been given to women.
In terms of health, much remains to be done. Our
Government  has  made  a  commitment  to  develop  a
policy  to  improve  significantly  access  to  health-care
services for all, as well as to pursue implementation of
a national strategic plan to combat HIV/AIDS with one
of the key aspects being the strengthening of capacities
for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS.
Another  major  concern  of  our  Government  is  to
ensure  a  sustainable  environment  in  a  country  where
more than 90 per cent of households use wood as their
sole source of fuel. There is, therefore, strong pressure
on our natural resources and subsequent degradation of
the environment. Nonetheless, it is possible to achieve
the initial Millennium Goals.
With respect to peace and security within Burundi
and  the  subregion,  we  are  pleased  to  note  that  peace
reigns  throughout  almost  all  of  Burundi.  At  the
regional level, we are pleased with the efforts made to
promote  peace,  stability  and  sustainable  development
in the African Great Lakes Region.
We  are  following  very  closely  and  actively
participating  in  the  preparatory  activities  for  the
international  conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region,
which will be held in the near future in Nairobi.
The  questions  of  security,  social  stability  and
combating  poverty  are  closely  interrelated.  We  must
break  the  vicious  cycle  of  conflict  and  poverty.  We
need  to  walk  on  both  feet  and  provide  both  concrete
and  rapid  peace  dividends  to  the  disadvantaged  and
vulnerable  populations  who  have  been  repatriated,
displaced,  demobilized  or  unemployed,  in  order  to
deprive those opposed to the peace process of a nest of
malcontents to draw from.
But at the same time, we  need to integrate those
disadvantaged  groups  into  a  wide-ranging  programme
of rehabilitation and economic recovery, access to land,
employment, health services, etc.
We must quickly improve social conditions so as
increase  opportunities 
the
implementing 
for 
to 
Millennium Development Goals.
The support of the entire population for the peace
process  and  the  programme  of  economic  development
is  what  we  need.  The  international  community  is  a
stakeholder  in  this  new  situation.  For  this  reason,  we
urgently call on the international community to ensure
that  the  level  and  quality  of  their  commitments  in  the
post-conflict  period 
adapted 
the  new
expectations and new political situation.
are 
to 
A/60/PV.5
There 
is  no  doubt 
international
community will increase the volume and quality of its
assistance so as to meet the impatient expectations of a
people that has chosen peace and democratic change.
that 
the 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hu
Jintao, President of the People(cid:146)s Republic of China.
President Hu Jintao (spoke in Chinese): At this
solemn  and  important  moment,  national  leaders  and
representatives  from  around  the  world  are  gathered
here  to  commemorate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
founding  of  the  United  Nations.  The  founding  of  the
United  Nations  was  an  epoch-making  event  in  human
history.
important 
During the past 60 years, the United Nations has
played  an 
role  and  made  enormous
achievements  in  maintaining  world  peace,  promoting
common development and advancing human progress.
The new century has opened up a bright prospect
for  the  development  of  mankind.  In  this  period  of
historical 
importance  wherein  opportunities  and
challenges exist side by side, countries can truly bring
about  a  harmonious  world  with  lasting  peace  and
common  prosperity  only  when  they  rally  closely
together.
Let me share with you a few observations in this
regard.
First, we must cultivate a new concept of security
featuring  mutual  trust,  mutual  benefit,  equality  and
cooperation  and  build  a  fair  and  effective  mechanism
of collective security.
We should encourage and support efforts to settle
peacefully international disputes and conflicts and step
up cooperation in a resolute fight against terrorism.
The United Nations, as the core of the collective
security  mechanism,  must  play  an  enhanced,  rather
than a weakened, role in this regard.
to 
Secondly, 
the  United  Nations  should 
take
the  Millennium
concrete  measures 
implement 
Development  Goals,  particularly 
in 
the  area  of
accelerating the growth of the developing countries, so
that the twenty-first century can truly become a century
of development for all.
We should work actively to establish and improve
a multilateral trading system that is open, fair and non-
19
A/60/PV.5
discriminatory,  and  further  improve  the  international
financial regime.
Most Excellent Captain Regent, of the Republic of San
Marino.
We  should  step  up  worldwide  energy  dialogue
and  cooperation  and  jointly  maintain  energy  security
and  energy  market  stability.  We  should  actively
promote  and  protect  human  rights,  and  ensure  the
enjoyment by all of equal opportunity and rights to all-
round  development.  The  developed  countries  should
shoulder a greater responsibility for the achievement of
universal,  coordinated  and  balanced  development  in
the world.
Thirdly,  we  should  respect  every  country(cid:146)s  right
to independently choose its own social system and path
of  development,  and  encourage  countries  to  seek
revitalization  and  development  in  line  with  their
national  conditions.  We  should  endeavour  to  preserve
the diversity of civilizations in a spirit of equality and
openness,  enhance 
inter-civilization  dialogue  and
exchanges and join efforts to build a harmonious world
where all civilizations co-exist and accommodate each
other.
reform 
is 
Fourthly,  we  should  carry  out  rational  and
necessary  reform  to  maintain  the  authority  of  the
United Nations, improve its efficacy and strengthen its
capacity  to  take  on  new  threats  and  new  challenges.
United  Nations 
and
multifaceted.  Greater  United  Nations  commitment  to
the question of development should be a priority of the
reform. The reform of the Security Council should aim,
as  a  priority,  to  increase  the  representation  of  the
developing  countries,  African  countries  in  particular,
so  that  more  countries,  especially  small  and  medium-
sized countries, can participate in the decision-making
of the Security Council.
all-dimensional 
I wish to reiterate here that China will continue to
hold  high  the  banner  of  peace,  development  and
cooperation  and  unswervingly  follow  the  path  of
peaceful  development.  We  will,  as  always,  integrate
our  development  with 
the  common  progress  of
humanity. China(cid:146)s development, rather than hurting  or
threatening anyone, can only serve peace, stability and
common prosperity in the world. Let us join hands and
work together to build a harmonious world with lasting
peace and common prosperity.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Cesare
Antonio  Gasperoni,  Captain  Regent  on  behalf  of  the
20
Mr.  Gasperoni  (spoke  in  Italian;  English  text
provided  by  the  delegation): Having  identified  and
established, five years ago, in this very Hall, the main
goals  to  be  achieved  at  the  beginning  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  we  now  gather  again  to  discuss  and
decide how to reach them. Undoubtedly, the success of
this  five-year-old  process  (cid:151)  or  its  failure  (cid:151)  depends
on us alone.
The  challenges  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,
contained in the Secretary-General(cid:146)s report entitled (cid:147)In
larger  freedom(cid:148),  are  transnational  in  nature  and  trans-
institutional in terms of possible solutions.
We  are  gathered  here  because  we  are  aware  that
those  challenges  cannot  be  addressed  individually  by
each  country. 
Indeed,  close  cooperation  among
Governments,  international  organizations  and  non-
governmental  organizations  representing  all  sectors  of
civil society is essential.
In  that  spirit,  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  (cid:151)
characterized  by  an  age-old  tradition  of  freedom,
democracy, peace and solidarity  (cid:151) has always upheld
multilateralism,  moved  by  the  conviction  that  in  the
modern  world 
there  are  no  frontiers  capable  of
stopping both positive and negative events. We are all
potential  victims  of 
such  as  AIDS,
environmental  degradation,  organized  crime,  terrorism
and underdevelopment. International cooperation is the
only  means  we  have  to  address  and  defeat  today(cid:146)s
destructive dynamics.
scourges 
It  is  our  opinion,  today  more  than  ever,  that  the
world needs multilateralism. The United Nations is its
best  expression.  Globalization,  in  its  most  positive
meaning,  understood  as  a  sharing  of  technologies,
resources  and  development,  can  guarantee  fair  and
balanced  economic  growth,  particularly  for  poor
countries.
Sadly,  the  development  brought  by  globalization
has  so  far  touched  only  a  fragment  of  the  world(cid:146)s
population, while the rest of humanity has experienced
only  its  most  negative  impacts.  The  final  result  is  a
wider gap between the rich and the poor.
In such circumstances, we cannot but support the
introduction  of  mechanisms  to  bring  the  benefits  of
globalization to all. Until this objective of equality has
been  achieved,  we  should  give  our  full  support  to
proposals inviting developed countries to assist and aid
developing ones.
We  commend,  in  this  regard,  the  decision  taken
by the Group of Eight last July to increase financial aid
and cancel the debt of 18 of the world(cid:146)s poorest States.
The  Republic  of  San  Marino  is  intensifying  its
cooperation  and  humanitarian  assistance,  within  the
possibilities of a micro-State, to eradicate poverty and
guarantee adequate development for all peoples, in line
with the Millennium Declaration.
One  has  only  to  glance  at  the  report  on  the
Millennium Development Goals to see that we are still
far  from  achieving  the  targets  established  five  years
ago and that the fight against poverty is still an ethical,
social, political and economic imperative.
It  is  unacceptable  that,  at  the  beginning  of  the
third  millennium,  hundreds  of  millions  of  human
beings  are  still  suffering  from  hunger.  Indeed,  while
extreme poverty has been reduced in Asia, the situation
has  worsened  in  Africa,  especially  in  the  sub-Saharan
region.  In  that  region  in  particular,  the  fight  against
HIV/AIDS  by  the  international  community  must  be
intensified.
It is unacceptable that every year about 11 million
children, that is to say 30,000 a day, die before the age
of five because of malnutrition or lack of basic health
care,  and  that  more  than  115  million  children  still
cannot  benefit  from  guaranteed  access  to  primary
education.
commitment 
Against  such  a  backdrop,  a  greater,  more
responsible 
international
community  is  needed  to  guarantee  that  all  human
beings  and  peoples  enjoy  fundamental  rights  and
dignity, as an essential prerequisite for peacebuilding.
the 
by 
To  that  end,  we  believe  that  this  summit  must
establish the guidelines for our respective States to take
increasingly effective and meaningful action.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Pedro
Verona  Rodrigues  Pires,  President  of  the  Republic  of
Cape Verde.
President  Rodrigues 
in
Portuguese; English text provided by delegation): As I
see  it,  we  who  were  once  colonized  have  reason
enough to celebrate, with hope, the sixtieth anniversary
of the United Nations. Indeed, based upon its founding
(spoke 
Pires 
A/60/PV.5
principles  and  inspired  by  its  fundamental  values,  we
have  succeeded  in  prevailing  over  foreign  domination
and  crafting  sovereign  States  that  have  today  become
full-fledged actors in international society. It has been
an  arduous  and  painful  process,  but  a  necessary  one.
Had the United Nations not sanctioned and legitimized
our  aspirations,  it  would,  without  question,  have  been
more painful, and taken far longer.
Perhaps  the  United  Nations  has  not  attained  all
the goals and purposes assigned to it, as has often been
reported.  However,  we  are 
Its
inestimable contribution to liberty, solidarity and closer
ties  between  peoples,  nations,  men  and  women  is
beyond question.
indebted 
it. 
to 
For 
those  and  other  reasons,  I  consider 
it
imperative  for  the  international  community  to  give
priority  to  perfecting  and  consolidating  our  universal
Organization  and 
institutions.  Better  global,
democratic, participatory and effective governance will
thereby be ensured, making for greater human security,
which will lead in turn to sustainable development.
its 
live 
in  an 
Today  we 
interdependent  and
indivisible  world.  That  is  why  we  must  build  a  world
community  of  shared  responsibilities,  values  and
benefits. It is also recognized that the world is now at a
crossroads, marked by the progressive widening of the
gap between the richest countries and the poorest. Yet,
another  more  balanced  and  less  unequal  world  is
possible,  in  view  of  our  material  and  technological
resources  and  the  enormous  potential  that  humankind
and the planet possess.
It was from that perspective  that the Millennium
Development  Goals  were  set  five  years  ago  to  fight
poverty,  hunger,  disease  and  illiteracy.  Those  Goals,
while  being  timely  and  ambitious,  are  also  humanist
and generous. We can see, however, that to attain those
Goals  by  2015  as  planned,  much  remains  to  be  done,
and intensified efforts will have to be exerted by both
the  contributing  and  beneficiary  countries.  Those
efforts  will  be  rewarded  by  social  balance  and  well-
being,  which  are  factors  of  security  that  humankind
sorely  needs.  It  thus  becomes  urgent  to  create  an
environment  likely  to  promote  economic  development
for  the  poorest  countries.  Moreover,  as  the  fifteenth
Human  Development  Report  recognizes,  unjust  trade
policies  continue  to  prevent  millions  of  people  in  the
poorest  countries  around  the  world  from  emerging
21
A/60/PV.5
from poverty, thus preserving obscene inequalities that,
if truth be told, are morally unacceptable.
enormous  hope  for  the  most  disadvantaged  of  this
world.
Here,  at  the  beginning  of  this  century,  the
deadliest pandemic, HIV/AIDS, is a wake-up call to us
all. It is essential that we combat HIV/AIDS resolutely,
pooling  the  resources  required  for  treating  it  and  for
promoting research to discover a vaccine, through joint
action  among  States  and  the  business  and  scientific
communities. This is yet another realm where unequal
opportunity  makes  itself  tragically  felt.  Beyond  that,
we must not ignore how intertwined it is with poverty,
which  cuts  a  wide  swath 
the  world(cid:146)s
population.
through 
Natural  phenomena  also  highlight 
incurred when we neglect to preserve nature.
the  risks
Today(cid:146)s  world  has  spawned  threats  that,  for  the
security  of  us  all,  must  be  neutralized  in  time  (cid:151)  in
particular, faceless international terrorism. Eliminating
terrorism 
requires  determination  and  a  global,
comprehensive  and  coordinated  strategy,  integrating
responsibility  for  and  participation  by  all  States,  large
and  small.  For  that  matter,  we  are  all  responsible  for
one  another(cid:146)s  security,  as  the  report  of  the  High-level
Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change  (A/59/565)
acknowledges.  Worldwide,  effective  and  participatory
governance, based on international law and democratic
cooperation among countries, is what  can best  help  to
resolve  the  complex  problems  confronting  humankind
today.
It  has  been  generous  and  visionary  ideas  that
have  made  the  world  move.  Thus,  in  the  face  of  all
challenges, we must build a future based on the moral
foundation  of  universal  values  and  established  know-
how (cid:151) the achievement of all humanity. Among those
values, human dignity and the dignity of peoples stand
out  as  being  incompatible  with  hunger,  want  and
ignorance. Those are values that cannot fully flower in
a  world  that  does  not  promote  inclusion,  respect  for
culture  diversity,  equal  opportunity  for  progress  and
the  well-being  of  all,  and  fundamental  human  rights
based on liberty, equality and human solidarity.
Finally, 
I  hope 
that,  notwithstanding 
their
complexity and the contradictions inherent therein, we
do  manage  to  carry  out  the  reforms  our  universal
Organization  calls  for  and  shoulder  the  commitments
that  will  make  it  possible  to  attain,  on  schedule,  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  embodying  such
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia.
President  Saakashvili: It  is  my  privilege  to
address  this  institution  today  and  to  share  with  you
how  we  as  an  international  community  of  responsible
nations can do more to advance development, eradicate
poverty,  and  establish  greater  security  and  stability,
both  at  home  and  around  the  world.  For  the  past  60
years, 
leading
international  body  responsible  for  advancing  those
ideals,  and  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations
Millennium  Development  Goals  represents  a  major
step forward in that effort.
the  United  Nations  has  been 
the 
Today, 60 years  after the founding  of  the  United
Nations,  60  years  after  Yalta,  we  must  change  the
United  Nations  in  order  to  solve  our  most  pressing
problems,  including  poverty,  a  healthy  environment
and,  most  of  all,  lasting  security.  It  is  not  an  easy
mandate,  and  for  countries  like  Georgia  these  issues,
and  in  particular  the  need  to  reform,  strengthen  and
improve 
the  United  Nations,  are  of  particular
importance.
Since  our  Rose  Revolution 
two  years  ago,
Georgia has made great strides towards reducing social
inequality,  strengthening  human  rights,  caring  for  the
sick  and  vulnerable  and  promoting 
sustainable
development  (cid:151)  all  important  elements  of  the  MDGs.
In  fact,  during  the  short  time  that  we  have  been  in
power,  we  have  made  progress  towards  nearly  every
Goal.
The  economy  is  improving.  Indeed,  a  recent
World  Bank  survey  put  Georgia  among  the  leading
three  countries  in  terms  of  business  climate  and  the
speed  and  efficiency  of  the  reform  process.  Those
results  are  a  tribute  to  the  strength  of  the  Georgian
people  and  a  direct  result  of  what  a  democracy  can
achieve  when 
transparent  and
accountable. Yet despite the  notable  progress  we  have
made,  the  situation  in  Georgia  today  is  not  ideal.  We
have  more  work  to  do  if  we  hope  to  meet  the
Millennium Development Goals.
is  responsible, 
it 
Georgia(cid:146)s democratic and economic development
is constrained today due to unresolved conflicts on our
territory.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  refugees  from
22
Abkhazia  and  from  South  Ossetia  remain  unable  to
return to their homes or to enjoy the fundamental rights
of freedom and safe movement.
In  Abkhazia,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people
were forcibly evicted from their homes, kicked out in a
mass  expulsion  and  act  of  ethnic  cleansing.  Georgia
will  never  accept  the  results  of  ethnic  cleansing
anywhere  in  the  world,  and  any  arguments  attempting
to legitimize its results are immoral and set dangerous
precedents  for  the  future.  In  fact,  even  as  we  speak,
before  the  very  eyes  of  the  world  and  of  the  United
Nations monitors, the homes those people lived in and
from  which  they  have  been  thrown  out  are  being  sold
out from under them. What is most shocking is that, in
many cases, high-ranking Government officials from a
neighbouring  country  are  buying  those  houses,  while
the world says and does nothing about it.
lawless 
Not  only  is  Georgia(cid:146)s  development  affected  by
those 
territories  (cid:151)  which  have  become
dangerous  black  holes  and  havens  for  criminals,
traffickers in human beings, drug smugglers, terrorists,
and other sources of criminal threat (cid:151) but those areas
also endanger international stability. Those threats can
no longer be ignored or wished away.
Our  Government 
is 
firmly  committed 
to
peacefully  settling  those  conflicts  and  to  the  peaceful
establishment  of  full  control  over  our  internationally
recognized  territorial  integrity.  We  believe  that  the
nineteenth-century  logic  of  territorial  seizures  and
acquisitions  no  longer  applies  today.  Rather, 
the
message of ethnic inclusiveness, tolerance,  integration
and  strong  safeguards  in  the  area  of  human  rights  is
much  stronger  than  that  of  tanks,  war  planes  other
forms of military might.
In  short,  we  are  committed 
We  are  committed  to  improving  the  lives  of  our
citizens, regardless of religion, ethnic origin or place of
residence. 
the
establishment of a Georgia that is peaceful, democratic,
free and whole. We are pushing for peace by advancing
comprehensive  peace  plans  in  South  Ossetia  and  in
Abkhazia, where we are actively moving forward with
our initiatives.
to 
We  have  introduced  affirmative  action  plans
aimed  at  the  educational  and  career  advancement  of
minority  representatives.  We  are  very  proud  of  those
plans.  They  are  efficient,  they  are  working,  and
Georgia  has  become  a  nation-State  that  efficiently
integrates people of all ethnic origins and confessions.
A/60/PV.5
That  is  one  of  my  main  sources  of  pride  at  this
moment.
We  also  hope  that  the  Russian  Federation  will
cooperate with us in a constructive and positive way so
as  to  leave  behind  the  conflicts  we  inherited  from  the
imperial past and from post-Soviet lawlessness.
But  in  order  to  combat  the  threats  posed  by
instability,  we  need  an  international  community  and  a
United  Nations  that  can  do  much  more  than  just  talk
about  solutions;  we  need  a  United  Nations  that  can
bring  them  about.  That  means  a  United  Nations  that
can resolve conflicts (cid:151) a United Nations that does not
simply  look  on  as  international  law  is  violated  but
instead  puts  an  end  to  the  ongoing  process  of  the
forcible, 
the
territory of Abkhazia.
immoral  annexation  of 
lawless  and 
That is why Georgia is so committed to the idea
of making the United Nations a stronger institution and
to reforming it so that it can meet the challenges of the
twenty-first century.
The issue of conflict resolution in my country and
around  the  world  must  take  higher  priority  at  the
United  Nations.  More  needs  to  be  done  through,  and
more  boldness  shown  by,  bodies  such  as  the  Security
Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Commission,  the
Human  Rights  Commission  and  other  United  Nations
agencies if we hope to overcome one of greatest causes
of human poverty.
Specifically,  we  must  support  more  transparent
decision-making  and  make  the  Security  Council  a
much  more  representative  body.  We  must  support  the
strengthening and transformation of the Human Rights
Commission  so  that  it  can  more  effectively  monitor
and act on human rights abuses.
We must support a greater role for intervention in
favour of peacebuilding, especially in areas affected by
unresolved conflicts, as well as the establishment of a
Peacebuilding Commission with a mandate to focus on
conflict  resolution  and  post-conflict  rehabilitation,
including economic assistance. We must do our best to
stop human rights violations on a mass scale and to put
an end to a climate that allows, tolerates and indulges
such human rights violations, no matter what principles
are used to justify them.
The  stakes  today  could  not  be  higher.  One  need
only  look  around  the  world  to  see  the  tremendous
destruction and violence that conflict breeds on a daily
23
A/60/PV.5
basis. We can also see the devastation and destruction
caused by natural disasters.
If  there  is  one  single  priority  that  can  unite  the
international  community, 
it  must  be  a  global
commitment to peace and security. Far from being the
singular  concern  of  Georgia,  it  is  a  responsibility  that
all  leaders  share  with  respect  to  present  and  future
generations.
Looking  to  the  future,  I  want  to  sound  a  note  of
optimism  (cid:151)  optimism  because  I  believe  in  the  power
of  this  great  institution  and  because  I  come  from  a
region with tremendous potential, where, following the
demise of that evil empire, the Soviet Union, so much
change  and  development  has  taken  place  and  is  still
taking  place 
leaders  and  new
democratic  movements  are  emerging  (cid:151)  proof  of  the
positive impact of democracy, and making the case for
accountable and transparent governance.
today.  Dynamic 
A wave of freedom is spreading, and nothing can
stop it. Democracy is on the rise in our region. So, too,
are  development  and  prosperity,  but  both  require
security  and  stability  in  order  to  be  permanent.  For
that,  we  need  a  stronger  and  more  efficient  United
Nations.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  The  Honourable  Ludwig
Scotty, M.P., President of the Republic of Nauru.
President  Scotty:  The  Republic  of  Nauru
congratulates  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  on  his  election  and
welcomes  him.  We  are  fully  confident  that  he  will
conduct the affairs of the General Assembly effectively
and efficiently.
Nauru  wishes  also  to  congratulate  the  outgoing
President, Mr. Jean Ping, for having courageously and
successfully risen to the many challenges that this high
office demands.
Sixty  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  was  created
by  humankind  to  serve  the  human  race.  Today  the
United  Nations  family  has  grown  to  a  total  of  191
diverse  Member  States,  all  bound  by  the  common
purpose of providing for the well-being and dignity of
humankind  and  ensuring  equal  rights  for  all  persons
and for all nations.
Indeed,  Nauru  is  proud  to  be  a  Member  of  the
United Nations, and I wish to take  this  opportunity  to
congratulate  each  and  every  Member  State,  as  well  as
24
the  Secretariat,  for  the  many  achievements  and  the
progress  made  in  upholding  the  four  pillars  of  the
United  Nations,  namely  peace,  security,  development
and human rights.
At  the  same  time,  I  wish  to  remind  all  that  we
cannot  become  complacent  but  must  remain  vigilant
and true in our efforts to ensure the collective security
and well-being of our people. For there  is  a  long  way
to  go  yet,  and  the  responsibilities  that  face  us  in  this
new  millennium  are  much  more  challenging  and
complex.
Through 
the  adoption  of 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  in  2000,  leaders  reaffirmed  their
commitment to promoting sustainable development and
global  prosperity  for  all.  While  there  have  been
positive  growth  and  achievements  in  some  countries,
others, particularly underdeveloped countries and small
island developing States such as Nauru, have not been
so successful. Indeed, my country continues to reap the
political,  social  and  economic  turmoil  resulting  from
the years of poor leadership and mismanagement.
Although  my  Government  is  strongly  committed
sustainable  development  and  has  begun 
to
to 
strengthen  governance,  combat  corruption  and  put  in
place responsible legislation to uphold the rule of law
and  ensure  transparency,  I  will  readily  admit  that
Nauru  requires  urgent  assistance 
to  recover  and
stabilize  its  economy.  Hence,  we  welcome  the  early
the  Mauritius  Strategy,  which
implementation  of 
recognizes  and  addresses 
the  special  needs  and
vulnerabilities  of  small  island  developing  States  such
as  ours.  That  includes  establishing  a  United  Nations
presence in my country, Nauru, and other small Pacific
States  to  assist  in  development  needs,  including  the
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs).
on 
developed 
countries 
to  meet 
We  urge  development  partners  and  international
financial  institutions  to  understand  our  dire  need.  We
call 
their
responsibilities  and  rise  to  the  challenge  of  devoting
0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  to  official
development  assistance,  as  reaffirmed  in  the  2002
Monterrey  Consensus.  We 
the  developed
countries 
that  assistance,  which  will
eventually enable underdeveloped countries to become
self-sustainable  and  improve  the  standard  of  living  of
many.
to  provide 
implore 
A/60/PV.5
Nauru  cannot  stress  enough  its  desire  for  peace
and  security.  Nauru  also  recognizes  that  there  can  be
no true peace or security without the protection and the
promotion  of  all  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and
democracy. Hence, we cannot continue to turn a blind
eye to the welfare of the 23 million people who live on
the  island  of  Taiwan.  We  should  encourage  peaceful
dialogue  to  resolve  the  issue  of  the  Taiwan  Strait,
which affects the peace and the security not only of the
Asian Pacific region but also of the rest of the world.
Nauru  also  acknowledges  that  in  today(cid:146)s  ever-
changing and globalized world, there are many serious
threats  to  international  security  and  peace.  Those
threats require not only our urgent and collective action
but  also  a  more  concerted  and  determined  response.
Thus, we need to strengthen the United Nations so that
it can meet the full range of challenges of our time. In
that  respect,  we  welcome  the  creation  of  a  Human
Rights  Council  and  support  the  expansion  of  the
Security Council to include the permanent membership
of Germany, India, Japan and Brazil. Furthermore, we
applaud  the  ongoing  reform  measures  carried  out  by
the  Secretary-General  in  order  to  make  the  United
Nations  system  more  effective  and  efficient  and  to  do
so with the tightest deadline possible.
Allow me to conclude by posing a question for us
all. How much longer can we continue to reaffirm and
renew  our  commitments  to  our  people  before  their
hopes  for  development,  peace,  security  and  human
rights  are  realized?  Proverbs  teaches  us  that,  (cid:147)Whoso
boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind
without rain(cid:148) (The Holy Bible, Proverbs 25:14).
We, the leaders of this world, have been called on
at this time to revisit past commitments and ensure that
they are implemented. Let us put a stop to false hopes
and empty promises and, by matching our  words  with
action,  bring  rain  showers  of  blessings  to  our  world
and its people.
May  God  bless  the  United  Nations  in  these
deliberations  for  a  better  tomorrow  for  the  peoples  of
this Earth. We shall progress in God(cid:146)s will first.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Denis
Sassou  Nguesso,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the
Congo.
Summit,  we  committed  ourselves  to  joining  forces  to
defeat  poverty.  That  universal  rallying  around  the
Development  Goals  remains  an  event  of  unmatched
scope  which  has  given  us  hope  for  a  possible  victory
over poverty. The Monterrey Summit has strengthened
that  hope  by  defining  financing  for  development
mechanisms  based  on  a 
favourably  considered
partnership between rich countries and poor countries.
Today,  while  significant  progress  in  the  global
fight  against  poverty  can  be  noted,  any  optimism  is
tempered  by  the  delays  in  Africa  in  particular,  where
many  countries  struggle  to  keep  up  with  the  global
pace.
It  is  clear  that  without  a  significant  increase  of
financial  resources,  the  Goals  will  not  be  achieved  by
the deadlines established.
That  is  why  it  is  extremely  encouraging  to  note
all initiatives announced or undertaken throughout  the
world  to  make  progress  on  some  of  the  most  difficult
issues,  such  as  official  development  assistance  and
debt.  In  particular,  we  are  thinking  of  the  timetable
adopted by the European Union to achieve the target of
allocating  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  product  to
official  development  assistance,  the  decisions  of  the
recent  Group  of  Eight  Summit  in  Scotland,  and  all
other  proposals,  including  those  of  President  Jacques
Chirac,  President  Lula  da  Silva  and  Prime  Minister
Tony Blair, insofar as they aim to create a reliable and
predictable  international  financing  mechanism.  Those
very  encouraging  initiatives  should  be  supported  and
enhanced.  Only  immediate  and  collective  action  will
make  it  possible  for  us  to  prevent  new  threats  and
confront  existing  ones  (cid:151)  terrorism  in  particular  (cid:151)
which find fertile ground in marginalized societies and
individuals  and  in  the  persistence  of  extreme  poverty.
Furthermore,  recent  natural  disasters  are  a  tragic
reminder that the world is  one  in  its  vulnerability  and
that  the  time  has  come  to  act  collectively  and  in
solidarity.  Thus,  we  must  make  a  commitment  to
collective action to better protect the environment. For
its  part,  Congo  reaffirms  its  will  to  pursue  efforts  to
carry  out  Agenda  21  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of
Implementation,  whose  realization  depends  largely  on
creating  a 
recent
Brazzaville summit on the Congo basin was part of that
effort.
truly  global  partnership.  The 
President  Sassou  Nguesso  (spoke  in  French):
Five  years  ago,  on  the  occasion  of  the  Millennium
With  regard  to  Central  Africa  and  the  African
Great  Lakes  region,  I  would  like  to  tell  the  Assembly
25
A/60/PV.5
that  our  subregion,  today  as  perhaps  never  before,  is
determined  to  work  for  conflict  prevention  and  the
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  for  peacebuilding,
which remains a potent factor for development.
In  that  context,  we  wish  once  again  to  appeal  to
the  international  community  for  increased  support  to
the countries of the Great  Lakes region, which  should
be  declared  a  special  development  and  reconstruction
zone.
The  commemoration  of  the  sixtieth  anniversary
of  the  United  Nations  should  be  a  solemn  occasion,  a
time to take bold decisions, particularly with respect to
United  Nations  reform  and 
the  revitalization  of
multilateralism.  We  are  concerned  that  any  delay  in
that process might lead to deadlock in the future, which
could pose great risks.
However,  our  hopes  will  be  in  vain  unless  we
bear  in  mind  the  imperative  of  peace  and  security  (cid:151)
the  bedrock  that  will  enable  us  to  withstand  threats
such  as  terrorism,  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and
light  weapons,  the  arms  race  and  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  Peace,  security,  development,  human
dignity,  the  environment,  institutional  reform  of  the
United  Nations:  these  have  been  the  main  themes  of
our debates over the past few months.
Since we have not yet completed our negotiations
on  those  crucial  questions,  let  us  at  least  set  up  some
guideposts that can point the way to future discussions.
My  country  in  particular,  and  Africa  in  general,  have
nothing  to  gain  from  inertia.  We  believe  in  moving
forward with expectancy. That is the only way in which
we  will  be  able  to  safeguard  our  common  heritage  in
the  face  of  the  numerous  perils  that  lie  ahead.  Let  us
take action while we still have time.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.
Nambar Enkhbayar, President of Mongolia.
President  Enkhbayar: This  unprecedented
gathering  of  world  leaders  is  a  historic  opportunity  to
meet  the  expectations  of  millions  around  the  globe  to
live free from fear and want, to live in greater dignity
and  larger  freedom.  It  demonstrates  yet  again  our
strong  commitment  to  the  world  Organization  and  to
collective action in pursuit of our common goals.
For  all  its  faults,  the  United  Nations  has  proved
indispensable.  It  has  prevented  wars  and  fed  the
hungry. It has ended colonialism and helped nations to
26
develop.  The  United  Nations  is  our  common  house,
common cause and common future. This Organization
is a precious gift bequeathed to us by a generation that
in its folly brought our world to the brink of extinction
and in a time of deepest despair found the courage and
wisdom  to  unite  in  its  resolve  to  create  a  safer,  more
prosperous  and  just  place.  We  have  been  given  a
chance  to  make  this  vision  a  reality,  and  we  have  an
obligation to deliver it.
Effective multilateralism, with the United Nations
at its heart, should guide our effort. We need a system
of  international  relations  that  is  truly  democratic  and
representative of all, based on respect for the purposes
and principles of the Charter.  In  order  to  be  effective,
multilateralism  needs  adequate  capacity  and 
the
willingness to act.
is  excluded  and  development 
We  need  to  build  a  more  prosperous  world,  in
which  poverty 
is
axiomatic.  We  need  to  build  a  safer  world,  in  which
terror is defeated, deadly weapons do  not fall into  the
wrong hands and technology is used for the betterment
of human life. We need to build a just world that does
not  turn  a  blind  eye  to  the  plight  and  suffering  of  its
inhabitants,  but  ensures  that  rules  are  respected  and
rights are enjoyed. We need a world of larger freedom
and greater dignity.
it.  Five  years  ago, 
To achieve our goal, we need  an  agenda tailored
to  our  needs  and  United  Nations  reform  that  can
advance 
the  Millennium
Declaration,  world  leaders  agreed  on  a  wide-ranging
set  of 
a
comprehensive  agenda  for  development.  The  accord
reached 
indeed,
momentous. We must ensure that it is achieved.
and  undertakings  (cid:151) 
development  was, 
in 
commitments 
there 
on 
in  Mongolia  are  deeply  committed 
to
We 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs).  The  parliament  of  Mongolia  adopted,  last
April,  a  specific  resolution  endorsing  the  Goals  at  the
national  level.  The  resolution  entrusted  the  relevant
State  entities  with  the  implementation  and  monitoring
of  the  MDGs,  and  provided  for  the  allocation  of
necessary  resources 
in  annual  State  budgets.  An
additional  goal  9,  on  strengthening  human  rights  and
fostering democratic governance, was proclaimed.
Despite  its  primary  importance,  national  action
alone  could  prove  insufficient.  The  implementation  of
the  MDGs 
is
handicapped  by  significant  capacity  constraints.  The
in  many  developing 
countries 
support of the international community is much needed
the  development  of  a  global
there.  Therefore, 
partnership  between  developed 
and  developing
countries,  as  reaffirmed  by  the  Monterrey  Consensus,
ought to become a reality.
Despite  an  encouraging  shift  in  the  increase  of
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  over  the  past
couple  of  years  after  a  decade  of  steady  decline,  the
world  is  still  well  short  of  achieving  the  longstanding
target  of  0.7  per  cent.  Here,  I  wish  to  endorse  the
recommendation of the Secretary-General that, starting
in  2005,  developing  countries  that  put  forward  sound,
transparent  and  accountable  national  strategies  should
receive a sufficient increase in aid, of sufficient quality
and  arriving  with  sufficient  speed,  to  enable  them  to
achieve  their  MDGs.  In  addition,  new  and  innovative
the  International
sources  of  financing, 
Finance  Facility, 
the
implementation  of  MDG  projects  should  be  strongly
encouraged.
and  debt-conversion 
including 
for 
The  time  has  come  for  bold  decisions.  The  time
has  come  for  comprehensive  solutions.  Sufficient
political will ought to be exercised to  forge a genuine
partnership in order to erase the staggering discrepancy
between  the  commitments  made  and  the  actions  to  be
taken.  We  cannot  afford 
to  honour  our
commitments if we are serious about implementing the
Millennium  Development  Goals. 
two
processes (cid:151)  achieving  the  MDGs  worldwide  and
reforming  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)  ought  to  go  in
tandem,  and  a  strengthened  and  revitalized  United
Nations should serve as an important precondition.
to  fail 
Those 
and 
guide 
global 
security 
and  human 
reform  portfolio 
We need to  enhance the  United Nations capacity
to 
coordinate 
responses
comprehensively,  that  is,  in  all  three  of  its  pillars:
rights 
development, 
and
democracy.  Every 
is  of  equal
importance. No issue can be held hostage to any other.
Our  outcome  document  is  an  important  basis  for
decisive  action.  The  process  has  been  set  in  motion.
The sixtieth session of the Assembly must yield results
so as to ensure smooth implementation. The success of
the  reform  will  not  be  measured  against  our  words.  It
will  be  measured  by  whether  the  renewed  United
Nations  can  bring  development  home  to  the  poor,
peace  to  the  warring  and  justice  to  the  abused.  It  will
be  measured  against  our  actions.  Let  us  rise  to  that
challenge,  especially  as  we  observe 
the  sixtieth
anniversary of the United Nations.
A/60/PV.5
Anniversaries provoke recollections over the past
and  projections  for  the  future.  As  we  in  Mongolia
prepare to celebrate the eight-hundredth anniversary of
the Mongolian State in 2006, we look back to the rich
legacy of the Mongolian State  to  draw  lessons  for  the
future.  An  astute  Statesman,  Chinggis  Khaan,
transformed  once  and  for  all  the  face  of  the  Eurasian
continent,  bringing  together  East  and  West.  He  also
introduced  free  trade,  religious  tolerance  and  postal
and  communications  systems.  He  established  many
fundamentals  of 
important 
liberal
taxation, 
sound  administrative  and  management
systems  and  equality  before 
law  (cid:151)  and
safeguarded  diplomatic  immunities.  Even  today,  those
attributes  of  statecraft  and  principles  of  inter-State
conduct  have  not  yet  become  a  universal  reality.  I
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our
sincere hope that the countries of the world will join us
in our celebration next year.
statecraft  (cid:151) 
the 
In conclusion, may I  express my  confidence that
this  summit  will  inspire  and  guide  us  to  collectively
work  towards  a  safer,  more  equitable  and  prosperous
future in the  years  to  come.  Mongolia  stands  ready  to
shoulder  its  responsibilities  in  that  noble  collective
endeavour.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Thabo
Mbeki, President of the Republic of South Africa.
to 
President  Mbeki:  In  the  year  2000  we  took
advantage  of  the  beginning  of  a  new  millennium  to
solemnly  commit  ourselves 
the  Millennium
Declaration, which led to the Millennium Development
Goals  (MDG)  and  the  proposals  for  the  reform  of  the
United Nations. We have gathered here five years later
in  a  millennium-review  summit,  both  to  assess  the
progress we have made towards the achievement of the
Goals  we  set  ourselves  and  to  take  any  necessary
additional  decisions  to  help  all  humankind  move
forward faster towards the realization of those Goals.
It  would  therefore  seem  quite  obvious  that  we
should  ask  ourselves  two  fundamental  questions.  One
of them is: What has the review told us about the last
five  years?  The  second  is:  What  decisions  have  we
therefore taken in the light of the conclusions brought
to light by that review?
One  of  the  facts  that  stands  out  sharply  in  the
review is that, in truth, we have not made the decisive
progress we thought we would make with regard to the
27
A/60/PV.5
critical  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We
have therefore had no choice but to postpone to a later
date the decisions we should have made.
The  only  saving  grace  with  regard  to  that
miserable  performance  is  that  as  it  closed,  the  fifty-
ninth General Assembly reaffirmed our commitment to
(cid:147)strengthen  the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to
enhancing its authority and efficiency, as well as
its capacity to address effectively ... the full range
of  challenges  of  our  time.(cid:148)  (resolution  59/314,
para. 146)
Yet  another  fact  that  stands  out  sharply  in  the
review is that our approach to the challenge to commit
and  deploy  the  necessary  resources  for  the  realization
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  has  been  half-
hearted, timid and tepid. In that regard, and illustrative
of  that  reality,  the  draft  outcome  document  honestly
states that Africa is (cid:147)the only continent not on track to
meet any of the goals of the Millennium Declaration by
2015(cid:148)  (ibid.,  para.  68).  And  yet,  precisely  because  of
the  enormous  and  unique  challenge  it  posed,  the
Millennium Declaration had included a specific section
entitled (cid:147)Meeting the special needs of Africa(cid:148).
The draft outcome document correctly says that
(cid:147)We  therefore  reaffirm  our  commitment  to
work  towards  a  security  consensus  based  on  the
recognition that many threats are interlinked, that
development,  peace,  security  and  human  rights
are  mutually  reinforcing,  that  no  State  can  best
protect itself by acting entirely alone and that all
States  need  an  effective  and  efficient  collective
security  system,  pursuant  to  the  purposes  and
principles of the Charter.(cid:148) (ibid., para. 72)
We  firmly  believe  that  the  reason  we  have  not
made the progress we should have during the last five
years is precisely because we have not as yet achieved
what  the  draft  outcome  document  described  as  a
security consensus. We have not achieved that security
consensus  because  of  the  widely  disparate  conditions
of existence and interests among the Member States of
the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  the  gross  imbalance  of
power  that  defines  the  relationship  among  Member
States.
It is for the poor of the world, whose interests are
best  served  by  real  and  genuine  respect  for  the
fundamental  proposition,  that  we  need  the  security
consensus  identified  by  the  draft  outcome  document.
28
The  actions  of  the  rich  and  powerful  strongly  suggest
that  they  are  not  in  the  least  convinced  that  that
security  consensus  would  serve  their  interests.  Thus
they use their power to perpetuate the power imbalance
in  the  ordering  of  global  affairs.  As  a  consequence  of
that,  we  have  not  made  the  progress  in  the  reform  of
the  United  Nations  that  we  should  have.  Because  of
that,  we  have  not  achieved  the  required  scale  of
resource transfers from those who have those resources
in order to empower the poor of the world to extricate
themselves  from  their  misery.  Simply  put,  that  means
that the logic of the use of power is the reinforcement
of  the  might  of  the  powerful,  and  therefore  the
perpetuation of the disempowerment of the powerless.
That  is  the  poisonous  mixture  that  has  given  us
the  outcome  that  will  issue  from  this  millennium
review summit to the peoples of the world. We should
not  be  surprised  when  those  billions  of  people  do  not
acclaim us as heroes  and heroines.  We will be able to
drape  ourselves  in  the  clothes  of  heroes  and  heroines
only  by  ensuring  that,  by  the  time  the  sixtieth  session
of  the  General  Assembly  concludes,  the  billions  we
represent will have just cause to say that we did indeed
act to ensure the full implementation of the Millennium
Declaration.
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Manmohan Singh, Prime Minister of the Republic
of India.
Mr.  Singh  (India):  I  bring  the  best  wishes  and
felicitations  of  the  people  of  India  to  the  General
Assembly  as  it  meets  during  its  historic  sixtieth
session.  India  has  a  special  regard  for  the  United
Nations. The ideals of the  United Nations run parallel
to  our  own  civilizational  ethos.  This  is  the  ancient
Indian  concept  of  vasudhaiva  kutumbakam,  which
means  that  the  whole  world  is  one  family.  It  was  that
idea  of  a  shared  destiny 
that,  five  years  ago,
encouraged  the  Assembly  to  adopt  the  Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).
May  I  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  our  deep
condolences  and  sympathies  to  the  Government  and
people  of 
the  widespread
destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina.
the  United  States  on 
At  the  turn  of  the  century  there  was  a  growing
the  contemporary
recognition  of 
environmental
challenges  of  pandemic  disease, 
degradation and terrorism demanded a global response.
fact 
the 
that 
At  the  same  time,  there  was  a  new  sense  of  hope  and
optimism.  The  world  community  welcomed  advances
in  science  and  technology  that  made  it  possible  to
confront  those  challenges  as  never  before.  We  had
confidence 
the  collective  will  and
wisdom  of  nations  to  herald  a  new  era  of  peace  and
prosperity.
in  mobilizing 
in 
is  generous 
Five  years  later  we  find  that  the  international
community 
setting  goals  but
parsimonious  in  pursuing  them.  We  must  therefore
make  greater  efforts  to  mobilize  the  needed  resources
to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  That
would be a wise investment for the future. Failure will
only  make  our  task  in  the  future  more  difficult  and
more costly.
We in the developing world face a dual challenge,
namely,  the  domestic  one  of  managing  political,
economic  and  social  change  in  an  environment  of
rising expectations and growing disparities, and that of
securing an international environment conducive to our
developmental  aspirations.  Those  challenges  are
interlinked. Success or failure will affect us all.
We  welcome  the  agreement  reached  on  the  draft
outcome  document  to  be  adopted  tomorrow.  It  is  a
roadmap 
the
Organization  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  present.
India will be a willing participant in that process.
the  work  ahead 
re-orient 
for 
to 
All  of  us  assembled  here  recognize  that  the
United Nations is in need of urgent and comprehensive
reform.  The  management  of  global  interdependence
requires  strong  international  institutions  and  a  rules-
based  multilateral  system.  The  reform  of  the  United
Nations  must  be  based  on  that  principle.  It  must
include  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both
the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of
membership. Unfortunately, the United Nations suffers
from  a  democracy  deficit.  Its  structure  and  decision-
making  process  reflect  the  world  of  1945,  not  the
world  of  2005.  Unless  the  United  Nations  becomes
more  representative  of  the  contemporary  world  and
more  relevant  to  our  concerns  and  aspirations,  its
ability  to  deliver  on  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  and  indeed  on  its  Charter  obligations,  will
remain limited.
In  a  democracy  it  is  the  rule  of  law  and
transparency 
the
ordinary  citizen.  At  the  global  level  too,  we  need  to
ensure  that  multilateral  rules  governing  the  flow  of
that  safeguard 
interests  of 
the 
A/60/PV.5
goods,  services  and  capital  take  adequate  account  of
the needs and aspirations of developing countries. The
world  awaits  a  (cid:147)new  deal(cid:148)  to  spur  development  and
create  jobs  on  a  global  scale.  It  must  address  the
challenge  of  eradicating  mass  poverty  and  pandemics
like  HIV/AIDS  and  other  deadly  communicable
diseases.  We  need  collective  thinking  and  coordinated
action  to  deal  with  the  challenge  of  ensuring  energy
security,  even  while  we  address  the  consequences  of
climate change. We must turn the global outpouring of
sympathy and mobilization of resources in response to
national  disasters  into  a  more  sustained  effort  to  deal
with seemingly less dramatic, but in the long run more
damaging,  crises.  We  must  renew  our  effort  to  secure
the world against nuclear proliferation and to promote
global,  non-discriminatory  nuclear  disarmament.
Failure  to  address  in  a  timely  fashion  the  global
challenges that I have mentioned can only serve to turn
them eventually into unmitigated disasters.
Democratic  governance,  both  within  nations  and
in  our  global  institutions,  also  constitutes  a  powerful
weapon in meeting the global scourge of terrorism. We
must not yield any space to terrorism. We must firmly
reject any notion that there is any cause that justifies it.
No  cause  could  ever  justify  the  indiscriminate  killing
of  innocent  men,  women  and  children.  For  several
years,  India  has  faced  cross-border  terrorism  directed
against its unity and territorial integrity. We shall never
succumb to, or compromise with, terror in Jammu and
Kashmir, or elsewhere.
In  1947,  India(cid:146)s  first  Prime  Minister,  Jawaharlal
Nehru, said that (cid:147)Peace has been said to be indivisible;
so is freedom, so is prosperity, and so also is disaster in
this one world that can no longer be split into isolated
fragments(cid:148).  Today  those  words  assume  a  compelling
logic.  In  this  one  world  there  is  only  one  United
Nations.  If  we  fail  the  United  Nations,  we  will  fail
succeeding  generations,  who  will  expect  a  more
enlightened legacy than is currently in sight.
Globalization  offers  exciting  opportunities  to
improve living standards worldwide, provided that the
weak  and  the  powerless  are  empowered  to  become
genuine  partners  in  progress.  The  world  community
must  therefore  muster  the  courage  to  harness  the
potential  of  globalization  for 
the  benefit  of  all
humankind.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Meles
29
A/60/PV.5
Zenawi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal  Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia.
Mr.  Zenawi  (Ethiopia):  I  am  very  pleased  to  be
here  for  this  important  event,  which  has  enormous
significance  in  terms  of  the  challenges  we  face  in
promoting  development  and  peace,  ensuring  good
governance  and  fostering  respect  for  human  rights.
Coming,  as  it  does,  five  years  after  the  historic
commitment that we jointly made when we adopted the
Millennium  Declaration,  this  gathering  affords  us  an
opportunity to rededicate ourselves to the achievement
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).
to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan, 
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
our  deep  appreciation 
the
Secretary-General,  for  the  historic  initiative  he  took
five years ago and for the follow-up work that has been
done. We are very grateful also for the very dedicated
and  invaluable  work  that  has  been  carried  out  by
Professor  Jeffrey  Sachs  and  his  colleagues  at  the
Millennium Project.
In addition, let me take this opportunity to thank
the Secretary-General and, through him, the High-level
Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change  for  the
ground-breaking  report  (A/59/565)  that  served  as  a
basis  for  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  entitled
(cid:147)In larger freedom: towards development, security and
human  rights  for  all(cid:148)  (A/59/2005),  which  I  find  to  be
very  commendable,  with  vital  suggestions  for  United
Nations reform.
I should also pay tribute to Foreign Minister Jean
Ping,  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-
ninth  session,  for  all  his  efforts  during  this  important
period  in  the  life  of  the  United  Nations  and  for  the
draft  outcome  document  (A/60/L.1),  which,  I  have  no
doubt,  will  facilitate  businesslike  deliberations  at  this
High-level Plenary Meeting.
Five  years  ago,  we  embarked  on  a  15-year-long
historic journey with reasonably high hopes. With one
third of the journey completed, it has become clear that
without additional joint effort on the part of all, it will
be  impossible  for  low-income  and  least  developed
countries  such  as  Ethiopia  to  achieve  the  MDGs,
particularly  to  defeat  extreme  poverty  (cid:151)  poverty  that
kills.
On the other hand, the past five years have in fact
shown that even for countries such as Ethiopia, most of
the  MDGs  are  demonstrably  achievable.  The  MDGs
30
are emphatically not unattainable goals with unrealistic
targets. In fact, in our particular case, for example, the
fight  against  poverty  in  all  its  dimensions,  with  clear
commitment  and  on  the  basis  of  a  clearly  defined
strategy,  antedates  the  articulation  of  the  MDGs.
Therefore,  what  was  needed  in  our  case  was  to  align
our  strategy  for  combating  poverty  and  achieving
sustainable  development  with  the  MDGs,  which,  we
are  convinced,  are 
from  being  excessively
ambitious.
far 
such 
cooperation 
require 
as  Ethiopia 
consistent  with 
Indeed,  our  experience  over  the  past  five  years
has  demonstrated  that  with  the  optimum  mobilization
of  domestic  resources  and  the  requisite  international
support, 
in  conformity  with  commitments  made,
countries  such  as  Ethiopia  can,  with  little  doubt,
achieve  the  MDGs.  There  is  no  doubt,  however,  that
effective
countries 
international 
the
commitments  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration
and  at  Monterrey,  which  is  essential  if  they  are  to  be
able to be on track to achieve the MDGs.
that 
the  primary
responsibility  for  achieving  the  MDGs  belongs  to  the
countries concerned, it is also the obligation of partners
to  make  it  possible  for  the  low-income  countries  that
have  demonstrated  the  readiness  to  carry  out  their
responsibilities  to  overcome  the  poverty  trap.  In  that
regard,  the  report  of  the  Millennium  Project  contains
valuable  proposals  whose 
implementation  would
undoubtedly ensure the achievement of the MDGs long
before  2015.  Official  development  assistance,  debt
relief  and  trade-related  issues  need  to  be  aligned  with
the  MDGs  so  that  low-income  countries  can  achieve
the MDG-based targets.
Although 
it 
is  obvious 
seem 
I  am  very  pleased  at  the  progress  made  at  the
Gleneagles  Summit  of  the  Group  of  Eight.  I  also
welcome the progress made here, at the United Nations
summit,  on  building  consensus  in  the  fight  against
poverty.  However,  I  am  deeply  concerned  that  we
sometimes 
to  move  backward  on  our
commitments, as appears to be happening with the full
cancellation  of  the  debt  of  the  highly  indebted  poor
countries. I believe we must avoid backtracking, move
beyond the reiteration of consensus positions and start
acting  on  them  in  earnest.  I  am  disappointed  that  we
have not made more progress on the other issues before
us.  Like  other  speakers  before  me,  however,  I  am
reassured  that  we  have  made  some  progress  and  have
charted a clear course for making additional progress.
close 
Let  me 
reiterating  Ethiopia(cid:146)s
commitment  to  achieving  the  MDGs  and  to  doing
whatever  is  necessary  to  contribute  to  successful
United Nations reform.
by 
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): Before  we
continue, I should like to ask that members be as quiet
as  possible,  particularly  in  the  area  outside  the  Hall.
Please keep conversations to a minimum, out of respect
for the speakers.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  The  Honourable  Mr.  Denzil  Llewellyn
Douglas,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Finance,
Sustainable 
and
Technology, Tourism, Culture and Sports of Saint Kitts
and Nevis.
Development, 
Information 
to 
to 
related 
reduce  child  mortality  and 
Mr. Douglas (Saint Kitts and  Nevis):  Five  years
ago,  world  leaders  boldly  agreed  on  a  blueprint  to
eradicate  poverty, 
to  achieve  universal  primary
education,  to  promote  gender  equality  and  empower
women, 
improve
to  combat  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,
maternal  health, 
tuberculosis 
and 
ensure
environmental  sustainability  and  to  develop  a  global
partnership  for  development.  Those  goals  remain
fundamental  to  our  own  ability  to  improve  the  human
condition and transform our societies. Although it may
indeed  be  necessary  to  rationalize  modalities  for
arriving  at  the  goals,  their  achievement  should  not  be
negotiable.  Social 
the  obligations  of
development  are  a  sine  qua  non  of  any  progressive
civilization.
justice  and 
diseases, 
Five  years  on,  we  must  ask  ourselves:  what,  if
anything,  can  be  held  up  as  the  results  of  our
stewardship?  Unfortunately,  I  still  hear  the  usual
excuses. But, in addition, I hear a chorus of discontent
with  the  United  Nations,  drowning  out  the  mournful
voices  of  the  impoverished,  the  marginalized  and  the
diseased and dying, who, sadly, seem not to be getting
the chance they so rightly deserve.
intention 
to  unravel 
I  hear  old  excuses  that  have  been  repackaged  in
new forms, but their ultimate objective is identical with
the  old 
that
previously  stimulated  action  towards  the  Millennium
Development  Goals.  It  is  providential  that  we  are
reviewing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and
examining the question of reform of the United Nations
while  commemorating  the  anniversary  of  its  sixtieth
year. I join the call for strategic reforms of the United
the  consensus 
A/60/PV.5
Nations,  which  my  Government  has  been  making  for
the  past  decade.  We  have  repeatedly  asked  the  United
Nations  to  enhance  its  role  in  development  and  to  be
more  responsive  to  and  cognizant  of  the  needs  of  the
many,  and  not  merely  to  remain  an  instrument  of  the
few.
The United Nations (cid:151) six decades later (cid:151) must
change. But we must inspire that change for the better.
Change must flow from the changes in the realities of
our  times.  But  to  urge  change  simply  so  as  to  enable
the  current  system  to  work  better  for  only  a  few  will
not  strengthen  the  role  and  credibility  of  the  United
Nations,  but  will 
this
international Organization.
instead  ultimately  weaken 
We  must  address  change  in  the  make-up  of  the
Security Council and effect change in the business-as-
usual  attitude  in  the  General  Assembly,  the  Human
Rights  Commission  and  the  Economic  and  Social
Council.
We  should  not  allow  allegation  of  defects  in  the
institutional structure of the Organization to  challenge
or  discredit  areas  where  progress  is  being  made.  The
United  Nations  must  become  responsive  to  its  wider
membership  and  must  mean  something  to  citizens  of
the  world.  Inasmuch  as  small  countries  like  St.  Kitts
and  Nevis  need  to  see  progress  on  the  Millennium
Development Goals and reform of the United Nations,
my Government has been making incremental steps at
home.  In  St.  Kitts  and  Nevis,  primary  and  secondary
education  are  compulsory  and  free.  We  continue  to
provide school meals, uniforms, textbooks, and access
to  information  technology  to  those  who  are  less
fortunate, so that they may not be left behind. For my
Government,  the  right  to  development  is  as  much  a
moral and human issue as it is a political duty for me
as a political leader.
On  the  question  of  HIV/AIDS,  St.  Kitts  and
Nevis, along with its sister countries of the Caribbean
Community, has formed the Pan-Caribbean Partnership
(PANCA). It is a mechanism through which the region
has successfully developed and implemented a regional
strategy to fight HIV/AIDS, to eliminate stigmatization
and discriminatory  practices,  to  provide  treatment  and
care  and  to  negotiate  reduced  costs  for  medicine  for
those who suffer from this affliction. I emphasize today
that PANCA has been mentioned by the United Nations
as a best practice model in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
In  this  regard,  we  welcome  the  recent  commitment  of
31
A/60/PV.5
the  Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  to  contribute  to  the
Pan-Caribbean  Partnership,  as  part  of  its  own  clear
demonstration  of  support  of  the  Caribbean(cid:146)s  fight
against  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  despite  Taiwan(cid:146)s
exclusion  from  the  World  Health  Assembly  and  this
body.
Our Ministry of Gender and Social Development
continues to work to protect the rights of youth and the
elderly and to empower women, so that their valuable
input  and  expertise  can 
the  process  of
governance and development.
inform 
This  year,  St.  Kitts  and  Nevis,  which  has
depended on sugar production for its foreign exchange
and  economic  survival  for  over  350  years,  took  the
difficult  and  painful  decision  and  the  necessary  steps
towards  abandoning  sugar  production.  This  decision
became  necessary  despite  the  claim  that  globalization
and free markets are supposed to spread prosperity far
and  wide.  The  reality  is  that  countries  with  larger
labour  forces  and  countries  with  greater  factors  of
production  and  great  wealth  still  rationalize  granting
subsidies  to  their  farmers  and  impose  barriers  that
either  limit  or  deny  access  to  their  own  markets.  The
tremendous  social,  psychological  and  economic  costs
of this decision are only now becoming apparent in St.
Kitts and Nevis.
We  would  like  to  see  greater  debt  relief  for
heavily indebted countries, and we were encouraged by
the  declaration  of  the  Group  of  Eight  Summit  of  July
this year. The interests of the poor nations would also
be  better  served  if  developed  countries  would  adopt
fairer  trade  policies,  which  are  informed  by  capacity
restraints and grant special and differential treatment to
weak  or  smaller  economies.  In  addition 
this
insidious creeping economic problem, the almost daily
escalation  of  oil  prices  threatens  to  further  undermine
the fragile economic base of countries such as mine.
to 
We  have  taken  steps  to  diversify  our  economy
and to retrain sectors of the population in order to meet
the  challenges  of  the  changing  world.  But  poor
countries  seem  to  have  to  play  by  a  different  set  of
rules. Nevertheless, the Government and people  of St.
Kitts and Nevis are making meaningful strides towards
achieving some of the Millennium Goals.
However,  in  some  areas  we  still  need  help.  The
policies  of  some  countries  unwittingly  undermine  our
efforts  to  achieve  these  specific  goals.  At  the  heart  of
the  debate  on  reforming  the  United  Nations  is  the
32
underlying notion that the United Nations should have
greater power to intervene in failed States. Yet there is
no corresponding effort to empower the United Nations
to assist States that are undergoing dramatic economic
dislocations, social inequities and political difficulties.
There is a danger of a self-fulfilling prophecy, namely,
that problems lead to failed States.
We  can  have  another  five  years  of  hollow
debates. We can make empty promises or excuses as to
why no action is being taken in many critical areas. Or
we can resolve to move forward by recommitting to do
what  is  right  and  what  is  in  the  best  interests  of  the
collective agenda of this Organization.
I  know  on  which  side  of  history  my  country,
St. Kitts and Nevis, will eventually stand.
(spoke 
report,  (cid:147)In 
larger 
Mr.  Hun 
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Samdech  Hun  Sen,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Royal
Government of Cambodia.
Sen 
in  Cambodian;
the  delegation):  The
interpretation  provided  by 
excellent 
freedom(cid:148),  by  His
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, United Nations Secretary-
General,  and  his  colleagues,  provides  a  global  vision
and proposals for us to build human solidarity together
through  a  more  just  and  civilized  world.  Our  actions
today  will  determine  the  destiny  of  humanity  and  our
planet.
Cambodia  has  turned  a  new  page  in  its  history,
putting  firmly  behind  it  the  darkness  and  tragedies  of
the recent past, and has emerged into the new dawn of
its  future.  Democracy  now  has  strong  roots,  public
order  and  the  rule  of  law  have  made  steady  and
tangible progress, human rights are fully protected and
spectacular economic growth is manifestly evident. We
have  also  made  significant  advances  towards  reaching
Cambodia(cid:146)s  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDG),
especially  in  the  education  sector  and  in  combating
HIV/AIDS.  However,  we  know  that  in  the  area  of
socio-economic  development  the  road  ahead  is  longer
and more arduous than the road we have travelled thus
far. At present, the Royal Government of Cambodia is
actively  preparing  its  national  strategic  development
plan  for  the  period  2006-2010,  which  will  determine
Cambodia(cid:146)s  milestones  on  the  way  to  achieving  the
MDGs by 2015.
Allow  me  to  raise  some  issues  related  to  the
future of our fragile world in the twenty-first century.
the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s 
First, with regard to freedom from want, we fully
share 
the
interlinkages  between  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,
democracy,  security  and  development.  We  should
therefore  work  on  all  fronts  at  the  same  time.  Unless
all  the  interdependent  causes  are  advanced,  none  can
succeed.
analysis  of 
community(cid:146)s 
is  a  prerequisite 
Development issues should remain at the heart of
international 
attention.  Strong
the 
political  will 
the
to  achieve 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  A  global  partnership
between  rich  and  poor  countries  should  be  based  on
mutual  respect  and  trust,  shared  responsibilities  and
transparency.  Aid-providing  nations  and  institutions
must move rapidly to make a reality of the rhetoric of
the  Paris  and  Rome  Declarations:  they  must  extend
strict and resolute support of the receiving nations(cid:146) full
ownership  of  both  the  process  and  the  priorities  of
socio-economic  progress.  Politically  driven  hidden
agendas  and  shifting  ideologies  to  exert  coercive
influence  on  recipients  must  end;  they  serve  only  to
punish  the  poor.  In  fact,  while  that  trend  is  declining,
there is an increase in the number of conditions linked
to aid.
Most of the aid has reached those in real need, a
large  amount  of  it  having  been  spent  on  technical
assistance and studies and also on some sectors that are
not  consistent  with  the  development  priorities  of
recipient  countries. Aid  has  been  made  conditional  on
the requirements of donors. In the end, most aid money
has  ended  up  benefiting  the  economies  of  donor
countries  or  consultants  from  other  countries,  even
though  they  were  incompetent  or  did  not  know  the
recipient  countries.  At  the  same  time,  developing
countries  should  take  steps  to  carry  out  reforms,
especially 
revenue
mobilization,  strengthened  governance  and  the  fight
against corruption.
areas  of  domestic 
the 
in 
We welcome the decision of G-8 nations to write
off the debt of 18 highly indebted poor countries in the
amount of $40 billion. However, that is merely a rescue
effort  rather  than  a  solution.  Successful  development
requires  increased  net  transfers  of  resources  for  real
investments  in  poor  countries  in  the  form  of  grants,
which  are  decreasing  from  year  to  year.  Moreover,
modalities  should  be  flexible  in  order  to  enable  poor
A/60/PV.5
their 
capacity 
affecting 
repayment 
countries to use loans to implement projects that are of
great benefit to their national economies and that have
the  capacity  to  generate  high  domestic  revenue  while
not 
and
macroeconomic  development.  We  also  need  to  move
rapidly away from producing volumes of paper reports
to  providing  relief  or  development  assistance  to  the
poor.  The  Monterrey  spirit  and  the  commitment  to
increase official development assistance to 0.7 per cent
of  gross  domestic  product  must  be  translated  into
reality.  A  fair  trading  system  between  developed  and
poor  countries  must  be  established  so  that  poor
countries  can  fully  realize  their  own  potential  and
maximize their comparative advantages for growth.
We  welcome 
the  goals  of 
the  International
Conference on Population and Development to achieve
reproductive  health  services  globally  before  2015.  In
the 
environmental
governance,  Cambodia  welcomes  the  promulgation  of
the Kyoto Protocol aimed at stabilizing the emission of
greenhouse gases.
context  of 
ensuring 
sound 
take  strong  measures 
Secondly,  with  regard  to  freedom  from  fear,
terrorism constitutes a serious threat to all progress. It
not  only  wipes  out  gains  and  sets  back  the  clock,  but
the diversion of scarce resources in order to counter it
means  fewer  available  funds  to  meet  development
challenges and so ensure a better tomorrow for all. As
we 
to  combat  and  curtail
terrorism, we should at the same  time  address  its  root
causes.  We  should  put  an  end  to  the  conditions  that
terrorists  have  exploited.  We  should  remove 
the
frustrations  of  the  poor  and  excluded  people  of  our
planet,  restore  dignity  to  those  who  have  lost  it  and
ensure  that  dialogue  and  cooperation  prevail  between
civilizations,  cultures  and  religions.  In  essence,  the
goal  should  be  to  lead  a  balanced  and  tolerant  life,  at
peace  with  oneself,  and 
in  harmony  with  one(cid:146)s
neighbours, with other beings, with nature and with the
cosmos.
In  closing,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the
challenges of our time require political actions born of
intelligence, courage and heart. Cambodia stands ready
to  join  in  the  global  effort  that  will  lead  us  down  the
path of development, security and freedom.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  The
Honourable  Tuilaepa  Sailele  Malielegaoi,  Prime
33
A/60/PV.5
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the
Independent State of Samoa.
Mr. Malielegaoi (Samoa): Five years ago, at the
dawn  of  the  new  millennium,  we  leaders  boldly
declared  a  shared  commitment  to  stronger  global
efforts to ensure that all people have a right to live in
dignity,  free  from  want  and  fear.  Those  were  not  just
visionary  goals  or  mere  aspirations;  they  were  basic
human  needs  achievable  within  our  lifetime.  Our
optimism  was 
shared
responsibility  and  in  a  belief  in  man(cid:146)s  decency.  After
all, as members of the global family, we share triumphs
and tragedies, hopes and setbacks; and our interests are
mutually interdependent.
in  a  culture  of 
rooted 
This 
is  a  historic  occasion  and  a  unique
opportunity.  We  come  together  for  an  honest  self-
appraisal  of  our  performance  over  the  past  five  years.
Our  task  is  not  to  lament  lost  opportunities,  pass
judgement  on  the  performance  of  some  of  our  fellow
Members or blame others for our failures. No, we come
together to reflect on the past, take stock of the present
and move forward in unity of purpose.
to  benefit  from 
We  must  rise  above  the  dictates  of  narrow
interests  and  work 
the  diverse
perspectives  of  our  membership.  Name-calling  and
intransigent  positions  have  no  place  in  our  review.
Instead, we shall recommit ourselves in both deeds and
words  to  honouring  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the
Millennium Declaration.
The verdict is out. The review has revealed some
successes  but  also  some  unmet  expectations.  There  is
understandable panic and anxiety in some quarters, just
as  there  is  reason  for  guarded  optimism  that  the
Millennium  Declaration  will  be  implemented  in  full.
Let us remember that there is no universal prescription
or magic formula for inducing a desirable outcome for
all  Member  States  if  countries  are  not  willing  to  put
their own house in order first.
Samoa  believes  in  the  Millennium  Declaration
and  its  global  commitments  aimed  at  enhancing  the
future  of  humanity  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The
eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  that  resulted
from  the  Declaration  are  practical  and  time-bound
benchmarks needed to track our progress in the critical
implementation phase.
In order to realize the Goals, we have adopted an
integrative approach through our national development
34
incorporates  other 
strategy,  which 
international
protocols.  Some  Millennium  Development  Goals
(MDGs),  such  as  the  goal  on  health,  have  been
localized  to  reflect  Samoa(cid:146)s  immediate  concerns  and
priorities.
As  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  Millennium
Declaration, earlier this year we submitted our progress
report on the Millennium Development Goals. We have
also  presented  our  consolidated  report  to  the  United
Nations  Committee 
of
Discrimination  against  Women.  Our  report  on  the
status  of  the  Rights  of  the  Child  has  been  completed
and will be submitted to the United Nations in the next
few days.
the  Elimination 
on 
My  Government  remains  confident  that  most  of
the Goals will be met within the proposed time frame.
However,  challenges  remain  and 
they  are  being
addressed through policy and legislative initiatives and
the  creation  of  innovative  partnerships  with  the  donor
community and civil society.
But  Samoa  cannot  manage  alone.  Achieving  the
Goals  will  not  be  easy  without  the  support  of  our
development 
development
requires sustained effort and commitment. Partnerships
with  the  donor  community  require  mutual  trust  and
understanding.
Sustainable 
partners. 
As a small island developing State (SIDS) and  a
least  developed  country  (LDC),  Samoa  reaffirms  the
continuing  validity  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  and  the
Brussels  Programme  of  Action  as  the  comprehensive
approaches  for  meeting 
threats  and
challenges  faced  by  those  groups  of  countries.  But
adopting  programmes  of  action  without  adding
resources to complement Members(cid:146) efforts could easily
blunt the drive of the States to meet the challenges of
poverty reduction.
the  specific 
In 
times, 
in 
recent 
the  world  has  witnessed
outbreaks  of  the  most  devastating  natural  disasters,
unprecedented 
the  60-year  history  of  our
Organization.  Tsunamis,  hurricanes,  earthquakes  and
floods  have  resulted  in  the  loss  of  countless  lives  and
in  untold  sorrow  and  suffering.  Those  extreme  events
demonstrate  the  awesome  power  of  nature.  But  the
international  community(cid:146)s  overwhelming  response  in
helping  the  victims  attests  to  the  immense  depth  of
human compassion. My own country has endeavoured,
within its limited resources, to contribute what it can in
support of those efforts.
Changes  in  global  climate  patterns  and  the
frequency  of  extreme  weather  events  have  increased
the threat of natural disasters. Natural disasters do not
discriminate between rich and poor countries. Yet those
most  affected  by  the  immediate  consequences  of
climate  change  are  usually  the  vulnerable  and  the
marginalized. Paradoxically, the majority of them make
no direct contribution to the causes of climate change.
Small  island  developing  States(cid:146)  have  real  and
urgent concerns for their continued survival in the face
of  the  effects  of  climate  change.  We  appeal  for  a
change of heart among those with the capacity to make
a  difference  and  for  them  to  heed  our  plea  and  take
bold action to address this imminent threat.
in 
their 
World 
leaders, 
reflective  wisdom,
reaffirmed  their  faith  in  a  strengthened  and  reformed
United  Nations,  a  vital  multilateral  institution  able  to
respond  effectively  and  ably  to  the  challenges  of  the
twenty-first  century  and  to  deliver  on  the  Millennium
Declaration.
Samoa  supports  enlarging  both  membership
categories  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  reflect
contemporary  geopolitical  realities.  There  remains  a
compelling case for democracy and transparency in the
Council(cid:146)s procedures and working methods in order to
facilitate  a  more  engaged  and  effective  relationship
with  the  General  Assembly.  The  Assembly,  on  the
other  hand,  must  work  hard  to  regain  the  world(cid:146)s
confidence in its status as the highest deliberative and
representative 
the
Organization.
decision-making 
body 
of 
Meaningful  management  reforms  must  include
the  Secretariat.  Its  accountability  and  management
structures  should  be  realigned  to  reflect  its  mandate
and  today(cid:146)s  realties,  making  it  more  effective  and
responsive. The Secretary-General should be given the
necessary 
lead  a
strengthened  United  Nations,  in  exchange  for  greater
transparency and accountability.
flexibility  and 
resources 
to 
Recognizing 
that  development,  security  and
human  rights  constitute  the  three  pillars  of  the  United
Nations,  Samoa  supports  the  creation  of  a  Human
Rights Council. It is hoped that elevating the status of
human rights within the United Nations hierarchy will
give  the  Council  greater  visibility  and  status  and  thus
enhance  the  promotion  and  the  protection  of  human
rights.
A/60/PV.5
The  proposal 
to  establish  a  Peacebuilding
Commission within the United Nations system to give
greater  support  to  States  emerging  from  post-conflict
situations 
and
reintegration  is  another  positive  aspect  of  the  overall
reform  which  we  support  and  which  we  hope  will
materialize soon.
and  moving 
recovery 
towards 
a 
supports 
stronger,  more 
As the current Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum,
Samoa 
formalized
relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  regional
organizations.  A  Pacific  Plan  to  be  approved  by  the
Pacific  Islands  Forum  later  this  year  establishes  the
framework  for  strengthening  regional  and  national
capacities  to  pursue  the  Millennium  Development
Goals targets. A key pillar in attaining the goals of the
Pacific  Plan  is  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations
through mutually beneficial partnerships with regional
organizations of the Pacific.
Samoa places great faith in international law and
justice  and  the  vital  protection  that  the  law  offers  all
States, especially the weak and the small. We therefore
welcome  the  entry-into-force  of  the  Rome  Statute  of
the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the  important
work  in  which  it  is  currently  engaged  as  part  of  its
contribution  to  securing  a  more  just  and  peaceful
world.
The  outcome  document  of  our  summit  meeting
will  provide  an  agreed  road  map  to  hasten  the
attainment  of  the  MDGs  and  to  implement  the  reform
programme for a revitalized United Nations.
We  know  that  actions  inevitably  lag  behind
commitments made, but we take heart from experience
that, despite setbacks, we still make progress when we
manage to work cooperatively. This is why our coming
together  as  the  United  Nations  remains  so  vital  to  the
future of our world.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): Before  calling
on  the  next  speaker,  I  should  just  like  to  remind
delegates  of  the  importance  of  the  length  of  their
statements. As members have noticed, several speakers
will now have to speak during the normal lunch break
because  of  the  very  long  speeches  that  are  being
delivered.  I  ask  all  speakers  to  exercise  maximum
restraint  and  to  shorten  their  speeches.  The  written
texts  can  always  be  made  available,  and  that  would
make it possible for others to speak within the normal
schedule.
35
A/60/PV.5
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Navinchandra
the  Republic  of
Excellency 
Honourable 
Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mauritius.
The 
Mr. Ramgoolam (Mauritius): We agreed to meet
this  year  to  reflect  on  the  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration,  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
the
related  outcomes  of  other  global  conferences  and
meetings.  My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that,
after  long  and  protracted  negotiations,  United  Nations
Members  have  been  able  to  achieve  broad-based
consensus,  not  only  on  the  review  of  the  Millennium
Declaration,  but  also  on  a  wide-ranging  reform  of  the
Organization  to  adapt  it  better  to  present  and  future
challenges.
The  proposals  in  the  outcome  document  lay  the
foundation  for  creating  a  supportive  and  enabling
international  environment  for  social  and  economic
development  in  our  countries,  notably  through  an
increase in official development assistance (ODA) and
the establishment of timetables for achievement of the
target of 0.7 per cent of gross national product (GNP)
for ODA by 2015, together with initiatives to enhance
the quality of aid and its impact.
My delegation commends the Group of Eight for
highlighting  the  need  for  Africa  to  have  access  to
additional  resources.  The  specific  recommendations
with  respect  to  Africa  in  the  outcome  document,  if
properly  implemented,  will  mean  faster  progress  by
Africa towards meeting the MDGs.
the 
My  delegation  also  welcomes 
recent
proposals  of  the  G-8  that  have  now  led  to  the
cancellation of the outstanding debt of heavily indebted
poor  countries.  As  it  is  an  indubitable  fact  that  debt
sustainability is crucial to the achievement of national
economic 
the
Millennium Development Goals, there is also an urgent
need  for  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  to  develop  a
debt 
low-income
countries, as well as middle-income countries.
sustainability 
development 
framework 
for 
goals, 
including 
I am pleased to note that the specific measures to
address  the  special  needs  of  the  least  developed
countries, the landlocked developing countries and the
small  island  developing  States  have  been  taken  on
board  in  the  outcome  document  and  a  commitment
made to promote greater international cooperation and
36
partnership  for  the  implementation  of  the  Mauritius
Strategy.
While  these  are  all  very  welcome  proposals,  my
delegation  believes  that  much  more  will  have  to  be
done if we are to sustain our development. That is why
I  believe  emphasis  should  be  placed  on  promoting
trade  as  an  engine  for  growth  and  development.  My
delegation wishes to underscore the need for increased
opportunities  for  developing  countries,  particularly
small  island  States,  and  their  integration  in  the  global
market  system.  The  need  for  a  fair  international
environment  that  maximizes  development  gains  of
developing  countries 
trade
liberalization cannot be overemphasized.
the  context  of 
in 
Yet,  recent  developments  have  been  particularly
hostile  to  developing  countries.  In  fact,  some  of  our
countries,  including  my  own,  are  facing  not  only  a
sharp  erosion  of  traditional  and  historical  preferences
based  on  supply  arrangements  with  the  European
Union, but also fierce competition and new barriers to
trade  our  products.  At  the  same  time,  we  are  being
asked  to  liberalize  our  markets  for  the  benefit  of
foreign  companies.  Should  this  trend  go  unchecked,  a
large number of developing countries and a number of
middle-income 
serious
difficulties.  It  is  extremely  important  to  allow  the
developing  countries,  including  the  most  vulnerable
ones, to trade on a level playing field.
countries  would 
face 
Yesterday,  United  States  President  Bush  made  a
call  for 
the  Doha
development  round  so  as  to  promote  prosperity  and
opportunity for all nations. We fully support his call.
the  successful  conclusion  of 
sustainability  and  on 
We are also pleased with the emphasis placed on
environmental 
the  urgent
necessity  to  undertake  global  action  to  mitigate  the
effects of climate change. We wish to reiterate the call
for urgent action  to  arrest  the  emission  of  CFC  gases,
which  experts  say  have  already  reached  dangerous
levels.  While  we  welcome  the  entry  into  force  of  the
Kyoto  Protocol,  we  believe  it  imperative  that  all
countries subscribe to the Protocol as soon as possible.
What  is  now  required  is  for  us  to  develop  a  more
inclusive  international  framework  on  climate  change
beyond  the  expiration  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol  in  2012.
Climate  change  is  no  longer  a  distant  possibility;  it  is
happening  now;  and,  unfortunately,  it  is  the  countries
that  are  least  responsible  for  emitting  these  gases  that
are suffering the most.
and  Hurricane  Katrina, 
Recent natural disasters, such as the 26 December
Tsunami 
an
unprecedented wave of solidarity around the world. My
Government expresses its sympathy and solidarity with
all  the  countries  that  suffered  losses  from  those
disasters.
triggered 
importance 
But  we  must  learn  from  these  lessons.  It  is  of
paramount 
in  disaster  risk
reduction,  and  my  delegation  strongly  believes  that
adequate funding must be provided in this area in order
to enable the most vulnerable to be better prepared and
build resilience against natural disasters.
invest 
to 
strongly 
delegation 
In  the  same  vein,  we  welcome  efforts  by  the
Intergovernmental  Oceanographic  Commission  to  set
up  a  global  network  of  early  warning  systems  across
the world.
My 
the
recommendation  in  the  outcome  document  concerning
terrorism,  particularly  the  recommendation  to  reach
agreement 
international
convention on terrorism. It is also important to address
the root causes of terrorism. Mauritius has always been
supportive  of  all 
to  combat
terrorism. I am pleased to say that yesterday Mauritius
signed 
the
Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism.
International  Convention 
initiatives  designed 
comprehensive 
supports 
the 
for 
on 
a 
Mauritius  equally  endorses  the  principle  of  the
(cid:147)responsibility  to  protect(cid:148)  as  a  norm  of  collective
action 
in  cases  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic
cleansing and crimes against humanity.
The  Peacebuilding  Commission  will  be  an
important  interface  between  the  Security  Council,
responsible  for  conflict  prevention  and  management,
and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  responsible  for
post-conflict 
development.
Mauritius  believes 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  should  be  open  enough  to
enable  any  country  to  participate  that  can  contribute
effectively to it.
the  composition  of 
reconstruction 
that 
and 
We support the proposal for the establishment of
a  Human  Rights  Council  to  promote  universal  respect
for the protection of all human rights and fundamental
freedoms. The proposed Human Rights Council should
serve  as  a  forum  for  constructive  engagement  on
human rights and enhance the promotion of the highest
standards  of  human  rights  through  peer  reviews  and
exchange of good practices.
A/60/PV.5
This  session  of  the  Assembly  offers  a  unique
opportunity  for  substantial  reform  of 
the  United
Nations system in its entirety. It is our hope that, as we
undertake these wide-ranging reforms, a solution could
also be found to the issue of Security Council reform.
My  delegation  considers  it  imperative  that,  in  an
expanded  Security  Council,  Africa  should  find  its
rightful  place,  with 
the
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  category,  and  that
India,  the  world(cid:146)s  largest  democracy  and  also  a
developing  country,  should  serve  as  a  permanent
member of the Council.
representation  both 
in 
of 
the 
efficiency 
enhancing 
We  view  the  reform  process  in  terms  of  the
imperative 
and
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations,  with  a  view  to
promoting 
as
principles  of  good  governance  at  the  national  and
international  levels.  We  must  also  see  to  it  that  the
United  Nations  internalizes  and  applies  these  core
principles within the Secretariat.
accountability 
transparency 
and 
Let me  conclude  by  reaffirming  the  commitment
of  Mauritius  to  the  principles  the  United  Nations,
which  represents  the  highest  level  of  multilateralism
and in which the voices of all States, big and small, can
be  heard.  This  system  of  multilateralism  has  evolved
on  the  twin  pillars  of  a  body  of  the  most  up-to-date
international  law,  a  corpus  of  norms  and  standards
governing  international  relations  and  a  framework  of
commonly shared values.
It  is  incumbent  on  the  leaders  of  the  world  to
enhance the image of the United Nations and endow it
with  the  means  to  face  the  myriad  of  challenges  we
face, in a spirit of fairness, justice and interdependence
and  with  the  common  objective  of  the  good  of
humanity. Let that be our  commitment  and our legacy
to future generations.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Right
Honourable Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, Prime Minister
and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service  of  the
Kingdom of Lesotho.
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  At  the  outset,  allow  me
to  express  our  deepest  sympathy  and  heartfelt
condolences  to  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the
United  States  of  America  as 
through
tribulations  in  the  aftermath  of  Hurricane  Katrina  and
the resulting massive loss of life and property.
they  go 
37
A/60/PV.5
for 
introspection, 
This  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  provides  an
the
opportunity 
commitments  made  at 
the  major  United  Nations
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and
the  historic  Millennium
related  fields, 
Summit.  In  my  delegation(cid:146)s  view,  virtue  has 
to
command and, indeed, underpin our deliberations.
following 
including 
At  the  Millennium  Summit,  we  were  confident
that  the  goals  and  the  targets  we  set  were  achievable.
Yet,  hardly  five  years  later,  the  scourge  of  HIV  and
AIDS (cid:151) the spread of which we undertook to halt and
reverse  by  2015  (cid:151)  has  been  widely  identified  as  a
unique  and  unprecedented 
international
development.  It  undermines  the  hope  of  achieving  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  It
continues  to  erode  and  wreck  the  lives  of  millions,
particularly  in  Africa.  Hence,  my  delegation  sincerely
hopes  that  the  Meeting  will  give  HIV  and  AIDS  the
same  level  of  attention  and  concern  as  it  does  global
security.
threat 
to 
These  circumstances  compel  us  to  reiterate  our
plea  to  the  international  community  to  urgently  adopt
an  expanded  and  comprehensive  response  to  HIV  and
AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and other diseases. Such a
comprehensive response would complement individual
countries(cid:146) concerted efforts to  halt the  rapid  spread  of
the HIV/AIDS pandemic.
In the field of education, in 1999 Lesotho adopted
a  sequential  strategy  of  introducing  free  primary
education beginning in grade one and in 2005 launched
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development
(NEPAD)  eSchools  demonstration  project.  However,
we  regretfully  recognize  that  the  efficiency  of  those
strategies is undermined by a shortage of teachers due
to the HIV/AIDS pandemic and the high drop-out rate
of those, particularly girls, who have to take of parents
bedridden with AIDS and related diseases.
Our  target  of  reducing  the  mortality  rate  among
children  under  five  by  two  thirds  by  2015  is  being
compromised  by  the  impact  of  HIV  and  AIDS.
Preventable diseases also threaten the lives of children
under five. In the same vein, the target of reducing the
maternal  mortality  ratio  by three  quarters  seems  to  be
eluding  us.  Our  efforts  and  resources  in  those  two
health areas must be doubled to achieve the goals set.
Five  years  ago,  the  Millennium  Summit  placed
the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger  at  the
top  of  the  list  of  the  MDGs.  Unfortunately,  however,
38
the  goal  of  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  remains
elusive for many countries, particularly in sub-Saharan
Africa.
The Government of Lesotho is doing its utmost to
rise  above  those  challenges.  It  has,  inter  alia,  adopted
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa(cid:146)s  Development
(NEPAD),  and  in  July  2004,  it  voluntarily  acceded  to
the African Peer Review Mechanism.
settlements 
The  prospect  of  further  growth  of  slums  and
informal 
threatens
developing  countries.  That  calls  for  a  comprehensive
aid  and  development  services  programme,  which  can
and  must  assist  the  urban  poor  by  providing  basic
household utilities.
in  major 
cities 
With respect to the promotion of gender equality
and  the  empowerment  of  women,  the  Government  of
Lesotho, 
in  collaboration  with  all  stakeholders,
initiated a gender and development policy in 2001. The
policy  addresses  various  development 
that
impede  women(cid:146)s  full  and  active  participation 
in
development as equal partners and beneficiaries.
issues 
Developed  countries  have 
to  unconditionally
abide  by  the  commitments  they  made  at  all  the  major
United Nations conferences in the economic, social and
related  fields  and  at  other  international  conferences
held  to  address  the  special  needs  of  least  developed
countries,  landlocked  developing  countries  and  small
island developing States.
Furthermore,  Member  States  have  to  rededicate
themselves  to  protecting  the  vulnerable  and  meeting
the special needs of Africa. We have to face the truth.
Countries  such  as  Lesotho  that  in  2005  face  a
combination  of  challenges,  including  the  rampant
spread  of  HIV  and  AIDS,  extreme  poverty,  food
insecurity and a heavy debt burden, will not be able to
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015
unless sufficient and rapid assistance (cid:151) particularly in
terms of resources (cid:151) is extended to them.
The stark reality is that least developed countries
such  as  Lesotho  urgently  need  resources  to  achieve
those laudable and worthy goals.
The  Co-Chairperson (Sweden):  I  thank  the
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public
Service  of 
for  his
thoughtfulness  in  shortening  his  speech  and  having
made its text available to members for reading.
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho 
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister
of the Republic of Turkey.
Mr. Erdoğan (Turkey) (spoke in Turkish; English
text provided by the delegation): I consider it a source
of  great  happiness  to  address  members  in  this  Hall,
which  represents  our  hopes  for  a  better  world.  Five
years ago, at the start of the new century, we expressed
our  will  to  carry  the  founding  ideals  of  the  United
Nations into the new century.
the  period  since 
The  United  Nations  was  built  as  the  house  of
peace for humanity, which lay battered in the ruins of a
them,  humanity,
great  war.  In 
unfortunately,  has  continued 
to  experience  great
suffering  and  has  seen  great  destruction.  Indeed,
compared  with  the  periods  of  war,  poverty  and  tears,
periods  of  peace  constitute  a  very  small  part  of  our
history.
The United Nations was founded so as to turn the
tide  in  favour  of  peace  and  prosperity.  It  is  for  that
reason that we must continue to strengthen the United
Nations and seek solutions to the human suffering that
we face today.
I  consider 
the  constantly 
in
income  distribution  between  the  North  and  the  South,
as well as the arms race, to be the greatest obstacles to
the well-being and prosperity of nations.
increasing  gap 
Poverty,  disease,  environmental  degradation  and
terrorism,  which  have  been  sources  of  threat  and
concern  for  humankind  in  every  period  of  its  history,
are becoming ever more threatening. Today, the reality
is  that,  regardless  of  where  they  occur  or  whom  they
affect, all of them have ramifications on a global scale.
Thus they pose problems for every single one of us (cid:151)
and  the  main  reason  for  that  is  globalization.  We
cannot  shut  our  eyes  and  ears  to  those  problems  just
because they are physically far from us. Thus, without
losing  further  time,  we  must  jointly  seek  ways  to
globalize  peace  instead  of  war,  prosperity  instead  of
poverty,  conscience  instead  of  greed,  and  rights  and
freedoms instead of oppression and violence. With the
United  Nations  at  the  forefront,  we  must  reconstruct
our international institutions accordingly. We should be
in  no  doubt  that  our  common  future  will  depend  on
that.
The  culture  of  conflict,  which  has  become  a
global  plague  in  itself,  is  in  my  view  one  of  our
A/60/PV.5
priority concerns. Let us once again remember the acts
of  terrorism  that  struck  New  York,  Istanbul,  Madrid,
London, Sharm el-Sheikh, Beslan and Baghdad. Bitter
experience has taught us all that terrorism is the enemy
of humankind.
sufficient 
We  must  give  serious  consideration  to  how  we
can  help  those  who  live  in  poverty;  those  do  not
receive  a 
the  benefits  of
globalization;  those  who  are  unable  to  benefit  from
democracy  and  freedom;  those  who  cannot  keep  up
with the rapid pace of change in our world; and those
who  are,  unfortunately,  trapped  in  a  cycle  of  conflict
and destruction.
share  of 
It is clear that it will become more difficult for us
to stand on our own feet if we do not stand by those in
need.  It  would,  indeed,  be  a  mistake  to  continue  to
present  different  traditions  and  cultures  as  sources  of
conflict,  despite  the  many  experiences  that  we  have
been  through  and  the  ruinous  conflicts  that  have  cost
the lives of millions of people.
Together  with  my 
counterpart,
Mr. Rodr(cid:237)guez  Zapatero,  I  launched  the  Alliance  of
Civilizations 
that
understanding. The Secretary-General, who  shares  our
beliefs,  has  shown  great  sensitivity  in  supporting  and
participating in that effort.
the  basis  of 
initiative  on 
Spanish 
The  draft  outcome  document  (A/60/L.1),  which
reflects  the  conclusions  of  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report,  will  be  an  important  step  by  the  international
community  towards  fulfilling  its  commitments  under
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  It  is  our  sincere
desire  that  those  commitments,  which  are  defined  in
the  outcome  document,  and  the  necessary  structural
reforms,  will  be  implemented  during  the  sixtieth
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Indeed,  the  main
reason  for  announcing  our  candidacy  for  a  non-
permanent seat on the Security Council for 2009-2010,
is  so 
the
achievement of global peace and welfare.
that  we  can  make  a  contribution 
to 
A United Nations that renews itself, that is more
democratic  and  transparent,  that  has  the  ability  to
represent the joint will of all Member States, that is the
source  of  solutions  to  international  conflicts,  that  is
seen as the guarantor of global peace, that is respected
by  all  Members  and 
is  more  active  and
foresighted,  is  in  the  common  interest  of  all  of
humanity.
that 
39
A/60/PV.5
I  congratulate  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for
his  efforts  in  that  direction.  Turkey  continues  to  hope
for and aspire to a better world. On that note, I would
like to warmly thank all participants.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden): The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jiř(cid:237)
Paroubek, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic.
Mr. Paroubek (Czech Republic): As my country
fully  endorses  the  statement  delivered  here  yesterday
by the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom on behalf
of the European Union (EU), I would like to share with
the  Assembly  just  a  few  additional  observations  and
comments.
Five  years  ago,  world  leaders  here  in  New  York
agreed on a set of targets, which, if they are met, could
make  the  world  better  and  more  fair.  The  following
year  (cid:151)  after  the  terrorist  attacks  on  New  York  and
other  United  States  targets  (cid:151)  our  agenda  grew.
Combating 
terrorism,  which  was  mentioned  only
marginally in the Millennium Declaration, has become
one  of  our  top  priorities.  At  the  same  time,  it  has
become obvious that the various goals and priorities of
the United Nations are more interconnected than ever.
There  can  be  no  question  about  whether  this  summit
should deal with development or with security: it must
tackle both.
The  wide  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor
countries  cannot  be  closed  in  a  short  period  of  time.
But  the  differences  must  be  diminished,  and  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  must  be  achieved.
When  assessing  our  progress  in  meeting  them  so  far,
referring  to  statistics  and  tables  is  not  very  helpful.
What matters is the fact that, even in this century, there
are children dying from starvation in many parts of the
world. Dealing with this shameful situation is a moral
imperative  to  which  everybody,  both  rich  and  poor,
without exception, must be committed.
trend.  Our  accession 
The  Czech  Republic  vows  to  accept  its  share  of
responsibility.  The  Czech  Government  has  overcome
the burden of the communist economic legacy and has
succeeded  in  launching  its  national  economy  on  a
growth 
the  EU  further
accelerated  growth,  as  reflected  in  the  country(cid:146)s  key
macroeconomic  indicators.  It  is  no  mere  coincidence
that the Czech Republic is the largest donor among the
10  new  EU  member  States.  Czech  development
assistance has more than doubled, and it will continue
to grow.
to 
40
The Czech Republic sees the United Nations as a
key  part  of  the  system  of  multilateral  cooperation.
Therefore,  we  are  deeply  interested  in  improving  its
performance  and  strengthening 
its  role.  We  are
involved in United Nations peacekeeping missions. We
will contribute to the United Nations Democracy Fund.
We  are  active  in  the  field  of  human  rights.  We  are
joining others in combating terrorism: just  a  few  hours
ago  I  attached  my  signature  to  the  International
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear
Terrorism.  We hope that  our  commitment  will  help  us
win a seat on the Security Council for 2008-2009.
The  United  Nations  is  often  accused  of  being
slow and inefficient, and it is blamed for many failings.
Nothing can change the fact, however, that it is we, the
individual  Member 
the
Organization  what  it  is,  with  all  its  positives  and
negatives. It is first and foremost up to Member States
to  demonstrate  their  political  will  to  reform  the
Organization  and  to  make  it  more  efficient  in  this
challenging era of globalization.
countries,  who  make 
This  summit  seems  to  be  ready,  after  weeks  of
hard preparatory work, to adopt far-reaching decisions
concerning  development  cooperation,  financing  for
development,  security,  the  fight  against  terrorism,  the
use  of  force,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  human
rights and the promotion of democracy, not to mention
institutional  adjustments.  I  believe  that  we  are  on  the
right track and that this will be an important milestone
in  the  reform  process.  The  decisions  of  the  summit
must be realized without delay.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  I  thank  the
Prime  Minister  of  the  Czech  Republic  for  having
limited his statement to five minutes.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency  Mr.  Anders  Fogh  Rasmussen,  Prime
Minister of the Kingdom of Denmark.
Mr. Rasmussen (Denmark): We have committed
ourselves  to  halve  global  poverty  by  2015  and  to
achieve further ambitious goals during the next decade.
The  enormous  progress  achieved  by  market  oriented
economic  reform  in  Asia  and  Latin  America  over  the
last decade proves that the eradication of poverty is not
an  impossible  goal.  But  an  extraordinary  effort  is
required  to  give  Africa  the  chance  to  succeed.  We  all
have 
to  do  better:  African
Governments, rich countries and the United Nations.
to  do  more  and 
First,  Africa  needs 
to  overcome  epidemic
diseases. AIDS is a fully blown disaster in Africa. The
combat  against  AIDS  should  be  the  world(cid:146)s  absolute
top priority. This is the area where every extra dollar of
assistance will create the greatest benefits to society.
Last  week(cid:146)s  report  on  the  mismanagement  of  the  oil-
for-food programme pointed to several cases of severe
misconduct  and  corruption.  I  am  pleased  that  the
Secretary-General has promised to take a hard look  at
these problems.
A/60/PV.5
Secondly,  Africa  needs  trade.  Free  trade  is  the
most  effective  way  to  improve  economic  growth  and
fight  poverty.  When  trade  advances,  poverty  retreats.
We  must  all  work  for  a  successful  outcome  of  the
World Trade Organization development round in Hong
Kong  in  December.  Rich  countries  must  improve
market 
trade  distorting
agricultural  subsidies.  Emerging  economies  must  be
ready  to  assume  their  fair  share  of  responsibilities
towards  the  poorest  countries.  And  African  countries
should liberalize trade among themselves.
and  dismantle 
access 
Thirdly, Africa needs peace. Without peace there
can be no progress. The United Nations cannot impose
peace  on  Africa.  Africans  themselves  must  prevent
conflict  and  manage  crisis.  But  we  must  help  them  to
maintain  fragile  peace.  That  is  why  it  is  so  important
that we establish the Peacebuilding Commission.
Fourthly,  Africa  needs  more  aid.  Without  this,
poverty  ridden  African  societies  cannot  benefit  from
free  trade  and  globalisation.  That  is  why  Denmark  is
the  second  largest  contributor  per  capita  to  Africa.  I
urge 
their
contributions to Africa.
all  donor 
strengthen 
countries 
to 
And  fifthly,  Africa  needs  better  governance.  All
our  aid  will  come  to  nothing  if  countries  are  ruled  by
corrupt dictators. Only when aid and trade are linked to
good policies can we lift people out of poverty. African
Governments  must  do  more  to  fight  corruption,  to
ensure  political  liberty  and  economic  freedom,  to
invest  in  health  and  education  of  their  people,  and  to
promote the rights of women.
The  United  Nations  has  a  special  obligation  as
the  global  watchdog  against  human  rights  abuses.
Frankly, its performance has not been good enough. We
owe  it  to  the  people  of  the  Sudan,  Zimbabwe  and  all
others who suffers from oppression and abuse to agree
on  the  establishment  of  a  Human  Rights  Council  that
has real powers and whose members will undertake to
abide by the highest human rights standards.
All good deeds start at home. In order to maintain
its moral authority and play a role in this process, the
United  Nations  needs  to  get  its  own  house  in  order.
Together we can make poverty history. Let us do it.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency The Most
Honourable  Percival  James  Patterson,  Prime  Minister
and Minister of Defence of Jamaica.
Mr.  Patterson  (Jamaica):  Five  years  ago,  we
adopted  a  Declaration  revealing  our  vision  for  the
shaping of international society in the new millennium.
The record shows that the results have fallen far short
of our expectations.
the 
terrorism  are  straining 
We have failed to meet the targets we set; poverty
and  infectious  disease  remain  rampant;  tensions  from
war  and 
fabric  of
international  security;  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of
all  kinds  generates  fear  and  threatens  domestic  peace.
The world has become more insecure. There is still too
much  instability  and  conflict.  There  is  still  too  much
hardship and suffering. Too many are being left behind
in  the  march  towards  the  Millennium  Development
Goals.
This summit must send a message of hope to the
millions  who  are  still  living  in  misery.  For  this  to
happen, three things are paramount.
are  well 
Commitments 
First,  we  must  strengthen  the  global  partnership.
principles 
established.  Shared
The 
responsibility  and  mutual  accountability  constitute  the
basic  foundation,  but  we  must  get  the  partnership  to
work and show concrete results.
solemnly 
be
implemented.  An  adequate  and  predictable  flow  of
resources  and  their  effective  utilization  is  the  essence
of the partnership between donors and recipients, based
on 
the  discharge  of  mutual  obligations  and  on
accountability. Such a partnership should be carried out
without  burdensome  policy  conditionalities,  and
institutional  safeguards  for  good  governance  are
required.
given  must 
Secondly,  this  process  should  be  complemented
by  action  to  eliminate  inequities  in  the  global  system
through  positive  adjustments 
in  global  economic
policies, which will give developing countries a better
41
A/60/PV.5
chance to benefit from access to markets, capital flows
and  more 
transfer  of
technology.
favourable 
terms 
the 
in 
Thirdly,  reform  in  global  economic  governance
can  no  longer  be  postponed.  Reform  should  not  be
confined to this Organization but should be undertaken
in all institutions within the system,  particularly  those
involved 
in  economic  policymaking.  The  basic
prescription  for  progress 
inclusiveness,
accountability  and  democratic  participation.  The
Bretton Woods institutions, whose decisions have such
a  profound  impact  on  our  lives,  should  be  among  the
first  candidates  for  reform.  Such  a  reform  is  long
overdue.
is  equity, 
The summit document placed before us sets out a
framework,  but  it  falls  short  of  what  we  sought  to
provide for a more substantive development agenda. It
will, however, have to serve as a starting point, and it
demands early action on our part.
institutions 
A  reform  of  United  Nations 
is
undoubtedly  necessary,  but  it  is  important  that  it  be
carefully designed to remedy the real deficiencies that
exist  and  to  strengthen  multilateralism.  The  result
should  not  be  to  entrench  the  world  power  structure
and  for  the  United  Nations  to  become  its  instrument.
The system must work for all of us.
and 
procedures 
The  Security  Council  should  be  reformed  in  its
structure 
become  more
representative  and  to  inspire  greater  confidence  in  its
decisions. The Economic and Social Council should be
strengthened  and  empowered  to  participate  in  global
economic  policymaking  and  enabled 
to  provide
to  promote  coherence.
effective  coordination  and 
Reform 
the  excessive
politicization  and  adversarial  approaches  which  have
discredited 
the  Human  Rights
Commission.
should  put  an  end 
the  operations  of 
to 
to 
Disarmament  and  arms  control  should  remain  a
priority.
The draft outcome document of this summit is far
from  ideal,  yet  it  represents  a  workable  basis  for  the
stronger United Nations we seek. It is really up to  us,
for the most important reform is not that of institutions
and structures. It is the policies and actions of Member
States  which  will  determine  our  success  or  failure.  It
requires renunciation of inequitable and discriminatory
policies  and  of 
intolerance  and
the  politics  of 
42
domination.  It  requires  a  commitment  to  cooperation,
mutual  respect  and  greater  efforts  to  achieve  our
common interests.
To that end, Jamaica stands always ready to play
its part.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Silvio
Berlusconi, Prime Minister of the Italian Republic.
Mr. Berlusconi (Italy) (spoke in Italian; English
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Our  shared  sadness
with respect to the victims of the hurricane that struck
the great country hosting the United Nations leads us to
reflect on the principles underlying this Organization.
Who  are  we?  The  answer  is  inscribed  in  the
Charter that established the Organization 60 years ago.
We are (cid:147)the peoples of the United Nations(cid:148). We are the
States,  serving  every  human  being.  We  have  a  duty
towards  every  inhabitant  of  the  planet,  wherever
human  dignity  is  denied,  wherever  the  exercise  of
fundamental  rights 
impeded,  whenever  natural
disasters strike.
is 
It is our duty to safeguard the freedom of all men
and women and to ensure freedom from want, freedom
from fear and freedom from oppression.
to  provide  support  and 
Freedom from want is our primary goal. It is the
the  most  developed  and  richer
responsibility  of 
countries 
for
economic and social growth; it is the responsibility of
developing countries to create conditions at home that
will  enable  all  citizens  to  reap  the  benefits  of  those
resources.
resources 
In  our  discussions  on  poverty  and  development,
we  cannot  ignore  the  problem  of  debt.  Italy  is  at  the
forefront  in  the  area  of  debt  relief,  having  already
cancelled  the  debts  of  many  of  the  poorest  countries
and being in the process of cancelling yet others.
Another  crucial  front  is the  further  liberalization
of international trade and market access. Italy supports
the  efforts  to  ensure  successful  negotiations  in  the
framework  of  the  World  Trade  Organization.  We
cannot  continue  to  leave  entire  populations  on  the
margins  of  globalization.  I  think  that  we  all  are
convinced that this is what is needed.
Freedom  from  fear  is  the  second  major  goal.
Terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction pose a serious threat to peace and security.
The success of negotiations in the framework of United
Nations 
the
Organization(cid:146)s ability to fight and eradicate these new
global perils.
reform  will  also  be  measured  by 
In that field, too, Italy is a leading promoter of a
common  strategy.  Yesterday  we  signed 
the  new
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
of Nuclear Terrorism. But this is not enough. We must
oppose  with  all  our  means  not  only  terrorists  but  also
all 
and  provide
justifications  for  them  by  inciting  acts  of  hatred  and
intolerance.
support,  protect 
those  who 
to 
The  United  Nations  must  be  in  a  position  to
respond  courageously 
the  crises  generated  by
conflicts.  That  is  why  the  commitment  of  every
country and international organization is so vital. Here,
too,  Italy  is  playing  a  leading  role;  we  are  among  the
most  active  participants  in  missions  authorized  by  the
Security  Council.  More  than  40,000  Italian  troops  are
deployed 
and  peace-enforcing
operations  (cid:151)  from  the  Balkans  to  Afghanistan,  from
Iraq to the Sudan.
in  peacekeeping 
To  achieve  these  imperative  and  fundamental
objectives,  the  United  Nations  must  have  new,  more
effective  tools  at  its  disposal.  That  is  why  Italy
strongly 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  of  the  Human  Rights
Council. At the same time, I believe that new ways of
thinking  and  a  new  vision  of 
international
the 
community(cid:146)s responsibilities are needed.
establishment 
of 
supports 
the 
The 
reaffirmation  of 
the
(cid:147)responsibility to protect(cid:148) is a major achievement that
responds to the shortcomings of recent years.
the  principle  of 
In that light, we need to strengthen the role of the
United  Nations  in  the  promotion  of  democracy  and
freedom.  That  is  why  we  commend  the  establishment
of the Democracy Fund, to which we have assured our
important financial contribution.
Finally,  we  must  avoid  impositions  and  the
creation  of  divisions  with  respect  to  the  question  of
Security  Council  reform.  Together  with  the  other
countries  that  belong  to  the  Uniting  for  Consensus
movement, Italy has submitted a flexible proposal that
provides for an increase in non-permanent seats only.
The  Security  Council  will  be  stronger,  more
transparent and more in line with the principles of the
Charter of the United Nations only if we enact a reform
A/60/PV.5
that enjoys the broadest possible consensus. This is the
only  way  to  foster  the  atmosphere  of  trust  and
cooperation  which  is  needed  to  bring  to  a  successful
conclusion  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  as  a
whole.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  repeating  the  words  I
pronounced  in  this  Hall  two  years  ago,  which  are  as
relevant today as ever.
(cid:147)In 
the  Millennium  Declaration  we
promised  food,  water,  health  and  education  to  the
greatest  possible  number  of  citizens.  Now 
the
democracies  must  commit  themselves  to  providing,
also and above all, the intangible goods from which the
other, more tangible  ones, spring, because without the
prerequisites  of  freedom  and  democracy  there  can  be
no  hope  for  lasting  peace  and  development,  nor  can
there  be  an  ultimate  defeat  of  the  challenge  of
poverty.(cid:148) (A/58/PV.7, p. 35)
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Highness  Sheikh
Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, Prime Minister of
the State of Kuwait.
Sheikh  Sabah  Al-Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah
(Kuwait): On behalf of His Highness Sheikh Jaber Al-
Ahmad  Al-Jaber  Al-Sabah,  allow 
to  express  my
greetings to this High-level Plenary Meeting as well as
our  best  wishes  for  a  successful  outcome  of  this
important  and  historic  meeting.  On  behalf  of  His
Highness  the  Amir  and  on  behalf  of  the  people  and
Government  of  Kuwait,  allow  me  to  express  to  the
people  and  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of
America  our  heartfelt  sentiments  of  solidarity  and
sympathy during these tragic days of loss and stress in
the wake of the catastrophic hurricane that struck three
Southern states.
Allow  me  also  to  express  to  the  people  of  Iraq
our  condolences  for  the  many  victims  of  the  acts  of
terrorism that have struck at security and stability and
which  are  impeding  the  work  to  reconstruct  and
rehabilitate brotherly Iraq.
This High-level Plenary Meeting, which has been
convened  to  review  and  assess  the  implementation  of
the Millennium Development Goals, coincides with the
sixtieth anniversary of the establishment of the United
Nations.  It  is  an  occasion,  which  is  a  cause  for
celebration; it is also an opportunity to renew our firm
commitment and trust in this Organization.
43
A/60/PV.5
for  his  valuable 
Allow me to express our thanks to the Secretary-
General 
in
preparation  for  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  We
thank  all  who  assisted  in  preparing  the  Outcome
Document  set 
the  General
Assembly at the end of this meeting.
for  endorsement  by 
submitted 
report 
May I, therefore, appeal to this Assembly, which
is now in session at the highest level of responsibility,
to  muster  its  resolve  with  a  view  to  giving  a  genuine
and tangible meaning to international coordination and
cooperation. Our goal is to fill and narrow the gaps and
overcome  the  problems  that  impede  the  realization  of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  all  regions  of
the world, especially in Africa.
Kuwait  believes  that  the  development  goals  that
the world aspires to attain by 2015 are not impossible.
Indeed,  they  could  be  within  reach,  especially  the
eradication  of  poverty,  hunger, 
treatment  of
epidemics like HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, as
well  as  the  improvement  of  health  and  education
conditions  in  our  societies.  We  actually  do  note  an
encouraging  number  of  success  stories 
in  many
countries.
the 
in  our 
However,  meeting  our  development  objectives
requires  collective  commitment 
to  our  common
responsibilities,  both  as  developing  and  developed
nations.  It  also  demands  a  conviction  that  economic
and  social  development,  openness  and  political
participation  are  all  critical  factors 
joint
endeavours  to  tackle  the  problems  and  challenges
confronting  us  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security  as
well as the long-standing threats that undermine world
stability,  such  as  protracted  armed  conflicts  and
unresolved 
the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  the
violation  of  human  rights.  It  is  against  this  backdrop
that  Kuwait  expresses  the  hope  that  security  and
stability will be established and maintained in Iraq and
that a just and comprehensive solution will be achieved
to the Palestinian question.
problems, 
terrorism, 
regional 
Kuwait  welcomes  the  pledge  made  by  a  good
number of developed countries to increase their official
development  assistance  to  developing  countries  in
order  to  reach  the  level  of  0.7  per  cent  of  GNP,  as
agreed  upon  by  the  international  community.  We
believe  that  this  demonstrates  a  full  recognition  on
their  part  of  the  fact  that  development  is  a  crucial
44
requirement  in  addressing  the  problems  facing  the
developing world.
Kuwait also calls upon the developed countries to
honour their previous commitments in offering aid and
to consider substantial reduction in the debts owed by
developing  countries.  Furthermore,  we  invite  them  to
ease tariff restrictions that impede the flow of products
from  the  developing  countries  to  the  markets  of  the
developed  nations  and  to  set  up  a  global  partnership
conducive  to  the  creation  of  a  free  and  balanced
international  trade  and  financial  regime  under  the
umbrella of the World Trade Organization.
Given  Kuwait(cid:146)s  keen  commitment  to  meet  its
obligations  under  United  Nations  resolutions  and
international  conventions  with  a  view  to  accelerating
the  pace  of  development,  and  despite  the  fact  that
Kuwait  is  a  developing  country,  yet  all  relevant
development  indicators  show  that  Kuwait  has  indeed
covered  much  ground  in  meeting  its  commitment  to
every  Millennium  Development  Goal  and  is  ahead  of
the timetable set by the United Nations.
Since the early days of our membership in 1963,
the State of Kuwait has honoured its obligations under
all  international  programmes  in  order  to  establish  a
global  partnership  for  development.  To  that  end,  we
have  established  the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Economic
Development,  putting  in  place  a  liberal  facility  for
providing  assistance  to  the  developing  and  least-
developed  countries.  Recipients  of  aid  from  the  Fund
now  exceed  100  developing  countries,  and 
the
aggregate  volume  of  assistance  exceeds  $12  billion.
Thus  the  official  development  assistance  provided  by
Kuwait over the past years  came to  almost double the
internationally  agreed-upon  percentage.  This  does  not
include  the  financial  assistance  by  the  people  of
Kuwait  through  civil  society  institutions  and  non-
governmental organizations to nations in need.
To  this  end,  Kuwait  is  gratified  to  reconfirm  its
commitment to provide development and financial  aid
to the developing countries.
Kuwait  is  also  pleased  to  highlight  a  recent
achievement  in  gender  equality  in  the  political  field.
Kuwaiti  women  can  now  exercise  their  right  to  vote
and  to  run  as  candidates  for  election  to  the  National
Assembly  Parliament.  That  was  achieved  on  16  May
2005,  when  the  national  election  law  was  amended.
This landmark achievement is a cause for pride. It has
expanded  the  prospects  for  all  women  in  Kuwait  to
assume leadership positions and to participate directly
in  the  decision-making  process.  Kuwaiti  women  have
now  become  more  effective  partners  in  the  overall
national development process.
The  progress  we  have  made  so  far  in  Kuwait
against 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
benchmarks  encourages  us to  enhance  our  capabilities
to  meet  the  challenges  of  development  goals.  At  the
same  time,  we  realize  that  challenges  remain  in  the
environmental  sector.  This  in  itself  requires  massive
efforts  to  develop  and  deploy  effective  mechanisms
required  to  mitigate  and,  ideally,  reverse  the  adverse
impact on our environment.
In  our  pursuit  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals, we remain hopeful that the lessons drawn from
past experience will be used in defining our immediate
course  of  action  and  will  allow  us  to  live  up  to  the
challenges  of  the  present.  In  the  final  analysis,  it  will
be  our  collective  wisdom  and  determination  that  will
help us forge ahead in shaping a better future, for a life
of  freedom  and  dignity  for  future  generations,  a  life
that enjoys the rule of law and stability, a life governed
by  the  values  and  principles  of  freedom,  justice  and
equality among all peoples.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Ariel
Sharon, Prime Minister of the State of Israel.
Mr.  Sharon  (Israel)  (spoke  in  Hebrew;  English
text provided by the delegation): I have come here from
Jerusalem,  the  capital  of  the  Jewish  people  for  over
3,000 years and the undivided and eternal capital of the
State of Israel.
At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  the
profound  feelings  of  empathy  of  the  people  of  Israel
for  the  American  nation,  and  our  sincere  condolences
to  the  families  who  have  lost  loved  ones.  I  wish  to
encourage  my  friend,  President  George  Bush,  and  the
American  people,  in  their  determined  efforts  to  assist
the victims of the hurricane. The State of Israel, which
the  United  States  has  stood  beside  at  times  of  trial,  is
ready  to  extend  any  assistance  at  its  disposal  in  that
immense humanitarian mission.
I  stand  before  the  Assembly,  at  the  gate  of
nations, as a Jew and a citizen of the free and sovereign
State  of  Israel,  the  proud  representative  of  an  ancient
people whose numbers are few but whose contribution
A/60/PV.5
to  civilization  and  to  the  values  of  ethics,  justice  and
faith surrounds the world and encompasses history.
The  Jewish  people  have  a  long  memory  (cid:151)  a
memory which united the exiles of Israel for thousands
of  years;  a  memory  which  has  its  origin  in  God(cid:146)s
commandment  to  our  forefather  Abraham  (cid:151)  (cid:147)Go
forth!(cid:148)  (cid:151)  and  continued  with  the  receiving  of  the
Torah at the foot of Mount Sinai and the wanderings of
the  children  of  Israel  in  the  desert,  led  by  Moses  on
their journey to the promised land, the land of Israel.
I  was  born  in  the  land  of  Israel,  the  son  of
pioneers  (cid:151)  people  who  tilled  the  land  and  sought  no
fights  (cid:151)  who  did  not  come  to  Israel  to  dispossess  its
residents.  If  the  circumstances  had  not  demanded  it,  I
would  not  have  become  a  soldier,  but  rather  a  farmer
and  agriculturist.  My  first  love  was,  and  remains,
manual  labour:  sowing  and  harvesting,  looking  after
the pastures, the flock and the cattle.
As  someone  whose  path  of  life  led  him  to  be  a
fighter  and  commander  in  all  of  Israel(cid:146)s  wars,  I  reach
out  today  to  our  Palestinian  neighbours  in  a  call  for
reconciliation  and  compromise  to  end  the  bloody
conflict  and  embark  on  the  path  which  leads  to  peace
and understanding between our peoples. I view this as
my  calling  and  my  primary  mission  for  the  coming
years.
The  land  of  Israel  is  precious  to  me,  more
precious  than  anything  to  us,  the  Jewish  people.
Relinquishing  any  part  of  our  forefathers(cid:146)  legacy  is
heartbreaking and as difficult as the parting of the Red
Sea.  Every  inch  of  land,  every  hill  and  valley,  every
stream  and  rock  is  saturated  with  Jewish  history,
replete with memories.
The continuity of the Jewish presence in the land
of Israel never ceased. Even for those of us who were
exiled  from  our  land,  against  our  will,  to  the  ends  of
the  earth  (cid:151)  our  souls  remained,  for  all  generations,
connected  to  our  homeland  by  thousands  of  hidden
threads  of  yearning  and  love,  expressed  three  times  a
day in prayer and songs of longing.
The  land  of  Israel  is  the  open  Bible,  the  written
testimony, the identity and right of the Jewish  people.
Under  its  skies,  the  prophets  of  Israel  expressed  their
claims  for  social  justice  and  their  eternal  vision  for
alliances  between  peoples  in  a  world  which  would
know  no  more  war.  Its  cities,  villages,  vistas,  ridges,
deserts  and  plains  preserve  as  loyal  witnesses  their
45
A/60/PV.5
ancient  Hebrew  names.  Page  after  page,  our  unique
land  is  unfurled,  and  at  its  heart  is  united  Jerusalem,
the city of the Temple upon Mount Moriah, the axis of
the life of the Jewish people throughout all generations
and  the  seat  of  its  yearnings  and  prayers  for  3,000
years. It is the city to which we pledged an eternal vow
of  faithfulness  which  forever  beats  in  every  Jewish
heart:  (cid:147)If  I  forget  thee,  O  Jerusalem,  may  my  right
hand forget its cunning!(cid:148)
I say these things because they are the essence of
my  Jewish  consciousness  and  of  my  belief  in  the
eternal and unimpeachable right of the people of Israel
to  the  land  of  Israel.  However,  I  say  this  here  also  to
emphasize the immensity of the pain I feel deep in my
heart  at 
to  make
concessions  for  the  sake  of  peace  between  us  and  our
Palestinian neighbours.
the  recognition 
that  we  have 
The  right  of  the  Jewish  people  to  the  land  of
Israel  does  not  mean  disregarding  the  rights  of  others
in  the  land.  The  Palestinians  will  always  be  our
neighbours.  We  respect  them,  and  have  no  aspirations
to  rule  over  them.  They  are  also  entitled  to  freedom
and to a national, sovereign existence in a State of their
own.
it 
that 
is  ready 
This  week,  the  last  Israeli  soldier  left  the  Gaza
Strip,  and  military  law  there  was  ended.  The  State  of
Israel  proved 
to  make  painful
concessions  in  order  to  resolve  the  conflict  with  the
Palestinians.  The  decision  to  disengage  was  very
difficult  for  me  and  involves  a  heavy  personal  price.
However, it was  the  absolute  recognition  that  it  is  the
right path for the future of Israel that guided me. Israeli
society is undergoing a difficult crisis as a result of the
disengagement and now needs to heal the rifts.
allows 
the  Gaza  Strip 
Now  it  is  the  Palestinians(cid:146)  turn  to  prove  their
desire  for  peace.  The  end  of  Israeli  control  over  and
responsibility 
the
Palestinians, if they so wish, to develop their economy
and build a peace-seeking society, which is developed,
free, law-abiding and transparent, and which adheres to
democratic  principles.  The  most  important  test  the
Palestinian  leadership  will  face  is  in  fulfilling  its
commitment 
the
infrastructure  of  terror,  eliminate  the  anarchic  regime
of  armed  gangs  and  cease 
incitement  and
indoctrination of hatred towards Israel and Jews.
to  put  an  end 
terror  and 
the 
for 
to 
Until they do so, Israel will know how to defend
itself  from  the  horrors  of  terrorism.  This  is  why  we
46
built the security fence, and we shall continue to build
it  until  it  is  completed,  as  would  any  other  country
defending its citizens.
The  security 
fence  prevents 
terrorists  and
murderers from arriving in city centres on a daily basis
and targeting citizens on their way to work, children on
their  way  to  school  and  families  sitting  together  in
restaurants.  This  fence  is  indispensable.  This  fence
saves lives.
Successful  implementation  of  the  disengagement
plan  opens  a  window  of  opportunity  for  advancing
towards peace, in accordance with the sequence of the
road map. The State of Israel is committed to the road
map and to the implementation of the Sharm el-Sheikh
understandings.  And  I  hope  that  it  will  be  possible,
through them, to renew the political process.
I am among those who believe that it is possible
to  reach  a  fair  compromise  and  coexistence  in  good
neighbourly 
relations  between  Jews  and  Arabs.
However, I  must  emphasize  one  fact:  there  will  be  no
compromise on the right of the State of Israel to exist
as  a  Jewish  State,  with  defensible  borders,  in  full
security and without threats and terror.
I  call  on  the  Palestinian  leadership  to  show
determination  and  leadership  and  to  eliminate  terror,
violence and the culture of hatred from our relations. I
am certain that it is in our power to present our peoples
with a new and promising horizon, a horizon of hope.
that 
remember  events 
As  I  mentioned,  the  Jewish  people  have  a  long
memory.  We 
took  place
thousands of years ago, and certainly remember events
that  took  place  in  this  Hall  during  the  past  60  years.
The  Jewish  people  remember  the  dramatic  vote  in  the
General  Assembly  on  29  November  1947,  when
representatives  of  the  Member  States  recognized  our
right  to  national  revival  in  our  historic  homeland.
However,  we  also  remember  dozens  of  harsh  and
unjust  decisions  made  by  the  United  Nations  over  the
years.  And  we  know  that,  even  today,  there  are  those
who  sit  here  as  representatives  of  a  country  whose
leadership  calls  for  Israel  to  be  wiped  off  the  face  of
the earth, and no one speaks out.
The  attempts  of  that  country  to  arm  itself  with
nuclear weapons must disturb the sleep of anyone who
desires  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East  and  the
entire  world. 
of  murky
fundamentalism  and  support  of  terrorist  organizations
combination 
The 
creates a serious threat that every Member State in the
United Nations must stand against.
I hope that the comprehensive reforms which the
United Nations is undergoing in its sixtieth anniversary
year  will 
fundamental  change  and
improvement in the approach of the United Nations, its
organizations  and  institutions  towards  the  State  of
Israel.
include  a 
Peace is a supreme value in the Jewish legacy and
is the desired goal of our policy. After the long journey
of  wandering  and  the  hardships  of  the  Jewish  people;
after  the  Holocaust  which  obliterated  one  third  of  our
people; after the long and arduous struggle for revival;
after more than 57 consecutive years of war and terror
that did not stop the development of the State of Israel;
after  all  this,  our  heart(cid:146)s  desire  was  and  remains  to
achieve  peace  with  our  neighbours.  Our  desire  for
peace is strong enough to ensure that we shall achieve
it,  but  only  if  our  neighbours  are  genuine  partners  in
this longed-for goal. If we succeed in working together,
we  can  transform  our  plot  of  land,  which  is  dear  to
both  peoples,  from  a  land  of  contention  to  a  land  of
peace for our children and grandchildren.
In  a  few  days  on  the  Hebrew  calendar,  the  new
year  will  begin:  the  5,766th  year  since  the  creation.
According  to  Jewish  belief,  the  fates  of  people  and
nations  are  determined  at  the  new  year  by 
the
Creator (cid:151) to be spared or to be doomed. May the Holy
One,  blessed  be  He,  determine  that  this  year,  our  fate
and the fate of our neighbours is peace, mutual respect
and good neighbourly relations.
From this distinguished podium, on behalf of the
people  of  Israel,  I  wish  all  the  people  of  the  world  a
happy New Year.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Cellou
Dalein  Diallo,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of
Guinea.
Mr. Diallo (Guinea) (spoke in French): On behalf
of His Excellency General Lansana ContØ, President of
the Republic of Guinea, I would like first and foremost
to  express  the  compassion  of  the  Government  and  the
people of Guinea to President Bush and the American
people for the enormous material losses and lose of life
caused  by  Hurricane  Katrina  in  the  southern  states  of
the United States of America.
A/60/PV.5
the 
during 
that 
decade, 
despite 
that  Guinea 
to 
tackling 
the 
the  Republic  of  Guinea 
Five years ago, world leaders adopted here in this
room  the  Millennium  Declaration  under  which  they
resolutely  committed 
immense
challenge  of  poverty.  In  adhering  to  this  important
declaration, 
resolutely
committed  to  attaining  the  Millennium  Development
Goals. It is within this framework that in 2002 Guinea
prepared  in  2002,  together  with  the  support  of  its
development  partners,  namely  the  World  Bank,  a
national  poverty  reduction  strategy  based  on  the
acceleration  of  economic  growth,  equitable  access  to
basic  social  services  and 
improvement  of
governance.  There  was  a  real  possibility  that  this
strategy  would  succeed  given 
laid
throughout  the  1990s  the  groundwork  for  sustainable
development.
Indeed, 
an
unfavourable  context  characterized  especially  by  a
paucity  of  resources  and  a  massive  influx  of  refugees
from  Liberia  and  Sierra  Leone,  Guinea  recorded
considerable  macroeconomic 
performance.  The
average real growth rate was 4.5 per cent, whereas the
rate of inflation was lowered and stabilized at less than
5 per cent. The budget deficit remained less than 5 per
cent  of  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP).  This
performance was possible thanks to a vast programme
of  economic  and  financial  reform  undertaken  by  the
Government  of  General  Lansana  ContØ  since  the
beginning  of 
in  1984.
Unfortunately, under the combined effects of persistent
regional  instability,  rebel  attacks  on  the  country,  a
the
drastic 
exacerbation  of  our 
the
deteriorated
macroeconomic 
significantly 
the
implementation  of  the  poverty  reduction  strategy  has
been lost.
in  external 
financing  and 
foreign  debt  burden, 
the  Second  Republic 
the  momentum 
reduction 
framework 
has 
and 
for 
The  growth  rate  has  dropped  to  1.2  per  cent,
while  the  population  growth  rate  has  remained  at
3 per cent.  Life  expectancy  has  stagnated  and  poverty
has  increased.  Today  49  per  cent  of  Guineans  live
below the poverty line, as compared to 40 per cent just
10 years ago. That is despite significant investments in
the  rural  development  and  health  sectors,  and  in
particular  in  the  education  sector,  where,  fortunately,
the overall school enrolment rate rose from 55 per cent
in 2000 to 77 per cent in 2004.
In  order  to  reach  the  Millennium  Development
Goals by 2015, the Republic of Guinea will need more
47
A/60/PV.5
revenue.  As  we  all  know,  attaining 
substantial  support  from  the  international  community,
especially  through  an  increase  in  the  volume  and
quality of assistance and, in particular, through foreign
debt  relief,  which  today  consumes  56  per  cent  of  our
fiscal 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  will  clearly  depend
largely  upon  the  capacity  of  beneficiary  countries  to
absorb  that  aid  and  upon  their  will  to  promote  good
governance,  effectively  combat  corruption  and  halt
environmental degradation.
In 
this  era  of  globalization,  my  delegation
remains  convinced  that  threats  to  international  peace
and  security  transcend  borders  and  that  they  must  be
confronted in an effective multilateral framework. It is
for  that  reason  that  Guinea  would  like  to  reaffirm  its
conviction  that  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General
Assembly  should  be  strengthened.  We  also  support
measures  to  revitalize  the  Secretariat,  the  Security
Council and the Economic and Social Council.
the  new 
that  context, 
Africa  is  still  poor,  and  continues  to  suffer  from
crises.  Its  population  is  suffering  from  the  AIDS
pandemic and a host of other poverty-related diseases.
The debt burden is crushing hopes for the relaunching
of  its  development.  Its  human  resources,  which  are
indispensable for its economic advancement, are being
depleted.  In 
international
economic  consensus  that  is  emerging  in  the  course  of
our meetings is a source of hope. All that remains is to
give  concrete  expression  through  decisive  action  and
the  honouring  of  commitments  to  the  political  will
largely  manifested  by  Member  States  and  the  various
development  partners.  That  is  the  message  of  hope  I
should  like  to  convey  on  behalf  of  General  Lansana
ContØ, President of the Republic of Guinea, who would
like to reaffirm Guinea(cid:146)s commitment to work with the
United Nations towards larger freedom in order to live
in dignity free from want and fear.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency
Mr. Dominique  de  Villepin,  Prime  Minister  of  the
French Republic.
Mr. De Villepin (France) (spoke in French): The
United  Nations  stands  for  the  best  that  is  in  us:  our
aspiration 
the  freedom  of
individuals and peoples. Despite our divisions and our
doubts, the time has come to adapt our Organization to
the  changes  in  the  world  in  order  to  strengthen  its
justice  and 
to  peace, 
48
legitimacy  and  allow  it  to  fulfil  its  political  potential.
Sixty years on, the task remains immense.
For  the  first  time  since  the  Millennium  Summit
and  the  Monterrey  gathering,  we  share  the  same
therefore 
development  goal.  Let  us 
the
challenge.  Let  us  be 
true 
to  our  commitments,
especially  in  Africa.  That  is  the  reason  why  France,
through  the  voice  of  Jacques  Chirac,  the  President  of
the  Republic,  has,  along  with  other 
like-minded
countries, proposed new financing mechanisms.
take  up 
Let us also learn what experience has to teach us,
be  it  in  Iraq,  in  the  Middle  East,  in  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire,
Afghanistan or Haiti, and in all the regional crises that
destabilize the world. Where division has led to failure,
we must together find new ways forward. Where unity
has  enabled  us  to  achieve  initial  success,  we  must
persevere.  New  principles  are  needed,  such  as  the
responsibility 
also  need  new
instruments, such as the Peacebuilding Commission.
to  protect.  We 
What our peoples require of us first and foremost
is  security.  To  combat 
terrorism  we  need  an
Organization  that  mobilizes  the  determination  and
energy  of  all.  France  firmly  believes  that  operational
cooperation must be stepped up, but that respect for the
rule  of  law  and  the  democratic  ideal  in  action  are  our
best  weapons.  To  combat  proliferation,  let  us  stand
united and set up stronger verification mechanisms.
Our  peoples  also  require  respect  (cid:151)  the  best
guarantee of this being respect for human rights, which
are central to our common goal. Yet those basic rights
are still threatened on every continent by violence and
indifference.  We  need  a  new  instrument,  the  Human
Rights Council. Achieving equal rights and dignity for
all is the goal of our struggle here.
The  declaration  we  are  going  to  adopt  here  will
chart the way forward on all those issues. Let us keep
up the momentum. For  what is urgently needed in the
present  circumstances  is  a  radical  reform  of  our
institutions.  If  reform  is  to  have  legitimacy,  it  must
respond to the requirements of  our times: the unity of
the  international  community,  respect  for  the  rules  of
law and the affirmation of collective responsibility. If it
is  to  be  effective,  it  must  ensure  better  representation
in the international community.
The 
reform  of 
the  Security  Council  must
therefore be concluded by the end of the year. The plan
put  forward  by  Brazil,  Germany,  India  and  Japan
enshrines  the  rights  of  each  continent,  in  particular
Africa,  and  strengthens  the  Council.  We  must  also  set
up a United Nations environment organization. Lastly,
we  must  establish  genuine  economic  and  social
governance.
In San Francisco in 1945 the hopes of the world(cid:146)s
peoples  were  borne  by  a  few  States.  Today  in  New
York all the world(cid:146)s countries have joined together in a
desire  to  act  together,  because  no  single  State  has  the
means  to  respond  alone  to  the  problems  the  planet
faces. Whatever our power, our culture, our religion or
our  history,  we  all  share  a  common  ideal:  a  world  of
justice  and  solidarity.  We  all  have  a  common  enemy:
cowardice and selfishness.
Here, on American soil, France wishes to express
its  grief  at  the  misfortune  that  has  befallen  Louisiana,
Alabama and Mississippi. We share the suffering of the
American people.
And  here  in  this  world  forum,  France  cannot
simply stand by and watch the pain of men, women and
children the world over, from the  Middle  East  to  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  who  bear  witness  to  our  common
humanity  but  are  all  too  often  cast  out.  It  is  to  their
appeal  that  we  must  respond.  France  also  knows  that
globalization,  although  it  awakens  hopes,  can  also
bring with it scorn for human values and the treatment
of  people  as  merchandise.  In  the  face  of  that  urgent
need  and  pressing  situations  everywhere,  let  us  rouse
our consciences. Let us respond to all those who suffer
and who want  to  believe  in  us.  Faced  with  the  all  too
frequent  images  of  a  divided  and  broken  world,  how
could we not wish to build together a world that at last
has  a  heart  and  hands  worthy  of  the  expectations  of
people? Let us then act together, for all our words will
be in vain if they are not grounded in solidarity, justice
and respect. We will be judged not on what we say but
by what we do.
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  The
Honourable  Petrus  Compton,  Minister  for  External
Affairs, International Trade and Civil Aviation of Saint
Lucia.
Mr.  Compton  (Saint  Lucia):  At  the  dawn  of  a
new millennium, the heads of State or Government  of
our  United  Nations  convened  in  this  very  Hall  to
reaffirm our faith in the Organization and its Charter as
indispensable 
foundations  of  a  more  peaceful,
prosperous  and  just  world.  They  resolved  to  create  at
A/60/PV.5
the  national  and  global 
levels  an  environment
conducive  to  development  and  the  elimination  of
poverty.  In  support  of  that  overall  objective,  a  set  of
priority goals and targets, the Millennium Development
Goals  (MDG),  emerged,  which  we  all  pledged  would
be met by the year 2015. When we ushered in that new
millennium, 
the
optimism,  good  will  and  promise  that  it  bore  into  a
declaration  of  faith  in  the  organization  and  in  each
other.  Ours  was  a  statement  of  hope  for  the  future  of
mankind.
five  years  ago,  we 
translated 
So how have we fared since then? How much of
the  promise  have  we  and,  in  particular,  the  over  one
billion  of  the  world(cid:146)s  dispossessed,  been  able  to
realize?  We  acknowledge  that  much  has  happened
since then to change the world and to distract us from
the task that we set ourselves. From the deadly terrorist
attacks of 11 September 2001 and others since then, the
total  devastation  of  Grenada  by  Hurricane  Ivan,  the
terrible  destruction  and  loss  of  life  brought  on  by  the
Indian  Ocean  tsunami  to  the  most  recent  devastation
caused  by  Hurricane  Katrina  in  the  southern  United
States,  countries  large  and  small,  weak  and  strong,
have  had  to  address  various  and  new  kinds  of
vulnerabilities,  so  that  valuable  energy  and  physical
resources have had to be diverted away from activities
geared  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Development Goals.
That is not to deny that there has been progress in
the  achievement  of  some  of  the  Goals  in  some
countries.  Indeed  there  has  been  some  success  in  the
Caribbean and in other countries, but too much remains
to  be  achieved.  Saint  Lucia  recognizes 
the
development  partnership 
to  which  developed  and
developing countries committed themselves is far from
being  realized.  We  are  heartened,  however,  by  the
initiatives  being  spearheaded  by  the  G-8  in  respect  of
Africa, and look forward to an early translation of the
commitments made into tangible benefits for the long-
suffering people of that continent.
that 
At the Millennium Summit Saint Lucia pointed to
certain  concerns  that  were  contributing  to  growing
despair  and  cynicism  about  the  future  of  small  island
developing States and the role of bodies like the United
Nations  and  the  World  Trade  Organization  in  the
shaping of that future. We say today with great sadness
that  the  reasons  for  our  concerns  still  persist.  We
remain concerned that the global community of nations
can, at different times and depending upon the forum in
49
A/60/PV.5
which  it  convenes,  promote  philosophies  or  actions
that  are  sharply  contradictory.  We  remain  concerned
that  within  this  Hall  the  nations  of  the  world  can
promote  with  much  enthusiasm  our  determination  to
work  towards  achieving  a  world  free  of  hunger,
poverty  and  disease,  while  at  the  same  time  some  are
adopting positions in other forums that have the effect
of  increasing  the  marginalization  and  destroying  the
limited  opportunities 
the  small,
disadvantaged  and  weak.  We  remain  concerned  that,
even  today,  positions  adopted  at  the  World  Trade
Organization  are  denying  the  very  weakest  among  us
the  opportunity  for  production  and  trade  of  our  most
important export commodities, undermining all efforts
at 
the  very  Millennium
Development Goals that we seek to promote.
for  survival  of 
achievement  of 
the 
In the face of that, how can small and vulnerable
banana-producing  countries  like  Saint  Lucia  and  the
Commonwealth of Dominica, or small sugar-producing
States like Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  be  expected  to  keep
faith,  confidence  or  hope  in  the  declarations  that  are
customarily  issued  at  the  end  of  our  summits?  Our
economies  may  be  small  and  vulnerable,  but  our
citizens are real people who have the same aspirations
as others everywhere for prosperity, security and peace.
Saint  Lucia  is  concerned  that  the  development
promise  of  the  Doha  round  of  multilateral  trade
negotiations is yet to be delivered. Saint Lucia believes
that overseas development assistance must continue to
play  an  important  role  in  the  development  of  our
economies.  In  that  regard,  we  urge  our  development
partners  to  deliver  on  the  promise  of  increased  levels
of 
the  Monterrey
Consensus.  We  remain  convinced,  however,  that  there
is  greater  dignity  in  the  facilitation,  promotion  and
realization of our capacity for trade.
the  assistance 
is  part  of 
that 
We  have  it  in  our  power  to  create  a  world  free
from  hunger,  poverty  and  disease.  We  have  it  in  our
power to create a world where all its citizens  can live
in  larger  freedom.  The  technology  and  the  material
wealth  exist  to  allow  us  to  do  so  today,  more  than  at
any other time in the history of mankind. But we must
move  beyond  mere  declarations  and  resolutions.  The
truth is that we do not need new declarations. What we
really  need  is  the  political  will  to  do  what  we  have
already resolved to do, and more. Let us therefore rise
to the real challenge and mobilize that will. That is the
task before us. Saint Lucia stands ready to play its part.
50
The  Co-Chairperson  (Sweden):  The  Assembly
will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vuk
Dra(cid:154)ković,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Serbia  and
Montenegro.
Mr.  Dra(cid:154)ković  (Serbia  and  Montenegro)  (spoke
in  Serbian;  English  text  furnished  by  the  delegation):
Exhausted  by  the  horrors  of  the  Second  World  War,
mankind  welcomed  the  birth  of  the  United  Nations
with  great  joy  and  hope  60  years  ago.  Our  planet
believed  in  the  achievement  of  the  ideals  of  peace,
solidarity and brotherhood among people and nations.
levelled 
Today  accusations  are  being 
from
various  quarters  that  that  hope  has  perhaps  been
betrayed.  The  world  has  known  practically  no  day  of
peace for six decades. Local wars have taken the lives
of millions of people, and the gulf between the rich and
the  starving  has  caused  us 
the  moral
foundations of the present day world.
to  doubt 
Those  facts  are  incontestable,  but  what  would
have happened had the United Nations not existed? No
doubt,  there  would  have  been  much  less  good  and
much more evil. It is also undeniable, however, that the
future cannot be shaped either by treading the old path
or acting in the old way. Secretary-General Kofi Annan
has  rightfully  called  for  a  new  course  for  the  United
Nations, for swift reform and for words to be translated
into action.
Disagreements  over 
the
Security  Council  must  not  prevent  or  slow  down  the
changes that are now necessary and possible.
the  enlargement  of 
Agreement has been reached that terrorism has to
be equally condemned wherever and by whomever and
for  whatever  purposes  it  is  committed  and  that  is
encouraging.  I  believe  that  that  will  put  an  end  to  the
policy  of  double  standards,  so  that  the  killers  of
children  and  civilians  in  Beslan,  in  Kosovo  and
elsewhere  cannot  be  thought  of  or  treated  otherwise
than as terrorists.
The  fact  that  the  decision  of  the  United  Nations
to have the richest nations allocate 0.7 per cent of their
gross national product as assistance to poor developing
countries  has  not  been  implemented  in  the  30  years
since  it  was  taken  is  hard  to  comprehend.  That
accounts  for  an  enormous  concentration  of  might  on
the one side and the lack of it on the other. That gulf is
also  the  cause  of  many  civil  and  inter-State  wars,
which, along with ideological and religious fanaticism,
A/60/PV.5
have led to the suffering of millions of people. This is a
grim  world  in  which,  instead  of  bread  and  medicine
and development and social funds, weapons are offered
as  a  road  to  happiness.  It  is  also  one  in  which
humanitarian aid packages follow weapons and death.
Serbia and Montenegro fully supports the concept
of  a  new  collective  security  and  a  ban  on  the
proliferation,  production,  trade  and  use  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  a
Peacebuilding  Commission,  a  Human  Rights  Council
and  natural-disaster-relief  and  environment-protection
funds. Without realizing those and other commitments
contained  in  the  draft  outcome  document  of  this
summit and providing extensive solidarity assistance to
poor  and  developing  countries,  it  will  not  be  possible
to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
As  it  was  the  largest  state  in  the  territory  of  the
former  Yugoslavia,  Serbia  and  Montenegro 
is
committed  to  maintaining  the  best  relations  with  all
those with whom we lived together until very recently,
as  well  as  with  our  other  neighbours.  The  united
Europe to which we belong is our goal and our future.
Unfortunately, in one part of Serbia (cid:151) in Kosovo and
Metohija  (cid:151)  political  extremism,  often  working  hand-
in-glove with terrorism and demanding, in the form of
an ultimatum, the creation of another Albanian State, is
a serious obstacle to stability in the entire Balkans.
There is no people in Europe today whose rights
are  so  brutally  trampled  upon  as  are  the  rights  of  the
Serbian  people  in  Kosovo,  the  province  administered
by the United Nations since 1999. We demand that the
Serbs,  Montenegrins  and  other  non-Albanians 
in
Kosovo  be  allowed  to  enjoy  the  rights  guaranteed  to
them  by  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  also
demand  that,  in  accordance  with  its  Charter  and  with
international  law,  the  United  Nations  respect  the
principle that State borders can neither be changed by
force  nor  redesignated.  Respect  for  those  principles
will  open  the  doors  to  an  agreement  on  the  future
human and European status of Kosovo.
The meeting rose at 2.45 p.m.
51
