United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
4th plenary meeting
Wednesday, 14 September 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.4
Official Records
Co-Chairperson: El Hadj Omar Bongo Ondimba  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (President of the Gabonese Republic)
Co-Chairperson: Mr. G(cid:246)ran Perrson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Addresses on the occasion of the High-level Plenary
Meeting (continued)
(spoke 
(Gabon) 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  May  I  remind  members  that,  in  accordance
with  resolution  59/291  of  15  April  2005,  the  list  of
speakers was established bearing in mind the fact that
statements  would  be  limited  to  five  minutes.  I  would
therefore  ask  speakers  to  make  their  statements  at  a
normal pace so that they can be correctly interpreted.
To help speakers to manage their speaking time, a
timing mechanism has been set up at the rostrum from
which they will speak. I urge all speakers to respect the
time  limits  for  their  statements  so  that  all  who  are
inscribed on the list for a given meeting can make their
statement at that meeting.
In  order  to  avoid  interrupting  speakers,  I  would
kindly ask representatives to remain in their seats after
statements  are  made.  I  remind  members  that,  having
made  their  statements,  speakers  are  to  leave  the
General  Assembly  Hall  via  room  GA-200,  which  is
behind the rostrum, before returning to their seats.
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
the
Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of 
Republic of Rwanda.
President  Kagame:  We  meet  this  week  to  mark
the  passage  of  60  eventful  years  in  the  life  of  the
United  Nations  and  to  reaffirm  our  belief  in  its
the  Organization, 
principles. We also meet to renew and breathe fresh life
into 
reforms
necessary,  and  to  review  the  progress  made  in  the
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  Millennium
Summit, held here five years ago.
to  consider 
the 
remarkable  successes 
Looking  back  over  these  years,  it  is  clear  that
there  have  been  some 
in
fulfilling  the  United  Nations  Charter  principles,  but
that there have also been a number of serious failures.
Rwanda  has  experienced  both.  This  is  also  a  great
opportunity  for  us  to  reflect  on  our  relations  and
responsibilities as sovereign nations.
It  is  clearer  today  than  ever  before  that,  in  this
age  of  globalization,  interdependence  is  self-evident.
By  recognizing  that  interdependence,  we  accept  our
collective interests and responsibilities, whether we are
developed  or  developing  nations.  Those  include  the
imperative  for  development  and  the  attainment  of  the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  peace  and  security,
human rights and the rule of law.
There  is  no  greater  challenge  facing  humanity
today  than  poverty  and  underdevelopment.  For  sub-
Saharan  Africa,  it  is  unacceptable  that,  despite  our
commitment at the Millennium Summit five years ago,
the prediction is that conditions will worsen by 2015.
So,  what  has  gone  wrong  in  the  last  five  years?
Was 
the  pledge 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  by  2015  overambitious,  or  were
the  commitments  to  the  Millennium  Development
achieve 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-51166 (E)
*0551166*
A/60/PV.4
international  declarations  at 
Goals overestimated? Did we fail to assess the resource
gaps and policy reforms that needed to be addressed, or
are  we  to  be  contented  with  admirable  commitments
and 
the  expense  of
tangible actions and results to achieve the Millennium
Development  Goals?  Most  importantly,  should  we  go
back  to  the  drawing  board,  five  years  down  the  road,
because we have suddenly realized that the initial road
map was misconceived? I believe that the answer is no.
Whatever  the  case,  it  is  clear  that  we  must  do
things  radically  differently  and  in  an  accelerated
manner.  We  must  devise  and  agree  to  faithfully
implement  innovative  and  practicable  measures  to
ensure that we reverse current trends. That will require
commitment to implement the Monterrey Consensus on
financing  for  development,  including  the  frontloading
of future commitments. Noteworthy are such initiatives
as the International Financing Facility.
But  for  such  initiatives  and  commitments  to
succeed, there should be clear and practical modalities
of  implementation.  We  welcome  the  proposal  to  ease
supply-side constraints and commodity price shocks in
order to take the fullest possible advantage of increased
market access.
It  has  become  abundantly  clear  to  us  that  the
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals will
be  contingent  on  good  political  and  economic
governance. In Rwanda, we are trying to do our bit. We
have  implemented  several  political  and  economic
reforms over the last decade, and so far the indication
is that we are on the right track. All in all, the progress
we  have  made  gives  us  reason  to  be  optimistic  that,
with 
the  enhanced  support  of  our  development
partners,  we  can  attain  the  Millennium  Development
Goals by 2015.
As  we  all  know,  there  is  a  strong  relationship
between  security  and  development.  That  nexus
between  peace,  security  and  development  is  crystal-
clear to us in Rwanda and the wider Great Lakes region
of  East  and  Central  Africa.  Our  own  experience  in
Rwanda  has  shown  us  that  insecurity  caused  by
reckless  and 
irresponsible  governance  can  cause
immense suffering, adverse to human development.
the 
Let  me  also  stress 
importance  of  our
collective  responsibility  to  deal  with  terrorism  and  to
protect  populations  under  threat  of  genocide,  war
crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity.
Never  again  should  the  international  community(cid:146)s
2
response  to  those  crimes  be  found  wanting.  Let  us
resolve  to  take  collective  action  in  a  timely  and
decisive  manner.  Let  us  also  commit  ourselves  to
putting  in  place  early  warning  mechanisms  and  to
ensuring  that  preventive  interventions  are  the  rule
rather than the exception.
If  the  United  Nations  is  to  effectively  fulfil  its
mission,  then  the  following  measures  must  be  taken.
First,  we  must  improve  coherence,  efficiency  and
effectiveness within the United Nations system so as to
promote transparency and accountability. Secondly, we
believe  that  the  reform  process  should  enable  States
that  are  not  members  of  the  Security  Council  to
participate  more  actively 
its  deliberative  and
decision-making  processes,  especially  on  issues  that
affect them. A reformed Council should be seen by all
States  to  be  more  representative,  transparent,  credible
and legitimate.
in 
then 
In  conclusion,  if  we  believe  in  our  common
humanity  and  our  global  partnership, 
the
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
makes  sense,  both  for  business  as  well  as  to  promote
global stability. As we debate, posterity will not judge
us kindly if we fail to seize the moment and to reverse
the  suffering  of  millions  of  the  world(cid:146)s  poor  at  the
height 
unprecedented 
and
technological and scientific advances.
affluence 
such 
of 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,  President  of
the Republic of Madagascar.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Ravalomanana  (spoke  in  French):
Before speaking of the progress that we have achieved
in  the  context  of  the  eight  Millennium  Development
Goals,  I  wish  to  draw  members(cid:146)  attention  to  three
important points.
ago, 
First, 
five  years 
eight  development
objectives  were  defined,  representing  major  progress.
Today,  we  must  go  further  because  fighting  poverty
now  requires  a  sound  road  map,  a  clear  vision  and  a
global development strategy that, today more than ever,
must set minimum standards.
Secondly, the Millennium Development Goals are
not  isolated  objectives.  They  are  interdependent,  and
coordinated  action  to  achieve  them  all  is  therefore
crucial.
Thirdly,  efforts  to  benefit  the  poorest  countries
must  be  redoubled  or  even  tripled.  They  should  be
dictated  by  a  new  vision  for  Africa  and  a  coordinated
plan  of  action.  We  need  a  Marshall  Plan  for  Africa.  I
proposed  such  a  plan  last  year.  With  such  a  new  and
decisive  approach,  the  Millennium  Goals  can  be
achieved.
Poverty in Madagascar was reduced  from 80 per
cent in 2002 to 74 per cent in 2004. That represents a
major  step,  but  not  nearly  enough.  Many  people,
especially  in  the  southern  regions  of  our  country,  still
go  hungry.  Thanks  to  new  schools,  new  teachers  and
free basic education, school attendance has risen from
67  per  cent  to  82  per  cent  in  three  years.  Infant
mortality  has  dropped  from  159  to  94  per  thousand
children  below  the  age  of  five.  That  represents  great
progress.
As  to  gender  equality  and  the  advancement  of
women, my Government has launched a national policy
for  the  advancement  of  women  and  drafted  a  national
plan  of  action  for  gender  and  development.  Maternal
health care has improved, with a 20 per cent increase in
medically assisted births.
the 
infection 
to  stabilize 
In  the  campaign  against  HIV/AIDS,  a  national
committee to combat AIDS is striving, under my direct
authority, 
rate,  which
currently  stands  at  approximately  1.5  per  cent.  In  the
fight  against  malaria,  my  Government  has  distributed
free  treated  mosquito  nets  to  pregnant  women  and
children below the age of five. Campaigns to heighten
AIDS  and  malaria  awareness  continue  throughout  the
country.
Through  our  project  entitled  (cid:147)Madagascar,
Naturally(cid:148), we seek to protect and preserve nature. The
extent  of  protected  areas  will  triple  within  five  years.
Many  measures  have  been  adopted  to  prevent  brush
fires.
in 
Finally,  our  efforts 
field  of  good
governance and the opening of our economy have been
acknowledged  by  donors,  who  have  cancelled  our
multilateral  debts.  The  fight  against  corruption  is  in
full swing.
the 
I should like to speak of these matters in greater
detail, but I believe that I have conveyed a sense of the
major  efforts  we  have  made.  We  are  resolved  to
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  I
repeat that it is only with a new approach on the part of
A/60/PV.4
the  international  community  to  benefit  Africa  that  we
will be able to achieve them.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President
of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English
text provided by the delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  wish
to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General
and  my  pleasure  at  participating  in  this  gathering  of
colleagues,  heads  of  State  and  Government,  and
representatives.  May  I  also  register  my  deepest  grief
over  the  tragic  incidents  in  Kadhimiya,  Iraq,  and
Hurricane  Katrina,  and  also  convey  my  condolences
and sympathies to the victims and their loved ones.
The  United  Nations  must  be  the  focal  point  of
reliance,  hope  and  participation  for  all  peoples  and
Governments, and a forum for dialogue, understanding
and  cooperation  to  achieve  peace  and  tranquillity
throughout the globe. The attainment of that objective
requires,  first,  that  justice  reign  supreme  in  the
Organization, and that, in accordance with its Charter,
all Member States enjoy equal rights. Greater power or
wealth  should  not  accord  expanded  rights  to  any
Member.
Secondly, the principles of democracy and ethics
should prevail in all organs and functions of the United
Nations,  so  that  the  Organization  can  become  a
manifestation of the prevalence of those two commonly
shared values.
Thirdly,  the  United  Nations  should  endeavour  to
fulfil  its  responsibility  to  promote  and  institutionalize
justice at the international level.
Fourthly,  the  host  country  should  not  enjoy  any
right or privilege over the rest of the membership, and
the  Organization  and  its  Headquarters  must  be  easily
accessible to all.
In  recognition  of  those  principles,  the  following
points become essential.
First,  the  greatest  challenge  of  our  age  is  the
gradual spiritual debasement of human beings brought
about by the distancing of the prevailing order from the
morality and unity of monotheism. The United Nations
should  lead  in  the  promotion  of  spirituality  and
compassion  for  humanity.  Only  thus  can  the  nations
become truly unified.
3
A/60/PV.4
the 
Secondly, 
acceptance  of  unilateralism
represents the absolute negation of the United Nations
and its raison d(cid:146)Œtre. Therefore, the United Nations as a
whole should confront that vicious malady.
Thirdly,  the  physical  and  psychological  security
of peoples  and nations is today more endangered than
ever. Unilateralism, the production and use of weapons
of  mass  destruction,  intimidation,  the  resort  to  the
threat or use of force, and the imposition of destructive
wars  on  peoples  for  the  sake  of  the  security  and
prosperity of a few Powers have redoubled the historic
responsibility of the United Nations to strive resolutely
to  institutionalize  justice  in  all  aspects  of  global
interaction in the interest of human tranquillity. In our
view,  it  is  impossible  to  achieve  security,  peace,
stability, prosperity and progress in certain parts of the
world  at  the  cost  of  fomenting  instability,  militarism,
discrimination, poverty and deprivation in others.
Fourthly the raison d(cid:146)Œtre of the United Nations is
to  promote  global  peace  and  tranquillity.  Therefore,
any  license  for  pre-emptive  measures  (cid:151)  which  are
essentially  based  on  gauging  intentions  rather  than
objective facts, and are in fact a modern manifestation
of the interventionist and war-mongering tendencies of
the  past  (cid:151)  is  in  blatant  contradiction  to  the  very
foundations of the United Nations and to the letter and
spirit of its Charter.
Fifthly,  the  composition  of  the  Security  Council
must  achieve  a  logical  and  democratic  balance.  If
permanent  membership  is  accepted  for  some,  then  an
acceptable  combination  of 
representatives  of  all
continents  and  major  civilizations  must  acquire
permanent seats on the Council. I wish to underline our
deep dismay over the fact that not one of the more than
50  Islamic  countries,  encompassing  more  than  1.2
billion  people,  has  a  permanent  seat  in  the  Security
Council; nor does Africa, with its huge capabilities and
potentials,  while  the  vast  continent  of  Asia  with  its
ancient civilizations has only one permanent seat.
Sixthly, the United Nations must be able freely to
welcome  representatives  from  all  Governments,  civil
society  and  non-governmental  organizations  from
throughout  the  world  to  its  Headquarters  without  the
selective hindrances of the host country, and to engage
without fear in serious dialogue.
In our view, those concerns can be met only if the
is
violence,
prevailing  discourse 
from 
transformed 
international 
relations 
in 
one 
based 
on 
4
discrimination  and  domination  into  one  of  peace  and
global  stability  founded  on  justice  and  spirituality
through  dialogue,  compassion  and  respect  for  human
beings.  The  exalted  Prophet  of  Islam  says  that  (cid:147)the
highest state of wisdom, after faith in God, is seeking
friendship with people and extending a helping hand to
all  fellow  human  beings(cid:148).  Those  words  of  wisdom
underline the fact that the entire globe is but one entity
and that the pain and suffering of any part disturbs the
tranquillity  of  all.  In  the  words  of  a  famous  Iranian
poet of the thirteenth century:
(cid:147)All human beings are members of one frame
Since all, at first, from the same essence came.
When time afflicts a limb with pain
The other limbs cannot at rest remain.(cid:148)
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Alejandro  Toledo  Manrique,
President of the Republic of Peru.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Toledo  Manrique  (spoke in Spanish):
I speak on behalf of a democratic country that is deeply
convinced  that  the  development  of  our  countries,
respect  for  human  rights  and  free  expression,  and
security are mutually reinforcing. Within the four years
of  my  Government,  Peru,  with  its  difficulties  and
hopes,  has  moved 
sustained
economic growth and a fairer society, and ensuring the
comprehensive security of its inhabitants.
forward,  building 
our 
commitment 
the  political  parties,  civil  society  and 
We  have  made  the  Millennium  Development
Goals  a  national  commitment.  They  are  reflected  in
State  policies  that  go  beyond  my  own  Government.
Those policies are reflected in the National Agreement
that 
the
Government have pledged to fulfil in 20 years. In other
words, 
the  Millennium
Development Goals will not end with my Government.
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  evident  today.
Since  2001,  the  economic  and  social  policies  of  my
Government  have  created  the  conditions  for  sustained
and  decentralized  growth,  with  positive 
results
reflected 
increased  rates  of  consumption  and
income. I have managed the country for 48 months of
sustained  economic  growth  at  a  rate  of  5  to  5.5  per
cent.
Some  advances 
fulfilment  of 
the 
in 
to 
in 
The Government of Peru is implementing specific
policies  in  such  areas  such  as  employment,  income,
health,  education,  nutrition  and  gender  issues  with  a
view to helping the poorest. The  central  efforts of my
Government  are  aimed  at  decisively  addressing
poverty.  It  has  established  purposive  social  policies,
without  consideration  of  their  potential  economic
benefits, such as the Huascaran plan aimed  at internet
connectivity for the poorest; policies to improve short-
term  employment  for  the  poorest,  such  as  the  (cid:147)A
Trabajar  Urbano(cid:148)  programme;  subsidized  housing
programmes  for  the  poorest;  and  policies  for  rural
electrification  and  basic  health  care  to  provide  Peru(cid:146)s
poorest  with  water  and  sewer  systems.  Moreover,
although we do not believe in handouts, a programme
of  direct  and  conditioned  subsidy  for  the  poorest  was
launched  a  few  days  ago.  As  a  reciprocal  condition,
that  direct  subsidy  to  the  poorest  requires  pregnant
mothers  to  have  prenatal  and  postnatal  check-ups  and
to  get  their  children  vaccinated  and  send  them  to
school.
As  a  result  of  those  efforts,  between  2001  and
2004  approximately  1  million  Peruvian  men  and
women have been lifted out of extreme poverty. In that
latest  United  Nations  Human
regard, 
Development  Report,  Peru  has  risen  six  places  in  the
ranking of 177 countries.
the 
in 
to 
The 
time  has  come 
to  speak  clearly.  The
sustainable  development  of  our  peoples  requires  an
open  international  trade  system  based  on  standard
rules.  President  Bush(cid:146)s  statement 
the  General
Assembly this morning  was encouraging. He  said  that
the developed countries must eliminate their subsidies.
He  said  that,  in  order  to  be  sustainable,  globalization
must  meet  the  needs  of  the  developing  countries.
President  Bush(cid:146)s 
this  morning  was
encouraging  because  it  reflected  a  meeting  of  the
minds  between  the  developing  and  the  developed
countries.
statement 
Peru  is  committed  to  fulfilling  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  not  as  part  of  the  policy  of  one
particular  Government,  but  as  a  State  policy.  I  know
that all the leaders here in this Hall share that mission.
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Tommy Remengesau, Jr., President
of the Republic of Palau.
The  Co-Chairperson 
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President Remengesau: May I first congratulate
the  United  Nations  on  its  diamond  anniversary,  and
may  I  express  my  country(cid:146)s  full  support  for  this
A/60/PV.4
international body in its efforts to build nations, to curb
hunger,  to  ensure  water,  to  aspire  to  economic  and
cultural equality, and to bring nations together to solve
global  issues.  Truly,  the  work  plan  is  a  difficult  one,
yet  it  is  one  from  which  the  Organization  must  not
deviate.
I  would  also  like  to  convey  to  all  present  my
pride  regarding  the  tenth  anniversary  of  my  country(cid:146)s
independence.  As  such,  this  year  also  marks  the  tenth
anniversary of our membership in the United Nations.
The  Republic  of  Palau,  although  small  and  new  in
terms  of  political  independence,  has  survived  and,  I
might  add,  prospered  in  its  first  10  years  of  self-rule.
Yet  much  of  our  future  depends  on  the  global  efforts
made  by  the  United  Nations  to  bring  peace,  stability
and  economic  sustainability  to  all  of  its  Member
nations.
The  Secretary-General,  in  his  report  (cid:147)In  larger
freedom(cid:148), states that,
(cid:147)[O]ne  of  the  great  challenges  of  the  new
millennium is to ensure that all States are strong
enough to meet the many challenges they face (cid:133)
[N]o  country,  weak  or  strong,  can  realize
prosperity  in  a  vacuum.(cid:148)  (A/59/2005,  paras.  19
and 24)
For  Palau,  and  for  many  other  small  island
developing States, the challenges are mounting. We are
new  countries,  remote  and  isolated.  We  are  small
countries,  with  small  economies 
lack  fiscal
diversity.  We  are  island  nations  whose  sustainable
development  requires  healthy  reefs,  plentiful  oceans,
freedom from incursions by international terrorists, and
meaningful  educational  and  career  opportunities  for
our children, who are leaving our islands in pursuit of
both.
that 
While  other  regions  of  the  world  receive  more
attention,  Professor  Jeffrey  Sachs,  in  his  Millennium
Project  Report  to  the  Secretary-General,  noted  that
Oceania is second only to sub-Saharan Africa in being
(cid:147)off  track  for  nearly  every  [Millennium]  Goal,  and
falling back in some areas(cid:148). While Palau is proud of its
performance  in  moving  towards  the  achievement  of
those  Goals,  that  is  clearly  not  the  case  in  all  of  our
island nations, and we must move aggressively forward
in bringing equality of opportunity to all of nations in
achieving  the  Goals  through  the  actions  of  the  United
Nations.
5
A/60/PV.4
As global warming worsens, bleaching our corals
and  threatening  our  land;  as  overfishing  by  foreign
fishing fleets continues to deplete our vast fish stocks;
as  certain  fishing  practices  threaten  to  destroy  our
marine  biodiversity;  and  as  the  combination  of  those
forces  places  our  diverse  island  cultures  in  jeopardy,
the challenges mount.
It 
to 
as 
for 
the 
time 
failures 
achieve 
therefore 
and 
the  United  Nations 
international
is 
community, 
its
representative,  to  begin  to  move  beyond  studies  that
recognize  past 
sustainable
development  in  our  island  nations,  and  to  move
to  establish  a  specific
aggressively  forward  and 
programme  agenda 
that 
recognizes  our  unique
smallness,  that  appreciates  our  distinctive  diversity,
and  that  respects  our  island  cultures  as  equal  to  those
of  other  nations  of  this  world.  And,  I  might  add,  it  is
time  to  bring  the  moral  and  religious  leadership  into
the  process  of  defining  a  new  direction,  not  only  for
our  small  islands,  but  for  all  of  the  countries  of  the
world.  International  peace  and  security  could  well  be
strengthened by such a partnership.
to 
that 
acknowledge 
indeed  been  made  since 
In our effort to develop a workable outcome from
our  high-level  event  and  to  speed  our  international
development  efforts,  we  must  first  recognize  that  this
process  is  one  of  partnership.  As  partners,  it  is
significant
important 
achievements  have 
the
Millennium  Summit  and  Monterrey  Conference.  To
continue  that  joint  forward  movement,  we  must  all
recognize  realistic  needs  and  responsibilities.  While
developed  countries  must  continue  to  work  to  expand
their 
improve
disbursements,  developing  countries  must  establish
environments that maximize the effectiveness of those
contributions.  Good  governance  must  be  treated  as  a
mechanism  not  only  for  expanding  development
assistance, but for improving the lives of our people as
well.  And  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  anticipate  that
strong recipient performance will lead to greater donor
contributions.
contributions 
annual 
and 
to 
Due to recent international events, it is also time
for  the  United  Nations  to  immediately  expand  its
emergency  response  to  the  rising  prices  of  fuel.  For
small  island  developing  States,  economic  gains  made
over  the  past  10  years  are  being  wiped  away  by
spiralling fuel prices. For island economies to survive,
we must move rapidly and decisively towards alternate
energy  resources,  which  can  be  accomplished  only
6
sincerity,  we 
through  international  assistance  and  funding.  With
great 
to
acknowledge  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  of
those  countries  and international  institutions  that  have
recognized  our  situation  and  worked  with  us  to
overcome our unique challenges.
this  opportunity 
take 
The United States has laboured for over 50 years
to  help  us  instil  principles  of  democracy  in  our
leadership  and  in  our  children  and  has  nurtured  our
young  institutions.  We  offer  our  sincere  thanks.  With
our  American  friends,  we  also  mourn  the  tragedy  of
Hurricane  Katrina(cid:146)s  aftermath.  We  have  no  doubt,
however,  that,  given  the  resilience  of  the  American
character,  America  and  those  impacted  will  rebound
from that great tragedy.
We  acknowledge  the  continual  support  of  Japan
to  our  region  and  to  our  country,  and  we  are  hopeful
that the Security Council expansion and reform process
will  result  in  Japan(cid:146)s  permanent  membership  of  the
Security  Council,  where  it  can  employ  its  knowledge
of our region in the deliberations of that body. Fair and
equal representation of the nations of this world in its
international  body,  the  United  Nations,  can  only
strengthen  our  efforts  to  achieve  a  powerful  and
respected voice on international and regional issues.
As  Palau  supports  Japan(cid:146)s  wider  role,  due  to  its
importance  to  the  region,  it  also  supports  Taiwan(cid:146)s
membership  in  this  body  as  a  significant  regional
friend to Palau and an important member of the world
community. As long as one nation and one  people  are
excluded  from  their  rightful  representation  in  our
global  community, we  have  failed  to  achieve  our  goal
of universal rights and privileges.
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the
Government  of  Israel  and  Prime  Minister  Sharon  on
the  historical  disengagement  from  Gaza  and  parts  of
the  West  Bank.  We  have  followed  that  complex  and
painful process and look forward to further progress on
achieving peace.
In  spite  of  Palau(cid:146)s  increasing  support  for  the
United Nations work around the world, and despite our
determination  to  become  an  active  member  of  the
multilateral community, I note that the United Nations,
its  organizations  and  offices  do  not  have  one
permanent  representative  in  our  nation  to  assist  us  in
developing  our 
intimate
knowledge gained of our unique culture, economy and
people  is  well  worth  the  expense  of  providing  such
capacity.  Surely, 
the 
us 
by 
help 
representation.  To  that  end,  along  with  several  other
Pacific countries, we have asked the Secretary-General
to 
establishing  United  Nations
representation in Palau to assist our people in accessing
the  international  institutions,  which  will  be  helpful  in
our  drive  for  economic  and  social  independence.  We
consider 
to  be  a  vital  foundation  for  our
sustainable development.
that 
The  people  of  Palau  recognize  that  every  nation
in  the  world,  regardless  of  its  size,  has  an  important
role  to  play  on  the  international  stage  in  assuring  the
global community of a bright and secure future for its
children.  Today,  on  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  this
great  institution,  the  tenth  anniversary  of  Palau(cid:146)s
membership in this body, and the tenth anniversary of
Palau(cid:146)s independence, I affirm that the people of Palau,
despite  all  obstacles  and  challenges,  will  play  their
part.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the
Republic of Senegal.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Wade  (spoke  in  French):  I  cannot
forego  this  opportunity  to  commend  our  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his  outstanding  work,
and in particular for his recent proposed reform of the
United  Nations, 
sixtieth
anniversary. Reforming a 60-year old institution and its
many parts is no easy task, and we must therefore bear
in  mind  that  such  widespread  reform  will  not  be
possible again for decades to come.
celebrating 
now 
its 
My statement will bear on the following points: a
few  considerations  on  the  Millennium  Development
Goals and on how we have sought to implement them
in  our  country; 
for  development  and
combating poverty; and Security Council reform.
financing 
As  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  our
assessment  has  revealed  the  many  obstacles  still
hindering  their  achievement.  Some  are  to  be  found
within  our  countries  (cid:151)  the  lack  of  peace,  poor
governance,  the  AIDS  pandemic  and  other  diseases.
Let  us  agree,  however,  that  the  developed  countries
have  not  always  complied  with  their  commitments,
especially  regarding  the  1970s  pledge  to  provide
development  assistance  to  the  developing  countries  at
the level of 0.7 per cent of their gross national product,
as  well  as  the  financing  of  the  New  Partnership  for
Africa(cid:146)s Development (NEPAD).
A/60/PV.4
Fortunately, the new approach set out in the Blair
report  opened  promising  prospects  arising  from  the
Gleneagles  Summit  of  the  Group  of  Eight.  Despite
everything, our countries, including my own, with their
very meagre  resources  but a  good deal of imagination
and  diversified  international  assistance,  have  achieved
honourable  results.  In  Senegal,  we  have  achieved  a
growth rate of 6.7 per cent, with spectacular results in
agriculture,  where  production 
in  some  areas  has
increased  by  600  per  cent.  Many  jobs  have  been
created  for  young  people.  Thanks  to  our  allocation  of
40 per cent of the national budget to education and 10
per  cent  to  health  care,  the  AIDS  prevalence  rate  has
fallen from 1.7 to 0.7 per cent, and school attendance is
now at 70 per cent, whereas we were below average in
2000.  Our  development  has  also  been  sustained  by
consistent investment in human resources.
technologies  underpin  knowledge,  so 
History  shows  that  science  and  technology  are
irreplaceable vectors of progress. Thus, in considering
the digital gap, we note that telephone, facsimile, telex
and Internet communications are most developed in the
North  (cid:151)  in  what  I  call  the  connected  countries  (cid:151)
whereas  the  South  is  sorely  lacking  in  that  regard.
Those 
that
science  is  developed  and  transmitted  mostly  in  the
North,  to  the  detriment  of  the  South.  That  is  why,  in
December 2002 in Geneva, we proposed the creation of
the Global Digital Solidarity Fund. Although there was
some  initial  misunderstanding,  the  Fund  was  adopted
by 193 countries. I would request that it be additionally
supported, and note that it is functioning on voluntary
and not mandatory contributions. It is headquartered in
Geneva  and  managed  by  the  United  Cities  and  Local
Governments  association,  and  certain  States  have
already  made  average  contributions  of  some  $300,000
each.  It is with  pleasure  that  we  have  learned  that  the
Dominican Republic has decided to convene a meeting
on the Fund here in New York.
I  wish  to  draw  Members(cid:146)  attention  to  the  new
concept  of  youth  leadership,  aimed  at  developing
innovation  and  leadership  in  young  people.  Following
the  Pan-African  African  Youth  Leadership  Summit,
organized  in  Dakar  in  2004,  a  fifth  conference  was
convened in Morocco. We offer our encouragement for
the world conference to be held here in New York, and
we  insist  on  the  fact  that  we  must  develop  a  sense  of
creativity among young people.
Regarding  financing  for  development,  I  support
the  proposal  made  by  President  Jacques  Chirac  that  a
7
A/60/PV.4
small tax be added to the cost of air travel. Such a fee
would  be  minimally  painful,  so  to  speak.  I  also  note
that,  on  behalf  of  the  African  Union,  I  have  proposed
certain new means of financing NEPAD, including the
use  of  treasury  notes  from  the  developed  countries  to
assist the countries of the South at no additional cost.
I  conclude  by  referring  to  Security  Council
reform. We must identify two  sources  of  the  problem.
First is the historical injustice done to Africa, not one
of  whose  53  Member  States  has  a  permanent  seat  on
the Security Council, whereas 70 per cent of the items
on  the  Council(cid:146)s  agenda  pertain  to  Africa.  There  has
been  no  one  to  speak  on  Africa(cid:146)s  behalf  since  the
Security  Council  was  established.  I  believe  that  that
historical  injustice  must  be  redressed  by  allocating  a
permanent seat, along with the right of veto, to Africa.
As others have said, a more in-depth discussion of the
other reforms could be deferred to October or later, but
I  repeat  that  a  distinction  must  be  drawn  between  the
two issues and that Africa must be provided a seat with
the right of veto.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Agyekum  Kufuor,  President
of the Republic of Ghana.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Kufuor:  I  wish 
join  previous
speakers  in  congratulating  the  United  Nations  on  its
sixtieth  anniversary.  I  salute  Secretary-General  Kofi
Annan  and  his  team,  under  whose  auspices  we  are
marking this happy occasion.
to 
The  United  Nations  achievements  over  the  past
60  years  are  phenomenal  and  span  several  areas  of
the  Millennium
human  endeavour.  For  example, 
Development  Goals,  which  were 
unanimously
endorsed  here  to  launch  the  current  century,  raised
expectations  further  for  the  betterment  of  mankind.
However, after five years, and in spite of the emphasis
put on the special needs of Africa, very little has been
achieved  for  our  continent  so  far.  Africa  therefore
welcomes  the  recommendations  put  forward  by  the
United  Nations  Millennium  Project 
realistic
programmes towards the achievement of the Goals.
for 
It is in that new spirit that Ghana commends and
welcomes  the  recent  cancellation  by  the  G-8  of  the
debt  of  some  countries  of  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor
Countries  initiative.  It  is  hoped  that  this  concession
will soon be extended to  all  African  countries.  Again,
accelerated  efforts  at  achieving  the  objectives  of  the
8
Doha Round should, in the long run, help to minimize
the  dependence  of  developing  countries  on  aid  and
thereby abate their economic marginalization.
in 
the  global  economy  would  demand 
It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that  the  full
integration  of  the  economies  of  the  developing  world
into 
the
transition that its enterprises and companies be assisted
in  becoming  more  competitive  and  efficient.  It  is  in
recognition of that important fact that Ghana welcomes
warmly and commends to the international community
the 
the  United  States
Government in  establishing  the  Millennium  Challenge
Account.  Other  proposals,  such  as  the  creation  of  an
international finance facility and substantial additional
resources  to  assist  the  developing  world,  especially
Africa,  during  the  transitional  process  must  also  be
supported.
initiative  of 
excellent 
Terrorism has emerged as one of the most serious
threats  to  peace  and  security  in  today(cid:146)s  world.  It  is  a
loose  cannon  that  cannot  be  justified  as  a  solution  to
any  perceived  wrong.  The  fight  against  it  calls  for  a
sustained, firm and strong collective response from the
international  community.  Consequently,  we  urge  that
this  occasion  be  used  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to
multilateralism, which underpins the spirit and letter of
the United Nations Charter.
the 
Similarly, 
international  community  must
collectively  banish  the  scourge  of  war  by  addressing
the  issues  of  disarmament,  nuclear  non-proliferation
and the menace of illicit small arms and light weapons.
In  some  societies,  especially  in  Africa,  the  latter
constitute the weapons of mass destruction. It needs to
be stressed that, over the past decade alone, the use of
such  weapons  has  claimed  more  than  20  million
victims  in  Africa,  many  of  whom  have  been  women
and children.
Through  its  peacekeeping  operations  around  the
world, the United Nations has brought relief and hope
to victims in conflict areas. We therefore welcome the
proposed establishment of a peacebuilding commission
to  help  conflict-afflicted  countries  in  the  transition
from war to peace and national reconstruction. We also
fully  support  the  decision  to  establish  a  democracy
fund 
to  promote  democratic  practice  and  good
governance  as  the  surest  guarantor  of  human  rights.
Likewise,  we  support  the  proposal  to  convert  the
Human  Rights  Commission 
into  a  human  rights
council.
As we look to the United Nations to lead the way
in  meeting  our  collective  aspirations  in  the  rapidly
changing  world,  the  Organization  must  enhance  its
continued  functionality  through  flexibility.  It  must
therefore  undergo  substantial  reforms  in  order  to  be
able to discharge its mandate effectively in the light of
the  complexities  of  the  times.  That  is  why  Ghana
supports the Secretary-General(cid:146)s document entitled (cid:147)In
larger  freedom:  towards  development,  security  and
human 
the
strengthening  of 
institutions.
Hence, the General Assembly needs to be revitalized in
order  to  enable  it  to  assume  fully  its  rightful  place  as
the  most  representative  and  deliberative  organ  of  the
United  Nations.  Also,  the  need  for  a  more  vibrant
Economic  and  Social  Council,  an  efficient  Secretariat
and  adequate  funding  cannot  be  overemphasized  for  a
stronger United Nations.
the  United  Nations 
all(cid:148),  which 
advocates 
rights 
for 
Above  all, 
the  Security  Council  must  be
restructured  and  expanded  to  reflect  the  increased
membership of the United Nations and also to enable it
carry out its Charter obligations more purposively with
the  full  confidence  of  Member  States.  That  reform
must  be  based  on 
the  principles  of  democracy,
accountability,  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and
equitable  geographical  representation,  among  others.
The African Union(cid:146)s  claim of two  permanent  seats  on
the Council must therefore be supported.
In conclusion, history stands ready to judge us on
the outcome of this Meeting. We cannot and should not
fail succeeding generations. We therefore welcome the
outcome document submitted for our consideration and
will support a mechanism for its implementation.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,
President of the Republic of Kenya.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Kibaki:  It  is  my  pleasure  to  address
this  gathering  of  leaders  of  the  United  Nations.  This
summit gives us an opportunity to review progress and
reaffirm  our 
the  Millennium
Development Goals.
commitment 
to 
It will be recalled that, in September 2000, world
leaders committed themselves to reducing poverty and
improving people(cid:146)s lives. Five years later, the world is
still  faced  with  the  challenges  of  poverty,  hunger,
disease  and 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  has  been  uneven
illiteracy.  The  achievement  of 
A/60/PV.4
across  regions  and  there  are  wide  disparities  in  the
realization of specific Goals.
in 
an 
creating 
progress 
On  the  other  hand,  many  countries  have  made
significant 
enabling
environment for attaining the Millennium Development
Goals.  For  instance,  most  countries  in  Africa  today
have  positive  and  growing  economic  growth  rates.
Good  governance  is  increasingly  taking  root.  African
leaders  are  working  together  to  improve  the  lives  of
their  citizens.  Regrettably,  those  efforts  are  being
the  markets  of
hampered  by 
developed 
of
development assistance and the debt burden.
limited  access 
low 
to 
disbursements 
countries, 
In Kenya, we have made significant progress in a
number of areas. In 2004, the economy grew by 4.3 per
cent,  up  from  2.8  per  cent  the  previous  year.  Primary
school  enrolment 
increased
tremendously  due 
implementation  of  free
primary  education  programmes  in  the  last  two  years.
Gross  enrolment  in  primary  schools  now  averages  99
per cent. In total, the Government allocates over 28 per
cent of its resources to education.
in  Kenya  has  also 
to 
the 
However,  the  challenges  that  have  emerged  as  a
result  of  the  programme  are  enormous.  Those  include
overstretched  physical  facilities,  a  high  pupil-to-
teacher  ratio,  overcrowding  in  schools,  and  the  high
cost of equipment for children with special needs.
Although  the  threat  of  HIV/AIDS  remains  real,
we  have  made  tremendous  progress  in  controlling  the
spread of HIV. For instance, in Kenya we succeeded in
reducing  the  prevalence  of  the  HIV/AIDS  infection
from  a  high  of  18  per  cent  in  2000  to  less  than  7  per
cent  in  2004.  That  success  is  largely  attributed  to  the
policy  and  institutional  arrangements  that  Kenya  has
put  in  place,  together  with  strong  support  from  our
development partners.
In spite of the commendable drop in the infection
rate,  Kenya(cid:146)s  health  sector  continues  to  face  serious
challenges  from  malaria  and  other  communicable
diseases. That calls for increased spending in the sector
to  address  those  challenges.  Accordingly,  Kenya  has
increased  spending  in  the  health  sector  from  8.6  per
cent  of  Government  expenditure  in  the  financial  year
2004-2005 to 9.9 per cent in 2005-2006.
My  Government  recognizes  the  critical  role  of
environmental 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  that  respect,  we
the  achievement  of 
issues 
in 
9
A/60/PV.4
have taken steps to ensure the sustainable management
of the environment. Some of the specific measures we
have  taken  include  proper  management  of  forest
resources,  the  sustainable  use  and  management  of
natural resources and, above all, ensuring that there is
an  adequate 
framework.
Furthermore,  my  Government  is  according  priority  to
the rehabilitation and expansion of infrastructure, such
as 
and
telecommunications. That is in recognition of the high
potential of those sectors to accelerate the achievement
of the Millennium Development Goals.
institutional 
legal  and 
housing, 
water 
roads, 
energy, 
As  I  have  already  observed,  the  achievement  of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  continues  to  be
determined by challenges posed by the debt burden and
low  disbursements  of  donor  aid.  Kenya  continues  to
struggle  with  its  huge  debt  burden,  with  about  30  per
cent of  all our revenues  from the  export of  goods  and
services going to service the external debt. We believe
that the country can be set on a sustained growth path
through  increased  development  assistance,  as  well  as
debt relief, to supplement our efforts. Indeed, we have
just concluded a comprehensive assessment of the full
range  of  interventions  and  resources  required  to  meet
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  The
results indicate that the financial requirements are way
beyond what we can afford as a country.
In  conclusion,  allow  me  to  reiterate  that  the
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is
the collective responsibility of the world community. I
therefore  call  upon  the  international  community  to
render its full support and ensure that the commitments
made in 2000 are met.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivan  Ga(cid:154)parović,  President  of  the
Slovak Republic.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
(spoke 
important  anniversary 
President  Ga(cid:154)parović
in  Slovakian;
English text provided by the delegation): Sixty years is
an 
for  a  person  or  an
organization.  It  is  usually  a  time  for  celebration.  For
the United Nations, it is more a time for contemplation
and introspection.
A  look  at  today(cid:146)s  world  often  shows  us  a  very
contradictory  picture.  On  the  one  hand,  we  are  flying
into  outer  space,  and  on  the  other  entire  nations  are
dying of hunger. We have mapped the human genome,
while there are places on Earth where people are dying
10
because  of  shortages  of  basic  medicines  and  health
care. Human rights have been declared for 60 years and
are a part of a universally endorsed document adopted
right here at the United Nations, and yet there are still
States that deny their citizens(cid:146) most basic rights  while
claiming 
that  human  rights  standards  vary  from
country to country. We have copious knowledge, which
enables us to split the atom, but we do not have enough
rationality to prevent the misuse of nuclear fission for
the manufacture of nuclear weapons. We are capable of
building  skyscrapers  hundreds  of  meters  high,  while
elsewhere  we  are  tearing  down  the  tin  shacks  of  the
poorest among us.
As if we did not have enough problems, there are
people who are willing to sacrifice not only their own
lives,  but  also  the  lives  of  others  (cid:151)  usually  innocent
civilians  (cid:151)  in  pursuit  of  their  goals.  But  terrorist
attacks  have  not  changed  one  essential  thing  (cid:151)  they
have  not  changed  our  values.  There  has  been  one
change,  however.  We  have  changed  our  perception  of
international security.
It  is  apparent  that  the  satisfaction  of  the  most
elementary human needs cannot be taken for granted in
a large part of the planet. On the contrary, even at the
beginning of the twenty-first century, it is necessary to
fight  for  them.  Millions  of  people  are  living  in
hardship.  Additional  millions  do  not  have  guarantees
of basic human rights and essentially all live in fear as
a  result  of  global  terrorism.  In  brief,  the  right  to  a
dignified life remains only a right and not an everyday
reality.
in 
The  world  is  at  a  crossroads  and  the  most
important  global  Organization  also  stands  at  that
crossroads.  Much  hangs 
the  balance,  and
maintaining the status quo will solve nothing. To say it
more  openly,  maintaining  the  status  quo  could  lead  to
the  United  Nations  losing  its  relevance  altogether.  In
all  probability, 
the  United  Nations  cannot  be
reformed, its Member States will look for other ways to
promote  their  interests.  The  United  Nations  cannot
remain  just  some  sort  of  a  debate  club  that  fails  to
provide working solutions. The United Nations and its
institutions can regain their prestige and accountability
only  when  they  prove  themselves  able  to  adopt
operational  decisions  for 
today(cid:146)s
imminent problems.
the  solving  of 
if 
Let me cite just one specific example. Given the
fact that the list of terrorist attacks  is  growing  day  by
day,  it  is  difficult  to  explain  to  our  citizens  why  the
global  strategy  in  the  fight  against  terrorism  has  been
sitting  on  our  desks  for  six  months.  That  is  true,  too,
for the comprehensive convention on terrorism. Further
hesitation  and  endless  negotiations  on  that  issue  only
enable  terrorists  to  pretend  that  their  inhuman  fight  is
legitimate.  I  will  not  be  saying  anything  new  when  I
assert  that  a  resolute,  operational  and  coordinated
approach  by  the  international  community  is  necessary
in this situation and that the United Nations central role
in it is irreplaceable.
On this occasion, I cannot fail to mention that we
followed  with  concern  the  course  of  discussions  on
United  Nations  reform,  which  briefly  threatened  to
develop into a deep crisis. We also noted with concern
the  problems  in  drafting  the  outcome  document.  If
multilateralism  is  to  be  truly  effective,  it  cannot  be
based  on  a  search  for  the  least  common  denominator.
On  the  contrary,  it  must  be  driven  by  the  world(cid:146)s
current needs.  We  must  avoid  one  long-standing  myth
and  stop  equating  multilateralism  with  absolute
consensus.  Narrow,  individual  interests  cannot  hinder
the  efforts  of  a  large  majority  of  countries.  Processes
that  move  the  Organization  forward  cannot  be  slowed
by the pretext of consensus. If the opposite were true,
there  would  be  no  search  for  consensus,  but  an
adjustment  to  the  particular  interests  of  a  small
minority of countries.
Slovakia  does  not  consider  inaction  to  be  an
answer.  For  that  reason,  together  with  the  European
Union, we firmly support efforts for reform that would
adapt  the  United  Nations  to  new  conditions.  For
Slovakia,  the  idea  of  effective  multilateralism  is  not
just a trendy buzzword in international relations, but a
true guarantee of security, equality and justice.
Although  it  does  not  fully  reflect  our  ideas  and
ambitions  on  the  depth  and  forcefulness  of  measures
needed to reform the United Nations system, the draft
outcome  document  is,  in  our  opinion,  a  basic  starting
point  for  a  more  effective  multilateralism  whose
central  role  is  to  be  played  by  the  United  Nations.  At
the same time, it  is  necessary  to  remain  sober-minded
in its assessment. The draft outcome document is not a
solution  to  today(cid:146)s  situation,  but  only  a  guide  to  its
resolution.  The  draft  outcome  document  is  first  and
foremost a  framework  for  further  steps.  For  the  latter,
we  will  need  much  political  will  and  many
compromises.  The  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly  will  be  as  important  to  the  success  of  a
A/60/PV.4
reform package as today(cid:146)s summit. On the other hand,
a  number  of  ambitious  proposals  had  to  give  way  to
compromise,  but  that  does  not  mean  that  they  should
be stricken or forgotten.
Further  steps  will  undoubtedly  be  necessary  to
make the United Nations Secretariat more effective and
better  managed,  achieve  more  effective  operation  and
avoid duplication or a lack of coordination in the work
of  individual  institutions  and  organizations  of  the
United Nations system.
The  completion  and  strengthening  of  the  human
rights  dimension  and  a  renewal  of  the  dynamics  of
negotiations  and  measures  in  the  area  of  disarmament
and non-proliferation continue to be challenges. We are
convinced that in the upcoming period the international
community  will 
find  enough  political  will  and
determination  to  solve  these  issues,  in  the  interest  of
strengthening  the  role  and  authority  of  the  United
Nations in the system of global relations.
In conclusion, I would like to call your attention
to  the  success  story  of  the  transformation  of  Slovakia
from  a  former  recipient  of  assistance  into  a  donor
country. This demonstrates that it is indeed possible to
overcome  serious  economic  problems  and  to  stabilize
social  growth  and  development.  It  does,  however,
require  more  than  just  international  aid  or  debt  relief.
The  creation  of  a  safe  and  stable  legal,  political  and
corporate  environment  must  be  the  absolute  priority.
We are pleased to see that the report by the Secretary-
General, (cid:147)In larger freedom(cid:148), and the resulting summit
decisions,  as  articulated  in  the  outcome  document,
emphasize  exactly  what  Slovakia  has  learned  from  its
own  experience,  namely,  that  development  is  not
possible  without  guarantees  for  the  security  of  the
country, without respect for human rights and the rule
of law and without good governance and the  effective
management of one(cid:146)s own affairs.
I would like to take this opportunity to assure you
that  Slovakia  stands  ready  to  share  its  experience  and
best  practices  in  the  implementation  of  its  domestic
reforms  and  also,  in  this  way,  to  contribute  to  the
fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals.
The  Co-Chairperson
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Rakhmonov,  President  of  the
Republic of Tajikistan.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
11
A/60/PV.4
freedom  and  equality,  and  undertook 
President  Rakhmonov  (spoke  in  Russian):  Five
years  ago,  in  this  Hall,  the  heads  of  State  and
Government  of  the  Member  States  of  the  United
Nations  reaffirmed  their  commitment  to  the  values  of
peace, 
to
eliminate  poverty  and  ensure  development  throughout
the world. This determination has been enshrined in the
Millennium  Declaration.  Since  that  time,  a  great  deal
has been done to achieve the Development Goals, but it
is  clear  that  this  is  not  enough.  More  than  a  billion
inhabitants  of  our  world  live  in  extreme  poverty,  tens
of  thousands  of  children  are  dying  every  day  from
hunger  and  disease  and  we  see  an 
in
environmental and other problems.
increase 
in 
avoiding 
the  world, 
ideological  or  religious 
Among  the  most  serious  global  challenges  and
threats are terrorism, drug trafficking and the modern-
day  slave  trade.  We  need  to  develop  joint  efforts  to
extirpate  those  shameful  phenomena.  It  is  especially
important  that  we  work  together  to  find  an  answer  to
the question why there has been an upsurge in terrorist
violence 
excessive
simplifications  and  generalizations  in  attaching  any
type  of 
this
connection,  it  is  dangerous  to  talk  about  so-called
Islamic  terrorism.  This  is  designed  to  discredit  and
stigmatize  Islam  and  the  Islamic  world,  and  it  has
nothing to do with the dialogue of civilizations. In the
political  and  legal  assessment  of  terrorist  activities,
there should not be dual standards, depending on one(cid:146)s
standpoint, just as there is no such thing as moderate or
immoderate  terrorists.  The  international  community
should  hold 
to  single  criteria  and  standards 
in
combating all forms and manifestations of terrorism.
labels.  In 
for 
is  a  breeding  ground 
Combating  the  production  and  spread  of  drugs,
which 
terrorism  and
international  criminal  activity  and  a  serious  barrier  to
sustainable development, should be also a global task,
just  like  the  fight  against  terrorism.  In  this  context,
there is an increasing need to establish, under the aegis
of  the  United  Nations,  an  effective  global  anti-drug
partnership.
The international community is facing the need to
give  powerful  momentum  to  social  and  economic
progress  and  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Goals  by  all  countries.  A  key  here  is  the  principle  of
shared  responsibility  of  countries  on  the  basis  of  the
Monterrey  Consensus,  as  was  reaffirmed 
the
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Action.  Tajikistan  offers  a  clear
and positive reaffirmation of the link between security
in 
12
and  development.  With  the  assistance  of  the  United
Nations, we were the first in the world to undertake a
comprehensive  evaluation  of  the  needs  of  our  country
in order to achieve the Millennium Goals. At the same
time, Tajikistan is among those countries whose social
and  economic  development  at  this  stage  depends  on
assistance from abroad. We hope that the international
donor community will, as a very minimum, double the
assistance it is giving today.
to 
it  would  be  effective 
The burden of external indebtedness is one of the
most  serious  obstacles  to  progress.  In  the  case  of
Tajikistan, 
include  an
innovative  mechanism  for  solving  the  debt  problem,
such as, for example, the offering of credits under the
(cid:147)Debt  Cancellation  for  Sustainable  Development(cid:148)
formula.  The  donor  countries,  including  the  members
of  the  G-8,  can  be  assured  that  the  resources  released
will  be  used  to  combat  poverty  and  to  solve  a  whole
series  of  problems  impeding  the  achievement  of  the
Millennium Development Goals.
In  the  context  of  development,  it  is  difficult  to
overestimate  the  significance  of  regional  cooperation,
especially  in  Central  Asia.  Tajikistan  has  consistently
advocated  the  intensification  and  the  consolidation  of
regional integration, including through such machinery
as  the  Central  Asian  Cooperation  Organization,  the
Shanghai  Cooperation  Organization  and  the  Eurasian
Cooperation Organization.
The  countries  of  our  region  are  profoundly
interested  in  the  positive  development  of  complex
processes which are taking place in Afghanistan and in
the  economic  development  of  Afghanistan  and  its
Central  Asian  neighbours,  bearing  in  mind  that  the
regional  context  of  the  post-conflict  recovery  of  that
country  is  a  guarantee  for  the  success  of  the  efforts
underway  there  to  restore  peace  and  stability.  We  are
convinced that multifaceted regional cooperation must
fully  encompass  Afghanistan  within  the  framework  of
the  concept  of  a  greater  Central  Asia,  through  the
adoption of a common vision.
One  of  the  most  important  sources  of  wealth  in
our world, which is not only a basis for environmental
balance but also the most important basis for economic
well-being, is water resources. The commemoration in
2003  of  the  International  Year  of  Fresh  Water  was  a
benchmark  in  the  establishment  of  an  international
water  agenda.  We  are  grateful  to  all  those  countries
which  have  supported  this  initiative  on  the  part  of
Tajikistan.  Bearing  in  mind  the  serious  nature  of  the
problem  of  water  for  the  countries  of  Central  Asia,  I
propose that, under the aegis of the United Nations, we
establish  an  international  mechanism  to  coordinate
efforts, with a view to alleviating the consequences of
the  destruction  of  the  Aral  Sea,  whereby  we  can  give
priority  to  the  regional  pilot  project  to  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals.
As  is  well  known,  22  March  2005  marked  the
beginning  of  the  International  Decade  for  Action,
(cid:147)Water for Life(cid:148), 2005-2015, which also was proposed
by  Tajikistan.  As  one  of  the  steps  towards  achieving
the Millennium Goals, I propose that in 2010 we hold
an international forum in Dushanbe on drinking water,
so 
the  practical
implementation of a coordinated international drinking
water agenda.
together  we  can  evaluate 
that 
Tajikistan  has  consistently  advocated  the  further
enhancement  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  a
central international forum designed to find a common
overall  approach  to  problems  of  development  in  all
countries  and  to  do  this  while  paying  attention  to  the
specific  conditions  of  each  country.  We  must  do  our
utmost to ensure  that  the  current  summit  meeting  will
go  down 
the
development of international cooperation for peace and
development and as an example of goals achieved. We
rely  on  a  renewed,  strong  United  Nations  for  support
and assistance in this endeavour.
in  history  as  a  breakthrough 
in 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French): The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by His Majesty Don Juan Carlos I, King of the
Kingdom of Spain.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
King Juan Carlos I (spoke in Spanish): I should
to  convey  my  congratulations 
the  Co-
like 
Chairpersons of this High-level Plenary Meeting, Their
Excellencies  the  President  of  Gabon  and  the  Prime
Minister  of  Sweden,  who,  I  am  sure,  will  lead  our
deliberations very ably.
to 
I  would  also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to
the President of the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth
session,  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  for  his  effective  leadership
during the preparations for this Plenary Meeting. I have
no doubt that his successor, Ambassador Jan Eliasson,
will implement our decisions successfully.
Above  all,  however,  we  owe  the  holding  of  this
meeting  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan,  who  two
A/60/PV.4
years ago expressed his belief that the United  Nations
was  at  a  critical  juncture  and  initiated  steps  to  see  it
through this phase.
Before  proceeding  with  my  statement,  I  would
like to reiterate, on my own account, and on behalf of
the  Government  and  the  people  of  Spain,  my  most
sincere  condolences  and  solidarity  to  the  authorities
and  to  the  people  of  the  United  States  of  America,  as
host  country  of  our  Organization,  with  respect  to  the
tragic  aftermath  of  Hurricane  Katrina,  which  has
claimed  so  many  victims  and  caused  so  much
destruction.
I  would  like  to  start  by  pointing  out  that  we
should  strengthen  multilateralism,  turning  it  into  a
useful tool for building an international order based on
three 
indivisible  and  fundamental
pillars:  peace  and  security,  respect  for  human  rights
and sustainable development.
interdependent, 
Our societies are every day more conscious of the
complex  horizons  offered  by  our  present  world.  We
cannot  disappoint  them.  The  commemoration  of  the
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  Organization  affords  the
ideal  opportunity  for  us  to  agree  on  an  ambitious
programme  of  reforms  aimed  at  reinvigorating  and
strengthening 
and
institutions  of  the  United  Nations  system.  The  United
Nations is today, without doubt, the most powerful and
inclusive  multilateral 
to
international society.
the  multilateral  mechanisms 
instrument 
available 
This Plenary Meeting has an ambitious agenda. It
must  evaluate  compliance  with  the  Millennium  Goals.
There  is  no  more  urgent  or  crucial  task  for  the
international community today. I believe that  all of us
have  come  here  with  the  clear  conviction  that  we  are
still  far  from  reaching  our  objectives,  and  that  we
cannot  fail  to  meet  the  expectations  that  have  been
created.
The  new  and  complex  realities  emerging  at  the
beginning  of  the  twenty-first  century  highlight  the
world(cid:146)s  dramatic  struggle  between  progress  and
inequality, without having tools good enough to  allow
progress  to  benefit  everyone  equally.  The  reports  and
information  that  are  available  about  the  huge  needs,
inequalities,  injustices  and  suffering  still  endured  by
millions of human beings are devastating. This breaks
our hearts, especially where it affects children and the
most vulnerable.
13
A/60/PV.4
Spain  has  experienced 
sustained  economic
development,  and  thus  understands  solidarity  as  a
rising  social  and  personal  value.  For  that  reason,  we
would not be faithful to our  principles  if  we  were  not
ready  to  translate  our  prosperity  into  cooperation  and
commitment  to  others.  I  am,  therefore,  pleased  to
reiterate  Spain(cid:146)s  firm  determination  to  increase  our
commitment  to  the  eradication  of  hunger  and  poverty
and 
the  world(cid:146)s  most
disadvantaged  countries,  devoting  particular  attention
to  the  needs  of  Africa,  without  forgetting  medium-
income nations, especially those in Latin America.
the  development  of 
to 
is 
Spain 
is  firmly  committed 
to  peacekeeping
these  should  be  strengthened.  A  good
efforts; 
illustration  of  our  commitment 
the  unselfish
contribution of our armed and security forces in several
parts  of  the  world,  including  Haiti,  the  Balkans  and
Afghanistan. I pay special tribute to all those involved
in peacekeeping and international cooperation missions
who  dedicate  themselves  to  their  work,  up  to  the
ultimate  sacrifice  of  their  lives.  They  are  a  poignant
example  of  dedication  to  others.  I  am  thinking  in
particular  of  our  soldiers  who  died  recently 
in
the  mission
Afghanistan 
entrusted  to  them  under  the  mandate  of  the  Security
Council 
of
reconstruction and political transition.
the  performance  of 
process 
current 
in 
to 
support 
the 
inhuman; 
No State can hope today to resolve on its own the
common challenges and threats to the coexistence and
well-being  of  our  peoples.  Terrorism,  always  cruel,
unjustifiable  and 
the  proliferation  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction;  the  illegal  arms  trade;
and 
the  serious  violations  of  human  rights  and
international  humanitarian  law:  these  all  require  a
decisive  and  collective  response,  based  on  solidarity,
and should be duly reflected in the decisions we adopt.
I  would  like  to  express  before  this  Assembly
Spain(cid:146)s  full  support  for  the  global  counter-terrorism
strategy  of 
the
Secretary-General in Madrid on 10 March of this year,
and  to  recall  that  one  of  its  main  components  is
assistance  and  support  for  all  victims  and 
their
families.
the  United  Nations,  outlined  by 
The reform of United Nations bodies is necessary
to adapt the Organization to its new challenges.
 The promotion and protection of human rights is
foreign  policy  priorities.  We
central 
therefore  support  the  creation  of  a  Human  Rights
to  Spain(cid:146)s 
14
that  would  assume  more  effectively 
the
Council 
mandate  of 
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights,
incorporating  existing  protection  mechanisms  into  its
activities and improving those mechanisms.
Revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  in  order  to
focus  its  attention  on  the  priority  issues  of  our  time;
reforming the Security Council, based on the  broadest
possible  agreement,  to  make  it  more  effective,  more
democratic,  more  representative  and  truly  capable  of
ensuring  compliance  with  its  decisions;  strengthening
the  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  an
interdependent  and  globalized  world;  creating  a
Peacebuilding Commission that can at last fill the void
that  has  existed  until  now  in  post-conflict  situations;
and, lastly, strengthening the Secretariat and improving
the  management  of  the  Organization:  all  these  are
objectives  that  Spain  shares.  We  hope  to  contribute
actively to achieving them.
Before concluding, I wish to say that the Spanish
Government  welcomes 
Secretary-General(cid:146)s
endorsement  last  July  of  a  Spanish  initiative,  co-
sponsored  by  Turkey,  by  establishing  a  high-level
group that will present a report by the end of 2006 for a
plan of action for a proposed alliance of civilizations.
the 
In  a  year  that  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of
Spain(cid:146)s  membership  in  the  United  Nations,  may  I
reiterate my country(cid:146)s faithful and firm commitment to
the purposes and principles of the Charter, to effective
multilateralism and to a renewed United Nations.
The Co-Chairperson (Gabon): I now call on His
Exellency  Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de  Menezes,
President of the Democratic Republic of Sªo TomØ and
Pr(cid:237)ncipe.
President  De  Menezes  (spoke  in  Portuguese;
English text provided by the delegation): At this time,
as  we  commemorate  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
United Nations, we  are unanimous in recognizing that
international  society  has  undergone  many  varied
changes  that  make  it  very  different  from  the  one  that
existed in the far-off year of 1945. That makes the need
for an adaptation and revitalization of this Organization
more than evident.
It  is  never  too  much  to  emphasize  the  new
challenges and threats that mankind is confronted with,
specifically  infectious  diseases,  the  degradation  of  the
environment,  natural  disasters,  international  organized
crime,  corruption,  the  proliferation  of  all  types  of
weapons,  terrorism,  constant  violations  of  human
rights and others.
Today  we  must  all  recognize  that,  despite  the
significant changes in the international political scene,
we  continue  to  live  under  permanent  and  persistent
evidence of new threats, against which we must adopt a
more  vigorous  and  interventionist  position  to  prevent
excesses that could jeopardize the survival of mankind
and  of  nature  itself.  Eradicating  hunger  and  extreme
poverty, 
education,
fostering  gender  equality,  guaranteeing  environmental
sustainability, developing global partnerships, reducing
infant  mortality,  improving  the  health  of  mothers  and
babies, 
sexually
transmitted  diseases  and  malaria:  all  these  are  matters
that require collective work and, therefore, constitute a
tremendous challenge for all of us.
fighting  HIV/AIDS  and  other 
ensuring  universal  primary 
In  terms  of  the  Millennium  Goals,  we  are  all
aware of them. We know they  are  ambitious,  but  they
constitute an attainable goal if there is political will on
the part of the Member States coupled with making the
required 
resources  available.  Therefore,
words and promises must be transformed into concrete
actions.
financial 
Aware  of  our  responsibilities  and  of  the  need  to
create  conditions  and  an  environment  favourable  for
meeting the Millennium Goals, Sªo TomØ and Pr(cid:237)ncipe
has  adopted  a  strategic  plan  to  reduce  poverty.  Many
principal development partners have participated in its
implementation,  and  from  them  we  request  continued
support,  without  which  our  economic  indicators  will
continue to deteriorate.
In  connection  with  the  Millennium  Goals,  may  I
make some comments on the report of the Commission
for  Africa,  an  initiative  of  the  Prime  Minister  of  the
United  Kingdom,  Mr.  Tony  Blair.  This  initiative,
including 
for  African
Governments, is welcome, and I hope that all members
of  the  G-8  will  endorse  them  and  work  toward  their
implementation.
recommendations 
the 
If  we  analyse  the  different  conflict  situations,
particularly  in  Africa,  whose  resolution  was  possible
only  thanks  to  the  intervention  of  the  United  Nations,
we are forced to note that in several cases the political
solution  to  the  conflict  was  not  sufficiently  followed
up,  leaving  serious  social  and  economic  situations
unresolved,  with  often  very  dramatic  effects  on  the
population.
A/60/PV.4
Sªo  TomØ  and  Pr(cid:237)ncipe  supports  the  idea  of
establishing  a  Commission  for  Peace  whose  function
would  be  to  help  in  conflict  prevention.  Likewise,  we
support  the  idea  of  cooperation  between  the  United
Nations and regional organizations to prevent, manage
and resolve conflicts and to keep the peace. In the case
of  Africa 
the
the  African  Union  will
specialized  bodies  of 
specifically  allow  for  the  training  of  resources  in  this
area.
reinforced  cooperation  with 
this 
The desired reform of our Organization must not
neglect the need to confer upon the United Nations its
true universal nature, such that all nations of the world
are represented in it (cid:151) a fact that has not yet occurred
with respect to the 23 million inhabitants of Taiwan.
(spoke 
in
French):  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,
President of the Republic of Finland.
The  Co-Chairperson 
(Gabon)
President  Halonen:  My  congratulations  to  the
Co-Chairpersons.  I  would  like  to  thank  cordially  all
those  who  have  contributed  to  the  preparation  of  this
summit,  in  particular  Mr.  Jean  Ping  and  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan.
Security, development and human rights go hand
in hand, and they are key factors in arriving at a more
just  world.  Today  more 
the
opportunities  for  doing  good  are  enormous.  We  have
the  capacity,  and  we  have 
the  knowledge  and
resources. We lack only delivery.
than  ever  before, 
effective 
cooperation,  we 
can 
it  an  effective 
We  all  are  part  of  the  same  global  community.
reform
With 
tool  for
globalization  and  make 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.
Eliminating  poverty  and  inequality  and  promoting
sustainable  development  of  the  economy  and  the
environment  are  our  common  goals.  We  have  to
improve the status and rights of women and respect the
rights of children.
The 
international  community  has  begun 
to
understand  the  importance  of  the  social  dimension  of
globalization.  Employment  has  to  be  made  a  global
goal.  Access  to  decent  work  and  an  education  for  all
are  the  key  to  lifting  individuals  and  nations  from
poverty to prosperity.
The second conference of the Helsinki Process on
Globalisation  and  Democracy,  held  last  week,  sent  a
between
message 
summit.  Dialogue 
this 
to 
15
A/60/PV.4
business 
governments, 
non-governmental
organizations  will  help  promote  fair  globalization.
More  space  for  multi-stakeholder  dialogue  is  also
needed in the United Nations.
and 
The goals of the United Nations Charter are still
valid.  To  fulfil  them  in  the  globalized  world  we  need
effective  multilateralism, 
institutional  reforms  and
adequate resources for development. For that, we need
to  improve  the  quantity,  quality  and  effectiveness  of
aid, as well as policy coherence. In  addition, we must
see  that  HIV/AIDS  is  a  social  challenge  calling  for  a
multisectoral  response.  Ensuring  reproductive  health
and rights is crucial in all aspects of development.
to 
fight 
I  am  happy  with  the  outcome  document,  which
provides  a  basis  for  further  work  during  the  coming
months.  Still,  I  would  have  liked  to  see  our  firm
commitment 
terrorism  accompanied  by
progress in disarmament and non-proliferation as well.
Finland is in favour of a comprehensive reform of
the United Nations. The General Assembly must regain
its authority. We have to find a solution in this General
Assembly  session  to  Security  Council  reform.  The
Council has to  be  expanded  with  both  new  permanent
and new non-permanent members. We need to continue
with  the  proper  reform  of  the  economic  and  social
sector of the United Nations.
Finland  welcomes  the  decision  to  set  up  a
Peacebuilding  Commission.  Its  work  should  start  by
the  given  deadline.  Moreover, 
is  particularly
important  to  strengthen  the  status  of  human  rights
issues  within  the  United  Nations.  Our  decision  to  set
up  a  Human  Rights  Council  is  excellent,  but  all  the
modalities need to be resolved as a matter of urgency.
For real progress, we must ensure that enough women
participate in the work of these new bodies.
it 
We  have  committed  ourselves  to  challenging
goals, in particular to reducing extreme poverty by half
by  the  year  2015.  So  far,  our  efforts  have  not  been
sufficient.  We  all  now  share  the  responsibility  for
making the common goals come true.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency
Mrs. Vaira Vike-Freiberga, President of the Republic of
Latvia.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President Vike-Freiberga: As we gather to mark
the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  we
recognize  that  it  needs  fundamental  and  far-reaching
16
reforms  to  remain  viable  as  an  organization  and  to  be
capable  of  meeting  the  modern-day  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century.
Freedom  from  want,  freedom  from  fear  and
freedom to live in dignity must be the leading goals of
our  Organization  so  that  we  can  meet  the  rightful
expectations of our peoples across the globe.
As  one  of  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  five  special
envoys,  I  have  heard  many  expressions  of  support  for
the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s  proposals  contained  in  his
report (cid:147)In larger freedom(cid:148), an important and historical
document  for  the  United  Nations.  Yet  reaching  a
consensus has proved to be a very difficult task indeed,
as  many  of  us  have  approached  these  proposals  from
quite radically different viewpoints.
The  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its
fifty-ninth session, Mr. Jean Ping, deserves our highest
praise for showing leadership and crafting an outcome
document that reflects our concerns  and  aspirations in
a  fair  and  delicately  balanced  way.  Adoption  of  this
document will provide us with a framework for action.
The  stakes  are  higher  than  they  have  ever  been.  We
must display the political will and the courage to forge
ahead  with  implementation  of  our  decisions.  We  have
reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  achieving  the  United
Nations  Millennium  Development  Goals  of  reducing
poverty  and  disease,  promoting  children(cid:146)s  education
and  gender  equality, 
sustainable  and
environmentally  friendly  development  and  creating  an
international  climate  of  peace  and  security  among  the
nations  of  this  planet.  Any  aid  programme  must  be
administered  responsibly  through  good  governance  in
an honest, open and transparent manner.
fostering 
I am pleased that we have agreed on the need to
establish  a  Peacebuilding  Commission  by  the  end  of
the year. The Commission can fill a vital role in post-
conflict  recovery  and  consolidation  of  sustainable
peace.
I  am  also  pleased  that  we  have  agreed  on  the
establishment of a Human Rights Council, but I wish to
stress that such a body must be endowed with genuine
authority.  I  welcome  the  decision  to  strengthen  the
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights
and  to  provide  it  with  the  funds  necessary  for  its
activities.
Human  rights  go  hand  in  hand  with  democracy,
which  is  why  Latvia  supports  the  establishment  of  a
Democracy  Fund.  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  such  a
fund  could  provide  valuable  assistance 
those
countries 
the  path  of
consolidating democratic political systems and the rule
of law.
that  have  embarked  on 
to 
in  all 
forward 
terrorism 
A  major  step 
is  our  unequivocal
condemnation  of 
its  forms  and
manifestations. Terrorism is a scourge that requires the
concerted efforts of the entire international community
to  be  defeated  and  defeated  it  must  be.  We  need  to
achieve rapid progress on concluding a comprehensive
convention on international terrorism.
For  the  past  12  years,  we  have  been  engaged  in
discussions  about  changes  to  the  Security  Council.
Although  practically  everyone  agrees  on  the  need  to
reform  this  important  United  Nations  body  and  to
render  it  more  representative  of  today(cid:146)s  geopolitical
realities, no consensus has been reached regarding the
manner in which that should be done. It promises to be
one  of  the  most  difficult  issues  to  resolve,  but  we
should nevertheless not abandon our efforts to reach a
feasible accord by the end of this year.
The  United  Nations  has  recently  gone  through
some  difficult  times.  We  must  never  forget  the  many
years of devoted service and sacrifice on the part of the
majority of the United Nations workers. Unfortunately,
we  have  also  seen  cases  of  graft, 
theft  and
embezzlement  in  the  United  Nations  administrative
structures. We have heard horror stories of women and
children  being  raped  and  abused  by  individual  blue
helmet  peacekeepers.  That  is  why  we  must  take  some
hard and responsible decisions and that is why we must
implement some resolute measures to ensure that such
major  transgressions  never  happen  again.  We  must  do
what 
this
Organization,  for,  despite  its  imperfections,  the  world
does  need  the  United  Nations.  It  needs  it  now  more
than ever before.
to  strengthen  and  reform 
is  required 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  from  His  Excellency  Mr.  Festus  Mogae,
President of the Republic of Botswana.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
President  Mogae:  Five  years  ago  we  convened
here in New York to usher in a new millennium. With
great enthusiasm and hope, we then resolved to tackle
the  key  challenges  facing  our  world.  In  particular,  we
committed  ourselves 
fight  extreme  poverty,
preventable  diseases,  human  conflict,  environmental
to 
A/60/PV.4
degradation  and  global  warming.  The 
resulting
Millennium  Declaration  that  was  adopted  has  become
the framework by which we have set ourselves targets
to ensure that we take action to build a better world for
all  our  people.  In  our  collective  commitment  as
Member  States  of  this  body,  rich  and  poor,  large  and
small,  weak  and  strong,  we  have  recognized  an
obligation  to  work  together  in  order  to  create  a  more
just  and  more  equitable  global  order.  We  also  then
realized  that,  by  virtue  of  its  universality,  the  United
Nations remains the only vehicle through which we can
realize our universal aspirations.
The  challenges  facing  the  United  Nations  today
are  daunting.  If  anything,  they  have  become  more
complex and more demanding than they were 60 years
ago.  Botswana  believes  that  to  enhance  the  role  and
relevance of the United Nations and to keep it so that it
can  respond  to  the  evolving  challenges  of  the  twenty-
first  century,  this  summit  must  move  forward  in  key
areas, namely, the implementation of previously agreed
international development goals, overcoming threats to
international  peace  and  security,  ensuring  enhanced
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  and
achieving  long-sought  institutional  reform.  Botswana
is  convinced  that  through  collective  measures  we  can
overcome 
the
Monterrey  Consensus  provides  a  framework  for  the
global  community  to  mobilize  financial  resources.
Progress  will  also  be  enhanced  if  the  commitments
made  at  the  recent  G-8  Summit  in  Scotland  are  fully
and  expeditiously  implemented.  We  welcome  here  the
commitment  by  a  number  of  developed  countries  to
increase  their  development  expenditure  to  0.7%  of
their  GNI  between  now  and  2015.  With  respect  to
trade, Botswana encourages accelerated progress in the
current Doha round negotiations, which could pave the
way for the round itself to be completed by next year.
these  challenges. 
regard, 
this 
In 
the 
interrelationship 
The  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  has
reconfirmed 
between
development,  human  rights,  peace  and  security.  It  is
our  responsibility  to  find  further  consensus  on  these
issues 
threats  and
opportunities  that  face  us  all  over  this  globalized
world.
the  context  of 
the  new 
in 
We  in  Botswana  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its
manifestations.  We  believe 
international
community should be able to agree on a comprehensive
convention  on  terrorism  on  the  basis  of  a  common
definition  and  a  common  understanding  of  what
that 
the 
17
A/60/PV.4
terrorist 
constitutes 
should
endeavour  to  reach  agreement  on  these  two  related
issues.
acts.  This 
session 
Conflicts  on  our  own  continent  are  naturally  of
particular concern to us. Currently a number of African
countries are under Security Council consideration and
also  account  for  a  significant  portion  of  the  United
Nations  peacekeeping  budget.  The  resolution  of  these
conflicts  can  go  a  long  way  toward  ensuring  the
economic and social development of the wider African
region,  as  well  as  that  of  the  affected  countries
themselves.  To  this  end,  there  is  need  for  greater
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
African  Union  to  strengthen  conflict  prevention  and
peacekeeping mechanisms.
The  debate  on  United  Nations  reform  has  been
going on for a long time. After 12 years of negotiation
on  Security  Council  reform,  the  time  is  now  ripe  to
move  forward,  and  in  60  years  of  existence  the
membership of the United Nations has grown from 51
to  191  Member  States.  This  underscores  the  need  to
transform  this  critical  organ  in  order  to  make  it  more
representative of our world of today, through increased
membership 
improved  working  methods.
Admittedly, this summit faces difficult decisions on the
reform 
the
recommendations  made  by 
the  High-level  Panel
provide us with a guide for consensus. In this respect,
no position should be embraced as if it were a dogma,
for the status quo is not in our collective interest. For
our  part,  Botswana  is  prepared  to  be  flexible  in
negotiations conducted in good faith.
Security  Council, 
and 
but 
the 
of 
A  consensus  has  now  emerged  on  the  need  to
revitalize  the  General  Assembly  in  its  role  as  the
deliberative  policymaking  and  representative  organ  of
the United Nations. In this regard, Botswana shares the
view that the role and authority of the Assembly must
be  reasserted  and  its  President  should  play  a  greater
leadership role in refocusing its agenda. Botswana has,
over  the  years,  demonstrated  commitment  to  the
principles  of  democracy,  social  justice,  human  rights
and  the  rule  of  law.  These  very  principles  continue  to
motivate  our  commitment  to  ensuring  that  human
rights issues receive prominence in our global agenda.
We  therefore  support  measures  that  are  intended  to
strengthen  the  focus  on  human  rights  issues  including
the  creation  of  a  new  Human  Rights  Council.
Guaranteeing  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  and
fundamental  freedoms  is  one  aspect  of  the  broader
18
the  United  Nations 
mandate  of 
to  protect  our
populations.  In  this  day  and  age  we  can  no  longer
afford  to  stand  back  if  a  country  fails  to  protect  its
citizens  against  grave  human  rights  abuses.  In  this
respect,  we  embrace  the  concept  of  (cid:147)responsibility  to
protect(cid:148).
initiative 
Another  welcome 
that  Botswana
supports  is  the  establishment  of  a  Peacebuilding
Commission.  We  are  convinced  that  this  important
the
post-conflict  recovery  mechanism  can  create 
to  achieve
opportunity 
for  millions  of  people 
sustainable  development  where  before 
there  was
turmoil  and  despair.  Botswana  commends 
the
Secretary-General for his ongoing efforts to implement
management  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  To  better
facilitate 
the
Secretary-General  will  require  not  only  adequate
resources,  but  also  greater  authority,  so  as  to  ensure
that  the  Organization  is  able  to  rapidly  respond  to
evolving priorities.
the  mandates  we  entrust 
to  him, 
In conclusion, this summit provides us all with a
historic opportunity to make far-reaching decisions on
the reform of the Organization. Botswana(cid:146)s view is that
reform  is  imperative  if  the  United  Nations  is  to  have
the  ability  to  respond  to  the  critical  challenges  of  the
twenty-first century.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  from  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pervez  Musharraf,
President of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
President Musharraf: It is a privilege to address
this  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are
participating  in  an  historic  event  (cid:151)  the  endeavour  to
establish a just world order for the twenty-first century.
The  decisions  we  take  here  will  have  far-reaching
consequences. 
solemn
responsibility  to  bequeath  a  legacy  of  hope  and  peace
to future generations. We cannot afford to fail.
therefore, 
our 
is, 
It 
Thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  and  President
Jean  Ping,  a  year(cid:146)  s  process  of  reflection  and
discussion  has  produced 
to
enhance international security, development and human
rights.
ideas  and  proposals 
This  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  offers  us  an
opportunity to recommit ourselves to the principles and
purposes of the United Nations Charter. Let us pledge
to  make  the  United  Nations  a  more  effective  and
relevant institution for the twenty-first century.
We believe that international security can be best
promoted  when  every  State  sees  peace  as  being  in  its
best interest; when States believe that they can realize
their  interests  through  mutual  cooperation;  when  the
supremacy  of  equitable  principles  is  established  over
the  realities  of  unequal  power;  when  Member  States
agree  to  utilize  the  United  Nations  to  harmonize  their
policies and reconcile their interests.
The  Security  Council  should  work  openly  on
behalf of the general membership. The Council should
become more representative, not by adding a new elite,
but by reflecting more fully the entire spectrum of the
United Nations membership. This can be achieved only
through patient dialogue and general consensus.
The  challenges  confronting  international  peace
and  security  are  formidable  and  many.  Terrorism  and
the threat from weapons of mass destruction are among
them. Yet, even  as we address new threats, we should
not,  and  we  cannot,  ignore  the  legacy  of  festering
problems left by the past. Peace and justice must come
to  the  people  of  Palestine  as  well  as  of  Jammu  and
Kashmir.
We  must  be  prepared  not  only  to  proclaim  our
principles but also to defend them and, above all, live
up  to  them.  United  Nations  resolutions,  especially
decisions  of 
the  Security  Council,  must  be
implemented.
It  is  in  this  spirit  that  Pakistan  is  pursuing  the
composite  dialogue  with  India.  We  want  the  dialogue
process to result in the start of a new era of peace and
cooperation  in  South  Asia.  Our  nations  must  not
remain  trapped  by  hate  and  history  in  a  cycle  of
confrontation  and  conflict.  For  this  to  happen,  it  is
essential  to  find  a  just  solution  of  the  dispute  over
Jammu and  Kashmir,  acceptable to Pakistan and  India
and above all to the people of Kashmir.
Today,  terrorism  is  a  primary  threat  to  world
order. We must fight terrorism, in all its forms, outlaw
it  and  eliminate  it.  We  need  a  comprehensive  strategy
for  success.  At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  understand
and  address  the  motives  behind  terrorist  acts.  These
may  not  justify  terrorism,  but  they  do  explain  it.  To
eliminate terrorist violence, we will need to eliminate it
in  the  minds  of  potential  terrorists.  No  religion
sanctions terrorism. The motives of terrorists, however
A/60/PV.4
misguided,  are  always  political.  I  have  suggested  a
strategy  of  enlightened  moderation,  which  can  ensure
success in eliminating terrorism and extremism. I trust
that  this  will  be  reflected  in  the  deliberations  of  the
new  commission  created  by  the  Secretary-General  on
an alliance of civilizations.
Weapons  of  mass  destruction  must  not  fall  into
the hands of terrorists. To prevent this, we must aim to
eliminate  both  the  terrorists  and  the  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  The  catastrophic  consequences  of  a
nuclear  war  make  it  imperative  to  prevent  one  from
ever  taking  place.  Both  the  proliferation  and  the
perpetual  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  pose  an
unacceptable  global  danger.  We  must  evolve  a  new
consensus 
non-
proliferation.
disarmament 
achieve 
and 
to 
to  prevent 
We  also  need 
the  destabilizing
accumulation  and  build-up  of  conventional  weapons
and forces, especially in regions of tension such as the
Middle East, South Asia and North-East Asia. Pakistan
will  continue  to  promote  a  nuclear  and  conventional
weapons restraint regime in South Asia.
Peace  and  development  are 
interdependent.
Although action for development must be largely local,
it is critically dependent (cid:151) in our globalized world (cid:151)
on  the  external  economic  environment.  Paradoxically,
globalization  has 
and
prosperity. The rules of international trade and finance
and  technology  access  are  weighted  against  the  poor
and  the  weak.  In  fact,  the  poor  should  be  offered  a
(cid:147)development handicap(cid:148) to enable them to successfully
integrate into a world market of unequal players.
increased  both  poverty 
The  empowerment  of  women 
through  an
articulated  strategy,  such  as  we  have  initiated  in
Pakistan,  is  particularly  crucial  for  bringing  about
social  change.  Respect  for  human  rights  is  an  integral
element  of  both  peace  and  development.  Economic
rights  are  as  important  as  political  and  civil  rights.  A
hungry man is never a free man. The new human rights
architecture  we  will  create  (cid:151)  such  as  the  proposed
Human  Rights  Council  (cid:151)  should  advance  human
rights 
through  cooperation  and  mutual  support.
Genocide, ethnic cleansing and similar grave violations
must be prevented. As a first step, the United Nations
should  be  given  a  standing  authority  to  send  a  fact-
finding mission to the area where a conflict has broken
out.
19
A/60/PV.4
has 
Pakistan 
contributed 
and
constructively  to  the  preparation  of  this  High-level
Plenary Meeting(cid:146) s important decisions. We shall work
equally to ensure that our decisions are translated into
action.
actively 
At  this  meeting,  let  us  resolve  to  make  poverty
history, peace permanent and freedom universal.
(spoke 
(Gabon)
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  a
statement  from  His  Excellency  Mr.  Robert  Gabriel
Mugabe, President of the Republic of Zimbabwe.
begin 
by
congratulating  the  Co-Chairpersons  for  accepting  the
onerous task of presiding over this epochal event. I am
confident  that  their  able  leadership  will  successfully
carry us through this session.
President  Mugabe:  Let  me 
Five years  ago, we met  here  in  New  York  at  the
Millennium  Summit  and  agreed  on  eight  development
goals  that  we  believed  were  realistic  and  achievable.
We were hopeful that, all things being equal, we would
be able to meet the targets we had set for ourselves in
order to achieve those Goals.
It  is  now  for  us  to  review  the  progress  we  have
made  in  implementing  the  Millennium  Declaration.
Regrettably,  for  many  developing  countries,  including
Zimbabwe, all things have not been equal. Our national
progress  report,  launched  recently,  shows  that  our
efforts  have  been  seriously  affected  by  recurrent
droughts  and  floods,  HIV  and  AIDS  and,  of  course,
unilateral sanctions imposed on us by countries that do
not wish us well.
As a result, we are lagging behind on many of our
targets.  While  the  challenges  are  great,  so  is  our
commitment  to  achieving  our  MDGs,  even  with  our
limited  means.  Our  achievements  in  the  area  of
universal  primary  education  are  a  testimony  to  that
to
resolve.  We  have  also  committed  ourselves 
addressing 
by
redistributing land to the majority of our citizens, who
had been condemned to conditions of squalor by years
of colonialism and its vestiges.
extreme 
poverty 
hunger 
and 
In  reviewing  the  progress  made  towards  the
attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  we
must have the courage to go beyond the mere posturing
that  is  characterized  by  name-calling,  finger-pointing
and  false  accusations.  Developing  countries  should  be
accorded  policy  space  to  develop  their  own  strategies
20
provides 
their  developmental  needs,  within  a
tailored 
to 
framework 
that 
accountability,
transparency and integrity in the system. Development
cannot  proceed  in  the  context  of  ideological  rigidities
and  models  that  are  not  applicable  to  the  diverse
conditions  and  circumstances  that  exist  in  developing
countries.
for 
This  is  why,  in  global  economic  governance  and
the 
international
shaping  of  policies  affecting 
economic  relations,  it  is  important  to  ensure  the
existence of an inclusive process of decision-making in
which developing countries can play a meaningful role.
The  simple  fact  is  that  every  Government  has  the
primary  responsibility  to  promote  and  safeguard  the
economic  and  social  development  of 
its  people.
International  efforts  should  only  complement  national
programmes.
The challenge facing the attainment of the MDGs
has  not  been  the  strategies  and  objectives  as  defined;
rather, it lies within the degree of implementation. Not
enough  has  been  done  to  fulfil  the  commitments
undertaken  in  the  various  United  Nations  conferences
and  summits.  We  are,  therefore,  concerned  about  the
continuous,  significant  and  clearly  calculated  decline
in  official  development  assistance  (ODA)  in  recent
years  and  reiterate  the  urgent  need  for  a  substantial
increase of ODA, as agreed at Monterrey, Mexico.
xenophobia, 
As we deliberate on the institutional reform of the
United Nations, let us do so in a manner that is  open,
transparent  and  consultative  and  that  will  deepen  and
consolidate  multilateralism.  Let  us  seek  to  secure  the
world  by  addressing  the  root  causes  of  the  present
insecurity,  which  are  to  be  found  in  poverty,  hunger
and  disease  on  the  one  hand,  and  intolerance,  double
standards, 
self-
righteousness in our approach to issues on the other. A
reformed  United  Nations  should  be  one  that  plays  a
key  role  in  coordinating  development  issues.  The
vision that we must present for a future United Nations
should  not  be  one  filled  with  vague  concepts  that
provide  an  opportunity  for  those  States  that  seek  to
interfere 
internal  affairs  of  other  States.
Concepts  such  as  (cid:147)humanitarian  intervention(cid:148)  and  the
(cid:147)responsibility  to  protect(cid:148)  need  careful  scrutiny  in
order to test the motives of their proponents.
selectivity 
and 
the 
in 
The ongoing consultations on the restructuring of
the United Nations are a matter of extreme importance
to us and to the rest of the world. The current skewed
power structures in the world body cannot be condoned
on  any  conceivable  grounds  of  democracy.  Organs  of
the  United  Nations,  including  the  Security  Council,
must  be  restructured  to  reflect  the  full  will  of  nations
great  and  small.  We  need  to  avoid  situations  where  a
few  countries,  by  virtue  of  their  privileged  positions,
their wealth or their military might, dictate the agenda
for everybody else. We have witnessed instances where
the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  small  and
weak  countries  have  been  violated  by  the  mighty  and
powerful, in defiance of agreed rules of procedures and
the  provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  (cid:151)  even
on  the  basis  of  contrived  lies:  lies  told  in  order  to
create  a  basis  for  aggression.  And  we  have  seen  that
aggression  occur,  even  in  the  context  of  the  so-called
coalition. A coalition to defy international law becomes
an  aggressor  coalition;  indeed,  it  becomes  a  coalition
of evil.
The  international  community  needs,  as  it  has
done now, to return to the drawing board to rediscover,
reassert  and  pursue  in  a  practical  manner  the  agenda
for  peace,  security  and  development  for  all  through
fostering genuine cooperation based on respect for the
sovereignty,  equality  and  territorial  integrity  of  all
States big or small, rich or poor, mighty or not mighty.
It  is  within  this  context  that  we  call  upon  the
international community to remain true to the original
principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter
to  achieve  peace,  security  and  development.  This  will
allow  us  to  bequeath  to  future  generations  a  far  safer,
more prosperous and more stable world. It is my hope
that,  as  we  conclude  our  deliberations  at  this  session,
we will have asserted our commitment to those ideals.
in
French): The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,
President  of  the  People(cid:146)s  Democratic  Republic  of
Algeria and former President of the General Assembly.
President Bouteflika (spoke in Arabic): It would
not be excessively pessimistic to say that the world in
which we live is in a bad state. Apart from terrorism (cid:151)
which is now appearing almost everywhere, and the list
of whose victims and material damage continues to get
longer  (cid:151)  natural  disasters  in  various  places  are
striking  populations  with  unprecedented  violence,
leaving death in their wake. As for the environment, it
is  deteriorating  dangerously  because  of  the  excessive
consumption  of  natural  resources  and  because  of  the
The  Co-Chairperson 
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
A/60/PV.4
spread  of  industrialization  that  is  more  interested  in
immediate  profit  than  in  the  future  of  humankind.  All
of  this  is  happening  in  spite  of  the  commitments
entered into at the Millennium Summit to fight poverty,
disease and misery.
Today,  we  should  rely  on  our  Organization  to
coordinate and stimulate our efforts. This Organization
was  created  for  another  era,  and  it  quickly  appeared
that it could not face up to the problems of the modern
world. International peace and security are fragile, and
what  has  been  labelled  as  clashes  among  cultures  and
interests has become a tangible conflict. However, the
United Nations represents a valuable achievement that
has  to  be  reinforced  and  preserved.  It  needs  serious
revamping,  which  would  strengthen  its  dynamism  and
allow  us  to  have  a  better  take  on  realities  today.  This
reform  should  not  be  limited  to  an  expansion  of  and
increase  in  the  power  or  the  membership  of  the
Security Council. There are other  aspects  that  are  just
as important, on which we can have agreement.
I would like to emphasize the important role to be
played  by  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  entrusted
with  global  sovereignty.  We  should  also  take  another
look at all of the institutions in the system and, at any
rate, it should be clear to all that this desire to revamp
the  Organization  should  not  cast  doubt  on  our
unswerving  dedication  to  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations  and  its  principles,  nor  our  faith  in  the  virtue
and  the  value  of  the  rule  of  law  and  of  international
action.
is 
the 
failure  of 
further  proof  of 
The  untenable  injustice  done  to  the  Palestinian
people 
the
international  order  over  the  past  six  decades.  The
situation does not comply with international legality, as
is also the case with the decolonization of the Western
Sahara,  which  continues  to  be  an  urgent  task  for  the
Organization,  one  for  which  it  must  assume  full
responsibility.
Our  contribution  to  the  support  and  updating  of
our international institutions is based on our aspirations
and hope that as a result of the joining of all ideas and
opinions, there will be light at the end of the tunnel for
all humankind for the future.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nestor  Carlos  Kirchner,  President
of the Argentine Republic.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
21
A/60/PV.4
for  human  dignity.  Concrete  goals 
President  Kirchner  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Five
years  ago,  the  Governments  of  our  countries  gathered
in  this  very  hall,  hoping  to  work  together  in  solving
some  of 
the  most  urgent  and  serious  problems
confronting  our  peoples.  That  is  how  the  Millennium
Declaration arose, and, with it, a renewed commitment
by  the  international  community  to  multilateralism  and
respect 
in
development  were  promoted,  aimed  at  resolving  the
imperative  issues  of  hunger,  poverty,  infant  mortality
rates,  diseases  such  as  HIV-AIDS  and  malaria  and
other pandemics, and issues of social and legal gender
inequality.  The  assessment  of  what  we  have  achieved
in these few years is far from satisfactory. The severity
of  the  situation  is  basically  the  same.  The  modest
advances in some issues, cannot, however, weaken our
will  or  numb  our  conscience.  Poverty,  hunger  and
disease continue to afflict a vast proportion of women
and men around the world. The absence of the rule of
law  and  the  massive  violations  of  human  rights  in
various  parts  of  the  world  cause  great  suffering  and
deepen political instability and civil conflicts. The new
and  grave 
international  security  have
permeated the whole spectrum of international debate.
Poverty,  social  inequality,  injustice,  social  exclusion
and the estrangement between expectations and reality
bring  about  an  element  of  instability,  working  against
the strengthening of democracy and development.
threats 
to 
A  large  part  of  the  problem  lies  perhaps  in  the
lack  of  correspondence  between  statements, 
true
expressions of wish, and action. This is evident in two
key areas, debt and international trade. The persistence
of  discriminatory 
in
international trade is part of this list of impediments to
development,  both  for  the  poorest  nations  and  for
middle-income countries, such as my own, Argentina.
inequitable  policies 
and 
The  prevalence  of  an  ideological  component  in
the  policies  of  international  credit  institutions  is  also
distressing.  The  so-called  orthodox  approach  to  the
debt  is  an  approach  that  has  shown  its  shortcomings
and  inefficiency  and  that  has  worsened  the  conditions
of poverty in the developing world, and this is perhaps
the  area  where  the  prevalence  of  this  component
becomes  most  evident.  Economic  development,
security  and  human  rights  are  the  basic  pillars  of  the
United  Nations,  and 
the  simultaneous
progress that we achieve in all these three areas is the
best  assurance  of  international  peace  and  the  well-
being of humanity.
therefore 
22
With  great  effort,  Argentina  is  returning  to  the
path  of  development  and  has  achieved  sustained
growth  in  its  economy,  while  at  the  same  time
significantly  reducing  unemployment  and  poverty
indices.  After  emerging  from  the  crisis,  indicators
show a sustained growth in the economy, and a surplus
in the fiscal external accounts, together with a recovery
in  national  reserves.  Argentina  grew  8.8  per  cent  in
2003, 9 per cent in 2004 and over 9 per cent in the first
half of 2005. The consolidated primary surplus is 5 per
cent  of  GDP  and  reserves  have  increased  from  nearly
ten  billion  dollars  to  over  twenty-five  billion.  Exports
this  year  will  exceed  forty  billion  dollars,  with  an
estimated growth of about 15 per cent.
Unemployment dropped from 24 per cent in 2003
to 12.1 per cent over the first half of 2005. Poverty has
dropped  from  57.5  per  cent  to  40.2  per  cent  and
absolute poverty  rates have come down  from 27.5 per
cent  in  2003  to  15  percent  in  2004  and  continue  to
decline. The real general salary index has risen 16 per
cent.
in 
Since  overcoming  default,  Argentina  has  been
strengthening  its  position  as  a  target  for  foreign
investment.  Primary  education  enrolment 
is  over
91.5 per  cent.  Illiteracy  is  under  3  per  cent  and
women(cid:146)s literacy rates are over 97.4 per cent. Women(cid:146)s
participation  is  growing  and  as  a  result,  women  hold
over  33  per  cent  of  seats 
the  House  of
Representatives and 43 per cent of seats in the Senate.
Infant  mortality  rates  have  dropped  significantly  from
16.8  per  1,000  to  the  current  13  per  1,000.  Public
health  programmes  are  being 
implemented  now
covering the entire population. Drinking water supplies
and  sewage  systems  are  being  expanded.  Through  an
agreement  with  Brazil,  medicines  are  going  to  be
produced  in  order  to  cover  the  entire  population
infected with AIDS at an affordable price. Regrettably,
throughout  this  process  of  recovery,  expansion  and
transformation,  we  did  not  have  the  support  of  the
International  Monetary  Fund,  which  had  provided
support  until  only  weeks  before  the  convertibility
regime. During its crisis, Argentina made net payments
of about 13.5 billion dollars.
this  archaic  understanding  of 
Like  many  developing  countries,  we  continue  to
endure  both 
the
indebtedness  issue  and  an  international  trade  system
that is unfair to  agricultural  products,  where  subsidies
and non-tariff barriers in developed countries continue
to  restrain  our  countries  from  full  growth  based  on
their genuine resources.
In 
this  sense,  we  call  for 
the  Ministerial
Conference of the World Trade Organization, which is
to  be  held  in  Hong  Kong,  China,  to  fulfil  the
unfulfilled  promise  of  placing  development  at  the
centre of international trade.
We  are  attentively  following  the  international
debate  on  the  concept  of  the  sustainability  of  external
debt.
We  believe  that  international  finances  are  too
important to be left in the hands of concerted interests
that affect the stability of markets, discriminate against
the small investor and spawn pro-cyclical policies.
That is why, in various forums, we have proposed
modifications  that  increase  the  transparency  of  the
international  financial  system,  free  this  Organization
from  certain  financial  lobbies  and  bring  enhanced
stability  to  the  capital  flow,  which  promotes  small
investors.
There is neither ideology nor politics in this. We
show  concrete  facts  indicating  that  these  financial
organizations  did  not  perform  the  role  that  they  must
perform.
Looking ahead, our country has structured a debt
to  gain  degrees  of
for
reduction  strategy  designed 
independence 
development and the growth of its economy.
implements 
its  plans 
as 
it 
increased 
In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  that  payment
of external financial commitments must not be made to
the detriment of resources pledged to social areas, such
as  education,  health,  housing  and  employment.  We
shall be firm in maintaining this position when dealing
with  the  international  credit  organizations,  and  we
reiterate  our  call  for 
transparency  and
democracy and for a deep restructuring and revision of
their policies, in order to ensure fairness and efficiency.
Along  these  lines,  Argentina  has,  since  2004,
been  a  co-sponsor  of  the  United  Nations  Commission
on Human Rights resolution on the effects of structural
adjustment  policies  and  foreign  debt  on  the  full
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights,  particularly  economic,
social  and  cultural  rights,  which  alludes  clearly  to  the
relationship  between  external  indebtedness  and  the
impossibility of effective enjoyment of human rights.
A/60/PV.4
In conclusion, I wish to express the fervent hope
of the people of Argentina that the United Nations will
continue  to  guide  us  along  the  path  towards  peace,
justice and development.
Many  resolutions  of  this  General  Assembly  and
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee
have  established  that  the  question  of  the  Malvinas
Islands, South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands are
a  special  colonial  situation  that  must  be  resolved
through bilateral negotiations between my country and
the  United  Kingdom.  The  Decolonization  Committee
has  made  repeated  declarations  to  that  effect,  and  we
greatly  value  its  action  in  seeking  a  solution  to  this
question.
We once again reaffirm the constant readiness of
our country to reach a final, fair and peaceful solution
to this sovereignty dispute that is of central concern to
the people of Argentina. We, therefore, urge the United
Kingdom  to  respond  promptly  to  the  call  of  the
international community to resume negotiations.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French): The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by Mr. Benjamin William Mkapa, President of
the United Republic of Tanzania.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
In  2000,  world 
President  Mkapa: 
leaders
undertook  an  in-depth  review  of  decades  of  global
efforts  and  unfulfilled  promises  to  fight  unacceptable
levels  of  poverty.  They  agreed  on  shared  universal
values,  and  they  ushered  in  hopes  for  timed  and
measurable  development  goals, 
the  Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs).
Today,  five  years  later,  leaders  stand  accused  of
having  failed  to  live  up  to  their  commitments.  The
Millennium  Development  Goals  reflect  our  shared
values about basic human rights (cid:151) the right to live in
dignity. We cannot turn our backs on these basic values
and  the  duties  they  impose  on  all  countries  and
Governments.  To  do  so  would  devalue  our  common
humanity. We should, instead, renew our commitment,
individually and collectively, to the MDGs and to their
full  integration  into  our  national  domestic  policies,
international  development  strategies,  policies  and
actions.
For  too  long,  there  has  been  an  unnecessary
debate about whether the solution to poverty in Africa
and  elsewhere  is  more  money.  Of  course,  it  is  not
simply  a  question  of  money.  But,  without  money,  few
23
A/60/PV.4
strategies,  if  any,  could  succeed.  Likewise,  good
governance is necessary; but it alone will not eradicate
poverty.
target.  Yes,  where  a  developing  country  and  its
development partners  all  fulfil their responsibilities,  it
is possible to fast-track the attainment of the MDGs.
The  developing  countries  are  not  blaming  rich
and  industrialized  countries  for  everything  that  is
wrong or unfulfilled. What they are asking of them is a
new  commitment  to  keep  their  word.  Developing
countries, for their part, must fulfil their commitments
to  mobilize  domestic  resources,  reform  institutions  to
respond  to  national  priorities  and  adopt  effective,
nationally owned economic and social policies to spur
economic  growth.  The  broader  commitments 
to
democracy,  human  rights  and  good  governance  must
also be discharged.
increasing 
Developed  countries,  for  their  part,  must  fulfil
their  responsibilities  by 
the  flow  and
improving the effectiveness of development assistance;
they  must  ensure  that  the  Doha  trade  round  is  truly
development-oriented;  they  must  embrace  wider  and
deeper debt relief; and they must facilitate technology
transfer.
I  thank  the  few  rich  countries  that  have  attained
or  exceeded  the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  national
income  as  official  development  assistance  (ODA).  I
thank  the  European  Union  for  having  a  timetable  for
the  different  member  countries  to  reach  this  target  by
the  year  2015.  I  thank  the  G-8  leaders  who,  in  their
Gleneagles  Summit,  agreed  to  increase  annual  aid
flows and cancel the debts of least developed countries.
I  call  on  them  not  to  backslide  on  these  honourable
commitments.
Then  there  is  the  unnecessary  debate  about
absorptive  capacity.  Developing  countries  must  be
assessed  severally,  not  collectively, 
to  determine
whether  they  have  the  system  of  governance  and  the
absorptive capacity to benefit from increased levels of
resources.
Let me use the example of my own country with
regard  to  education  goals.  Using  our  own  enhanced
domestic revenues, increased ODA and debt relief, we
were  able  to  invest  heavily  in  education,  improving
access  and  quality.  We  removed  school  fees  for
primary education, and the net enrolment rate increased
from  58.8  per  cent  in  2000  to  90.5  per  cent  last  year;
and gender parity has been attained.
By 2006, Tanzania will have  attained the second
Millennium  Development  Goal,  nine  years  ahead  of
24
It never occurred to me that this body, meeting at
such a high level, could have problems, not in agreeing
to  eradicate,  but  only  in  recommitting  itself  to  halve
poverty  by  2015.  I  seriously  urge  the  world  to  focus
more on preventing crises than on responding to them.
When  a  jumbo  jet  crashes,  we  all  rush  in  with
assistance;  but  we  forget  that  every  day  30,000
children  die  unnecessarily 
from  poverty-related
preventable causes; this loss is equivalent to 100 jumbo
jet crashes every day.
the  Monterrey  Consensus; 
A number of blueprints for success in the war on
poverty  have  been  promulgated  since  2000.  These
include 
the  World
Commission on the Social Dimension of Globalization;
the  Commission  for  Africa; 
the  United  Nations
Millennium  Project  and  others.  Let  us  now  start  their
implementation.
Aid  is  not  charity;  it  is  an  investment  in  peace,
security  and  human  solidarity.  By  not  addressing  the
causes of poverty, we are institutionalizing the business
of charity. It does not make political sense; it does not
make economic sense; it does not make ethical sense.
I  commit  my  Government  and  country  to  the
timed  pursuit  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals
and  ask  all  countries,  rich  and  poor,  at  the  very
minimum  to  implement  fully  the  outcome  document
from 
the
negotiators.
this  meeting, 
I  commend 
for  which 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French): The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  LÆszl(cid:243)  S(cid:243)lyom,  President  of  the
Republic of Hungary.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  S(cid:243)lyom: It  is  indeed  an  honour  and
privilege  for  me  to  attend  this  High-level  Plenary
Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  of  the  United
Nations.  Without  the  United  Nations,  today(cid:146)s  world
would  be  a  place  with  less  security  and  freedom,  less
social justice and democracy.
On  the  other  hand,  today  we  face  unprecedented
challenges  and  grave  menaces.  Here,  I  have  in  mind
terrorist acts, the danger of proliferation of weapons of
mass  destruction  and  internal  armed  conflicts.  We
continue  to  be  haunted  by  shocking  human  suffering
from  hunger,  poverty  and  disease  and  extraordinary
natural disasters. We also have to confront the serious
degradation of the environment.
We  fully  concur  with  the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
report, in which he states that challenges in the areas of
security, development and human rights are interlinked.
We should respond to these challenges accordingly.
is 
under 
Terrorism 
unacceptable 
any
circumstances.  States  must  protect  and  defend  their
citizens  against  terrorist  acts  by  all  necessary  means.
At  the  same  time,  Member  States  are  under  an
obligation  to  safeguard  human  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms for all. In this respect, I wish to express my
hope that the General Assembly will finalize a counter-
terrorist  strategy  and  conclude  a  comprehensive
convention on terrorism.
Since  the  establishment  of  the  United  Nations,
our world has fundamentally changed. Our civilization
has  entered  a  new  era  defined  by  an  explosion  of
communications,  global 
such  other
interactions. Nevertheless, the fundamental values that
motivated  the  creation  of  the  United  Nations  are  still
valid.  The  core  of  these  values  is  the  dignity  of  all
human beings. States need to find  answers  to  the  new
challenges,  while  maintaining  the  same  respect  for
human dignity and fundamental rights.
trade 
and 
The  issue  of  the  environment  deserves  increased
attention.  Let  me  emphasize  the  responsibility  of  the
international  community  as  a  whole.  We  need  a  new
philosophy  that  takes  due  account  of  the  rights  of
future  generations.  States  must  strive  to  maintain  the
level  of  environmental  protection  they  have  achieved.
Along  with  others,  Hungary  favours  a  more  coherent
institutional  framework  of  international  environmental
governance,  leading  to  the  establishment  of  a  United
Nations 
an
organization could best serve to protect our planet and
should act as a guardian for future generations.
organization. 
environment 
Such 
Hungary also supports the creation of an effective
United Nations Human Rights Council. We also highly
appreciate the move to establish a Democracy Fund.
I  am  proud  to  announce  that  an  International
Centre  for  Democratic  Transition  has  been  set  up  in
Budapest.  The  Centre  will  promote  research  and  offer
assistance for those who seek advice. It will be an open
and 
the
initiative  of  Hungary,  and  we  do  hope  that  you  will
find it worthy of support.
institution.  The  Centre 
international 
is 
A/60/PV.4
By  the  same  token,  Hungary  is  keen  to  urge
further  progress  in  the  international  promotion  and
protection of minority rights by the United Nations. We
will not spare any effort to make this happen.
We  need  a  renewed  and  reformed  organization
and  must  rededicate  ourselves  to  the  vision  of  the
founding fathers. Hungary will be a reliable partner in
achieving this goal.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  Bin  Khalifa  Al-Thani,
Emir of the State of Qatar.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani (spoke in
Arabic): Five years ago, in this Hall, heads of State or
Government  adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration.  It
was a historic moment, when world leaders gathered at
the  turn  of  the  century  to  put  forth  a  new  vision  in
response  to  a  changing  reality.  It  is  a  vision  that  can
strengthen  the  United  Nations  system  and  give  it  new
momentum.
Today,  we  again  meet  to  search  for  means  to
activate  previously  concluded  agreements.  Allow  me
on this occasion to congratulate Mr. Jan Eliasson on his
election to the presidency of the current session of the
General  Assembly.  I  wish  him  and  this  high-level
meeting every success. I would also like to thank Co-
Chairperson  Jean  Ping  for  steering  the  proceedings  of
the fifty-ninth session and for his welcome contribution
to the preparations for this meeting.
to 
I  want 
to  express  my  appreciation 
the
Secretary-General  for  the  great  sense  of  responsibility
he  has  displayed  as  head  of 
international
Organization.  I  commend  him  for  his  efforts  in
preparing a comprehensive report on the progress made
in  achieving  security,  development  and  human  rights
for all.
this 
The  accomplishments  of  the  United  Nations
should  not  be  underestimated.  Furthermore, 
the
Organization  has  had  to  contend  with  difficulties  that
cannot be ignored. While we may hold divergent views
about the outcome of its efforts, we do not question the
need  for it or the imperative to support its bodies  and
activities so that the international community can meet
the challenges before it.
We  agree  with  the  findings  of  the  report  of  the
High-level  Panel  on  Threats,  Challenges  and  Change.
In  order  to  rise  to  the  challenges  of  the  twenty-first
25
A/60/PV.4
century,  we  must  develop  a  new  concept  of  collective
security.  This  concept  should  allow  us  to  define
responsibilities, design appropriate strategies and draw
up roles for institutions to increase their efficiency and
effectiveness.
the  proposals  of 
We  also  agree  with 
the
Secretary-General to accord an equal share of attention
to  development,  security  and  human  rights,  which  are
the  three  primary  purposes  of  the  United  Nations
Charter.  We  cannot  pursue  one  at  the  expense  of  the
other two.
It  is  high  time  that  we  grant  development  the
attention  it  deserves.  We  cannot  consider  it  to  be  of
secondary  importance.  Together  with  the  two  other
objectives  of  security  and  respect  for  human  rights,  it
should  be  accorded  priority  status.  Achieving  security
and preserving the integrity of human rights cannot be
meaningfully  pursued  while  vast  regions  of  the  world
are  deprived  of  the  minimum  requirements  for  life  in
dignity.
It is not a coincidence that the most impoverished
regions  are  the  ones  suffering  the  most  protracted
conflicts,  where  human  rights  are  often  trampled  and
threatened.  While  issues  pertaining  to  security  and
human rights are among the international concerns that
should not be underestimated, development is a pivotal
objective that deserves to be given utmost importance.
The  State  of  Qatar  endorses  the  outcome  of  the
Millennium Summit. We believe that the Development
Goals are primary objectives that must be achieved in
order  to  meet  the  challenge  of  extreme  poverty  and
its  painful  repercussions,  achieve  gender
address 
equality, 
the
environment.  All  these  basic  rights  are  consecrated  in
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the
United Nations Millennium Declaration.
and  preserve 
education 
advance 
Achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development
Goals implies creation of the conditions at the national
and  international  levels  required  to  mobilize 
the
resources  needed  for  that  purpose.  In  this  regard,  the
implementation of the Plan of Implementation defined
at 
the  main
guideline  for  the  financing  of  development.  The
Monterrey  Consensus  provided  the  tools  needed  to
translate  this  plan  into  tangible  results.  Together  with
the  Millennium  Declaration, 
two  reference
documents  constitute  an  integrated  plan  on  how  the
the  Johannesburg  Summit 
remains 
these 
26
financing components of the development package can
advance international development efforts.
Developing 
countries  have 
already  begun
assuming  more  responsibilities  by  drawing  up  their
own  development  strategies.  However,  they  are  still
facing  a  major  problem,  namely  a  lack  of  adequate
financial  resources  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Goals
and other previously agreed international goals.
it 
Therefore, 
is  necessary 
the
resources  and  the  flows  to  at  least  the  minimum  level
required,  since  developed  countries  have  pledged  to
achieve those goals within a framework that allows the
United Nations to play its role in this context.
increase 
to 
We in the State of Qatar call for the international
financing  system  to  take  humanitarian  aspects  into
consideration, in order to allow for more grants and for
initiatives  that  would  facilitate  debt  reduction  and  an
improvement  in  the  standard  of  living.  We  also  stress
the 
international
multilateral trade system characterized by fairness and
equality for all.
importance  of  establishing  an 
In this regard, we welcome the decision taken by
the World Trade Organization, August 2004, on the full
implementation  of  the  Doha  Ministerial  Declaration,
particularly  where  it  deals  with  development  issues.
We  also  stress  the  importance  of  completing  the  first
round  of  the  Doha  multilateral  trade  negotiations  by
2006.
The  development  we  desire  calls  for  good
governance  based  on  respect  for  law  and  popular
participation,  which,  in  itself,  will  help  democracy  to
spread  and  will  allow  for  the  establishment  of  strong
institutions  that  can  be  held  accountable  and  can
promote sound and fair legal systems. In addition, such
institutions would provide all the political and cultural
conditions which make up an enabling environment for
development.  We  support 
the
establishment  of  the  fund  for  democracy  in  the  paper
submitted  by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly.
We  believe  that  it  would  promote  and  accelerate
development. We would like to declare our willingness
to  participate  in  such  efforts  and  other  popular  efforts
in support of democracy. We pledge 10 million dollars
to support this fund for democracy in the hope that its
establishment  will  represent  a  practical  step  toward
achieving the prosperity of peoples.
reference 
the 
to 
The threats faced by the international community
at  present  will  be  with  us  for  decades,  they  are  not
strictly  related  to  peace  and  international  security  but
derive from poverty, endemic diseases, deterioration of
the  environment,  armed  conflicts,  violence, 
the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
the
terrorism, 
deprivations  born  of  not 
fruits  of
development.
transnational  organized  crime  and 
reaping 
the 
longer  be  faced 
Our  recent  experiences  have  proved  that  such
threats  can  no 
individually  or
unilaterally.  Rather,  they  require  (cid:151)  as  has  been  seen
recently  in  the  case  of  terrorism  (cid:151)  collective  efforts
and  close  international  cooperation  based  on  the
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  provisions  of
international 
law.  Today(cid:146)s  world  necessitates  our
collective  efforts  in  view  of  the  interdependence
brought about by globalization.
As to the role of the United Nations, it is essential
that cooperation among its members be strengthened in
order  to  affirm  its  identity  as  an  entity  that  embodies
human aspirations for peaceful coexistence and mutual
interest among nations. It is necessary to promote and
strengthen  United  Nations  organs 
them
capable of facing present and future challenges, and to
enable 
to  deal  positively  with
changing realities in our world.
the  Organization 
to  make 
This  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  represents  an
opportunity to discuss how and by what means the role
of  the  United  Nations  may  be  enhanced.  The  State  of
Qatar,  basing  itself  on  the  Charter  of  the  United
Nations and the rule of international law, believes that
enhancement  of  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  will
depend  on  the  extent  to  which  multilateral  actions
expands in the face of international problems.
One  of 
the  gravest  problems  at  present 
is
terrorism.  We  believe  that  there  is  an  urgent  need  for
collective  efforts  in  the  face  of  that  scourge.  We
condemn  all  forms  of 
terrorism  and  are  always
interested  in  coordinating  all  international  efforts  to
combat it, whether by joining international or regional
conventions,  or  by  providing  necessary  financial  and
human resources. We are ready to join the long-sought
international convention aimed at combating terrorism,
which  we  hope  will  be  formulated  multilaterally.  It  is
important that this convention arrive at a definition of
terrorism that will distinguish between criminal acts of
A/60/PV.4
terrorism  and  a  people(cid:146)s  right  to  fight  occupation
militarily.
Human rights are governed by rules and laws that
should  be  applied.  Recently,  many  organizations  that
work in the field of human rights have emerged at the
international,  national  and  regional  levels.  Their  work
in  that  field  is  in  addition  to  the  important  work
conducted  by  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner
for Human Rights.
In  spite  of  various  accusations  levelled  against
those organizations (cid:151) accusations of double standards
or  of  spreading  alien  concepts  and  focusing  only  on
political and civil rights while ignoring cultural, social
and economic rights  (cid:151)  we  would  like  to  reassert  that
the universality of human rights should not impair the
diversity  of  cultural  specificities,  which  should  be
given  due 
respect.  All  such  efforts  should  be
appreciated and respected.
to 
transform 
We would like to express our appreciation to the
Secretary-General  for  his  attention  to  the  cause  of
human  rights.  He  has  submitted  a  proposal  on  the
subject 
the  present  Commission  on
Human  Rights  into  a  permanent  council  of  limited
membership. Members of this council would be elected
from  two  thirds  of  the  membership  of  the  General
Assembly.  This  council  would  exclude  countries  that
do not have a good record in human rights. We support
such a proposal. However, we are afraid that a reduced
council  with  limited  membership  may  not  be  able  to
represent  the  large  membership  of  the  international
Organization  or  deal  with  all  the  different  issues  and
aspects  of  human  rights.  Therefore,  we  hope  that  this
proposal  will  be  considered  and  negotiated  further  at
the multilateral level, with  a view  to  an  agreement  by
Governments  that  a  body  should  be  established  under
the  auspices  of 
the  General  Assembly  with  a
membership  that  is  sizeable  enough  to  quell  any
suspicion of selectivity  and to  guarantee  its  efficiency
and good performance. Reform of the Security Council
and  expansion  of  its  membership  have  become  an
integral  part  of  activating  and  invigorating  the  role  of
the  United  Nations  itself.  We  are,  therefore,  looking
forward  to  more  deliberations  among  the  Member
States  concerning  the  Council(cid:146)s  functioning  and  its
relations with other bodies of the Organization, notably
the Economic and Social Council.
27
A/60/PV.4
We  draw  attention  to  the  need  to  enhance  the
Economic  and  Social  Council(cid:146)s  functions  and  provide
it with the resources required to discharge its mandate.
We also support reform of the Secretariat to allow
functions  and  activities  with
accountability
to  raise 
the
international  civil
it 
transparency.  Monitoring 
mechanisms  must  be  put 
professional  competence  of 
servants.
in  place 
its 
to  perform 
and 
its 
In  this  context,  I  believe  we  should  continue  to
examine  closely  the  issues  at  hand  in  negotiations  at
the 
level  until  we  develop  a
consensus that serves the Organization(cid:146)s interests.
intergovernmental 
Two  years  ago,  the  Secretary-General  stated  that
the  United  Nations  stood  at  a  crossroads  between
multilateralism  and  unilateralism.  Qatar  has  opted  for
promoting multilateralism and has lived by this choice.
A  case  in  point  was  the  Second  South  Summit  of  the
Group  of  77,  held  in  Doha  in  June  2005,  which
reaffirmed  the  importance  of  promoting  multifaceted
international  cooperation  between  the  North  and  the
South.
Qatar would like to stress once again its desire to
be  part  of  the  international  community(cid:146)s  pursuit  of
multilateralism.  We  believe  that  the  outcome  of  this
meeting  will  help  to  widen  the  horizons  of  the  new
generations. We need a strong United Nations that can
celebrate  its  sixtieth  anniversary  and  concomitantly
work  to  build  a  world  that  lives  in  peace  and  enjoys
security and prosperity.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  Now  the  General  Assembly  will  hear  an
address by His Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, the President
of Cameroon.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
President  Biya  (spoke  in  French):  First  of  all,
allow me to say how pleased I am that Gabon, a friend,
and  Sweden,  whose  generosity  to  the  Third  World  is
known to us all, are Co-Chairpersons of this important
High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  I  believe 
this
symbolizes 
the
industrialized  North  and  the  developing  South.  This
solidarity  is,  I  believe,  an  essential  dimension  of
tomorrow(cid:146)s world.
that 
the  essential  solidarity  between 
Allow  me  also  to  have  a  special  thought  for  the
victims of Hurricane Katrina, which recently struck the
Gulf  Coast  of  the  United  States  indiscriminately  and
with  rare  violence.  I  wish  to  express  to  the  people  of
28
America  and its leaders the compassion  and solidarity
of the people of Cameroon.
to 
assess 
achievements 
The  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  United  Nations
that  we  are  celebrating  today  provides  us  with  an
opportunity 
the
Millennium  Declaration,  which  we  adopted  here  five
years  ago  and  which  inspired  immense  hope  at  that
time. The goals that we established then are still valid.
It is indeed in the interest of all rich and poor peoples
to  push  back  poverty  and  pandemics  and  to  remedy
violations of democracy and human rights, which often
lead to civil war and terrorism.
since 
The  countries  of  the  South,  including  my  own,
promptly took courageous measures to strengthen their
democratic  system  and  the  rule  of  law,  to  improve
governance and in particular combat corruption, and to
re-establish  the  health  of  their  public  finances.  These
measures  have  sometimes  had  a  heavy  social  cost.
Tangible  results  have  been  achieved.  As  far  as
Cameroon is concerned, these efforts will continue.
For  their  part,  our  development  partners,  the
Group  of  Eight,  the  European  Union  and  various
friendly  countries,  have  recently  taken  measures  with
regard to debt and official development assistance, for
which  I  sincerely  thank  them.  This  demonstration  of
political  will  deserves  recognition,  as  it  strengthens
solidarity, 
just
indicated.
importance  of  which  I  have 
the 
Nonetheless, 
these  measures  are 
incomplete,
particularly  measures  concerning  the  cancellation  of
the  multilateral  debt  of  18  countries,  including  14
African countries. I believe that we need to go further
and more quickly if we wish to achieve the Millennium
Development Goals within a reasonable period of time.
This would be fair compensation for those peoples who
have invested considerable efforts for many years, even
made sacrifices,  assuming  responsibility  for  their  own
progress, creating a modern society and becoming full-
fledged players in their development.
I  call  on  the  international  financial  institutions
and  donor  countries  to  show  understanding  and  to
arrange  as  soon  as  possible  a  general  cancellation  of
the  multilateral  and  bilateral  debt  which  is  currently
drowning our economies.
Likewise,  we  should  step  up  trade  talks  in  the
Doha round so that countries of the South, particularly
those  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  can  finally  play  a
to 
significant  role  in  international  trade.  It  is  in  the
interest  of  our  countries,  which  are  already  suffering
from  the  unequal  terms  of  trade,  that  our  priorities
should  be  better  taken  into  account.  A  significant
gesture  is  also  expected  from  our  trade  partners  with
regard 
the  removal  of  agricultural  subsidies,
particularly  in  favour  of  African  cotton,  which  is  a
major  source  of  income  for  millions  of  our  farmers.
Those of our products which are unable to compete on
the  international  market,  particularly  bananas,  should
continue  to  enjoy  special  treatment  for  some  time.  In
general,  it  is  desirable  that  the  North  open  further  its
markets to our products in order to allow us to play a
greater role in the globalized economy.
Furthermore, I would like to recall that Cameroon
and  the  other  countries  of  the  Congo  Basin,  which  is
the world(cid:146)s second largest forestry reserve, have taken
management  measures  that  preserve  a  sustainable
environment and the ecosystem. Our countries are glad
to  contribute  in  this  way  to  improving  the  quality  of
life  on  Earth.  But  it  seems  to  me  only  fair  that  the
considerable  loss  in  revenue  we  have  suffered  should
be compensated fairly.
Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  say  a  few
words  with  regard  to  the  complex  problem  of  United
Nations  reform.  This  gives  me  the  opportunity  to
congratulate  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  President  of  the  General
Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session,  on  the  remarkable
way  in  which  he  guided  the  consultations  on  this
particularly delicate question. It is also an opportunity
for me to express my appreciation to Secretary-General
Kofi  Annan  for  the  high  quality  and  the  far-reaching
nature of the report he has submitted to us.
First  of  all,  with  regard  to  the  reform  of  the
Security Council, we knew that the discussions would
be difficult. Nobody disputes the fact that the Council(cid:146)s
membership  should  reflect  the  shape  of  today(cid:146)s  world
and  that  it  is  necessary  to  improve  its  working
methods.  However,  it  also  needs  to  be  said  that  the
positions  of  various  parties  continue  to  be  very
divergent.
For  its  part,  Cameroon  continues  to  support  the
position  of  the  African  Union.  It  goes  without  saying
that, whatever  solution is adopted,  countries  that  wish
to become permanent members of the Security Council
must  have  demonstrated  firm  commitment  to  the
principles  and  decisions  of  the  United  Nations  and  its
organs.
A/60/PV.4
Cameroon  also  considers  that  any  reform  should
ensure proper balance among the organs of the United
Nations.  The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly
and  the  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social
Council should be considered as priorities.
I  believe  also  that  the  International  Court  of
Justice  should  have  a  central  role  in  the  institutional
machinery of our Organization. I am convinced that the
settlement  of  disputes  or  conflicts  through  the  legal
system  continues  to  be  the  surest  method  of  ensuring
international peace and security.
Clearly,  implementation  of  any  reforms  will
require  considerable  patience  and  a 
spirit  of
compromise. I believe it is appropriate, in this context,
to  quote  Jean  JaurŁs,  who  said,  (cid:147)history  teaches  men
the  difficulty  of  great  tasks  and  the  slow  nature  of
achievements, but it also justifies our invincible hope(cid:148).
It  is  my  hope  that  all  those  who  place  their
confidence  and  their  hopes  in  the  United  Nations  (cid:151)
and Cameroon is one of them (cid:151) will be guided by an
ideal  of  solidarity  and  justice,  and  that  they  will  do
everything  possible  to  ensure  that  the  reform  is
achieved in an acceptable time frame.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French): The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Olusegun  Obasanjo,  President  of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Obasanjo:  Sir, 
let  me  begin  by
congratulating  Ambassador  Jan  Eliasson  on  his
election as President of the sixtieth session the General
Assembly, during which vital  events  in  the  life  of  our
Organization  will  take  place.  As  we  mark  the  sixtieth
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, we
are  not  only  reaffirming  the  vision  and  the  hope  of
1945,  but  we  are  also  hoping 
the
Organization(cid:146)s organs and its working methods so as to
make it better able to serve us in today(cid:146)s world, which
is radically different from that of 1945.
reform 
to 
One  such  difference  is  today(cid:146)s  global  economic
landscape,  characterized  by  pockets  of  affluence  and
mass, abject poverty.
Five  years  ago,  at  the  turn  of  the  century,  we
adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration,  including  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which  set
targets  for  us  to  address  major  development  problems
of  the  world,  especially  in  developing  countries.  The
MDGs  emerged  from  a  collective  resolve  to  address
29
A/60/PV.4
and  build  on  the  reinvented  notion  of  partnership
between the weak and the strong, between the rich and
the  poor  and  among  the  peoples  of  the  world.  While
this partnership was premised on shared responsibility,
it  did  not  ignore  the  vital  principle  of  common  but
differentiated obligations.
In  pursuit  of  the  MDGs  and  of  our  national
economic  development  objectives,  Nigeria  has  drawn
up and  embarked upon  conscious  efforts to realize set
targets  encapsulated 
in  our  National  Economic
Empowerment  and  Development  Strategy  (NEEDS).
NEEDS is a home-grown, people-centred medium-term
strategy 
create
reduce  poverty  and  promote  value
employment, 
reorientation.  Following 
implementation  of
two  years  our  agricultural
NEEDS, 
production  has  grown  by  about  7  per  cent  annually.
Industrial  capacity  utilization  has  doubled,  and  gross
domestic  product  (GDP)  has  grown  at  an  average  of
more  than  6  per  cent  per  annum.  In  all  other  sectors,
we  are  making  appreciable  progress,  even  as  we  need
more assistance.
generate  wealth, 
the  past 
the 
designed 
to 
in 
In  spite  of  this  progress,  we  recognize  that
poverty  is  still  acute  in  our  rural  areas  and  that
unemployment is still a recurring issue, particularly in
our  urban  areas,  where  the  youth,  mostly  unskilled,
have  flocked.  Besides,  we  are  conscious  that  for  a
developing country like Nigeria, which really wants to
transform its economy, we need an annual GDP growth
of  about  10  per  cent.  Thus,  we  still  have  a  big
challenge  ahead;  meeting  it  will  require  increased
support from our development partners, as well as from
investors.
In  order  to  attain  the  goals  of  reducing  child
mortality,  improving  maternal  health  and  combating
HIV/AIDS,  Nigeria  has  initiated  health  sector  reform
aimed  at  raising  the  standard  of  primary  health  care
and  vastly  improving  health  care  delivery  services  in
our  hospitals.  Early  this  year,  we  launched  a  national
health  insurance  scheme  to  encourage  widespread  and
timely resort to medical consultation, and to ensure the
delivery  and  development  of  health  care,  while
providing  treatment  of  illness,  as  well  as  prenatal  and
postnatal  care.  Among  other  achievements,  child
mortality 
is  slightly  down,  HIV  prevalence  has
declined  and  the  campaigns  against  polio  and  malaria
are yielding results.
30
We consider global partnerships in the pursuit of
the MDGs to be  imperative. For  a developing  country
such  as  ours,  we  agree  that  the  primary  responsibility
for  socio-economic  development  in  our  country  rests
with  us.  Nevertheless,  our 
efforts  must  be
complemented  by  global  support.  We  need  all  the
assistance we can get from our development partners to
make possible the achievement of the Goals set by the
Assembly five years ago.
The  major  problem  has  been 
inadequate
resources.  This  is  why  developed  countries  should
fulfil their own side of the Millennium Declaration, as
expressed  in  the  targets  set  out  in  the  MDGs.  As
clearly  stated  in  the  Millennium  Project  document,  as
well as in the report of the Commission for Africa, it is
necessary to double the current level of resource flows
to Africa if the continent is to meet the MDGs by the
year 2015.
Conscious of the vital role that peace and security
play  in  economic  and  social  development,  Nigeria
considers conflict resolution as a vital precondition for
the  successful  implementation  measures  for  attaining
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015.  In  this
regard,  Nigeria  has  been  working  tirelessly  with  the
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  and  the
African  Union  by  intervening  to  stop  conflicts  and
instituting  solutions 
the  underlying  causes  of
conflicts.
to 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Roh  Moo-hyun,  President  of  the
Republic of Korea.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
President  Roh  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text
provided  by  the  delegation): Six  decades  ago,  in  the
very same year that far-sighted leaders from around the
world  were  preparing  to  establish  the  United  Nations,
the Republic of Korea was set free from the shackles of
imperialist colonial rule. Since then the United Nations
has been our trusted friend. I am privileged to stand at
the podium of such a special friend on this auspicious
occasion.
The United Nations has made immense strides in
promoting  peace  and  universal  values  throughout  the
world. It is perhaps one of the greatest creations of the
twentieth century, and I pause to pay tribute to all those
who have served its cause with dedication.
We  stand  at  a  time  of  uncertainty  as  to  how  the
global order will unfold, but the path we must  choose
remains clear. The new world order of the twenty-first
century should be defined by all nations, be they large,
small  or  medium-sized  Powers,  since  it  is  in  the
common interest to achieve collective prosperity. This
demands  a  redoubling  of  efforts  to  advance  global
projects 
from  want  and
discrimination,  both  of  which  lie  at  the  heart  of  a
number of conflicts and repressive situations.
that  pursue 
freedom 
Yet, there is another equally important dimension.
The  world  must  completely  divest  itself  of  mindsets
and  vestiges  reminiscent  of  imperialistic  tendencies
that  appear  to  linger  in  various  forms.  Vigilance
against  a  resurgence  of  major-Power  centrism  in
certain  circles  is  also  in  order.  The  leading  nations  of
contemporary  international  politics  should  be  more
introspective  in  their  examination  of  the  past  and
vision  of  the  future  and  should  also  exercise  greater
self-restraint.
In addition, enhanced efforts are required when it
comes  to  respect  for  neighbouring  countries,  forging
international  consensus  and  removing  sources  of
antagonism.  Not  until  the  great  Powers  are  able  to
establish  a  higher  cause  of  peace  and  common
prosperity in the global order will the tension between
(cid:147)power(cid:148) and (cid:147)higher cause(cid:148) be defused.
The promise of such endeavours can be found in
the  European  Union.  Europe  has  moved  beyond  an
order  dictated  by  the  logic  of  power  and  a  system
marred  by  animosity  and  strife.  It  now  seems  to  be
defining its place in the world as a community of peace
and  coexistence,  reconciliation  and  cooperation.  It  is
my  hope  that  North-East  Asia  will  achieve  relations
akin  to  those  we  see  in  Europe,  for  this  will  open  an
entirely new chapter in the history of North-East Asia,
which  in  turn  will  contribute  to  global  peace  and
prosperity.
How we reshape the United Nations today will be
a  harbinger  of 
tomorrow.
Accordingly,  we  should  aspire  to  a  community  that
exists  to  serve  our  common  interest  and  respects  the
views of member nations.
the  global  order  of 
For  instance,  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  a
body that is emblematic of the leadership of the United
Nations, should proceed in a manner that enhances its
moral authority through democracy, accountability and
efficiency. Let me stress that any reform plan we arrive
A/60/PV.4
at  should  serve  to  facilitate  harmony  among  nations,
rather  than  presage  another  variant  of  great-Power
politics.  The  enactment  of  such  reform  should  assist
the  United  Nations  in  overcoming  the  multiplicity  of
challenges besetting humankind, thus spearheading the
realization of (cid:147)larger freedom(cid:148).
As  a  nation  that  has  been  fully  committed  to
living  up  to  the  values  championed  by  the  United
Nations,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  prepared  to  do  its
part in contributing to peace and prosperity throughout
the world. Korea is a nation that rose from the ashes of
war to build the world(cid:146)s eleventh largest economy and
to  achieve  significant  democratic  progress.  It  is  an
achievement  that  came  about  with  the  support  of  the
international community. Consequently, it is only right
that  we  should  reciprocate  by  sharing  this  experience
with fellow nations. We will work to undertake the full
range  of  our  responsibilities  and  roles,  from  tackling
poverty  and  hunger  to  promoting  human  rights  and
bridging the digital divide.
The  Asia-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  leaders(cid:146)
meeting, scheduled for this November in Busan, Korea,
should  offer  a  timely  opportunity  for  us  to  showcase
our commitment and capacity in this regard.
The  Co-Chairman  (Gabon)  (spoke  in  French):
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency Mr. Vicente Fox, President of Mexico.
President  Fox  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On  behalf  of
Mexico,  a  nation  of  peace,  democracy  and  freedom,
and an advocate of international law and cooperation, I
wish  today  to  convey  a  message  of  optimism  and
confidence 
of
in 
multilateralism.
potential 
the 
and 
future 
We  created  this  Organization  of  States  60  years
ago. We have had achievements, but we have also had
setbacks.  We  have  managed  to  prevent  a  nuclear
conflagration,  which  would  have  been  the  last  war  in
the  history  of  humankind,  but  we  were  unable  to
prevent  the  many  other  wars  in  which  millions  of
persons perished.
We  Members  of  this  Organization  share  the
commitments,  principles  and  values  on  which  this
common  house  was  founded.  Our  Organization  has  a
very  clear  concept  of  development  as  a  shared
responsibility,  which  was 
the
Monterrey Consensus.
incorporated 
in 
31
A/60/PV.4
Our approach to security is multidimensional and
maintains  that  security  will  not  be  possible  for  all
unless  we  ensure  socio-economic  development  and
respect for human rights. This is the only way in which
people  can  attain  a  (cid:147)larger  freedom(cid:148),  as  Secretary-
General Kofi Annan has proposed.
the  decision 
We  welcome 
to  establish  a
Peacebuilding  Commission,  an  initiative  that  will
enable us to face post-conflict situations and to address
the 
reconstruction  processes.  The  draft  outcome
document  to  be  adopted  by  this  Assembly  on  Friday
already  contains  many  of  the  elements  that  will  pave
the  way  towards  the  comprehensive  reform  of  our
Organization.
issues 
that  are 
fundamental, 
We  have  made  progress.  But  there  are  still
pending 
such  as
disarmament,  and  non-proliferation,  both  horizontal
and  vertical,  of  nuclear  weapons  and  of  weapons  of
mass  destruction.  We  wish  to  establish  the  best
possible system of collective security and therefore we
support  a  democratic  reform  of  the  Security  Council
that  will  ensure  greater  representativity,  transparency
and true accountability, in the interest of the efficiency
of the Council(cid:146)s work.
the  performance  of 
We must make progress in setting up the Human
Rights  Council  as  a  standing  body  to  address  all
situations  of  human  rights  violations  and  guarantee  a
system  of  evaluation  of 
its
members.  We  have  been  unable  to  agree  upon  a
definition of terrorism that in turn would have provided
us  with  a  treaty,  which  we  still  lack.  The  agreements
that have been reached and the tasks that we still face
call  for  a  clear 
timetable  and  also  for  specific
commitments.  This  will  be  the  only  way  in  which  we
can  transform  our  Organization  into  an  increasingly
efficient  instrument  in  the  service  of  peace  and
development. That is the demand of our people, and we
must respond to it.
Mexico  believes  in  the  present  and  in  the  future
of the United Nations, and that is why we support the
work  carried  out  by  the  Group  of  Friends  of  United
Nations  Reform.  This  Group  in  itself  constitutes  a
microcosm  of  the  Organization,  and  it  has  harnessed
the political will and leadership of its members in order
to  put  forward  viable  recommendations,  including  on
those issues where general consensus appears difficult
to achieve. Therefore, I wish to repeat my invitation to
all members to continue with renewed  vigour  to  work
32
towards  bringing  about  a  true  reform  of  the  United
Nations. I wish to thank my friends, the heads of State
or  Government  who  are  members  of  the  Group,  for
their work and dedication.
I  commend  The  Co-Chairpersons  for  the  work
carried  out  under  their  leadership,  and  I  express  the
hope that the present reforms will be implemented. The
future  of  the  United  Nations  demands  a  renewed
commitment  to  the  principles  and  values  that  inspired
its  creation.  We  must  ensure  that  our  Organization
remains the best possible way of ensuring international
peace, security and development, and that will require
our  shared  commitment.  It  requires  unity  amongst
diversity,  which  has  been,  is  and  will  continue  to  be,
our greatest strength.
Here and now, together, we can achieve this.
The  Co-Chairperson 
(spoke 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Traian  Basescu,
President of Romania.
(Gabon) 
President  Basescu:  I  am  honoured  to  represent
Romania at this largest ever gathering of world leaders.
We came because we believe in the United Nations. We
came because we believe that it is entirely possible to
reshape this Organization to serve better the needs and
wishes of our peoples.
Romania  has  now  been  a  Member  of  the  United
Nations  for  half  a  century.  The  United  Nations  has
changed  a  lot  in  the  meantime,  and  so  has  Romania.
We  are  now  part  of  an  alliance  of  our  choice  (cid:151)
NATO (cid:151) and are bound to join formally the European
Union  (EU).  Equally  important  from  here  onward  is
how we will be able to reach out to other nations that
have  not  benefited 
favourable
circumstances, share with them how we did it,  and be
of assistance to them.
similarly 
from 
We  will  act  on  development  in  accordance  with
EU  policy,  trying  to  make  a  difference  from  the
standpoint  of  a  country  with  projects  all  over  the
world.  The  United  Nations  should  expect  more  from
this  new  Romania  over  the  years  to  come,  as  it
endeavours  to  integrate  into  its  work  the  Eastern
Europeans(cid:146) unique experience of transition.
Following  up  on  our  commitment  at 
the
Millennium Summit, in 2004, in close cooperation with
the United Nations agencies in Romania, we launched
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  report.
is  committed 
Romania 
the  set  of
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  targets  as  it
advances on the road of European integration.
to  achieving 
Security  and  regional  cooperation  are  paramount
components  of  any  assessment  we  may  be  making  of
United  Nations  performance  and  achievement.  Here
Romania  speaks  out  of  experience  gained  during  its
current term in the Security Council.
Just 
three  days  ago  we  commemorated 
the
victims  of  the  9/11  terrorist  attacks  on  the  United
States.  Before,  during  and  after  that  date  virtually  all
regions  sustained  their  own  terror-generated  attacks;
from  London  to  Sharm-el-Sheikh,  from  Moscow  to
Bali, no one seems to have been spared. Sadly, that is
also  true  of  the  United  Nations  itself.  It  is  clear  that
without  an  enduring  (cid:147)safety  net(cid:148)  there  are  no  (cid:147)safe
havens(cid:148).  I  am  proud  that  Romania  was  able,  together
with  the  14  colleagues  in  the  Security  Council,  to
spearhead,  as  Chairman  of  1540  Committee,  global
efforts against the worst-case security scenario, that of
weapons  of  mass  destruction  (WMDs)  or  related
materials and technology falling into terrorists(cid:146) hands.
Romania has, for some time now, taken the view
that protection against security threats no longer means
just making a stand at one(cid:146)s own border; we have to go
where these challenges originate and take them up with
resolute action and sustained investments. This is part
of  the  rationale  for  Romania(cid:146)s  joint  endeavours  with
partners  and  allies  in  supporting  stabilization  and
reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan.
In  both  Iraq  and  Afghanistan,  elections  are
coming about as a result of tremendous dedication and
efforts of their people, first of all, and also as the result
of  a  steadily  engaged  international  community.  All
efforts  made 
stabilization  and
consolidation  of  freedom  in  post-Saddam  Iraq  should
be  seen  in  the  longer  perspective  of  the  Middle  East
development.  We  see  the  new  constitution  as  the
cornerstone of a rising Iraq.
the 
in 
so 
far 
As  a  country  belonging  both  to  South-Eastern
Europe  and  the  Black  Sea  Region,  Romania  seeks  to
promote  opportunities  offered  by  the  new  cooperative
approaches  to  security.  That  is  why  we  feel  confident
that it will be possible for the Security Council to take
a  step 
the  enduring
relevance  and  the  potential  of  Chapter  VIII  of  the
Charter  when  it  takes  up  once  again  the  theme  of
global  and  regional  cooperation  in  the  stabilization
in  acknowledging 
forward 
A/60/PV.4
process  under  the  Romanian  presidency  in  October
2005.
Our  ultimate  aim  should  be  to  see  the  day  when
the  international  community  is  able  to  deal  with  each
and every security challenge anywhere and any time by
better  pooling  existing  resources  and  capabilities  for
responding to violence.
There  is  a  strong  connection  among  security,
development and respect for human rights, democratic
values and good governance in everything that we are
now  attempting  with  a  view 
the
Organization.  This  essential  linkage  is  more  clearly
reflected in the notion of a Peacebuilding Commission.
Romania  unreservedly  supports  the  establishment  of
such a body.
reforming 
to 
Six decades after the United Nations was created,
basic  human  rights  and  liberties  are  still  infringed
around  the  world.  In  Romania(cid:146)s  own  neighbourhood,
there  still  are  separatist  areas  of  non-law,  such  as
Transdniestria,  where  people  are  not  protected  by  law
or principle.
Often, the most affected are children, women and
persons  belonging  to  minorities.  The  United  Nations
should  not  hesitate  to  activate  available  mechanisms
suited 
take
appropriate measures.
to  addressing  such 
threats  and 
to 
To  conclude,  Romania  believes  that  this  summit
represents a huge political investment of trust and hope
on  behalf  of  our  peoples.  On  this  agreed  transition  to
reform, Romania is ready to embark.
(Gabon) 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by His Excellency the Right Honourable Tony
Blair,  MP,  Prime  Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom  of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
(spoke 
Mr. Blair (United Kingdom): The United Nations
must  come  of  age.  It  must  become  the  visible  and
credible expression of the globalization of politics. The
modern  world  insists  that  we  be  dependent  on  each
other:  we  work  with  each  other  or  we  suffer  in
isolation.
The principles of the United Nations have always
had  a  moral  force.  Today,  they  receive  the  sharper
impulse of self-interest. The terrorist attacks in Britain
on 7 July  2005  have  their  origins  in  an  ideology  born
thousands  of  miles  from  our  shores.  The  proliferation
33
A/60/PV.4
of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons will never
be  halted  outside  of  an  international  consensus  to  do
so.
Failed States, as we know to our cost, fail us all.
For the protection of the environment, the promotion of
international trade, we can do nothing without effective
action together.
When  we  look  with  revulsion,  as  we  should,  at
the  misery  of  the  millions  who  die  in  Africa  and
elsewhere  through  preventable  famine,  disease  and
conflict,  the  urgency  to  act  is  driven  not  just  by
conscience  but  by  an  inner  sense  that  one  day,  if  we
refuse to act, we will reap a dire reward for our refusal.
What  is  more,  humanity  today  is  confident  of  the
values it shares. Give people the chance and they will
always  vote  for  freedom,  always  prefer  tolerance  to
prejudice,  never  willingly  accept  the  suppression  of
human rights and governance by extremism.
So  the  challenge  is  clear.  The  values  are  clear.
The  self-interest  in  upholding  them  together  is  also
clear.
What  must  now  be  clear  is  that  the  United
Nations  can  be  the  instrument  of  achieving  the  global
will of the people. It must give leadership on terrorism.
There  is  not  and  never  can  be  any  justification,  any
excuse, any cause that accepts the random slaughter of
the 
is
responsible, we stand united in condemnation.
it  happens,  whoever 
innocent.  Wherever 
The United Nations must strengthen its policy on
non-proliferation, in particular on how to allow nations
to  develop  civil  nuclear  power,  but  not  nuclear
weapons.
and 
respect 
The  new  Human  Rights  Council  must  earn  the
contempt.  The
world(cid:146)s 
Peacebuilding Commission must become the means of
renewing nations, where war and the collapse of proper
systems  of  government  have  left  them  ravaged  and
their people desolate.
not 
its 
For  the  first  time,  at  this  summit,  we  are  agreed
that  States  do  not  have  the  right  to  do  what  they  will
within  their  own  borders,  but  that  we,  in  the  name  of
humanity, have a common duty to protect people where
their own Governments will not.
And  finally,  stalking  this  summit  like  a  spectre
are  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  struggle
against  global  poverty  will  define  our  moral  standing
34
in the eyes of the future. The Group of Eight, meeting
in Scotland, showed how we redeem our pledge.
I have heard people describe the outcomes of this
United  Nations  summit  as  modest.  And  no  summit
requiring unanimity from 191 nations can be more than
modest.  But  if  we  did  what  we  have  agreed  (cid:151)  on
doubling  aid,  on  opening  up  trade,  on  debt  relief,  on
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria,  on  conflict  prevention  so  that
never  again  would  the  world  stand  by  helpless  when
genocide  struck  (cid:151)  if  we  fulfilled  our  undertakings  at
this summit, our modesty would surprise. There would
be  more  democracy,  less  oppression;  more  freedom,
less  terrorism;  more  growth,  less  poverty.  The  effects
would  be  measured  in  the  lives  of  millions  of  people
who  will  never  hear  these  speeches  or  read  our
statements.  But  it  would,  I  suggest,  be  the  proper
vocation of political leadership, and the United Nations
would live up to its name.
So we should do it.
The  Co-Chairperson
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
Mr.  Balkenende  (Netherlands):  We  are  capable
of  sending  spaceships  to  faraway  planets  in  search  of
life.  But  are  we  sufficiently  smart  and  determined  to
save the lives of innocent children on our own planet?
We live in a world where HIV/AIDS undermines
entire  societies.  We  have  the  knowledge  and  the
resources  to  do  something  about  it.  But  do  we  also
have the political will?
We  live  in  a  world  where  the  prospect  of
devastating climate change confronts us all. The recent
floods  in  the  heartland  of  Europe,  in  China  and,  of
course,  in  this  very  country,  might  be  seen  as  clear
warnings.  One  third  of  my  country,  the  Netherlands,
lies below sea level. We can raise our dykes. But is it
not  high  time  for  us  to  work  together  on  a  real
solution?
We live in an age when our shared values, such as
freedom, justice and respect for all, are under attack by
terrorists. Will we be able to overcome the boundaries
that divide us in the fight against violence and terror?
Poverty,  disease,  pollution, 
and
violence  have  a  worldwide  impact;  and  they  are  all
interconnected.  Let  us  not  make  the  mistake  of
terrorism 
thinking  that  if  threats  are  far  away  they  are  not  our
business.  Such  threats  can  set  off  a  global  chain
reaction  that  will  affect  us  all.  All  of  us  are  equally
vulnerable. Only if we are united can we transform our
world  for  the  better.  Together,  we  are  responsible  for
taking action.
Nevertheless,  we  can  and  should  do  more  to
enhance  our  capacity  to  deal  with  human  rights
violations.  The  Human  Rights  Council  should  be  up
and  running  by  early  2006.  We  need  to  take  the
appropriate steps to make the Council a truly effective
tool to promote and protect human rights.
A/60/PV.4
In  2000,  we  promised  the  world  that  we  would
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).
Now the time has come to fulfil that promise.
As political leaders we must have the courage to
choose  a  model  for  international  partnership  that  does
justice  to  the  tasks  confronting  us.  We  need  an
effective,  multilateral  system  with  clear  commitments
and rules, and strong institutions. That alone will give
us the chance to make the world more secure, just and
humane.
Rather than pretending that the United Nations is
some entity distinct from us Member States, we should
acknowledge  that  the  Organization  is  (cid:147)us(cid:148)  and  that
together we determine whether or not it is an effective
tool. If we do not want the United Nations to be a lame
duck, we must dare to give it the wings to fly.
Multilateralism works. Whenever we join forces,
we  help  people  to  live  their  lives  in  dignity,  freedom
and peace. I applaud the efforts made so far in the run-
up  to  this  summit.  In  many  respects,  the  outcome
document presented to us today presents much needed
progress.  In  other  areas,  however,  we  clearly  must  be
more ambitious.
establishment 
We  welcome 
the
Peacebuilding  Commission  to  deal  with  conflicts  in  a
more  structural  way.  Also,  I  applaud  our  readiness  to
this
address  deficiencies 
the  management  of 
Organization.  We  are  equally  pleased  with 
the
reaffirmed ambitions on development cooperation.
of 
the 
in 
We  welcome  the  recognition  in  the  document  of
the  important  contribution  of  the  private  sector  and
civil society to our common objectives. Public-private
partnerships are  an  effective  and  indispensable  tool  in
combating  poverty.  Let  us  put  these  lofty  principles
into  practice.  We  can  do  it.  Together  with  the  private
sector,  for  example,  the  Netherlands  and  Ghana  will
take up an idea of the Hunger Task Force to support a
school  feeding  programme  that  will  increase  school
enrolment,  reduce  hunger  and  strengthen  the  local
economy.  Examples  such  as  this  one  show  that  it  is
possible to bring the MDGs within reach.
Equally  pressing  is  the  need  to  enhance  the
credibility  of  the  multilateral  mechanisms  in  the  field
of non-proliferation. The document(cid:146)s deafening silence
on  this  issue  undermines  the  credibility  of  the  United
Nations.
No  country  in  the  world  (cid:151)  no  matter  how
powerful  (cid:151)  can  achieve  these  results  alone.  We  must
do  it  together.  The  key  question  is:  are  we  able  to
combat  poverty,  disease,  environmental  degradation,
terrorism and violence?
The answer is: yes, we are. So now, let us act. It
is  time  to  deliver,  for  the  sake  of  our  children  and
grandchildren.
(Gabon) 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French): The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Owen Seymour Arthur, Member of
Parliament,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance
and Economic Affairs of Barbados.
(spoke
Mr.  Arthur  (Barbados):  Today  we  gather,  as  a
family of nations, to take stock of the progress that has
been made in fulfilling the commitment that was given
as part of our celebration of the start of a new century,
to  bring  about  a  dramatic  improvement  in  the  human
condition everywhere.
It is important that this meeting does not become
just a theatre of the absurd, an occasion for expressing
anger at what has not been achieved and for giving new
commitments  that  we  know  we  will  not  honour.  It  is
time that we began to hold some common ground and
use  it  as  a  beachhead  from  which  to  launch  our  drive
for progress.
Almost  exactly  one  year  ago,  Hurricane  Ivan
devastated Grenadian society. Today the United States
of America is coming to terms with the enormity of the
destruction inflicted on its southern states by Hurricane
Katrina.
It  is  therefore  highly  significant  that  in  a  world
where  we  talk  about  developed  and  developing,  the
undiscriminating  forces  of  nature  render  us  all  equal
and point to our common fragility and humanity.
35
A/60/PV.4
These recent events have thereby highlighted our
interdependence, reinforced the need for sustained and
effective  international  cooperation  and  have  placed
before us, forcibly, the need to carry out a programme
for global development to stop poor people from being
poor, no matter where they live.
that  we  have 
They  also  highlight 
the  unnecessary  and
unsavoury  dilemma 
imposed  on
ourselves,  because  with  today(cid:146)s  technology,  financial
resources  and  accumulated  knowledge,  humanity  has
the capacity to overcome extreme deprivation. Yet, the
international  community  allows  poverty  to  destroy
lives  on  a  scale  before  which  the  impact  of  all  of  the
world(cid:146)s natural disasters pales into insignificance.
It  is  unconscionable  that  we  should  have  to
continue to live in a world that consists of a permanent
coalition of  (cid:147)unequals(cid:148)  (cid:151)  the  fabulously  rich  and  the
desperately poor. It is especially unacceptable that the
principal  agents  of  international  cooperation  (cid:151)  trade
and aid (cid:151) should be used as instruments to perpetuate
underdevelopment. The world can do better. The issues
at  the  core  of  global  development  have  nothing  to  do
with means; they have to do with morality. We feel that
this occasion should be one not only for recommitment
to  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  as
narrowly defined, but also for a new commitment to a
process  of  compassionate  global  development  that
draws upon the best values known to humanity.
Five years ago, Barbados wholeheartedly adopted
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which
gave  expression  to  the  substance  of  the  Millennium
Declaration.  We  accepted  those  goals  not  as  new
international tests to be passed, but as an inspiration to
reach for higher social and economic heights.
We therefore propose not just to meet the Goals,
but to exceed them. To that end, we have woven them
into  our  national  strategic  plan  for  the  next  20  years.
We, however, entertain no illusions about the difficulty
we will experience in meeting these Goals.
Though  small,  our  nation  has  attained  a  human
development  index  that  puts  us  ahead  of  countries  in
the European Union. The price we have had to pay for
this  is  to  have  access  to  aid  and  development  finance
denied to us at an early stage in our development. We
are therefore largely on our own as the financier of our
development programmes. At the same time, we can no
longer  plan  our  national  development  on 
the
36
expectations  of  enjoying  preferential  access  to  the
markets of the world.
trade 
This  double-edged  challenge  posed  by 
the
reduction  in  our  access  to  financial  resources  and  the
demands  of 
liberalization  has  drastically
transformed the environment within which our national
development takes place. It, however, does not deter us
from  believing  that  we  can  attain  full  development;
rather it causes us to look to new means and devices by
which that full development can be attained.
Similarly,  we  believe  that  the  state  of  the  global
society  requires  us  to  look  to  new  means  by  which
global economic and social progress can be attained.
In  that  regard,  permit  me  to  suggest  that  the
MDGs will only be achieved if the eighth Millennium
Goal  of  a  global  partnership  for  development  is  fully
addressed. Barbados believes that it is vitally important
for  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  to  be  used  by
heads of State or Government to reaffirm commitment
to  the  global  partnership  for  development  in  the
Millennium Declaration, the Monterrey Consensus and
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation.  This  calls
for 
increased  and  more  predictable  resources;  a
comprehensive,  sustainable  and  development-oriented
solution  to  the  debt  problem;  the  promotion  of  a
universal, open and fair multilateral trading system and
a global governance system that not only allows for the
full and effective participation of developing countries
in  international  economic  decision-making,  but  also
manages  world  economies  in  a  manner  that  would
distribute  more  equitably 
the  world(cid:146)s 
resources.
Anything less will find us wanting by 2015.
The  Barbados  economy  is  now  largely  a  coastal
economy.  Like  many  other  small  island  developing
States,  Barbados  faces  a  high  degree  of  vulnerability
occasioned  by  climate  change,  climate  variability  and
other  phenomena  such  as  the  increased  frequency  and
intensity of natural disasters.
for 
The  Mauritius  Strategy 
the  Further
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action
clearly  identifies  the  key  areas  that  need  to  be
addressed  to  help  such  small  island  developing  States
respond  to  these  and  other  sustainable  development
challenges. The compassionate development of which I
spoke  earlier  requires  that  our  development  partners
assist  small  island  developing  States  in  getting  easier
and more effective access to the financial resources and
appropriate  technologies  needed  as  well  as  assistance
in developing human and institutional capacity.
that 
The  Government  and  the  people  of  Barbados
have  a  vision  to  transform  Barbados  into  a  fully
developed  country;  a  model  democracy 
is
prosperous,  productive,  peaceful,  socially  just  and
inclusive;  a  centre  for  high-quality  services  whose
standards of excellence are global but at the same time
rooted in our best traditions. We have made substantial
progress  in  each  of  these  spheres.  Throughout  this
endeavour  we  will  count  on  the  solidarity  of  like-
minded  alliances,  and  we  have  the  fullest  hope  in  the
shared  responsibility  of  multilateralism,  of  which  this
Organization, the United Nations, must be the core.
(spoke 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bertie  Ahern,  TD,
Prime Minister of Ireland.
The  Co-Chairperson 
(Gabon) 
Mr.  Ahern  (Ireland): Ireland(cid:146)s  support  for  the
United Nations is unwavering. We have always placed
the  United  Nations  at  the  very  centre  of  our  foreign
policy. Many Irish soldiers have served under the blue
flag, and many have sacrificed their lives in that noble
service.
is,  and  will 
The  United  Nations 
remain,
fundamental to the pursuit of global justice, prosperity
and  security.  Yet  all  of  us  here  know  that  the  United
Nations must change. Of course, its failures are mainly
the result of our failures. Too often in recent years, we
have  not  mustered  the  will  and  resources  (cid:151)  the
courage (cid:151) to match the determination of the founders
of  the  United  Nations  to  save  succeeding  generations
from the scourge of war.
The many successes of the United Nations make
our  failures  (cid:151)  failures  which  have  at  times  been
catastrophic  (cid:151)  all  the  more  inexcusable.  That  is  why
what  we  have  agreed  is  so  important.  It  does  not
achieve  all  that  Ireland  and  many  others  would  have
hoped  for.  I  regret 
the  Secretary-General(cid:146)s
ambitious  vision  has  not  yet  been  fully  realized.  But
significant progress has been achieved in several areas,
and  we  have  established  a  demanding  agenda  for  the
future.
that 
Reform must continue, and change must happen.
The realities of our world demand it.
Globalization  has  brought  enormous  benefits.
More people have been lifted out of extreme poverty in
A/60/PV.4
the  past  decade  than  at  any  time  since  the  United
Nations  was  founded.  But  globalization  also  has  its
dark  side.  We  see  the  spread  of  deadly  infectious
diseases.  We  see  terrorists  and  organized  criminals
exploiting  a  more  open  world.  And  along  with
economic 
environmental
degradation and climate change.
growth 
come 
have 
And  globalization  has  left  over  2  billion  people
behind:  people  who  bear  the  brunt  of  conflict,  of
disease, of grinding poverty.
The 
links  among  development,  security  and
human  rights  are  clear  and  inescapable.  It  is  no
coincidence  that  many  of  the  countries  furthest  from
reaching the Millennium Development Goals are those
most  affected  by  conflict  and  by  the  abuse  of  human
rights.
We  live  in  a  world  where  the  clear  distinction
between  conflict  among  States  and  conflict  within
States  has  become  blurred.  Recently,  threats  to  peace
have  arisen  mainly  from  internal  strife,  and  those
threats,  as  we  have  seen  to  our  cost,  do  not  stop  at
national borders.
We are all sovereign States, with sovereign rights
and  responsibilities.  But  where  those  responsibilities
are not exercised to protect citizens from gross abuses
or  genocide,  others  must  assume  them  through  the
United Nations, including, if all else fails, by military
force.  We  have  rightly  committed  ourselves  never  to
allow  events  such  as  those  that  took  place  in  Rwanda
and Srebrenica to happen again.
Where  countries  have,  with  our  help,  taken  the
first  steps  out  of  conflict,  we  cannot  leave  them  on
their  own.  I  welcome  therefore  the  agreement  to
establish  a  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  to  have  it
up and running by the end of this year.
We  must  intensify  our  common  efforts  to  deal
to  conclude  a
with  terrorism  and  move  quickly 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
The  Treaty  on  the  Non-proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons is of special importance to Ireland as its first
signatory. The Treaty(cid:146)s twin goals of disarmament and
non-proliferation  reinforce  each  other.  I  deeply  regret
the  failure  to  make  any  progress  on  this  occasion.
However,  Ireland  will  continue  working  to  strengthen
the Treaty.
37
A/60/PV.4
Let us quickly make a reality of the new Human
Rights Council. We will work to make it fully effective
in the promotion and protection of human rights.
The United Nations must become more efficient.
Its  Secretariat,  agencies  and  staff  must  be  fully
accountable.  The  Secretary-General  has  to  have  the
authority  and  flexibility  to  manage  the  Organization
and to devote resources to where they are most needed.
It  is  not  fair  to  deny  him  this  and  then  to  blame  him
when things go wrong.
the  Millennium  Summit, 
It  is  an  affront  to  our  common  humanity,  five
years  after 
that  30,000
children die each day from easily preventable diseases,
or that 100 million people go to bed hungry, or that 100
million children are not receiving a basic education.
Ireland  is  not  a  silent  witness  to  this  continuing
tragedy. Over the past five years, my Government has
more  than  doubled  Ireland(cid:146)s  official  development
assistance 
to
(cid:128)545  million.  Indeed,  since  coming  into  office  my
Government has tripled ODA.
from  (cid:128)254  million 
(ODA)  (cid:151) 
Today  I  commit  Ireland  to  reaching  the  United
Nations target of 0.7 per cent. This will be achieved by
2012,  three  years  earlier  than  the  agreed  European
Union  target  date  of  2015.  Given  current  economic
projections, this will mean a tripling of Ireland(cid:146)s ODA
above  current  levels.  Our  commitment  is  demanding
but achievable. And it will be achieved.
As the first milestone on the way to reaching the
United  Nations  target,  I  commit  the  Government  to
significantly 
increasing  our  official  development
assistance  in  the  next  two  years  in  order  to  reach  an
interim target of 0.5 per cent of our GNP in 2007. This
means  that  we  will  spend  (cid:128)658  million  next  year  and
(cid:128)773  million  on  official  development  assistance  in
2007.
Quantity  is  important,  but  so  also  is  quality.
Ireland is one of the very few donors all of whose aid
is  untied.  Our  aid  will  remain  untied.  Our  aid  is
effective aid.
The new money will support new activities.
First,  next  year,  Ireland  will  double  its  spending
on  the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  to  (cid:128)100  million.  This
builds  on  the  commitment  I  gave  here  in  2001  to  put
the  battle  against  HIV/AIDS  at  the  very  centre  of  our
programme.
38
Secondly, the new resources will allow Ireland to
respond  more  quickly  and  effectively 
to  major
humanitarian emergencies. We will work in partnership
with 
the  United  Nations  and  non-governmental
organizations to bring relief to victims and to tackle the
root causes of hunger.
Thirdly,  we  will  support  the  United  Nations  in
creating  the  new  fund  to  promote  democratic  values
throughout  the  world.  People  want  to  help  but  they
want to be sure their money is being properly used. To
ensure  that  public  support  for  aid  remains  strong,  we
must  work  with  developing  countries  to  improve
governance, 
increase
transparency and stamp out corruption.
promote 
human 
rights, 
And,  finally,  we  know  from  our  own  experience
that  reducing  poverty  needs  strong  economic  growth
and  a  vibrant  private  sector.  We  will  work  together
with Irish industry and partner companies in Africa to
promote trade, investment and technology transfer.
By committing to the 0.7 per cent target, Ireland
will spend up to (cid:128)8 billion on helping to tackle poverty
and  alleviate  poverty  in  some  of  the  world(cid:146)s  poorest
countries. By any standards this is a huge commitment
on behalf of the Irish people, but I know that they, and
especially the young people, will welcome it.
Gathered here, we have pledged to take action to
make  the  world  more  secure  and  more  just.  Now  we
must follow through. We have taken a step forward, but
there is a long road still to travel.
The Co-Chairperson (Gabon) (spoke in French):
The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His
Excellency The Honourable Winston Baldwin Spencer,
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of
Antigua and Barbuda.
the  world 
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Exactly
four years ago this past Sunday the 9/11 terrorist attack
on  America  united 
in
compassion. Today this sixtieth session of the General
Assembly is taking place in a nation again traumatized.
Our hearts go out to those unfortunate Americans  and
citizens  of  other  countries  who 
lost  everything,
including loved ones, in the devastation that Hurricane
Katrina has wrought.
in  horror  and 
Fortunately  for  Katrina(cid:146)s  surviving  victims,  a
silver lining has broken through the dark clouds of the
Gulf Coast disaster. Sadly, the underprivileged in poor
countries have no hope for any silver lining to brighten
their  permanently  bleak  existence.  Adversity  is  the
dominant 
their
expectations.
their  existence  and 
feature  of 
There  could  be  a  silver  lining  for  that  global
underclass. This would happen if the riveting television
images of the ongoing agony of Katrina(cid:146)s victims could
ignite  among  all  nations  and  among  all  peoples  the
recognition  that  we  all  share  the  duty  to  be  our
brothers(cid:146) keepers.
to 
the 
It  would  be 
immeasurable  good  of
humankind  if  members  of  this  family  of  nations
assembled  for  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  could
embrace  this  shared  responsibility.  It  should  also
underline  the  imperative  for  comprehensive  United
Nations  reform  that  would  make  this  Organization
more responsive (cid:151) and more timely in its response (cid:151)
to  the  vulnerabilities  of,  and  pervasive  threats  to  the
poor in its smaller, developing Member States.
Should  we  fail  to  respond  in  this  fashion,  we
would  condemn  ourselves  to  history(cid:146)s  verdict  that
when  called  upon  we  would  all  be  guilty  of  failing
humanity.  That  is  a  charge  that  we  must  not  permit
history to levy against us.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  a  small,  twin-island
nation  of  approximately  85,000  people.  An  estimated
thirty-five  percent  of  our  population  is  immigrant,  the
vast  majority  of  non-natives  being 
from  sister
Caribbean  countries  to  whom  we  opened  our  borders
when 
they  faced  economic  distress  and  natural
disasters.
In  consequence  of  this,  social  and  economic
development 
for  a
developing nation shouldering a debt burden out of all
proportion to our economic capacities.
increasingly  challenging 
is 
rising  energy  costs  on  our 
We  recognize,  nonetheless,  that  we  live  in  a
global and interdependent world, in which no State can
impact  of
stand  alone.  The  current  crippling 
continually 
fragile
economies is a current case in point. Venezuela(cid:146)s offer
of stable fuel supplies on concessionary terms through
the  PetroCaribe  Initiative  is  therefore  a  timely  and
welcome  intervention  for  member  countries  of  the
Caribbean Community.
These and other issues highlight the need for the
expansion  of  the  partnership  between  developed  and
developing countries.
A/60/PV.4
the 
agreed 
official 
Meeting 
development
assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  GNP,  including
within  the  context  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy,  must  be
addressed  if  small  States  are  to  devise  strategic
infrastructural 
sustainable
development and competitiveness.
mechanisms 
for 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  like  other  members  of  the
Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States,  has  limited
options  for  trade  in  a  globalized  world.  We  lack  the
factors  required  for  a  viable  manufacturing  base.  Our
principal  economic  options  are  tourism  and  financial
services,  and  in  the  case  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,
Internet gaming.
It  is  thus  not  difficult  to  grasp  Antigua  and
Barbuda(cid:146)s  compelling  need  to  seek  World  Trade
Organization  intervention  in  the  dispute  with  the
United  States  of  America  regarding  Internet  gaming.
Internet gaming is one of the limited available options
through  which  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  as  a  small
developing State, can bridge the digital divide and use
information  and  communications  technology  as  an
instrument of economic development.
that  continues 
Rendering  Antigua  and  Barbuda  poorer  by
unlawfully  denying  market  access  to  Internet  gaming
will  not  make  the  United  States  richer.  Forgiving  the
disproportionate  debt 
to  cripple
developing economies will not make creditor countries
poor.  Deporting  hardened 
to
vulnerable Caribbean societies will not make America
or  any  OECD  country  safer.  Enabling  developing
nations  to  access  vitally  needed  pharmaceuticals  at
rates reasonably close to the cost of production will not
put transnational drug companies out of business.
convicted 
felons 
Last October, just seven months after our election
to our first term of office, the Government of Antigua
and  Barbuda  enacted  an  unprecedented  trilogy  of
integrity  legislation,  comprising  an  Integrity  in  Public
Life  Act,  a  Prevention  of  Corruption  Act  and  a
Freedom  of  Information  Act.  We  are  convinced  that
transparency, 
in
government  are  fundamental  to  economic  and  social
development.
accountability 
integrity 
and 
Without  prompt  solutions  to  the  debt  obligations
targeted
of  small  and  vulnerable  economies, 
eradication  of  poverty  will 
remain  an  elusive
Millennium  Development  Goal.  A  reformed  United
Nations 
special
therefore,  devise 
system  must, 
the 
39
A/60/PV.4
mechanisms  to  reduce  the  debt  burdens  of  low  and
middle-income countries.
An  area  of  immediate  potential  for  small  States
would be assistance  from the international  community
in 
and
communications technology.
capacity-building 
information 
in 
As  small-island  developing  countries  of 
the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, Antigua and
Barbuda  and  our  immediate  neighbouring  islands  face
the  challenges  of  very  limited  land  space,  fragile
ecosystems,  and  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters  and
the effects of climate change.
Compounding  these  challenges  is  our  heavy
dependence on the natural environment to support our
tourism industry, the lifeblood of the economies of our
nations.
Threats  to  our  natural  environment  are  therefore
threats to our very existence. We contribute the least to
the  causes  of  climate  change,  yet  we  suffer  the  most
from its effects.
The  devastation  wrought  by 
increased
intensity  of  hurricanes  can  set  back  our  development
efforts by decades, and has indeed done so.
the 
As  we  continue  to  invest  in  development  of  our
human  capital,  HIV/AIDS  continues  to  eat  away  at
those  investments.  We  need  the  cooperation  of  our
international  partners  to  gain  access  to  health-care
resources.
A  reformed  United  Nations  system  must  be
empowered  with  the  necessary  financial  and  technical
resources  to  assist  its  Member  States  in  the  fight
against  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  the  distribution  of
anti-retroviral  drugs  and  the  necessary  resources  for
prevention programmes.
Its 
reform 
The  United  Nations  plays  a  crucial  role  in
international  peace  and  security. 
is
unavoidable in order to meet today(cid:146)s global challenges.
Antigua and Barbuda fully believes that in order
to  respond  to  global  threats  and  challenges,  United
Nations  reform  must  be  multifaceted.  It  must  be
achieved through a process of democratic deliberations
designed to achieve a consensus.
Reforms must take into consideration the goals of
developing countries, which make up two thirds of its
membership.
40
It  is  my  country(cid:146)s  hope  that  the  60th  session  of
the  General  Assembly  will  achieve  reform  through
unity  and  in  the  long-term  interest  of  the  membership
of the United Nations.
in  whose  names 
I  trust  that  these  reflections  will  remind  all
this  High-level  Plenary
nations 
Meeting  was  convened 
these  United
Nations the obligation falls to the bigger brother States
to be their smaller brothers(cid:146) keepers.
that  among 
The  Co-Chairperson
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  Ahmad  Badawi,  Prime
Minister of Malaysia.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
that 
in  writing 
Mr. Badawi: Sixty years ago, the founders of the
this
United  Nations  pledged 
Organization should save succeeding generations from
the  scourge  of  war,  reaffirm  the  dignity  of  the  human
person,  uphold  international  law  and  promote  social
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.
Indeed,  much  has  been  achieved  but  much,  but
much more remains to be done. Why are we continuing
to  witness  many  wars  in  our  times?  Why  do  we
continue to see human rights trampled with impunity?
Why do States continue to commit serious breaches of
international  law?  Why  are  hundreds  of  millions  of
people still living in poverty and indignity?
Yet our best hopes still lie with this Organization.
Let  us  therefore  write  another  solemn  pledge  on  this
occasion,  to  put  forth  honest  efforts  and  to  take  the
necessary steps to reform the United Nations so that it
can truly serve the purposes for which it was intended.
the  most
fundamental  objective  to  be  achieved  in  any  reform
and renewal of the United Nations system must be the
protection and enhancement of multilateralism.
Malaysia  holds 
the  view 
that 
I  am  aware  of  the  growing  consensus  towards
accepting  that  the  existing  provisions  of  the  United
Nations  Charter  regarding 
the  use  of  force  are
sufficient  to  address  the  full  range  of  security  threats;
that the only issue remaining is how to ensure that the
use  of  force  is  applied  only  as  an  instrument  of  last
resort.
However,  any 
recognition 
sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference.
to  Charter  principles  pertaining 
intervention  must  give  due
to
While  the  Security  Council  would  appropriately
be  the  body  to  take  decisions  on  these  matters,  it  is
Malaysia(cid:146)s  view  that  provision  must  also  be  made  for
the General Assembly to have an oversight role in this
critical matter of the use of force to deal with threats to
international security.
is 
Malaysia 
convinced 
effective
multilateral  system,  centred  upon  an  appropriately
empowered  General  Assembly,  is  our  best  guarantee
against the exercise of absolute power or disregard for
international law.
that 
an 
We note that here is also a growing consensus to
accept  the  justifiability  of  the  use  of  force  to  protect
civilian  populations  from  crimes  against  humanity,
such as genocide and ethnic cleansing. I should like to
say that it is equally a crime against humanity to allow
poverty  and  deprivation  to  persist  in  these  modern
times.  How  can  we  continue  to  stand  by  while  eight
million people around the world die each year because
they are too poor to stay alive?
There are over one billion people  (cid:151)  that is, one
in  every  six  people  around  the  world  (cid:151)  who  live  in
extreme poverty, subsisting on less than one dollar per
day.
Poverty  has  deprived  more  than  100  million
children of the opportunity of going to primary school.
In  this  connection,  a  high  premium  must  be
placed  on  providing  educational  opportunities  and  on
the  capability  of  people  to  have  access  to  education.
Education and the power of knowledge are the greatest
equalizer  among  individuals  in  a  society  and  the
greatest  leveller  that  can  bridge  the  prosperity  gap
among the nation States in this globalized world.
The United Nations is best placed to play the lead
role in embarking upon a capacity-building programme
specifically earmarked to eradicate poverty. We should
never  renege  on  our  commitments  to  achieve  the
Millennium Development Goals.
I  come  now  to  my  final  point,  which  is  why  we
fight
and
need  effective  multilateralism 
terrorism 
manifestations.
successfully 
to 
forms 
in  order 
all 
its 
in 
First and foremost, terrorism must be condemned.
However, 
the  fight  against
terrorism  requires  the  widest  possible  collaboration
the  global  scope  of 
A/60/PV.4
among all countries. It is only the United Nations that
can galvanize such a huge undertaking.
We  must  know  the  motives  of  terrorists  in  order
to identify the root causes of their actions. These could
be  political  injustice,  the  denial  of  human  rights,  a
brutish 
in  pervasive  poverty  or
something else yet to be uncovered.
life  entrenched 
We must take action to address the root causes so
as to  render  their  motivations  irrelevant.  It  is  possible
to  disrupt,  capture  or  kill 
terrorists.
However,  unless  the  root  causes  are  addressed  and
removed,  new  recruits  will  take  the  place  of  leaders
and  groups  killed  or  destroyed  in  the  fight  against
terrorism.  Terrorists  deserve  neither  compassion  nor
sympathy.  But  we  do  need  to  know  their  minds  and
their mentality.
individual 
We must also maintain a distinction between acts
of terrorism and the right of peoples fighting  for  self-
determination.  It  is  equally  unjustifiable  to  associate
terrorism with any particular race or religion. Terrorists
must  be  singled  out  only  by  their  acts  of  terror  and
nothing else.
Let  me  briefly  refer  to  the  Outcome  Document
before us, which we all know is a text that has finally
emerged after many stages of painstaking negotiations.
Undoubtedly, 
the
document  reflect  many  degrees  of  compromises.  This
means that no one is fully satisfied.
language  and  content  of 
the 
Certainly,  many  issues  remain  unresolved.  Quite
clearly,  therefore,  we  have  much  unfinished  business
on our hands in the months and years to come.
We have really no choice but to make the United
Nations relevant for now and for the future. The causes
of  future  conflicts  may  come  from  a  complex  mix  of
political,  economic  and  strategic  reasons.  The  quests
for prosperity and security may very well intersect. We
must  reform  the  United  Nations  to  make  it  competent
to address the interrelated and cross-cutting issues, and
succeed  in  preventing  future  conflicts.  In  settling
conflicts,  we  want  to  use  the  United  Nations,  but  a
United Nations that is abused is of no use.
(Gabon) 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by His Excellency Mr. Gerard Latortue, Prime
Minister of the Republic of Haiti.
The  Co-Chairperson 
(spoke 
41
A/60/PV.4
Mr.  Latortue  (Haiti)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a
pleasure for me to take the floor at this summit and to
share  with  you  the  concerns  and  the  wishes  of  the
Haitian people on the issues being debated in this Hall.
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate
the  Secretary-General  and  his  team  for  this  excellent
initiative, without which the Millennium Development
Goals  might  well  have  remained  no  more  than  pious
hopes.
On behalf of the people of Haiti, I should like to
thank  the  brother  countries  of  Latin  America,  Europe,
the Middle East, Asia and Africa, who have dispatched
troops as part of the United Nations military and police
contingents 
to
restoring  peace,  stability  and  security  in  my  country.
These  are  essential  prerequisites  for  holding  the  free
and democratic elections that are planned for the end of
this year.
that  are  successfully  contributing 
I  wish  above  all  this  evening  to  dwell  on  the
reform of the structures of this universal Organization
and  the  essential  review  of  the  mechanisms  for
formulating  and  evaluating  cooperation  projects,  and
also 
international  development
assistance.
for  coordinating 
Let  us  begin  with  the  Security  Council.  Haiti
continues  to  support  the  enlargement  of  this  organ
through  the  admission  of  new  permanent  members  to
ensure  a  more  just  and  more  balanced  representation
more  in  line  with  the  realities  of  today(cid:146)s  world.  The
President of Senegal said earlier that if we do not reach
an  agreement  on  a  formula,  then  perhaps  we  should
repair  the  historic  injustice  by  giving  a  position  to
Africa. I support his position, but I should like to add
that  there  has  been  a  dual  historic  injustice  in  respect
of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  countries,  which
likewise  are  not  represented  in  the  Security  Council
with a permanent seat. I should also like to express my
deep  conviction  that  the  selection  criteria  for  the  new
members  should  not  be  just  their  economic,  financial
or  military  power.  I  believe  that  any  country  that
observes the rules of good governance, respects human
rights and ensures free elections should also be eligible
for a permanent seat on the Security Council.
With  regard  to  the  General  Assembly,  I  believe
that it is important for it to play a much more important
role as a decision-making body. We will not reach this
goal by continuing to view the resolutions adopted  by
the  General  Assembly  as  a  catalogue  of  good
42
intentions.  It  is  time  for  a  greater  balance  to  be
established between the powers of the Security Council
and those of the General Assembly.
What interests me most about this summit is that
it  is  an  opportunity  to  speak  in  a  friendly  way,  but
frankly  and  objectively,  of  the  shortcomings  of  the
United  Nations  system  with  regard  to  the  machinery
for providing, managing and coordinating development
aid. A strengthened Economic and Social Council with
a better structure and significantly enhanced resources
should be able to contribute to a more effective system
of international development assistance.
little 
in 
the  way  of 
I should like to take an example, that of my own
country, a founding Member of the United Nations and
almost  the  first  developing  country  to  enjoy  United
Nations  assistance.  However,  this  assistance  has  left
very 
tangible  results.  The
Rosenberg Mission was sent to Haiti from 1948-1950,
and  its  mission  report,  entitled  (cid:147)Mission  to  Haiti,(cid:148)  is
still  the  authoritative  reference  document  on 
the
problem of development in my country. However, after
more  than  fifty  years  of  cooperation  with  the  United
Nations,  there  is  still  very  little  sign  of  all  this
assistance  that  we  have  received  over  the  years.  Our
infrastructure  is  still  in  poor  condition,  our  roads  are
crumbling, electricity is still  a luxury out  of  reach  for
most of the population, more than half of Haitians are
illiterate  and  there  are  many  other  problems,  even
worse than these. It is true that bad governance by the
Haitian leaders is partially responsible for this state of
affairs, but the international community must also call
itself into question, engage in self-criticism and seek to
develop a culture of efficiency.
And  we  must  begin  by  putting  an  end  to  this
sterile  competition  amongst  United  Nations  agencies,
and  between  them  and  other  bilateral  and  multilateral
organizations.  We  wish  for  a  sweeping  review  of
cooperation  policies  and  of  the  distribution  of  official
development  assistance.  We  understand  that  donors
have  a  political  interest  in  planting  their  flag  on  each
project  that  they  finance.  But  when  they  do  so  to  the
detriment  of  the  goals  pursued  and  at  the  cost  of
positive  results  for  beneficiaries(cid:146)  daily  lives,  the
approach must be changed.
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  ended  my  statement
without  requesting  a  considerable  reduction  in  the
percentage  of  international  assistance  that  goes  to  the
remuneration  of  international  experts.  This  is  possible
if  we  make  greater  use  of  the  qualified,  experienced
human  resources  available  nationally,  which  are
available  both  inside  and  outside  the  beneficiary
countries.
And  finally,  I  should  like  to  make  a  heartfelt
appeal  for  greater  coordination  between  the  United
Nations  agencies  and  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.
Whatever one may say, the latter organizations  do not
seem  to  have  a  conception  of  development  that  can
really  help  our  countries  to  achieve  lift-off.  This
coordination is essential to ensure greater effectiveness
of international cooperation, particularly with regard to
financing for development.
And in talking about financing for development, I
should  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  welcome  the
excellent  initiative  of  Presidents  Chirac  and  Lula  da
Silva,  who  have  proposed  innovative  machinery  for
financing  international  development  assistance.  We
support those proposals and we call upon all those who
can  do  so  to  support  them  in  a  concrete  way  and  to
make them operational as soon as possible.
In  conclusion,  let  me  express  the  hope  that  the
ideas being discussed today will not end up as reports
piling  up  in  drawers  along  with  the  masses  of  other
reports  produced  over  the  years  in  this  prestigious
institution,  but,  on  the  contrary,  that  they  will  give  us
food  for  thought  and  influence  behaviour  and  public
policy choices.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by His Excellency Mr. Albert Pintat Santol(cid:224)ria,
Prime Minister of the Principality of Andorra.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
Mr. Pintat Santol(cid:224)ria (Andorra): Before I begin,
I would like to express, on behalf of the people of the
Principality  of  Andorra,  our  sympathy 
for  and
solidarity  with  those  who  have  suffered  following  the
recent hurricane on the American Gulf Coast.
(continued  in  Catalan;  English  text  provided  by  the
delegation)
This year is the sixtieth anniversary of the United
Nations. It is also the sixtieth anniversary of Hiroshima
and Nagasaki. In the aftershock of the cataclysm of the
atomic bomb, a terrifying truth was revealed: that with
every  technological  leap  forward,  greater  and  more
terrible  dangers  arise.  The  world  recognized  the  need
for the United Nations, not only as a means of curbing
A/60/PV.4
the  dangers  of  our  modem  world  but  also  as  a  forum
for reflection.
It  is  with  the  greatest  respect  and  hope  that  I
appear here today to address the United Nations. For in
today(cid:146)s world, a telephone call or an Internet message
can  take  us  to  the  farthest  reaches  of  the  planet  in  a
split  second.  All  countries  have  become  neighbours.
Any  war,  wherever  it  may  be  taking  place,  affects  us
all directly, just the same as a natural disaster. We are
witnessing the birth of a global sensibility, of an ethical
sense  of  fair  play,  decency  and  solidarity 
that
transcends  national  borders, 
languages  and  even
religions. Like it or not, fear it or accept it, we are all
gradually  merging  into  a  single  entity.  What  type  of
entity  will  this  be?  Will  we  live  in  a  world  where
human  rights  are  universally  recognized?  Where  a
decent  standard  of  living  is  enjoyed  by  all  citizens?
Where medical care is available to everyone who needs
it?  Where  education  is  prized  as  the  foundation  of
spiritual  well-being?  Or  will  we  be 
rent  by
divisiveness, war, terror, misery, and ignorance?
Small  States  are  in  the  majority  amongst  the
Members of the United Nations, and this place gives us
a forum in which our voices may be heard. I say may
be  heard;  since  it  is  true  that  globalized  media
increasingly  control  the  dissemination  of  information.
This makes the United Nations all the more valuable as
a place in which original and courageous ideas can be
proposed.
are 
united 
in 
Many 
countries 
rejecting
isolationism. We know that our borders are very close
to each other. We know and trust our neighbours. The
interconnected  nature  of  the  global  community  comes
as  no  surprise.  Multilateralism 
in  a
globalized world. And for this very reason we must all
support  institutions  such  as  the  International  Criminal
Court.  In  these  uncertain  times,  as  a  new  chapter  in
history  dawns,  we  must  all  commit  ourselves  to
international cooperation in an attempt to create a safer
and more just world.
is  essential 
There is much talk about the reform of the United
Nations. I embrace the concept of reform. Who can be
against  the  improvement  of  such  a  vital  institution  as
the  United  Nations  at  a  time  when  the  world  so
desperately  requires  its  vision  and  its  mission  to
preserve peace?
At the same time, I would like to draw  attention
to  all  those  parts  of  the  United  Nations  system  that
43
A/60/PV.4
the 
Food 
for  example, 
have made such significant contributions over the past
the  United  Nations
half  century; 
Children(cid:146)s  Fund, 
and  Agriculture
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  World
Health Organization, which have all made our world a
better  place.  It  is  remarkable  that  the  United  Nations
has  accomplished  so  much  with  so  few  resources.  Of
course, much remains to be done. We strongly support
Kofi  Annan  in  his  proposed  reforms.  We  believe,  like
him, that these reforms will enhance the credibility of
the  Organization  and  good  governance  within  it,  and
will increase its transparency.
One  of  the  great  achievements  of  the  United
Nations was the adoption of the Universal Declaration
of  Human  Rights  in  1948,  and  we  must  now  support
the  creation  of  a  council  with  powers  to  reinforce  the
implementation  of  human  rights.  Education  must  also
become  our  priority.  It  is  without  a  doubt  one  of  the
essential elements that are necessary to promote human
rights  and  one  of  the  most  effective  tools  for  the
development of humankind.
also 
Andorra 
supports 
gradual
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals.
These  Goals  were  agreed  on  at  a  summit  in  2000.  At
that summit, we committed ourselves to act, not simply
to mouth empty words.
the 
In  this  globalized  and  interconnected  world,
geographic  barriers  no  longer  protect  us,  nor  can  rich
countries  ignore  the  hardships  suffered  in  the  poorest
countries. Not only must we recognize the principles of
social equality, but words must be matched by deeds.
The  abominable  and  unjustifiable  acts  of
terrorism  in  New  York,  Madrid  and  London;  the
genocide  in  Rwanda;  recent  wars  and  conflicts  (cid:151)  all
these  events  have  deeply  troubled  the  international
community. And yet there is still hope in this imperfect
world.
In  a  famous  meditation  written  over  400  years
ago, the Englishman John Donne wrote, (cid:147)No man is an
island,  entire  of  itself;  every  man  is  a  piece  of  the
continent,  a  part  of  the  main.  ...  Any  man(cid:146)s  death
diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; and
therefore never send to know for whom the bell tolls; it
tolls for thee.(cid:148)
Perhaps  we  can  turn  his  remarks  around  and
meditate on life, on the nature of the life that binds us
all.  Countering  hunger,  AIDS 
terrorism,
and 
44
overcoming  poverty;  working  for  more  egalitarian
justice: these are the goals and dreams which unite us
here in this Assembly. Achieving these goals is to live
as  a  human  being  and  ensure  the  certainty  of  a  better
tomorrow. Let us choose life together and continue the
fight, united under the blue flag of hope of the United
Nations.
The  Co-Chairperson
in
French):  The  General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an
address by Her Excellency Begum Khaleda Zia, Prime
Minister of the People(cid:146)s Republic of Bangladesh.
(Gabon) 
(spoke 
Ms.  Zia  (Bangladesh):  We  gathered  here  five
years ago to adopt the Millennium Declaration. We had
faith in the document because it reflected the hopes and
aspirations of our peoples and also the seriousness with
which we wanted to address the issues that confronted
us.  Today,  we  have  an  opportunity  to  review  the
progress made and also chart the way forward to reach
our common goals.
to 
target 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  a  set  of
goals  to  ensure  development,  peace  and  security,  and
human  rights  for  our  peoples.  We  have  set  for
ourselves  a 
the  Millennium
Development  Goals  by  the  year  2015.  I  cannot  agree
more  with  the  Secretary-General  that  it  is  within  our
means to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
We  can  halve  global  poverty  and  stem  the  spread  of
major diseases, promote gender equality and empower
women in 10 years time.
implement 
Progress 
in 
Development  Goals  may  have 
expectations, but we are not totally disheartened.
achieving 
these  Millennium
short  of
fallen 
We 
in  Bangladesh  have 
the  satisfaction  of
achieving two Millennium Development Goals already,
namely  removing  gender  disparity  in  primary  and
secondary schools and ensuring access to safe drinking
water.  Despite  numerous  constraints,  we  have  made
substantive  progress 
in  six  key  socio-economic
development areas.
First,  in  the  last  10  years  we  have  achieved  a
sustained  growth  rate  of  over  5  per  cent  of  our  gross
domestic  product  (GDP).  That  was  despite  the  floods
and  other  natural  disasters  that  so  frequently  visit  our
country.
Secondly, as living conditions have improved, the
incidence  of  poverty  has  fallen  substantially.  Indeed,
our record exceeded that of most developing countries.
The  percentage  of  people 
in
Bangladesh fell from over 70 per cent, in 1971, to less
than 45 per cent, in 2002.
in  poverty 
living 
Thirdly,  food  security  has  improved  in  the  past
few  years.  Having  suffered  from  chronic  food  deficits
in  the  1970s,  Bangladesh  is  now  very  close  to
achieving food self-sufficiency.
Fourthly, we have enhanced our capacity to better
respond to, and manage, natural disasters. Despite last
year(cid:146)s floods, and as a result of people(cid:146)s resilience and
prudent  and  effective  post-flood  economic  measures,
our GDP growth rate was 5.5 per cent.
Fifthly,  there  has  been  gradual  improvement  in
the  physical  quality-of-life  index.  That  has  been
achieved  through  the  Government(cid:146)s  allocation  of  the
highest  amount  of  resources  to  the  education  and
health sectors year after year.
Sixthly,  we  have  had  laudable  successes  in  key
social  sectors.  Bangladesh  has  one  of  the  highest
primary  school  enrolment  rates  in  the  developing
world.  Most  importantly,  we  have  achieved  gender
parity in enrolment at the primary and lower-secondary
levels. The population growth rate has been drastically
reduced,  falling  to  1.47  per  cent  in  2005  from  3  per
cent  in  the  1970s.  The  total  fertility  rate  has  dropped
by 50 per cent, from 6.3 to 3 births per woman over the
last  two  decades.  Infant  mortality  has  decreased  by
over  60  per  cent  since  1980.  The  empowerment  of
women 
pace.  Microcredit
programmes have reached over 12 million people, most
of whom are women.
gathered 
also 
has 
include  ensuring 
We  have  finalized  a  poverty  reduction  strategy
paper  through  wide-ranging  consultations  with  all
stakeholders.  Our  strategies 
the
participation  of  poor  people  and  women  in  economic
development;  promoting  good  governance  and  sound
allocation  of  resources;  improving  the  quality  of
delivery  of  services  (cid:151)  such  as  in  the  areas  of
employment, nutrition, education and health (cid:151) to meet
the basic needs of the people; and ensuring sustainable
development  and  environmental  balance.  At  the  same
time,  we  are  making  determined  efforts  to  strengthen
democratic  institutions  and  ensure  good  governance
and the rule of law. An anti-corruption commission has
been established. The office of the tax ombudsman has
been 
rights
commission will soon be constituted. The separation of
the  judiciary  from  the  executive  branch  is  under  way.
created.  An 
independent 
human 
A/60/PV.4
All  those  initiatives  are  expected  to  have  a  positive
impact on our overall socio-economic development.
The 
forces  of 
intolerance,  extremism  and
violence  have  to  be  tackled  vigorously.  Bangladesh(cid:146)s
unequivocal condemnation of all forms of terrorism is
well known. The root causes that lead to such wayward
behaviour  must  also  be  addressed.  The  problems  of
poverty,  hunger,  disease,  illiteracy  and  environmental
degradation continue to haunt us. If we do not address
those problems effectively now, we will not be able to
contain the tensions and violence around us or build a
peaceful and just tomorrow.
to  achieve 
This  meeting  should  provide 
the  necessary
impetus 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals.  What  we  need  today  is  firm  political  will  to
implement  the  plans  we  have  already  agreed  upon.  In
particular, I appeal to developed countries to fulfil their
commitment  as  clearly  stated 
the
Millennium Development Goals. Let our meeting send
a  strong  signal  that  we  are  willing  and  ready  to
translate action plans into reality. Let our gathering be
remembered  by  posterity  as  the  one  that  made  a
difference in people(cid:146)s lives.
in  goal  8  of 
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His  Excellency  The  Honourable  Lawrence  Gonzi,
Prime Minister of the Republic of Malta.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
in 
together 
to  work 
Mr.  Gonzi  (Malta):  This  gathering  of  world
leaders  constitutes  an  impressive  manifestation  of  our
collective  determination 
the
promotion  of  a  more  peaceful,  just  and  prosperous
global  order.  On  the  one  hand,  this  meeting  is  a
reaffirmation of the trust that  our  peoples  put  into  the
United Nations process in the pursuit of that objective.
At  the  same  time,  this  meeting  is  an  expression  of
concern  at  the  immense  and  growing  challenges  we
face in that regard. We all share the sense of both risk
and  opportunity  that  arise  from  the  contrasts  and
uncertainties of the current global order.
Ours is a time characterized, as never before, by
the  parallel  existence  of  unbounded  wealth  and
unrelievable poverty, of major scientific breakthroughs
and  pervasive  illiteracy,  of  overwhelming  gestures  of
kindness  and  charity  and  of  atrocious  acts  of
wickedness and inhumanity. That mix of contrasts has
the  potential  to  seriously  destabilize  our  societies  and
ways of living. At the same time, however, it contains
within it the germ of remedial and healing action.
45
A/60/PV.4
Each one of us brings to this gathering his or her
society(cid:146)s unique experiences of how those contrasts are
unfolding at the grass-roots level. Some have been the
direct victims of acts of savagery and terrorism; others
of  catastrophic  natural  disasters.  Many  bring  evidence
of  the  ravages  of  poverty,  malnutrition  and  ill-health;
others of the dehumanizing impact  of internal  conflict
and political upheaval.
is 
the 
Malta 
today  experiencing 
influx  of
overwhelming  and  unregulated  immigration  flows,
which  is  in  itself  a  result  of  many  of  the  other
problems.  In  our  case  that  experience  is  all  the  more
unnerving  in  that  it  has  struck  our  small  society  with
unexpected suddenness and magnitude.
The  catalytic  ingredient  to  transform  all  those
challenges  from  threats  into  opportunities  lies  in  the
readiness to take collective action across the board.
In  presenting  his 
initial  proposals  for  our
outcome document, last March, Secretary-General Kofi
Annan  aptly  reminded  that  us  that  the  cause  of  larger
freedom can only be advanced if nations work together.
We  have  before  us  at  this  meeting  a  package  of
proposals which address the cause of larger freedom in
all its dimensions (cid:151) those relating to development, to
security and to human rights. We also have before us a
set  of  proposals  aimed  at  improving  the  effectiveness
and  responsiveness  of  the  United  Nations  as  an
institutional structure.
Together  with  our  partners  in  the  European
Union,  Malta  has  played  an  enthusiastic  and
constructive  role  in  the  preparation  of  the  outcome
document.  On  this  occasion,  I  wish  to  underline  my
firm  commitment  and 
the
Government  and  people  of  Malta  to  the  values  and
principles that we have been promoting throughout the
process.
the  commitment  of 
Many aspects of the outcome document we have
before us reflect the sense of solidarity, the humanistic
spirit and the attachment to the rule of law which need
to underpin international relations.
the  document 
I  will  not  hide  my  feeling  that  we  would  have
to  have  been  even  more
wished 
ambitious  than  it  already  is.  In  particular,  we  would
have  wished  to  see  a  more  forceful  reference  to  the
question  of  impunity,  and  especially  to  the  important
role that is being played by the International Criminal
Court.  We  would  also  have  wished  to  see  more
46
ambitious  sections  on  environment,  on  human  rights
and on disarmament.
At  the  same  time  we  realize  that  the  consensus
that has been achieved on a number of sensitive issues
lays a good foundation for further measures of reform.
There are, in fact, many encouraging examples of how
we can achieve results, at times even against the odds.
One  of  those  was  the  recent  conclusion  of  the
International  Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts
of  Nuclear  Terrorism,  which  I  will  have  the  pleasure
and  honour  of  signing  on  behalf  of  Malta  tomorrow
morning.
long-term 
targets 
are 
cooperation;  we 
and  objectives 
laying 
Enunciations  of  principles  and  adherence  to
values  have  a  necessary  counterpart  in  the  collective
responsibility 
to  undertake  concrete  and  action-
oriented  measures.  Our  outcome  document  has
identified  a  number  of  such  measures.  Discussion  of
many of them will continue through the sixtieth session
of the General Assembly. Among other things, we are
defining 
for
development 
the
institutional foundations for two new organs within the
United  Nations  (cid:151)  the  peacebuilding  commission  and
the human rights council  (cid:151)  and we  are  breaking  new
ground  in  the  areas  of  terrorism  and  of  collective
responsibility.  I  would  therefore  like  to  affirm  today
Malta(cid:146)s  readiness  to  engage  itself  with  vigour  and
determination in the implementation of those measures.
It  is  appropriate  that  this  important  exercise  is
being conducted at a time  when the United  Nations is
commemorating 
its
creation.  Throughout 
the  United
Nations (cid:151) our United Nations (cid:151) has served as a point
of  continuity  and  a  beacon  of  hope.  It  provided
continuity throughout the dark period  of the  cold war.
It  provided  hope 
the  complex  and
transformative decolonization process.
the  sixtieth  anniversary  since 
those  60  years, 
throughout 
Though much has changed in our world over the
last  60  years,  one  thing  has  remained  constant:
mankind(cid:146)s yearning  for peace, dignity and  freedom.  It
is right that, on this occasion, we rededicate ourselves
to the pursuit of that objective.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Driss Jettou, Prime Minister of the
Kingdom of Morocco.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
the  outset 
Mr. Jettou (Morocco) (spoke in Arabic): I should
to  offer  my  most  sincere
like  at 
congratulations 
this
unprecedented  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  their
election.
the  Co-Chairpersons  of 
to 
I also take this opportunity to express our thanks
to Secretary-General Kofi Annan for his generous and
tireless  efforts  to  uphold  the  noble  objectives  of  the
United  Nations  in  response  to  the  aspirations  of  the
international  community.  The  principles  of  equality
among  States,  respect  for  their  sovereignty,  national
unity  and  territorial  integrity,  and  the  settlement  of
disputes by peaceful means, in addition to the need to
refrain  from  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force  and  to
uphold  human  rights  and 
law,  still
represent the cornerstones of any world order.
international 
of 
coexistence.  We 
have 
to  settle 
Morocco strongly believes that the prevention of
conflicts  and  their  settlement  through  peaceful  means
are the most efficient ways to preserve peace between
States and peoples, whatever the nature of the disputes
or  differences  between  the  parties  to  the  conflict,  in
order  to  genuinely  abide  by  and  maintain  the  noble
principles 
always
demonstrated  our  sincere  readiness 
the
artificial  dispute  over  the  Western  Sahara  with  our
neighbours in Algeria, and have demonstrated a strong
desire 
in  an
atmosphere  of  solidarity,  good-neighbourliness  and
fruitful  cooperation,  and  within  the  framework  of  a
strategic approach to placing the Arab Maghreb Union
on strong and sound foundations. We sincerely hope to
be able to end our current dispute once and for all, and
are  looking  forward  to  working  with  our  brothers  and
Maghreb  partners  to  strengthen  cooperation,  stability
and integrated development in our region.
to  develop  our  bilateral 
relations 
in 
in  countries 
For  several  decades  now,  our  country  has  also
contributed  to  international  efforts  to  establish  peace
and  security  in  regions  of  conflict  and  severe  crisis,
particularly 
the  Middle  East.  We  are  also
participating in and contributing to the consolidation of
peace  and  stability 
threatened  by
fragmentation  and  balkanization.  That  is  why  we  now
have  forces  in  the  Congo  and  Haiti,  and  why  we  sent
contingents 
to  Somalia,  Angola  and  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina in the past. The United Nations excellent
record 
is  a  clear
demonstration  that  the  consolidation  of  peace  and
security can guarantee economic growth particularly in
developing and poor countries, and allows them to face
in  peacekeeping  operations 
A/60/PV.4
the  international  crises  that  threaten  humankind  as  a
whole.
to  cooperating  with 
international  community(cid:146)s  engaging 
In that connection, we reaffirm Morocco(cid:146)s strong
commitment 
regional  and
international  parties  in  the  fight  against  the  heinous
scourge  of  terrorism.  We  insist  on  the  importance  of
the 
in  such
cooperation  in  order  to  address  economic  and  social
problems,  overcome  endemic  and  fatal  diseases,  and
face  the  other  problems  that  hinder  the  stability  and
development  of  developing  countries,  especially  in
Africa.
to  vulnerable  populations 
The Kingdom of Morocco is working to give the
profound  hope 
that
international  solidarity  will  move  from  the  phase  of
promises to that of actual fulfilment. To give substance
to those international commitments, and while chairing
the  Group  of  77  and  China  in  2003,  we  strove  to
achieve  the  objectives  we  set  ourselves,  pursuant  to
Morocco(cid:146)s  international  commitments.  We  have  also
adopted  a  modern  family  code  that  ensures  gender
equality,  guarantees  children(cid:146)s  rights,  and  protects
family cohesion and unity. Moreover, we have adopted
a  national  initiative  for  human  development  that  is  in
line with the goals of the new millennium and is based
on  a  comprehensive  vision  and  on  the  principles  of
political  democracy,  economic  efficiency, 
social
cohesion and responsible citizenship (cid:151) all factors that
ensure  the  individual(cid:146)s  integration  into  the  process  of
development.
cooperation 
Morocco is also pursuing tireless action to boost
South-South 
tangible
solidarity  with  our  African  brothers  by  opening  our
markets  to  exports  from  the  least  developed  African
countries, and to alleviate their debts to our country.
and  promote 
The sixtieth anniversary of the United Nations is
an  opportunity  that  we  should  seize  so  we  can  go
forward  in  developing  it  soundly  and  with  fairness,
irrespective  of  the  difficulties  and  obstacles.  Indeed,
the  Organization  is  the  most  effective  forum  for
dialogue and negotiation, for finding suitable solutions
to  complex 
issues,  and  for  building  a  fair  and
multilateral international order.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by
His Excellency Mr. Laurent Dona-Fologo, chairman of
the delegation of C(cid:244)te d(cid:146)Ivoire.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
47
Goals, but we all know that, as the Ivorian adage says,
one  cannot  ask  a  squatting  frog  for  a  chair.  The  frog
squats  because  it  has  no  chair  to  offer.  Today,  C(cid:244)te
d(cid:146)Ivoire,  which  has  been  listed  among  the  emerging
countries of Africa, has been brought to its knees, but
has not yet been felled. We hope that the international
community,  along  with  all  the  good  will  expressed
here, will help us from going under. Our struggle with
regard  to  HIV/AIDS,  literacy,  women  and  children  (cid:151)
in  a  word,  to  the  achievement  of  all  the  Millennium
Development  Goals  (cid:151)  cannot  succeed  without  the
prerequisites of peace nor security.
Our  long  and  bitter  experience  of  war  comes
through  human  error,  stupidity  and  a  mutual  lack  of
understanding.  We  therefore  call  on  the  international
community as a whole to help C(cid:244)te d(cid:146)Ivoire (cid:151) as our
brothers of the Economic Community of West African
States; the African Union, through its mediator  Thabo
Mbeki, whom we commend; and the Secretary-General
of  the  United  Nations  have  done  (cid:151)  to  prevent  the
worst from occurring. We can no longer afford to falter
between democracy, embodied in a legally established
Government,  and  those  who  take  up  arms  in  order  to
seize power.
I  believe 
that 
encourage 
community 
the  United  Nations  and 
the
international 
and  protect
democracy,  and  that  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire  cannot  be  an
exception to that activity. The international community
must  come  to  our  aid,  as  it  is  doing  with  the
deployment of some 10,000 French and United Nations
troops on our territory, in order to avert the worst-case
scenario.  It  is  urgent  that  we  cease  wavering  between
the  rebel  forces  and  the  legal  authority.  I  hope  that
everyone will come to understand that and that, above
all, the international community, with all the means at
its disposal, will stop C(cid:244)te d(cid:146)Ivoire from going under.
The  Co-Chairperson 
in
French):  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker  for  this
meeting.
(Gabon)
(spoke 
The meeting rose at 8.45 p.m.
A/60/PV.4
Mr.  Dona-Fologo  (C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire)  (spoke 
in
French):  The  President  of  the  Republic  of  C(cid:244)te
d(cid:146)Ivoire, Mr. Laurent Gbagbo, has been unable to join
us here today on this great gathering on the Millennium
Development  Goals  and  on  the  occasion  of  our
commemoration  of  the  sixtieth  anniversary  of  the
Organization,  and  he  deeply  regrets  his  absence.  As
Members  know,  our  country,  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire,  is  going
through  a  difficult  time,  and  certain  urgent  tasks  have
kept him at home.
He  has  therefore  asked  me,  humbly  and  on  his
behalf, to convey the greetings of C(cid:244)te d(cid:146)Ivoire to the
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  outgoing
President,  the  Secretary-General  and  all  participants
here.  He  also  sends  his  respects  to  all  his  colleagues,
the heads of State and Government who have been able
to attend.
Previous  speakers  have  eloquently  described  all
the Millennium Development Goals, the hopes invested
in  them,  and  their  aspirations  to  achieve  the  desired
results.  Five  years  ago,  C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire,  like  all  other
countries,  subscribed  to  those  Goals  and  joins  in
welcoming all the efforts made to that end. At the same
time,  we  call  for  greater  solidarity  and  efficiency  in
addressing 
in
particular  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  the  wealthy
countries,  the  Group  of  Eight  and  the  leaders  of
developed  countries,  including  France  through  its
President  Chirac,  the  United  Kingdom  through  Prime
Minister Tony Blair, and the President of Brazil. All of
those  initiatives  are  encouraging  and  deserve  our
support and gratitude.
issues.  We  welcome 
the  pending 
However, failures and disappointments linger, for
example  with  regard  to  the  World  Trade  Organization
and  trade,  where  the  farmers  of  the  South  still  lack  a
level  playing  field  with  those  of  the  North.  That  is
embodied  in  the  issue  of  cotton,  which  remains
contentious. We must have the courage to resolve such
issues if we wish together to shape a better world.
C(cid:244)te  d(cid:146)Ivoire  is  making  its  humble  contribution
to  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development
48
