United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
41st plenary meeting
Monday, 31 October 2005, 3 p.m.
New York

A/60/PV.41
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 2.40 p.m.
Agenda item 84 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency
Note by the Secretary-General (A/60/204)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.13)
Mr. Ng (Singapore): My delegation would like to
congratulate  the  Director  General  of  the  International
Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei,  and  the  IAEA  itself  on  being  jointly
awarded  this  year’s  Nobel  Peace  Prize.  This  award  is
both well deserved and timely. It reflects the important
role the IAEA plays in nuclear non-proliferation.
With  the  increasing  challenges  posed  by  nuclear
proliferation, coupled with the rise of nuclear power as
an energy source, strict conformity to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  to
the  Agency’s  safeguards  obligations  are  crucial.  As  a
member  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  Singapore
will continue to lend its full support to the Agency and
its work.
Over  the  past  few  years,  the  NPT  has  faced
serious  challenges.  This  fact  has  emphasized  the  need
for the Treaty to be underpinned by a strong safeguards
regime.  There  is  now  significant  potential  for  nuclear
proliferation,  given  the  discovery  of  a  sophisticated
and  clandestine  nuclear  procurement  network,  the
spread  of  nuclear  knowledge,  access  to  sensitive
technology  and  the  complications  that  can  arise  from
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy.  While  the  IAEA
protects  the  right  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful
purposes,  it  must  also  ensure  that  such  a  right  is
exercised  in  compliance  with  States’  non-proliferation
obligations  under  article  II  of  the  NPT  and  the  full
implementation  of  IAEA  safeguards,  and  with  the
utmost transparency.
responding 
its  mandate. 
remains  capable  of 
The IAEA has a central role in combating nuclear
proliferation.  It  is  therefore  vital  that  its  safeguards
regime 
to  new
challenges  within 
this  context,
Singapore  supports  the  several  key  initiatives  taken
recently  by  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors.  They
include  the  creation  of  an  advisory  committee  of  the
Board  on  safeguards  and  verification,  establishing  the
Additional Protocol as the new standard for safeguards
verification, and ushering in a modified version of the
Small Quantities Protocol.
In 
enhance 
continue 
to 
and 
cooperation 
As a reflection of our strong commitment to non-
proliferation, Singapore signed the Additional Protocol
on 22 September 2005. In our view, States themselves
also 
must 
enhance
international 
nuclear
proliferation. In this regard, Singapore supports the full
and  effective  implementation  of  Security  Council
resolution  1540  (2004)  which,  inter  alia,  calls  on
United  Nations  Member  States  to  enhance  domestic
controls  and 
the
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  While
legally  binding  multilateralism  should  be  the  basis  of
step  up  cooperation  against 
to 
counter 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-59013 (E)
*0559013*
A/60/PV.41
the  global  non-proliferation  regime,  other  multi-
country  initiatives,  such  as  the  Proliferation  Security
Initiative,  are 
international
counter-proliferation efforts.
important  elements 
in 
I would like next to touch upon the rise of nuclear
energy  as  an  energy  option.  There  is  a  clear  trend
towards  the  use  of  nuclear  power  in  the  developing
world,  particularly  in  Asia,  as  our  energy  needs
increase. Effective nuclear safety and security regimes
must  therefore  be  strongly  emphasized.  Singapore
strongly  commends  and  endorses  the  Agency’s  efforts
to  promote  adherence  to  IAEA  safety  standards  and
guidelines.  We  urge  member  States  to  make  effective
use  of  the  Agency’s  safety  review  services  and  other
forms  of  assistance  to  raise  nuclear  safety  standards
and  uphold  an  effective  nuclear  safety  culture.  It  is
incumbent  upon  States 
regulatory
infrastructures 
that  will  support  credible  national
nuclear safety regimes.
to  establish 
interrelated.  In 
While ensuring nuclear safety ultimately remains
the  national  responsibility  of  States,  the  cross-border
implications of radiological fallout make nuclear safety
very much a transnational concern. Nuclear safety and
security  are  closely 
this  regard,
Singapore  places  a  high  degree  of  importance  on
continued  measures  by  the  IAEA  to  improve  nuclear
security and protection against nuclear and radiological
terrorism.  We  welcome  the  IAEA  Board’s  adoption  in
September of a Nuclear Security Plan for 2006 to 2009.
The 
emergency
preparedness capability, including appropriate regional
cooperation, could not be emphasized more.
to  note 
the
Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  has
expanded  and  improved  its  management  and  delivery
of  technical  assistance  projects.  The  needs-driven
approach adopted by the Agency together with member
States  targets  the  particular  concerns  identified  by
member  States,  while  optimizing 
the  Agency’s
financial resources.
is  also  pleased 
transboundary 
importance 
of 
Singapore 
that 
Singapore firmly supports the Agency’s technical
cooperation  activities.  In  recognition  of  this,  we  have
consistently  contributed  our  full  assessed  share  of  the
IAEA’s Technical Cooperation Fund. The IAEA Board
of  Governors  recently  agreed  in  broad  terms  that  the
prize money awarded to the IAEA for the 2005 Nobel
Peace  Prize  should  be  used  to  fund  the  needs  of
developing  countries  in  the  peaceful  application  of
2
nuclear  energy.  We  fully  support 
that  decision.
Singapore  looks  forward  to  further  cooperation  with
the  Agency 
cooperation
initiatives.
in  bilateral 
technical 
Singapore  will  continue  to  support  the  work  of
the  Director  General  and  the  Agency  in  all  its  three
pillars  of  promoting  nuclear  safety  and  security,
peaceful 
and
technology, and nuclear verification and safeguards.
applications  of  nuclear 
science 
Mr. Sumaida’ie  (Iraq)  (spoke in Arabic):  At  the
outset,  I  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy
Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for  his
presentation of the annual report of the Agency to the
General  Assembly.  We  extend  our  congratulations  to
him  and  to  the  Agency  on  their  earning  the  Nobel
Peace  Prize  through  the  actions  they  have  undertaken
to  spare  humanity  from  the  disasters  that  could  be
caused by the use of weapons of mass destruction. The
IAEA’s  activities  contribute  to  the  establishment  of
peace  in  the  world  and  help  secure  the  benefits  of
sharing  nuclear  technology  internationally  to  achieve
socio-economic development.
to 
Cognizant  of  the  important  role  that  the  Agency
plays,  my  Government  realizes  that  it  must  have  the
funds  necessary  to  support  its  technical  programmes
and  activities  through  payment  by  States  of  their
assessments 
this,  my
Government  has  requested  the  Secretariat  to  transfer
Iraq’s arrears to the IAEA’s fund for the period 1991 to
2005  from  our  money  that  was  deposited  with  the
United  Nations.  This  initiative  is  the  result  of  my
Government’s  interest  in  creating  an  effective  and
supportive role for the activities of the IAEA.
the  budget.  Based  on 
This is the first occasion on which my delegation
has  taken  the  floor  in  the  General  Assembly  to  speak
on  this  item  since  the  collapse  of  the  previous  Iraqi
regime,  whose  relationship  with  the  IAEA  was  often
characterized  by  an  absence  of  understanding  and  by
tension. I can state with confidence that a new era has
begun in the relationship between my Government and
the IAEA, one based on full cooperation, transparency
and  respect  by  Iraq  for  the  commitments  that  it  has
entered 
international  conventions  and
treaties relating to disarmament and non-proliferation.
We  have  taken  a  number  of  new  measures  that
reflect  our  new  attitude.  We  have  established  a
commission  to  control  radioactive  materials,  which  is
into  under 
bury 
sources, 
tighten  border  controls 
based  on  the  IAEA’s  guiding  principles  and  code  of
conduct.  The  Commission  began  work  this  year  on  a
to  control  stocks  of
comprehensive  action  plan 
radioactive 
depleted 
low-grade
radioactive  waste  and 
in
conjunction  with  competent  Iraqi  authorities.  An
institution dedicated to banning the spread of weapons
has  been  established,  as  has,  in  the  Ministry  of  the
Environment,  a  centre  for  radiation  protection,  which
monitors the movement and use of radioactive sources,
including  their  import,  export,  transfer,  purchase,  sale
stockpiling  and  circulation.  The  national  control
service, in the Ministry of Science  and  Technology,  is
implementing  a  continuous  monitoring,  verification
and  inspection  plan  for  controlling  materials  and
equipment of dual usage.
Working with the committee on the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and
disarmament  bodies,  our  National  Security  Council  is
implementing Security Council resolution 1540 (2004),
and we are submitting reports in that regard.
accession 
these
international conventions and treaties to which  we  are
not  yet  party.  During  the  Conference  to  Facilitate  the
Entry  into  Force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty,  held  in  September,  we  expressed  our
intention to accede to that Convention.
considering 
We 
are 
to 
The  National  Assembly  has  added  to  those
measures by incorporating a number of basic principles
into 
the  constitution,  which  was  approved  on
15 October.  The  first  paragraph  states  that  the  Iraqi
Government respects and will abide by its international
commitments  to  ban  the  proliferation,  development,
production and use of nuclear, chemical and biological
weapons. It will also ban the development, production
and  manufacture  of  any  related  equipment,  materials,
technology and delivery systems.
During  the  past  two  years  we  have  succeeded  in
charting  a  course  for  the  Iraq  of  the  future  by
undertaking  a  number  of  projects  that  reject  the
previous  regime’s  attitude  towards  weapons  of  mass
destruction, based on the IAEA’s conclusions that Iraq
is free from nuclear weapons. Those conclusions have
been  supported  by 
teams
indicating  that  Iraq  is  free  from  weapons  of  mass
destruction.  We  have  begun  consultations  and
coordination with members of  the  Security  Council  to
remove  the  sanctions  imposed  by  the  Council  on  the
from  survey 
reports 
A/60/PV.41
previous  regime,  as  set  out  in  the  report  under  the
heading  of  verification  in  Iraq  pursuant  to  Security
Council resolutions.
We would like to take this opportunity to express
our appreciation for the efforts of the IAEA to conduct
its  active  annual  verification  of  nuclear  stocks  in  Iraq
that  are  subject  to  the  comprehensive  safeguards
regime. An Agency delegation conducted a verification
exercise  in  September.  We  also  commend  the  efforts
made  by  the  IAEA’s  Marine  Environment  Laboratory
concerning  the  contamination  resulting  from  ship
wreckage in the Arab Gulf close to the port city of Um
Qasr.
terrorism 
The  spectre  of  nuclear 
threatens
international  peace  and  security.  We  must  remain
cautious  and  make  a  collective  effort  to  prevent
terrorists  and  non-State  actors  from  acquiring  and
using  nuclear  weapons  with  a  view  to  achieving  their
goals.  My  Government  has 
the  necessary
measures  to  prevent  such  threats,  in  accordance  with
international  law  and  relevant  instruments,  including
Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004).  In  this
connection,  we  support  the  measures  taken  by  the
IAEA  in  fostering  nuclear  security  and  in  providing
technical support and assistance to Member States.
taken 
My  Government  is  of  the  view  that  the  nuclear-
weapon  States  must  implement  their  commitments
under  article  VI  of  the  NPT  so  that  complete  nuclear
disarmament can be achieved.
its  nuclear  facilities  under 
We stress the need to establish a nuclear-weapon-
free zone in the Middle East, as well as necessary and
effective machinery to ensure that Israel accedes to the
NPT  and  places 
the
comprehensive  safeguards  regime  of  the  IAEA.  We
urge the international community to arrive at a legally
binding international instrument that includes negative
and  positive  safeguards  and  protects  the  non-nuclear-
weapon States from the threat or use of such weapons.
We also support the conclusion of a convention to
ban radiological weapons. We call upon the Conference
on Disarmament to intensify its efforts to that end.
Ms.  Bahemuka  (Kenya),  Vice-President,  took  the
Chair.
We  will  continue  our  efforts  to  support  the
activities of the IAEA and to strengthen its capacity to
face new challenges.
3
A/60/PV.41
Mrs.  Núñez  de  Odremán  (Bolivarian  Republic
of Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): The delegation of the
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 
the
statement  by  the  representative  of  Uruguay  on  behalf
of MERCOSUR and associated States. We would like,
however, to join in congratulating Mr. ElBaradei on his
re-election  as  Director  General  of  the  International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  as  well  as  on  his
receiving the Nobel Peace Prize.
supports 
We  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to
underline  the  position  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of
Venezuela on a specific case — the nuclear programme
of Iran — and our rejection of resolution GOV/2005/64
of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  of  11  August  2005,
on implementation of the NPT safeguards agreement in
the Islamic Republic of Iran.
As  a  State  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  we  wish  to
reaffirm the need for the universalization of the Treaty.
All  members  of  the  international  community  must
strictly  comply  with  its  norms  in  order  to  ensure  a
world of peace, free of the threat of the unjustified and
destructive use of nuclear weapons. At the same time,
we defend the inalienable right of all States to develop
their  own  systems  to  produce  nuclear  energy  for
peaceful  purposes, 
the
complete  nuclear  fuel  production  and  reprocessing
cycle.
including  with  respect 
to 
recent 
In that connection, we recognize that the process
of  applying  the  safeguards  regime  to  Iran’s  nuclear
programme, carried out by IAEA in 2003, has produced
tangible  results,  as  shown  in  the  Director  General’s
to 
most 
the  Agency’s  Board  of
report 
Governors,  submitted 
in  September  2005.  Those
encouraging  results  —  obtained  with  the  cooperation
of Iran, which voluntarily permitted the application of
the  Additional  Protocol  and  the  temporary  suspension
of  its  nuclear  programme  —  demonstrate  that  the
correct way to conduct a complete investigation of this
case is to address it within the framework of the IAEA,
utilizing  its  technical  capacity  and  the  authority  that
enables  it  to  carry  out  balanced  activities  without  any
political bias.
We  must  stress  that  it  can  be  inferred  from  the
report that there is no evidence that the Iranian nuclear
programme contravenes the NPT or that the obligations
set  out  in  the  Treaty  are  not  being  complied  with
because of the programme. The report affirms the need
4
to provide additional time, but in no way does it imply
that the IAEA’s authority to handle the matter has been
exhausted.
Therefore, Venezuela rejects the proposal to refer
the case to the Security Council, given that there is no
objective  reason  to  justify  such  an  action.  That  would
only  further  politicize  the  issue  and  make  its  timely
resolution  more  difficult.  To  refer  the  issue  to  the
Council  would  mean  that  the  IAEA  would  give  up  on
its mission and that would amount to its agreeing that it
was unable to handle the matter, despite the fact that it
has  been  doing  so  successfully.  Such  an  action  would
be truly contradictory — a sort of self-disqualification
that  would  seriously  compromise  the  IAEA’s  prestige
as a reliable and balanced multilateral body.  In  effect,
the  Agency  would  be  submitting  to  pressures  applied
by other countries that, possessing nuclear technology,
seek to reserve for themselves control over nuclear fuel
and  its  reprocessing  in  order  to  maintain  dependent
relationships, to the detriment of the sovereign right of
all countries to achieve their independent development.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reiterates
its  position  that  the  consideration  of  the  Islamic
Republic  of  Iran’s  nuclear  development  programme
must remain within the framework of the IAEA, on the
basis  of 
the
Government  of  Iran  has  offered  and  can  offer.  This
should  guarantee  for  the  international  community  the
peaceful nature of its nuclear programme.
transparency  measures 
the 
that 
Undoubtedly,  the  relationship  between  the  IAEA
and  Iran  should  continue  to  deepen  with  a  view  to
clearing up all doubts or reservations that may exist. In
that  regard,  we  wish  to  recall  the  proposal  made
recently  in  the  General  Assembly  by  the  President  of
Iran,  to  the  effect  that  public  or  private  entities  from
other countries participate together with his country in
developing  its  nuclear  programme  through  strategic
partnerships.  That  proposal  opens  up  new  avenues
towards  full  transparency  for  the  Iranian  nuclear
programme.
In  conclusion,  our  delegation  reaffirms  once
again the inalienable right of States to develop nuclear
energy  for  peaceful  purposes  within  the  framework  of
the  NPT  and  related  international  norms,  without
political  discrimination  or  discrimination  of  any  other
kind.
Mr.  Dolgov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 
in
Russian):  We  are  pleased  to  welcome  Mr.  Mohamed
ElBaradei,  Director  General  of 
International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  and  to  thank  him  for
presenting the Agency’s annual report.
the 
the 
nuclear 
international 
Russia,  as  an  active  member  of  the  IAEA,  is
satisfied  with  the  Agency’s  highly  professional  work
and  recognizes  its  important  and  increasing  role  in
strengthening 
non-
proliferation  regime  and  in  ensuring  the  level  of
confidence needed for cooperation in the peaceful and
safe  development  of  nuclear  energy  production.  We
fully  share  the  Nobel  Prize  Committee’s  high  esteem
for the role of this international institution. The Nobel
Peace  Prize  awarded  to  the  IAEA  and  its  Director
General  is  clear  evidence  of  the  global  recognition  of
the Agency’s achievements.
The  IAEA  is  a  unique  international  institution
vested  with  powers  to  assess  States’  compliance  with
their  nuclear  non-proliferation  obligations  within  the
framework  of  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons 
further
improvement of the Agency’s verification mechanisms
and 
for 
its  monitoring
functions.
further  development  of 
(NPT).  We  call 
for 
The  particular  urgency  of  stepping  up  effective
international non-proliferation efforts is dictated by the
threat  that  weapons  of  mass  destruction  may  fall  into
the  hands  of  terrorists.  The  continuing  brutal  terrorist
acts — also perpetrated in Russia — underpin the need
to  put  in  place  reliable  guarantees  preventing  the
access  by  terrorists  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction,
particularly by strengthening joint efforts to establish a
global  system  for  countering  new  challenges  and
threats,  especially  in  the  nuclear  field.  The  United
Nations  should,  of  course,  play  a  central  role  in  the
creation of such a system.
Those new challenges underscore the importance
of finding new solutions. We are grateful for the broad
support  for  the  Russian  proposals  concerning  the
drafting of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004) on
the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction
and  the  International  Convention  for  the  Suppression
of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Russia is a participant in
the Proliferation Security  Initiative  and  was  a  sponsor
of 
the  Group  of  Eight  Action  Plan  on  Non-
Proliferation.  Those  documents  must  be  fully  and
strictly 
largely
interrelated  and  should  enhance  the  effectiveness  of
implemented.  The 
initiatives  are 
A/60/PV.41
global non-proliferation regimes in the area of weapons
of mass destruction.
Application  of  the  Additional  Protocol  of  the
IAEA Safeguards Agreement is a pillar of the Agency’s
activities, serving as an innovative tool for ensuring the
transparency  of  national  nuclear  programmes.  We
believe that universalizing the Additional Protocol will
be  one  of  the  international  community’s  crucial  non-
proliferation  tasks  in  the  years  to  come.  The  Russian
Federation  will  continue  to  provide  assistance  in  the
strengthening  of 
system,
including  by 
funding  a  national  programme  of
scientific  and  technical  support  for  the  Agency’s
safeguards initiative.
safeguards 
IAEA 
the 
the 
Russia 
respects 
interest  of  States 
the  area  of  nuclear  energy 
in
developing  peaceful  nuclear  technologies  and  has
cooperated  with  many  countries  in  that  area  for  a
number  of  years.  We  advocate  the  broadest  possible
cooperation 
for
development.  However,  the  use  of  the  peaceful  atom
for the production of nuclear weapons must be reliably
and  safely  prevented.  We  promote  methods  of  nuclear
power  development  that  would  provide  —  as  an
alternative 
sensitive
technologies —  programmes  to  provide  a  reliable
supply  of  nuclear  fuel  on  the  basis  of  international
cooperation.  We  support  multilateral  frameworks  for
practical  cooperation  in  that  regard,  particularly  the
work on this issue carried out within the IAEA.
proliferation 
of 
in 
to 
the 
We believe that the report prepared in early 2005
by  the  International  Nuclear  Safety  Group,  at  the
initiative  of  the  Director  General,  on  a  multilateral
approach  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  opens  up  new
opportunities  for  strengthening  the  nuclear-weapon
non-proliferation  regime  and  for  promoting  nuclear
power  development.  We  call  for  continued  and  more
intensive work by the Agency in that regard.
the 
framework  of 
We  take  note  of  the  Agency’s  contributions  to  a
research study on innovative nuclear reactors  and  fuel
cycles  conducted  within 
the
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors
and Fuel Cycles. We believe that the Project will make
it  possible 
to
prospective  nuclear  technologies  from  the  standpoint
of  the  economic  efficiency  and  the  environmental  and
non-proliferation 
such
technologies.
to  work  out  agreed  approaches 
security  of 
safety 
and 
5
A/60/PV.41
We highly appreciate the progress made in recent
years  in  the  area  of  strengthening  nuclear  security.
Thanks  to  the  IAEA’s  active  involvement,  there  have
been  substantial  achievements  in  terms  of  increasing
the  operational  safety  of  nuclear  power  plans  and
handling  radioactive  materials,  wastes  and  sources.
This year, changes have been made to the Convention
on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material so as to
extend its coverage.
We  support  IAEA  activities  in  the  area  of
technical  cooperation  and  assistance  to  developing
countries.
the  Agency’s  activities 
Madam  President,  allow  me  to  dwell  on  certain
aspects  of 
that  have  a
significant impact on the international community. We
note  with  satisfaction  the  results  of  the  Fourth  Round
of the Six-Party Talks in Beijing, which  concluded on
19  September,  on 
the  Korean
peninsula  nuclear  issue.  We  are  looking  forward  to
further  progress  in  the  six-party  process,  with  the
ultimate  goal  of  denuclearizing  the  Korean  peninsula.
We are in favour of finding a balanced solution to this
problem  that  would  protect  the  legitimate  interests  of
all parties.
the  settlement  of 
We  view  the  resolution  on  the  Iranian  nuclear
programme,  adopted  on  24  September  2005  by  the
IAEA  Board  of  Governors,  as  a  signal  for  continued
and  more  intensive  cooperation  between  the  Agency
and  Iran  to  clarify  the  remaining  issues.  It  is  our
understanding  that  the  Agency’s  potential  is  far  from
being  exhausted,  and  that  allows  us  to  keep  the
settlement process of the Iran issue within the Agency.
We  are  in  favour  of  more  intensive  dialogue  on
this issue among all interested nations. Decisions must
be  developed  that,  on  the  one  hand,  can  remove  all
doubts  about  the  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s  nuclear
activity,  and  on  the  other,  ensure  the  legitimate
requirements  of  that  country.  The  Russian  Federation
will cooperate further to solve that task.
I  wish  to  confirm  our  support  for  General
Assembly  draft  resolution  A/60/L.13,  entitled  “Report
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”.  As  a
sponsor of the draft resolution, the Russian Federation
fully  agrees  on  the  importance  of  the  work  conducted
by  the  Agency  and  is  confident  that  that  work  will
continue  with  a  view  to  strengthening  international
security.
6
like 
Mr.  Lew Kwang-chul  (Republic  of  Korea):  At
the  outset,  my  delegation  would 
thank
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his
informative report on the activities of the Agency. We
also  commend  the  Director  General  and  his  staff  for
their  dedicated  and  diligent  efforts  to  carry  out  their
responsibilities successfully.
to 
Taking  this  opportunity,  we  would  also  like  to
join other delegations in congratulating the Agency and
its Director General for being awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize  this  year.  We  believe  that  this  prestigious
outcome  will  be  recorded  as  irrefutable  proof  of  the
intense  dedication  and  efforts  of  the  Agency  aimed  at
enhancing peace and security of the world by working
to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and enhance
the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Today, my delegation would like to make a brief
statement  on  the  North  Korean  nuclear  issue.  First  of
all,  we  welcome  the  Joint  Statement  adopted  at  the
Fourth  Round  of  the  Six-Party  Talks  in  Beijing  last
September.  We  attach  great 
this
document  as  a  basis  for  achieving  the  common
objective  of  the  verifiable  denuclearization  of  the
Korean  peninsula  in  a  peaceful  manner.  We  also
welcome  the  commitments  made  by  North  Korea  to
abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and  existing  nuclear
programmes  and  to  return,  at  an  early  date,  to  the
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  and  IAEA
safeguards.
importance 
to 
a 
towards 
comprehensive 
It  is  certain  that  the  agreement  reached  at  the
previous  Six-Party  Talks  laid  solid  groundwork  for
progress 
diplomatic
resolution of the issue. My delegation earnestly wishes
that  the  Joint  Statement,  through  its  full  and  effective
implementation,  will  lead  to  steady  and  substantial
progress,  not  only  for  the  complete  resolution  of  the
nuclear  question,  but  also  for  the  achievement  of  an
enduring  peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the
consolidation  of  the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation
regime.
As stipulated in the Joint Statement, we also hope
that the Fifth Round of the Six-Party Talks, to be held
in  Beijing  in  early  November,  will  mark  another
milestone  through  agreement  on  detailed  follow-up
steps 
the
principles set out in the Joint Statement.
implementation  of 
to  ensure 
faithful 
the  role  of 
For  the  implementation  of  the  terms  of  the
agreement,  verification  will  remain  one  of  the  key
elements, if the Six-Party process is to succeed. In this
regard,  we  respect  and  support 
the
International Atomic Energy Agency in setting a global
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and  conducting  its
business  of  verification  through  its  well-established
and sophisticated safeguards system. In this regard, we
would welcome resolve and readiness on the part of the
Agency  to  conduct  the  verification  work  in  the  most
efficient  and  productive  manner.  We  look  forward  to
the  Agency’s  continued  assistance  in  and  contribution
to  the  smooth  and  efficient  resolution  of  the  North
Korean nuclear issue.
Mr. Baeidi-Nejad (Islamic Republic of Iran): At
the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the  appreciation  of
my  delegation  to  Mr.  ElBaradei  for  his  substantive
report  to  the  General  Assembly  on  the  main  activities
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in
the  year  2005.  This  informative  report  indicates  that
the Agency is developing its activities in many areas of
nuclear 
interest  of  human
community. I take this opportunity also to congratulate
Mr.  ElBaradei  and  the  Agency  on  receiving  the  2005
Nobel Peace prize.
technology 
the 
in 
The IAEA was established with the basic purpose
of  accelerating  and  enhancing  the  contribution  of
atomic  energy  to  peace,  health  and  development
throughout the world. The Agency has, therefore, a real
responsibility, more than ever before, to assist member
States 
to  utilize  nuclear  energy  effectively  and
efficiently for peaceful purposes.
Nuclear  energy  today  has  found  an  important
place in everyday human life. Today, atomic energy is
widely  used 
in  agriculture  and  medicine.  The
utilization  of  atomic  energy  and 
its  advanced
applications,  especially  in  the  field  of  renewable
sources  of  energy,  has  increased  on  a  broad  scale.
Increasing  construction  and  operation  of  nuclear
reactors  in  electricity  production  around  the  globe
indicate that more and more States are pursuing nuclear
energy as a component of their energy mix in the new
century.  The  new  global  trend  to  decrease  the  use  of
fossil fuel and the encouragement of States to adopt a
“clean air” policy are yet further incentives for further
development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
The  essential 
the
development  of  activities  to  enhance  the  capacity  of
the  Agency 
role  of 
in 
A/60/PV.41
to  utilize  nuclear  energy 
member  States 
is  also
acknowledged by the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
(NPT),  which  in  article  IV  imposes  a  commitment  on
States  parties  to  the  Treaty  to  facilitate  the  fullest
possible  exchange  of  materials,  equipment  and
technological 
for  peaceful  purposes.
Furthermore, States parties to the Treaty are to enhance
their  cooperation  to  develop  nuclear  energy  without
discrimination or restriction.
information 
Unfortunately, the level of cooperation in the past
on  the  part  of  the  developed  countries,  who  are  the
main  suppliers  of  nuclear  high  technology,  with  the
developing  nations  has  not  been  promising.  Indeed,
nuclear  cooperation  between 
suppliers  and
recipients  has  been  marked  by  restriction,  hindrance
and disruption.
the 
Furthermore, it is an unfortunate fact that being a
party to the NPT and the IAEA Safeguards Agreement
not  only  has  not  facilitated  the  nuclear  cooperation
prescribed under the Treaty between the States parties
but  has  even  served  to  create  impediments  to  the
peaceful uses of energy. It is even true that non-parties
are more richly rewarded through nuclear cooperation.
In the case of Israel, nuclear exchanges and transfers of
advanced nuclear materials, equipment and technology,
facilitated  by  acquiescence  on  the  part  of  certain
circles,  has  contributed  and  continues  to  contribute  to
the  development  of  a  clandestine  Israeli  nuclear
weapons  programme  that  is  endangering  global  and
regional  peace  and  security.  If  anything,  the  failure  to
accept  the  NPT  and  safeguard  obligations  should
burden  outsiders  to  the  NPT  with  the  most  severe
restrictions, rather than provide them with impunity.
Iran is determined to exercise its inalienable right
under  the  NPT  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful
purposes within the framework of the country’s overall
economic  plan.  To  that  end,  Iran  is  also  committed  to
operating  its  programme  under  the  IAEA  verification
system and with increased transparency, in conformity
with its basic NPT obligations.
In  that  context,  the  President  of  the  Islamic
Republic of Iran submitted a formal suggestion during
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly  inviting  public
and  private  companies  to  take  part  in  Iran-related
activities. On the basis of that policy, Iran has extended
its  full  cooperation  to  the  IAEA  in  providing  the
necessary  declarations  and  in  allowing  short-notice
inspections  at  all  relevant  sites  and  facilities.  Iran  is
7
A/60/PV.41
ready  to  continue  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  and
insists  that  all  parties  must  abide  by  the  provisions  of
the  NPT,  particularly  article  IV,  and  strictly  adhere  to
the Statute of the IAEA.
In conclusion, the role and authority of the IAEA
in  promotional  as  well  as  safeguards  activities  has
greatly increased in recent years. That is mainly due to
the fact that more and more countries are using atomic
energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  We  should  therefore
endeavour  to  strengthen  that  role  by  avoiding  the  use
of  extra-legal  unilateral  measures  and  attempts  to  use
the  Agency 
in  support  of  short-sighted  political
positions, which would only undermine the authority of
the IAEA and should be avoided.
Mr.  Martirosyan  (Armenia):  At  the  outset,  I
would  like  to  join  other  speakers  in  congratulating
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  on  the
award  of  the  2005  Nobel  Peace  Prize  to  the  Agency
and  to  him  personally.  I  thank  him  also  for  the
comprehensive annual report on the work done in 2005
and  commend  his  and  the  Agency’s  tireless  efforts  in
fulfilling 
challenging
international 
of  my
Government,  I  would  like  to  express  our  readiness  to
continue  to  fully  cooperate  with  the  Agency  and  its
leadership.
environment.  On 
its  mandate 
a  very 
in 
behalf 
The  debate  on  the  deterrence  aspect  of  nuclear
weapons has been fuelled by new developments in the
last several years and has raised numerous questions as
to  the  correctness  of  such  perceptions.  The  spread  of
terrorism  has  further  brought  these  perceptions  into
question,  as  nuclear  deterrence  is  clearly  ineffective
against terrorist groups. It is evident, therefore, that the
present nuclear-arms-control regime needs a fresh look
and  approach  in  order  to  address  these  growing
challenges to the overall global system of security.
in 
Existing 
loopholes 
the  non-proliferation
regime  enable  State  and  non-State  actors  to  abuse  the
system,  despite  promises  to  use  nuclear  materials  for
peaceful  purposes  only.  Complicating  the  situation  is
the  fact  that  effective  control  over  access  to  nuclear-
weapon  technologies  has  grown  increasingly  difficult
given  the  thin  line  between  technical  barriers  to
designing the weapons and the processing phases.
In  that  respect,  we  would  like  to  welcome  once
again  the  adoption  by  this  body  of  the  International
Convention  for  the  Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear
8
Terrorism,  which  my  Prime  Minister  signed  on  behalf
of the Armenian Government during the 2005 summit.
The  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  plays
an important role in ensuring that nuclear technologies
and materials are used for peaceful purposes only. As a
non-nuclear-weapon State and a party to the Treaty on
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),
Armenia  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Agency’s
activities  on  the  further  improvement  of  the  non-
proliferation  regime  and  nuclear  verification.  In  that
respect,  we  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  the
Agency’s  safeguards  system  and  the  need  to  take
further steps to reinforce it. Last year Armenia ratified
the  Additional  Protocol  to  the  Safeguards  Agreement,
once  again  demonstrating  its  serious  approach  to
cooperation with the  Agency.  As  we  stated  during  the
seventh Review Conference of the parties to the NPT,
Armenia supports the suggestion made by the Agency’s
Director General in connection with acknowledging the
fact  that  the  Additional  Protocol  is  an  integral  part  of
the  Agency’s  safeguards  in  every  country  party  to  the
NPT.
I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express
my  country’s  deep  satisfaction  with  respect  to  its
cooperation with the IAEA. We have been cooperating
with  the  Agency  in  several  fields  since  1995.  In  that
context,  high  priority  is  given  to  nuclear  safety  and
verification.  Based  on  the  conviction  that  safeguards
promote greater confidence among States, Armenia has
been receiving inspections — on average more than 30
missions per year  — from the IAEA since signing the
agreement  between  the  Republic  of  Armenia  and  the
Agency on the application of safeguards in connection
with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear
Weapons in 1993.
Inspection  results  have  effectively  demonstrated
that  Armenia  is  fulfilling  the  commitments  envisaged
in  the  agreement.  Zero  discrepancy  has  been  found
from  day  one  on  declared  and  inspected  nuclear
materials,  thus  putting  to  rest  once  again  the  many
unsubstantiated  and  absurd  allegations  against  my
country  that  some  our  of  our  neighbours  attempt  to
make from time to time. As a result of our cooperation,
we  have  succeeded  in  upgrading  the  safety  of  the
Armenian nuclear power plant.
Armenia’s  national  legislation  in  the  field  of  the
peaceful use of nuclear energy is constantly improving,
due  to  the  adoption  of  a  number  of  reform  initiatives
relating  to  the  relevant  national  law.  The  reforms  are
related  mainly  to  upgrading  the  safety  and  security  of
our nuclear plant and to the verification regime. In that
same  vein,  Armenia  has  signed  the  Final  Act  of  the
and  Adopt  Proposed
Conference 
Amendments 
the  Physical
Protection  of  Nuclear  Material,  the  ratification  of
which is under way.
to  Consider 
to 
the  Convention  on 
The  physical  protection  of  the  nuclear  power
plant  is  a  priority  area  for  our  Government.  Last  year
we  accepted  the  International  Physical  Protection
Advisory  Service  mission  and  are  expecting  its  report
by the end of this year. In late 2005 Armenia will host
another important mission from the Operational Safety
Assessment  Review  Team,  whose  report  will  be
finalized in 2006.
Nuclear  energy  is  very  important  to  Armenia,  as
it  supplies  about  40  per  cent  of  the  country’s  energy
needs. Armenia was forced to restart its nuclear power
plant  in  1995  because  of  the  continued  blockade
against  it  and  due  to  the  unresolved  nature  of  the
conflicts  in  the  region  and  the  resulting  instability,
which  had  negatively  affected  the  supply  of  gas  for
thermo-power  stations.  As  an  energy  security  issue,  it
has  a  great  impact  on  the  overall  security  of  the
country.
The  energy  demand  in  Armenia  continues  to
increase  as  a  result  of  the  double-digit  economic
growth  registered  in  the  Republic  over  the  last  five
years. It is not coincidental, therefore, that our country
is  seriously  considering  the  possibility  of  building  a
new nuclear power plant.
In that regard, we thank the Director General for
his  promise  of  assistance  —  made  during  his  recent
visit to Armenia — in the carrying out of a feasibility
study for its construction. It should be noted that this is
fully  in  line  with  the  conclusions  of  the  International
Ministerial  Conference  held  in  Paris.  Moreover,  we
believe  that  a  new  nuclear  power  plant  would  have
regional significance as well, as it could supply energy
to  those  neighbouring  countries  with  shortages  of
electricity.
All  of  those  successes  would  have  been  hard  to
achieve  had  it  not  been  for  bilateral  cooperation  with
other  Member  States.  I  would  like  to  take  this
opportunity to express our gratitude to those countries
that  are  providing  the  Armenian  nuclear  power  plant
A/60/PV.41
and  Regulatory  Authority  with  continued  and
substantial assistance.
Mr. Requiejo Gual (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): I
would  like  to  thank  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  for
presenting 
the  International
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and  to  congratulate
him on his election to a new term as Director General
of the Agency.
the  annual  report  of 
juncture  of 
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our
congratulations  to  the  IAEA  and  its  Director  General
on receiving the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize. The awarding
of  that  well-deserved  recognition  takes  place  at  a
particularly  complex 
the  history  of
mankind.  The  existence  of  large  arsenals  of  nuclear
weapons  and  the  danger  of  their  proliferation,  as  well
as  the  development  of  new  types  of  nuclear  weapons
and  the  existence  of  strategic  defence  doctrines  that
increasingly  rely  on  the  use  and  possession  of  those
weapons, continue to be a serious threat to all mankind.
In  such  circumstances,  we  are  firmly  convinced  that
the  only  genuine  solution  is  the  total  elimination  of
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  particularly  nuclear
weapons.
the  Agency 
The  annual  report  of 
indicates
positive  results  for  2004.  In  that  regard,  we  stress  the
adoption  by  the  Board  of  Governors  in  2004  of  the
Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy,  to  which
Cuba attaches special importance, and we call upon the
mobilization  of  new  resources,  within  the  framework
of the Programme, to energize that important field. We
also welcome the outcome of the recent IAEA General
Conference, 
important  resolutions  were
adopted  to  promote  activities  in  the  Agency’s  various
areas of focus.
in  which 
Cuba  attaches  great  importance  to  the  IAEA’s
work  and  reiterates  the  need  to  attain  an  appropriate
balance  among  the  three  fundamental  pillars  of  that
Organization: 
technical  cooperation,  security  and
verification. Those three pillars should be implemented
in  a  balanced  way,  addressing 
interests  and
priorities of all member States.
the 
The General Assembly should reaffirm the role of
the IAEA not only as a guarantor of the peaceful use of
nuclear energy, but as an institution for the promotion
and execution of international cooperation in that field.
My Government acknowledges the important role
of  nuclear  technologies  for  sustainable  development,
9
A/60/PV.41
and considers the IAEA’s technical cooperation to be a
key  element  of  the  process  of  technology  transfer.
Therefore,  the  imposition  of  restrictive  and  unilateral
measures  in  the  exchange  of  equipment,  material  and
scientific  and 
the
information 
peaceful uses of nuclear energy should cease.
technological 
for 
in 
the  IAEA 
the  role  of 
We  reaffirm 
the
verification  of  commitments  to  non-proliferation.  In
that  regard,  we  reject  the  attempt  of  some  Powers  to
prejudge  the  peaceful  or  non-peaceful  nature  of  the
nuclear  programmes  of  specific  countries,  bypassing
the IAEA, which is the only international organization
with  the  mandate  and  technical  capacity  to  verify  the
nuclear  activities  of  States.  We  denounce 
the
manipulation of information regarding IAEA processes
of verification in order to foment a negative opinion of
some countries in the pursuit of political goals, as well
as  double  standards  in  addressing  issues  of  non-
proliferation.
implementation  of 
resolutions.  My  Government  has 
Cuba has carefully followed the reports submitted
by the Director General to the Board of Governors on
the 
the  safeguards  agreements
concerning  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  as  well  as  the  Board’s
relevant 
fully
supported  the  statements  of  the  Movement  of  Non-
Aligned  Countries,  which  has  expressed  its  deep
concern about the content of those resolutions and the
methods 
adoption,  while
acknowledging  the  unbiased  and  professional  attitude
of the IAEA secretariat and welcoming the substantive
progress  in  and  the  resolution  of  outstanding  issues,
confirmed  in  the  most  recent  reports  of  the  Director
General to the Board of Governors.
leading 
to 
their 
In  that  context,  we  strongly  reject  attempts  to
deprive  any  country  of  its  inalienable  right  to  the
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy,  provided  that  those
rights  are  exercised  consistent  with  their  safeguards
obligations.
The  Cuban  Government  continues  to  take  steps
that  clearly  reflect  its  political  will  to  fulfil  the
obligations undertaken as a State party to the NPT and
the  Tlatelolco  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear
Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Since  the  entry  into  force  of  our  Comprehensive
Safeguards  Agreement  with  the  IAEA  and  its  relevant
Additional Protocol, my Government has continued to
fulfil  its  obligations,  reaffirming  the  will  of  Cuba  to
10
participated 
Recently,  Cuba 
keep  strengthening  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in
the development of the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
and
constructively in the International Conference of States
Parties  and  Signatories  of  Treaties  that  Establish
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones, as well as in the Review
Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  NPT,  which
regrettably  ended  without  agreement  on  substantive
issues due to the lack of will of some nuclear-weapon
States to take concrete steps towards disarmament.
actively 
Today  more  than  ever,  it  is  crucial  to  work  to
strengthen  the  IAEA,  and  particularly  to  support  its
technical  cooperation  activities.  Cuba  considers  that
pillar to be a first priority, as reflected in our high rates
of efficiency and effectiveness in the fulfilment of our
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  with  the  IAEA,  in
the effectual implementation rate of our projects, in the
growing  contributions  of  our  experts  to  cooperation
activities with other countries, and in the fulfilment of
our  commitment  to  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund
and to national funding requirements.
My Government welcomes the entry into force of
the
the  Regional  Cooperative  Agreement 
Advancement  of  Nuclear  Science  and  Technology  in
Latin America and the Caribbean.  The  Agreement has
proved  to  be  the  most  important  way  to  promote
cooperation  and  exchange  among  the  countries  of  our
region in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
for 
My country carefully follows activities in nuclear
and  radiological  safety,  including  physical  protection.
In that context, we continue to strengthen our material
and organizational infrastructure, as well as our human
resource training.
for 
sustainable 
Cuba  supports  the  IAEA’s  efforts  to  implement
programmes and activities designed to prevent nuclear
terrorism,  without  affecting  the  human  and  financial
resources  earmarked 
social  and
economic development. In that regard, we reiterate that
the imposition of mechanisms of selective composition
that  are  non-transparent  and  outside  the  framework  of
the  United  Nations  and  international  treaties  is  in  no
way  an  appropriate  response  to  the  phenomenon  of
international  terrorism,  including  in  its  relation  to  the
potential  use  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  their
delivery systems or related materials.
In conclusion, I wish to affirm that the awarding
of the Nobel Peace Prize to the IAEA should act as an
incentive  to  consolidating  the  transparent,  objective,
professional and impartial role of the Agency based on
the  highest  ethical  principles,  in  which  the  important
tasks laid down in its statute combine in a harmonious
and  balanced  way.  As  always,  the  Agency  and  the
Director  General  can  count  on  the  full  support  of  the
Cuban Government in that endeavour.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last
speaker in the debate on this item.
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution
A/60/L.13.
Before  I  call  on  representatives  who  wish  to
speak in explanation of vote, may I remind delegations
that explanations of vote are limited to 10 minutes and
should be made by delegations from their seats.
I  now  call  on 
the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  speak  in
explanation of vote.
representative  of 
the 
Mr. Pak Gil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic
of  Korea):  On  behalf  of 
the
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  I  would  like
to  make  the  following  statement  with  regard  to  draft
resolution A/60/L.13.
the  delegation  of 
First,  it  is  not  relevant  for  the  International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to mention in its report
the nuclear issue of the Democratic People’s Republic
of  Korea.  There  are  no  relations  whatsoever  between
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and the IAEA.
In this regard, I would like to remind the Assembly that
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  is  not  a  member  of
the  IAEA  or  a  State  party  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Furthermore,  the
IAEA  is  not  in  a  position  to  deal  with  the  Korean
Peninsula  nuclear  issue,  which  is  a  political-military
question between the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea and the United States of America.
towards 
Secondly,  the  IAEA  has  dealt  with  the  nuclear
issue  on  the  Korean  Peninsula  with  prejudice.  The
nuclear  issue  is  a  product  of  the  hostile  policy  of  the
United  States 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic  of  Korea.  The  United  States  has  been
threatening  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  with
nuclear weapons  for  over half  a century. In particular,
President  Bush,  soon  after  he  took  power,  designated
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  as  part  of
an  axis  of  evil  and  threatened  a  pre-emptive  nuclear
attack. How did the IAEA handle the nuclear issue that
A/60/PV.41
came about as a political-military dispute between the
small  and  weak  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of
Korea  and  the  super-Power,  the  United  States,  in
warring  status?  The  IAEA,  at  the  instruction  of  the
super-Power,  handled  the  Korean  Peninsula  nuclear
issue  with  prejudice,  using  double  standards  and
discarding  the  principle  of  equity  —  the  lifeline  of
international organizations.
We can see similar examples in the nuclear issue
of South Korea. The Beijing joint statement,  correctly
understood,  does  not  impose  obligations  solely  on  the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, but stipulates
obligations  also  for  the  United  States  and  South
Korea  —  the  direct  parties  to  the  denuclearization  of
the  Korean  Peninsula.  The  unilateral  dismantling  by
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  of  its
nuclear  programme  would  not  bring  about 
the
denuclearization  of  the  Peninsula  without  the  United
States implementing its obligations in accordance with
the joint statement.
The  delegation  of 
the  Democratic  People’s
Republic of Korea will vote against the draft resolution
because  its  purpose  is  to  distort  the  nature  of  the
Korean Peninsula nuclear issue and because it does not
in any way contribute to the resolution of the matter.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only
speaker in explanation of vote before the voting.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft
resolution A/60/L.13.
The  following  States  have  added  their  names  to
the  list  of  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution:  Andorra,
Australia,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Bulgaria,  Costa  Rica,
Croatia,  Cyprus,  Ecuador,  France,  Gabon,  Guatemala,
Iceland,  Ireland,  Latvia,  the  Netherlands,  Nicaragua,
the  Philippines,  Serbia  and  Montenegro,  Spain,  the
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  United
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,
Uruguay and Zambia.
A recorded vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,
Australia,  Austria,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas,
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,
and
Belgium, 
Herzegovina, 
Brunei
Botswana, 
Bolivia, 
Belize, 
Bosnia 
Brazil, 
11
A/60/PV.41
Iceland, 
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Côte
d’Ivoire, Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic,
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Finland,
France,  Gabon,  Georgia,  Germany,  Ghana,
Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,
Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
India,
Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq,
Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan,
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Lao  People’s
Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Libyan
Arab 
Jamahiriya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,
Malta,  Marshall  Islands,  Mauritania,  Mexico,
Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Monaco,
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,
Oman,  Pakistan,  Palau,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian
Federation,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  San  Marino,
Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia  and  Montenegro,
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  South  Africa,
Spain, 
Sweden,
Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Timor-
Leste,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and  Northern 
Ireland,  United  Republic  of
Tanzania,  United  States  of  America,  Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia
Suriname, 
Lanka, 
Sri 
Against:
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
Draft resolution A/60/L.13 was adopted by 137
votes to 1 (resolution 60/6).
[Subsequently, the delegations of Estonia and
Myanmar informed the Secretariat that they had
intended to vote in favour.]
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the
its
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 
wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 84?
It was so decided.
12
Agenda item 13
The situation in Central America: progress in
fashioning a region of peace, freedom, democracy
and development
Report of the Secretary-General (A/60/218)
Draft decision (A/60/L.14)
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on 
the
representative of Nicaragua to introduce draft decision
A/60/L.14.
Mr.  Sevilla  Somoza  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
in
Spanish):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the
States  members  of  the  Central  American  Integration
System:  Belize,  Costa  Rica,  the  Dominican  Republic,
El  Salvador,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Panama  and  my
own country, Nicaragua.
I wish first to thank the Secretary-General for his
consolidated  report,  entitled  “The  situation  in  Central
America”,  on  the  implementation  over  the  past  two
years of all resolutions concerning Central America.
After  incommensurate  sacrifices  and  with  the
assistance  of  the  international  community,  and  the
United  Nations  in  particular,  Central  America  has
embarked on an era of solid peace and democracy that
have  lasted  for  several  years  now  and  which  we  hope
will  endure  indefinitely.  Thanks  to  the  policies  and
actions being implemented by Governments to raise the
standards of living of their own peoples, as well as to
the  quantitative  and  qualitative  improvement  of  the
Integration System, the long decades of armed violence
and  the  acute  economic  and  social  crises  that  plagued
most of our countries have now been overcome.
Today,  all  Central  American  Governments  enjoy
the  legitimacy  acquired  through  free  elections;  their
economies  are  growing  and  their  political  systems  are
becoming  more  open  and  democratic.  With  the  new
century  and  ongoing  peace,  we  have  launched,  in
countries  where  conditions  allow,  a  period  of
transformation  and  adaptation  of  our  political,
economic  and  social  structures  in  order  to  achieve
sustainable  human  development  and 
the
Millennium Development Goals.
to  meet 
Many 
problems 
developing
countries  —  widespread  poverty,  unemployment,  lack
of  drinking  water,  health  problems,  corruption  and
inherent 
to 
political  instability  —  persist  and  we  are  addressing
them.  We  are  confident  that  we  will  be  able  to  solve
those  problems  through  our  own  efforts  and  with  the
generous  assistance  of 
international  agencies  and
friendly countries.
I wish to emphasize, however, the participation of
the  United  Nations  in  a  process  that  has  led  Central
America from war to negotiation, and from negotiation
to  peace  and  the  path  of  development,  and  guided  us
through the many problems we have faced, through our
failures  and  successes  — 
the
experiences  that  we  have  lived  and  felt  and  that  now
serve as lessons and examples to help other regions of
the world overcome similar situations.
in  other  words, 
The  first  resolution  on  Central  America  was
adopted by the General Assembly in 1983 in the midst
of  the  cold  war  and  at  a  time  when  three  of  our
countries  were  riven  by  fierce  civil  wars.  In  that
resolution,  the  international  community  expressed  its
concern  at  the  exacerbation  of  and  tension  caused  by
conflicts  in  Central  America,  and  stressed  the  need  to
contribute 
the  building  of  peace  on  solid
foundations,  enabling  the  establishment  of  a  genuine
democratic  process,  respect  for  human  rights  and
economic and social development.
to 
As  a  result  of  the  decision  taken  by  Central
Americans  to  meet  the  historic  challenge  of  forging  a
future of peace for their region, the General Assembly,
four years after adopting that first resolution, asked the
Secretary-General to promote a Special Programme for
Economic Cooperation in Central America (PEC). That
initiative  was  innovative  in  that  it  was  designed  to  be
implemented in national territories immersed in armed
conflict  and  to  link  actions  already  being  undertaken
by the United Nations system to development efforts in
order to make peacebuilding more effective.
intraregional  and 
Under  the  coordination  of  the  United  Nations
Development  Programme,  the  PEC  contributed  to  the
emergence  of  an 
international
consensus allowing each country to determine its own
development 
the  Central
American  Integration  System,  mobilize  international
resources 
its  social
programmes. It also strengthened the role to be played
by  the  International  Conference  on  Central  American
Refugees as a key instrument of the PEC.
region  and  guide 
strengthen 
priorities, 
for 
the 
In  connection  with  the  refugees  created  in  the
subregion as a result of widespread violence, we recall
A/60/PV.41
the  1984  Cartagena  Declaration  on  Refugees,  which
became  a  creative  and  innovative  instrument  for
protection  and  is  now  considered  to  be  an  important
contribution  to  international  law.  Its  importance  has
been reiterated in international forums, and most Latin
American  countries  have  incorporated  it  into  their
legislation.  Its  use 
the
definition  or  concept  of  refugees  set  out  in  the  1951
Convention  relating  to  the  Status  of  Refugees  and  the
1967 Protocol.
the  region  broadened 
in 
to 
the 
irregular 
as  well 
forces  and 
as 
The  United  Nations  Observer  Group  in  Central
America (ONUCA) was established in December 1989
in  order  to  monitor  on  the  ground  the  cessation  of
assistance 
insurrection
movements, 
disarmament,
demobilization  and  reintegration  of  Contra  factions  in
Nicaragua  from  May  to  July  1990.  It  also  monitored
the  ceasefire  negotiated  in  that  country  as  part  of  the
demobilization  process.  The  Central  American
Presidents  met  in  Montelimar,  Nicaragua,  to  request
ONUCA to set a precedent by destroying all collected
weapons in situ and in the presence of  representatives
of  the  Governments  of  the  other  Central  American
countries. ONUCA’s mandate was thereby redefined in
order to avert the proliferation of and illicit trafficking
in small arms and light weapons.
Another  Central  American 
initiative  was
connected to United Nations participation in the quest
for  peace  in  El  Salvador,  when,  in  order  to  promote
action  and to help the Secretary-General  in  his  efforts
to that end, the term “Friends of the Secretary-General”
was created and applied.
The  United  Nations  Observer  Mission  in  El
Salvador (ONUSAL) was established on 20 May 1991
to  monitor  the  implementation  of  all  agreements
between the Government of El Salvador and the Frente
Farabundo  Martí  para  la  Liberación  Nacional.  The
Mission was later broadened in January 1992 to cover
the  verification  of  all  aspects  of  the  ceasefire  and
separation  of  forces,  as  well  as  the  agreement  on  the
National  Civil  Police,  which  provided  for  ONUSAL’s
oversight of the maintenance of public order during the
transition period as the National Civil Police was being
established.  Having  completed 
the
Mission was closed in 1995.
its  mandate, 
The  United  Nations  Verification  Mission 
in
Guatemala  (MINUGUA)  began  operating  in  1994  and
lasted  a  decade.  MINUGUA  operations  in  the  field
13
A/60/PV.41
a 
fruitful 
were 
example  of  multidimensional
peacebuilding.  An  innovative  transition  strategy  was
developed for the last years of the Mission in order to
strengthen  Guatemala’s  national  capacity  to  promote
the  peace  agreement  programme  once  the  United
Nations presence was withdrawn and to ensure that the
peace  priorities  would  be  reflected 
the  new
Government’s policies.
in 
The  creation  of  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping
Operations  is  closely  linked  to  the  lessons  and  the
experience  gained  by  United  Nations  Missions
deployed  to  Central  American  countries.  As  we  have
previously stated, that experience established the need
to  link  peace  operations  and  development  efforts  in
order  to  make  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  more
effective.
In 1990, the United Nations Observer Mission to
Verify  the  Electoral  Process  in  Nicaragua  (ONUVEN)
was  the  first  United  Nations  mission  to  monitor  an
electoral  process  in  an  independent  State.  Although
ONUVEN,  which  did  not  include  military  personnel,
was  established  by  a  resolution  of 
the  General
Assembly as an election assistance measure and not as
an  attempt  to  resolve  the  Nicaraguan  conflict,  the
Mission  undoubtedly  played  an  important  role  in  the
resolution  of 
the  conflict.  The  United  Nations
experience in Nicaragua served as a basis for the 1992
establishment  of  the  Electoral  Assistance  Division
within  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs,  which  is
tasked  with  coordinating  the  activities  of  the  United
Nations system in the field of electoral assistance.
and 
peace 
operations 
In  brief,  we  could  say  that  the  United  Nations
gained a pioneering experience in Central America that
resulted in, among other things, establishing a linkage
between 
development
programmes  —  a  concept  that  found  its  expression  in
the  establishment  of  the  Department  of  Peacekeeping
Operations, in the establishment of groups of friends of
the  Secretary-General  to  collaborate  in  his  efforts  in
the  quest  for  peace,  in  the  first  experience  in  the
monitoring  of  elections,  which  provided  the  basis  for
the Electoral Assistance Division, and in the linkage of
peace  operations  with  the  destruction  of  small  arms
and light weapons to prevent their illicit trade.
Today, Central America is a changed region, and
we  stand  ready  to  collaborate  with  the  international
community by putting our experience at the service of
all those States that are currently in a conflict situation.
14
Our countries believe that their experience can serve to
build  bridges  linking  the  vision  of  collective  security
and international cooperation for development in post-
conflict peacekeeping efforts.
In conclusion, on behalf of our countries, I would
like  to  thank  the  United  Nations,  the  Secretaries-
General  whose  mandates  fell  within  that  period,  the
Member  States  of  the  Organization  and,  in  particular,
those Governments that directly assist our countries in
the search for peace, democracy and development.
I  have  the  honour  of  introducing  the  draft
decision  on  agenda  item  13,  contained  in  document
A/60/L.14, entitled “The situation in Central America:
progress  in  fashioning  a  region  of  peace,  freedom,
democracy 
delegation,
following  consultations  with  interested  delegations
from  States  members  of 
the  Central  American
Integration  System  and  other  States,  has  decided  to
submit  for  the  consideration  of  the  General  Assembly
this draft decision, which has only one paragraph:
development”.  My 
and 
in 
fashioning  a 
“The General Assembly, noting the progress
achieved  in  the  region,  decides  that  the  item
entitled  ‘The  situation 
in  Central  America:
progress 
region  of  peace,
freedom,  democracy  and  development’  shall
remain on the agenda of the Assembly, beginning
with  the  sixty-first  session,  for  consideration
upon notification by a Member State.”
I have made an oral correction, changing “sixtieth
session”,  as  it  appears  in  the  text,  to  “sixty-first
session”.
My  delegation  and  the  delegations  consulted
consider that the problems dealt with under this agenda
item  have  largely  been  overcome  by  the  Central
American  countries.  We  therefore  believe  that  it  is  no
longer  relevant  to  introduce  a  draft  resolution  under
this  agenda  item,  in  the  light  of  the  recommendations
for  the  rationalization  of  the  work  of  the  General
Assembly 
the
Organization’s  attention  from  more  pressing  problems
to be tackled in other regions of the world. We request
that this draft decision be adopted by consensus.
in  order  not 
to  distract 
and 
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  I  have  the  honour  to
make this statement on behalf of the States members of
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
that  are
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Allow  me,  at  the
outset,  to  extend  our  condolences  to  the  Governments
and peoples of Central America in the aftermath of the
recent  series  of  natural  disasters  that  have  resulted  in
the  loss  of  life  and  the  destruction  of  property  in  the
countries  of  the  region,  particularly  in  Honduras,
Guatemala,  El  Salvador,  Nicaragua,  and  Costa  Rica.
CARICOM,  a  community  composed  of  developing
countries  that  have  endured  the  ravages  of  natural
disasters,  is  well  aware  of  the  harmful  impact  that
those  events  will  have  on  efforts 
to  advance
development  initiatives.  We  trust,  therefore,  that  the
countries  of  Central  America  will  be  provided  with
sustained assistance so that the advances already made
will not be jeopardized.
Since 
the  General  Assembly  first 
took  up
consideration  of  the  agenda  item  on  the  situation  in
Central  America,  we  have  witnessed  a  renaissance  of
the  region  as  it  became  a  region  of  peace,  freedom,
democracy  and  development.  We  are  grateful  to  the
Secretary-General for the informative annual reports on
this  agenda  item.  Those  reports  have  highlighted  the
unique  realities  of  each  country  in  the  region  in  the
areas  of  governance,  human  rights,  public  security,
judicial reform, regional and extra-regional institution-
building  and  border 
issues,  among  others.  We
acknowledge  the  many  challenges  that  each  country
has  encountered.  More 
importantly,  however,  we
commend  the  countries  of  Central  America  for  the
efforts  they  have  made,  in  spite  of  the  challenges,  to
engender  more  peaceful,  democratic  and  equitable
societies.  We  also  recognize  with  satisfaction  the
international  assistance  rendered  to  the  region,  as
outlined in the reports of the Secretary-General.
An important aspect of the consolidation of peace
in the region has been the regional integration process
facilitated by the Central American Integration System
(SICA).  The  System  is  a  symbol  of  the  new  face  of
Central America. Today, one of our fellow CARICOM
Member  States,  Belize,  participates  as  a  member  of
SICA.
At  the  initiative  of  Belize,  in  2002,  CARICOM
and  SICA  held  their  first  summit  and  agreed  to
reinforce  interregional  relations  and  partnerships.  In
the  joint  declaration  issued  at  the  conclusion  of  that
summit,  Caribbean  and  Central  American  leaders
agreed 
to  strengthen  cooperation  and  coordinate
actions  in  areas  such  as  education,  health,  poverty
elimination,  the  environment,  trade  and  investment.
That  historic  summit  highlighted  the  reality  that  there
is much common ground between our two regions.
A/60/PV.41
The  recently  concluded  CARICOM-Costa  Rica
free  trade  agreement  reflects  CARICOM’s  desire  to
foster closer ties with countries in Central America. In
fact,  the  free  trade  agreement  is  seen  not  only  as  an
opportunity  to  strengthen  trade  between  CARICOM
and  Costa  Rica  but  also  as  an  opportunity  to  enhance
our  alliances  to  promote  social,  political,  cultural  and
environmental  cooperation.  Thus,  we  in  CARICOM
look forward to the entry into force of that agreement.
Given  the  aforementioned  undertakings,  which
have  all  served  to  enhance  the  partnership  between
CARICOM and Central America, we in CARICOM are
hopeful  that  a  peaceful  resolution  to  the  territorial
dispute  between  Belize  and  Guatemala  will  be
achieved  in  the  near  future.  We  note  that  the  two
countries have agreed on a framework for negotiations
and  confidence-building  measures 
to
maintain  and  deepen  their  friendly  relationship  until
the  territorial  dispute  is  permanently  resolved.  We  are
encouraged  by  that  new  development  and  pledge  our
continued  support  for  a  just  and  lasting  resolution  to
the dispute.
that  seeks 
in 
the 
international  community 
CARICOM  recognizes  the  efforts  of  Central
American leaders and peoples, as well as the efforts of
those 
that  have
influenced  the  region’s  transformation.  There  are,
however,  both  persistent  and  new  challenges,  some  of
which,  as  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/60/218)
acknowledges, have been generated by external factors.
We trust that the international community will maintain
its full support to the region, particularly in the face of
those challenges.
Ms.  Brazier  (United  Kingdom):  I  have  the
honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU)
and  those  countries  that  have  aligned  themselves  with
this statement.
May  I  first  offer  the  deepest  sympathies  of  the
European  Union  to  those  Central  American  countries
that  have  been  affected  by  tropical  storms  Stan  and
Alpha and hurricane Beta. Our thoughts are with you at
this  difficult  time.  The  EU  is  glad  to  have  provided
1.7  million  euros  in  humanitarian  aid  to  El  Salvador
and  Guatemala  in  response  to  the  recent  flooding  and
tropical storm Stan.
The European Union and Central America share a
long  history  of  cooperation  in  the  political,  economic
and social spheres. Perhaps one of the most important
goals  we  share  is  that  of  achieving  closer  regional
15
A/60/PV.41
it 
is  possible 
integration.  Like 
the  European  Union,  Central
American  countries  have  found  that  through  regional
to  overcome  prolonged
integration 
internal  conflict,  reduce  vulnerability 
to  external
shocks, including natural disasters, and build a regional
economic  platform,  which  enables  our  countries  to
trade  and  compete  more  effectively  in  a  globalized
world.  As  the  Secretary-General  says  in  paragraph  68
of  his  report  (A/60/218),  “Central  American  countries
have  made  significant  strides  in  cooperating  towards
the establishment of a peaceful region”.
In 1983, when this agenda item was first brought
before the General Assembly, the region was in a very
difficult  situation.  Then,  civil  war  and  social  and
economic  disintegration  were  facts  of  life  for  the
citizens  of  Central  American  countries.  Today,  the
region  has  made  much  progress  towards  peace  and
stability, democracy and sustainable development.
Through the San Jose Dialogue, the EU has been
able  to  contribute  to  the  process  of  peacebuilding  and
democratization  in  the  Central  American  region.  In
addition,  since  2001,  the  European  Commission  has
had a programme of national and regional cooperation
with 
totalling
655  million  euros.  This  cooperation  will  continue  in
the years ahead. A new strategy for cooperation for the
years 2007 to 2013 is currently being agreed, and will
focus particularly on issues of regional integration.
six  Central  American  countries, 
The  European  Union  knows  from 
its  own
experience  that  post-conflict  transition  can  take  many
years.  Central  American  countries  still  face  major
challenges,  such  as  the  fight  against  impunity,  efforts
to  promote  transparency  and  democracy  and  poverty
reduction,  but  these  are  different  issues  from  those  of
20  years  ago.  The  EU  is,  therefore,  content  with  the
Nicaraguan  proposal  for  a  draft  decision  to  maintain
this  item  on  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda,  for
consideration upon notification by a Member State.
Ms. Juul (Norway): Central America has recently
been  severely  struck  by  natural  disasters,  and  we
deeply regret the loss of human lives and the scores of
victims  in  the  wake  of  tropical  storm  Stan  in  El
Salvador 
the
Governments  of  El  Salvador  and  Guatemala  on  their
efforts  to  save  lives  and  rapidly  assist  the  affected
population, including the indigenous community.
and  Guatemala.  We 
commend 
The  Norwegian  parliament  has  allocated  60
million Norwegian kroner — about $9.25 million — in
16
additional  funds  for  emergency  relief 
in  Central
America.  These  funds  will  be  channelled  through  the
United  Nations,  the  Red  Cross  system  and  non-
governmental organizations.
the 
Even  though  many  years  have  passed  since  the
end of armed conflict in Central America, the region is
still  facing  a  number  of  major  challenges,  such  as  the
eradication of poverty, the consolidation of democracy
and 
rights.  Good
governance,  sustainable  economic  development  and
strengthening  of  the  judicial  systems  continue  to  be
key  issues.  It  is,  however,  encouraging  to  see  that  the
Governments  of  Central  America  are  continuing,  and
even stepping up, their fight against corruption.
safeguarding  of  human 
Peaceful  and  transparent  elections  are  now  the
rule  rather  than  the  exception  in  Central  America,
which  bears  witness  to  the  gradual  consolidation  of
democracy in these countries. We commend the United
Nations  agencies  and  the  Organization  of  American
States  on  their  longstanding  support  for  the  election
process, to which Norway has also contributed.
We  would  like  to  commend  the  President  of
Guatemala  on  his  strong  commitment  to  the  Peace
Accords  and  on  the  progress  that  his  Government  has
made in such important areas as reduction of the armed
forces.  The  final  withdrawal  of  the  United  Nations
Verification  Mission  in  Guatemala  last  year  after
10  years  in  the  field  was  a  positive  sign.  However,
there 
international
community to  continue  supporting  the  implementation
of  the  Peace  Accords.  We  consider  the  Office  of  the
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  be  the  most
appropriate  international  mechanism  to  follow  up  the
post-conflict  situation  in  Guatemala  today,  and  we
commend the Government on  having  invited  the  High
Commissioner to open an office in Guatemala.
is  still  a  great  need  for 
the 
The President returned to the Chair.
The President: We have heard the last speaker in
the debate on this item.
We  shall  now  proceed  to  consider  draft  decision
A/60/L.14, as orally corrected.
I  wish  to  announce  that  Uruguay  has  joined  the
list of sponsors.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft
decision A/60/L.14, as orally corrected.
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt
draft decision A/60/L. 14, as orally corrected?
The  draft  decision,  as  orally  corrected,  was
adopted.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of
agenda item 13?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 16
Zone of peace and cooperation of the South Atlantic
Draft decision (A/60/L.11)
The  President: Uruguay  has  joined  the  list  of
sponsors of draft decision A/60/L.11.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft
decision A/60/L.11.
May I take it that the General Assembly decides
to adopt draft decision A/60/L.11?
The draft decision was adopted.
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of
the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda
item 16?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 72
Holocaust remembrance
its 
first-ever  special  session 
Draft resolution (A/60/L.12)
The President: On 24 January 2005, the General
Assembly  held 
to
commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the liberation
of  the  Nazi  concentration  camps.  At  that  session,  the
Assembly unanimously condemned the horrors of Nazi
concentration  camps.  We  paid  solemn  tribute  to  the
millions  of  innocent  victims  of  that  unspeakable
atrocity.
Genocide  was  committed  against  the  Jews  of
Europe  during  the  Holocaust.  Hundreds  of  thousands
of  people  of  other  ethnic  origins  and  religious  and
political  backgrounds  fell  victim  to  that  crime  against
humanity.
A/60/PV.41
This  year  we  are  celebrating 
the  sixtieth
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations,  erected  from  the
ashes  of  the  Second  World  War.  The  United  Nations
was  set  up  to  protect  humankind  from  the  scourge  of
war and to serve as an effective international institution
for the promotion of human rights, the rule of law and
socio-economic  development  for  all.  In  that  context,  I
welcome  the  inscription  of  this  new  agenda  item
entitled “Holocaust remembrance”.
The  Holocaust  also  reminds  us  of  the  crimes  of
genocide  committed  since  the  Second  World  War.  It
must  therefore  be  a  unifying  historic  warning  around
which  we  must  rally,  not  only  to  recall  the  grievous
crimes committed in human history but also to reaffirm
our  unfaltering  resolve  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of
such crimes. We cannot, after the horrors in Cambodia,
Rwanda  and  Srebrenica,  continue  to  repeat,  “Never
again”.
Last September, after the 2005 world summit, our
leaders  did  not  fail  to  live  up  to  that  test  when  they
unanimously  accepted  the  responsibility  to  protect
populations 
from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic
cleansing and crimes against humanity. This is a major
step towards preventing genocide in future.
It is in the spirit both of remembering the crimes
of  the  past  and  preventing  their  recurrence  in  future
that we must consider the draft resolution on Holocaust
remembrance.
I now give the floor to the representative of Israel
to introduce draft resolution A/60/L.12.
Mr. Gillerman (Israel): It is an honour for me to
address the Assembly, on behalf of the State of Israel,
on  an  item  of  such  importance  to  my  country  and  my
people and to victims and survivors of the Holocaust of
all  faiths  and  nationalities  across  the  globe.  I  feel
moved  and  privileged  to  present  this  historic  draft
resolution  today,  as  an  Israeli,  a  Jew,  a  human  being
and the child of a family of Holocaust victims.
This year, as we mark the sixtieth anniversary of
the establishment of the United Nations, we also mark
the sixtieth year since the end of the Second World War
and the liberation of the Nazi concentration camps.
The unique connection between those two events
is  testimony  to  the  fact  that  the  establishment  of  the
United  Nations,  its  founding  principles  and  its  noble
mission  were  the  world’s  answer  to  the  horrors  of  the
Second World War and the tragedy of the Holocaust, as
17
A/60/PV.41
is  reflected  in  the  very  first  clauses  of  the  Charter  of
the United Nations.
The  Holocaust  constituted  a  systematic  and
barbarous  attempt  to  annihilate  an  entire  people  in  a
manner  and  with  a  magnitude  that  have  no  parallel  in
human  history.  Six  million  Jews  —  a  full  third  of  the
Jewish  people  — 
together  with  countless  other
minorities,  were  murdered,  many  of  them  in  death
camps, factories of death designed specifically for that
purpose.
the  potential 
And  yet,  while  the  Holocaust  was  a  unique
tragedy for the Jewish people, its lessons are universal.
The  Holocaust  was  carried  out  at  the  height  of  the
rational  age,  and  it  represents  a  watershed  in  human
history. It brought us face to face with the full extent of
man’s  capacity  for  inhumanity  to  his  fellow  man.  It
revealed 
technology,
philosophy, culture and ideology to commit acts on an
unimaginable scale and with  an  unthinkable  degree  of
cruelty.  It  showed  that  while  Jews  might  be  the  first
victims  of  anti-Semitism,  they  are  rarely  the  last.  It
taught,  as  Elie  Wiesel  has  said,  that  indifference  to
human  suffering  is  not  only  a  sin,  it  is  a  punishment,
and that by denying the other’s humanity we betray our
own.
to  pervert 
By so shocking the conscience of humankind, the
Holocaust  served  as  a  critical 
the
development of human rights; the drafting of landmark
international  conventions  such  as 
the  Genocide
Convention;  and  for  the  very  establishment  of  this
Organization.
impetus  for 
The United Nations was founded on the ashes of
the Holocaust and the commitment to “save succeeding
generations  from  the  scourge  of  war”  and  uphold  and
protect  the  “dignity  and  worth  of  the  human  person”.
The  United  Nations  bears  a  special  responsibility  to
ensure  that  the  Holocaust  and  its  lessons  are  never
forgotten  and  that  this  tragedy  will  forever  stand  as  a
warning to all people of the dangers of hatred, bigotry,
racism and prejudice.
The  greatest  tribute  that  we,  as  an  Organization,
as  Member  States  and  as  individuals,  can  pay  to  the
memory of the victims, to the suffering of the survivors
and  to  the  legacy  of  the  liberators  is  to  vow  together:
“Never again”.
As  Foreign  Minister  Silvan  Shalom  has  stated
from  this  very  rostrum,  we  stand  on  the  brink  of  the
18
moment  when  this  terrible  event  will  change  from
memory  to  history.  As  the  generation  of  Holocaust
survivors  and 
torch  of
remembrance,  of  bearing  witness  and  of  education
must  continue  forward.  It  is  our  duty  to  the  past  and
our commitment to the future.
liberators  dwindles, 
the 
In  January  2005,  States  Members  of  the  United
Nations  convened  in  this  Hall  for  a  historic  special
session  of  the  General  Assembly  to  commemorate  the
sixtieth  anniversary  of  the  liberation  of  the  Nazi
concentration camps.
At  that  session,  Member  States  affirmed  the
important role and responsibility of the United Nations
in Holocaust remembrance and education to honour the
victims  and  survivors  of  the  Holocaust  and  to  stand
watch  against  the  re-emergence  of  such  evil,  for  the
benefit of future generations.
The  fulfilment  of  that  responsibility  becomes
ever more urgent in the face of an alarming increase in
global  acts of anti-Semitism, Holocaust  denial,  racism
and  religious  intolerance.  Sadly,  today  there  is  no
shortage  of  human  suffering.  Oppression,  the  de-
legitimization  of  peoples  and  discrimination  continue.
The  horror  of  the  Holocaust  has,  to  our  collective
shame,  not  prevented  other  genocides  from  occurring.
These  facts  compel  us  to  establish  mechanisms  that
will ensure that future generations will never forget the
Holocaust or its lessons.
the  agenda 
the  sanctity  of 
It is imperative that all States learn the lessons of
the  Holocaust,  for 
the
preservation  of  humanity  and  for  the  prevention  of
such  atrocities  in  the  future.  The  draft  resolution
submitted  under 
in
document  A/60/L.12,  is  intended  to  further  advance
those  objectives.  It  seeks  to  give  expression  to  the
commitment to Holocaust remembrance and education
within  the  United  Nations  system.  The  importance  of
the  resolution  is  reinforced  by  the  fact  that  it  would
represent  the  first  time  the  United  Nations,  in  its  60-
year  history,  adopts  a  resolution  relating 
the
Holocaust.
item,  contained 
life,  for 
to 
The  draft  resolution  comprises  10  preambular
paragraphs  and  six  operative  paragraphs  and  is  the
product  of  consultations  with  a  large  number  of
interested  delegations.  In  its  preambular  section,  the
draft  resolution  recalls  several  key  provisions  from
relevant  human  rights 
the
indelible  link  between  the  United  Nations  and  the
instruments  and  notes 
unique tragedy of the Second World War. It takes note
of  the  fact  that  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly is taking place during the sixtieth year of the
defeat  of  the  Nazi  regime,  and  reaffirms  that  the
Holocaust  will  forever  be  a  warning  to  all  peoples  of
the dangers of hatred, bigotry, racism, and prejudice.
In  its  operative  part,  the  resolution  calls  on  the
United  Nations,  inter  alia,  to  designate  27  January  as
an  annual  International  Day  of  Commemoration  in
memory  of  the  victims  of  the  Holocaust.  It  urges
Member  States  to  develop  educational  programmes  to
inculcate  future  generations  with  the  lessons  of  the
Holocaust  in  order  to  help  prevent  future  acts  of
genocide. It further rejects any denial of the Holocaust
and condemns without reservation all manifestations of
religious 
incitement,  harassment  or
violence  against  persons  or  communities  based  on
ethnic origin or religious belief, wherever they occur.
intolerance, 
In addition, the resolution requests the Secretary-
General  to  establish  a  programme  of  outreach  on  the
subject  of  the  Holocaust  and  the  United  Nations,  as
well  as  measures 
to  mobilize  civil  society  for
Holocaust remembrance and education, with a mandate
to  report  back  to  the  General  Assembly  on  the
establishment  and 
that  United
Nations programme.
implementation  of 
The  initial  sponsors  of  the  resolution,  Australia,
Canada,  the  Russian  Federation,  the  United  States  of
America  and  Israel,  are  very  appreciative  of  the
overwhelming  support  the  resolution  received  when  it
was  submitted.  At  that  time,  the  resolution  had  90
sponsors. Since then, the following States have joined
as  sponsors:  Equatorial  Guinea,  Ecuador,  Gabon,
Gambia, Liberia, Nicaragua, Panama and Sierra Leone.
In  our  deliberations  with  other  Member  States,
we  have  received  vast  support  for  the  resolution.  We
urge all States to sponsor this important resolution. We
would  also 
to
Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his  public  support
and commitment to the resolution, and for the issue of
Holocaust remembrance and education in general.
to  express  our  appreciation 
like 
I would also like to thank you, Mr. President, for
leadership  and  compassion  you  have  shown
the 
throughout this process and in this matter.
We  look  forward  to  the  adoption  of  the  draft
resolution  by  consensus,  so  that  the  Organization  and
its Member States can, in one voice, demonstrate their
A/60/PV.41
commitment  to  the  cause  of  Holocaust  remembrance
and  education,  act  to  help  prevent  future  acts  of
genocide  and  advance  the  fulfilment  by  the  United
Nations of its core mission and founding principles.
Let all those who were led to nameless deaths be
given  an  everlasting  name  here  in  this  Hall  today.  In
the words of the Prophet of Israel, Isaiah:
(quoted in Hebrew, then in English)
“And I will give them in my house and within my
walls  a  memorial  and  a  name  ...  and  it  shall  not
be cut off.” (Isaiah 56:5)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency Mr. Per Stig Moeller, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Denmark.
(Denmark): 
Mr.  Moeller 
The  Danish
Government  wishes  to  lend  its  active  support  to  the
draft resolution on Holocaust remembrance introduced
by Israel. We concur fully with the views that will later
be expressed by the presidency of the European Union.
Denmark  is  a  member  of  the  Task  Force  for
Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education,  Remembrance
and Research. We hope through our membership to be
able to stimulate further research on and awareness of
the Holocaust  and other genocides.  A Danish research
centre  on  these  matters  has  been  established  and
27 January has been designated “Auschwitz Day”.
in  part  by 
The  Danish  experience  of  the  Holocaust 
is
primarily related to the operation to rescue the Jewish
community  in  Denmark  during  the  month  of  October
1943, a spontaneous action by the Danish people, made
possible 
the  generous  acceptance  of
Denmark’s  Jewish  refugees  by  Sweden  —  your  own
country,  Mr.  President.  That  event 
illustrates  an
important  point,  which  is  that  one  has  to  take  action
when ethnic cleansing and genocide are on the march.
Passivity and silence must not become accomplices in
the  crime.  Responsibility  to  protect  populations  from
genocide  and  other  crimes  against  humanity  is  an
imperative. You are not guilty because you belong to a
certain  race,  but  you  are  guilty  if  you  pursue  people
because they belong to a certain race.
We  have  unfortunately  been  witness  to  genocide
and ethnic cleansing since the Holocaust, as if we have
not  learned  the  lessons  of  the  past.  But  we  have  also
seen  a  major  breakthrough  in  the  strengthening  of  the
international  legal  order  since  then.  I  am,  of  course,
19
A/60/PV.41
referring  here  to  the  establishment  of  the  various  ad
hoc international criminal tribunals and in particular to
the  permanent  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),
which  has  the  competence  to  prosecute  and  convict
persons  who  have  committed,  participated 
in  or
ordered the committing of the crime of genocide.
The  Danish  Government  believes  that  the  ICC
will have a preventive effect in deterring governmental
regimes from carrying out a policy of genocide. At the
same  time,  we  lend  our  full  support  to  the  effective
functioning of the ICC in its pursuit of justice.
We  must  all  learn  from  the  hard  lessons  of  the
past, and in that spirit we welcome the draft resolution
on Holocaust remembrance as a timely initiative.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Phillipe  Douste-Blazy,  Minister  for
Foreign Affairs of France.
Mr. Douste-Blazy (France) (spoke in French): As
I  take  the  floor  to  speak  in  France’s  name  before  this
Assembly, allow me to say how moved I am. To speak
of the Holocaust is neither a banal nor a trivial matter.
As  Primo  Levi  noted  in  his  masterpiece,  “If  This  Is  a
Man”,  the  Shoah  is  about  man,  his  dignity  and
freedom.
We who have gathered in this forum are all linked
by  the  memory  and  history  of  the  Holocaust.  The
United Nations came into existence out of the rejection
of  barbarism  and  Nazi  violence.  It  enshrines  in  its
founding Charter the values that bring us together and
are  the  foundation  of  this  Assembly,  values  that  are
characterized by the rejection of extermination and that
forcefully reject what happened in Europe at that time.
The  strength  of  multilateralism,  which  this  forum
expresses,  is  to  build  the  future  of  peoples  on  all  the
lessons learned from the past. Some could say after the
Shoah that they did not know — today, it is no longer
possible to say one did not know.
Remembrance  of  the  Holocaust  today  is  our
responsibility.  It 
the
knowledge and clear conscience of the past — it is also
to uphold a certain idea of man.
to  build  our  future  on 
is 
France,  like  all  its  European  partners,  strongly
supported  the  decision  to  hold  the  special  session  last
January  to  commemorate  the  60th  anniversary  of  the
liberation of the Nazi concentration camps. Sixty years
ago,  the  horror-struck  Allies  put  an  end  to  the
extermination  camps,  those  places  of  death  whose
20
names  remain  forever  engraved  in  our  memories:
Belzec, Sobibor, Majdanek, Treblinka, Auschwitz.
The 60th anniversary has been marked by events
and  commemorations  throughout  the  year;  the  most
moving being the international ceremony at Auschwitz.
All  those  events  were  a  forceful  expression  of  the
international community’s duty to remember.
In  the  face  of  radical  evil  and  a  plan  for
systematic  extermination  and  in  the  face  of  the
negationism  that  sometimes  appears  in  one  place  or
another,  all  mankind  must  remember  and  remain
vigilant. So it is for this Assembly, which expresses the
universal  conscience  but  also  the  wish  for  peace  and
concord  among  nations,  to  send  a  clear  message,  as
was sent on 27 January in this General Assembly. It is
that same message we wish to express and to reaffirm
today.
like 
two 
fundamental 
reasons 
for 
France, 
partners, 
its  European 
is
co-sponsoring  the  draft  resolution  on  the  Holocaust.
We  have 
that
commitment. The first concerns the duty to remember.
In July 1995, in his speech at the Vélodrome d’Hiver,
the  President  of  the  French  Republic,  Jacques  Chirac,
recognized  the  responsibility  of  the  French  State  in
collaborating  with 
the
destruction  it  wrought.  He  strongly  affirmed  that
collective memory  is  an  imprescriptible  principle,  and
also  affirmed  the  ethical  imperative  of  collectively
shared remembrance.
the  occupying  Power 
in 
My  country  thus  stood  behind  the  initiative  to
designate  27  January  as  the  International  Day  of
Commemoration  in  memory  of  the  victims  of  the
Shoah. That idea was  adopted in  2002  by  the  Council
of Europe and has since been taken up by many States
and  other  international  organizations,  including  the
Organization  for  Security  and  Co-operation  in  Europe
(OSCE).
By  tabling  today’s  draft  resolution,  the  United
Nations  salutes  the  designation  of  27  January  as  the
International Day of Commemoration in memory of the
victims  of  the  Holocaust.  There  is,  however,  another
reason why France fully approves the initiative before
us.  The  duty  to  remember,  60  years  after  the  tragedy,
must  now  be  directed  to  new  generations.  The  last
Holocaust survivors are leaving us and only a handful
now remain. If the duty to remember is to be passed on
today,  then  our  duty  is  to  educate  —  and  that  will  be
even  more  true  for  the  future.  If  a  crime  such  as
genocide is not to happen again in the future, the flame
of  memory  must  not  be  extinguished  and  must  be
passed from generation to generation.
That  is  more  than  a  necessity  imposed  by  the
barbarism of the past — it is a responsibility to history.
My  country  long  ago  introduced  Holocaust  education
in  our  school  system.  France  is  also  endeavouring  to
promote  that  priority  in  all  European  forums.  It  is
doing  so 
International
Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education,  Remembrance
and  Research,  which  was  set  up  following 
the
Stockholm Declaration of January 2000. It did so at the
OSCE conference in 2004 and took the initiative within
the  European  Union  to  launch  a  dialogue  among
education ministers on the subject.
the  Task  Force 
for 
in 
The international community has already taken a
major legal step — which we welcome — in adopting
the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of
the Crime of Genocide. But it is also through teaching,
regular  contact  with  places  of  remembrance  and
education that we must awaken future generations. All
over the world, such actions can help combat religious
intolerance, 
to  violence  and
discrimination.  At  the  same  time  as  the  education  of
new  generations  is  rooted  in  history,  it  involves  the
future of the world and mankind.
incitement 
racism, 
it 
For 
that  reason, 
is  necessary 
that,  after
solemnly  marking  the  commemoration  of  the  60th
anniversary  of  the  Holocaust  at  the  end  of  2005,  the
United Nations should adopt the draft resolution before
you  today.  The  text  salutes  the  designation  by  many
States of 27 January as a Day of Commemoration and
enshrines it as a day of international observance. It also
has  the  great  merit  of  calling  upon  States  to  build  on
this day of remembrance by working to educate future
generations.
Today,  the  duty  to  remember  requires  us  to  be
vigilant and calls on us to act. Remembrance can never
be  taken  for  granted,  it  is  a  duty  that  must  be
constantly renewed. It requires States to mobilize with
all  people  of  goodwill  involved  in  education  and  the
training of new generations. That is the meaning of our
support  for  the  draft  resolution  before  the  United
Nations General Assembly today.
Mr.  Ungureanu  (Romania):  Romania  joins  and
fully  supports  the  statement  to  be  delivered  by  the
representative of the United Kingdom on behalf of the
European Union.
A/60/PV.41
I wish to take the floor in my national capacity, as
Romania  experienced  the  Holocaust  directly  and  has
recently taken a series of steps to assume and come to
terms with its own past.
I am proud to be able to inform the Assembly of
the  progress  Romania  has  been  able  to  achieve,  after
the  obliterating  experience  of  Communism, 
in
regaining  its  whole  historic  memory,  with  both  the
good  and  the  painful  chapters.  We  have  learned  to
accept and live with the latter.
The Holocaust, born out of a perverse philosophy
of  hatred,  which  later  became  a  doctrine  of  death,
symbolizes  for  us  the  greatest  tragedy  humankind  has
ever known. First and foremost, we need to remember
and  pay  homage 
the
Holocaust.  We  must  not  forget,  for  if  we  do,  we  may
not  be  able  to  act  effectively  in  response  to  our
collective  duty  to  prevent  and  make  certain  such
horrors will never again happen.
those  who  perished 
in 
to 
My  country’s  position  on  the  Holocaust  is  firm,
clear  and  committed.  Romania  has  assumed  a  strong
political  commitment  to  develop  Holocaust  research
programmes,  education  in  the  spirit  of  promoting
democracy and tolerance and to combat anti-Semitism,
conserve  Jewish  cultural  heritage  and  commemorate
the victims of this tragedy.
the  end  of  2004 
A notable step in that regard was the setting up of
the  International  Commission  on  the  Holocaust  in
Romania,  chaired  by  the  famous  Nobel  laureate,
Professor  Elie  Wiesel.  At 
the
Commission  issued  a  report  on  the  Holocaust  in
Romania  —  a  true  landmark  for  future  studies  and
public debate on the Holocaust — and provided a set of
recommendations  that  the  Romanian  Government  has
endorsed. This is remarkable progress in the country’s
efforts  to  acknowledge  its  past,  including  its  darker
aspects.
the  Commission  and 
My  Government  is  committed  to  fully  observing
to
the  recommendations  of 
ensuring the proper  follow-up to its  work.  It  has  been
decided  to  designate  9  October  as  National  Holocaust
Commemoration  Day.  That  was  the  date  in  1941  on
which deportations of Romanian Jews to Transdniestria
began.  This  year,  we  observed  Holocaust  Day  for  the
second time in Romania.
Furthermore,  in  March  2002,  as  part  of  its
comprehensive approach to fighting anti-Semitism, the
21
A/60/PV.41
issued 
ordinance  making 
a  Government
Romanian  Government 
emergency 
unlawful 
any
organizations  and  symbols  of  a  fascist,  racist  or
xenophobic  character,  as  well  as  the  promotion  of  the
cult  of  persons  guilty  of  crimes  against  peace  and
humanity.
The  National  Institute  for  Holocaust  Studies  in
Romania was set up at the beginning of this month. It
will  be 
in  charge  of  gathering  and  publishing
documents  on  the  Romanian  Holocaust,  as  well  as  of
promoting  educational  activities 
the
Holocaust.  We  can  never  dwell  enough  on  the  role  of
education  and  educational  programmes  in  preventing
anti-Semitic  acts  and  other  forms  of  intolerance  that,
during  the  Second  World  War,  led  eventually  to  the
Holocaust.
relating 
to 
into 
the  past 
the  means 
the  Holocaust  was  published  at 
We  have  a  moral  duty  to  strive  harder  to  make
future  generations  understand 
the  dangers  of
systematic  crimes  against  peoples  and  to  turn  the
lessons  of 
to  prevent
discriminatory  action  from  ever  happening  again.  In
Romania,  an  undergraduate-level  textbook  on  Jewish
history  and 
the
beginning of this month. It is structured in accordance
with  the  recommendations  of  the  Wiesel  Commission
and  will  be  introduced  into  the  educational  system  so
to  ensure 
that  Romanian  students  have  proper
knowledge about the Holocaust.
for  Hebrew 
been
inaugurated  in  several  Romanian  cities,  including  in
my hometown, Iasi.
Centres 
studies 
have 
for 
the  Task  Force 
In  December  2004,  Romania  became  a  full
member  of 
International
Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education,  Remembrance
and  Research,  an  organization  that  coordinates  the
efforts of its members for a better understanding of the
Holocaust  by  promoting  educational  programmes  on
this issue — programmes to commemorate the victims,
as well as research programmes. In this regard, we are
fully  determined  to  play  a  more  active  role  and  to
initiate  projects  in  cooperation  with  other  Member
States  or  liaison  countries,  including  at  the  regional
level.
Setting up an annual Holocaust remembrance day
in  memory  of  the  victims  is  a  way  to  make  future
generations  understand  that  they  should  not  forget  the
tragedies  that  ravaged  twentieth-century  Europe.  This
is  also  why,  together  with  its  European  partners,
22
Romania supports the draft resolution to establish such
a day of remembrance.
is  of  crucial 
importance  for 
I  am  persuaded  that  the  step  that  will  be  taken
today 
the  constant
remembrance and commemoration of the worst tragedy
in humankind’s history. As a historian, and as Minister
for  Foreign  Affairs  representing  my  country,  I  am
honoured  to  be  a  part  of  this  Day  in  the  General
Assembly.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His
Excellency  Mr.  Alexander  Saltanov,  Deputy  Minister
for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.
Mr.  Saltanov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in
Russian):  This  year,  which  marks 
the  sixtieth
anniversary  of  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War,  the
issue  of  combating  anti-Semitism  and  other  forms  of
intolerance  weighs  heavily  on  our  minds.  Humankind
recalls  with  indignation  and  sorrow  the  horrific  Nazi
atrocities, including the Holocaust. My country reveres
the  sacred  memory  of  the  Nazi  victims,  including  6
million Holocaust victims, half of them — 3 million —
citizens.  Current  and  future  generations  should  know
the  causes  of  those  horrendous  crimes  and  fight  anti-
Semitism,  intolerance,  extremism  and  xenophobia  in
all their manifestations. We must also pay tribute to all
of  the  soldiers  who  died  for  the  liberation  of  Europe
from  fascism  and  saved  from  total  annihilation  not
only the Jews but many other peoples.
For  my  country  and,  I  hope,  for  all  other
countries, any attempts to glorify Nazi accomplices are
absolutely outrageous — be they former legionaries of
the  Waffen-SS  or  other  collaborators  who  annihilated
hundreds  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  innocent
civilians,  prisoners  of  war 
in
concentration  camps.  Humankind  paid  too  dearly  for
underestimating  the  Nazi  threat  to  turn  a  blind  eye  to
any  attempt  to  revive  it  60  years  after  victory  in  the
Second World War. Such attempts are on the rise, even
to  the  extent  that  in  some  countries  the  day  of
liberation  from  the  Nazis  is  proclaimed  a  day  of
mourning.
and  prisoners 
In  this  connection,  the  Russian  Federation  will
introduce  a  draft  resolution  during  this  session  of  the
General  Assembly  on  the  inadmissibility  of  certain
practices  that  promote  modern  forms  of  racism,  racial
discrimination,  xenophobia 
intolerance
associated with them. We are certain that the adoption
of that draft resolution by consensus will contribute to
and 
the 
the  consolidation  of  international  efforts  to  fight  such
ugly phenomena.
Today,  our  global  civilization  is  confronting  a
new  and  terrible  threat:  international  terrorists  have
taken up the baton from the SS butchers. The abhorrent
ideology  of  terrorism  has  a  lot  in  common  with
Naziism.  We  can  effectively  combat  that  twenty-first-
century  evil  only  through  the  united  efforts  of  the
international  community.  Xenophobia  cannot  be  good
and  bad.  We  must,  as  a  general  rule,  promptly  and
effectively repulse any manifestations of extremism of
any kind — political, nationalistic or religious.
We  must  continue  to  work  tirelessly  at  the
national  and  intergovernmental  levels  if  we  are  to
overcome  intolerance.  We  must  adopt  legal  measures
and  develop  dialogue  and  cooperation  so  as 
to
disseminate ideas of tolerance among civilizations. The
United  Nations,  as  a  universal  Organization,  is  the
most appropriate forum for such an effort. That is why
Russia  was  one  of  the  first  countries  to  become  a
sponsor of the draft resolution before us.
Sir Emyr Jones Parry (United Kingdom): I have
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union
and the 12 countries that have aligned themselves with
this statement.
It  is  60  years  since  the  end  of  the  Holocaust  —
one  of  the  darkest  chapters  in  Europe’s  history,
encompassing  the  attempt  to  exterminate  the  Jews  in
Europe  and  the  systematic  massacre  of  other  groups.
Time  has  passed,  but  the  painful  memories  have  not
faded nor can they be allowed to fade. In January, the
European Union fully supported the special session of
the  General  Assembly  held  to  commemorate  the
liberation of the Nazi death camps. And throughout the
European  Union,  from  our  veterans  to  our  school
children,  we  have  remembered  the  victims  and  the
survivors: the millions of Jews who were murdered and
the  others  who  were  also  singled  out:  the  Roma,  the
physically  and  mentally  disabled,  homosexuals,
political prisoners and prisoners of war.
Today,  the  international  community  is  firmly
resolved  that  future  generations  cannot  be  allowed  to
forget.  The  first  challenge  is  to  ensure  that  the
Holocaust victims are properly commemorated. That is
why  the  European  Union  supports  a  United  Nations
resolution to establish an annual day in memory of the
victims of the Holocaust. It builds on the commitment
that  European  Union  member  States  and  many  others
A/60/PV.41
made in 2000 at the Stockholm International Forum on
the  Holocaust,  which  commemorated  the  victims  and
honoured those who stood  against it. It  also  builds  on
the  Council  of  Europe’s  declaration  in  2002  of  an
annual Day of Remembrance of the Holocaust and for
the Prevention of Crimes Against Humanity.
It is equally important that we draw lessons from
the Holocaust. An international day of commemoration
would also provide the opportunity to reflect regularly
on how the international community is living up to its
pledge of  “never again”.  The  international  community
must do all it can to prevent future acts of genocide. A
Holocaust  survivor,  Rafael  Lemkin,  was  a  principal
inspiration of the 1951 United  Nations  Convention  on
the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the  Crime  of
Genocide.  But,  tragically,  the  world  still  suffers  from
the  evils  of  genocide  and  ethnic  cleansing.  Failure  to
prevent those crimes reflects a failure to learn from the
horrors of the Holocaust.
and 
curricula.  Communities 
We  ignore  history  at  our  peril.  The  European
Union therefore supports the aim of the draft resolution
to foster ways of promoting Holocaust education. The
Holocaust  should  be  an  integral  part  of  national
education 
non-
governmental organizations should play their part too.
There  is  no  single  blueprint  for  that,  nor  should  there
be. But the contribution to tolerance made by teaching
and  learning  about  the  Holocaust  is  clear.  The  Task
Force 
International  Holocaust  Education,
Remembrance and Research, to which many European
Union member States belong, is a particularly effective
way  of  ensuring  high  standards  in  the  way  we  teach
about  the  Holocaust  in  our  schools,  universities  and
communities.  We  also  support  the  draft  resolution’s
request  for 
to  establish  a
programme  of  outreach  on  the  Holocaust  and  the
United  Nations  and  to  mobilize  civil  society  for
Holocaust remembrance and education.
for 
the  Secretary-General 
The  significance  of  the  Holocaust  is  universal.
But  it  commands  a  place  of  special  significance  in
European  remembrance.  It  was  in  Europe  that  the
Holocaust took place. And, like the United Nations, it
is out of that dark episode that a new Europe was born.
The  member  States  of  the  European  Union  work
together today to promote peace and democracy within
the Union’s borders and beyond. That is something that
we  could  not  have  imagined  60  years  ago.  Yet,  some
members  of  our  societies  still  face  intolerance  and
prejudice.  The  best  tribute  we  can  pay  to  the  victims
23
A/60/PV.41
and  the  survivors  of  the  Holocaust  is  to  speak  out
against  such  attitudes  in  our  communities.  We  all  still
have  lessons  to  learn,  and  we  therefore  fully  support
the draft resolution.
taken 
Mr.  Menon  (Singapore):  The  Indian  Ocean
tsunami  disaster  in  December  last  year  claimed  the
lives  of  some  275,000  people  from  35  different
countries.  Less  than  a  year  later,  at  least  50,000  lives
were 
in  South  Asia  by  a  7.6-magnitude
earthquake. Behind the numbers, each death is a tragic
story  of  a  human  life  suddenly  taken,  a  family  left
behind  to  grieve  the  loss  or,  in  many  cases,  a  whole
family  wiped  out  in  one  fell  swoop.  The  international
community reacted in both cases with solidarity to help
affected countries that needed external assistance. The
fearsome  power  of  natural  disasters  such  as  tsunamis
and  earthquakes  to  devastate  entire  areas  in  mere
moments  and  exterminate  entire  communities  sparked
serious  discussions  on  what 
international
community  could  and  should  do  to  save  lives  when
such calamities occur.
the 
Today, we meet in the General Assembly Hall to
remember the many victims, not of an act of nature but
of one of the worst and most cruel acts of evil inflicted
by  man  upon  mankind.  Regrettably,  other  such
shameful episodes had been committed previously and
have  been  committed  since  then  against  peoples  of
other  religions  or  ethnicities,  although 
the  acts
committed  were  not  executed  in  similar  fashion.  The
key lesson that we, the peoples of the United Nations,
should  have  learned  from  such  episodes  is  never  —
truly  never  again  —  to  allow  genocides,  ethnic
cleansing  or  crimes  against  humanity  to  recur.  Just  as
we  condemn  the  frequent  acts  of  terrorism  that  kill
innocent  people  these  days,  we  need,  similarly,  to
recognize  that  there  is  no  justification  whatsoever  for
committing  criminal  acts  such  as  the  Holocaust  and
that it is important for us to prevent such crimes.
My  delegation  was  therefore  much  encouraged
that  our  leaders,  at  the  recent  High-level  Plenary
Meeting, recognized for the first time the responsibility
of  States  to  protect  populations  from  genocide,  war
crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity,
and  their  responsibility  to  act  accordingly.  The  2005
World  Summit  Outcome  states  that  this  responsibility
entails 
including
preventing  their  incitement,  through  appropriate  and
necessary  means. 
international
community should, as appropriate, encourage and help
the  prevention  of  such  crimes, 
It  adds 
that 
the 
24
States  to  exercise  that  responsibility  and  support  the
United  Nations 
in  establishing  an  early  warning
capability.
On  this  solemn  occasion,  we  remember  the
victims  and  the  survivors  of  the  Holocaust.  But  the
bigger picture goes beyond just Germany and the Jews.
The cathartic actions that post-war  Germany took, not
the  least  of  which  was  the  acknowledgement  with
contrition  of  those  events  and  the  etching  on  the
collective  German  memory  of  the  wrongs  that  Nazi
Germany  had  done  to  Jews  and  others,  leave  little
doubt  that  German  society  as  a  whole  has  sincerely
learned  the  lesson  of  history  and  has  come  to  terms
with it. And contrary to what some may contend, it is
not  a  question  of  shaming,  or  holding  responsible,
future  generations  of  Germans  for  their  forefathers’
actions.  Rather, 
is  a  question  of  a  society
programming  a  lesson  learned  into  its  collective
memory  lest  it  be  doomed  to  repeat  the  history  from
which it has not learned.
it 
My delegation would urge all societies that know
of,  or  which  have  committed,  similar  wrongs  in  their
past,  whether  in  peace  or  in  war,  against  peoples  of
other  religions  or  ethnicities,  to  recognize  the  wrong
that  has  been  done  and  take  active  steps  to  come  to
terms with history and internalize those lessons in their
collective  memory.  We  would  also  submit  that  those
lessons  of  history  are  instructive  for  all  peoples.
Learning  from  the  mistakes  of  others  that  led  them
down  the  slippery  slope  of  discrimination,  envy,
prejudice and hatred, we  can  avoid  and  work  together
to avert similar, inexcusable errors and crimes. In that
regard,  the  advocacy  of  bigoted  views,  such  as  the
denial  of  the  right  of  a  people  or  a  State  to  exist,  is
highly  dangerous  and  completely  unacceptable  in  the
modern age.
in  some  quarters,  using 
The  Holocaust  occurred  partly  because  it  had
become  fashionable 
the
leverage  of  the  media  for  mass  propaganda,  to  blame
the  people  of  one  faith  and  descent,  making  them
convenient  scapegoats,  for  all  sorts  of  problems  that
then  existed.  At  the  same  time,  while  many  did  not
agree  with  the  Nazis,  they  felt  cowed  or,  for  some
reason, chose to remain silent. That is why we cannot
afford  to  be  complacent.  At  the  first  sign  of  ethnic  or
religious  defamation,  we  need  to  act  promptly  and
warn  strongly  of  the  danger.  We  also  need  to  actively
promote  greater  understanding  in  order  to  dispel
misconceptions  about  others  who  are  not  like  us  but
whose  presence  in  this  globalized  world  we  can  no
longer afford to ignore. It is all too natural that we tend
to  prefer  other  people  to  be  like  ourselves  and  share
our way of life, our outlook and our values. So, when a
minority differs from the majority, all too often, in the
name of integration, which is held up as an existential
raison  d’être,  the  majority  expects  the  minority  to
become  more  like  them  and  conform  to  their  socio-
cultural norms. The minority is subjected to  a process
of  assimilation  and,  in  extremis,  forced  to  accept  the
imposition  of  the  majority’s  system  of  values  and
beliefs.
in 
the  ways  of 
Even  though  the  underlying  intention  may  be
entirely noble — for example, so that they might enjoy
justice  or  political
access 
to  work,  education, 
participation,  all  conducted 
the
majority — it is certainly misplaced. A wiser approach
would be to work out a modus vivendi to accommodate
the minority and to live with one another. It is a huge
affront  to  one’s  dignity  to  be  regarded  as  having  no
values or to be urged to jettison one’s system of values,
beliefs  and  way  of  life  as  being  inferior  or  wrong  in
favour  of  another  system.  Members  of  the  majority
should  always  ask  themselves  how  they  would  feel  if
the tables were turned and they were in the shoes of the
minority. It is not for nothing that great and wise men
of  the  past  have  counselled  us  not  to  do  unto  others
what we do not want others to do unto ourselves.
Indeed, 
the 
that 
ingredients 
foster
misunderstanding  and  hatred  remain  prevalent  in  the
world today. It is striking to my delegation how little,
even  in  this  global  age  of  information,  some  of  us
understand  about  others,  even  those  living  just  across
our borders or amongst us, who are of a different race,
ethnicity, culture or creed. Ignorance breeds suspicions
and  phobias.  The  tendency  of  modern  mass  media  to
generalize,  caricaturize  and  sensationalize  in  order  to
sell  news  does  not  help  matters.  Stereotyping
contributes  to  the  wrongful  entrenching  of  baseless
fears  and  the  misprofiling  of  cultural  and  religious
beliefs and practices. We owe it to ourselves and to our
posterity to urgently educate ourselves about others.
That is the very rationale underlying the repeated
calls  for  a  dialogue  among  civilizations.  And  what
better dialogue can we have than for all the movers and
shakers and force multipliers of global information, in
particular  the  mass  media  of  all  stripes,  to  get  their
basic understanding of all major cultures and religions
right  so  that  they  can  put  out  information  in  a  more
A/60/PV.41
objective  manner?  My  delegation  would  submit  that
the  greater  influence  one  has,  especially  the  mass
media,  the  greater  is  one’s  special  responsibility  and
role  to  promote  understanding  and  avoid  unwittingly
fanning the flames of fear and prejudice that may seed
the  next  conflict  along  the  fault  lines  of  race,  culture,
faith  or  civilization.  We  cannot  be  complacent  and
need to work at preserving the harmony that underpins
the fabric and foundations of our global society.
build 
future 
and 
common 
tolerance 
Singapore  is  a  small,  multiracial,  multireligious
city-State.  Singaporeans  do  not  share  a  common
cultural heritage, but we have nevertheless managed to
live and work together harmoniously for 40 years since
independence.  That  is  because  we  recognize  our
diversity  and  the  value  of  cooperation  and  harmony.
Our  Chinese,  Malay,  Indian,  Eurasian,  Arab,  Jewish
and other communities draw on our traditional cultures
through  mutual
to 
a 
understanding, 
accommodation.
However,  that  has  not  lulled  us  into  complacency.
Countries  with  a  multiethnic  population  and  longer
histories  have  broken  up  because  of  ethnic  conflicts.
We  realize  from  our  own  past,  and  from  more  recent
experiences  of  racial  and  religious  strife  elsewhere
involving  physical  assaults  and  attacks  on  places  of
worship,  how  vulnerable  our  own  social  fabric  is.  We
take  care  to  ensure  that  there  is  justice  and  equality
regardless of race, language or religion, and we do not
and will not condone any acts that stir  up strife  along
racial or religious lines. As my Foreign Minister said at
the  20th  meeting,  in  his  statement  during  the  general
debate:
“Tribalism  is  a  basic  human  instinct.  We  may
proclaim  that  all  men  are  brothers,  but  we
reflexively  distinguish  degrees  of  closeness.
Divisions  of  race,  language,  culture  and  religion
run  deep  in  human  society  and  surface  under
stress.”
Beyond  taking  a  cautious  approach,  we  have
decided to celebrate our diversity in our daily life — to
turn what may seem an adversity into opportunity. We
encourage all Singaporeans to see the inherent value of
diversity.  As  the  world  moves  from  globalization
towards  “glocalization”  or  global  localization,  our
unique  knowledge  of  cultural  software,  which  has
enabled us to network easily with both East and West,
Europe,  America,  China,  India  and  the  Middle  East,
can  command  a  premium  when  people  realize  that
Singaporeans,  as  intermediaries,  can  make  a  huge
25
A/60/PV.41
difference to their business success by fostering better
understanding  and  trust,  as  well  as  interpreting  and
explaining how each distinct culture works. In our own
small  ways,  at  the  international  level,  such  as  at  the
United  Nations,  we  hope  also  to  contribute  to  greater
understanding  of  the  vital  need  for  tolerance  and
dialogue  towards  building  a  better  and  more  stable
world for our children.
Mr.  Bolton  (United  States  of  America):  The
United  States  is  proud  to  co-sponsor  this  important
draft  resolution,  and  I  am  pleased  to  be  here  to  speak
for it.
in 
resolution 
support  of  a  draft 
to  honour  and  remember 
It  is  appropriate  that,  on  the  sixtieth  anniversary
of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations,  we  come
together 
to
commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the Holocaust
and 
is
appropriate  because 
the  United  Nations  as  an
institution  was  built  upon  the  ashes  of  the  Holocaust
and the Second World War with an important mission.
That  mission  is  to  help  ensure  that  the  international
community will never again allow such a crime against
humanity  to  be  committed  —  never  again  allow  the
world to be plunged into such violence and chaos.
its  victims.  It 
The greatest tribute we can pay to the Holocaust’s
millions  of  victims,  of  whom  by  far  the  greatest
number  were  the  six  million  Jews  —  one  third  of  the
Jewish  people  —  who  were  robbed  of  their  lives  in
Nazi  death  camps,  is  to  ensure  that  we  never  forget
them or their sacrifice. We must do everything we can
so  that  future  generations  in  perpetuity  will  know  of
that great crime and learn its important lessons.
While  the  Holocaust  occurred  60  years  ago,  its
lessons are no less relevant today. When a President or
a  Member  State  can  brazenly  and  hatefully  call  for  a
second Holocaust by suggesting that Israel, the Jewish
homeland, should be wiped off the map, it is clear that
not  all  have  learned  the  lessons  of  the  Holocaust  and
that  much  work  remains  to  be  done.  And  when  some
Member  States  shamefully  hesitate 
to  decisively
condemn  such  remarks,  it  is  clear  that  much  work
remains to be done.
That is why the draft resolution before us today is
so  important.  Among  its  measures,  it  will  designate
27  January  of  each  year  as  an  international  day  of
commemoration  in  memory  of  the  victims  of  the
Holocaust, call for the Secretary-General to establish a
programme  of  Holocaust  outreach,  and  urge  Member
26
States  to  put  into  place  educational  programmes  to
teach future generations the lessons of the Holocaust so
as to prevent future acts of genocide.
The  programme  will  complement 
the  work
already undertaken by the Task Force for International
Cooperation  on  Holocaust  Education,  Remembrance,
and  Research,  a  group  of  20  countries  that  has  been
working  with  Governments, 
non-governmental
organizations and civil society to introduce into school
curriculums  material  about  the  Holocaust  and  the
devastation  that  can  result  when  hatred  is  allowed  to
spread and is even encouraged by rogue Governments.
Other 
the
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,
are  emphasizing  education, 
law
enforcement  as  the  measures  that  will  contain  and
eventually eliminate racial and religious hatred.
international  organizations, 
legislation  and 
such 
as 
The draft resolution is the most fitting tribute we
can pay in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, and
reflects the core values and principles upon which the
United Nations was founded. I hope it will be adopted
with unanimous support.
Mr.  Southcott  (Australia):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak  today  on  behalf  of  Australia,  New  Zealand  and
Canada. It has now been 60 years since the world saw
the defeat of a barbaric and tyrannical Nazi regime that
had  been  bent  on  the  systematic  eradication  of  the
Jewish  people  and  the  violent  repression  of  many
others.
Canada, Australia and New Zealand consider the
genocide perpetrated against  the  Jewish  people  during
the  Holocaust  to  have  been  the  most  abhorrent  of
crimes.  It  cost  millions  their  lives  and  caused  untold
damage  and  destruction  to  the  lives  of  many  millions
more.  Its  effects  have  been  profound  on  a  number  of
generations  and  continue  to  be  felt  today.  Our  deep
sense  of  loss  and  sorrow  is  not  only  for  the  many
victims and their families, but also for the vitality and
talents lost to the world as a whole.
Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  have  been
dismayed  by  recent  signs  of  increased  anti-Semitism,
Holocaust  denial,  racism  and  religious  intolerance,
none of which is acceptable in any form, in any place.
The  Holocaust  showed  the  depths  to  which  humanity
the  devastating
can  descend  and  made  clear 
consequences 
and
persecution.
anti-Semitism, 
racism 
of 
Canada, Australia and New Zealand commend the
draft  resolution  before  us  as  an  important  step  by  the
United Nations to ensure that Holocaust  remembrance
and education remain a priority for all countries, and it
serves  as  a  strong  reminder  to  us  all  of  the  need  to
remain  vigilant  and  take  steps  to  prevent  such  horror
from happening again.
they  had  been  subject  in  other  parts  of  the  world.  In
return for that, many generations of Jews contributed to
the  creation  of  a  unique  spiritual,  cultural  and
economic  heritage  that  Poland  takes  pride  in  having.
Their  great  contribution  will  be  illustrated  in  the
museum of Polish Jewish history that is currently being
built in Warsaw.
A/60/PV.41
in 
the  draft 
the  statement  made  by 
Mr.  Towpik  (Poland):  Poland  welcomes  and
cosponsors 
resolution  on  Holocaust
remembrance.  Our  reasons  therefor  have  been  well
presented 
the  United
Kingdom  Ambassador  on  behalf  of  the  European
Union. I fully associate myself with that statement. Let
me, however, add a few additional remarks.
The  Second  World  War  brought 
terrifying
atrocities and destruction to many nations. Millions of
Poles and Russians, British and Americans, Ukrainians
and  Belarussians,  and  members  of  other  nations
sacrificed  their  lives  in  defending  their  countries  and
fighting  for  liberty.  Millions  of  soldiers  and  civilians
perished  in  battles,  prisons,  mass  executions  and
concentration camps.
The  Second  World  War  also  brought  one  of  the
most horrible experiences in human history, which we
define today by the term Holocaust. It was an attempt
to eliminate an entire nation; an attempt based on racial
and  religious  prejudices;  an  attempt  which  led  to  the
creation of a whole system for exterminating people, a
system  that  included  not  only  racist  and  criminal
ideology, but also a horrifying machinery — an  entire
infrastructure  — 
ideology:
concentration  camps  and  centres  of  extermination.  It
resulted  in  the  planned  and  carefully  executed  murder
of  one  third  of  the  Jewish  population,  along  with  that
of countless members of other minorities.
implement 
that 
to 
We  welcome  the  proposed  draft  resolution  as  a
gesture  commemorating  the  victims  of  the  Holocaust.
It  is  of  particular  importance  to  us  Poles.  Poland  lost
millions  — over 90 per cent  —  of its Jewish  citizens.
The  Holocaust  put  an  end  to  a  certain  era  in  our
history  —  an  end  to  the  world  created  by  Poles  and
Jews  coexisting  on  Polish  territory.  The  relationship
between 
from
prejudices, frequently painful ones indeed. However, it
was  in  Poland  that  the  Jewish  community  was  able  to
enjoy a climate of freedom and tolerance for 800 years.
It  was  in  Poland  that  many  Jews  found  shelter  and
escaped  the  discrimination  and  persecution  to  which
two  nations  was  not 
those 
free 
With  the  draft  resolution  before  us,  we  also  pay
tribute  to  those  who  stood  against  the  crime  of
genocide and who helped its victims. We pay tribute to
those  who  fought  in  Jewish  ghettos  and  those  who,
risking  their  own  lives,  tried  to  assist  Jews.  Those
people  have  been  honoured  with  the  distinction  “the
righteous among nations”. To us, they are a role model,
an  inspiration  for  our  younger  generations.  They
remind us that evil can and should be opposed. We are
proud  that,  among  the  20,000  decorated  with  that
distinction, 6,000 are Poles.
The  draft  resolution  also  rightly  emphasizes  that
it is important to  continue  educating  on  the  history  of
the Holocaust, which is the best demonstration of what
ethnic  and  religious  hatred  can  lead  to.  It  is  a  tragic
warning against any system that is based on ethnic and
religious intolerance.
Poland  will  spare  no  effort  to  ensure  the  lasting
preservation of the remnants of the Nazi concentration
camps  and  extermination  centres  that  were  located  in
Poland  by  the  German  occupiers.  They  should  remain
places  that  are  open  to  the  world,  where  historic
reflection and education can take place in the spirit of
democracy and tolerance.
sensitivity 
It  is  our  duty  to  shape  the  awareness  of  young
generations  in  a  spirit  of  tolerance,  respect  for  human
rights  and 
to  any  manifestation  of
discrimination. That goal can be implemented through
educational  programmes,  such  as  those  planned  at  the
International  Centre  of  Education  About  Auschwitz
and  the  Holocaust  and  the  Institute  of  Peace  and
Reconciliation, which will study contemporary acts of
genocide.  Poland  has  also  developed  youth  exchange
programmes,  which  are 
the  best  form  of  active
dialogue  to  combat  stereotypes  by  confronting  it  with
personal  experience  and  person-to-person  contact.  An
example  of  such  a  programme  is  the  annual  March  of
in  which  Jewish  and  Polish  youth
the  Living, 
participate,  organized  by 
the  Auschwitz-Birkenau
Museum.
27
has to define its own answer to that question. It is our
responsibility  to  keep  continuous  guard  against  anti-
semitisim,  racism  and  any  form  of  political,  religious
or otherwise motivated and disguised intolerance.
As  members  of  the  generations  living  after  the
Holocaust,  we  know  that  genocide  is  not  solely  about
the  mass  murder  of  human  beings.  Indeed,  we  know
that  the  roots  of  genocide  may  be  found  in  words,  in
political  concepts,  in  the  denial  of  human,  civil  and
political  rights  to  certain  groups  of  people,  or  in  the
dehumanizing of political adversaries, the preaching of
hatred  and  the  call  for  the  annihilation  of  peoples  or
States.  Only  by  remembering  and  by  defending  the
human  rights  and  dignity  of  each  and  every  person  in
this  world  may  we  be  saved  from  having  to  witness
repetitions of history.
It is very fitting that we are discussing this issue
here at the heart of the  United  Nations  in  the  General
Assembly, because the United Nations was founded in
particular  in  order  to  prevent  genocide  and  to  defend
the human rights of each and every one of us.
Germany,  in  close  cooperation  with  its  friends
and  partners  in  Europe,  has  been  and  is  deeply
committed to the strengthening of the United  Nations,
which is at the centre of the global struggle for human
rights and human dignity. Remembering the Holocaust
is part of that struggle, and that is why Germany fully
supports and co-sponsors the draft resolution before us.
Programme of work
The  President:  I  would  like  to  inform  members
that  on  Thursday,  3  November  2005,  the  General
Assembly  will  take  up  agenda  item  43,  “Culture  of
peace”,  as  the  last  item,  under  which  action  will  be
taken  on  draft 
resolutions  A/60/L.4/Rev.1  and
A/60/L.10.
The meeting rose at 5.35 p.m.
A/60/PV.41
Finally,  the  draft  resolution  reminds  us  that  the
main  lesson  that  should  be  drawn  from  the  terrible
experience of the Holocaust is that we should not allow
a  similar  tragedy  to  happen  again  against  any  nation.
The  generation  that  has  witnessed  the  horrors  of  the
Holocaust  is  slowly  passing  away.  Now  it  is  our
responsibility 
of 
the
Organization to remember, to remind and to warn.
responsibility 
and 
the 
Mr. Pleuger (Germany): First of all, I would like
to express my full support for the statement presented
by the British Ambassador on behalf of the presidency
of the European Union.
For  my  country,  the  commemoration  of  the
millions  of  victims  of 
the  Holocaust  means
remembering  not  only  one  of  the  darkest  chapters  in
Europe’s  history,  but  remembering  the  very  darkest
chapter in the history of Germany. Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder, when speaking in April 2005 at the sixtieth
anniversary of the liberation of the concentration camp
of  Buchenwald, 
unwavering
commitment 
rights
originating  in  the  terrible  experiences  of  the  past  in
saying:
to  democracy 
and  human 
emphasized 
the 
“The  Europe  of  freedom,  peace  and  democracy
that  we  have  created  over  the  past  50  years
certainly has many roots, but the deepest roots of
all  are  embedded  in  the  darkest  years  of  the
twentieth  century  —  the  years  when  the  silent
terror  of  the  camps  held  this  very  Europe  in  its
grip… From these camps came the most insistent
appeal  to  oppose  the  forces  of  injustice  and
tyranny in whatever guise they may take.”
At a time when the last personal witnesses of the
Holocaust  are  leaving  us,  it  is  especially  important  to
find new ways to keep the fate of the victims alive in
the  memory  of  the  world  and  to  keep  on  asking  how
such crimes could ever be committed. Every generation
28
