United Nations
General Assembly
Sixtieth session
27th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 6 October 2005, 10 a.m.
New York

A/60/PV.27
Official Records
President:
Mr. Eliasson  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Sweden)
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 62
Social development, including questions related to
the world social situation and youth, ageing disabled
persons and the family
Two plenary meetings devoted to the evaluation
of the progress made in the implementation of
the World Programme of Action for Youth to
the year 2000 and Beyond
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/60/61,
A/60/133, A/60/133/Corr.1 and A/60/156)
Draft resolution (A/60/L.2)
The President: I am very pleased, as President of
the General Assembly, to see a record number of youth
representatives  in  the  national  delegations  to  the
sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  a  good
start.  Their  presence  is  concrete  evidence  of  the
revitalization and rejuvenation often called for in these
halls. It is also an encouraging indication of a growing
recognition of the importance of youth participation in
the 
the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth.  Not  only  are  they
here,  reminding  us  of  the  importance  of  youth  being
part of the decision-making processes in the world, but
they  are  also  bringing  the  plight  of  young  people
around  the  world  into  these  halls.  They  are  also
bringing realities that we need to be aware of.
implementation  and  evaluation  of 
In  the  10  years  since  the  adoption  of  the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth,  there  have  been
notable  achievements,  including  on  gender  issues  and
in the field of education. However, much remains do be
done,  not  least  for  girls  in  education.  As  the  “World
Youth  Report  2005”  —  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  —  so  vividly  describes,  many  young  people
today  continue  to  suffer  poverty,  discrimination  and
inequality, and far too great a number still lack access
to proper education and health services. Most of those
who become infected with HIV/AIDS are in their teens
or 
rampant
unemployment  dulls  their  ambition  and  undermines
morale,  and  we  know  that  civil  conflict  can  have  a
particularly  devastating  effect  on  the  young.  We  need
only  look  at  the  outrageous  phenomenon  of  child
soldiers.
In  many 
areas, 
early 
twenties. 
Although  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for
Youth is still highly relevant today, in the 10 years that
have  passed  since  its  adoption  new  challenges  have
emerged.  In  the  mid-1990s,  few  could  have  predicted
the  enormous  impact  that  globalization,  information
and  communication  technologies,  HIV/AIDS,  conflict
and  intergenerational  relations  would  have  on  young
people. Those issues will need substantive commitment
and action as emerging areas of concern.
In addition to policies and programmes developed
specifically for youth, the needs of young people must
be better reflected in broader development agendas. A
few  weeks  ago,  the  world’s  leaders  gathered  here  to
review progress towards the Millennium Development
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
05-53894 (E)
*0553894*
A/60/PV.27
Goals  and  the  reform  process  facing  the  United
Nations.  Intensified  commitment  and  investment  now
in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will  have
enormous  benefits  for  the  young  people  of  2015  and
future generations.
Young people should be seen as our partners and
a positive force in achieving the full implementation of
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  As  one  of  the
youth  representatives  so  eloquently  said  yesterday  at
the  informal,  interactive  round  table  in  which  I
participated,  the  current  young  generation  should  be
not  the  next  one  to  fail,  but  the  first  to  succeed  in
meeting the Millennium Development Goals. That is a
challenge we should all accept, and let us now do our
part to make it happen. I am sure that this meeting will
bring  that  energy  into  the  processes  that  are  so
necessary.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General.
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  I  am  delighted
to  be  here  today  for  this  meeting  on  a  subject  as
inspiring  as  it  is  important,  and  I  wish  to  extend  a
special  welcome  to  all  the  young  representatives  who
are with us today.
We  are  gathered  here  because  we  know  that
young people are our future. They will inherit what we
create  in  our  time,  both  good  and  bad.  Just  as  the
United  Nations  Charter  was  written  for  succeeding
generations,  so  is  our  present  agenda  intended  to  give
those  who  succeed  us  a  chance  to  build  better  lives.
That applies especially to the Millennium Development
Goals, which fall due 10 years from now.
released  earlier 
Today,  almost half the world’s  population  is  less
than 25 years old. Mr. President, you have just shared
with  us  the  basic  challenges  they  already  face,  as
described  in  the  Secretary-General’s  “World  Youth
Report  2005”, 
this  week.  The
challenges include 200 million youth living in poverty;
130  million  youth  illiterate;  88  million  unemployed;
and  10  million  young  people  living  with  HIV/AIDS.
We  should  add  to  that  the  distressing  statistics  about
children,  who  will  make  up  the  youth  of  2015.  A
quarter  of  all  children  in  the  developing  world  are
malnourished, as are half of all children living in sub-
Saharan Africa and southern Asia; 11 million children
under  the  age  of  five  die  each  year  from  preventable
and  treatable  diseases;  and  115  million  children  are
currently not in school.
2
All  those  factors  bring  home  to  us  the  need  to
the  Millennium
reach 
to 
redouble  our  efforts 
Development Goals.
Today,  we  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth.  The  adoption
of that document was a milestone in that it was the first
global  blueprint  for  effective  national  policies  on
youth. It highlighted 10  priority  areas,  drawn  together
in a comprehensive and practical policy plan.
In  the  10  years  that  have  passed  since,  dramatic
changes  have  taken  place  that  have  had  profound
effects  on  the  lives  of  young  people  —  from  the
consequences 
of 
rapid
development  of 
information  and  communication
technology to the devastating spread of HIV/AIDS.
globalization 
and 
the 
Those upheavals only serve to underline the need
for young people to be involved in decisions that affect
their lives — a principle that forms one of the priorities
of the World Programme of Action. I am delighted that,
today,  the  General  Assembly  is  acting  to  put  that
principle 
a  youth
representative to address the Assembly and report to it
the results of the round-table discussion held yesterday
with  young  leaders.  Allow  me  to  recognize  Ms.  Itzel
Barrera de Diego, who will report to the Assembly in a
moment. I look forward to hearing from her.
into  practice  by 
inviting 
Above  all,  I  hope  this  occasion  will  be  followed
by  concrete  action  out  there  on  the  ground,  where  it
matters  most.  Real  youth  participation  must  come  at
every level — locally, regionally and nationally.
On  this  tenth  anniversary,  let  us  recognize  that
young  people  form  an  enormous  resource  for  the
benefit of society; that they are crucial partners in our
work to reach the Millennium Development Goals; and
that  their  energy  is  our  most  valuable  asset  in  our
efforts  to  build  a  more  peaceful,  democratic  and
prosperous world.
The  President:  I  thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General  for  her  reminder  that  we  should  always  keep
before us the realities out there in the field. I am sure
that participants here will bring those realities into this
Hall.
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Itzel  Barrera  de
Diego,  who,  as  youth  representative  of  Mexico,  will
present  a  summary  of  the  informal,  interactive  round-
table discussion held yesterday afternoon on the theme
“Young people: making commitments matter”.
Ms.  Barrera  de  Diego  (Mexico)  (spoke  in
Spanish):  Many  generations  have  had  the  opportunity
to eradicate poverty, but we will be the first to succeed.
In  accordance  with  resolution  59/148,  and  in
response  to  its  request  to  present  a  summary  of  the
round-table discussion on making commitments matter,
the  youth  representatives  have  asked  me  to  present
those results.
As members know, the discussion was organized
around  the  three  areas  into  which  the  15  youth
priorities were categorized. The format was interactive,
allowing many delegations and representatives of non-
governmental organizations to air their views.
of 
were 
widespread 
First, with respect to youth and its relationship to
the  global  economy,  the  disparities  and  difficulties  of
integration 
concern.
Marginalization  resulting  from  the  lack  of  access  to
new  communications 
technology  and  high-quality
universal  education  were  only  a  few  of  the  issues
repeatedly  raised.  Efforts  to  narrow  the  gap  between
rural and urban development and proposals concerning
self-employment were also frequently cited.
The issue of making agriculture an attractive and
profitable  activity  as  a  solution  to  rural  exodus  and
unemployment  was  strongly  contrasted  with 
the
droughts and political realities in certain countries. We
must point out that agriculture is not the only solution
for  rural  development.  Other  ways  to  approach  that
challenge must therefore be found.
Secondly,  the  subject  of  youth  and  civil  society
was the focus of most of the debate, demonstrating that
there is no link between young people and apathy. The
world’s  young  people  are  using  their  leisure  time  to
become involved in volunteer work. We are developing
innovative and concrete responses to the challenges we
face.  We  are  demonstrating  the  ability  to  relate  to
marginalized  groups.  Those  approaches,  together  with
the  knowledge  of  previous  generations,  will  have
unprecedented results in terms of successful integration
policies.
In that connection,  and in  keeping with the  need
to  be  active  participants  in  our  own  processes,  we
propose the following: the creation of a United Nations
youth advisory council based on voluntarism, so that it
will  not 
the
Organization;  a  mandate  of  helping  Member  States
bring  youth  delegates 
in  General
financial  burden 
to  participate 
represent  a 
for 
A/60/PV.27
Assembly  sessions;  and  the  inclusion  of  a  youth
perspective  in  public  policies  through  national  youth
councils.
Because  of  the  factors  I  have  cited,  an  alarming
number  of  young  people  find  themselves  in  at-risk
situations.  Moreover,  there  are  cases  of  young  people
suffering  from  problems  related 
to  poor  health,
HIV/AIDS  infection,  drug  abuse,  youth  delinquency
and  involvement  in  armed  conflict,  all  at  the  same
time.  The  assumption  that  young  people’s  health  is
indestructible  is  a  misconception  that  not  only  delays,
but  in  many  cases  hinders,  the  establishment  of
preventive health programmes.
It  is  important  to  point  out  that  countries  need
effective demobilization and reintegration programmes
for young people involved in armed conflicts. We urge
countries  that  have  successful  programmes  to  share
their  experiences  with  the  international  community.
However, the implementation of such programmes will
be very difficult without the necessary resources.
We  also  need  to  point  out  that  the  violent
stereotypes  that  have  stigmatized  young  people  for  so
long were countered by the mere presence of all of us
in  this  forum.  We  must  understand  that  we  are  the
potential,  the  solution,  the  force  for  change  —  and  I
say  “must”  because  young  people  and  adults  must
understand  what  youth  means:  it  means  potential
energy, the solutions. But that potential energy must be
utilized  and  protected.  Therefore,  we  urge  all
Governments  to  support  the  institutionalization  of
youth  participation  at  all  levels,  and  we  welcome  the
efforts to conclude a United Nations convention on the
rights of young people.
Finally,  I  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  the
Assembly to the fact that this round table enabled us to
recognize  not  only  our  differences,  but  also  the
similarities  of  the  challenges  that  must  be  faced  by
young  people  throughout  the  world.  These  are  needs
that  know  no  geographic,  linguistic  or  gender  barriers
or  any  other  distinctions,  and  therefore  require  our
immediate attention and resolution.
We  are privileged young  people.  We  are  here  10
years after the establishment of the  World Programme
of Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond, but
in  very  different  conditions.  Yes,  members  of  the
General  Assembly,  the  difference  lies  in  the  fact  that
this  time,  with  your  help,  we  will  not  have  to  wait
another 10  years to have the  privilege  to  address  you.
3
A/60/PV.27
Many  generations  have  had 
to
eradicate  poverty,  but  we  will  be  the  first  to  be
successful.
the  opportunity 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the
representative of Portugal to introduce draft resolution
A/60/L.2.
the 
Mr.  Salgueiro 
(Portugal):  On 
tenth
anniversary of the adoption of the World Programme of
Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond, it is a
great  honour  for  Portugal  to  present  draft  resolution
A/60/L.2, entitled “Policies and programmes involving
youth”,  on  behalf  of  the  49  sponsors  listed  in  that
document  and 
the  following  additional  countries,
which  have  joined  the  list:  Argentina,  Bangladesh,
Belize,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  the  Central
African  Republic,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the
Congo, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Iceland,
Indonesia,  Kazakhstan,  Madagascar,  Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Norway, Peru, the Republic of
Moldova, San Marino, the Sudan, Thailand, the former
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,
Tunisia,  Turkey,  the  United  States  of  America  and
Uruguay.
Ten  years  after 
the  adoption  of 
the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and
Beyond, that we are once again reaffirming the  World
Programme  of  Action  is  an  important  milestone.
Participation  by  young  people  at  all  levels  of  society,
stronger partnerships aimed at increasing investment in
young people and holistic and integrated youth policies
are  just  a  few  of  the  tools  identified  in  this  draft
resolution  that  can  enable  us  to  move  forward  and
create  a  better  world  for  the  younger  generation.  We
also  believe 
that  better  and  more  expeditious
coordination among the organizations, programmes and
specialized agencies of the United Nations system can
play a key role in that regard. In addition, we recognize
the 
the  Youth
Employment  Network  and  encourage  Member  States,
the  United  Nations  and  partner  organizations 
to
strengthen  and  expand  the  Network  at  its  various
levels.
important  work  being  done  by 
The five priority areas identified in the Secretary-
General’s World Youth Report 2003 (E/CN.5/2003/4) —
namely,  the  mixed  impact  of  globalization  on  young
women and men; use of and access to information and
communication  technologies;  the  dramatic  increase  in
human immunodeficiency virus infection among young
4
people and the epidemic’s impact on their lives; active
involvement  by  young  people  in  armed  conflict,  both
as  victims  and  as  perpetrators;  and  the  increased
importance of addressing intergenerational issues in an
ageing society — are established in the draft resolution
as  additional  priorities  of  the  World  Programme  of
Action for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond. In that
regard, we look forward to the supplement to the World
Programme of Action, which will be presented to us at
the  forty-fifth  session  of  the  Commission  for  Social
Development.
It gives me great pleasure to have so many youth
representatives  present  here  today  in  the  Assembly.
That  is  testimony  to  the  valuable  role  and  input  that
young people can have in the work of our Organization
and in society as a whole. Young people must be heard;
they must be considered as part of the solution, not as
the problem.
I would like to introduce the following revisions
to  the  draft  resolution.  We  would  like  to  amend
paragraph 10 to read as follows:
all 
and 
“Invites 
Governments 
and
non-governmental
intergovernmental 
organizations  to  contribute,  inter  alia,  to  the
United  Nations  Youth  Fund  for  the  participation
of  youth  representatives  in  national  delegations,
in particular from developing countries”.
We  would  also  like  to  add  a  new  operative
paragraph 11 bis, which reads as follows:
“Calls on Governments, the United Nations
system,  youth  organizations  and  other  relevant
stakeholders 
to  strengthen  efforts  aimed  at
implementation of the 10 priority areas contained
in  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to
the Year 2000 and Beyond”.
Last  but  not  least,  my  delegation  would  like  to
thank  all  delegations 
the
negotiations on this important text for their efforts and
cooperation. I think that, as a result, we have achieved
a  text  that  will  move  us  forward.  We  hope  that  this
draft resolution will be adopted by consensus with the
broad support of all delegations.
that  participated 
in 
The  President:  Before  calling  on 
the  first
speaker  in  the  debate,  I  would  like  to  turn  to  several
organizational matters pertaining to the conduct of this
meeting. In my letter of 29 September to all Permanent
their
Representatives,  I  urged  speakers 
limit 
to 
in 
this  respect.  To  assist  speakers 
statement in this debate to four minutes. In view of the
large  number  of  delegations  already  on  the  list  of
speakers  —  48  so  far —  I  appeal  to  speakers  to
cooperate 
in
managing their time, a light system  has been installed
at  the  rostrum,  which  functions  as  follows.  A  green
light will be activated at the start, an orange light will
be  activated  30  seconds  before  the  end  of  the  four
minutes and a red light will be activated when the four-
minute limit has elapsed. I recall that a similar rule was
also applied at the summit meeting for our Presidents,
Prime  Ministers  and  Foreign  Ministers.  It  is  an
acceptable practice which I hope will be respected.
Mr.  McGhee  (United  Kingdom):  In  the  interest
of brevity, I shall deliver only part of my statement as
prepared.  The  full  text  will  be  circulated  in  writing.  I
have  the  honour,  in  my  capacity  as  United  Kingdom
youth  delegate  to  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth,  to  present  this
statement  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  The
following  countries  align 
this
statement:  Bulgaria,  Romania,  Turkey,  Croatia,
Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Serbia  and  Montenegro,
Norway, Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova.
themselves  with 
The  European  Union  warmly  welcomes  this
opportunity  to  join  with  other  Member  States,  civil
society  and  all  youth  delegates  present  here  today  in
celebrating  the  progress  made  in  achieving  greater
opportunities  for  young  people.  But  the  European
Union  also  recognizes  that  many  challenges  remain,
challenges  that  were  highlighted  in  the  10  priority
areas of the World Programme of Action, as well as in
the  five  new  priorities  identified  in  the  World  Youth
Report  2003.  Today  provides  the  occasion  to  reaffirm
our  shared  commitment  to  the  World  Programme  of
Action for Youth and to addressing the needs of young
people all over the world.
the 
reinforced 
to  young  people.  Achieving 
The  year  2005  has  been  a  crucial  year  for
advancing  the  opportunities  for  young  people  at  the
international  level.  The  recent  millennium  review
international  community’s
summit 
commitment 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals  will  shape  the  world
in  which  today’s  children  will  reach  adulthood,  and
many of the Goals address issues of central concern for
young  people  now,  such  as  poverty,  education,
employment  and  HIV/AIDS.  The  European  Union
welcomes  the  work  of  UNICEF,  which  is  the  leading
A/60/PV.27
United  Nations  organization  for  young  people,  and
pays  tribute  to  UNICEF  for  driving  this  agenda
forward.
The  European  Union  remains  committed  to  the
biggest social challenge of the twenty-first century: the
elimination  of  poverty.  The  European  Union 
is
committed  to  doubling  its  development  assistance  by
2010. Significant steps have also been taken to reduce
the  burden  of  debt  on  the  most  heavily  indebted  poor
countries.  All  these  steps  will  help  lift  young  people
from poverty.
But further progress must be made. The European
Union calls upon all donors to move speedily towards
the goal of 0.7 per cent of their gross national income
for  development  assistance  and  upon  developing
country  Governments  to  prepare  ambitious  national
poverty reduction strategies that recognize the specific
needs of young people. The European Union welcomes
the  fact  that  young  people  are  increasingly  being
consulted 
in  drafting  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy
Papers.  But  a  great  deal  more  needs  to  be  done  to
highlight  the  needs  of  young  people.  Youth  should  be
mainstreamed  into  poverty  reduction  strategies  and
young  people  must  be  consulted  on  policy  relating  to
those strategies.
rates 
Young  people  are  particularly  vulnerable 
to
unemployment.  Youth  unemployment 
are
typically two to three times higher than for others, and
young  women  are  particularly  at  risk.  Decent  work  is
the  most  effective  way  out  of  poverty.  The  European
Union  urges  an 
to  youth
employment  initiatives  at  national  and  international
levels and is itself working to attract more people into
employment  and  to  reduce  unemployment  as  one  of
Europe’s top priorities.
increased  commitment 
The  European  Union  welcomes  the  progress
made  by  the  Secretary-General’s  Youth  Employment
Network  and  encourages  its  further  expansion  to
facilitate  the  implementation  of  national  action  plans
for youth employment. There is much to learn via this
network  through  exchanging  experiences  and  ideas
from  both  developed  and  developing  countries.
Practical  implementation  on  the  ground  will  be  of
critical importance in the coming year.
To  help  meet 
to  youth
employment, the European Union is investing more in
human  capital  through  better  education  and  skills,
including through the  European Youth  Pact  for  Young
its  commitment 
5
A/60/PV.27
People adopted in February 2005. Education is crucial
if  young  people  are  to  be  able  to  benefit  from
employment  opportunities.  In  2000,  over  100  million
primary-school-age  children  all  over  the  world  were
still  not  in  education,  and  over  100  million  young
people  lacked  effective  reading  and  writing  skills.
Efforts  must  be  redoubled  to  meet  the  Millennium
Goals  for  education  by  investing  in  quality  education
that  will  enable  all  young  people,  boys  and  girls,  to
attain  decent  work  as  a  first  step  towards  competing
effectively in today’s global economy.
The European Union fully recognizes the critical
contribution  that  young  people  can  make  to  decision-
making.  Education  plays  a  crucial  role  in  providing
young  people  with 
the  skills  needed  for  active
citizenship. The inclusion of young people in so many
delegations  here  today  is  evidence  of  the  improving
dialogue  between  Governments  and  young  people  and
the incorporation of their valuable input on issues that
affect them.
Across 
there  are  an
increasing  number  of  youth  programmes  aimed  at
developing  cooperation  on  a  wide  range  of  activities
between young people in different Member States and
beyond. Bringing together young people from different
backgrounds and from different countries helps combat
negative prejudices and stereotypes.  Young people are
key  to  creating  the  tolerant  society  in  which  we  all
want to live.
the  European  Union, 
to 
importance 
In addition to its continued strong support of the
10  priorities  identified  in  the  World  Programme  of
Action  in  1995,  the  European  Union  also  attaches
critical 
five  additional  areas
identified in the World Youth Report 2003. Addressing
exclusion, discrimination and disadvantage in regard to
youth  is  of  fundamental  importance  if  the  European
Union  is  to  meet  its  vision  of  a  Europe  —  and  a
world — that 
inclusive  as  well  as
economically dynamic.
socially 
the 
is 
And, of course, all this needs to happen with the
full  and  effective  participation  of  young  people.  We
must be recognized as partners in this work. We are a
positive  force  for  social  and  economic  development.
Youth issues should not be considered in isolation from
those of other generations.
I would like to briefly finish with some personal
comments on behalf of the young people in the United
Kingdom.
6
youth 
to  hear 
undertook 
their  views. 
representatives 
Before  coming  to  New  York,  the  three  United
Kingdom 
a
consultation  exercise  with  young  people  across  the
United  Kingdom 
In  our
consultation, we found that young people expect more
from  education.  There  is  a  greater  need  for  the
mandatory  provision  of  citizenship  education.  Young
people want to understand democratic systems locally,
nationally  and  internationally.  They  emphasize  the
need to be fully prepared for life and therefore support
the  provision  of  skills  classes  in  areas  such  as
budgeting,  home  economics  and  independent  life.
Bearing  in  mind  the  high  levels  of  teenage  pregnancy
in  the  United  Kingdom,  they  also  want  all  education
authorities  and  youth  providers  to  offer  sexual  health
education.
Young people are not just the future — we are the
present. We have a right to be involved in all decisions.
Youth  participation  is  essential.  We  appreciate  the
existence  of  youth  parliaments  in  our  country  and
respectfully request the development of more youth-led
organizations worldwide.
I 
for 
ask 
recognition, 
and
understanding of youth. I ask for implementation of the
World Programme of Action for Youth. Ten years have
passed; it is now time for action.
involvement 
Mr.  Banze  (Mozambique):  I  have  the  honour  to
speak on behalf of the States members of the Southern
Africa  Development  Community  (SADC):  Angola,
Botswana,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,
Lesotho,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Mauritius,  Namibia,
South  Africa,  Swaziland,  the  United  Republic  of
Tanzania,  Zambia,  Zimbabwe,  and  my  own  country,
Mozambique.
The  States  members  of  SADC  believe  that,  10
years  after  the  adoption  of  the  World  Programme  of
Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and  Beyond,  this
meeting  should  be  not  just  an  opportunity  for  review
and appraisal, but also a platform for rededication and
commitment  to  the  10  priority  areas  affecting  young
people  identified  by  the  General  Assembly  in  the
World Programme. This meeting must therefore devise
clear,  effective  and  concrete  strategies  to  nudge  the
process  of  implementation  forward  in  order  to  ensure
its real meaning to youth across the globe.
SADC  member 
and
collectively, have made significant progress in the area
of  youth  development  and  empowerment,  although
individually 
States, 
there  are  still  challenges  and  constraints  to  contend
with.  Most  of  the  14  member  States  have  adopted
national youth policies.
that 
youth 
The  States  members  of  SADC  endorse 
recommendation,  contained 
concerns 
the
in
Secretary-General’s 
document  A/60/61, 
be
mainstreamed  into  poverty  reduction  strategies  and
initiatives, as we believe that youth, particularly those
living  in  rural  areas,  which  constitute  the  majority  of
that  segment  of  society  in  our  countries,  should  be
consulted  whenever  we  address  strategies  affecting
their well-being.
We are gratified by reports concerning an overall
increase  in  the  number  of  young  people  completing
both  primary  and  secondary  education.  Nevertheless,
we  are  also  genuinely  concerned  at  the  fact  that  113
million  children  are  currently  out  of  school.  We
therefore believe that we should all heed the call of the
Secretary-General  to  strengthen  our  efforts  to  ensure
universal  access  to  education  for  all  young  people,
particularly  girls.  We  also  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General  that  we  should  not  focus  only  on  providing
universal education, but that more emphasis should be
placed  on  quality  education.  More  often  than  not,  the
efforts  of  our  Governments  to  provide  good  quality
education, 
information  and
communication  technologies,  are  hampered  by  a  lack
of resources. We call upon our development partners to
continue to assist us in that regard.
the  use  of 
including 
A/60/PV.27
the increased participation of youth in issues that affect
them.
The high prevalence of HIV/AIDS among youth,
as  well  as  conflicts,  have  a  negative  impact  on  their
development  and  consequently  on  the  achievement  of
their  full  potential.  We  all  agree  that  any  strategy  to
combat  HIV/AIDS  should  involve  first  and  foremost
prevention, treatment, care and support. Young people,
who are the future of the world, must be provided with
information  and  education  on  life  skills  that  will
empower  them  to  make  better  choices  and  decisions
about their health.
The  SADC  member  States  continue  to  place
special  emphasis  on  the  girl  child,  as  we  strongly
believe  that  the  girl  child  is  the  woman  of  tomorrow,
whom  we  should,  as  a  matter  of  duty,  free  from
inheriting a life of prejudice, fear and want. However,
despite the standing commitments we have undertaken
in  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the
Year  2000  and  Beyond,  the  girl  child  of  today  still
faces  a  plethora  of  problems  and  hardships.  In  our
attempt to highlight the plight of the girl child, SADC
member States have submitted a draft resolution on the
issue,  which  is  considered  every  two  years  by  the
General  Assembly.  We  call  on  all  Member  States  to
continue 
to  be
introduced  during  the  current  session  of  the  General
Assembly,  the  sole  aim  of  which  is  to  give  real
meaning to the lives of girls across the globe.
to  support 
the  draft 
resolution 
strategies, 
entrepreneurial 
Youth unemployment remains one of our greatest
challenges. In our national development strategies, we
are striving to create opportunities for full, productive
and  decent  employment  for  youth  by  enacting  youth
employment 
training,
microcredit  schemes,  vocational  training  and  career
guidance,  good  leadership  training,  labour  intensive
programmes,  and  skill  training  in  information  and
communication  technologies  as  part  of  our  efforts  to
achieve  the  Millennium  Developments  Goals.  While
we  are  grateful  to  those  donors  and  agencies  that  are
assisting  our  countries  in  that  regard,  we  encourage
other  relevant  stakeholders  to  assist  and  support  our
efforts  to  realizing  that  goal,  which  would  otherwise
remain an elusive dream.
Youth participation in the construction of a better
future strengthens Governments in their efforts to find
appropriate  solutions  to  the  most  pressing  problems
that  our  youths  are  facing.  In  that  regard,  we  support
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the
need for the adoption at this session of the five priority
areas  identified  since  the  adoption  of  the  World
in  SADC  pledge 
Programme  of  Action.  We 
to
recommit  ourselves 
the 
full  and  accelerated
implementation  of  the  World  Programme.  We  stand
ready  to  cooperate  with  other  Member  States  in  all
efforts  geared  towards  translating  all  15  priority  areas
into reality.
to 
The  President:  I  would  like  to  remind  members
that  we  have  only  two  meetings  devoted  to  this  item,
and  that  43  speakers  remain  on  the  list.  I  would
therefore propose that the list of speakers be closed as
of now.
It was so decided.
Ms.  Loguzzo  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
Argentina is speaking on behalf of the Rio Group.
7
A/60/PV.27
The  Rio  Group  countries  deem  the  situation  of
our  youth  to  be  a  priority  and  a  challenge.  In  that
sense,  we  are  grateful  for  the  organization  of  these
meetings,  which  will  allow  us  to  review  the  progress
achieved 
the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and
Beyond,  to  which  we  committed  ourselves  10  years
ago.
implementation  of 
the 
in 
Ten  years  after 
the  adoption  of 
the  World
Programme,  we  acknowledge  that  all  the  issues  cited
therein remain relevant, although inadequate for young
people  constantly  exposed  to  new  challenges,  such  as
globalization, access to new technologies, the spread of
HIV/AIDS,  natural  disasters,  and  the  expansion  of
armed  conflicts.  We  hope  that  the  Commission  on
Social  Development  at  its  next  session  will  consider
the inclusion of those five main areas, as well as other
emerging  issues,  in  order  to  draft  a  supplement  to  the
Programme of Action.
Global  realities  show  that  the  young  suffer  from
hunger  and  poverty,  especially  in  rural  zones,  where
education  and  employment  opportunities  are  limited.
On  the  other  hand,  they  are  vulnerable  to  such
problems  as  drug  addiction,  HIV/AIDS,  alcoholism
and delinquency. In that context, it is indispensable to
have educational and prevention programmes for youth
that  will  encourage  their  comprehensive  development,
so that they can make a positive contribution to society.
The  Rio  Group  clearly  understands  the  need  to
renew  our  commitment  to  our  youth  in  order  to
eradicate  poverty  and  unemployment.  To  do  that,  it  is
indispensable to recognize the specific needs  of youth
and to incorporate young people in the development of
national,  regional  and  international  strategies  against
poverty  and  unemployment.  Strategies  to  achieve
productive  employment  for  youth  should  try  to  make
employment opportunities  compatible with their  being
in  school,  as  that  will  afford  them  better  work
opportunities in future.
for 
jobs 
looking 
For  young  people  from  low-income  homes  it  is
common  to  drop  out  of  school  at  an  early  age.  That
group  begins 
few
qualifications, and that in turn increases the possibility
of their being poor in their adult life. Therefore, it is a
double  challenge:  on  the  one  hand,  the  need  to  keep
adolescents in the educational system, and on the other,
to  create  jobs  for  youth  that  are  consonant  with  their
skills.  High  unemployment  rates  even  for  the  more
requiring 
8
qualified  young  people  demonstrate 
the  great
difficulties  facing  their  integration  into  the  workforce
and, as a result, the depression and lack of well-being
among youth.
such  as 
initiatives, 
The  Rio  Group  countries  are  pooling  our  efforts
to  reach  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  because
we  believe  those  Goals  also  address  young  people.  In
that respect, we would like to highlight some regional
cooperation 
the  Horizontal
Technical  Cooperation  Group  on  HIV/AIDS  and  the
spread  of  successful  experiments  such  as  “Bolsa
Familia”,  which  is  a  subsidy  programme  that  requires
periodic visits to health services and that children stay
in  school.  We  also  encourage  full  gender  equality,
which  will  eliminate  stereotypes  of  the  image  of
women 
to
education and employment for women.
to  allow  egalitarian  access 
in  order 
We are concerned by the incidence of HIV/AIDS
among youth. We believe that to reverse the spread of
that  disease  we  must  work  both  on  promotion  of  safe
sexual  behaviour  and  on  prevention  through  social
communication campaigns. As part of a general health
strategy,  it  is  important  to  incorporate  sex  education,
including information on sexually transmitted diseases,
HIV/AIDS  and  drug  use,  in  both  in  teachers’  training
programmes  and 
for
adolescents.
in  educational  programmes 
We  are  convinced  that  in  order  to  adequately
evaluate the current situation of youth, we must include
young  people  themselves.  In  that  connection,  for  the
first time in our region, the sixteenth World Festival of
Youth  and  Students  was  held  in  Caracas  in  August
2005 — a demonstration of the permanent and tireless
struggle for youth and their rights. At that event, young
people 
importance  of
coordinating 
in
demanding peace and security, access to universal and
free  education  and  health  care,  employment  for  all,
elimination  of  discrimination  of  all  kinds  and  a  new
international  order 
that  would  eliminate  growing
poverty and foreign debt.
the  various  segments  of  society 
themselves 
reiterated 
the 
Some  of  our  countries  have  instituted  a  national
policy  for  youth  so  that  the  young  people  may
participate  in  shaping  the  societies  in  which  they  live
while  seeking  to  improve  themselves  and  realize  their
full potential.
As I indicated in the beginning of my statement,
the Rio Group countries attach very high priority to our
youth.  We  would  have  liked  to  have  more  Latin
American  young  people  participating  at  this  event,  as
well as at other relevant United Nations events. But as
always, we are faced with budget restrictions. We hope
that  as  a  result  of  the  resolution  we  will  adopt  today,
the  participation  of  more  young  people 
from
developing countries will be possible at such meetings,
using,  inter  alia,  resources  from  the  United  Nations
Youth Fund.
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her
Excellency  Ms.  Azalina  Othman  Said,  Minister  for
Youth and Sports of Malaysia.
Ms.  Othman  Said  (Malaysia):  On  behalf  of  the
people  and  Government  of  Malaysia,  I  take  this
opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on
his  timely  decision  to  convene  this  congregation  of
distinguished  personalities  to  deliberate  upon  youth
perspectives,  policies  and  interventions  across  the
globe.
The  tenth  anniversary  celebrations  of  the  World
Programme  of  Action  on  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and
Beyond,  introduced  in  1995,  is  yet  another  attestation
of  the  strategic  implementation  of  youth  development
programmes by the United Nations.
In  1985, 
For  Malaysia,  our  National  Youth  Consultative
Council,  established  in  1972,  is  the  highest  body  that
acts as a youth parliament. It provides a forum for both
governmental  and  non-governmental  organizations  to
meet,  discuss  and  debate  common  issues  related  to
youth  development  programmes. 
in
conjunction  with  the  United  Nations  International
Youth  Year,  Malaysia  formulated  a  national  youth
policy.  That  policy  was  further  reviewed  in  1997  and
became  known  as  the  National  Youth  Development
Policy,  providing  guidelines 
for  developing  and
implementing  programmes.  In  2004,  the  Ministry
11-point  Malaysian  Youth
embarked 
Development  Action  Plan,  which 
in  many  ways
parallels 
the  World  Programme  of  Action.  That
blueprint provides the national framework to spearhead
youth  development  through  2020,  the  year  in  which
Malaysia aspires to achieve developed-nation status.
on 
an 
One  of  the  outcomes  of  the  Malaysian  Youth
Development  Action  Plan  is  the  creation  of  the
Malaysian 
in  Youth
Development.  Among  the  Institute’s  main  objectives
are 
and  provide  better
understanding  of  the  needs  and  issues  relevant  to
for  Research 
research 
Institute 
conduct 
to 
A/60/PV.27
young people for the different segments of society. To
ensure that our youth planning is on the right track to
achieve our objectives, we are preparing to embark on
an  empirical  study  to  determine  a  Malaysian  youth
behavioural and well-being index. It is hoped that those
indices  will  provide 
the  Government  with  more
accurate and measurable norms to chart the progress of
young people.
At 
the  same 
instrument, 
time,  another 
the
Malaysian Youth Act, is being enacted to give direction
for proper and systematic youth development. The Act
will  also  encompass  appropriate  intervention  from
other  ministries  and  relevant  agencies  to  improve
coordination  and 
implementation  of  policies  and
guidelines pertaining to youth development. The Youth
Act  will  ultimately  serve  to  protect  and  defend  the
rights  and  interests  of  the  younger  generation  as  it
promotes  and 
incorporates  an  effective  delivery
system.
Malaysia  recognizes  youth  as  the  agents  of
change. They are supposed to be receptive to new ideas
and the adoption of new technologies and are willing to
make changes. To harness the potential of the younger
generation,  the  national  Youth  Development  Plan
revolves  around  a  three-pronged  strategy:  leadership
training, acquisition of vocational and technical skills,
and an entrepreneurship programme.
Malaysia, like other nations, has not been spared
the  social  maladies  that  accompany  development  and
modernization. With progress come the looming threats
of  HIV/AIDS,  drug  abuse,  premarital  sex  and  teenage
pregnancy, to mention a few. To counter such negative
influences  the  Malaysian  Government  has  designed
several intervention programmes.
Rakan Muda — Young Friends — is an outreach
programme  that  addresses  social  ills  by  offering
avenues for young people between the age of 15 to 25
to  fill  their  time  productively  through  nine  lifestyle
programme  packages.  Introduced  in  1994,  it  is  now
being revitalized to meet present and future challenges
in  the  midst  of  globalization  and  an  ever-changing
youth culture.
Another intervention programme addressing drug
abuse  and  HIV  is  the  Belia  Benci  Dadah  —  Youth
Against Drugs — campaign. That campaign empowers
youth to make their  own  decisions  on  the  options  and
choices  in  life.  Built  on  a  youth-for-youth  concept,  it
also mobilizes university and college students to play a
9
A/60/PV.27
part  in  disseminating  information  on  the  harmful
effects of drug abuse.
It is an honour for me to be here today, together
with the Swedish youth representative, Hanna Hallin.
In  that  regard,  and  with  a  view  to  increasing
youth  participation  and  involvement  in  its  work,
Malaysia  wishes  to  propose  that  the  United  Nations
consider the following.
First,  a  youth  development 
index  could  be
formulated  to  provide  a  standard  indicator  that  would
help monitor and evaluate progress made by the World
Programme  of  Action.  Second,  we  could  establish  a
world  economic  youth  fund 
to  provide  financial
assistance  to  entrepreneurship  programmes  for  young
people. Third, we could conduct regional consultations
with  Member  States  and  youth  organizations  through
the  Regional  Commissions  of  the  United  Nations  to
assist  and  evaluate  the  implementation  of  the  World
Programme  of  Action.  Fourth,  we  could  continue  the
World  Youth  Forum.  Fifth,  the  Youth  Unit  could  be
strengthened  and  possibly  expanding,  to  give  due
attention to the growing importance of issues related to
youth  and 
the
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Sixth,  we  should
continue 
round-table
discussions and organize other events to provide more
opportunities and encourage greater youth participation
in  areas  of  specific  interest  and  immediate  concern  to
youth  in  the  United  Nations.  Seventh,  we  should
provide assistance to Member States, upon request, for
the  participation  of  youth 
representatives  on  a
continuing  basis  during  relevant  discussions  in  the
General  Assembly,  as  well  as  in  the  Economic  and
Social Council and its functional commissions.
their  participation 
in  achieving 
the 
informal 
interactive 
The  time  has  come  for  us  to  grow  younger.  The
age  of  youth  is  here.  The  United  Nations  needs  to  be
the path finder for all of the world’s youth. It needs to
chart a clear course, because, very soon, it will be the
young people who will be showing us the way.
The  President:  I  now  call  on  Her  Excellency,
Ms.  Lena  Hallengren,  Minister 
for  Pre-School
Education,  Youth  Affairs  and  Adult  Learning  of
Sweden.
Ms. Hallengren (Sweden): I am happy to see so
many youth delegates here today.
I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statement
made  earlier  by  the  United  Kingdom  on  behalf  of  the
European Union (EU).
10
I  am  often  asked  why  a  specific  youth  policy  is
needed.  I  always  answer,  “Because  youth  are  facing
similar  challenges”.  It is  about  a good education.  It  is
about  establishing  oneself  on  the  labour  market  and
getting  one’s  first  own  place  to  live.  That  must  be  a
possibility  for  all  young  people,  women  and  men,
regardless  of  whether  they  are  rich  or  poor  or  live  in
the  North  or  the  South,  and  regardless  of  what
background they are from.
The Swedish Government, as well as the National
Council  of  Swedish  Youth  Organizations,  strongly
support  the  reaffirmation  of  the  World  Programme  of
Action for Youth. We also attach critical importance to
the  five  additional  areas  identified  in  the  2003  World
Youth Report (A/58/79). Swedish national youth policy
has been greatly inspired by, and is very much in line
with,  the  Programme,  with  regard  to  both  the  cross-
sectoral  way  of  considering  youth  issues  and  to  the
prioritized areas.
Major  improvements  have  been  made  in  the
situation  of  young  women  and  young  men  in  many
areas, but we are still facing great challenges. Over 200
million  young  people  still  live  in  poverty.  Some  130
million are illiterate. Almost 25 per cent of those who
live with HIV globally are under the age of 25. Youth
unemployment worldwide has increased during the past
decade.
We  know  that  in  periods  of  economic  recession,
youth  are  among  the  worst  hit.  We  also  know  from
studies  that  being  unemployed  when  young  affects
one’s  future  opportunities 
labour  market.
Promoting  youth  employment  is  therefore  one  of  the
top priorities for the Swedish Government. Recently, in
response  to  an  initiative  by  France,  Germany,  Spain
and  Sweden,  the  EU  has  also  made  a  stronger
commitment  to  the  promotion  of  youth  employment
through the European Youth Pact.
the 
in 
As was discussed at the round table yesterday, we
must  make  commitments  matter,  and  take  concrete
action.  Work  has  to  be  done  at  the  local,  regional,
national  and  international  levels  and  in  partnership
with  civil  society  and  other  concerned  actors.  Youth
and  their  organizations  should  play  a  leading  role  in
that work.
The  implementation  of  cross-sectoral  integrated
national  youth  policies  is  vital.  So  is  a  renewed  and
continuous  commitment  to  implementing  the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth,  the  Millennium
Development  Goals 
international
agreements.
other 
and 
We  often  talk  about  young  people  as  the  future.
But let us never forget that they are  an important part
of  society  today.  It  is  not  for  them,  but  together  with
them, that we should work to realize the objectives of
the World Programme of Action.
With  your  permission,  Mr.  President,  I  will  now
yield  to  floor  to  the  Swedish  youth  representative,
Ms. Hanna Hallin.
Ms. Hallin (Sweden):  Imagine a  world  in  which
millions of young people  do not die before  the  age of
20 because of poverty, pregnancy, conflict, the lack of
health services or HIV/AIDS; a world in which young
women  and  young  men  are  able  to  read  and  have
decent  work  with  a  decent  salary;  a  world  in  which
young  people  are  free  to  seek  their  identity,  without
fear of repression, exclusion or discrimination. Imagine
a world in which the voices of youth count.
As the Swedish youth delegate, I am honoured to
address  the  Assembly  today.  There  are  more  youth
delegates  present  here  than  ever  before.  This  is  a
welcome  tenth  anniversary  birthday  gift  from  those
Governments  to  the  youth  of  their  nations  and  of  the
world.  Governments  must  continue  to  include  youth
representatives in their national delegations, and allow
us  to  participate  and  be  listened  to.  This  is  about
making  commitments  matter  and,  first  and  foremost,
about  the  long-term  development  of  each  society  and
the world at large.
Young women and young men are today a major
force  in  global  development.  Young  people,  when
given  the  opportunity,  are  initiating  a  vast  number  of
projects  to  improve  life  in  their  communities.  Such
projects include combating HIV/AIDS and drug abuse,
promoting  a  clean  environment  and  initiating  peer-to-
peer education.
effective, 
Youth-led  initiatives  must  be  facilitated  and,
when 
into  partnerships  with
Governments,  non-governmental  organizations  and
intergovernmental  organizations.  The  establishment  of
independent  youth  organizations  must  be  an  essential
turned 
A/60/PV.27
and  uncomplicated  process,  and  youth  organizations
must have access to public and private funding.
Young people should be seen as equal partners in
the process of achieving the Millennium Development
Goals.  I  stress  here  the  significance  of  viewing  the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  as  the  key  to
accomplishing  the  eight  development  goals.  In  this
work  we  ask  for  the  recognition  and  involvement  of
youth,  for 
tolerance  and  understanding,  and  for
implementation.
At the same time, young people are marginalized
when  Governments  do  not  respect  the  right  to  health,
education  and  decent  work.  We  are  also  marginalized
when  we  are  not  allowed  to  express  our  sexual,
religious  or  indigenous  identity  without  fear  for  our
lives.  For  instance,  today  young  people  flee  their
countries because of their sexual identity. It should be
every person’s right to seek his or her identity; that is a
question of human dignity.
Hence,  every  national  youth  policy  should
include  measurable  goals  on  how  to  improve  the
situation  for  all  young  women  and  young  men,  with
special  attention  to  marginalized  youth,  in  order  to
secure our full participation in society.
There  are  no  adequate  excuses.  Young  people’s
needs  must  be  taken  into  account,  and  young  people
must be able to lead the development of their societies.
We  want  a  world  in  which  young  people  do  not  die
before  the  age  of  20;  where  young  people  are  able  to
read  and  have  decent  work  with  a  decent  salary.  We
want a world where young people are free to seek their
identity and where the voices of youth count.
It is time for action. We all know what to do; now
let  us  do  it.  The  world  that  we  are  aiming  for  is  well
within our reach. We have the goals, the means and the
motivation  to  reach  it.  Let  us  prove  that  our  common
efforts  in  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth
were not in vain. Let young people be the change.
to  work 
The  President:  The  division  of  labour  between
the representatives of Sweden symbolizes the need for
Governments 
youth
representatives.  However,  the  sharing  of  statements  is
not  the  normal  practice  in  the  General  Assembly;  we
will make today’s meeting exceptional in that respect. I
am eager to make the point that that is not precedent-
setting 
future  General  Assembly  meetings.
closely  with 
for 
11
A/60/PV.27
However, it is a great symbol of how we have to work
together.
Ms. Yao (Switzerland) (spoke in French): We are
celebrating today the tenth anniversary of the adoption
of  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the
Year  2000  and  Beyond.  Although  this  Hall  has  never
before  welcomed  so  many  representatives  of  youth,
there are still not enough young people here. Too many
of them must settle for watching from the sidelines as
decisions are taken that will affect our common future.
The  needs  of  youth  have  never  before  been
defined  so  specifically,  yet  actions  continue  to  fall
short  of  expectations.  We  hope  that  an  increasing
number of States will focus on the need to act. That is
why we ask all States to recognize young people and to
include  them  in  their  decision-making  processes.  We
ask  for 
the  World
Programme of Action for Youth be implemented.
tolerance,  and  we  ask 
that 
One of the issues addressed in the Programme of
Action  is  health.  Youth  is  vulnerable.  Many  young
people live in insecurity and fear the future. According
to  the  2001  World  Health  Report,  almost  one  out  of
four young people has behavioural problems. Causes of
mental  illness  vary  from  one  country  to  another  and
from one person to another. But one thing is universal:
the need to have a useful occupation in the context of a
solid  social  network.  Social  integration,  access  to
education and training, as well as job security, are what
enable young people to find their place in society. We
need a healthy youth in order to build a healthy society.
Alone we cannot build such a social network, or
find  lasting  solutions,  but  together  we  can  do  this.
Together  we  can  integrate  young  people  into  our
societies  and  support  their  development.  Together  we
can open up the labour market to them and  give them
prospects  for  the  future.  Together  we  can  strengthen
their communities and pave the way for them towards a
promising future.
We  would  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  public
opinion  to  the  mental  health  of  young  people  and  to
note that targeted measures must be taken in the areas
of  labour  policies  and  the  social  integration  of  youth.
We would like to see  national  prevention  programmes
as well as local and regional plans of action to reduce
the incidence of mental problems among young people.
Finally,  we  would  ask  that  youth  be  involved  in
processes established to resolve that problem. We want
12
to  participate.  Young  people  are  here  today,  and  they
are  ready  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities  in  the
building of our common future. We want to participate
in the process of dialogue and in the actions taken, and
we  want  to  act  together  to  implement  ideas  that  have
been jointly developed.
We  want  to  be  partners.  To  do  so,  we  need  your
experience and  your trust. We  need  your  support.  The
United Nations will be strengthened by common action
on  our  wishes.  Thus  we  should  work  together  so  that
our  wishes  today  can  become  reality  tomorrow.  It  is
time  to  act.  We  all  know  what  we  have  to  do.
Therefore, without waiting any longer, let us do it.
Mr.  Solano  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I
should  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  and  the  members
of your Bureau on your election, and to reiterate what
was stated by the representative of Argentina on behalf
of  the  Rio  Group.  Costa  Rica  would  like  to  comment
on some points that are of particular interest to us.
Ten years ago we adopted the World Programme
of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and  Beyond.
Today  we  are  meeting  here  to  commemorate  that
decision  and  to  review  our  actions,  celebrate  our
progress and share our concerns. Young people are not
only  the  future;  they  are  also  strategic  stakeholders
today  as  well  as  first-class  citizens.  We  therefore
reiterate our belief in the need to take  concrete  action
to  ensure  their  genuine  participation  in  decision-
making;  promote  their  full  employment  in  conditions
of  dignity;  eradicate  hunger  and  poverty;  guarantee
their  access  to  adequate  and  comprehensive  health
care;  combat  the  scourges  that  threaten  them,  such  as
crime, conflicts and HIV/AIDS; and promote solidarity
among generations.
Costa Rica is in favour of active participation by
young  people  at  the  national  and  international  levels.
Nationally,  we  have  committed  ourselves 
to  a
governmental approach that ensures their participation.
On  the  understanding  that  it  is  the  Government’s
responsibility  to  promote  forward-looking  actions  at
the  State  level  and  to  undertake  medium-  and  long-
term  projects,  based  on  participation  and  social
dialogue,  that  transcend  political  and  electoral  cycles.
We  should  not  shy  away  from 
taking  common
decisions,  working  together  and  committing  ourselves
to  building  jointly  a  culture  of  participation  in  public
policy.
the 
With 
support  of 
the  United  Nations
Population  Fund  and  of  the  “State  of  the  nation”
programme,  we  have  elaborated  a  plan  of  action  on
public  policy  for  young  people  that  proposes  concrete
action 
four  main  areas:  education,  health,
employment and participation.
in 
In keeping with a law passed in 2002, Costa Rica
agreed  to  establish  a  National  Assembly  of  Youth
charged  with  obtaining  information  on,  discussing,
changing  and  adopting  public  policies  concerning
young  people,  thus  making  it  the  institution  most
important  to  the  youth  of  Costa  Rica.  This  is  an
unprecedented step in the strategy aimed at promoting
decision-making by young citizens; we are particularly
proud of it.
In  the  international  area,  we  agree  that  it  would
be a good practice if, at major United Nations events at
which the subject of youth is discussed, young people
formed  part  of  official  delegations.  Let  us  recall  here,
however, that a lack of resources hampers this, and, in
many cases, prevents it entirely. We therefore welcome
the  call  made  in  the  draft  resolution  which,  thanks  to
the  leadership  of  the  delegation  of  Portugal,  we  will
adopt 
and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations
to  ensure  the  official  participation  of  young  people  in
their  delegations,  particularly 
from  developing
countries,  including  through  the  use  of  the  United
Nations Youth Fund.
Governments 
today, 
later 
on 
The  number  of  young  people  worldwide  stands
today  at  1.553  billion,  85  per  cent  of  whom  live  in
developing countries. These numbers make it clear that
the  challenge  of  promoting  a  climate  conducive  to
maximizing  the  potential  of  young  people,  and  of  all
persons,  is  greatest  in  those  countries  that  have  the
least  financial,  economic  and  technological  resources
to do so.
It  is  unacceptable  that,  in  a  world  with  a  food
surplus,  more  than  900  million  people  suffer  from
hunger.  It  is  equally  unacceptable  that  we  are  wasting
the  potential  contributions  of  at  least  88  million
unemployed  young  people.  Many  more  are  under-
employed in the unstructured economy.
The  reports  that  have  been  submitted  for  our
consideration  are  evidence  of  the  fact  that,  while  we
have  made  progress  in  certain  areas,  we  are  far  from
having  obtained  encouraging  results.  Our  policies,  as
indicated  in  the  report  on  the  world  social  situation,
A/60/PV.27
must be restructured, as they are creating or promoting
trends that are morally and politically unacceptable.
Solidarity lies in the belief that we are all in the
same  boat  and  should  be  reflected,  inter  alia,  in  the
fulfilment  of  our  commitments 
international
cooperation.  We  reiterate  our  recognition  of  those
countries that have already fulfilled their commitments
or  are  about  to  do  so,  and  we  renew  our  appeal  to
everyone to shoulder their responsibility together today
to guarantee a viable tomorrow.
to 
We  share  the  concern  expressed  in  the  “World
Youth  Report  2005”  about  the  advance  of  HIV/AIDS
and  its  particular  impact,  especially  among  our  young
women. The current generation of youth has not known
a world without AIDS. We are convinced that, in order
to  eradicate 
scourge,  young  people  must
participate  in  defining  and  implementing  national  and
international strategies in that area.
that 
approach 
Our  country  has  encouraged  a  youth  project
to  work”,  which  advocates  a
known  as  “Hands 
comprehensive 
and
incorporates  human  rights,  youth,  gender,  community
participation and social inclusion issues. We feel that it
will help us to obtain positive results and will therefore
make  it  available  to  the  members  of  the  international
community.
health 
care 
to 
I  wish  to  share  our  concern  over  the  fact  that
young people are among the most active sectors of the
population  in  terms  of  criminality.  The  fact  that  most
prison inmates are men should serve as a wake-up call
and prompt us  to  consider  the  issue  in  depth  and  take
corrective  measures.  Our  twenty-first  century  should
focus  on  the  socialization  of  our  young  people.  Costa
Rica  calls  on  the  United  Nations  system,  and  in
particular  on  those  agencies  responsible  for  youth,  to
incorporate 
the  preparation  of
relevant  reports  and  studies  and  to  propose  measures
that States might use in confronting that situation.
that  element 
into 
Ten  years  ago,  we  identified  10  priority  areas  in
the  Programme  of  Action  being  considered  today.
Those issues remain as relevant as ever to the youth of
today  and of the future. We  understand,  however,  that
the  world  is  changing,  and  changing  quickly.  We
therefore 
the
identification of new measures that may be considered
in  the  future,  the  inclusion  of  the  five  new  concerns
proposed by the Secretary-General in his “World Youth
support,  without 
prejudice 
to 
13
A/60/PV.27
Report  2005”,  supplementing  the  priorities  of  the
World Programme of Action.
Some  have  said  that  youth  is  a  disease  that  is
cured  by  time.  We  disagree  with  that  diagnosis.  Far
from being a disease, youth is a cure. Youth is dreams;
it is ideals, hopes, proposals, solutions and the present.
It is a motor of change and an actor in development. In
that  faith,  I  have  the  honour  to  reiterate  Costa  Rica’s
full support for the Ibero-American Convention on the
Rights  of  Youth,  which  we  will  sign  in  the  next  few
days in the beautiful city of Badajoz, Spain.
Mr. Ahmed (Pakistan): I feel highly privileged to
represent  the  youth  of  Pakistan  at  this  forum  today.  I
represent the part of a global community that is imbued
with an ideal vision driven by lofty goals and fired by a
desire to achieve the most with scarce resources.
Government has established a small and medium-sized
enterprise development authority, which provides loans
of up to $25,000.
Around  65  per  cent  of  young  people  live  in  the
rural regions. To help that crucial cohort, the Khushali
Bank has been  established  with  capital  of  $28  million
for  extending  soft  loans  to  the  unemployed  in  rural
regions.  Young  women  constitute  35  per  cent  of  the
Bank’s clientele.
In a special project launched earlier this year, 29
of  the  poorest  districts  were  selected,  where  500,000
girl  students  in  5,000  schools  are  receiving  cooked
meals.  Through  another  programme,  girls  living  in
rural  areas  are  being  given  free  uniforms  and
textbooks, with a monthly stipend, until they reach the
sixth grade.
A  number  of  the  world’s  leading  scientists,
engineers,  doctors,  bankers  and  sportsmen  come  from
Pakistan.  While  we 
their
accomplishments,  we  confess  with  a  heavy  heart  that
there  have  been  many  other  dynamic  souls  who  have
not  been  able 
their  potential  due 
to
insufficient opportunities and inadequate resources.
take  great  pride 
to  realize 
in 
There are about 35 million youth in my country;
young women represent 48 per cent of that number. As
is rightly pointed out by the Secretary-General, poverty
and associated problems remain a major impediment to
the progress of youth worldwide. Our nation economy
has shown a strong recovery in the last five years, and
we achieved a growth rate of 8.4 per cent last year —
the  highest  in  Asia.  Despite  that,  the  budgetary
constraints  on  youth  and  social  welfare  areas  are  a
serious  issue.  The  Government  is  striving  hard  to
tackle the resource shortage, but it is a Herculean task
in the face of the twin menaces of unemployment and
poverty.
Undaunted,  we  are  steadfast  in  our  struggle  to
rise  high.  We  prefer  to  take  the  lead  and  do  what  we
can  to  improve  our  conditions.  One  example  is  the
increasing  number  of  young,  successful  information
technology 
Pakistan.  Taking
advantage  of  the  improved  investment  climate  in  the
country,  young  people  are 
initiating  small-scale
business ventures in numbers never seen in the history
of our region.
entrepreneurs 
in 
We  have  a  highly  educated  and  modern  human
resource  base.  To  catapult  the  efforts  of  youth,  the
14
Islam elevated the status of women and mandated
their  rights,  which  include  equal  access  to  education,
among other things. While we have come a long way,
more  needs 
the  greater
involvement  and  retention  of  girls  in  schools,  as  well
as their increased participation in public life.
to  be  done 
to  ensure 
As  we  persevere  to  achieve  our  development
goals,  being  global  citizens  we  look  towards  the
international community. Only together can we succeed
and  build  on  what  we  have  achieved  in  the  World
Programme of Action for Youth. We must do what we
can  at  the  United  Nations  and  in  our  respective
countries to influence policies and actions for youth so
that they will be truly beneficial to us.
(spoke 
(China) 
Mr.  Jiang  Guangping
in
Chinese): First, please allow me to thank you, Sir, for
convening  this  important  meeting  today.  The  Chinese
Government  and  Chinese  youth  highly  appreciate  the
General  Assembly’s  convening  two  plenary  meetings
on  youth  issues  against  the  backdrop  of  the  sixtieth
anniversary of the founding of the United Nations.
Ten  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  adopted  the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year
2000  and  Beyond.  We  meet  here  today  to  evaluate
globally  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  and  to
reiterate  our  commitment  to  youth.  The  document  is
the  most  programmatic  statement  formulated  by  the
United Nations since its establishment. It is a milestone
in  the  process  of  world  youth  development  and  a
symbol  of  the  gradual  internationalization  of  youth
issues.  We  are  now  seeking 
its
re-evaluate 
to 
reiterate 
commitment, 
international
implementation, 
community’s 
our
determination.  This  meeting  will  have  an  important
impact  on  youth  development  worldwide 
and
international cooperation.
reconfirm 
and 
the 
delinquency 
The past decade has been significant for China’s
reform,  opening-up  and  modernization  process.  It  has
also  been  an  important  decade  for  the  development
process  of  Chinese  youth.  Over  the  past  10  years,  the
Chinese  Government  and  leaders  have  paid  tireless
attention  to  youth  issues.  With  respect  to  the  10
priorities identified in the World Programme of Action
for  Youth,  the  Government  has  established  various
cross-cutting organs on youth issues, including a State
Council  working  committee  on  HIV/AIDS  prevention
and  treatment  and  a  leading  group  on  the  work  of
juvenile 
prevention.  The  Chinese
legislative  organs  have  amended  the  law  on  the
protection  of  minors  and  promulgated  a  law  on  the
prevention of juvenile delinquency to provide legal and
institutional guarantees for youth development and the
protection  of  young  people’s  rights  and  interests.
Furthermore,  the  sustained  and  rapid  development  of
the  Chinese  economy  and  the  Chinese  Government’s
heavy 
education,
employment,  health,  culture  and  sports  have  provided
Chinese youth development with better conditions than
ever  before,  enormously  raising  the  overall  calibre  of
Chinese  youth  and  enabling  unprecedented  youth
participation.
investment 
areas  of 
the 
in 
With  the  support  and  encouragement  of  the
Chinese Government, youth organizations at all levels,
with  the  Communist  Youth  League  of  China  and  All-
China  Youth  Federation  at  the  core,  have  drawn
together  a  vast  group  of  young  people  and  provided
strong  organizational 
their  healthy
development.
support 
for 
various 
However, 
problems, 
including
intergenerational  and  other  issues,  have  affected  the
development  of  young  people.  While  those  problems
are  specifically  Chinese  in  nature,  they  also  have
global  dimensions 
In
comparison  to  young  people  of  previous  generations,
today’s  youth  enjoy  more  diverse  opportunities  and
face more complicated challenges. We would stress our
work in the following three fields.
and  universal 
features. 
First, the Governments of the world should invest
in youth with  a  long-term  perspective  and  support  the
A/60/PV.27
the 
they  should  consider 
development  of  youth  organizations  and  networks.
influence  of
Secondly, 
economic  globalization  on  young  people  and 
its
negative impact on marginalized  youth so as to create
opportunities  for  them  to  benefit  from  globalization.
Thirdly,  international  cooperation  should  be  stepped
up.  We  are  delighted  that  international  cooperation  in
the  field  of  youth  development  has  been  steadily
increasing.  China  hopes  that  all  Member  States  will
jointly  promote  dialogue  and  cooperation  on  youth
issues  between  developed  countries  and  developing
countries  and  the  common  development  of  world
youth.
Young  people  represent  not  only  the  world  of
tomorrow,  but  also  that  of  today.  Let  us  join  hands,
cooperate  together,  and  strive  to  build  a  harmonious
world  of  lasting  peace,  common  prosperity  and  an
enabling environment for the growth and development
of young people everywhere.
Ms. Khalil (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): Ten years
after its adoption, we meet today to evaluate the World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and
Beyond,  which  identifies  10  vital  priority  areas  to
promote the welfare of youth. In  our opinion, perhaps
the  most  important  of  those  areas  is  employment.
Given  the  time  constraints,  I  will  focus  on  that  one
issue, the foundation of a cohesive social and economic
structure based on improved prospects for a better way
of 
including  education,  health  care  and
consistently  rising  standards  in  those  areas.  It  is  also
the foundation of economic progress and development
and the best way to avert the involvement of youth in
illegal activities, including extremism and terrorism.
life, 
If  we  are  to  speak  objectively,  we  must  start  by
stating  that  the  creation  of  new  opportunities  for
regular  employment  has  become  a  challenge  not  only
to  national  Governments,  but  also  to  the  international
community  as  a  whole.  It  falls  under  the  collective
responsibility  to  ensure  sustainable  economic  and
social  development  and 
to  solving  such
transnational  problems  as  terrorism,  discrimination
against  migrants,  and  associated  cultural  and  social
issues.
is  key 
Mitigating  the  negative  effects  of  globalization,
as  the  Secretary-General  notes  in  his  report,  can
undoubtedly  greatly  enhance  the  potential  for  success
in addressing youth problems. The ongoing exchanges
among the nations of the world can be oriented towards
15
A/60/PV.27
universal  good  governance  and  democracy,  to  the
benefit of all. It is certain that the international market
economy  has  huge  productive  potential;  if  wisely
managed, 
it  can  promote  unprecedented  material
progress and more productive employment and  reduce
poverty worldwide.
On the other hand, we are far from achieving all
those ambitions. Globalization exacerbates the unequal
distribution  of  resources  throughout  the  world,  and
many countries and peoples do not share in its benefits.
Worse  yet,  many  of  those  countries  and  peoples  lack
the  ability  to  make  their  voices  heard  in  decision-
making  on  international  development.  For  the  large
majority  of  people,  therefore,  globalization  has  failed
to fulfil their most basic hopes for better jobs.
The Egyptian Government pays close attention to
the  issue  of  unemployment  in  its  efforts  to  achieve
comprehensive  social  and  economic  development.  It
seeks  adequate  solutions  to  reducing  unemployment,
including 
far-reaching
programmes  to  provide  employment  opportunities,
such as the Tushki project, the East Tofri’a project and
the  North-West  Suez  Bay  project.  It  also  encourages
national and international investment.
establishment 
the 
of 
Two pioneering projects for youth have also been
set up in Egypt under a long-term strategy. The first is
a  national  programme  for  productive  families  and
professional  development;  launched  in  the  1960s,  it
seeks to transform low-income and the poorest families
into  productive  entities  working  to  meet  the  needs  of
traditional  society,  relying  on  interaction  with  the
Government,  civil  society  and  a  variety  of  public
organizations  so  as  to  meet  the  national  goal  of
realizing  the  aspirations  of  youth.  The  second  is  the
social  development  fund  established  in  1991  as  a
model  for  distributing  soft 
the
negative effects of economic reform and the transition
to  free-market  liberalization  and  privatization,  which
Egypt  has  begun 
to  keep  pace  with
globalization  by  creating  new  work  opportunities  and
eliminating  poverty,  with  special  attention  to  such
vulnerable groups as women and the disabled.
to  address 
in  order 
loans 
We  must  find  new  ways  of  making  progress  on
youth  issues,  including  more  youth-oriented  policies
and  special  programmes  on  development.  That  can  be
done by using new and creative methods to implement
what was agreed to in the World Programmes of Action
for Youth.
16
Ms.  Nuñez  Mordoche 
in
Spanish):  At  the  outset,  allow  us  to  greet  you,  Sir,  at
this 
the  General
Assembly,  at  which  we  are  considering,  first  and
foremost, the future of mankind.
important  plenary  meeting  of 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
the  well-being  of 
The  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth
represented  without  doubt  an  important  step  in  the
promotion  of 
the  younger
generations.  Much  remains  to  be  done.  It  is  not  our
intention to emphasize statistics. Every analysis of the
fulfilment  of  the  development  goals,  as  part  of  the
follow-up to the outcome of important United Nations
conferences  and  summits,  clearly  indicates  delays  in
the  implementation  of  the  priority  areas  adopted  10
years ago, which are in need of a thorough relaunching
within  the  framework  of  the  implementation  of  the
Programme.
In  our  country,  programmes  targeting  Cuban
youth  generate  a  wide  variety  of  alternatives  for  the
social  development  of  young  people,  guarantee  their
genuine  inclusion  as  individuals  in  the  process  of
transforming society, and create conditions to improve
their  quality  of  life.  Young  people,  more  than  mere
objects  of  social  policy,  play  a  leading  role  in  its
formulation  and  implementation  and  have  a  solid
background  in  the  essence  of  the  political  culture  of
participation  and  the  democratic  traditions  of  Cuban
society.
are 
Such 
through 
purposes 
achieved 
a
comprehensive  approach  to  youth  problems,  to  which
various  Government 
in
finding  solutions.  Valuable  information  is  received
from  social  and  demographic  studies  and  priority  is
given 
social
organizations, especially youth organizations.
commendable  work 
institutions  are 
involved 
to 
the 
of 
The  results  achieved  by  our  country  speak  for
themselves. Currently, for instance, the literacy rate of
Cuban  youth  stands  at  99.96  per  cent,  access  to  all
levels  of  education  is  free  and  universal,  and  full
employment  has  been  reached  following  strenuous
efforts to qualify and integrate young people who have
had no access to education and jobs.
The  time  is  long  past  when  corrupt  leaders
plundered  public  funds  and  Government  coffers  and
thousands  of  young  people  were  unable  to  educate
themselves  and  fell  victim  to  rampant  unemployment.
However,  some  people  want  us  to  go  back  in  time.
Seven  out  of  every  10  Cubans  were  born  and  have
lived in the hardship caused by the criminal economic,
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the
United  States  more  than  four  decades  ago.  Nothing
relating  to  the  well-being  of  our  youth  escapes  the
consequences of the blockade.
Future  generations  need  a  world  free  of  hunger
and poverty, with health care, education and dignity for
all  —  a  world  without  oppression  and  discrimination,
without war, genocidal blockades or the exploitation of
the  weakest.  Such  was  the  demand  of  thousands  of
people from throughout the world who met in Caracas,
Venezuela, to celebrate the Sixteenth World Festival of
Youth  and  Students.  The  letter  and  spirit  of  the
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  will  make  sense  only
when 
is
eliminated.
international  order 
the  current 
insulting 
Mr.  Whitehouse  (Australia):  As  Australia’s
youth representative, I am honoured by the opportunity
to address the General Assembly today. But just to be a
little  bit  different,  I  am  not  going  to  talk  about  the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth.  I  am  going  to
talk about Australian young people.
I  have  travelled  the  length  and  breadth  of  my
country,  chatting  with  young  people  and  asking  them
what  is  important  to  young  Australians.  It  is  my
humble privilege to bring the Assembly their voices.
I would like to share the voices of two groups of
Australian  young  people.  The  first  is  in  an  Australian
Aboriginal  community  called  Warmun,  nearly  1,000
kilometres from the closest large city. Here, a group of
young boys are surrounded by dilapidated houses, dirt
streets  crammed  with  rubbish,  and  peers  who  have
never seen the inside of a school. The second, in a very
different  setting,  is  a  group  of  400  young  people
crammed  into  the  town  hall  of  a  large  capital  city,
where they are surrounded by tall, multi-million dollar
buildings  and  the  latest  technology.  Yet,  despite  the
disparate  nature  of 
two  groups,  both
overwhelmingly  assert  that  the  two  biggest  issues
facing  the  world  today  are  the  crisis  in  Iraq  and
continuing  poverty  in  our  world.  That,  in  the  case  of
the  young  Aboriginal  boys,  is  true  despite  their  own
extreme challenges.
those 
Mr.  Martirosyan  (Armenia),  Vice-President,  took
the Chair.
Australia  is  a  proudly  multicultural  country.
While  our  indigenous  peoples  have  called  Australia
A/60/PV.27
home  for  more  than  60,000  years,  the  evolving
kaleidoscope  of  Australian  life  has  seen  many  new
faces  become  part  of  Australia  in  the  last  few  years.
The  essence  of  Australian  multiculturalism  is  that  we
do  not  all  look  the  same  and  we  do  not  all  sound  the
same,  but  we  are  all  Australian.  It  is  our  unity  in  our
diversity that ties our dreams together.
While  Australia’s  young  people  are  diverse  in
colour,  creed  and  geography,  our  voices  reflect  the
unity 
that  binds  our  country.  In  particular,  we
overwhelmingly  communicate  three  basic  needs:  the
need for a sense of community, the need for a sense of
safety, and the need for a purpose.
Australia 
have  many 
is  overwhelmingly  a  country  of
community.  Beyond  the  overarching  community  of
being  Australian,  we 
smaller
communities — rural  towns,  suburbs,  schools,  and
even  football  clubs.  I  have  found  that,  for  Australian
young  people,  the  drive  to  be  part  of  a  community,
whatever form that takes, supersedes all else. The need
to find a place to belong is the most powerful force in
shaping who we are.
Yet  as  I  found,  that  drive  for  community  often
conflicts  with  the  other  great  desires  of  Australian
young  people:  the  desires  for  safety  and  purpose.  In
various areas of Australia, young people told me of the
unrelenting violence that exists in their homes. In rural
Australia,  young  people  told  me  of  the  lack  of
opportunities  present  in  their  communities.  Youth
unemployment  is  soaring,  educational  opportunities
pale  in  comparison  to  those  offered  in  metropolitan
areas, and recreational facilities are often considerably
underdeveloped.
However,  in  response  to  my  queries  as  to  why
they  would  choose  to  stay  in  their  community,  all  I
received  were  baffled  looks.  This  is  their  home,  they
told me; this is where their family and friends are; this
is where they belong — this is their community. They
could  try  to  seek  opportunities  elsewhere,  but  would
find the transition too difficult and return to their place
of  belonging.  The  draw  of  their  communities  was  far
too powerful.
If  it  is  community  that  is  so  powerful  for  young
people,  the  foremost  role  of  our  society  must  be  to
enable  those  young  people,  first,  to  remain  in  their
communities, but more importantly, to be able to reach
their  full  potential  within  a  safe  and  purposeful
existence.
17
A/60/PV.27
decision-making 
One vital way to create communities that support
and nurture young people is to include young people in
the 
process.  The  Australian
Government supports many programmes, such as youth
advisory  councils  and  the  National  Youth  Roundtable,
which offer young people a meaningful opportunity to
dialogue with and advise those who make decisions on
their  behalf.  Young  Australians  want  not  only  to  be
kept  informed  of  what  decisions  are  being  made  on
their behalf, but also to be involved in those decisions
that affect their lives.
It  is  clear  to  me  that,  when  given  half  a  chance,
young  people  have  the  most  tremendous  capacity  to
shape their own existence. Here are just three examples
that  I  encountered.  A  few  months  ago,  two  teenagers
organized  a  youth  conference  in  rural  Australia  to
enable other young Australians who live in the outback
to meet and share opportunities. A young Australian in
a seemingly depressed town in Northern Australia has
recently  created  his  community’s  first  youth  group  in
an  attempt 
to
unemployment  and  drugs.  A  group  of  Australian
Aboriginal  young  women  in  the  north  of  Western
Australia have created a dancing group in an extremely
isolated  community,  thus  providing  teenage  girls  with
an  opportunity  to  participate  meaningfully  in  their
community.  Just  by  being  themselves,  they  are  being
extraordinary.
to  offer  his  peers  alternatives 
As Australia’s youth representative to the United
Nations,  I  met  countless  young  people  who  were
captivated  by  the  opportunity  to  have  their  voices
heard at the United Nations. To be heard in the highest
forum  in  the  world  is  an  opportunity  without  peer,
especially  for  young  people  who  may  have  never
thought that their voices were valuable or worthy.
Youth representatives have the unique potential to
bring  voices  from  the  ground  to  the  highest  decision-
making  body  in  the  world.  It  is  unique.  It  has  the
potential to change the United Nations from an abstract
notion in young people’s minds into a genuine entity in
the  souls  of  countless  young  people  throughout  the
world. There is nothing more vital to the prosperity of
the  United  Nations  than  a  new  generation  of  people
believing  that  the  United  Nations  is  listening  to  them
and acting on their behalf. I urge countries to consider
including a youth representative in their delegations to
the United Nations.
18
I thank members for this opportunity today. There
are  countless  young  Australians  who  feel  valued
merely because representatives listened to me here.
Mr.  Hachani  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  The
Tunisian delegation sets great store by the agenda item
before  us  today,  and  takes  this  opportunity  to  express
its appreciation for the quality of the reports produced
on  the  issues  under  consideration.  We  also  thank  the
Secretariat staff for their eloquent presentation of those
contributions  to  our  debate,  and  in  particular  for  the
“World  Youth  Report  2005”,  whose  main  conclusions
and recommendations Tunisia embraces.
The  10-year  review  of  the  World  Programme  of
Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and  Beyond
coincides  with  the  Assembly’s  recent  consideration  of
the  follow-up  to  the  Millennium  Declaration.  We
believe  in  the  links  between  the  World  Programme  of
Action  for  Youth  and  the  Millennium  Development
Goals,  which  constitute  a  new  set  of  internationally
agreed  objectives  to  help  youth  and  to  integrate  their
needs  into  the  broader  framework  of  development
programmes.
in  certain  priority  areas  of 
Most Member States have undeniably made some
progress 
the  World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth.  Nevertheless,  we
endorse  the  Secretary-General’s  conclusion  that  “the
current generation of young people is facing ever more
complex  challenges  than  the  previous  generation”
(A/60/61, para. 93) and that it has become increasingly
urgent  to  honour  the  commitment  to  find  decent  and
productive  employment  for  young  people  everywhere.
The unemployment and underemployment of youth are
no  longer  seen  as  merely  social  problems;  they  also
have  economic  dimensions  and,  increasingly,  political
and security aspects as well. The creation of jobs helps
to 
that  currently  underpin
numerous security and other social problems, including
poverty, marginalization and extremism.
tensions 
reduce 
the 
Moreover,  several  major  transformations  and
events have taken place in the world since the adoption
of  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the
Year  2000  and  Beyond,  and  have  had  a  direct  impact
on  young  people,  who  constitute  18  per  cent  of  the
world population today. People under 24 now make up
almost  half  the  world’s  population.  The  emergence  of
globalization,  the  increased  use  of  information  and
communications 
such
technologies,  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS,  the  growing
technologies, 
access 
to 
involvement of youth in armed conflict, the resurgence
of  terrorism,  and  the  vast  numbers  of  young  people
living  below  the  poverty  line  and  suffering  from
malnutrition  are  just  some  of  the  changes  in  question.
They  clearly  call  for  new  responses  to  the  needs  of
young  people 
the  development  of
professional  training,  health  care  and  employment,  in
an  environment  of  increasing  economic  globalization
and  greater 
and
communications technologies.
in  education, 
information 
to  new 
access 
to  attaining 
Special attention must be paid to the principle of
a people-based approach and its embodiment in public
and  strategic  development  policies.  Such  an  approach
would  contribute 
international
community’s  goals, 
the  Millennium  Development
Goals in particular, and would require better mitigation
of  the  social  effects  of  globalization,  the  targeting  of
international  macroeconomic  policies
national  and 
towards  social  objectives,  and  support 
the
capacities of Governments to carry out their own social
policies.
the 
for 
Tunisia  is  convinced  that  youth  employment
policies  should  not  be  confined  to  intervention  in  the
labour  market,  but  include  social,  educational  and
fiscal  dimensions  as  well.  Thus,  young  people  enjoy
the  great  concern  of  the  Tunisian  State,  and  measures
have been taken to help them in the fields of education,
culture,  training,  health  care,  leisure  and  so  on.  The
State  is  striving  to  provide  them  with  conditions  for
healthy development and a balanced education, ensure
their 
their
scientific  and  artistic  development.
intellectual, 
Significant 
investments  have  been  earmarked  for
modernization  and  for  ongoing  and  systematic  re-
evaluation of professional teaching  programmes  based
not  only  on 
the
acquisition  of  new  competences  essential  to  better
integration into the labour market.
into  society,  and  promote 
trades,  but  also  on 
integration 
traditional 
With  respect  to  employment,  I  note  in  particular
the  Tunisian  national  employment  fund  designed  to
integrate  young  people  with  scarce  employment
opportunities.  We  have  also  established  a  programme
to  create  sources  of  revenue  to  help  underprivileged
families  undertake 
to
improve their living conditions.
family  economic  projects 
Despite  all 
like  many
developing  countries,  know  that  much  remains  to  be
done  in  order  to  honour  all  the  national  commitments
such  efforts,  we, 
A/60/PV.27
that  have  been  made  to  our  youth.  We  are  also
determined  to  continue  to  work  at  the  international
level  with  a  view  to  stepping  up  our  mobilization  to
meet their needs and legitimate aspirations.
Mr. Wedershoven (Netherlands): It is with great
honour  and  gratitude,  but  also  with  equally  great
concern, that I address the Assembly today.
(spoke in French)
“Representatives  and 
leaders  of  Europe,  we
appeal to your sense of solidarity and kindness to
come  to  our  rescue  in  Africa.  Help  us;  we  are
suffering terribly.”
(spoke in English)
That plea is from a letter written six years ago by
two  boys  from  Guinea,  Yaguine  Koita  and  Fodé
Tounkara.  It  was  found  with  their  dead  bodies  in  the
landing gear of a plane en route to Europe on 2 August
1999. The boys had embarked on a dangerous journey
in  an  attempt  to  flee  from  danger  in  the  hope  of  a
brighter  future.  Risking  their  lives  seemed  a  better
option to them than staying home. I find their courage
and  despair  as  moving  today  as  I  did  when  I  myself
was  a  young  boy  growing  up  in  the  safety  of  the
Netherlands.
The world today offers hardly more opportunities
to young people than it did to Yaguine  and Fodé. The
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for
Refugees  informs  us  that  more  than  20  million  young
people  are  fleeing  from  the  same  danger:  the  lack  of
prospects.  Their  despair  becomes  easier  to  understand
when  we  realize  that  almost  90  million  young  people
are  unemployed  and  make  up  more  than  half  the
world’s unemployed. Imagine the obstacles 500 million
young people entering the workforce over the  next  10
years — young people with little opportunity to earn a
living  —  will  face.  Those  sobering  statistics,  together
with  Yaguine  and  Fodé’s  cry  for  help,  compel  me  to
draw the Assembly’s attention to the problem of youth
unemployment.
Denying young people their rights — such as the
right  to  decent  work  or  the  right  to  seek  and  express
their sexual or cultural identity — places our future at
risk.  This  is  a  question  of  human  dignity  and  world
security.  Increasing  employment  opportunities  for
young  people  not  only  addresses  the  primary  concern
of  young  people  throughout  the  world,  but  also
contributes  to  more  sustainable,  equal  development.
19
A/60/PV.27
Millennium Development Goal 8 seeks to develop and
implement  strategies  designed  to  create  decent  and
productive  work  for  young  people  and  is  one  of  the
quick wins for achieving the Goals. Youth employment
is  also  a  priority  area  in  the  World  Programme  of
Action for Youth.
We  are  not  asking  that  members  sign  new
agreements  or  declare  new  intentions,  but  we  need
them to act.
with 
micro-financing 
Governments  alone  cannot  do  the  job,  but  must
institutions,
cooperate 
entrepreneurs, civil society and, last but definitely not
least,  young  people  themselves.  Research  by  the
International Labour Organization indicates that young
entrepreneurs have a significantly  higher than  average
success  rate  and  a  positive  track  record  in  paying  off
microcredit  loans.  The  United  Nations  proclaimed
2005  the  International  Year  of  Microcredit.  Young
people  should  be  a  target  group  for  microfinance
projects and institutions.
Several  initiatives  inspired  me  this  year,  such  as
the  Youth  Employment  Spark  project  —  a  youth-led
network  for  young  entrepreneurs  that  helps  young
people  to  learn  from  one  other  and  inspire  others  to
take  positive  action.  Such  examples  are  proof  that  the
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  within  reach  and
that  young  people  themselves,  if  given  the  chance,
have a great deal to contribute.
I  would  like  to  underline  the  importance  of
having more youth representatives at this session of the
General  Assembly  than  ever  before.  Not  only  are  we
experts  on  issues  concerning  youth;  we  are  the  best
placed to explain decisions taken and to bring positive
messages  to  our  peers  at  home.  I  would  like  to  thank
the  Member  States 
that  give  young  people
opportunities  for  meaningful  participation,  and  I  urge
Member  States  to  include  youth  representatives  in  all
relevant discussions of the General Assembly and other
forums.
Young  people  call  on  Member  States  to  promote
initiatives  to  increase  universal  access  to  financial
services,  including  microcredit,  and  support  networks
for  young  entrepreneurs;  learn  from  and  support
important  global 
the  Youth
Employment  Network  and  the  Youth  Employment
Summit;  and  translate  and  implement  United  Nations
resolutions,  such  as  the  World  Programme  of  Action
for Youth, into national action plans.
initiatives,  such  as 
20
(spoke in French)
“So you see, if we sacrifice or risk our lives, it is
because we in Africa have suffered too long and
need your help.”
(spoke in English)
I  can  only  hope  that  I  have  contributed  to
ensuring  that  Yaguine  and  Fodé  did  not  die  in  vain.
Can  we  act  as  an  international  community,  hold
ourselves accountable for the many great promises and
resolutions  made  here,  restore  our  faith 
this
institution  and  have  hope  for  a  better  future?  Yes,  we
can. We, the young people, stand ready to do so.
in 
Youth 
are 
for 
Ms.  Ahmed  (Bangladesh):  I  speak  on  behalf  of
my  Ambassador  and  Permanent  Representative,
Mr. Iftekhar Chowdhury.
the 
and
development.  The  spirit  of  youth  can  and  must  be
converted  into  a  tool  for  change  and  progress.  The
participation of youth representatives in this debate has
given us the opportunity to hear them and listen to their
experience at first hand.
catalyst 
change 
Bangladesh remains fully committed to the World
Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year  2000  and
Beyond. We pay due attention to all matters concerning
youth,  particularly  the  unemployed  segment  of  our
young population.  We emphasize the  10  priority  areas
identified  by  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for
Youth  and  the  five  additional  issues  of  concern
acknowledged  in  General  Assembly  resolution  58/133
of  2003.  We  attach  necessary  attention  to  the  proper
education,  employment  creation,  health  care  facilities,
skill  development  and  various  vocational  trainings,
entrepreneurship  and  awareness  programmes  for  our
youth.  Special  emphasis  has  also  been  placed  on
promoting and ensuring the active participation of girls
and young women.
Bangladesh  adopted  a  national  youth  policy  in
2003.  It  defines  the  population  in  the  age  group  from
18  to  35  as  youth.  As  per  that  definition,  we  have
roughly  45  million  youth.  The  Ministry  of  Youth  and
Sports  has  a  department  devoted  solely  to  youth
development.  Our  aim  is  to  transform  our  young
population 
and
productive  workforce.  The  Department  of  Youth
Development  coordinates  various  programmes.  While
implementing 
the  Government
an  organized,  disciplined 
those  programmes, 
into 
maintains 
governmental organizations.
close 
collaboration  with 
the 
non-
Bangladesh has taken numerous positive steps to
mainstream  its  young  population.  First,  we  have
improvised a set of skill development programmes that
include  computer  and 
technologies,
electronics,  garments,  agriculture,  secretarial  sciences,
and so on.
information 
Secondly,  we  have  developed  self-employment
programmes, 
training,  group
formation,  credit  and  input  support,  close  supervision
and development of marketing networks, and so on.
including  motivation 
called 
Thirdly, 
the  Government  has 
“Family-Based 
introduced  an
initiative 
Employment
Programme”  which  provides  microcredits  to  youth
towards the  establishment  microenterprises.  Under  the
programme,  young  people  are  also  being  trained  in
small-family  norms,  malnutrition,  sanitation, 
tree
planting,  and  so  on.  More  than  65,000  young  people
have  been  given  loans  from  the  Credit  Fund  and  the
realization of loans is nearly 89 per cent.
Fourthly,  we  have  projects  to  involve  young
people  in  such  activities  as  population  control,  the
prevention  of  HIV/AIDS  and  sexually  transmitted
diseases, 
safe
motherhood.  The  United  Nations  Population  Fund  is
providing assistance in those projects.
reproductive 
health 
care 
and 
Last  but  not  least,  various  local  youth  clubs,
supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, play a
in  community  development,
very  significant  role 
raising 
self-employment
schemes.
awareness  and  various 
South Asia has the largest number of youth living
below the two  poverty lines,  followed by sub-Saharan
Africa.  In  order  to  make  progress  in  the  world  youth
situation,  we  need  to  take  account  of  the  needs  of
South  Asian  youth,  which  includes  about  9.9  million
young  people 
in  my  country.  My  delegation
acknowledges that mainstreaming youth in the process
of  poverty  eradication  is  a  complex  challenge  that
requires our continuous attention and action.
It  is  easy  sometimes  to  overlook  our  youth,  but
we do so at our great peril. Societies that are able to tap
the  potential  of  youth  are  better  adjusted  to  achieving
progress, development and, indeed, prosperity. None of
us can begrudge attention to youth, for however distant
A/60/PV.27
and  remote  it  may  seem,  all  present  are  either  young
now or were young once.
Mr.  Ronnholm
youth
representative  from  Finland,  it  is  an  honour  for  me  to
address this Assembly.
(Finland):  As 
a 
We are here to review the situation of youth and
achievements  attained  in  the  implementation  of  the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  10  years  after
its  adoption.  I  am  delighted  to  see  more  youth
representatives  here  at  the  United  Nations  highest
decision-making  body  than  ever  before.  However,
more  than  100  Member  States  still  have  not  provided
the voices of their youth the opportunity to be heard at
this  forum,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  General
Assembly has adopted numerous resolutions calling for
the  inclusion  of  youth  representatives  in  Member
States’  delegations.  True  representation,  however,  can
be  achieved  only  when  democratically  chosen  bodies
representing different youth  interests, such  as  national
youth  councils,  conduct 
the  selection  of  youth
representatives.
General  Assembly  resolutions  also  recommend
that  young  people  be  directly  involved  in  decision-
making  processes.  Youth-led  development  should  be
promoted  at  all  levels.  Young  people  should  take
responsibility for developing their own societies.
The  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth
provides a very good basis for any country to develop a
national  youth  policy.  However,  there  is  a  need  to
strengthen  the  authority  of  the  document.  General
awareness of the World Programme needs to be greatly
increased.  Youth  organizations  need  to  be  involved  in
the implementation and monitoring of the Programme.
There  is  also  a  need  to  find  accurate  indicators  for
monitoring the impact of the Programme. One solution
is to choose indicators applied in the compiling of the
Human  Development  Index  that  are  suitable  for  youth
issues  and  use  them  in  analysing  data  for  monitoring.
The  monitoring  could  be  delegated  to  national  youth
councils — with the appropriate funding — to provide
an  adequate  overall  picture  of  the  situation  of  young
people in the State in question.
As a youth representative, I strongly recommend
that  a  special  United  Nations  taskforce  be  established
to coordinate the implementation and monitoring of the
World Programme of Action in order to make reporting
official  and  efficient.  The  Programme  should  also  be
the  Millennium
seen  as  a 
reaching 
tool 
for 
21
A/60/PV.27
Development Goals. Although the Programme is not a
legally  binding  document  in  itself,  many  of  the
important issues addressed therein — such as the right
to  health  and  employment  issues  —  are  already
included  in  existing,  legally  binding  international
instruments.
It  is  time  for  us  all  to  act.  We  all  know  what  to
do,  so  now  let  us  please  do  it.  While  celebrating  its
tenth anniversary, the World Programme of Action for
Youth  is  getting  rid  of  its  “paediatric”  problems.  It  is
becoming  a  strong  and  independent  teenager  who  has
hopefully found its place in the United Nations family.
And  as  a  demanding  teenager,  questioning  the  status
quo and demanding change, it should continue to do so
in the future.
The Acting President: I should like to inform the
General  Assembly  that  the  representatives  of  Ghana,
Qatar and Saudi Arabia have requested to participate in
this  meeting.  Inasmuch  as  the  list  of  speakers  was
closed at 11 a.m. this morning, may I ask the General
Assembly  whether  there  is  any  objection  to  including
those delegations in the list of speakers?
As  I  hear  none,  Ghana,  Qatar  and  Saudi  Arabia
are included in the list of speakers.
U Win Mra (Myanmar): As we gather here today
to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  to  the  Year
2000  and  Beyond,  I  wish  first  of  all  to  thank  Mr.
Eliasson for the efforts he has made in the preparations
for holding this important event. I wish also to express
our  gratitude  to  the  Secretariat  for  the  crucial  role  it
has played.
The  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth,
adopted 
in  1995,  focused  on  10  priority  areas.
Although  there  have  been  many  economic  and  social
changes  in  the  global  environment  in  the  past  decade,
we  strongly  believe  that  those  10  priority  areas
continue  to  be  very  relevant  today  and  will  remain
relevant in the future. My delegation is of the view that
the  global  community  should  concentrate  more  on
achieving the existing goals which we set for ourselves
in 1995. Additional challenges faced by today’s youth
could be streamlined into the existing 10 priority areas,
since they are interconnected.
Poverty lies at the centre of the 10 priority areas.
Quality  education,  quality  health  care,  decent
employment, leisure for youth, and other goals cannot
22
be  fully  realized  if  poverty  prevails  in  a  society.  The
Secretary-General  reports  that  85  per  cent  of  the
world’s  youth  live  in  the  developing  world  and  that
208.6  million  youth  in  the  world  today  exist  on  less
than $1 a day, while 515.1 million live on less than $2
a  day.  Given  such  a  scenario,  we  are  of  the  view  that
the focus should remain on poverty alleviation. We join
the  call  of  the  Secretary-General,  who  suggests  the
need  for  quantitative  and  qualitative  research  on
poverty alleviation among youth. The idea put forward
by  many  youth  organizations  — 
the
development  of  a  global  youth  development  index  —
also deserves merit and consideration.
to  support 
We strongly believe that education is the primary
solution  to  poverty  alleviation.  By  investing  in  the
youth  of  today,  we  can  build  a  better  tomorrow.  The
Secretary-General  reports  that  secondary  school  gross
enrolments  on  a  global  level  increased  from  56  to  78
per  cent  in  the  last  decade  and  that  tertiary  enrolment
rates  increased  worldwide  from  69  million  in  1990  to
88  million  in  1997.  However,  despite  such  increases,
the  Secretary-General  reports  that  the  gap  between
male  and  female  literacy  rates  in  Asia  and  Africa
appears 
to  be  widening.  We  call  for  additional
international efforts to better educate girls and women.
Modern  concepts  of  learning,  such  as  distance
education  and  “e-learning”,  have  opened  up  a  new
dimension of learning to better ensure that no child or
youth is left out. At the same time, the widening digital
divide  between  developed  and  developing  countries
must  not  be  overlooked.  In  Myanmar,  through  strong
commitment and concerted efforts, the literacy rate for
youth aged 15 to 24 years increased from 80.9 per cent
in 1990 to 96.5 per cent in 2004.
The  Secretary-General  has  reported  that,  while
the  number  of  youth 
tertiary
education  has  increased,  labour  markets  in  many
countries  are  not  able  to  accommodate  those  large
groups of skilled graduates.
in  secondary  and 
We are of the view that enhanced market access,
sustainably financed technical assistance and capacity-
building  programmes  for  developing  countries  would
help  create  jobs.  Outsourcing  to  developing  countries
is also a viable solution for the creation of jobs without
causing a brain drain.
Youth  participation  in  civil  society  activities  is
beneficial  in  many  ways.  It  fosters  intergenerational
traditional
relations, 
displacement 
prevents 
of 
activities,  limits  the  chances  of  engagement  in  risky
behaviour,  promotes  volunteer  activities  and  gives
young  people  the  chance  to  build  networks  among
themselves. In Myanmar, the youth wing of the Union
Solidarity  and  Development  Association,  plays  a
crucial role in the lives of Myanmar youth  today. The
Association  holds  various  courses  for  human  resource
development  at  all  levels,  encourages  volunteerism,
enhances  youth  engagement  and  provides  forums  for
intergenerational discussions.
The  World  Youth  Report  draws  our  attention  to
the  fact  that  drugs,  tobacco  and  alcohol  are  means  of
escaping  situations  that  youth  often  feel  powerless  to
change, and it identifies tobacco use as one of the chief
preventable  causes  of  death  in  the  world  today.
Aggressive  advertising  and  marketing  of  alcohol  and
tobacco has resulted in growing alcohol and drug abuse
among the targeted audience: youth. Myanmar became
a  party  to  the  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco
Control 
imposed
restrictions  on  tobacco  advertising  and  marketing.
Information  on  the  hazards  of  tobacco  is  included  in
the  school  curriculum,  and  many  schools  have  been
declared tobacco-free.
in  October  2003,  and 
it  has 
by 
The youth of today are the leaders of tomorrow. I
conclude 
reaffirming  my  Government’s
commitment  to  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for
Youth to the Year  2000  and Beyond and to building  a
peaceful, just and stable environment for our youth.
Ms.  Uwonkunda  (Norway):  Please  allow  me  to
start  my  statement  by  bringing  a  message  from  a  girl
who was not given the opportunity to be here, but who
has an important message.
“I  still  get  bad  dreams  and  wake  up
screaming. Even when I am not asleep, I get bad
dreams. I hear rebels threatening to kill me. I see
a long line of frightened children tied with ropes
and hear rebels ordering to kill them. At night, I
do  not  want  to  see  flashes  of  torches.  They
remind me of the night I was abducted.”
Those  are  the  words  of  13-year-old  Pamela  from
northern Uganda, and that is the reality of thousands of
children.
I was the same age as 13-year-old Pamela when I
myself faced the greatest tragedy of my life as a young
refugee from Rwanda. But despite our sharing the same
destiny, her tragedy is far greater than mine.
A/60/PV.27
As a young refugee of 13 due to war in Rwanda, I
was forced to grow up unbelievably fast. I did not have
a choice, and neither did any of the others with whom I
spent the first three nights in a roundabout in Goma in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
It  was  not  until  December  1997  that  I  could
finally sit and relax, that I could finally sleep and wake
up  without  nightmares.  For  the  first  time  in  a  long
time, I saw my parents at  ease, with no worry for our
security  or  about  how  to  put  food  on  the  table.  Not
everyone got the same chance my family did.
Norway fully supports the World  Youth  Report’s
demand  for  special  attention  to  integrating  youth  who
are victims of armed conflicts. But it is important that
the  need  for  special  attention  be  recognized  in  the
countries  of  origin  as  well  as  in  the  countries  of
asylum.  The  World  Youth  Report  describes 
the
relationship  between  a  refugee’s  situation  and  the
probability  of  poverty,  drug  abuse, 
trafficking,
violence,  dropping  out  of  school  and  exposure  to
physical suffering and psychological damage.
Children and youth who flee and seek asylum in
safe  countries  have  special  needs.  The  Convention  on
the  Rights  of  the  Child  states  that  children  who  seek
asylum  must 
receive  appropriate  protection  and
humanitarian assistance. When  unaccompanied minors
arrive in host countries, they are often treated the same
way as adults. But they need special treatment, adapted
information  and  the  appointment  of  a  guardian  to  be
responsible for providing help and assistance.
Receiving  young  refugees  is  not  just  a  burden.
Refugee  children  have  ideas,  experiences,  knowledge
and an abundance of resources. The asylum State must
succeed in integrating young refugees to be able to take
advantage of the resources of those children and young
people.  We  simply  cannot  afford  to  lose  them  or  see
them  drop  out.  In  fact,  if  States  fail  to  integrate
asylum-seekers  and  refugees,  they  risk  creating  a  new
lower class. Young people and youth non-governmental
organizations  should  be  seen  as  tools  and  partners  in
integration processes.
We urge the States that have not done so to ratify
and  comply  with  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the
Child. We urge all States to incorporate the Convention
on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  into  national  law  and  to
comply  with  its  obligations.  We  urge  all  States  to  see
young  refugees  as  valuable  resources  and  to  develop
integration  programmes  for  young  refugees.  We  urge
23
A/60/PV.27
the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  the  situation  of  young
refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons  in  the  next
World Youth Report on youth at risk.
My  own  story  ended  very  well,  but  Pamela  did
not get the second chance I got. For her and millions of
other  children  and  young  people,  we  have  to  work
together  to  find  a  solution.  That  requires  time  and
resources  that  I  know  we  possess.  Let  us  make  it  a
priority.
Mr.  Kutlualp  (Turkey):  It  is  indeed  an  honour
and a privilege for me to address the General Assembly
in  my  capacity  as  youth  delegate  from  Turkey  at  this
meeting on the evaluation of the progress made in the
implementation of the World Programme of Action for
Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond.
This  special  occasion  not  only  enables  young
people  from  numerous  Member  States  to  make  their
voices  heard  but  also  creates  an  opportunity  for
Governments 
the
potential  of  youth,  especially  in  matters  of  direct
concern to young people.
to  recognize  and  fully  realize 
Beyond  doubt,  the  World  Programme  of  Action
for Youth to the Year 2000 and Beyond has served as a
key  document  in  the  formulation  of  policy  on  issues
regarding youth. Certain progress has been achieved in
priority  areas  defined  by  the  World  Programme  of
Action. However, serious challenges remain.
We  believe  that  the  key  to  success  in  achieving
the  goals  defined  by  the  Programme  of  Action  is  the
involvement  of  youth,  both  in  decision-making  and
implementation 
certain
responsibilities  will  help  young  people  play  a  more
significant 
society  as  active  partners.
Cooperation  and  collaboration  between  Governments
and  civil  society  organizations  are  also  crucial  for
success.
processes. 
Assigning 
role 
in 
Turkey  has  achieved  important  progress  in  areas
of policy priority addressed in the World Programme of
Action. Education, health, environment and, especially,
girls and young women are some of the areas in which
promising  progress  has  been  made.  The  success
achieved in raising awareness of gender issues and the
sustained  efforts  for  increasing  the  schooling  rate  of
girls deserve particular attention.
The  activities  of  civil  society  on  youth  issues  in
Turkey are also commendable. Among those activities,
the  establishment  in  2004  of  the  Local  Agenda  21
24
Youth  Parliament  should  be  underlined.  That  event,
which coincided with the official Youth Day of Turkey,
19 May, brought together 297 youth delegates from all
over the country.
We  see  the  World  Programme  of  Action  as  a
living document. Therefore, we welcome the inclusion
of the five additional priority areas, namely, the mixed
impact of globalization on young women and men; the
use  of  and  access  to  information  and  communication
technologies;  the  dramatic  increase  of  HIV  infections
among young people and the impact of the epidemic on
their lives; the involvement of  young people in  armed
conflict,  both  as  victims  and  as  perpetrators;  and  the
increased  importance  of  addressing  intergenerational
issues in an ageing society. It is with this understanding
that  we  have  joined  in  sponsoring  draft  resolution
A/60/L.2, on policies and programmes involving youth.
Before  concluding  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to
express my sincere hope that the number of occasions
providing  youth  delegates  with  the  opportunity  to
participate  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  will
continuously increase. We believe that the participation
of young delegates not only enriches the debate and the
policy dialogue, but also strengthens existing channels
of 
among
Governments and, most important, young people.
communication 
cooperation 
and 
Mr.  Blake  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  wishes  to
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  lucid  and  candid
World  Youth  Report  2005  (A/60/61).  We  also  wish  to
extend  our  congratulations  to  the  President  and  the
other members of the Bureau on your election.
Since  the  genesis  of  the  World  Programme  of
Action  for  Youth  in  1995,  little  progress  has  been
realized  in  the  10  major  areas  outlined  as  priority
areas.  My  delegation  concurs  with  the  findings  of
World Youth Report 2005, which posits that one of the
pitfalls  in  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of
Action  was  that  a  formal  mechanism  for  quantifying
progress  or  regress  was  not  implemented.  We  are
challenging  the  United  Nations  to  develop  an  index
and,  further,  to  establish  a  committee  with  a  special
portfolio to conduct continuous evaluation.
The  World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  has
failed  to  adequately  address  the  core  issues  related  to
intergenerational  relations  because,  irrespective  of  the
changed  and  still  changing  structure, 
the  family
remains  the  primary  social  institution,  as  pointed  out
by  the  World  Youth  Report.  Youth  development  must
be  viewed  in  the  context  of  benefits  to  current  and
future generations. Caribbean Governments have found
it  difficult  to  keep  the  family  in  place  as  the  basic
building block of Caribbean cosmopolitan society, and
recent studies on the regional situation have noted that
many  of  the  problems  facing  young  people  can  be
attributed,  among  other  things,  to  a  combination  of
three  crucial  shortcomings:  failure  to  recognize  the
importance  of  the  nuclear  family,  failure  to  maintain
monogamous  relations  and  the  failure  of  males  to
remain  on  par  with  females  in  the  areas  of  education
and employment.
One  of  the  criticisms  levelled  against  the  World
Programme  of  Action  by  the  World  Youth  Report  is
that  policymakers  have  failed  to  adequately  address
youth  participation  and  to  support  sustained  youth
involvement,  resulting  in  a  failure  to  incorporate  the
ideas  and  perspectives  of  young  people.  In  my  own
country,  Jamaica,  in  accordance  with  the  mandates  of
the 1994 National Youth Policy, a National Centre for
Youth Development has been established as an official
agency  with  responsibility  for  policy  formulation,
strategic 
and
evaluation.  The  significant  feature  of  this  agency  is
that  it  is  led  and  completely  staffed  by  fully  qualified
young  professionals.  In  addition,  as  our  Government
seeks  to  transform  our  educational  system  to  ensure
that  Jamaica  achieves  the  Millennium  Development
Goals (MDGs) related to education, the participation of
youth  has  been  a  critical  feature  of  the  task  force  on
education  charged  with  providing  recommendations
and  the  committee  with  responsibility  for  monitoring
and evaluating implementation.
research,  monitoring 
planning, 
My  delegation  therefore  strongly  recommends
that the United Nations seek as a matter of urgency to
institutionalize  the  participation  and  involvement  of
youth  through  the  establishment  and  full  support  of
permanent youth representatives to the United Nations
for  every  nation  as  part  of  a  United  Nations  youth
ambassadors  programme.  The  work  of  the  United
Nations  is  a  process,  and  hence  meaningful  youth
participation  cannot  be  achieved  by  the  invitation  to
nations  to  send  youth  delegates  to  attend  one-off
meetings of the General Assembly. Additionally, if the
participation of youth is to amount to more than mere
tokenism,  officials  at  the  highest  levels  of  the  United
Nations  must  engage  youth  delegates  in  meaningful
dialogue.  Thus,  we  further  recommend  that  United
Nations  establish  a  special  committee  comprising  the
A/60/PV.27
proposed permanent youth representatives. Further, the
Organization  should  hold  true  to  the  principle  of  co-
management  and  move  at  full  speed  to  appoint  and
support  a  shadow  youth  secretary-general,  who  would
work  on  a  full-time  basis  with  the  Secretary-General
and be charged with ensuring that the priorities of the
World  Programme  of  Action  for  Youth  are  indeed
addressed.
According to the Prime Minister of Jamaica, The
Most  Honourable  Percival  James  Patterson,  “it  is  not
that  we  embrace  globalization,  but  it  is  globalization
which embraces us”. Consequently, in any meaningful
evaluation  of  the  World  Programme  of  Action,  the
dynamics  of  globalization  and  its  impact  on  youth
development  must  be  taken  into  account.  As  many
developing  countries  struggle  to  achieve  economic
growth  within  the  new  globalized  economy,  many  of
the resources that would normally be invested in youth
development programmes are being diverted to service
debt repayments.
Finally, 
the 
to  emphasize 
Globalization  is  the  single  largest  factor  which
has  the  potential  to  redistribute  resources  away  from
the poor to the rich. Such an argument ought not to be
obfuscated  with  emotionalism,  but  should  be  viewed
against the startling reality that young people constitute
about 18 per cent of the approximately 2 billion people
or approximately 33 per cent of the world’s population
who  live  in  countries  that  do  not  benefit  from  the  so-
called merits of globalization. Most of these youths are
to  be  found  in  parts  of  sub-Saharan  Africa,  Western
Asia and the former Soviet Union.
context  of
speaking  within 
developing  countries,  we  wish 
the
alarming  reality  of  youth  unemployment.  There  are
over  88  million  youth  unemployed  worldwide  and
millions  more  who  are  underemployed.  Globalization
has  caused  drastic  shifts  in  the  job  market,  and
technological innovation has changed the scope of the
market.  This  is  significant,  considering  the  nature  of
emerging economies. We acknowledge that job markets
have  improved  in  a  very  small  number  of  developing
countries such as China and India. However, in the vast
majority  of  developing  States  the  job  market  has
contracted due to, inter alia: a reduction in Government
employment as a result of tight fiscal policies brought
about in order to protect the value of national currency
against  international  speculation,  reduction  in  private
sector  employment  in  response  to  competition  from
cheaper imports and difficulty of entry and competition
25
A/60/PV.27
in  export  markets.  This  contraction  of  the  job  market
has had a greater impact on youth than on adults.
As  one  positive  response  to  addressing  youth
unemployment at home, we are pleased to be one of the
latest countries to join the Youth Employment Network
as  a  lead  country.  We  look  forward  to  engaging  in
exchanges  with  other  countries  in  this  important
mechanism. We therefore call for fairer rules to govern
international business and trade, in particular measures
to cushion the impacts of adverse changes.
It  is  now  2005.  Where  are  we  now?  In  what
direction are our faces turned? It is time for action. We
all know what to do. Please let us do it.
In the race towards the finish line to achieve the
Millennium  Development  Goals,  let  us  remember  that
a  young  man  from  Jamaica  has  shown  the  world  that
you can finish a 100-metre sprint in 9.77 seconds. Let
us  sprint  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium
Goals, and not jog as though it were a marathon.
Ms.  Vegas  Guerrero  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):
It is an honour for me to represent Peru and to transmit
our  warm  greetings  as  we  celebrate 
tenth
anniversary  of  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for
Youth.
the 
We  must  briefly  ask  ourselves,  as  we  have  done
in  Peru,  whether  we  have  much  to  celebrate.  To  be
sure, we in Peru have been making considerable effort
to  include  youth  in  public  policy  that  concerns  them.
For us, this means reviewing and realizing that poverty
indicators  have  not  decreased  and  that  52  per  cent  of
the 7.5 million young people in Peru live in poverty. It
is also true that indicators concerning early adolescent
pregnancy  and  first-time  maternal  mortality  among
adolescent  and  young  women  have  not  yet  decreased.
But  we  must  point  out  here  that  there  is  a  similar
situation  in  many  developing  countries.  It  is  also
important  to  stress  that  what  we  are  doing  in  Peru  to
integrate  young  people  into  society,  and  not  only  by
promoting 
their  participation.  Many  approaches
involve  only  the  participation  of  youth,  merely  by
inviting them to activities and then listening to them.
The Government of Peru has a clear commitment
to  involve  young  people  as  strategic  stakeholders  in
development.  We  have  a  youth  commission  in  the
national Congress, the legislative power in Peru. It was
established just four years ago, and is discovering how
to  go  about  its  work  —  through  regulations  and
26
legislation to ensure the development and inclusion of
young  people.  In  the  executive  branch  there  is  a
ministerial-level  National  Youth  Commission.  It  does
not  compete  with  other  ministries,  but  ensures  that
specific  ministries  —  for  example,  the  ministries  for
education, labour, health, social development, economy
and finance — include a youth dimension in their own
development  policies 
the  context  of  national,
regional and local government.
in 
Likewise,  regional  and  local  governments  are
providing  opportunities  for  dialogue  between 
the
Government and young people and their organizations.
In  Peru,  youth  are  reluctant  to  participate  in  politics,
because  they  are  disillusioned,  as  is  often  the  case  in
other  countries,  about  political  involvement  and  about
politicians.
At  the  same  time,  we  have  a  large  number  of
young  people  who  are  participating  in  elections.  In
fact, 32 per cent of our population between 18 and 29
years  of  age  participates  in  elections  and  will  elect
future  Governments.  They  have  important  political
decisions  to  make.  I  would  also  like  to  say  that
institutions  in  Peru  are  actively  trying  to  incorporate
youth in Government policies. We want youth issues to
be  part  not  just  of  current  Government  policy  but  of
national policy.
through 
At the international level, Peru is making a strong
commitment 
Ibero-American  Youth
Organization, the only organization that brings together
national  youth  ministries  and  agencies 
in  Latin
America.  Peru  currently  has  the  challenge  and  honour
of presiding over that organization.
the 
I  would  like  to  mention  the  Ibero-American
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Youth,  which  we  shall
sign at Badajoz, Spain, on 10 October 2005. There, 21
Ibero-American  countries  will  meet  to  sign  the  first
international 
the  rights  of  young
people — which  we  bring  to  the  attention  of  all
countries.  It  seeks  to  ensure  that  policies  of  signatory
Governments will promote genuine inclusion of young
people.
instrument  for 
It  is  important  to  speak  of  youth  seriously,  not
using  cheap  politics  or  welfare  policies.  We  need  to
make  sure  that  youth  organizations  are  truly  seen  as
stakeholders in the development of our countries — but
not  only  by  inviting  them  and  by  asking  them  to  join
us.  We  want  youth  to  be  included  in  our  countries’
in
policies.  We  need  young  people 
to  believe 
participating,  as  leaders,  in  our  countries’  politics.
They are future presidents and future regional and local
leaders.
I  call  upon  everyone  to  continue  believing  in
young  people  not  only  as  the  future  of  our  countries
but  also  as  their  present.  Youth  represent  not  only
future  political  leaders;  they  are  our  immediate  future
and  our  hope  for  sustainable  development  and,  of
course,  for  the  elimination  of  the  poverty  that  afflicts
many of our countries.
My  thanks  and  congratulations  go  to  the  youth
delegates  who  are  here  to  represent  so  many  of  the
world’s countries.
Mr.  Hajiyev  (Azerbaijan):  As  a  youth  delegate
from  Azerbaijan  at  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General
Assembly, it is a great honour for me to be here and to
address the Assembly today on the occasion of the 10-
year  review  of  the  World  Programme  of  Action  for
Youth.
Since  adoption  of  that  Programme  in  1995,  our
world has changed significantly. The time therefore has
come  to  rethink  the  old  agenda  and  to  start  looking
upon  things  in  a  bold  new  way.  Poverty  represents
serious  threat  to  the  security  and  well-being  of  young
generations. It deprives young people of education and
employment  and  often  makes  them  victims  of  human
trafficking,  exploitation  and  abuse.  To  a  large  extent,
only 
limited
possibilities  for  advancement  are  available  to  the
young generations.
low  paid  and 
jobs  with 
insecure 
to  be  accepted  as  partners 
Young  people,  with  their  enormous  untapped
potential, can make their own important contribution to
poverty reduction. Rather than being viewed as a target
group  for  which  employment  must  be  found,  young
people  want 
for
development. According to statistical data, only a small
percentage of youth across the globe is able to find the
necessary funding to start up their own businesses and
to involve themselves and other young men and women
in entrepreneurship. However, if Governments employ
specific  programmes  to  promote  youth  employment
and  entrepreneurship  at  the  national  level,  we  will
succeed in significantly reducing youth unemployment.
Furthermore,  national  youth-led  business  funds  could
be established in order to provide necessary assistance
to young entrepreneurs.
A/60/PV.27
I am pleased to represent here one of the leading
countries  of  the  Youth  Employment  Network,  a  major
international  initiative  to  address  the  challenge  of
youth  employment  globally.  Azerbaijan,  as  one  of  the
first  countries  to  join  the  Network,  has  recently
adopted  a  youth  policy  in  the  form  of  the  State
Programme  for  Youth  2005-2009,  which  views  the
promotion 
youth
entrepreneurship  among  its  key  policy  directions.  The
programme  envisages  adoption  of  a  national  action
plan on youth employment by 2006 and preparation of
measures to promote youth entrepreneurship in remote
areas  and  to  improve  the  training  and  education  of
young people in this area.
employment 
youth 
of 
and 
undertaken  measures 
I am also happy to note the achievements of other
leading  countries  of  the  Network,  such  as  Brazil,
Indonesia,  Namibia,  Senegal  and  others,  which  have
also 
youth
employment in their respective countries, including the
adoption  of  national  action  plans.  As  a  youth
representative,  I  fully  support  these  actions  and  hope
that  all  Member  States  can  learn  from  the  results
achieved  so  far  by  the  Youth  Employment  Network,
and  especially  from  best  practices  provided  by  lead
countries.
promote 
to 
Another  formidable  challenge  the  young  people
of  Azerbaijan  continue  to  face  is  the  ongoing  armed
conflict with Armenia, which has a detrimental impact
on  youth  and  significantly  limits  prospects  for  their
full-scale  development.  As  a  result  of  this  conflict,
generations  of  young  Azerbaijani  women  and  men
have  grown  up  in  refugee  and  internally  displaced
persons  camps.  We,  as  youth  representatives  of
Azerbaijan, believe that the young generations of both
countries  can  contribute  tremendously  to  the  solution
of  the  conflict;  this  is  vital  for  the  security  and
development of our region. We hope that the Armenian
side  will  demonstrate  the  same  constructive  approach
towards that end.
We  are  grateful  that,  in  both  the  Millennium
Declaration  and  the  outcome  document  of  the  High-
(resolution  60/1),  youth
level  Plenary  Meeting 
concerns  have  been  taken  into  account  to  a  certain
extent. However, this is not enough. Around the world,
the contributions that young people are already making
to  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals
should  be  further  acknowledged  and  strengthened.
Youth needs to be part of the discussion and decisions
shaping  our  world  for  our  common  future.  It  is
27
developing  countries  and  countries  in  transition,  will
be able to participate in future sessions of the General
Assembly  and  other  United  Nations  bodies  and  will
eventually  become 
real  and  active  partners  of
Governments 
the  global  goals  and
commitments before us.
realizing 
in 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m.
A/60/PV.27
therefore  crucial  to  involve  them  in  the  design  and
implementation  of  various  development  programmes
and policies, in particular those targeting young people.
In conclusion, I wish to thank Azerbaijan and the
United  Nations  for  providing  me  with  the  opportunity
to speak here today. I hope that more and more younger
people,  from  all  countries,  especially  those  from
28
