
A/61/PV.43
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

43rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 30 October 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
perspective,  the  role  of  the  IAEA  has  taken  on  even 
greater importance than in the past. 

Japan  has  utilized  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  gaining  the  confidence  of  the  international 
community and maintaining high transparency through 
the  faithful  implementation  of  its  IAEA  safeguards 
agreement,  for  nearly  30  years.  As  a  result,  in 
September  2004  implementation  of  the  integrated 
safeguards commenced in Japan. Japan is committed to 
fully  cooperating  with  the  IAEA  in  ensuring  strict 
implementation of the safeguards in Japan. 

The  second  matter  I  would  like  to  raise  is  the 
reinforcement  of  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation Treaty 
(NPT)  regime.  Notwithstanding  achievements  in  this 
area  —  including  the  progress  made  towards  the 
universalization  of 
the 
amendment of the Nuclear Suppliers Group Guidelines 
and  the  establishment  of  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Safeguards 
global 
non-proliferation  regime  still  faces  serious  challenges, 
such as the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and 
Iranian nuclear issues. We must therefore redouble our 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime. 

In  order  to  address  the  issue  of  promoting  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  while  ensuring 
consistency  with  non-proliferation 
requirements, 
various  proposals  to  control  nuclear  fuel  cycles  under 
an  international  or  multilateral  framework  have  been 
put  forward.  They  include  the  multilateral  approaches 
to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  —  multilateral  nuclear 
the  additional  protocol, 
and  Verification  — 
the 









  In the absence of the President, Mr. Al-Murad 
(Kuwait), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



Agenda item 81 (continued) 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/266) 

  Draft resolution (A/61/L.9) 

Mr.  Kodera  (Japan): At  the  outset,  I  would  like 

to express my gratitude to Mr. Mohammed ElBaradei, 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  for  his  detailed  briefing  on  the 
activities of the Agency over the past year. The IAEA 
will  commemorate 
its 
establishment next year, and attention to and interest in 
its  roles  have  never  been  greater  than  they  are  today. 
The  fact  that  Mr.  ElBaradei  and  the  Agency  were 
awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year testifies to the 
continued 
international 
community in the IAEA and the high regard in which it 
is held. 
In  recent  years,  the  role  of  nuclear  energy  has 

been 
re-evaluated,  and 
the 
promotion  of  nuclear  energy  has  grown  across  the 
globe. Its use must be promoted in a manner that fully 
takes  into  account  the  various  elements  of  nuclear 
proliferation, 
this 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
security.  From 
the  momentum 
interest  of 
strong 
safety 
and 
the 
for 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-59167 (E) 
*0659167* 
the 
to 
the 

test 
entire 
shocked 
the  call  by 
These  actions  by 
in  East  Asia  and 
the  Security  Council 
A/61/PV.43 

approaches  —  proposed  by  Mr.  ElBaradei.  Japan,  for 
its  part,  has  proposed  the  establishment  of  an  IAEA 
standby  arrangement  system  for  nuclear  fuel  supply, 
with  a  view  to  complementing  the  content  of  the 
six-nation initiative on reliable access to nuclear fuel. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  comment  on  two  issues 
that  pose  an  imminent  challenge  to  the  international 
community:  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  and  Iranian  nuclear  issues.  The  announcement 
by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  on 
9 October  2006,  local  time,  that  it  had  conducted  a 
nuclear 
international 
community.  The  announcement  of  the  nuclear  test, 
despite 
in  a 
presidential  statement  that  it  refrain  from  testing,  is 
totally  unacceptable,  all  the  more  so  given  that  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  recently 
launched ballistic missiles that can be used as a means 
of delivery of weapons of mass destruction. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  pose  a  serious  threat  to  peace  and 
security 
international 
community  as  a  whole.  Japan  strongly  calls  upon  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  to  respect  Security 
Council  resolution  1718  (2006),  which  was  adopted 
unanimously  on  14  October. The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  must  refrain  from  actions  that  would  further 
aggravate  the  situation;  abandon  all  nuclear  weapons 
and its existing nuclear programmes; act in accordance 
with  the  conditions  set  out  in  the  IAEA  safeguards; 
provide 
transparency 
measures;  and  implement  the  requirements  set  out  in 
the 
returning  without  any 
preconditions to the Six-Party Talks. 

Japan, for its part, will fully implement resolution 
1718 (2006), adopted under Chapter VII of the Charter, 
and requests other Member States to do the same. 

On  Iran,  it  is  regrettable  that  the  country  is 
continuing uranium enrichment in defiance of Security 
Council  resolution  1696  (2006).  The  question  here  is 
not whether Iran has the right to use nuclear energy for 
peaceful  purposes.  Such  a  right  can  only  be  exercised 
when  Iran  has  taken  the  required  steps  to  restore  the 
confidence  of  the  international  community  lost  as  a 
result of its past activities. Japan strongly urges Iran to 
accept  resolution  1696  (2006),  immediately  suspend 
uranium enrichment-related activities and return to the 
negotiating table. Japan believes this is the best option 
information  on 
resolution, 
steps  on 
including 
as 
such 
energy, 
informing 
join  others 
Mr.  Hamidon  (Malaysia):  I 
I  conclude  my  statement  by 
and will benefit all parties concerned. Japan will work 
in concert with the international community to achieve 
a peaceful and diplomatic resolution of this issue. 

Today I have stated my Government’s position on 
some of the challenges that confront the Agency. There 
are  other  important  issues  that  have  relevance  to 
nuclear 
anti-nuclear-terrorism 
measures;  international  cooperation  for  the  promotion 
of peaceful uses of nuclear energy; nuclear safety; and 
transport of radioactive materials. 
In 2007 the preparatory process of the 2010 NPT 

Review  Conference  will  begin.  Japan  will  continue  to 
work closely with the IAEA to ensure a smooth start to 
this process. 
the 

General  Assembly  that  Japan  co-sponsored  the  draft 
resolution introduced by the representative of Slovenia, 
and will vote in favour of it. 
in 

thanking Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
his  presentation  of  the  Agency’s  annual  report  for 
2005. 

It was a year of notable success for the Agency in 
its  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  benefits  of  nuclear 
technology  were  shared  globally  for  economic  and 
social  development.  My  delegation  commends  the 
excellent  work  and  efforts  of  the  Agency,  under  the 
dynamic  leadership  of  Mr.  ElBaradei,  in  fulfilling  its 
mandate during the period under review. 
the  value  of  nuclear 

technology 
sustainable 
development  and  the  process  of  nation-building,  and 
the  value  of  the  role  played  by  the  Agency  in  that 
regard.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the Agency  in  its 
mission  to  promote  and  facilitate  the  development  of 
nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  uses,  as  embodied  in 
article  II  of  its  Statute.  In  that  connection,  the 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme  of  the  Agency 
remains  a  crucial  component  of  its  mandate  and 
activities.  Malaysia  is  both  a  donor  to  and  a  recipient 
of the Programme, and we commend the Department of 
Technical  Cooperation  of  the  IAEA  for  its  continuous 
efforts  in  discharging  its  statutory  mandate  for  the 
benefit  of  recipient  member  States,  as  well  as  for  its 
creditable achievements. 
the  achievement  of 
recognizes 
Malaysia 
for 
2 

06-59167 
the 
and 
spent 
nuclear 
enrichment 
further  proliferation  of 



The  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  during  his 
opening statement at the fiftieth regular session of the 
IAEA  General  Conference,  identified  three  distinct 
phases:  the  establishment  of  mechanisms  for  the 
assurance  of  supplies  of  fuel  for  nuclear  power  plants 
as  the  first  phase;  the  development  of  assurances  of 
supply for the acquisition of nuclear power reactors as 
the  second  phase;  and  the  conversion  of  existing 
uranium 
fuel 
reprocessing  facilities  from  national  to  multilateral 
operations as the third phase. 

Although  we  support  such  a  move  towards 
improving assurances of supplies in the field of nuclear 
power  generation  technology,  while  also  reducing  the 
risks  of 
sensitive 
technologies  that  can  be  used  in  the  development  of 
nuclear weapons, that should by no means lead to any 
unilateral  adoption  of  a  norm  that  will  affect  the 
fundamental  inalienable  rights  of  the  States  parties  to 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) to engage in research, production and 
use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes,  without 
discrimination.  Such  a  move  should  also  not  distract 
global  attention  from  the  obligations  of  nuclear-
weapon  States  to  undertake  to  pursue  negotiations  in 
good  faith  on  effective  measures  relating  to  the 
cessation of the nuclear arms race at an early date and 
to  nuclear  disarmament.  Despite  the  overwhelming 
global  attention  to  nuclear  non-proliferation,  Malaysia 
remains  firmly  convinced  that  the  pursuit  of  general, 
complete  and  irreversible  nuclear  disarmament  under 
strict  and  effective  international  control  is  the  most 
effective  way  of  removing  the  threat  of  nuclear 
weapons proliferation. 

Nevertheless,  my  delegation  believes  that  such  a 
multilateral  approach  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  should 
provide  a  more  economically  attractive  option  for 
developing  countries  embarking  on  a  nuclear  power 
generation programme, particularly for those countries 
with  a  relatively  small  nuclear  power  programme 
involving only a handful of nuclear power plants. 
Malaysia  also  believes  that  the  strengthening  of 

the  existing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones  and 
the 
establishment of new nuclear-weapon-free zones in all 
regions  of  the  world,  on  the  basis  of  arrangements 
freely  arrived  at  among  the  States  of  the  region 
concerned, constitute  a positive step towards attaining 
the objective of global nuclear disarmament. 
A/61/PV.43
to 
in 
an 
be 
zone 
safeguards, 
accordance  with 

In that regard, Malaysia welcomes the signing of 
the Treaty  on  a  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  in  Central 
Asia  by 
the  Ministers  of  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Kazakhstan,  Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan  and 
Uzbekistan  in  Semipalatinsk  on  8  September  2006. 
Malaysia  considers  the  establishment  of  that  newest 
nuclear-weapon-free 
effective 
contribution to the strengthening of regional and global 
peace  and  security,  and  urges  the  nuclear-weapon 
States  to  provide  unconditional  assurances  against  the 
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons against all the 
States of that Zone. 

In  that  connection  also,  Malaysia  reiterates  its 
call for the prompt establishment of a similar nuclear-
weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East,  in  accordance 
with  Security  Council  resolutions  487  (1981)  and  687 
(1991)  and  relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions 
adopted  by  consensus.  Malaysia  calls  upon  Israel  to 
promptly  place  all  its  nuclear  facilities  under  IAEA 
full-scope 
the 
resolution 487 (1981). 

Closer to home, my delegation remains concerned 
over  the  continued  unwillingness  of  a  majority  of  the 
nuclear-weapon  States  to  sign  the  Protocol  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  South-East  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free 
Zone, which was signed by all 10 Member States of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 

Malaysia appreciates the high premium placed by 
the global community on the issue of nuclear security, 
in  view  of  the  serious  threats  of  mass  transnational 
terrorism,  including  that  of  nuclear  and  radiological 
terrorism. However, this has led to the development of 
a  multitude  of  overlapping  initiatives  by  a  number  of 
international organizations, including the IAEA, in the 
same area. Such overlapping nuclear and other related 
international  security  initiatives  have  since  imposed  a 
heavy burden on the work of the relevant Government 
agencies,  and  posed  new  challenges  to  inter-agency 
coordination in member States. 

In  order  to  optimize  the  utilization  of  resources 
and ensure effective inter-agency coordination between 
the  responsible  authorities  in  member  States,  my 
delegation  calls  upon  the  IAEA  to  coordinate  the 
implementation  of  its  nuclear  security  initiatives  with 
that  of  other 
relevant  multilateral  organizations, 
especially within the framework of the United Nations, 
such  as  between  the  IAEA  and  the  Counter-Terrorism 
Executive  Directorate  of  the  Security  Council. That  is 
06-59167 

3 
IAEA 
in 
that 
issues 

towards 
A/61/PV.43 

imperative,  since  different  international  organizations 
have  different  counterpart  agencies  in  the  member 
States. 

On  the  implementation  of  the  NPT  Safeguards 
Agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran, Malaysia 
again reiterates its recognition of the IAEA as the sole 
competent  authority 
for 
the 
the  verification  of 
safeguards  obligations  of 
that  country  and  other 
Member  States,  and  further  stresses  that  there  should 
be no undue pressure or interference in the activities of 
the 
regard  —  particularly  on 
verification —  which  could  jeopardize  its  efficiency 
and  credibility.  While  Malaysia  took  note  of  the 
assessment  of  the  IAEA  Director  General  that  all 
nuclear  material  declared  by  Iran  had  been  accounted 
for,  we  nevertheless  urgently  encourage  Iran 
to 
continue to cooperate actively and fully with the IAEA, 
within  the  Agency’s  mandate,  in  order  to  resolve  the 
outstanding 
the  promotion  of 
confidence and a peaceful resolution of the matter. 

Turning  to  the  issue  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Malaysia  deplores  the  nuclear  test 
which  that  country  claims  to  have  conducted  on 
9 October  2006.  Malaysia  believes  that  the  test  is  a 
serious  setback  to  efforts  aimed  at  keeping  the  region 
and the world free from nuclear weapons. It could also 
trigger  an  arms  race  in  the  region.  Therefore,  we  call 
on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to cease 
developing  its  capability  to  produce  nuclear  weapons 
and to return to the moratorium on nuclear testing.  

We  also  strongly  believe  that  the  continued 
existence of nuclear weapons presents a grave threat to 
humanity,  particularly  by 
the  risk  of 
proliferation.  We  therefore  reiterate  the  importance  of 
achieving  the  universal  goal  of  complete  and  general 
disarmament. Malaysia urges all countries in the region 
to exercise maximum restraint and refrain from actions 
that could further heighten tension in the region. In that 
context, Malaysia further urges all parties concerned to 
return  to  the  Six-Party  Talks  and  resume  negotiations 
with  a  view 
issues 
amicably. 

Finally,  Malaysia  would  like  to  express  once 
again  its  appreciation  to  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
Director General of the IAEA, as well as to the IAEA 
secretariat,  for  their  significant  and  valuable  work  in 
fulfilling  the  three  pillars  of  the  Agency’s  mandate. 
Malaysia  pledges  its  full  support  to  the  IAEA,  as  one 
to  resolving  all  outstanding 
increasing 
of the organizations of the United Nations system that 
continue  to  uphold  and  maintain  their  central  and 
universal  role  in  addressing  the  enormous  challenges 
ahead. 
Mr.  Musa  Daffalla  (Sudan)  (spoke in Arabic):  I 

should  like  at  the  outset  to  express  my  profound 
gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the  President  for  her 
efforts  in  organizing  today’s  debate  and  guiding  the 
Assembly’s  work  so  judiciously  and  skilfully,  in 
fulfilment  of  the  great  aspirations  and  responsibilities 
of this major organ of our international Organization. 

We  also  express  our  thanks  and  appreciation  to 
Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
comprehensive  report,  which  contains  a  detailed 
account  of  the Agency’s  work  and  programmes  in  the 
area of the development of the peaceful uses of nuclear 
technology  and  ensuring  the  safety  of  nuclear  and 
radiological facilities. The warm reception he received 
and  the  honours  bestowed  upon  him  by  numerous 
academic and scientific institutions reflect the growing 
trust  placed  in  the  Agency,  and  show  how  much  the 
Director  General  is  appreciated  in  higher  scientific 
circles and by civil organizations’ personalities. 

Fifty years after the creation of the IAEA, despite 
the  enormous  transformations  witnessed  in  the  world, 
the  Agency  has  remained  a  haven  of  cooperation  for 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  and 
for 
development.  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  final 
statement  of  the  meeting  organized  by  the Agency  in 
Paris  in  March  last  year  to  study  the  role  of  nuclear 
power in the future, which affirmed that nuclear power 
can  contribute  significantly  to  meeting  the  energy 
requirements  of  a  large  number  of  developing  and 
developed  countries  in  the  twenty-first  century  and 
enhancing international development. 

We  pay  tribute  to  the  Agency  for  its  efforts  to 
heed  international  public  opinion  regarding  the  use  of 
nuclear  energy  to  generate  electricity.  The  report 
highlights the growing importance of nuclear energy in 
improving standards of living in developing countries, 
given  that  such  energy  provides  16  per  cent  of  the 
world’s electricity. 
My delegation also supports the Agency’s efforts, 

undertaken 
in  cooperation  with  various  scientific 
partners,  to  create  new  and  improved  vaccines  in  the 
context of the nuclear medicine programme, especially 
4 

06-59167 
that 
to  verify 
discrimination, 
purposes,  without 


with regard to cancer, which is one of the most deadly 
diseases. 

Despite the fact that the report indicates that 156 
States have  concluded safeguards agreements with the 
Agency,  and 
their  nuclear  programmes  and 
facilities have remained peaceful, my delegation recalls 
the Final Document of the meeting of Heads of State or 
Government  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in 
Cuba, which reaffirmed the right of States to engage in 
research,  production  and  use  of  nuclear  energy  for 
peaceful 
in 
accordance  with 
international  obligations.  It  also 
reaffirmed  that  the  IAEA  should  remain  the  only 
competent  authority 
the  obligations  of 
member  States  regarding  safeguards.  States  must 
therefore refrain from bringing pressure to bear on the 
Agency  or  interfering  in  its  activities,  so  as  not  to 
undermine its credibility or subvert its effectiveness.  

We therefore call for an approach based on equity 
and  justice  in  dealing  with  outstanding  issues  in 
relation  to  certain  countries  in  this  regard.  Double 
standards  must  be  renounced  and  dialogue  and 
constructive  negotiation  reaffirmed,  with  a  view  to 
reaching  an  effective  solution  in  accordance  with 
international obligations.  

My  delegation  supports  the  statement  made  by 
the Director General this morning. We support peaceful 
solutions  and  believe  that  international  concerns  and 
expectations in the area of peace and security must be 
upheld.  Every  year  my  delegation  reaffirms  that  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  is  the  linchpin  of  international  peace  and 
security.  The  Sudan  supports  the  aspirations  of  all 
geographic  regions  to  declare  themselves  free  from 
nuclear  weapons.  However,  the  Middle  East  has  been 
spinning  its  wheels  for  decades  because  of  the  refusal 
of  Israel,  the  only  country  in  the  Middle  East  that 
possesses  nuclear  weapons,  to  sign  the  Treaty  and  its 
additional protocol. Many members of the international 
community  have  appealed  to  Israel  to  change  its 
position and sign the Treaty so as to put an end to the 
tension 
for 
comprehensive  peace,  which  benefits  everyone.  If 
Israel does not do so, the causes of tension will remain 
and  States  will  seek  to  possess  nuclear  weapons  for 
self-defence  and  deterrence  purposes.  Declaring  the 
Middle East  a nuclear-weapon-free zone would be the 
best  way  to  bridge  the  gap  and  consolidate  regional 
security and international peace.  
region  and  pave 
the  way 
the 
in 
A/61/PV.43
of 
the 
their 
efforts 
legislative 
to  upgrade 
to  upgrade 

My  delegation  greatly  appreciates  the  efforts  of 
the  Technical  Cooperation  Department  in  assisting 
countries 
their  country  and  regional 
programme frameworks. We take note of the budget set 
by  the  Agency  for  the  African  continent.  However, 
greater funds are required if the continent is to achieve 
its goals. Additional resources must be provided in the 
general  budget  of  the  IAEA,  and  donors  must  be 
encouraged  to  provide  grants  in  support  of  relevant 
programmes in Africa. We are hopeful that Africa will 
receive  the  major  share  this  year,  as  Europe  did  last 
year. We call on the Agency to increase its funding to 
the  least  developed  countries,  which  account  for  only 
16 per cent of general expenditure. Helping developing 
systems 
countries 
complements 
the  Agency 
in 
implementing technical cooperation programmes.  

We  hope  that  effective  efforts  will  be  made  to 
combat malaria-transmitting mosquitoes, since malaria 
is  the  deadliest  disease  in Africa,  and  to  eliminate  the 
tsetse fly, with sophisticated technologies. Great hopes 
are  pinned  on  these  efforts  to  achieve  social  and 
economic development in developing countries. 
Mr.  Mayoral  (Argentina)  (spoke in Spanish): At 

the  outset  I  thank  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA),  for  his  presentation  of  the  report  on  the 
activities on the Agency last year. As it approaches its 
fiftieth anniversary, the Agency, under the guidance of 
Mr.  ElBaradei,  has  demonstrated  its  effectiveness  and 
dedication in the control and monitoring of the nuclear 
energy activities of all States.  
I would like to touch on a central aspect of what 

my  country,  Argentina, 
in 
conjunction  with  Brazil.  The  Brazilian-Argentine 
Agency  for  Accounting  and  Control  of  Nuclear 
Materials (ABACC) celebrates its fifteenth anniversary 
this year. ABACC is the result of  a process of mutual 
confidence  and  transparency  in  a  very  sensitive  and 
important  technological  area:  the  development  and 
application  of  nuclear  technology.  It  is  a  substantive 
mechanism that reflects the convergence of the nuclear 
policies of Brazil and Argentina and their integration in 
that area.  

The  process  began  many  years  ago.  Milestones 
along the way include the joint presidential Declaration 
of Foz de Iguazú of 1985, the Declaration of Viedma in 
1987 and the Declaration of Ipero of 1988. These were 
is  currently  doing 
06-59167 

5 
in 
In 
it 
to  be,  essential 
A/61/PV.43 

followed  by  others  in  1990  —  in  particular,  the  joint 
declaration  of  Argentina  and  Brazil  on  a  common 
nuclear policy. 

Over  these  15  years,  ABACC  has  successfully 
applied  the  Common  System  for  Accounting  and 
Control  of  Nuclear  Materials,  obtaining  positive 
conclusions  regarding  nuclear  activities  under 
its 
control.  This  has  been  made  possible  thanks  to  the 
Argentine  and  Brazilian  staff,  whose  expertise  and 
commitment  to  the  objectives  and  spirit  of  ABACC 
have  been,  and  continue 
its 
continuity and growth.  

Another  point  to  be  highlighted  is  ABACC’s 
credibility  at  the  national  and  international  levels, 
which  is  closely  linked  to  the  characteristics  I  have 
described  and  the  unflagging  support  of  successive 
Governments  of  both  countries  for  this  important 
confidence-building mechanism.  
is  particularly 

this  anniversary  year, 
important to highlight also the importance of the IAEA 
and  ABACC  continuing  their  joint  efforts  to  avoid 
introducing  new, 
duplication 
strengthened 
the 
Common  System  and ABACC  have  a  growing  role  in 
the  Quadripartite  Safeguards 
the 
Agreement;  both 
the 
organization  established  by  the  two  countries  for  its 
administration, ABACC,  are  of  the  utmost  importance 
in the current context, in which there is a new impetus 
for nuclear development for peaceful purposes in both 
countries and in the world. They are also of particular 
relevance with regard to safeguards at the international 
level  at  a  complex  moment  of  change.  ABACC  has 
actively  participated 
the 
safeguards  agreement  with  the  IAEA,  carrying  out 
coordinated 
sharing 
equipment and technology  with the Agency, designing 
control  approaches,  establishing 
inspection 
procedures  and  taking  steps  to  avoid  unnecessary 
duplication of efforts.  

Before concluding, I would like to stress that this 
Argentina-Brazil  bilateral  mechanism  was  made 
possible by the fact that, after years of competition and 
rivalry,  the  two  countries  decided  to  act  together  to 
make  a  reality  of  the  integration  of  the  countries  of 
South America.  
Mr.  Hannesson  (Iceland):  At  the  outset  let  me 

thank  the  Director  General,  Mr.  ElBaradei,  for  his 
the  Common  System  and 
safeguards.  Both 
the  work  of 
framework  of 
international 
in 
the 
framework  of 
joint 
inspections 
and 
auditing, 

to 
effectively  with 
IAEA  Statute:  verification, 
report on the work of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (IAEA). Iceland is one of the sponsoring States 
of the draft resolution on the IAEA report. 

This  year  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
IAEA,  and  on  this  occasion  we  look  back  with 
appreciation  on  its  accomplishments  and  important 
work. The IAEA is the world’s focal point for peaceful 
nuclear  cooperation  and  nuclear  safety,  and  it  has  an 
indispensable  global  role  in  preventing  the  spread  of 
nuclear weapons and countering new threats of nuclear 
terrorism. 

The  accomplishments  of  the  Agency  and  its 
valuable  work  were  highlighted  by  the  Nobel  Peace 
Prize  received  by  the  IAEA  and  its  Director  General 
for  2005. 
Iceland  congratulates  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei  and  his  staff  on  this  recognition  of  their 
important work. 
We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  three  pillars 

the 
safety  and 
of 
technology,  which  form  the  basis  for  the  activities  of 
the  Agency.  States  must  honour  their  commitments, 
and  we  urge  member  States  to  comply  transparently 
and 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and 
IAEA  safeguard  obligations,  and  allow  full  IAEA 
verification of all nuclear activities.  
In  this  context,  Iceland  strongly  condemned  the 

recent  nuclear  test  carried  out  by  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We  urge  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  return  to  compliance 
with  the  NPT  and  IAEA  safeguards  obligations,  and 
allow  for  full  IAEA  verification  of  all  its  nuclear 
activities. 

Iceland  supports  the  Director  General  and  the 
IAEA  in  their  efforts  to  seek  clarifications  from  Iran 
and  to  verify  its  nuclear  programme.  It  is  of  concern 
that  the  Director  General’s  assessment  is  that,  after 
four  years  of  intense  inspections,  the Agency  remains 
unable to make further progress in its efforts to verify 
the correctness and completeness of Iran’s declaration, 
in  order  to  confirm  the  peaceful  nature  of  Iran’s 
nuclear programme. 

Iceland attaches the greatest importance to a high 
level of safety in all nuclear and radiation applications. 
Safety is a national responsibility, but has implications 
well  beyond  national  boundaries. 
International 
cooperation  is  therefore  indispensable  in  order  to 
Treaty 
the 
on 
6 

06-59167 
in 
countries. 
developing 
improve  safety 
the 
annually 
in  all  nuclear  and 


maintain  and 
radiation applications. 

Iceland  appreciates  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in 
fostering a global nuclear safety regime, and welcomes 
the  efforts  over  recent  years  to  update  and  extend  the 
IAEA safety  standards to  cover all  important thematic 
areas,  facilities  and  activities.  To  assist  in  this  effort, 
Iceland  has  undertaken  to  chair  the  IAEA  Radiation 
Safety  Standards  Committee  for  the  period  2005  to 
2007. 
On a national level, Iceland has this year ratified 

the  Joint  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management, and urges other Member  States to do so 
as  well.  Iceland  has  also  ratified  the  Convention  on 
Assistance 
the  Case  of  Nuclear  Accident  or 
Radiological Emergency. 

Finally,  Iceland  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
IAEA  efforts  to  improve  the  quality  of  technical 
cooperation, in the interest of all Member States — in 
particular, 
Iceland 
contributes 
IAEA  Technical 
Cooperation Fund. 
Mr.  Rachkov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 

delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus  has  considered 
with satisfaction the report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA)  for  2005. The  Government  of 
Belarus  appreciates  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  during 
this period. 

The  work  of  the  IAEA  over  recent  years  has 
proved  that  the  Agency  has  become  a  truly  leading 
international  organization,  entrusted  with  ensuring  the 
secure development and use of nuclear energy in civil 
activities,  as  well  as  the  effective  monitoring  of  the 
implementation of international obligations on the non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

Member  States  of  the Agency  and  its  secretariat 
have  done  significant  work  in  the  nuclear  sphere. 
Thorough  measures  are  being  undertaken  to  secure  a 
global regime of nuclear and radiation safety. A plan of 
action against nuclear terrorism is being implemented. 
Measures to strengthen the physical security of nuclear 
and radioactive materials are being taken. 

There are also consistent steps to universalize the 
nuclear  non-proliferation  regime  and  increase  the 
effectiveness  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  system,  together 
with  activities  to  accumulate  knowledge  in  the  sphere 
the 
to 
A/61/PV.43
consider 
the 
to  be 
technical 
tools 
IAEA 
important 
of nuclear sciences and training of experts in this field. 
Within  the  framework  of  the  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme,  member  States 
receive  multifaceted 
assistance in the use of advanced nuclear technologies 
in  medicine,  power  engineering  and  other  fields,  in 
order to promote socio-economic development. 

The  sense  of  purpose  and  professionalism  of  the 
IAEA  staff  and 
its  Director  General,  Mohamed 
ElBaradei, were duly rewarded when they received the 
2005 Nobel Prize. This high recognition of the results 
of their work should give an additional impetus to the 
joint  activities  of  the  secretariat  and  member  States 
within the framework of the mechanisms provided  for 
in the IAEA Statute for the full implementation of the 
IAEA’s main motto — Atoms for Peace. 

Being  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Governors,  the 
Republic of Belarus actively promotes the achievement 
of the IAEA’s objectives and the fulfilment of its tasks. 
We 
cooperation 
mechanisms 
introduce 
innovative  ideas,  technologies  and  experience  in  the 
nuclear sphere. The implementation of IAEA technical 
cooperation  projects  in  Belarus  significantly  supports 
national  efforts  in  a  number  of  spheres,  from  health 
protection  to  the  prevention  of  illegal  trafficking  in 
nuclear materials. 

In  the  context  of  IAEA  efforts  to  accumulate 
knowledge 
is 
particularly interested in IAEA training courses related 
to radiation safety. Belarus actively participates in this 
process  and  has  for  several  years  hosted  annual 
regional  training  programmes  on  source  radiation 
protection  and  security,  with  the  participation  of 
experts from the Commonwealth of Independent States 
(CIS) and Eastern European countries. 
Belarus  is  a  staunch  and  consistent  supporter  of 

the 
strengthening 
the 
international  nuclear  non-proliferation 
It 
unswervingly  fulfils  its  obligations  under  the  Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
IAEA 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement.  In  November 
2005, the Republic of Belarus and the IAEA signed the 
additional  protocol 
the  agreement.  This  step 
reconfirmed  our  adherence  to  the  principles  of  non-
proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

In  the  development  of  nuclear  technologies,  we 
pin  our  hopes  on  the  project  for  innovative  nuclear 
reactors and fuel cycles implemented under the aegis of 
and  universalization  of 
sphere,  Belarus 
the  nuclear 
(NPT)  and 
to 
in 
to 
regime. 
the 
06-59167 

7 

In 
its 
60/14, 
interest 
resolution 
“Strengthening 
The  successful  completion  of  work  of 
A/61/PV.43 

the  IAEA.  Belarus  has  expressed 
in 
participating  in  this  project,  and  we  are  prepared  to 
contribute effectively to its implementation. 

of 
international cooperation and coordination of efforts to 
study,  mitigate  and  minimize  the  consequences  of  the 
Chernobyl disaster”, the General Assembly noted with 
satisfaction  the  assistance  rendered  by  the  IAEA  to 
Belarus, 
the  Russian  Federation  and  Ukraine  on 
remediation  of  agricultural  and  urban  environments, 
cost-effective  agricultural  countermeasures  and  the 
monitoring of human exposure in areas affected by the 
Chernobyl  disaster.  That  is  a  fair  assessment  of  the 
IAEA efforts. 

the 
Chernobyl  Forum,  in  which  the  IAEA  played  an 
organizational  and  coordinating  role,  was  of  great 
importance to Belarus. Significant work has been done 
to  assess  the  health,  ecological  and  socio-economic 
consequences  of 
the  Chernobyl  disaster,  whose 
twentieth anniversary was commemorated in April this 
year.  Numerous  comprehensive  recommendations  for 
actively encouraging international cooperation in these 
spheres were  developed  by the Forum. We  call on the 
IAEA  to  make  a  constructive  contribution  to  the 
implementation  of  those  recommendations.  Belarus  is 
ready  to  broaden  its  interaction  with  the  IAEA  with  a 
view to overcoming the Chernobyl legacy more rapidly 
and  returning  the  region  that  has  suffered  from  the 
disaster to a normal life.  
Mr. Owoseni (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

welcomes the status report of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA),  presented  this  morning  by  its 
Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  and 
commends him for his consistent diligence, dedication 
and  effective  leadership  over  the  years.  We  note  the 
broad variety of activities conducted over the year that 
he reported upon, relating to the three main areas of the 
Agency’s core mandate: nuclear technology, safety and 
security, and verification. 
Nigeria  enjoys  a  robust  relationship  with  the 

IAEA,  and  strongly  supports 
the 
international community in strengthening the Agency’s 
work  and  its  capacity  to  discharge  its  vital  role  in  the 
development  and  practical  application  of  nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  uses,  in  technology  transfer  to 
developing  countries,  and  in  ensuring  that  peaceful 
nuclear energy is used in the safest possible way. 
the  efforts  of 
in  order 
international  cooperation 

The  Agency’s  activities  and  the  scope  of  its 
mandate  will  naturally  continue  to  attract  increased 
global  interest  in  the  years  ahead,  as  well  as  pose 
greater,  and  sometimes  newer,  challenges,  some  of 
which I shall touch upon.  

As  we  note  from  the  report,  there  are  rising 
expectations  for  the  expansion  of  nuclear  power, 
emphasizing  the  need  for  energy  for  development, 
including  nuclear  applications  for  human  benefits. 
Topical issues, such as progress and new initiatives in 
nuclear  safety,  security  and  verification,  the  strides 
made under the Technical Cooperation Programme, the 
Agency’s management and funding, as well as the need 
for  a  new  multilateral  framework  for  the  nuclear  fuel 
cycle,  will  all  continue  to  actively  engage  the  serious 
attention  of  the  IAEA  and  member  States.  In  these 
areas,  it  is  impossible  to  overemphasize  the  need  for 
effective 
for 
humanity  to  harness  the  full  benefits  of  peaceful 
nuclear technology. 

Nigeria  appreciates  the  crucial  role  which  the 
IAEA continues to play as a catalyst for the transfer of 
nuclear technology for the peaceful purposes of socio-
economic  development,  especially  for  developing 
countries:  nuclear  energy,  application  of  nuclear 
techniques  and 
food 
production,  disease  control  and  eradication,  water 
resources management, protection of the environment, 
and  industrial  applications.  We  thus  call  upon  the 
Agency to continue to exploit and expand the vistas of 
opportunities  which  nuclear  technology  portends  in 
these and other fields. 
To this end, the Nigerian Government, under the 

current  Country  Programme  Framework  with 
the 
IAEA,  has  given  priority  to  some  core  projects  aimed 
at  exploring  the  role  of  nuclear  power  as  part  of  our 
future  national  energy  plans:  strengthening  national 
infrastructure 
technology 
through  the  installation  and  commissioning  of  an 
accelerator  facility  and  the use  of  a  miniature  neutron 
source  reactor;  expanding  technical  capabilities  in 
nuclear  medicine  diagnosis; 
strengthening 
radiotherapy  services.  Other  areas  include  efforts  to 
strengthen 
protection 
infrastructure;  groundwater  investigation  through  the 
use  of  isotope  hydrology  techniques;  developing  crop 
varieties  and  enhancing  food  safety;  and  human 
resource development and nuclear technology support. 
in  nuclear  science  and 
radioisotopes 
radiation 
increase 
national 
and 
to 
the 
8 

06-59167 
low 
installed 



Our  quest  for  nuclear  energy  is  explained  by 
Nigeria’s large population of some 150 million people, 
its  present 
total  energy  generation 
capacity and the urgent need for diversification of our 
energy resources to meet future requirements for rapid 
industrialization and provision of mass employment for 
our  people.  These  demand  a  reasonable  energy  mix, 
including  the  exploration  of  nuclear  power,  as  part  of 
the benefits Nigeria can derive from the Agency, while 
being  fully  conscious  of  our  unequivocal  commitment 
to  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  Non-Proliferation Treaty 
(NPT)  and  the  Treaty  of  Pelindaba  on  the  African 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone. 

To  this  end,  President  Obasanjo  reconfirmed 
Nigeria’s non-proliferation credentials on 31 July 2006, 
during the activation and inauguration of the Board of 
the  Nigerian Atomic  Energy  Commission  (NAEC),  as 
the specialized agency to formulate and implement, in 
collaboration with the IAEA, Nigeria’s nuclear energy 
programme.  On  that  occasion,  President  Obasanjo 
charged the Commission, in line with the provisions of 
Act  46  of  1976  creating  the  Commission,  to  provide 
the  requisite  institutional  framework  and  technical 
pathway to explore, exploit and harness atomic energy 
for peaceful applications in all its ramifications for the 
socio-economic development of Nigeria. 

Nigeria  is  mindful  that  the  adoption  of  nuclear 
energy has global implications requiring both bilateral 
and multilateral cooperation for a coordinated approach 
within the IAEA’s framework. We are thus working in 
partnership  with  the  Agency  to  create  the  requisite 
linkages  with  other  interested  member  States  for 
cooperation in the development of a sustainable energy 
programme  from  the  start.  We  also  wish  to  state  that 
key  components  of  Nigeria’s  obligations 
the 
international  community  in  the  areas  of  safety  and 
security,  as  well  as  the  safeguards  system,  are  being 
entrenched in the programme. 

To  that  end,  and  in  a  bid  to  reassure  our 
neighbours  in Africa  and  the  international  community 
of  the  peaceful  nature  of  our  future  nuclear  energy 
plans, Nigeria organized an international workshop on 
the Treaty of Pelindaba, which established the African 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone,  in  Abuja  from  8  June  to 
9 June  this  year,  with  the  objective  of  sensitizing 
African  States  on  the  need  to  bring  the  Treaty  into 
force,  10  years  after  it  was  opened  for  signature. 
Representatives  from  African  diplomatic  missions  in 
Nigeria,  and  those  of  the  five  permanent  members  of 
to 
A/61/PV.43
to 
the  relevant 
in 
In  a  similar  effort, 
invited  and  participated 
the Security Council, as well as Spain, Portugal and the 
IAEA,  were  all 
the 
workshop. Needless to say, Nigeria was one of the first 
African countries to sign and ratify the Treaty.  

the  Nigerian  Nuclear 
Regulatory  Authority  has  commenced  the  process  of 
developing the requisite national regulatory capacity to 
cope  with  the  eventual  emergence  of  a  nuclear  power 
reactor  programme.  The  process  of  ratifying  and 
acceding 
treaties  and  additional 
instruments  necessary  for  the  implementation  of  a 
successful  national  nuclear  power  programme, 
including  the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a 
Nuclear Accident and the Convention on Assistance in 
the  Case  of  a  Nuclear  Accident  or  Radiological 
Emergency, has been set in motion. 

Furthermore,  Nigeria  has  established  its  State 
system  of  accounting  for  and  control  of  nuclear 
material,  and  it  submits  annually  to  the  IAEA  the 
material  accounting  and  balance  of  all  safeguarded 
materials 
in  Nigeria.  The  national  policy  and 
regulations  on  radioactive  waste  management  are  in 
place,  as  well  as  the  commencement  of  activities  for 
the  designation  and  establishment  of  a  radioactive 
waste management facility. Above all, adequate control 
transborder  movement  of 
over 
radioactive  sources  has  been  developed,  and 
the 
requisite  regulations  were  issued  this  year,  with  the 
cooperation  of  the  IAEA  and  in  conformity  with  its 
code  of  conduct  on  safety  and  security  of  radioactive 
sources. 

In other areas of food and agriculture and human 
health,  Nigeria  continues  to  be  concerned  about  the 
devastating  effects  of  insect  pests,  such  as  tsetse  flies 
and  malaria-transmitting  mosquitoes,  on  human  and 
livestock  development  in  Africa.  These  are  a  major 
obstacle to poverty alleviation in our continent. Nigeria 
notes with appreciation the IAEA efforts in using both 
Technical  Cooperation  Funds  and  extra-budgetary 
contributions  to  support  the  African  Union’s  Pan 
African  Tsetse  and  Trypanosomiasis  Eradication 
Campaign (AU-PATTEC). We are also grateful to those 
countries  that  have  made  extrabudgetary  contributions 
to  the  objectives  of  AU-PATTEC.  In  addition,  my 
delegation  thanks  other  development  partners,  as  well 
as  international  organizations  such  as  the  Food  and 
Agriculture  Organization  and 
the  World  Health 
Organization, that have participated in the campaign. 
transportation  and 
06-59167 

9 

A/61/PV.43 


Nigeria  is  happy  to  note  the  remarkable  success 
achieved  in  the  area-wide  application  of  the  sterile 
insect technique against tsetse flies, aimed at creating a 
tsetse-fly-free-zone  in  Africa.  Similarly,  we  welcome 
the  feasibility  study  on  developing  the  technique  for 
the  control  and  eradication  of  malaria-transmitting 
mosquitoes. We note that research and development on 
its  use  in  this  area  has  commenced  both  in  the 
laboratory  and  in  the  field.  We  urge  our  development 
partners  to  allocate  sufficient  financial,  technical  and 
material  resources  to  promote  the  implementation  of 
the feasibility study at the earliest opportunity. 

As  a  measure  of  Nigeria’s  commitment  to  the 
AU-PATTEC and the development of the sterile insect 
technique  for  the  control  and  eradication  of  malaria-
transmitting  mosquitoes,  I  wish  to  restate  the  offer  by 
my  Government  to  the  IAEA  of  the  multi-purpose 
gamma  irradiation  facility,  which  is  useful  for  both 
industrial  and  research  applications,  at  the  Sheda 
Science and Technology Complex in Abuja, to serve as 
a  regional  sterile  insect  breeder  for  the  African 
continent and its neighbouring region. The facility has 
an 
innovative  design  with  significantly  enhanced 
versatility, and thus possesses the flexibility to irradiate 
a wide spectrum of products. 

the  Agency’s  management  and 
financing,  Nigeria  continues  to  underline  the  need  for 
the  IAEA 
its  staff  recruitment  and 
disposition to encompass various  regions of the world 
and  underrepresented  Member  States,  in  a  fair  and 
balanced manner. We also urge that, as it is one of the 
largest  United  Nations  specialized  agencies,  but  has 
perhaps 
the 
employment of women, especially from the developing 
countries, must be given priority  consideration for the 
acquisition  of  knowledge,  expertise,  experience  and 
capacity-building,  which 
and 
indispensable to developing countries’ requirements. 

the  IAEA 
General  Conference,  at  its  fiftieth  regular  session  in 
September 2006, decided on a figure of $80 million for 
the Technical Cooperation Fund target for each year of 
the  2007-2008  biennium.  Numerically  speaking,  this 
represents  an  increase  over  the  target  for  2005-2006, 
but in real terms it reflects the principle of zero growth, 
taking  into  account  the  increasing  needs  and  requests 
of member States for technical cooperation assistance. 
We thus call for more resources to be made available to 
On  financing,  Nigeria  notes 
lowest  gender 
representation, 
to  broaden 
invaluable 
Turning 
that 
the 
are 
to 
the 
1968 
regards 
Nigeria 
international 
the  Fund  in  a  manner  that  will  promote  its  assurance, 
predictability and sufficiency. 

Considering  the  magnitude  of  the  challenges 
facing  the  IAEA,  Nigeria  takes  the  position  that  the 
time  has  come  to  enhance  its  funding,  with  a  view  to 
making greater resources available to it to carry out its 
very  important  activities  in  order  to  meet  these 
challenges in the future. 

The IAEA continues to face mounting challenges, 
perhaps the greatest of which is in the area of detection 
of  proliferation  of  nuclear  technology  for  weapons 
purposes.  The 
community  must 
realistically  grapple  with  this  situation  in  order  to 
strengthen  international  peace  and  security,  to  which 
all Member States are committed under the Charter. 

Nuclear 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  as  the  cornerstone  of 
the  global  non-proliferation  regime,  with  the  IAEA 
safeguards  system  as  an  essential  instrument  for 
applying  and  ensuring  compliance  with  the  provisions 
of  the  safeguards  system  under  the  NPT.  Nothing 
should  be  done  to  erode  or  weaken  non-proliferation 
commitments  under  the Treaty,  which  we  believe  will 
strengthen  confidence  in  the  Treaty  and  enhance  the 
attainment of international peace and security. 

Nigeria  reiterates  its  position  that,  judging  from 
the history of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, by 
failing  to  curb  or  stop  their  own  vertical  proliferation 
their  nuclear 
and 
the 
arsenals 
inadvertently 
encouraged  other  States  to  proliferate  horizontally. 
From  one  nuclear  Power  in  1945,  we  now  have  nine 
nuclear-weapon  States,  the  latest  dating  from  October 
this  year.  That  represents  consistently  at  least  one  or 
two  States  becoming  nuclear-weapon  States  every 
decade  over  the  past  61  years,  with  no  end  seemingly 
in  sight.  The  time  is  ripe  for  credible  action  on 
reversing 
effective  nuclear 
disarmament,  including  the  conclusion  of  a  legally 
binding  agreement 
security 
assurances against the use and threat of use of nuclear 
weapons  to  the  developing  States  that  voluntarily 
renounced the possession of nuclear weapons. 

The Nigerian delegation believes that the work of 
the  IAEA  would  be  greatly  facilitated  if  there  were  a 
recommitment  to  genuine  nuclear  disarmament.  The 
ascribed 
NPT 
and 
to  nuclear  and  non-nuclear  States 
responsibilities 
technical  sophistication  of 
the  nuclear  Powers  have 
to  extend  negative 
asymmetrical 
obligations 
through 
trend 
this 
10 

06-59167 
A/61/PV.43
In 
to  co-sponsor 


parties alike, by emphasizing that nuclear disarmament 
and  non-proliferation 
should  both  be  pursued 
vigorously, and not one at the expense of, or replacing, 
the  other.  As  a  first  tangible  demonstration  of  good 
faith in this regard, we call on the five nuclear Powers 
under  the  NPT  to  take  the  necessary  action  to  ensure 
the  early  entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. 

In  conclusion,  Nigeria  will  continue  to  support 
the  laudable  role  of  the  IAEA  and  global  efforts  to 
achieve  its  mandate  under  the  Statute.  We  have  thus 
again  decided 
the  enabling  draft 
resolution  A/61/L.9,  introduced  by  the  representative 
of Slovenia. 
Ms.  Phua  Mei  Pin  (Singapore):  My  delegation 

thanks the Director General of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA),  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei,  for 
his  comprehensive  report.  Singapore  was  recently  a 
member  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors.  We  fully 
appreciate and support the Agency and its work. 

Given  the  world’s  growing  energy  needs,  there 
appears  to  be  something  of  a  nuclear  revival.  Nuclear 
power  is  seen  as  an  important  alternative  source  of 
energy. We can expect an expansion in its use and the 
concomitant growth of nuclear power installations. The 
largest growth is likely to be in Asia. 
Unfortunately,  there  are  also  risks  of  nuclear 

proliferation.  For 
remain  deeply 
concerned  about  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea’s  defiance  of  the  will  of  the  international 
community.  We  hope  that  that  country  will  heed 
Security  Council  resolution  1718  (2006)  and  abandon 
its  nuclear  weapons  programme  and  return  to  the 
Six-Party  Talks,  without  preconditions.  We  also  urge 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to return to 
the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT),  resume 
cooperation  with  the  IAEA  and  accept  full  IAEA 
safeguards. 
increased 

relevance  and  importance  of  the  IAEA.  Let  me  state 
clearly that the IAEA has done a tremendous job since 
1957. The award of the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize to the 
Agency and to Mr. ElBaradei is testimony to that. But 
to deal with the challenges of the future the IAEA will 
have  to  strengthen  its  three  pillars:  nuclear  safety, 
nuclear verification and nuclear technology. 
These  developments  underline 
example,  we 
the 
response 
transboundary 
tandem, 
and 

The IAEA promotes high and consistent levels of 
nuclear  safety. We  recognize  and  support  these  efforts 
in providing clear benchmarks through instruments like 
peer  reviews,  assistance  and  review  missions.  The 
development  and  implementation  of  high  standards  in 
nuclear  safety  are  key  conditions  to  maintain  as 
demand for nuclear energy grows. 
emergency 

preparedness 
capabilities  become 
important,  given  the  grave  consequences  of  a  nuclear 
accident.  Singapore  sees  the  establishment  of  such 
response  capabilities  as  a  priority.  We  commend  the 
setting up of the Incident and Emergency Centre by the 
IAEA  last  year.  We  also  support  greater  regional 
cooperation  in  nuclear  safety  to  complement  and 
strengthen  national  and  international  efforts.  This 
would  contribute  to  confidence-building  in  the  use  of 
nuclear power. 

The  promotion  of  nuclear  safety  goes  hand  in 
hand  with  ensuring  nuclear  security.  Whether  nuclear 
resources  fuel  growth  or  wreak  unimaginable  harm 
depends on who wields them. States must be vigilant in 
protecting  nuclear  materials  and  installations  from 
falling  into  the  wrong  hands,  through  national  efforts 
and  international  cooperation.  Singapore  is  committed 
to  supporting  efforts  to  combat  terrorism  in  all  forms 
and at all levels. 

We support the full and effective implementation 
of  Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004)  to  step  up 
domestic controls and international cooperation against 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
Singapore will expand its strategic goods control list to 
take  in  the  full  lists  of  items  controlled  by  the  four 
multilateral  export  control 
the  Nuclear 
Suppliers  Group;  the  Wassenaar  Arrangement;  the 
Australia  Group;  and  the  Missile  Technology  Control 
Regime.  The  expanded  list  will  take  effect  from 
January 2008. 

The  spread  in  the  use  of  nuclear  power  brings 
with it greater risks of nuclear proliferation. The IAEA 
must  ensure  that  States  exercise  their  right  to  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes, in compliance with their 
non-proliferation obligations under articles I, II and III 
of  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT).  There 
must also be full and transparent implementation of the 
IAEA’s safeguards system. Its verification regime must 
remain central in providing safeguard assurances. It is 
also  crucial  that  the  safeguard  regime  be  able  to 
regimes: 
06-59167 

11 

to  put 
and 
in  place 
Singapore 
is  working 
the  nuclear 
A/61/PV.43 

respond  to  new  challenges  effectively  and  in  a  timely 
manner. 

the 
necessary instruments required to ratify  our additional 
protocol  and  to  modify  our  small  quantities  protocol. 
To better ensure non-diversion of nuclear material, we 
believe  in  the  universalization  of  the  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement  and  the  additional  protocol.  We 
urge  other  IAEA  member  States  to  sign  on  to  these 
commitments as soon as possible. 
The  proliferation  risks  entailed  by  sensitive 

aspects  of 
fuel  cycle  have  gained 
international  attention.  It  is  imperative  to  find  a 
balanced  approach  to  prevent  clandestine  proliferation 
activities,  while  upholding  the  rights  of  States  to 
pursue peaceful uses of nuclear power. Member States 
have  tabled  several  proposals,  and  Mr.  ElBaradei  has 
also suggested a multinational approach to the nuclear 
fuel cycle. These proposals merit serious consideration. 
Singapore supports the IAEA’s activities to bring 

to  developing  countries 
socio-economic  benefits 
through 
activities 
encompass  areas  such  as  medical  diagnoses  and 
treatment;  industrial  applications;  animal  production 
and  health; 
the 
management of water resources. They contribute to the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Singapore  also  remains  committed  to  supporting 
the IAEA’s Technical Cooperation Programme. We are 
pleased with the expansion of the Programme, and we 
commend  the  Agency  for  establishing  partnerships 
with 
development 
organizations. We support regional activities organized 
under the Regional Cooperative Agreement for the Asia 
Pacific region. We remain committed to continuing our 
bilateral  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  through  our 
Memorandum of Understanding for outreach efforts. 

The  IAEA  has  had  a  challenging  year.  Yet  the 
Director  General  and  his  staff  have  risen  to  the  task, 
and  we  commend  them.  Singapore  will  also  do  its 
share,  nationally  and 
the 
international community. 
Mr.  Kryzhanivskyi  (Ukraine):  Ukraine  aligns 

itself with the statement made by the representative of 
the  European  Union  and 
Finland  on  behalf  of 
associated  countries.  Therefore,  I  shall 
limit  my 
food  quality  and  safety;  and 
in  cooperation  with 
application.  These 
international 
regional 
nuclear 
the 
Taking 
into  account 
ensuring  our 
component  of 
remarks  to  a  few  issues  of  particular  interest  to  my 
country. 

At the beginning, on behalf of the Government of 
Ukraine,  I  congratulate  the  new  member  States  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  —  the 
Republic of Malawi, the Republic of Mozambique, the 
Republic of Palau and the Republic of Montenegro — 
and  wish  them  every  success  in  their  activities  within 
the Agency.  The  enlargement  of  IAEA  membership  is 
further evidence of the Agency’s growing prestige. 
In  the  course  of  the  year  marking  the  fiftieth 

anniversary of the IAEA, I have the privilege to speak 
on behalf of Ukraine, a State in which the peaceful use 
of nuclear energy is one of the determining conditions 
of sustainable development of the national economy. 

rising  prices  of 
hydrocarbon raw materials, nuclear energy remains an 
important 
energy 
independence in the medium and long term, as stated in 
Ukraine’s  energy  strategy  for  the  period  to  2030. 
Ukraine  possesses  enough  supplies  of  uranium,  which 
is an argument for the extensive use of nuclear energy. 
Moreover,  proven  deposits  of  uranium  ore  in  Ukraine 
might be used for the needs of other countries as well. 
That is why we are open to international cooperation in 
this area. 
In  the  context  of  the  safe  use  of  nuclear  energy, 

demonstrating  the  highest  level  of  reactor  reliability 
and management of waste nuclear fuel and radioactive 
waste  are  of  the  highest  priority  for  Ukraine’s  State 
bodies.  This  fully  corresponds  to  the  medium-term 
strategy  of  the  Agency,  whose  tasks  we  completely 
share.  In  particular,  Ukraine  takes  part  in  IAEA 
activities in the area of fuel cycle and new safe-reactor 
developments,  in  the  framework  of  the  Generation  IV 
International  Forum.  Last  year,  Ukraine  joined  the 
international  project  on  innovative  nuclear  reactors. 
Ukraine, having great potential in the sphere of nuclear 
technologies,  supports  the  Agency’s  efforts  aimed  at 
conservation  of  nuclear  knowledge  and  sustainable 
support for human knowledge for national programmes 
of  nuclear  energy  development.  We  also  actively 
support 
strengthen 
cooperation 
those 
connected to radiation biology and radiation medicine.  

We  welcome  the  Agency’s  activities  aimed  at 
raising  nuclear  security.  Currently,  Ukrainian  nuclear 
power  plants,  including  those  for  research,  fully  meet 
in  nuclear  science,  especially 
the  Agency’s 
activities 
to 
12 

06-59167 
as 
of 
waste 
I 
take 
guidance 
management 
development 
to  call  upon 
this  opportunity 
the  shelter  object 


the demands of domestic and international standards in 
this  sphere.  Ukraine  continues  to  improve  relevant 
legislation  and  strengthen  the  capability  of  regulatory 
authorities.  In  this  connection,  we  would  like  to 
mention  such  an  important  part  of  the  Agency’s 
activities 
and 
recommendations,  which  are  taken  into  account  when 
creating national legislation all over the world. 

An  important  part  of  the  IAEA’s  activities  is  the 
work  on  assurance  of  radiation  security  and  on 
radioactive waste management. This year, our national 
strategy  foresees  particularly  solving  the  problems  of 
radioactive 
during 
decommissioning of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant 
and  conversion  of 
into  an 
ecologically safe system. All those matters take a great 
portion  of  the  State  budget,  and  the  final  solution  of 
this task cannot be performed without international aid. 

the 
Governments  of  the  States  members  of  the  IAEA, 
which are donors to relevant funds, to make additional 
efforts  aimed  at  early  solving  of  all  the  problems 
connected with the creation in Ukraine of facilities for 
nuclear-waste processing and building storage for spent 
nuclear fuel and new confinements.  

Notwithstanding the expiration of the mandate of 
the  Chernobyl  Forum,  which  acted  within  the  United 
Nations  framework,  we  hope  that  the  Agency  will 
continue to pay due attention to issues connected with 
the  mitigation  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  We  are 
particularly  grateful  to  the  IAEA  for  taking  an  active 
part  in  preparation  for  the  international  conference, 
“Twenty  Year  After  Chernobyl  Accident  —  Future 
Outlook”, which was held in April this year in Ukraine. 

Ukraine is concerned about the new threats posed 
by  nuclear  terrorism,  which  have  risen  recently  in  the 
world.  In  this  context,  we  support  the  aim  and 
objectives  of  the  Global  Initiative  to  Combat  Nuclear 
Terrorism  and  the  Global  Threat  Reduction  Initiative, 
as well as other international and regional programmes 
in  this  area.  That  is  why  we  highly  appreciate  the 
Agency’s  activities 
in  strengthening  nuclear  and 
radioactive materials management and preventing their 
illegal  circulation,  and  we  advocate  strengthening  the 
regime for physical protection of nuclear materials. 

Regarding  the  basic  principles  of  the  Code  of 
Conduct  on  the  Safety  and  Security  of  Radioactive 
Sources, Ukraine created and manages the State system 
A/61/PV.43
to 
last  year  — 
for  registration  and  control  of  physical  protection  of 
the sources of ionizing irradiation. Relevant legislation 
on export-import controls has also been improved.  

Ukraine welcomes the IAEA’s efforts to improve 
the  safeguards  system’s  effectiveness.  An  important 
element  of  strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime 
is  application  of  the  additional  protocol  —  which 
Ukraine  ratified 
the  safeguards 
agreement  with  the  IAEA  in  connection  with  the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty.  We  are  grateful  to 
the  Agency  for  the  practical  assistance  given  during 
our  preparation  of  the  initial  declaration  under  the 
protocol.  

Ukraine  especially  appreciates  the  results  of  the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  which 
demonstrates  the  Agency’s  ability  to  react  adequately 
and  quickly  to  its  member  States’  demands.  In  this 
regard,  we  draw  attention  to  the  fruitful  work  of  the 
Department of Technical Cooperation and its European 
Section. 

In conclusion, I endorse the words of support for 
the IAEA report and state once again our appreciation 
of the activities of the Director General, Mr. Mohamed 
ElBaradei.  We  are  also  grateful  to  the  secretariat  for 
strengthening international cooperation in the peaceful 
use  of  nuclear  energy.  Ukraine  will  continue  to  take 
part in the Agency’s activities in order to help achieve 
its important mission.  

resolution. 
Mr.  Wibowo  (Indonesia):  The  delegation  of 

Indonesia  expresses 
to 
Mr. Mohamed  ElBaradei,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for  his 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  IAEA  for  2005.  The 
report provides a broad picture of all the activities and 
important work that the Agency  has undertaken in the 
course of that year. 

My  delegation  commends  the  excellent  work  of 
the  Agency  in  fulfilling  its  mandate,  particularly  its 
efforts to ensure that the benefits of nuclear technology 
are 
social 
for  economic  and 
development 
the  harnessing  of  nuclear 
technology for a myriad of peaceful applications, such 
as  in  the  areas  of  health,  food  and  agriculture,  water 
resources management, and environmental protection. 
Our delegation, of course, fully supports the draft 
shared  globally 
through 
sincere  appreciation 
its 
06-59167 

13 
work 
and 

realized 
A/61/PV.43 


In the year of its fiftieth anniversary, we can see 
that, despite the challenges and difficulties experienced 
in  the  last  50  years,  the  IAEA  has  carried  out 
significant 
remarkable 
achievements.  The  excellent  work  undertaken  in  the 
preservation  and  expansion  of  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  was  recognized  through  the  award  of 
the  2005  Nobel  Peace  Prize  to  the  IAEA  and  its 
Director General. 

Indonesia  lauds  the  endeavours  of  the  IAEA,  in 
particular  its  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  now 
covering  areas  ranging  from  power  generation  to  a 
diverse array of industrial, environmental, medical and 
agricultural  applications.  Indonesia  has  been  working 
closely with the IAEA for many years, and continues to 
support  the  Programme  as  an  important  component  of 
the Agency’s activities. 

Nuclear technology has been successfully used in 
Indonesia  to  cultivate  biofuel  plants,  such  as  Jatropha 
curcas  L.  for  bio-diesel  and  sweet  sorghum  for 
bio-ethanol.  This  achievement  is  in  line  with  the 
Indonesian  Green  Energy  Action  Plan, 
recently 
formulated  to  develop  alternative  sources  of  energy, 
especially  in  the  transportation  and  power  generation 
sectors.  

In the areas of food and agriculture, we note that 
over  25  new  and  improved  varieties  of  staple  food 
crops  were  released  in  2005.  In  this  context,  high-
quality  rice  mutant  varieties  have  been  planted  in 
Indonesia in an area of over 0.4 million hectares. It is 
expected  that  by  the  end  of  this  year  the  planted  area 
will be expanded to 1 million hectares. 

training  and 
We  have  also  benefited  from 
scientific  visits,  as  well  as  international  technical 
meetings  and  seminars  conducted  under  the Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme.  In  addition,  we 
welcome the step taken by the Agency in increasing the 
effectiveness  of  the  Programme  in  recent  years,  by 
shifting from a technology-driven approach to a needs-
driven  approach  focused  on 
the  achievement  of 
tangible socio-economic benefits in member States. We 
also concur with the current strategy highlighting three 
elements  essential  for  the  successful  delivery  of  the 
Programme  —  strong  Government  commitment,  high 
quality  of  technical  cooperation  projects  and  adequate 
funding. 
In  this  connection,  it  is  important  to  stress  that 

the  IAEA  must  maintain  sufficient,  predictable  and 
assured  funds  for  technical  cooperation.  We  believe 
that  this  objective  can  only  be  achieved  through  a 
genuine commitment by all member States, particularly 
the developed countries, in providing greater financial 
support. My delegation expresses its gratitude to those 
member States of the Agency that have  contributed to 
the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund.  Their  continued 
support  and  commitment  will  undoubtedly  bring  us 
closer to the attainment of the Programme’s objectives 
through the value of the Fund decided for 2007-2008. 

Furthermore, as to the Programme and the use of 
its  Fund  as  a  whole,  we  stress 
that  careful 
consideration  should  be  given  to  maintaining  an 
adequate  balance  between 
the  Agency’s  various 
statutory  activities  and  the  need  to  promote  technical 
cooperation. 

The  annual  report  stresses  the  importance  of  the 
Agency’s  activities  to  improving  nuclear  security  for 
member States, including through increasing awareness 
and  their  ability  to  control  and  protect  nuclear  and 
other  radioactive  materials,  nuclear  installations  and 
transport from terrorism and other illegal activities. In 
this  regard,  Indonesia  has  been  strongly  supportive  of 
the  Agency’s  nuclear  security  activities,  in  particular 
its  assistance  to  the  member  States  in  improving 
nuclear  security.  In  the  domain  of  nuclear  safety,  my 
delegation  commends 
to 
strengthen  its  role  of  enhancing  nuclear,  radiation  and 
transport  safety  and  waste  management,  through  the 
development of nuclear safety standards. 

As  mentioned  in  the  annual  report,  the  Agency 
conducted  a  number  of  missions  in  Indonesia  through 
its Integrated Safety Assessment of Research Reactors 
service.  We  thank  the Agency  for  the  implementation 
of  project  INS/9/022,  “Inspection  Procedures  and 
Methods  for  Assessing  Reactor  Tank  Liners”,  which 
has helped Indonesia to further improve the operational 
safety  and  security  of  its  three  research  reactors. 
Indonesia  has  successfully  established  an  information 
system  on  the  licensing  and  inspection  of  radiation 
facilities  and  radioactive  sources.  With  regard  to 
emergency  situations,  after  conducting 
field 
exercise  on  the  radiation  dispersal  device  in  Jakarta 
Province, in cooperation with the Agency, we have also 
successfully  conducted  the  Asia  and  Pacific  regional 
training  course  “Practical  Response  to  a  Radiological 
Emergency Preparedness: First Responder”. 
the  Agency’s  measures 
the 
14 

06-59167 
to  world 
substantially 



As the report rightly observes, 2005 was a year of 
increased  expectations  for  nuclear  energy,  driven  by, 
among  other  things,  the  growing  need  for  energy 
around  the  world,  coupled  with  rising  oil  and  natural 
gas prices. Over the past few years we have witnessed 
a  considerable  change  in  attitudes  towards  nuclear 
energy.  Nuclear  power  continues  to  account  for  a 
significant  share  of  world  electricity  generation, 
contributing 
economic 
development. 

Indonesia  believes  that  nuclear  energy  as  an 
energy option has the potential to have a major socio-
economic  impact  on  Member  States,  especially  those 
of the developing world. With that in mind, Indonesia 
is embarking on its nuclear energy programme, and the 
construction of nuclear power plants is under way, with 
a view to their being operational in 2016. To this end, 
Indonesia is in the process of establishing Government 
regulations on the licensing of nuclear reactors, soon to 
be signed by the President.  

Presidential  Decree  No.  5  for  2006  concerning 
Indonesia’s  national  energy  policy,  covering  nuclear 
power plant activities, was enacted earlier this year to 
enable their timely construction. In this connection, we 
would  like  to  record  our  gratitude  to  the  Agency  for 
providing us with three nuclear-power-related technical 
cooperation  projects,  which  hopefully  will  be  further 
enhanced  in  the  next  technical  cooperation  cycle, 
especially in an effort to enhance the capability of our 
regulatory authority to develop standard specifications 
and qualification of manpower to supervise and operate 
the nuclear power plants. 

Remarkable progress has  been  achieved  over the 
years 
IAEA 
the 
safeguards 
consistently 
supported 
its 
safeguards system, which is a fundamental component 
of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  For  its  part, 
Indonesia  has  signed  and  ratified  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and 
concluded  a  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  and 
additional  protocol  with 
is 
particularly pleased that the IAEA has drawn a positive 
conclusion  with  regard 
to  nuclear  material  and 
activities in Indonesia. I also reaffirm our commitment 
to 
the 
centrepiece  of  the Agency’s  response  in  strengthening 
and  improving  the  effectiveness  of  the  safeguards 
system. 
Indonesia 
IAEA’s  efforts 
the  additional  protocol,  as 
has 
to  strengthen 
the  Agency,  and 
in  defining  and 
it  constitutes 
implementing 
system. 
the 
it 
A/61/PV.43
for 
and 
regime 
remains 
the  NPT 
Indonesia, 
non-proliferation 

Given  the  urgent  and  serious  challenges  we  face 
in preserving international peace and security related to 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament,  much 
remains to be done. We share the disappointment at the 
lack  of  progress  at  the  2005  NPT  Review  Conference 
and at the omission of a nuclear non-proliferation and 
disarmament  section  from  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome.  For 
the 
cornerstone of the global non-proliferation regime and 
an  essential  foundation  for  the  pursuit  of  nuclear 
disarmament.  We  look  forward  to  the  commencement 
of a new cycle in the  review process of  the NPT next 
year.  

In  the  preparations  for  the  2010  NPT  Review 
Conference,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  strengthen  the 
integrity  of  the  NPT.  A  successful  outcome  of  the 
Review Conference is vital for the strengthening of the 
nuclear 
nuclear 
disarmament 
the  purposes  of  maintaining 
international peace and security. 

The  past  two  years  have  proved  challenging  for 
the  IAEA  with  respect  to  safeguards  and  verification. 
In fact, some issues have preoccupied the Agency. We 
note  with  appreciation  that  it  has  maintained  its 
professionalism  in  dealing  with  all  the  verification 
challenges, and thereby has strengthened its credibility 
and integrity. 

The Iranian nuclear issue will continue to capture 
our  attention,  and  it  deserves  our  resolute  action.  In 
view of the serious implications of this issue, wisdom, 
statesmanship  and  the  need  to  preserve  peace  and 
security 
should  be  given  due 
consideration. We believe that diplomacy, negotiations 
and other peaceful means are the best and most suitable 
approaches  in  dealing  with  this  issue.  We  strongly 
support 
in  continuing  and 
completing his work on the issue. At the same time, we 
urge  Iran  to  continue  to  cooperate  fully  and  actively 
with the Director General in his efforts to resolve this 
issue. 
Israel’s  nuclear  capabilities  and  threat,  and  the 

nuclear  adventures  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  are  other  issues  of  grave  concern 
for  us,  as  they  pose  serious  threats  to  regional  peace 
and  security. While  the  threat  of  nuclear  weapons  has 
subsided  in  other  regions,  we  may  be  exposed  to  the 
danger  of  such  weapons  in  West  and  East  Asia.  The 
the  Director  General 
region 
the 
in 
06-59167 

15 

in 
implementing 
A/61/PV.43 

international  community  should  therefore  give  high 
priority to dealing with these two dangerous problems.  

In  this  regard,  the  return  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  to  the  NPT,  and  the 
accession  of  Israel  to  the  Treaty,  as  well  as  the 
placement  of  their  nuclear  programmes  under  IAEA 
safeguards,  are  the  most  urgent  and  critical  steps 
towards  reducing  tension  and  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East  and  the 
denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.  
In  this  connection,  we  are  very  disappointed  by 

the  continued  Israeli  refusal  to  cooperate  with  the 
Director  General 
the  General 
Conference  resolutions  regarding  the  application  of 
full-scope  Agency  safeguards  in  the  Middle  East,  as 
that  does  not  help  to  create  the  conditions  for  lasting 
peace and security, and will certainly deepen suspicion 
of its motives and policies. 
Indonesia  supports  and  lauds  the  efforts  of  the 

Agency  in  enhancing  nuclear  safety  and  security,  as 
well  as  safeguards  and  verification  in  ensuring  the 
non-proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  We  share  the 
growing  concern  over  the  challenges  on  those  issues, 
and we have noted several initiatives and proposals put 
forward in this regard.  

We  believe,  however,  that  proliferation  concerns 
and  all  safeguards  issues  are  best  addressed  through 
multilaterally negotiated, universal, comprehensive and 
non-discriminatory  agreements  under  the  auspices  of 
the 
that 
non-proliferation  control  arrangements  should  be 
transparent and open to participation by all States, and 
should  ensure  that  they  do  not  impose  restrictions  on 
the access to material, equipment and the development 
of  nuclear  technology  and  know-how  for  peaceful 
purposes  required  by  Member  States,  particularly 
developing countries, for their continued development. 
In  this  regard,  the  proposal  of  the  Group  of  Experts 
entrusted  by  the  Director  General 
in  2005  with 
exploring  the  possibility  of  developing  a  region-based 
multinational  facility  has  its  own  merit  and  deserves 
further  consideration  by  member  States  in  addressing 
their prevailing concern regarding assurances of supply 
and non-proliferation. 

Indonesia believes that the inalienable right of all 
States parties to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in 
accordance with article IV of the NPT, constitutes one 
of  the  fundamental  objectives  of  the  Treaty,  and  that 
agree  more 
IAEA.  We 
could  not 
that 
for 
energy 
sustainable 
jeopardizing 
should  not  overshadow 
nothing  in  the  Treaty  shall  be  interpreted  as  affecting 
the  inalienable  right  of  all  parties  to  it  to  develop, 
research,  produce  and  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful 
purposes,  without  discrimination.  We  reiterate  that 
each country’s choices and decisions in the field of the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  should  be  respected, 
without 
international  agreements  and 
arrangements for peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 

My delegation reaffirms its continued support for 
the efforts of the IAEA and the Director General in the 
advancement of the uses of nuclear energy for peaceful 
purposes and in the furtherance of the non-proliferation 
regime, through its strengthened safeguards system. We 
also  believe 
the  agenda  and  concerns  over 
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  nuclear 
proliferation, 
the  great 
challenges  we  face  in  promoting  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear 
socio-economic 
development. 
Mr. Martirosyan (Armenia): At the outset, I join 

others  in  thanking  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei  for  his 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA).  

This  year  has  been  truly  fraught  with  challenges 
in  the  areas  of  nuclear  disarmament  and  the  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy. As a neighbouring country, we 
are  hopeful  that  the  international  community  will  be 
able  to  find  a  resolution  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue 
through  diplomacy  and  dialogue.  We  were  very 
concerned  about  the  nuclear  test  conducted  by  North 
Korea  and  hope  that  the  international  community’s 
reaction  to  that  problem  will  be  demonstrative  of  its 
resolve  not  to  allow  the  nuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula. 
Armenia  attaches  great  importance  to  nuclear 

energy  in  both  the  economic  and  security  aspects.  Its 
cooperation with the IAEA to ensure the uninterrupted 
and safe operation of the Armenian nuclear power plant 
has been remarkable. 

In December 2005, a special technical meeting to 
coordinate  international  assistance  to  the  Armenian 
nuclear  power  plant  was  organized  by  the  Agency’s 
Director General, Mr. ElBaradei, with the participation 
of  donor  countries.  It  presented  a  comprehensive 
summary of the analysis of different aspects related to 
the  Armenian  power  plant:  design,  seismic  and 
operational safety issues, and regulatory issues, as well 
IAEA  Technical 
as 
relationship 
between 
the 
16 

06-59167 
to 
issues  and 
the  programme 
its  contribution 


Documents  safety 
upgrade the Armenian nuclear power plant. 

In  its  power  plant  programme,  Armenia  made 
commitments  to  implementing  a  number  of  additional 
measures aimed at upgrading the safety of the nuclear 
power plant. The sum of $1.8 million was allocated by 
the  Government  of  Armenia  to  that  end,  and  the 
measures  will  be  carried  out  in  the  fall  of  this  year, 
when  the  Metsamor  nuclear  power  plant  will  undergo 
an  annual  outage  and  refuelling.  A  technical  meeting 
for  the  coordination  of  international  assistance  will 
follow to assess the measures taken and come up with 
additional recommendations. 

Armenia pays great attention to the protection of 
radioactive  sources.  In  2006,  an  inventory  of  existing 
radioactive  sources  was  made  and  an  investigation  of 
orphan  sources  is  currently  under  way.  This  year, 
Armenia  assumed  the  chairmanship  of  the  WWER 
Regulators  Forum  and  hosted  the  thirteenth  annual 
meeting  in  Yerevan  in  June.  The  Forum  welcomed 
three  new  member  States  —  China,  India  and  Iran  — 
and  made 
improving 
regulators’  activities,  making  them  more  efficient  and 
transparent. 

The  sustainability  of  energy  sources  is  a  major 
issue for my country. Armenia is very interested in the 
International  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles  project,  which  drafts  new  standards  for  new 
nuclear  stations,  the  safety  and  security  of  the  fuel 
cycle,  ecological  aspects  and  non-proliferation  issues. 
The project is of special importance to those countries 
planning to develop their nuclear energy sector. In that 
respect,  I  would  like  to  underline  that  a  feasibility 
study for nuclear energy development in Armenia was 
approved  by  Director  General  ElBaradei  for  the  next 
biennium.  The  project  will  make  an  analysis  of  the 
expenditures  for  the  construction  of  new  nuclear 
reactors  based  on  the  existing  infrastructure  and  the 
expertise  of  the  current  staff  of  the  Metsamor  nuclear 
power  plant.  Meanwhile,  in  collaboration  with  the 
European Union and under the Technical Assistance to 
the Commonwealth of Independent States and Georgia 
programme  for  2006-2007,  the Armenian  Government 
is working on a project that will set the timetable and 
expenditures for the decommissioning of unit 2 of the 
nuclear power plant. 

The Armenian Government’s progress in ensuring 
the safe and secure operation of the Armenian nuclear 
to  further 
06-59167 

17 
is 
A/61/PV.43
like 
technologies 
instances  almost 
important  mission 
the  United  States, 
impossible,  without 
power  plant  would  have  been  very  difficult,  and  in 
certain 
the 
support  and  assistance  of  our  partners  and  donors.  In 
that respect, I would like to express my gratitude to the 
Governments  of 
the  Russian 
Federation, France, the United Kingdom, Bulgaria and 
Slovakia for their financial and professional support. 
Mr. Tulbure (Moldova): First of all, I would like 

to thank Mr. Mohamed ElBaradei, the Director General 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), for 
his comprehensive report. 
The  Republic  of  Moldova  aligns  itself  with  the 

European  Union  statement,  but  I  would 
to 
highlight  some  additional  subjects  related  to  my 
country. 

Today,  humanity  is  entering  an  era  of  rapid 
scientific and technological development. As related to 
global  economic  expenditures,  the  need  for  energy 
sustainability  and  new 
is  becoming 
increasingly  pressing.  In  that  context,  more  and  more 
countries  have  begun  to  review  the  role  of  nuclear 
technologies  in  their  economic  development.  The 
IAEA  has  an 
the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technologies.  Convinced  that 
this  policy  will  continue,  the  IAEA  provides  as  much 
assistance  as  possible  to  the  developing  countries  via 
technical 
and 
personnel training. 

Special  attention  is  paid  in  our  country  to  the 
development  and  adoption  of  our  own  legislative 
framework  to  harmonize  it  with  European  Union 
standards.  That  will  guarantee  the  accomplishment  of 
those  objectives  in  the  nuclear  field  as  well.  The 
Republic of Moldova is deeply attached to the peaceful 
uses  of  nuclear  technologies.  That  is  reflected  in  a 
major  political  option  taken  by  our  country  that  is 
clearly  outlined  in  the  recently  adopted  national  law 
implementation  of  nuclear 
concerning 
activities  and 
involving 
radiation 
sources. 

All  countries  that  go  through  the  transition  to  a 
market  economy  face  a  decline  or  stagnation  in  their 
economic development. Our country was no exception. 
Moldova  is  facing  a  very  complicated  situation  of 
scarce  energy  resources.  Almost  all  our  energy  is 
imported from Ukraine and Russia and prices continue 
to rise, affecting our economy. Thus, the Government’s 
to  find  alternative  energy  sources,  both 
goal 
to  promote 
safe 
those 
cooperation, 
expert 
consultancy 
the 
ionizing 

and 
A/61/PV.43 

renewable  and  nuclear.  The  IAEA  could  take  the 
following  actions  to  provide  technical  assistance  or 
finance projects in those fields in developing countries. 

Moldova  has  signed  a  new  Country  Programme 
Framework, reflecting our major interests related to the 
Agency. In the Framework, the following priority areas 
of  cooperation  were  identified:  nuclear  equipment  in 
human  health,  radiation  processing,  radiation  safety, 
emergency  preparedness 
radioactive  waste 
management.  It  is  necessary  to  underline  that,  within 
the  framework  of  our  cooperation  assistance  projects, 
around  $3  million  have  been  provided  through  the 
IAEA.  For  the  next  biennial  cycle,  three  national 
projects  have  been  submitted.  Two  are  related  to  the 
implementation of proton linear accelerator technology 
in  cancer  treatment  and  to  the  establishment  of  new 
industrial  sectors  based  on 
radiation  processing 
technology. The third national project is related to the 
upgrading of radiation monitoring capability. 

I would like to express our gratitude to the IAEA 
and  the  United  States  Government  for  their  support 
regarding  the  safety  of  radioactive  sources.  Those 
activities were undertaken successfully, and the storage 
of sources is in keeping with international standards.  

We will be very grateful to our partners for their 
assistance in the implementation of the national project 
to  establish  an  industrial  radiation  processing  centre. 
This  project  will  have  a  considerable  impact  on  the 
development  of  such  branches  of  the  economy  as 
pharmaceuticals,  medicine,  the  food  industry  and  the 
sciences. 

We  are  aware  of  the  importance  of  nuclear 
security  and  will  pursue  further  cooperation  with  the 
IAEA  Department  of  Safeguards  concerning 
the 
implementation  of  the  respective  international  norms 
and  practices.  In  this  context,  our  Government  has 
presented an official letter to the Agency regarding our 
readiness to sign the additional protocol. 
The IAEA has been playing an indispensable role 

in  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  technologies  and 
preventing  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons.  That 
is  why  it  has  become  one  of  the  most  dynamic 
international  organizations.  I  reiterate  the  support  of 
our Government for the IAEA’s activities.  

resolution 
the  draft 
introduced  by  the  representative  of  Slovenia  and  will 
vote in favour of it. 
Moldova  co-sponsored 
First, 
it 
is 
for 
(IAEA) 
to  consider  draft 
totally  unreasonable 
Mr.  Sin  Song  Chol
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 
resolution 

shall  now  proceed 
A/61/L.9. 

I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  who  wishes  to  speak  in 
explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting.  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats. 
(Democratic  People’s 

Republic of Korea): The delegation of the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  clarify  its 
position on the draft resolution. 
the 

to 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
mention  the  so-called  nuclear  issue  of  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea in its report. We would like 
to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea is neither a member of the 
IAEA  nor  a  party  to  the  Nuclear  Non-Proliferation 
Treaty (NPT). 

Secondly,  the  IAEA  addresses  the  nuclear  issue 
on  the  Korean  peninsula  in  a  biased  manner.  The 
nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula is a political and 
military 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and the United States, which cannot 
be dealt with by the IAEA. 

The  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  is  an 
outcome of the hostile United States policy towards the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. For more than 
half  a  century  the  United  States  has  made  nuclear 
threats to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
In  particular,  President  Bush, 
immediately  after 
assuming  power,  designated  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea part of an “axis of evil” and a target 
of the United States nuclear pre-emptive strike.  

Moreover,  as  soon  as  the  19  September  Beijing 
Joint  Statement  was  made  public  the  United  States 
imposed  financial  sanctions  upon  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and stepped up its pressure 
from  every  angle.  In  addition,  the  United  States 
hindered the implementation of the Joint Statement by 
every means, with such threats and blackmail as large-
scale  military  exercises 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. 
The  possession  of  nuclear  weapons  and  nuclear 

testing  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
issue  between 
targeting 
18 

06-59167 
in 
its 
itself 
to  denuclearize 
that  denuclearization  of 


is  actually  attributable  to  the  United  States  nuclear 
threats, sanctions and blockade against my country. 

It is important to evaluate exactly how the IAEA 
has  dealt  with  the  nuclear  issue.  This  matter  has 
emerged  as  a  political  and  military  issue  between  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which  is  a 
very  small  country,  and  the  United  States,  which  is  a 
pretend super-Power, with both still technically at war. 
The  IAEA,  under  United  States  instructions,  has 
addressed  the  nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
with  prejudice  and  double  standards,  abandoning  its 
impartiality,  which  must  be 
lifeline  as  an 
international organization. 

Denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  is  the 
ultimate  goal  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  whose  will 
the  Korean 
peninsula through dialogue and negotiations, to which 
it  committed 
the  19  September  Joint 
Statement, remains unchanged. But it should be clearly 
understood 
the  Korean 
peninsula  cannot  be  realized  through  the  unilateral 
abandonment  by  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  of  its  nuclear  programme,  and  that  it  can  be 
realized  only  when  the  United  States  also  implements 
its own obligations. 

My  delegation  stresses  that  the  Beijing  Joint 
Statement  stipulates  the  obligations  of  not  only  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  but  also  the 
United  States  and  South  Korea,  which  are  parties 
directly  concerned  in  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea opposes the draft resolution, since it 
is  intended  to  mislead  about  the  substance  of  the 
nuclear  issue  on  the  Korean  peninsula  and  does  not 
help to solve the problem at all. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/61/L.9. 

Since the introduction of the draft resolution, the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors:  Angola, 
Cape Verde, Montenegro, the Philippines and Peru. 


A recorded vote has been requested. 
A recorded vote was taken. 
The  delegation  of 
A/61/PV.43
In favour:

Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Canada, 
Cape  Verde,  Chad,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros,  Costa  Rica,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Czech 
Republic,  Denmark,  Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-
Bissau,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel,  Italy,  Japan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, 
Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg, 
Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Malta, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Myanmar,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman,  Pakistan, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Serbia, 
Singapore,  Slovenia,  Somalia,  South  Africa, 
Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian 
Arab  Republic,  Thailand,  Togo,  Tunisia,  Turkey, 
Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
States  of  America,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen 
Lithuania, 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
Against: 

Abstaining: 



Zambia 
Draft  resolution  A/61/L.9  was  adopted  by  114 
votes to 1, with 1 abstention (resolution 61/8).
the  delegations  of  Bolivia, 
[Subsequently, 
Cyprus,  Liberia  and  Zambia 
the 
Secretariat  that  they  had  intended  to  vote  in 
favour.] 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in Arabic):  Before 

giving  the  floor  to  the  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote 
after 
that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
remind  delegations 
the  vote,  may 
informed 
I 
06-59167 

19 

A/61/PV.43 


I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  who  wishes  to  speak  in  explanation  of  vote 
on the resolution just adopted. 
Mr.  Taleb  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  My  delegation  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution,  on  the  basis  of  its  belief  in  the  importance 
of  the  IAEA  in  monitoring  nuclear  non-proliferation 
and guaranteeing the right of Member States, large and 
small, to the peaceful uses of atomic energy.  

Yet  my  delegation  would  like  to  place  on  record 
its regret and disappointment at the positions taken by 
many States in the IAEA General Conference during its 
fiftieth  session  on  the  item  concerning  the  Israeli 
nuclear  capacity  and  the  Israeli  nuclear  threat.  Those 
positions led to a postponement of the discussion of the 
item  until  next  year,  while  major 
international 
pressures are being brought to bear on other States that 
are  exercising  their  sovereign  right  to  acquire  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes.  

This item has been on the agenda of the General 
Conference  for  more  than  a  decade,  during  which 
resolutions  in  favour  of  establishing  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear weapons in the Middle East have accumulated. 
Those resolutions have called on Israel to renounce its 
nuclear option and place its nuclear installations under 
international  inspection and the safeguards agreement, 
and  to  seek  to  establish  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone, 
which has no room for policies of nuclear terrorism.  

Our  disappointment  is  also  caused  by  the  failure 
of the international community to send a clear message 
to Israel affirming its sincere will and vigorous efforts 
to implement the principle of nuclear non-proliferation, 
rather  than  continue  to  follow  the  policy  of  nuclear 
hypocrisy pursued by some States, which will only lead 
to  further  risk  to  international  peace  and  security.  My 
delegation stresses that silencing the voice of right this 
time, in the face of the Israeli nuclear threat and risk in 
the  Middle  East  region,  through  aborting  the  draft 
resolution  will  not  be  repeated  ad  infinitum.  The  day 
will come when the voice of right will be heard.  
The  voting  in  the  First  Committee  on  draft 

resolution  A/C.1/61/L.2, 
risk  of  nuclear 
proliferation  in  the  Middle  East”,  is  sure  evidence  of 
the invalidity of the positions of those States that have 
hindered  the  discussion  of  the  aforementioned  item  in 
the  IAEA  General  Conference,  especially  since  the  

“The 
to 
rather 
to 
in 
existence 
the  Middle  East 
seventh  preambular  paragraph  of  that  draft  resolution, 
adopted  by  the  First  Committee  on  23  October  2006 
with  151  votes  in  favour,  expresses  concern  at  the 
continued 
of 
unsafeguarded  nuclear  facilities,  and  since  the  eighth 
preambular  paragraph  notes  that  Israel  remains  the 
only State in the Middle East that has not yet become 
party 
the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty.  Moreover, 
operative  paragraphs  2  and  3  reaffirm  the  importance 
of Israel’s accession to the Treaty without further delay 
and  placement  of  all  its  nuclear  facilities  under 
comprehensive  IAEA  safeguards,  and  call  upon  Israel 
not  to  develop,  produce,  test  or  otherwise  acquire 
nuclear  weapons,  but 
their 
possession  as  an 
important  confidence-building 
measure  among  all  States  of  the  region  and  as  a  step 
towards enhancing peace and security.  
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 81? 

It was so decided. 
renounce 


Programme of work 
The Acting President (spoke in Arabic): I would 

like  to  inform  members  that  tomorrow  morning,  at 
10 a.m.,  the  General  Assembly  will  consider,  as  the 
first  item,  a  report  of  the  Fifth  Committee  on  agenda 
item 133, financing of the United Nations Operation in 
Burundi. As the second item, the Assembly will resume 
its  consideration  of  sub-item  (a)  of  agenda  item  103, 
election  of  five  non-permanent  members  of 
the 
Security Council. 

I  would  also  like  to  inform  members  that,  in 
addition to the item already scheduled for the afternoon 
of  Wednesday,  1  November, 
the  Assembly  will 
consider, as the first item, agenda item 156, extension 
of the terms of the ad litem judges of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Prosecution  of  Persons 
Responsible for Genocide and Other Serious Violations 
of  International  Humanitarian  Law  Committed  in  the 
Territory 
and  Rwandan  Citizens 
Responsible  for  Genocide  and  Other  Such  Violations 
Committed  in  the  Territory  of  Neighbouring  States 
between 1 January and 31 December 1994. 


  The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m. 
of  Rwanda 
20 

06-59167 
