
A/61/PV.30
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

30th plenary meeting 
Friday, 13 October 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al-Khalifa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Agenda items 48 and 62 (continued) 
2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa  

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/218 and 
Corr.1) 












New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and international 
support  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/212) 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/69 and 
Add.1) 


  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/213) 


Mrs. Sahu (Thailand): Allow me at the outset to 
commend the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report  on  Africa’s  development  (A/61/212),  which 
highlights  the  significant  development  in  Africa  and 
the  challenges  the  continent  is  facing,  as  well  as  the 
support  provided  by  the  international  community  over 
the  past  year.  The  report  also  strongly  illustrates  the 
unprecedented  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to 
work  with  African 
its 
development potential.  

countries 
realizing 
in 
like 
in  order 
in  Africa 
to  achieve 
Before  proceeding  further,  I  should 

to 
associate  my  delegation  with  the  statements  made  by 
the  representative  of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China and by the representative of the 
Philippines  on  behalf  of  the Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations. 

There is no doubt that the question of peace and 
prosperity  in  Africa  remains  close  to  our  hearts. 
Promoting  peace  and  strengthening  socio-economic 
development 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) has long been 
included  among  the  agenda  items  discussed  in  this 
Hall.  Achieving  the  Goals  will  be  possible  only 
through  a  concrete  partnership  among  Africa,  the 
international  community,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society. 

the  Secretary-General’s  view,  as 
presented in his report on the work of the Organization 
(A/61/1),  that  the  special  needs  of  Africa  demand 
urgent  and  concerted  efforts  as  well  as  continued  and 
unabated  support  on  the  part  of  all  stakeholders.  We 
also  share  the  Secretary-General’s  view  that  in  recent 
years  we  have  witnessed  an 
the 
international  community’s  commitment,  as  well  as 
Africa’s own determination, to achieve the MDGs.  

Conflict settlement and peace processes are being 
carried out in many areas, while the role of the African 
Union  and  the  joint  cooperation  at  both  the  national 
and  regional  levels  under  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development 
been 
strengthened.  That  demonstrates  Africa’s  commitment 
We  share 
(NEPAD) 
increase 
have 
in 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-56969 (E) 
*0656969* 

international 
and 
apparently 
community 
are 
A/61/PV.30 

to  determine  its  own  future  through  African-owned 
initiatives  and  active  African  involvement.  It  is  also 
encouraging  to  learn  that  the  official  development 
assistance pledges and commitments made to Africa by 
institutions, 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
non-governmental 
international 
organizations 
increasing.  We 
particularly  welcome  the  concrete  support  provided  to 
the  region,  such  as  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief 
Initiative, the Millennium Villages initiatives and other 
projects  that  have  been  undertaken  in  recent  years 
within various frameworks. 

In light of those constructive prospects, Thailand 
joins  the  international  community  in  supporting  the 
continued  efforts  to  promote  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals in Africa and remains 
committed  to  fully  participating  in  joint  initiatives 
either  on  our  own  or  through  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  Group  of  77 
and China as well as other international forums. 

In the last few years, Thailand has intensified its 
efforts  to  expand  cooperation  with  African  countries. 
We  designated  2005-2006  as  “the  Year  of  Africa”  to 
serve  as  a  policy  guideline  for  our  bilateral  and 
trilateral cooperation programmes with donor countries 
and 
the  aim  of 
advancing partnership in areas that will ensure a long-
term  positive 
impact  on  Africa’s  development, 
particularly 
in  human  resource  development  and 
capacity-building. 

self-sufficient 
Based  on 
development  and  with  the  aim  of  helping  countries  in 
Africa  to  diversify  their  productive  bases, Thailand  is 
carrying  out  technical  cooperation  programmes  for 
Africa  in  wide-ranging  fields  of  common  interest. 
Around  100  scholarships  for  training  courses  and 
exchanges of experts have been offered this year in the 
fields  of  agriculture,  rural  development,  development 
of service industries and small and medium enterprises. 
We 
further  expand  our 
cooperative  partnership  with  Africa  through  various 
forms 
annual 
international  training  courses  offered  by  the  Thailand 
International Development Cooperation Agency. 

In  the  area  of  health,  Thailand  has  provided 
technical cooperation to directly help African countries 
combat  the  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  epidemics.  Thai 
experts have transferred technology for the production 
international  organizations,  with 
remain  committed 
the  principle  of 
cooperation, 
including 
the 
of 
to 
report 
them  quickly 
assistance.  Thailand 
of  medicine  and  have  helped  to  set  up  factories  to 
effectively  produce  the  medicine  at  low  cost.  Medical 
personnel  and  equipment,  as  well  as  scholarships  for 
African  medical  staff,  have  also  been  offered.  We 
believe  that  those  efforts  are  making  a  noticeable 
impact.  Tanzania  now  has  an  affordable  anti-malarial 
drug  called  Thaitanzunate,  as  well  as  an  affordable 
treatment for HIV called TTVIR. These medicines are 
saving lives and should help more countries to stand on 
their  own  feet.  The  West  African  region  is  also 
benefiting  from  a  similar  programme. We  hope  to  see 
more of that kind of cooperation spreading throughout 
Africa. 

Sharing experiences in avian influenza prevention 
and  control  is  another  field  in  which  Thailand  is 
currently  working  closely  with  Africa.  Development 
partners,  such  as  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  are  providing  essential  financial  and 
technical 
successfully 
cooperating with our neighbouring countries in setting 
up  an  information  sharing  system  to  help  monitor 
relevant 
outbreaks  and 
international  organizations.  We  are  prepared 
to 
cooperate  with  all  affected  countries  in  sharing  our 
experiences 
practices.  Strengthening 
partnership  for  cooperation  with  Africa  will  always 
remain  an  important  element  of  the  foreign  policy  of 
Thailand. 
In the past years, we have witnessed a wide range 

of  assistance  and  actions  undertaken  within 
the 
multilateral  framework.  However,  the  path  towards 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals for 
Africa  is  still  long  and  there  are  still  many  obstacles 
along  the  way.  Sincere  and  committed  international 
support,  particularly  steady  and  predictable  financial 
assistance, 
the  overall 
development 
strategy. 
Innovative  financing  for  development  and  capacity-
building programmes  are  essential, in order  for Africa 
to take advantage of globalization and to benefit from 
the 
trade.  Many 
commitments  have  been  made  to Africa  and  only  the 
implementation of those commitments will finally lead 
to  concrete  and  long-lasting  results  for  sustainable 
development in the region. 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

First,  the  Chinese  delegation  would  like  to  thank 
Secretary-General Mr. Kofi Annan for his report on the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
remains  a  priority 
international 
eradication 
expansion 
poverty 
best 
and 
and 
for 
is 
to 
of 
2 

06-56969 
the  areas  of 
infrastructure, 
technologies, 


(A/61/212).  China  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of South Africa on behalf of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China. This  year  marks  the  fifth 
anniversary of the launching of NEPAD. Over the past 
five  years,  African  countries  have  made  enormous 
efforts to implement NEPAD by taking vigorous steps 
information  and 
in 
health, 
communication 
education, 
environment,  agriculture,  science  and 
technology, 
gender  mainstreaming  and  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism.  

We highly appreciate such efforts and are glad to 
see  that  the  African  economy  has,  in  recent  years, 
maintained  strong  growth  momentum  and  created 
conditions  for  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable 
development.  At  the  same  time,  the  international 
community  has  made  African  development  a  top 
priority  and  has  given  more  aid  towards  that  goal.  In 
order  to  implement  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
and  the  outcome  of  the  recent  High-level  Meeting, 
some developed countries have taken practical steps to 
increase  aid  and  debt  relief.  South-South  cooperation, 
particularly  between  African  and  other  developing 
countries, is expanding. Those are all positive elements 
that are conducive to African development. 

However,  as  is  indicated  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General,  the  main  task  of  the  international 
community  is  to  consolidate  that  positive  momentum 
and deliver on its commitments. African countries must 
pursue  national  development  strategies,  strengthen 
coordination  among 
themselves  and  mobilize  all 
resources to jointly promote the development of Africa. 
The  international  community  should  fulfil  its  aid 
commitments  to  Africa  and  help  and  support  African 
countries in their development endeavours. The United 
Nations 
and 
coordination of its support to NEPAD. 

The  Secretary-General’s  Advisory  Panel  on 
International  Support  for  NEPAD  emphasized  in  its 
recent  report 
the 
implementation  of  NEPAD.  That  is  an  important 
matter.  Bearing 
in 
implementing NEPAD last year and the relevant report 
under the item, the Chinese delegation wishes to make 
the  following  observations.  First,  the  primary  feature 
of NEPAD is that it is managed and owned by African 
countries. Guided by the needs of African countries, it 
mobilizes  international  assistance  coordination  and 
importance  of  supervising 
the  progress  made 
in  mind 
should 
strengthen 
collaboration 
the 
A/61/PV.30
support  for  Africa’s  development.  It  is  necessary  to 
combine those two elements through regular dialogue. 

The  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Advisory Panel have summarized the efforts of African 
countries  and  their  work  priorities.  They  have  also 
indicated the insufficiencies of international support. 
In terms of funds, in particular, there still exists a 

very big gap between international support and Africa’s 
actual needs. We believe that comprehensive measures 
should  be  adopted  to  overcome  the  difficulties  caused 
by the shortage of financial resources. Steps should be 
taken to ensure that existing funds are used in the most 
cost-effective  way,  according  to  the  priorities  set  by 
African countries. 
Keeping  in  mind  the  needs  of African  countries, 

we  should  continue  to  increase  the  financial  input.  In 
addition  to  emergency  aid,  debt  relief  and  technical 
cooperation,  we  should  provide  additional  financial 
assistance to African development. We should act from 
the  long-term  perspective  and  help  African  countries 
with  capacity-building  so  that  they  will  attract  more 
foreign  direct  investment  and  improve  their  self-
funding ability. 

Secondly,  NEPAD  is  pragmatic.  One  of  its 
priorities is to help African countries integrate into the 
world  economy  and 
the 
opportunities  produced  by  economic  globalization. 
Consequently,  the  international  community  needs  to 
adopt  a  series  of  measures.  Efforts  should  be  made  to 
correct trade distortions and expand African countries’ 
trade opportunities. Countries should make joint efforts 
to resume the Doha Round at an early date, urge major 
developed countries to show political will, particularly 
in  reducing  agricultural  subsidies,  and  expand  market 
access  for  exports  from  African  countries, 
thus 
bringing tangible benefits in multilateral trade to them. 

We should make full use of the current favourable 
situation  of  high  commodity  prices  to  allow  African 
countries  to  benefit  from  their  resource  advantages, 
which  will  improve  their  economic  diversification. 
Trade  assistance  should  be  provided  to  help  African 
countries  to  increase  their  participation  in  world  trade 
and share in the benefits of economic globalization. 

Thirdly,  South-South  cooperation  can  help 
African  countries  in  their  development.  There  are 
numerous  developing  countries,  and  each  has  its  own 
strength.  South-South  cooperation,  with  its  historical 
full  use  of 
to  make 
06-56969 

3 

cooperation 
Since  2000, 
A/61/PV.30 

tradition and new driving force, has huge potential. As 
a  useful  addition  to  North-South  cooperation,  the 
potential  of  South-South  cooperation  should  be  fully 
tapped.  On  this  basis,  we  will  vigorously  promote 
South-South  cooperation  and  do  what  we  can  to  help 
implement NEPAD. 

Over  the  past  decade,  China  and  Africa  have 
treated each other with sincerity, supported each other, 
conducted  South-South  cooperation  on  the  basis  of 
equality  and  mutual  benefit  and  promoted  common 
economic  and  social  progress.  China  has  vigorously 
supported African  countries  in  implementing  NEPAD. 
We established relations with its Secretariat right after 
its  founding.  The  China-Africa  Cooperation  Forum, 
established  in  2000,  shares  its  goals  with  NEPAD  in 
promoting  mutually  beneficial 
and 
common  development.  The  two  also  have  identical 
development  priorities.  We  have  adopted  a  wide 
spectrum of measures to help African countries. 

the  Chinese  Government  has 
cancelled  156  debts  owed  by  31  African  countries  of 
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  (HIPC) 
Initiative  group  and  the  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs), totalling 10.5 billion yuan. 

The  Chinese  Government  has  also  taken  radical 
steps to give preferential treatment to African countries 
so  as  to  allow  more  African  products  to  enter  the 
Chinese  market.  In  2005,  the  bilateral  trade  volume 
between  China  and  Africa  reached  $39.746  billion, 
with a $2.38 billion Chinese deficit. 
The  Chinese  Government  also  executed  63  aid 

projects  in  48  African  countries  and  regions,  sent  54 
shipments  of  goods.  This 
involved  a  focus  on 
agricultural  development,  infrastructure,  construction, 
human  resource 
training  and  medical  and  health 
cooperation. 

Following  the  zero-tariff  treatment  given  by 
China to some imported commodities from 25 LDCs in 
Africa  starting  on  1  January  of  last  year.  Equatorial 
Guinea,  Angola  and  Senegal  joined  the  group  at  the 
beginning  of  this  year.  The  Chinese  Government 
encourages Chinese enterprises with the capacity to do 
so to invest and build factories in Africa. By the end of 
last  year,  China’s  accumulated  direct  investment  in 
Africa  reached  $1.18  billion,  and  more  than  800 
factories were built there. 
of 
friendship, 
peace, 
auditing. 
cooperation 
programmes 
China-Africa 

Human  resource  cooperation  is  a  key  area  of 
China-Africa  cooperation.  Last  year,  China  invited 
3,066  people  from  50  African  countries  and  regional 
organizations  to  come  to  China  to  receive  training  in 
foreign  affairs,  economics,  trade,  agriculture,  forestry 
and 
on 
environmental  protection  cooperation  and  young 
volunteers have been launched. Currently, about 1,100 
students  from  46 African  countries  are  in  China  with 
scholarships  provided  by  the  Chinese  Government. At 
last  year’s  China-Africa  Forum  meeting  of  education 
ministers,  China  announced  a  number  of  new 
measures, including the provision of training for 1,000 
African  education  officials  and  teachers  every  year 
from  2006  to  2008,  and  doubling  the  number  of 
African 
students  enjoying  Chinese  Government 
scholarships in the coming five years. 

A  China-Africa  Cooperation  Forum  summit 
meeting will be held in Beijing from 3 to 5 November 
2006.  Chinese  and  African  leaders  will  focus  on  the 
theme 
and 
development,  and  will  jointly  draw  up  a  blueprint  for 
China-Africa friendly cooperation. I am confident that 
this will further enhance China’s support to NEPAD in 
various fields. 

China  is  the  largest  developing  country  in  the 
world,  and  Africa  is  the  continent  with  the  largest 
number of developing countries. Over the past decade, 
our fate has been interlinked. The Chinese Government 
will,  as  always,  continue  to  reinforce  its  cooperation 
with  Africa  and  make  its  due  contribution  to  the 
revitalization of the African continent. 

Mr. Ehouzou (Benin) (spoke in French): Madam 
President,  allow  me  first  of  all  to  say  how  much  the 
delegation of Benin appreciates the high quality of the 
information contained in the various reports submitted 
by 
reference 
documents  for  our  discussion  on  agenda  items  48  and 
62(a) and (b). 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  yesterday  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
South Africa, who spoke on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China. 

Benin  welcomes  this  joint  debate  on  the  three 
items  on  our  agenda,  which  very  clearly  confirms  the 
link  between  peace  and  development.  A  very  good 
example was given by the awarding of the Nobel Peace 
the  Secretary-General  by  way  of 
4 

06-56969 
It 
read 
the 
reports 
of 
the 
that 
the 
to  note 
is  good 
in  Africa, 
When  we 


Prize  to  Mr.  Muhammad Yunus  of  Bangladesh  for  his 
service to the poor through micro-financing. 

international 
community is not indifferent to the situation in Africa 
in  a  political,  economic  and  social  context.  Africa 
projects 
image  of  an  unpredictable,  unstable 
continent  capable  of  the  best,  but  also  of  the  worst, 
where  a  large  proportion  of  people  live  in  the  most 
abject poverty. 

the 
Secretary-General on the Decade to Roll Back Malaria, 
on  the  New  Partnership  for Africa’s  Development  and 
on the causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace  and  sustainable  development 
it 
emerges  that  African  countries,  both  individually  and 
collectively,  have in recent years undertaken profound 
institutional  reforms  in  order  to  create  an  enabling 
environment  for  sustained  economic  growth  and 
development.  At  the  same  time,  the  social  challenges 
and  a  certain  reluctance  to  change  in  other  areas 
jeopardize  the  achievements  made  and  delay  the  true 
development of Africa’s peoples. 
The  development  of  any  country  is  a  long-term 

process  and  the  development  of Africa  as  a  continent 
cannot  be  realized  overnight.  That  is  why,  despite 
efforts  made  by  the African  countries  and  despite  the 
impressive  figures  enumerated  by  donors  when  they 
talk about their own assistance, the results achieved do 
not always live up to the objectives we have set.  

Accordingly,  we  need  to  fully  assess  the  various 
challenges  that  have  to  be  met  and  propose  long-term 
solutions.  One  of 
the 
development  process  is  definitely  good  governance, 
because  social 
the  absence  of 
democracy  lead  to  social  tension  and  conflicts  of 
interest at the same time as they exacerbate poverty. 
In  this  context,  Benin  accordingly  renews  its 

commitment 
governance, 
combating  corruption,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
human  dignity  and  human  rights  as  preconditions  for 
the  establishment  of  an  enabling  environment  for 
sustainable development. However, we must stress that 
whatever the progress made nationally in these various 
sectors  and  despite  the  good  will  of African  countries 
to  undertake  institutional,  political,  economic  and 
social  reforms,  no  progress  can  be  achieved  if  the 
international  environment  does  not  support  national 
inequalities  and 
democracy, 
the 
first 
tools 
to  start 
good 
to 
A/61/PV.30
efforts  and  if  the  opportunities  for  change  at  the 
international level are almost non-existent.  

One of the exogenous causes of conflict in Africa 
is  the  proliferation  and  illegal  circulation  of  weapons 
coming  into  Africa  from  external  sources.  Benin 
believes  that  the  international  community  can  no 
longer  reasonably  continue  to  turn  a  deaf  ear  to  the 
cries  of  distress  of  the  thousands  upon  thousands  of 
people  —  women  and  children  —  who,  from  one  day 
to  the  next,  are  thrust  on  the  path  of  exile  as  soon  as 
tension arises out in Africa.  

How  can  we  understand  that  the  young  people 
mentioned in the report of the Secretary-General, who 
languish  in  destitution  and  want  only  the  attention  of 
generous  donors  to  obtain  a  dollar  per  day  for  their 
survival,  are 
the  same  people  being  armed  and 
recruited  by  supposedly  rebel  groups  or  simply  by 
unscrupulous individuals? 
Benin believes it indecent to profess a desire for 

African  peace  and  development,  while  quickly  and 
surreptitiously fuelling tensions inherent in any society 
that  could  have  been  resolved  by  peaceful  means. 
Benin  firmly  believes  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
conflict,  as  well  as  in  good  neighbourly  relations, 
because  development  is  only  possible  in  a  peaceful 
environment.  
Inherent  within  the  New  Partnership  for Africa’s 

Development  (NEPAD)  is  the  very  rebirth  of  Africa 
itself.  The  transparent  implementation  of  the  main 
pillars  of  this  programme,  particularly  in  the  area  of 
agriculture,  the  environment,  energy  and  information 
and communication technologies, will certainly enable 
Africa  to  truly  get  off  the  ground.  This  will  provide 
better  prospects  to  thousands  of  young  Africans  who 
will no longer be into forced exile or compelled to look 
elsewhere for a better future. It is important, therefore, 
that the support of the international community for the 
implementation  of  NEPAD  seeks 
to  carry  out 
programmes, identified within a reasonable time frame, 
to  enable  them  to  have  a  direct  impact  on  improving 
the living conditions of Africa’s people.  

The  involvement  of  the  international  community 
must also be more conspicuous through an increase in 
official  development  assistance  and  in  foreign  direct 
investments, 
strengthened 
productive  capacities  in  African  countries.  Efforts 
should also be continued in terms of good management 
of  the  foreign  debt,  in  order  to  prevent  countries  that 
as  well 
through 
as 
06-56969 

5 
(spoke 
A/61/PV.30 

might  have  benefited  from  debt  cancellation  measures 
from relapsing into the status quo ante.  

Benin expresses its appreciation to all of Africa’s 
development partners that have been tirelessly working 
for  the  recovery  of  our  continent  and  agrees  that 
nevertheless  a lot remains to be done. It is a daunting 
challenge and bold action is extremely crucial because 
of  Africa’s  34 
least  developed  countries.  Benin 
therefore  appeals  to  the  sense  of  responsibility  and 
solidarity  of  bilateral  and  multilateral  partners  so  that 
together, in a spirit of partnership, the problems being 
faced  by  African  countries  —  one  of  the  most 
prominent  being  malaria  —  can  find  solutions  that 
might  help  break  this  vicious  cycle  of  poverty  and 
marginalization.  
Mr.  Arias  Cardenas  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  which  is  an  increasingly 
pluralist  and  diverse  country,  while  at  the  same  time 
progressively  more  committed  to  its  historical  and 
cultural  roots,  has  been  unswerving  in  its  support  for 
the  struggle  against  hunger  and  poverty  and  for 
development  within  our  country,  in  brother  countries 
and, in particular, the countries of Africa. Our country 
has  also  been  unswerving  in  efforts  to  urgently 
establish  the  necessary  conditions  for  the  sustainable 
development of our peoples.  
The Bolivarian Government offers its support and 

intensification  and 
cooperation 
continuity 
and 
cooperation  activities  that  are  intended  to  achieve 
active  participation  in  improving  economic  and  social 
conditions  of 
is  a 
fundamental  pillar  in  the  consolidation  of  peace  and 
security in the world. 

In  its  cooperation  with  Africa,  Venezuela  is  not 
merely  giving  what  we  have  in  excess.  No,  we  are 
working  with  our  brothers 
joint 
development.  In  our  Afro-Latin  countries,  we  are 
aware  of  an  age-old African  heritage  that  comes  from 
our  African  roots.  Venezuela  is  aware  that  the  active 
solidarity of our people is a way of working together to 
make progress. 

The  United  Nations  system,  we  feel,  is  the  ideal 
way  of  achieving  international  support  for  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). Thus, 
the  Government  of 
the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  has  drafted  a  $3.8  million  programme  of 
the  peoples  of  Africa.  This 
to  achieve 
of 
assistance  programmes 
achieve 
to 
the 
all 

is 
for 
that 
and  outside 
itself  based  on 
cooperation  with  Africa,  through  the  World  Food 
Programme, particularly in regard to food aid intended 
to  benefit  the  brother  countries  of  Burkina  Faso,  the 
Gambia,  Mali,  Mauritania  and  Niger.  It  has  also 
undertaken  a  $4.3  million  programme  of  emergency 
assistance  grants  for  the  brother  countries  of  Kenya, 
the Gambia, Western Sahara and Somalia. 

We  also  support  the  notion  that  the  United 
Nations programme for Africa should seek to establish 
a comprehensive framework for support of the African 
Union  Commission,  which  includes  support  for  the 
NEPAD  programme, 
the 
approaches  adopted  by  African  Governments,  and  in 
this  way  ensure  that  they  are  carried  out  in  keeping 
with the real priorities of the region. 
At  present,  the  future  bodes  well  for  those 

relations  and 
the  South-South  cooperation 
encouraged  by  our  country.  The  African  peoples  are 
very interested in this new kind of relationship among 
brother countries, which is being promoted in meetings 
within 
the  United  Nations.  Our 
Government,  through  the  Ministry  for  Foreign Affairs 
and  particularly  the  Office  of  the  Vice-Minister  for 
Africa,  has  drafted  the  Africa  Agenda.  It  sets  out  a 
series  of  diplomatic,  cultural,  educational,  health  and 
cooperation  activities  and,  in  particular,  expresses  the 
fact that we take great pride in our African heritage.  

We  are  associated  with  the  Venezuelan  network 
of Afro-descendants. In addition, we are implementing 
the 2001 Durban Declaration on combating all forms of 
racial  discrimination.  We  are  also  carrying  out  the 
mandate  of  the  Durban  Programme  of  Action  by 
establishing  a  governmental  commission  to  eliminate 
racial discrimination within our own country once and 
for all. 

What  our  countries  regard  as  militant  solidarity 
would  be  a  form  of  justice  achieved  through  concrete 
actions  on  the  part  of  the  former  colonial  countries, 
which supported their own development by plundering 
Latin America and Africa. 

With  regard  to  cooperation  and  strengthening 
South-South  relations,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  has  maintained  ongoing  relations  with 
African  countries,  increasing  its  direct  diplomatic 
relations  with  more  than  12  countries  and  with  many 
other  constituencies  over  the  past  two  years. We  have 
increased  the  number  of  our  representatives  on  the 
continent,  and  we  unambiguously  consider  the  region 
6 

06-56969 
and 
respect 
and 
Mr.  Jenie  (Indonesia),  Vice-President,  took  the 


an  ally.  During  the  past  year,  Venezuela  has  entered 
into new agreements with various African countries — 
many  of  which  are  least  developed  countries  — 
promoting  economic,  social,  cultural  and  energy 
cooperation,  multilateralism 
for 
international law.  

Chair. 

Cooperation and solidarity among peoples are the 
guiding  principles  of  our  foreign  policy  and  we  have 
increased our cooperation with Africa in areas such as 
institution-building,  combating  desertification  and 
providing  humanitarian  aid  in  the  form  of  food  and 
assistance in the wake of natural disasters. We intend to 
provide  follow-up  and  support  throughout  the  process 
of  opening  an  office  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Development  Bank  of  Venezuela 
in  Mali.  That 
institution  will  carry  out  the  commitment  of  Hugo 
Chávez  Frías,  President  of  the  Republic,  to  open  the 
Bank of the South on the African continent.  

All  of  this  is  being  accomplished  without  the 
usual perverse conditionalities that violate sovereignty 
and  prevent  the  establishment  of  genuine  poverty 
reduction  programmes  through  national  development 
plans 
to 
development objectives demonstrate that, with political 
will  and  commitment  to  humanism,  it  is  possible  to 
build a world different from the one that the economic 
centres  of  world  power  and  the  international  financial 
institutions — which bear the pernicious stamp of neo-
liberal thought — seek to impose on us. 

Finally,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 
wishes  to  express  its  commitment  to  developing 
countries  and  their  legitimate  objectives  —  regardless 
of  how  those  countries  are  categorized  —  to  move 
ahead in building a world based on relations of justice, 
equality  and  equity  that  will  enable  us  to  make 
progress  in  overcoming  the  terrible  scourges  besetting 
humanity. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, with 
an 
thus  seeks  balance  and 
equilibrium with a view to achieving justice, peace and 
security. 
Mr. Bossina (Congo) (spoke in French): I should 

like at the outset to congratulate the Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Kofi Annan,  on  the  quality  of  the  reports  he  has 
submitted to  us for the fourth consecutive year on the 
progress  made  in  implementation  and  international 
support with regard to the New Partnership for Africa’s 
independent  voice, 
contributions 
strategies. 
Such 
A/61/PV.30
Development (NEPAD). Those reports once again draw 
our attention not only to the challenges and constraints 
to be addressed and overcome, but also to the progress 
made  over  the  past  12  months  in  implementing 
NEPAD.  

I  associate  myself  with  the  statements  made  by 
Mr.  Kumalo,  Permanent  Representative  of  South 
Africa, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and by 
the  representative  of  the  Gambia  on  behalf  of Africa. 
Like  preceding  speakers,  I  should  like  to  make  a  few 
additional comments. 

Five years ago, African leaders adopted NEPAD, 
whose  objective  is  to  achieve  high  and  sustained 
growth  so  that  Africa  can  reduce  the  poverty  of  its 
peoples  and  become  better  integrated  into  the  global 
economy. As we carry out this new assessment, we can 
say  that  some  progress  has  been  made  despite  the 
magnitude of the challenges, such as the illicit trade in 
small arms and light weapons, mercenarism, conflicts, 
the  illegal  exploitation  of  natural  resources,  youth 
unemployment,  humanitarian  crises,  illegal  migration 
and HIV/AIDS.  
However, we must welcome the efforts of African 

countries  to  promote  peace  and  security  and  to  take 
steps  aimed  at 
implementing  NEPAD’s  priority 
programmes  and  projects  in  the  areas  of  transport, 
energy,  water, 
information 
technology,  the  environment,  agriculture,  science  and 
technology  and, 
in  particular,  governance.  Those 
efforts,  which  give  new  impetus  to  NEPAD,  will 
produce  lasting  results  if  they  had  the  necessary 
support from our partners. 

Here,  I  should  also  like  to  welcome  the  ongoing 
mobilization  of  international  opinion  on  behalf  of 
Africa  and 
the  support  that  development  partner 
Governments  have  provided  to  the  continent.  Specific 
initiatives aimed at implementing NEPAD programmes 
have  been  carried  out,  pledges  have  been  announced, 
and  commitments  have  been  undertaken.  We  expect 
that  the  progress  made  in  debt  relief  will  be  extended 
to official development assistance and trade. 

With  a  view  to  new  impetus  and  substantial 
support for NEPAD’s implementation, I should like to 
support  the  main  recommendations  suggested  by  the 
Secretary-General in his reports: strengthening support 
for 
the  African  continent  by  adopting  concrete 
measures  to  increase  the  momentum  for  NEPAD’s 
issues  by 
implementation; 
institutional 
education, 
resolving 
health, 
06-56969 

7 
support 
for 
A/61/PV.30 

integrating  NEPAD  into African  Union  structures  and 
mechanisms;  supporting  the  private  sector;  ensuring 
that  Africa’s  development  partners  honour  their  aid 
commitments  within  a  reasonable  time  frame;  helping 
Africa to diversify its economy by improving its export 
structure; ensuring better coordination of the activities 
of United  Nations bodies that help to support Africa’s 
development  efforts;  and  improving  the  quality  of  the 
support given to NEPAD by the United Nations system, 
through  regular  and  in-depth  consultations  with  the 
African Union. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  should  like  to  congratulate 
the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Africa 
and his Office for their continuous advocacy for Africa, 
and for NEPAD in particular. 
After  this  overview,  I  wish  to  reaffirm  my 

delegation’s 
the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts. Their areas of focus constitute the best context 
for methodical implementation and efficient support of 
NEPAD.  
Mr. Scott (United States of America): We should 

like to thank the Secretary-General and the members of 
the  Secretariat,  who  have  provided  us  with  the  report 
(A/61/212)  on  progress 
implementation  and 
international  support  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  the  progress  report 
(A/61/213) 
the 
recommendations  contained 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development in Africa and the report (A/61/218) on the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 
the  African 

for  Africa’s 
members  of 
Development on five years of accomplishments that are 
enhancing  economic  growth  and  good  governance 
across  sub-Saharan  Africa.  Support  for  NEPAD  is  a 
key  pillar  of  our  assistance  to  our  African  partners. 
During 
the  United  States 
Government  has  collaborated  with  NEPAD  on  a  wide 
variety  of  programmes 
agriculture,  power, 
infrastructure, trade development and other areas.  
(G-8)  summit 

in 
Gleneagles  demonstrated, 
is  strong  support 
among  world  leaders  for  focusing  more  attention  on 
African  development  needs.  The  United  States  has 
been and will remain a leader in this effort. At a March 
The  United  States  congratulates 
the  New  Partnership 
the  Group  of  Eight 
there 
implementation 
the  report  of 
five  years, 
the  past 
and 
of 
durable 
peace 
on 
the 
As 
in 
in 
in 

2002  United  Nations  Conference  held  in  Monterrey, 
Mexico,  which,  as  members  know,  produced  the 
Monterrey  Consensus,  the  United  States  pledged  to 
increase  its  foreign  assistance  by  over  50  per  cent  by 
2006.  We  met  that  pledge  three  years  early.  United 
States official development assistance (ODA) for 2003 
was $16.3 billion, more than 60 per cent higher than it 
was in 2000 — and we have not rested. United States 
ODA  for  2005  increased  27  per  cent  over  the  2004 
levels,  a  figure  that  would  actually  be  considerably 
higher  if  we  included  funds  for  Iraqi  reconstruction. 
Our ODA growth rate averaged 22.4 per cent over this 
period  —  nearly  double  the  11.7  per  cent  average  for 
other Group of Seven (G-7) nations. 

We  have  heard  during  the  course  of  this  debate 
figures  that  Africa’s  share  of  world  trade  and  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  remains  disturbingly  low  — 
both  under  2  per  cent. We  are  trying  to  do  something 
about  this,  both  through  increased  ODA  and  through 
expanded  trade  opportunities  with  the  United  States, 
such  as  those  provided  by  the  Africa  Growth  and 
Opportunity  Act.  While  United  States  imports  from 
Africa  have  increased  by  40  per  cent  since  2000,  to 
$50.3  billion,  we  would  like  to  see  more  of  that 
increase come from non-oil products. 

Increasingly,  our  aid  is  focused  on  African 
development.  From  2000  to  2005,  United  States  ODA 
to Africa grew by over 250 per cent, to $4.1 billion in 
2005. A major example is our partnership with Ghana. 
Ghana has made the important decisions necessary for 
long-term success. They are a democracy and they are 
committed  to  good  government,  and  transparency  and 
to  investing  in  their  people’s  education  and  health. 
that  a 
Examining 
priority 
stimulate 
agriculture,  promoting  exports  and  encouraging 
additional  investments  in  that  sector.  On  the  basis  of 
the  Millennium  Challenge 
these 
Corporation  signed  a  $547  million  compact 
last 
August. This will help Ghana to achieve higher rates of 
economic  growth,  thus  lowering  poverty  through  the 
most powerful tools of all: prosperity, job creation and 
entrepreneurship.  In  fact,  we  see  the  Millennium 
Challenge Account programme and NEPAD as sharing 
the  same  philosophy:  support  for  good  governance, 
better  delivery  of  services,  particularly  in  health  care 
and education, and economic freedom and liberties. 
As  members  know,  the  United  States  is  the  first 

non-African  country  to  establish  a  diplomatic  mission 
its  situation,  Ghana  concluded 
further  efforts 
commitments, 
should  be 
to 
of 
8 

06-56969 
and 
better 
climate 
foster 
economic 
political, 
to 


to the African Union. Our commitment is based in part 
on our belief that the African Union is building a solid 
framework for economic policy based on the principles 
contained  in  NEPAD. This  includes  a  commitment  by 
African  leaders  to  take  responsibility  for  their  own 
development  and  to  adopt  the  economic  policies 
required to attract investment and to create jobs. 

Returning  to  NEPAD,  the  United  States  remains 
committed to supporting important NEPAD initiatives, 
particularly  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism.  We 
view  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  an 
important  part  of  African  leaders’  commitments  to 
corporate 
providing 
governance 
a 
for 
transformational development. 

Another  major  NEPAD  programme  that  we  are 
committed  to  supporting  is  the  Comprehensive Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  We  support  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  in  six  countries  that  are  meeting  their 
pledges  to  increase  support  and  attention  to  the 
agricultural  sector.  In  addition,  we  are  collaborating 
with  efforts  in  hunger  hot-spots  to  develop  a  process 
and  plan  to  address  the  policy  and  technical  barriers 
that  make  countries  prone  to  famine.  Ultimately,  we 
hope  to  assist  those  countries  in  integrating  into  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme. 

Regarding  power  generation,  we  are  working 
with the Economic Community of West African States 
and  NEPAD  on  the  West African  Power  Pool  project. 
The  West African  Power  Pool  will  help  West African 
countries  achieve  power  trading  and  better  regional 
transmission of electricity, lowering business costs and 
increasing economic growth. 

The  United  States  welcomes  the  report  on  the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries. 
Following our President’s commitment in June 2005 to 
reduce the incidence of malaria in the world by 50 per 
cent, we have begun new programmes to fight malaria 
in  six  highly  endemic  countries.  We  will  expand  to  a 
further  four  countries  in  2007  and  five  more  in  2008. 
Ultimately,  we  expect  to  reach  more  than  175  million 
people in 15 countries. 

In  sum,  the  United  States  supports  the  members 
of NEPAD and the people of Africa in achieving peace 
and stability, freedom from highly endemic disease and 
prosperity  through  trade  and  economic  freedom.  Our 
A/61/PV.30
the  close 
commitment will not falter, and we stand ready to work 
with  our African  partners  and  other  assistance  donors 
to meet Africa’s challenges and recognize its immense 
promise. 
Mr. Carmon (Israel): At the outset, I would like 

to  note  with  satisfaction  the Assembly’s  decision  this 
year  to  hold  a  joint  debate  on  the  issues  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) issues, 
the causes of conflict in Africa and the Decade to Roll 
Back  Malaria.  In  our  opinion,  this  accurately  reflects 
not  only 
link  between  peace  and 
development, but also the need to focus the work of the 
Organization, a principle we strongly support. 

Israel welcomes the fourth consolidated report on 
progress  in  implementation  and  international  support 
of  NEPAD  (A/61/212).  The  report  comprehensively 
outlines  the  new  momentum  for Africa’s  development 
stemming  from  actions  taken  by African  countries,  as 
well  by  the  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations  system. At  the  same  time,  the  report  offers  a 
coherent  analysis  of  the  challenges  and  constraints 
faced  at  each  level.  The  principle  set  forth  in  this 
report,  that  of  delivering  on  commitments,  is  one  that 
Israel  wholeheartedly  supports,  not  just  in  words,  but 
in deeds as well. 

As in the past, Israel wishes to reiterate its strong 
support  for  the  development  initiatives  and  principles 
adopted  by  the African  Union. This  enterprise  —  led, 
owned  and  managed  by  the  African  Union  —  is  an 
outstanding  example  of  how  ownership  and  regional 
cooperation  can  be  harnessed  to  pursue  development 
and  address  challenges.  By  striking  an  appropriate 
balance  between 
the  principles  of  responsibility, 
solidarity  and  partnership,  NEPAD  has  improved  the 
chances  for  progress  and  prosperity  on  that  troubled 
continent. 
In  this  regard,  we  commend  the  accession  of  25 

African  countries 
the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  and  the  convening  this  past  May  of  the 
sixth  African  Governance  Forum  in  Kigali,  dedicated 
to  implementing  that  Mechanism.  As  the  Mechanism 
reflects  a  genuine  desire  of  African  nations  to  make 
good on the promises of NEPAD — good governance, 
democracy, peace and security, human rights and sound 
economic management — we would like to encourage 
other countries to join it soon. 

United  Nations 
Israel  also  welcomes  the  commitment  of  the 
to  strengthen  collaboration  and 
to 
06-56969 

9 

In  addition 
to  bilateral  aid  and 
A/61/PV.30 

coordination among its components in order to provide 
the support necessary for the effective implementation 
of  NEPAD  and  endorses  the  recommendations  as 
specified in that report. 

Israel  has  always  considered  its  relations  with 
Africa  to  be  of  the  highest  priority.  From  the  late 
1950s, while still a developing country, Israel sought to 
build  development  partnerships  with 
the  newly 
independent  States  of  sub-Saharan  Africa.  With  this 
long record of cooperative work throughout Africa and 
the  continuing  tradition  of  friendship  and  solidarity, 
Israel  offers  its  experience  and  expertise  to  assist 
NEPAD  in  succeeding  and  in  helping  the  African 
continent  to  flourish,  sharing  our  know-how  in  areas 
such  as  food  security,  empowerment  of  women, 
education  and  health,  bilaterally  and  with 
the 
participation of United Nations development funds and 
programmes.  Allow  me  to  elaborate  briefly  on  just  a 
few of those programmes. 
training 

programmes,  Israel  actively  supports 
international 
initiatives  such  as  the  World  Bank’s  International 
Development  Association  (IDA)  programme  and  the 
Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  for 
debt reduction. Israel has already forgiven the debt of a 
number  of  African  countries  and  will  continue  to 
consider  additional  debt  relief  to  others,  to  the  extent 
that resources allow.  

In  2005,  467 African  trainees  from  32  countries 
participated  in  94  different  courses  in  Israel  in  the 
fields  of 
community  development, 
education,  medicine  and  public  health,  science  and 
technology,  small  enterprises  and  other  realms.  An 
additional  610 African  trainees  participated  in  on-site 
courses  in  11  African  States.  During  that  year,  Israel 
dispatched  21  experts  for  short-term  and  long-term 
consultancies in 12 different countries on the continent.  

Israel’s  Centre  for  International  Cooperation 
(MASHAV)  cooperates  in  a  joint  programme  with 
Ethiopia’s  Ministry  of  Agriculture 
and  Rural 
Development 
agricultural 
assist  Ethiopian 
development.  In  February  2005,  an  agreement  was 
signed for a three-year programme to provide technical 
support  to  Ethiopia  through  activities  focusing  on 
capacity-building  for  smallholders  and  commercial 
farmers,  cooperative  members  and  water-user  groups, 
as  well  as  dairy  herd 
improvement,  small-scale 
irrigation  and  water  management,  horticulture,  crop 
agriculture, 
to 
for 
organizations 
dealing  with 
Israel  has  established 
production,  soil  conservation  and  biotechnology. 
MASHAV and Save the Children Norway-Ethiopia also 
signed a three-year cooperation agreement to establish 
a  joint  programme  for  child-development  activities  in 
Ethiopia. The agreement will strengthen the capacity of 
Ethiopian 
child-
development issues. 

the  Techo-agricultural 
Innovation  for  Poverty Alleviation  (TIPA)  programme 
based on the African Market Garden concept, focusing 
on  poverty  reduction  and  crop  productivity  in  various 
regions in South Africa. The system, developed by the 
Israeli  Centre 
International  Agricultural 
Development,  which  includes  a  mix  of  annual  and 
perennial  crops  and  a  special 
low-pressure  drip 
irrigation system, has significantly increased yields and 
lowered  the  risks  faced  by  subsistence  farmers  in  arid 
and semiarid zones. The project has expanded from 20 
small-scale  family  drip  irrigation  systems  to  120. 
MASHAV  has  since  extended  TIPA  to  other  areas  of 
South  Africa,  and  by  2005  the  Cradock  project  was 
being  run  by  the  farmers  themselves.  Other  Israeli 
African  Market  Garden  projects  are  being  pursued  in 
nine French-speaking countries in West Africa as well, 
with  a  total  of  280  gardens  now  running  in  eight 
Sahelian countries. 

The malaria pandemic in Africa, which claims the 
lives  of  an  estimated  3,000  infants  and  children  daily, 
is  a  tragedy  of  unparalleled  proportions.  Malaria  is  a 
curable  disease,  and  its  answer  lies  in  strengthening 
African medical and public health infrastructure. Israel 
has  been  doing  all  it  can  to  do  so,  in  particular  by 
addressing  human  resources  for  health  crises.  In 
addressing  HIV  in  Africa,  two  courses  especially 
designed for Ethiopian medical staff on the training of 
trainers  and  HIV  antiretroviral  therapy  took  place  at 
Israel’s  Aharon  Ofri  International  Training  Centre. 
Over  27  doctors  and  nurses  participated  in  those 
courses. The health care teams included social workers 
and  cultural  mediators,  who  often  provide  care  and 
combat  non-adherence  to  drug  treatment.  Training 
covers 
issues  such  as  HIV  drug  resistance  and 
paediatric AIDS, and a meticulous chain of reporting is 
maintained within the team. 

Israel  also  conducts  blindness  prevention  and 
eye-care  missions  in  African  partner  countries  with 
limited  eye  treatment  facilities.  These  missions  are 
undertaken  by 
Israeli 
ophthalmologists in local hospitals or clinics. Hundreds 
teams  of 
two  or 
three 
10 

06-56969 
train 


of  surgical  procedures  are  performed  by  the  visiting 
Israeli  teams,  working  together  with  local  staff,  to 
restore sight to many patients. Israeli ophthalmologists 
also 
local  personnel,  and  ophthalmologic 
equipment and supplies are donated by the Government 
of  Israel.  During  2005  such  missions  took  place  in 
Angola, Benin, Cameroon, Kenya and Tanzania. 

Although  our  assistance  may  appear  rather 
modest to some, one must remember that as a nation of 
barely  six  million  citizens,  carrying  heavy  financial 
burdens from the need to defend its existence, Israel’s 
per capita contribution to Africa’s future is among the 
most  significant  in  the  world.  Based  on  an  enduring 
friendship, we are committed to working together with 
African  countries  to  build  on  the  momentum  of 
NEPAD  and  to  reach  its  promised  outcome.  We  are 
doing  so  because  we  are  convinced  that  the  hardships 
of Africa are not a burden, but a shared responsibility. 
We are doing so because we believe in the potential of 
Africa  and  its  people.  We  are  doing  so  because  we 
believe in fulfilling commitments. 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  My  delegation 

aligns 
the 
representative  of  South Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of 77 and China.  

We  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his fourth consolidated report on progress in 
implementation  and  international  support  of  the  New 
Partnership 
(NEPAD), 
contained  in  document  A/61/212;  the  report  on  the 
Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly  in Africa,  contained  in  document A/61/218; 
the 
and 
recommendations  contained 
the 
Secretary-General  on 
the  causes  of  conflict  and 
promotion of durable peace and sustainable development 
in Africa, contained in document A/61/213. 

The report on NEPAD, which coincides  with the 
fifth birthday of the Partnership, conceived by Africans 
for  Africans,  reveals  that  we  are  living  at  a  time  of 
great  political  will  and  commitment  at  all  levels 
towards  achieving  Africa’s  renewal  through  sustained 
sustainable  development. 
economic  growth  and 
However, 
translating 
commitments  and  will 
tangible  actions  and 
projects that are consistent with NEPAD throughout the 
continent. 
the  key  challenge  remains: 
for  Africa’s  Development 
the  statement  made  by 
of 
report  of 
implementation 
itself  with 
report 
into 
the 
the 
on 
in 
A/61/PV.30
and 
in 
and 
Africa 
to  see 
science 
governance 
technology, 
is  committed 
We  are  pleased 
for  building  capacity 

that  some  projects 
conceived under NEPAD are being implemented in the 
areas of infrastructure, information and communication 
technologies,  health,  education, 
the  environment, 
agriculture, 
gender 
mainstreaming and civil society involvement. There are 
visible signs of progress, owing to a global partnership 
involving  Member  States,  United  Nations  system 
organizations,  regional  and  subregional  organizations, 
international  and  regional  financial  institutions,  non-
governmental organizations, the private sector and civil 
society.  It  is  our  hope  that  what  has  been  achieved  in 
certain  sectors  in  certain  regions  and  countries  can  be 
duplicated throughout the continent. 

to  good  governance. 
Accordingly,  it  established  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism. This is a critical instrument for advancing 
socio-economic 
reforms 
development  and 
to  help 
implement national development plans. I cannot refrain 
from mentioning the accession to the Mechanism of 25 
African  countries,  including  Angola.  Of  these,  many 
have  hosted  support  missions  aimed  at  evaluating 
national capacity for self-assessment and are preparing 
national action plans; this constitutes an important step 
in the road to the African Peer Review Forum. 

the 
Partnership  is  yielding  positive  results,  there  are 
challenges  to  Africa  and  its  development  partners. 
Individual  Governments  in  Africa  must  continue  to 
mainstream  NEPAD  principles  and  vision  into  their 
development  plans  and  institutions.  To  that  end,  my 
Government 
initiatives  aimed  at 
sensitizing  its  public  institutions  to  NEPAD’s  pillars 
the  conception  and 
and  philosophy.  In  addition, 
implementation  of  projects 
in 
areas  of 
infrastructure,  health  and  education,  among  others, 
have been integrated into NEPAD. 
Placing Africa on an irreversible path to sustained 

requires 
growth 
coordinated  and  complementary  actions  on  the  part  of 
its  development  partners.  While  we  acknowledge  the 
renewed efforts, decisive action remains to be taken in 
a  number  of  important  areas.  Among  these,  trade 
constitutes a fundamental area. We express our concern 
over  the  lack  of  progress  in  the  elimination  of  trade-
distorting  domestic  price  supports  and  agricultural 
tariffs,  since  they  hinder  Africa’s  ability  to  integrate 
itself into the world economy. 
development 
is  engaged 
to  believe 
sustainable 
is  reason 
While 
there 
and 
that 
in 
the 
06-56969 

11 

A/61/PV.30 


In  the  area  of  foreign  direct  investment  (FDI), 
while recognizing recent increases in the levels of FDI 
directed  to  the  continent,  it  is  important  to  note  that 
such investment largely directed to oil, gas or mineral 
exploitation.  Consequently,  these  flows  often  augment 
a country’s dependence on one or two commodities and 
are  concentrated  on  a  few  countries.  In  addition,  an 
aggregate  examination  of  these  flows  falsely  leads 
some to conclude that the entire continent is benefiting 
from  increased  levels  of  investment,  whereas  the 
reality is quite different. 

To  improve  flows  to  non-traditional  sectors, 
African Governments have implemented, and continue 
to  implement,  regulatory  reforms,  including  under  the 
NEPAD/Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development  (OECD) Africa  investment  facility.  It  is 
our  hope  that  these  initiatives  will  lead  to  real 
improvement in the quality of foreign direct investment 
and  the  impact  it  can  have  in  the  diversification  of 
African economies. 

Lastly,  we  welcome  the  recent  increases  in 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  to  Africa,  as 
well  as  the  establishment  of  mechanisms  to  track  aid 
promises. However, we stress that current ODA levels 
remain significantly below the agreed target of 0.7 per 
cent  of  gross  national  income.  In  addition,  recent 
increases  in  ODA  flows  to  Africa  are  allocated  to 
known  development  activities,  such  as  emergency 
relief  and  debt  forgiveness. While  these  are  important 
and necessary objectives, they ought not to undermine 
the 
or  compete  with 
development 
implementation 
of 
and 
programmes envisaged under NEPAD. 

United  Nations  agencies  and  organizations 
remain important partners in advocating and delivering 
international  support  for  Africa.  In  this  regard,  we 
encourage  United  Nations  funds,  programmes  and 
specialized  agencies 
strengthen  coordination, 
cohesion and programming mechanisms as a means of 
enhancing  support  for  African  countries.  NEPAD  is 
inextricably  dependent  on  a  global  partnership  where 
all stakeholders play a pivotal role in its success. 

The  Government  of  Angola  is  encouraged  by 
recent  progress  in  the  resolution  and  prevention  of 
conflict  in  Africa.  In  the  past  year,  there  have  been 
concrete  steps  to  consolidate  peace  where  previously 
established  and  action  to  re-establish  peace  where 
needed. Establishment of the African Union Peace and 
for 
projects 
support  needed 
the 
to 
the  will  and  aspirations  of  Africans, 
Security Council, with its leading role in promoting the 
resolution  of  conflicts  in Africa,  is  to  be  commended. 
Additionally, African countries are participating in and 
leading  peacekeeping  operations  in  the  continent, 
following clear mandates from that Council. Consistent 
with 
the 
Government  of  Angola  is  assisting  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  others  in  their  quest  for 
durable peace. 

At  the  international  level,  we  welcome  the 
establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission, which 
we chair, and this week’s launching of a Peacebuilding 
Fund.  Both  fill  an  institutional  and  operational  gap  in 
the establishment of durable peace in the world and in 
Africa in particular. 

The adoption in 2000 of the Abuja Declaration on 
Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Africa  marked  African  leaders’ 
recognition  that  the  devastating  effects  of  that  disease 
could no longer be allowed to spread. This preventable 
and  curable  disease  is  responsible  for  high  infant 
mortality  rates  and  hinders  social  and  economic 
development.  We  welcome  ongoing  efforts  and 
initiatives to combat the disease, in particular those of 
a  global  nature.  However,  we  stress  that  pledges  of 
support  must  be  converted  into  effective  support.  In 
addition,  the  proliferation  of  initiatives  can,  in  some 
cases,  lead  to  wasteful  duplication  and  under-funding 
in critical areas. 

of the Observer State of The Holy See. 
Monsignor Auza  (Holy  See):  Since  its  adoption 

five  years  ago,  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  has  stood  as  a  guide  for  the 
various initiatives that have been implemented to fulfil 
the  promises  that  were  made  to  the  people  of Africa. 
NEPAD  has  been  particularly  welcome  because  it  has 
been  an  African-owned  and  African-led  process  that 
reflects  a  common  African  vision  and  a  shared 
commitment 
to  eradicating  poverty  and  placing 
countries,  both  individually  and  collectively,  on  the 
path  to  sustainable  growth  and  development.  Those 
objectives 
international 
commitments to achieve  the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs), and to halve extreme poverty by 2015. 

NEPAD  is  also  valuable  because  it  is  the  first 
properly  African  development  framework  to  have 
gained such ground. The strength of this initiative is, in 
fact,  its  ability  to  fuse  partnership  between  Africa’s 
The Acting President: I call now on the observer 
line  with 
the 
are 
in 
12 

06-56969 
in 
the  area  of 
to  give  countries  concerned 


Governments and its peoples as well as with the private 
sector and civil society.  

That  is  why  my  delegation  believes  there  is  an 
urgent  need  for  ongoing  creativity  in  this  field.  A 
radically new direction is called for in conjunction with 
the  NEPAD  initiative.  There  is  a  need  to  create  new 
forms  of  solidarity  at  bilateral  and  multilateral  levels 
through a more decisive commitment on the part of all, 
with the complete conviction that the well-being of the 
peoples of Africa is an indispensable condition for the 
attainment of the universal common good. 
Achieving  this  goal  calls  for  a  new  political 

international 
culture,  especially 
cooperation.  The  slowness 
in  honouring  official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  commitments,  the  still 
unresolved  question  of  some  foreign  debt  and  the 
reluctance 
special 
consideration  in  international  commercial  relations  all 
need to be addressed urgently. Today, more than ever, a 
decisive  condition  for  bringing  peace  to  the  world  is 
the  acknowledgement  of  the  interdependence  between 
wealthy  and  poor  countries,  so  that  development  will 
be understood as a task common to us all. Otherwise, it 
may  undergo  a  process  of  regression  even  in  zones 
marked by progress until now. The Holy See is pleased 
to see some of these concerns echoed in the report now 
before us in document A/61/212. 

international 
cooperation  and  strengthen  solidarity,  my  delegation 
again calls upon Governments to honour their promises 
made with regard to debt  relief or forgiveness as well 
as  the  timely  fulfilment  of  the  pledge  of  devoting 
0.7 per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to  ODA.  It  is 
through such programmes that Governments can begin 
to focus on providing funds for necessary infrastructure 
and for social and economic development programmes. 

Other issues rightly addressed in the report of the 
Secretary-General  concern  the  need  for  educational 
opportunities  for  both  girls  and  boys,  as  well  as 
literacy  programmes  that  are  essential  in  achieving 
development  goals.  Furthermore, 
the  Holy  See 
recognizes  the  importance  of  protecting  the  natural 
environment  as  a  means  of  exercising  humanity’s 
stewardship of creation and safeguarding the riches of 
the Earth for future generations. 

The  promising  developments  of  the  past  year 
have shown that there is fresh momentum in support of 
Africa’s  development.  The  NEPAD  programme  of 
to  help  build 
As  a  means 
A/61/PV.30
action consists of a set of priorities aimed at making a 
discernible impact on restoring stability and growth in 
Africa. Effective implementation of the priorities of the 
Partnership  is  key  to  realizing  its  promise.  The 
opportunity  this  provides  must  be  grasped  by African 
leaders and all their development partners as they work 
to turn pledges into action. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General Assembly resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
Mr. Gospodinov (International Federation of Red 

Cross and Red Crescent Societies): One year ago, we in 
the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
the  time  had  come  to  adopt  different  approaches  to 
dealing  with  African  issues.  The  old  ways  of  working 
have not delivered the solutions that people desperately 
need and deserve. Far too little account has been taken 
of the expertise available in Africa. For that reason, a lot 
of well-meaning assistance continues to miss its targets. 

We  believe  that  every  organization  with  the 
capacity to help should do so. But each should do what 
it does best and should seek to coordinate its work with 
others.  Africa  presents  a  clear  case 
for  better 
coordination and partnerships, and this debate provides 
an opportunity to show how we combine our expertise 
with the capabilities of others to make things happen. 

The IFRC and its member national Red Cross and 
Red  Crescent  societies  are  widely  accepted  as  leaders 
in  health  promotion  at  the  community  level,  where 
health  matters  most.  We  build  on  our  grass-roots 
presence  to  provide  the  human  resources  that  are 
essential to assisting populations at  risk  from diseases 
like  malaria.  For  example,  in  Niger,  we  worked  with 
the local Red Cross, the Niger Ministry of Health and 
other  partners  to  distribute  more  than  2  million 
mosquito nets to mothers of children under 5 years of 
age and to vaccinate children against polio throughout 
the country. With a grant from the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  we  dedicated  two 
weeks 
insecticide-
impregnated  nets 
intensive  polio 
immunization  campaign.  This  was  made  possible 
thanks in large part to our  partnerships  at the national 
level  and  the  community  reach  of  Niger  Red  Cross 
volunteers. These  young  people  were  able  not  only  to 
reach  households  that  the  Government  health  system 
long-lasting 
to 
distributing 
and 
an 
to 
06-56969 

13 

to 
approach 
to  disasters 
and 
It 
is  clear 
capacity-building, 
threat  of  cholera 
the  young  volunteers  by 
A/61/PV.30 

could  not  normally  access  but  also  to  allay  the  fears 
and myths surrounding polio vaccination, thanks to the 
trust  afforded 
the 
communities themselves.  

Now,  we  have  taken  this  experience  into  other 
settings,  including  into  African  countries  affected  by 
cholera. We have brought together Red Cross and Red 
Crescent  societies,  ministries  of  health,  the  World 
Health Organization, organizations like Médecins sans 
frontières and  local  actors  to  address  the  threat  of 
cholera,  by  educating  the  public  about  health  issues 
and improving water and sanitation conditions. Indeed, 
the 
is  a  problem  of  serious 
proportions  in  some  African  countries,  and  we  are 
trying our best to mitigate it. 
Our  approach  in  addressing  disease  reflects  our 

emergency 
general 
management. 
that  simple  economic 
assistance is never enough. Instead, local communities 
must  be  involved  in  the  design  of  interventions: 
building their capacity is critical to long-term planning. 
Without 
be 
unsustainable,  and  an  opportunity  to  build  resilience 
will have been missed. 

When  we  speak  of  the  trust  of  communities,  we 
recognize  that  our  people  —  our  young  volunteers  — 
will be trusted only if they function with efficiency and 
integrity.  Thus,  the  IFRC  supports  strengthening  the 
capacity  of  its  member  national  societies,  to  deliver 
services 
their 
countries.  The  Madagascar  Red  Cross,  for  example, 
decided to rebuild its organization so that it could more 
effectively address issues of vulnerability in accordance 
with  our  fundamental  principles.  We  assisted  our 
colleagues  from  Madagascar  with  the  development  of 
their  strategic  plan  and 
their 
governing  board  elections  from  the  grass  roots  to  the 
national level. Governance of our national societies and 
accountability are very high on our agenda. 
We also seek to ensure that our members are well 

role  alongside 
prepared 
Governments  and 
In 
Somalia, after many years of conflict, the Somali Red 
Crescent  remains  united  and  stands  as  a  well-
functioning institution. Its strength in health and care is 
well recognized by people throughout the country, and 
it covers a wide range of activities in this area, together 
with the Government and other stakeholders. 
the  most  vulnerable  people 
international  organizations. 
to  play  a  contributing 
the  facilitation  of 
recovery  will 
to 
in 
in 
the 
theme 
recommending 
these  global  problems.  That 
in  development,  especially  by 

There  are  similar  stories  in  many  countries  in 
Africa, but the point I wish to stress today is that more 
and  more  of  our  national  structures  are  being 
recognized by their Governments for the role they can 
play 
implementing 
health  and  care  programmes  and  by  attracting, 
educating  and  deploying  a  strong  volunteer  base.  The 
fact that our country organizations are able to work as 
auxiliary  partners  to  public  authorities  is  central  to 
their success. 

As the President of the General Assembly rightly 
identified, 
of 
“implementing  a  global  partnership  for  development” 
for  this  year’s  general  debate,  partnerships  are  the 
critical  ingredient.  No  organization  or  network  alone 
can  solve 
is  why 
Dr. Mukesh  Kapila,  our  newly  appointed  Special 
Representative  on  HIV/AIDS,  travelled  to  southern 
Africa  recently  to  participate  in  the  launching  of  the 
ART Toolkit, developed jointly by the IFRC, the World 
Health  Organization,  UNAIDS  and  Southern  Africa 
AIDS  Information  Discrimination  Service.  As  part  of 
this, an agreement was signed with the WHO Regional 
Office  for  Africa,  and  will  be  followed  by  the 
launching of a five-year southern Africa HIV and AIDS 
appeal, seeking $300 million. 

These actions are brought together at a very high 
level of our administration. Our Governing Board held 
a  special  debate  on  Africa  in  June  2006,  recognizing 
the need to build new and more effective partnerships, 
including  with  the  private  sector,  and  to  develop 
programming  for  the  vulnerable,  with  the  long-term 
and  Millennium  Development  Goals  in  mind.  These 
solutions  have  been  promoted  by  our African  national 
societies  and  the  African  members  of  our  Governing 
Board. As we plan for our Governing Board session in 
Addis  Ababa  next  year,  we  hope  other  African 
institutions,  as  well  as  external  partners  and  donors, 
will join us, so that we can together make a difference 
for the vulnerable people of the continent. The malaria 
bed-net project in Niger is evidence of how easy it is to 
make great things happen. We just need to expand the 
attitude  and  determination  to  encompass  the  whole 
continent. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
items 48 and 62. 

The meeting rose at 11.40 a.m.
14 

06-56969 
