
A/61/PV.19
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

19th plenary meeting 
Monday, 25 September 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Ms. Al-Khalifa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 







 The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 
Agenda item 8 (continued) 

for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
General debate 
The President: I give the floor to His Excellency 

The Honourable Lieutenant General Mompati Merafhe, 
Minister 
International 
Cooperation of Botswana.  
Mr.  Merafhe  (Botswana):  Let  me  begin  by 

congratulating  you,  Madam,  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first 
session.  Your  election  is  a  demonstration  of  the  trust 
and  confidence  placed  in  you  and  your  country,  the 
Kingdom of Bahrain, by the international community. 

I would also seize this opportunity to pay tribute 
to your illustrious predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Jan 
Eliasson  of  the  Kingdom  of  Sweden,  for  his  sound 
leadership  and  achievements  during 
the  sixtieth 
session.  

Additionally,  let  me  commend  the  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  for  his 
decade  of  devoted  and  selfless  service  to  humanity. 
This great son of Africa, with his visionary leadership 
of  the  United  Nations,  has  provided,  and  continues  to 
provide,  the  embodiment  of  our  collective  aspirations 
to  achieve  a  more  peaceful, 
just,  equitable  and 
prosperous  world.  He  is  indeed  Africa’s  great  gift  to 
humanity. 
addressed 
the  Assembly 

Within the next five days, Botswana will mark 40 
years of its existence as a democratic, independent and 
sovereign nation. 
When the first President of Botswana, the late Sir 

Seretse  Khama, 
on 
24 September 1969, he described Botswana, in part, as 
a  country  faced  with  a  problem  of  underdevelopment 
of classic proportions. 

Botswana had to contend with the harsh realities 
of  its  history  and  geographical  position.  We  were 
completely  surrounded  by  oppressive,  aggressive  and 
racist  white  minority  regimes.  As  a  small,  weak  and 
poor  country,  we  had  to  begin  the  process  of  building 
national  institutions  and  laying  the  foundation  for 
social  and  economic  development  in  a  very  hostile 
environment.  The  United  Nations  and  its  Member 
States  served  as  a  pillar  of  strength  and  gave  us 
political and diplomatic support. 

today,  we  express  our  deep 
gratitude for the support and assistance extended to us 
over  the  years.  It  has  been  a  40-year  journey  of 
determined  and  sustained  effort  to  achieve  human-
centred development. 

travelled  with 
development  partners  from  all  continents.  This  has 
enabled  us  to  achieve  some  measure  of  progress  in 
improving the human condition. At 40, we are an adult 
nation  and  have  assumed  full  ownership  of  and 
responsibility  for  our  own  development.  We  have 
adopted  policies,  legislation  and  practices  aimed  at 
journey  we  have 
Standing  here 
is  a 
It 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-53341 (E) 
*0653341* 

into 
A/61/PV.19 

creating an environment conducive to economic growth 
and development. 

Many  milestones  have  been  achieved  in  our 
national  development  effort.  Today,  Botswana  is  a 
middle-income  developing  country,  but  we  still  face 
enormous challenges for which we need assistance. In 
this  regard,  the  decision  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
should  be  implemented  to  ensure  that  small  middle-
income developing countries such as Botswana do not 
fall  back 
the  doldrums  of  poverty  and 
underdevelopment. 

Botswana  has  been  blessed  with  one  of Africa’s 
major  natural  resources:  diamonds.  It  must  be  stated 
that  65  per  cent  of  the  world’s  diamonds,  worth 
$8.3 billion  per  year,  come  from  African  countries.  I 
am  pleased  to  state  that  diamonds  have  done,  and 
continue  to  do,  good  in  Botswana.  The  diamond 
industry  in  Botswana  has  been  at  the  cutting  edge  of 
human  development  and  is  transforming  lives  for  the 
better, in all fields of human endeavour. 

We  continue  to  prudently  manage  the  revenue 
from  the  sale  of  diamonds  and  to  effectively  use  such 
revenue  to  educate  our  people,  provide  potable  water 
and  health  care  and  build  an  infrastructure  network, 
including  roads,  telephones  and  rural  electrification. 
This is the good that diamonds have done and continue 
to do. 

the  Kimberley  Process 
Certification  Scheme,  of  which  we  currently  hold  the 
chairmanship,  Botswana  is  strongly  committed  to 
working  alongside  other  participating  countries  to 
maintain 
the 
legitimate  diamond  trade.  The  Kimberley  Process 
Certification  Scheme  is  one  of  the  best  examples  of 
global cooperation. The Scheme is the embodiment of 
global  consensus,  unrelenting  political  will  and  the 
determination  of  members  to  do  the  right  thing, 
underpinned  by  strong  support  and  the  resolutions  of 
the Security Council. That is important, because about 
10  million  people  globally  are  either  directly  or 
indirectly  supported  by  the  diamond  industry.  In 
southern Africa, more than 28,000 people are employed 
by the industry. 

We  are  also  here  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
the Charter of the United Nations and our strong belief 
in  the  Organization  as  the  only  vehicle  by  means  of 
which the enduring peace and prosperity of the human 
race  can  be  assured.  We  welcome  the  opportunity  for 
the  credibility  of 
As  a  participant 
the  Scheme  and 
in 
rare  opportunity 
the  nations  of  the  world  to  meet  here  annually  to 
exchange  views  on  matters  which  are  central  to  our 
common destiny. 

There  are  many  challenges  which  we  must 
address.  But  chief  among  them  is  ending  the  evil  of 
war.  It  is  deeply  regrettable  that,  although  the  human 
species  left  the  jungle  many,  many  years  ago,  the 
jungle remains in human beings. As a matter of fact, if 
the beasts of  the jungle  acquired language, they  could 
actually  claim  some  superiority  over  the  human  race. 
While  animals  may  fight  and  brutally  kill  each  other, 
they  never  spend  time  planning  how  to  destroy  one 
another  or  thinking  about  how  to  produce  weapons  of 
mass destruction. 

Be  that  as  it  may,  we  still  have  hope  and 
confidence  in  the  human  spirit  to  do  good. As  human 
beings, we have a shared destiny and we are therefore 
our own saviours. 
The  responsibility  to  save  the  human  species 

from  the  scourge  of  war  cannot  be  passed  to  anyone 
else.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  consider  that  this 
Assembly  provides  a 
the 
international  community  to  move  beyond  platitudes 
and  to  squarely  address  the  critical  challenges  of  our 
time. 
international  peace  and 

for  human  development. 
security 
Experience  has  repeatedly  shown  that  we  cannot 
realistically  hope 
to  pursue  a  meaningful  global 
development  agenda  under  conditions  of  war,  conflict 
and insecurity. 

Conflicts in our world today should therefore be a 
matter  of  grave  concern  to  all  of  us.  In  2000,  at  the 
dawn of the  new millennium, we gave  an undertaking 
that, above all else, the twenty-first century should be 
an epoch of peace and prosperity. We consciously made 
a commitment to reduce by half by 2015 the number of 
the  world’s  poor.  If  we  are  to  achieve  that  objective, 
war should certainly be the first casualty. 

about 
conflicts  in  Africa.  Regrettably,  Africa  is  the  only 
continent that is facing the bleak prospect of failing to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
Can we really afford the resources for war in the midst 
of 
and 
underdevelopment?  The  answer  must  obviously  be  a 
resounding “No”. 
An  atmosphere  of 
is  particularly 
deprivation 
concerned 
Botswana 
poverty, 
disease, 
for 
is 
essential 
2 

06-53341 
is 
totally  unacceptable.  Worse  still, 



Today,  Africa  is  host  to  the  largest  number  of 
refugees,  displaced  persons,  global  poor  and  people 
infected  with  and  affected  by  HIV/AIDS.  Yet,  sadly, 
we  have  the  lion’s  share  of  the  world’s  conflicts. 
Ending conflicts is therefore as much a calling as it is a 
moral and political imperative. 

We should all be concerned about the atrocities in 
the  Darfur  region  of  the  Sudan.  The  perpetuation  of 
that  conflict,  in  defiance  of  the  collective  will  of  the 
international community and the Charter of the United 
Nations, 
the 
carnage of daily killings is an affront to the sanctity of 
human life. This undermines our humanity. 

We  call  on  all  parties  to  the  conflict  to  comply 
with  and  respect  the  Darfur  Peace  Agreement.  Those 
who  have  not  signed  the  Agreement  must  do  so  as  a 
matter  of  urgency.  It  is  only  through  dialogue  and 
mutual  accommodation  that  durable  peace  can  be 
attained. War can beget only misery and anarchy. 
The  United  Nations  has  expressed  its  desire  to 

help, 
through 
the  deployment  of  a  multinational 
peacekeeping  force.  In  principle,  the  African  Union 
Peace and Security Council has welcomed the decision 
of the Security Council. 
Every  year  we  come  to  this  rostrum  to  call  for 

progress 
the  Middle  East  peace  process.  For 
generations that region has known no peace. If there is 
any lesson to be learned, it is that the only avenue to a 
lasting  political  settlement 
through  dialogue, 
accommodation  and  compromise.  It  is  only  in  an 
atmosphere  of  negotiation  that  reason  and  common 
sense can prevail over extremism and war-mongering. 

Israel  and  Palestine  must  coexist  as  sovereign 
States  that  share,  not  only  a  border,  but  a  desire  for 
peace,  security  and  prosperity.  We  urge  the  people  of 
the  Middle  East  to  summon  up  the  courage  to 
recognize  the  folly  of  war  and  accept  the  virtue  of 
dialogue. They  should  start  building  a  common  future 
for generations that will know no violence and conflict, 
but only cooperation and concord. 

My delegation shares the concern about the threat 
of  terrorism.  Terrorism  pervades  every  crevice  of  our 
world,  much  to  the  detriment  of  humanity.  In  this 
respect, we welcome the recent adoption of the United 
Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 
60/288) by the General Assembly. 
in 
is 
A/61/PV.19

When  the  Doha  Ministerial  Declaration  was 
adopted  in  2001,  we  had  hoped  for  and  envisaged 
negotiations  lasting  three  years. We  knew  then,  as  we 
know  today,  that  that  was  an  ambitious  and  onerous 
undertaking. We have already missed several important 
deadlines. That should be a source of concern for all of 
us.  For  many  of  our  people,  a  fair  and  equitable 
international  trading  system  is  not  only  a  noble 
objective,  but  also  a  development  imperative.  It  holds 
hope  and  promise  of  prosperity  and  the  alleviation  of 
poverty, which is all the more reason why we must not 
allow the Doha round of trade negotiations to fail. 

The  indefinite  suspension  of  the  Doha  round  of 
trade negotiations on 24 July 2006 has raised questions 
about  our  collective  commitment  to  development.  In 
this respect, the major question before us today is how 
we can revive the Doha round of trade negotiations. It 
took  eight  years  to  complete  the  Uruguay  round. That 
goes  to  show  that  at  times  it  is  not  how  fast  the 
negotiations  are  concluded  but  the  substance  and 
content  of  such  negotiations.  It  is  clear  that  we  are 
going  to  miss  the  December  2006  deadline  which  we 
set for ourselves in 2005. 

It is therefore our collective responsibility as the 
United Nations to give the necessary political direction 
to the World Trade Organization, not only to revive the 
negotiations,  but  also  to  ensure  the  necessary  impetus 
for their timely and successful conclusion. A successful 
conclusion  should  address  the  ever-growing  special 
development  challenges  of  developing  countries  by 
upholding  the  development  dimension  of  the  Doha 
round. 

the  General 
Assembly,  a  number  of  key  decisions  were  made  and 
were  outlined  in  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution 60/1). Heads of State or Government called 
for  the  establishment  of  institutions  with  a  view  to 
making  the  United  Nations  more  effective  in  carrying 
out  its  mandate  under  the  Charter  and  in  serving 
Member States better. 

implementation 
session;  we  must  commit  ourselves  to  collective 
implementation. It is important that we demonstrate in 
deeds  that,  here  at  the  United  Nations,  we  make 
statements  to  communicate  thoughts,  ideas  and  action 
plans. Such ideas are not to remain on paper; they must 
be  translated  into  programmes  and  projects  for  the 
common good. 
This  session  should  be  an 
the  sixtieth  session  of 
During 
06-53341 

3 

standing 
reform,  we  welcome 
A/61/PV.19 


Botswana strongly supports comprehensive, wide 
and deep reform of the United Nations. Regarding the 
ongoing  management 
the 
decision,  in  resolution  60/283,  to  allow  the  Secretary-
General  adequate  authority  to  deploy  resources  and 
staff from lower to higher priority programmes. We are 
convinced  that  as  chief  administrative  officer,  the 
Secretary-General should be accorded more leverage to 
command  both  human  and  financial  resources  so  that 
the  Secretariat  can  deliver  more  effectively.  Member 
States  must  recognize  the  importance  of  timely  and 
unconditional funding of the mandates entrusted to the 
Secretary-General  by  the  legislative  bodies  of  the 
Organization.  It  is  incumbent  upon  the  Secretariat  to 
ensure  accountability  and  the  prudent  management  of 
such resources. 

Enabling the Organization to effectively deliver is 
a  collective  responsibility  of  the  Member  States  and 
the Secretariat. What is essential is for Member States 
to  ensure  that  there  are  efficient  oversight  bodies  to 
guarantee  compliance  with 
rules  and 
regulations. 

One of the major successes of the sixtieth session 
was the implementation of the World Summit decision 
on the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission. 
Africa  expects 
to 
effectively discharge its mandate. 

The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
is  also  one  of  the  significant  achievements  of  the 
sixtieth session. It demonstrates our collective desire to 
elevate human rights to new heights of prominence and 
visibility  consistent  with  the  changing  times.  It  is  our 
expectation that the new body will operate on the basis 
of  principles  of  cooperation,  genuine 
interactive 
dialogue  and 
tolerance  coupled  with  respect  for 
diversity.  The  importance  of  issues  of  development 
should not be underestimated. In developing countries, 
these  issues  are  real  challenges  which  should  not  be 
overlooked. The Human Rights Council must therefore 
address  issues  of  capacity  building  and  find  ways  of 
responding  to  institutional  weaknesses  and  resource 
limitations  which  hamper  the  process  of  translating 
constitutional  and  statutory  human  rights  provisions 
into reality. 

Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana’s 
abiding  faith  in  the  utility  and  universality  of  the 
United Nations. The United Nations is nothing else but 
ourselves, the Member States, put together. It should be 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
greater  than  the  sum  total  of  all  of  us.  We  must 
therefore  have  the  courage  to  strengthen  ourselves  by 
following  through  with  reforms,  including  the  reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  The  reform  of  the  Security 
Council should not pose difficulties to anyone. We are 
all responsible for keeping this world safe. 

It  is  only  when  Member  States  consider  their 
national  interests  to  be  an  integral  part  of  the  wider 
interests  of  the  international  community  that  they  can 
set  aside  their  apprehension  with  regard  to  a  Security 
Council  enlarged  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-
permanent categories. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Come  Zoumara,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs, Integration and la Francophonie of the Central 
African Republic. 

Mr.  Zoumara (Central African Republic) (spoke 
in  French):  As  you  know,  Madam  President,  there  is 
one African  tradition,  but  its  forms  are  many.  That  is 
why the African continent is the cradle of mankind and 
this  African  tradition  universal.  We  can  see  this 
universal nature here in New York within this forum of 
the  United  Nations  where  the  values  of  solidarity  and 
brotherhood symbolize a common desire for peace and 
love.  

How  can  we  not  fail  today  to  recall  the  vitality 
which  marked  the  World  Summit  which  was  held  in 
2005  in  this  very  Hall,  following  the  fifty-ninth 
session, which was undoubtedly the longest ever due to 
the 
the  consultations  begun  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  President  at  that  session, 
with  a  view  to  reaching  a  consensus  on  questions 
related to reform of our Organization, including that of 
the  Security  Council.  Those  questions  divided,  and 
continue  to  divide,  delegations  and  regional  groups, 
and  finally  overshadowed  the  discussion  of  other 
items.  

But  the  Summit  and  the  ensuing  sixtieth  session 
nonetheless  had  the  merit  of  establishing  the  Human 
Rights Council and the Peacebuilding Commission.  

Despite all the differences among United Nations 
Members  and  despite  the  criticism  of  some  of  its 
actions,  the  United  Nations  remains  the  international 
organization  which, 
universality, 
representativity  and  authority,  cannot  be  ignored.  The 
Central  African  Republic,  which 
its 
commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
intensity  of 
reiterates 
due 
to 
its 
4 

06-53341 


Charter,  would  like  to  reaffirm  its  ongoing  desire  to 
continue to contribute to all efforts to reform the entire 
United Nations system. 

Having  said  that,  I  should  like,  on  behalf  of  His 
Excellency  General  François  Bozizé,  President  of  the 
Republic,  head  of  State,  and  on  behalf  of 
the 
Government  and  the  people  of  the  Central  African 
Republic, to warmly congratulate you, Madam, on your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the 
present session. I view it as a sign of confidence and a 
well-deserved  tribute  to  your  beautiful  country,  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain.  I  am  also  pleased  to  express  to 
your predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, my high esteem for 
the  remarkable  way  in  which  he  led  the  work  of  the 
sixtieth  session.  In  addition,  I  express  my  warm  and 
sincere  thanks  and  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, a worthy son of the African 
tradition, for his praiseworthy and tireless efforts, in a 
particularly  difficult  international  context,  to  promote 
the role of the Organization, to attain its objectives and 
to promote peace and security throughout the world. 

The  theme  suggested  for  the  present  session  is 
“Implementing a Global Partnership for Development”. 
We should recall that, six years ago, the highest leaders 
of  the  Organization’s  Member  States  made  the  firm 
commitment  to  unite  their  efforts  to  collectively  fight 
poverty  and  all  the  scourges  it  causes,  which  pose  a 
serious threat to international peace and security and a 
major  obstacle  to  the  development  processes  in  many 
countries.  

In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  which  resulted 
from that  commitment, the 189 signatory countries  — 
including  the  Central  African  Republic  —  solemnly 
pledged to do their utmost to overcome poverty, which 
continues  to  devastate  the  majority  of  the  world’s 
population. To that end, several Goals were defined. 

Ms.  Blum  (Colombia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
As  the  Secretary-General  has  stated,  the  main 

Goals have been implemented to varying degrees:  
“Accordingly,  we  will  not  enjoy  development 
without  security,  we  will  not  enjoy  security 
without  development,  and  we  will  not  enjoy 
either  without  respect  for  human  rights.  Unless 
all these causes are advanced, none will succeed” 
(A/59/2005, para. 17). 
A/61/PV.19
republican 
institutions  and 

In  the  case  of  the  Central  African  Republic,  we 
must  acknowledge  that  many  challenges  remain  to  be 
addressed  if  we  are  to  truly  strive  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  within  the 
agreed  time  frame.  Indeed,  my  country  experienced 
more  than  two  decades  of  serious  crises,  from  which 
we only recently emerged by holding general elections 
and  establishing 
the 
Government  of  National  Reconciliation.  But  we  must 
still  fight  the  cross-border  insecurity  raging  in  the 
subregion  and  push  back  out  of  our  territory  the 
aggressors,  supported  from  abroad,  who  seek 
to 
destroy  our  democratically  established  republican 
institutions.  

The  Central  African  authorities  are  striving  to 
restore security throughout the territory. It goes without 
saying  that  no  development  is  possible  unless  we 
eradicate  the  endemic  insecurity  maintained  by  those 
who  set  up  roadblocks  and  by  the  rebellion  raging 
mainly  in  the  north-eastern  part  of  the  country, 
bordering  on  the  Sudan  and  Chad.  The  security  and 
defence forces deployed in the back country face many 
difficulties  —  particularly 
in 
overcoming  that  phenomenon.  The  proliferation  of 
small arms and light weapons in the subregion — due 
to  the  long  crisis  in  Darfur  and  its  effects  on  the 
Central African  Republic  —  are  hardly  helping  to  put 
an end to that scourge. 

the 
proposals  made  by  Presidents  George  Bush  and 
Jacques  Chirac  and  by  the  Chairperson  of  the African 
Union,  Mr.  Denis  Sassou  Nguesso,  on  the  positioning 
of  United  Nations  troops  on  the  border  between  the 
Central African Republic, Chad and the Sudan.  

In  addition,  since  2003,  the  Central  African 
Republic,  one  of  the  seven  countries  in  partnership 
with  the  World  Bank’s  Multi-country  Demobilization 
and  Reintegration  Programme,  has 
taken  a  new 
comprehensive,  integrated  approach  that  is  integrative 
and inclusive aimed at resolving the thorny problem of 
the  disarmament,  demobilization  and  reintegration  of 
former  combatants.  The  results 
the 
Government’s  willingness  to  succeed  in  that  process. 
Moreover,  our  country  has  just  developed  a  new 
structure  to  fight  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons,  namely,  a  national  commission  against 
the illicit proliferation of small arms and light weapons 
and for disarmament. 
The  Central  African  Republic  supports 
logistical  ones  — 
today  reflect 
06-53341 

5 

to 
likely 
encourage 
is  hardly 
A/61/PV.19 

The  deteriorated  state  of  the  Central  African 

economy 
the 
implementation  of  the  Development  Goals  in  order  to 
promote  a  robust  fight  against  poverty,  which  for  us 
remains an ongoing threat to peace and stability.  

In the area of finance, the Government has taken 
energetic  measures  to  restore  financial  health  by 
implementing  an  extensive  system  to  monitor  civil 
servants  and  establishing  a  body  to  verify  their 
academic credentials.  
The  other  challenges  —  just  as  great  —  facing 

the  Central African  Republic  are  those  of  health  care 
and education, which are among the main MDGs. With 
respect  to  health  care,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic  and 
other  diseases,  such  as  tuberculosis  and  malaria,  are 
sources of concern for our country.  

The  recent  conference  on  AIDS,  held  here  at 
United  Nations  Headquarters  in  early  June  2006, 
highlighted  the  particularly  disturbing  characteristics 
of that calamity among the most impoverished sectors 
of  the  population:  women  and  children.  There  is  a 
health  emergency,  and 
the  Central  African 
Republic  is  requesting  greater  assistance  and  action 
from its development partners. 

The  education  and  training  sector  —  covered  by 
Goal 2 of the MDGs — has undoubtedly been the main 
victim  of  the  long  period  of  political  and  military 
crises, whose wounds are gradually healing. The many 
empty years of discouragement resulting from the loss 
of motivation on the part of the teaching staff, delayed 
salary  payments,  the  lack  of  State  resources  to  build 
schools  and  purchase  equipment,  and  the  continued 
insecurity  in  some  areas  of  the  country  for  the  past 
several  years  —  all  of  that  has  led  to  a  decline  in  the 
quality of teaching and a drop in the literacy rate. 

the  burst  of  patriotism  of 
15 March  2003,  the  Government  has  been  doing  its 
utmost to ensure that the school year will no longer be 
interrupted  and to restore the former credibility of the 
Central  African  educational  system.  Thanks  to  the 
assistance of certain donors — among which we must 
mention 
la 
Francophonie  —  the  Central  African  Republic  is 
beginning  to  take  up  the  challenge  between  now  and 
2015.  Indeed,  it  will  not  be  possible  to  ensure  that 
democracy and a culture of dialogue and tolerance are 
firmly  established  unless  the  people  have  access  to 
quality education and are able to grasp what is truly at 
International  Organization  of 
However,  since 
thus 
the 
in 
in  full 
judgements 
thus  make  sound 
the  achievement  of 
stake,  and 
knowledge of the facts. 

The  United  Nations  Millennium  Development 
Goals  Report  2005  highlights  the  need  to  ensure  a 
sustainable  environment  by  intelligently  exploiting 
natural  resources  and  protecting  the  ecosystems  upon 
which  the  survival  of  humanity  depends.  Climate 
change  and  global  warming  owing  to  the  depletion  of 
the  ozone  layer  are  worrisome  phenomena  for  our 
country,  whose  northern  region  is  being  increasingly 
overtaken by desert. The initiatives set out in the Kyoto 
Protocol  show  that  progress  is  possible  if  there  is 
political will on the part of the major consumers.  

If  we  are  to  prevent  and  reduce  the  risks  related 
to  natural  disasters  and  to  equip  ourselves  with  better 
organization  and  more  effective  means  to  make  the 
world safer, we must support the transformation of the 
United  Nations  Environmental  Programme 
into  a 
specialized  agency  with  a  broader  mandate,  as 
proposed by France. 

the 
Despite  delays 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  the  Central 
African  Republic 
them, 
especially Goals 3 and 4, relating to the empowerment 
of women and the promotion of gender equality and to 
the 
Indeed, 
considerable  progress  has  been  made  in  terms  of 
vaccination  coverage  and  also  with  respect  to  the  free 
distribution of mosquito nets to pregnant women and to 
children under the age of 5.  
The Central African Republic greatly appreciates 

the proposals made during the 2005 World Summit by 
Presidents  Chirac,  Lula  Da  Silva  and  Hu  Jintao 
regarding 
the  promotion  of  peace,  security  and 
development.  

However,  the  results  of  MDG  implementation 
will  remain  mixed  until  international  solidarity  fully 
plays its part. We live in an interdependent world; the 
development of the Central African Republic is closely 
linked  to  that  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  because  the 
United Nations is a community of nations.  

bless the Central African Republic.  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr. Vartan  Oskanian,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Armenia. 
May  God  bless  the  United  Nations.  May  God 
reduction  of  under-five  mortality. 
is  determined 
reach 
to 
6 

06-53341 


Mr.  Oskanian  (Armenia):  Let  me  congratulate 

Ms.  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  to  the 
presidency  and  wish  her  a  year  relatively  free  of 
conflict crisis and catastrophe — in other words, a year 
unlike  the  one  we  have  just  had,  during  which  His 
Excellency Jan Eliasson significantly contributed to the 
successful navigation of troubled waters with his great 
leadership. The  “year  of  turmoil”,  as  he  called  it  (see 
A/60/PV.100), included conflicts and crises, as well as 
man-made  and  natural  disasters,  all  requiring  our 
collective  response.  We  have  responded  with  great 
commitment  to  maintain  peace  and  stability  in  the 
world.  

Of  the  conflicts  that  we  have  faced  in  this  past 
year,  the  one  that  emerged  to  be  the  most  tragic  was 
that of the  war in  Lebanon. I believe the international 
community  has 
lost  some  credibility  and  moral 
authority in the eyes of the peoples of the world, who 
watched the Security Council bicker over minute issues 
while  bombs  were  being  dropped  in  Lebanon  and 
innocent people were being killed. It was a great shame 
for  the  international  community  not  to  be  able  to 
deliver and establish an immediate ceasefire. When an 
international body loses moral authority, our ability to 
effectively  tackle  problems  and  issues  that  require  a 
collective response is certainly undermined.  

In  other  areas,  however,  the  collective  efforts  of 
the  international  community  have  indeed  succeeded.  I 
believe  we  played  a  role  in  the  civilized  process  of 
bringing  Montenegro  to  this  day  and  to  this  body. 
Collectively,  we 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  two  bodies  that  hold  great  promise  for 
delivering  deeper  and  more  profound  commitment  on 
the part of the world community to building peace and 
protecting human rights.  

The  most  threatening  challenges  in  the  world 
remain  those  of  poverty  and  hopelessness.  When  our 
leaders  gathered  in  this  Hall  six  years  ago,  they 
decided that the United Nations was the most effective 
body  in  which  to  address  the  ills  facing  our  societies. 
They  collectively  recognized  their  responsibility  to 
deliver,  worldwide,  more  equitably  distributed  social 
and  economic  development,  at  an  accelerated  pace. 
They  said  to  the  world  that  they  were  willing  to 
channel 
international  processes  and  multilateral 
resources  in  order  to  tackle  the  needs  of  the  world’s 
poor.  They  will  be  judged  by  their  adherence  to  the 
principle,  promise  and  commitment  of  collective 
empowered 
created 
and 
06-53341 

A/61/PV.19
action.  Six  years  have  now  passed  and  the  world  still 
earnestly  looks  on  to  see  whether  individual  and 
regional interests can be overcome and those problems 
jointly addressed. 

We in Armenia also face similar problems. We are 
encouraged and rewarded by the extensive political and 
economic reforms that we have conducted over the past 
10 years. The results are evident. We are now preparing 
to  engage  in  the  second  generation  of  political  and 
economic reforms in order to continue to build on the 
past  decade  of  progress.  We  are  moving  forward  on 
legislative  and  administrative  matters;  we  are  today  a 
more  democratic  society  and  a  more  open  and  more 
liberal economy. We have been registering double-digit 
growth over the past six years.  

While  we  are  encouraged  by  this  economic 
progress  and  the  positive  macroeconomic  indicators, 
we  are  now  turning  our  attention  to  the  rural  areas  in 
order  to  eradicate  poverty  in  our  society.  We  are 
reminded of the remarkable promise, made in 2000, to 
the victims of global poverty to “free our fellow men, 
women and children from the abject and dehumanizing 
conditions  of  extreme  poverty”  (resolution  55/2, 
para. 11).  To  be  able  to  do  that  in  Armenia,  we  will 
leverage the philanthropy of international organizations 
and friendly countries with the traditional generosity of 
our  diaspora,  so 
that  we  can  build  and  repair 
infrastructure  and  thus  create  new  conditions  for 
economic development and social change. But we also 
understand  that  infrastructure  alone  is  not  enough  to 
introduce that kind of change that reduces poverty. We 
need  to  invest  in  people;  we  need  to  invest  in  women 
and  children;  and  we  need  to  educate  them  and  train 
them for the future. 

We  will  begin  that  programme  in  Armenia’s 
border  villages.  Unlike  other  countries,  where  border 
villages  are  points  of 
interaction  and  activity, 
Armenia’s eastern and western borders are closed, thus 
stifling economic interaction and regional cooperation. 
With  our  neighbour,  Turkey,  it  is  not  only  economic 
cooperation that suffers, but also the dialogue between 
our  two  peoples.  Turkey’s  insistence  on  keeping  the 
border closed and not allowing interaction between the 
two  communities  freezes  the  memories  of  yesterday, 
instead of promoting dialogue and interaction to create 
new experiences and new memories for tomorrow. We 
still  believe  and  hope  that  Turkey  will  eventually 
understand that keeping the border closed until there is 
harmony  and  mutual  understanding  between  our  two 
7 

that 
the  possibility 
A/61/PV.19 

peoples is not a policy. On the contrary, it is avoidance 
of  a  responsible  policy  to  forge  and  promote  regional 
cooperation  and  economic  development  at  a  time  and 
in  a  region  that  are  the  object  of  growing  global 
attention. 

Let  me  address  the  issue  of  Kosovo,  as  many 
have  done  from  this  podium.  We  closely  follow  the 
process  of  self-determination  in  Kosovo  because  we 
Armenians,  ourselves,  are  extremely  supportive  of  the 
process  of  self-determination  for 
the  people  of 
Nagorno  Karabakh.  But  we  do  not  draw  parallels 
between  the  two  conflicts  or  with  any  other  conflict. 
We  believe  and  insist  that  conflicts  are  all  different, 
and each must be decided on its own merits. While we 
ourselves do not consider the Kosovo outcome to be a 
precedent for other conflicts, we are extremely anxious 
about 
it  may  raise  artificial 
obstacles  for  other  self-determination  movements, 
simply because others cite it as a precedent. This is of 
extreme concern to us because we believe that there are 
movements  in  the  world  today  that  have  earned  the 
right 
to  self-determination.  The  Kosovo  outcome 
should not serve as an excuse or reason to put a damper 
on those self-determination movements. 

Yet,  such  attempts  are  already  apparent  in  this 
Hall  as  the  principle  of  self-determination  is  being 
undermined compared to other principles. But this goes 
contrary to the lessons of history. There is a reason that 
the  Helsinki  Final Act  enshrined  the  principle  of  self-
determination  as  equal  among  other  principles  in 
international  relations.  In  international  interactions, 
just as in human relations, there are no absolute values. 
There are also responsibilities. A State should gain and 
earn the right to govern. States have the responsibility 
to  protect  their  own  citizens,  and  the  people  have  the 
right to choose the Government that they think should 
govern them.  

The  people  of  Nagorno  Karabakh  decided  long 
ago  not  to  be  represented  by  the  Government  of 
Azerbaijan, because they suffered from State violence. 
They  tried  to  protect  themselves,  and  they  succeeded 
against  all  odds,  only  to  hear  the  State  cry  foul  and 
claim 
integrity.  But 
Azerbaijan has lost every iota of the moral right to talk 
about  guaranteeing  the  security  of  the  people  of 
Nagorno Karabakh, let alone to claim custody over that 
people.  
sovereignty  and 
territorial 
I 
8 

06-53341 
stone 
crosses, 
to 
throughout 

Azerbaijan  did  not  act  responsibly  or  morally 
towards the people of Nagorno Karabakh, people that it 
considered to be its own citizens. It unleashed military 
action;  it  sanctioned  pogroms  and  massacres  in  urban 
areas.  It  bombed  and  displaced  more  than  300,000 
Armenians.  When  it  lost  the  war  and  accepted  a 
ceasefire, it began to destroy all traces of Armenians by 
eliminating  Armenian  monuments 
the 
territory. Over the past two years, the remaining 2,000 
carved 
representing  Armenian 
cemeteries,  were  desecrated  and  eliminated.  The 
territory has now been turned into a shooting range for 
the  Azerbaijani  army.  This  reflects  the  fact  that 
Azerbaijan  still  does  not  believe  in  the  peaceful 
resolution of this conflict.  
Armenians  cannot  be  blamed  for  thinking  that 

Azerbaijan  is  not  serious  about  a  peaceful  solution. 
Having rejected the past two offers of the international 
community, Azerbaijan  is  now  concerned  about  being 
accused of rejecting the current peace plan. That is why 
it  is  manoeuvring  and  manipulating  every  possible 
situation  —  from  State  violence 
introducing 
resolutions  in  other  forums  outside  the  peace  process 
so that the Armenians are forced to do the rejecting.  

But Armenia is clearly on record as stating that it 
stands  by  every  single  principle  included  in  the 
document  it  submitted.  However,  in  order  to  give  a 
chance  to  that  document,  one  cannot  think  or  even 
pretend  to  think  that  there  is  a  military  option  to  this 
conflict.  There  is  no  military  option.  That  option  has 
been  tried  and  has  failed.  The  only  option  today  is 
realism  and  compromise.  The  path  that  the  people  of 
Nagorno  Karabakh  have  chosen  over  the  past  two 
decades 
irreversible. 
Solidifying  and  formalizing  the  process  will  greatly 
contribute to peace and stability in our region. 

Karabakh is not a cause. It is an ancient place, a 
beautiful garden with people who have earned the right 
to  live  in  peace  and  prosperity. That  is  what  we  seek, 
and we cannot accept anything less. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Morshed  Khan, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh. 
extend  my 

delegation’s  sincerest  congratulations  to  the  President 
on  her  very  well-deserved  election.  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  her  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  on  his 
stewardship  of  the  historic  sixtieth  session  of  the 
that  has  become 
(Bangladesh): 
Mr.  Khan
is  a  path 
to 
as 
tragedy.  The 
recent  wanton 


Assembly and to pay a special tribute to the Secretary-
General  for  his  dedicated  service  to  the  Organization 
over the past decade. It is also my pleasure to welcome 
Montenegro 
the  newest  Member  of  our 
Organization.  
The  Assembly  is  meeting  against  a  backdrop  of 

dire  human 
Israeli 
aggression  in  Lebanon  has  shocked  the  world.  Most 
disconcerting  has  been  the  fact  that  the  international 
community failed to respond promptly and effectively, 
as  colossal  devastation  wrecked  Lebanon  and  the 
Lebanese  people.  In  the  end,  the  Security  Council 
redeemed itself by ordering a ceasefire in Lebanon. Let 
us  hope  that  the  Security  Council  will  exercise  its 
mandated  responsibilities  so  that  such  atrocities  and 
violations  of  human  rights  do  not  occur  in  the  future 
under any pretext. 
Alongside Lebanon, the dire situation in Palestine 

has  worsened  owing 
the  continuous  use  of 
disproportionate  force  by  the  Israeli  Government.  We 
call upon the international community to make sincere 
efforts to put the peace process back on track. 
The scourge of terrorism knows no boundaries. It 

is professed and carried out by a handful, and the vast 
majority  of  victims  are  innocent  men,  women  and 
children.  Efforts 
its 
protagonists  globally  and  nationally  may  have  seen 
some positive results. However, action to combat terror 
by  individual  countries  has  created  divisions  between 
peoples  and  affected 
interfaith  harmony.  Many 
individuals  are  being  subjected  to  racial  or  religious 
profiling,  which  foments  suspicion,  misunderstanding 
and even hatred. That is what the terrorists are actually 
looking  for:  to  divide  the  nations  of  the  world.  We 
must ensure that they do not have their way. 
Prime  Minister  Begum  Khaleda  Zia  has 

unequivocally  declared 
that  Bangladesh  abjures 
religious extremism and does not and will not support 
any  kind  of  militancy.  The  Prime  Minister  has 
reasserted  her  Government’s  vow  to  eliminate  all 
militants  and  their  networks.  She  has  called  for  the 
passage of tough laws to punish the perpetrators, whom 
she  has  repeatedly  dubbed  enemies  of  Islam,  enemies 
of  democracy,  development,  humanity  and  the  people 
of the country — our country, beloved Bangladesh. 

In  this  connection,  I  must  mention  that  a  small 
group  of  extremists  carried  out  a  country-wide 
bombing attack on 17 August last year in Bangladesh. 
terrorism  and 
to  combat 
A/61/PV.19
But  the  extremists  underestimated  the  will  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Bangladesh.  Instead  of 
fear,  there  was  anger.  The  Government  mobilized  all 
available  resources  to  relentlessly  hunt  down  the 
leaders  and  the  operatives.  I  am  proud  to  inform  the 
Assembly  that  we  have  been  able  to  bring  all  the 
leaders of the outlawed militant group to justice. 

Bangladesh  today  is  what  it  has  always  been:  a 
moderate, tolerant society that practises democracy and 
where  the  equal  rights  of  each  and  every  citizen  are 
preserved.  Our  determined  action  did  not  allow  the 
opportunists  and  the  perpetrators  of  terror  to  destroy 
the values of democracy and tolerance that we treasure 
most. 

For  smaller  States,  the  United  Nations  remains 
the premier world body, addressing the challenges they 
face. Despite its shortcomings, the United Nations has 
proved invaluable in times of crisis and in the tasks of 
preserving  global  peace  and  security  and  promoting 
sustainable development. 

At present, we are seized of the issue of reform of 
the United Nations. Bangladesh holds that reform is  a 
process  and  not  an  end  in  itself. We  do  not  think  that 
arbitrary  deadlines  or  pressure  in  order  to  obtain  a 
particular outcome are helpful. It is our belief that, for 
meaningful  reform,  an  environment  of  mutual  trust, 
confidence  and  respect  for  divergent  positions  is 
indispensable. 

We trust that the new Human Rights Council will 
not be a mere replication of the Commission on Human 
Rights. It must not indulge in politicization of its work. 
Bangladesh,  as  an  elected  member,  is  committed  to 
advancing  the  work  of  the  Council  in  a  fair  and 
balanced manner. 
the  newly  constituted 

We  hope, 
Peacebuilding  Commission  will 
the  existing 
institutional  gap  in  the  United  Nations  system  to 
facilitate 
to 
peacebuilding.  Bangladesh,  being  one  of  the  largest 
contributors 
peacekeeping 
operations, will bring its experience to the work of the 
Commission in all its aspects. 

As the United Nations deals with individual post-
conflict  situations,  it  must  not  lose  sight  of  wider 
issues, 
small-arms 
proliferation,  as  well  as  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
to  United  Nations 
from  peacekeeping 
as  disarmament 
transition 
such 
too, 
and 
that 
fill 
the 
06-53341 

9 
constraints 
to 
is 

sufficient 
certainly  not 
A/61/PV.19 

Bangladesh  would  like  to  see  sustained  efforts  by  the 
United Nations in these very critical areas. 

The  Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World 
Summit  (resolution  60/1),  which  had  development  as 
its  centrepiece,  has  hardly  progressed  beyond  mere 
pledges. For the least developed countries (LDCs), the 
savings-investment  gap  and  lack  of  capital  remain  the 
primary 
development.  Official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  to  the  LDCs  in  2004, 
according  to  the  most  recent  data  available,  amounted 
to  $23.8  billion,  or  $35.70  per  person  living  in  these 
countries.  This 
to 
complement income or boost investment. Faster growth 
in  exports,  and  the  consequent  rise  in  income,  could 
help  the  LDCs  accumulate  the  resources  needed  for 
development.  For  this,  we  would  need  unhindered 
market  access  for  all  LDC  exports.  The  Doha 
development round must resume to ensure special and 
differential  treatment  for  the  LDCs.  We  would  also 
need  increased  ODA,  full  debt  cancellation,  foreign 
direct investment and transfer of technology to enhance 
the global partnership for development. 

We  can  also  increase  capital  flows  to  LDCs  by 
addressing  one  of  the  fundamental  inequities  in  the 
global  financial  system.  It  is  utterly  inefficient  and 
unfair  that  the  LDCs  cannot  utilize  their  own  foreign 
exchange  reserves  —  a  staggering  $28  billion  —  to 
finance  their  own  development  efforts  and  that  these 
reserves yield very low interest, or none at all. On the 
other  hand,  when  LDCs  borrow  against  their  own 
reserves,  they  pay  a  huge  premium  in  interest  or 
service charges. The United Nations system must lead 
the  international  effort  to  reform  the  global  reserve 
system and to make arrangements that enable the LDCs 
to borrow at a zero mark-up of the interest rate against 
their own foreign exchange reserves. 

The  General  Assembly  has  just  concluded  the 
midterm  comprehensive  review  of  the  implementation 
of the Brussels Programme of Action for the LDCs. In 
this context, I would like to point out that, unless duty-
free and quota-free market access for all LDC products 
is  ensured,  the  agreed  development  goals  and  targets 
will remain unattained for a long time to come. We call 
on  the  developed  countries  to  fulfil  their  pledges  of 
support for the framework to facilitate aid for trade, to 
which  they  have  committed  many  times  over.  An 
effective monitoring capacity under the auspices of the 
United Nations can significantly facilitate this task. 
10 

to  Bangladesh. 
Let  me  now  turn  to  two  issues  that  are  of 

particular  concern 
I  begin  with 
migration.  Liberalizing  the  movement  of  labour  can 
generate  significant  benefits  and  a  win-win  result  for 
both sending and receiving countries, as well as for the 
migrants  themselves.  Numerous  studies  have  found 
that  a  modest  commitment  under  the  World  Trade 
Organization’s  General  Agreement  on  Trade 
in 
Services Mode 4 would offer substantial welfare gains 
for  both  developing  and  developed  countries.  It  may 
even exceed the gain of complete market liberalization 
in merchandise trade. 

The second issue is the threat of natural disasters, 
which  often  undermine  our  development  efforts.  The 
Asian tsunami was a wake-up call for all of us. In these 
times  of  increasing  global  interdependence,  disaster 
risk  management  is  a  matter  of  global  concern,  as  the 
impact  of  a  disaster  in  one  region  adversely  affects 
others.  Bangladesh  has  advanced  considerably  in  the 
field of comprehensive disaster management. We stand 
ready 
to  share  our  experience,  which  has  been 
internationally  recognized  as  the  best-practice  model. 
The  United  Nations  must  gear  its  efforts  to  introduce 
weather  insurance  and  weather  derivatives  to  manage 
the  risks  of  natural  disasters,  especially  in  developing 
countries. 

Within  weeks  of  her  assumption  to  power  five 
years ago with a massive mandate from our people, the 
Government  of  Prime  Minister  Begum  Khaleda  Zia 
launched  a  reform  programme  to  restore  discipline  in 
our country. Thanks to our relentless efforts, we could 
accelerate  the  growth  momentum  remarkably  without 
destabilizing our macroeconomic fundamentals. 

After maintaining a growth rate of 6 per cent for 
the past five years, we expect a growth rate of 6.7 per 
cent  this  fiscal  year,  against  the  backdrop  of  a  global 
economic  slowdown.  Given  natural  disasters,  political 
unrest and many external shocks — such as the global 
economic  recession,  the  phasing  out  of  the  Multifibre 
Arrangement  and  the  oil  price  hike  —  that  affect  our 
economies, that is a remarkable achievement. 

Keeping  our  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Declaration, we have already achieved two Millennium 
Development Goals by ensuring access to safe drinking 
water  and  removing  gender  disparity  in  primary  and 
secondary  education.  Enrolment  in  primary  education 
has  been  ensured  for  97  per  cent  of  our  children.  Of 
course,  there  is  no  complacency  on  our  part  and  we 
06-53341 


know  that  we  should  try  to  achieve  100  per  cent 
enrolment in our primary schools. 

Apart  from  those  achievements,  Bangladesh  has 
achieved  remarkable  success  in  the  reduction  of  child 
and  maternal  mortality  and  malnutrition  and 
in 
improving  food  security.  We  have  begun  channelling 
resources  to  targeted  programmes  in  the  light  of  our 
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper.  Our  development 
efforts,  however  sincere,  will  not  reach  their  goals  or 
even see the light of day unless they are complemented 
by international support. 

Bangladesh  has  been  pursuing  meaningful 
regional  cooperation  to  improve  the  socio-economic 
conditions  of  South  and  South-East  Asia.  As  the 
current  Chair  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation  and  as  members  of  the  Bay  of 
Bengal  Initiative  for  Multi-Sectoral  Technical  and 
Economic Cooperation, the Asia Cooperation Dialogue 
and  the  Developing  Eight  Countries,  Bangladesh  has 
demonstrated  its  commitment  to  working  with  other 
countries  of  the  region.  We  are  working  in  total 
harmony  with  the  nations  of  our  region.  Our  recent 
partnership  in  the  Regional  Forum  of  the  Association 
of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  bears  testimony  to  our 
commitment. 

The present Government will complete its tenure 
towards  the  end  of  next  month  and  will  hand  over 
power to a neutral caretaker Government in accordance 
with the provisions of the Constitution. We very much 
hope  to  return  to  work  again  with  the  General 
Assembly.  We  have  had  peaceful  transfers  of  power 
over  the  past  three  elections  under  neutral  caretaker 
Governments when the voters exercised their franchise 
freely and without fear or intimidation. The system has 
worked  and  has  been  accepted  by 
the  people. 
Democracy has taken firm root in our country and the 
next general election will be one more opportunity for 
the  people  to  demonstrate  that  they  are  the  ultimate 
source of power. 

together for a better tomorrow for future generations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Talbak  Nazarov, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Tajikistan. 
Mr.  Nazarov  (Tajikistan)  (spoke  in  Russian):  It 

gives  me  great  pleasure 
the  warm 
congratulations  to  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa 
I  end  with  the  assurance  that  we  will  work 
join 
to 
in 
A/61/PV.19
and 
as 
the  universal 
Tajikistan  also  welcomes 
upon  her  assumption  of  the  office  of  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  We  are 
confident  that  her  extensive  professional  and  life 
experience will be instrumental in addressing the issues 
faced by the General Assembly. 

the  accession  of 
Montenegro  to  the  United  Nations.  On  this  occasion, 
on  behalf  of  the  Government  of  our  country,  I  would 
like  to  extend  our  sincere  congratulations  to  the 
Government and people of that friendly State. 
A  year  has  passed  since  the  historic  Summit 

confirmed  the  common  views  of  the  international 
community  on  the  key  issues  of  our  time  and  on  the 
United  Nations 
international 
Organization  whose  goals  and  objectives  are  focused 
on the collective search for answers to the questions of 
concern  to  the  entire  international  community.  The 
leaders  of  our  States  declared 
that  only  strict 
compliance  with 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  a 
comprehensive  collective  approach  and  mutual  trust 
can ensure international security and development. The 
latest  developments  in  the  Middle  East  have  proved 
once again the need to enhance the coordinating role of 
the  United  Nations  in  addressing  global  and  regional 
issues. 

Tajikistan is in favour of further strengthening the 
United  Nations  and  lends  its  overall  support  to  the 
process of its ongoing reform. As for Security Council 
reform, it should be undertaken by consensus, with due 
consideration for the interests of all Member States. 
We believe that it was broad consensus that made 

possible such major accomplishments as the holding of 
the  first  session  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
launching  of 
the 
establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund.  Of  special  importance  was  the  establishment  of 
the Peacebuilding Commission, whose objective is also 
to  sustain  peace  and  development  in  post-conflict 
countries.  
The  Government  of  Tajikistan  was  among  those 

that  actively  advocated 
the  establishment  of  an 
efficient United Nations body of that kind — one that 
would  focus  on  issues  of  coordination  and  targeted 
support  for  countries  emerging  from  armed  conflict. 
Tajikistan’s painful but ultimately successful transition 
from civil war to peace convincingly demonstrated the 
need for an international peacebuilding agency to assist 
the  Security  Council  and  other  United  Nations  bodies 
the  Democracy  Fund 
06-53341 

11 
are 
of 
are 

their 
aware 
institutions 
the  State.  The 
A/61/PV.19 

in  their  efforts  to  accelerate  the  rehabilitation  of 
countries emerging from crisis and to create guarantees 
for the non-recurrence of such conflicts. 

Stable  peace  prevails  in  Tajikistan  today,  and 
national accord and respect for political pluralism have 
been  achieved.  The  complex  process  of  establishing 
democracy  is  under  way,  and  all  political  forces 
involved 
ever-increasing 
responsibility for the fate of our country. In compliance 
with  the  Constitution  and  valid  legal  procedures,  new 
effective  Government 
being 
successfully  built.  Respect  for  the  law  is  increasingly 
the  rule  rather  than  the  exception.  Civil  society  is 
developing  at  an  accelerated  pace.  Citizens  determine 
their  own  destiny  through  active  participation  in  the 
life  of 
forthcoming  presidential 
elections,  scheduled  for  November  2006,  will  be  an 
important milestone on the road towards peace and will 
open a new page in the history of the establishment of 
Tajik statehood. 

In Tajikistan, as in the majority of United Nations 
Member  States,  the  issue  of  sustainable  development 
ranks  among  our  top  priorities.  Today,  we  are  fully 
aware  of  how  instrumental  the  United  Nations  agenda 
has  been  in  enhancing  sustainable  development  and 
eradicating  poverty,  epidemics,  famine  and  illiteracy 
the  world  over. At  the  same  time,  the  implementation 
of a large-scale programme to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals  will  require  not  only  extra  effort, 
but  also  considerable  financing.  In  that  regard,  we 
expect 
the 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development. 

In  that  connection,  we  highly  value  the  outcome 
of  the  United  Nations  High-level  Dialogue  recently 
held in New York, which helped States concerned with 
issues  of  migration  to  reach  constructive  mutual 
understanding.  Migration  has  been  an  issue  of  vital 
importance  to  our  country  since  the  outbreak  of  the 
civil  war,  when  a  part  of  the  Tajik  population  had  to 
leave the country. I would like to emphasize the special 
role  and  capacity  of 
in 
strengthening  international  cooperation  in  the  field  of 
migration and development. In this regard, Tajikistan is 
resolved  to  achieve  as  much  progress  as  possible  in 
implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  In  recent  years,  tangible  progress  has  been 
achieved  in  the  implementation  of  a  number  of  goals, 
the  United  Nations 
the  work  of 
tangible 
results 
from 
services  and 
favourable  conditions 
in 
and the foundation has been laid for enhancing efforts 
in this area. 

But  long-term  stability  in  Central  Asia  in  the 
years  to  come  is  inseparable  from  the  development  of 
regional integration.  

Currently,  vast  opportunities  are  emerging  in  the 
Central Asian  region  for  the  implementation  of  large-
scale  economic  projects,  the  creation  of  a  unified 
market  of  commodities  and 
the 
establishment  of  conditions  for  attracting  capital 
investment. Potential foreign investors see Central Asia 
as a single entity; and, primarily, as a common market. 

Economic  integration  will  become  a  powerful 
factor in the sustainable development of the region and 
will  bring  about  the  reduction  of  poverty  and  the 
improvement of well-being. For this reason, Tajikistan 
will continue to stand for strengthening of ties and the 
expansion  of  mutually  advantageous  cooperation 
among the States of the region. 
The  current  positive  processes  in  Afghanistan 

regional 
also  create 
cooperation 
transportation  and 
communication projects which will provide the region 
with  access  to  the  southern  seaports.  The  creation  of 
new multi-modal transport corridors and the revival of 
the  Great  Silk  Road  routes  will  form  a  unified 
interconnected system of communications and make it 
possible  for  Central  Asian  States  to  gain  access  to 
promising markets. 

It  is  also  obvious  that  in  many  respects  the 
attainment  of 
the  MDGs  depends  on  assistance 
rendered by the international community to developing 
countries. Tajikistan joins the request addressed to the 
donor  community  to  at  least  double  the  amount  of 
assistance  provided  for  the  purposes  of  long-term 
development.  The  process  of  exchanging  the  debts  of 
developing  countries  for  national  projects  in  the  field 
of sustainable development remains an urgent issue. 

One of our planet’s major assets is the fresh water 
indispensable  for  sustaining  life.  Our  common  goal  in 
this respect is to develop qualitatively new patterns for 
the sustainable management of water resources and for 
addressing  water-related  economic 
the 
national, regional and international levels. This can be 
achieved through a combination of appropriate support 
from the international community and national efforts, 
implementing 
issues  at 
for 
12 

06-53341 
the 
for 
countries 
international 
cooperation  with 


with  the  leading  role  being  played  by  countries  and 
regions faced with the water-resource problems. 

In this regard, Tajikistan hopes for the continued 
active  involvement  of  the  Member  States  in  the 
activities  of  the  International  Decade  for  Action, 
“Water  for  Life”,  2005-2015,  including  the  successful 
holding  of  the  International  Freshwater  Forum  in 
Dushanbe  in  2010.  In  order  to  coordinate  activities  in 
this  area  the  Government  of  Tajikistan  is  establishing 
the National Water Committee. It will monitor progress 
and develop effective ways of attaining the goals of the 
water Decade at the national, regional and global levels 
through 
and 
international  organizations  concerned.  Our  efforts  in 
the  area  of  water  are  part  and  parcel  of  the  strategic 
programme for the attainment of the MDGs. 
It  is  well  known  that  international  terrorism, 

transnational  organized  crime  and 
illegal  drug 
trafficking obstruct sustainable development. Tajikistan 
believes  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  Security 
Council  provide  a  unique  opportunity 
the 
development  and  implementation  of  joint  measures  to 
confront 
the  narcotics 
threat. We entirely support the report of the Secretary-
General 
terrorism: 
entitled 
recommendations 
for  a  global  counter-terrorism 
strategy”,  and  we  view  the  outlined  principles  for 
confronting  new  challenges  and 
risks  as  major 
instruments for counteracting those threats. 

The  response  of  the  international  community  to 
the  complex  strategic  threat  of  terrorism  must  also  be 
comprehensive.  The  community  of  nations  must 
intensify its efforts to counteract the instigation of acts 
of  terror,  the  spread  of  terrorism  ideology,  extremism 
and  separatism,  religious  and  ethnic  intolerance  and 
hostility, and the financing of terrorism. 

Universalizing  and  improving  an  international 
legal framework to counter terrorism remains an urgent 
issue. The speedy approval of the draft comprehensive 
convention  on  international  terrorism  will  serve  the 
interests  of  all  countries  and  peoples  in  the  United 
Nations community. Tajikistan will continue to support 
the  strengthening  of  the  United  Nations  as  the  core 
institution in this area. 

The  global  system  for  counteracting  terrorism 
currently  being  shaped  cannot  be  established  without 
the 
subregional 
organizations. This should be taken into account when 
involvement  of 
terrorism  and 
“Uniting 
against 
regional 
and 
A/61/PV.19
at 
an 
said 
aimed 
combating 
It  must  be 
efficient  global  partnership 
any 
adopting  measures 
manifestations  of  extremism  and  violence  at 
the 
regional  and  global  levels.  We  regard  participation  of 
regional  structures  in  this  process  as  one  of  the  major 
prerequisites  for  ensuring  collective  security.  Among 
the  structures  of  this  nature  in  our  region  are  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  the  Collective 
Security  Treaty  Organization  and 
the  Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization. 

We  believe  that  long-term  success  in  combating 
terrorism  and  religious  extremism  depends  on  the 
elimination of the deep-rooted causes of these negative 
phenomena,  generated  by 
social  and  economic 
problems  in  the  society.  Prevention  of  illegal  drug 
trafficking,  which,  to  a  certain  extent,  serves  as  a 
breeding ground for terrorism and international crime, 
must  become  part  and  parcel  of  our  common  struggle 
against  terrorism.  In  this  regard  I  would  like  to 
reiterate  that  Tajikistan  is  prepared  to  continue  a 
constructive  dialogue and  cooperation  with the  aim  of 
establishing 
to 
counteract the narcotics threat. 

that  current  efforts  at 
counteracting  the  narcotics  threat  are  not  sufficiently 
effective. For this reason, we believe that financial and 
technical  assistance  to  Afghanistan,  to  be  rendered 
within  targeted  programmes,  and  the  creation  of  a 
modern, efficient and capable Afghan border service to 
safeguard  the  external  borders,  including  the Afghan-
Tajik  border,  would  be  a  worthy  application  of  the 
efforts  of  the  international  community  in  this  area. 
Also, within the anti-narcotics partnership, we suggest 
enhanced  interaction  with  the  Afghan  structures  with 
the purpose of adopting joint measures to prevent drug 
trafficking  across  the  Afghan-Tajik  border.  We  are 
convinced  that  these  measures  could  serve  as  a  basis 
for  the  proposed  establishment  of  the  first  section  of 
the  security  belt  around  Afghanistan.  Involvement  in 
the  constructive  process  of  Afghanistan’s  neighbours 
and  factoring  in  the  regional  aspects  of  the  post-
conflict rehabilitation of that country may well be key 
to  the  success  of  the  efforts  undertaken  by  the 
international community. 
Today,  the  regional  dimension  becomes  one  of 

the  key  factors  of  long-term  development.  Broad  and 
constructive  regional  economic  cooperation  in  Central 
Asia,  which  possesses  considerable  natural  resources, 
is of particular importance at the present juncture. We 
believe  that  achieving  that  goal  could  enable  Central 
06-53341 

13 
it 
The 
scale  of 
facing 

its 
security, 
challenges 
responsible 
imperfections, 
the  Organization 
A/61/PV.19 

Asia to become self-sufficient in terms of energy, fuel 
and  food  supply  and  a  dynamic,  developing  region  of 
the  world. Therefore,  we  believe  that  the  achievement 
of the MDGs should hold a place in the new structure 
of global security currently being shaped, and become 
one  of  the  tools  for  addressing  new  challenges  and 
threats.  Today,  as  never  before, 
is  becoming 
increasingly obvious that a security policy needs to be 
integrated into development. 

the 
the 
international  community  dictates  the  need  to  further 
strengthen our Organization. There is no doubt that we 
must do everything we can to make the United Nations 
more  effective  in  dealing  with  issues  of  international 
security. The  collective  approach should  keep us from 
making  hasty  and  emotional  decisions,  since  we  are 
dealing  with 
for 
collective 
sustainable  development  and 
protection  of  human  rights.  It  is  with  the  United 
Nations,  despite  some  of 
that 
humanity places its hope for a peaceful and just world 
order,  for  tangible  achievements  in  the  fields  of 
combating poverty and natural disasters. A responsible 
attitude  towards  the  United  Nations  is  in  the  interests 
of each and every Member State. 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Vladimir  Norov,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uzbekistan.  
Mr.  Norov  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

While acknowledging the unique and irreplaceable role 
played  by  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs, 
one  still  has  to  recognize  the  need  to  reform  this 
institution  according  to  present-day  realities.  Let  me 
briefly dwell upon our vision of these reforms. 
It  is  necessary  to  significantly  increase  the 

efficiency  of  the  United  Nations  management,  which 
must  set  itself  realistic  and  feasible  objectives  and 
rapidly  respond  to  challenges  and  threats.  The  reform 
of  the  Organization  must  reflect  the  principles  of 
sovereign  equality  and  non-interference  in  internal 
affairs  and  strengthen  the  equal  cooperation  between 
States.  It  must  be  based  upon  the  principles  of  broad 
international consensus. 
The  General  Assembly  needs  to  concentrate  on 

designing  constructive  ways  of  addressing 
the 
problems of  regional  and global security, which affect 
the  interests  of  the  majority  of  the  Member  States. 
Much  attention  should  be  given  to  questions  of  post-
the 
ability 
to  meet 
conflict  rehabilitation  and  combating  terrorism.  The 
United  Nations  should  assume  a  coordinating  role  in 
these  spheres  using  the  support  of  all  Member  States. 
Such  an  approach  will  contribute  to  strengthening  the 
Organization’s 
contemporary 
challenges. 

Security  Council  reform  must  ensure  the  fair 
geographical  and  regional  representation  of  both 
developed  and  developing  States  whose  authority  has 
been  acknowledged  by  the  international  community 
and who play an important role in addressing the main 
tasks facing the Organization today. 

The  international  community  is  about  to  make  a 
decision  on  an  important  issue  —  the  election  of  the 
new  Secretary-General.  Considering  the  principle  of 
rotation  and 
increasing  political  weight  and 
economic  significance  of  the  Asian  countries,  the 
Republic  of  Uzbekistan  fully  supports  the  view  that  a 
representative from the Asian group should assume that 
post.  We  support  the  candidature  of  the  Minister 
forForeign Affairs and Trade of South Korea, Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon.  
The  international  community  places  its  hopes  on 

the newly established Human Rights Council, which is 
called upon to improve the work of the United Nations 
in the field of human rights. It is important not to allow 
the  Council  to  be  used  as  a  tool  for  promoting  the 
interests of certain countries to the detriment of others. 
Only  by  stopping  the  practice  of  double  standards, 
politicization  and  confrontation  can  we  turn  that  body 
into  the  forum  for  equal  and  open  dialogue,  enjoying 
the trust of all Member States. The work of that United 
Nations  body  must  be  guided  by  objective  and 
unbiased  assessment  of  human  rights  issues.  It  must 
assist  in  elaborating  constructive  solutions  to  all 
problems that arise, instead of being used for political 
purposes. 

The  fundamental  changes  in  today’s  world  are 
accompanied by the emergence of new challenges and 
threats.  At  present,  terrorism,  extremism  and  drug 
aggression  pose  a  great  danger  to  the  sustainable 
development of States and peoples of the world. 

Uzbekistan 
problems of security include the following points. 

Uzbekistan  firmly  supports  the  United  Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288), 
The  principal  approaches  of  the  Republic  of 
these  and  other 
towards  addressing 
14 

06-53341 
that 
the 
among 
the 
is  effective  and 
finance  and  direct 
real  progress 
funded  by 


adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  on  8  September 
2006.  Terrorism  is  not  acceptable  in  any  of  its  forms 
and  manifestations. The  fight  against  terrorism  can  be 
effective  and  efficient  only  by  eliminating  its  causes, 
the  first  of  which  is  the  ideological  and  extremist 
centres 
forces  of 
international  terrorism.  We  must  also  design  common 
approaches  to  assessing  this,  the  most  dangerous 
phenomenon of today’s world. 

A universal convention on international terrorism 
could become an effective basis for joint counteraction 
against the threat of terrorism. This instrument must be 
of  a  non-discriminatory  nature,  exclude  the  policy  of 
double  standards  and  call  upon  States  for  concerted 
action in countering the ideologies of extremism. 

Maintenance  of  regional  and  global  security  is 
not possible without establishing comprehensive peace 
and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  One  way  to  resolve  the 
Afghan  problem  and  restore  a  peaceful  and  neutral 
Afghanistan 
in 
implementing  concrete  projects, 
the 
international  community,  in  the  social,  economic  and 
humanitarian  spheres  —  those  spheres  that  can  affect 
attitudes 
long-suffering  people  of 
Afghanistan. 

A fundamental strategy review and more efficient 
coordination are required in combating one of the most 
dangerous  problems:  drug  production  and  drug 
trafficking. 

Uzbekistan,  as  an  initiator  of  a  nuclear-weapon-
free zone in the region, together with its neighbours, is 
doing  everything  possible  to  strengthen  the  global 
nuclear non-proliferation regime. On 8 September 2006 
in  Semipalatinsk,  the  Central  Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-
Free  Zone  Treat  was  signed.  That  initiative,  put 
forward  by 
the  Republic  of 
Uzbekistan,  Islam  Karimov,  is  a  concrete  contribution 
of  the  States  in  the  region  to  strengthening  the  global 
non-proliferation  process  and  also  to  creating  a  solid 
system  of  regional  security.  Uzbekistan  calls  upon 
nuclear  powers  to  accede  to  the  protocol  on  security 
guarantees  annexed  to  the  Central  Asia  Nuclear-
Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty  as  soon  as  possible.  I  wish 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  gratitude  to  the 
United  Nations  for  its  assistance  in  realizing  this 
initiative. 

Mr. Sow (Guinea), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
the  President  of 
A/61/PV.19

In  closing,  I  express  my  sincere  hope  that  the 
results  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session  will  contribute  to  the  successful 
realization of the joint efforts of the Member States in 
the  struggle  against  threats  and  challenges  to  global 
security and to furthering the peaceful development of 
peoples. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fiorenzo  Stolfi,  Minister 
for  Foreign  and  Political  Affairs  and  Economic 
Planning of the Republic of San Marino.  

Mr.  Stolfi  (San  Marino)  (spoke 
in  Italian: 
English text provided by the delegation): On behalf of 
the Government and the people of the Republic of San 
Marino,  I  wish  to  congratulate  Her  Excellency  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-first  session.  I  am 
confident that her abilities and expertise will be key to 
the success of this session. Along with my satisfaction 
on the election to such a high position of a woman after 
so many years, I add my best wishes. 

I  also  wish  to  thank  the  outgoing  President, 
Mr. Jan  Eliasson,  for  his  valuable  work  and  total 
commitment  and  resolve  in  implementing  the  reform 
programme started by the Secretary-General. 

The Republic of San Marino firmly believes that 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  needs  strengthening  in 
order 
to  operate  as 
efficiently  as  possible  and  with  optimal  coordination 
among its bodies. With special reference to the General 
Assembly, the most important decision-making body of 
the United Nations, San Marino believes that it should 
focus more closely on the actual implementation of its 
resolutions  and  create  mechanisms 
its 
decisions more binding. 

For  the  small  and  medium-sized  countries  that 
represent  the  majority  of  the  Member  States,  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly — the main and 
sometimes  only  forum  in  which  they  can  make  their 
voice  heard  —  is  essential.  Indeed,  the  General 
Assembly  is  the  organ  that  fully  implements  the 
principles of democracy and equal representation upon 
which this Organization is founded. 

There is no doubt that Security Council reform is 
the  other  major  objective  of  the  United  Nations.  San 
Marino believes that it is necessary to resume dialogue. 
In  our  opinion,  the  new  Security  Council  should  be 
the  Organization 
to  enable 
to  make 
06-53341 

15 

including 
the  achievement  of 
A/61/PV.19 

founded  upon  a  flexible  base  so  that  it  can  adjust 
appropriately  to  future  changes.  The  enlargement  and 
democratization of the Council can only improve peace 
processes  and  thereby  the  defence  of  the  weakest 
Member States. 

San  Marino  also  expresses  its  deep  satisfaction 
with the new Human Rights Council, which is already 
fully  operational.  We  hope  that  there  will  be  a  clear 
division  of  tasks  between  the  Human  Rights  Council 
and the General Assembly in order to avoid duplication 
and  ensure  complementarity  and  efficiency 
in  a 
balanced relationship and mutual independence. 

San  Marino  followed  with  great  interest  the 
intense negotiations leading to the adoption on 30 June 
of  the  resolution  on  the  follow-up  to  the  2005  World 
Summit, 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  and  fully  endorses  the  call  of  the  President  of 
the Assembly  to  focus  attention  at  this  general  debate 
on  setting  up  a  global  partnership  for  development. 
That goal is a fundamental step towards the eradication 
of  poverty  and 
the  other 
Millennium  Goals.  To  do  so,  however,  cooperation  at 
all levels is essential and San Marino is ready to make 
its own concrete contribution. 

The development goals are also the key points of 
the  programme  that  San  Marino  will  present  when  it 
assumes 
the  Committee  of 
Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe  in  mid-November. 
During its chairmanship, which is extremely important 
to  the  Republic,  San  Marino  will  also  address  other 
global  issues,  such  as  intercultural  and  interreligious 
dialogue. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino,  in  line  with  its 
centuries-old history of peace, democracy and freedom, 
is  particularly  sensitive 
today’s 
international context characterized by growing tensions 
and  violent  contrasts,  to  promote  dialogue  among 
cultures  and  religions  based  on  respect  for  diversity 
and universally recognized human rights. 

the 
determination  of  the  Government  and  institutions  of 
San  Marino  to  guarantee  all  possible  support  to  the 
international  community  for  the  achievement  of  those 
objectives.  It  is  in  that  spirit  that  my  country  has 
consistently  demonstrated  its  solidarity  with  the  most 
disadvantaged  people  and  circumstances  and  has 
acceded  to  legal  instruments  particularly  important  to 
international 
the  promotion  and  achievement  of 
the  chairmanship  of 
the  need, 
reiterate 
I  wish 
regard, 
that 
In 
to 
in 
to 
the  Assembly  on 
the  search  for  dialogue  and 
the  principles  of 
the 
cooperation 
in 
affirmation  of 
tolerance  and 
understanding.  Thus,  intercultural  and  interreligious 
dialogue constitutes the basis of any peace process and 
the most powerful tool to reject all forms of extremism, 
which  unfortunately,  as  we  know,  often  turns  into 
terrorism. 

During  our  chairmanship  of  the  Committee  of 
Ministers,  to  begin  in  November,  I  will  seek  to 
organize  a  meeting  with 
that 
important subject. 

In that context, we cannot but think of the Middle 
East, in particular the situation in Lebanon, where the 
United  Nations  is  committed  to  a  new  difficult  peace 
mission,  which  we  sincerely  hope  will  have  a 
successful  outcome.  Only  a  year  ago,  San  Marino 
expressed from this rostrum its confidence and hope in 
the  peace  process  and  in  the  good  will  of  the  parties 
involved  in  the  protracted  conflict.  After  a  series  of 
violent  attacks,  mostly  against  civilians  and  innocent 
people,  as  always,  the  only  achievement  so  far  has 
been  an  unstable  ceasefire.  To  help  alleviate  that 
suffering,  San  Marino  has  decided,  in  line  with  its 
centuries-old  tradition  of  solidarity,  to  offer  a  special 
contribution for humanitarian aid in Lebanon. 

San Marino has welcomed with great satisfaction 
the establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission as 
the 
to  post-conflict 
situations. The history of  my country is deeply rooted 
in  the  values  of  peaceful  coexistence  among  all 
peoples,  and 
the  newly  elected  Government  has 
decided to include in its programme, for the first time, 
a  specific  mandate  for  peace.  The  objective  is  to 
collaboration  with  volunteer 
promote, 
international 
associations 
by 
cooperation,  any  useful 
to  affirm  and 
safeguard that important objective. 

Therefore,  the  institutions  of  San  Marino,  in 
response  to  the  United  Nations  appeal,  decided  to 
celebrate 
International  Day  of  Peace  on 
21 September.  That  occasion  was  also  marked  by  the 
opening of a public subscription to raise funds for the 
victims of conflicts to be devolved to the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 

My  country  will  guarantee  its  active  support  for 
the  Pan-European  Campaign  on  Violence  against 
Women, in particular domestic violence, which will be 
launched  during  San  Marino’s  chairmanship  of  the 
supporting 
initiative 
institutional 
in 
and 
response 
ideal 
also 
the 
16 

06-53341 
international  convention  on 


Committee  of  Ministers  of  the  Council  of  Europe,  in 
parallel  with  the  celebration  of  the  International  Day 
for 
the  Elimination  of  Violence  against  Women. 
Moreover,  it  will  strongly  support  the  development  of 
the Council of Europe programme “Building a Europe 
for and with Children”. 

Another  particularly  important  occasion  will  be 
the  participation  of  San  Marino  in  the  United  Nations 
Global Youth Leadership Summit, which will examine 
the contribution of young people to the achievement of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  with  particular 
reference  to  sport,  development  and  peace,  and  will 
provide  the  youth  organizations  with  the  necessary 
guidelines for future action. 

San  Marino  greatly  appreciates  the  successful 
outcome  of  the  work  of  the  group  established  to  draft 
the  protection  of 
an 
persons  with  disabilities.  Indeed,  my  country 
is 
becoming  increasingly  aware  of  and  attentive  to  the 
problems and rights of disabled people. In this regard, 
only  two  weeks  ago,  the  San  Marino  Parliament 
approved  an  agenda  inviting  the  Government  to  sign 
and  ratify  the  Convention  as  soon  as  possible  and  to 
take  measures  in  support  of  the  principles  contained 
therein. 

Let me underscore how, despite all the difficulties 
and divisions, the United Nations still demonstrates its 
ability  to  put  in  place  all  initiatives  and  activities 
which  are  at  the  core  of  its  very  existence.  It  is, 
therefore,  a duty for all States to keep  alive the flame 
of  ideals  and  the  determination  that  constitute  the 
foundations  of  the  Organization’s  identity  and,  at  the 
same time, the crucial point of reference for all of our 
actions, both at the national level and also in terms of 
international cooperation. 

this  conviction,  and  strongly 
committed to guaranteeing a constant and constructive 
contribution, we would like to express our best wishes 
to the President, to the Secretary-General — to whom 
we reiterate our most sincere appreciation and highest 
esteem  for  his  dedicated  commitment  during  these 
years  at  the  helm  of  the  United  Nations  —  and  to  all 
colleagues  and  representatives  who  share  the  same 
conviction. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Saleh Said Meky, 
Minister of Health of Eritrea. 
Prompted  by 
A/61/PV.19
Mr.  Meky
(Eritrea):  On  behalf  of 
the 

Government and people of the State of Eritrea, I avail 
myself  of  this  opportunity  to  extend  to  Ms.  Haya 
Rashed Al-Khalifa, and to the Government and people 
of the Kingdom of Bahrain, my sincere congratulations 
on her election as President of the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-first  session.  I  also  wish  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson  of  Sweden,  who 
presided over the sixtieth session of the Assembly, for 
his  dedication  and  skilful  leadership  during  the  past 
year. 
For reasons of brevity, I do not wish to dwell on 

generic 
themes  of  global  economic  development, 
United Nations reforms and other issues of interest that 
have  been  addressed  comprehensively  by  many 
speakers  with  whom  we  share  similar  views.  I  shall 
instead  focus  on  cardinal  issues  of  peace  and  security 
that  remain  of  paramount  importance  to  my  country 
and the Horn of Africa region as a whole. 

In  this  respect,  allow  me,  Sir,  to  bring  to  the 
attention  of  this  Assembly,  for  the  umpteenth  time, 
Ethiopia’s reckless flouting of international law that is 
threatening  peace  and  security  in  our  region.  It  is 
painful for my Government to harp on the same theme 
at every Assembly session for the past four years. But 
these are the sad facts of a perilous reality imposed on 
my  country.  In  the  event,  we  are  duty  bound  to  press 
for  and  exhaust  all  legal  processes  to  stave  off 
dangerous consequences before it is too late. 

As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  demarcation  of  the 
boundary between Eritrea and Ethiopia remains stalled, 
more  than  four  years  after  the  legal  award,  owing  to 
Ethiopia’s rejection of the final and binding arbitration 
decision.  Ethiopia’s  conduct  is  contrary  to  the  terms 
and conditions of the Algiers Peace Agreement. Indeed, 
article 4.15 of the Agreement stipulates as follows: 


“The parties agree that the delimitation and 
demarcation  determinations  of  the  Commission 
shall  be  final  and  binding.  Each  Party  shall 
respect  the  border  so  determined,  as  well  as  the 
territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  of  the  other 
party”. 
It  must  be  stressed  that  there  is  no  equivocation 

or  ambiguity 
this 
Agreement. Yet,  Ethiopia  has  violated  the  core  of  the 
Algiers  Peace  Agreement  with  impunity.  And,  it  has 
continued  to  occupy,  by  force,  the  sovereign  territory 
of  a  United  Nations  Member  State  for  the  past  four 
the  general  provisions  of 
in 
06-53341 

17 
A/61/PV.19 

years,  in  violation  of  that  Agreement  and  Article  2, 
paragraph 4, of the United Nations Charter. 
How and why did this happen? 


To  single  out  Ethiopia  as  the  primary  and  only 
culprit would be missing the forest for the woods. The 
fact  is  that  Ethiopia  has  neither  the  power  nor  the 
political skill to defy international law for even a single 
day, let alone for four long years. If it has done so for 
the  past  four  years,  it  is  simply  because  its  unlawful 
conduct has been, and continues to be, encouraged and 
supported by certain Powers in the Security Council. 

This  poignant  state  of  affairs  is  best  exemplified 
by  the  following  three  instances.  First,  when  three 
years  ago, 
in  September  2003,  Ethiopia’s  Prime 
Minister sent an ominous letter to the Security Council 
announcing  his  Government’s  blatant  rejection  of  the 
Boundary Commission decision and calling for a “new 
mechanism”  outside  the  Commission  to  overrule  the 
legal  award,  the  Secretary-General  and  the  Council 
chose  to  accommodate  Ethiopia’s  unlawful  conduct. 
This  happened  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  Council  is 
the main guarantor of the Algiers Peace Agreement and 
has  treaty  obligations  to  maintain  the  integrity  of  the 
legal  decision.  It  must  be  recalled  that  the  Council  is 
explicitly  empowered,  by  article  14  of  the  same 
agreement,  to  invoke  Chapter  VII  of  the  United 
Nations Charter to ensure compliance by the parties. 

As  it  happened,  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
Council  opted  for  the  wrong  path  and  appointed  a 
Special Envoy, in contravention of the legal agreement. 
The demarcation process has thus been stymied for the 
past 
the 
international community and inestimable cost in terms 
of  lost  opportunity  and  heightened  tension  for  the 
peoples of Eritrea and Ethiopia. 

this  Special  Envoy  scheme 
proved  unworkable,  the  United  States  Government 
employed  its  full  diplomatic  clout  to  unlawfully  alter 
and modify the legal Award under the rubric of a “new 
initiative”. This time around, the United States dropped 
all  pretensions  of  influencing  the  demarcation  process 
from  without,  through  an  external  envoy  wearing  a 
United  Nations  mantle.  The  current  plan  consists  of 
directly  planting  a  senior  expert  as  an  adjunct  to  the 
Boundary  Commission  and  bestowing  on  him  wide 
powers 
the  process  of 
demarcation. 
four  years  at  huge 
Secondly,  when 
financial  cost 
to 
to  alter 
the  decision 
in 

to  solicit 

Washington’s  package  further  envisages  creating 
a  new  and  political  appellate  body  —  outside  the 
Boundary  Commission  —  to  accommodate  Ethiopia’s 
additional  requests  in  case  of  dissatisfaction  with  the 
“alterations”  that  would  be  implemented  through  the 
services of the expert. This United States “diplomatic” 
scheme, which in effect renders  fundamental tenets of 
the Algiers  Peace Agreement  null  and  void,  has  been 
tailored  to  fully  address  Ethiopia’s  request  for  an 
extrajudicial mechanism when it rejected the Boundary 
Commission decision in September 2003. 

From  the  foregoing,  one  can  only  surmise  that 
Ethiopia’s  original  rejection  of  the  award  must  have 
been tacitly supported by Washington from the outset. 
The  United  States  Government  has  even  resorted  to  a 
series  of  measures  against  my  Government  with  the 
apparent  purpose  of  furthering  this  aim.  In  this 
connection, I wish to refer particularly to the seizure of 
financial  and  other  assets  of  our  Embassy 
in 
Washington  by  the  United  States  Homeland  Security 
Department in contravention of the Vienna Convention 
on  Diplomatic  Relations  and  to  avail  myself  of  this 
occasion  to  lodge  a  complaint  on  behalf  of  my 
the  support  of 
Government  and 
the 
international community for redress and restitution. 

the  semi-annual  and  other  periodic 
reports of the Secretariat to the Security Council have 
invariably  tended  to  downplay  Ethiopia’s  violation  of 
the  Algiers  Peace  Agreement  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  These  reports  have  often  tended  to 
apportion  equal  blame 
to  both  parties  without 
differentiation and, particularly in the last two years, to 
impugn  Eritrea  alone.  In  this  regard,  Security  Council 
resolution  1640  (2005),  which  the  Security  Council 
adopted  in  December  last  year,  went  so  far  as  to 
threaten  imposing  punitive  measures  against  Eritrea, 
ostensibly for curbing the freedom of movement of the 
United  Nations  Mission 
in  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea 
(UNMEE),  while  overlooking  Ethiopia’s  refusal  to 
accept  unconditionally  the  final  and  binding  decision 
of the Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission (EEBC).  

This  unlawful  conduct  by  Ethiopia  is  indeed 
threatening  to  unravel  the  peace  process  as  a  whole. 
We can also cite various instances in which the United 
Nations  Secretariat  went  out  of  its  way  to  downplay 
unacceptable  excesses  and  infringements  of  Eritrea’s 
sovereignty  by  UNMEE  staff  and 
to  blame  my 
Government  instead  of  taking  appropriate  remedial 
the  huge  annual 
measures.  Incidentally,  whether 
Thirdly, 
18 

06-53341 
that  requires 


financial  outlays  for  the  sustenance  of  UNMEE  are 
really  justified  and  provide  value  for  money  spent 
remains  a  critical  matter 
thorough 
scrutiny and auditing. 

For us, these concerted unwarranted acts belie an 
overarching  theme.  The  solemn  pledges  that  we  have 
heard on this podium from leaders of major Powers on 
upholding international justice and the rule of law, like 
the  collective  commitments  to  prevent  and  resolve 
conflicts and avoid humanitarian disasters, ring hollow 
at the altar of reality. When the chips are down, major 
Powers,  and  especially  the  United  States,  continue  to 
pursue  their  perceived  narrow  interests  at  the  expense 
of regional peace and security and the sovereign rights 
of nations and peoples. 

Be this as it may, my Government is determined 
not  to  allow  the  legal  process  to  be  derailed  through 
various subtle subterfuges. Let me recall that Eritrea’s 
right of independence was compromised by the United 
Nations  in  the  1950s  —  during  the  period  of African 
decolonization  —  to  serve  the  interests  of  the  United 
States.  Half  a  century  later,  we  shall  not  allow  any 
encroachment of our territorial integrity.  

In addition, as my Government underlined during 
the last meeting of the Boundary Commission, first, the 
award  that  is  “final  and  binding”  in  accordance  with 
the  Algiers  Peace  Agreement  should  not  be  tampered 
with  under  any  circumstances.  In  this  connection, 
Ethiopia’s  acceptance  of 
the  decision  must  be 
ascertained  publicly  and  unequivocally.  Secondly,  the 
details and modalities of demarcation must be worked 
out  in  an  environment  that  is  free  from  political 
interference,  unlawful  and  compounding  mechanisms, 
and loopholes susceptible to distortion. 
Allow me now to briefly dwell on the dangerous 

developments  that  are  unfolding  in  Somalia  and  the 
muddled  interpretations,  both  deliberate  and  innocent, 
that  have  gained  currency  in  recent  months.  We  must 
recognize  that  the  current  crisis  in  Somalia  derives 
from  multifaceted  and  cumulative  underlying  causes 
that have been in place for the past 15 years. Collective 
or  individual  initiatives  that  will  be  taken  to  promote 
enduring  peace  and  stability 
in  Somalia  must 
accordingly  address  the  following  parameters  if  they 
are to bear fruit. 

is 
essentially  an  internal  political  problem  that  must  be 
resolved  through  negotiations  among  Somali  political 
the  daunting  problem 
in  Somalia 
First, 
A/61/PV.19
the 
Intergovernmental  Authority 
forces  themselves.  In  this  spirit,  my  Government 
welcomes  the  efforts  of  the  Sudanese  Government  to 
facilitate talks among Somali political forces. 

Secondly, the portrayal of recent developments in 
Somalia  in  terms  of  the  global  war  on  terrorism  is 
factually  untenable  and  politically  imprudent.  The 
overarching national cause of the Somali people should 
not be reduced to or lumped together with this singular 
concern. 

Thirdly,  any  external  military  intervention  will 
further  polarize  the  political  realities  of  Somalia  and 
induce  greater  conflagration.  Ethiopia’s  military 
intervention,  under  whatever  guise  or  justification,  is 
particularly  dangerous  both  for  reasons  of  historical 
animosity  and  because  of  the  events  of  the  past  few 
years. It must be understood that there is no consensus 
within 
on 
Development  (IGAD)  on  the  modalities,  timing  and 
nature of deploying foreign forces, although the matter 
was comprehensively discussed at ministerial meetings 
for the purposes of contingency planning only. We find 
the  African  Union’s  recent  call  for  deployment  of  an 
8,000-strong  peacekeeping  force  in  the  absence  of  a 
robust  framework  of  peace  unwise  and  fraught  with 
unnecessary  complications.  Its  practicality  is  also 
questionable 
the  financial  and  other 
challenges that the African Union Mission in the Sudan 
(AMIS) is grappling with in that country. 

Fourthly,  a  recent  call  by  some  forces  for  a 
selective lifting of the United Nations embargo on arms 
is unbalanced, misguided and fraught with the potential 
for dangerous consequences. Indeed, a selective lifting 
can only imperil the political process of reconciliation 
in  Somalia  and  a  durable  political  settlement  there. 
Accordingly,  appropriate  adjustments 
the  arms 
embargo  in  Somalia  can  be  contemplated  only  when 
there 
the  political 
arrangements  giving  rise  to  national  institutions  that 
have credible legitimacy and popular support. 

Fifthly,  the  challenges  for  promoting  lasting 
peace  and  stability  in  Somalia  are  formidable.  They 
will be complicated if different actors work, or are seen 
to  be  working,  at  cross  purposes.  Closer  coordination 
and  consultation  among  all  interested  players  must  be 
cultivated and structured. 

Finally, the current situation in Somalia is raising 
the  spectre  of  territorial  claims  and  disputes  between 
Somalia  and  its  neighbours.  Territorial  disputes  and 
irreversible  progress 
in  view  of 
is 
to 
in 
06-53341 

19 

like 
A/61/PV.19 

claims  can  only  be  settled  by  strict  adherence  to  the 
sanctity of colonial boundaries. 

Let me conclude by urging caution and prudence 
in the international efforts to help resolve the problems 
in  the  Sudan. The  truth  is  that  the  high  price  of  hasty 
and ill-advised policies will ultimately be borne by the 
people  of  the  Sudan  and  the  region  as  a  whole.  The 
complexities of the situation must therefore be gauged 
carefully,  and  all 
international  efforts  must  be 
harnessed to promote a robust peace package that will 
bring  about  a  lasting  solution.  Focus  on  short-term 
arrangements without an overall peace framework will 
only postpone and complicate a lasting solution. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
give the  floor to His Excellency Mr. Elmar Maharram 
oglu Mammadyarov, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): At the outset, I 

to  congratulate  Ms.  Haya  Rashed 
would 
Al-Khalifa  on  her  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
sixty-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  wish 
her every success during her tenure. 

I would like  also to  extend my sincere  thanks to 
her  predecessor,  my  good  friend  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden, for his efforts 
and  active  work  with  the  delegations  throughout  the 
last session. 

The  2005  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the 
Assembly became an important milestone in the history 
of  the  United  Nations.  It  reaffirmed  our  faith  in  the 
Organization  and  our  unwavering  interest  to  make  it 
stronger  and  effective.  I  am  pleased  to  emphasize  the 
positive moves that we have made since last September 
on  issues  such  as  development,  the  environment, 
HIV/AIDS,  Secretariat  reform,  establishment  of  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund 
the 
Peacebuilding Fund.  

The  founding  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and 
the  Human  Rights  Council  are 
remarkable 
moments in the history of the United Nations. Yet more 
remains  to  be  done  to  realize  our  common  vision  of 
solidarity and collective security, which is premised on 
the shared values and principles of the Charter. 

As  we  move  towards  such  ambitious  goals,  it  is 
increasingly apparent that multilateralism with a strong 
United  Nations  at  its  core  remains  the  only  reliable 
instrument  for  maintaining  international  peace  and 
and 
Strengthening 
security,  achieving 
sustainable  development  and 
promoting  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. 

the  deliberative  and  decision-
making  authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  which 
represents the views of all Member States, is key to the 
successful  implementation  and  effectiveness  of  the 
reforms. 

Azerbaijan  believes  that  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  should  not  be  confined  to  enlargement  of  its 
membership.  We  stand  for  the  rationalization  of  the 
Council’s  working  methods,  greater  transparency  in 
decision-making,  accountability  in  performance  and 
full implementation of its resolutions. 
The  election  of  the  new  Secretary-General  is  an 

event of the utmost importance for the Organization. It 
has  already  been  revealed  to  suffer  from  a  number  of 
deficiencies  and  requires  greater  transparency  and 
inclusion  of 
the  wider  membership.  Azerbaijan 
believes  that  the  new  head  of  the  United  Nations 
should  clearly  recognize  the  trends  and  challenges 
faced by the international community at the beginning 
of the twenty-first century. 

Azerbaijan  regrets  that  the  late  response  of  the 
Security  Council  to  the  evolving  crisis  in  the  Middle 
East  allowed  the  humanitarian  tragedy  to  unfold.  In 
that regard, implementation of the measures contained 
in  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  including 
those  related  to  the  Lebanese  Government’s  seven-
point peace plan, is very important for bringing durable 
peace  to  the  Middle  East. Azerbaijan  will  continue  its 
efforts  to  contribute  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
conflict  and  alleviate  the  sufferings  of  civilians  in 
Lebanon. 

I  would  like  to  express  profound  support  for  the 
States that have fallen victim to terrorist attacks. While 
strongly  condemning  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations  and  reaffirming  our  commitment  to 
jointly fight that global scourge, we register our serious 
concern  over  attempts  to  link  terrorism  to  the  Islamic 
religion, culture or people. 
There is a dire need to stop and reverse a growing 

the  world. 
tendency 
Azerbaijan, 
the 
Ministerial Council of the  Organization  of the  Islamic 
Conference  (OIC)  calls  upon  Member  States 
to 
undertake  concrete  measures  to  enhance  dialogue  and 
its  capacity  as  Chairman  of 
Islamophobia 
in 
towards 
in 
20 

06-53341 
in 
in 
those 
the  occupied 
The  situation 
to  suppressing 
in  preparation  for 


broaden  understanding  among  nations,  cultures  and 
religions  by  promoting  tolerance  and  respect  for 
freedom of religion and belief. It is of vital importance 
to raise public awareness about the tenets and values of 
Islam worldwide, including in the Muslim societies. To 
that  end,  we  plan  to  host  in  Baku  in  2007,  under  the 
aegis  of  the  OIC,  an  international  conference  on  the 
role  of  the  mass  media  in  developing  tolerance  and 
mutual understanding. 

territories  of 
Azerbaijan  has  recently  become  a  subject  of  urgent 
consideration  by  the  General  Assembly,  due  to  the 
massive  fires  occurring 
territories.  The 
Assembly adopted without a vote a resolution stressing 
the  necessity  to  conduct  an  urgent  environmental 
operation  with  a  view 
the  fires, 
overcoming their detrimental impact and rehabilitating 
the  affected  territories.  The  resolution  has  a  two-fold 
purpose.  On  the  one  hand,  it  envisages  a  number  of 
practical  steps,  including  an  assessment  of  the  short- 
and  long-term  impact  of  the  fires  on  the  environment 
as  a  step 
the  environmental 
operation, counteracting the environmental degradation 
of the region, and the rehabilitation of the fire-affected 
part  of  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan.  On  the 
other,  it  serves  as  an  unprecedented  example  of 
engaging 
the  conflict,  particularly 
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan,  in  a  joint  environmental 
operation to be carried out directly in the fire-affected 
zone.  The 
the  resolution  will 
contribute  to  establishing  an  atmosphere  of  trust  and 
confidence  and  will  give  positive  impetus  to  the 
negotiation process. 

Sadly, that is the only positive development so far 
and  cannot  be  attributed  to  the  overall  situation 
concerning 
the  settlement  process.  Although  no 
substantial  progress  has  been  registered  so  far,  the 
parties and mediators have accepted the stage-by-stage 
approach in the settlement process as the only possible 
option.  Basically,  there  are  two  main  issues  on  which 
the  parties  disagree  —  the  definition  of  the  status  of 
self-rule  for  the  population  of  the  occupied  Nagorny 
Karabakh  region  and  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
forces from all the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. 

There is  a  common understanding that the status 
cannot  be  defined  today.  It  should  be  elaborated 
through  a  peaceful,  democratic  and  legal  process  with 
the direct participation and consent of both Azerbaijani 
and Armenian  communities  of  the  Nagorny  Karabakh 
implementation  of 
the  parties 
to 
A/61/PV.19
the 
to 
restoring 
return  of 
development 
intercommunal 
socio-economic 
the  next  stage  of 
region.  To  that  end,  the  Armenian  occupying  forces 
have to withdraw from the occupied territories and the 
necessary  conditions  have  to  be  in  place  to  allow  the 
secure  and  dignified 
indigenous 
Azerbaijani  displaced  persons 
the  Nagorny 
Karabakh  region  and  the  surrounding  territories  of 
Azerbaijan. 
Such  a  logical  chain  of  events  will  establish  the 

necessary  conditions  for 
the 
settlement,  which  is  normalizing  life  in  the  conflict-
affected  area, 
relations, 
launching 
and 
considering  appropriate  models  of  self-rule  for  the 
entire population of the region within Azerbaijan. 

Our  position  is  based  on  relevant  resolutions  of 
the Security Council and decisions of the Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation 
in  Europe,  which 
unequivocally demand the unconditional withdrawal of 
the  occupying  forces  from  all  occupied  territories  of 
the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  the  restoration  of  its 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  the  creation  of 
favourable conditions for the safe return of the civilian 
population, the restoration of intercommunal relations, 
and  the  elaboration  of  the  status  of  self-government 
within  a  democratic  and  legal  process,  based  on  the 
agreement of both communities of the region. 

It  is  difficult  to  hope  for  a  breakthrough  in  the 
negotiations  when  Armenia 
face-to-face 
meetings and refuses to take a constructive approach to 
solving existing problems. What is more worrisome is 
that Armenia  is  attempting  to  support  by  all  available 
means  the  separatist  regime  established  under  its 
control in the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and to 
spread myths and legends about the historical past and 
the  alleged  democratic  and  economic  achievements  of 
the  regime.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  reality  on  the 
ground proves the opposite. The Armenian community, 
which 
the  entire 
the  Nagorny  Karabakh  region  of 
population  of 
Azerbaijan, 
is 
increasingly 
the 
unrecognized  quasi-entity  due  to  worsening  living 
conditions  and  the  lack  of  any  prospect  of  economic 
and social development. 

The dynamics of development of the entire region 
are  strikingly  evident,  and  in  five  or  10  years  the 
economic  growth  of  the  region  vis-à-vis Armenia  will 
be  much  more  impressive.  It  could  be  given  a  chance 
to join ongoing regional and transnational projects, but 
the  only  remaining  part  of 
inclined 
rejects 
leave 
to 
is 
06-53341 

21 
that  was  procedural 
The  GUAM  heads  of  State, 
A/61/PV.19 

prior  to  that Yerevan  has  to  take  a  number  of  steps  to 
establish normal relations with its neighbours. 

The first plenary meetings of the Assembly under 
the  presidency  of  Sheikha  Haya  Rashed  Al-Khalifa 
were  marked  by  an  extremely  difficult  debate  over  an 
issue 
in  nature,  but  had  a 
substantial political bearing. I join my colleagues from 
the  States  members  of 
the  Georgia,  Ukraine, 
Azerbaijan, Moldova Organization for Democracy and 
Economic  Development  (GUAM)  in  commending  her 
wisdom and efforts aimed at ensuring that the rules of 
this  house  serve  the  interests  of  all  Member  States. 
Procedural  disadvantages  should  not  constrain  the 
Member  States  from  bringing  critical  issues  affecting 
their security to the attention of the Assembly. 

their  Joint 
Declaration  on  the  issue  of  conflict  settlement,  called 
upon  States  and  international  organizations  to  further 
facilitate,  within  their  competence,  conflict  settlement 
processes in the GUAM area. Therefore, the inclusion 
of the new item on conflicts in the GUAM area in the 
agenda of the General Assembly is an attempt to raise 
the  Assembly  of  dangerous 
the  awareness  of 
developments 
those  unresolved 
conflicts. 

The  pledges  we  have  made  to  promote  better 
standards of living in larger freedom nourish the  faith 
of  people  around  the  world  in  future  positive  change 
and development. Hence, there is no greater imperative 
than to fulfil the development agenda and to strengthen 
global partnership for development. 
national 

convinced 
development 
a  principal 
framework  of  development  cooperation  and  support. 
Efficiency  in  the  implementation  process  cannot  be 
achieved  unless 
targeted  at 
increasing the self-sufficiency of countries in the long 
run,  inter  alia,  through  knowledge,  capacity-building, 
infrastructure  development  and  market  access  and, 
ultimately,  by  reducing  their  dependence  on  foreign 
aid. A  favourable  global  economic  situation  remains  a 
prerequisite  for  the  success  of  national  development 
strategies, macroeconomic policies and, eventually, the 
economic  and  financial  stability  and  growth  of 
countries. 

international 
organizations should support the efforts of countries to 
improve  and  sustain  their  economic  performance.  We 
it  employs  measures 
should  be 
emerging 
from 
Azerbaijan 
is 
strategies 
Azerbaijan 
believes 
that 
in 
that 

same 
to  diversify  exports.  To  achieve 
look forward to the contribution of the United Nations 
with  a  stronger  and  more  effective  Economic  and 
Social  Council  capable  of  effectively  discharging  its 
newly assigned functions. 

Let  me  now  describe  the  economic  outlook  for 
Azerbaijan  and  its  experience  in  enhancing  growth, 
development  and  social  well-being.  In  the  light  of 
trends  in  2005,  gross  domestic  product  is  expected  to 
increase by 30.5 per cent in 2006, driven by oil and gas 
production  and  exports.  In  2006,  State  spending  has 
been increased by up to 65 per cent, a large proportion 
being spent on the public sector and infrastructure. The 
key  challenge  facing  the  Government  is  to  create  a 
favourable  environment  for  investment  in  the  non-oil 
sector  and 
this 
objective, it  must keep domestic  reforms on track and 
strive to strengthen the business environment. 

The year 2006 marked a historic moment for the 
region and beyond, with the official inauguration of the 
Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan  (BTC)  oil  pipeline.  We  are 
looking  forward  to  completion  of  the  Baku-Tbilisi-
Erzerum  natural  gas  pipeline  this  fall  and  remain 
committed to contributing to global energy security. At 
the 
actively  developing 
transregional  infrastructure  projects,  in  particular  the 
Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railroad, which has been recognized 
as  an  important  addition  to  the  East-West  and  North-
South transportation corridors. 

Last  but  not  least,  the  establishment  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  marked  a  critical  step  towards 
enhancing  the  universal  system  for  promoting  and 
protecting  human  rights  worldwide.  The  Council  has 
been  endowed  with  the  necessary  mandate  to  give 
human  rights  the  central  role  foreseen  by  the  Charter, 
and its status is that of a subsidiary body of the General 
Assembly.  We  have  to  build  effective  mechanisms, 
such  as  universal  periodic  review,  special  procedures 
and  a  complaints  procedure  within  the  Council.  As  a 
newly  elected  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Azerbaijan  reiterates  its  readiness  to  cooperate  with 
other  Member  States  in  order  to  ensure  that  the  new 
Council  becomes  an  effective  body  guided  by  the 
principles  of  universality,  objectivity  and  non-
selectivity and that it bases its activity on constructive 
and transparent dialogue and cooperation. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdurrahman 
Mohamed Shalghem, Secretary of the General People’s 
time,  we 
are 
22 

06-53341 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and 


Committee  for  Foreign  Liaison  and  International 
Cooperation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. 
Mr.  Shalghem  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  My  delegation  has  already  congratulated 
the  President  on  her  assumption  of  her  high  office.  I 
would like to reaffirm our confidence in her ability to 
accomplish  her  task  and  to  lead  our  deliberations  to  a 
successful  conclusion.  I  also  wish  to  express  our 
gratitude to her predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, Foreign 
Minister of Sweden, for his conduct of the work of the 
General Assembly during the previous session. Lastly, 
we are indebted to the Secretary-General for his efforts 
to advance the process of reform at the United Nations 
and  fulfilment  of  the  purposes  and  principles  of  its 
Charter. 

Last  year  our  efforts  were  focused  on  reform. 
Some  progress  has  now  been  made,  and  we  have 
established 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  However,  there  is  still  a 
long way to go, since any reform that does not include 
the  Security  Council  and  enhance  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly  will  be  of  little  value  and  will  not 
meet the expectations of our peoples. 

the 
Security Council has met with further encroachment by 
the  Council  on  the  functions  and  powers  with  which 
the General Assembly was endowed by the Charter.  It 
is  therefore  incumbent  on  the  Assembly  to  take 
immediate  action 
from 
to  prevent 
infringing further on its authority. 
We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  the 

permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  not  to 
hamper  the  reform  efforts  but  rather  to  promote  a 
genuine  reform  of  the  Organization.  Such  reform 
should  place  the  power  of  decision-making  in  the 
hands  of  all  members  of  the  Assembly,  a  forum  in 
which  all  States  are  entitled  to  vote.  The  Security 
Council  will  then  become  an  executive  tool  for 
implementing  the  decisions  of  the  Assembly.  We  can 
thus remedy the current situation in which the Council 
has  become  a  domineering  and  inequitable  body, 
applying  double  standards,  lacking  democracy  and 
open to abuse of the veto.  

History bears witness to the fact that the Council 
has never achieved peace and security in the world. On 
the contrary, it has served as a tool for aggression and 
wars  and  for  the  curtailment  of  peace  mechanisms. 
Consequently, it is the General Assembly, in which all 
Unfortunately,  our  quest  for  reform  of 
the  Council 
A/61/PV.19
the  peoples  of  the  world  are  represented,  that  should 
take  decisions  on  peace  and  war,  and  the  power  to 
apply  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  should  be  vested 
solely in the Assembly. The Security Council, with its 
limited  membership,  cannot  be  entrusted  with  such 
momentous decisions. 

If we fail to agree on such a change, we must find 
a  new  formula  for  granting  permanent  membership  of 
the  Council.  Permanent  membership  should  be 
conferred  on  geographical  groups  rather  than  specific 
countries. We therefore demand that the African Union 
become  a  permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
as Africa is the only continent without a permanent seat 
on the Council. 

More  than  three  decades  ago,  Libya  called  for 
abolition of the veto. It submitted draft  resolutions on 
this  subject  at  the  thirty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  six  following  sessions.  Libya  holds 
that  this  prerogative  of  the  permanent  members  is  the 
greatest  of  the  obstacles  preventing  the  Council  from 
fulfilling  its  mandate.  It  therefore  renews  its  call  for 
abolition  of  the  veto  and  urges  the  Assembly  to  take 
steps  to  restrict  use  of  the  veto  until  it  is  finally 
abolished.  Within 
the  current 
consultations on reform of the Council, we would like 
to  reaffirm  Libya’s  adherence  to  the  common African 
position  issued  by  the  Fifth  African  Union  Summit, 
held  in  Sirte,  Libya,  on  4  and  5  July  2005,  and  later 
confirmed by the Extraordinary Summit of the African 
Union, held in Addis Ababa on 4 August 2005. 

Maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
is  a  noble  goal  of  the  United  Nations.  Undoubtedly, 
general  and  complete  disarmament,  starting  with 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  constitutes  the  essential 
component  for  achievement  of 
this  goal,  which, 
however, will remain beyond reach unless all Member 
States cooperate in good faith and in a fully transparent 
manner.  Libya  has  voluntarily  abandoned  all 
its 
programmes  related  to  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
and has expressed the hope that all States in possession 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  or  programmes  for 
such weapons will follow its example. 

It  is  important  not  to  confuse  weapons  of  mass 
destruction 
non-proliferation  with 
programmes  for  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
Under  international  law,  all  States  have  the  right  to 
conduct 
scientific 
capabilities  for  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy. 
the  framework  of 
and  develop 
research 
and 
nuclear 
their 
06-53341 

23 
The 
of 
the 
Terrorism 
establishment 
is  a  phenomenon 
A/61/PV.19 

Libya  strongly  rejects  the  use  of  double  standards 
when  dealing  with  this  issue  and  the  practice  of 
discrimination  between  States  with  respect  to  nuclear 
non-proliferation. 

Peacebuilding 
Commission is an important step in promoting peace in 
countries emerging from conflict. We hope to see soon 
the achievements of this new body in Africa, where the 
African Union has been able, with the assistance of the 
international  community,  to  achieve  peace  in  several 
African countries. African peoples look forward to the 
assistance of the United Nations in the consolidation of 
peace in order to implement development programmes 
and combat poverty, disease and illiteracy. 

threatens 
international  peace  and  security.  Such  a  threat  cannot 
be countered by the action of a single State or group of 
States.  Furthermore,  it  is  a  problem  that  cannot  be 
resolved  through  attribution  to  a  particular  religion  or 
nationality.  It  is  also  shameful  and  unacceptable  to 
describe  the  legitimate  struggle  of  a  people  against 
foreign occupation as an act of terrorism. 
Libya  was  among  the  first  States  that  called  for 

coordination 
against 
international terrorism. Fifteen years ago it called for a 
special  session  of  the  General Assembly  to  study  this 
phenomenon  and  develop  measures  to  combat  it  and 
eradicate  its  root  causes.  It  is  high  time  to  respond  to 
that  call  so  that  we  can  coordinate  our  efforts,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  study  this 
phenomenon  and  reach  a  clear  definition  of  terrorism 
that distinguishes between terrorism and the legitimate 
struggle  of  peoples 
self-determination  and 
independence. 
The  change  of  the  Human  Rights  Commission 

into  the  Human  Rights  Council  reflects  the  great 
attention 
to 
enforcing  human 
rights  and  guaranteeing  basic 
freedoms. We hope that the inception of this Council’s 
work  will  constitute  a  beginning  towards  addressing 
the issues impartially and non-discriminately, free from 
selectivity  and  double  standards. We  hope  that  human 
rights  issues  will  not  be  used  as  a  means  of  pressure 
against  small  nations.  We  emphasize  that  attempts  by 
some  States  to  use  protection  of  human  rights  as  a 
pretext to interfere in the internal affairs of other States 
will  only  lead  to  the  destabilization  of  peace  and 
international  community  gives 
international 
of 
efforts 
for 
the 
that 

security,  causing  more  problems  rather  than  solving 
outstanding ones. 

Sustainable  development  is  a  major  challenge 
facing  developing  countries.  It  is  incumbent  upon  the 
United Nations to establish an international partnership 
for  development  that  aims  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  based  on 
the  activation  of 
dialogue  between  North  and  South. All  this  should  be 
done  within  the  framework  of  respect  for  sovereignty, 
equality  and  the  sharing  of  benefits,  guaranteeing  the 
achievement  of  the  agreed  goal  of  a  0.7  per  cent 
allocation  of  the  gross  national  product  of  developed 
countries  as  development  assistance  to  developing 
countries.  Furthermore,  such  a  partnership  should 
guarantee  the  appropriate  application  of  all  principles 
of  free  multilateral  trade  and  the  enforcement  of  all 
measures  related  to  special  and  preferential  treatment 
for  developing  countries,  within  the  framework  of 
World  Trade  Organization,  including  facilitating  the 
accession of developing countries to that organization. 

Countries  with  a  colonial  past  bear  the  greatest 
responsibility  for  assisting  developing  countries  as 
compensation  for  the  damage  caused  them  during  the 
colonial period. The big Powers that waged wars on the 
territories  of  developing 
countries  must  bear 
responsibility  for  demining  and  removal  of  explosive 
remnants  left  in  those  countries.  They  should  begin 
immediately 
the  necessary 
technical  equipment  for 
the 
the  rehabilitation  of 
affected lands in some of the developing countries. 

The massacres and repression that are committed 
by  Israeli  occupation  forces  in  occupied  Palestine 
against 
flagrant 
violations  of  human  rights  confirm  that  the  so-called 
peace  process  is  but  a  mirage  that  will  not  yield  any 
results,  particularly  given  the  inability  of  the  Security 
Council  to  take  any  action  to  protect  the  Palestinian 
people  and  to  compel  the  occupation  force  to  respect 
its  commitments  and  stop  its  aggression  and  crimes 
against 
therefore 
reiterates its emphasis that any proposed solutions that 
seek  to  impose  a  fait  accompli  will  not  resolve  the 
Palestinian  question,  nor  will  they  provide  peace  for 
the area. The only solution that can achieve peace is to 
guarantee the return of all Palestinian refugees to their 
homes and to establish a democratic State on the land 
of historical Palestine, in which Arabs and Jews live on 
equal  footing,  similar  to  South  Africa,  where  blacks 
and whites manage to coexist after decades of conflict 
the  Palestinian  people.  Libya 
the  Palestinian  people  and 
to  provide  maps  and 
the 
24 

06-53341 


and bloodshed. Unless that is achieved, the region will 
continue to live in a state of conflict, in which no one 
will enjoy any peace or security. 

The recent Israeli aggression against Lebanon and 
its  targeting  of  the  infrastructure  and  civilians  there 
emphasize  the  need  for  urgent  action  to  compel  the 
occupation forces to withdraw from the Sheba’a farms 
and  return  them  to  Lebanon.  Additionally,  urgent 
action  is  needed  regarding  the  withdrawal  from  and 
return  to  Syria  of  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan.  The 
Israelis  should  be  forced  to  pay  reparations  for  the 
damage  they  caused  in  Lebanon  due  to  their  brutal 
aggression. 

The  situation  in  brotherly  Iraq  is  a  cause  of 
sadness  and  concern.  It  is,  in  fact,  a  catastrophe 
brought  about  by  an  occupation  that  has  left  behind 
tens of thousands of dead and hundreds of thousands of 
wounded  and  handicapped  persons.  No  matter  how 
optimistic  we  may  be,  this  catastrophic  situation  will 
not  end  as  long  as  there  are  occupation  forces  in  the 
country,  forces  that  feed  divisions  inside  Iraqi  society 
and encourage sectarianism in Government institutions. 
We believe it is high time to stop the bloodshed in Iraq 
and  find  a  solution  to  end  the  crisis  so  that  all  Iraqis 
may  enjoy  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  their  basic 
rights,  in  a  unified  and  democratic  Iraq  enjoying  full 
sovereignty and free from foreign forces and bases. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lamin  Kaba  Bajo, 
Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of the Gambia.  

Mr.  Bajo  (Gambia):  My  delegation  extends  our 
heartiest  congratulations  to  Ms.  Al-Khalifa  on  her 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-first  session.  Her  election  signifies  a  most 
welcome rebalancing of the General Assembly towards 
greater  gender  parity  and  will  certainly  bring  a  breath 
of  fresh  air  to  our  deliberations.  We  hope  also  that  it 
will help our Organization address those issues of war, 
conflict, oppression, deprivation and terrorism that dog 
today’s  world  with  the  kind  of  compassion  and 
sensitivity  known  only  to  mothers.  I  would  like  to 
assure  her  of  my  delegation’s  fullest  cooperation  and 
support at all times. 

The outgoing President, Mr. Jan Eliasson, applied 
all  his  wisdom  and  vast  diplomatic  experience  in 
presiding  over  a  session  fraught  with  difficult  and 
exceedingly complex organizational reform issues. We 
A/61/PV.19
that 
thank  him  for  guiding  us  deep  into  the  process  and 
wish him well in his new assignment. 

We should not delude ourselves into thinking that 
reforming  the  United  Nations  is  a  task  that  can  be 
achieved  quickly.  The  issues  are  contentious  and 
multifaceted,  and  only  deep  reflection  and  determined 
negotiation  over  time  will  see  us  through.  For  this 
reason,  we  should  not  feel  disheartened  that  one  year 
after the World Summit we have still not concluded the 
process.  We  should  congratulate  ourselves  on  having 
achieved a breakthrough with the establishment of the 
Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission.  Management  reform  is  problematic,  but 
the  desire  to  achieve  it  in  a  fair  and  balanced  manner 
will  remain  a  key  demand  of  developing  countries. A 
selective  approach  to  reforming  the  Organization  will 
work  in  no  one’s  interest.  Some  reforms  are  long 
overdue and sorely needed.  

For  us  in  Africa,  Security  Council  reform  is 
urgent  and  must  be  concluded  as  soon  as  possible. 
Recent  events  have  demonstrated 
the  old 
dispensation  is  ill  equipped  to  grapple  with  the 
complexities  of  the  world  we  live  in  today.  Reform,  I 
repeat,  is  urgent  if  today’s  Security  Council  is  to  be 
seen  as  poised  to  take  on  the  new  global  peace  and 
security challenges facing mankind. 

We  are  gathered  together  at  a  time  of  great 
uncertainty  and,  for  many,  despair  because  of  our 
collective  inability  and  lack  of  will  to  abide  by  the 
guiding principles of our founding fathers. We have not 
been too successful in preventing the scourge of war or 
in addressing the factors that give rise to war.  

Rather  than  abating,  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East continues to fester and, in fact, deteriorate, as the 
Road  Map  leading  to  a  two-State  solution  to  the 
Palestinian-Israeli  problem  eludes  us  further.  My 
delegation  has  repeatedly  decried  the  lack  of  will  on 
the  part  of  the  protagonists  to  work  towards  a  speedy 
solution  to  this  problem,  which  continues  to  spawn 
many other conflicts in other regions of the world.  

It is a matter of deep regret that this world body 
watched  almost  helplessly  as  a  Member  State  — 
Lebanon — was attacked and made to suffer extensive 
destruction  to  infrastructure,  property  and  human  life. 
Although we have been able to bring about a cessation 
of hostilities, we cannot claim to have achieved peace. 
All  the  conditions  for  a  resumption  of  the  conflict 
remain  intact. We  must  address  those  conditions  more 
06-53341 

25 
to 
assist 
lands, 
its 
infrastructure,  and 
and  democratic  members  of 
community 
A/61/PV.19 

resolutely.  We  must  also  do  everything  within  our 
power  to  ensure  that  the  problem  between  Hizbollah 
and Israel does not pull in other countries of the region 
and lead to full scale war between them and Israel. The 
consequences would be disastrous for us all. 

My  delegation  condemns  in  the  strongest  terms 
Israel’s  continued  illegal  occupation  of  Palestinian 
territory  and  Arab 
intensive  military 
campaign  in  the  West  Bank  and  Gaza,  which  has 
resulted  in  untold  civilian  casualties  and  extensive 
destruction  of 
its  arrest  and 
detention of thousands of Palestinian civilians and their 
leaders.  The  Hamas  Government  in  Palestine  was 
elected democratically by the Palestinian people, who, 
by  the  tenets  of  democracy  which  we  all  claim  to 
espouse, are the only ones who may freely choose their 
leaders. Or are we to understand that this basic tenet of 
democracy should apply only if the leaders chosen are 
to  our  liking  and  meet  with  our  approval?  I  urge  all 
peace-loving 
the 
international 
the  Hamas 
Government  to  play  its  role  as  a  representative  of  its 
people  in  a  responsible,  democratic  and  dignified 
manner. 

In  Iraq,  the  unresolved  conflict  has  now  become 
uncontrollable  and  has  all  but  degenerated  into  civil 
war. We must look for imaginative ways of stabilizing 
that  situation  and  bringing  the  widespread  killings, 
destruction and suffering to an end. 

We must show leadership. Double standards have 
affected the effectiveness of our response to the peace 
and security needs of the Middle East for far too long 
and have only muddied the waters further. The people 
of  the  region  must  now  enjoy  some  respite  and  be 
given  the  space  to  pursue  their  development  in  an 
atmosphere  of  peace,  tranquillity  and  security.  It  is 
becoming  increasingly  clear  that  the  only  remaining 
honest  broker  that  can  ensure  that  this  happens  is  the 
United Nations. We must step up to the plate. 

to  be  re-
escalating.  The  United  Nations  must  join  hands  with 
the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  and  other 
partners  to  engage  all  concerned  in  dialogue,  with  a 
view  to  addressing  the  factors  that  are  driving  the 
hostilities  to  which  the  long-suffering  people  of  this 
great country are subjected. 
While  we  must  obviously  intervene  to  contain 

and arrest raging conflicts, we must not be oblivious to 
in  Afghanistan  appears 
Violence 

is 
that  which 
the  need  to  pay  equal  attention  to  nascent  conflict 
situations.  One  such  situation 
is 
prevailing across the Taiwan Strait, where the People’s 
Republic  of  China  has  openly  threatened Taiwan  with 
military  intervention,  should  it  as  much  as  express  an 
intention to declare itself independent. In addition, the 
People’s Republic of China has increased its arsenal of 
missiles  trained  on  Taiwan  to  over  800  warheads.  It 
goes without saying that a deterioration of the situation 
into  all-out  war  will  only  provoke  an  unwelcome  mix 
of responses from allies within and without the region, 
responses  that  could  cause  a  conflagration  that  would 
make the Middle East situation pale in comparison. 

In Africa,  the  good  news  is  that  peace  continues 
to  spread.  From  Sierra  Leone  and  Liberia  to  Uganda 
and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  we  are 
witnessing  a  growing  preference  for  non-violent 
approaches to conflict resolution. We should persist so 
that  this  trend  continues  and  embraces  countries  such 
as Somalia and the Sudan, with its Darfur imbroglio.  

In  Somalia,  the  central  Government  should  be 
assisted  to  stand  firmly  on  its  own  two  feet  and 
exercise  control  over  the  entire  Somali  territory.  The 
international community must take every precaution to 
prevent  Somalia  from  becoming  a  haven  for  terrorists 
and other extremists.  

In  the  case  of  the  Sudan,  my  delegation  appeals 
to  the  brotherly  people  of  that  great  country  to 
intensify dialogue with the international community in 
its  quest  for  a  resolution  of  the  Darfur  crisis.  In 
reaching a final decision on whether or not the African 
Union  Mission  in  the  Sudan  (AMIS)  should  pass  the 
baton  to  a  United  Nations  peacekeeping  force,  we  are 
certain that,  with a bit more effort on all sides, a way 
will be found out of the present impasse. 

While  we  must  all  work  in  concert  to  fight 
terrorism,  we  must  also  endeavour  not  to  lose  respect 
for fundamental human rights and civil liberties in the 
process. In addition, we must increase our cooperation 
in  this  fight  and  strengthen  political  and  diplomatic 
interventions  in  order  to  win  it.  No  matter  how  many 
resources  or  how  much  firepower  are  committed  to 
combating 
international 
cooperation  of  this  type,  our  efforts  will  come  to 
naught.  Recent  developments  in  countries  like  Iraq 
have shown that to be the case. 
Last year, we all rededicated ourselves to the full 

implementation  of  the  Millennium  Declaration.  There 
the  phenomenon,  without 
26 

06-53341 


are  ample  indications  today  that  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) are not likely to be met in 
most of sub-Saharan Africa if present trends continue. 
It is clear that we must all do more to identify and help 
remove  the  bottlenecks  that  are  inhibiting  progress 
towards  them.  We  must  address  the  serious  capacity 
constraints  that  circumscribe  the  development  efforts 
of  many  an  African  country.  We  must  help  stimulate 
economic  growth  through  enabling  policy  measures 
that  empower  our  countries  for  greater  and  more 
meaningful participation in world trade. We must make 
real  progress  in  the  Doha  round.  We  must  increase 
foreign  direct  investment  in  the African  economy.  We 
must  honour  our  commitment  to  increasing  official 
development  assistance  to  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  income.  We  must,  in  partnership,  attack  the 
great  health  scourges  of  our  time,  namely,  HIV/AIDS 
and malaria. 

the  Gambia,  United  Nations  and  other 
independent assessments indicate that, on many fronts, 
we  are  making  steady  progress.  We  are  committed  to 
achieving  the  MDGs,  in  addition  to  the  goals  of  the 
International  Conference 
and 
Development.  

We  have  reversed  the  spread  of  HIV/AIDS.  We 
have  already  achieved  gender  parity  in  education  and, 
by extension, registered significant progress in gender 
equality,  equity  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  We 
have brought potable water and good sanitation to over 
70  per  cent  of  our  people.  We  have  reduced  the 
prevalence  of  malaria  and  the  incidence  of  maternal 
and under-five mortality. We have attained 100 per cent 
child  immunization  coverage.  We  have  significantly 
increased  access  to  education  at  all  levels  and  shall 
meet  the  basic  education  goal,  God  willing,  next  year 
or  the  year  after.  Our  sharpest  focus  is  on  poverty 
reduction,  and  we  are  determined  to  attain  that  goal 
before 2015. 

We have been able to achieve these gains, in spite 
of the severe resource constraints that we face, because 
of determined and committed leadership and our strong 
resolve 
the 
international community. 

According  to  the  expert  assessments  of  the 
United Nations agencies, the Gambia is among the very 
few African  countries  that  will  achieve  the  MDGs  on 
target, if present trends continue. Our achievements in 
relation  to  the  development  agenda  have  been  made 
to  our  commitments 
Population 
on 
to 
live  up 
to 
In 
06-53341 

A/61/PV.19
We  are  conscious  of 
possible only through strong and genuine partnerships, 
which we hope will continue and will grow to meet the 
task ahead. 
The trade policy of our Government continues to 

the  principles  of 
liberalization, 
be  guided  by 
deregulation  and 
investment  promotion.  We  have 
brought  about  a  progressive  reduction  of  tariffs  and 
continued  improvements  in  infrastructure  to  increase 
our competitiveness as a production and trade gateway 
into West Africa.  
We  regard  the  private  sector  as  an  important 

engine  of  growth.  Therefore,  to  further  enhance  its 
development, our Government has  formulated policies 
for  the  systematic  strengthening  of  the  small  and 
medium-sized  enterprise  sector  of  our  economy.  It  is 
our  hope  that  implementation  of  these  policies  will 
lead  to  the  creation  of  conditions  conducive  to  the 
speedy  attraction  of  high  levels  of  foreign  direct 
investment which will, in turn, stimulate the growth of 
employment  and  incomes  and  lead  to  significant 
reductions  in  the  incidence  of  poverty  among  the 
Gambian people. 
the  need  for  all  our 

development partners to speak to us with one voice so 
as to increase coherence in the partnership. To this end, 
we  have  this  year  encouraged  our  major  multilateral 
partners  —  the World  Bank,  the African  Development 
Bank  Group,  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and 
its 
Millennium  Project  —  to  work  together  with  us  in 
crafting  a  coherent  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  Paper 
which will form the basis for a coordinated framework 
of partnership in development. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


There  are  many  commendable  programmes  and 
initiatives designed to assist countries like the Gambia. 
The  Group  of  Eight  initiatives  for Africa,  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Debt  Initiative  of  the  World 
Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the  Blair 
Commission  for  Africa,  the  Millennium  Challenge 
Account and the Third Tokyo International Conference 
on  African  Development,  inter  alia,  will  have  an 
impact only if they do not raise the bar unrealistically 
high,  such  that  the  countries  they  are  meant  to  assist 
are  unable  to  meet  the  stringent  criteria  for  gaining 
access to the funds. If aid is to be meaningful, it must 
be  accessible,  predictable  and  not 
fragmented. 
that 
Moreover,  a  well-designed  aid  architecture 
27 

the  responses 
A/61/PV.19 

involves  recipients  in  critical  aspects  of  decision-
making  is  part  of  the  answer  for  achieving  the  much-
sought effectiveness of official development assistance, 
a  subject  of  concern  in  the  Paris  Declaration  on  Aid 
Effectiveness. 

Yet, while those programmes and initiatives may 
encourage  many  least  developed  countries  in  their 
hopes  for  early  relief,  in  reality,  the  accompanying 
enablers have not been forthcoming. The Doha Round 
is  in  limbo,  our  modest  economic  growth  is  being 
threatened  by  unpredictably  high  energy  prices,  and 
debt  relief  is  still  on  the  distant  horizon.  For  many  of 
us, it is one step forward before world economic trends 
take us two steps back. Of even greater concern is the 
fact  that  this  plethora  of  initiatives  has  hardly  made  a 
dent  in  the  poverty  situation  in  our  countries.  The 
blueprints  are  manifold, 
too  few. 
Unfulfilled  promises  only  dash  our  hopes,  leave  us 
frustrated and diminish our faith in the effectiveness of 
international partnerships for development. 

We  in  the  Gambia  continue  to  deepen  our 
democracy. Just four days ago, the Gambian electorate 
went to the polls to once again choose their leader in a 
free  and  fair  manner.  Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to 
convey  the  thanks  and  appreciation  of  His  Excellency 
Al  Hadji  Yahya  A.  J.  J.  Jammeh  to  the  many 
delegations 
their 
congratulations  and  best  wishes  on  his  resounding 
victory  at  the  elections.  The  President  considers  that 
victory to be a mandate from the Gambian electorate to 
continue  his  service  to  the  Gambian  people  and, 
indeed,  to  the  international  community  at  large.  Our 
electoral  process  has  been  acclaimed  throughout  the 
world for its openness, fairness and transparency. 

The subject of the High-level Dialogue held just a 
few  days  ago  was 
international  migration  and 
development.  For  the  very  first  time,  we  had  the 
courage  to  address  that  issue  within  the  walls  of  the 
United  Nations  —  and  rightly  so,  for  international 
migration has been at the core of human history. It has 
driven the spread of human knowledge and civilization. 
It  has  enriched  cultures  and  societies  and  caused 
mankind  to  make  great  leaps  in  science,  technology, 
engineering 
economic 
development.  We  are  all  migrants.  Therefore,  let  us 
approach  the  issue  of  international  migration  with 
humanity, tolerance, respect and compassion. 
that  have  expressed 
and  overall 
to  him 
social 
and 
the  members  of 
the  vast  majority  of 

Attempts  to  penalize  or  criminalize  international 
migration  will  not  work.  In  our  globalized  village, 
international  migration  is  an  undeniable,  positive  and 
indispensable force for keeping the wheels of national 
economies and human society in motion. We must look 
to  the  positive  side  of  this  natural  human  activity  and 
desist  from  actions  that  trample  on  the  dignity  of 
migrants,  as  well  as  from  acts  of  racism,  xenophobia 
and abuse of human rights. 

As the saying goes, injustice anywhere is a threat 
to  justice  everywhere.  For  decades,  extensive  illegal 
and extraterritorial measures have been pursued against 
Cuba,  a  small,  friendly  and  democratic  nation.  They 
have  not  worked  and  will  never  work.  My  delegation 
joins 
the 
international community in calling for the lifting of the 
decades-long embargo against Cuba in order to enable 
the hard-working people of that great country to pursue 
their  development  aspirations  in  an  atmosphere  of 
peace. Let us all strive to live and let live.  

By the same token, we must also urgently address 
the  question  of  Taiwan.  The  legitimate  quest  of  the 
people of Taiwan for a voice and standing in the United 
Nations  must  be  ignored  no  longer.  Taiwan  is  an 
important actor in our global economy and contributes 
immensely  to  global  peace  and  security.  It  must  be 
formally  granted  recognition  as  a  responsible  member 
of the international community. A simple way to grant 
that  recognition  would  be  to  give  Taiwan  its  rightful 
place in the United Nations. 

that  connection, 
the 
Gambia  wishes 
the  General 
Committee’s  violation  of  the  rules  of  procedure  on 
12 September  this  year  by  amalgamating  two  items 
proposed  by  its  members  into  one  agenda  item,  thus 
preventing  members 
the 
discussion  of  those  items.  We  will  therefore  require  a 
legal opinion from the United Nations on an expedited 
basis 
the 
opportunity to engage in a debate on that issue, as we 
are duly entitled to do.  
Before  I  conclude,  let  me  salute,  commend  and 

bid 
farewell 
to  one  of  Africa’s  outstanding 
personalities,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  since 
this  will  be  the  last  General Assembly  session  during 
his  tenure  as  Secretary-General.  President  Al  Hadji 
Yahya  Jammeh  had  the  honour  to  pay  tribute  to  him 
during the Summit of Heads of State and Government 
that  we  are  provided  with 
to  strongly  protests 
the  Government  of 
from  participating 
to  ensure 
In 
in 
28 

06-53341 
in 
the 
faith 
(spoke 
international 
(Guinea-Bissau) 
Mr.  Monteiro


of the African Union held in Banjul in July. Therefore, 
I should like  to say only that the Government and the 
people  of  the  Gambia  salute  his  leadership,  his  astute 
diplomatic  skills,  his  demonstrated  commitment  to 
international peace, security and development, and his 
unswerving 
system. 
Mr. Annan’s term as Secretary-General may be ending, 
but  I  am  sure  that  he  will  continue  to  be  there  for  us 
and will willingly come to the rescue when we need his 
wisdom  and  vast  experience  in  mediating  complex 
global  problems.  We  wish  him  well  in  his  future 
endeavours, and we wish him and his family continued 
good health and happiness in their new life. 

The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Antonio  Isaac  Monteiro,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of  Guinea-
Bissau. 

in 
Portuguese;  interpretation  from  French  text  provided 
by  the  delegation):  The  sixty-first  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  has  begun  its  work  in  quite  a 
disturbing  context.  We  note  the  persistence  of  certain 
conflicts  and  the  emergence  of  new  hot  spots  of 
tension, which are serious threats to international peace 
and  stability.  World  poverty  and  hunger  have  not 
decreased,  despite 
the  enormous  efforts  of  our 
countries  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  our 
populations.  In  fact,  we  note  a  deterioration  in  the 
social and health conditions of millions of people as a 
result  of  endemic  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS, 
tuberculosis  and  malaria,  particularly  on  the  African 
continent.  

The  political,  economic,  financial,  social  and 
environmental problems facing the world are assuming 
increasingly  alarming  proportions.  That 
requires 
concerted efforts on the part of the entire international 
community.  Therefore,  we  must  work  together  to 
strengthen  the  existing  multilateral  system  and  the 
capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  act  in  order  to 
address those challenges more effectively. 
Our  people  expect  concrete,  swift  and  effective 

measures 
the 
establishment  of  modern  and  efficient  operational 
structures. In short, reforms within the United Nations 
system are necessary and urgent.  

It is in that context that, on behalf of my country, 
Guinea-Bissau,  which  it  is  my  honour  to  represent,  I 
warmly congratulate you,  Madam, on your election as 
the  Organization, 
involving 
from 
A/61/PV.19
considered 
the  world’s  problems, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  present 
session. We believe that your many qualities and your 
long  experience  are  guarantees  of  the  success  of  our 
work. Under your guidance, we will experience a new 
dynamism capable of promoting joint efforts for peace. 
I  would  like  to  assure  you  of  the  availability  and  full 
cooperation  of  our  delegation  in  contributing  to  the 
achievement of the our common goals.  

Allow  me  to  congratulate  your  predecessor  as 
well, Mr. Jan Eliasson, for his dedication to the  cause 
of  our  Organization  and  for  the  important  results 
achieved  during  the  sixtieth  session.  I  reference  in 
particular to the creation of the Human Rights Council 
and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  of  which  my 
country is a member.  

We recently participated in the fourteenth Summit 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  in  Havana,  where  a 
large number of world leaders gathered. Those eminent 
personalities,  including  the  head  of  State  of  Guinea-
Bissau, 
the 
seriousness of which calls to us all and demands of us 
concerted  and  collective  actions.  The  conclusions 
reached  at  the  Summit,  as  well  as  the  initiatives  we 
intend to undertake on behalf of our Movement, are in 
the  opinions, 
line, 
recommendations  and  solutions  set  out  by 
the 
Secretary-General  in  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of 
the Organization, delivered during a brilliant speech to 
the Assembly.  

None  today  can  doubt  the  seriousness  of  the 
situation in the Middle East, particularly in Lebanon. It 
is  the  same  with  regard  to  the  tragic  conditions  in 
which millions of our African brothers live in Darfur. It 
is  clear  that  we  can  no  longer  accept  the  systematic 
violation  of 
international  norms.  Nor  can  we 
understand  why  we  are  incapable  of  taking  concerted, 
negotiated and responsible measures to put an end to a 
tragic situation that threatens the lives of innocent and 
vulnerable  people.  Our  brothers  in  Darfur  have  the 
right  to  the  compassion  and  solidarity  of  Africa  in 
particular,  and  of  the  international  community  as  a 
whole.  

If  current  trends  in  the  world  continue,  poor 
countries  will  not  be  able  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. The reforms that 
are  planned  or  that  have  already  been  introduced  into 
our  systems  of  governance,  respect  for  the  rules  of 
democracy  and 
rights  are, 
extent,  with 
for  human 
respect 
large 
to 
a 
06-53341 

29 

A/61/PV.19 

unfortunately,  insufficient  to  achieve  the  rates  of 
growth essential to relaunch our economies. 

In  our  countries,  the  economic  and  financial 
situation  depends  on  internal  and  external  factors  that 
we do not control. Protectionist measures and subsidies 
for  agricultural  products  such  as  cotton,  sugar  and 
wheat  seriously  compromise  the  competitive  capacity 
of  our  farmers.  The  absence  of  an  agreement  on  the 
rules  that  should  govern  international  trade  and  the 
lack of political will and of progress in the negotiations 
within  the  World  Trade  Organization  are  aggravating 
factors. 

We  need  to  recognize  that  we  are  far  from 
achieving  the  objectives  set  out  in  the  Monterrey 
Consensus  and  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation, 
which  concern  developing  countries,  particularly  the 
least  developed  countries.  We  also  feel  the  imbalance 
in 
the  globalization  process.  These  are  serious 
obstacles to our development. The midterm review for 
the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least 
Developed  Countries  for  the  Decade  2001-2010  has 
indeed shed new light on the shortcomings and on the 
still-insufficient  level  of  development  assistance.  In 
this  environment,  our  efforts  to  eliminate  poverty  and 
create better living conditions within our countries are 
at risk.  

A  large  part  of  our  populations,  particularly  our 
young people, are more and more despondent because 
of  the  very  high  level  of  unemployment  and  lack  of 
hope for a better future. Thousands of young people are 
so desperate that they even risk their lives to seek other 
forms of existence, which, unfortunately, often turn out 
to  be  mirages.  The  international  community  must 
accord  greater  attention  to  this  issue  so  that  we  might 
find  the  means  to  ensure  the  rebirth  of  hope  in  the 
hearts  of  our  youth.  I  am  thinking  especially  of 
creating  professional  training  centres  and  promoting 
activities  that  generate  jobs,  thus  ensuring  more  and 
better social integration. 

I  would  also  like  to  stress  in  this  regard  the 
importance of the High-level Meeting on International 
Migration  and  Development,  which  for  the  first  time 
met  here  at  the  Headquarters  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
am convinced that thanks to this type of dialogue  and 
cooperation at the international level, we will be better 
equipped to put a brake on illegal immigration and on 
organized  crime,  to  which  this  tragic  phenomenon  is 
more and more linked.  

Guinea-Bissau,  with  a  considerable  number  of 
citizens  living  abroad,  pays  particular  attention  to  the 
issue of migration. Therefore we welcome the place it 
occupies on the agenda of the international community. 
We  support  the  relevant  recommendations  emerging 
from 
the  High-level  Dialogue  on  Migration  and 
Development  that  took  place  here  in  New  York,  two 
weeks  ago.  We  are  aware  of  the  role  played  by  our 
diaspora  in  the  economy  of  developing  countries, 
thanks to remittances and other forms of contributions. 
My country is committed to developing an appropriate 
national  policy  on  this  issue  in  cooperation  with  our 
development  partners,  especially  with  the  countries  of 
destination.  

On  17  July  Guinea-Bissau  hosted  the  sixteenth 
Conference  of  the  Heads  of  State  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries  (CPLP).  The  heads  of 
State of our community reaffirmed their determination 
to step up efforts to eradicate hunger and poverty. They 
also  committed  themselves  to  undertaking  concrete 
measures  to  mobilize  internal  and  external  resources 
for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
(MDGs)  by  2015.  The  consolidation  of 
democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights  issues 
were  also  subjects  of  particular  attention  for  these 
leaders.  They  are 
indispensable  preconditions  for 
international  peace  and  security.  The  heads  of  State 
also decided to strengthen relations between the CPLP 
and the United Nations and its specialized agencies in 
order to establish an effective partnership.  

Allow  me  in  this  respect  to  thank,  on  behalf  of 
the CPLP, all our partners for the important assistance 
they  have  given  to  the  weakest  members  of  our 
community.  I  would  also  like  to  appeal  to  our 
development  partners  in  general  and  to  the  Group  of 
Eight countries in particular, requesting that they assist 
us  in  addressing  the  critical  issue  of  external  debt 
burden. 

One year after elections in Guinea-Bissau, which 
confirmed the return to constitutional normality in my 
country, I should like to reiterate here the commitment 
of  the  people,  Government  and  especially  that  of 
Mr. João Bernardo Vieira, President of Guinea-Bissau, 
to  spare  no  effort 
in  consolidating  peace  and 
establishing 
national 
reconciliation.  Significant  progress  has  been  made  in 
this  area.  It  must,  however,  be  stressed  that  the 
complexity  of  the  current  reforms,  especially  within 
the  defence  and  security  forces,  requires  lasting  and 
political 
stability 
and 
30 

06-53341 


substantial  support  from  the  international  community, 
given the lack of resources available to us.  

I would like to express our appreciation to all our 
partners,  especially  our  brothers  in  the  Economic 
Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the 
Community  of  Portuguese  Language  Countries 
(CPLP),  for  their  support  and  the  creation  of  the 
International  Contact  Group  on  Guinea-Bissau,  whose 
first  meeting  was  held  here  at  the  United  Nations 
Headquarters  last  week.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  reaffirm  that  my  country  will  spare  no 
effort  to  continue  to  deserve  your  confidence  and 
solidarity. Nonetheless, it must be stressed that, despite 
our  willingness  and  determination,  Guinea-Bissau 
needs your urgent assistance in order to implement the 
measures  contained  in  the  national  poverty  reduction 
strategy  paper.  Just  adopted  by  our  Government,  that 
document  will  serve  as  the  basis  for  preparing  a 
roundtable  on  Guinea-Bissau  planned 
for  next 
November  at  Geneva.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  invite  all  our 
traditional partners and others here present to take part 
in  that  roundtable,  which  will,  indeed,  be  an  event  of 
great  importance  for  stimulating  our  economy  and  for 
raising the living conditions of our people.  

is  a  genuine  global  village. 
Mankind’s progress in science, information technology, 
communications  and  transportation  means  that  the 
destinies  of  our  peoples  are  more  and  more 
interdependent.  That  is  why  we  must  combine  our 
efforts  to  eradicate  poverty  and  hunger  in  the  world 
and to deal with endemic diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, 
and  to  put  an  end  to  injustices,  violations  of  human 
rights and all forms of discrimination and intolerance. 

When  we  discuss  the  issues  of  development  and 
combating  poverty,  we  must  resist  the  temptation  of 
taking the easy way and applying simplistic solutions. 
Economic and social development and its corollary, the 
eradication  of  poverty,  require  deep  thought  and 
courageous  measures.  No  phenomenon  can  be 
explained  simplistically,  and 
is  no  simple 
universal  recipe.  The  signs  of  the  times  must  be 
correctly  interpreted.  Peoples’  opinions,  their  culture, 
their religious practices and their concerns must all be 
understood  and  respected.  We  must  find  new  ways  of 
reorganizing  and  strengthening  democratic  States  by 
giving priority to education and training. We must also 
think about the need to increase our collective capacity 
to  combat  terrorism  and  to  deal  with  all  forms  of 
Today’s  world 
there 
A/61/PV.19
the 
through  permanent  dialogue  between 
extremism 
cultures and civilizations. 

It is incomprehensible,  and even less acceptable, 
that  human  beings  are  abandoned  and  condemned  to 
die  under  the  indifferent  regard  of  the  international 
community. International solidarity towards vulnerable 
populations must not be delayed or be given under post 
mortem conditions. The international community must 
demonstrate vigilance and be capable of preventing all 
humanitarian  catastrophes  resulting  from  conflicts,  as 
the Secretary-General rightly recalled, in the name of a 
universal  conscience.  It  is  precisely  because  of  the 
universal  nature  of 
responsibility  of  our 
Organization that Guinea-Bissau will spare no effort in 
order to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations 
through concerted, pragmatic and efficient reforms. In 
fact,  the  effectiveness  of  our  Organization  would  be 
even  greater  with  the  full  participation  of  all  Member 
States  with  a  view  to  enhancing  our  multilateral 
institution,  which  needs  greater  democracy  and 
transparency in fulfilling its mandate. 

More  than  sixty  years  after  its  founding,  the 
United  Nations  must  adapt  to  the  changes  that  have 
taken  place  in  the  world  in  order  to  take  into  account 
the existence and the emergence of new players on the 
world  stage  whose  contribution  to  peacekeeping  and 
international  security  are  becoming  more  and  more 
important. Among those States are countries in Africa, 
Asia  and  Latin  America,  which  can  legitimately  lay 
claim  to  a  permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council. 
Developing  countries 
in  Africa,  Asia  and  Latin 
America  have  the  right  to  greater  participation  and 
prominence on the Security Council. 

Ten  years  ago,  we  elected  Kofi  Annan,  an 
outstanding  son  of Africa,  to  guide  the  destiny  of  our 
Organization. As we assess his tenure, it is with pride 
and  satisfaction  that  we  note  the  achievements  during 
his  term  of  office.  Recent  years  have  not  been  easy, 
because the world is confronting new and longstanding 
challenges  in  various  forms  and  scales  and  for  which 
our  Organization  was 
insufficiently  designed  and 
prepared. On behalf of Guinea-Bissau, the President of 
Guinea-Bissau, 
João  Bernardo  Vieira,  and  our 
Government,  I  would  like  to  add  our  voice  to  the 
vibrant 
international 
community to the Secretary-General. I would also like 
to  express  the  gratitude  of  our  people  to  him  for  the 
contribution of the United Nations system in promoting 
tribute  paid  by 
the  entire 
06-53341 

31 

human 
A/61/PV.19 

peace,  political  stability  and  development  in  our 
country. 

The great challenges of the new millennium will 
determine  the  development  work  facing  us  and  the 
capacity  of  people  to  resolve,  as  quickly  as  possible, 
problems  of  peace,  political 
stability,  national 
reconciliation  and  social  justice.  All  States  and  civil 
society must be able to count upon, whenever required, 
the  transparent  and  democratic  functioning  of  the 
United  Nations  system  for  the  defence  of  their  rights, 
in  a  perspective  that  creates  consensus  and  which  is 
compatible  with 
namely 
development, 
compatible with the well-being of humanity. 

As  the  General  Assembly  prepares  to  select  a 
successor  to  Mr.  Kofi Annan,  it  will,  I  am  convinced, 
be able to  elect a Secretary-General with the essential 
attributes  of  skill,  experience  and  dedication  for 
promoting  better  understanding  between  peoples  and 
nations of this world. 

The  determination  and  leadership  of  the  next 
Secretary-General  will  also  be  necessary  in  order  to 
establish synergy and international cooperation so as to 
transform  the  United  Nations  into  a  unique  and 
irreplaceable 
strengthen 
multilateralism in favour of development, of improved 
conservation  of  our  planet  and  of  international  peace 
and security. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Le  Cong  Phung,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Le  Cong  Phung  (Viet  Nam):  Madam 

President,  at  the  outset,  on  behalf  of  the  Vietnamese 
delegation,  may  I  extend  our  warmest  congratulations 
to you, the third woman in United Nations history to be 
elected  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am 
confident  that,  under  your  wise  leadership,  this  sixty-
first session will be crowned with success. I also wish 
to  convey  our  deep  appreciation  for  the  tremendous 
efforts  undertaken  and  active  contributions  made  by 
His Excellency Mr. Jan Eliasson during his presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. 

As His Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan’s last term of 
duty as Secretary-General of the United Nations comes 
to  a  close,  I  wish,  on  behalf  of  the  Vietnamese 
Government,  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  for  his 
dedication  and  commitment  to  our  Organization.  His 
visit to Viet Nam last May was another milestone in the 
instrument 
that 
can 
to 
Against 
in 
the  view  of 
this  backdrop, 
focusing  on  global  partnership 
history  of  the  ever-growing  Viet  Nam-United  Nations 
cooperative relationship. 

The 2005 World Summit lit up our hopes for the 
achievement  by  the  international  community  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) set out by our 
leaders  at  the  Millennium  Summit  in  2000.  One  year 
has  elapsed,  and,  regrettably,  the  picture  of  the  world 
we  see  today  is  made  up  of  paradoxes.  Although  the 
trend of peace, cooperation and development continues 
to prevail, so do the unilateral use of force, escalation 
of  regional  and  ethnic  conflicts  and  international 
terrorism.  We  have  also  seen  serious  hardships  faced 
by  developing  countries  under 
the  pressure  of 
globalization, and inequality in international economic 
relations.  Poverty,  epidemics,  drugs  and  transnational 
crime pose even greater threats to hundreds of millions 
of people around the world. 

the 
Vietnamese delegation, continued joint efforts to create 
a  favourable  environment  for  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  are  even  more  imperative.  We  consider  the 
theme chosen for this sixty-first session of the General 
Assembly, 
for 
development, to be highly relevant. 
stability 
are 
socio-political 

indispensable 
turn,  positive 
In 
economic  development  and  improved  living  standards 
of  people  help  to  consolidate  peace  and  stability  in 
every country and region and the world as a whole. It 
is  essential 
to  settle 
differences and disputes through dialogue, abandon the 
use of force in their relations and fully comply with the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law  in  order 
to  build  a  peaceful  and  stable  environment  in  the 
interest of all. 
I  wish  to  reaffirm Viet  Nam’s  strong  support  for 

efforts 
settlements  of 
international  and  regional  conflicts  and  differences, 
including  the  nuclear  issues  on  the  Korean  Peninsula 
and in Iran, and the crisis in the Middle East, where the 
recent hostilities in Lebanon, which caused heavy loss 
of  innocent  life  and  destruction  of  the  country’s 
infrastructure,  serve  as  a  typical  example  of  harm 
brought about by unilateral actions. 

In  this  connection,  I  wish  to  state  Viet  Nam’s 
consistent policy of supporting the just struggle of the 
Palestinian people for their inalienable rights. I call on 
all parties concerned to implement the United Nations 
and 
to  development. 
reach  early  peaceful 
that  nations  work 
together 
Peace 
32 

06-53341 
those 
science 
terrorism, 
Achievements 
including  poverty, 
the  suppression  of 
targeting  Viet  Nam, 
international  economic 


Security  Council  resolutions  on  the  Middle  East, 
including resolution 1701 (2006), and soon arrive at a 
fair  and  lasting  solution  for  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region. 

Viet  Nam  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  upsurge  of 
terrorism in the world. We will continue to support the 
joint efforts of the international community to combat 
terrorism on the basis of the fundamental principles of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law,  as 
well as respect for national sovereignty. The deep roots 
of 
inequality  and 
injustice,  must  be  eliminated.  What  should  also  be 
mentioned here is the unfortunate reality that, in many 
terrorist  organizations, 
cases, 
including 
is  being 
undertaken selectively, with double standards. It is our 
view  that  such  conduct  may  leave  room  for  more 
international terrorist acts. 

technology, 
especially  information  technology,  and  globalization 
have  brought  about  great  opportunities 
for  all 
countries. They  have  also  brought  about  the  dark  side 
of 
relations.  A  widened 
development  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  poses 
potential  threats  to  world  peace  and  security.  In  the 
Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World  Summit,  our 
leaders  called  for 
the  establishment  of  a  global 
partnership for development to enhance cooperation in 
all financial, trade and investment areas and called for 
increased 
countries, 
international 
considering 
community  would  contribute 
to  establishing  a 
favourable  environment  for  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

Such global partnership is yet to be seen, and we 
are  concerned  with  increasing  adverse  impacts  of 
globalization.  The  failure  of  the  Doha  Round,  the 
strengthening  of  protectionism 
in  a  number  of 
developed countries and fluctuating oil and gold prices 
are  causing  more  and  more  difficulties  for  developing 
nations in their efforts to achieve the MDGs. A typical 
example  of  this  situation  is  the  anti-dumping  tariff 
imposed  on  Vietnamese  catfish  and  shrimp  in  past 
years  and  on  footwear  at  present;  this  measure  is 
affecting  the  lives  of  millions  of  poor  people.  It  runs 
counter to World Trade Organization (WTO) rules and 
the  spirit  of  trade  liberalization  pursued  by  Member 
States. It should also be pointed out that the increased 
integration of developing nations in the world economy 
assistance 
that  such  steps  by 
developing 
the 
in 
and 
to 
A/61/PV.19
indeed  an 
in  ensuring 
important  element 
is 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  

Developing  countries  should  be  supported  and 
assisted  to  join  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO) 
as early as possible. Non-tariff barriers under the guise 
of hygiene and safety standards, among others, should 
be removed to facilitate developing countries to access 
the  markets  of  the  developed  economies.  We  have  on 
many occasions expressed our view that, in our times, 
embargo  and  sanctions  are  completely  obsolete 
policies. We once again call for an early lifting of the 
unilateral economic and trade embargo against Cuba. 

Viet  Nam  welcomes  the  fact  that  a  number  of 
countries have set up road maps to allocate 0.7 per cent 
of their gross national product to official development 
assistance without any conditions. Technology transfer, 
capacity-building  and  human  resource  development 
should be further promoted. We welcome initiatives to 
settle the debts of poor countries, the solutions outlined 
in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  recent  efforts  of 
the  international  community  towards  this  end.  The 
United  Nations  should  work  out,  especially  at  the 
national  level,  measures  to  further  incorporate  the 
MDGs  in  the  implementation  of  global  commitments 
undertaken  during  the  past  decade  in  the  areas  of 
women, children, population, development, HIV/AIDS 
prevention, 
social 
development. 

strengthen 
multilateral  mechanisms  in  which  the  United  Nations 
plays  a  central  role  with  a  view  to  building  and 
ensuring  a  peaceful  and  stable  environment  in  the 
world.  The  United  Nations  should  be  reformed  to 
improve  its  effectiveness,  democratization  and  modes 
of operation on the basis of the fundamental principles 
enshrined in its Charter.  

While  welcoming  initial  successes  in  the  United 
Nations  reform  process,  such  as  the  establishment  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, we realize that much remains to be done. 
Measures are needed to consolidate the central role and 
power of the  General Assembly. The Security Council 
should  also  be  reformed  in  both  its  composition  and 
methods of work to ensure that it really represents the 
concerns  and  interests  of  all  United  Nations  Members 
as stipulated in the Charter. 
environment 
Viet  Nam 
housing, 
supports 
efforts 
and 
to 
06-53341 

33 
for 
to 
and  mitigation  of 
development,  mobilize 
A/61/PV.19 


Viet  Nam  has  made  remarkable  progress  in 
implementing the MDGs and we are in a good position 
to  meet 
the  2015  deadline.  Based  on  our  own 
experience,  we  believe  that  each  country  should,  first 
and  foremost,  strive  to  create  and  maintain  a  peaceful 
environment 
broad 
participation  by  people  of  all  walks  of  life  in  poverty 
reduction efforts and reserve preferential treatments for 
the poor, vulnerable groups and people living in remote 
and  difficult  areas,  with  a  view  to  helping  them  catch 
up with the majority. Furthermore, effective prevention 
of  natural  disasters 
their 
consequences are crucial factors. 

To  create  a  peaceful  environment  for  national 
development,  Viet  Nam  will  continue  with  its  foreign 
policy  of  sovereign  independence,  peace,  cooperation 
and  development.  We  continue  to  be  a  friend  and 
reliable  partner  of  all  countries  in  the  international 
community  striving  for  peace  and  cooperation  and  we 
will  continue  to  actively  participate  in  regional  and 
international cooperation.  

We  are  in  the  final  stage  leading  to  accession  to 
the  World  Trade  Organization.  Viet  Nam  is  also 
running  for  non-permanent  membership  of  the  United 
Nations  Security  Council  for  the  term  2008-2009.  In 
pursuing  our  policy  of  international  integration  and  in 
contributing 
the 
international community, we look forward to continued 
support from all Members of the United Nations.  

The President: I now give the floor to Ms. Belela 
Herrera, Vice-Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay. 

Ms.  Herrera  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Madam  President,  I  bring  to  you  the  greeting  of  the 
people  and  Government  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of 
Uruguay  to  this  Assembly.  This  Assembly  is  the 
broadest  and  most  representative  and  important  forum 
in the world today. 

Madam  President,  may  I  express  my  personal 
satisfaction  at  seeing  you  exercise  such  an  important 
function  and  I  am  sure  that  as  a  woman  you  will  be 
able  to  add  to  the  office  an  additional  share  of 
moderation and restraint. 

In Uruguay, like the United Nations, we feel that 
it is very important to preach by example. That is why 
the  Government  I  represent  has  also  assumed,  among 
its  many  tasks,  that  of  elevating  the  status  of  women 
and increasing their participation in various areas.  
the  common  endeavours  of 

to 
Likewise,  I  am  very  happy  to  bring  to  you  a 

the  President  of  Uruguay, 
special  message  from 
Mr. Tabaré  Vásquez, 
for 
the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Kofi  Annan,  to  thank  him  for  his  unrelenting 
efforts  to  drive  the  immense  process  of  reforming  the 
Organization.  My  country  and  the  other  Members  of 
this house are fully committed to this reform. 

On the occasion of the sixteenth Ibero-American 
Summit  that  will  take  place  in  Uruguay,  the  countries 
of the conference will express to the Secretary-General 
their thanks for his outstanding work. I would also like 
to  say  that  the  main  subject  of  the  Summit  will  be 
migration  and  development.  Recently,  we  had  a  very 
constructive high-level dialogue on this subject in this 
house. 

A  year  ago,  during  the  sixtieth  session  of  this 
forum,  the  President  of  our  country  said  that  the 
commitment  of  Uruguay 
the  United  Nations 
Organization is both demanding and hopeful. 

Our  commitment  is  demanding  because  of  the 
challenges that the current world faces and because of 
the  opportunities  implicit  in  the  present,  upon  the 
management of which our future depends.  

Our commitment is hopeful. Although we realize 
that  there  are  difficulties  and  limitations  on  the 
international  scene  and  at  the  regional  and  national 
levels,  we  believe  in  human  beings,  we  believe  in 
society,  we  believe  in  democracy  as  a  common  house 
and in freedom as the mother tongue of humanity. 

The  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  reaffirms  the 
principles that characterize our foreign policy, namely, 
our commitment to peace, sovereignty, democracy and 
solidarity;  a  firm  rejection  of  all  types  of  terrorism, 
violence  and  discrimination;  the  inalienable  right  of 
countries to have stable and secure borders and to fully 
exercise  their  sovereignty  and  self-determination;  the 
respect  for 
law  as  a  guarantee  of 
sovereignty of peoples and their peaceful cohabitation; 
non-intervention  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States; 
multilateralism as a way of strengthening international 
law  and  as  a  way  to  organize  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations; and the recognition of the indivisibility of all 
human rights, be they political, social, economic, civil 
or cultural, including collective rights, such as the right 
to  development  and  the  environment.  Consequently, 
our  country  feels  that  progress  in  reforming  the 
Organization must be achieved and we are making our 
contribution  to  that  process,  which  will  enable  the 
international 
34 

06-53341 
to 
its 
fulfil 
tasks  with  greater 
in  peacekeeping  missions  since 


United  Nations 
effectiveness. 

Greater  effectiveness  should  also  be  sought  by 
the  important  recently  created  bodies,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
Uruguay is already actively participating in the Human 
Rights  Council  and  we  hope  to  join  the  organizing 
committee of the Peacebuilding Commission.  

As a country that is a major contributor of troops 
and  in  support  of  the  goal  of  peacekeeping,  we  have 
participated 
the 
creation of this Organization. The most recent example 
of  this  our  active  undertaking  and  participation  in  the 
United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH),  which  is  an  essential  mechanism  for 
securing  a  lasting  peace  and  for  restoring  the  social 
fabric of a dear Latin American nation. 

Likewise, Uruguay would like to renew its active 
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  as  agreed  to  by  the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government.  When  I  say  “active”,  I  say  this  as  a 
reflection  of  how  much  progress  has  been  made 
towards the goals set  forth in the agreement signed in 
September 2005.  

I  cannot  refer  now  to  each  of  these  goals  at  this 
time,  but  one  of  the  main  goals  is  “the  eradication  of 
extreme poverty and hunger”. In Uruguay, by means of 
the  interaction  of  various  governmental  programmes, 
we  have  implemented  an  emergency  social  plan  that 
deals  with  the  most  basic  needs  of  those  in  extreme 
poverty.  

Poverty  has  begun  to  decrease,  dropping  from 
32.6  per  cent  of  the  recorded  population  in  2004  to 
29.8  per  cent  at  the  end  of  2005.  We  feel  that  this  is 
still not sufficient, but it is progress, not only in terms 
of  social  protection,  but  also  in  terms  of  social 
integration. 

This  is  so  because  the  great  problems  that  have 
produced poverty in our country, as in other countries, 
are  not  just  hunger,  the  lack  of  housing,  illiteracy, 
academic  failure  or  teenage  pregnancies,  but  also 
discrimination,  stigmatization,  insecurity  and  despair, 
indeed,  situations  that  indicate  being  integrated  in 
society is much more than subsisting. 

right 
Social  integration  is  essential,  too,  because  the 
to  participate 
involves 
in  social 
life  also 
A/61/PV.19
recognizing  individuals  as  active  citizens  and  not  just 
as people who need to be helped. 

And  social  integration  is  key,  because  the  right 
that our citizens are asking for — all of them, even the 
poorest — is not just the right to live, but also the right 
to  be  recognized  as  individuals  and  the  right  to  live 
together  in  society.  This  is  called  democracy  and 
citizenship. 

Allow  me  from  this  important  podium  and  on 
behalf  of  the  Government  I  represent  to  refer  to  three 
matters  of  particular  importance  for  our  country.  One 
of  them  has  to  do  with  the  facts  of  the  recent  past. 
There  can  be  no  future  without  memory,  no  freedom 
without  justice. That  is  why,  within  the  framework  of 
legislation in force, Uruguay is taking concrete steps to 
heal  the  wounds  caused  by  the  violation  of  human 
rights  during  the  dictatorship  that  ruled  the  country 
between 1973 and 1985. It has been difficult work and 
it is also very difficult to learn and accept the truth, but 
it does strengthen democracy as a form of Government 
and  condition  in  society.  Moreover,  truth  and  justice 
help  to  ensure  that  the  horrors  of  the  past  are  never 
repeated. 

I am very happy to inform this General Assembly 
that  my  country  has  taken  one  further  step  in  the 
promotion  and  defence  of  human 
rights.  The 
Uruguayan parliament has just unanimously approved a 
bill on genocide,  crimes against humanity, war  crimes 
and cooperation with the International Criminal Court. 

the  current 
situation  and  the  future  is  climate  change  and  the 
degradation of the environment. Uruguay is a party to 
the  main  international  conventions  in  this  area  and, 
while 
international 
cooperation  on  this  subject,  we  do  particularly  stress, 
once  again,  the  individual  responsibility  of  each  State 
to actively protect the environment in its territory and 
waters  and  to  make  the  vigilant  participation  of  civil 
society a high priority. 
It  is  not  enough  to  simply  protest  pernicious 

transfers  of  polluting 
is 
incumbent  upon  the  State  to  act  firmly  to  be  vigilant 
and  monitor  and 
impose  high  environmental 
standards on foreign and domestic companies.  

for 
industrial  development  on  its  territory,  but  we  have 
very  strict  controls  on  the  environmental  aspects  of 
industrial  processes.  It 
receives  significant 
Another  subject 
indispensable 
that  relates 
investment 
stressing 
Uruguay 
to 
the 
to 
06-53341 

35 
for 
to 

true 
reiterates 
achieving 
The  Government  of  Uruguay 
A/61/PV.19 

those  investments  and  we  apply  an  internationally 
recognized  standard  that  reflects  our  motto  “Natural 
Uruguay”.  We  require  the  use  of  the  most  modern 
technologies  available,  and  we  monitor  effectively,  on 
the ground, the environmental effects of such ventures. 

its 
commitment to the protection of the environment in all 
parts  of  the  world  as  a  human  right  and  as  the 
cornerstone 
sustainable 
development.  In  this  sense,  Uruguay  calls  upon  the 
international  community,  and  particularly  the  donor 
countries,  to  increase  their  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
the  environment  for  developing  countries  and  assume 
in  a  responsible  manner  global  environmental  goals 
that  involve  shared  but  differentiated  responsibilities 
for everyone. 

Finally,  I  would  like  to  address  our  commitment 
to  the  strengthening  of  the  multilateral  trading  system 
and the need to bring the Doha Development Round to 
a  successful  conclusion,  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
development  dimension  is  reflected  in  specific  results 
and  not  just  programmatic  measures.  For  that,  it  is 
important 
the 
negotiations in Geneva, always bearing in mind that we 
will  not  achieve  satisfactory  results  without 
the 
elimination  of  agricultural  subsidies,  in  the  form  of 
exports that receive internal support and the significant 
opening  up  of  access  to  markets,  particularly  in  the 
developed countries. 

Everyone here in this Hall knows that there is no 
peace  in  intolerance  and  terrorism,  and  there  is  no 
freedom  in  poverty,  nor  democracy  in  inequality.  We 
reaffirm  our  conviction  that  these  threats  can  only  be 
overcome  if  we  join  our  efforts  together  and  fully 
appreciate  the  wealth  of  our  own  cultural  diversity, 
both  among  nations  as  well  as  within  our  respective 
nations. 

Among  nations,  we  must  rely  on  the  respect  of 
our traditions and cultures and a broad-based dialogue 
among  them  in  order  to  find  useful  synergies.  And 
within  each  of  our  countries,  we  must  rely  on  active 
policies  promoting  social  cohesion  that  embrace  our 
very cultural, ethnic and religious diversities. We have 
to  move  from  words  to  acts,  from  declarations  to 
action. This is not easy, but it is essential. 

this Organization is testament to that. 
We are not starting from zero. The brief history of 
resume,  as  soon  as  possible, 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
I  now  give 
The  President: 
Mr.  Mwansa  (Zambia):  On  behalf  of 

But we still have a lot of work to do. It is a large 
task which, honestly, will never end and the results will 
never be perfect. 

But  these  zones  of  continuity  and  imperfection 
establish  the  ideals  that  call  on  us  to  act  and  the 
commitments that drive us forward.  
If this sixty-first session of the General Assembly 

of the United Nations is able to help us in this task, it 
will have fulfilled its mission. 

Mr. Kalombo  Mwansa,  Special  Envoy  of 
Government of Zambia. 

the 
Zambian  delegation,  I  congratulate  you,  Madam 
President,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  sixty-
first  session  of  the  United  Nations  General Assembly. 
It  is  indeed  significant  to  have  a  lady  holding  the 
highest  office  of  the  General  Assembly  after  almost 
three decades. To us, this attests to the commitment of 
the United Nations to the principle of gender equality. 

I would like to take this opportunity to welcome a 
new  member  to  the  United  Nations,  the  Republic  of 
Montenegro. 

Madam  President,  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  your 
predecessor, Mr. Jan Eliasson, the Foreign Minister of 
Sweden,  who  successfully  presided  over  the  sixtieth 
session. He rendered selfless commitment and devotion 
to  the  search  for  consensus  on  a  number  of  issues, 
including  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome.  It  is 
pleasing to note that during his presidency, a number of 
decisions  were  taken,  including  the  establishment  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 

Allow  me  to  also  pay  fitting  tribute  to  the 
outgoing  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations, 
Mr. Kofi Annan,  for  the  outstanding  leadership  he  has 
provided to our Organization, particularly in his efforts 
to reform it into a more vibrant and accountable body. 
His vision and stewardship of the Organization has set 
the United Nations on a new course. We wish him well 
in his future  endeavours as he leaves office.  It is now 
up  to  us  Member  States  to  summon  sufficient  will  to 
make his vision a reality. 

The  world  today  is  faced  with  challenges  of 
extreme  poverty  and  underdevelopment,  conflicts 
among and between nations and terrorism, which have 
36 

06-53341 
the 
is  on 
trafficking 
the  protection  of 


given rise to increased insecurity all over the world. In 
addition,  human 
increase 
worldwide.  Often,  innocent  women  and  children  in 
search of a better life, are sold and made to engage in 
illicit  activities.  That  is  a  gross  violation  of  human 
rights,  which  must  be  seriously  addressed  by  the 
international community. 

The 2005 Summit Outcome set a global agenda to 
address those challenges. Much has been achieved, but 
more  remains  to  be  done  if  we  are  to  build  a  world 
body  that  is  effective  and  relevant  to  the  challenges 
faced.  Indeed,  as  Mr.  Kofi Annan  has  indicated  in  his 
“In Larger Freedom” report, 

“we will not enjoy development without security, 
we  will  not  enjoy  security  without  development, 
and  we  will  not  enjoy  either  without  respect  for 
human rights.” (A/59/2005, para. 17) 

The  guiding  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  incorporate  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  We  believe 
those  rights  and 
that  without 
freedoms,  meaningful 
be 
achieved. 

As  one  of  the  47  Member  States  elected  to  the 
newly  established  Human  Rights  Council,  Zambia  is 
committed  to  upholding  the  tenets  of  human  rights  in 
our  country  and  the  world  at  large.  In  that  regard, 
Zambia commends the United Nations for establishing 
the  Human  Rights  Council,  and  as  a  pioneer  member, 
pledges to give it all the support that it will require. We 
commit  ourselves  to  assist  in  formulating  rules  and 
structures  designed  to  ensure  a  strong  Council  that  is 
transparent,  non-selective  and  non-politicized  and  that 
promotes  dialogue  and  cooperation  among  Member 
States. 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  Zambia  has  made 
progress  in  consolidating  human  rights  and  good 
governance.  Zambia  has  further  strengthened  the  rule 
of  law  and  upheld  the  highest  standards  of  individual 
freedoms for all citizens, without discrimination based 
on  sex,  colour,  race  or  religious  affiliation.  In  that 
regard,  we  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
assist  us  to  strengthen  and  build  the  capacities  of 
human  rights  institutions  and  all  related  institutions 
that  have  an  important  role  to  play  in  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. 
development 
cannot 
A/61/PV.19
poverty 
and 
this 
juncture 
to 
thank 
extreme 
With  regard 
to 
comprehensive 
Permit  me  at 
increased  global 
taking  appropriate  national 

the 
international  community  for  electing  Zambia  to  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  with 
the  second  highest 
number of votes. 

insecurity, 
Zambia  reaffirms  that  a  new  vision  of  collective 
security  is  required.  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations  expect  the  collective  mechanism  to  address 
threats,  such  as  war,  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
terrorism, organized crime and civil conflict, infectious 
diseases, 
environmental 
degradation. If the United Nations is to strengthen the 
operations  of  that  collective  mechanism,  Member 
States must work through the United Nations Security 
Council and other United Nations agencies to develop 
stronger  anti-terrorism,  nuclear  non-proliferation, 
disarmament and crime prevention regimes. 

Zambia will continue to actively pursue measures 
intended  to  curtail  terrorism  through  various  actions, 
including 
legislative 
reforms. To that end, we welcome the  recent adoption 
by  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Global  Counter-
Terrorism Strategy and look forward to the adoption of 
the 
international 
terrorism. 

to  avoid 
addressing  situations  that  threaten  international  peace 
and  security,  such  as  the  recent  case  of  Lebanon. 
Pitifully,  we  witnessed  a  case  of  the  inaction  of  the 
Security  Council, 
the 
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. That state of affairs only reaffirms the need to 
reform the Security Council, with regard to its working 
methods and the enlargement of its membership. In that 
regard, Zambia reaffirms Africa’s well-known position 
on the matter. 

At  this  stage,  I  would  be  remiss  if  I  did  not 
mention  the  Great  Lakes  region,  which  is  emerging 
from  a  protracted  period  of  conflict,  followed  by  a 
period of successful transition towards democracy. The 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
will  hold  its  second  summit  in  Nairobi  in  December 
2006,  to  adopt  the draft pact on security, stability  and 
development in the region. In that regard, we need the 
continued  political  and  financial  support  of 
the 
international community to ensure its adoption. 
It  is  important  to  confirm  that  the  peacebuilding 

and development process in the Great Lakes region has 
Our  Organization  cannot  afford 
convention  on 
charged  with 
a  body 
06-53341 

37 
and 
integrated 
in 
international  community 
sustainable 
the  Great  Lakes  region 
A/61/PV.19 

reached  a  very  advanced  stage  at  all  the  three-
dimensional  levels,  namely:  international  partnership, 
regional  ownership  and  national  stewardship.  The 
for 
vision 
human 
development 
is  now 
reassured. The cessation of conflicts in the region, has 
already  fed  into  the  collective  will  to  transform  the 
subregion  into  a  place  of  sustainable  peace,  political 
security and development. 

Extreme  poverty  and  deprivation  breed  disease. 
The  number  of  people  living  with  or  affected  by 
HIV/AIDS  and  the  deaths  caused  by  AIDS  have 
continued  to  grow  in  the  world  today.  Furthermore, 
between  350  and  500  million  people  per  year  are 
exposed  to  malaria,  which  is  estimated  to  be  the 
number  one  cause  of  mortality  in  most  developing 
countries. 

Zambia,  like  many  of  the  developing  countries 
adversely  affected  by  those  diseases,  supports  all  the 
efforts  made  by 
in 
combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis.  We 
therefore welcome the creation of an international drug 
purchase  facility  to  combat  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis 
and malaria. This will not only facilitate easy access to 
medicine  but  will  also  lower  the  costs  and  therefore 
benefit  many  countries,  especially  in  the  developing 
world. 

Poverty in the world today accounts for many of 
the  social  and  economic  injustices  that  people  are 
subjected to in many developing countries. Four years 
ago,  a  bargain  was  struck  in  Monterrey  between 
developed 
the 
implementation  of  a  comprehensive  strategy  bold 
enough  to  achieve  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  Developed 
countries  were  urged  to  support  those  efforts  with 
action on aid, trade and debt relief. 

While  we  commend  the  developed  countries  for 
taking  tangible  steps  to  fulfil  their  commitments,  we 
call  upon  them  to  do  so  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  It  is 
saddening  to  note  that  six  years  after  the  Millennium 
Declaration  was  signed,  the  majority  of  our  people  in 
Africa  are  still  exposed  to  abject  poverty  and  live  on 
less 
there  has  been 
significant  progress  in  achieving  the  MDGs,  much 
more  remains  to  be  done  in  order  to  reverse  the 
negative 
the  continued 
marginalization of people across the world. 
than  $1  per  day.  Although 
trends  of  poverty  and 
developing 
countries 
and 
on 
the 

to 
to 
through 
increase  aid 
the  poorest  countries 

We call for the removal of the unjust multilateral 
trade  system,  which  continues  to  hamper  the  fair 
participation  of  the  developing  and  least  developed 
countries in the global market. We would like to draw 
the  attention  of  the  Assembly  to  the  role  of  our 
developing  partners,  particularly,  in  the  quick  and 
concrete  implementation  of  the  Doha  Development 
Agenda. It should be pointed out that with fair trading 
practices,  developing  and  least  developed  countries 
would  take  a  significant  step  towards  self-sustenance 
and reduce dependence on aid. 

Furthermore,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  the 
Gleneagles Summit, at which the leaders of the Group 
of  Eight  pledged 
to  Africa  by 
$25 billion  a  year  by  2010.  We  also  express  our 
gratitude to those leaders for extending and deepening 
debt  relief 
the 
Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative.  That  Initiative  has 
resulted in 100-per-cent cancellation of  the debt owed 
to the international multilateral financial institutions by 
the  poor  countries  that  have  reached  the  completion 
point under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt 
Initiative. Zambia is one such country. In addition, our 
gratitude  goes  to  the  other  cooperating  partners  for 
agreeing  to  expand  aid  to  developing  countries  by 
approximately $50 billion. Those resources will indeed 
contribute to the advancement of the MDGs. 
Although  in  the  recent  past  we  have  seen  an 

increase in the commitment of aid resources and action 
and  a  reaffirmation  of 
the  principle  of  mutual 
accountability,  there  is  still  an  urgent  need  to  ensure 
that aid is managed efficiently and used effectively for 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  It  is  equally  important 
to  closely  monitor  the  donor  commitments  and  aid 
flows targeted at achieving the MDGs that we have set 
for ourselves to improve the lives of the poor and most 
vulnerable in the global community. The people in the 
developing countries have been listening attentively to 
the  promises 
in  various 
international  forums.  They  continue  to  monitor  those 
commitments.  Their  expectations  and  aspirations  are 
very high. It is therefore incumbent on us to ensure that 
those commitments and promises are fulfilled. 
The  twenty-first  century  has  been  declared  the 

century for the development of Africa. Let us therefore 
show true commitment to that cause. In a world where 
there  is  no  true  partnership  between  the  rich  nations 
and  the  poor  nations,  there  can  be  no  global  security, 
no  universal 
rights  and  no 
that  we  have  made 
justice,  no  human 
38 

06-53341 


meaningful development. More than ever before, all of 
us  —  rich  and  poor  nations  alike  —  have  to  work 
together to create a sense  of equal partnership. We  all 
need  to  fulfil  our  commitments  within  a  given  time 
frame  and  enter  into  new  ones  in  order  to  reach  our  

A/61/PV.19
goal  of  a  world  free  of  hunger,  extreme  poverty  and 
disease  —  indeed,  a  world  where  we  can  live  in  a 
secure, clean and sustainable environment. 


The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m. 
06-53341 

39 
