
A/61/PV.25
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

25th plenary meeting 
Monday, 2 October 2006, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 







The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 
Agenda item 102 (continued) 

is  of 
competence, 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/61/1 and Corr.1) 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Secretary-General  has  rightly  pointed 
out  in  his  report  that  the  indispensable  coordinating 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs,  as 
the  most  representative  intergovernmental  institution 
with  universal 
ever-greater 
importance today in this era of globalization. 
A  record  number  of  peacekeepers  —  88,000  — 

have  been  sent  to  numerous  conflict  zones.  Tension 
continues  in  the  Middle  East.  The  situation  in  Iraq 
continues to cause a lack of stability in the region and 
in the world in general. Kosovo remains an extremely 
complicated situation in terms of settling the status of 
that  territory.  The  international  community  needs  to 
pay greater attention to the hotbeds of conflicts on the 
African continent. The terrorist threat also continues to 
worsen. 
The  Organization  needs,  therefore,  to  work  to 

build  up 
respond 
collectively to modern threats and challenges, but also 
to  prevent  them.  The  Russian  Federation,  currently 
holding  the  presidency  of  the  Group  of  Eight,  gives 
priority attention to this issue. 
its  capabilities  not  only 
to 
the  adaptation  of 

Acute  global  threats  and  challenges  call  for  the 
consolidation  of  collective  approaches  in  international 
affairs and for further improvement of the instruments 
of  multilateral  diplomacy.  Only  the  concerted  actions 
of  the  international  community,  led  by  the  United 
Nations,  can  ensure  security  in  the  world  within  the 
framework of the emerging multi-polar architecture of 
international relations. Steps aimed at strengthening the 
dialogue between civilizations are an important part of 
such efforts. 
Considerable  progress  has  already  been  made 

regarding 
the  mechanisms  and 
methods  of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  to  new 
conditions,  set  forth  by  the  2005  World  Summit; 
however,  further  work  must  be  carried  out.  The  main 
theme of the decisions taken to achieve United Nations 
reform should be to increase the Organization’s overall 
in 
effectiveness  and  strengthen 
international 
the 
intergovernmental character of this unique forum. The 
successful realization of this task is only possible if the 
Member  States  agree  as  completely  as  possible  on  all 
aspects of these transformations. 

Genuinely  collective  efforts are  required to meet 
the  growing  demand  for  the  unique  potential  of  the 
United Nations in the field of peacekeeping. Not all of 
it, as the Secretary-General rightly pointed out, is fully 
used. The  Organization  would  benefit,  for  instance,  if 
we  made  use  of  the  capabilities  of  the  Military  Staff 
Committee and the regional organizations on the basis 
of the relevant provisions of the Charter. 
its  pivotal 
affairs  without  prejudice 
role 
to 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-56229 (E) 
*0656229* 
The 
establishment 
is  expected 

of 
the 
to  help 
A/61/PV.25 

Peacebuilding 

Commission 
increase 
the 
coordination  and  the  effectiveness  of  international 
efforts in assisting countries emerging from crises. We 
think it is important to ensure effective functioning of 
this  intergovernmental  body.  We  intend  to  actively 
participate in its work. 

The  stalling  of  the  international  disarmament 
process does not help to solve the problems in the field 
of  non-proliferation.  Collective  actions  are  needed  to 
break  the  impasse,  given  the  collective  nature  of  our 
security concerns. 

The  priority  tasks,  in  our  view,  are  ensuring  the 
activation  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty (CTBT), preventing the deployment of weapons 
in  outer  space  and  achieving  a  comprehensive 
agreement on that matter,  concluding  a  treaty banning 
fissile  materials  production  for  military  purposes  and 
ensuring  international  information  security.  We  also 
need  to  revitalize  multilateral  efforts  in  the  area  of 
disarmament  and  arms  control  within  the  Conference 
on Disarmament and the relevant bodies of the United 
Nations. 

We think it is of primary importance to ensure the 
rule  of  law.  Full  implementation  of  this  principle  in 
international  affairs  guarantees  stability  in  the  world. 
One  of  its  key  components  is  the  fight  against 
impunity.  In  this  area,  priority  is  given  to  national 
authorities,  which,  when  necessary,  should  have  the 
possibility of seeking the help of this Organization. We 
agree with the Secretary-General that the fight against 
impunity  and  efforts 
to  maintain  peace  should 
complement each other. 

The  record  of  international  justice,  in  our  view, 
has  not  been  entirely  successful.  The  activities  of  the 
the  Former 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
Yugoslavia  have 
shortcomings: 
political  bias  in  decisions  and  the  significant  cost  of 
court  proceedings. We  have  great  expectations  for  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  We  anticipate  that  this 
body of justice will make a substantial contribution to 
the fight against impunity. 
Russia views the formation of an effective system 

of  security,  with  the  United  Nations  holding  a  central 
coordinating  role,  as  a  key  aspect  in  the  fight  against 
international  terrorism.  The  recent  adoption  of  the 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  provides  great 
potential  for  reinforcing  the  systemic  work  of  the 
for 
serious 
revealed 
international community in the field of fighting terror. 
We support the point raised in the report that describes 
the  need  to  build  Member  States’  counter-terrorist 
capabilities  through  the  establishment  of  an  effective 
system  of  technical  assistance.  We  believe,  however, 
that the major focus here should be the improvement of 
the  quality  of  the  dialogue  between  States  and  the 
Security  Council  committees  established 
to  fight 
terrorism,  as  well  as  on  enhancing  the  capacity  of  the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. 

We  agree  that  now,  after  the  adoption  of  the 
Global  Strategy  against  Terrorism,  it  is  a  matter  of 
priority  to  finish  the  work  on  the  draft  of  the 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
Intensified  efforts  are  needed  to  accomplish  this  as 
soon as possible. 

On  the  whole,  we  are  satisfied  with  the  analysis 
of  the  activities  of  the  Organization  in  the  field  of 
human  rights  protection.  More  specifically,  we  share 
the  opinion  that  it  is  necessary  to  establish  and 
strengthen  national  systems  for  the  protection  and 
promotion of human rights. Such efforts are needed to 
facilitate  the  strengthening  of  the  international  regime 
of human rights protection, which is, in our firm belief, 
a major long-term priority in this field. 

The  establishment by the  Human Rights Council 
of  two  intersessional  intergovernmental  open-ended 
working  groups  on 
the  mechanism  of  universal 
periodic reviews and on optimization of the system of 
special procedures — legacies of the Sub-Commission 
of 
the  Commission  on  Human  Rights  —  are 
undoubtedly positive events. We hope that the working 
groups  will  eventually  be  able  to  start  their  work 
within  the  proposed  format,  as  envisaged  by  the 
relevant resolutions of the first session of the Council, 
but  without  limiting  themselves  to  holding  informal 
consultations on the issues within their mandate. 

Today,  the  focus  on  the  issues  of  development 
and  the  strengthening  of  democracy,  as  well  as  the 
interaction  between  the  United  Nations  and  civil 
society,  based  on  a  broad  range  of  issues  on  the 
international agenda, has become more important than 
ever and deserves special consideration  by taking into 
account  the  importance  and  scope  of  the  issues. I 
would  like  to  highlight  the  major  point,  namely,  the 
need  to  have  transparent,  unbiased  and  objective 
discussions of the entire range of issues, in accordance 
2 

06-56229 
issue.  We  are  willing 


with  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  guided  by  the 
principles of universality. 

On the whole, we share the positive assessments 
of the Secretary-General of the work done to fulfil the 
decisions  of  the  Summit  aimed  at  increasing  the 
effectiveness  of  social  and  economic  activities  of  the 
entire United Nations system, and of efforts to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  At  the 
same  time,  the  Organization’s  potential,  in  particular, 
its  operational  segment,  should  be  used  more 
effectively in order to assist the countries in need. We 
believe  it  is  impermissible  to  politicize  the  work  of 
United Nations operational funds and programmes. 

In  addition,  we  note  the  importance  of  resolving 
the  problem  of  overall  system  coherence  and  we  are 
looking forward to the report of the high-level panel on 
that 
to  have  substantive 
discussions of all realistic proposals. 
We  note  with  satisfaction  that  the  issues  of 

sustainable  development  and  the  global  problems  of 
health  care  are  among  the  priorities  in  the  report.  We 
share  the  correct  conclusion  of  the  Secretary-General 
that,  since  natural  disasters  have  become  more 
frequent, it is necessary to build up the capabilities of 
the Organization that are aimed at decreasing the threat 
and  enhancing  readiness.  On  our  part,  we  intend  to 
make  practical  contributions  to  resolving  such  acute 
global  problems  as  climate  change,  eradication  of 
infectious  diseases  and  a  sustainable  energy  supply. 
The  last  two  issues  are  the  priorities  of  the  Russian 
presidency of the Group of Eight. 
fairly  balanced 

presentation  of  humanitarian 
Justifiable 
emphasis  is  given  to  the  establishment  of  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund,  which  is  called  upon  to 
to  financial  resources  for 
ensure  reliable  access 
stages  of 
preserving 
humanitarian  response  and 
long-term 
humanitarian operations. 

We  deem  it  necessary  for  the  General Assembly 
to draft the relevant resolution, with due regard for the 
views  of  the  Secretary-General  favouring  a  cluster 
approach  to  ensure  greater  coherence  in  the  work  of 
humanitarian  operations 
the  field.  The  report 
highlights  the  difficulties  in  enhancing  humanitarian 
coordination at the local level, which are related, in our 
view,  to  the  difficult  task  of  elaborating  suitable 
methods  of  cooperation  with  national  Governments 
report  also  gives  a 
lives  during 
the  earliest 
in  planning 
issues. 
The 
in 
A/61/PV.25
functional 
effectiveness 
the  priorities  of 
that  protect  the  sovereign  right  of  the  countries  to 
independently  determine 
the 
humanitarian response and ways to provide it. 

We agree with the recommendation favouring, in 
accordance  with  existing  commitments,  the  provision 
of  international  assistance  towards  fulfilment  of  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development programme, 
specifically as regards the reduction of the debt burden 
and fighting HIV/AIDS. 
We  attach  great  significance  to  improving  and 

and 
the 
enhancing 
transparency  of 
the  administrative,  financial  and 
personnel  units  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as  to 
implementing  the  General  Assembly  decisions  on  the 
reform of the Organization. The most important issues 
of  the  ongoing  reform  are  increasing  the  efficiency  of 
the  Secretariat,  ensuring  greater  professionalism  and 
productivity  of  the  staff,  clear  accountability  and 
responsibility to Member States for the end results. 
Mr.  McNee  (Canada):  Let  me  begin  by  paying 

tribute to the Secretary-General for his excellent report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization.  He  once  again  has 
shown us a vision of the future, as well as a road map 
for  getting  there. As  he  ends  his  remarkable  tenure  as 
Secretary-General, it is appropriate that the report also 
takes stock of our collective accomplishments to date. 
The  report  leaves  no  doubt  that  the  Secretary-General 
leaves  behind  an  Organization  that  is  stronger  and 
more effective than the one he found ten years ago. We 
thank  him  for  the  persistence,  energy  and  clarity  of 
purpose that he has brought to this task. 

the 
Secretary-General  validates  the  truism  that  reform  is 
not  a  one-time  event,  but  rather  an  ongoing  process 
that  requires  sustained  commitment.  On  the  one  hand, 
we have made progress in recent years. The design and 
establishment  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
creation  of  the  new  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
recent  adoption  of  a  counter-terrorism  strategy  are 
accomplishments in their own right and a testament to 
our  shared  determination 
tackle  contemporary 
challenges. 
On  the  other  hand,  much  work  is  still  needed  to 

bring  to  life  those  innovations  in  a  meaningful  way. 
The Millennium Development Goals are perhaps most 
illustrative  of  that  point.  On  the  one  hand,  they  have 
focused  the  world’s  attention  as  never  before  on  a 
concrete set of objectives for improving the lives of the 
report  of 
anything, 
More 
than 
the 
to 
06-56229 

3 

increasing  pressure  on 
A/61/PV.25 

world’s  poorest  people.  On 
the  other  hand, 
improvements  in  nutrition,  sanitation,  education  and 
medical  care  remain  elusive  for  a  full  fifth  of  the 
world’s  population, 
the 
development architecture of the United Nations. 

That,  coupled  with  the  increased  demand  for 
United  Nations  field  operations,  especially  peace 
support  and  humanitarian  operations,  has  not  only 
changed  the  nature  of  the  Organization,  but  also 
enlarged  managerial  risk  within  it.  Above  all,  those 
demands underscore the urgency of a reinvigorated and 
renewed United Nations. 

In that regard, Canada welcomes the emphasis of 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  interconnectedness  of 
development,  peacekeeping,  peacebuilding,  human 
rights  and  the  rule  of  law,  all  of  which  are  central  to 
long-term global stability. We further welcome the new 
focus  in  this  year’s  report  on  the  role  of  non-State 
actors, whose partnership is essential to the success of 
the United Nations. 

As  we  look  at  the  agenda  for  the  sixty-first 
session  of  the  General Assembly,  it  is  clear  that  there 
will be no shortage of work for Member States and the 
principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  But  several 
challenges  stand  out  as  deserving  special  attention  in 
the months ahead. 
First,  there  is  an  urgent  need  to  ensure  that  the 

new institutions we have created — the Human Rights 
Council and the Peacebuilding Commission — get off 
to the right start. In the coming months, a key priority 
for Canada will be to ensure that the working methods 
of  those  bodies  are  flexible  enough  to  succeed  in  the 
task  at  hand.  In  particular,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
Human  Rights  Council  move  beyond  the  politicized 
squabbles that hobbled and discredited its predecessor, 
that 
is 
implemented  effectively  and  that  stronger  links  are 
built between the normative and the operational human 
rights work of the Organization. 

Similarly,  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  which 
will convene its first country-specific meetings in two 
weeks  time,  must  produce  a  discernable  improvement 
in 
the  Organization’s  post-conflict  peacebuilding 
record.  Member  States  must  show  themselves  capable 
of contributing to the solution, by bringing together the 
fragmented 
the 
Organization and the political authority of the principal 
organs. Embracing that informal coordination function 
the  universal  periodic  review  mechanism 
capacity  within 
operational 
the 
stronger,  more 
reforming  human 
is key to ensuring that the countries it engages with do 
not  suffer 
fate  of  Timor-Leste  and  other 
post-conflict societies that have resolved conflicts only 
to  relapse  into  a  new  round  of  violence  within  a  few 
short years. 
(spoke in French)
The  second  critical  piece  of  unfinished  business 

will be to advance Secretariat and management reforms 
in  order  to  enable  the  effective  pursuit  of  a  shared 
agenda with real results. 

In  this  regard,  one  of  the  most  important  reform 
measures  to  have  been  put  in  place  during  the 
Secretary-General’s  term  in  office  is  that  of  results-
based  budgeting.  That  system  should  be  expanded. 
Similarly, 
independent  oversight 
mechanisms  and  more  robust  accountability  are  key 
priorities  for  this  session.  Finally,  we  look  forward  to 
making  progress 
resource 
management  with  a  view  to  developing  the  talented, 
mobile and integrated workforce that the Organization 
requires. 

It  has  been  said  that  we  live  in  a  world  of  new 
threats  and  old  institutions.  It  is  clear  from  the  tenth 
and  final  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work 
of the Organization that we owe him a debt of gratitude 
for  having  transformed  this  institution  so  that  it  can 
better  confront  current  challenges.  As  we  move 
forward,  the  Assembly  can  rest  assured  that  Canada 
remains fully committed to continuing the reforms that 
the Secretary-General has set in motion with a view to 
achieving our shared vision of a more effective United 
Nations and a more peaceful, prosperous world. 
Mr.  Kapoma  (Zambia):  My  delegation  joins 

others 
the  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  on  his  good  report  contained  in 
document A/61/1. The  report  provides  us  with  a  clear 
basis  for  our  deliberations.  My  delegation  is  pleased 
that the report gives a broad view of various issues that 
affect  humankind.  These  issues  include  development, 
peace  and  security,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law, 
humanitarian  law  and  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Zambia  reaffirms  its  support  for  multilateralism 
as  a  platform  on  the  basis  of  which  issues  of  global 
concern should be resolved. We agree that a new vision 
of collective  security is required through which States 
Members of the United Nations should address threats 
congratulating 
in 
in 
4 

06-56229 
to 
in 
With  regard 
the  sustainable 
targets  set  out 
the  ongoing  reform  of 
reaffirmed  our  commitment 


such  as  war,  terrorism,  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
organized  crime,  infectious  diseases,  extreme  poverty 
and environmental degradation. 

the 
United Nations, Zambia believes that it should address 
the  concerns  of  Member  States,  especially  developing 
countries.  We  believe  that  global  partnership  for 
development  will  facilitate  fair  participation  in  the 
global  market  by  the  developing  and  least  developed 
countries.  We  call  for  support  from  the  international 
community  in  the  areas  of  trade  and  investment  — 
areas  with  regard  to  which  developing  countries  hope 
to  attain 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  this  regard,  we 
commend  the  Secretary-General  for  having  launched, 
in  July  2000,  the  Global  Compact.  Zambia  welcomes 
that development initiative. We believe that the Global 
Compact  will  assist  our  country  in  its  development 
efforts in many ways. 
The  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 

(resolution  60/1) 
to 
strengthening  the  United  Nations  with  a  view  to 
enhancing  its  authority  and  efficiency,  as  well  as  its 
capacity 
in 
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter.  World  leaders  reaffirmed  the  central  position 
of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and 
representative  organ  of  our 
Organization. It is for this reason that we should ensure 
that  measures  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly are adopted at this session. 

Regarding  the  Security  Council,  a  body  charged 
with  the  responsibility  for  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  Zambia  reaffirms  the  need  for  its 
reform,  in  terms  of  both  its  enlargement  and  its 
working  methods.  In  this  regard,  Zambia  aligns  itself 
with  the  well-known  position  taken  by  the  African 
Union  on  this  matter.  Indeed,  the  Council  should  be 
reformed  so 
it  becomes  more  democratic, 
transparent  and  responsive  to  the  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century.  In  his  report  “In  larger  freedom” 
(A/59/2005),  the  Secretary-General  emphasized  that 
the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  would  not  be 
complete  without  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
We agree with him. 
The  protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 

freedoms 
socio-economic 
development  of  any  civilization,  just  as  upholding  the 
to  address  global 
issues  effectively, 
important 
that 
the 
A/61/PV.25
In 
the 
the 
sustained  by 
conclusion,  Zambia  believes 
tenets of good governance is of cardinal importance for 
the maintenance of international peace and security. In 
this  regard,  Zambia  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
support  the  work  of  the  newly  established  Human 
Rights Council. As a member of that Council, Zambia 
commits  itself  to  ensuring  that  it  is  effective  and 
efficient. 

Other issues of concern to my delegation include 
extreme  poverty  and  disease.  The  number  of  people 
living  with  or  affected  by  HIV/AIDS  and  the  number 
of  deaths  caused  by  AIDS  have  continued  to  grow 
globally. Zambia, like many other developing countries 
adversely  affected  by  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis,  supports  efforts  by 
international 
community  to  combat  those  diseases.  We  therefore 
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  honour  the 
commitments  made  in  the  context  of  various  forums 
aimed  at  increasing  and  enhancing  aid  to  developing 
countries. The fight against HIV/AIDS is a global one 
which  must  be 
international 
community  at  all  levels.  It  is,  indeed,  a  fight  which 
must  be  won  if  the  future  is  to  be  brighter  and  more 
assured for coming generations. 

the 
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals will 
depend  on  Member  States’  political  will.  We  believe 
that  development,  security  and  human  rights  are 
important and that they reinforce each other. There is a 
need, 
for 
development 
the  agreed  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  the  Millennium  Declaration, 
world  leaders  expressed  confidence  that  humanity 
could  make  measurable  progress 
towards  peace, 
security,  disarmament,  human  rights,  democracy  and 
good governance. Let us therefore rise to the challenge 
and ensure the fulfilment of those objectives. 
Mr. Hannesson  (Iceland):  The  annual  report 

(A/61/1) of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, on 
the work of the Organization is an  excellent overview 
of achievements during the past year — and, indeed, of 
earlier  achievements  —  as  well  as  of  the  complex 
challenges  facing  us.  It  serves  as  a  clear  reminder  — 
for  some,  it  might  be  a  revelation  —  that  the  United 
Nations is not a talking shop. As we debate this report, 
there  are  30,000  civilian  staff  serving  in  the  field  and 
65,000  troops  and  military  observers,  7,500  police 
officers  and  more  than  15,000  international  and  local 
civilian  personnel 
in  15  peacekeeping 
operations  and  three  special  political  or  peacebuilding 
the  global  partnership 
to  achieve 
therefore, 
serving 
that 
for 
is 
in 
06-56229 

5 

the  previous 
session  with 
A/61/PV.25 

missions,  to  mention  only  one  important  aspect  of 
United  Nations  operations,  peace  and  security.  The 
report  also  helps  us  to  maintain  a  focus  on  the  main 
issue: the need for good governance and accountability, 
both within the Organization and in Member States. 

Strengthening the United Nations will continue to 
be one of the principal tasks at the sixty-first session of 
the  General  Assembly.  Certainly,  real  progress  was 
made  during 
the 
establishment  of  the  new  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the Central Emergency 
Response Fund. However, we have only established the 
framework;  the  real  work  is  still  ahead  of  us.  Iceland 
trusts  that  the  new  mechanisms,  along  with  the 
determination of Member States, will contribute to the 
strengthening of the United Nations. 

We concur with the Secretary-General that reform 
of  the  United  Nations  should  include  reform  of  the 
Security Council. As stated on many occasions, Iceland 
wants comprehensive reform of the Security Council in 
terms  of  both  expansion  and  working  methods.  Both 
the permanent and non-permanent seats on the Council 
should  increase  in  number  in  order  to  better  reflect 
today’s world. 

In  her  statement  in  the  general  debate  last  week 
(see  A/61/PV.20),  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Iceland 
emphasized  development  issues,  and  in  particular 
sustainable  development.  The  Foreign  Minister 
reaffirmed  Iceland’s  strong  commitment  to  the  Doha 
Development  Agenda.  Iceland  sees  the  suspension  of 
the global trade talks as a major setback. We welcome 
and  support  international  efforts  to  provide  debt  relief 
to  the  poorest  countries.  We  also  applaud  those 
countries that have committed themselves to increasing 
their  official  development  assistance.  Over  the  next 
three  years,  Iceland’s  development  assistance  will 
nearly triple, and we are determined to do even more. 

supports  what  Ambassador  Kirsti 
Lintonen of Finland said earlier today (see A/61/PV.24) 
about the global response to HIV/AIDS and the urgent 
need for concerted action in all areas with regard to the 
development of the African continent. Indeed, the bulk 
of  Iceland’s  development  cooperation  is  with  African 
countries. 

We  want  to  see  more  determined  efforts  by 
development  partners  and  United  Nations  agencies  to 
pursue gender equality. In that connection, we suggest 
that the work of the United Nations Development Fund 
Iceland 
in 
the  work  of 
for  Women  must  be  given  more  weight  within  the 
United Nations. 

We agree with the Secretary-General that a major 
challenge  for  all  countries  in  the  years  ahead  is  the 
development  of  new  and  sustainable  energy  sources. 
Iceland  will  continue  to  contribute  to  work  in  that 
field. 

The  protection  and  promotion  of  fundamental 
human  rights  is  one  of  the  primary  aims  of  the 
United Nations.  The  Secretary-General  notes  in  his 
report the significantly increased importance of human 
rights 
the  Organization.  Iceland 
welcomes  that  development.  The  establishment  of  the 
Human Rights Council is an example of such progress. 
In  that  connection,  it  is  important  that  the  universal 
periodic  review  system  of  the  new  Human  Rights 
Council  be  up  and  running  soon.  Member  States  have 
accepted  the  fact  that  we  have  the  responsibility  to 
protect  all  people  from  genocide,  war  crimes,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity.  Now  we  have 
to make sure that we fulfil that responsibility. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  premier  international 
Organization  responsible  for  maintaining  peace  and 
security. That is a complex, multidimensional task. The 
United  Nations  has  begun  to  put  more  emphasis  on 
preventing conflict before it develops. Indeed, that is in 
line  with 
that  we  have 
increasingly  taken  in  our  work.  There  can  be  no 
security  without  development  and  no  development 
without security, as has so often been said in this Hall. 

For  the  past  decade  —  and  especially  since 
11 September  2001  —  we  have  been  confronted  with 
terrorism,  which  now  constitutes  one  of  the  major 
threats  to  international  peace  and  security.  While 
welcoming 
new  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
60/288), 
adopted by consensus in the General Assembly, Iceland 
emphasizes  that  it  is  important  that  Member  States 
agree on the next step: a comprehensive convention on 
international  terrorism.  We  need  a  concerted  effort  — 
including at the highest political levels in capitals — in 
order  to  reach  agreement  on  the  outstanding  issues 
related to a draft comprehensive convention. 

Reining  in  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  and  reinvigorating  disarmament  initiatives 
are  also  essential  to  long-term  peace  and  security. 
Sadly, the 2005 World Summit, the Review Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
the  holistic  approach 
(resolution 
the 
6 

06-56229 
in 
the 
linked 
Implementation  of 
terrorism 
Iceland  supports  his  call 


Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  Conference  to  Review 
Progress  Made 
the 
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons  in  All  Its  Aspects  yielded  no  results  in  that 
regard. The Secretary-General is right to point out the 
to  weapons  of  mass 
danger  of 
destruction. 
for  more 
concerted  action  on 
small  arms,  which  cause 
intolerable  destruction  among  large  sections  of  the 
world’s population. 

Madam  President,  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Jan 
Eliasson,  repeatedly  reminded  us  that  the  United 
Nations  and  multilateralism  are  indispensable  in  our 
world today, where threats are often global in scale. All 
of  us  need  to  be  reminded  of  that.  Indeed,  we  agree 
with  what Ambassador  Munir Akram  of  Pakistan  said 
on the subject earlier in this debate, at the 24th plenary 
meeting.  The  United  Nations  will  continue  to  need 
visionary, courageous and skilful leadership. 

During his 10 years at the helm of the Secretariat, 
the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  has  played  a 
leading role in “bringing new life to the Organization”, 
to  quote  the  Norwegian  Nobel  Committee.  As  this  is 
Mr.  Annan’s  last  report  on  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations, I take this opportunity to thank the Secretary-
General for his leadership and for working tirelessly — 
to  quote  the  Nobel  Committee  once  again  —  “for  a 
better organized and more peaceful world”. 
Mr.  Kazykhanov  (Kazakhstan):  First  of  all,  I 

would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  on 
your  election  to  your  high  office  and  to  express 
confidence  that  under  your  skilful  stewardship,  the 
sixty-first  session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  be 
successful and fruitful. 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  the 

his 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi  Annan, 
comprehensive 
(A/61/1),  which  not  only 
describes  achievements  and  problems  encountered  in 
the  areas  of  development,  security  and  human  rights, 
but  also  elaborates  on  new  trends  in  the  global 
interrelationship, such as interactions with civil society 
and the business community. 

Kazakhstan  supports  a  multipronged  strategy 
aimed  at  preventing  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction. Real progress in that area is possible 
if  all  Member  States  fulfil  their  obligations  regarding 
nuclear  disarmament  and  the  vertical  and  horizontal 
report 
for 
A/61/PV.25
that 
the 
that 
the 
firmly 
signing, 
supports 
Kazakhstan 
is  convinced 
We  have  no  doubt 
in  every  possible  way 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
Kazakhstan 
international 
community,  particularly  the  nuclear-weapon  States, 
should  encourage 
the 
establishment  of  internationally  recognized  nuclear-
weapon-free  zones  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  The 
establishment  of  such  zones  promotes  international 
peace and security. 

in 
Semipalatinsk  in  September  2006,  of  the  Treaty  on  a 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in Central Asia is a crucial 
breakthrough  in  the  efforts  to  ensure  regional  and 
global  stability  and  security. The  Central Asian  States 
are ready to continue consultations with the permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  on  the  issue  of  that 
Treaty’s entry into force. 

peacekeeping 
activities  and  international  efforts  to  enhance  the 
United Nations peacekeeping capacity. 

We  commend  the  establishment  of  a  newly 
elected  body  within  the  United  Nations  system  —  the 
Peacebuilding Commission — that was set up thanks to 
the intensive efforts of all delegations, which were able 
to reach a compromise through negotiations. 

Convinced  that  combating  terrorism  is  a  top 
priority,  Kazakhstan  commends  the  launch  of  the 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  We  view  the  five 
pillars  of  the  concept  of  counter-terrorism  action  as 
integral  elements  of  the  efforts  to  avert  the  threat  of 
terrorism.  Kazakhstan  believes 
international 
cooperation  to  fight  terrorism  should  be  developed  in 
full  conformity  with  the  provisions  of  the  United 
Nations Charter and the norms of international law. 

With  illegal  routes  of  delivery  of  Afghan  drugs 
from  Asia  to  Europe  running  through  its  territory, 
Kazakhstan  makes  every  effort  to  address  that  threat. 
The  fight  can  be  effective  only  if  we  join  our  efforts 
and  mobilize  the  resources  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its  specialized  agencies.  It  is  precisely  for  that  reason 
that  Kazakhstan  has  supported  the  United  Nations 
initiative  to  set  up  in  Kazakhstan  a  Central  Asian 
regional  information  and  coordination  centre  to  fight 
illegal drug trafficking. 

We  would  like  to  express  gratitude  to  the Asian 
countries for supporting the Conference on Interaction 
and  Confidence-Building  Measures  in  Asia,  which 
undoubtedly  strengthens  stability  and  confidence-
that 
06-56229 

7 
its  own 
implement 
A/61/PV.25 

building  measures  in  Asia  and  will  create  favourable 
conditions  for  interaction  in  the  interests  of  the 
prosperity  and 
sustainable  development  of  our 
countries. 

Development issues should continue to be among 
the priority items of the agenda of the principal bodies 
of the United Nations. The implementation of the 2005 
World  Summit  Outcome  will  remain  an  important 
priority  for  the  Organization  in  the  coming  period. 
Kazakhstan is committed to its undertakings regarding 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  works 
continuously 
long-term 
strategies — “Kazakhstan 2030” — and an innovative 
industrial  economic  development  programme.  The 
Government’s  main  objective  in  the  area  of  economic 
policies is to ensure that Kazakhstan joins the ranks of 
the most competitive economies. 

Regional  integration  is  an  adequate  way  to  meet 
the  challenges  of  the  modern  world.  Kazakhstan 
attaches great importance to cooperation with States on 
a  broad  range  of  issues  within  the  framework  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States,  the  Eurasian 
Economic  Community,  the  Organization  of  Economic 
Cooperation 
economic 
organizations. In April 2007, Kazakhstan will host the 
sixty-third session of the United Nations Economic and 
Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. 

landlocked  country, 
Kazakhstan  urges  the  international  community,  and 
above all the developed countries, to make every effort 
to  meet 
least  developed  and 
developing  landlocked  countries.  Kazakhstan  stands 
for the global partnership for development through the 
establishment  of  an  open,  rule-based,  predictable  and 
non-discriminatory trade and financial system. 

Kazakhstan  trusts  that  the  United  Nations  will 
continue  to  play  a  leading  role  in  coordinating  relief 
operations  and  believes  that  the  establishment  of  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  will  allow  the 
Organization  to  launch  relief  operations  in  the  early 
days of crises and ensure more adequate distribution of 
relief.  Kazakhstan  was  among  the  first  countries  to 
make a voluntary contribution to the Fund. 

Kazakhstan views the establishment of the United 
Nations Human Rights Council as an important step in 
the  process  of  reforming  the  Organization  and  the 
efforts to enhance its action to protect human rights. In 
our  view,  that  body  should  focus  on  the  most  burning 
the  needs  of 
As 
the  world’s 
largest 
the 
and 
other 
regional 

human  rights  issues  on  the  basis  of  an  unbiased  and 
objective  analysis  of  situations  throughout  the  world 
and the provision of effective recommendations. 

We  pay  close  attention  to  the  promotion  of 
democracy,  the  building  of  civil  society  and  the 
enhancement  of  inter-ethnic  and  inter-faith  accord  in 
the country. 
We  express  our  appreciation  to  all  States  that 

the 
have  supported  Kazakhstan’s  candidature  for 
presidency  of 
the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  in  2009.  The  Government  of 
Kazakhstan’s policy to maintain and promote a climate 
of  tolerance  and  accord  in  society  constitutes  an 
integral  part  of  our  international  efforts  to  foster  the 
culture of peace and dialogue among civilizations. 

It  is  no  accident  that  Kazakhstan  has  hosted  a 
forum of leaders of world and traditional religions. The 
second congress has just completed its deliberations in 
Astana. Religious leaders adopted a declaration calling 
for  an  active  dialogue  among  religions.  We  cannot 
allow the use of religious differences as an instrument 
of  hatred  and  strife,  and  we  have  to  save  humanity 
from  a  global  clash  of  religions  and  cultures.  The 
congress  has  become  Kazakhstan’s  contribution  to 
global dialogue among religions. 

As  stated  in  the  report  under  consideration,  “if 
history judges 2005 for its promises, then 2006 must be 
judged  on  implementation”  (A/61/1,  para.  27).  We 
strongly  believe  that  this  year  and  upcoming  years 
must  be  an  era  of  implementation  of  goals  we  have 
already set up. 
Mr.  Le  Luong  Minh  (Viet  Nam): At  the  outset, 

on behalf of the Vietnamese delegation, I would like to 
express our sincere gratitude to Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan  for  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization.  We  take  note  with  satisfaction  that  the 
report  highlights 
the  goals  of  development  and 
achieving  peace  and  security  as  the  first  priorities  on 
the  agenda  of  the  Organization.  We  welcome  the 
incorporation  of  the  report  on  the  progress  made  in 
implementing  the  Millennium  Declaration  into  the 
Secretary-General’s report. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  that  cooperation  for 
development  has  enjoyed  a  higher  priority  on  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations  and  that  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has  been 
placed  at  the  core  of  the  United  Nations  global 
06-56229 
to 
8 

in 
to 
the 
agreed 
countries 
developing 
development 
the  increase 
achieve 
goals 
level  of  commitment  of  not  only 


activities. That  corresponds  to  the  priority  attached  to 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  by  Governments  and 
peoples  around  the  world,  as  mentioned  in  the  report. 
While  noting,  on  the  one  hand,  the  achievements 
recorded — such as the drop in the world’s proportion 
of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty;  the  reduction  in 
the  child  mortality  rates  in  developing  countries;  the 
increase  in  the  number  of  people  having  access  to 
improved  sanitation; 
the  primary 
enrolment  ratios  in  developing  regions  of  the  world; 
and 
the 
Governments,  but  also  the  general,  public  and  the 
political  momentum  resulting  therefrom  —  we  share 
the concern of the Secretary-General that progress has 
been  uneven  and  that  the  ongoing  levels  of  human 
deprivation  remain  staggering.  The  statistics  he  has 
offered in many areas are in fact daunting. 

One  year  has  elapsed  since  our  leaders  adopted 
the Outcome Document of the 2005 World Summit, in 
which  important  commitments  were  made  in  order  to 
the 
enable 
internationally 
and 
objectives,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  The  commitments  are  many  and  concrete, 
ranging from embedding the global goals into country-
level processes to new targets in most important areas 
of  activity.  The  Secretary-General  has  called  2005  a 
year of commitments.  

We welcome the fact that to help implement these 
commitments  a  number  of  positive  steps  have  been 
undertaken,  including  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief 
Initiative  and  the  timetables  set  by  many  countries  of 
the  Organization  for  Economic  Cooperation  and 
Development (OECD) to meet the official development 
assistance  (ODA)  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national product income by 2015. Looking back at the 
implementation  of  those  commitments  over  the  past 
year, however, we share the view that, in spite of some 
advances,  progress  is  modest  and  too  incomplete. The 
increase  in  the  level  of  ODA  is  far  from  enough  to 
support  real  ground-level  investment  in  the  neediest 
countries;  the  suspension  of  the  Doha  development 
round caused further disappointment. 
Developing  countries  continue  to  suffer  from 

hardships  caused  by  the  pressure  of  globalization  and 
strengthened  protectionism  in  a  number  of  developed 
countries. A  global  partnership  for  development  is  yet 
to  be  seen.  Partnership  for  development  has  been 
chosen  as  the  theme  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the 
A/61/PV.25
its 
progress 
performance, 
picture.  The 
transformation 
General Assembly. It is the view of my delegation that 
at this session we have to focus on mobilizing further 
political will to undertake concrete action to implement 
our  commitments.  Our  delegation  looks  forward  to 
contributing to this process. 

The  past  year  saw  both  bright  and  dark  spots  in 
the  world’s  overall  peace  and  security  picture.  They 
included the conclusion of the peacekeeping operation 
in  Sierra  Leone  and 
to  a 
peacebuilding  mission,  and  the  regression  towards 
violence in Timor-Leste just one year after the United 
Nations  pulled  its  last  soldiers  out  of  that  country  in 
May  2005.  Prolonged  armed  conflicts  and  civil  wars 
continued  to  threaten  the  lives  of  millions  of  people 
and pushed many others into miserable conditions. The 
recent  conflict  in  Lebanon  added  another  dark  spot  to 
the 
and 
shortcomings of the Organization in bringing peace and 
security to the countries concerned have been analysed 
in the report. 

Let me reaffirm our view that conflict and tension 
can be resolved only through dialogue and negotiation 
on  the  basis  of  mutual  trust  and  understanding,  not 
through  unilateral  actions.  The  crucial  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security must be reaffirmed and further enhanced. 

Terrorism continues to pose a dangerous threat to 
peace 
strong 
condemnation  of  acts  of  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and 
manifestations. We support the Secretary-General’s call 
for  the  international  community  to  continue  to  work 
together  to  confront  and  defeat  terrorism.  In  our 
opinion,  the  fight  against  terrorism  can  be  won  only 
through 
and  balanced  measures 
conducted in full conformity with the principles of the 
United  Nations  Charter  and 
law. 
Furthermore, this fight should avoid any application of 
selectivity and double standards, and the root causes of 
terrorism need to be fully addressed. 

Taking note of the adoption of the United Nations 
Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy (resolution 60/288), 
we  look  forward  to  working  with  other  delegations 
with a view to the early conclusion of a comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism. 

It  has  been  the  shared  conviction  of  Member 
States  that  the  United  Nations  should  be  reformed  in 
order to improve its effectiveness, democratization and 
modes  of  operation  on  the  basis  of  the  fundamental 
comprehensive 
security.  We 
reaffirm  our 
international 
and 
06-56229 

9 

Mr.  Mbuende  (Namibia):  I  would 
A/61/PV.25 

principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  While  welcoming 
initial successes in the United Nations reform process, 
such as the establishment of the Human Rights Council 
and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  realize  that 
much  remains  to  be  done.  Measures  are  needed  to 
consolidate  the  central  role  and  power  of  the  General 
Assembly. The  Economic  and  Social  Council  must  be 
reformed to be able to better support the economic and 
social  development  activities  of  Member  States.  We 
regret the delay in this connection and pledge to work 
with other delegations towards an early solution. 

The  Security  Council  should  be  reformed  in 
terms of both its composition and its methods of work 
in order to ensure that it really represents the concerns 
and  interests  of  all  United  Nations  Member  States,  as 
stipulated  in  the  Charter.  In  this  connection,  I  would 
like  again  to  state  our  view  that  Council  membership 
should  be  expanded  in  both  categories  and  that 
developing  countries  should  be  more  adequately 
represented on the Council. 
to 

congratulate the Secretary-General on the presentation 
of an excellent report on the work of the Organization 
(A61/1).  I  am  particularly  intrigued  by  the  manner  in 
which  the  report  is  presented.  The  first  thing  that 
attracted my attention was the integration of the report 
on  progress  made 
the 
Millennium Declaration into the report on the work of 
the  Organization  instead  of  its  being  the  subject  of  a 
separate report, as was the case in the past. 

This  development  not  only  augurs  well  for 
greater  synergy  and  coherence  in  the  activities  of  the 
Organization;  more 
the 
development agenda at centre stage in the work of the 
Organization. That is to say, the objective of attaining 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) is not an 
appendix, but rather a matter on which the performance 
of our Organization, and of us as individual Members, 
can be judged. 

The Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) set 
ambitious  goals,  but  they  can  certainly  be  attained, 
given the natural, human and financial resources at our 
disposal  globally.  The  world  has  enough  resources  to 
make  poverty  a  thing  of  the  past.  The  prevalence  of 
poverty  is  not  a  result  of  lack  of  resources,  but  rather 
of  how  they  have  been  deployed. They  have  not  been 
deployed  in  the  service  of  humanity  as  a  whole.  The 
question we  have to answer is whether we have taken 
implementation  of 
important, 
places 
like 
the 
in 
it 
in 
the 
into 
peacekeeping 
peacemaking, 
and  mainstreamed 
the  first  steps  to  correct  that  situation.  We  call  on  all 
Member  States  to  translate  their  commitments  under 
the Millennium Declaration into action. 

We  welcome  the  inclusion  in  the  report  of  what 
the  Secretary-General  calls  “global  constituencies”. 
The recognition that the United Nations has to learn to 
work  with  business  and  civil  society  is  important. 
Development  is  a  collective  responsibility.  Non-State 
actors  have  experience  and  resources  that  can  be 
global 
harnessed 
development  agenda.  They  are  equally 
important 
players 
and 
peacebuilding  efforts.  An  effective  mechanism  for 
cooperation has thus to be put in place. The alignment 
of corporate activities with the broader United Nations 
goals,  programmes  and  projects  promises  to  bring 
greater benefits to all in many areas. In this regard, we 
call  for  the  strengthening  of  the  Global  Compact 
Office. 

Notwithstanding  the  good  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  and  individual  countries  in  the  areas  of 
preventive diplomacy and peacekeeping, peace remains 
an  elusive  goal  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  The 
situation in the Middle East is of grave concern. It has 
shown  the  ugly  face  of  human  destructiveness.  We 
hope that peace will prevail over war so that the people 
of  that  region  can  live  in  good-neighbourliness,  peace 
and harmony. 

The  situations  in  a  number  of  African  countries 
where there are United Nations peacekeeping missions, 
such  as  the  Sudan,  Ethiopia  and  Eritrea  and  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  to  mention  but  a  few,  warrant  our  collective 
urgent attention in order to ensure that those operations 
are crowned with success. Africa is the continent that, 
because  of  its  level  of  development,  can  least  afford 
internal  strife.  There  cannot  be  development  without 
peace  and  security.  War  causes  and  exacerbates 
poverty.  The  people  of  Africa  are  already  suffering 
from  poverty  induced  by  the  legacy  of  colonialism, 
unjust international economic relations, corruption, bad 
governance,  environmental  degradation  and  other 
natural  calamities.  Certainly,  the  continent  does  not 
need war on top of all that. We need peace now. 

Namibia will leave no stone unturned in the quest 
for  peace.  It  is  against  this  background  that  we  have 
contributed 
troops,  military  observers  and  police 
officers to various United Nations missions in Burundi, 
Haiti, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia and Eritrea, the 
10 

06-56229 
in 


Sudan and Kosovo, among others. Let us give peace a 
chance.  Namibia  is  able  and  willing  to  make  its 
contribution 
to  peacemaking,  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding. 
We  are  gravely  concerned  with  the  lack  of 

progress 
the  area  of  disarmament  and  non-
proliferation.  Nuclear  weapons  pose  an  especially 
terrible  threat.  In  Namibia’s  view,  this  terrible  threat 
can cease only when all States adhere to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and when its 
article VI is fully implemented. We would like to see a 
transparent  multilateral  process  leading  to  the  total 
denuclearization of the world. Only if nuclear weapons 
are completely eliminated will our world be safe from 
them, including from the chance that they fall into the 
hands  of  non-State  actors. At  the  same  time,  Namibia 
would  like  to  reassert  the  right  of  all  countries  to  use 
nuclear power for peaceful purposes. In this regard, it 
is  important  for  industrialized  countries  to  share  their 
knowledge,  technical  know-how  and  experience  with 
developing countries. 

We  are  happy  to  note  that  164  countries  have 
ratified the Kyoto Protocol and we urge those that have 
not  done  so  to  ratify  that  Protocol  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change. 
Environmental  degradation  and 
the  prospects  of 
climate  change  pose  a  serious  threat  to  humanity. 
Among  other  things,  it  has  the  potential  to  further 
entrench  injustices  and  exacerbate  poverty.  Given  the 
knowledge divide, rich countries have greater capacity 
to  deal  with  the  consequences  of  an  environmental 
disaster than poor countries. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  hope  of  the  poor 
nations. It is therefore important to speed up the work 
on the reform of the Organization through a review of 
mandates  and  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
hope  that  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  apart  from 
broadening 
and 
transparency, among other things, will result in speedy 
decision-making  and  increased  resource  allocation  for 
conflicts resolutions in Africa in particular. 

Equally important is the reform and strengthening 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to  play  a  central 
role  of  promoting  policy  dialogue,  development 
cooperation, 
and 
coordination. We  regret the delay in the  adoption of  a 
resolution  on  reform  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  that  provides  for  follow-up,  monitoring,  and 
reconstruction 
representation 
participation, 
post-conflict 
A/61/PV.25
ensuring  accountability  of  Member  States  in  fulfilling 
their commitments to the partnership for development. 
Mr. Ehouzou (Benin) (spoke in French): Madam 

President,  my  delegation  is  grateful  to  you  for  having 
organized this debate on the report on the work of the 
Organization (A/61/1 and Corr.1), which the Secretary-
General, Mr. Kofi Annan, introduced on 19 September, 
at  the  10th  plenary  meeting,  in  a  very  moving  speech 
which continues to resonate in this Hall. 

My  delegation  is  pleased  with  the  exhaustive 
assessment  of  the  10  years  that  he  has  spent  in  his 
important office. The facts are presented with extreme 
meticulousness. We are pleased to note the remarkable 
progress  that  has  been  achieved  and  at  the  same  time 
are deeply concerned about the constraints encountered 
by  the  Organization  in  tackling  the  major  challenges 
which humankind had to face during this period. There 
is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations  has  contributed 
significantly  to  changing  the  face  of  the  world.  It  has 
also greatly changed itself in the course of this period, 
as reflected in the bodies created within the framework 
of the reform and new structures that have enriched the 
Secretariat so that it can rise to the level of its mission. 

My  country  shares  the  pride  of  the  Secretary-
General,  who  unreservedly  dedicated  himself  to  a 
mission  with  unlimited  demands.  Benin  was  also  a 
stakeholder  in  the  construction  and  orchestration  of 
multilateral  cooperation  which  has  been  the  spirit  of 
the  major  projects  carried  out  by  the  Organization. 
They  have  undeniably  shaped 
the 
intersection of the national interests of Member States 
and  the  ideals  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  My  country 
pays  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General,  who,  on  the 
situations  he  has  managed,  has  constantly  striven  to 
obtain the best possible outcomes, given the constraints 
and  opportunities  linked  to  the  circumstances  of  the 
moment. 
One  of  the  most  striking  achievements  of  this 

period  was 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which made 
it possible to refocus the action of the Organization on 
the  crucial  issue  of  promoting  development.  The 
unequivocal  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to 
eradicate poverty is an undeniable achievement that the 
Secretary-General 
be 
unprecedented in human history.  

Countries 
My  country,  as  Chair  of  the  Least  Developed 
(LDCs)  Global  Coordination  Bureau, 
formulation  of 
the  consensus 
the  world  at 
considers 
rightly 
to 
06-56229 

11 
for 
a 
of 
the 
to 
the 
review 
it  came 
follow-up  of 
comprehensive 
Secretary-General’s 
A/61/PV.25 

welcomes 
invaluable 
contribution  to  refocusing  the  United  Nations  agenda. 
It  is  true  that  the  United  Nations  resolutely  took  the 
lead  when 
the 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  Least  Developed  Countries  for  the  Decade 
2001-2010,  as  we  saw  clearly  in  the  High-level 
Meeting  held  in  New  York  on  18  and  19  September 
2006 
the 
implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  (see 
A/61/PV.7-9). 

In  addition  to  the  High-level  Meeting,  the  very 
significant  exchanges  which  took  place  during  the 
course  of  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-first  session, 
on  the  theme  of  promoting  a  global  partnership  for 
achieving the Development Goals, make it possible to 
consider prospects in that area in a more positive light.  

Such a partnership means a clear identification of 
the  commitments  of  stakeholders  and  a  declared 
willingness  to  assume  them  in  good  faith.  In  this 
regard, the report of the Secretary-General takes stock 
of  the  situation,  enabling  Member  States  to  know 
where  we  stand  and  what  remains  to  be  done,  as  well 
as  the  role  that  the  United  Nations  can  play  for 
concerted and coordinated action in this area. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  stresses  the 
mobilization  of  adequate  resources  and  the  need  to 
resume  multilateral 
the 
framework  of  the  Doha  round  in  order  to  establish  an 
equitable  trade  regime  between  wealthy  countries  and 
developing  countries,  and  on  the  protection  of  the 
environment. This provides us with very specific terms 
of  reference  for  the  action  to  be  taken  to  achieve  the 
goals we have set, which we must pursue today, given 
our improved understanding of the interdependence of 
Member States and its implications. 

That  approach,  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report, inevitably places Africa at the centre 
of  the  major  United  Nations  priorities.  It  must  remain 
so  for  the  next  decade. We  even  dare  to  hope  that  the 
international  community  will  continue  to  shoulder  its 
substantial  responsibility  for  meeting Africa’s  specific 
needs  by  more  resolutely  and  consistently  helping  to 
combat  the  ills  impeding  its  progress,  whether  in 
promoting  governance,  controlling  pandemics  or 
mobilizing 
its  productive 
capacities. 
trade  negotiations  within 
to  develop 
resources 

of 
The 
armed 
conflict 
analysis 
(A/60/891) 
Secretary-General’s 

The  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  is  a 
central area of action for the United Nations; it is also 
the  area  in  which  the  Organization  has  been  most 
called  upon  to  work  over  the  past  10  years.  We  have 
reason  to  welcome  the  great  readiness  shown  by  the 
international community to deploy human and financial 
resources  to  deal  with  armed  conflicts  and  to  monitor 
the considerable progress made by countries emerging 
from conflict, particularly in the area of peacebuilding. 

We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  much 
remains to be done with regard to measures to prevent 
the  eruption  of  further  armed  conflicts.  Today,  when 
we  are  seeing  the  limits  of  the  exponential  growth  of 
peacekeeping  operations,  the  United  Nations  must  be 
able  to  show  greater  effectiveness  in  the  area  of 
conflict  prevention.  Here,  the  recommendations  made 
by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  progress  report  on  the 
prevention 
are 
convincingly justified. 

of 
developments over the past 10 years with respect to the 
crucial  issues  of  disarmament  and  non-proliferation 
challenges  the  Member  States  that  are  responsible  for 
the  stalemate  in  that  area  since  2000.  Indeed,  it  is 
regrettable  that  no  major  initiative  has  been  taken  to 
eliminate  the  risk  of  nuclear  conflagration,  which 
continues  to  threaten  humanity  because  of  the  high 
alert  level  of  the  forces  of  nuclear-weapon  States  and 
because  they  maintain  considerable  stocks  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

The Secretary-General rightly recalls the need to 
avert  the  terrifying  instability  that  would  result  from 
the proliferation of nuclear weapons and other weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  and  particularly  from 
their 
acquisition  by  non-State  actors.  In  that  regard,  we 
cannot  forget  that  Security  Council  resolution  1540 
(2004)  was  adopted  as a  conservative  measure to deal 
with a legal vacuum that must be filled by negotiating 
an 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  to  non-
State actors. 

With regard to small arms and light weapons, we 
are  pleased  that  the  Secretary-General  echoed  the 
concerns  of  countries  that  are  victims  of  the  harmful 
consequences  of  their  uncontrolled  spread,  due  to  an 
illicit trade that persists despite the efforts to combat it. 
At  the  present  session,  it  is  important  for  the  General 
Assembly  to  agree  on  measures  to  strengthen  those 
international  convention  on  preventing 
12 

06-56229 
for 
support 


efforts in the light of the discussions that took place at 
the Review Conference held in June and July 2006. 

Promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  human  rights  is 
essential  to  preserve  human  dignity,  maintain  peace 
and promote development. We welcome the Secretary-
General’s  unfailing  commitment  to  this  cause  and  the 
very  commendable  results  that  have  characterized 
United  Nations  action  in  that  regard  during  the  10 
years  of  his  two  terms  of  office.  My  country  is  a 
concrete  example  of  the  international  community’s 
achievements  in  this  area,  as  can  be  seen  by  the 
peaceful  transfer  of  power  that  took  place  there  in 
March 2006. On behalf of the Government of Benin, I 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  once  again,  from  this 
rostrum, the deep gratitude of the Beninese people for 
the  financial  assistance  that  enabled  them  to  hold 
timely elections and to peacefully, appropriately and — 
I  might  add  —  very  elegantly  manage  the  situations 
related to those elections. 
Young democracies must continue to benefit from 

effective  United  Nations 
their 
consolidation. They  must  be  able  to  continue  to  enjoy 
such  support  as  needed  in  the  coming  years.  To  that 
end, it is essential that, inter alia, the resources of the 
United Nations Democracy Fund be swiftly restored so 
that the Fund can meet the high demand for assistance 
shown  in  its  first  call  for  project  proposals,  made  in 
April 2006. 

In  addition,  we  commend  the  activities  of  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human Rights and fully support the implementation of 
its  strategic  plan,  which  would  make  it  possible  to 
significantly enhance its capacity to assist in improving 
the  human  rights  situation  on  the  ground  throughout 
the world. 

the  considerable  efforts 
undertaken to help stricken populations and victims of 
natural disasters are commendable, as are the measures 
taken  to  ensure  that  such  assistance  can  be  provided 
more swiftly. Here, we join in the Secretary-General’s 
appeal  for  easier  access  by  humanitarian  personnel  to 
victims and for ensuring victims’ rights. 
the 

Secretary-General  for  having  shared  with  Member 
States  the  urgency  of  the  reforms  adopted  at  the  2005 
Summit  and  for  having  supported,  with  his  proven 
expertise,  the  implementation  of  the  agreed  measures. 
We call on Member States to continue the consultations 
Finally,  we  once  again  pay 
In  another  area, 
tribute 
to 
A/61/PV.25
the 
My 
country 
by 
commends 
the 
threatening  challenges, 
so  as  to  move  reform  forward  in  the  areas  where  it  is 
stalled  so  that  we  can  make  the  United  Nations  ever 
more able to fulfil its role in the survival of humanity 
and in the quest for suitable solutions to the problems 
and challenges facing us.  
great  work 

accomplished 
Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency Mr. Kofi Annan, at the head of the United 
Nations.  We  hope  that  his  successor  will  continue 
without  interruption  the  projects  that  have  begun  for 
the greater good of the peoples of the United Nations, 
who  continue  to  place  their  hopes  in  the  Organization 
in their quest to achieve well-being and security and to 
preserve  human  dignity  in  the  face  of  known  and 
unknown threats and challenges. 
Mr. Bodini (San Marino): We would like to thank 

the  Secretary-General  not  only  for  his  report  on  the 
work of the Organization (A/61/1 and Corr.1), but also, 
and more important, for the outstanding job that he has 
done  over  the  past  10  years.  During  his  tenure,  the 
United  Nations  has  had  to  respond  to  unpredictable 
changes  and 
including  an 
explosion of pandemics worldwide, devastating natural 
disasters,  terrorist  attacks  around  the  world,  massive 
starvation among the poorest and international strife at 
a 
level  never  before  seen  —  all  documented 
relentlessly and in real time by the global media. 

The  United  Nations  employs  90,000  people  and 
has  a  yearly  budget  of  $10  billion,  and  thus  is 
comparable 
international 
conglomerates.  It  is  commendable  that  so  much  has 
been  done  with  so  little,  but  it  is  obvious  that  much 
more  has  to  be  done  if  we  are  to  be  able  to  deal  with 
the  daily  challenges  of  our  world.  Greater  human  and 
financial  resources  must  be  deployed  to  deal  with 
environmental  crises  and 
fund  peacekeeping 
operations,  human 
the 
monitoring  of  the  peaceful  use  of  atomic  energy  and 
other initiatives, including those aimed at providing, in 
a  fair  and  balanced  manner,  for  economic  growth  for 
the unprivileged and poor. 

We  at  the  United  Nations  have  to  do  more 
planning so that we can be prepared to meet the social 
and economic needs of the world’s growing population. 
We  must  also  act  decisively  on  all  of  the  resolutions 
approved so far and monitor their implementation. 
Under your leadership, Madam, we must remake 

the  General  Assembly,  according  to  the  Charter,  into 
rights  protection  efforts, 
to  many 
in 
scale 
to 
06-56229 

13 

the  many  major  changes 
A/61/PV.25 

the  centrepiece  of  the  United  Nations  structure  —  a 
pragmatic  and  open  forum,  where  problems  can  be 
examined and solved in a timely manner in response to 
the  many  crises.  Moreover,  I  am  sure  that  all  192 
Member  States  in  this  Hall  agree  that  the  Security 
Council  will  be  reformed  in  the  near  future.  San 
Marino  shares  the  wish  of  many  among  us  to  start 
anew  with  fresh,  open  and  transparent  negotiations.  It 
is  my  belief,  Madam,  that  under  your  leadership  this 
goal will be achieved. 
Mr. Maurer (Switzerland) (spoke in French): We 

would like to thank the Secretary-General for his report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/61/1  and  Corr.1), 
which places the activities of the United Nations in the 
context  of  the  challenges  that  it  has  had  to  face 
following 
that  have 
characterized  the  international  environment  over  the 
past  10  years.  The  report  thus  provides  us  with  a 
welcome  opportunity  to  turn  our  attention  for  a 
moment away from current events and to comment on 
at least some of the milestones that have been reached 
by the United Nations in its current endeavours. 

Much has been said today and over the past few 
weeks, and I am not going to reiterate our positions on 
issues  of  peace,  development,  human  rights  or  the 
environment.  I  will  limit  my  comments  to  just  three 
areas. 

My  first  comment  concerns  the  structure  of  the 
report  itself,  which  reflects  the  three  main  areas  of 
focus of United Nations activities: development, which 
we  always  understand  as  sustainable  development  — 
meaning  that  it  also  needs  to  take  into  account  the 
environmental  dimension;  peace  and  security;  and 
human rights and democracy.  
In  our  view,  the  explicit  recognition  of  the 

interdependence  of  those  areas  was  a  very  important 
conceptual  development  of  the  World  Summit.  The 
potential  consequences  of  this  insight  in  terms  of  the 
way in which we formulate and implement policies are 
considerable,  but  a  great  deal  remains  to  be  done  in 
order to systematically translate this new approach into 
our  policies.  The  ability  to  work  in  those  three  areas, 
and to do so at both the political and operational levels, 
is  one  of  the  most  valuable  characteristics  of  the 
United Nations. 

Secondly, I would like to highlight the Secretary-
General’s  important  ideas  about  the  changing  role  of 
the State — ideas that underlie many of the paragraphs 
the  notion  of 
is  clearly  underscored  by 
of  the  report  and  even  appear  to  be  a  common  thread 
running  through  much  of  it.  We  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s assertion that the State has neither 
withered  away  nor  become  redundant  —  quite  the 
contrary.  As  societies  become  ever  more  complex,  as 
globalization  weaves  an  intricate  fabric  of  relations 
between individuals and groups, regardless of borders, 
as significant daily activities in the economic, cultural, 
religious  and  social  spheres  are  liberated  from  direct 
State  control,  the  role  of  the  State  is  changing 
fundamentally.  Under  such  circumstances,  the  State 
can  no  longer  act  as  an  administrator;  its  role  is  to 
guarantee  rights,  and  it  must  be  at  the  service  of 
individuals  and  communities,  acting  as  a  forum,  a 
regulator, an arbitrator or a mediator. 
The change in the perception of the State’s role is 

not 
internal  policy,  but  also  has  a 
limited 
considerable impact in terms of international relations, 
as 
the 
responsibility to protect, which was affirmed by heads 
of State or Government at the World Summit. 

Another  direct  consequence  of  this  development 
for  the  United  Nations  concerns  the  extent  and  nature 
of its collaboration with civil society and the business 
world.  The  importance  of  this  collaboration  is  duly 
reflected  in  the  structure  of  the  report,  which  devotes 
an  entire  chapter  to  these  major  global  partners.  We 
hope  that  the  United  Nations  will  be  able  to  build  on 
the initiatives and positive experiences of recent years, 
intensify  various  forms  of 
and 
thus  be  able 
in  an 
collaboration  with 
atmosphere  of 
in 
accordance with clearly defined rules. 

My  third  comment  more  directly  concerns  the 
United  Nations.  The  Organization  is  today  confronted 
with many challenges that reflect the growing need for 
close  international  cooperation  based  on  law  and 
carried  out  within 
the  framework  of  multilateral 
institutions. Important reform efforts are under way in 
that context — reforms that must make it possible for 
the  United  Nations  to  face  the  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first century.  

I  would  like  to  refer  to  just  one  of  those  current 
reform efforts — the one that is both the most visible 
to the general public and of great symbolic importance, 
namely, the reform of the Security Council. The nature 
of  contemporary  challenges  —  as  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  confirms  —  is  such  that  a  formula 
to 
these  essential  players 
to 
respect 
for  differences  and 
14 

06-56229 
to  make 


involving  a  limited  number  of  States  can  longer 
properly  respond  to  today’s  geopolitical  realities.  In 
view of this, Switzerland feels that the expansion of the 
Security Council should be accompanied by reform of 
its  working  methods  so  as 
it  more 
representative  and  transparent  and  to  bolster  the 
authority of its decisions. 

I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  on  the  final 
report of the current Secretary-General on the work of 
the  Organization  without  reiterating  my  country’s 
sincerest thanks to the Secretary-General himself. Over 
the  past  10  years,  he  has  succeeded 
in  clearly 
identifying the challenges faced by the United Nations 
as  a  result  of  the  many  and  sudden  upheavals  in  the 
international  arena.  He  has  demonstrated  wisdom  and 
tenacity  in  providing  Member  States  with  perceptive 
analyses of such developments, together with proposals 
for  action  and  reform,  which  have  had  an  important 
impact on the political debate and have borne fruit. The 
current  report  serves  as  a  final  notable  example.  We 
warmly congratulate the Secretary-General. 
Mr. Abdalhaleem (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): We 

would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
important  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization.  It 
bodes  well  that  the  General Assembly  is  following  up 
the  general  debate  with  a  discussion  of  the  report  on 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations  —  an  Organization  in 
which  our  peoples  have  placed  a  great  many 
expectations  —  including  its  successes  and  failures. 
Although  many  decades  have  passed  since  the  United 
Nations was founded, the Organization is often unable 
to  respond  to  the  aspirations  of  the  founding  fathers. 
This is clearly the case as far as the Security Council is 
to 
concerned; 
the 
Security  Council,  which, 
current 
undemocratic  composition,  is  actually  an  obstacle  to 
the achievement of democratic international relations. 

The United Nations cannot call for democracy in 
others when it is unable to achieve real democracy for 
itself.  Through  its  influential  members,  the  Security 
Council is often a part of the problem, rather than the 
solution.  If  the  Organization  is  to  play  a  new  role,  it, 
and 
in  particular,  must  be 
reformed.  If  it  is  not,  the  Organization  will  find  itself 
caught up in a vicious circle formed of private agendas 
and double standards.  

We are following with interest the current session 
of the Human Rights Council in Geneva, and hope that 
it  applies  specifically 
its 
the  Security  Council 
indeed, 
given 
A/61/PV.25
that 
the  new  Council  will  not  suffer  the  fate  of  the  former 
Commission.  We  hope 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  will  perform  its  tasks  without  infringing 
upon the mandates of other United Nations organs. 

The Secretary-General’s report focuses on United 
Nations  cooperation  with  regional  organizations.  We 
hope  that  the  Organization  will  put  its  weight  behind 
support  for  regional  organizations,  saving  money  and 
effort in the process, and allowing them to solve their 
regional  problems  by  themselves.  In  that  regard,  we 
pay  tribute  to  the  excellent  role  being  played  by  the 
African  Union  with  respect  to  the  problem  of  Darfur, 
and hope that the international community will respect 
its  commitments  in  supporting  the  African  Union 
logistically  and  materially  so  that  it  can  complete  its 
mandate, implement the Abuja Agreement and promote 
the  progress  of  peace  and  stability  in  my  country, 
launched  under  the  peace  agreement  for  the  southern 
Sudan. 

In  paying  tribute  to  and  expressing  appreciation 
for the role of the African Union, we warn against the 
hidden  agendas  of  some  great  Powers  to  exploit  the 
issue of Darfur as a tool of influence over the Sudan’s 
resources  and  national  decisions.  In  that  regard,  if  the 
United Nations is to be effective in this new globalized 
world, it should shun the private agendas of some of its 
influential  Members  that  use  international  forums  to 
serve their own interests. Such behaviour poses a threat 
to international peace and security. 

We appreciate the report’s important reference to 
the special needs of Africa and to support for Africa’s 
development,  which  must  be  a  priority  for  the  United 
Nations.  The  Organization’s  efforts  should  also  be 
linked 
for  Africa’s 
Development, which calls for enhanced resources to be 
directed  to Africa,  solutions  to  the  debt  problem,  and 
special  attention  to  the  needs  of  the  least  developed 
countries. We hope that those efforts will also be linked 
effectively  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

My  country  attaches  special  importance  to  the 
Millennium  Declaration  and  the  MDGs. We  hope  that 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will  play  an 
important  role  in  the  follow-up  to  the  commitments 
made  under  the  MDGs.  We  must  establish  indicators 
for the achievement of the Goals, including analysis of 
the  obstacles  to  their  implementation,  so  that  the 
developing  countries  will  not  be  caught  up  in  another 
the  New  Partnership 
to 
06-56229 

15 
The 
report, 
refer 
to 
this  very 
Secretary-General’s 
international  post  will  promote 
A/61/PV.25 

vicious circle of squandering more time and resources. 
The  MDGs  should  not  be  relegated  to  the  dustbin  of 
history,  as  has  happened  for  decades  now  to  the  calls 
for a new international economic order. 
although 

comprehensive,  does  not 
international 
cooperation  in  science  and  technology.  We  hope  that 
the report submitted to the General Assembly next year 
will invoke the role of the United Nations in enhancing 
international  cooperation  in  science  and  technology 
among its Members, which is a very important element 
in  promoting 
social  and  economic 
sustainable 
development for our peoples. 

As  the  United  Nations  selects  its  new  Secretary-
General,  we  hope  that  the  ultimate  choice  for  that 
important 
the 
effectiveness and dynamism of the work and activities 
of  the  Organization,  as  well  as  its  professionalism, 
neutrality  and  impartiality.  That  will  strengthen  the 
Organization’s  cooperation  at 
important 
moment in international relations. 
Mr. Zewdie (Ethiopia): My delegation expresses 

the  Secretary-General  for  his 
its  appreciation 
comprehensive  and  last  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  during  his  final  year  in  office.  My 
delegation  welcomes  especially  his  emphasis  on  the 
work  of 
the 
Millennium  Declaration.  My  delegation  will  briefly 
comment  on  both  the  development  and  the  peace  and 
security issues highlighted in the report. 
It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  progress  has  been 

made 
agreed 
development goals. It is to be recalled that, prior to the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus  and  the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
Development underlined the need for the allocation of 
0.7  per  cent  of  the  gross  national  income  of  the 
developed countries to official development assistance 
(ODA)  so  that  developing  countries  would  be  able  to 
achieve  internationally  agreed  development  goals.  In 
that regard, it is a positive development that aggregate 
ODA  has  increased  to  $106  billion.  As  a  result, 
extreme poverty is dropping, while improvements have 
been  shown  in  child  health,  sanitation,  access  to  safe 
water and primary education. 

the  progress 
challenge  remains,  however, 
uneven.  In  sub-Saharan  Africa,  for  example, 
That  being  the  generally  positive  picture,  the 
is 
the 
the  Organization 
internationally 
implementing 
in 
implementing 
that 
to 
in 

number of people living under the poverty line has not 
shown  any  substantial  change.  As  the  report  on  the 
world social situation in 2005 and the world economic 
and  social  survey  in  2006  have  revealed,  the  region 
remains  behind  others  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  therefore  agree  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  statement  that  providing  support 
for Africa is a priority issue for the United Nations. 

My country, for its part, is striving to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  have  committed 
the lion’s share of the meagre resources at our disposal 
to  the  development  of  infrastructure,  improving  the 
social  sector  and  capacity-building,  which  are  needed 
for our development efforts to succeed. In the last three 
years,  our  economy  has  registered  an  average  growth 
rate of 9.5 per cent. For the same period, exports grew 
by 28.5 per cent on average. Primary school enrolment 
increased from 30 per cent in the early 1990s to 89 per 
cent  at  present.  In  order  to  improve  our  capacity  for 
development, 13 additional universities are being built. 
Based on those encouraging results, a second five- year 
development  programme,  known  as  “Programme  for 
to  End 
Accelerated  and  Sustained  Development 
Poverty”,  has  been  developed 
is  under 
implementation.  Alleviating  poverty  by  meeting  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
the 
cornerstone of our development programme. 
It  is  in  this  regard  that  we  fully  subscribe  to  the 

recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General,  namely 
incorporating  new  targets  in  the  MDGs  —  to  achieve 
universal  access  to  reproductive  health  by  2015,  to 
provide  access  by  all  that  require  it  to  HIV  treatment 
by 2010, and to reduce the rate of biodiversity loss by 
2010. 

With  regard  to  peace  and  security,  the  report 
indicates  that  the  annual  budget  of  the  Organization 
allocated  to  peacekeeping  and  other  field  operations 
has increased substantially. It also states that half of the 
world’s  conflicts  and  peacekeeping  operations  are  in 
Africa. While it is encouraging that the Organization is 
paying due attention to resolving conflicts in Africa, it 
is  also  an  indication  that  the  challenge  to  bring  about 
peace  on  the  continent  is  a  tremendous  one.  Africa, 
more  than  ever  before,  needs  more  resources  for  its 
own  socio-economic  development  to  improve  the 
living  standards  of 
therefore 
disappointing that conflict resolution absorbs the lion’s 
share of the resources of the United Nations. 
its  peoples. 
remains 
and 
is 
It 
16 

06-56229 
in 
countries 
contributing 
The President: I now call on the observer of the 



It  is  for  that  reason  that  my  country  has  been 
striving  for  peace  and  security  in  its  region  for  many 
years  now.  As  is  well  known,  Ethiopia  is  among  the 
troop- 
peacekeeping 
operations in our region. We are currently participating 
in Liberia and have successfully completed the Mission 
in  Burundi.  We  have  also  dispatched  our  observers  to 
Côte  d’Ivoire.  We  believe  that  by  working  in  close 
cooperation  with  other  member  countries  that  the 
peacekeeping  and  mediation  capacities  of  the African 
Union could be strengthened and ensured. That is why 
the Secretary-General stressed in his report the need to 
have  the  support  of  the  international  community  to 
strengthen  national  and  regional  efforts  aimed  at 
resolving conflicts and creating conditions for peace. 
Finally, let me reiterate once again that Ethiopia, 

as it has been doing thus far, will continue to actively 
participate in the activities of the United Nations, with 
a view to making our world a safer and more peaceful 
place. 

Observer State of the Holy See. 

(Holy  See):  As  we 
consider the Secretary-General’s report on the work of 
the  Organization,  my  delegation  would  like  to  thank 
him and his staff for their work in the field and on this 
comprehensive report. 

As has often been said, reform is not an event but 
a  process,  and  this  year  marks  an  important  occasion 
aimed at ensuring that these processes continue. To that 
end,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  in 
continuing  to  press  for  reform.  The  creation  of  a 
mediation  support  capacity  within  the  Department  of 
Political  Affairs 
is  an  example  of  how  existing 
structures  can  be  successfully  modified  to  address 
global  needs.  However,  despite  the  progress  made, 
much work remains to be done in many different areas. 
We  share  the  Secretary-General’s  views  on  the 

importance 
the 
responsibility  to  protect. At  the  same  time,  we  would 
like  to  stress  the  need  to  interconnect  more  explicitly 
and  more  effectively 
the  areas  of  security  and 
development. The present lack of progress in the fields 
of  development  aid  and 
threatens 
everyone’s  security  and  well-being.  By  contrast,  the 
fulfilment  of  the  Millennium  Development  (MDGs) 
promises economic progress, the alleviation of poverty, 
a reduction in terrorism and increased social harmony. 
Archbishop  Migliore 
prevention 
conflict 
reform 
trade 
and 
of 
A/61/PV.25
the 
to 
At 
In 
to 
the 
recent 
conferences 
to  acknowledge 
important  modifications 
the  area  of  humanitarian  assistance, 

and  meetings  on 
disarmament, my delegation expressed its deep concern 
at  the  stagnation  of  the  multilateral  negotiations  on 
disarmament 
and  non-proliferation.  The  United 
Nations  system  as  a  whole  should  grasp 
this 
opportunity 
links  between 
disarmament, development and humanitarian concerns, 
and  commit  itself  to  strategies  and  programmes  to 
reduce the demand for arms and armed violence. 

the 
establishment  of  the  Central  Emergency  Response 
Fund  and  the  innovative  cluster  coordination  system 
are 
existing 
humanitarian  assistance  system.  My  delegation  looks 
forward  to  closely  following  their  development.  In 
coordinating  humanitarian  relief,  the  United  Nations 
should continue to play a leading role in balancing the 
autonomy  of  civil  society  actors  with  the  need  to 
provide effective aid to the most vulnerable. 

My  delegation  agrees  with  the  observation  made 
in  the  report  that  a  great  deal  of  progress  has  been 
achieved 
the  field  of  HIV/AIDS  prevention, 
treatment  and  care.  Nevertheless,  while  the  pandemic 
seems  to  be  under  control  in  certain  countries,  many 
other countries appear to be almost helpless in tackling 
the spread of HIV/AIDS. We would do well to face this 
issue  with  more  focused  initiatives,  learning,  for 
example, from the specific actions taken in the field of 
foreign debt with the highly indebted poorest countries. 
A concentration of our financial, logistical and human 
resources would enable the countries most affected by 
HIV/AIDS 
that  scourge  and 
consolidate the hope that humankind will overcome the 
pandemic worldwide. 

While greater efforts are needed to ensure that all 
the  commitments  of  2005  are  fulfilled,  it  is  important 
to  understand  the  breadth  of  the  commitments  that 
were  made.  The  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
was  a  carefully  negotiated  and  well-crafted  document 
that  sought  to  balance  strongly  held  views.  It  is 
therefore  of 
in 
implementing this document we ensure that respect for 
that  delicate  balance  is  maintained.  To  that  end,  it  is 
important 
to 
reproductive  health  by  2015,  as 
in 
paragraph  24,  was  seen  by  our  leaders  as  a  means  of 
achieving  the  target  of  reducing  maternal  mortality 
rather than as a target in and of itself. 
that  ensuring  access 
referenced 
to  put  an  end 
the  utmost 
importance 
reaffirm 
that 
in 
to 
06-56229 

17 

reaffirmed 
and 
to  more 
A/61/PV.25 


Finally, it is our sincere hope that this session of 
the  General  Assembly  will  continue  to  move  from 
commitments to action and that the United Nations can 
continue  the  process  of  transforming  itself  into  an 
institution  that  is  ready  for  the  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first century. 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  General 

Assembly  resolution  54/195  of  17  December  1999,  I 
now call on the observer for the International Union for 
the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources. 
Mr. Baghwat-Singh (International Union for the 

Conservation  of  Nature  and  Natural  Resources):  The 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  is  always  a 
comprehensive  document  containing  an  overview  of 
United  Nations  activities  and  programmes.  The 
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and 
Natural  Resources  (IUCN)  will  comment  on  issues 
related to the environment and conservation. 
The  General  Assembly  expressed  concern  about 

towards  poverty 
the  slow  and  uneven  progress 
international 
eradication 
commitment 
advance 
the 
fundamental objectives of economic development with 
a  focus  on  implementing  a  global  partnership  for 
development.  However,  this  commitment  was  not 
effectively  conveyed  by  most  States  with  very  few 
references made to environmental concerns during the 
first two weeks of the general debate.  

The  International  Union  for  the  Conservation  of 
Nature  and  Natural  Resources  (IUCN)  welcomes  all 
development commitments, but emphasizes the lack of 
current  environmental  commitments  and  the  lack  of 
urgency  within  such  commitments.  This  has  allowed 
already  slow  progress  to  be  further  hampered  by  such 
factors  as  the  increased  frequency  and  magnitude  of 
natural  disasters  and  conflicts.  The  IUCN  therefore 
calls  for  even  greater  and  a  more  urgent  commitment 
from 
to  poverty 
eradication  and  to  the  environmental  improvements 
that  are  fundamental  in  assuring  and  enhancing  gains 
for  the  overall  well-being  and  economic  development 
of the poor. 
The  IUCN  would  like  the  United  Nations  to 

further  mandates  on  broad 
consider  providing 
questions 
environmental 
issues.  The 
regarding 
agreements reached during informal consultations held 
during  the  sixtieth  session  of  the  General  Assembly 
the 
regarding 
the 
effectively 
international 
institutional 
community 
framework 
the 
the 
for 
the 
the 
the 
Moreover, 
suggestions 
IUCN  anticipates 
the  recognition  of 
environmental activities of the United Nations system, 
included 
for  enhanced  coordination, 
improved  policy  guidance,  strengthened  scientific 
knowledge,  enhanced  treaty  compliance  and  better 
integration of environmental activities in the economic 
development  framework  at  an  operational  level.  The 
IUCN  increases  the  implementation  of  these  ideas  in 
support  of  potential  mandates  on  broad  environmental 
interests. 

future 
recommendations  of  the  Secretary-General’s  High-
level  Panel  on  System-wide  Coherence,  specifically 
relating 
to  environmental  matters  such  as  water 
resources,  desertification,  trade,  biodiversity,  natural 
resources, climate change and deforestation. The IUCN 
appreciates 
importance  of 
strengthening  ties  with  civil  society  and  hopes  that 
these  suggestions  will  be  taken  up  by  States  and 
organizations in their programmes of work. 

We  believe  that  environmental  sustainability  is 
one  of  the  main  pillars  of  the  global  fight  against 
poverty  —  that  poverty  eradication  can  only  be 
achieved  if  the  world’s  ecosystems,  which  sustain 
people’s  well-being,  are  conserved  and  properly 
managed. The experience of the IUCN and many other 
organizations 
the  conservation  and 
development  of  communities  clearly  indicates  that 
there  is  a  direct  relationship  between  the  health  of 
ecosystems  and  the  opportunities  of  the  impoverished 
to  increase  their  food  security,  improve  their  health, 
build  assets,  reduce  risks  and  have  more  secure  lives. 
Conversely land degradation, desertification, pollution, 
increasing  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and  unequal 
access  to  water  and  productive  ecosystems  are  all 
associated  with  a  decline 
in  human  well-being. 
Sustainable development can be achieved only through 
an  increased  awareness  of  the  intrinsic  necessity  of 
environmental preservation. 

truly 
The  IUCN  believes 
implement  a  global  partnership  for  development 
environmental  interests  should  be  fully  considered 
within  United  Nations  policies  and  processes 
in 
support of economic development. The IUCN, having a 
membership  of  42  States,  is  the  only  body  possessing 
and able to contribute to the scientific background and 
expertise  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  field  of 
environmental  conservation.  Our  work  on  improving 
coastal  ecosystems,  our  water  and  nature  initiatives, 
the  work  that  we  do  on  forests  and  landscapes,  our 
in  order 
involved 
that 
in 
to 
18 

06-56229 
A/61/PV.25
The President: We have heard the last speaker on 


fisheries  strategies  and  our  recent  conference  on 
biodiversity  in  European  development  cooperation  all 
highlight the very real value of our work. 

We  would  like  the  General  Assembly  to  keep  a 
continual  focus  on  the  necessity  of  preserving  our 
planet  and  the  richness  of  its  human  and  natural 
resources.  The  IUCN  has  a  deep  commitment  to 
working to make conservation and the management of 
natural resources more effective in addressing poverty. 
We  stand  ready  to  support  the  Assembly’s  efforts  in 
this regard. 

the debate on this item. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Secretary-General on the work 
of the Organization, contained in document A/61/1 and 
corrigendum 1? 
It was so decided.

The  President:  I  call  now  on  those  delegations 

wishing  to  make  statements  on  the  decision  the 
Assembly has just taken. 
Mr.  Dugan  (United  States  of  America):  Indeed, 

the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization,  document  A/61/1,  addresses  a  subject 
area as comprehensive as any report’s. There are many 
things  in  the  report  on  which  we  could  comment,  as 
others have done in today’s consideration.  

The Assembly  just  “took  note”  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  The  effect  of  taking  note  by  the 
Assembly  should  not  be  construed,  as  is  commonly 
understood,  as  formal  endorsement  of  the  report’s 
content,  including  its  proposals.  In  particular,  my 
delegation draws the Assembly’s attention to paragraph 
24 of the report. The United States does not agree with 
the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  in  paragraph  24  to 
add  or  develop  additional  targets  with  regard  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  were  just  defined  by  the  2005 
World Summit as the development goals and objectives 
that had been agreed upon at the Millennium Summit. 
Those  goals  were  defined  by  the  World  Summit  last 
year and should not be changed.  



We 
There 
is 
international  consensus 
that 
for  development.  They  constitute 
Mr. Steeghs (Netherlands): By taking note of the 

report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization  (A/61/1),  the  General  Assembly  has 
endorsed the recommendation of the Secretary-General 
to  incorporate  four  new  targets  into  the  framework 
used  to  follow  up  on  the  Millennium  Declaration. As 
the  Secretary-General  states  in  his  report  on  the  work 
of the Organization, those targets were agreed upon by 
our leaders at the 2005 World Summit. In our opinion, 
the Secretary-General had therefore already been given 
the  mandate  to  include  these  commitments  in  the 
aforementioned framework.  

the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are the global 
compact 
the 
framework  within  which  cooperation  with  our  partner 
countries  takes  place.  They  represent  a  partnership  of 
countries determined to create an environment which is 
conducive  to  development  and  the  elimination  of 
poverty.  

In  order  to  assess  and  monitor  progress  towards 
the MDGs, these goals are operationalized in terms of 
targets and indicators. The goals, targets and indicators 
should form a comprehensive, coherent and consistent 
monitoring framework for the MDGs. We have always 
held the view that the monitoring framework could and 
should  be  further  improved.  We  believe  that  the 
inclusion  of  the  four  new  targets  as  recommended  by 
the  Secretary-General  will  significantly  strengthen  the 
framework.  Full  and  productive  employment  and 
decent  work,  universal  access  to  reproductive  health, 
universal  access  to  treatment  for  HIV/AIDS  and 
reduction  of  loss  of  biodiversity  are  crucial  for 
achieving the MDGs.  

the 
therefore 
recommendation  of  the  Secretary-General  and  hope 
that  work  will  start  soon  to  select  the  appropriate 
indicators.  
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 

the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 102? 



It was so decided.  
The meeting rose at 5.15 p.m. 
strongly 
support 
06-56229 

19 
