
A/61/PV.56
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

56th plenary meeting 
Monday, 20 November 2006, 10.30 a.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 



The meeting was called to order at 10.45 a.m. 




I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Agenda item 74 (continued) 
Report of the International Criminal Court  

  Draft resolution (A/61/L.21) 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 

Assembly  held  its  debate  on  this  agenda  item  at  its 
26th and 27th plenary meetings on 9 October 2006. 

Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/61/L.21 
Mr.  Majoor  (Netherlands):  I  have  the  honour  to 

introduce  this  morning  the  draft  resolution  entitled 
“Report of the International Criminal Court”. 

In  addition  to  the  list  of  countries  contained  in 
document  A/61/L.21,  the  following  countries  have 
indicated  their  wish  to  be  included  as  sponsors: 
Antigua and Barbuda, Burundi, Cambodia, the Central 
African Republic, the Comoros, the Congo, Costa Rica, 
Djibouti,  Dominica,  Gabon, 
the  Gambia,  Haiti, 
Jamaica,  Liberia,  Madagascar,  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Montenegro,  Panama,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Tajikistan,  Timor  Leste, 
Uganda  and  Zambia.  That  brings  the  total  number  of 
sponsors of the draft resolution to 103. 

On  9  October,  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  presented  the  second  annual  report  of 
the International Criminal Court to this body. We had a 
very constructive and in depth debate then, and I do not 
report  of 
The  annual 
want  to  repeat  that  discussion  here  today.  Allow  me, 
however, to highlight a few elements. 

The  establishment  of  the  Court  was  the  most 
significant development in recent years in our long and 
ongoing  struggle  to  eradicate  impunity.  There  can  be 
no lasting peace without justice, and justice and peace 
are  thus  complementary  requirements.  In  that  regard, 
we  will  continue  to  strive  for  universal  adherence  to 
the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court. 
We are therefore very pleased to welcome the countries 
that have recently become parties to the Rome Statute. 

the  Court  clearly 
demonstrates  that  the  International  Criminal  Court  is 
now  fully  operational.  The  judicial  phase  of  its 
operations has started, involving both operations in the 
field as well as courtroom proceedings against the first 
accused to be tried. We are pleased that the Court has 
recently  established  a  liaison  office  at  the  United 
Nations here in New York, which we hope will enhance 
the  relationship  between  the  two  organizations  and 
facilitate communication. 

The International Criminal Court’s report, as well 
as  the  debate  in  the  General  Assembly  a  few  weeks 
ago,  underlined  the  important  role  the  International 
Criminal  Court  plays  in  our  common  multilateral 
system,  which  aims  to  end  impunity  and  to  establish 
the  rule  of  law,  to  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human rights, and to restore and maintain international 
peace  and  security. The  assistance  given  by  the  Court 
to 
the 
collaboration  in  the  framework  of  the  International 
the  Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone  and 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-62233 (E) 
*0662233* 

A/61/PV.56 

Independent  Investigation  Commission  are  proof  of 
that. 

The President of the International Criminal Court, 
in  his  address  to  the  General  Assembly  a  few  weeks 
ago,  stressed  the  fact  that  cooperation  between  the 
Court  and  the  United  Nations  and  cooperation  by 
States and international and regional organizations are 
fundamental  to  an  effective  and  efficient  functioning 
Court, especially in relation to the arrest and surrender 
of  accused  persons,  the  provision  of  evidence,  the 
relocation  of  witnesses  and 
the  enforcement  of 
sentences. We call on all States to support the Court’s 
efforts  in  that  regard.  The  continuous  support  of  civil 
society deserves to be mentioned as well. 

The draft resolution before us today serves three 
main objectives. First, it provides political support for 
the International Criminal Court as an organization, for 
its aims, as well as for the work it carries out.  
Secondly,  it  underlines  the  importance  of  the 

relationship  between  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and  the  United  Nations,  which  the  two  organizations 
continue  to  build  on  the  basis  of  the  Relationship 
Agreement.  

Lastly, it serves to remind States and international 
regional  organizations  of  the  need  to  cooperate  with 
the  International  Criminal  Court  in  carrying  out  its 
tasks.  

The  Netherlands  hopes  that  the  adoption  of  this 
draft resolution today will lead to even greater support 
for the International Criminal Court in its fight against 
impunity and its attempt to hold those accused of very 
serious crimes accountable for their actions. 
The President: We shall now proceed to consider 

draft  resolution  A/61/L.21.  In  connection  with  that 
draft resolution, I give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat. 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Chief,  General  Assembly  Affairs 

Branch): In connection with draft resolution A/61/L.21, 
I  wish  to  inform  the  General  Assembly  that  by  the 
terms  of  operative  paragraphs  7  and  13  of  the  draft 
resolution, the General Assembly would emphasize the 
importance  of 
the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court,  which  forms  a 
framework  for  close  cooperation  between  the  two 
organizations and for consultation on matters of mutual 
interest  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  that  Agreement 
implementation  of 
full 
the 
and in conformity with the respective provisions of the 
Charter of the United Nations and the Rome Statute, as 
well  as  the  need  for  comprehensive  information  from 
the Secretary-General with respect to steps taken in the 
implementation  of  the  Relationship  Agreement  and 
would  take  note  of  the  decision  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  at  its  fourth  session  to  hold  its  sixth 
session  in  New  York  in  2007,  while  recalling  that, 
according  to  article  112,  paragraph  6,  of  the  Rome 
Statute, the Assembly of States Parties shall meet at the 
seat  of  the  Court  or  at  United  Nations  Headquarters, 
and would request the Secretary-General to provide the 
necessary services and facilities in accordance with the 
Relationship  Agreement 
and  General  Assembly 
resolution 58/318 of 13 September 2004.  

In  accordance  with  the  decision  of  the  General 
Assembly contained in resolution 58/318, all expenses 
resulting  from  the  provision  of  services,  facilities, 
cooperation  and  any  other  support  rendered  to  the 
International Criminal Court or the Assembly of States 
Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal Court, including under any arrangements that 
may  be  otherwise  agreed  under  article  10  of  the 
Relationship Agreement that may accrue to the United 
Nations  as  a  result  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement,  shall  be  paid  in  full  to  the 
Organization.  

Agreement just referred to,  

According  to  Article  10  of  the  Relationship 
the  Court, 
it  shall,  subject 
“[t]he  United  Nations  agrees  that,  upon  the 
request  of 
to 
availability,  provide  on  a  reimbursable  basis,  or 
as otherwise agreed, for the purposes of the Court 
such  facilities  and  services  as  may  be  required, 
including  for  the  meetings  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties...,  its  Bureau  or  subsidiary  bodies, 
including  translation  and  interpretation  services, 
documentation and conference services. When the 
United  Nations  is  unable  to  meet  the  request  of 
the  Court,  it  shall  notify  the  Court  accordingly, 
giving reasonable notice”.  
Accordingly,  under 
the 

terms  of  General 
Assembly  resolution  58/318  and  Article  10  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement,  the  implementation  of  the 
actions  prescribed  in  the  draft  resolution,  should  it  be 
adopted by the General Assembly, would not give rise 
to any financial implications for the United Nations. 
2 

06-62233 


The  President:  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the 

representative  of  the  United  States,  who  wishes  to 
speak  in  explanation  of  position  before  a  decision  is 
taken  on  the  draft  resolution,  allow  me  to  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  or  position  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats.  
Ms.  Willson  (United  States  of  America):  The 

concerns  of  the  United  States  about  the  Rome  Statute 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  are  well 
known. They include the ICC’s assertion of jurisdiction 
over nationals of States not parties to the Rome Statute, 
including  United  States  nationals,  and  the  lack  of 
adequate  oversight  of  the  ICC’s  activities,  including 
those of the Prosecutor, who may initiate cases without 
first  seeking  approval  of 
the  Security  Council. 
Accordingly,  the  United  States  dissociates  itself  from 
consensus on draft resolution A/61/L.21. 

Our  concerns  about  the  ICC  are  concerns  about 
means, not about ends. We strongly support, and work 
actively  to  advance,  international  criminal  justice  and 
accountability  for  war  crimes,  genocide  and  crimes 
against humanity. In this regard, we have been leading 
supporters  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunals  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  and  for  Rwanda,  and  of  the 
Special  Court  for  Sierra  Leone.  We  also  accepted  the 
Security  Council’s  decision  to  refer  to  the  ICC  the 
serious crimes committed in Darfur. 

We respect the views of the supporters of the ICC 
and  understand  that  they  would  like  the  ICC  to  attain 
universal  support.  But  we  disagree  with  them  about 
whether  the  ICC,  as  currently  constituted  under  the 
Rome  Statute,  will  effectively  and  appropriately 
promote  those  important  objectives. As  we  have  done 
in  past  years,  we  again  made  a  good  faith  effort  to 
work  with  supporters  of  the  ICC  to  have  this  draft 
resolution  include  language  acknowledging  that  there 
are legitimate differences of views among States about 
the  ICC  and  recognizing  the  right  of  States  to  decide 
not  to  become  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute. Again  this 
year,  supporters  of 
that 
reasonable request. 

Today’s  draft  resolution  observes  that  effective 
cooperation  and  assistance  by  States,  the  United 
Nations 
regional 
organizations remains essential for the ICC to carry out 
its  activities.  Respecting  the  positions  of  all  parties  is 
international 
and  other 
ICC  have 
refused 
and 
the 

for 
A/61/PV.56
draft 
Today’s 
references 
essential  to  our  efforts  to  find  practical  ways  to  work 
together and ensure accountability. 

the 
resolution 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  ICC  and  requests  that  the  United  Nations 
provide services and facilities to the ICC in connection 
with  certain  meetings  that  the  ICC  plans  to  hold.  We 
underscore the importance in this regard of paragraph 3 
of General Assembly resolution 58/318, which decides 
that  all  expenses  to  the  United  Nations  resulting  from 
the  provision  of  services,  facilities,  cooperation  and 
any  other  support  to  the  ICC  under  the  Relationship 
Agreement shall be paid in full to the United Nations. 
This  requirement  that  the  United  Nations  must  be 
reimbursed  for  all  such  assistance  to  the  ICC  must  be 
strictly observed. 

We  note  the  request  in  paragraph  7  of  today’s 
draft  resolution  that  the  Secretary-General  provide 
comprehensive information with respect to steps taken 
in  the  implementation  of  the  Relationship Agreement. 
In that connection, we call on the Secretary-General to 
provide  clear  and  timely  information  to  the  General 
Assembly  on  all  assistance  provided  by  the  United 
Nations  to  the  ICC  and  on  the  steps  taken  by  the 
United Nations to secure reimbursement in full for the 
costs of such assistance, in accordance with resolution 
58/318. 
The  United  States  will  continue  to  be  a  leading 

advocate 
justice  and 
accountability  for  war  crimes,  genocide  and  crimes 
against  humanity.  We  regret  that  resolutions  like  the 
one  to  be  adopted  today  hinder,  rather  than  promote, 
cooperation among States in these efforts. 

The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  draft  resolution  A/61/L.21.  May  I  take  it 
that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/61/L.21? 
Draft 

(resolution 61/15). 

The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 
the General Assembly to conclude its consideration of 
agenda item 74? 

resolution  A/61/L.21  was 
international  criminal 
It was so decided. 
adopted 
06-62233 

3 








  Note by the Secretary-General (A/61/383) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.24) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/61/90) 
  Draft resolution (A/61/L.24) 
A/61/PV.56 

Agenda items 47, 112, 113 and 149 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 


Strengthening of the United Nations system 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 


United Nations reform: measures and proposals 

The  President: In  connection  with  agenda  item 
113,  the  note  by  the  Secretary-General,  circulated  as 
document A/61/383,  transmits  the  report  of  the World 
Health Organization on enhancing capacity-building in 
global public health. 

In  connection  with  draft  resolution  A/61/L.24,  I 
wish to draw the attention of members to a number of 
corrections,  which  are  now  being  distributed  in  the 
Hall.  Those  corrections  will  be  incorporated  into  the 
final version of the draft resolution.  

We shall first proceed to take up draft resolution 
A/61/L.24. Thereafter, we shall proceed with the joint 
debate on agenda items 47, 112, 113 and 149.  


in  2008, 
in  Geneva.  Beginning 

This draft resolution is an important milestone in 
realizing  the  vision  set  out  by  our  leaders  at  the  2005 
World Summit. The draft resolution, once adopted, will 
strengthen the role of the Economic and Social Council 
as  a  central  body  for  coordination,  policy  review, 
policy  guidance  and  recommendations  on  issues  of 
economic  and  social  development,  as  well  as  for  the 
implementation  of  international  development  goals. 
The  draft  resolution  will  also  be  an  acknowledgement 
of the central importance of development as one of the 
principal pillars of the United Nations. 

This  draft  resolution  will  enable  the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  to  launch  the  annual  ministerial 
review  and 
the  Development  Cooperation  Forum 
during the 2007 high-level segment of the Council, to 
be  held 
the 
Development Cooperation Forum will meet every other 
year in New York.  

The draft resolution will also enable the Council 
to  respond  to  humanitarian  emergencies  as  and  when 
they  occur,  by  convening  ad  hoc  meetings.  That  will 
help  to  make  United  Nations  humanitarian  responses 
more effective and efficient. 

Furthermore,  the  draft  resolution  will  bring  into 
sharper  focus  the  linkages  between  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Council’s Ad  Hoc 
Advisory Groups on countries emerging from conflict. 
I  am  confident  that  those  new  functions  will  put  the 
Council  at  the  centre  of  global  efforts  to  achieve 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  is  both  a 
demanding 
tremendous 
opportunity 
to  perform  more 
effectively.  
We  have  worked  hard  for  nearly  a  year  to  reach 

agreement  on  strengthening  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  this  draft 
resolution  will  be  adopted  by  consensus,  so  that  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  can  carry  out  its  new 
functions as mandated by our leaders at the 2005 World 
Summit.  

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/61/L.24,  as  corrected.  In  connection  with  the  draft 
resolution, I now give the floor to the representative of 
the Secretariat. 

Mr.  Botnaru  (Chief,  General  Assembly  Affairs 
Branch):  I  should  like  to  inform  members  that  in 
responsibility 
for 
the  Council 
and 
a 


Statement by the President 
The  President: I  am  very  pleased  that  the 

Assembly has before it today a draft resolution on the 
strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council. 
This  document  is  the  result  of  a  long,  and  at  times 
difficult,  process  of  consultations.  We  have  finally 
concluded  that  important  process  in  a  spirit  of  true 
compromise.  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all 

constructive 
delegations 
participation 
this 
important matter. In particular, I would like to express 
my  most  sincere  gratitude  to  Ambassador  Verbeke  of 
Belgium  and  Ambassador  Diarra  of  Mali  for  their 
strong  and  dedicated  leadership  in  conducting  the 
consultations,  and  to  commend  Mr.  Ruiz  Massieu 
Aguirre of Mexico for his tireless facilitation.  
the  consultation  process  on 
for 
in 
active 
their 
and 
4 

06-62233 
implications  are  as 
The  conference-servicing 


connection  with  draft 
resolution  A/61/L.24,  as 
corrected, entitled “Strengthening of the Economic and 
Social Council”, I wish to put on record the following 
statement  of  financial  implications,  on  behalf  of  the 
Secretary-General,  on 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council as a Charter body, in accordance with rule 153 
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. 

The  paragraphs  that  would  give  rise  to  financial 
implications  are  operative  paragraphs  2,  3,  8,  14,  18 
and 19 of the draft resolution. 

follows.  

First, the meeting referred to under subparagraph 
(a)  of  paragraph  2  —  the  special  high-level  meeting 
with  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Trade  and  Development  —  has  already  been  included 
in  the  calendar  of  conferences  and  meetings  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  is  understood  that  there  will  be  no 
change to the pattern of the special meeting — that is, 
one day, with two fully serviced plenary meetings, one 
in the morning and one in the afternoon; and four fully 
serviced  round  tables,  either  in  the  morning  or  in  the 
afternoon. 

subparagraph 
additional resources would be required. 

to  under 
subparagraph  (b)  of  operative  paragraph  2  and  in 
operative paragraphs 3 and 8, that is, the annual high-
level  policy  dialogue  with  international  financial  and 
trade institutions, the biennial high-level Development 
Cooperation  Forum,  and  the  Council’s  convening  of 
annual  ministerial-level  substantive  reviews,  will  be 
held within the framework of the high-level segment of 
the  substantive  session  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  No  additional  parallel  meetings  will  be 
required  over  and  above  the  existing  pattern  of 
meetings.  Therefore,  should  the  General  Assembly 
adopt  subparagraph  (b)  of  operative  paragraph  2  and 
operative  paragraphs  3  and  8,  no  additional  resources 
would be required. 

Thirdly,  under  subparagraph  (c)  of  operative 
paragraph  2,  on  discussions  on  a  theme  from  the 
economic, 
fields;  operative 
paragraph  14  on  the  need  for  ad  hoc  meetings  on 
specific  humanitarian  emergencies;  and  operative 
Therefore,  should  the  General  Assembly  adopt 
(a)  of  operative  paragraph  2,  no 
the  meetings 
Secondly, 
referred 
related 
social 
and 
A/61/PV.56
to 
fulfil 
to  enable 
the  Council 
those  meetings  will  need 
paragraph  18,  on  ensuring  the  provision  of  full 
conference  services  to  the  Council  for  all  meetings 
necessary 
its 
strengthened  mandate,  it  is  our  understanding  that 
these  meetings  do  not  represent  an  increase  over  the 
total  number  of  meetings  reserved  annually  as  a 
practice  for  the  preparatory  process  of  the  substantive 
session  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
therefore would not require additional resources. 
However,  as  advance  planning  is  essential  in 

ensuring 
the  satisfactory  provision  of  conference 
services  as  well  as  achieving  cost-effectiveness,  the 
exact  dates  of 
to  be 
determined  by  consultations  between  the  substantive 
secretariat  and  the  Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management. 

Fourthly,  under  operative  paragraph  19,  on  the 
meetings  to  facilitate  the  fulfilment  of  its  newly 
assigned  responsibilities  for  organizing  the  annual 
ministerial  reviews,  as  referred  to  under  subparagraph 
(b)  of  operative  paragraph  2;  and  the  Development 
Cooperation  Forum,  as  referred  to  under  operative 
paragraph  3,  up  to  two  weeks  of  meetings,  it  will  be 
recalled  that,  in  its  resolution  60/246,  the  General 
Assembly,  having  considered 
the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions,  decided  that  such  additional  resources  as 
may  be  necessary  be 
the  relevant 
performance report for the biennium 2006-2007.  

Through  advance  planning  and  consultations 
between the substantive secretariat and the Department 
for General Assembly and Conference Management, it 
is  anticipated  that  those  meetings  can  be  judiciously 
scheduled  so  that  they  can  be  accommodated  from 
within existing resources. 

representative of France on a point of order. 
in  French):  My 

delegation  wishes  to  indicate  that  we  would  like  to 
reserve  the  right  to  provide,  in  writing,  requests  to 
change the French translation of this draft resolution. 

The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  take  a 
decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/61/L.24,  entitled 
“Strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council”, 
as corrected. 

draft resolution A/61/L.24, as corrected? 
May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
The  President: 
report  of 
Mr.  Pic 
reflected 
(France) 
I  give 
(spoke 
the 
floor 
to 
the 
the 
in 
06-62233 

5 

A/61/PV.56 


reformed 
its  work  with 
Draft  resolution  A/61/L.24,  as  corrected,  was 
adopted (resolution 61/16). 
The  President: I  shall  now  call  on 

those 
representatives  wishing  to  speak  in  explanation  of 
position  on  the  resolution  just  adopted.  May  I  remind 
delegations that explanations of vote are limited to 10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
Ms.  Lintonen  (Finland):  The  European  Union 

(EU)  attaches  great  importance  to  the  strengthening 
and  revitalizing  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
as  set  out  in  the  World  Summit  Outcome  Document. 
We would therefore like to express our strong support 
for the successful finalization of this resolution. 
The European Union is pleased that the Economic 

and  Social  Council  can  now  finally  proceed  with 
planning  for  the  upcoming  session  of  the  Council  and 
continue 
functions,  as 
mandated  by  the  World  Summit  Outcome  Document 
and this resolution. 

The  European  Union  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  to  you,  Madam  President,  and  to  the  co-
Chairmen  —  Mr.  Verbeke,  Ambassador  of  Belgium, 
and  Mr.  Diarra,  Ambassador  of  Mali  —  for  their 
leading  role  in  contributing  to  the  completion  of  this 
process.  We  would  like  also  to  extend  our  warmest 
compliments  to  the  facilitator,  Mr.  Carlos  Ruíz  of 
Mexico. 

thank  all 
negotiation partners for the constructive spirit that kept 
up  the  momentum  and  enabled  us  to  reach  consensus 
on this important issue. The European Union hopes that 
this  positive  approach  will  also  facilitate  a  timely 
agreement  on  the  remaining  questions  during  the 
resumed  session  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
and  promote  our  efforts  to  adapt  the  work  of  the 
Council. 
Mr.  Kumalo  (South  Africa):  The  Group  of  77 

and China welcomes the adoption of the resolution on 
the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council. 
With  the  adoption  of  this  resolution,  the  United 
Nations  has  reaffirmed  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  as  the  central  mechanism  for  system-
wide  coordination  in  promoting  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of,  and  follow-up  to,  the 
outcomes  of  the  major  United  Nations  conferences  in 
the  economic,  social  and  related  fields. As  a  principal 
In  addition,  we  would 
like 
to 
economic 
international 
body  for  coordination  and  policy  review,  policy 
dialogue  and  recommendations  on  issues  related  to 
economic  and  social  development,  the  Economic  and 
Social Council will now be able to play its proper role. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  pleased  that  the 
mandate  from  our  leaders  has  been  adhered  to  in 
accordance  with  the World  Summit  Outcome  and  that 
the  Economic 
and  Social  Council  has  been 
strengthened  through  the  creation  of  the  biannual 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  and 
the  annual 
ministerial review.  

The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcomes  the  new, 
strengthened  role  of  the  substantive  session  and  the 
fact  that  the  General  Assembly  has  decided  that  the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  will,  in  the  context 
of 
development 
cooperation, identify gaps,  review trends and progress 
and  provide  policy  guidelines  and  recommendations, 
with  the  aim  being  to  enhance  the  implementation  of 
internationally agreed development cooperation and to 
study  the  issues  affecting  the  achievement  of  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals.  

We  therefore  welcome  the  decision  that  the 
Development  Cooperation  Forum  should  undertake 
regular  reviews  and  assessments  of 
international 
economic and development policies and of their impact 
on development. That is a vital element that will enable 
the Economic and Social Council to play a major role 
in  the  efficient  use  of  monitoring  and  follow-up 
mechanisms  to  ensure  that  commitments  and  actions 
are  effectively 
the  context  of 
international  economic  and  development  policies  and 
cooperation. 
The Group of 77 and China looks forward to the 

high-level  deliberations  at 
the  annual  ministerial 
review  to  evaluate  progress  and  implementation  by 
means  of  a  cross-sectoral  approach,  focusing  on 
thematic issues common to the outcomes of the major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the 
economic, social and related fields, as well as to assess 
the  achievement  of  the  goals  and  targets  of  the 
conferences and summits.  
The  Group  of  77  and  China  believes  that  the 

resolution 
the 
relationship  between  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
and the Economic and Social Council. That will enrich 
the  Peacebuilding 
and 
and  distinctly  outlines 
the  work  of 
implemented 
enhance 
clearly 
and 
in 
in 
6 

06-62233 
in 
the 
and 
post-conflict 
development 
therefore  welcomes 


Commission 
reconstruction. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcomes  the 
recognition  by  Member  States  that  there  has  been 
insufficient  provision  of  conference  services  and 
substantive  support  to  the  Council’s  meetings,  which 
has impeded the Council’s ability to fulfil its mandate. 
The  Group 
renewed 
recognition  that  the  Council,  as  a  Charter  body,  is 
entitled to convene meetings as and when needed, with 
full  substantive  support  and  conference  services  to 
facilitate  its  strengthened  mandate,  in  particular  when 
it relates to humanitarian emergencies. 

In  conclusion,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, I would like to thank you, Madam President, for 
working with us in the final stages of this resolution. I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  two  Co-Chairs,  the 
ambassadors of Mali and Belgium, and, of course, our 
tireless facilitator, Mr. Carlos Ruiz Massieu Aguirre of 
Mexico,  for  their  dedication,  patience  and  hard  work. 
We would also like to acknowledge the cooperation of 
our negotiating partners, who made it possible for us to 
adopt this important resolution by consensus. 

Mr.  Sen  (India):  We  welcome  resolution  61/16, 
on strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, 
and  congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  on  your 
leadership 
that 
resolution to a conclusion. Its adoption no doubt paves 
the way for the operationalization of the Council’s new 
functions,  namely,  the  annual  ministerial  review  and 
the Development Cooperation Forum, mandated by the 
2005 World Summit. 

With  the  adoption  of  this  resolution,  we  have 
once  again  reconfirmed  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social Council as the principal body within the United 
Nations for coordinating policy review, policy dialogue 
and recommendations on issues of economic and social 
development.  India  has  consistently  maintained  that  it 
is  primarily  a  question  of  political  will  —  rather  than 
of reinventing the Economic and Social Council — to 
enable  the  Council  to  effectively  fulfil  its  mandate 
relating  to  oversight  and  system-wide  coordination, 
with respect not only to United Nations agencies, funds 
and  programmes,  but  also  to  the  specialized  agencies 
of the United Nations. 

We agree with the statement made by the Chair of 
the Group of 77, my colleague from South Africa, that 
the  elements  outlined  in  this  resolution  in  the  context 
the  negotiations  on 
in  bringing 
A/61/PV.56
to 
an 
the 
review 
to  make 
impact  of 
the  capacity 
in  decision-making, 
trends  and  progress 
review  and  assessment  of 
of the Development Cooperation Forum will strengthen 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  particularly  with 
regard  to  its  oversight  and  system-wide  coordination 
functions.  That  will  provide  the  Council  with  an 
opportunity 
in 
international  development  cooperation  and  to  provide 
policy  guidance  and  recommendations.  An  important 
function of the Forum will be to undertake regular and 
periodic 
international 
economic policies and of their impact on development.  

In the context of systemic issues, it is particularly 
important  to  implement  the  commitment  to  enhancing 
the  ability  of  developing  countries  to  participate 
meaningfully 
important 
component of which is to assist developing countries in 
enhancing  their  capacity  to  assess  the  impact  that 
policy changes have on them. While the industrialized 
countries  have 
their  own 
assessments,  most  of  the  developing  countries  do  not 
have the resources to do so.  
The  situations  in  several  developing  countries 

amply  demonstrate 
the  structural 
adjustment policies of the International Monetary Fund 
(IMF).  Many  on  the  verge  of  civil  conflict  not  only 
have  failed  to  benefit  from  those  policies,  but  have 
plunged deeper into conflict. Also, in the case of many 
countries,  the  IMF  bail-out  packages  did  not  work  in 
the way predicted during the crisis.  

Hence,  there  is  a  need  for  assessment  of  the 
disparity  between  predicted  consequences  and  what 
actually  happens.  Given  the  lack  of  resources  among 
developing  countries, 
the  deliberative  discussions 
within the international economic institutions could be 
complemented  if  there  were  an  independent  body  to 
evaluate their policies, as well as alternative proposals 
concerning  their  impact  on  developing  countries  and 
on  development. The  United  Nations  is  best  placed  to 
do  so.  Detailed  consideration  in  the  Economic  and 
Social Council, with policy guidance from the General 
Assembly, would be helpful.  

We  are  confident  that  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council, on the basis of the review and  assessment of 
international  economic  policies  and  the  international 
financial,  monetary  and  trade  policies  of  relevant 
institutions, will make recommendations where needed 
so 
the 
international  economic  environment  supportive  of 
development. Not only will that increase confidence in 
the  necessary  correctives  can  make 
that 
06-62233 

7 

the 
international 
legitimacy  of 
A/61/PV.56 

and 
economic 
governance;  it  may  also  lead  to  better  economic 
governance  that  may  benefit  both  the  developing  and 
developed worlds.  

We welcome the agreement related to the role of 
the Economic and Social Council in peacebuilding. We 
look forward to the Council’s contribution in that area 
and  to  the  Peacebuilding  Commission’s  benefiting 
from  it.  We  also  welcome  the  reaffirmation  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council’s  entitlement  as  a 
Charter  body,  which  is  so  important  to  its  ability  to 
fulfil its mandate effectively. 

In  conclusion,  I  once  again  congratulate  you, 
Madam President, on your leadership. I also thank the 
Co-Chairs,  the  ambassadors  of  Belgium  and  Mali,  as 
well as the Facilitator, from the Mission of Mexico.  

Mr. Miller (United States of America): While the 
Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  a  Charter  body,  is 
entitled  to  convene  meetings as  and  when  needed,  the 
United States believes that it is important to stress that 
the  Council  should  also  ensure  the  efficient  use  of  its 
session  time,  while  working  to  fulfil  its  mandates 
effectively.  

thus 
contingent  upon  our  understanding  that  the  resolution 
has  no  financial  implications.  The  Department  of 
General  Assembly  and  Conference  Management  must 
be accorded flexibility and time for adequate planning 
in order to ensure that it can utilize existing resources, 
as noted in the Secretariat’s statement.  
My delegation would also like to emphasize that 

the  resolution  does  not  specify 
the  number  or 
frequency  of  meetings  that  should  occur,  nor  does  it 
require any additional meetings.  

The  President: We  shall  now  proceed  with  the 
joint debate under agenda items 47, 112, 113 and 149.  
Mr.  Rosengren  (Finland):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
acceding  countries  Bulgaria  and  Romania, 
the 
candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine  and 
Moldova, align themselves with this statement. 
resolution  61/16 
Our  support 
for 
is 
to 
goals, 
growth, 
including 
economic 
the  development  and 

In September 2005, heads of State gathered at the 
World  Summit  to  assess  the  implementation  of  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  and  the  progress  made  in  implementing  the 
Millennium  Declaration  and 
find  additional 
momentum  for  achieving  the  internationally  agreed 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  What  is  important  is  to 
embed  the  Goals  into  country-led  processes  in  a 
manner  which  would  eradicate  poverty  and  promote 
sustained 
environmental 
sustainability and global prosperity for all. 

The  EU  is  pleased  that  during  the  past  year 
achievements have been reached in the United Nations 
reform process launched by the World Summit. In that 
regard, we would like to mention the establishment of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  the  adoption  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy,  the  work  of  the  Informal 
Working Group on Mandate Review, the progress made 
so far on management reform and the follow-up by the 
General  Assembly  to  the  World  Summit  Outcome 
concerning 
the 
Economic and Social Council. 

The  EU  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his report on the role of the Economic and 
Social  Council  in  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  and  follow-up  to 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
(A/61/90).  Through 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  has  made  progress  in 
implementing its commitments in the follow-up to the 
internationally 
and 
objectives, including the MDGs. The coordinating role 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  economic, 
social,  environmental  and  humanitarian  fields  and  in 
fostering  dialogue  within  the  wider  United  Nations 
system  was  further  discussed  at  the  Council’s  2006 
substantive session. 
In  the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome  and  its 

follow-up,  the  mandate  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  to  ensure  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  was 
reiterated.  The  EU 
those 
developments  and  looks  forward  to  the  coming  year, 
when  new  functions  of  the  Council,  especially  the 
annual ministerial reviews, will be implemented. 
its  annual  consideration, 
development 
reform  of 
supports 
strongly 
agreed 
goals 
8 

06-62233 
debt 
relief, 
innovative 



As  the  2005  Summit  emphasized,  development 
must  be  based  on  global  partnership. The  EU  remains 
firmly committed to supporting country-led sustainable 
development  through  actions  on  aid  volume  and 
effectiveness, 
finance 
mechanisms, trade and the international institutions. 

Respect for human rights — including economic, 
social  and  cultural  rights  —  the  rule  of  law,  solid 
democratic  institutions  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the 
people, good governance, sound economic policies and 
improved  infrastructure  are  the  basis  for  sustainable 
economic growth, poverty eradication and employment 
creation. The EU is committed to working towards the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  recognizing  that  they  can 
only  be  attained  if  both  women  and  men  are  able  to 
play an equal part in all areas of life. As recognized in 
the  Outcome  Document  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
(resolution 60/1) development, peace and security and 
human rights are interlinked and mutually reinforcing. 

The EU welcomes the first report to the General 
Assembly  on  enhancing  capacity-building  in  global 
public  health  (A/61/383). The  EU  believes  that  health 
is  central  to  the  achievement  of  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  MDGs,  and 
that  such  goals  position  health  as  a  core  part  of  the 
development agenda. We would therefore find it useful 
for  this  body  to  consider  an  assessment  of  global 
progress  towards  achieving  improvements  in  health, 
highlighting  the  contributions  of  the  United  Nations 
system. 

Despite our efforts, and although there have been 
impressive gains in human health worldwide in recent 
years, we are still in a situation where many countries 
are unable to cope with the burden posed by disease on 
their  health  systems,  due  to  inherent  weaknesses  in 
national  health  systems,  unpredictable  and  uneven 
funding  and  the  dire  lack  of  skilled  human  resources. 
Without  skilled  and  motivated  health  personnel,  any 
health  sector  intervention  is  bound  to  fail,  placing  at 
risk our current efforts to address avian flu and human 
influenza. We must therefore use opportunities, such as 
that  offered  by  the  current  debate,  to  redouble  our 
efforts 
to 
advocate  for  increased  financial  resources  for  the 
health sector. 

The  World  Summit  Outcome  and  last  year’s 
resolution 60/35, on capacity-building in global public 
health  provided  excellent  guidance  to  Member  States 
to  mobilize  political  commitment  and 
A/61/PV.56
to 
increase 
The  EU  has  supported  pioneering  work 
on  how  to  improve  health  outcomes.  In  particular,  we 
investment, 
recall  our  commitments 
building  on  existing  mechanisms  and 
through 
partnerships  to  improve  health  systems  in  developing 
countries  with 
the  aim  of  providing  sufficient 
infrastructures,  management  systems  and  supplies,  as 
well as adequate numbers of health workers. 

Last April, the EU adopted a Strategy for Action 
on  the  Crisis  in  Human  Resources  for  Health  in 
Developing  Countries  and  is  presently  working  on  an 
action plan addressing that global issue. 

in 
research collaboration with developing countries in the 
field of health systems. It is essential that research and 
development  in  the  area  of  health  systems,  and  the 
rational,  cost-effective  and  appropriate  use  of 
technologies,  are  supported  and  continued  alongside 
the 
innovative  creation  of  new  compounds  and 
technologies. 

The  EU  welcomes  the  attention  and  proposals 
offered  in  the  report  to  better  respond  to  reproductive 
health issues. It is crucial to ensure universal access to 
HIV/AIDS  prevention  and  treatment  to  all  people, 
focusing especially on vulnerable groups. The scaling-
up  of  support  through  the  strengthening  of  social 
protection systems and the creation of opportunities for 
less  susceptible  livelihoods  for  affected  households, 
particularly  those  with  children,  have  a  preventive 
effect  and  need  to  be  part  of  the  HIV/AIDS  response. 
Development  of  paediatric  drugs  and  coverage  of 
treatment for children lags far behind what is available 
for adults. 

Although  we  will  not  have  a  resolution  on 
enhancing  capacity-building  in  global  public  health 
this year, we reaffirm our commitment to the issue and 
our willingness to discuss health in a holistic manner in 
the General Assembly. 

the 
prerequisites  for  sustainable  development  results.  In 
this regard there has been good progress at the national 
level, especially when it comes to introducing poverty 
reduction strategies. Progress has already been made in 
aligning  United  Nations  development  plans, 
the 
common  country  assessment  and  United  Nations 
with 
Development 
comprehensive  national  development  strategies, 
in 
particular  with  the  poverty  reduction  strategy.  In  this 
regard, it is also important to ensure the input of civil 
National  ownership  and 
leadership  are 
Framework, 
Assistance 
06-62233 

9 

the 
Mr. Kumalo (South Africa): I have the honour to 
A/61/PV.56 

society  and  private  sector,  as  full  national  ownership 
requires  broad-based  engagement  and  participation  of 
all relevant stakeholders. 

Furthermore,  the  EU  is  committed  to  working 
with  the  partners  to  find  solutions  to  improve  the 
United Nations system-wide coherence on the basis of 
the  recommendations  of  the  High-level  Panel,  which 
were  recently  made  available.  In  this  regard,  the  EU 
considers 
interlinkages  of  development  and 
humanitarian  and  environmental  activities  of  high 
importance. The EU also intends to further improve the 
coherence  of  its  own  policies  and  activities  affecting 
these issues. 

speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

The  integrated  and  coordinated  implementation 
of and follow-up to the outcomes of the United Nations 
major conferences and summits in the economic, social 
and  related  fields  is  essential  and  must  remain  the 
priority role of the United Nations, if we are to succeed 
in eradicating poverty and  in lifting billions of people 
out  of  dehumanizing  and  degrading  poverty  and 
hunger. 

We  are  only  six  years  into  the  twenty-first 
century,  one  third  of  the  way  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) target of reducing poverty 
and  hunger  by  half  by  2015,  and  still,  billions  live  in 
degrading  poverty.  If  we  are  to  succeed  in  fully 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015,  then  the  full  and  timely  implementation  of  all 
commitments  made  at  all  the  United  Nations  summits 
and conferences must become a reality. 

With  the  rapid  progress  of  globalization  and  the 
continued  uncertain  prospects  of  a  global  economic 
recovery, 
the  developed  and 
developing countries is growing. This is increasing the 
imbalance in the global economic, financial and social 
architecture  even  further,  once  again  in  favour  of  the 
developed countries. 

Therefore,  for  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  the 
critical  target  of  2015  set  by  our  leaders  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  of  paramount  importance.  The 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome  clearly  stated  that  the 
implementation 
agreed 
the  Millennium 
development 
Development  Goals,  would  not  be  achieved, 
in 
the  gap  between 
the 
including 
internationally 
of 
goals, 
the 
particular  in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  unless  there  is  a 
dramatic  and  urgent  increase  in  resource  flows.  This 
has never been more urgent than it is now. 

There is an urgent need for concerted multilateral 
action  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
as a means for solving economic and social problems, 
for  promoting  peace  and  security  and  for  the  creation 
of  an  enabling  international  economic  environment 
aimed  at  supporting  developing  countries’  efforts  to 
achieve  sustained  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development. 

The United Nations has a vital role to play in the 
promotion  of  an  equitable  global  economic,  financial 
and trading regime. In this regard, the  United  Nations 
system,  and 
international  organizations  and 
institutions,  including  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions 
and  the  World  Trade  Organization,  must  translate  all 
commitments  made  at 
the  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related  fields  into  concrete  and  specific  actions  aimed 
at  achieving  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
The 2005 World Summit Outcome reminds us just how 
important this is. 

cannot 
overemphasize the need for the United Nations to play 
a  fundamental  role  in  the  promotion  of  international 
cooperation  for  development,  and  in  ensuring  the 
coherence,  coordination  and  implementation  of  the 
internationally agreed development goals, including all 
actions  agreed  upon  by  the  international  community. 
This  is  to  strengthen  coordination  within  the  United 
Nations  system,  in  close  cooperation  with  all  other 
multilateral 
development 
institutions  in  order  to  support  sustained  economic 
growth, poverty and hunger eradication and sustainable 
development in developing countries. 

The  United  Nations,  therefore,  has  an  important 
responsibility  to  assist  Governments  to  stay  fully 
engaged  in  the  follow-up  to  and  implementation  of 
agreements  and  commitments  reached  at  the  major 
United Nations conferences and summits. 
There  is  an  urgent  need,  as  called  for  in  the 

development  follow-up  resolution  (resolution  60/265), 
to 
for 
development and enhance the momentum generated by 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome, 
to 
the 
operationalize  and 
the  global  partnership 
implement,  at  all 
in  order 
levels, 
The  Group 
and  China 
implement 
financial, 
of 
77 
trade 
and 
fully 
10 

06-62233 
in 
and 
review 
implementation 


commitments made in all the outcomes of all the major 
United Nations conferences and summits. 

In  this  regard,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  calls 
for the full implementation of the development follow-
up resolution. It has clearly and succinctly outlined the 
actions  that  must  be  undertaken  in  the  context  of  the 
implementation  of  all  the  outcomes  of  all  the  major 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
the 
economic, social and related fields. 
The  United  Nations  must  start  to  monitor,  track 

the 
of 
progress 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  and 
the 
MDGs. Therefore, the United Nations system must, in 
accordance with the development follow-up resolution, 
strengthen the existing mechanisms and establish other 
effective mechanisms to monitor, review and follow up 
on the implementation of the outcomes of all the major 
United Nations conferences and summits as a matter of 
priority. 

At  today’s  adoption  of  the  resolution  on  the 
strengthening of the Economic and Social Council, the 
Council’s  role  as  the  central  mechanism  for  system-
wide  coordination  in  promoting  the  integrated  and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  has  been  reaffirmed.  It  is  the  principal  body 
for  coordination,  policy  review,  policy  dialogue  and 
recommendations  on  issues  of  economic  and  social 
development,  as  well  as  for  implementation  of  the 
international development goals agreed to at the major 
United  Nations 
in 
accordance with the Charter. 

With  the  adoption  of  the  development  follow-up 
and  Economic  and  Social  Council  strengthening 
resolutions  and    in  accordance  with  the  mandate  from 
our leaders, the United Nations has been reaffirmed as 
inclusive,  global,  multilateral, 
the  central, 
international 
organization 
responsible  for  development  policies,  review  and 
progress  and  for 
integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the United Nations major conferences and summits.  
Our  leaders,  through  the  outcomes  of  all  major 

United Nations conferences and summits, have laid the 
necessary  foundations  for  enhancing  development  — 
the  substance  is  in  its  place.  Commitments  have  been 
made;  the  systemic  issues  have  already  been  already 
been  agreed  upon. All  that  is  needed  now  is  full  and 
representative 
conferences 
fully 
and 
summits, 
and 
the 
A/61/PV.56
and 
for  Democracy 
timely  implementation.  The  Group  of  77  and  China 
therefore  once  again  reiterates  a  call  to  developed 
countries for the full and timely implementation of the 
global  partnership  for  development  so  as  to  enable 
developing countries to achieve the goals and targets of 
the  internationally  agreed  objectives,  including  the 
Millennium Development Goals, by 2015.  
Mr. Kryzhanivskyi (Ukraine): I have the honour 

to speak on behalf of the States members of the GUAM 
Organization 
Economic 
Development  (ODED-GUAM),  namely,  Azerbaijan, 
Georgia,  Moldova  and  Ukraine.  The  GUAM  States 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
reports.  

The outcomes of the United Nations conferences 
and  summits  in  the  economic  and  social  fields  have 
strengthened  a  common  vision  of  development  and  a 
culture  of  responsibility  in  advancing  those  outcomes. 
Thus,  integrated  and  coordinated  follow-up  in  the 
implementation  process  is  crucial  to  preserving  the 
thematic  unity  and  integrity  of  each  conference  while 
addressing  the  interlinkages  among  them.  In  this 
regard,  we  would  like  to  recall  General  Assembly 
resolutions  50/227  and  57/270  B,  and  we  stress  the 
importance of further progress in this regard.  
Our  States  are  committed  to  the  implementation 

of 
the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and,  for  our  part  and  in  line  with  our 
commitments,  we  have 
comprehensive 
national  development  strategies  and  pursued  reform 
processes to accelerate our development and make such 
development sustainable. We stand  ready to engage  in 
a  dialogue  towards  strengthening  intergovernmental 
cooperation  and  interaction  among  United  Nations 
agencies, the Bretton Woods institutions and the World 
Trade Organization. 

The  GUAM  States  agree  that  progress  has  been 
slow  in  providing  a  road  map  toward  system-wide 
coherence  of  the  different  follow-up  mechanisms  and 
in 
all-encompassing 
development strategies that take into consideration the 
linkages between the conference results both within the 
United  Nations  system  and  at  the  governmental  level. 
While  commending  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations 
System  Chief  Executives  Board  for  Coordination  and 
the  United  Nations  system  at  large  to  enhance  inter-
agency  coordination  and  integration  of  internationally 
agreed  development  goals  at  both  policy  and 
recognizing 
the  need 
adopted 
for 
06-62233 

11 

are 
convinced 
systematic 
The  GUAM  States 
in  a  spirit  of  global  partnership 
A/61/PV.56 

operational  levels,  we  note  the  paramount  importance 
of 
inter-agency  cooperation  and  of 
increasing  strategic  and  operational  coherence  across 
all  areas.  The  latter  is  even  more  relevant  at  the 
country  level,  and  thus  we  look  forward  to  further 
contributions  from  the  United  Nations  Development 
Group  towards  promoting  policy  coherence  through 
better  utilization  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Assistance Framework. 

that 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals, should remain an 
overarching  framework  for  international  development 
cooperation  and  that  the  cooperation  itself  should  be 
pursued 
for 
development. In that regard, we welcome the decision 
to  launch  the  preparatory  process  to  review  the 
implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  the  International 
Conference on Financing for Development. 

The  2005  World  Summit  sent  a  strong  message 
that there is a continued need to promote an integrated 
and coordinated follow-up to the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  as  well  as  to  envisage 
tangible  measures 
the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  as  a  principal  body  for 
coordination 
the 
internationally agreed development goals. 
Mr.  Pedroso  (Cuba)  (spoke in Spanish):  First  of 

all,  my  delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself  with 
the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of  South 
Africa on behalf of the Group of 77 and China as well 
as  to  put  forward  some  considerations  on  this  issue, 
which  is  of  particular  importance  for  developing 
countries. 
Five  years  after  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium 

Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  in  which  we  committed 
ourselves 
the  famous  —  albeit 
modest —  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  so-
called development agenda for our countries is far from 
becoming  a  reality  because  we  continue  to  face 
enormous  challenges  and  obstacles  as  a  result  of  the 
neoliberal  globalization  process.  Lasting  solutions  to 
issues  addressed  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  such  as 
official  development  assistance  (ODA),  external  debt, 
foreign  direct 
trade 
continue to be a pipe dream today and, particularly for 
developing countries, continue to be truly critical. 
to  working  for 
investment  and 
implementation 
to  strengthen 
the  role  of 
international 
of 
the 
of 
debt 
their 
burden 
foreign 

Just  a  few  figures  will  show  this.  Four  fifths  of 
humanity  is  living  in  conditions  of  underdevelopment 
and  poverty.  Of  them,  1.3  billion  are  in  extreme 
poverty  and  account  for  only  1.3  per  cent  of  world 
consumption. The foreign debt of developing countries 
continues to grow, and last year reached the staggering 
figure of $2.8 trillion, an increase of 1.6 per cent from 
the  previous  year.  In  the  case  of  the  least  developed 
countries, 
reached 
unprecedented  levels.  For  every  dollar  devoted  to  the 
official  development  assistance,  developing  countries 
pay  six  dollars  just  for  servicing  their  debt  which  we 
have  already  paid  many  times  over.  But  this  debt 
continues  to  mount.  Developed  countries  spend  an 
almost $1 billion daily on agricultural subsidies, which 
is three times more than they devote to ODA.  

The number of persons with physical hunger has 
reached 852 million, and there are 876 million illiterate 
adults,  whereas  developed  countries  spend  $17  billion 
a  year  on  pet  food.  Every  year,  8  million  children  die 
before their first birthday and 19 million children under 
the  age  of  5  die  from  curable  diseases  or  from 
malnutrition. Another 325 million children do not go to 
school, while every year more than $1 trillion goes to 
commercial  advertising.  Sixty  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
ecosystems  are  being  degraded  or  are  unsustainably 
used. The availability of drinking water is 60 per cent 
of  the  1970  levels,  and  at  present  we  are  2.3  billion 
more human beings than at that time. 

The  persistence  of  an  unfavourable  international 
economic environment and an unjust world order have 
brought  about  this  cruel  and  frightening  panorama, 
increasingly  marginalizing  developing 
countries. 
Today,  it  is  more  necessary  than  ever  that  developed 
countries  fulfil 
they  have 
undertaken  at  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and summits in the economic, social and related fields, 
including  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Those 
should  no  longer  be  treated  as  dead  letter  or  mere 
political 
at 
diluting 
responsibilities or delaying their fulfilment. 

If  the  negative  effects  of  the  imposition  of  the 
neoliberal  model  in  a  globalized  world  are  not  duly 
addressed,  and  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor 
continues  to  increase,  we  will  inevitably  bear  witness 
to further crises and conflicts. 

With just 10 per cent of the more than $1 trillion 
currently  devoted  to  military  expenditure,  the  very 
the  commitments 
announcements 
aimed 
that 
12 

06-62233 
to  fulfil 
could  be 
to  discuss 
their  commitments,  which 


modest  Millennium  Goals 
achieved. 
Unfortunately,  the  industrialized  world  seems  to  be 
unaware of that fact and persists in its lack of political 
will  to  make  historic  decisions  that  would  solve  the 
structural  inequalities  of  the  international  economic 
system, which is absolutely unsustainable. 

The solution to the problems that the developing 
countries face today as a consequence of the unjust and 
unequal world economic order, and the preservation of 
nature  and  the  human  race  itself,  are  issues  that 
concern  the  entire  international  community,  without 
distinction between rich and poor. It is imperative that 
we  all  work  within  the  context  of  true  multilateral 
international  cooperation  based  on  the  principles  of 
solidarity, complementarity and mutual benefits. 
We need the steadfast political will of the richest 

countries 
is 
undoubtedly  the  hugest  challenge  to  overcome.  Only 
then will we be able to guarantee a true and just global 
association for development. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

meet 
today 
item  entitled 
“Integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related  fields”.  Egypt  attaches  high  priority  to  that 
item,  and  particularly  to  the  issues  of  economic  and 
social development, as they constitute the real measure 
of peoples’ abilities to achieve the desired development 
and address the changes and fluctuations that prevail in 
today’s world. 

In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  express  my  support  for 
South Africa’s statement on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China.  I  also  wish  to  affirm  the  developing 
countries’ high regard for the United Nations role and 
mandate in economic and social development and other 
related fields. That vital role represents the lion’s share 
of  the  United  Nations  activities,  which  cannot  be 
substituted  by  any  other  role  at  any  level,  be  it 
bilateral,  regional  or  international.  On  that  basis,  we 
oppose any attempt to shift that role outside the United 
Nations  to  other  realms  dominated  by  politicization 
and  conditionality,  and  we  will  work  in  coordination 
with  developing  countries  to  counteract  any  such 
attempt. 

The  adoption  at  the  World  Summit  last  June  of 
the  resolution  on  development  follow-up  (resolution 
the  draft 
60/265)  and 
the  recent  agreement  on 
the  agenda 
A/61/PV.56
in 
a 
the  draft 
resolution  on 
sustainable  development 
resolution related to the strengthening of the Economic 
and Social Council, following intensive negotiations on 
both  texts,  send  a  clear  message  and  are  proof  of  the 
strength  of  international  political  will  in  those  two 
areas, especially on the part of developing countries, to 
preserve the mandate of the United Nations in the area 
of 
context  of 
intergovernmental  oversight,  which  we  seek  to  be 
characterized  by  just  representation  and  democratic 
decisions  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Economic and Social Council. 

Despite international recognition of the important 
role of the United Nations in the field of development, 
many of the Organization’s decisions and resolutions in 
the  social  and  economic  fields  continue 
to  go 
unimplemented. 
Although we reached an agreed text after difficult 

negotiations  on 
the 
strengthening  of  the  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council — including its provision of a necessary time 
frame  for  the  Council  to  assume  the  new  duties 
entrusted to it, its stipulations regarding the activation 
of the development cooperation forums and the annual 
ministerial  review,  and  its  enhanced  relationship  with 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  —  we  look  forward  to 
increased political will from our development partners 
in order to help the Council to undertake its new duties 
in  an  optimal  manner,  in  conjunction  with  activating 
the  role  of  its  other  subsidiary  organs,  such  as  the 
technical  committees,  the  regional  commissions  and 
the Committee for Development Policy. 

resolution  on 
strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  based 
on  the  mandate  given  by  the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  at  the  2005  Summit,  it  is  important  to 
stress  the  importance  of  activating  the  work  of  the 
essential subsidiary organs of the Economic and Social 
Council within the same framework. In that regard, we 
would  refer  in  particular  to  the  regional  commissions, 
taking  into  account  the  regional  perspective  of  the 
programmes they conduct and the exceptional technical 
and  administrative  expertise  they  provide,  as  well  as 
the  basis 
intergovernmental 
cooperation,  which  allows  them  to  support  the  efforts 
of  developing  countries  in  the  field  of  development. 
Accordingly,  we 
and 
development  of  the  commissions  in  order  to  counter 
efforts to reduce their role and terminate their mandate. 
the  adoption  of 
activation 
support 
With 
they 
represent 
for 
the 
the 
06-62233 

13 

to 
the  Council’s 
A/61/PV.56 


In that regard, Egypt endorses the content of the 
Secretary-General’s report on the role of the Economic 
and  Social  Council  in  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits,  in 
accordance with General Assembly resolutions 50/227, 
52/12  B  and  57/270  B,  including  encouraging  the 
interaction of regional commissions with the Economic 
and Social Council, increasing the contributions of the 
commissions  within 
strengthened 
mandate,  specifying  obstacles  of  implementation  and 
optimal  practices,  as  well  as  deepening  cooperation 
among the various regional commissions. 

We also agree with the Secretary-General’s report 
concerning the importance of activating and enhancing 
intergovernmental dialogue between the Economic and 
Social Council and the Breton Woods institutions. That 
dialogue  should  take  into  account  the  critical  and 
pivotal  activities  of  the  important  subsidiary  bodies 
affiliated 
the  Council.  The  draft  resolution’s 
emphasis  on  strengthening  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council in that important relationship ushers in a new 
era  of  cooperation 
the  benefit  of  developing 
countries. 

At  the  same  time,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
support  for  the  call  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
for  new  and  innovative  approaches  to  encourage 
participation  by  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  in 
developing  countries  and  for  their  participation  in  the 
preparation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  annual  ministerial 
review  and  the  development  cooperation  forums.  The 
non-governmental sector has an important role to play 
in  supporting  development  activities,  but  it  must  not 
supersede the role of Governments and should conform 
to  the  procedural  and  substantive  rules  of  procedure 
that  govern  the  work  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council as an intergovernmental body. 
existing 

to  making  use  of 
mechanisms,  efforts  should  be  directed 
towards 
enhancing and activating a number of instruments and 
themes whose implementation is considered equivalent 
to  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of  United 
Nations conferences in the economic and social fields. 
Among those is the global partnership for development 
the  thematic  title  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  in  addition  to  support  for  science 
and  technology  for  development,  and  other  thematic 
issues  of  high  priority 
to  developing  countries, 
especially those in Africa. 
addition 
In 
to 
on 
the 
14 

06-62233 
in 
that  has  adversely  affected 

The  internationally  agreed  development  goals, 
especially the Millennium Development Goals, remain 
at  the  heart  of  the  implementation  of  the  United 
Nations  outcomes  and  decisions 
the  relevant 
economic  and  social  fields,  as  they  embody  a  broad 
section of issues and challenges periodically addressed 
by  United  Nations  conferences  in  that  context.  The 
modest  progress  achieved  in  this  implementation  to 
date  and  the  anticipated  failure  of  many  developing 
countries to achieve MDG targets is strong evidence of 
the  deficiencies  still  dominating  the  implementation 
follow-up process.  

In  this  context,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  would 
like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  implementing  the 
obligations  contained  in  the  development  follow-up 
resolution,  which  affirms  the  increase  in  resources 
available to operational activities for development on a 
continued and predictable basis. This obligation has in 
fact  not  been  translated  into  a  real  increase  of 
resources,  and 
those 
activities  and  diminished  their  role  in  achieving  the 
international development goals. 

In conclusion, I would like to emphasize that the 
real  essence  of  the  process  of  implementing  United 
Nations  decisions  is  embodied  in  the  political  will  of 
Member States. The Economic and Social Council and 
its  subsidiary  mechanisms  are  only  tools  that  reflect 
this will, which if absent will not lead to any progress. 
The  developing  countries  are  only  demanding  a  just 
right  to  development,  not  only  through  assistance,  but 
more  importantly  through  creating  an  appropriate 
atmosphere and helpful circumstances conducive to the 
implementation 
policies 
according  to  their  priorities  and  needs.  That  would 
enhance  their  integration  into  the  world  economy  as 
effective  partners.  It  requires  mutual  trust  among 
developing countries and their development partners in 
the developed world. It also necessitates the pursuit of 
common  efforts  to  build  and  strengthen  this  trust  and 
make optimal use of it. 

in 
Arabic):  I  would  like  to  express  my  thanks  and 
gratitude  to  Secretary-General  Kofi  Annan  for  his 
report 
coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic,  social  and  related  fields  (A/61/90),  as 
well  as  his  note  on  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  the 
Mr.  Al-Shalhoub  (Saudi  Arabia)  (spoke 
development 
integrated 
their 
and 
of 
the 
including 
conferences, 


Millennium Summit and reforming the United Nations 
(A/61/383).  

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  views  this  as  a 
valuable  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  important  role  of 
the United Nations in handling the new developments, 
and  challenges  of 
twenty-first  century.  The 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  associates  itself  with  the 
views of the Group of 77 and China with regard to this 
issue.  
The  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  United 

requires  good 
Nations  conferences  and  summits 
intentions, as well as mutual trust between all partners, 
and an understanding of the interests of every party in 
an  atmosphere  of  constructive  dialogue,  equality  and 
mutual  understanding.  The  five-year  review  of  those 
conferences that is conducted by the United Nations is 
evidence  of  the  care  and  efforts  of  Member  States  to 
garner  broad  support  for  the  outcome  of  the  United 
Nations 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  has  participated 

effectively  and  positively 
in  all  United  Nations 
summits and conferences. In affirmation of its genuine 
belief in the importance of international action and its 
keenness to enhance such comprehensive efforts, Saudi 
Arabia  has  joined  many  specialized  organizations  and 
ratified  numerous 
and 
conventions 
the 
encouragement  of  and  under  the  sponsorship  of  the 
United  Nations.  Such  action  reaffirms  Saudi  Arabia’s 
constant  quest  to  give  precedence  to  the  language  of 
dialogue  and  objectivity  as  a  main  characteristic  of 
international  efforts  to  entrench  the  concept  of  peace 
and security among peoples. This in turn would speed 
up 
the  achievement  of  constructive  cooperation, 
security and prosperity among all countries.  

and 
challenges  that  the  international  community  is  facing 
today require us, in the context of the reform approach 
that  is  prevailing  at  the  United  Nations,  to  reconsider 
the  Organization’s  working  methods  and  structure  in 
order  to  enhance  its  abilities  at  peacemaking,  not  just 
peacekeeping.  In  this  regard,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia supports reaching an international consensus on 
expanding 
increasing 
equitability  of  distribution  and  transparency  in  its 
work.  Saudi  Arabia  also  calls 
for  activating 
cooperation between the organs of the United Nations, 
agreements 
that  have  been  concluded  with 
the  Security  Council  and 
international 
international 
enormous 
changes 
The 
A/61/PV.56
and 
for 
There 
that 
that 
responsible 
the  world 
is  no  doubt 
the  maintenance 
especially the General Assembly, the Security Council 
and the Economic and Social Council.  

Out  of  its  conviction  of  the  need  to  activate  the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  improve  its 
performance  and  its  organs,  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi 
Arabia  has  participated  effectively  in  current  efforts 
aimed  at  modernizing  and  stimulating  United  Nations 
bodies  in  a  manner  that  will  enable  them  to  assume 
their  roles  at  a  level  commensurate  with  the  new 
developments  and  changes 
is 
experiencing today.  

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  believes  that  the 
reform  efforts  that  have  taken  hold  of  the  United 
Nations  must  not  be  viewed  in  an  abstract  manner. 
Rather,  they  must  be  related  to  the  issues  that  the 
United  Nations  deals  with.  In  addition,  we  must  take 
into  account  the  impact  of  the  reforms  or  changes  on 
the  effectiveness  and  performance  of  United  Nations 
bodies  —  especially  the  Security  Council,  which  is 
directly 
of 
international peace and security.  

and 
organizational reforms with a view to raising the level 
of  the  Organization’s  performance  and  effectiveness 
are needed immediately, so that the United Nations can 
undertake its responsibilities and bear its burdens. This 
is  all  tied  to  the  political  will  of  States  to  effectively 
implement  the  principles,  visions  and  expectations  of 
the  United  Nations.  Those  responsibilities  include  a 
true 
and 
recommendations  made  by  the  United  Nations  and  its 
conferences. Today  more  than  ever,  we  need  a  United 
Nations that is effective and able to undertake its duties 
towards achieving international peace and security and  
sustainable  development  and  guaranteeing  human 
rights  within 
the 
characteristics of diverse cultures and societies.  

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  affirms  that  the 
dangers and problems that face the world today are not 
limited to only a few countries, since their effects and 
impact are comprehensive in nature. This requires that 
international 
we 
the 
cooperation,  mutual 
common 
responsibility in an atmosphere of respect, equality and 
trust  in  order  to  achieve  humanity’s  hope  for  a  better 
future.  This  should  be  based  on  joint  interests  and 
common  benefits,  as  well  as  on  narrowing  the  gap  in 
quantity  and  quality  between  the  countries  of  North 
the  framework  of  respect  for 
concepts  of 
interest 
commitment 
consolidate 
structural 
decisions 
to 
the 
06-62233 

15 
Mr.  Liu  Zhenmin 
A/61/PV.56 

and  South  in  the  hope  of  creating  one  prosperous 
world.  

The  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  affirms  that  there 
can be no true development or economic prosperity or 
political stability in just one part of the world while the 
rest  of  the  world  suffers  from  poverty,  famine,  wars 
and conflict. Moreover, resorting to force and violence 
in  settling  disputes  has  wasted  considerable  financial 
and  human  resources  and  has  unnecessarily  depleted 
natural  resources.  That  has  deepened  economic  and 
social  underdevelopment,  undermined  human  dignity, 
hindered  development  programmes  and  decreased  the 
chances  of  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015,  which  has 
been decided. Moreover, it confirms the fact that there 
can  be  no  development  without  stability  and  no 
stability  without  total  respect  for  the  principles  of 
international  law,  the  adoption  of  dialogue  and  the 
optimal  utilization  of  economic  resources  for  the 
interest of all peoples.  
(China):  The  Chinese 

delegation  supports  the  statement  made  by  South 
Africa  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  In 
2005, world leaders gathered in New York and jointly 
reaffirmed  that  development  is  a  central  goal,  thus 
reflecting  the  common  aspiration  of  the  people  of  the 
world  to  achieve  that  goal.  World  leaders  have  made 
solemn commitments to implementing the outcomes of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic, social and related fields and to realizing 
the 
goals, 
including  the  MDGs,  in  a  timely  manner.  It  is  the 
unshirkable  responsibility  of  all  countries  to  maintain 
that  momentum 
promote 
international development cooperation. 

involves 
a 
comprehensive  and  multifaceted  process,  and 
the 
outcomes  of  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
summits  in  the  economic  and  social  fields  will  not 
materialize  overnight.  It  is  necessary  to  define  key 
areas  and  set  the  order  of  priorities,  so  as  to  mobilize 
maximum  resources,  achieve  the  best  distribution  of 
efforts and achieve the most desirable result. Thanks to 
the  joint  efforts  of  all  countries,  the  MDGs  have 
received  worldwide  recognition  and  extensive  support 
and  their  significance  was  reaffirmed  by  the  World 
Summit in 2005. The focus of our attention should now 
be turned to full implementation of the MDGs. 
internationally 
development 
development 
vigorously 
achieve 
agreed 
and 
To 
to 

At 
the 
and 
towards 
regional 
international 

Action at the national level is a pivotal link in the 
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits.  There  exists  a  wide  spectrum  of  national 
conditions,  and  only  by  combining  the  consensus 
reached  at  international  conferences  with  their  own 
specific  national  conditions  can  countries  truly  claim 
ownership  and  thus  act  in  an  effective  and  relevant 
manner. National Governments have the responsibility 
to employ the results of international consensus in their 
national  development  strategies  and  to  make  those  an 
organic part of their own development programmes. 

levels, 
constructive dialogue should be encouraged to promote 
the  exchange  of  experiences,  stimulate  new  ideas  and 
better  mobilize  resources  and  the  technical  means  to 
support  national  efforts 
the  coordinated 
implementation of their own development strategies. 

It  is  essential  for  the  United  Nations  to  continue 
to lead discussions on follow-up actions. It is therefore 
necessary  for  the  relevant  United  Nations  meetings  to 
be  pragmatic  and  action-oriented  in  their  agendas  and 
find  innovative  ways  of  working.  The  related  policy 
discussions  should  specify  real  policies,  expand  the 
consensus  and  find  shortcomings  and  weaknesses,  so 
as  to  better  mobilize  and  coordinate  international 
actions.  There  should  be  better  communication  and 
coordination  among  organizations  and  agencies  to 
ensure  policy  coherence  and  avoid  contradiction  and 
overlapping. 

Recent  discussions  on  United  Nations  system-
wide  coherence  have  been  very  helpful.  Worldwide 
attention  and  the  extensive  involvement  of  all  social 
sectors are driving forces for international development 
cooperation.  We  should  continue  to  encourage  the 
private  sector  and  civil  society  to  play  an  important 
role in implementing development goals. 

Effective  global  action  needs  the  appropriate 
organizational  guarantees.  The  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  as  the  main  organ  within  the  United  Nations 
system  to  promote  economic  and  social  development, 
the 
has  a  special  advantage  when  pushing  for 
implementation 
agreed 
development  goals. The  2005 World  Summit  provided 
the Economic and Social Council with two major new 
tools  —  annual  ministerial  substantive  reviews  and 
development  cooperation  forums.  We  hope  that  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  its  subordinate 
internationally 
the 
of 
16 

06-62233 
that 
in 
the  draft 
inconsistent  standards  with 


bodies  will  make  good  use  of  the  opportunity  to 
reinforce their functions and coordinate their work, so 
as to ensure coordinated follow-up to the outcomes of 
the major conferences and summits. We are pleased to 
note 
resolution  on  strengthening 
ECOSOC has just been adopted (resolution 61/16). 

Integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  calls 
for  integrated  and  coordinated  supervision.  Currently, 
many  agencies,  both  within  and  outside  the  United 
Nations  system,  have  reviewed  the  progress  made  in 
achieving the development goals in their own specific 
field,  using 
limited 
influence. The resolution on follow-up to major United 
Nations conferences and summits again emphasized the 
supervision  and 
importance  of  United  Nations 
evaluation  of  progress 
the 
implementation  of 
development commitments. It is therefore necessary to 
establish  a  unified  and  comprehensive  framework  led 
by the United Nations for the evaluation of progress on 
the  internationally  agreed  development  goals.  That 
would  measure  national  progress  and  would  also 
monitor  and  evaluate  international  cooperation  and 
development aid. 

China  has  been  a  vigorous  supporter  and 
practitioner  in  the  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the  economic  and  social  fields.  We  have  made 
unswerving  efforts  to  give  development  top  priority, 
pursue 
the  people-oriented  concept  of  scientific 
development, achieve comprehensive, coordinated and 
sustainable economic and social development and build 
a  harmonious  society.  We  have  attached  great 
importance 
international  commitments, 
carefully  learned  from  the  success  of  other  countries, 
absorbed useful concepts and methods and persisted in 
reform and innovation. As a result, the living standard 
of  the  Chinese  people  has  improved  by  a  fairly  big 
margin, which has also contributed to the realization of 
internationally agreed global development goals. 
Three  out  of  eight  MDGs  are  directly  linked  to 

health  issues.  The  realization  of  other  goals  is  also 
closely  linked  to  the  issue  of  public  health.  We  have 
noted  that  all  countries,  especially  the  developing 
countries  and  countries  in  economic  transition,  are 
faced  with  grave  challenges  in  the  field  of  public 
health.  We  welcome  the  various  strategies  on  public 
health  capacity-building  contained  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  (A/61/383),  including  establishing 
system  and  a  global 
an  emergency 
to  various 
response 
A/61/PV.56
the 
respiratory 
assistance  of 
syndrome  and 
surveillance  and  response  system  in  accordance  with 
international  health  regulations, 
increasing  public 
awareness,  strengthening  public  health  resources,  and 
offering 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) and related international agencies 
to  Member  States.  The  Chinese  delegation  urges  all 
countries  to  give  careful  consideration  to  the  relevant 
recommendations  in  the  report  and  fully  implement 
them  on  the  basis  of  General  Assembly  resolution 
60/35. 

The  Chinese  Government  has  made  the  United 
Nations  debates  on  public  health  a  priority.  Over  the 
past three years, China has initiated each year the draft 
resolution on strengthening capacity-building in public 
health.  China  supports  the  work  of  WHO  in  related 
areas. We  have  carried  out  extensive  cooperation  with 
WHO, the World Bank and the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation  concerning  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  severe 
acute 
the  pandemic 
influenza,  avian  flu,  which  is  highly  pathogenic  to 
humans  as  well  as  post-disaster  rescue  and  treatment 
and disease control. 

In  recent  years,  the  Chinese  Government  has 
invested  enormously 
in  public  health  capacity-
building.  In  October  this  year,  President  Hu  Jintao 
stressed the need to build a national basic medical care 
network  covering  both  urban  and  rural  residents, 
including 
improving  public  health  and  medical 
services,  as  well  as  disease  prevention  and  control, 
public  health  supervision,  emergency  response 
to 
outbreaks  of  public  health  incidents,  accelerating  the 
development  of  medical  undertakings  in  the  western 
part and the rural areas of China, and reinforcing urban 
community  medical  services  so  as  to  achieve  the  goal 
of  a  basic  health-care  service  that  is  enjoyed  by  all. 
That goal is in line with the goal of WHO — Health for 
All.  China  is  ready  and  willing  to  work  with  other 
States  to  support  the  work  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  and  other  related  agencies  in 
enhancing  capacity-building  in  the  area  of  global 
public health. 
Mr. Baba-Ahmed (Nigeria): Nigeria aligns itself 

with  the  statement  of  South  Africa  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77.  

It  is  gratifying  that  the  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and  summits  have  helped  to  shape  our 
understanding and pursuit  of development, while their 
various  outcomes  have  provided  the  framework  for 
06-62233 

17 
goals, 

the 
in 
and 
summits 
including 
in  mobilizing 
A/61/PV.56 

collective action. At the 2005 Summit, our leaders not 
only recognized the valuable role of those conferences 
and 
international 
community, but also committed themselves to establish 
a  just  and  lasting  peace  throughout  the  world  in 
accordance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United Nations Charter. The integrated and coordinated 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic, social and related fields holds the key to 
internationally  agreed 
the  full  realization  of  all 
development 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

Barely  two  weeks  ago,  we  exchanged  views 
informally  in  this  very  Hall  on  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  Panel  on  United  Nations  System-
the  Areas  of  Development, 
wide  Coherence 
Humanitarian  Assistance 
the  Environment. 
Consistent  with  what  we  Member  States  have  long 
recognized, the Panel underscored the linkage between 
peace, development, security and the environment. An 
integrated,  coordinated  and  holistic  implementation  is 
therefore  necessary  for  the  translation  into  concrete 
action  of  the  lofty  ideas  and  promises  that  have 
emerged  from  the  major  United  Nations  conferences 
and  summits  in  order  to  fulfil  the  aspirations  of  the 
peoples  we 
the  poor  and 
vulnerable among them. 

Our debate today must once again focus attention 
on  the  need  for  the  full  and  timely  implementation  of 
and  follow-up  to  our  collective  commitments  entered 
into at the various conferences and summits. Fittingly, 
the internationally agreed development goals provide a 
yardstick  to  measure  and  evaluate  progress  using  the 
instrumentality  of 
legislative  mandates  and 
intergovernmental  processes  at  our  disposal.  Here,  the 
role  of 
the  epitome  of 
multilateralism,  and  in  particular  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  including  its  funds,  programmes  and 
functional commissions, cannot be overemphasized. 

the 
Economic and Social Council and to the Assembly, the 
Secretary-General  identified  the  opportunities  as  well 
as the challenges in the context of advancing progress 
in 
internationally  agreed 
development  goals.  The  role  of  the  Council  as  the 
central  body  for  coordination,  policy  review  and 
dialogue  on  development  cooperation  will  no  doubt 
need to be strengthened. The agreement reached on the 
the  United  Nations  as 
represent,  especially 
(A/61/90)  submitted 
implementation  of 
In  his 
report 
the 
to 
the 
greater 
convergence 
text  of  draft  resolution  A/61/L.24  on 
final 
the 
strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
paves the way for that process. Nigeria is pleased that 
Member  States  were  able  to  reach  consensus  on  that 
important  resolution  and  hopes  that  speedy  measures 
will be to taken to give effect to its broad provisions in 
order  to  enable  the  Council  to  perform  its  expanded 
functions. 

The new architecture approved in the 2005 World 
Summit  Outcome  Document  regarding  the  annual 
ministerial 
review  and  Development  Cooperation 
Forum is a challenge to us all. We need to significantly 
change the way we do things and aim to achieve better 
results.  We  must  work  vigorously  and  deliberately  to 
promote 
between 
intergovernmental  processes  and  United  Nations 
system  activities  for  development.  It  is  only  by  so 
doing  that  we  can  accelerate  the  implementation  and 
realization  of  the  objectives  of  internationally  agreed 
development  goals,  secure  coherence  in  policies  and 
promote a global partnership for development. 

Indeed,  while  resolutions  50/227  and  57/270  B 
define  the  parameters  for  follow-up  to  the  various 
United  Nations  conferences  and  summits,  Nigeria 
shares  the  Secretary-General’s  view  that  progress  has 
been 
all-encompassing 
development  strategy  that  takes  into  account  the 
linkages  between  the  different  conference  outcomes. 
Without a doubt, there is a linkage between the issues 
that  have  emerged  from  the  various  conferences  and 
summits.  The  international  community  must  not  just 
pay  lip  service  to  the  notion  of  a  shared  vision  of 
development,  but  must  act  in  unison  in  pursuit  of  a 
common goal, that is, the provision of a better life for 
all peoples, as envisioned in the Charter. 
Nigeria looks forward to Member States working 

with 
to  promote 
development as a universal goal. In that regard, cross-
sectoral rather than sectoral strategies will be required 
to  address  issues  that  cut  across  the  major  United 
Nations  conferences  and  summits.  In  the  same  way, 
efforts must be made to enable the various elements of 
the  United  Nations  system  to  deliver  as  one.  It  was 
with  a  view  to  promoting  such  an  approach  that 
Nigeria built and donated the United Nations House in 
Abuja  in  order  to  bring  the  various  United  Nations 
entities  under  one  roof.  We  are  not,  however, 
unmindful of the challenges and difficulties inherent in 
having  one  United  Nations  country  team,  one  country 
the  United  Nations 
adopting 
system 
slow 
an 
in 
18 

06-62233 
the  continent  grapples  with 


programme,  one  budget  and  one  leader.  We  hope  that 
the discussions and negotiations that will soon ensue in 
the  Assembly  will  help  to  identify  ways  to  meet  the 
challenges and surmount the difficulties. 

It  is  paramount  that  concrete  action  be  taken  to 
help  countries  achieve  the  goals  and  targets  of  their 
nationally  owned  and  driven  development  strategies. 
The  first  session  of  the  annual  ministerial  review,  for 
instance,  will  undoubtedly  reveal  that  six  years  after 
the  Millennium  Summit,  sub-Saharan Africa  is  not  on 
course to achieve the MDGs. Rather, the proportion of 
people living in extreme poverty on the continent is on 
the increase. Similarly, there has been a steady increase 
in  the  incidence  of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria,  tuberculosis 
and  other  communicable  and  non-communicable 
diseases. 

its  myriad 
As 
challenges,  Africa’s  capacity  to  pull  itself  up  by  its 
own bootstraps is severely constrained by, inter alia, its 
excruciating  debt  burden,  lack  of  market  access,  poor 
infrastructure  and  limited  capital  flows.  Though  the 
various  measures  and  initiatives  taken  —  such  as  the 
provision of debt relief, increased official development 
assistance  and  greater  engagement  by  development 
partners with the continent — are commendable, more 
needs to be done to meet the special and peculiar needs 
of Africa.  That  is  an  area  in  which  Nigeria  hopes  the 
biennial  Development  Cooperation  Forum  will  help 
keep  Africa  on  the  global  radar  and  mobilize  the 
requisite 
implementation  and 
realization  of  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals,  as  well  as  the  objectives  of  Africa’s  flagship 
initiative, 
for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD). 

Reporting  on  our  activities,  assessing  results, 
sharing  experiences  —  including  best  practices  and 
challenges  —  in  a  coherent  manner  will  influence  the 
strategies,  policies  and 
the 
implementation of and follow-up to our commitments. 
The  United  Nations  system,  especially  its  functional 
commissions,  funds  and  programmes,  including  the 
regional  commissions  and  other  relevant  regional 
institutions, must assist in implementation and follow-
up  activities.  In  that  regard,  Nigeria  is  concerned  that 
the  functional  commissions  are  playing 
although 
crucial 
roles 
to 
conferences,  cooperation  between  them  is  limited  and 
progress  in  ensuring  linkages  in  the  processes  is 
insufficient. 
the  New  Partnership 
tools  we  use 
for 
follow-up 
resources 
for 
the 
in 
relation 
to 
the 
A/61/PV.56
from 

A  weak  United  Nations  cannot  adequately  serve 
the  cause  of  development.  We  recognize  that  the 
United Nations is, essentially, a service provider and a 
chief  advocate.  Member  States  are  the  financiers, 
policymakers  and  consumers  of 
its  services.  Its 
strength,  therefore,  depends  to  a  large  extent  on  the 
investment that we make in it.  

In  that  regard,  Nigeria  believes  that  it  is  our 
collective  Charter  obligation  to  provide  resources 
sufficient  for  the  implementation  of  all  mandates  that 
Member States have entrusted to the Secretary-General 
and  his  team.  These  reforms  must  cut  across  all  the 
principal organs of the United Nations in order to make 
the  Organization  more  efficient,  effective  and 
responsive  to  current  challenges.  Furthermore,  the 
reforms  must  not  be  viewed 
the  narrow 
perspective of cost-cutting. Rather, we should examine 
carefully  all  the  measures  called  for  and  agree  on  the 
need  to  allocate  new  resources,  where  necessary,  for 
their full implementation. 
Nigeria  also  believes  that  the  success  of  any 

Secretariat  and  management 
reform  depends  on 
transparent  accountability  measures  anchored  in  an 
efficient  internal  system  of  administration  of  justice. 
Moreover,  the  reforms  must  be  supportive  of,  rather 
than  detrimental  to,  the  United  Nations  development 
agenda in its totality. In that regard, resources must be 
provided  for  the  full  implementation  of  all  agreed 
reform activities, including those in support of the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development.  Similarly,  the 
Secretariat and other entities within the United Nations 
system should reflect in their composition, at all levels, 
the international character of the Organization. 

Nigeria supports the strengthening of the General 
Assembly  and  the  focusing  of  its  agenda  on  global 
priorities  and  substantive  issues  of  the  day.  We  share 
the view that the position  and role of the President of 
the General Assembly need to be strengthened. We are 
studying  carefully  the  division  of  labour  between  the 
General Assembly — essentially its Second and Third 
Committees  — and the Economic  and  Social Council. 
In determining our position, we will take into account 
the  lessons  learned  from  the  findings  on  how  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  performs  its  expanded 
functions. 

Nigeria’s  position  on  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  is  very  well  known.  Suffice  it  to  say  that 
reform  of  the  Council  to  make  its  decisions  more 
06-62233 

19 
thus  needs 
A/61/PV.56 

legitimate  and  transparent  is  overdue  and  urgent. 
Reforms  at  the  United  Nations  would  be  incomplete 
without  expanding  the  size  and  composition  of  the 
permanent membership of the Security Council.  

Representation  for  Africa  in  that  category  is 
necessary  to  achieve  inclusiveness  and  give  effect  to 
the wishes and aspirations of the people of the African 
continent.  Indeed, Africa  occupies  centre  stage  in  the 
Security  Council’s  activities  and 
to 
contribute  its  perspective  to  the  work  of  the  Council. 
Nigeria  thus  calls  for  concrete  efforts  to  reform  the 
Security  Council  and,  in  particular,  to  give  Africa 
representation in the permanent Council membership. 

In  the  final  analysis,  we  will  bear  responsibility 
in the court of humanity for the actions that we take, or 
fail to take, to promote better standards of life in larger 
freedom for the peoples of the world. 

Mr.  Rachkov  (Belarus):  The  delegation  of 
Belarus  welcomes  the  successful  conclusion  of  the 
negotiating  process  on  a  resolution  of  the  utmost 
importance: that on strengthening of the Economic and 
Social Council. We commend the tireless efforts of the 
Co-Chairs, Ambassador  Johan  C.  Verbeke  of  Belgium 
and Ambassador  Cheick  Sidi  Diarra  of  Mali,  to  bring 
us to the remarkable outcome of the consultations. 

It  gives  us  great  pleasure  to  note  that  this 
resolution  contains  a  number  of  important  provisions 
and  ideas  that  could  enhance  the  potential  of  the 
Economic and Social Council to improve coordination 
within  the  United  Nations  system  and  to  enhance  the 
effectiveness  of  United  Nations  efforts  to  support  the 
progress  made  by  developing  countries  and  countries 
achieving 
with 
in 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals, 
thus  promoting 
economic  growth  and  social  progress  throughout  the 
world.  

We  would  like  to  highlight  just  a  few  of  those 
ideas,  such  as  adopting  a  ministerial  declaration  as  an 
outcome  of  the  high-level  segment  of  the  substantive 
session; providing an opportunity for countries to make 
voluntary  national  presentations  within  the  framework 
of  annual  ministerial-level 
reviews; 
establishing  a  multi-year  programme  of  work  for  the 
ministerial-level substantive reviews, and convening ad 
hoc  meetings  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  on 
humanitarian  emergencies.  Belarus  was  an  active 
advocate  of  those  important  elements  of  Council 
transitional 
substantive 
economies 

the 
the  work  of 
to 
facilitate 
reform  during  the  entire  negotiating  process.  We  are 
pleased to see them in the resolution. 

What is also significant is that the resolution is an 
important  step  towards  ensuring  appropriate  financial 
the 
and  administrative  support  for 
Economic  and  Social  Council 
the 
fulfilment  of  its  newly  assigned  responsibility  for 
organizing  the  annual  ministerial  reviews  and  the 
Development Cooperation Forum, as well as to hold ad 
hoc meetings. 
We  believe  in  the  strengthened  Economic  and 

Social Council. We believe in its ability to effectively 
organize 
international  support  so  needed  by 
countries  fighting  against  poverty,  hunger,  social 
inequality,  environmental  degradation,  vulnerability  to 
natural disasters and dangerous infectious diseases. As 
a  member  of  the  Council  for  the  term  2007-2009, 
Belarus  will  do  its  best  to  contribute  significantly  to 
the successful fulfilment of the Council’s tasks. 

Mr.  Atiyanto  (Indonesia):  First  of  all,  through 
you,  Madam  President,  I  should  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/61/90)  on  the  role 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  the  integrated 
and  coordinated  implementation  of  the  outcomes  of 
and follow-up to major United Nations conferences and 
summits,  in  the  light  of  General Assembly  resolutions 
50/227,  52/12  B  and  57/270  B.  In  that  context, 
Indonesia fully aligns itself with the statement made by 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  South  Africa  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  especially  in 
welcoming  the  adoption  of  resolution  61/16,  on  the 
strengthening of the Economic and Social Council.  

Time  and  again,  we  have  discussed  the  issue  of 
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related  fields.  However,  the  truth  of  the  matter  is  that 
one  third  of  the  world’s  population  still  lives  in 
poverty. We need to make progress. 

It is in that context that we welcome the adoption 
of  the  long-awaited  resolution  on  the  strengthening  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  which  will  enable 
the Council to perform its role in accordance with the 
the  relevant 
Charter  of 
resolutions  of 
including 
resolution  60/1,  especially  paragraph  155.  It  will  also 
enable the Council to start adapting the organization of 
its  agenda  and  methods  of  work.  In  that  way,  the 
the  United  Nations  and 
the  General  Assembly, 
20 

06-62233 
to  address 
the  outcomes  of 
In  our  view,  by  maintaining 


Council  will  be  in  a  better  position  to  facilitate  and 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  
Furthermore,  the  Council  is  also  now  better 

equipped 
the  current  challenges  of 
development, particularly on issues related to poverty; 
malnutrition  and  hunger;  such  pandemic  diseases  as 
avian  influenza,  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis,  malaria  and 
polio; and natural disasters.  

the  current 
segmented structure of its substantive session, the work 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will  not  be 
disrupted.  Meanwhile,  the  convening  of  the  biennial 
high-level development cooperation forums and annual 
ministerial substantive reviews as part of the high-level 
segment  will  strengthen  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council to ensure integrated and coordinated follow-up 
to 
the  major  United  Nations 
conferences  and  summits  in  the  economic,  social  and 
related fields.  

We  also  support  the  reaffirmation  of  the  role  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  providing  overall 
coordination  and  guidance  so  as  to  ensure  coherence 
and  avoid  the  duplication  of  mandates  and  activities 
among United Nations funds and programmes. We also 
welcome the recognition of the important link between 
the work of the Economic  and Social Council and the 
Peacebuilding Commission. 

As  one  of  the  countries  affected  by  the  Indian 
Ocean  earthquake  and  tsunami,  we  are  encouraged  to 
note  that,  by  this  resolution,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council will  have  a more  enhanced role in addressing 
humanitarian  emergencies,  including  natural  disasters, 
upon the request of affected Member States. That will 
help to raise awareness and promote the engagement of 
all  stakeholders  in  support  of  international  relief 
efforts. 

the 
implementation of the spirit and letter of the resolution. 
Therefore,  it  is  also  critically  important  to  ensure  that 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  as  a  Charter  body, 
receives sufficient provision of conference services and 
substantive support to perform its functions, including 
its newly assigned responsibilities, as mandated by the 
2005 World Summit. 

Mr. Sen (India): We thank the Secretary-General 
for  his  reports  on  the  integrated  and  coordinated 
delegation 
forward 
looks 
My 
to 
A/61/PV.56
the  need 
We  have 
time,  and 
to  ensure 
is  emphasized 
the  dialectic  of 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits  in 
the economic, social and related fields.  

the 
implementation of those conferences in order to look at 
the  outcomes  in  a  coordinated  way  and,  at  the  same 
time,  to  follow  the  individual  outcomes  of  each 
conference.  That  is  something  that  has  been  on  the 
United  Nations  agenda  for  a  long  time,  and  indeed 
General  Assembly  resolution  57/270  B  also  clearly 
emphasizes 
for  such  coordinated  and 
integrated follow-up and implementation.  

The primary element here, as we can see from the 
agenda  item  of  the  debate  itself,  is  the  issue  of 
implementation.  That,  I  think,  is  the  sine  qua  non  of 
everything in the item, because, incidentally, the issue 
of implementation has also been on the agendas of both 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly  for  some 
in 
resolution  57/270  B.  It  was  also  emphasized  in  the 
World  Summit  outcome  that  we  all  know  and,  more 
recently,  in  General  Assembly  resolution  60/265  on 
development, which emphasizes the need to implement 
the  global  partnership  for  development  —  which, 
incidentally, 
in  Millennium 
Development Goal 8. 

Apart  from  implementation,  what  are  the  key 
issues  that  confront  us  here?  As  far  as  we  can  see, 
implementation  has  also  to  be  interpreted  broadly  to 
include  resources,  because  resources  are  the  key.  We 
touched on some of those issues when the resolution on 
the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council 
was adopted earlier this morning. 

Apart  from  that,  we  clearly  need  to  look  at  the 
world  outside  and  at  the  developments  that  are  taking 
place  in  the  economic  and  social  fields  outside, 
because  that  which  is  unclear  has  to  be  made  clear. 
That which is partial has to be made complete, and that 
can  be  done  only  in  terms  of  implementation  in  the 
context  of  a  close  examination  of  what  is  happening 
outside in the real world. 

Last  but  not  least,  we  need  to  take  up  the 
unfinished  agenda  of  United  Nations  reform.  The 
global  economy  today  is  characterized,  on  the  one 
hand, 
corporations,  whereby 
production  takes  place  in  several  countries,  as  we  all 
know,  and,  on  the  other,  by  financial  exchanges  and 
transfers  that  have  totally  outstripped  the  exchange  of 
is  also  encapsulated 
by  multinational 
06-62233 

21 

A/61/PV.56 

real goods and services. The Bretton Woods institutions 
and the World Trade Organization (WTO) have become 
the  global  framework,  the  institutional  base,  for  those 
transactions,  which  are  often  simply  a  search  for 
speculative  profits.  Those  profits  are  underpinned  by 
the  rules  of  many  of  those  international  institutions. 
Therefore,  we  need  to  look  at  the  policies  of  those 
institutions. It is in that context that we emphasize the 
need for the Economic and Social Council to carry out 
its  mandate  by  periodically  assessing  international 
economic  policies,  including  the  policies  of  those 
institutions. 

We  all  know,  to  take  one  example,  that  the 
International Monetary Fund has diverged greatly, just 
as the WTO has, from the original Keynesian mandate. 
Today,  we  have  a  situation  in  which  it  has  been 
involved  in  countries  on  the  eve  of  civil  conflict,  and 
they  have  in  fact  plunged  deeper  into  conflict.  It  has 
offered bail-out packages in crises, but those packages 
have not bailed out the beneficiaries and have, in fact, 
sometimes  made  the  crisis  worse.  On  the  other  hand, 
we  also  need  to  examine,  as  several  economists  have 
maintained, the equity of having a bail-out package for 
international  banks  and  for  the  rich,  but  not  for  those 
who are living on subsidized food.  

Similarly, I think that, in the case of the WTO, we 
have  a  situation  in  the  world  in  which  —  as  we  saw 
quite clearly at Doha — the entire consensus is that we 
should  look  at  borders  as  not  being  important  for  the 
free  exchange  of  goods  and  the  free  exchange  and 
movement of services. But when it comes to labour or 
technology flows, we are told a different story. That is 
one of the reasons that Doha failed. 

Similarly,  we  are  told  that  subsidies  are  a  very 
bad  thing  in  the  industrial  sector,  but  it  is  quite  a 
different story when it comes to agricultural subsidies. 
The  property  and  patent  rights  of  the  holders  of 
intellectual  property  rights  are  sacred,  but  when  it 
comes to defending the interests of the biodiversity of 
developing  countries,  then  again  it  is  another  story. 
When it comes to protecting their biogenetic resources, 
we  are  told  that  we  have  to  wait  awhile. Therefore,  if 
implementation is to be worthwhile and if the build-up 
that we require on the outcomes of these conferences is 
to have meaning, then they must be geared to the real 
world outside.  

That  is  also  true  in  the  case  of  the  question  of 
employment.  The  third  pillar  of  the  original  Bretton 
Woods  triad  was  the  International  Trade  Organization 
(ITO).  Its  agenda  stated  clearly  that  we  need  to  look 
not only at getting prices right or liberalizing trade as a 
means  of  maximizing  welfare,  but  also  at  positive 
action on employment itself, without which we cannot 
really have an outcome which would be in the interest 
of the broad majority of the world.  

Similarly, in this context, it is very important that 
we  also  look  at  the  implementation  of  the  official 
development  assistance  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  income,  because  there  are  any  number  of 
developing  countries,  in  particular  in  Africa,  where 
there  is  simply  not  the  physical  infrastructure  or  the 
institutions necessary for attracting private investment. 
To  talk  of  private  enterprise  in  this  context  is  thus  as 
irrelevant  as  to  talk  of  private  enterprise  in,  for 
example,  the  context  of  pickpockets.  A  pickpocket  is 
also  a  champion  of  private  enterprise.  Bringing  in 
major  corporations  is  simply  to  endow  the  pickpocket 
with some of the virtues of a pirate; this does not really 
help. Therefore, I think the question of implementation 
and of clarifying what is unclear and building on what 
has  been  done  has  to  be  seen  in  the  context  of  these 
developments in the real world. 

Similarly,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  that 
we  have  set  up  has  the  resources,  and  we  hope  that 
these  resources  will  not  simply  be  based  continually 
and  forever  on  savings  elsewhere  so  that  there  are  no 
implications calling for extra resources. But ultimately, 
if the Economic and Social Council is truly to do some 
of these things and if it is to be a Charter body in the 
real  sense  of  the  word,  then,  quite  clearly,  future 
budgeting  would  have  to  look  at  this  issue  very 
carefully.  We  are  also  happy  about  the  Council’s  role 
on 
is 
something  that  will  be  of  great  benefit  to  many 
developing countries. 

In the case of the reform of management, we find 
that  some  of  the  reports  commissioned  at  great  cost 
have  once  again  brought  in  discredited  ideas  like 
governance. In fact, if you look at it, that is the greatest 
encroachment  of  all,  because  it  is  an  attempt,  through 
governance,  to  recreate  the  General Assembly  and  its 
Fifth Committee in the image of the Security Council, 
where there exists the dominance of a few.  

need to bear some of those aspects in mind. 
I believe that, in implementing the outcomes, we 
issues  of  post-conflict 
resolution,  which 
22 

06-62233 
the 
it 
is 
implementation, 
is  also  necessary 
the  main  Charter  body  and 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on 
implementation  would  be  a  part  of 


With  regard  to  the  General  Assembly  itself, 

which 
the  chief 
deliberative organ of the United Nations, we have said 
many times that the Assembly must be reinvested with 
the  powers  that  it  has  under  the  Charter. There  has  to 
be  an  equitable  and  fair  balance  among  the  different 
organs: the Security Council, the Economic and Social 
Council and the General Assembly. Now, one may say 
that  part  of  the  reason  why  the  General Assembly  has 
weakened  is  the  encroachment,  but  then  one  needs  to 
ask why the encroachment exists. Encroachment takes 
place  because  so  far  the  General Assembly  has  really 
concentrated  on  procedural  measures  in  large  part, 
rather than on substantive measures. Therefore, as part 
of 
to 
implement  resolution  60/286,  adopted  at  the  sixtieth 
session  on  the  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly. 
This 
the 
revitalization itself.  
But,  again,  this  revitalization  is  something  that 

would  not  be  complete  until  substantive  issues  were 
addressed. For this, there is a clear case for once again 
setting  up 
the 
Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  so  that  issues 
such as peace and security, development, management, 
including  human  resources  management,  and 
the 
codification  and  development  of  international  law  are 
taken  up  in  a  manner  that  is  in  the  interest  of  all  the 
countries in this Organization. 

Last  but  not  least,  I  think  I  mentioned  the 
question of the unfinished agenda. Here, it is important 
to take up the reform of the Security Council itself as 
well. We do not look upon this in terms of power at all. 
It is not a question of power, but of public reason and 
equity, and not necessarily a question of politics, but of 
ethics, because without reform of the Security Council, 
we would have a reform that was like Hamlet without 
the Prince of Denmark. It would not touch the essential 
correlations  of  power,  and  without  that,  the  outcome 
will  not  be  optimal.  We  currently  have  a  situation 
where  there  is  one  veto  in  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  and  five  vetoes  in  the  Security  Council  without 
any  kind  of  countervailing  power  vested  in  other 
countries  to  bring  a  measure  of  optimality  into  the 
decision-making. Without  that,  we  will  not  be  able  to 
ensure even that economic decision-making is optimal, 
let alone political or social decision-making.  
India  has  always  maintained  that  we  need  an 

equitable, a fair and just balance between the Security 
A/61/PV.56
follow-up 
the  only 
Council and the General Assembly. We need a Security 
Council  which,  for  the  sake  of  its  own  interests,  rests 
on  a  broad  base  of  support  in  the  General  Assembly. 
For  this,  the  General  Assembly  must  be  strong.  In 
another  forum,  I  recently  paraphrased  some  words  of 
Robespierre  which  are  relevant  here  —  that  power 
without virtue is pernicious but virtue without power is 
impotent.  We  therefore  request  this  balance  to  have 
truly optimal decisions, and to have genuine, integrated 
implementation  of  outcomes  of 
and  coordinated 
conferences.  Otherwise, 
to 
conferences  will  be  to  have  more  conferences.  If  we 
are to avoid this, such balance is necessary, and for that 
some  practical  will  is  important.  Ultimately,  it  is  a 
question of political will. Political will is necessary to 
transform any thought or idea into the practical energy 
of reform. This is the only law of thermodynamics that 
the United Nations needs.  

It  was  a  citizen  of  our  host  country  and  the  first 
United  Nations  official  to  get  a  Nobel  Peace  Prize, 
Ralph Bunche, who said, if I remember correctly, that 
the United Nations has no vested interest in the status 
quo.  We  thus  cannot  allow  vested  interests  to  ensure 
that we remain committed to the status quo. We have to 
overcome  this  and  move  beyond  the  status  quo  to 
create  a  real  institution  that  would  make  the  United 
Nations once again a part of and a rallying point for the 
vast majority of countries, in fact for all the countries 
in the world.  

To  end,  I  would  like  to  cite  some  of  the  very 
moving  words  that  were  used  at  a  conference  in  New 
Delhi  recently,  we  do  not  look  upon  our  work  as 
something couched in the  framework of power, but as 
something 
the  framework  of 
international justice and equity. Therefore, in applying 
these words, we need to work for a United Nations that 
is  not  dominated  by  division,  power  and  military 
might, but a United Nations that genuinely becomes a 
global force for peace, prosperity and progress. 
The  President:  In  accordance  with  resolution 

57/32,  of  19  November  2002,  I  now  call  on  the 
observer for the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

Mrs.  Filip  (Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  Because 
of the lateness of the hour, I will shorten my statement. 
However, the full text will be distributed in the Hall. 

I am pleased to address the General Assembly on 
agenda  item  112,  which  relates  to  strengthening  the 
United Nations system. It will come as no surprise that 
is  couched 
that 
in 
06-62233 

23 
The 
for 
the 
to 

peace.  The 
recent  memorandum 
resolution  also  calls 
A/61/PV.56 

I  will  refer  to  this  theme  from  the  perspective  of  the 
consolidated  parliamentary  dimension  of  the  work  of 
the  United  Nations.  As  resolution  61/6,  adopted  by 
consensus  in  this  Hall  on  20  October,  attests,  the 
United  Nations  and  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union 
(IPU) are working together on virtually every item on 
the agenda for peace, democracy and development. The 
concern with democracy, in particular, is central to our 
joint  action,  as  we  saw  very  recently  in  Doha  at  the 
sixth  International  Conference  on  New  and  Restored 
Democracies.  

Democracy,  together  with  development,  is  the 
best defence against conflict and the best guarantee for 
lasting 
of 
understanding between the United Nations Democracy 
Fund  and  the  IPU,  and  the  close  consultations  under 
way  with 
the  United  Nations  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  augur  well  for  increased  cooperation  in 
this area for the years to come. 

further 
development  of  the  annual  parliamentary  hearing  and 
other specialized parliamentary meetings at the United 
Nations,  as  joint  United  Nations-IPU  events.  The 
formal  recognition  of  the  joint  nature  of  those  events 
will  require 
take  partial 
ownership of them, and eventually fully integrate them 
into  the  overall  agenda  and  meeting  schedule  of  the 
United Nations. 

Moreover, resolution 61/6  states, in paragraph 8, 
that the IPU is now invited to be more closely involved 
in 
the  elaboration  of  system-wide  strategies  for 
consideration  by  the  United  Nations  “with  a  view  to 
ensuring  greater  and  more  coherent  support  by 
parliaments  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations”.  That 
provision  will  help  us  to  improve  the  coordination  of 
our  respective  operational  activities  so  that  we  can 
better support each other in the field. It will also help 
us 
the 
recommendations  that  may  come  out  of  the  annual 
hearing and other specialized meetings. 

How  does  this  relate  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
United  Nations  system?  First  and  foremost,  let  me 
remind 
the 
parliamentary  dimension  of  the  United  Nations.  That 
dimension  must  be  forged  by  parliaments  and  their 
members.  It  has  to  be  firmly  rooted  in  the  activities 
that  parliaments  carry  out  at  the  national  level  —  at 
home. It includes action by parliaments to contribute to 
the  Assembly  what  we  mean  by 
to  plan  future  activities 
the  United  Nations 
in 
the 
light  of 
The 
IPU 
is  convinced 
and  monitor  international  negotiations  and  debates  at 
the United Nations and in related agencies, to oversee 
the  enforcement  of  what  is  adopted  by  Governments 
and  to  ensure  national  compliance  with  international 
norms and the rule of law. It also involves scrutinizing 
the activities of the United Nations and providing input 
for their deliberations. 

that  members  of 
parliaments  can  play  an  extremely  important  role  in 
building  national  political  support  for  international 
action. In the IPU’s view — which is shared by many 
United  Nations  Member  States  —  the  United  Nations 
stands  to  gain  considerably  by  making  sure  that 
parliaments  and 
their  members  have  a  full  and 
undistorted  understanding  of  major  processes  and 
activities  under  way  at  the  United  Nations.  We  have 
put  forward  a  series  of  proposals  relating  to  how  we 
believe this can be best achieved. 

The  2006  parliamentary  hearing  held  at  the 
beginning  of  last  week  in  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  Chamber  was,  we  feel,  a  very  positive 
indication  that  that  is,  indeed,  possible.  The  meeting 
benefited  from  the  tremendous  interest  of  national 
parliaments, which were well represented. It also drew 
in many representatives from the Permanent Missions, 
including Permanent Representatives, as well as United 
Nations  officials  and  representatives  of  academia. 
There  was  a  substantive  and  interactive  discussion  of 
issues  that  are  high  on  the  United  Nations  agenda  — 
conflict  prevention,  peacebuilding,  good  governance 
and the fight against corruption — which resulted in a 
number  of  proposals  for  action  by  parliaments  at  the 
national level, in support of United Nations initiatives. 
The  results  of  the  hearing  will  be  circulated  at  the 
United  Nations  in  the  coming  weeks,  as  an  official 
document of the General Assembly. 

I would like to provide just one example of what 
came  out  of  the  hearing.  Participating  legislators  very 
much welcomed the opportunity to learn about the new 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission  and  its 
mandate  and  operational  expectations.  They  stressed 
the need for the Commission to  focus in particular on 
the institution of parliament. All too often in the past, 
they argued, the international community invested huge 
amounts  of  resources  and  funds  in  preparing  for  free 
and fair elections, only to abandon almost immediately 
the very institution that was born out of the respective 
elections.  
24 

06-62233 
role 
in  bridging 



Parliament,  I  think  we  all  agree,  is  the  forum 
designed to bring together all the various groups within 
society, and work within parliament therefore provides 
a  very  real  alternative  to  war.  But  a  new,  embryonic 
parliament does not run itself; it needs to be nurtured, 
and — in the early years, at least — it needs to receive 
as much assistance as possible, first and foremost from 
the international community. 

In  discussing  the  Peacebuilding  Commission, 
participants  repeatedly  stressed  the  need  for  adequate 
financing  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund,  and  pledged  to 
take  that  message  back  home  to  their  capitals,  with  a 
view to building greater political support for the Fund. 
More generally, they felt that parliaments could play an 
important 
the  divide  between 
peacebuilding and development assistance. They called 
attention  to  the  danger  of  relapse  into  conflict,  which 
should  not  be  ignored.  They  emphasized  the  crucial 
importance  of  involving  women  in  all  aspects  of  the 
peacebuilding  exercise,  and  pledged  to  play  a  more 
proactive  role  in  the  implementation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000).  In  particular,  they 
argued  strongly  in  favour  of  placing  democratically 
elected  parliaments  high  among  the  priorities  of  the 
United Nations Peacebuilding Commission. 

Those are just some of the ways in which the IPU 
intends to continue to work in the years to come, and in 
so doing help strengthen the United Nations system.  

the debate on this item. 
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 

stage of its consideration of agenda items 47, 112, 113 
and 149. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 




  Draft resolution (A/61/L.22) 
The  President:
Agenda item 150 
International Year of Reconciliation, 2009 


I  give 
representative  of  Nicaragua 
resolution A/61/L.22. 
in 

Spanish): The world today is one in which many actors 
and forces intersect. It is a world where new problems 
and  contradictions  are  emerging  and  old  ones  are 
reappearing,  where  conflicts  of  all  kinds  arise  as  a 
result  of  a  variety  of  causes,  where  environmental 
Mr. Sevilla  Somoza  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
the 
introduce  draft 
the 
to 
floor 
to 
A/61/PV.56
the 
peace, 
for 
human 
paradigms 
coexistence 
is  a  way  of 
non-discrimination, 
crisis  seems  inevitable  and  where  the  scourges  of 
hunger  and  pandemics  afflict  all  of  our  peoples. 
International  Year  of 
Proclaiming  2009  as 
Reconciliation 
seeking  universal 
reconciliation,  on  the  basis  of  solidarity,  brotherhood 
and  the  enshrined  values  and  principles  of  freedom, 
justice, 
democracy, 
development and human rights — the very pillars that 
support the United Nations. 

If we proclaim reconciliation as the path leading 
to the achievement of world peace, we should say that 
reconciliation means restoring humanity’s lost unity — 
particularly today, when human societies are fractured 
or  deeply  divided  and  afflicted  by  extreme  poverty  or 
confronted by territorial or ethnic conflicts. 

We  understand  that,  and  we  therefore  propose 
reconciliation, in the sense of seeking and establishing 
new 
and 
understanding. It is impossible to exist without others, 
and it is always possible to live in peace with others.  

We  see  this  proposal  to  proclaim  2009  the 
International Year of Reconciliation as an initiative that 
is  appropriate  for  the  sphere  of  international  relations 
and relations between States, nations, peoples, cultures 
and  individuals.  Such  an  exercise  requires  that  we 
consider  forgiveness,  truth,  justice  and  mercy,  as 
maintained  by  the  most  seasoned  experts  on  peaceful 
conflict settlement. However, as long as we continue to 
believe  that  war  is  the  means  to  achieve  peace, 
humanity  —  which  is  no  longer  an  abstract  entity  — 
will  suffer  its  present  ills  and  others  that  are  even 
worse.  Thus,  we  will  be  plunged  into  darkness  and 
barbarity. 

Reconciliation  results  from  putting  into  practice 
ethics and superior values as opposed to petty interests. 
It  involves  making  the  common  good  and  human 
dignity the cornerstone of development. Reconciliation 
the  causes  of 
means  analysing  and  overcoming 
violence  and  oppression  and 
the 
problems  and  threats  facing  humanity.  It  also  results 
from  criticizing  our  own  culture  and  way  of  thinking, 
which are inclined to be bellicose or self-centred. Here, 
reconciliation poses a challenge. 

That  is  why  we  believe  that  the  perspectives  of 
all  world  views,  world  religions,  political  systems, 
to  world 
peoples  and 
reconciliation 
and 
programmes  that  will  ultimately  create  conditions  for 
individuals  can  contribute 
the  origins  of 
activities, 
through 
plans 
06-62233 

25 

and 
Thus, 
through 
systematic 
A/61/PV.56 

greater  unity  among  human  beings.  Only  if  we  are 
united can we confront the problems that are common 
to everyone, although not caused by everyone, such as 
the grave ecological crisis already affecting millions of 
human beings.  

practical 
reconciliation, promoted by States and citizens, we can 
carry out concrete actions needed in any society — in 
keeping  with  their  history  and  culture.  Reconciliation 
between  States  in  conflict,  between  Governments  and 
citizens,  between  genders,  between  generations, 
between  men  and  women,  between  human  beings  and 
nature,  between  religions,  ethnic  groups  and  cultures, 
between  the  North  and  the  South,  between  developed 
countries  and  poor  countries  without  access 
to 
technology — that is the essence of reconciliation in a 
world  where  antagonisms,  ruptures  and  discord  could 
lead to our demise.  

For  the  supreme  value  of  peace  —  a  gift  that  is 
obtained  not  through  military  victories  but  through  a 
life  of  brotherhood  and  justice  —  this  initiative  to 
declare 2009 the International Year of Reconciliation is 
vital. We propose that it be celebrated with energy and 
vitality  by  all  nations  of  the  world.  It  has  been 
supported by the High-level Group for the Alliance of 
Civilizations,  established  by  the  United  Nations;  the 
World  Forum  of  Civil  Society  Networks;  the  World 
Council  of  Churches;  the  Polytechnic  University  of 
Nicaragua’s  Martin  Luther  King  Institute  for  Social 
Research  and  Action,  which  is  a  network  of  civil 
society organizations working for a culture of peace in 
the  world;  and  many  other  entities  of  world  civil 
society. 

On  behalf  of  the  Governments  of  Argentina, 
Brazil, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, 
Mauritius,  Panama,  the  Philippines,  Rwanda  and  my 
own  country,  Nicaragua,  I  ask  that  members  support 
this  initiative,  draft  resolution  A/61/L.22,  entitled 
“International Year of Reconciliation, 2009”, which has 
seven  preambular  paragraphs  and 
three  operative 
paragraphs. 

the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  we  consider  to  be  highly  relevant  to 
reconciliation  processes,  including  bringing  about  by 
peaceful  means,  and  in  conformity  with  the  principles 
of 
law,  adjustment  or 
settlement of international disputes.  
first  preambular  paragraph 
international 
justice  and 
recalls 
The 
In 
that 
it 
elements 
reconciliation 
The sixth preambular paragraph recalls the role of 
the  second  preambular  paragraph, 
processes 
is 

recognized 
are 
particularly  necessary  and  urgent  in  countries  and 
regions  of  the  world  which  have  suffered  or  are 
suffering  situations  of  conflict  that  have  affected  and 
divided societies in their various internal, national and 
international facets.  

The  third  preambular  paragraph  recognizes  the 
many  activities  carried  out  by  the  United  Nations 
system  and  the  international  community  in  diverse 
areas  that  lead  to  the  initiation  and  development  of 
reconciliation processes.  

In the fourth preambular paragraph, the Assembly 
expresses its awareness that dialogue among opponents 
from  positions  of  respect  and  tolerance  is  an  essential 
element of peace and reconciliation. 

The  fifth  preambular  paragraph  states  that  the 
Assembly  is  also  aware  that  truth  and  justice  are 
for 
indispensable 
attainment  of 
reconciliation and lasting peace. 

the media in reporting on reconciliation processes. 
last  preambular  paragraph 

expresses 
the 
declaration  of  an  International  Year  of  Reconciliation 
at  the  end  of  the  first  decade  of  the  new  Millennium 
will  provide  the  international  community  with  the 
opportunity  to  pursue,  with  the  active  involvement  of 
all  stakeholders,  efforts 
to  develop  reconciliation 
processes,  which  are  necessary  to  and  a  condition  for 
the establishment of firm and lasting peace. 

In operative paragraph 1, the Assembly expresses 
its  steadfast  determination  to  pursue  reconciliation 
processes  in  those  societies  that  are  affected  and/or 
divided by conflicts. 

In operative paragraph 2, the Assembly decides to 
proclaim 2009 the International Year of Reconciliation. 

Finally,  in  operative  paragraph  3,  the  Assembly 
invites  concerned  Governments  and  international  and 
non-governmental 
support 
reconciliation processes among affected and/or divided 
societies and to plan and implement adequate cultural, 
educational  and  social  programmes  to  promote  the 
concept 
of 
holding 
conferences 
disseminating 
information about the issue. 
reconciliation, 
seminars 
The  seventh  and 
including 
and 
the  Assembly’s 
organizations 
conviction 
that 
and 
the 
to 
26 

06-62233 
adopted 



We  hope  that  this  draft  resolution  will  not  have 
any  financial  implications  for  the  United  Nations  and 
that 
it  will  be  adopted  by  consensus.  Many 
personalities,  peace  scholars,  universities  and  national 
civil  societies  have  expressed  to  us  their  support, 
acceptance  and  approval  regarding  this  proposal  of 
reconciliation for the year 2009. 

The  President: The  Assembly  will  now  take 
action  on  draft  resolution  A/61/L.22.  I  should  like  to 
announce  that,  since  the  introduction  of  the  draft 
resolution, Chile has joined the list of sponsors.  

draft resolution A/61/L.22? 

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
resolution  A/61/L.22  was 
Draft 
(resolution 61/17). 
The  President: I  should  like  to  thank  the 

interpreters for their patience and cooperation. 
I shall now give the floor to the representative of 

the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  who  wishes  to 
make  a  statement  in  explanation  of  position  on  the 
resolution just adopted. 
in 

Spanish): The delegation of Venezuela wishes to make 
a  statement  of  position  following  the  adoption  of  the 
draft resolution.  

We welcome Nicaragua’s commendable initiative 
in  submitting  the  draft  resolution,  whose  goal  is  the 
promotion  of  peace  through  the  proclamation  of  the 
year 2009 as the International Year of Reconciliation.  

We would like to make an interpretive  statement 
on  the  sixth  preambular  paragraph  of  the  resolution 
relating to the role of the media. 

In  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  certain 
media, abusing their total freedom of expression, have 
Ms.  Escobar-Gómez
(Venezuela) 
(spoke 
A/61/PV.56
certain 
sectors  of 
The  case  of  Venezuela 
been  manipulating  public  opinion  and  poisoning  the 
minds  of 
the  Venezuelan 
population —  all  of  this  in  conjunction  with  certain 
sectors  of  the  United  States  of  America,  which  have 
gone to the extreme of calling for the assassination of 
our President, Mr. Hugo Chávez Frías. 

is  not  unique.  The 
inappropriate  and  anti-democratic  use  of  means  of 
communication 
to 
the  greatest 
freedom of expression and to reconciliation. 
The President: May I take it that it is the wish of 

the Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 150? 


It was so decided. 
represents 
threat 

Programme of work

The  President:  I  would  like  to  inform  members 
of  some  revisions  to  the  programme  of  work  of  the 
General  Assembly.  At  the  request  of  the  sponsors, 
consideration  of  agenda  item  15,  “Zone  of  peace  and 
cooperation of the South Atlantic”, has been postponed 
to  a  later  date.  Consideration  of  agenda  item  27, 
“Protracted  conflicts  in  the  GUAM  area  and  their 
international  peace,  security  and 
implications  for 
development”,  originally  scheduled 
for  Monday, 
4 December  2006,  has  been  postponed  to  Thursday 
morning, 7 December 2006, as the second item.  

110, 
item 
“Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly”, 
also originally scheduled for Monday, 4 December, has 
been  postponed  until Tuesday  morning,  12  December. 
On  Wednesday  afternoon,  6  December,  the  General 
Assembly  will 
the  First 
Committee.  


The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m.
the  report  of 
Consideration 
take  up 
agenda 
of 
06-62233 

27 
