
A/61/PV.14
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-first session 

14th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 21 September 2006, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Ms. Al-Khalifa  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Bahrain) 



The meeting was called to order at 10.30 a.m. 


International Day of Peace 
The President: I wish to remind members that, in 

accordance  with  resolution  55/282  of  7  September 
2001, 
the 
International Day of Peace. 
the  Assembly 
is  observing 
today 


the 
the 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of 
the Republic of Malawi 

address by the President of the Republic of Malawi. 
Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 

Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika, 
President of the Republic of Malawi, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Mutharika:  I  take  this  opportunity, 

Madam President, to warmly congratulate you on your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-first  session.  My  delegation  welcomes  your 
leadership  and  assures  you  of  our  unwavering  support 
as  you  carry  out  your  duties.  We  are  confident  that 
under  your  able  leadership  the  reform  programmes  of 
the United Nations will be advanced. 
to 
take 
I  also 
this  opportunity 

thank  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for  the  leadership  he 
provided in steering the affairs of the sixtieth session. 
My  delegation  noted  with  satisfaction  the  service  he 
rendered,  and  also  noted  that  under  his  presidency 
positive advances were made towards the reform of the 
United Nations. 

Malawi welcomes the admission of the Republic 
of  Montenegro  as  the  192nd  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. Malawi wishes President Filip Vujanović and 
the  people  of  the  Republic  of  Montenegro  continued 
peace and prosperity as they chart the way forward and 
take their place in the United Nations. 

At  the  end  of  this  year  we  bid  farewell  to 
Mr. Kofi Annan,  who  has  served  as  Secretary-General 
for two consecutive terms. I am happy to join previous 
speakers  in  paying  tribute  to  Mr.  Annan  for  the 
dynamic  leadership  he  has  provided  to  the  United 
Nations during his tenure of office. 

Mr. Annan  had  many  achievements,  but  perhaps 
one of the greatest was his ability to remain calm and 
well focused under great pressure. During his tenure of 
office  the  United  Nations  faced  daunting  challenges, 
including  the  fight  against  famine,  hunger  and  natural 
disasters  in  many  parts  of  the  world;  civil  wars  in 
Africa  and  conflicts  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  Gulf 
region;  international  terrorism;  and  the  fight  against 
HIV/AIDS.  It  is  therefore  with  great  pleasure  that,  on 
behalf of the people of Malawi, and on my own behalf, 
I  honour  and  pay  tribute  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan  for  his 
sterling  service  to  the  United  Nations.  I  trust  that  he 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
C-154A. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 

06-52988 (E) 
*0652988* 

for  development,” 
A/61/PV.14 

will  continue  to  be  of  service  to  humanity  in  other 
capacities. 

The  theme  of  this  year’s  session,  “Implementing 
a  global  partnership 
is  very 
pertinent, because during the 2005 session we renewed 
the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations  to  meet  the 
challenges  of  the  millennium,  such  as  eradicating 
global  poverty  and  injustice,  and  the  promotion  of 
democracy, human rights,  peace, security and stability 
in Member nations. We asserted that these are essential 
ingredients 
for  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development and that they are interlinked and mutually 
reinforcing  in  the  quest  for  the  betterment  and  well-
being of humanity as a whole. 

I believe that in the search for global partnership 
for development the greatest challenge that the United 
Nations  faces  is  to  eradicate  the  poverty  that  engulfs 
the majority of humanity. 
I believe that global peace, security and stability 

cannot  be  assured  if  the  greater  section  of  humanity 
lives  in  abject  poverty.  It  is  our  hope  that  those  who 
have will learn to share with those who do not have. 

In order to present to the Assembly the need for a 
global  partnership  framework  as  a  way  to  achieve  a 
faster and sustainable rate of economic growth, let me 
use my own country as an example. In Malawi we have 
determined  priorities  to  fast  track  socio-economic 
growth for the people. We are cognizant that in a poor 
nation like ours everything becomes a priority, but we 
have  agreed  on  a  set  of  “priorities  within  priorities” 
that we want to implement in the next five years. These 
are  agriculture  and  food  security,  irrigation  and  water 
development, 
communications 
infrastructure,  energy,  integrated  rural  development 
and the prevention and management of HIV/AIDS. We 
believe  that,  when  fully  implemented,  these  sectors 
will, together, pull our people out of poverty. 

We have given the highest priority to agriculture 
and  food  security  because  this  sector  is  a  mainstay  of 
our economy and we intend to make Malawi a hunger-
free  nation.  We  are  assisting  smallholder  and  peasant 
farmers to increase their productivity in food and cash 
crops  by  providing  cheap  fertilizers  and  high-quality 
farm inputs. This will provide food security as well as 
expand  agro-processing  industries,  and  it  will  mean 
adding  value  to  our  products.  We  seek  international 
support in this area. 
transport 
and 
More 
seeks 
Thirdly, 
consider 
transport 
importantly,  Malawi 
we 
infrastructure 

Secondly,  we  need  international  partnership  in 
irrigation  and  water  development.  This  would  reduce 
our  country’s  dependence  on  rain-fed  agriculture.  We 
aim  at  having  small-,  medium-  and 
large-scale 
irrigation  schemes  and  the  construction  of  multi-
purpose dams throughout the country. This will enable 
Malawi to produce enough food even when rains fail. 
and 

communications 
to  be  essential  for 
growth and development and, indeed, a good candidate 
for  international  partnership.  We  are  convinced  that 
through well developed road networks we will not only 
improve  movement  of  goods  and  services  from  rural 
areas  to  the  urban  centres,  but  also  enhance  domestic 
and international trade. 

global 
partnership  in  opening  up  access  to  the  Indian  Ocean 
through the existing Shire-Zambezi waterway, which is 
navigable all the way from an inland port in Malawi to 
the  port  of  Chinde,  in  Mozambique,  on  the  Indian 
Ocean,  only  238  kilometres  away.  This  waterway 
would  benefit  Malawi  and  other  southern  African 
countries,  especially  Mozambique,  Zambia,  Rwanda, 
Burundi and Zimbabwe. 

Fourthly,  Malawi  has  selected  energy  as  another 
area  of  international  partnership.  We  believe  that  it  is 
imperative  for  our  country  to  develop  adequate  and 
reliable  energy  for  agriculture,  irrigation,  transport, 
industry 
economic 
and 
transformation. 
Fifthly,  Malawi  would  welcome  international 

partnership  in  promoting  integrated  rural  development 
aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  among 
rural 
communities.  We  have  recognized  that  the  economic 
stratification  of  our  country  is  such  that  the  greater 
percentage  of  the  people  live  in  rural  areas  in  squalid 
conditions.  We  seek  donor  support  to  boldly  take 
development  to  rural  areas  through  promoting  rural 
growth centres. 

Lastly,  Malawi  seeks  international  partnership  in 
HIV/AIDS prevention  and  management. We recognize 
that our country on its own, without the full support of 
the international community, cannot successfully wage 
the  battle  against  HIV/AIDS.  I  am  happy  to  say  that 
during the past two years Malawi has made tremendous 
progress  in AIDS  awareness  campaigns,  the  supply  of 
anti-retroviral drugs and voluntary testing. 
all 
other 
areas 
of 
the 
2 

06-52988 
the 
and 
for 
Initiative 
spearheading 
Before I end my statement, I need to mention two 



This  is  Malawi’s  agenda  for  implementing  a 
global  partnership  for  development.  I  am  submitting 
this agenda to the United Nations for support. 

important issues. 

First,  through  a  global  partnership,  Malawi  has 
reached  the  completion  point  of  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative.  I  and  the  people  of 
Malawi  are  truly  grateful  that  our  multilateral  debts 
have  been  cancelled  by  the  International  Monetary 
Fund and the World Bank. We thank the [G-8 countries 
for 
their 
commitment  to  it.  We  believe  that  this  is  a  true 
example of global partnership in development. 
The  second  issue  that  is  germane  to  global 

partnership  is  for  me  to  reiterate  my  plea  for  the 
readmission of the Republic of China – Taiwan — as a 
Member of the United Nations. Many of those present 
will agree that since the end of the cold war, and with 
the  advent  of  globalization,  Taiwan  has  quietly 
contributed  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
including 
specialized  agencies 
technology,  medicine, 
and 
international 
contribution  becomes 
increasingly  important,  especially  within  the  principle 
of universality, equity and justice. 
Let  me  conclude  by  drawing  attention  to  the 

report 
towards 
development,  security  and  human  rights  for  all”,  by 
Mr. Kofi Annan, who stated: 

“The right to choose how they are ruled, and who 
rules  them,  must  be  the  birthright  of  all  people, 
and  its  universal  achievement  must  be  a  central 
objective of an Organization devoted to the cause 
of larger freedom.” (A/59/2005, para. 148) 

To me, such larger freedom means the freedom of 
every  nation  to  belong  to  the  United  Nations,  the 
freedom from oppression of one nation by another, and 
freedom  for  every  nation  to  contribute  to  the  global 
partnership for development. These are the freedoms of 
the  United  Nations  that  should  be  cherished  and 
upheld. 

I  therefore  appeal  to  the  Security  Council  to 
reconsider  the  fact  that  Taiwan  should  be  granted 
observer  status 
its 
specialized  agencies,  pending  a  full  review  of  its 
membership.  I  am  convinced  that  continued  denial  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
in  various  areas, 
trade.  That 
freedom: 
research, 
industry 
entitled 
“In 
larger 
in 
A/61/PV.14
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
Taiwan’s  participation  in  the  community  of  nations 
poses  a  moral  and  legal  challenge  to  the  United 
Nations. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Malawi for the statement he has just made. 

the 
Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
Republic  of  Malawi,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Boris Tadić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia 

address by the President of the Republic of Serbia. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
I  also  congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  on 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of 
the Republic of Serbia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President  Tadić  (spoke  in  Serbian;  English  text 

provided  by  the  delegation):  First,  I  sincerely  thank 
Mr. Kofi  Annan,  the  Secretary-General,  for  all  the 
efforts  he  has  made  throughout  his  very  successful 
mandate  during  a  time  of  enormous  challenges  facing 
our  civilization. 
single  out  his 
exceptional  understanding  of  the  problems  that  south-
eastern Europe has faced and is still facing. 

your election. 
the 

accession  of  Montenegro  to  the  United  Nations  as  a 
new Member State. 

I  am  addressing  the  General  Assembly  today  as 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  an  independent 
and  democratic  State  in  south-eastern  Europe,  in  the 
Balkans.  I  assure  the  Assembly  that  Serbia  seeks  to 
make  a  significant  contribution  to  this  part  of  the 
world —  in  terms  of  fast  democratization  and  respect 
for  human  rights,  economic  development,  the  security 
of the entire Balkans and the stability of south-eastern 
Europe.  Instead  of  being  a  place  where  problems  are 
created,  Serbia  and  the  Balkans  must  become  a  place 
where problems are resolved in a peaceful manner. 
time,  I  warmly  welcome 
I  particularly 
the  same 
At 
06-52988 

3 

A/61/PV.14 


Serbia  is  simultaneously  a  new  and  an  old 
State — new, because its flag is flying for the first time 
in  front  of  this  building,  and  old,  because  already  in 
1835  its  Constitution  guaranteed  freedom  to  any  man 
setting foot on its soil; new, because it is being created 
against  the  backdrop  of  the  specific  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century,  and  old,  because  it  is  created  in 
accordance  with  the  very  principles  it  helped  to 
establish  and  embody  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations in 1945. 

Today  Serbia  is  an  active  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. We believe that the decisions made under the 
Organization’s  auspices  have  to  form  the  basis  of 
stability  and  prosperity  for  all  States  and  peoples  in 
south-eastern Europe. 

Serbia believes in a shared and prosperous future 
for  the  Balkans.  It  is  important  to  stress  that  none  of 
the  current  problems  in  the  Balkans  can  be  viewed  or 
resolved  in  isolation,  without  taking  into  account  our 
common  history  and  a  vision  of  our  shared  future. 
Hence, in dealing with  any problem in the Balkans, it 
is necessary to hear and give weight to the opinions of 
all countries in the region. 

I trust that a better future for our part of the world 
will be based upon three major principles: democracy, 
as  a  guarantor  of  human  freedom  and  the  basis  of 
economic  progress;  the  security  of  each  State,  as  a 
precondition for the security of the entire Balkans; and 
regional stability, as a vital factor of global peace and 
prosperity. All the challenges we face should be tackled 
in accordance with those principles.  

In that spirit, Serbia is sincerely committed to the 
territorial  integrity  of  all  Balkan  States  and  the 
preservation of their existing borders. In the same vein, 
the integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on the 
Dayton Accords, which may be changed by its citizens 
only  with  the  consensus  of  all  three  constituent 
peoples,  is  an  essential  factor  in  the  stability  and 
further  democratization  of  the  region.  By  the  same 
token, 
the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  Serbia  is  in  the  interest  of 
democracy  and  the  prosperity  of  all  of  south-eastern 
Europe. 

Strengthening  regional  cooperation  is  Serbia’s 
priority. That  is  why  we  believe  that  the  prosperity  of 
all  neighbouring  countries  is  in  the  interest  of  Serbia. 
We  are  aware  that  the  Balkan  countries  can  make 
progress  and  achieve  their  primary  foreign  policy 
the  preservation  of 
4 

objective  —  European  Union  and  Euro-Atlantic 
membership — only through cooperation.  

In  this  regional  framework,  we  also  wish  to 
actively cooperate in the fight against organized crime, 
corruption  and  international  terrorism.  As  a  concrete 
contribution to this goal, at my initiative, a meeting of 
the Heads of State of south-eastern Europe will soon be 
held  in  Belgrade,  aimed  at  promoting  communication 
and strengthening cooperation in the fight against these 
threats to the life and prosperity of us all. 
Serbia  sees  the  Balkans  as  a  common  space,  in 

which  it  is  possible  to  achieve  political  and  social 
stability.  The  achievement  of  that  goal  should  be  an 
important  contribution  to  efforts  conducive  to  full 
democratization and peace. It is based on the principle 
of  shared  responsibility  of  all  Balkan  States.  That  is 
why none of the Balkan States must feel a loser as we 
move closer to a joint European future. 
Kosovo  and  Metohija  is  currently  under  United 

Nations  interim  administration.  The  settlement  of 
Kosovo’s  future  status  is  one  of  the  most  difficult 
problems facing Serbia, the other Balkan countries and 
the  international  community,  as  well  as  the  Albanian 
and Serbian people in Kosovo. That is why we believe 
that this problem should be addressed in a strategic and 
substantive manner in order to arrive at a solution that 
will  take  into  account  the  full  complexity  of  relations 
in the Balkans. That poses certain requirements: to face 
the  past,  to  find  sustainable  solutions  for  the  present 
and to open up avenues of cooperation in the future. 
But,  of  course,  this  does  not  imply  that  the 

Kosovo case is unique, different from all others. On the 
contrary,  the  Kosovo  problem  must  be  approached  on 
the  basis  of  recognized  principles  of  international  law 
and  universal  democratic  values.  If  there  is  failure  in 
that, we shall not be able to escape the vicious circle of 
old animosities and mutual recriminations. 

What  it  seeks  for  itself,  Serbia  seeks  for  the 
province,  too:  promotion  of  democracy,  respect  for 
human  rights,  economic  prosperity  and  security.  In 
order  to  contribute  to  that  goal,  Serbia  has  decided  to 
ensure power supply this winter from its own resources 
to Kosovo’s population. 

It  is  in  the  interest  of  Serbia  that  Kosovo  be 
stable,  prosperous,  economically  viable,  multi-ethnic 
and democratic. Before its future status is determined, 
it  is  of  crucial  importance  to  establish  the  rule  of  law 
06-52988 
observe 
21  September,  we 


and put an end to seven years of discrimination against 
the  Serbs  as  well  as  other  non-Albanian  communities, 
who suffer as the target of extremism and terrorism. 

The  autonomy  offered  by  Serbia  to  Kosovo 
Albanians is broader than any currently enjoyed by any 
region or federal unit in Europe. In our view, that is a 
sustainable,  stable  and  long-standing  solution  that 
would  open  a  new  chapter  in  the  long  and  difficult 
history  of  Serbian-Albanian  relations.  Among  other 
things, it would enable Kosovo to have direct access to 
international  financial  institutions,  necessary  for  its 
economic recovery and development, which are in the 
interest of both Serbia and the region as a whole. 

Serbia is genuinely committed to the achievement 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  technological 
advancement  and  economic  prosperity.  Large-scale 
poverty,  which  unfortunately  still  prevails,  deeply 
affects human dignity. 
the 

International  Day  of  Peace.  It  is  important  that  it  be 
observed  each  year  in  an  effort  to  put  an  end  to  wars 
and  violence  in  the  world.  Many  crises  have  not  yet 
been 
to  escalate 
dangerously, while new challenges threaten to generate 
new 
humanitarian 
catastrophes. 
An  important  aspect  of  preserving  peace  and 

security  is  efficient  and  timely  deployment  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  forces.  Serbia  supports 
the 
efforts 
the  effectiveness  of  United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  and  my  country  is  ready  to 
make  an  active  contribution  to  these  operations.  The 
mandate  of  peacekeeping  operations  is  today  more 
diverse  than  it  used  to  be  and  includes  conflict-
prevention,  peacekeeping,  post-conflict  reconstruction 
and 
sustainable 
development. 

Following  several  years  of  conflict,  the  Balkans 
is  slowly  but  surely  turning  into  a  zone  of  good-
neighbourliness and cooperation. Serbia is prepared to 
deal with the burden of its recent past in the interest of 
its  Balkan  and  European  future.  The  people  of  Serbia 
started  doing  this  successfully  and  democratically  in 
2000,  when 
largely 
responsible for the hardships that befell Serbia and the 
Balkans in the last decade of the twentieth century. 
resolved,  and  some  continue 
to  strengthen 
destruction 
assistance 
long-term 
conflicts, 
they 
removed 
the 
regime 
to 
and 
Today, 
and 
A/61/PV.14
that 
reason,  we  are 
Precisely 
to 
As  a  responsible  State  and  a  part  of 
for 
firmly 

committed 
the  successful  completion  of  our 
cooperation  with  the  Hague  Tribunal.  This  is  not 
merely our international obligation; it is also a question 
of moral values. 

the 
international  community,  Serbia  is  truly  devoted  to 
honouring  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and 
building  democracy  in  the  world. Therefore,  Serbia  is 
firmly committed to making its full contribution to the 
strengthening  of  the  role  and  mandate  of  the  United 
Nations,  as  well  as  to  multilateral  dialogue  leading  to 
equal cooperation among States and peoples, to respect 
for  human  rights  and  freedoms,  and  to  tolerance  and 
mutual respect. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Serbia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the 
Republic of Colombia 

address by the President of the Republic of Colombia. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Álvaro  Uribe  Vélez, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Uribe  Vélez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  and  wish  you  the 
greatest success in this session. 

Four  years  ago  I  attended  this  global  forum  for 
the first time to announce that Colombia was beginning 
an era of democratic security. I explained why security 
in  our  time  is  a  democratic  value  without  which 
freedoms  cannot  prosper;  it  is  also  a  centre  of 
resources, in  whose absence investment  does not flow 
and the possibility of eliminating poverty and building 
equality remains elusive. 
06-52988 

5 
A/61/PV.14 


Four years ago I explained to the Assembly why 
our concept of security is democratic and thus deserves 
the  support  and  confidence  of  all  peoples  and  of  the 
United Nations. 

I am aware that I could not address the Assembly 
today  to  propose  a  theory  of  democratic  security; 
having  been  President  of  my  country  for  four  years,  I 
feel  compelled  to  present  the  results  of  this  policy. 
Colombia has held four general elections and countless 
local  elections  over  this  period.  The  referendum  and 
the  election  of  mayors  and  governors  in  2003  were 
events  that  tested  our  democratic  meaning  of  security. 
This year the presidential  and  congressional  elections, 
held  on  two  separate  dates  under  a  high  threat  of 
terrorism,  were  nonetheless  among  the  most  peaceful 
in  many  decades.  All  political  groupings  enjoyed 
effective  guarantees,  regardless  of 
level  of 
their 
support for or opposition to the Government. 

Under democratic security, Colombia has elected 
mayors,  governors  and  members  of  Congress  of  all 
political  colours.  Security  has  contained  terrorism  in 
order to give democracy free expression. 
There  is  still  much  to  be  done  in  the  area  of 

security, and a definitive peace is not yet within sight, 
but progress is undeniable. The effective protection of 
Colombians translates into the reduction in the number 
of  homicides,  kidnappings,  acts  of  terrorism,  crimes 
and threats against journalists and trade union leaders. 
All  governors  and  mayors  exercise  their  powers  in 
their  own  jurisdictions,  overcoming  the  nightmare  of 
exile that many were subjected to as a result of terrorist 
actions that were not countered by the State. 

To  guarantee  the  sustainability  of  security  over 
time, our citizens must give it credibility. Our task is to 
build 
and 
transparency.  Consequently,  human  rights  are  an 
imperative  of  security.  In  recent  years  we  have 
increased  our  security  forces  by  30  per  cent,  military 
operations  have 
time 
complaints against the security forces have fallen by 38 
per cent. This is all the more important because we are 
a  country  with  full  internal  democracy,  completely 
open  to  supervision  and  international  criticism,  as 
borne  out  by  the  presence  of  an  office  of  the  United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. 

important  achievement 
In  spite  of  the  work  still  to  be  done,  the  most 
is  our  citizens’  positive 
tripled,  and  at 
effectiveness 
the  same 
credibility 
based 
on 

the  vast  majority  of 
Talking  about  40,000  demobilized 
assessment of security and the collective determination 
to consolidate it. 

We  regard  organized  violence  for  fictitious 
political motives as terrorism, and security as the path 
to peace. When a country has a pluralist, vigorous and 
guarantee-granting democracy, armed actions against it 
are  pure  terrorism.  To  deny  this  would  erase  the 
difference between armed combat against dictatorships, 
which  merited  the  recognition  of  insurgent  groups  in 
other countries, and the violent aggression suffered by 
our democracy, which is terrorism. 

The demobilization of more than 40,000 members 
of  violent  groups,  as  a  result  of  democratic  security, 
and  the  efforts  proposed  by  the  country  to  reintegrate 
them into constitutional life, prove that for us security 
is the path to peace and reconciliation. 

is  easy; 
tallying them up is very difficult; demobilizing them is 
even  more  difficult;  and  reintegrating  them  is  a 
monumental  task. Amidst  understandable  controversy, 
we have made progress in dismantling irregular forces. 
Today 
illegal  self-defence 
groups — which, together with the guerrillas, until two 
years ago seemed like powers greater than the State — 
are demobilized, and a large percentage of their leaders 
are being held by our justice system. These results are 
more eloquent than rhetoric ever could be. I must add 
that  the  number  of  demobilized  guerrillas  is  higher 
than the number killed by official forces. 

I  have  come  to  the  United  Nations  today  to  ask 
for  resolute  support  for  our  security  policy  and  our 
reintegration  programme.  The  violence  in  Colombia 
has  received  much 
international  media  coverage, 
constant criticism of the Government and little support 
to  overcome 
international 
community to urgently call on violent groups to make 
peace without any further delay. The Government is as 
firm  in  implementing  security  as  it  is  rigorous  in 
respecting democratic rules, and is open and generous 
in  looking  for  peace.  A  sincere  willingness  for  peace 
will  not  face  governmental  obstacles  to  a  definitive 
reconciliation. 
The  international  community  must  support  our 

security policy more decisively. This will bring quicker 
results  from  our  overcoming  violence  and  seeking 
peace. 
time  for 
it.  It 
the 
is 
6 

06-52988 
assessed 



The financing of violent groups by illicit drugs is 
one of the fundamental aspects that differentiate those 
groups from former guerrillas in other Latin American 
countries.  This  criminal,  bottomless  and  autonomous 
financing is the main obstacle to peace.  

It  grieves  me  to  say  that  progress  in  the  fight 
against illicit drugs has been small compared with the 
sacrifice  made  by  the  people  of  Colombia  and  the 
Government’s willingness to eradicate those drugs. The 
number of extradited citizens, the confiscation of illicit 
wealth  and  the  areas  sprayed  represent  enormous 
efforts,  but  the  results  are  not  proportional.  For  the 
second straight year, we have a programme for massive 
manual  eradication,  which  will  mean  70,000  hectares 
of coca destroyed. 

Production  and  consumption  require  a  global 
commitment transcending formal declarations, so as to 
increasingly  apply  programmes  that  reflect  actions  of 
shared responsibility. 
There  are  successful  alternative  development 

the  United  Nations 
projects.  A  few  weeks  ago, 
positively 
families 
programme,  which  covers  43,000  rural  families  that 
have  replaced  drug  cultivation  with  protection  of  the 
forest and the growing of alternative crops. Some, such 
as  those  in  the  Sierra  Nevada  de  Santa  Marta,  offer 
ecotourism  services. According  to  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  drugs  have  been 
eliminated  in  80  per  cent  of  the  area  of  the  forest 
keeper families, covering 2 million hectares. More than 
136,000  hectares  of 
forest  have  been 
reclaimed.  Thanks  to  payments  by  the  Government, 
these families have already acquired more than 30,000 
hectares  of  productive  land.  Nevertheless,  to  protect  a 
high percentage of the Colombian Amazon jungle  and 
tropical forest, we need to reach 120,000 families. That 
is a great budgetary challenge, requiring more general 
and decisive international support. 

The programme halts the cutting down of tropical 
forest and the Amazon jungle, which have suffered the 
destruction  of  nearly  2  million  hectares  because  of 
drugs.  I  ask  the  world:  why  is  there  not  less  rhetoric 
and  a  greater  and  more  effective  commitment,  so  that 
Colombia,  which  is  absolutely  willing  to  achieve  it, 
may  finally  and  definitively  overcome  the  scourge  of 
illegal drugs? 
We Colombians do not want to be left with efforts 

and  sacrifices;  we  require  results.  We  are  willing  to 
forest  keeper 
tropical 
the 
A/61/PV.14
revise  our  strategy  and  improve  it,  but  we  need  the 
entire  world  to  get  involved  with  us.  I  ask  the  United 
Nations for additional efforts to help us find ways to be 
effective. 

We reiterate our enthusiastic commitment to meet 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Social  cohesion, 
overcoming  poverty  and  building  equity  are  essential 
aspirations of our democracy. In 2002 poverty reached 
almost  60  per  cent  of  the  population;  in  2005  it  was 
down to 49 per cent. We will do everything possible to 
ensure that it does not exceed 35 per cent by 2010 and 
to  reach  the  goal  of  15  per  cent  by  2019,  the  second 
centenary  of  our  independence.  Fortunately,  the  Gini 
coefficient  is  beginning  to  show  a  trend  towards 
correction in income distribution. 

Our  goals  for  the  upcoming  four-year  period  are 
ambitious: achieving full coverage in health and basic 
education  and  significant  progress  in  basic  sanitation 
and providing microcredit for 5 million poor families.  
We  want  a  modern  democracy  with  security, 

freedom, 
and 
independent institutions. This is our dream; this is what 
we  are  fighting  for.  We  want  a  nation  without 
exclusions  and  without  class  hatred,  with  harmony, 
rectitude  and  prosperity;  a  nation 
in  permanent 
democratic  dialogue,  with  fraternity  and  without 
insurmountable  antagonisms;  a  nation  integrated  into 
multilateralism,  grateful  for  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations,  receptive  to  the  international  community’s 
suggestions  and  willing  to  share  its  experiences  and 
improve its results. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Colombia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Álvaro Uribe Vélez, President of the Republic 
of  Colombia,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
transparency 
cohesion, 
social 


Address by Mr. Émile Lahoud, President of the 
Lebanese Republic 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Lebanese Republic. 

Mr.  Émile  Lahoud,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
06-52988 

7 

that 
A/61/PV.14 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Émile Lahoud, 
President of the Lebanese Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Lahoud:  Today,  I  am  honoured  as  I 

congratulate  you,  Madam  President,  on  your  election 
as the first Arab woman to ever preside over this body, 
hoping 
this  heralds  a  new  era  of  better 
understanding of women’s aspirations and Arab causes. 

I would also like to thank the Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Kofi Annan,  for  all  that  he  has  done  for  Lebanon 
and for the cause of peace in the region and the world 
as a whole. 
I  stand  before  the  Assembly  representing  a 

terribly scarred country, a country whose ordeal is well 
known  to  members  —  my  ravaged  country,  Lebanon. 
From  12  July  through  14  August,  my  country  was 
subjected to a barbarous aggression and to a rarely seen 
campaign of savage dismemberment, when hundreds of 
fighter  jets  emptied  their  loads  of  heavy  and  banned 
bombs, targeting mostly civilians, killing and maiming 
thousands,  and  destroying  everything 
that  made 
Lebanon  a  viable  State.  Obviously, 
this  was  a 
premeditated  Israeli  “sentence”  to  destroy  my  country 
and everything it stood for, it having been blessed and 
termed  by  His  Holiness  Pope  John  Paul  II  a  “unique 
message  to  humanity,”  that  we  can  live  together. This 
aggression  became  even  more  cruel  when  it  won  the 
tacit approbation of certain great powers. 
looked 

powerless  in  its  attempts  to  stop  the  slaughter  of 
Lebanon’s  children  and  protect  the  peace  in  Lebanon 
and  the  Middle  East.  It  took  over  a  month  and 
numerous calls for an immediate ceasefire for all those 
concerned 
to  finally  force  a  mere  cessation  of 
hostilities,  which  is  yet  to  become  a  formal  and  final 
ceasefire. 
It  becomes  self-evident  for  us  to  question  the 

credibility  of  the  United  Nations  in  light  of  the 
Secretary-General’s acknowledgment that the delays in 
adopting  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006)  did 
indeed  harm  its  credibility.  Moreover,  we  cannot  but 
have serious doubts as to this Organization’s ability to 
safeguard  world  peace  when 
its  resolutions  are 
subjected to the vagaries of a very few world powers. 
the  Security  Council 
Regrettably, 
While  we  stand  under 

Today I ask: How many children, like the one in 
the  photograph  that  I  am  holding  up,  will  die  because 
nobody  does  anything  for  them?  How  many  children 
was 
this  evil,  vengeful  machine  of  destruction 
supposed  to  have  killed,  before  the  world  community 
decided  to  respond  in  defence  of  a  “rightful”  cause? 
Allow us to ask these questions, as we are filled with a 
deep sense of grief, when scores of our fallen citizens 
are still beneath the rubble. 

Let  me  reassure  the Assembly  that  this  savagery 
did  not  weaken  our  people’s  resolve  nor  shake  its 
resilience as it rallied around its army and Government 
and embraced its national resistance, whose men faced 
occupation  forces  with  epic  valour,  preventing  their 
advance,  and  presenting  Lebanon  with  yet  another 
victory, in the name of justice and dignity. 

the  United  Nations 
umbrella  to  warn  the  world  of  the  dire  consequences 
we  shall  all  face  when  the  very  foundations  of  this 
world  body  are  shaken,  it  is  also  time  to  ask  Israel, 
which  owes  its  very  existence  to  a  United  Nations 
resolution, 
to  finally  abide  by  past  and  recent 
resolutions. 

As  of  14  August  this  year,  Lebanon  has  once 
again, without a shadow of a doubt, reasserted the fact 
that it is a nation that respects its commitments, while 
it implements international resolutions and proceeds to 
deploy  15,000  Lebanese  army  soldiers  on  the  border 
between  Lebanon  and  Israel  —  while  Israel  continues 
its  daily  breaches  of  Security  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006),  having 
imposed  a  humiliating  siege  on 
Lebanon, and refusing to withdraw from the Lebanese 
territory  in  the  Shaba’a  farms  sector,  whose  liberation 
remains  Lebanon’s  sacred  right  and  duty. To  this  day, 
Israel  continues  to  treat  the  people  of  Lebanon  as 
hostages, kidnapping at will scores of its citizens, in a 
flagrant breach of that resolution. 

Finally,  Israel  refuses  to  surrender  to  the  United 
Nations  the  maps  showing  thousands  of  mines  it  left 
behind on Lebanese territory, while the case and fate of 
Lebanon’s prisoners in Israel remains very ambiguous, 
and  no  clear  resolution  of  their  ordeal  is  addressed 
anywhere. 

the  world 
community  is  called  upon  to  save  Security  Council 
resolution  1701  (2006)  from  oblivion,  a  fate  that 
characterized scores of previous resolutions. 
the  sake  of  peace, 
Today, 
for 
8 

06-52988 
time 
international  conventions  and 
the  world  community  will  allow 



Here, on behalf of a grateful country, I solemnly 
salute the fallen soldiers of peace who will hence share 
their obituary with that of our brave army soldiers and 
of our valiant resistance fighters, victims of prohibited 
weaponry, first tested by Israel on our soil and subject 
to  an  international  investigation.  We  are  hopeful  that 
this 
the 
investigation  to  reach  its  natural  conclusion. This  will 
constitute a clear indictment of Israel for its recurring 
violations  of 
the 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 

We  also  hope  that  the  United  States  will  not 
resort  to  its  unfailing  veto,  thus  allowing  for  the 
indictment  of  Israel’s  actions  in  sympathy  for  the 
thousands  of  innocent  civilians  who  were  killed  and 
maimed by the “smart”, cluster and phosphorus bombs, 
and those laced with depleted uranium. 

Inspired  by  the  principles  and  treaties  of  the 
United  Nations,  Lebanon  retains  the  right  of  action  to 
prosecute  Israel  before  the  competent  bodies,  most 
notably  this  Assembly,  or  the  International  Criminal 
Court, and to request the appropriate reparations for all 
the catastrophes Israel has inflicted on Lebanon. 

I ask the Assembly today to stand by my country, 
as that will be recorded as a just and rightful stance. I 
also  call  upon  it  to  differentiate  between  he  who 
defends  his  country  against  Israeli  aggression  and 
occupation, and who strives to liberate his countrymen 
from  decades  of  unlawful  imprisonment,  and  those 
elements  that  perpetrate  acts  of  wanton  slaughter 
against  their  countrymen  and  others  equally.  I  remind 
the  Assembly  that  Lebanon’s  experience  with  the 
scourge of terror goes back a long way, and has taken a 
very heavy toll on its armed forces. 
The  most  recent  aggression  against  Lebanon  has 

left  this  small  country  terribly  scarred,  afflicted  with 
thousands  of  dead  and  wounded,  and  a 
toll  of 
destruction  including  several  thousand  housing  units 
and  hundreds  of  bridges,  ports,  airports  and  factories. 
And my message is: the will of our people to live and 
move  forward  has  proved  to  be  much  stronger  than 
defeat  and  despair.  In  record  time,  the  people  of 
Lebanon launched a campaign of reconstruction, made 
even more successful by instant comforting gestures of 
goodwill from many friends, at home and abroad. With 
such  overwhelming  support  and  assistance  Lebanon 
will  beat  all  the  odds  by  achieving  a  stellar  rebirth, 
thereby scoring another point in favour of humanity. 
A/61/PV.14

There  is  ample  talk  today  of  the  need  to  reach  a 
permanent  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle 
East,  which  Lebanon  has  stressed 
for  decades. 
However, we are quick to point out that no such peace 
can be achieved in the Middle East without addressing 
the  root  cause  of  instability  there,  namely,  the  Arab-
Israeli dispute and its core issue, Palestine. 

Despite  the  horrid  events  in  Lebanon,  a  window 
of  opportunity  has  presented  itself,  and  it  should  be 
fully exploited in order to reinvigorate the Middle East 
peace  initiative,  founded  on  the  Arab  peace  initiative 
adopted during the Beirut Arab Summit of 2002. 

The  Arab  peace  initiative  remains  the  suitable 
means to achieve a permanent, comprehensive and just 
peace,  because  it  simply  calls  for  the  implementation 
of all United Nations resolutions as they pertain to the 
withdrawal of Israel from all occupied Arab lands, and 
for  the  return  of  Palestinian  refugees  to  their  homes. 
Only  such  a  settlement  will  be  capable  of  affording 
Lebanon  and  the  neighbouring  countries  the  stability 
and security they long for and will give Israel a sense 
of security — something it has failed to obtain through 
sheer  force  and  aggression.  Moreover,  this  should  put 
an end to the haemorrhage in the Palestinian territories 
and 
foster  moderation  where  despair  has  bred 
extremism and violence, most notably in Iraq, where it 
is  vital  for  all  of  us  to  help  that  tortured Arab  nation 
preserve  its  territorial  integrity  and  the  unity  of  its 
people. 

Today  there  is  incessant  talk  of  a  new  Middle 
East  as  a  harbinger  of  better  things  to  come,  and  this 
prompts  us  to  ask  the  following  question.  Is  what  we 
have  witnessed  in  Lebanon  and  continue  to  see  in 
Palestine  and  Iraq  conducive  to  an  environment  of 
peace  and  tranquillity?  Is  this  much  heralded  new 
Middle East attainable only through widespread strife, 
unimaginable bloodshed, sedition and oppression? 

Our conception of a new Middle East is one that 
is coherent with United Nations resolutions, and that is 
in  concurrence  with  the  principles  of  justice  and  right 
as  stipulated  in  those  resolutions.  Our  idea  of  a  new 
Middle  East  is  one  where  a  comprehensive  peace 
settlement  becomes  reality,  guaranteeing  the  rights  of 
all;  where  Palestinian  refugees  return  home,  as 
stipulated  in  resolution  194  (III),  which  comes  long 
before  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  and 
therefore are not resettled in host countries; and where 
prisoners return to their loved ones. 
06-52988 

9 

A/61/PV.14 


This  is  the  only  way  to  attain  a  stable  Middle 
East.  All  else  will  plunge  our  region  into  further 
upheaval and bloodshed. 

Should  our  conception  of  peace  in  the  Middle 
East  become  reality,  I  assure  the  Assembly  that  the 
need  for  conferences,  studies  and  discussions  of 
terrorism  will  become  moot.  Should  this  happen  in 
tandem  with  serious  attempts  to  combat  poverty  and 
sustain  acceptable  levels  of  development  in  areas  of 
need,  this  will  certainly  dry  up  the  pools  where 
terrorism draws its human and financial support. 
I  have  recently  read  one  of  your  statements, 

Madam  President, 
that 
overhauling the United Nations will be one of your top 
priorities. I commend you for that position, because no 
one appreciates the need for world peace more than the 
people  of  the  Middle  East,  as  we  recognize  that  the 
preservation of world peace requires a United Nations 
capable of taking decisions and competent to see them 
through. 

this very rostrum only last year: 

Here,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  what  I  said  from 
in  which  you  emphasize 
“The  core  values  of  a  democratic  and  just  world 
are  best  served  by  enhancing  the  capabilities  of 
the  United  Nations  and  its  instruments,  and  by 
reinforcing 
values.” 
(A/60/PV.13, p.1)  
this 
I  believed 
institution  should  remain  a 
sanctuary  of  world  consciousness  and  “the  primary 
defender of such human values as freedom, justice and 
peace.” (ibid) 

Perhaps the reforms that have been carried out so 
far,  such  as  the  establishment  of  a  Human  Rights 
Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  will 
constitute  the  necessary  incentives  for  achieving  a 
United  Nations  capable  of  safeguarding  right  and 
justice. 
Taking into consideration current trends in world 

affairs, I propose to the General Assembly the creation 
of a commission leading to laying the foundations of a 
charter  of  the  rights  of  nations,  a  charter  equal  in 
importance  to  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  a  charter  imposing  on  Member  States  —  all 
States — a  code of  conduct founded on the principles 
of justice and the rule of law. 
democratic 
in-house 
that 

I  come  here  from  a  country  riddled  with  scars, 
rising  from  the  rubble  and  ashes  of  aggression,  to 
speak  of  justice.  I  do  not  pretend  to  pontificate  from 
the  helm  of  a  tank.  Lebanon  remains  a  peace-loving 
nation, and it extends its hand to all those who share its 
peaceful  vision,  founded  on  a  just  settlement  and 
extracting  as  such 
the  seeds  of  oppression  and 
violence. We  trust  that  the  forces  of  good  will  prevail 
in the end, because its  flames burn in the heart of the 
righteous  and  because  the  sounds  of  jubilation  will 
undoubtedly prevail over the beating of war drums and 
the sibilating of hate and violence. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Lebanese  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Émile  Lahoud,  President  of  the  Lebanese 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
Mr.  Wali  (Nigeria),  Vice-President, 
Chair. 
from 
took 
the 



Address by Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, President 
of the Republic of Mozambique 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique. 

Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
in  Portuguese; 

English text provided by the delegation): On behalf of 
the  people  and  Government  of 
the  Republic  of 
Mozambique,  and  indeed  on  my  own  behalf,  I  would 
like  to  place  on  record  our  congratulations  to  the 
President on her election to preside over the sixty-first 
session  of  the  General Assembly.  We  are  delighted  to 
see  a  distinguished  daughter  of  Bahrain 
the 
stewardship of the highest organ of the United Nations. 

to  her 
predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  Minister  for  Foreign 
President  Guebuza
congratulations 
reiterate  our 
(spoke 
We 
in 
10 

06-52988 
for 
the 
for  bringing 
the  President 
for  his  work 


Affairs  of  Sweden,  for  his  leadership  during  the 
sixtieth session. We congratulate him once again on the 
commendable work done during his tenure of office. 

We  would  also  like  to  pay  a  glowing  tribute  to 
Mr.  Kofi  Annan  for  his  accomplishments  during  his 
mandate  as  Secretary-General.  We  commend 
the 
devotion  and  tireless  efforts  of  this  son  of Africa,  our 
continent, 
the  promotion  of 
international  peace, security and development, as well 
as  for  having  created  the  solid  foundations  for  wide-
ranging reforms of the United Nations. 

One  of  the  issues  on  which  our  debate  focused 
last  year  related  to  development.  We  noted  with 
concern  then  that  there  was  a  substantive  lack  of 
progress  in  forging  partnerships.  In  this  regard,  we 
salute 
theme 
“Implementing  a  global  partnership  for  development” 
for debate at this session. 
We  live  in  a  very  unbalanced  world,  in  which 

developing countries find themselves in a vicious cycle 
and  vulnerability.  This  plight 
of  dependency 
undermines  our  efforts 
to  address,  speedily  and 
successfully,  the  challenges  that  prevent  our  enjoying 
sounder  economic  and  social  growth  and  weaken  our 
capacity  to  deal,  more  effectively  and  with  greater 
impact, with the various manifestations of poverty and 
to  fight,  more  vigorously,  diseases  such  as  malaria, 
tuberculosis  and  HIV/AIDS.  Given  our  state  of 
development, more often than not we are powerless to 
prevent or mitigate the impact of natural disasters and 
environmental  degradation.  Consequently,  poverty 
prevents the part of our humanity located in developing 
countries  from  enjoying  the  freedom  of  choice  and 
action that the other part of mankind takes for granted. 

The merit of the theme that the President has put 
forward  for  our  debate  is  that  it  gives  us  yet  another 
opportunity to reflect on issues that we have dealt with 
in  the  past  in  seeking  solutions  for  the  remaining 
challenges imposed by underdevelopment. It also lends 
itself  to  a  debate  of  at  least  three  important  issues 
related to the problem of underdevelopment. 

The  first  is  that  no  country  alone,  however 
resourceful it may be, can successfully overcome these 
challenges on its own, at least not in the medium term, 
because these are challenges noted for their complexity 
and  interrelationships  with  other  global  problems  and 
phenomena.  
A/61/PV.14
is 
the 
national, 
regional 
and 
to  overcome 
they  also  need 
The  second  point  that  can  be  inferred  from  this 

theme 
that,  while  underdevelopment  can  be 
attributed  to  or  identified  with  a  given  country,  its 
consequences  transcend  national  borders.  They  go 
beyond  geographical  boundaries  to,  on  the  one  hand, 
affect  national  security  and  demography  in  other 
countries  and,  on  the  other,  raise  moral  obligations  of 
new dimensions, as well as material challenges in other 
societies. 

The third issue relates to a static view of poverty. 
The  poor  need  to  regain  their  self-confidence  so  that, 
like people in other parts of the world, they too can rid 
themselves  of  the  shackles  of  poverty.  By  the  same 
token, those who can assist also need to overcome the 
deep-rooted  view  that  the  poor  will  not  escape  from 
poverty,  as  they  are  destined  to  remain  poor.  On  the 
other  hand, 
the 
preconceived  idea  that  development  must  be  imposed 
from the outside. 

This  discussion  brings  us  back  to  our  realization 
that, given the global nature of the challenges facing us 
today,  we  have  no  choice  but  to  weave  together  and 
strengthen 
global 
partnerships. As a result of this realization, we adopted 
the Monterrey Consensus, as well as the Johannesburg 
the  Millennium 
Plan 
Declaration.  The 
these 
consensuses  would  translate,  in  concrete  terms,  into 
our  commitment  to  forge  global  partnerships  for 
development.  Regrettably,  little  has  been  achieved  so 
far.  Abject  poverty  remains  a  common  feature  of  the 
majority of developing countries. 

Therefore,  I  urge  that  we  need  to  reiterate  our 
commitment to work together at various levels for the 
well-being  of  humanity.  Mankind  is  not  a  far-fetched 
concept. For example, the very fact that the language I 
am  using  now  can  be  translated 
into  the  other 
languages of the planet is a clear demonstration of how 
we  belong  to  the  same  humanity.  Let  us,  therefore, 
redouble  our  efforts  so  as  not 
the 
expectations  of  billions  of  citizens  worldwide,  in  the 
developed  and  the  developing  countries  alike.  All  of 
them are longing for a fairer, prosperous and peaceful 
world.  Through  these  partnerships  we  can  also,  more 
effectively,  contribute  to  conflict  resolution  in Africa, 
in the Middle East and in the world at large. 

At this juncture, we would like to share with the 
Assembly  our  experience  and  views  on  the  role  and 
expectation  was 
Implementation 
to  frustrate 
that 
and 
of 
06-52988 

11 
to 
time, 
sector 
creativity 
individual 
the  private 
and 
the  same 
A/61/PV.14 

place  of  partnerships  to  overcome  the  challenges 
before us today. 

At the national level, we are of the view that the 
development  projects  must  be  owned  and  driven  by 
their primary and ultimate beneficiaries. In this regard, 
the  Government  creates  and  promotes  an  environment 
that  facilitates  the  honing  of  self-esteem,  promotes 
recourse 
supports 
incremental  development.  At 
the 
Government encourages and sustains partnerships with 
other  collective  development  actors,  such  as  civil 
society  organizations, 
and 
international  partners  in  cooperation.  The  products  of 
this  approach  to  governance  include,  for  example:  the 
second  Action  Plan  for  the  Reduction  of  Absolute 
Poverty  for  the  period  2006-2009,  drawn  up  with  the 
active  participation  of  civil  society  organizations; 
annual  meetings  with  the  private  sector;  meetings  of 
the  social  partners,  with  the  participation  of  the 
Government, trade unions and employers; the national 
forum for the African Peer Review Mechanism; and the 
joint review meetings between the Government and the 
development  partners 
in  direct  budget 
support. 

These  partnerships  are  held  together  by  our 
adherence to open and inclusive governance. They are 
also sustained by the collective commitment of various 
stakeholders 
of 
Mozambique  to  reduce  the  incidence  of  absolute 
poverty  from  54  per  cent  in  2003  to  45  per  cent  in 
2009. The environment of peace and stability in which 
we  live  and  which  we  promote  also  contributes  to 
enhancing these partnerships. 

Regional  cooperation  plays  an  important  role  in 
building  and  sustaining  partnerships  for  development. 
The  Southern  African  Development  Community 
(SADC)  is  a  case  in  point.  Since  its  birth,  SADC  has 
been  playing  a  crucial  role  in  promoting  the  political, 
economic  and  social  integration  of  countries  and 
peoples of the region. At the same time, SADC allows 
a given number of its member states to take initiatives 
that further its ultimate objective of a more prosperous 
region.  In  accordance  with  this  principle,  last  August 
Mozambique,  South  Africa  and  Zimbabwe  launched 
the  Great  Limpopo  Transfrontier  Park,  a  project  that 
aims  to  transform  an  area  of  approximately  35,000 
square  kilometres, 
into  a 
development hub. 
in  biodiversity, 
development 
involved 
engaged 
in 
the 

take 
inspired 
in  Havana  on 
this  opportunity 
the  New  Partnership 
By  deciding 
of 

Viewed  as  one  of  the  building  blocks  of  the 
African  Union,  SADC  plays  an  important  role  in 
promoting 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD),  the  African  Union  road  map 
towards  prosperity.  We 
to 
commend  the  international  community  for  aligning  its 
assistance  ever  more  closely  with 
the  NEPAD 
priorities.  We  would  also  encourage  our  development 
partners to increase their support for NEPAD. 
last  week 
the 

continuation 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement’s 
revitalization  process,  the  Non-Aligned  Summit  put 
greater emphasis on the role the Movement should play 
in  forging  partnerships  among  the  countries  of  the 
South,  as  part  of  the  global  partnerships.  Thus,  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  reinvigorated  the  Bandung 
spirit,  which,  as  we  all  know, 
the 
establishment  of  the  New  Asian-African  Strategic 
Partnership. 

In  addition  to  the  Monterrey  Consensus,  we 
advocate an increase in international financial support, 
including  official  development  assistance  and  foreign 
direct  investment  for  countries  such  as  ours  that  have 
potential for agriculture, agro-industry and tourism. 

Similarly,  we  are  in  favour  of  the  establishment 
of  a  fairer  and  more  favourable  global  trading  system 
that  is  more  conducive  to  sustainable  development  in 
developing countries. In this context, we regret the lack 
of  progress  in  the  Doha  Development  Round,  and  we 
urge  developed  countries  to  be  more  flexible,  within 
the  framework  of  the  World  Trade  Organization,  in 
their approach to the needs of developing countries. We 
reiterate this appeal because we are convinced that our 
partners do not want to witness the perpetuation of the 
marginalization  of  developing  countries  from 
the 
global economy. 

The  assessment  made  in  2005  indicates  that  a 
number  of  developing  countries  are  making  progress 
towards the attainment of the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Mozambique  is  part  of  this  positive  trend. 
However, to ensure that it is irreversible, we call upon 
our  development  partners  to  continue  to  provide 
substantial  and 
the  priorities 
identified  by  the  recipient  countries.  We  believe  that 
our partners are also touched, in their souls and in their 
spirit,  by  the  poverty  that  still  afflicts  that  part  of 
humanity. 
timely  support  for 
rich 
12 

06-52988 
to 
forge 
and 
in  mind 
the  need 
to 
safeguard 
effective 
partnerships 



In  conclusion,  we  join  previous  speakers  in 
emphasizing the need for the United Nations reforms to 
move  forward.  We  all  recognize  the  United  Nations 
potential 
for 
development.  Therefore,  we  reaffirm  the  commitment 
of the Government of the Republic of Mozambique to 
contribute to the success of this reform process, always 
bearing 
the 
intergovernmental nature of the United Nations. 

Mozambique  is  proud  that  its  Prime  Minister, 
Mrs. Luísa Diogo, is one of the Co-Chairs of the High-
level Panel on System-Wide Coherence in the areas of 
development, 
the 
environment,  established  by  the  Secretary-General.  It 
is  our  belief  that  the  Panel’s  report  will  contribute  to 
the success of the United Nations reforms. A reformed 
United Nations will be better placed to respond to the 
international  challenges 
to 
strengthen international law and multilateralism and to 
promote  partnerships  for  development  and  peace 
worldwide. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Mozambique for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
humanitarian 
imposed  by 
the  need 
assistance 


Address by Mr. Branko Crvenkovski, President of 
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  The  Former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 

Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski,  President  of  The 
Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski, 
President  of  The  Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Crvenkovski:  It  is  my  privilege  to 

address  this  forum  and  share  with  it  the  views  of  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  on  the  issues  of  primary 
importance  on  this  year’s  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly and of the international community at large. 
A/61/PV.14

Terrorism  is  not  a  new  world  issue,  but  it  has 
unfortunately  become  our  tragic  daily  reality,  thus 
rapidly  gaining  new  and  more  devastating  dimensions 
in  the  increasingly  globalized  world.  We  are  all 
affected  in  one  way  or  another  —  whether  we  speak 
about actual terrorist attacks or threats. 

The real question, however, is: can we or should 
we,  the  nations  of  the  world,  continue  to  live  in  that 
kind  of  atmosphere,  to  live  in  fear,  threatened?  It 
would  be  a  failure  of  humanity,  of  free  spirit  and 
democracy, of prosperity and mankind, and finally, if I 
may  say  so,  a  failure  of  all  of  us  here  at  the  United 
Nations.  Recently  we  adopted  the  United  Nations 
Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy.  I  believe  it  was 
high  time  that  we  adopted  a  unified  position  and 
strategy,  that  all  of  us  gave  a  strong  international 
response. Comprehensive international cooperation and 
coordination  against  this  evil  is  equally  important  to 
activities at the national and regional level. We need to 
have results; the sooner, the better. 

Outside this building, when the United Nations is 
mentioned,  for  many  peoples,  even  nations,  it  means 
hope  and  help;  it  means  peace;  and  it  means  cure.  It 
means also freedom, democracy and safety — it means 
life.  So  the  United  Nations  should  not  be  shy  to 
respond,  to  act  and  to  resolve  when  it  is  asked.  The 
United  Nations  has 
to  react.  Only  by  resolving 
problems do we make progress. We have to follow and 
react to the changes and to the new challenges that are 
incoming. 

the  United  Nations, 
including  better  management,  must  be  an  ongoing 
effort.  There  are  still  issues  from  the  World  Summit 
Final  Document  yet  to  be  delivered,  such  as  mandate 
review  and  Security  Council  reform,  to  name  only 
some.  Hopefully,  there  will  be  enough  understanding 
and progress achieved on them too. 

Last  month  we  had  yet  another  reminder  of  how 
fragile world peace actually is. The Middle East again 
erupted.  We  have  witnessed  how  difficult  it  is  to 
restore  peace,  to  hold  a  ceasefire  and  to  send  United 
Nations  peacekeepers  there.  Macedonia  welcomed  the 
unanimous  adoption  of  Security  Council  resolution 
1701  (2006)  of  11  August.  Macedonia  supports  the 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  to  provide  timely  humanitarian  assistance 
to those affected and for the reconstruction of Lebanon. 
The  overall  reform  of 
06-52988 

13 

From 
A/61/PV.14 

The  United  Nations  must  fight  to  make  a  lasting 
peaceful solution for the Middle East. 

the  very  beginning 
the  Republic  of 
Macedonia  has  been  part  of 
the 
international 
antiterrorist  coalitions  in  Iraq  and Afghanistan,  and  it 
has  recently  increased  its  contingents  as  part  of  the 
international forces. Peace- and democracy-building in 
those two countries remains one of the key challenges 
for  the  international  community  and  the  Iraqis  and 
Afghans  themselves.  I  again  reiterate  Macedonia’s 
support for their  efforts to  rebuild those  countries and 
create a better life for their people. 
it 
in 
is  more 
than  obvious 
the  Millennium  Declaration, 

Last  year  at  the  Summit  we  reaffirmed  our 
commitment to the global partnership for development, 
as  set  out 
the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation. It is beyond doubt that every country 
has a principal responsibility for its own development. 
However, 
that  national 
development  efforts  must  be  supported  by  global 
actions. The contribution of the private sector and civil 
society  may  play  a  critical  role  in  our  common 
endeavour. 

In  addition  to  human  rights  standard  setting,  the 
United  Nations,  since  the  adoption  of  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  has  been  a  guardian  of 
human  rights.  We  trust  that  the  recently  established 
Human Rights Council will give a new impetus in this 
area. We  hope  that  the  Commission’s  weaknesses  will 
be overcome, but we have to be aware that this requires 
a  strong  political  commitment  on  the  part  of  the 
membership.  Guided  by  the  wish  to  contribute  to  the 
work  of  this  important  body,  we  have  announced  our 
candidacy for membership for the 2009-2012 period. 

Today  Macedonia  is  a  stable  and  functional 
multi-ethnic  democracy.  Over  recent  years  we  have 
launched  and  carried  out  a  large  number  of  reform 
projects, which have brought us closer to the European 
Union  and  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO)  alliance.  In  December  last  year  Macedonia 
was  granted  candidate  status  for  European  Union 
membership.  Macedonia  rightfully  expects  that  the 
pace of the needed reforms the country is committed to 
will  lead  to  an  opening  of  the  negotiations  on  joining 
the  European  Union.  As  for  NATO,  we  expect  the 
invitation to join it at the next enlargement summit. 
is 
and 
relations 
security  — 
Good-neighbourly 

The region of south-eastern Europe to which my 
country belongs has experienced significant changes in 
the  recent  past  and  made  considerable  democratic 
progress: 
the  start  of  European  Union  accession 
negotiations  of  Croatia  and  Turkey;  Macedonia 
becoming  a  candidate  country  for  membership  in  the 
European  Union;  the  signing  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association Agreement  with Albania;  and  the  opening 
of the negotiations for the same agreement with Serbia, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Montenegro,  the  newly 
independent State. Furthermore, Romania and Bulgaria 
are expected to become full European Union members 
in a few months. 

regional 
cooperation have been and are among the top priorities 
of  Macedonia’s  foreign  policy.  We  will  continue  to 
pursue such a policy even more vigorously. There is no 
alternative  to  dialogue,  and  all  outstanding  regional 
issues should be resolved in that manner. This year the 
Macedonian delegation will once again introduce in the 
First  Committee  a  resolution  entitled  “Maintenance  of 
international 
good-neighbourliness, 
stability  and  development  in  South-Eastern  Europe,” 
which 
traditionally  widely  supported  and  co-
sponsored by Member States. 

I should like to say a few words about the Kosovo 
issue  and  Kosovo’s  future  status.  Macedonia  fully 
supports  the  work  of  the  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Envoy,  Martti  Ahtisaari,  and  his  team  on  the  Kosovo 
status talks. I stress that every effort should be made to 
achieve a negotiated settlement mutually acceptable to 
the  parties  concerned,  in  line  with  Security  Council 
resolution 1244 (1999) and the Contact Group guiding 
principles. The Republic of Macedonia, with its active 
good-neighbourly  policy,  has  been  a  factor  that  has 
largely contributed, and continues to contribute, to the 
final, overall stabilization and positive developments in 
the region. 

Yet there is one important, still pending, issue in 
this context for the Republic of Macedonia: that of the 
technical  demarcation  of  our  northern  border  on  the 
Kosovo section, in line with the agreement between the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  and  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Yugoslavia,  signed 
the 
recommendations  made  by 
then  Secretary-
General’s  Special  Envoy,  Kai  Eide.  We  urge  that  this 
issue be closed in that manner before the final Kosovo 
status decision is reached. 
in  February  2001,  and 
the 
14 

06-52988 
I  am  confident 



that  our  deliberations  will 
contribute  to  creating  a  better  world  for  all. Although 
the  debates  at  times  show  how  different  we  are,  our 
differences  must  not  be  an  obstacle  to  our  common 
vision. The personification of the hope of mankind for 
a better tomorrow remains with the United Nations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  The  Former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Branko  Crvenkovski,  President  of  The 
Former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


into 
Address by Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the 
Republic of Burundi 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi. 

Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic 
of  Burundi,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pierre  Nkurunziza, 
President of the Republic of Burundi, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President Nkurunziza (spoke in French): It is a 

great  honour  and  pleasure  to  speak  here  on  behalf  of 
my  delegation  and  to  take  part  in  this  important 
the  Member  States  of  our 
gathering,  where  all 
Organization  will  consider 
today’s  most  pressing 
issues. 

I  wish  to  express  to  the  President,  on  behalf  of 
my  delegation  and  in  my  own  name,  our  warmest 
congratulations  on  her  election.  We  also  congratulate 
Mr. Jan Eliasson on the effective way in which he led 
the work of the previous session. 

We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  express  once 
again my country’s support for, and appreciation of, the 
excellent  work  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Kofi 
Annan,  who  has  led  our  Organization  with  courage, 
lucidity and determination during his term of office. 

Burundi is taking part in the sixty-first session of 
the  General  Assembly  a  year  after  the  setting  up  of 
democratic  institutions.  It  was  a  historic  event  in 
A/61/PV.14
thanks 
to 
far, 
this 
for  us 
for  Burundi  and 
task  was  made  possible 
Burundi 
to  have  democratically  elected 
institutions,  which  have  just  reached  the  end  of  their 
first  year  in  office,  the  first  time  this  has  happened 
since we gained independence. 
This  is  a  good  time  for  us  to  report  to  the 

Assembly  on 
the  political,  social  and  economic 
situation in our country and the efforts that have been 
made  to  meet  the  many  challenges  that  the  people  of 
Burundi face. It is also an opportunity for us to address 
some  of  the  issues  of  current  concern  at  the  regional 
and global levels. 

In  the  post-conflict  situation  that  my  country  is 
going  through,  the  first  concern  was  to  re-establish 
peace  and  security  throughout  the  country.  Carrying 
out 
the 
deployment  in  Burundi  of  a  United  Nations  force  and 
the  training  of  a  new  national  defence  force,  in 
accordance  with  the Arusha  Peace  and  Reconciliation 
Agreement 
the  Comprehensive 
Ceasefire  Agreement  of  Pretoria.  So 
this 
integration  has  proceeded  uneventfully,  and  we  thank 
God for this. 
The  signing  of  a  comprehensive  ceasefire  on 

7 September 2006 by the Government and the last rebel 
movement, the Palipehutu-FNL movement, encourages 
us to accelerate the programme for disarming civilians 
in order to establish peace and security throughout the 
country.  Over  the  last  three  months  the  people  have 
begun to voluntarily hand in to the authorities weapons 
they  acquired  during  Burundi’s  crisis.  So  far  about 
5,000 weapons have been handed over. The agreement 
represents  a  very  important  stage  in  the  life  of  our 
country, which is now going through its reconstruction 
phase.  
The enjoyment of political liberties has become a 

reality in Burundi, whether in terms of political parties, 
civil society or the media. With regard to the media, a 
law  has  just  been  passed  to  create  more  diverse  and 
more professional press institutions. 

We  have  also  just  passed  an  anti-corruption  law. 
Measures  to  implement  it  include  an  anti-corruption 
court  and  a  force  to  deal  with  corruption.  We  are 
convinced  that  they  will  allow  us  to  work  with  more 
transparency  in  the  management  of  public  resources 
and  in  our  fight  against  corruption.  State  income  is 
increasing  by  nearly  20  per  cent  each  month;  we  are 
already enjoying the benefits of this policy. 
06-52988 

15 

equality. 
A/61/PV.14 


With regard to promoting the rule of law and the 
rights  of  the  individual,  we  are  making  progress 
through  the  reforms  taking  place  in  the  justice  sector 
and with regard to human rights, national solidarity and 
gender 
The  Burundi  Government’s 
programme has placed promoting the rights of women 
and gender equality amongst its priorities. We urge the 
United Nations to give particular attention to this issue 
during 
its  reform  process.  The  Government  also 
appeals for, and supports, a specific structure to ensure 
that  women  emerge  from  poverty  and  thus  have 
genuine equality. 

Still with regard to the rule of law, in addition to 
the 5,000 or more political prisoners already freed, on 
the  occasion  of  the  celebration  of  the  forty-fourth 
anniversary  of  national  independence  on  1  July  this 
year,  we  decided  to  release  undocumented  detainees 
being held under irregular circumstances. Similarly, the 
Government  has  started  to  improve  conditions  for 
prisoners who have been properly sentenced. However, 
we are aware that much more needs to be done in this 
area, with the support of the international community. 

Establishing  the  rule  of  law  and  peacebuilding 
also depend on the peaceful settlement of the issue of 
land  ownership.  This  was  behind  the  Government’s 
creation  of  the  national  commission  dealing  with  land 
and other assets, whose task it is to settle disputes over 
the ownership or recovery of land and other assets that 
have  changed  hands  during  the  various  social  and 
political conflicts in our history. Its work is an essential 
complement  to  that  of  the  truth  and  reconciliation 
commission,  with  regard  to  which  the  Government  of 
Burundi hopes agreement will soon be reached with the 
United  Nations,  because  we  are  convinced  that  it  will 
contribute  to  combating  the  fallout  from  genocide,  as 
well  as  impunity  in  our  country,  and  enhance  the 
national reconciliation process. 

With regard to national reconciliation, we firmly 
believe  that  sport  is  a  very  important  factor  in 
peacebuilding  and  reconstruction  and  in  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  Burundi  we  have 
taken  measures  in  this  area,  and  we  hope  that  other 
countries  going  through  a  post-conflict  period  will 
follow our example. 

The Government of Burundi continues to have to 
deal  with  a  significant  number  of  vulnerable  people. 
We  have  today  nearly  400,000  refugees,  120,000 
internally  displaced  persons  and  thousands  of  others 
conditions 
improving  prison 
who  need  to  be  cared  for,  including  persons  with 
disabilities, orphans, widows, widowers and old people 
unsettled  by  the  war.  Our  Government  needs  help  to 
deal  with  this  situation.  Since  the  recent  ceasefire 
agreement,  refugees  have  started  to  return  to  Burundi 
en masse. 

The  Government  of  Burundi  has  also  sought  to 
improve the country’s socio-economic situation. Aware 
of  the  general  impoverishment  of  our  people  due  to  a 
decade  of war, we prepared an  emergency programme 
for  the  current  year,  and  submitted  it  to  donors  for 
funding  on  28  February.  The  programme  covers  in 
particular  free  primary  education  for  all  children  of 
school age, counteracting hunger, access to health care, 
the  communication 
job  creation,  rehabilitation  of 
infrastructure, 
and 
improving the management of public finances. 

In  order  to  ensure  the  proper  management  of 
funds  provided  by  donors  within  the  framework  of 
cooperation  with  Burundi, 
the  Government  has 
established  a  national  committee  to  coordinate  aid. 
With the same desire for efficiency, we have created a 
national  committee  to  monitor  and  manage  Heavily 
Indebted Poor Countries funds, budgetary support  and 
debt. 

The  Government’s  efforts  to  alleviate  poverty 
include  measures  such  as  reducing  the  price  of  most 
essential commodities, the abolition of some taxes, free 
health  care  for  children  under  the  age  of  five  and  for 
mothers  who  give  birth  in  state  clinics,  and  the  fight 
against AIDS. A new status for civil servants and a 15 
per  cent  increase  in  their  salary  from  1  July  this  year 
are intended to give them more motivation and halt the 
decline in their standard of living. 
However,  our  country’s  reconstruction,  efforts  to 

counteract  poverty  and  the  relaunching  of  Burundi’s 
economy require more than an emergency programme. 
The  preparation  of  a  strategic  framework  for  growth 
and  counteracting  poverty,  covering  a  period  of  three 
years,  meets  this  concern.  We  plan  to  organize  next 
November  a  donors’  round  table  on  the  basis  of  this 
strategic 
active 
participation of Burundi’s partners, both long-standing 
partners  and  new  ones,  in  order  to  help  Burundi 
respond positively to the many priority expectations of 
our people, who are impatient to enjoy the dividends of 
peace at last. 
framework.  We 
rely  on 
the 
16 

06-52988 
for  our 
socio-economic 
financial 
through  private 


At  the  same  time,  we  are  pursuing  or  launching 

other  measures  aimed  at  creating  a 
favourable 
economic environment that is conducive to prosperity. 
They include liberalizing the coffee sector, simplifying 
customs  procedures,  liberalizing  the  circulation  of 
currency 
institutions, 
constructing new communication routes and improving 
the  road  network.  Furthermore,  the  investment  code 
has  been  revised  in  order  to  encourage  investment  in 
Burundi. 

The Government’s adoption of the five-year plan 
for  2006-2010  and  the  launching  of  a  study  for  the 
period to 2025 are part of this medium- and long-term 
strategy 
and  political 
development. We have thus sought to establish for our 
society a plan based on a minimum number of common 
objectives and a shared vision of the future of Burundi 
and its people. 

We  welcome  the  decision  by  the  American 
Administration  to  put  Burundi  on  the  list  of  countries 
that benefit from the facilities offered in the framework 
of  the African  Growth  and  Opportunity Act.  We  have 
invited businessmen to organize themselves in order to 
take  advantage  of 
this  new  opportunity  for  our 
economy. 

Burundi  attaches  great  importance  to  regional 
integration  initiatives.  We  take  this  opportunity  to 
welcome  the  electoral  process  taking  place  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, which is now in its 
final stages. We hope that it will be successful and that 
it  will  result  in  the  democratic  establishment  of 
legitimate  institutions.  Similarly,  we  welcome  the 
signing  of  a  ceasefire  between  the  Government  of 
Uganda  and  the  LRA,  which  we  sincerely  hope  will 
quickly lead to lasting peace. 

We continue to be concerned over the continuing 
armed  conflict  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  Darfur  and  the 
Middle  East,  as  well  as  by  the  deadlock  in  the  peace 
process  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  As  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  we  must  work  tirelessly  to  end  these  sad 
situations. 

Terrorism is a further harsh reality that the world 
still  confronts.  Far  from  being  discouraged,  we  must 
step  up  our  vigilance  and  consider  new  initiatives  to 
counteract  this  scourge  and  evil,  and  to  deal  with  its 
underlying causes. 
A/61/PV.14

Globalization  is  one  of  the  major  challenges  of 
the  twenty-first  century,  but  we  also  see  it  as  an 
opportunity  for  developing  countries  to  benefit  from 
the considerable progress and advantages that it offers, 
provided it is combined with openness and autonomy. 

For our part, we will spare no effort to make our 
contribution  to  building  peace  and  prosperity.  The 
election  of  Burundi  to  the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
is a source of pride and additional motivation to work 
to  strengthen  peace  in  our  country  and  throughout  the 
world.  Unfortunately,  changes 
in  anti-democratic 
thinking and behaviour do not take place automatically 
in  countries  emerging  from  crisis,  such  as  Burundi. 
However,  we  welcome  the  successes  already  achieved 
and our increased capacity to control the situation. 

Our  Organization  is  going  through  a  critical 
period.  Although  the  United  Nations  was  set  up  “to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”, 
certain  conflict  situations  have  been  haunting  it  for 
many  years.  It  must  therefore  be  made  into  an 
instrument  at  the  service  of  all,  able  to  inspire  hope, 
dispel  concerns  and  restore  respect  for  order  and 
international law. This mission must be fulfilled in full 
cooperation  with 
regional  organizations,  whose 
conflict  prevention 
effectiveness 
rapid 
in 
intervention  has 
already  been  proved,  despite 
insufficient resources. 

The  General Assembly’s  agenda  must  reflect  the 
main concerns of the day. These include, in particular, 
nuclear  disarmament,  which  continues 
to  poison 
international  relations.  Other  concerns  are  combating 
the  illegal  trade  in  small  arms,  poverty  and  epidemics 
that kill on a large scale, such as AIDS and malaria. We 
commend  the  international  drug  purchasing  facility 
(UNITAID)  initiative,  which  gives  hope  to  those 
suffering  from  AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria.  It 
proves  that  a  partnership  between  the  North  and  the 
South  can  change  the  lives  of  millions  of  people 
throughout the world. 

The  new  millennium  was  warmly  welcomed. 
World  leaders  place  great  hopes  in  this  new  time,  as 
shown by the Millennium Development Goals adopted 
in  2000,  which  were  reaffirmed  in  the  declaration  of 
the  summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  in 
September 2005. Those Goals represent a platform that 
is  particularly  important  for  developing  countries, 
landlocked  countries  and  small  island  developing 
States  in  their  efforts  to  combat  hunger  and  poverty 
and 
06-52988 

17 

A/61/PV.14 

and to promote health and education, to mention just a 
few subjects. 

Other commitments were made in Paris and at the 
G-8  summit  in  Gleneagles,  particularly  for  improved 
aid coordination and further aid and debt relief. 

Before  closing,  I  would  like  to  express  our  deep 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Kofi  Annan,  the  Secretary-General, 
and  to  all  the  members  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
European  Union  and  the African  Union,  as  well  as  to 
all  the  members  of  the  Regional  Initiative  that  have 
supported  our  peacemaking  and  peacebuilding  efforts, 
which have resulted in the achievements already seen. 
We  think  in  particular  of  certain  countries  of  the 
region,  such  as  Uganda,  Tanzania  and  South  Africa, 
which were tireless godfathers in facilitating our peace 
process.  To  all  those  partners,  we  again  say  a  big 
“Thank  you”  for  the  remarkable  success  that  my 
country  has  just  witnessed  with  the  signing  of  the 
ceasefire with the Palipehutu-FNL. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Burundi for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic 
of  Burundi,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Marc Ravalomanana, President of 
the Republic of Madagascar 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar. 

Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana, 
President of the Republic of Madagascar, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Ravalomanana  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Kofi  Annan,  for  everything  that  he  has  done;  he 
has been a great Secretary-General. Thanks to his clear 
vision,  his  commitment  and  his  open-mindedness,  he 
has  greatly  contributed  to  the  development  of  the 
Last  year  we  discussed 
United  Nations  and  the  promotion  of  Africa.  I  thank 
him and his team. 

the  Millennium 
Development Goals. It was clear that they could not be 
attained  in  the  sub-Saharan  countries  if  we  did  not 
make a considerable effort. The initiatives of the G-8, 
the World Bank, the European Union and other donors 
seemed to constitute a good foundation for a profound 
change. Have we noticed a profound change? I do not 
think  so.  The  sad  reality  is  that  Africa  receives  less 
international  assistance per capita  than  it  did  20  years 
ago. 

Let  us  be  honest.  The  great  ideas  and  the 
goodwill  expressed  in  words  rarely  pass  through  the 
filters of existing structures and programmes. The files 
on  Afghanistan,  Iraq  and  Lebanon,  the  Palestine 
question and the oil question have put the Africa file in 
the  shade.  It  is  a  fact:  Africa  is  not  a  priority  for 
international authorities. 

However,  I  remind  the Assembly  that  we  all  set 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  These  are 
common  goals;  therefore,  their  realization  is  also  a 
common  task.  I  remind  the  Assembly,  too,  that  when 
we deal with issues we are also writing the destiny of 
hundreds  of  millions  of  human  beings.  Our  decisions 
affect millions of children. Where is the fervent desire, 
then,  to  deliver  on  what  we  have  promised  to  do  for 
them? That is the paradox between what we preach and 
what we do. 

I  remind  the  Assembly  that  the  task  of  this 
community  is  to  avoid  crises  instead  of  dealing  with 
crises.  This  institution  should  be  a  place  not  for 
firefighters, but for strategists.  

I  emphasize  that  the  idea  of  one  world,  the 
foundation  of  globalization,  cannot  take  us  towards  a 
fair and peaceful future as long as many poor countries 
are still marginalized. We want the same ticket to enter 
the international community as the European Union has 
given to Eastern European countries. We should all be 
on the same boat. However, many developing countries 
are  still  struggling  behind  it,  swimming  hard  to  try  to 
catch up with it. How can we get out of this calamitous 
situation? 

The Millennium Development Goals must remain 
the  basis  of  our  discussions  and  our  actions,  even  if 
their  achievement  becomes  more  and  more  difficult. 
The 
the 
industrialized  countries  have  asked  us, 
18 

06-52988 


developing  countries, 
to  develop  visions  for  our 
countries and to prepare road maps in order to achieve 
them.  They  have  asked  us  to  specify  the  Millennium 
Development Goals for our countries. They have asked 
us to increase our absorption capacity. 

All  of  that  is  fair  and  understandable.  However, 
the  role  of  industrialized  countries  is  not  to  play  the 
referee,  assess  players  and  give  out  red  cards.  All 
countries,  developed  and  developing  alike,  must  play 
together. We must act together and have the same goal. 

That  is  why  I  have  decided  to  develop  a  new 
strategy in Madagascar, which we call the Madagascar 
Action  Plan.  The  plan  has  been  discussed  throughout 
the  regions  of  Madagascar  with  representatives  of 
private and public organizations to create a sound basis 
for  achieving our  vision,  “Madagascar  — Naturally!”, 
and the Millennium Development Goals. 

The  plan  has  also  been  discussed  with  members 
of the donor community. I told them that it is based on 
our vision and on the Millennium Development Goals, 
which  we  all  set  together.  We  should  not  be  satisfied 
with existing means; we should mobilize all the means 
needed to achieve those goals. 

I also told the donors that the Madagascar Action 
Plan  is  our  common  plan.  We  decide  together  how 
many men and women we want to — and can — pull 
out  of  poverty;  how  many  poor  children  can  have  a 
better  education;  and  how  many  children  we  can  save 
by  providing  them  with  safe  drinking  water  and 
vaccines. 

Together  we  have  to  answer  these  questions, 
because  they  concern  global  tasks,  common  tasks. 
Hunger,  poverty  and  disasters  are  among  those  issues 
that  know  no  borders.  Therefore,  they  are  part  of  our 
shared responsibility.  

We  must  change  the  approach  used  in  the  past, 
which was based on division. We must accept that the 
tasks  are  too  burdensome  to  be  carried  out  by  weak 
people,  to  whom  a  new  burden  is  given.  I  am  talking 
about  goals  and  measures  that  we  must  deal  with 
together, according to the capacity of each of us. 
International  assistance  for African  development 

must  undoubtedly  be  doubled  or  tripled  in  the  short 
term.  Donors  must  deliver  on  their  promises  in  the 
short term if we really want to revive the economies of 
African countries. 
A/61/PV.14
reasons.  They 
include 
fundamental  misunderstanding.  To 

People  ask  why  sub-Saharan  Africa  has  not 
experienced  economic  growth  in  the  last  few  years. 
There  are  many 
internal 
conflicts,  lack  of  good  governance,  instability  and 
insecurity.  However,  the  reduction  of  aid  per  capita 
during the last 20 years is one of the main reasons for 
the slowing of economic growth. 

A  further  reduction  of  international  aid  has  been 
proposed, so that developing countries will become — 
so it is said — much more independent quickly. That is 
a 
become 
independent,  we  need  more  international  aid.  Greater 
support is the shortest path towards independence. The 
more we invest in education, infrastructure and health, 
the  more  economic  growth  will  be  strengthened. And 
the more economic growth is strengthened, the quicker 
will the independence of developing countries become 
effective. 

Investments  in  education,  health,  infrastructure 
and  so  on  continue  to  be  conditions  for  foreign  direct 
investment. Private investment cannot replace them.  

We should look at the results of the Marshall Plan 
and at the huge investments by the European Union in 
the  new  member  States.  They  have  been  a  huge 
success. 

The  question  of  absorption  capacity  has  been 
discussed.  Like  all  developing  countries,  we  too  have 
had  problems,  problems  of  cooperation  between 
national and international partners. Basically, if there is 
a lack of capacity, it is the result of lack of cooperation 
and confidence.  

Capacity must never be the factor that determines 
the  volume  of  support.  Where  there  is  a  lack  of 
capacity  in  an  area,  it  is  necessary  to  strengthen  that 
area.  If  there  are  not  yet  enough  human  resources 
available at the national level, it is necessary to call on 
international  experts,  while 
reinforcing  national 
capacities. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  add  a  few  words 
on  “country  ownership”.  It  is  true  that  we  in  the 
developing  countries  know  our  problems  very  well. 
Therefore, we are ready to assume our responsibilities. 
Deciding  on  policies  and  actions  must  be 
the 
responsibility  of  nationals.  The  programmes  of  the 
donors have to be integrated into national programmes. 

But it is also true that we are not always aware of 
our  weaknesses  and  are  not  in  phase  with  all  the 
06-52988 

19 
aid 
quantitatively 
to  achieve 
should 
international 
in  order 
and 
the  Millennium 
therefore 
act 
increase 
qualitatively 
Development Goals.  We 
accordingly.  

North  America,  Europe  and  most  countries  in 
Asia  and  South  America  have  experienced  an  era  of 
prosperity  and  progress.  Their  peoples  now  have  a 
good chance of enjoying a good standard of living until 
the age of 80. 

The peoples of Africa do not have that chance. I 
therefore call upon the United Nations to develop and 
adopt  a  new,  more  dynamic  and  determined  approach 
in  favour  of Africa.  If  that  is  done,  opportunities  will 
be more balanced and the world will be a fairer place. 
We note that the industrialized countries can react 

quickly and launch large-scale operations if their vital 
interests are at stake. We desire now the same dynamic 
approach  for  Africa,  because  the  basic  needs  of  our 
people  are  still  being  ignored.  Such  an  approach  is  in 
the interest of the African peoples, but it is also in the 
best  interest  of  humanity.  A  prosperous  Africa  is  an 
asset for the world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Madagascar for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Marc  Ravalomanana,  President  of 
the 

Republic  of  Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 

is  not  only 
include  values  and 
transfer  of  capital.  It 
A/61/PV.14 

values,  rules,  standards  and  procedures 
that  are 
acknowledged  in  most  industrialized  countries.  Often 
our fellow citizens do not appreciate the true worth of 
good governance. 
Transferring  the  rules  of  good  governance  and 

standards  of  quality 
in  education,  health  and 
infrastructure  into  our  culture  and  our  policies  is 
essential. The  transfer  of  knowledge  is  as  urgent  as  is 
the 
technical 
knowledge  that  we  lack;  the  transfer  of  knowledge 
must  also 
the  concept  of 
professionalism. 

Let us pool our capacities. What is at stake is so 
important  that  we  must  use  all  our  capacities  at  the 
same  time.  Effectiveness  must  be  the  rule.  Good 
cooperation between national and international experts 
is the basis of success. 

And let us be more realistic, more pragmatic. The 
percentage  of  international  aid  spent  on  studies  is  far 
too high. Most studies are not implemented and simply 
repeat what previous studies have already found out. 

effective 
decentralization, so that financial aid reaches the grass-
roots  communities.  The  financing  mechanism  is  often 
slow and sometimes complex. It resembles a tortuous, 
stony path — and it is porous.  

From  time  to  time,  we  ask  the  same  questions: 
How  can  we  better  structure  international  assistance? 
Which transfer of funds, for which area and with which 
measures  is  the  most  important?  There  is  no  simple 
answer.  Each  country,  each  region  and  each  area 
requires  a  different  answer.  Theoretical  discussions 
will not help.  
However,  there  is  a  foundation  that  is  crucial  to 

all  development:  confidence.  If  a  people  do  not  feel 
confident,  they  will  not  contribute  to  development.  If 
international firms do not feel confident, they will not 
come. 

Confidence comes from opening up to the outside 
world,  from  stability,  security  and  transparency.  Good 
governance  and  democracy  are  also  crucial.  I  assure 
the Assembly that Madagascar, my Government and I, 
will  hold  free  and  fair  presidential  elections 
in 
December. 

During  last  year’s  session  of  the Assembly  there 
was  general  agreement  about  the  urgent  need  to 
recommend 
more 
also 
I 







  Address by The Right Honourable Stephen 
Harper, Prime Minister of Canada 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Canada. 

The  Right  Honourable  Stephen  Harper,  Prime 
Minister of Canada, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency 
the  Right  Honourable 
Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of  Canada,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Harper  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 

great  honour  for  me,  as  Prime  Minister  of  Canada,  to 
20 

06-52988 


speak to the Assembly today about the important issues 
confronting us as Members of the United Nations. 
(spoke in English) 

The United Nations was born from a combination 
of  the  essential  needs  of  nations  for  stability  and 
security  and  the  higher  ideals  to  which  we  should  all 
aspire  —  freedom,  democracy,  human  rights  and  the 
rule of law. 
(spoke in French) 
Our  responsibilities  in  this  Organization  are  as 

varied  as  they  are  important,  and  I  cannot  mention 
them all, nor do each the justice they deserve. 
(spoke in English) 

Nor  can  Canada  be  effective  by  diffusing  our 
efforts  across  all  of  these  matters. We  must  focus  our 
considerable,  but  limited,  resources  where  we  can 
make a real difference. So let me turn to one particular 
and key area where global interests and higher purpose 
come  directly  together:  the  United  Nations Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan. 
The  United  Nations  recognized  shortly  after  the 

attacks of 11 September 2001 that the Taliban regime, 
by 
to 
international peace and security. 
(spoke in French) 

Kofi  Annan,  our  Secretary-General,  whom  we 
thank for his 10 years of loyal service, summed up in a 
few  words  the  reason  why  we  must  combat  terrorism. 
Terrorism, he said: 

“is  a  direct  attack  on  the  core  values  the  United 
Nations stands for: the rule of law; the protection 
of  civilians;  mutual  respect  between  people  of 
different 
faiths  and  cultures;  and  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts.” 
its  promotion  of 
terrorism,  was  a 
threat 
(spoke in English) 

That  is  why  we  in  the  United  Nations  have  the 
responsibility  to  defeat  terrorism.  That  is  why,  with 
unity and determination, the United Nations undertook 
its  responsibility  and  its  role  in Afghanistan. And  that 
is  why  Canada,  which  lost  24  of  its  own  citizens  on 
9/11, answered the call. 

And there we are. The United Nations Assistance 
Mission  in  Afghanistan  is  the  United  Nations  single 
largest  political  mission.  It  is  also,  by  far,  Canada’s 
A/61/PV.14
biggest  and  most  important  overseas  mission.  So  the 
United Nations mission is Canada’s mission. 

No fewer than 19 United Nations agencies are in 
Afghanistan.  They  are  working  tirelessly  to  help  the 
Afghan  people  and  their  national  Government  shake 
off the perpetrators of terrorism and build a democratic 
and secure society. 
At  the  same  time,  approximately  20,000  troops 

from  37  countries  — 
roughly  2,500  Canadians 
included — are contributing to military efforts to help 
stabilize Afghanistan and eliminate the remnants of the 
Taliban  regime. And  we  want  to  do  that  once  and  for 
all. 
(spoke in French) 

All  our  actions  in  Afghanistan  —  civilian  and 
military  —  are  being  taken  in  accordance  with  the 
mandate of the Security Council. In short, we all stand 
together  with  the  democratically  elected  Government 
of  Afghanistan  under  the  banner  of  the  Organization 
that  represents  our  collective  will.  In Afghanistan  the 
United Nations mission is Canada’s mission. 
(spoke in English) 

Let  us  be  realistic.  The  challenges  facing 
Afghanistan  are  enormous.  There  will  be  no  quick 
fixes. Moreover, success cannot be assured by military 
means  alone.  This  we  all  recognize.  For  success  also 
requires a strong and unwavering civilian contribution: 
educators,  engineers,  elections  advisers,  direct  and 
technical aid. The list is lengthy, but the contributions 
are essential. 

That  is  why  Canada  is  engaged  in  work  like  the 
rebuilding of girls’ schools, ripped down and destroyed 
by the Taliban in their frenzy of hate. 
(spoke in French) 
increased  our 

development 
total 
contribution to nearly $1 billion over 10 years, to assist 
the people of Afghanistan. 
(spoke in English) 
These  two  actions  —  rebuilding  a  shattered 

society and providing a stable security environment — 
go  hand  in  glove. And  we  are  making  progress  —  of 
that  there  is  no  doubt:  5  million  refugees  repatriated; 
over  5  million  children  enrolled  in  primary  schools;  
raising  Canada’s 
last  spring  we 
assistance, 
That 
is  why 
06-52988 

21 
to 
in 
the 
More 
the 
seats 
struggle  against 
than  one  quarter  of 
the  health  and  future  of 
A/61/PV.14 

10  million  Afghans  registered  to  vote  in  successive 
democratic elections. 

in 
Afghanistan’s  legislature  are  now  held  by  women  — 
remarkable  in  a  nation  where  a  few  short  years  ago 
girls could not attend school and women had no human 
rights of any kind. 

The  success  of  this  Mission,  in  providing  both 
security  and  development,  is  vital  to  the  safety, 
livelihood and very future of the Afghan people, but it 
is  also  vital 
this 
Organization. 
(spoke in French) 

Let  us  recall  that  the  democratically  elected 
Government  of  Afghanistan,  led  by  President  Karzai, 
requested  the  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States 
terror, 
intimidation, violence and oppression. 
(spoke in English) 

We  have  responded.  But  we  have  not  made 
Afghanistan’s  progress 
irreversible  —  not  yet. 
Canadian 
and 
development officers are on the front lines of the fight 
for 
feel 
tremendous  pride  in  the  leadership  role  they  have 
assumed,  and  we  share  equal  grief  for  the  casualties 
they  have  taken.  We  are  therefore  acutely  aware  that 
the United Nations job in Afghanistan is not yet done. 
We have no illusions about the difficulties that still lie 
before  us.  Difficulties  do  not  daunt  us.  But  lack  of 
common purpose and will in this body would. 

After all, if we fail the Afghan people, we will be 
failing  ourselves.  For  this  is  the  United  Nations 
strongest  Mission  and  therefore  our  greatest  test.  Our 
collective  will  and  credibility  are  being  judged.  We 
cannot afford to fail. We will succeed. 
(spoke in French) 

facing  other 
challenges — in Haiti, for example. Canada has played 
an important role there, dispatching troops, police and 
development  officers 
to  support  United  Nations 
activities  aimed  at  restoring  stability  and  establishing 
democracy.  And  we  are  offering 
the  country  
$100  million  in  economic  development  assistance. 
However,  we  must  act  together  to  ensure  that  our 
multinational  force  paves  the  way  for  stability  and 
future  of  Afghanistan.  Canadians 
The  United  Nations 
personnel, 
diplomats 
is  also 
defence 
the 

in 
Darfur, 
progress,  and  empowers  the  Government  of  Haiti  to 
help its citizens, the poorest in the western hemisphere. 
(spoke in English) 

is  a  significant  challenge,  as 
too, 
multinational  security  efforts  are  transferred  from  the 
African Union to the United Nations. It is also a test of 
the  principle  that  this  body  endorsed  last  year  —  the 
responsibility  to  protect.  The  United  Nations  has 
authorized a mission there, with a robust mandate. But 
will the Government of Sudan accept it? 
In  the  Middle  East,  Canada  has  joined  the 

international  community 
the  reconstruction  of 
Lebanon. But will the United Nations Interim Force in 
Lebanon  ensure  security  on  Israel’s  northern  border 
and lead to progress in the Middle East peace process? 

Nuclear  proliferation  threatens  us  all.  Are  we 
prepared to ensure that Security Council decisions will 
be implemented fully? Will we act to halt activities that 
have  no  reasonable  purpose  other  than  the  acquisition 
of nuclear weapons? 

These are some of the tests the whole world must 
face.  And  there  are  other  challenges  internal  to  this 
Organization. 

Will  the  new  Human  Rights  Council  become  a 
forum  where  human  rights  are  genuinely  put  above 
political maneuvering? Or will it emulate the fate of its 
failed  predecessor  organization?  I  must  say  that  the 
early  signals  suggest  that  too  little  has  changed  and 
that the page has not yet been turned. 

United Nations management reform? 
(spoke in French) 

Earlier  this  year  Canada’s  new  Government  was 
given  a  mandate  to  make  our  national  Government 
more accountable and more responsible, to ensure that 
taxpayers get full value for their money and to pursue a 
clear,  focused  agenda  that  produces  tangible  results. 
The United Nations should accept nothing less. 
(spoke in English) 
become  more 

accountable  and  more  effective.  Management  reform 
must  continue,  and  at  an  accelerated  pace.  The 
taxpayers of Member nations, Canadians among them, 
make  significant 
this 
Organization.  They  have  the  right  to  expect  stronger, 
And  what  will  be  done  to  make  progress  on 
This  Organization  must 
financial  contributions 
to 
22 

06-52988 




more  independent  oversight  mechanisms,  more  robust 
accountability  for  how  funds  are  spent,  and  human 
resources practices that are based on merit. 
(spoke in French) 

I  have  just  described  the  tests  by  which  this 
Organization will be judged. Canada wants this to be a 
positive  judgment.  We  were  there  when  the  United 
Nations  was  founded.  Like  the  other  countries,  we 
were  motivated  by  a  pressing  need  to  establish  a  new 
international  consensus  in  a  world  devastated  by  war. 
And,  like  the  others,  we  were  motivated  by  our  own 
pragmatic  interests  and  noble  aspirations  for  all  of 
humanity.  More  than  60  years  later  the  formula 
remains the same. 
(spoke in English) 

The challenge has always been the same: to bring 
nations  together  to  build  a  better  world  by  forging 
consensus  on  common  purposes  and  by  finding  the 
political will to translate these into action. 

When  these  goals  have  been  achieved,  Canada 
has always been with the Organization — through the 
war  against  fascism,  the  cold  war,  dozens  of  United 
Nations-sponsored  peacekeeping  missions,  and  more 
recent  multinational  military  engagements 
the 
Balkans and the Persian Gulf. 
Today  Afghanistan  leads  the  list  of  challenges 

that  we  face  collectively  —  peacebuilding  in  a  nation 
where there is not yet peace, where progress requires a 
wide  range  of  capabilities  undertaken  by  a  wide  array 
of our Member States. 

My earnest hope is that we will say with pride to 
future  generations  of  leaders: We,  the  United  Nations, 
took  up  that  responsibility  in Afghanistan,  rose  to  the 
challenge  and  met  it  firmly,  collectively,  successfully. 
In  this  endeavour,  as  with  the  others  I  have  outlined, 
Canada  will  be  there  with  the  Organization  at  every 
step along the way. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Canada for the statement he has just made. 

The  Right  Honourable  Stephen  Harper,  Prime 
Minister  of  Canada,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
in 


06-52988 

  Address by Mr. José Sócrates, Prime Minister 
of the Portuguese Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
the 
the  Prime  Minister  of 

hear  an  address  by 
Portuguese Republic. 

the 
the 
Mr.  José  Sócrates,  Prime  Minister  of 
Portuguese  Republic,  was  escorted 
to 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Sócrates,  Prime 
Minister of the Portuguese Republic, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Sócrates  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  like 
to  begin,  like  previous  speakers,  by  extending  my 
warmest  congratulations  to  Ms.  Haya  Rasheed  Al-
Khalifa, the first woman in nearly 40 years to take up 
the position of President of the General Assembly. This 
is good news for international politics. I wish her every 
success  in  discharging  the  mandate  on  which  she  is 
now  beginning,  in  which  she  can  be  assured  of 
Portugal’s firm support. We are confident that she will 
continue 
the  excellent  work  carried  out  by  her 
predecessor,  Minister  Jan  Eliasson,  whom  I  am  very 
happy to remember here. 

This  session  of  the Assembly  is  also  notable  for 
being  the  last  during  which  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan  will  be  in  office.  I  therefore  solemnly  express 
on behalf of the Portuguese people our  heartfelt, deep 
appreciation for the way in which he has carried out his 
duties  over  the  last  10  years,  contributing  concretely 
and decisively to international peace and stability in a 
world  that  we  all  wish  were  more  just.  It  was  on  his 
watch  —  and  with  his  indispensable  personal  help  — 
that we saw the birth of the new State of Timor-Leste. 
Portugal  will  not  forget  that  this  was  one  of  the  great 
recent victories of the United Nations, in peoples’ fight 
for self-determination, and in defence of the values in 
the Charter. 

This Organization has carried out a crucial task in 
Timor-Leste,  in  maintaining  peace,  consolidating  the 
rule of law and, together with donor countries, creating 
the  foundations  for  a  more  prosperous  economic  and 
social future for the Timorese people. 

There is still a long way to go, it is true. But it is 
important that the Timorese people be aware that they 
can  count  on  the  United  Nations.  Unfortunately,  the 
A/61/PV.14
23 

the 
that 
the  values 
investment  made  by 
A/61/PV.14 

recent  internal  crisis  raised  a  serious  question  about 
security,  and  it  is  vital  that  this  be  resolved  if  the 
country is to find stability. 

We  therefore  applaud  the  new  United  Nations 
peace  mission,  the  United  Nations  Integrated  Mission 
in  Timor-Leste,  which  represents  a  continuity  of  the 
significant 
international 
community, to which Portugal belongs. We participate 
actively  in  this  Mission,  consistent  with  our  ongoing 
commitment,  going  back  over  three  decades,  to  the 
political process of the new State of Timor-Leste. 

In this regard, I would also like to pay due tribute 
to  the  memory  of  Sergio  Vieira  de  Mello,  brutally 
murdered three years ago in Baghdad in the service of 
the  United  Nations. We  will  not  forget  all  that  he  did 
for  the  just  cause  of  the  Timorese  people,  and  in 
defence  of 
the  United  Nations 
embodies. 
This  last  decade  has  been  one  of  great  changes. 

The  United  Nations  has  had  undoubted  successes,  but 
there  have  also  been  missed  opportunities.  Many 
accuse the Organization of undue complexity, slowness 
in 
excessive 
bureaucracy. It is true that diplomacy requires time, but 
it  does  produce  results.  If  there  is  something  that  we 
have learned over these last years, it is that there is no 
alternative to multilateralism; multilateralism is where 
the United Nations plays a determinant role. 

The  United  Nations  is  today  one  of  the  greatest 
guarantors  of  our  collective  security.  It  is  our  duty  to 
preserve  and  strengthen  it.  It  is  an  investment  from 
which  we  all  stand  to  benefit.  Each  one  of  us  is  a 
Member  of  this  Organization  not  only  to  serve  and 
promote  our  own  national  interests,  but  also  —  and  I 
would  go  so  far  as  to  say  above  all  —  to  fulfil  the 
hopes and dreams of the people of the whole world. 

The world today, as we know, is full of risks and 
threats  that  no  country  can  face  alone.  If  we  do  not 
unite  in  our  efforts,  we  are  halfway  down  the  road  to 
failure. Reality, particularly in recent years, has proved 
this to us quite clearly. 

I  would  therefore  like  to  underline  Portugal’s 
commitment  to  multilateralism,  because  we  firmly 
believe that this is the path where one can best uphold 
the essential values of peace and development. 
A  big  part  of  this  multilateral  action  rests  on  a 

dialogue  between  cultures  and  civilizations.  It  is 
its  decision-making  process 
and 
the 
huge 
Despite 
uncertainties 
irrespective  of 
the  other  hand, 
imposes  steps  forward  on 
through  this  dialogue  that  we  assume  a  collective 
responsibility 
to  overcome  obstacles,  prejudices, 
preconceived  ideas  and,  principally,  ignorance.  Our 
challenge here in this dialogue is not to limit ourselves 
to  mere  declarations,  but  to  take  firm  and  concrete 
steps  towards  greater  interaction  between  peoples  and 
cultures. 

and 
misunderstandings in the world today, we have a set of 
principles  —  contained  in  our  Charter  —  that  can 
inspire us and guide us. They are our best help. 

The  dialogue  between  cultures  and  civilizations 
also imposes demanding domestic political agendas, in 
the  respect  for  differences  and  the  inclusion  of  all 
citizens in society — the inclusion  of immigrants; the 
inclusion  of  all, 
their  beliefs  or 
religions. 
the  dialogue  between 

On 
the 
civilizations  also 
international  scene,  the  strengthening  of  economic 
bonds between North and South. The strengthening of 
world  trade  mechanisms  constitutes  an  investment  in 
our  own  security,  and  is  an  essential  part  of  that 
dialogue;  hence  the  importance  of  overcoming  the 
obstacles  of  the  Doha  Round  in  the  context  of  the 
current  negotiations  in  the  World  Trade  Organization. 
We all have to be prepared to give up something so that 
at the end of the day everyone can win. 

One  of  the  biggest  political  challenges  that  we 
face  in  this  dialogue  of  cultures  and  civilizations  is 
undoubtedly  the  Middle  East. The  region  remains  one 
of the main focal points of instability in the world. We 
all  have  in  our  minds  the  painful  images  of  the  most 
recent  crisis  in  Lebanon,  where  we  witnessed  the 
suffering of civilians on both sides of the conflict. This 
reinforces  all  the  more  the  need  to  actively  pursue  a 
permanent  and  balanced  solution,  which  may  bring 
about a dynamic of hope and peace in the region. 
The  Middle  East  is  not  a  military  issue.  The 

Middle East is, above  all,  one of the greatest political 
and diplomatic challenges that today’s world faces. We 
should not, therefore, miss  the window of opportunity 
offered  to  us  by  Security  Council  resolution  1701 
(2006). It is a challenge where the United Nations and 
the  European  Union  assume  shared  responsibilities  in 
promoting  peace  and  stability,  through  an  effective 
multilateral dialogue. 
24 

06-52988 
to 
today 
stress  here 
I  am  pleased 



Portugal  fulfils  its  duty  and  supports  the  urgent 
implementation  of  this  resolution,  and  we  are  present 
in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon to help 
implement it. 

I  would  like  to  draw  attention,  once  more,  to 
Africa.  Portugal  has  given  it  great  attention,  and 
invested great efforts there, and it is our duty to ensure 
that the continent is not forgotten. There is progress in 
Africa  that  we  should  encourage,  and  we  also  have  a 
historical responsibility on which the developed world 
should not and cannot turn its back. 

the 
determination with which the European Union has been 
reinforcing  its  partnership  and  its  strategy  with  the 
African  continent.  The  current  drafting  of  a  Euro-
African  joint  strategy  will  lead  to  a  script  for  our 
relations with Africa in the fundamental areas of peace 
and  security,  good  governance  and  human  rights, 
regional trade and integration, and also aspects relating 
to human development. 

I  stress  the  word  “joint”.  All  of  us  share  the 
responsibility — Africans  and Europeans alike.  I trust 
that  the  conditions  will  soon  be  right  for  this  strategy 
to be adopted. And I hope that it will be at the highest 
level,  when  we  hold  in  Lisbon  the  second  European 
Union-Africa summit. 
In  recent  years,  with  the  consolidation  of  the 

African  Union  and  various  regional  organizations  and 
initiatives,  very  significant progress  has  been  made  in 
many fields on the African continent, and this has been 
driven by the continent itself and its own institutions. It 
is  our  duty  to  recognize  these  developments,  support 
them  with  renewed  support  and  vigour,  and  develop 
them further. 

I would also like to recall that last July, in Bissau, 
the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries 
celebrated  its  tenth  anniversary.  This  organization  has 
been  consolidating 
its 
involvement  within  the  United  Nations  system,  where 
it currently holds observer status, presenting itself as a 
credible  organization  in  the  fostering  of  international 
partnerships. 
In  Bissau,  on  the  tenth  anniversary,  we  pledged 

our 
the  Millennium 
commitment 
Development  Goals,  by  defining  and  implementing  a 
general cooperation strategy where the highest priority 
is  given  to  achieving  these  Goals. This  is  our  priority 
strengthening 
itself  and 
achieve 
to 
A/61/PV.14
in  our  domestic  policy  in  Portugal;  at  the  top  of  our 
priorities  are  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
shall  implement  them  with  a  bilateral  and  multilateral 
cooperation  strategy  that  will  help  to  fight  poverty, 
alleviate the pressure on migratory flows and promote 
sustainable development. 

September  in  New  York,  above  all  else,  should 
not  be  some  sort  of  annual  pilgrimage  to  rediscover 
this Organization. At the end of the day, the credibility 
of the United Nations is in our hands. 
We all face the same challenges. But, at the same 

time, they give us the opportunity to live in accordance 
with our ideals and put into practice the principles that 
have  guided  us  for  more  than  six  decades.  The  only 
way out is for us to look for answers together. That is 
why  we  need  a  stronger  and  more  cohesive  United 
Nations.  We  owe  this  to  ourselves.  We  owe  it  to  our 
children.  But,  above  all,  we  owe 
to  future 
generations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Portuguese  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  José  Sócrates,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Portuguese  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
it 



  Address by The Honourable Ralph E. 
Gonsalves, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Finance, Planning, Economic Development, 
Labour, Information, Grenadines and Legal 
Affairs of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for 
Finance,  Planning,  Economic  Development,  Labour, 
Information,  Grenadines  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines. 

The  Honourable  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime 
Minister,  Minister 
for  Finance,  Planning, 
Economic  Development,  Labour,  Information, 
Grenadines  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent 
and the Grenadines, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  the  Honourable  Ralph  E. 
Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister,  Minister  for  Finance, 
Planning, 
Labour, 
Information,  Grenadines  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Saint 
Development, 
Economic 
06-52988 

25 

and 
that  becomes 
(Saint  Vincent 
Mr.  Gonsalves
A/61/PV.14 

Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 

the 
Grenadines): Our President arises in this Assembly as a 
breath  of  fresh  air  and  presides  as  an  inspiration  to 
women, particularly in the Middle East, and to human 
beings  all  over  the  world  who  treasure  the  stone  that 
the  builder  rejects  and 
the  head 
cornerstone. I am sure that her presidency will make a 
positive and lasting impact on our General Assembly. I 
thank her very much for being and doing. 

Humanity’s  condition  today  is  difficult,  complex 
and  challenging,  yet  pregnant  with  possibilities  for  a 
better future. Everywhere the faces of men and women 
are strained and anxious; yet, amidst the anxieties, pain 
and sorrows there is joyous laughter, which soothes the 
soul  and  summons  the  human  race  to  embrace  the 
promise  of  a  redeeming  grace,  which  eschews  hate, 
greed,  callousness,  oppression,  injustice  and  violence. 
It is still possible for this divided world of inequity and 
the  inhumanity  of  man  to  man  to  sing  with  meaning 
our  redemption  song  of  peace  and  justice,  prosperity 
and  freedom,  democracy  and  tolerance,  unity  amidst 
diversity, equality and mutual respect. 

This quest to mend the broken world is grounded 
in  the  ideals  that  constitute  the  core  of  the  United 
Nations. This idealism seeks not a world of perfection, 
but  one  of  goodness,  one  of  civilization  over 
barbarism,  of  humanity  over  inhumanity.  The  world, 
especially the majority of its inhabitants who happen to 
be  poor  and  disadvantaged  amidst  an  orgy  of  plenty 
that resides in a minority, looks to the United Nations 
as  their  hope,  as  a  brightness  that  illuminates,  not 
blinds. I bring this simple but powerful message from a 
small, developing country in the nearby Caribbean Sea 
on behalf of the marginalized of the world, without the 
vanity  of  a  pretentious  hegemony,  an  arrogance  of 
power,  or  a  triumphalism  of  a  presumed  manifest 
destiny. It is both necessary and desirable to speak this 
truth to power. 

So  more  than  80  per  cent  of  the  people  who 
reside  in  the  developing  world,  and,  indeed,  all  right-
thinking  persons,  want  and  demand  in  this  regard 
coherent  leadership  from  a  reformed  United  Nations 
that  is  true  to  its  central  mandate  to  serve  humanity 
well.  Unfortunately,  the  reformation  of  the  United 
Nations is moving at a snail’s pace, which frustrates its 
to 
to 
its 
the  “development 
its  efficacy,  and  damages 
work,  undermines 
credibility. 

To be sure, some modest progress has been made 
by  way  of  the  establishment  of  a  new  Human  Rights 
Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission.  But, 
frankly,  too  much  time  is  wasted  on  fussing  and 
fighting on esoteric issues touching and concerning the 
so-called  mandate  review  and  management  reform, 
rather  than  focusing  on  the  critical  matter  of  the 
implementation  of 
resolution” 
adopted by the General Assembly. In the process, too, 
let  us  have  a  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that  is 
meaningful and democratic. 

The world’s marginalized and disadvantaged look 
askance  at  a  United  Nations  that  daily  seeks  to 
choreograph the dancing of angels on the head of a pin. 
They care very little for the bureaucratic harangue that 
the United Nations “system-wide coherence” has been 
addressed  and  enhanced,  important  as  that  may  be  for 
some professional diplomats. The world’s people want 
to  know,  and  to  see  the  practical  evidence,  that  the 
United  Nations  is  tackling  in  a  purposeful  way  the 
issues  of  global  poverty,  environmental  degradation, 
climate  change,  the  empowerment  of  women,  the 
protection  of  children,  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
security,  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic,  the  provision  of 
clean  water  and  an  adequate  supply  of  food,  among 
other such telling requisites. 

the 
Undoubtedly,  many, 
Governments  of  the  rich  and  powerful  countries  show 
signs  of  fatigue  and  disengagement 
the 
developing world. This is evident in their parsimony on 
official development assistance and their failure and/or 
neglect 
the  Doha 
Development Round. Better must be done here. 

Please  note  that  my  strictures  are  levelled  at  the 
Governments  of  those  countries,  and  not  their  people 
or  their  civilizations.  Sufficient  persuasive  evidence 
exists that the people in many, if not most, of these rich 
countries  are  sensitive 
the 
developing  world,  but  their  Governments  do  not 
sufficiently  reflect  these  sensitivities,  despite  their 
occasional  rhetoric  to  the  contrary.  Accordingly,  the 
peoples  and  civilizations  across  national  boundaries 
must  link  themselves  in  a  tighter  nexus  or  bond,  with 
or without the mediating formal state apparatuses, and 
name  and  shame  those  Governments  that  ought  to  be 
named and shamed. 
advance  meaningfully 
if  not  most,  of 
the  concerns  of 
towards 
26 

06-52988 
hanker 
after 
an 
ignoble, 
integration  network 
through 



In  this  regard,  the  proposal  before  the  United 
Nations for an alliance of  civilizations  holds immense 
promise, provided that it is not captured by those states 
that 
unattainable, 
unsustainable  and  fundamentally  immoral  hegemony. 
Our  Caribbean  civilization,  and 
its  Vincentian 
component, stands ready and willing to be part of this 
magnificent  quest  for  an  ennobling  brotherhood  and 
sisterhood of humanity. 

While  many  rich  countries  turn  aside  from  the 
development  thrust  of  the  world’s  marginalized  and 
disadvantaged,  there  is  an  encouraging  trend  towards 
more  and  better  South-South  cooperation.  In  the  case 
of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, we are benefiting 
from  a  closer 
the 
Organisation  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  and  the 
Caribbean  Community  Single  Market  and  Economy. 
Further,  countries  such  as  Cuba,  Venezuela,  Mexico, 
Malaysia  and Taiwan,  among  others,  have  special  and 
model relations with our country. 

Recently, at the Summit of the Heads of State and 
Government  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in 
Cuba,  the  leaders  of  this  118-member  body  redefined 
its  purpose  and  mandate,  in  an  increasingly  unipolar 
world,  to  embrace  a  thorough-going  development 
agenda  and  to  facilitate  the  building  of  a  more 
peaceful,  just  and  secure  architecture  of  international 
relations. This renewed enthusiasm of the Non-Aligned 
Movement  strengthens  the  hands  and  voices  of  those 
who truly believe that a better, more civilized world is 
possible and nigh. 

Next  year,  in  March,  people  of  African  descent 
and  all  freedom-loving  peoples  and  nations  will 
commemorate 
two-hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  passage  of  the  act  abolishing  the 
British trade in African slaves to the Caribbean and the 
Americas.  This 
for  historical 
reclamation  and  the  righting  of  historic  wrongs.  The 
trade in, and enslavement of, Africans was a monstrous 
crime  against  humanity  and  an  exercise  in  genocide 
unmatched in the history of the Western world. 

their  North  American 
cousins have failed and/or refused to acknowledge this 
sufficiently or at all. There has been no apology for this 
crime  against  humanity  and  this  genocide,  conducted 
over  a  prolonged  period.  There  has  been  no  practical 
recompense  in  the  form  of  reparations  to  the  affected 
nations  and  peoples  in  Africa,  the  Caribbean  and  the 
European  nations  and 
is  an  occasion 
and 
celebrate 
the 
A/61/PV.14
the  genocide  of 
Americas.  Surely,  this  issue  must  be  put  squarely  on 
the agenda of the United Nations for speedy resolution. 

Without  in  any  way  diluting  the  force  of  this 
representation  —  indeed  in  bolstering  it  —  we  find  it 
necessary  and  desirable  to  link  it  in  our  Caribbean 
region  with 
indigenous  peoples, 
including  the  Callinago  and  the  Garifuna  of  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines, and the wholly wrong and 
inhumane exploitation by colonialism and imperialism 
of  indentured  labour  from  Africa,  Madeira,  India  and 
China  after  the  abolition  of  African  slavery  in  the 
Caribbean.  Europe  has  much  to  answer  for  on  these 
matters,  and  should  be  made  to  answer  properly  and 
appropriately. Historic wrongs not righted remain scars 
on  the  soul  of  the  oppressor  and  the  oppressed  alike, 
which  continue  to  haunt  over  the  ages;  it  is  a  hateful 
burden  that  must  be  lifted.  This  dark  night  must  give 
way to a brightened day. 

Of all the tragedies engulfing our modern world, 
few  touch  the  human  soul  and  spirit  as  does  the 
condition  of  the  people  in  Darfur  and  Palestine.  The 
entire world knows who are responsible for the crimes 
against  humanity  in  Darfur  and  in  all  areas  of  the 
Palestinian  homeland.  Yet 
the  basic  human  and 
national  rights  of  the  people  in  those  geographic 
regions  are  trampled  upon  daily  by  alien  forces. 
Meanwhile, the United Nations appears helpless and its 
authority  is  undermined.  Surely,  the  time  is  long  past 
for  a  resolution  of  these  conflicts,  and  other  enduring 
conflicts  worldwide,  including  Lebanon  and  Western 
Sahara. Oppression will not endure indefinitely. That is 
the  powerful  lesson  of  history.  The  people’s  right  to 
self-determination must be fully respected. 

Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  is  pleased  to 
see Haiti’s restoration to democracy. The cynical ouster 
of  the  former  democratically  elected  President,  Jean-
Bertrand  Aristide, 
in 
immense  suffering  in  Haiti  under  a  so-called  interim 
administration  installed  by  imperialism.  The  Haitian 
people,  who  endureth  for  ever,  must  be  applauded  for 
their  commitment  to  democracy  and  progress.  Their 
election  of  President  René  Préval  represents  a  strong 
rebuke  of  those  who  mistakenly  believe  that  the 
dangling  of  money 
is  everything.  We  heartily 
congratulate  the  new  Haitian  Government  and  pledge 
to  work  closely  with  it  in  its  efforts  to  develop  its 
heroic country, the land of Toussaint L’Ouverture. 
in  February  2004,  ushered 
06-52988 

27 
expression  of 
A/61/PV.14 


Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  again  pleads 
with the United Nations to permit Taiwan, a democratic 
and  progressive  country  of  23  million  people  and  a 
legitimate  political 
the  Chinese 
civilization, to be accorded its rightful admission to the 
United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies.  There  is 
no adequate justification for the continued exclusion of 
Taiwan  from  participation  in  the  numerous  global 
exchanges in the several international bodies, including 
the United Nations. 

Further,  the  United  Nations  has  a  major  role  to 
play  in  ensuring  an  easing  of  tensions  across  the 
Taiwan  straits. Aggressive  conduct  must  be  restrained 
in a context in which Taiwan is committed to peace and 
a comprehensive political dialogue. 

Modern terrorism is a barbarism out of sync with 
civilized  life.  It  affects  adversely  not  only  powerful 
nations,  but  developing  ones  in  Asia,  Africa,  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  evil  of  terrorism, 
including  state-sponsored  terrorism,  must  be  fought 
relentlessly. It must be given no space to thrive. At the 
same time, terrorism must be attacked sensibly and not 
in  a  counter-productive  way. Too  many  innocent  lives 
have been lost through terrorist acts. Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines  pledges  itself  to  continue  to  work 
resolutely  and  fearlessly,  without  hypocrisy,  with  all 
nations  and  the  United  Nations,  to  eliminate  the 
dastardly scourge called terrorism and its causes. 

thank  Secretary-General  Kofi 
Annan for his splendid work at the United Nations and 
throughout the world. His accomplishments have been 
immense,  and  we  applaud  him  as  his  incumbency 
draws to a close. We wish him and his family well. 

I  conclude  by  reaffirming  that  it  is  our  sacred 
duty  to  humanity  and  those  unborn  to  ensure  that  we 
contribute to  a safer, more peaceful, more prosperous, 
more  civilized  world.  We  who  have  come  from 
yesterday  with  our 
face 
tomorrow  with  our  enabling  strengths. We  must  never 
forget  that  in  our  work  here  at  the  United  Nations  it 
becomes  possible  to  glimpse  morning  before  the  sun, 
possible 
to  see  early  where  sunset  might  stain 
anticipated  night.  Let  us  thus  not  sleep  to  dream,  but 
dream to change the world, for the better. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
for  Finance,  Planning,  Economic  Development, 
Labour,  Information,  Grenadines  and  Legal Affairs  of 
limiting  burdens  must 
Permit  me 
to 

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, for the statement he 
has just made. 

The  Honourable  Ralph  E.  Gonsalves,  Prime 
Minister,  Minister 
for  Finance,  Planning, 
Economic  Development,  Labour,  Information, 
Grenadines  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Sidi Mohamed Ould Boubacar, 
Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of 
Mauritania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania. 

Mr.  Sidi  Mohamed  Ould  Boubacar,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sidi  Mohamed  Ould 
Boubacar,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Mauritania,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Ould  Boubacar  (Mauritania)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  Allow  me  first  to  warmly  congratulate  the 
President  on  her  election.  We  firmly  believe  that  her 
experience will guarantee an excellent grasp of all the 
issues and that she will carry out her task with wisdom 
and skill. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to  her 

predecessor,  Mr.  Jan  Eliasson,  for  his  admirable  and 
tireless  efforts  in  the  reform  process  of  the  United 
Nations and moving it forward. 

I also thank and congratulate Mr. Kofi Annan, the 
Secretary-General,  and  his  team  for  their  untiring 
contribution  to  improving  the  work  methods  of  the 
Organization  in  order  to  achieve  its  objectives  in  all 
areas. 

I  also  take  the  opportunity  to  welcome  the 
Republic  of  Montenegro  as  a  new  Member  of  the 
United Nations. 

We  particularly  pay  tribute  to  the  important 
resolutions  dealing  with  the  creation  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
Without a doubt, those two new bodies will contribute 
to  improving  the  Organization’s  activities  to  find 
28 

06-52988 
to  stress 
and 
We  wish 
of  women, 
the  resolutions  and 


solutions  to  two  of  the  main  concerns  of  the  peoples 
and  Member  Governments  of  the  United  Nations, 
namely,  conflicts  and  wars,  and  the  impact  that  they 
have  on  the  rights  and  dignity  of  individuals  and 
communities. We are all aware of the direct impact of 
those  issues  on  peace,  security,  development,  justice 
and democracy throughout the world.  

the 
important work of the United Nations between the two 
sessions, namely conferences and summits dealing with 
the  information  society  and  the  HIV/AIDS  pandemic, 
as  well  as  meetings  on  development,  alleviating 
poverty,  protecting  the  environment,  promoting  the 
advancement 
dealing  with 
unemployment and the issues of migration. 

How we meet the need for development, security 
and peace throughout the world will depend on how we 
deal  with  the  issues  of  violence  and  terrorism.  Since 
the phenomenon of terrorism is universal in nature, the 
solution  to  it  must  also  be  found  through  a  global 
vision  that  is  anchored  in  understanding  and  dialogue 
between civilizations and nations, a vision that rejects 
confrontation  and  conflict  and  seeks  to  overcome 
poverty,  illiteracy  and  social,  scientific  and  technical 
underdevelopment. 

In Mauritania we reject terrorism in all its forms 
and  manifestations.  We  remain  faithful  to  our  Islamic 
values  of  solidarity,  understanding  and 
tolerance, 
which reject violence and extremism. 

My country, Mauritania, reiterates its support for 
peace  and  for  relaunching  the  negotiation  process  on 
all  tracks.  That  is  the  only  way  to  put  an  end  to  the 
conflict 
the  basis  of 
international resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative and 
the  Road  Map,  which  will  guarantee  the  Israeli 
withdrawal  from  all  occupied  Arab 
in 
Palestine, Syria and Lebanon and allow the Palestinian 
people  to  restore  its  legitimate  rights  and  establish  an 
independent State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital. 

to  Western  Sahara,  Mauritania 
supports the measures taken by the United Nations and 
its  Secretary-General  to  find  a  lasting  solution  that 
guarantees  stability  in  that  region  and  enjoys  the 
support of all stakeholders. 

Concerning  Iraq,  we  are  following  very  closely 
the  changing  political,  security  and  humanitarian 
situation  in  that  fraternal  country.  We  note  with 
the  Middle  East,  on 
With  regard 
territories 
in 
A/61/PV.14
It 
of 
all 
the 
stakeholders. 
rebuilding  State 
the  success  achieved  by 
in 
Iraqi 
satisfaction 
Government 
institutions.  We 
reaffirm our support for the unity of Iraq, its territorial 
integrity and independence and for non-interference in 
its internal affairs. 

After  the  changes  of  3 August  2005,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Mauritania  ushered  in  a  new  era  in  its 
political history. The new era started with the creation 
of  a  pluralist,  democratic  system  based  on 
the 
guarantee  of  equality  and  justice  for  all.  It  enshrines 
the  peaceful  assumption  of  authority  and  transparency 
in management and administrative reform, while firmly 
establishing the mechanisms of good governance. 

These  choices  have  been  implemented  on  the 
basis of a sound experiment carried out throughout the 
country  using  all  the  active  forces  of  our  people, 
including  civil  institutions,  political  parties,  trade 
unions  and  the  transition  Government,  through  a 
programme  of  action  for  justice  and  democracy  that 
has been implemented with the informed and effective 
participation 
includes 
constitutional  reform,  reform  of  the  administration  of 
justice,  administrative  reform  to  combat  corruption, 
and  reform  of  the  electoral  system  by  creating  an 
independent national electoral commission on the basis 
of transparency and by encouraging the participation of 
women. 

In order to ensure total neutrality in the elections, 
the  Military  Council  for  Justice  and  Democracy  has 
decreed  that  the  President,  members  of  the  Military 
Council,  the  Prime  Minister  and  members  of  the 
civilian  transition  Government  are  ineligible  to  take 
part  in  future  municipal,  legislative  and  presidential 
elections. 
The  absence  of  real  democracy,  free  choice  and 

fair  elections  led  the  Military  Council  for  Justice  and 
Democracy  to  intervene  to  end  the  political  stalemate 
that  the  country  was  experiencing  before  3  August 
2005. 

Here,  on  behalf  of  the  Mauritanian  people,  I 
would like to thank sincerely all fraternal and friendly 
countries  and  international  organizations  and  bodies 
that have supported our reform process and helped and 
supported us through its various stages. 

Mauritania is keen to contribute to strengthening 
the links of fraternity, cooperation and solidarity in its 
region,  in  line  with  the  common  aspirations  of  our 
06-52988 

29 
to  strengthening 
A/61/PV.14 

peoples.  Within 
this  framework,  we  affirm  our 
unswerving  faith  in  building  an  Arab  Maghreb  as  a 
strategic, non-negotiable choice. 

We  are  also  profoundly  attached  to  the  spirit  of 
fraternity and solidarity on our African continent and to 
the close relations that link our country to all fraternal 
African  countries.  Our  country  will  continue  to  be 
faithful 
the  basis  for  dialogue, 
exchange  and  understanding  between  peoples  and 
civilizations, particularly within the 5+5 forum and the 
Barcelona Euro-Mediterranean process. 

The  major  changes  that  have  taken  place  on  the 
international scene in recent years require a review and 
reform of the organs and method of work of the United 
Nations — in particular, by revitalizing the role of the 
General  Assembly  and  ensuring 
its 
resolutions,  by  reactivating  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  by  making  the  Security  Council  more 
representative. All this should aim to take account not 
respect 

for 
industrialized  countries 
only of important regions in the world, such as Africa 
and  Latin  America,  or  important  regional  groups,  but 
also  of 
that  make  major 
contributions  to  the  United  Nations,  such  as  Germany 
and Japan. 

We  also  believe  that  the  Security  Council  today 
must improve its methods of work so that it can fulfill 
its task of maintaining international peace and security. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  express  the  wish  that 
the work of this session will be crowned with success. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Sidi  Mohamed  Ould  Boubacar,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
The meeting rose at 1.50 p.m.

30 

06-52988 
